satisfies all the requirements of the known facts, but 
the lively imagination at once rejects it as unworthy 
of the subject. I think the guide put it forward in 
order to have it rejected. The fact is, — at least, it 
has never been disproved, — these strangers whose 
movements were veiled belonged to that dark and 
 
mysterious race whose presence anywhere on this con- 
tinent is a nest-egg of romance or of terror. They 
were Spaniards ! You need not say buccaneers, you 
need not say gold-hunters, you need not say swarthy 
adventurers even : it is enough to say Spaniards I 
There is no tale of mystery and fanaticism and daring 
I would not believe if a Spaniard is the hero of it, 
and it is not necessary either that he should have the 
high-sounding name of Bobadilla or Ojeda. 
Nobody, I suppose, would doubt this story, if the 
cave were in the mountains of Ilispaniola or in the 
Florida Keys. But a Spaniard in the Adirondacks 
does seem misplaced. Well, there w^ould be no ro- 
mance about it if he were not misplaced. The Span- 
iard, anyw^here out of Spain, has always been mis- 
placed. What could draw him to this loggy and re- 
mote region? There are two substances that will 
draw a Spaniard from any distance as certainly as 
sugar will draw wasps, — gold and silver. Does the 
reader begin to see light ? There was a rumor that 
silver existed in these mountains. I do not know 
where the rumor came from, but it is necessary to 
account for the Spaniards in the cave. 
How long these greedy Spaniards occupied the cave 
on Nipple Top is not known, nor how much silver 
they found, whether they found any, or whether they 
secretly took away all there was in the hills. That 
they discovered silver in considerable quantities is a 
fair inference from the length of their residence in 
this mountain, and the extreme care they took to 
guard their secret, and the mystery that enveloped all 
their movements. What they mined, they smelted 
in the cave and carried off with them. 
To my imagination nothing is more impressive than 
the presence in these savage wilds of these polished 
foreigners and accomplished metallurgists, far from 
the haunts of civilized man, leading a life of luxury 
and revelry in this almost inaccessible cavern. I can 
see them seated about their roaring fire, which revealed the rocky ribs of their den and sent a gleam 
over the dark forest, eating venison-pasty and cutting 
deep into the juicy haunch of the moose, quaffing deep 
draughts of red wine from silver tankards, and then 
throwing themselves back upon divans, and lazily puffing the fragrant Havana. After a day of toil, what 
more natural, and what more probable for a Spaniard? 
Does the reader think these inferences not war- 
ranted by the facts ? He does not know the facts. 
It is true that our guide had never himself personally 
visited the cave, but he has always intended to hunt 
it up. His information in regard to it comes from 
his father, who was a mighty hunter and trapper. 
In one of his expeditions over Nipple Top, he chanced 
upon the cave. The mouth was half concealed by 
undergrowth. He entered, not without some apprehension engendered by the legends which make it famous. I think he showed some boldness in venturing 
into such a place alone. I confess, that, before I went 
in, I should want to fire a Gatling gun into the mouth 
for a little while, in order to rout out the bears which 
usually dwell there. He went in, however. The en- 
trance was low ; but the cave was spacious, not large, 
but big enough, with a level floor and a vaulted ceil- 
ing. It had long been deserted, but that it was once 
the residence of highly civilized beings there could be 
no doubt. The dead brands in the centre were the 
remains of a fire that could not have been kindled by 
wild beasts, and the bones scattered about had been 
 
scientifically dissected and handled. There were also 
remnants of furniture and pieces of garments scat- 
tered about. At the further end, in a fissure of the 
rock, were stones regularly built up, the remains of a 
larger fire, — and what the hunter did not doubt was 
the smelting-fumace of the Spaniards. He poked 
about in the ashes, but found no silver. That had 
all been carried away. 
But what most provoked his wonder in this rude 
cave was a chair ! This was not such a seat as a 
woodman might knock up with an axe, with a rough 
body and a seat of woven splits, but a manufactured 
chair of commerce, and a chair, too, of an unusual 
pattern and some elegance. This chair itself was a 
mute witness of luxury and mystery. The chair it- 
self might have been accounted for, though I don't 
know how : but upon the back of the chair hung, as 
if the owner had carelessly flung it there before going 
out an hour before, a man's waistcoat. This waistcoat 
seemed to him of foreign make and peculiar style, 
but what endeared it to him was its row of metal but- 
tons. These buttons were of silver ! I forget now 
whether he did not say they were of silver coin, and 
that the coin was Spanish. But I am not certain 
about this latter fact, and I wish to cast no air of im- 
probability over my narrative. This rich vestment 
the hunter carried away with him. This was all the 
plunder his expedition afforded. Yes: there was 
