agitated conscience ; but there was something intolerable 
in the thought of the suffering to which the event would 
probably subject those undefended women. They had 
scraped together their scanty funds, and embarked at 
twenty-four hours notice upon the dreadful sea to journey 
tremulously to shores darkened by the shadow of deeper 
alarms. He could only promise himself to be their de 
voted friend and servant. Preoccupied as he was, he 
was able to observe that expectation, with Roderick, 
took a form which seemed singular even among his char 
acteristic singularities. If redemption Roderick seemed 
to reason was to arrive with his mother and his affianced 
bride, these last moments of error should be doubly 
erratic. He did nothing ; but inaction, with him, took 
on an unwonted air of gentle gaiety. He laughed and 
whistled and went often to Mrs. Light 's ; though Row 
land failed to guess in what fashion present circumstances 
had modified his relations with Christina. The month 
ebbed away, and Rowland daily expected to hear from 
Roderick that he had gone to Leghorn to meet the ship. 
He heard nothing, and late one evening, not having seen 
his friend in three or four days, he stopped at Roderick 's 
lodging to assure himself that he had gone at last. A 
cab was standing in the street, but as it was a couple of 
doors off he hardly heeded it. The hall at the foot of 
the staircase was dark, like most Roman halls, and he 
paused in the open doorway on hearing the advancing 
footstep of a person with whom he wished to avoid com 
ing into collision. While he did so he heard another 
footstep behind him, and turning round found that 
Roderick himself had just overtaken him. At the same 
moment a woman 's figure advanced from within, into the 
light of the street lamp, and a face, half startled, glanced 
at him out of the darkness. He gave a cry it was the 
 
face of Mary Garland. Her glance flew past him to 
Roderick, and in a second a startled exclamation broke 
from her own lips. It made Rowland turn again. 
Roderick stood there, pale, apparently trying to speak, 
but saying nothing. His lips were parted, and he was 
wavering slightly with a strange movement the move 
ment of a man who has drunk too much. Then Row 
land 's eyes met Miss Garland 's again, and her own, 
which had rested a moment on Roderick s, were formid 
able. 
XVII. 
How it occurred that Roderick had failed to be at Leg 
horn at the moment of his mother 's arrival was never 
clearly ascertained ; for he undertook to give no elaborate 
explanation of his fault. He never indulged in pro 
fessions (touching personal conduct) as to the future, or 
in remorse as to the past, and as he would have asked 
no praise if he had travelled night and day to embrace 
Mrs. Hudson as she set foot on shore, he made (in 
Rowland 's presence at least) no apology for having left 
her to come in search of him. It was to be said that, 
thanks to an unprecedentedly fine season, the voyage of 
the two ladies had been surprisingly rapid, and that, 
according to common probabilities, if Roderick had left 
Rome on the morrow (as he declared that he had intended) 
he would still have had a day or two of waiting at Leg 
horn. Rowland 's silent inference was that Christina 
Light had beguiled him into letting the time slip, and it 
was accompanied with a silent inquiry whether she had 
done so unconsciously or maliciously. He had told her 
presumably that his mother and his cousin were about to 
arrive ; and it was pertinent to remember hereupon that 
she was a young lady of mysterious impulses. Rowland 
   
heard in due time the story of the adventures of the two 
ladies from Northampton. Mary Garland 's wish, at 
Leghorn, on finding they were left to their own devices, 
had been to telegraph to Roderick and await an answer ; 
for she knew that their arrival was a trifle premature. 
But Mrs. Hudson 's maternal heart had taken the alarm. 
Roderick 's sending for them was, to her imagination, a 
confession of illness, and his not being at Leghorn a 
proof of it ; an hour 's delay was therefore cruel both to 
herself and to him. She insisted on immediate departure ; 
and, unskilled as they were in the mysteries of foreign (or 
even of domestic) travel, they had hurried in trembling 
eagerness to Rome. They had arrived late in the even 
ing, and knowing nothing of inns, had got into a cab and 
proceeded to Roderick 's lodging. At the door poor 
Mrs. Hudson 's trepidation had overcome her, and she 
had sat quaking and crying in the vehicle. Mary had 
bravely gone in, groped her way up the dusky staircase, 
reached Roderick 's door and, with the assistance of such 
acquaintance with the Italian tongue as she had culled 
from a phrase-book during the calm hours of the voyage, 
had learned from the old woman who had her cousin 's 
household economy in charge, that he was in the best of 
health and spirits, and had gone forth a few hours before 
with his hat on his ear per divertirsi. 
These things Rowland learned during a visit he paid 
the two ladies the evening after their arrival. Mrs. 
Hudson spoke of them at great length, and with an 
air of clinging confidence in Rowland which told him 
that he was now enshrined in her innermost favour. 
But her fright was over, though she was still catching 
