Zoroaster rose to his feet, then bent low, and taking 
a few grains of dust from the roadside, touched his 
mouth with his hand and let the dust fall upon his 
forehead. 
" Hail, and hve for e-ver ! I am thy servant, Zoro- 
aster, who was captain over the fortress and treasury 
of Ecbatana. According to thy word I have brought 
the kinsfolk of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, — chief of 
whom is Nehushta, the princess. I heard that thou 
wast absent from Shushan, and here I have waited for 
 
thy coming. I also sent thee messengers to announce 
that Daniel, surnamed Belteshazzar, who was Satrap 
of Media from the time of Cambyses, is dead ; and I 
have buried him fittingly in a new tomb in the garden 
of the palace of Ecbatana." 
Darius, quick and impulsive in every thought and 
action, sprang to the ground as Zoroaster finished 
speaking, and coming to him, took both his hands 
and kissed him on both cheeks. 
" What thou hast done is well done, — I know thee 
of old. Auramazda is with thee. He is also with 
me. By his grace I have slain the rebels at Babylon. 
They spoke lies, so I slew them. Show me Nehushta, 
the daughter of the kings of Judah." 
" I am thy servant. The princess is at hand," an- 
swered Zoroaster ; but as he spoke, he turned pale to 
the lips. 
By this time it had grown dark, and the moon, just 
past the full, had not yet risen from behind the mound 
of the fortress. The slaves brought torches of mingled wax and fir-gum, and their black figures shone 
strangely in the red glare, as they pressed toward the 
door of Nehushta's tent, lighting the way for the king. 
Darius strode quickly forward, his gilded harness 
clanging as he walked, the strong flaring light illuminating his bold dark features. Under the striped 
curtain, drawn up to form the entrance of the tent, 
stood Nehushta. She had thrown aside her veil and 
her women had quickly placed upon her head the 
linen tiara, where a single jewel shown like a star in 
the white folds. Her thick black hair fell in masses 
upon her shoulders, and her mantle was thrown back, 
 
displaying the grand proportions of her figure, clad in 
tunic and close-fitting belt. As the king came near, 
she kneeled and prostrated herself before him, touching her forehead to the ground, and waiting for him 
to speak. 
He stood still a full minute and his eyes flashed 
fire, as he looked on her crouching figure, in very 
pride that so queenly a woman should be forced to 
kneel at his feet — but more in sudden admiration of 
her marvellous beauty. Then he bent down, and 
took her hand and raised her to her feet. She sprang 
up, and faced him with glowing cheeks and flashing 
eyes ; and as she stood she was nearly as tall as he. 
" I would not that a princess of thy line kneeled 
before me," said he ; and in his voice there was a 
strange touch of softness. " Wilt thou let me rest 
here awhile before I go up to Shushan ? I am weary 
of riding and thirsty from the road." 
"Hail, king of the world! I am thy servant, 
Rest thee and refresh thee here," answered Nehushta, 
drawing back into the tent. The king beckoned to 
Zoroaster to follow him and went in. 
Darius sat upon the carved folding-chair that stood 
in the midst of the tent by the main pole, and eagerly 
drained the huge golden goblet of Shiraz wine which 
Zoroaster poured for him. Then he took off his head- 
piece, and his thick, coarse hair fell in a mass of dark 
curls to his neck, like the mane of a black lion. He 
breathed a long breath as of relief and enjoyment of 
well-earned repose, and leaned back in his chair, letting 
his eyes rest on Nehushta's face as she stood before 
him looking down to the ground. Zoroaster remained 
 
on one side, holding the replenished goblet in his hand, 
in case the king's thirst were not assuaged by a single 
draught. 
" Thou art fair, daughter of Jerusalem," said the 
king presently. '' I remember thy beauty, for I saw 
thee in Ecbatana. I sent for thee and thy kinsfolk 
that I might do thee honour ; and I will also fulfil 
my words. I will take thee to be my Avife." 
Darius spoke quietly, in his usual tone of absolute 
determination. But if the concentrated fury of a 
thousand storms had suddenly broken loose in the 
very midst of the tent, the effect could not have been 
more terrible on his hearers. 
Nehushta's face flushed suddenly, and for a moment 
she trembled in every joint ; then she fell on her knees, 
prostrate before the king's feet, all the wealth of her 
splendid hair falling loose about her. Darius sat still, 
as though watching the result of his speech. He 
might have sat long, but in an instant, Zoroaster 
sprang between the king and the kneeling woman; 
and the golden goblet he had held rolled across the 
thick carpet on the ground, while the rich red wine 
ran in a slow stream towards the curtains of the door. 
His face was livid and his eyes like coals of blue fire, 
his fair locks and his long golden beard caught the 
torchlight and shone about him like a glory, as he 
