under-witted or bold. They've been proper good to me sence I've been
sick, but law! what do they know about it, goin' to bed at nine
o'clock, an' gittin' up to feed the chickens an' ride to meetin' with
their husbands? No more'n the dead! An' so I want to tell ye my story,
myself. Now, don't you mind my coughing dear! It don't hurt, to speak
of, an' I feel better arter it.
"Well, I dunno where to begin. The long an' short of it was, dear,
James he got kind o' uneasy on land, an' then he was tried with me, an'
then he told me, one night, when he spoke out, that he didn't care
about me as he used to, an' he never should, an' we couldn't live no
longer under the same roof. He was goin' off the next day to sea, or to
the devil, he said, so he needn't go crazy seein' Mary Ann Worthen's
face lookin' at him all the time. It ain't any use tryin' to tell how I
felt. Some troubles ain't no more 'n a dull pain, an' some are like
cuts an' gashes. You can feel your heart drop, drop, like water off the
eaves. Mine dropped for a good while arter that. Well, you see I'd been
through the fust stages of it. I'd been eat up by jealousy, an' I'd
slaved like a dog to git him back; but now it had got beyond such
folderol. He was in terrible trouble, an' I'd got to git him out. An' I
guess 'twas then that I begun to feel as if I was his mother, instid of
his wife. 'Jim,' says I, (somehow I have to Say 'James,' now we're
separated!) 'don't you fret. I'll go off an' leave ye, an' you can get
clear o' me accordin' to law, if you want to. I'm sure you can. I
sha'n't care.' He turned an' looked at me, as if I was crazed or he was
himself, 'You won't care?' he says. 'No,' says I, 'I sha'n't care.' I
said it real easy, for 'twas true. Somehow, I'd got beyond carin'. My
heart dropped blood, but I couldn't bear to have him in trouble. 'They
al'ays told me I was cut out for an old maid,' I says, 'an' I guess I
be. Housekeepin' 's a chore, anyway. You let all the stuff set right
here jest as we've had it, an' ask Cap'n Fuller to come an' bring his
chist; an' I'll settle down in the Willer Brook house an' make
button-holes. It's real pretty work.' You see, the reason I was so high
for it was 't I knew if he went to sea, he'd git in with a swearin',
drinkin' set, as he did afore, an' in them days such carryin's-on were
dretful to me. If I'd known he'd marry, I dunno what course I should
ha' took; for nothin' could ha' made that seem right to me, arter all
had come and gone. But I jest thought how James was a dretful handy man
about the house, an' I knew he set by Cap'n Fuller. The Cap'n 'ain't no
real home, you know, an' I thought they'd admire to bach it together."
"Did you ever wonder whether you had done right? Did you ever think it
would have been better for him to keep his promises to you? For him to
be unhappy?"
A shade of trouble crossed her face.
"I guess I did!" she owned. "At fust, I was so anxious to git out o'
his way, I never thought of anything else; but when I got settled down
here, an' had all my time for spec'latin' on things, I was a good deal
put to 't whether I'd done the best anybody could. But I didn't reason
much, in them days; I jest felt. All was, I couldn't bear to have James
tied to me when he'd got so's to hate me. Well, then he married--"
"Was she a good woman?"
"Good enough, yes; a leetle mite coarse-grained, but well-meanin' all
through. Well, now, you know the neighbors blamed me for lettin' her
have my things. Why, bless you, I didn't need 'em! An' Jim had used 'em
so many years, he'd ha' missed 'em if they'd been took away. Then he
never was forehanded, an' how could he ha' furnished a house all over
ag'in, I'd like to know? The neighbors never understood. The amount of
it was, they never was put in jest such a place, any of 'em."
"O Nancy, Nancy!" I said, "you cared for just one thing, and it was
gone. You didn't care for the tables and chairs that were left behind!"
Two tears came, and dimmed her bright blue eyes. Her firm, delicate
mouth quivered.
"Yes," she said, "you see how 'twas. I knew you would. Well, arter he
was married, there was a spell when 'twas pretty tough. Sometimes I
couldn't hardly help goin' over there by night an' peekin' into the
winder, an' seein' how they got along. I went jest twice. The fust time
was late in the fall, an' she was preservin' pears by lamplight. I
looked into the kitchin winder jest as she was bendin' over the stove,
tryin' the syrup, an' he was holdin' the light for her to see. I dunno
what she said, but 'twas suthin' that made 'em both laugh out, an' then
they turned an' looked at one another, proper pleased. I dunno why, but
it took right hold o' me, an' I started runnin' an' I never stopped
till I got in, here an' onto my own bed. I thought 'twould ha' been
massiful if death had took me that night, but I'm glad it didn't, dear,
I'm glad it didn't! I shouldn't ha' seen ye, if it had, an' there's a
good many things I shouldn't ha' had time to study out. You jest put a
mite o' cayenne pepper in that cup, an' turn some hot water on it. It
kind o' warms me up."
After a moment's rest, she began again.
"The next time I peeked was the last, for that night they'd had some
words, an' they both set up straight as a mack'rel, an' wouldn't speak
to one another. That hurt me most of anything. I never've got over the
feelin' that I was James's mother, an' that night I felt sort o'
bruised all through, as if some stranger'd been hurtin' him. So I never
went spyin' on 'em no more. I felt as if I couldn't stan' it. But when
I went to help her with the work, that time he was sick, I guess the
neighbors thought I hadn't any sense of how a right-feelin' woman ought
to act. I guess they thought I was sort o' coarse an' low, an' didn't
realize what I'd, been through. Dear, don't you never believe it. The
feelin' that's between husband an' wife's like a live creatur', an'
when he told me that night that he didn't prize me no more, he wounded
it; an' when he married the other woman, he killed it dead. If he'd ha'
come back to me then, an' swore he was the same man I married, I could
ha' died for him, jest as I would this minute, but he never should ha'
touched me. But suthin' had riz up in the place o' the feelin' I had
fust, so't I never could ha' helped doin' for him, any more'n if he'd
been my own child."
"'In the resurrection, they neither marry nor are given in marriage!'"
"I guess that's it," said Nancy. "On'y you have to live through a good
deal afore you understand it. Well, now, dear, I'm nearin' the end.
There's one thing that's come to me while I've been livin' through
