ness " or trusting to chance that the boy was safe, 
and this terrible thing had never happened. She 
thought of the mystery under which the child was 
born, of his unknown future, of her own tremen- 
dous responsibility for it and for him. 
It was no common child whom she had lost. If it 
had been Jonas, or John, or Enoch, yonder thcro in 
Nazareth, or even James or Andrew but JOMUH ! 
White with anguish, Mary tottered by her lms 
band's side. They searched the Temple for who 
knows how many times. How enormoas the build- 
ing ! How endless the courts 1 I low conf using the 
gates I Oh, the wearisome glitter of gold, of gcnm, 
of marble, of steps, of platforms, the tiresome 
crowds of dazzling costumes, the dreary chatter, tlxe 
sickening scent of the butchered lambs, the red- 
handed priests ! 
The Temple rose, terrace by terrace, haughty and 
splendid. The hot sky wan clear. Some of tlw 
rabbis were holding, as was their wont at ilium festi- 
vals, one of their interminable discussionn, arguing 
fine points of the Law. In ono of the open port! COB 
of the Temple a crowd had thickened significantly. 
Something of unusual mtoroat was plainly happen- 
ing there. Joseph and Mary hurried to tlw court, 
pushed their way through the crowd, Tho people 
were unusually still. A young, Bwoet, treble voice 
was speaking : it was the boy's I 
There in the covered cloister, in lu little white 
JLJtUi JtSUX 53 
talith, with his head bare, the child stood, quite 
absorbed. The gorgeous Temple towered behind 
him. Gray doctors of the Law sat about him. Half 
amused, half respectful, surprise rested upon their 
venerable faces. The rabbis of Jerusalem were en- 
gaged in open discussion with the country lad ; the 
scholars of the Temple were talking theology with a 
Nazarene child. An audience of considerable size 
hung upon this remarkable debate. 
When had it been known in Jewry that a child 
could argue with the rabbis ? And what an argu- 
ment I His questions were as astonishing as his an- 
swers. Ho talked like a man and a scholar. The 
expert controversialists by yyhom he was surrounded 
were hard put to it to keep pace with him. Such 
intellectual force and moral subtlety would have 
made the reputation of any gray scribe or rabbi in 
the land. Those practiced polemicists regarded the 
twelve-year-old boy with perplexity and respect. 
The crowd became denser around the group. It 
grew silent. Only the young voice was heard ; 
it rang on uninterrupted ; it took on unchildlike, 
priestly tones. 
A low cry broke ia upon the little preacher's ex- 
hortation ; but the child, absorbed in his theme, did 
not Hoenx to hear it. Thou the moving of heads and 
changes of expression in his audience distracted 
him, and turning, ho saw his mother's face. 
At this point Mary reB trained herself, and, 
shrinking back in the crowd, awaited the boy's will. 
lie fiiuahed hiw littlo diBcourso with dignity, and 
stopped down from the platform on which he stood. 
54 THE STOKY OF JESUS CHRIST 
The doctors of the Law looked after the lad so- 
berly; the crowd murmured about him without 
laughter ; he passed away from and through them 
aD, and sought his parents' side. 
Then the mother's distress broke out in natural, 
motherly passion of reproach : 
" My son ! Why hast thou left us so ? Why 
hast thou dealt with us in this manner ? Thy father 
and I have sought thee for these throe days ! We 
have sorrowed for thee ! What didst thou mean ? 
What hast thou done ? " 
She caught him to her, sobbing as she did so, 
Joseph did not join in her reproof >s; ho stood 
silently by. Both parents were as much piusaslod UH 
they were troubled. Ought they to blame the lad ? 
Ought they not to blame him ? 
Mary was not a scolding mother, and her goutlo 
reproaches died away before the boy's quiet and 
abstracted mien. He looked at her with perfect 
self-possession. Nay, truly, the right of reproach 
seemed, strangely, to rest with him. He did not 
speak until he chose, then : 
"How is it," lie wild slowly, "that yo sought 
me?" 
Mary hastened to explain, to expostulate ; but he 
regarded her steadily. Before hi* uuboyliko oyon 
her own dimmed with the pang tlml niothwH know 
when they see the liivst >signn of manly will and in- 
dividualism in a growing HOU. 
46 Know yo not," asked the boy, " that I inunt be 
in my father's house ? I must bo/* ho said peremp- 
torily, " about my Father's things,'* 
8 
THE BOY 55 
His manner was as solemn, as mysterious, as his 
words. Mary and Joseph did not answer him. 
They did not know how. His look was high and 
