be in want of seventy-five dollars?"
"Anybody might be short of money. One day when I was traveling in the
Adirondacks, I met a rich man--a millionaire--who was in trouble. 'I
say, Schuyler,' he said to me, 'can you loan me a hundred dollars. I
give you my word I am almost penniless, and no one knows me here.' Now I
happened to have three hundred dollars in my pocketbook, and I at once
produced it and lent him the money. You see even a millionaire can get
into a money scrape."
"Who was the millionaire?" asked Edgar, who was not quite so credulous
a believer of Schuyler's pictures as formerly.
"I don't feel at liberty to tell. It would not be honorable. But to come
back to our own business! You must make some arrangement to pay me."
"Tell me how," said Edgar sulkily.
"Don't you deposit for your firm in the Park Bank?"
"Yes."
"Always checks?"
"Sometimes there are bank bills."
Schuyler bent over and whispered in Edgar's ear. Edgar flushed and then
looked nervous and agitated.
"You ask me to do that," he said.
"Yes, there is no danger. Say you lost the bills in the street."
Edgar was not a conscientious boy or a boy of high principle, but this
suggestion shocked him.
"Would you ruin me?" he asked.
"I would have you pay me what you owe me. If you don't there will be a
fuss."
"I wish I had never met you, Mr. Schuyler," said poor Edgar bitterly.
"I have been disappointed in you," said Schuyler coldly. "I thought you
were the son of a gentleman and a gentleman yourself."
"Who says I am not?"
"I don't. I expect you to behave like one. Good night."
This interview took place on Fifth Avenue not far from Delmonico's café.
When the two parted another boy, who had been following at a little
distance, moved rapidly forward and placed his hand on Edgar's shoulder.
"Cousin Edgar," he said.
Edgar turned.
"Mark!" he said, not with his old hauteur, for trouble had humbled his
pride.
"Yes. Who was that you were walking with?" asked Mark.
"No one you know. He is Mr. Schuyler, from one of the best New York
families."
Mark smiled.
"I hope you have no business with him," he said.
"I owe him seventy-five dollars, and I don't know how on earth I am
going to pay him."
"What do you owe him that for?"
"For bets on games of billiards."
"This Hamilton Schuyler, as he calls himself, is an adventurer, a
swindler, and a thief. His family is not as good as yours or mine."
"Is this true?" asked Edgar stupefied.
"Yes. Don't trouble yourself about what you owe him. Appoint a meeting
for him to-morrow evening at the Fifth Avenue Hotel. I will go there and
meet him with you. I'll get you out of your scrape."
"Do that, Mark, and I'll be your friend for life. I'll never treat you
meanly again."
CHAPTER XXXVI.
AT THE FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL.
ON arriving in New York Mark took his young charge at once to the house
of Mr. Gilbert.
It was at the close of the day, and Mr. Gilbert had returned from his
office. He received Mark with great cordiality.
"True and faithful, as I expected!" he said. "How did you enjoy your
trip?"
"Very much, sir. I hope, some day, to visit California again."
"So you are Philip Lillis, my boy," continued Mr. Gilbert kindly. "Do
you think you shall like to live in New York?"
"Yes, sir."
"Were you sorry to leave California?"
"No, sir; Mr. Sprague and Oscar did not treat me well. I would rather
live with you."
"Your father was a cousin and dear friend. I will try to make his boy
comfortable and happy. Mark, will you stay to supper?"
"I should like to very much, but I have not yet seen my mother."
"That is sufficient excuse. Your first duty is to her. Wait a moment. I
must express my acknowledgments to you in a substantial manner."
Mr. Gilbert sat down at his desk and wrote a check, which he inclosed in
an envelope.
"Open it when you get home," he said.
"I have a balance of about forty dollars belonging to you, Mr. Gilbert,
from my expense money."
"Keep it. I am sure it will be more useful to you than to me."
"How kind you are, Mr. Gilbert!"
"I hope to continue so. Take a few days for rest, and then come round to
my counting-room and we will talk of your future prospects."
Mrs. Mason gave Mark a glad welcome.
"I am so glad to see you," she said.
"I hope you did not want for money while I was gone."
"No; I still have half the money you gave me from Mr. Gilbert when you
went away. Shall I give it back to you?"
"No, mother; keep it for current expenses. Mr. Gilbert gave me a check
just now, but I don't know how much it is."
He opened the envelope and took out the check.
"It is for two hundred dollars!" he exclaimed. "Mother, we are growing
rich. With the balance in my hands, which Mr. Gilbert told me to keep, I
have two hundred and forty dollars."
"We have much to be thankful for, Mark. Compare our present state with
three months since. Shall you go back to the telegraph office?"
"No; Mr. Gilbert will probably give me a place in his counting-room, but
I shall wait a few days first. Is there any news?"
"Your uncle has been to see me again. He offered me five hundred dollars
