Her assent, as if she had had a delicacy about sounding 
the name, was only in her face ; but she added with it : 
" Or is there anything he can do that would make her try 
lit?" 
I "To patch it up with me?" His answer came at last 
in a conclusive headshake. " There's nothing anyone can 
jdo. It's over. Over for both of us." 
I Maria wondered, seemed a little to doubt. "Are you so 
' sure for her ? " 
"Oh yes — sure now. Too much has happened. I'm 
different for her." 
She took it in then, drawing a deeper breath. " I see. 
So that as she's different for you " 
"Ah, but," he interrupted, "she's not." And as Miss 
Sostrey wondered again : " She's the same. She's more 
than ever the same. But I do what I didn't before — I see 
ler. 
He spoke gravely and as if responsibly — since he had 
:o pronounce ; and the effect of it was slightly solemn, 
io that she simply exclaimed " Oh ! " Satisfied and 
grateful, however, she showed in her own next words an 
icceptance of his statement. " What then do you go 
lome to ? " 
He had pushed his plate a little away, occupied with 
mother side of the matter ; taking refuge, in fact, in that 
iide and feeling so moved that he soon found himself on 
lis feet. He was affected in advance by what he believed 
night come from her, and he would have liked to forestall 
t and deal with it tenderly ; yet in the presence of it he 
vished still more to be — though as smoothly as possible — 
deterrent and conclusive. He put her question by for 
Jie moment ; he told her more about Chad. " It would 
have been impossible to meet me more than he did las I 
night on the question of the infamy of not sticking to
her." ' 
Well, he could hold poor Maria with this too. " Is that
what you called it for him — ' infamy' ?" I 
" Oh, rather ! I described to him in detail the base
creature he'd be, and he quite agrees with me abou   
it."   
" So that it's really as if you had nailed him ? "  
" Quite really as if ! I told him I should curS' 
him." 
" Oh," she smiled, " you have done it." And then having 
thought again : " You can'i after that propose ! " Ye 
she scanned his face. 
" Propose again to Mrs. Newsome? " 
She hesitated afresh, but she brought it out. " I'V' 
never believed, you know, that you did propose. I alway t 
believed it was really she — and, so far as that goes, I can 
understand it. What I mean is," she explained, " that with
such a spirit — the spirit of curses ! — your breach is pas ! 
mending. She has only to know what you've done to him 
never again to raise a finger." ' 
" I've done," said Strether, " what I could — one can't d( I 
more. He protests his devotion and his horror. But I'nj 
not sure I've saved him. He protests too much. He ask 
how one can dream of his being tired. But he has all lif( 
before him." 
Maria saw what he meant. " He's formed to please." 
"And it's our friend who has formed him." Strether fel 
in it the strange irony. I 
" So it's scarcely his fault ! " 
"It's at any rate his danger. I mean," said Strether 
" it's hers. But she knows it." 
" Yes, she knows it. And is your idea," Miss Gostrejl 
asked, " that there was some other woman in London ? " 
"Yes. No. That is, I have no ideas. I'm afraid o: 
them. I've done with them." And he put out his hanc 
to her. " Good-bye." 
It brought her back to her unanswered question. "To 
what do you go home ? " 
" I don't know. There will always be something." 
" To a great difference," she said as she kept his 
hand. 
" A great difference — no doubt. But I shall see what I 
can make of it." 
" Shall you make anything so good ? " As if re- 
membering what Mrs. Newsome had done, it was as far as 
she went. 
But he had sufficiently understood. " So good as this 
place at this moment? So good as what you make of 
everything you touch?" He took a minute to say, for, 
really and truly, what stood about him there in her offer 
— which was as the offer of exquisite service, of lightened 
care, for the rest of his days — might well have tempted. 
It built him softly round, it roofed him warmly over, it 
rested, all so firm, on selection. And what ruled selection 
was beauty and knowledge. It was awkward, it was almost 
stupid, not to seem to prize such things ; yet, none the less, 
so far as they made his opportunity, they made it only for 
a moment. She would moreover understand — she always 
understood. 
That indeed might be, but meanwhile she was going on. 
" There's nothing, you know, I wouldn't do for you." 
"Oh, yes— I know." 
" There's nothing," she repeated, " in all the world." 
" I know. I know. But all the same I must go." He 
had got it at last " To be right." 
" To be right ? " 
