you promise this, back you go into the dark closet, and I shall keep you
there all the time.”
Ida shuddered at this fearful threat, terrible to a child of nine.
“Do you promise?”
“Yes,” said the child, faintly.
“For fear you might be tempted to break your promise, I have something
to show you.”
She went to the cupboard, and took down a large pistol.
“There,” she said, “do you see that?”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“What is it?”
“It is a pistol, I believe.”
“Do you know what it is for?”
“To shoot people with,” said Ida, fixing her eyes on the weapon, as if
impelled by a species of fascination.
“Yes,” said the woman; “I see you understand. Well, now, do you know
what I would do if you should tell anybody where you came from, or
attempt to run away? Can you guess now?”
“Would you shoot me?” asked the child, struck with terror.
“Yes, I would,” said Peg, with fierce emphasis. “That’s just what I’d
do. And what’s more,” she added, “even if you got away, and got back to
your family in New York. I would follow you and shoot you dead in the
street.”
“You wouldn’t be so wicked!” exclaimed Ida, appalled.
“Wouldn’t I, though?” repeated Peg, significantly. “If you don’t believe
I would, just try it. Do you think you would like to try it?”
“No,” said the child, with a shudder.
“Well, that’s the most sensible thing you’ve said yet. Now, that you
have got to be a little more reasonable, I’ll tell you what I am going
to do with you.”
Ida looked up eagerly into her face.
“I am going to keep you with me a year. I want the services of a little
girl for that time. If you serve me faithfully, I will then send you
back to your friends in New York.”
“Will you?” said Ida, hopefully.
“Yes. But you must mind and do what I tell you.”
“O yes,” said the child, joyfully.
This was so much better than she had been led to fear, that the prospect
of returning home, even after a year, gave her fresh courage.
“What shall I do?” she asked, anxious to conciliate Peg.
“You may take the broom,--you will find it just behind the door,--and
sweep the room.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“And after that you may wash the dishes. Or, rather, you may wash the
dishes first.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“And after that I will find something for you to do.”
The next morning Ida was asked if she would like to go out into the
street.
This was a welcome proposition, as the sun was shining brightly, and
there was little to please a child’s fancy in Peg’s shabby apartment.
“I am going to let you do a little shopping,” said Peg. “There are
various things that we want. Go and get your bonnet.”
“It’s in the closet,” said Ida.
“O yes, where I put it. That was before I could trust you.”
She went to the closet, and came back bringing the bonnet and shawl. As
soon as they were ready, they emerged into the street. Ida was glad to
be in the open air once more.
“This is a little better than being shut up in the closet, isn’t it?”
 said Peg.
Ida owned that it was.
“You see you’ll have a very good time of it, if you do as I bid you. I
don’t want to do you any harm. I want you to be happy.”
So they walked along together, until Peg, suddenly pausing, laid her
hand on Ida’s arm, and pointing to a shop near by, said to her, “Do you
see that shop?”
“Yes,” said Ida.
“Well, that is a baker’s shop. And now I’ll tell you what to do. I want
you to go in, and ask for a couple of rolls. They come at three cents
apiece. Here’s some money to pay for them. It is a silver dollar, as you
see. You will give this to them, and they will give you back ninety-four
cents in change. Do you understand’?”
“Yes,” said Ida; “I think I do.”
“And if they ask if you haven’t anything smaller, you will say no.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“I will stay just outside. I want you to go in alone, so that you will
get used to doing without me.”
Ida entered the shop. The baker, a pleasant-looking man, stood behind
the counter.
“Well, my dear, what is it?” he asked.
“I should like a couple of rolls.”
“For your mother, I suppose,” said the baker, sociably.
“No,” said Ida; “for the woman I board with.”
“Ha! a silver dollar, and a new one, too,” said the baker, receiving
the coin tendered in payment. “I shall have to save that for my little
girl.”
Ida left the shop with the two rolls and the silver change.
“Did he say anything about the money?” asked Peg, a little anxiously.
“He said he should save it for his little girl.”
“Good,” said the woman, approvingly; “you’ve done well.”
Ida could not help wondering what the baker’s disposal of the dollar had
to do with her doing well, but she was soon thinking of other things.
CHAPTER XIII. BAD COIN.
THE baker introduced to the reader’s notice in the last chapter was
named Crump. Singularly enough Abel Crump, for this was his name, was a
brother of Timothy Crump, the cooper. In many respects he resembled
his brother. He was an excellent man, exemplary in all the relations of
life, and had a good heart. He was in very comfortable circumstances,
having accumulated a little property by diligent attention to his
business. Like his brother, Abel Crump had married, and had one child,
