to marry his widow. "In other words," he said to himself, "I really want
to murder Goddard and take his wife."
It was not easy to see where legitimate severity ended and unlawful and
murderous selfishness began. The temptation was a terrible one. The very
uncertainty which there was, tempted the squire to disregard the
possibility of Goddard's death as compared with the importance of his
capture. It was quite likely, he unconsciously argued, that the
bloodhound would not kill him after all; it was even possible that he
might not find him; but it would be worth while to make the attempt, for
the results to be obtained by catching the fugitive were very great--Mrs.
Goddard's peace was to be considered before all things. But still before
the squire's eyes arose the picture of Stamboul tearing the throat of the
man he had killed in the Belgrade forest. If he killed the felon, Juxon
would know that to all intents and purposes he had himself done the deed
in order to marry Mrs. Goddard. But still the thought remained with him
and would not leave him.
The fellow had threatened his own life. It was then a fair fight,
for a man cannot be blamed if he tries to get the better of one who is
going about to kill him. On one of his many voyages, he had once shot a
man in order to quell a mutiny; he had not killed him it is true, but
he had disabled him for the time--he had handled many a rough customer
in his day. The case, he thought, was similar, for it was the case of
self-defence. The law, even, would say he was justified. But to slay a
man in self-defence and then to marry his widow, though justifiable in
law, is a very delicate case for the conscience; and in spite of the
wandering life he had led, Mr. Juxon's conscience was sensitive. He was
an honest man and a gentleman, he had tried all his life to do right as
he saw it, and did not mean to turn murderer now, no matter how easy it
would be for him to defend his action.
At the end of an hour he had decided that it would be murder, and no
less, to let Stamboul track Goddard to his hiding-place. The hound might
accompany him in his walks, and if anybody attacked him it would be so
much the worse for his assailant. Murder or no murder, he was entitled to
take any precautions he pleased against an assault. But he would not
willingly put the bloodhound on the scent, and he knew well enough that
the dog would not run upon a strange trail unless he were put to it.
The squire went to his lunch, feeling that he had made a good resolution;
but he ate little and soon afterwards began to feel the need of going
down to see Mrs. Goddard. No day was complete without seeing her, and
considering the circumstances which had occurred on the previous
afternoon, it was natural that he should call to inquire after her state.
In the hall, the gigantic beast which had played such an important part
in his thoughts during the morning, came solemnly up to him, raising his
great red eyes as though asking whether he were to accompany his master.
The squire stood still and looked at him for a moment.
"Come along, Stamboul!" he said suddenly, as he put on his hat. The hound
leaped up and laid his heavy paws on the squire's shoulders, trying to
lick his face in his delight, then, almost upsetting the sturdy man he
sprang back, slipped on the polished floor, recovered himself and with an
enormous stride bounded past Mr. Juxon, out into the park. But Mr. Juxon
quickly called him back, and presently he was following close at heel in
his own stately way, looking neither to the right nor to the left. The
squire felt nervous, and the sensation was new to him. He did not believe
that Goddard would really attack him at all, certainly not that he would
dare to attack him in broad daylight. But the knowledge of the threat the
fellow had uttered made him watchful. He glanced to the right and left as
he walked and gripped his heavy blackthorn stick firmly in his hand. He
wished that if the man were to appear he would come quickly--it might be
hard to hold Stamboul back if he were attacked unawares.
He reached the gate, crossed the road and rang the bell of the cottage.
As he stood waiting, Stamboul smelled the ground, put up his head,
smelled it again and with his nose down trotted slowly to the window on
the left hand of the door. He smelled the ground, the wall and presently
put both his fore paws upon the outer ledge of the window. Then he
dropped again, and looked at his master. Martha was a long time in coming
to the door.
"After him, Stamboul!" said the squire, almost unconsciously. The dog put
his nose down and began to move slowly about. At that moment the door
opened.
"Oh, sir," said Martha, "it's you, sir. I was to say, if you please, that
if you called, Mrs. Goddard was poorly to-day, sir."
"Dear me!" said Mr. Juxon, "I hope she is not ill. Is it anything
serious, Martha?"
"Well, sir, she's been down this mornin', but her head ached terrible bad
and she went back to her room--oh, sir, your dog--he's a runnin' home."
As she spoke a sound rang in the air that made Martha start back. It was
a deep, resounding, bell-like note, fierce and wild, rising and falling,
low but full, with a horror indescribable in its echo--the sound which no
man who has heard it ever forgets--the baying of a bloodhound on the
track of a man.
The squire turned deadly pale, but he shouted with all his might, as he
would have shouted to a man on the topsail yard in a gale at sea.
"Stamboul! Stamboul! Stamboul!" Again and again he yelled the dog's name.
Stamboul had not gone far. The quickset hedge had baffled the scent for a
moment and he was not a dozen yards beyond it in the park when his
master's cry stopped him. Instantly he turned, cleared the six-foot hedge
and double ditch at a bound and came leaping back across the road. The
squire breathed hard, for it had been a terrible moment. If he had not
succeeded in calling the beast back, it might have been all over with
Walter Goddard, wherever he was hidden.
"It is only his play," said Mr. Juxon, still very white and holding
Stamboul by the collar. "Please tell Mrs. Goddard, Martha, that I am very
sorry indeed to hear that she is ill, and that I will inquire this
evening."
"Yes, sir," said Martha, who eyed the panting beast timidly and showed an
evident desire to shut the door as soon as possible.
The squire felt more nervous than ever as he walked slowly along the road
in the direction of the village, his hand still on the bloodhound's
collar. He felt what a narrow escape Goddard had probably had, and the
terrible sound of Stamboul's baying had brought back to him once again
