they very rarely talked of anything which could not have been discussed,
figuratively, on the housetops.
"Brook has got himself into a scrape with that Mrs. Crosby, my dear,"
said Sir Adam. "What you heard is all more or less true. She has really
been to a solicitor, and means to take steps to get a divorce. Of course
she could get it easily enough. If she did, people would say that Brook
had let her go that far, telling her that he would marry her, and then
had changed his mind and left her to her fate. We can't let that happen,
you know."
Lady Johnstone looked at her husband with anxiety while he was
speaking, and then was silent for a few seconds.
"Oh, you Johnstones! You Johnstones!" she cried at last, shaking her
head. "You're perfectly incorrigible!"
"Oh no, my dear," answered Sir Adam; "don't forget me, you know."
"You, Adam!"
Her tone expressed an extraordinary conflict of varying
sentiment--amusement, affection, reproach, a retrospective distrust of
what might have been, but could not be, considering Sir Adam's age.
"Never mind me, then," he answered. "I've made a will cutting Brook off
with nothing if he marries Mrs. Crosby, and I'm going to send her a copy
of it to-day. That will be enough, I fancy."
"Adam!"
"Yes--what? Do you disapprove? You always say that you are a practical
woman, and you generally show that you are. Why shouldn't I take the
practical method of stopping this woman as soon as possible? She wants
my money--she doesn't want my son. A fortune with any other name would
smell as sweet."
"Yes--but--"
"But what?"
"I don't know--it seems--somehow--" Lady Johnstone was perplexed to
express what she meant just then. "I mean," she added suddenly, "it's
treating the woman like a mere adventuress, you know--"
"That's precisely what Mrs. Crosby is, my dear," answered Sir Adam
calmly. "The fact that she comes of decent people doesn't alter the case
in the least. Nor the fact that she has one rich husband, and wishes to
get another instead. I say that her husband is rich, but I'm very sure
he has ruined himself in the last two years, and that she knows it. She
is not the woman to leave him as long as he has money, for he lets her
do anything she pleases, and pays her well to leave him alone. But he
has got into trouble--and rats leave a sinking ship, you know. You may
say that I'm cynical, my dear, but I think you'll find that I'm telling
you the facts as they are."
"It seems an awful insult to the woman to send her a copy of your will,"
said Lady Johnstone.
"It's an awful insult to you when she tries to get rid of her husband to
marry your only son, my dear."
"Oh--but he'd never marry her!"
"I'm not sure. If he thought it would be dishonourable not to marry her,
he'd be quite capable of doing it, and of blowing out his brains
afterwards."
"That wouldn't improve her position," observed the practical Lady
Johnstone.
"She'd be the widow of an honest man, instead of the wife of a
blackguard," said Sir Adam. "However, I'm doing this on my own
responsibility. What I want is that you should witness the will."
"And let Mrs. Crosby think I made you do this? No--"
"Nonsense. I sha'n't copy the signatures--"
"Then why do you need them at all?"
"I'm not going to write to her that I've made a will, if I haven't,"
answered Sir Adam. "A will isn't a will unless it's witnessed. I'm not
going to lie about it, just to frighten her. So I want you and Mrs.
Bowring to witness it."
"Mrs. Bowring?"
"Yes--there are no men here, and Brook can't be a witness, because he's
interested. You and Mrs. Bowring will do very well. But there's another
thing--rather an extraordinary thing--and I won't let you sign with her
until you know it. It's not a very easy thing to tell you, my dear."
Lady Johnstone shifted her fat hands and folded them again, and her
frank blue eyes gazed at her husband for a moment.
"I can guess," she said, with a good-natured smile. "You told me you
were old friends--I suppose you were in love with her somewhere!" She
laughed and shook her head. "I don't mind," she added. "It's one more,
that's all--one that I didn't know of. She's a very nice woman, and I've
taken the greatest fancy to her!"
"I'm glad you have," said Sir Adam, gravely. "I say, my dear--don't be
surprised, you know--I warned you. We knew each other very well--it's
not what you think at all, and she was altogether in the right and I was
quite in the wrong about it. I say, now--don't be startled--she's my
divorced wife--that's all."
"She! Mrs. Bowring! Oh, Adam--how could you treat her so!"
Lady Johnstone leaned back in her chair and slowly turned her head till
she could look out of the window. She was almost rosy with surprise--a
change of colour in her sanguine complexion which was equivalent to
extreme pallor in other persons. Sir Adam looked at her affectionately.
"What an awfully good woman you are!" he exclaimed, in genuine
admiration.
"I! No, I'm not good at all. I was thinking that if you hadn't been such
a brute to her I could never have married you. I don't suppose that is
good, is it? But you were a brute, all the same, Adam, dear, to hurt
such a woman as that!"
"Of course I was! I told you so when I told you the story. But I didn't
expect that you'd ever meet."
"No, it is an extraordinary thing. I suppose that if I had any nerves I
should faint. It would be an awful thing if I did; you'd have to get
those porters to pick me up!" She smiled meditatively. "But I haven't
fainted, you see. And, after all, I don't see why it should be so very
dreadful, do you? You see, you've rather broken me in to the idea of
lots of other people in your life, and I've always pitied her sincerely.
I don't see why I should stop pitying her because I've met her and taken
such a fancy to her without knowing who she was. Do you?"
