There were some trials and irritations, some failures and 
amendments, but the examinations were passed success- 
fully, and he was now a triumphant sophomore. 
" I shall not stay for all the rest," he said, eagerly, to 
his uncle. "I'm just wild to see papa, as he is going 
away so soon. And Princess and all of them." 
So he packed his trunk for a good, long vacation and 
no end of fun. 
"Though I do hope Sher won't turn cross and nasty, 
and boss us all about. Think how funny it will be for 
him and Cousin Ned to be the grand high dukes ! " 
But that very evening Cousin Ned came in, large-eyed, 
thin and triumphant. 
" Wish me joy ! My paper takes the first prize, three 
hundred dollars. And my degree is sure. You must 
come, Uncle Carew and Auntie Dell, and see me acquit 
myself. And I've earned enough to carry me through 
without asking father for a penny." 
"A fine record, my boy," said Doctor Carew, heartily. 
He was thinking, too, of his own boy and wondering a 
little — he had set his heart on a plan for him, but occa- 
sionally there had been a fear. He was a good student, 
a fine athlete, an enthusiastic lad about games and sports. 
In his boyhood he had been extremely proud of his 
father's profession and quite resolved to follow it. Lat- 
terly he seldom referred to it, indeed the last year when 
the boys talked over their plans he never announced his, 
if he had any. But that he was studying resolutely for 
something, his father well understood. 
There had been a good deal of excitement about the 
wedding, the close of school, the visit at Sherburne 
House, and the winding up of various benevolent 
works, as well as the summer charities and plans for 
vacation. 
" The children have been invited to remain at Sherburne 
House as long as they like," said Lyndell. " Randolph 
proposes to stay all summer with the boys, so he is pro- 
vided for. Millicent must have seaside. O dear, every 
year grows busier ! What a responsibility was taken off 
of us when Sherburne settled his future. And Bertram 
will be in the professor's care next year. We shall be 
quite by ourselves." 
"We ought to be thankful they have all fared so well. 
Really they are a set of young people to be proud of," 
the Doctor smiled cordially. 
" I wonder if Randolph will try to enter college. He 
is so reticent about his own plans." 
" He doesn't mean to this year, I know." 
" He is quite young — I think he had better wait." 
" He has no intention. Another year at the institute 
will do him no harm." But the crease in the doctor's 
brow deepened. He thought sometimes he had been too 
busy with other people's lives to give the proper interest 
to his own children, since they were healthy and happy, 
and surrounded by love and comfort. 
Prodigies were not at all to his liking. He had re- 
solved that nerves and intellect, physical speculation and 
training should be left to a later period. There had 
sometimes been over-indulgence on the part of his father 
and Aunt Neale, he thought, but this was a hard matter 
to restrict, so he had let it go with a smile. 
It was quite late when Randolph came in from his boy 
friend's. They talked about Ned's prize at which he was 
delighted. 
" I wonder if you would like to go to Sherburne with 
Bertram to-morrow?" his mother asked. "He is 
through and so are you." 
"No, not to-morrow. And I would like to hear 
Cousin Ned. When do you go? " 
"Just in time for the wedding, with all my caravan," 
and a laugh shone in the mother's eyes. " Princess is as 
exigent as Nora was. Every girl cousin must be gowned 
in white. What a pretty sight it will be." 
" Yes, quite worth seeing. It is funny to think of 
Princess marrying Professor Kenneth. Then it will be 
next week." 
Lyndell nodded. She was studying the big boy from 
top to toe. His curly, bright brown hair, his fair face 
somewhat sunburned, his merry eyes not as soft as hers 
were now, not indeed "velvet eyes" as Millicent had 
called them, but full of fire and spirit as well as fun ; a 
very respectable nose and a rather firm mouth and chin. 
Not the Beaumanoir beauty to be sure, hardly beauty at 
all at sixteen, but honest and upright and fearless. A 
fine frame, filled out rather more than one might expect 
at that age, but Randolph had never been "spindling." 
How tall he was — quite overtopping Bertram. 
"Well, mamma," with a rather embarrassed laugh, 
"is there something unusual about me?" 
"Except that you grow every moment. What a tall 
fellow you are ! " 
"But the Carews grow up quickly, Aunt Neale says," 
was the boy's reply. 
"And some day we shall have you bringing home 
prizes, I hope," said his mother. "I can't have my 
children distanced." 
He colored, and made as if he would speak, but did 
not. Dell remarked it. 
"You must go to bed. We must all go," exclaimed 
his father. "But, my son, I do not like to have you 
