open the door so wide, we'll all get a look in at the glory, 
Miss Eeely." 
" Uncle Tom, did Miss Eva say slie felt more unwell than 
usual to-night? " 
" No ; but she telTed me this morning she was coming 
nearer thar's them that tells it to the child, Miss Eeely. 
It's the angels. 'It's the trumpet sound afore the break o' 
day,' " said Tom, quoting from a favourite hymn. 
This dialogue passed between Miss Ophelia and Tom, 
between ten and eleven one evening, after her arrangements 
had all been made for the night, when, on going to bolt her 
outer door, she found Tom * stretched along by it, in the 
outer verandah. 
She was not nervous or impressible; but the solemn, 
heartfelt manner struck her. Eva had been unusually 
bright and cheerful that afternoon, and had sat raised in 
her bed, and looked over all her little trinkets and precious 
things, and designated the friends to whom she would have 
them given ; and her manner was more animated, and her 
voice more natural, than they had known it for weeks. Her 
father had been in in the evening, and had said that Eva 
appeared more like her former self than ever she had done 
since her sickness ; and when he kissed her for the night, he 
said to Miss Ophelia, " Cousin, we may keep her with us, 
after all ; she is certainly better : " and he had retired with a 
lighter heart in his bosom than he had had there for weeks. 
But at midnight strange, mystic hour, when the veil 
between the frail present and the eternal future grows thin 
then came the messenger ! 
There was a sound in that chamber, first of one who 
stepped quickly. It was Miss Ophelia, who had resolved to 
sit up all night with her little charge, and who, at the turn of 
the night, had discerned what experienced nurses significantly call a " change." The outer door was quickly opened, 
and Tom, who was watching outside, was on the alert in a 
moment. 
" Go for the doctor, Tom ! lose not a moment," said Miss 
Ophelia ; and, stepping across the room, she rapped at St. 
Clare's door. 
" Cousin," she said, "I wish you would come." 
Those words fell on his heart like clods upon a coffin. 
Why did they ? He was up and in the room in an instant, 
and bending over Eva, who still slept. 
"What was it he saw that made his heart stand still ? 
"Why was no word spoken between the two ? Thou canst 
say, who has seen that same expression on the face dearest 
to thee; that look, indescribable, hopeless, unmistakable, 
that says to thee that thy beloved is no longer thine. 
On the face of the child, however, there was no ghastly 
imprint only a high and almost sublime expression the 
overshadowing presence of spiritual natures, the dawning of 
immortal life in that childish soul. 
They stood there so still, gazing upon her, that even the 
ticking of the watch seemed too loud. In a few moments 
Tom returned with the doctor. He entered, gave one look, 
and stood silent as the rest. 
" When did this change take place ? " said he, in a low 
whisper, to Miss Ophelia. 
" About the turn of the night," was the reply. 
Marie, roused by the entrance of the doctor, appeared 
hurriedly from the next room. 
" Augustine ! Cousin ! Oh ! what ? " she hurriedly 
began. 
" Hush !" said St. Clare hoarsely ; " she is dying ! " 
Mammy heard the words, and flew to awaken the servants. 
The house was soon roused lights were seen, footsteps 
heard, anxious faces thronged the verandah, and looked 
tearfully through the glass doors ; but St. Clare heard and 
said nothing ; he saw only that look on the face of the little 
sleeper. 
" Oh, if she would only wake, and speak once more ! " he 
said ; and, stooping over her, he spoke in her ear " Eva, 
darling!" 
The large blue eyes unclosed a smile passed over her 
face ; she tried to raise her head, and to speak. 
" Do you know me, Eva ? " 
" Dear papa," said the child with a last eifort, throwing 
her arms about his neck. In a moment they dropped again ; 
and, as St. Clare raised his head, he saw a spasm of mortal 
agony pass over the face she struggled for breath, and 
threw up her little hands. 
" O's Grod, this is dreadful ! " he said, turning away in 
agony, and wringing Tom's hand, scarce conscious what 
he was doing. " Tom, my boy, it is killing me ! " 
Tom had his master's hands between his own ; and, with 
tears streaming down his dark cheeks, looked up for help 
where he had always been used to look. 
" Pray that this may be cut short ! " said St. Clare ; " this 
wrings my heart ! " 
" Oh, bless the Lord ! it's over it's over, dear mas'r ! " 
said Tom ; " look at her." 
The child lay panting on her pillows, as one exhausted 
the large clear eyes rolled up and fixed. Ah, what said those 
eyes, that spoke so much of heaven ? Earth was passed, and 
earthly pain ; but so solemn, so mysterious, was the triumphant brightness of that face, that it checked even the sobs 
of sorrow. They pressed around her in breathless stilness. 
" Era ! " said St. Clare, gently. 
She did not hear. 
" 0, Eva, tell us what you see ! What is it ? " said her 
father. 
A bright, a glorious smile passed over her face, and she 
