the breakfast. She was startled to see the Doctor entering all radiant,
leading in Mary by the hand, and looking as if he thought she were some
dream-miracle which might dissolve under his eyes unless he kept fast
hold of her. The keen eyes shot their arrowy glance, which went at
once to the heart of the matter. Madame de Frontignac knew they were
engaged, and regarded Mary with attention.
The calm, sweet, elevated expression of her face struck her; it struck
her also that that was not the light of any earthly love, that it had
no thrill, no blush, no tremor, but only the calmness of a soul that
knows itself no more, and she sighed involuntarily.
She looked at the Doctor, and seemed to study attentively a face which
happiness had made this morning as genial and attractive as it was
generally strong and fine.
There was little said at the breakfast-table this morning; and yet the
loud singing of the birds, the brightness of the sunshine, the life and
vigour of all things, seemed to make up for the silence of those who
were too well pleased to speak.
‘Eh bien, ma chère,’ said Madame, after breakfast, drawing Mary into
her little room. ‘C’est fini?’
‘Yes,’ said Mary, cheerfully.
‘Thou art content,’ said Madame, passing her arm around her; ‘well
then, I should be: but, Mary, it is like a marriage with the altar,
like taking the veil, is it not?’
‘No,’ said Mary, ‘it is not taking the veil, it is beginning a
cheerful, reasonable life with a kind, noble friend who will always
love me truly, and whom I hope to make as happy as he deserves.’
‘I think well of him, my little cat,’ said Madame, reflectively;
‘but—,’ she stopped something she was going to say, and kissed Mary’s
forehead; after a moment’s pause, she added,
‘One must have love or refuge, Mary; this is thy refuge, child; thou
wilt have peace in it;’ she sighed again.
‘Enfin,’ she said, resuming her gay tone, ‘what shall be la toilette
de noce? Thou shalt have Verginie’s pearls, my fair one, and look like
a sea-born Venus; tiens! let me try them in thy hair.’
And in a few moments she had Mary’s long hair down, and was chattering
like a blackbird, wreathing the pearls in and out, and saying a
thousand pretty nothings, weaving grace and poetry into the strait
thread of Puritan life.
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE QUILTING.
THE announcement of the definite engagement of two such bright
particular stars in the hemisphere of the Doctor’s small parish excited
the interest that such events usually create among the faithful of the
flock.
There was a general rustle and flutter, as when a covey of wild pigeons
has been started, and all the little elves who rejoice in the name of
‘says he,’ and ‘says I,’ and ‘do tell,’ and ‘have you heard,’ were
speedily flying through the consecrated air of the parish.
The fact was discussed by matrons and maidens at the spinning-wheel and
in the green clothes-yard, or at the foaming wash-tub, out of which
arose a new birth of weekly freshness and beauty. Many a rustic Venus
of the foam, as she splashed her dimpled elbows in the rainbow-tinted
froth, talked what should be done for the forthcoming solemnities, and
wondered what Mary would have on when she was married, and whether
she (the Venus) should get an invitation to the wedding, and whether
‘Ethan’ would go—not that she cared in the least whether he did or not.
Grave elderly matrons talked about the ‘prosperity of Zion,’ which
they imagined intimately connected with the event of their minister’s
marriage; and descending from ‘Zion,’ speculated on bed-quilts and
table-cloths, and rummaged their own clean, sweet-smelling stores,
fragrant with balm and rose-leaves, to lay out a bureau cover, or a
pair of sheets, or a dozen napkins for the wedding outfit.
The solemnest of solemn quiltings was resolved upon.
Miss Prissy declared that she fairly couldn’t sleep nights with the
responsibility of the wedding-dresses in her mind; but yet she ‘must
give one day to getting on that quilt.’ The grande monde also was
in motion. Mrs. General Wilcox called in her own particular carriage,
bearing the present of a cashmere shawl for the bride, with the
General’s best compliments, and also an oak-leaf pattern for quilting,
which had been sent her from England, and which was authentically
established to be that used on a petticoat belonging to the Princess
Royal; and Mrs. Major Seaforth came also, bearing a scarf of worked
Indian muslin; and Mrs. Vernon sent a splendid Indian china punch-bowl.
Indeed, to say the truth, the notables high and mighty of Newport, whom
the Doctor had so unceremoniously accused of building their houses with
blood, and establishing their city with iniquity, considering that
nobody seemed to take his words to heart, and that they were making
money as fast as old Tyre, rather assumed the magnanimous, and patted
themselves on the shoulder for this opportunity to show the Doctor
that, after all, they were good fellows, and bore him no malice, though
they did make money at the expense of thirty per cent. human life.
Simeon Brown was the only exception: he stood aloof, grim and
sarcastic, and informed some good, middle-aged ladies who came to see
if he would, as they phrased it, ‘esteem it a privilege’ to add his
mite to the Doctor’s outfit, that he would give him a likely negro boy
if he wanted, and if he was too conscientious to keep him, he might
sell him at a fair profit; a happy stroke of humour, which he was fond
of relating many years after.
The quilting was in these days considered as the most solemn and
important recognition of a betrothal; and for the benefit of those not
to the manner born, a little preliminary instruction may be necessary.
The good wives of New England, impressed with that thrifty orthodoxy of
economy which forbids to waste the merest trifle, had a habit of saving
every scrap and fragment clipped out in the fashioning of household
garments; and these they cut into fanciful patterns, and constructed
of them rainbow shapes and quaint traceries, the arrangement of
which became one of their few fine arts. Many a maiden, as she sorted
and arranged fluttering bits of green, yellow, red, and blue, felt
rising in her breast a passion for somewhat vague and unknown, which
came out at length in a new pattern of patchwork; and collections of
