" We cannot padlock the other door from the inside," 
he explained, " for there are no hasps. If the man man- 
aged to pass us he might get out this way." 
He led the way down, making as little noise as possi- 
ble. Masin held up his lantern, peering into the gloom 
over Malipieri's shoulder. 
" No one could pass the other door without breaking 
it down," Malipieri said. 
They reached the floor of the cellars, which extended 
in both directions from the foot of the staircase, far to 
the left by low, dark vaults like railway tunnels, and a 
short distance to the right, where they ended at the 
north-west corner. The two men turned that way, but 
after walking a dozen yards, they turned to the left and 
entered a damp passage barely wide enough for them 
both abreast. It ended at the padlocked door, and be- 
fore unlocking the latter Malipieri laid his ear to the 
rough panel and listened attentively. Not a sound 
broke the stillness. He turned the key, and took off 
the padlock and slipped it into his pocket before going 
on. Without it the door could not be fastened. 
The passage widened suddenly beyond, in another 
short tunnel ending at the outer foundation wall of the 
palace. In this tunnel, on the right-hand side, was the 
breach the two men had first made in order to gain 
access to the unexplored region. Now that there was 
an aperture, the running water on the other side could 
be heard very distinctly, like a little brook in a rocky 
channel, but more steady. Both men examined the 
damp floor carefully with their lanterns, in the hope of 
finding some trace of footsteps; but the surface was 
hard and almost black, and where there had been a lit- 
tle slime their own feet had rubbed it off, as they came 
and went during many days. The stones and rubbish 
they had taken from the wall had been piled up and 
hardened, to form an inclined causeway by which to 
reach the irregular hole. This was now just big enough 
to allow a man to walk through it, bending almost 
 
double. Masin lighted one of the lamps, which they 
generally left at that place, and set it on a stone. 
Malipieri began to go up, his stick in his right hand, 
the lantern in his left. 
" Let me go first, sir," said Masin, trying to pass him. 
" Nonsense ! " Malipieri answered sharply, and went 
on. 
Masin kept as close to him as possible. He had 
picked up the lightest of the drilling irons for a 
weapon. It must have weighed at least ten pounds 
and it was a yard long. In such a hand as Masin's a 
blow from it would have broken a man's bones like 
pipe stems. 
The wall was about eight feet thick, and when 
Malipieri got to the other end of the hole he stopped 
and looked down, holding out his lantern at arm's 
length. He could see nothing unusual, and he heard 
no sound, except the gurgle of the little black stream 
that ran ten feet below him. He began to descend. 
The masonry was very irregular, and sloped outwards 
towards the ground, so that some of the irregularities 
made rough steps here and there, which he knew by 
heart. Below, several large fragments of Roman brick 
and cement lay here and there, where they had fallen 
in the destruction of the original building. It was not 
hard to get down, and the space was not large. It was 
bounded by the old wall on one side, and most of the 
other was taken up by a part of a rectangular mass of 
masonry, of rough mediaeval construction, which pro- 
jected inward. 
The place was familiar, but Malipieri looked about 
him carefully, while Masin was climbing down. Along 
the base of the straight wall there was a channel about 
two feet wide, through which the dark water flowed 
rapidly. It entered from the right-hand corner, by a 
low, arched aperture, through which it seemed out of 
the question that a man could crawl, or even an ordi- 
nary boy of twelve. When they had first come to this 
place Masin had succeeded in poking in a long stick 
with a bit of lighted wax taper fastened to it, and both 
men had seen that the channel ran on as far as it could 
be seen, with no widening. At the other end of the 
chamber it ran out again by a similar conduit. What 
had at first surprised Malipieri had been that the water 
did not enter from the side of the foundations near the 
Vicolo dei Soldati, but ran out that way. He had also 
been astonished at the quantity and speed of the cur- 
rent. A channel a foot deep and two feet wide carries 
a large quantity of water if the velocity be great, and 
Malipieri had made a calculation which had convinced 
him that if the outflow were suddenly closed, the small 
space in which he now stood would in a few minutes 
be full up to within three or four feet of the vault. 
He would have given much to know whence the water 
came and whither it went, and what devilry had made 
it rise suddenly and drown a man when the excavations 
had been made under Gregory Sixteenth. 
From below, the place where an entrance had then 
been opened was clearly visible. The vault had been 
broken into and had afterwards been rebuilt from 
 
