''You are disposed to look at the gloomy side 
of the picture, Anna," replied her husband, smilincr. 
'' Suppose you take a more encouraging view." 

" Show me the bright side, James. I will look 
at it with pleasure." 

'' There is a bright side, Anna — every thing has 



 

a sunny side ; but I do not know that it is in my 
power to show you the sunny side of this picture. 
I will, however, present to your mind a truth that 
may suggest many others of an encouraging nature. 
Into right ends there flows a perception of true 
means. Do you not believe this ?" 

" I have the best of reasons for believing it to be 
true." 

"Can there be a higher or holier end than a 
mother's, when she proposes to herself the good 
of her child ?" 

" J believe not." 

" Into that end will there most assuredly be an 
influx of wisdom to discover the true means. Do 
not despond, then. As your day is, so will your 
strength be." 

Anna sighed heavily, but made no reply for some 
moments. She was too deeply conscious of her 
ignorance of the true means, to feel a profound 
confidence in the practical bearing of the principles 
that her husband had declared, and which reason 
told her were true. 

" It is easy to theorize," she at length said. " It 
is pleasant to the mind to dwell upon true princi- 
ples, and see how they apply in real life. But, it 
is a different matter when we come to bring down 
these theories ourselves. There is in us so much 
that hinders. — Self love, indolence, pride, and a 
thousand other things, come between our good 
purposes and their accomplishment." 

'' True. But, on the side of good resolutions, is 
One who is all " 

"Right, ray dear husband! — Right!" exclaimed 
Anna, interrupting him. " He that is for us is 
more than all who are against us. If I can only 
fix my confidence, like an anchor to the soul, upon 
Him, all the rough places of peevish nature will be 
made even — light will break in from a dark sky 
—I shall see clearly to walk in right paths." 

" Ever let us both strive to fix our confidence 
upon God," responded Hartley in a low but ear- 
nest voice. " If we do so, we shall not find our 
duty so hard to perform as at first sight it may ap- 
pear to us. Angels love infants and children most 
tenderly, and they will be our teachers if we keep 
our minds elevated above all mere worldly and 
selfish ends, and seek only the highest good for 
our offspring." 

"The highest good, — Yes, that must be our aim. 
But do we agree as to what is the highest good ?" 

" An important question, Anna. If we do not 
agree, our task will be a difficult one. What do 
you call the highest good ." 

Anna mused for some time. 





"The highest good — the highest good — " she \ 
murmured abstractedly. " Is it wealth ? — Honour ? 
The love and praise of men ? — The attainment of 
all earthly blessings ? — No — no. — Tliese can only 
continue for a time. This life is a brief season at 
best — a mere point in our being — a state of prepa- 
ration for our real and true existence. In seeking 
the highest good of our child, we must look beyond 
the ' bounds of time and space.' " — i 

" If we do not, Anna, our seeking for the good 
of our child will be in vain. But, after determin- 
ing what are the best interests of our child, the 
next great question is how shall we secure them ? 
Thousands have decided as we have, but alas ! how 
few have been able to secure the right means. A 
religious education I know to be the only true edu- 
cation. All others must fail. But what is a reli- 
gious education ? It is in the wrong determination 
of this question that so many fail." 

" Can you determine it, James ?" 

" Not so well as you can. But do you not agree 
with me in the conclusion I have stated V 

" Assuredly I do. Religion is nothing more 
than heavenly order, and involves in it the true re- 
lation of the creature and the Creator. It is not 
the abstract, dark, austere and repulsive something 
that so many make it ; a thing of pharisaical sane- 
tity and unmeaning observances. No — no. Re- 
lig-ion clothes herself in garments of light, and 
wears upon her brow a sunny smile. All who 
look upon her as she really is, must love her." 

" Truly said, for she is the very embodiment of 
beauty. But, how few there are who see her and 
know her." 

''Too few indeed." 

''Still, Anna, we are dealing but in generals. 
How are we to educate our child upon religious 
principles ?" 

" First of all, we should, as I have already endea- 
voured to do, impress upon her mind the idea of a 
God, and that he loves her, watches over her, and 
protects her from harm. This is easily done. No 
idea is so readily conveyed to a child's mind as 
that of the existence of God as a good Being. — 
When I talk to Marien, young as she is, about 
God and the angels who live in Heaven, she will 
look me steadily in the eyes, and listen with the 
most fixed attention. She cannot yet speak her 
thoughts, but I know that she more than half Com- 
prehends me, and that in the tender and most im- 
pressible substances of her mind, I am fixing ideas 
that can never be eradicated. As she grows older, 
and her mind expands, I shall not only teach her 
to regard the good of others, but instruct her in 



 

the right means of promoting it. The whole Law 
and the Prophets hang upon the precept: 'Thou 
shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and 
thy neighbour as thyself.' Here is the starling 
point in all religion. With this fundamental doc- 
trine, must all olher doctrines square. To love 
God, is to live according to his commandments; 
and to love our neighbour is to seek his good — his 
highest good. If we live only for ourselves, and 
regard only ourselves, we live a false and irreligious 
life, and cannot be happy. No matter what doc- 
trines we profess — no matter by what name we call 
ourselves — if we do not seek the good of others we 
are irreligious." 

"With what truth may it be said — 'There is 
none good — no, not one,' " remarked Hartley, as his 
wife ceased speaking. " How easy it is to see the 
truth of a precept, and declare it ; but how hard a 
thing is it to live according to the tenor of that 
precept." 

" Yes — and how easy it is to talk about the 
education of our child, but how almost impossible 
will it be for us to accomplish the important task," 
replied Anna. " Already do J find myself at a loss 
how to meet and correct certain evil tendencies 
thus early apparent in our dear little one. These 
will grow stronger as she grows older. I cannot 



 

remove them — all I can do will be to prevent their 
attaining suificient strength to rule in her minil, at 
the same time that I seek to sow the seeds of op- 
posite good principles, that when she attains the 
age of rational accountability, and the great strug- 
gle commences, that takes place with every one, 
she may have the means of a sure conquest. If 
we could remove the evil tendencies with which 
our children are born, our duties would be lighter, 
for we could then work with more confidence. 
But this we cannot do. Each one has to do it for 
himself, when he comes to mature age — or rather, 
he has then to fight against the evils in himself, 
and when from right motives he does this, the 
Lord will remove them. All we can do for our 
child, is to keep, as far as it is in our power, her 
evils quiescent, and fill her mind with active prin- 
ciples of goodness. These will be weapons and 
proof armour in the strife that must take place, 
sooner or later. Fighting with these, she must 
come off conqueror." 




This was the first serious conversation that had 
taken place between Mr. and Mrs. Hartley on the 
subject of the education of their child. As their 
thoughts became more and more steadily directed to 
the subject, they saw their duty clearer and clearer. 
At least, such was the case with Mrs. Hartley, for 
her's was the task of making the first impression 
upon her child's mind — the first and most lasting 
impression. Upon the character of the mother de 
pends, almost entirely, the future character and' 
position of the child. No matter how wise and 
good the father may be, his influence will do but 
little if opposed to that of an injudicious mother. 
Take ten instances where men have risen from 
humble stations into eminence, and nine of these 
at least will be found the result of a mother's in- 
fluence. Her love is a different one; it is more 
concentrated— and the more we love an object, the 
more accurate becomes our perception of tlie means 
of benefitting that object. The father is, usually, 


all absorbed in the pursuit of a business or profes- 
sion by which to secure the temporal good of his 
family, and has little time, and too often less incli- 
nation to devote himself to his children. When 
he retires into his family, his mind seeks rest from 
the over excitements of the day, and he is unpre- 
pared to give to his children judicious instruction, 
or to administer wise correction. He cannot adopt 
a system, and regularly carry it out, because he is 
with them only for a short time each day, and can- 
not know their characters thoroughly, nor the 
means that best re-act upon and keep their evils 
quiescent. Upon the mother devolves, therefore, 
of necessity, the high and important duty of mould- 
ing the characters of her children — of impressing 
them for good or evil — of giving them true strength 
for their trials in after life. 

Sensibly did Mrs. Hartley feel this. The path 
of duty lay clearly defined before her, and she 
shrunk not from walking therein. Love for her 
child, and a high religious principle, were her 
prompters — that religious principle was a reverence 
for God, and a purified love of the neighbor. Tt 
was a religion that showed itself less in external 
acts of piety (though these were never omitted) 
than in an orderly and blameless life — an upright 
walk and a chaste conversation. Her charity con- 



 

sisted in the faithful performance of all known du- 
ties — the filling up of her measure of usefulness in
the sphere where Providence had placed her. 

Her first efforts with her child, as reason began to 
dawn, were the best a mother can use. She sought to 
impress upon the mind of her little Marien one idea. 
Among the first words she taught her to say, were, 
" Good Man in Heaven." And she always uttered 
these words with a quiet, thoughtful face, and point- 
ed upwards. Soon, the answer to " Who loves little 
Marien ?" would be " Papa." " Who else ?" " Mam- 
ma." " Who else ?" " Good Man in Heaven." 

At every step she endeavored to fix more deep- 
ly this impression. The lisped prayer on retiring 
to bed was never omitted. 

The next eflbrt she made was to counteract the 
selfish tendency of the child. She began with 
teaching her that she must love God — the second 
step was to cause her to regard the good of others- 

If her husband, from the very nature of his occu- 
pation, could not aid her much in the practical ap- 
plication of right means, he was ever ready to con- 
fer with her, and to aid her in discovering these 
means. They thought much, and conversed much 
together upon the subject. 

'' The hardest thing I have to do, is to cause 
Marien to obey me," said xMrs. Hartley, as they sat 



 

conversing about their child, one evening after she 
had been put to bed. 

" No doubt of it," replied her husband. " And 
yet obedience is, of all things, most necessary. In 
the young mind must be formed vessels into which 
principles of action that are to govern in manhood, 
can flow. Obedience to parents forms in tlie mind 
vessels that become recipients of obedience to civil 
laws, without which all social order would be de- 
stroyed ; — and, by an easy process, obedience to law 
changes as the mind rises into higher and better 
states, into obedience to divine laws. Obedience to 
these laws involves all the rest. A good Christian is 
of necessity a good citizen. He does not obey the 
laws as penal enactments, but because they are 
founded upon a just regard to the good of the 
whole. From this view of the subject may be seen 
the importance of securing the implicit obedience of 
our children. We cannot hope to make this so per- 
fect that they will always regard our injunctions 
"when absent ; but the consciousness that every act 
of disobedience, if known, will meet with some cor- 
rection, cannot fail to have a restraining effect, and 
will cause civil laws to be obeyed until the mind 
is so far elevated as to observe them from a regard 
to their sacredness as means of securing the good 
of the whole." 



 

" This view of the subject," remarked Mrs. Hart- 
ley, " causes me to feel, more than I have yet felt, 
the necessity of obedience in children. I did not 
see its important bearing upon social order before, 
nor how it was the only means of leading our chil- 
dren to what is so much desired, obedience to di- 
vine laws, when they become responsible beings." 

The three great things to attain, as seeming of 
most importance to Mrs. Hartley, in the education 
of' her child, were to impress fervently and truly 
upon her mind a just idea of God ; to give her an 
unselfish regard for her neighbor, and to insure 
perfect obedience. To do all this was a great 
work, and hard, almost impossible she often felt, 
to accomplish. But she strove unweariedly after 
the attainment of her end, — too unweariedly, I had 
almost said — for she interfered with the freedom 
of her child — checked too often its innocent out- 
bursts of exuberant feeling — saw too much, and let 
be seen too fully by her child the bonds with 
which she sought to hold her. The effect was, 
consequently, bad, for the rebound of her young 
spirits, when away from her mother, were too 
strong. Instead of being happiest with her mother, 
she was happiest when she could escape from her 
presence. 

Mrs. Hartley saw all this, and it grieved her 
deeply. But the cause she did not clearly perceive. 
Before, however, the evils of an over-rigid system 
had progressed too far, the birth of a second child 
divided her care and affection, and gave to Marien a 
real something that she could love undersiandingly. 



CHAPTER III. 

MEANS AND ENDS. 



As month after month passed on, and Clarence, 
th latest born of Mrs. Hartley, began to exhibit some 
signs of his real disposition, the parents perceived 
that it was very diflerent from Marien's. The first 
born was quiet, and easily controlled ; but the boy 
was full of life, and showed very early a resolute 
will, and passionate temper. Before he had com- 
pleted a year, he had caused his mother many an 
anxious hour, and drawn from her eyes many a 
tear. From his sister he was disposed to take 
every thing, and if his exacting spirit were not im- 
mediately gratified in its desires, he would scream 
violently, and sometimes throw himself passionate- 
ly upon the floor. In the first year of her bro- 
ther's life, Marien had changed a good deal. — 



 

Young- as she was, her mother endeavored to in- 
terest her in his favor — to lend him her play 
things when awake, and to rock his cradle when 
he was asleep, and do many little things for him 
within her ability to accomplish. To the exacting, 
imperious temper of the child, Marien was much 
inclined to yield. To have permitted her to do so, 
would have been the easiest course for Mrs. Hart- 
ley to pursue. But this she saw would be to in- 
jure both the children. Were Marien to give up 
every thing to Clarence, it would be impossible for 
the mother to impress upon his mind the idea that 
others had rights as well as himself — rights that he 
must not violate. ]t took some weeks after Mrs. 
Hartley began to teach her child this important 
lesson before she seemed to make any impression. 
After that, the simple declaration — " Tiiis belongs 
to Marien," caused Clarence to yield at once. 
The achievement of so much gave the mother great 
encouragement. It v/as fruit to her labour, and 
the in-gathering even of so small a harvest was 
delightful. 

As the boy added month after month and year 
after year to his age, his strengthening peculiarities 
of disposition became sources of constant annoy- 
ance to his mother. What could be tolerated in 
the child of two and three years, was not to be 



 

endured with patience in the boy of five and six. 
Want of order and cleanliness were among the 
faults that worried her almost as much as his 
stormy temper, selfishness, and a disposition to 
domineer over his sister, who remained still too 
much inclined to yield rather than contend with 
him. Spite of all her efforts to control herself, 
these things so disturbed the mind of Mrs. Hartley, 
that she would at times speak fretfully, and even 
passionately to the boy. Whenever this was the 
case, she could see that the effect was had. Siie 
reached nothing in her child — took hold of no- 
thing in his mind by which she could turn him to 
good. It was a mere external concussion, that 
moved him just so far, and that against his will. 

Unhappy, for hours and days, would the mother 
be whenever she thus lost her self-command ; and 
long and deep would be her self-communings, and 
earnest her resolutions to conquer the evils in her- 
self tliat were re-acting so injuriously upon her 
child. 

"I am not fit to be a mother," she would some- 
times say to her husband during these seasons of 
depression. " I lack patience and forbearance, and 
it seems, every other virtue required for one in my 
position. That boy, Clarence, tries me, at times, 
beyond endurance. And yet, when my mind is 



 

calm and my perceptions clear, I can see that he 
has very many good qualities, and that these really 
overbalance the evil. His intellect is remarkably 
quick, and there is a manliness about him but rarely 
seen in children of his age." 

" Persevere, Anna — persevere," were usually her 
husband's encouraging words. "You are doing 
well. If any one can mould aright the disposition 
of that wayward child, it is you. I only wish that 
I had half your patience and forbearance." 

Time passed steadily on. Another and another 
babe saw the light, until five bright-eyed children 
filled their home with music and sunshine. When 
her care was lavished upon a single child, the mo- 
ther had both mind and heart full. Now her duties 
were increased five fold, but she did not feel them 
to be greater than at first. It seemed to her, when 
she had but one babe, that there was not room in 
her heart for another — but now she found that 
there was room for all. — Each had its appropriate 
place. 

Alike in some general features, these five chil- 
dren were, in particulars, as unlike as possible. 
Marien, the eldest, was a sweet-tempered girl, ten 
years of age. Clarence had improved much under 
the careful training of his mother, though he was 
still rude, self-willed, and too little inclined to re- 


gard properly the rights and comforts of his bro- 
ther and sisters. Henry, next younger than Cla- 
rence, was altogether opposite in character. I'imid, 
bashful and retiring, he had little confidence in 
himself, and was too much inclined to lean upon 
others. Fanny, a laughing little fairy thing, ma- 
king the house musical with her happy voice, and 
Lillian, the babe, filled up the number of Mrs. 
Hartley's household treasures. 

Nearly twelve years had passed since their mar- 
riage, and yet neither James Hartley nor his wife 
were very strongly marked by time. He had a 
more thoughtful, and shea more earnest expression 
of countenance. Their external condition had im- 
proved. He had again entered into business, though 
not with the flattering promises that before encour- 
aged him to hope for a speedily attained fortune ; 
but he was in a surer way to competency at least. 

During this time, both the father and mother of 
Mrs. Hartley died, and a maiden aunt, the sister of 
Anna's mother, had become a member of their 
household. The puritanical prejudices, narrow 
views, and constant interference of this woman 
with Anna's management of her children, were a 
source of great trial. Aunt Mary had no patience 
with the wayward Clarence, while she petted 
and indulged Henry to a degree that was really ior 



 

jurious to a child of his particular disposition. 
Ileaionstraiice was of no avail ; for Aunt Mary 
imagined that her age and relationship entitled her 
to all the control in the family she chose to as- 
sume. She could not understand that Anna, '' the 
child," as she usually spoke of her, had rights and 
responsibilities as a parent, with which she ought 
not to interfere. All this was beyond her compre- 
hension. 

Aunt Mary was a strict church-going member. 
A regular Simday religionist. She seemed to re- 
gard every thing outside of a church as profane. 
There was sin in a pink ribbon, and carnal-mind- 
edness in a blue bonnet. All amusements were 
considered by her as offences against God. To 
attend a ball, or dance, was to insure the soul's 
perdition. Aunt Mary was not one of those who, 
while they hold peculiar and strict notions, have 
the good sense to keep quiet about them where 
they know their declaration not to be agreeable. 
She deemed it her duty to preach from the house 
top, so to speak, on all occasions ; and to declare 
to the children that many of the very things taught 
them by their parents were wrong. When Marien 
and Clarence were first sent to dancing school, 
Aunt Mary preached upon the subject, in season 
and out of season, for nearly a month. 



 

"Toil will ruin your children, Anna," she would 
say. "Isn't it a shame to think that a mother will 
have no more regard for her little ones." 

" How will dancing ruin them, Aunt Mary ?" 
Mrs. Hartley would sometimes ask in a quiet tone. 
" I cannot, for my life, see any evil in motions of 
the body made to accord with good music." 

"Dancing is one of Satan's most cunning de- 
vices to lure the soul to ruin." 

"How is it. Aunt Mary? I cannot understand 
in what the evil lies. Is there any thing in music 
opposed to the Ten Commandments ? Do the 
Ten Commandments forbid dancing?" 

" You reason like a little simpleton, as you are," 
returned Aunt Mary, peevishly. " The Bible for- 
bids dancing." 

" I never saw it, and I believe I have read that 
good book very carefully. It does say, that there 
is a time to dance." 

" It is wicked to quote Scripture, with the inten- 
tion of perverting its meaning," replied Aunt Mary, 
warmly. 

" I know that. But I am not so sure that I have 
done so. The Bible certainly says that there is a 
time to dance." 

" Not in the sense that you pretend to under- 
stand it." 

