
" How'd you see me if you was ?" said Nancy scornfully. 

" Now Miss Ellen," said Mr. Van Brunt, as he brought her 
to Ellen's bedside, " here she is safe ; what shall I do with 
her?" 

" If you will only send her away, and not let her come 
back, Mr. Van Brunt !" said Ellen, " I'll be so much obliged 
to you!" 

" Let me go !" said Nancy. " I declare you're a real mean 
Dutchman, Mr. Van Brunt." 

He took both her hands in one, and laid the other lightly 
over her ears. 

" I'll let you go," said he. "Now don't you be caught 
here again if you know what is good for yourself." 

He saw Miss Nancy out of the door, and then came back 
to Ellen, who was crying heartily again from nervous vexation. 

" She's gone," said he. " What has that wicked thing 
been doing, Miss Ellen ? what's the matter with you?" 

" Oh, Mr. Van Brunt," said Ellen, " you can't think how 







she has worried me ; she has been here this great while ; just 
look at all my things on the floor, and that isn't the half." 

Mr. Van Brunt gave a long whistle as his eye surveyed the 
tokens of Miss Nancy's mischief-making, over and through 
which both she and himself had been chasing at full speed, 
making the state of matters rather worse than it was 
before. 

" I do say," said he slowly, " that is too bad. I'd fix them 
up again for you, Miss Ellen, if I knew how ; but my hands 
are a'most as clumsy as my feet, and I see the marks of them 
there ; it's too bad I declare ; I didn't know what I was 
going on." 

" Never mind, Mr. Van Brunt,'' said Ellen, — " I don't 
mind what you've done a bit. I'm so glad to see you !" 

She put out her little hand to him as she spoke. He took 
it in his own silently, but though he said and showed nothing 
of it, Ellen's look and tone of affection thrilled his heart 
with pleasure. 

" How do you do ?" said he kindly. 

" I'm a gi;eat deal better," said Ellen. " Sit down, won't 
you, Mr. Van Brunt ? I want to see you a little." 

Horses wouldn't have drawn him away after that. He sat 
down. 

" Aint you going to be up again some of these days ?" said 
he. 

" Oh yes, I hope so," said Ellen sighing ; "I am very 
tired of lying here." 

He looked round the room ; got up and mended the fire ; 
then came and sat down again. 

" I was up yesterday for a minute," said Ellen, "but the 
chair tired me so I was glad to get back to bed again." 

It was no wonder ; harder and straighter-backed chairs 
never were invented. Probably Mr. Van Brunt thought so. 

" Wouldn't you like to have a rocking-cheer ?" said he suddenly, as if a bright thought had struck him. 

" Oh yes, how much I should !" said Ellen, with another 
long drawn breath, " but there isn't such a thing in the 
house that ever I saw." 

"Ay but there is in other houses though,' said Mr. Van 
Brunt, with as near an approach to a smile as his lips commonly made ; — " We'll see !" 







Ellen smiled more broadly. " But don't you give yourself 
any trouble for me," said she. 

" Trouble indeed !" said Mr. Van Brunt ; " J don't know 
anything about that. How came that wicked thing up here 
to plague you 

" She said aunt Fortune left her to take care of me." 

" That's one of her lies. Your aunt's gone out, I know ; 
but she's a trifle wiser than to do such a thing as that. She 
has plagued you badly, ha'n't she ?" 

He might have thought so. The color which excitement 
brought into Ellen's face had faded away, and she had settled 
herself back against her pillow with an expression of weakness and weariness that the strong man saw and felt. 

" What is there I can do for you ?" said he, with a gentleness that seemed almost strange from such lips. 

" If you would," said Ellen faintly, — " if you could be so 
kind as to read me a hymn ? — I should be so glad. I've had 
nobody to read to me." 

Her hand put the little book towards him as she said so. 

Mr. Van Brunt would vastly rather any one had asked him 
to plough an acre. He was to the full as much confounded 
as poor Ellen had once been at a request of his. He hesitated, and looked towards Ellen wishing for an excuse. But 
the pale little face that lay there against the pillow, — t-he 
drooping eyelids, — the meek helpless look of the little child, 
put all excuses out of his head ; and though he would have 
chosen to do almost anything else, he took the book and 
asked her " Where ?" She said anywhere ; and he took the 
first he saw. 

" Poor, weak, and worthless though I am, 
I have a rich almighty friend ; 
Jesus the Saviour is his name, 
lie freely loves, and without end." 

" Oh," said Ellen with a sigh of pleasure, and folding her 
hands on her breast, — " how lovely that is !" 

He stopped and looked at her a moment, and then went 
on with increased gravity. 

" He ransom'd me from hell with blood, 
And by his pow'r my foes controll'd ; 
He found me wand'ring far from God, 
And brought me to his chosen fold." 







"Fold?" said Ellen, opening her eyes; " what is that ?" 

" It's where sheep are penned, aint it ?" said Mr. Van 
Brunt after a pause. 

" Oh yes !" said Ellen, " that's it ; I remember ; that's 
like what he said, ' I am the good shepherd,' and ' the Lord 
is my shepherd ;' I know now. Go on, please." 

He finished the hymn without more interruption. Looking 
again towards Ellen, he was surprised to see several large 
tears finding their way down her cheeks from under the wet 
eyelash. But she quickly wiped them away. 

" What do you read them things for," said he, "if they 
make you feel bad." 

" Feel bad !" said Ellen. " Oh they don't ; they make me 
happy ; I love them dearly. I never read that one before. 
You can't think how much I am obliged to you for reading 
it to me. Will you let me see where it is ?" 

He gave it her. 

" Yes there's his mark !" said Ellen with sparkling eyes. 
" Now Mr. Van Brunt would you be so very good as to read it 
once more ?" 

He obeyed. It was easier this time. She listened as 
before with closed eyes, but the color came and went once or 
twice. 

" Thank you very much," she said, when he had done. 
" Are you going ?" 

" I must ; I have some things to look after." 
She held his hand still. 
" Mr. Van Brunt, — don't you love hymns ?" 
" I don't know much about 'em Miss Ellen." 
" Mr. Van Brunt, are you one of that fold ?"
"What fold?" 

" The fold of Christ's people." 

"I'm afeard not, Miss Ellen," said he soberly, after a minute's pause. 

" Because," said Ellen bursting into tears, " I wish you 
were, very much." 

She carried the great brown hand to her lips before she let 
it go. He went without saying a word. But when he got 
out he stopped and looked at a little tear she had left on the 
back of it. And he looked till one of his own fell there to 
keep it company. 



CHAPTER XXI. 



The next day, about the middle of the afternoon, a light 
step crossed the shed, and the great door opening gently, in 
walked Miss Alice Humphreys. The room was all "redd 
up," and Miss Fortune and her mother sat there at work ; 
one picking over white beans at the table, the other in her 
usual seat by the fire and at her usiial employment, which 
was knitting. Alice came forward and asked the old lady 
how she did. 

" Pretty well — pretty well !" — she answered, with the 
look of bland good-humor her face almost always wore, — 
" and glad to see you dear. Take a chair." 

Alice did so, quite aware that the other person in the room 
was not glad to see her. 

" And how goes the world with you, Miss Fortune ?" 

" Humph ! it's a queer kind of a world I think," answered 
that lady dryly, sweeping some of the picked beans into her 
pan ; — " I get a'most sick of it sometimes." 

" Why what's the matter ?" said Alice pleasantly ; " may 
I ask ? Has anything happened to trouble you ?" 

" no !" said the other somewhat impatiently ; " nothing 
that's any matter to any one but myself ; it's no use speaking 
about it." 

" Ah ! Fortune never would take the world easy," said 
the old woman shaking her head from side to side ; — " never 
would ; — I never could get her to." 

" Now do hush mother, will you !" said her daughter, 
turning round upon her with startling sharpness of look and 
tone ; — " ' take the world easy !' you always did ; I am glad I 
aint like you." 







" I don't think it's a bad way after all," said Alice ; " what's 
the use of taking it hard Miss Fortune ?" 

" The way one goes on !" said that lady, picking away at 
her beans very fast and not answering Alice's question, — " I'm 
tired of it ; — toil, toil, and drive, drive, — from morning to 
night ; — and what's the end of it all ?" 

" Not much," said Alice gravely, " if our toiling looks no 
further than this world. When we go we shall carry nothing 
away with us. I should think it would be very wearisome 
to toil only for what we cannot keep nor stay long to enjoy." 

" It's a pity you warn't a minister Miss Alice," said Miss 
Fortune dryly. 

" no, Miss Fortune," said Alice smiling, " the family 
would be overstocked. My father is one and my brother 
will be another ; a third would be too much. You must be 
so good as to let me preach without taking orders." 

" Well I wish every minister was as good a one as you'd 
make," said Miss Fortune, her hard face giving way a little ; — 
" at any rate nobody 'd mind anything you'd say Miss Alice." 

" That would be unlucky, in one sense," said Alice ; " but 
I believe I know what you mean. But Miss Fortune no one 
would dream the world went very hard with you. I don't 
know anybody I think lives in more independent comfort and 
plenty and has things more to her mind. I never come to 
the house that I am not struck with the fine look of the farm 
and all that belongs to it." 

"Yes," said the old lady nodding her head two or three 
times, " Mr. Van Brunt is a good farmer — very good — there's 
no doubt about that." 

" I wonder what hed do," said Miss Fortune, quickly and 
sharply as before, " if there warn't a head to manage for 
him ! — O the farm's well enough Miss Alice, — tain't that ; 
every one knows where his own shoe pinches." 

" I wish you'd let me into the secret then, Miss Fortune ; 
I'm a cobbler by profession." 

Miss Fortune's ill humor was giving way, but something 
disagreeable seemed again to cross her mind. Her brow 
darkened. 

" I say it's a poor kind of world and I'm sick of it ! One 
may slave and slave one's life out for other people, and what 
thanks do you get ? — I'm sick of it." 







" There's a little body up-stairs, or I'm much mistaken, 
who will give you very sincere thanks for every kindness 
shown her." 

Miss Fortune tossed her head, and brushing the refuse 
beans into her lap, she pushed back her chair with a jerk to 
go the fire with them. 

" Much you know about her Miss Alice ! Thanks indeed ! 
I haven't seen the sign of such a thing since she's been here, 
for all I have worked and worked and had plague enough 
with her I am sure. Deliver me from other people's children, say I !" 

" After all, Miss Fortune," said Alice soberly, " it is not 
what we do for people that makes them love us, — or at least 
everything depends on the way things are done. A look of 
love, a word of kindness, goes further towards winning the 
heart than years of service or benefactions mountain-high 
without them." 

" Does she say I am unkind to her ?" asked Miss Fortune 
fiercely. 

" Pardon me," said Alice, " words on her part are un- 
necessary ; it is easy to see from your own that there is no 
love lost between you, and I am very sorry it is so." 

" Love indeed !" said Miss Fortune with great indignation ; 
" there never was any to lose I can assure you. She plagues 
the very life out of me. Why she hadn't been here three 
days before she went off with that girl Nancy Vawse that I 
had told her never to go near, and was gone all night ; that's 
the time she got in the brook. And if you'd seen her face 
when I was scolding her about it ! — it was like seven thunder clouds. Much you know about it ! I dare say she's 
very sweet to you ; that's the way she is to everybody beside me — they all think she's too good to live ; and it just 
makes me mad !" 

" She told me herself," said Alice, " of her behaving ill 
another time, about her mother's letter." 

" Yes — that was another time. I wish you'd seen her !" 

" I believe she saw and felt her fault in that case. Didn't 
she ask your pardon? she said she would." 

" Yes," said Miss Fortune dryly, " after a fashion." 

" Has she had her letter yet ?" 

"No." 







" How is she to-day ?" 

" she's well enough — she's sitting up. You can go up 
and see her." 

" I will directly," said Alice. " But now Miss Fortune I 
am going to ask a favor of you, — will you do me a great 
pleasure ?" 

" Certainly Miss Alice, — if I can." 

" If you think Ellen has been sufficiently punished for her 
ill-behavior — if you do not think it right to withhold her 
letter still, — will you let me have the pleasure of giving it to 
her ? I should take it as a great favor to myself." 

Miss Fortune made no kind of reply to this, but stalked 
out of the room, and in a few minutes stalked in again with 
the letter, which she gave to Alice, only saying shortly, " It 
came to me in a letter from her father." 

" You are willing she should have it?" said Alice. 

"yes ! — do what you like with it." 

Alice now went softly up-stairs. She found Ellen's door 
a little ajar, and looking in could see Ellen seated in a rocking-chair between the door and the fire, in her double-gown, 
and with her hymn-book in hand. It happened that 
Ellen had spent a good part of that afternoon in crying for 
her lost letter ; and the face that she turned to the door on 
hearing some slight noise outside was very white and thin 
indeed. And though it was placid too, her eye searched the 
crack of the door with a keen wistfulness that went to Alice's 
heart. But as the door was gently pushed open, and the 
eye caught the figure that stood behind it, the sudden and 
entire change of expression took away all her powers of 
speech.- Ellen's face became radiant; she rose from her 
chair, and as Alice silently came in and kneeling down to be 
near her took her in her arms, Ellen put both hers round 
Alice's neck and laid her face there ; — one was too happy 
and the other too touched to say a word. 

"My poor child!" was Alice's first expression. 

" No I aint," said Ellen, tightening the squeeze of her 
arms round Alice's neck ; "I am not poor at all now." 

Alice presently rose, sat down in the rocking-chair and 
took Ellen in her lap ; and Ellen rested her head on her 
bosom as she had been wont to do of old time on her mother's. 

" I am too happy," she murmured. But she was weep- 







ing, and the current of tears seemed to gather force as it 
flowed. What was little Ellen thinking of just then? O 
those times gone by ! — when she had sat just so ; her head 
pillowed on another as gentle a breast ; kind aims wrapped 
round her, just as now ; the same little old double-gown ; 
the same weak helpless feeling ; the same committing herself 
to the strength and care of another ; — how much the same, 
and oh ! how much not the same ! — and Ellen knew both. 
Blessing as she did the breast on which she leaned and the 
arms whose pressure she felt, they yet reminded her sadly of 
those most loved and so very far away ; and it was an odd 
mixture of relief and regret, joy and sorrow, gratified and 
ungratified affection, that opened the sluices of her eyes. 
Tears poured. 

" What is the matter my love ?" said Alice softly. 

" I don't know," whispered Ellen. 

" Are you so glad to see me ? or so sorry ? or what is it ?"

" Oh, glad and sorry both, I think," said Ellen with a long 
breath, and sitting up. 

" Have you wanted me so much my poor child ?" 

" I cannot tell you how much," — said Ellen, her words cut 
short. 

" And didn't you know that I have been sick too ? What 
did you think had become of me ? Why Mrs. Vawse was 
with me a whole week, and this is the very first day I have 
been able to go out. It is so fine to-day I was permitted to 
ride Sharp down." 

" Was that it?" said Ellen. " I did wonder-Miss Alice, I 
did wonder very much why you did not come to see me, but 
I never liked to ask aunt Fortune, because — " 

" Because what ?" 

" I don't know as I ought to say what I was going to ; — I 
had a feeling she would be glad about what I was sorry 
about." 

" Don't know that you ought to say," said Alice. "Remember, you are to study English with me." 
Ellen smiled a glad smile. 

" And you have had a weary two weeks of it, haven't you, 
dear ?" 

" Oh," said Ellen, with another long drawn sigh, " how 
weary ! Part of that time to be sure I was out of my head ; 







but I have got so tired lying here all alone ; aunt Fortune 
coming in and out was just as good as nobody. " 

"Poor child!" said Alice, "you have had a worse time 
than I." 

" I used to lie and watch that crack in the door at the foot 
of my bed," said Ellen, " and I got so tired of it I hated to 
see it but when I opened my eyes I couldn't help looking at 
it, and watching all the little ins and outs in the crack till I 
was as sick of it as could be. And that button too that fast- 
ens the door, and the little round mark the button has made, 
and thinking how far the button went round. And then if I 
looked towards the windows I would go right to counting the 
panes, first up and down and then across ; and I didn't want 
to count them, but I couldn't help it ; and watching to see 
through which pane the sky looked brightest. Oh I got so 
sick of it all ! There was only the fire that I didn't get tired 
of looking at ; I always liked to lie and look at that, except 
when it hurt my eyes. And oh how I wanted to see you, Miss 
Alice ! You can't think how sad I felt that you didn't come 
to see me. I couldn't think what could be the matter." 

" I should have been with you, dear, and not have left you, 
if I had not been tied at home myself." 

" So I thought ; and that made it seem so very strange. 
But ! don't you think," said Ellen, her face suddenly 
brightening, — " don't you think Mr. Van Brunt came up to 
see me last night ? Wasn't it good of him ? He even 
sat down and read to me ; only think of that. And isn't 
he kind ? he asked if I would like a rocking-chair ; and of 
course I said yes, for these other chairs are dreadful, they 
break my back ; and there wasn't such a thing as a rocking- 
chair in aunt Fortune's house, she hates 'em she says ; and 
this morning, the first thing I knew in walked Mr. Van Brunt 
with this nice rocking-chair. Just get up and see how nice 
it is ; — you see the back is cushioned, and the elbows, as well 
as the seat ; — it's queer-looking, aint it ? but it's very comfy table. Wasn't it good of him ?" 

" It was very kind, I think. But do you know, Ellen, I 
am going to have a quarrel with you ?" 

" What about ?" said Ellen. " I don't believe it's anything 
very bad, for you look pretty good-humored, considering." 

"Nothing very bad," said Alice, "but still enough to 







quarrel about. You have twice said ' ainf since I have been 
here." 

" Oh,' said Ellen, laughing, " is that all ?" 
" Yes," said Alice, " and my English ears don't like it 
at all." 

" Then they sha'n't hear it," said Ellen, kissing her. " I 
don't know what makes me say it ; I never used to. But 
I've got more to tell you ; I've had more visiters. Who do 
you think came to see me ? — you'd never guess — Nancy 
Yawse ! Mr. Yan Brunt came in the very nick of time, when 
I was almost worried to death with her. Only think of her 
coming up here ! unknown to everybody. And she stayed an 
age, and how she did go on. She cracked nuts on the hearth ; 
— she got every stitch of my clothes out of my trunk and 
scattered them over the floor ; — she tried to make me drink 
gruel till between us we spilled a great parcel on the bed ; 
and she had begun to tickle me when Mr. Yan Brunt came. 
wasn't I glad to see him ! And when aunt Fortune came 
up and saw it all she was as angry as she could be ; and she 
scolded and scolded, till at last I told her it was none of my 
doing, — I couldn't help it at all, — and she needn't talk so to 
me about it ; and then she said it was my fault the whole 
of it ! that if I hadn't scraped acquaintance with Nancy 
when she had forbidden me all this would never have hap- 
pened." 

" There is some truth in that, isn't there, Ellen ?" 

" Perhaps so ; but I think it might all have happened whether or no ; and at any rate it is a little hard to talk so to me 
about it now when it's all over and can't be helped. 0, I 
have been so tired to-day, Miss Alice ! — aunt Fortune has 
been in such a bad humor." 

" What put her in a bad humor ?" 

" Why all this about Nancy in the first place ; and then I 
know she didn't like Mr. Van Brunt's bringing the rocking- 
chair for me ; she couldn't say much but I could see by her 
face. And then Mrs. Yan Brunt's coming — I don't think 
she liked that. O, Mrs. Yan Brunt came to see me this 
morning and brought me a custard. How many people are 
kind to me ! — everywhere I go." 

" I hope, dear Ellen, you don't forget whose kindness sends 
them all." 







