Pilgrim's Progress, when Christiana and her companions were 
sent for to go over the river ? — I think the messenger has 
come for me. You must'n't cry, love ; — hsten — this is the 
token he seems to bring me, — ' I have loved thee with an 
everlasting love.' I am sure of it Ellie ; I have no doubt of 
it; — so don't cry forme. You have been my dear comfort, 
my blessing — we shall love each other in heaven, Ellie." 

Alice kissed her earnestly several times, and then Ellen 
escaped from her arms and fled away. It was long before 
she could come back again. But she came at last ; and went 
on through all that day as she had done for weeks before. 
The day seemed long, for every member of the family was 
on the watch for John's arrival, and it was thought his sister 
would not live to see another. It wore away ; hour after 
hour passed without his coming ; and the night fell. Alice 
showed no impatience, but she evidently wished and watched 
for him ; and Ellen, whose affection read her face and knew 
what to make of the look at the opening door, — the eye 
turned toward the window, — the attitude of listening, — grew 
feverish with her intense desire that she should be gratified. 

From motives of convenience, Alice had moved up stairs 
to a room that John generally occupied when he was at 
home ; directly over the sitting-room, and with pleasant 
windows toward the East. Mrs. Chauncey, Miss Sophia, and 
Mrs. Vawse, were all there. Alice was lying quietly on the 
bed, and seemed to be dozing ; but Ellen noticed, after 
lights were brought, that every now and then she opened 
her eyes and gave an inquiring look round the room. Ellen 







could not bear it ; slipping softly out she went down stairs 
and seated herself on the threshold of the glass door, ns if 
by watching there she could be any nearer the knowledge 
of what she wished for. 

It was a perfectly still summer night. The moon shone 
brightly on the little lawn and poured its rays over Ellen, 
just as it had done one well-remembered evening near a year 
ago. Ellen's thoughts went back to it. How like and how 
unlike ! All around was just the same as it had been then ; 
the cool moonlight upon the distant fields, the trees in the 
gap lit up, as then, the lawn a flood of brightness. But 
there was no happy party gathered there now ; — they were 
scattered. One was away ; one a sorrowful watcher alone 
in the moonlight ; — one waiting to be gone where there is no 
need of moon or stars for evermore. Ellen almost wondered 
they could shine so bright upon those that had no heart to 
rejoice in them ; slie thought they looked down coldly and 
unfeelingly upon her distress. She remembered the whip- 
poor-will ; none was heard to-night, near or far ; she was 
glad of it ; it would have been too much ; — and there were no 
fluttering leaves ; the air was absolutely still. Ellen looked 
up again at the moon and stars. They shone calmly on, 
despite the reproaches she cast upon them ; and as she still 
gazed up towards them in their piu'ity and steadfastness, other 
thoughts began to come into her head of that which was 
more pure still, and more steadfast. How long they have 
been shining, thought Ellen ; — going on just the same from 
night to night and from year to year, — as if they never would 
come to an end. But they ivUl come to an end — the time 
ivill come when they will stop shining — bright as they are ; 
and then, when all they are swept away, then heaven will be 
only begun ; that will never end ! — never. And in a few 
years we who were so happy a year ago and are so sorry 
now, shall be all glad together there, — this will be all over ! 
And then as she looked, and the tears sprang to her 
thoughts, a favorite hymn of Alice's came to her remem- 
brance. 

Ye stars are but the shining dust 

Of my divine abode ; 
The pavements of those heavenly courts 

Where I shall see my God. 







The Father of eternal lights 

Shall there his beams display ; 
And not one moment's darkness mix 

With that unvaried day. 

" Not one moment's darkness !" " Oh," thought little Ellen, — " there are a great many here !" — Still gazing up at the 
bright calm heavens, while the tears ran fast down her face, and 
fell into her lap, there came trooping through Ellen's mind 
many of tliose ^vords she had been in the habit of reading to 
her mother and Alice, and which she knew and loved so well. 

"And there shall be no night there; and they need no 
candle, neither light of the sun ; for the Lord God giveth 
them light : and they shall reign for ever and ever. And 
there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of 
the Lamb shall be in it ; and his servants shall serve him : 
and they shall see his face ; and his name shall be in their 
foreheads. And God shall wipe away all tears from their 
eyes ; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor 
crying, neither shall there be any more pain : for the former 
things have passed away. 

" And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come 
again and receive you unto myself ; that where I am, there 
ye may be also." 

While Ellen was yet going over and over these precious 
things, with a strong sense of their preciousness in all her 
throbbing grief, there came to her ear through the perfect 
stillness of the night the faint, far-off, not-to-be-mistaken, 
sound of quick-coming horse's feet, — nearer and nearer every 
second. It came with a mingled pang of pain and pleasure, 
both very acute ; she rose instantly to her feet, and stood 
pressing her hand to her heart while the quick measured beat 
of hoofs grew louder and louder, until it ceased at the very 
door. The minutes were few ; but they were moments of 
intense bitterness. The tired horse stooped his head, as the 
rider flung himself from the saddle and came to the door 
where Ellen stood fixed. A look asked, and a look answered, 
the question that lips could not speak. Ellen only pointed 
the way and uttered the words, " up stairs and John 
rushed thither. He checked himself however at the door of 
the room, and opened it and went in as calmly as if he had 
but come from a walk. But his caution was very needless. 




Alice knew his step, she knew his horse s step, too well ; she 
had raised herself up and stretched out both arms towards 
him before he entered. In another moment they were round 
his neck, and she was supported in his. There was a long, 
long silence. 

"Are you happy, Alice ?" whispered her brother. 
Perfectly. This was all I wanted. Kiss me, dear John." 

As he did so, again and again, she felt his tears on her 
cheek, and put up her hand to his face to wipe them away ; 
kissed him then, and then once again laid her head on his 
breast. They remained so a little while without stirring ; 
except that some whispers were exchanged too low for others 
to hear, and once more she raised her face to kiss him. A 
few minutes after those who could look saw his color change ; 
he felt the arms unclasp their hold ; and as he laid her gently 
back on the pillow they fell languidly down ; the will and 
the power that had sustained them were gone. Alice was 
gone ; but the departing spirit had left a ray of brightness 
on its earthly house ; there was a half smile on the sweet 
face, of most entire peace and satisfaction. Her brother 
looked for a moment, — closed the eyes, — kissed, once and 
again, the sweet lips, — and left the room. 

Ellen saw him no more that night, nor knew how he passed 
it. For her, wearied with grief and excitement, it was spent 
in long heavy slumber. From the pitch to which her spirits 
had been wrought by care, sorrow, and self-restraint, they 
now suddenly and completely sank down ; naturally, and 
happily, she lost all sense of trouble in sleep. 

When sleep at last left her, and she stole down stairs into 
the sitting-room in the morning, it was rather early. Nobody 
was stirring about the house but herself. It seemed de- 
serted ; the old sitting-room looked empty and forlorn ; the 
stillness was oppressive. Ellen could not bear it. Softly 
opening the glass door she went out upon the lawn where 
everything was sparkling in the early freshness of the summer 
morning. How could it look so pleasant without, when all 
pleasantness was gone within ? — It pressed upon Ellen's head. 
With a restless feeling of pain, she went on, round the corner 
of the house, and paced slowly along the road till she came 
to the foot-path that led up to the place on the mountain 
John had called the Bridge of the Nose. Ellen took that 







path, often traveled and much loved by her ; and slowly, and 
with slow-dripping tears, made her way up over moss wet 
with the dew, and the stones and rocks with which the rough 
way was strewn. She passed the place where Alice had first 
found her, — she remembered it well ; — there was the very 
stone beside which they had kneeled together, and where 
Alice's folded hands were laid. Ellen knelt down beside it 
again, and for a moment laid her cheek to the cold stone 
while her arms embraced it, and a second time it was watered 
with tears. She rose up again quickly and went on her way, 
toiling up the steep path beyond, till she turned the edge of 
the mountain and stood on the old place where she and Alice 
that evening had watched the setting sun. Many a setting 
sun they had watched from thence ; it had been a favorite 
pleasure of them both to run up there for a few minutes 
before or after tea and see the sun go down at the far end of 
the long valley. It seemed to Ellen one of Alice's haunts ; 
she missed her there ; and the thought went keenly home 
that there she would come with her no more. She sat down 
on the stone she called her own, and leaning her head on 
Alice's which was close by, she wept bitterly. Yet not very 
long ; she was too tired and subdued for bitter weeping ; she 
raised her head again, and wiping away her tears looked 
abroad over the beautiful landscape. Never more beautiful 
than then. 

The early sun filled the valley with patches of light and 
shade. The sides and tops of the hills looking towards the 
east were bright with the cool brightness of the morning ; 
beyond and between them deep shadows lay. The sun could 
not yet look at that side of the mountain where Ellen sat, 
nor at the long reach of ground it screened from his view, 
stretching from the mountain foot to the other end of the 
valley ; but to the left, between that and the Cat's back, the 
rays of the sun streamed through, touching the houses of the 
village, showing the lake, and making every tree and barn and 
clump of wood in the distance stand out in bright relief. 
Deliciously cool, both the air and the light, thougli a warm 
day was promised. The night had wept away all the heat of 
yesterday. Now, the air was fresh with the dew and sweei 
from hayfield and meadow ; and the birds were singing like 
mad all around. There was no answering echo in the little 







human heart that looked and hstened. Ellen loved all these 
things too well not to notice them even now ; she felt their 
full beauty ; but she felt it sadly. ''She will look at it no 
more !" she said to herself. But instantly came an answer to 
her thought ; — " Behold I create new heavens, and a new 
earth ; and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into 
mind. Thy sun shall no more go down ; neither shall thy 
moon withdraw itself : for the Lord shall be thine everlasting 
light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended." . 

" She is there now,'' thought Ellen, — " she is happy, — 
why should I be sorry for her ? I am not ; but oh ! I must 
be sorry for myself — Oh Alice ! — dear Alice !" 

She wept ; but then again came sweeping over her mind 
the words with which she was so familiar, — " the days of thy 
mourning shall be ended ;" and again with her regret mingled 
the consciousness that it must be for herself alone. And for herself, — " Can I not trust Him whom she trusted ?" she thought. 
Somewhat soothed and more calm, she sat still looking down 
into the brightening valley or off to the hills that stretched 
away on either hand of it ; when up through the still air the 
sound of the little Carra-carra church bell came to her ear. 
It rang for a minute and then stopped. 

It crossed Ellen's mind to wonder what it could be ringing 
for at that time of day ; but she went back to her musings 
and had entirely forgotten it, when again, clear and full 
through the stillness the sound came pealing up. 

" One— two !" 

Ellen knew now ! It went through her very heart. 

It is the custom in the country to toil the church bell upon 
occasion of the death of any one in tlfe township or parish. 
A few strokes are rung by way of drawing attention; these 
are followed after a little pause by a single one if the knell i? 
for a man, or two for a woman. Then another short pause. 
Then follows the number of the years the person has lived, 
told in short, rather slow strokes, as one would count them 
up. After pausing once more the tolling begins, and is kept 
up for some time ; the strokes following in slow and sad sucession, each one being permitted to die quite away before 
another breaks upon the ear. 

Ellen had been told of this custom, but habit had never 
made it familiar. Only once she had happened to hear this 








notice of death given out ; and that was long ago ; the bell 
could not be heard at Miss Fortune's house. It came upon 
her now with all the force of novelty and surprise. As the 
number of the years of Alice's life was sadly told out, every 
stroke was to her as if it fell upon a raw nerve. Ellen hid 
her face in her lap and tried to keep from counting, but she 
could not ; and as the tremulous sound of the last of the 
twenty-four died away upon the air, she was shuddering from 
head io foot. A burst of tears relieved her when the sound 
ceased. 

Just then a voice close beside her said low, as if the speak- 
er might not trust its higher tones, — " I will lift up mine eyes 
unto the hills, from whence cometh my help ! ' 

How differently that sound struck upon Ellen's ear ! With 
an indescribable air of mingled tenderness, weariness, and sorrow, she slowly rose from her seat and put both her arms 
round the speaker's neck. Neither said a word ; but to Ellen 
the arm that held her was more than all words ; it was the 
dividing line between her and the world, — on this side everything, on that side nothing. 

No word was spoken for many minutes. 

" My dear Ellen," said her brother softly, — " how came you 
here?" 

" I don't know," whispered Ellen, — "there was nobody 
there — I couldn't stay in the house." 
Shall we go home now ?" , 
" yes — whenever you please. 

But neither moved yet. Ellen had raised her head ; she 
still stood with her arm upon her brother's shoulder ; the 
eyes of both were on the scene before them ; the thoughts of 
neither. He presently spoke again. 

" Let us try to love our God better, EUie, the less we have 
left to love in this world ; — that is his meaning — let sorrow 
but bring us closer to him. Dear Alice is well —she is well, 
— and if ive are made to suffer, we know and we love the 
hand that has done it, — do w e not EUie ?" 

Ellen put her hands to her face ; she thought her heart 
would break. He gently drew her to a seat on the stone 
beside him, and still keeping his arm round her, slowly and 
soothingly went on — 

Think that she is happy ; — think that she is safe ; — think 







that she is with that blessed One whose face we seek at a 
distance, — satisfied with his hkeness instead of wearily struggling with sin ; — think that sweetly and easily she has got 
home ; and it is our home too. We must weep, because we 
are left alone ; but for her — * I heard a voice from heaven 
saying unto me, Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord !' " 

As he spoke in low and sweet tones, Ellen's tears calmed 
and stopped ; but she still kept her hands to her face. 

" Shall we go home, Ellie ?" said her brother after another 
silence. She rose up Instantly and said yes. But he held 
her still, and looking for a moment at the tokens of watching 
and grief and care in her countenance, he gently kissed the 
pale little face, adding a word of endearment which almost 
broke Ellen's heart again. Then taking her hand they went 
down the mountain together. 



CHAPTER XLIII. 


 

The whole Marsbman family arrived to-day from Ventnor ; 
Bome to see Alice's loved remains, and all to follow them to 
the grave. The parsonage could not hold so many ; the two 
Mr. Marshman's therefore, with Major and Mrs. Gillespie, 
made their quarters at Thirlwall. Margery's hands were full 
enough with those that were left. 

In the afternoon however she found time for a visit to the 
room, the room. She was standing at the foot of the bed, 
gazing on the sweet face she loved so dearly, when Mrs. 
Chauncey and Mrs, Vawse came up for the same purpose. 
All three stood some time in silence. 

The bed was strewn with flowers, somewhat singularly dis- 
posed. Upon the pillow, and upon and about the hands which 
were folded on the breast, were scattered some of the rich late 
roses, — roses and rose-buds, strewn with beautiful and profuse carelessness. A single stem of white lilies lay on the side 
of the bed ; the rest of the flowers, a large quantity, covered 
the feet, seeming to have been flung there without any attempt 
at arrangement. They were of various kinds, chosen however 
with exquisite taste and feeling. Beside the roses, there were 
none that were not either white or distinguished for their 
fragrance. The delicate white verbearer, the pure feverfew, 
mignonette, sweet geranium, white myrtle, the rich-scented 
heliotrope, were mingled with the late-blossoming damask 
and purple roses ; no yellow flowers, no purple, except those 
mentioned ; even the flaunting petunia, though white, had 
been left out by the nice hand that had pulled them. But 





the aiTanging of these beauties seemed to have been little 
more than attempted ; though indeed it might be questioned 
whether the finest art could have bettered the effect of what 
the over-tasked hand of affection had left half done. Mis 
Chauncey however after a while began slowly to take a 
flower or two from the foot and place them on other parts of 
the bed. 

" Will Mrs. Chauncey pardon my being so bold," said 
Margery then, who had looked on with no pleasure while 
this "was doing, — " but if she had seen when those flowers were 
put there, — it wouldn't be her wish, I am sure it wouldn't be 
her wish, to stir one of them." 

Mrs. Chauncey 's hand, which was stretched out for a fourth, 
drew back. 

" Why who put them here ?" she asked. 

" Miss Ellen, ma'am. 

" Where is Ellen ?" 

" I think she is sleeping, ma'am. Poor child ! she's the 
most wearied of us all with sorrow and watching," said 
Margery weeping. 

" You saw her bring them up, did you ?" 

" I saw her, ma'am. will I ever forget it as long as I 
live!" 

" Why ?" said Mrs. Chauncey gently. 

" It's a thing one should have seen, ma'am, to understand. 
I don't know as I can tell it well." 

Seeing however that Mrs. Chauncey still looked her wish, 
Margery went on, half under her breath. 

" Why ma'am, the way it was, — I had come up to get some 
linen out of the closet, for I had watched my time ; Mrs. 
Chauncey sees, I was afeard of finding Mr. John here, and I 
knew he was lying down just then, so — " 

" Lying down, was he ?" said Mrs. Vawse. " I did not 
know he had taken any rest to-day.', 

" It was very little he took, ma'am, indeed, though there 
was need enough I am sure ; — he had been up with his father 
the live-long blessed nioht. And then the first thing this 
morning he was away after Miss Ellen, poor child ! wherever 
she had betaken herself to ; I happened to see her before 
anybody was out, going round the corner of the house, and 
I knew when he asked me for her." 







" Was she going after flowers then said Mrs. Chauncey. 

no, ma'am, — it was a long time after ; it was this 
morning some time. — I had come up to the linen closet, 
knowing Mr. John was in his room, and I thought I was 
safe ; and I had just taken two or three pieces on my arm, 
you know, ma'am, when somehow I forgot mj^self, and forgot what I had come for, and leaving what I should ha' been 
a doing, I was standing there, looking out this way at the 
dear features I never thought to see in death — and I had 
entirely forgotten what I was there for, ma'am, — when I 
heard Miss Ellen's little footstep coming softly up stairs. I 
didn't want her to catch sight of me just then, so I had just 
drew myself back a bit, so as I could see her without her 
seeing me back in the closet where I was. But it had like 
to have got the better of me entirely, ma'am, when I see her 
come in with a lap full of them flowers, and looking so as she 
did too ! but with much trouble I kept quiet. She went up 
and stood by the side of the bed, just where Mrs. Chauncey 
is standing, with her sweet sad little face, — it's the hardest 
thing to see a" child's face to look so, — and the flowers all 
gathered up in her frock. It was odd to see her, she didn't 
cry, — not at all, — only once I see her brow wrinkle, but it 
seemed as if she had a mind not to, for she put her hand up 
to her face and held it a little, and then she began to take 
out the flowers one by one, and she'd lay a rose here and a 
rose-bud there, and so ; and then she went round to the other
side and laid the lilies, and two or three more roses there on 
the pillow. But I could see all the while it was getting too 
much for her ; I see very soon she wouldn't get through ; she 
just placed two or three more, and one rose there in that hand, 
and that was the last. I could see it working in her face ; 
she turned as pale as her lilies all at once, and just tossed up 
all the flowers out of her frock on to the bed-foot there, — 
that's just as they fell, — and down she went on her knees, and 
her face in her hands on the side of the bed. I thought no 
more about my linen," said Margery weeping, — " I couldn't 
do anything but look at that child kneeling there, and her 
flowers, — and all beside her she used to call her sister, and 
that couldn't be a sister to her no more; and she's without a 
sister now to be sure, poor child !" 






" She has a brother, unless I am mistaken," said Mrs. 
Chauncey, when she could speak. 

" And that's just what I was going to tell you, ma'am. 
She had been there five or ten minutes without moving, or 
more — I am sure I don't know how long it was, I didn't think 
how time went, — when the first thing I knew I heard another 
step, and Mr. John came in. I thought, and expected, he 
was taking some sleep ; but I suppose," said Margery sighing, "he couldn't rest. I knew his step and just drew myself 
back further. He came just where you are, ma'am, and stood 
with his arms folded a long time looking. I don't know how 
Miss Ellen didn't hear him come in ; but however she didn't ; 
— and they were both as still as death, one on one side, and 
the other on the other side. And I wondered he didn't see 
her; but her white dress and all — and I suppose he hud no 
thought but for one thing. I knew the first minute he did see 
her, when he looked over and spied her on the other side of 
the bed ; — I see his color change ; and then his mDuth took 
the look it always did whenever he sets himself to do any- 
thing. He stood a minute, and then he went round, and 
knelt down beside of her, and softly took away one of her hands 
from under her face, and held it in both of his own, and then 
he made such a prayer !-Oh," said Margery, her tears falling fast at the recollection, — " I never heard the like ! I never 
did. He gave thanks for Miss Alice, and he had reason 
enough to be sure, — and for himself and Miss Ellen — I wondered to hear him ! — and he prayed for them too, and others, 
— and — oh I thought I couldn't stand and hear him ; and I 
was afeard to breathe the whole time, lest he would know I 
was there. It was the beautifullest prayer I did ever hear, 
or ever shall, however." 

" And how did Ellen behave ?" said Mrs. Chauncey when 
she could speak. 

" She didn't stir, nor make the least motion nor sound, till 
he had done, and spoke to her. They stood a little while 
then, and Mr. John put the rest of the flowers up there round 
her hands and the pillow, — Miss Ellen hadn't put more than 
half a dozen ; — I noticed how he kept hold of Miss Ellen's 
hand all the time. I heard her begin to tell him how she 
didn't finish the flowers, and he told her, ' I saw it all, Ellie,' 
he said ; and he said ' it didn't want finishing.' I wondered 







how he should see it, but I suppose he did, however. I 
understood it very welL They went away down stairs after 
that." 

" He is beautifully changed," said Mrs. Vawse. 

" I don't know, ma'am," said Margery, — " I've heard that 
said afore, but I can't say as I ever could see it. He always 
was the same to me — always the honorablest, truest, noblest 
— my husband says he was a bit fiery, but I never could tell 
that the one temper was sweeter than the other ; only everybody always did whatever Mr. John wanted, to be sure ; but 
he was the perfectest gentleman, always." 

" I have not seen either Mr. John or Ellen since my mother 
came," said Mrs. Chauncey. 

"No, ma'am," said Margery, — "they were out reading 
under the trees for a long time ; and Miss Ellen came in the 
kitchen-way a little while ago and went to lie down." 

" How is Mr. Humphreys ?" 

"I can't tell you, ma'am, — he is worse than any one 
knows of I am afraid, unless Mr. John ; you will not see him, 
ma'am ; he has not been here once, nor don't mean to, I 
think. It will go hard with my poor master, I am afraid," 
said Margery weeping; — "dear Miss Alice said Miss Ellen 
"was to take her place ; but it would want an angel to do 
that." 

" Ellen will do a great deal," said Mrs. Vawse; — "Mr. 
Humphreys loves her well now, I know." 

" So do I, ma'am, I am sure ; and so does every one ; but 
still—" 

Margery broke off her sentence and sorrowfully went down 
stairs. Mrs. Chauncey moved no more fluwers. 
