"You do not need to be told," he went on, "of the need there
is that a cloud should now and then come over this lower scene
 the danger that, if it did not, our eyes would look nowhere
else?"
There is something very touching in hearing a kind voice say
what one has often struggled to say to one's-self.
"I know it, Sir," said Fleda, her words a little choked  "and
one may not wish the cloud away  but it does not the less
cast a shade upon the face. I guess Hugh has worked his way
into the middle of that stump by this time, Mr. Olmney."
They rejoined him; and the baskets being now sufficiently
heavy, and arms pretty well tired, they left the further
riches of the pine woods unexplored, and walked sagely
homewards. At the brow of the table-land, Mr. Olmney left them
to take a shorter cut to the high road, having a visit to make
which the shortening day warned him not to defer.
"Put down your basket, and rest a minute, Hugh," said Fleda.
"I had a world of things to talk to you about, and this
blessed man has driven them all out of my head."
"But you are not sorry he came along with us?"
"O no. We had a very good time. How lovely it is, Hugh! Look
at the snow down there  without a track; and the woods have
been dressed by the fairies. Oh, look how the sun is glinting
on the west side of that hillock!"
"It is twice as bright since you have come home," said Hugh.
"The snow is too beautiful to-day. Oh, I was right! One may
grow morbid over books, but I defy anybody, in the company of
those chick-a-dees. I should think it would be hard to keep
quite sound in the city."
"You are glad to be here again, aren't you?" said Hugh.
"Very! O, Hugh!  it is better to be poor, and have one's feet
on these hills, than to be rich, and shut up to brick walls!"
"It is best as it is," said Hugh, quietly.
"Once," Fleda went on  "one fair day, when I was out driving
in New York, it did come over me with a kind of pang, how
pleasant it would be to have plenty of money again, and be at
ease; and then, as I was looking off over that pretty north
river to the other shore, I bethought me  'A little that a
righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.'
"
Hugh did not answer, for the face she turned to him, in its
half-tearful, half-bright submission, took away his speech.
"Why, you cannot have enjoyed yourself as much as we thought,
Fleda, if you dislike the city so much."
"Yes, I did. Oh, I enjoyed a great many things. I enjoyed
being with the Evelyns. You don't know how much they made of
me  every one of them  father and mother, and all the three
daughters  and uncle Orrin. I have been well petted, I can
tell you, since I have been gone."
"I am glad they showed so much discrimination," said Hugh;
"they would be puzzled to make too much of you."
"I must have been in a remarkably discriminating society,"
said Fleda, "for everybody was very kind."
"How do you like the Evelyns, on a nearer view?"
"Very much, indeed; and I believe they really love me. Nothing
could possibly be kinder, in all ways of showing kindness. I
shall never forget it."
"Who were you driving with that day?" said Hugh.
"Mr. Thorn."
"Did you see much of him?"
"Quite as much as I wished. Hugh, I took your advice."
"About what?" said Hugh.
"I carried down some of my scribblings, and sent them to a
magazine."
"Did you!" said Hugh, looking delighted. "And will they
publish them?"
"I don't know," said Fleda; "that's another matter. I sent
them, or uncle Orrin did, when I first went down; and I have
heard nothing of them yet."
"You showed them to uncle Orrin?"
"Couldn't help it, you know. I had to."
"And what did he say to them?"
"Come!  I'm not going to be cross-questioned," said Fleda,
laughing. "He did not prevent my sending them."
"And if they take them, do you expect they will give anything
for them  the magazine people?"
"I am sure, if they don't, they shall have no more; that is my
only possible inducement to let them be printed. For my own
pleasure, I would far rather not."
"Did you sign with your own name?"
"My own name!  Yes, and desired it to be printed in large
capitals. What are you thinking of? No!  I hope you'll
forgive me,  but I signed myself what our friend the doctor
calls 'Yugh.' "
"I'll forgive you, if you'll do one thing for me."
"What?"
"Show me all you have in your portfolio  Do, Fleda!  to-
night, by the light of the pitch-pine knots. Why shouldn't you
give me that pleasure? And, besides, you know Molière had an
old woman?"
"Well," said Fleda, with a face that to Hugh was extremely
satisfactory, "we'll see  I suppose you might as well read my
productions in manuscript as in print. But they are in a
terribly scratchy condition  they go sometimes for weeks in
my head before I find time to put them down  you may guess,
polishing is pretty well out of the question. Suppose we try
to get home with these baskets."
Which they did.
"Has Philetus got home?" was Fleda's first question.
"No," said Mrs. Rossitur, "but Dr. Quackenboss has been here,
and brought the paper; he was at the post-office this morning,
he says. Did you see Mr. Olmney?"
"Yes, Ma'am, and I feel he has saved me from a lame arm 
those pine-knots are so heavy."
"He is a lovely young man!" said Mrs. Rossitur, with uncommon
emphasis.
"I should have been blind to the fact, aunt Lucy, if you had
not made me change my shoes. At present, no disparagement to
him, I feel as if a cup of tea would be rather more lovely
than anything else."
"He sat with me some time," said Mrs. Rossitur; "I was afraid
he would not overtake you."
Tea was ready, and only waiting for Mrs. Rossitur to come down
stairs, when Fleda, whose eye was carelessly running along the
columns of the paper, uttered a sudden shout, and covered her
face with it. Hugh looked up in astonishment, but Fleda was
beyond anything but exclamations, laughing and flushing to the
very roots of her hair.
"What is the matter, Fleda?"
"Why," said Fleda, "how comical!  I was just looking over the
list of articles in the January number of the Excelsior" 
"The Excelsior!" said Hugh.
"Yes  the magazine I sent my things to  I was running over
their advertisement here, where they give a special puff of
the publication in general, and of several things in
particular, and I saw  here they speak of 'A tale of
thrilling interest, by Mrs. Eliza Lothbury, unsurpassed,' and
so forth, and so forth; 'another valuable communication from
Mr. Charleston, whose first acute and discriminating paper all
our leaders will remember; the beginning of a new tale from
the infallibly graceful pen of Miss Delia Lawriston: we are
sure it will be so and so; 'The Wind's Voices,' by our new
correspondent, 'Hugh,' has a delicate sweetness that would do
no discredit to some of our most honoured names!' What do you
think of that?"
What Hugh thought he did not say, but he looked delighted, and
came to read the grateful words for himself.
"I did not know but they had declined it utterly," said Fleda;
"it was so long since I had sent it, and they had taken no
notice of it; but it seems they kept it for the beginning of a
new volume."
" 'Would do no discredit to some of our most honoured names!'
" said Hugh. "Dear Fleda, I am very glad! But it is no more
than I expected."
"Expected!" said Fleda. "When you had not seen a line! Hush,
my dear Hugh, aren't you hungry?"
The tea, with this spice to their appetites, was wonderfully
relished; and Hugh and Fleda kept making despatches of secret
pleasure and sympathy to each other's eyes; though Fleda's
face, after the first flush had faded, was perhaps rather
quieter than usual. Hugh's was illuminated.
"Mr. Skillcorn is a smart man," said Barby, coming in with a
package; "he has made out to go two miles in two hours, and
get back again safe."
"More from the post-office!" exclaimed Fleda, pouncing upon
it.  "O yes, there has been another mail. A letter for you,
aunt Lucy, from uncle Rolf. We'll forgive him, Barby  and
here's a letter for me, from uncle Orrin, and  yes  the
Excelsior. Hugh, uncle Orrin said he would send it. Now for
those blessed pineknots. Aunt Lucy, you shall be honoured with
the one whole candle the house contains."
The table soon cleared away, the basket of fat fuel was
brought in; and one or two splinters being delicately
insinuated between the sticks on the fire, a very brilliant
illumination sprang out. Fleda sent a congratulatory look over
to Hugh on the other side of the fireplace, as she cosily
established herself on her little bench at one corner with her
letter: he had the magazine. Mrs. Rossitur between them at the
table, with her one candle, was already insensible to all
outward things.
And soon the other two were as delightfully absorbed. The
bright light of the fire shone upon three motionless and rapt
figures, and getting no greeting from them, went off and
danced on the old cupboard doors and paper-hangings, in a
kindly hearty joviality, that would have put any number of
stately wax candles out of countenance. There was no poverty
in the room that night. But the people were too busy to know
how cosy they were, till Fleda was ready to look up from her
note, and Hugh had gone twice carefully over the new poem 
when there was a sudden giving out of the pine splinters. New
ones were supplied in eager haste and silence, and Hugh was
beginning "The Wind's Voices," for the third time, when a
soft-whispered "Hugh!" across the fire, made him look over to
Fleda's corner. She was holding up, with both hands, a five-
dollar bank note, and just showing him her eyes over it.
"What's that?" said Hugh, in an energetic whisper.
"I don't know!" said Fleda, shaking her head comically; "I am
told 'The Wind's Voices' have blown it here, but, privately, I
am afraid it is a windfall of another kind."
"What?" said Hugh, laughing.
"Uncle Orrin says it is the first-fruits of what I sent to the
Excelsior, and that more will come; but I do not feel at all
sure that it is entirely the growth of that soil."
"I dare say it is," said Hugh; "I am sure it is worth more
than that. Dear Fleda, I like it so much!"
Fleda gave him such a smile of grateful affection  not at all
as if she deserved his praise, but as if it was very pleasant
to have.
"What put it into your head? anything in particular?"
"No  nothing  I was looking out of the window one day, and
seeing the willow-tree blow; and that looked over my shoulder;
as you know Hans Andersen says his stories did."
"It is just like you!  exactly as it can be."
"Things put themselves in my head," said Fleda, tucking
another splinter into the fire. "Isn't this better than a
chandelier?"
"Ten times!"
"And so much pleasanter for having got it ourselves. What a
nice time we had, Hugh!"
"Very. Now for the portfolio, Fleda  come  mother is fast;
she wont see or hear anything. What does father say, mother?"
In answer to this they had the letter read, which, indeed,
contained nothing remarkable beyond its strong expressions of
affection to each one of the little family  a cordial which
Mrs. Rossitur drank and grew strong upon in the very act of
reading. It is pity the medicine of kind words is not more
used in the world  it has so much power. Then, having folded
up her treasure and talked a little while about it, Mrs.
Rossitur caught up the magazine like a person who had been
famished in that kind; and soon she and it and her tallow
candle formed a trio apart from all the world again. Fleda and
Hugh were safe to pass most mysterious-looking little papers
from hand to hand right before her, though they had the care
to read them behind newspapers, and exchanges of thought and
feeling went on more swiftly still, and softly, across the
fire. Looks, and smiles, and whispers, and tears too, under
cover of a Tribune and an Express. And the blaze would die
down just when Hugh had got to the last verse of something,
and then while impatiently waiting for the new pine splinters
to catch, he would tell Fleda how much he liked it, or how
beautiful he thought it, and whisper inquiries and critical
questions; till the fire reached the fat vein, and leaped up
in defiant emulation of gas-lights unknown, and then he would
fall to again with renewed gusto. And Fleda hunted out in her
portfolio what bits to give him first, and bade him, as she
gave them, remember this and understand that, which was
necessary to be borne in mind in the reading. And through all
the brightening and fading blaze, and all the whispering,
congratulating, explaining, and rejoicing going on at her
side, Mrs. Rossitur and her tallow candle were devoted to each
other, happily and engrossingly. At last, however, she flung
the magazine from her, and turning from the table sat looking
into the fire with a rather uncommonly careful and unsatisfied
brow.
"What did you think of the second piece of poetry there,
mother?" said Hugh  "that ballad?  'The Wind's Voices,' it
is called."
" 'The Wind's Voices?'  I don't know  I didn't read it, I
believe."
"Why, mother! I liked it very much. Do read it  read it
aloud."
Mrs. Rossitur took up the magazine again abstractedly, and
read
" 'Mamma, what makes your face so sad?
The sound of the wind makes me feel glad;
But whenever it blows, as grave you look
As if you were reading a sorrowful book.'
" 'A sorrowful book I am reading, dear 
A book of weeping, and pain, and fear 
A book deep printed on my heart,
Which I cannot read but the tears will start.
" 'That breeze to my ear was soft and mild,
Just so, when I was a little child;
But now I hear in its freshening breath
The voices of those that sleep in death.'
" 'Mamma,' said the child, with shaded brow,
What is this book you are reading now?
And why do you read what makes you cry?'
'My child, it comes up before my eye;
" ' 'Tis the memory, love, of a far-off day,
When my life's best friend was taken away; 
Of the weeks and months that my eyes were dim,
Watching for tidings  watching for him.
" 'Many a year has come and pass'd
Since a ship sailed over the ocean fast,
Bound for a port on England's shore 
She sail'd  but was never heard of more.'
" 'Mamma'  and she closer press'd her side 
'Was that the time when my father died? 
Is it his ship you think you see? 
Dearest mamma  wont you speak to me?'
"The lady paused, but then calmly said 
Yes, Lucy  the sea was his dying bed!
And now, whenever I hear the blast,
I think again of that storm long past.
" 'The winds' fierce howlings hurt not me,
But I think how they beat on the pathless sea 
Of the breaking mast  of the parting rope 
Of the anxious strife, and the failing hope.'
" 'Mamma,' said the child, with streaming eyes,
My father has gone above the skies;
And you tell me this world is mean and base
Compared with heaven  that blessed place.'
" 'My daughter, I know  I believe it all 
I would not his spirit to earth recal.
The bless'd one he  his storm was brief 
Mine, a long tempest of tears and grief.
" 'I have you, my darling  I should not sigh 
I have one star more in my cloudy sky 
The hope that we both shall join him there,
In that perfect rest from weeping and care.' "
"Well, mother; how do you like it?" said Hugh, whose eyes gave
tender witness to his liking for it.
"It is pretty"  said Mrs. Rossitur.
Hugh exclaimed, and Fleda, laughing, took it out of her hand.
"Why, mother," said Hugh  "it is Fleda's!"
"Fleda's!" exclaimed Mrs. Rossitur, snatching the magazine
again. "My dear child, I was not thinking in the least of what
I was reading. Fleda's!" 
She read it over anew, with swimming eyes this time, and then
clasped Fleda in her arms, and gave her, not words, but the
better reward of kisses and tears. They remained so a long
time, even till Hugh left them; and then Fleda, released from
her aunt's embrace, still crouched by her side with one arm in
her lap.
They both sat thoughtfully looking into the fire till it had
burnt itself out, and nothing but a glowing bed of coals
remained.
"That is an excellent young man," said Mrs. Rossitur.
"Who?"
"Mr. Olmney. He sat with me some time after you had gone."
"So you said before," said Fleda, wondering at the troubled
expression of her aunt's face.
"He made me wish," said Mrs. Rossitur, hesitating, "that I
could be something different from what I am  I believe I
should be a great deal happier."
The last word was hardly spoken. Fleda rose to her knees, and
putting both arms about her aunt, pressed face to face, with a
clinging sympathy that told how very near her spirit was,
while tears from the eyes of both fell without measure.
"Dear aunt Lucy  dear aunt Lucy  I wish you would  I am
sure you would be a great deal happier "
But the mixture of feelings was too much for Fleda; her head
sank lower on her aunt's bosom, and she wept aloud.
"But I don't know anything about it," said Mrs. Rossitur, as
well as she could speak  "I am as ignorant as a child!"
"Dear aunty! that is nothing  God will teach you, if you ask
him  he has promised. Oh, ask him, aunt Lucy! I know you
would be happier. I know it is better  a million times  to
be a child of God, than to have everything in the world. If
they only brought us that, I would be very glad of all our
troubles  indeed I would."
"But I don't think I ever did anything right in my life," said
poor Mrs. Rossitur.
"Dear aunt Lucy!" said Fleda, straining her closer, and with
her very heart gushing out at these words  "dear aunty,
Christ came for just such sinners  for just such as you and
I."
"You," said Mrs. Rossitur, but speech failed utterly, and with
a muttered prayer that Fleda would help her she sunk her head
upon her shoulder, and sobbed herself into quietness, or into
exhaustion. The glow of the fire-light faded away till only a
faint sparkle was left in the chimney.
There was not another word spoken, but when they rose up, with
such kisses as gave and took unuttered affection, counsel, and
sympathy, they bade each other good-night.
Fleda went to her window, for the moon rode high, and her
childish habit had never been forgotten. But surely the face
that looked out that night was as the face of an angel. In all
the pouring moonbeams that filled the air, she could see
nothing but the flood of God's goodness on a dark world. And
her heart that night had nothing but an unbounded and
unqualified thanksgiving for all the "gentle discipline" they
had felt  for every sorrow, and weariness, and
disappointment; except, besides, the prayer, almost too deep
to be put into words, that its due and hoped-for fruit might
be brought forth unto perfection.
CHAPTER XXVII.
"If I become not a cart as well as another man, a plague on my
bringing up."
SHAKESPEARE.
Every day could not be as bright as the last, even by the help
of pitch pine knots. They blazed, indeed, many a time, but the
blaze shone upon faces that it could not sometimes light up.
Matters drew gradually within a smaller and smaller compass.
Another five dollars came from uncle Orrin, and the hope of
more; but these were carefully laid by to pay Philetus; and
for all other wants of the household excepting those the farm
supplied, the family were dependent on mere driblets of sums.
None came from Mr. Rossitur. Hugh managed to collect a very
little. That kept them from absolute distress  that, and
Fleda's delicate instrumentality. Regular dinners were given
up, fresh meat being now unheard of, unless when a kind
neighbour made them a present; and appetite would have lagged
sadly but for Fleda's untiring care. She thought no time nor
pains ill bestowed which could prevent her aunt and Hugh from
feeling the want of old comforts; and her nicest skill was
displayed in varying the combinations of their very few and
simple stores. The diversity and deliciousness of her bread-
stuffs, Barby said, was "beyond everything!" and a cup of rich
coffee was found to cover all deficiencies of removes and
entremets; and this was always served, Barby said further, as
if the President of the United States was expected. Fleda
never permitted the least slackness in the manner of doing
this or anything else that she could control.
Mr. Plumfield had sent down an opportune present of a fine
porker. One cold day in the beginning of February, Fleda was
busy in the kitchen, making something. for dinner, and Hugh at
another table was vigorously chopping sausage-meat.
"I should like to have some cake again," said Fleda.
"Well, why don't you?" said Hugh, chopping away.
"No eggs, Mr. Rossitur  and can't afford 'em at two shillings
a dozen. I believe I am getting discontented  I have a great
desire to do something to distinguish myself  I would make a
plumpudding if I had raisins, but there is not one in the
house."
"You can get 'em up to Mr. Hemps's for six pence a pound,"
said Barby.
But Fleda shook her head at the sixpence, and went on moulding
out her biscuits diligently.
"I wish Philetus would make his appearance with the cows  it
is a very odd thing they should be gone since yesterday
morning, and no news of them."
"I only hope the snow aint so bright it'll blind his eyes,"
said Barby.
"There he is this minute," said Hugh. "It is impossible to
tell from his countenance whether successful or not."
"Well, where are the cows, Mr. Skillcorn?" said Barby, as he
came in.
"I have went all over town," said the person addressed, "and
they aint no place."
"Have you asked news of them, Philetus?"
"I have asked the hull town, and I have went all over, 'till I
was a'most beat out with the cold  and I ha'n't seen the
first sight of 'em yet!"
Fleda and Hugh exchanged looks, while Barby and Mr. Skillcorn
entered into an animated discussion of probabilities and
impossibilities.
"If we should be driven from our coffee dinners to tea with no
milk in it!" said Hugh, softly, in mock dismay.
"Wouldn't!" said Fled. "We'd beat up an egg and put it in the
coffee."
"We couldn't afford it," said Hugh, smiling.
"Could!  cheaper than to keep the cows. I'll have some sugar
at any rate, I'm determined.  Philetus!"
"Marm!"
"I wish, when you have got a good pile of wood chopped, you
would make some troughs to put under the maple trees  you
know how to make them, don't you?"
"I do."
"I wish you would make some  you have pine logs out there
large enough, haven't you?"
"They hadn't ought to want much of it  there's some 'gregious
big ones!"
"I don't know how many we shall want, but a hundred or two, at
any rate; and the sooner the better. Do you know how much
sugar they make from one tree?"
"Waul, I don't," said Mr. Skillcorn, with the air of a person
who was at fault on no other point; "the big trees gives more
than the little ones "
Fleda's eyes flashed at Hugh, who took to chopping in sheer
desperation; and the muscles of both gave them full occupation
for five minutes. Philetus stood comfortably warming himself
at the fire, looking first at one and then at the other, as if
they were a show, and he had paid for it. Barby grew
impatient.
"I guess this cold weather makes lazy people of me!' she said,
bustling about her fire with an amount of energy that was
significant. It seemed to signify nothing to Philetus; he only
moved a little out of the way.
"Didenhover's cleared out," he burst forth, at length,
abruptly.
"What!" said Fleda and Barby at once, the broom and the
biscuits standing still.
"Mr. Didenhover."
"What of him?"
"He has tuk himself off out o' town."
"Where to?"
"I can't tell where teu  he aint coming back, tain't likely."
"How do you know?"
" 'Cause he's tuk all his traps and went, and he said farming
didn't pay, and he wa'n't a-going to have nothin' more to deu
with it;  he telled Mis' Simpson so  he lived to Mis'
Simpson's; and she telled Mr. Ten Eyck."
"Are you sure, Philetus?"
"Sure as 'lection!  he telled Mis' Simpson so, and she telled
Mr. Ten Eyck; and he's cleared out."
Fleda and Hugh again looked at each other. Mr. Skillcorn
having now delivered himself of his news, went out to the
woodyard.
"I hope he ha'n't carried off our cows along with him," said
Barby, as she, too, went out to some other part of her
premises.
"He was to have made us quite a payment on the first of
March," said Fleda.
"Yes, and that was to have gone to uncle Orrin," said Hugh.
"We shall not see a cent of it. And we wanted a little of it
for ourselves. I have that money from the Excelsior, but I
can't touch a penny of it, for it must go to Philetus's wages.
What Barby does without hers, I do not know; she has had but
one five dollars in six months. Why she stays I cannot
imagine; unless it is for pure love."
"As soon as the spring opens, I can go to the mill again,"
said Hugh, after a little pause. Fleda looked at him
sorrowfully, and shook her head as she withdrew her eyes.
"I wish father would give up the farm," Hugh went on, under
his breath. "I cannot bear to live upon uncle Orrin so."
Fleda's answer was to clasp her hands. Her only words were,
"Don't say anything to aunt Lucy."
"It is of no use to say anything to anybody," said Hugh. "But
it weighs me to the ground, Fleda."
"If uncle Rolf doesn't come home by spring  I hope, I hope he
will! but if he does not, I will take desperate measures. I
will try farming myself, Hugh. I have thought of it, and I
certainly will. I will get Earl Douglass, or somebody else, to
play second fiddle, but I will have but one head on the farm,
and I will try what mine is worth."
"You could not do it, Fleda."
"One can do anything! with a strong enough motive."
"I'm afraid you'd soon be tired, Fleda."
"Not if I succeeded  not so tired as I am now."
"Poor Fleda! I dare say you are tired!"
"It wasn't that I meant," said Fleda, slightly drawing her
breath; "I meant this feeling of everything going wrong, and
uncle Orrin, and all."
"But you are weary," said Hugh, affectionately. "I see it in
your face."
"Not so much body as mind, after all. Oh, Hugh! this is the
worst part of being poor  the constant occupation of one's
mind on a miserable succession of trifles. I am so weary
sometimes! If I only had a nice book to rest myself for a
while, and forget all these things, I would give so much for
it! "
"Dear Fleda, I wish you had!"
"That was one delight of being in New York; I forgot all about
money, from one end of it to the other; I put all that away;
and not having to think of meals till I came to eat them. You
can't think how tired I get of ringing the changes on pork and
flour, and Indian meal, and eggs, and vegetables!"
Fleda looked tired, and pale; and Hugh looked sadly conscious
of it.
"Don't tell aunt Lucy I have said all this!" she exclaimed,
after a moment, rousing herself; "I don't always feel so; only
once in a while I get such a fit. And now, I have just
troubled you by speaking of it."
"You don't trouble any one in that way very often, dear
Fleda," said Hugh, kissing her.
"I ought not at all  you have enough else to think of; but it
is a kind of relief sometimes. I like to do these things in
general  only now and then I get tired, as I was just now, I
suppose, and then one sees everything through a different
medium."
"I am afraid it would tire you more to have the charge of Earl
Douglass and the farm upon your mind; and mother could be no
help to you,  nor I, if I am at the mill."
"But there's Seth Plumfield. Oh, I've thought of it all. You
don't know what I am up to, Mr. Rossitur. You shall see how I
will manage  unless uncle Rolf comes home, in which case I
will very gladly forego all my honours and responsibilities
together."
"I hope he will come!" said Hugh.
But this hope was to be disappointed. Mr. Rossitur wrote again
about the first of March, saying, that he hoped to make
something of his lands in Michigan, and that he had the
prospect of being engaged in some land agencies, which would
make it worth his while to spend the summer there. He bade his
wife let anybody take the farm that could manage it, and would
pay; and to remit to Dr. Gregory whatever she should receive,
and could spare. He hoped to do something where he was.
It was just then the beginning of the sugar season, and Mrs.
Douglass having renewed and urged Earl's offer of help, Fleda
sent Philetus down to ask him to come the next day with his
team. Seth Plumfield's, which had drawn the wood in the
winter, was now busy in his own sugar business. On Earl
Douglass's ground there happened to be no maple-trees. His
lands were of moderate extent, and almost entirely cultivated
as a sheep farm; and Mr. Douglass himself, though in very
comfortable circumstances, was in the habit of assisting, on
advantageous terms, all. the farmers in the neighbourhood.
Philetus came back again in a remarkably short time; and
announced that he had met Dr. Quackenboss in the way, who had
offered to come with his team for the desired service.
"Then you have not been to Mr. Douglass's?"
"I have not," said Philetus  "I thought likely you wouldn't
calculate to want him teu."
"How came the doctor to know what you were going for?"
"I told him."
"But how came you to tell him?''
"Waul, I guess he had a mind to know," said Philetus; "so I
didn't keep it no closer than I had teu."
"Well," said Fleda, biting her lips, "you will have to go down
to Mr. Douglass's, nevertheless, Philetus, and tell him the
doctor is coming to-morrow, but I should be very much obliged
to him if he will be here next day. Will you?"
"Yes, marm!"
"Now, dear Hugh, will you make me those little spouts for the
trees?  of some dry wood : you can get plenty out here. You
want to split them, up with a hollow chisel, about a quarter
of an inch thick, and a little more than half an inch broad.
Have you got a hollow chisel?"
"No, but I can get one up the hill. Why must it be hollow?"
"To make little spouts, you know, for the sap to run in. And
then, my dear Hugh, they must be sharpened at one end so as to
fit where the chisel goes in. I am afraid I have given you a
day's work of it. How sorry I am you must go to-morrow to the
mill!  and yet I am glad too."
"Why need you go round yourself with these people?" said Hugh.
"I don't see the sense of it."
"They don't know where the trees are," said Fleda.
"I am sure I do not. Do you?"
