knocked round ; but ye see what come on his own Son the 
blessed Lord of Grlory. "Wa'n't he al'ays poor ? and have we, 
any on us, yet come so low as he come ? The Lord han't 
forgot us I'm sartin, o' that ar'. If we suffer with Him, we 
shall also reign, Scripture says ; but if we deny Him, He also 
will deny us. Didn't they all suffer the Lord and all His ? 
It tells how they were stoned and sawn asunder, and 
wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, and was destitute, afflicted, tormented. Sufferin' an't no reason to make 
us think the Lord's turned agin us ; but jest the contrary, 
if we only hold on to him, and doesn't give up to sin." 
" But why does He put us where we can't help but sin ? " 
said the woman. 
" I think we can help it," said Tom. 
" You'll see," said Gassy. " What'll you do ? To-morrow 
they'll be at you again. I know 'em, I have seen all their 
doings ; I can't bear to think of all they'll bring you to 
and they'll make you give out at last ! " 
" Lord Jesus ! " said Tom, " you will take care of my soul ! 
O Lord, do ! don't let me give out ! " 
" Oh, dear," said Gassy, " I've heard all this crying and 
praying before; and yet they've been broken down and 
brought under. There's Emmeline, she's trying to hold on, 
and you're trying but what use ? You must give up, or 
be killed by inches." 
" Well, then, I will die ! " said Tom. " Spin it out as long 
as they can, they can't help my dying some time ! and after 
that, they can't do no more. I'm clar ! I'm set ! I know 
the Lord'll help me, and bring me through." 
The woman did not answer ; she sat with her black eyes 
intently fixed on the floor. 
" Maybe it's the way," she murmured to herself; "but 
those that have given up, there's no hope for them none ! 
"We live in filth and grow loathsome, till we loathe ourselves ! And we long to die, and we don't dare to kill 
ourselves. No hope ! no hope ! no hope ! this girl now 
just as old as I was. You see me now," she said, speaking to 
Tom very rapidly, " see what I am ! Well, I was brought up 
in luxury. The first I remember is playing about, when I was 
a child, in splendid parlours when I was kept dressed up 
like a doll, and company and visitors used to praise me. 
There was a garden opening from the saloon windows ; and 
there I used to play hide-and-go-seek, under the orange- 
trees, with my brothers and sisters. I went to a convent, 
and there I learned music, French, and embroidery, and what 
not ; and when I was fourteen, I came out to my father's 
funeral. He died very suddenly, and when the property 
came to be settled, they found that there was scarcely 
enough to cover the debts ; and when the creditors took an 
inventory of the property, I was set down in it. My mother 
was a slave woman, and my father had always meant to set 
me free, but he had not done it, and so I was set down in 
the list. I'd always known who I was, but never thought 
much about it. Nobody ever expects that a strong healthy 
man is agoing to die. My father was a well man only four 
hours before he died it was one of the first cholera cases in 
New Orleans. The day after the funeral my father's wife 
took her children, and went up to her father's plantation. 
I thought they treated me strangely, but didn't know. 
There was a young lawyer whom they left to settle the 
business ; and he came every day, and was about the house, 
and spoke very politely to me. He brought with him one 
day a young man, whom I thought the handsomest I had 
ever seen. I shall never forget that evening ; I walked with 
him in the garden. I was lonesome and fall of sorrow, and 
he was so kind and gentle to me ; and he told me, that he 
had seen me before I went to the convent, and that he had 
loved me a great while, and that he would be my friend and 
protector. In short, though he didn't tell me, he had paid 
two thousand dollars for me, and I was his property. I 
became his willingly, for I loved him. Loved ! " said the 
woman, stopping, " Oh, how I did love that man ! How I 
love him now, and always shall while I breathe ! He was 
so beautiful, so high, so noble ! He put me into a beautiful 
house, with servants, horses, and carriages, and furniture, 
and dresses. Everything that money could buy he gave me ; 
but I didn't set any value on all that, I only cared for him. 
I loved him better than my God and my own soul ; and, if I 
tried, I couldn't do any other way from what he wanted me to. 
" I wanted only one thing I did want him to marry me. 
I thought, if he loved me as he said he did, and if I was what 
he seemed to think I was, he would be willing to marry me 
and set me free. But he convinced me that it would be impossible ; and he told me that if we were only faithful to each 
other, it was marriage before Grod. If that is true, wasn't I 
that man's wife ? Wasn't I faithful ? For seven years 
didn't I study every look and motion, and only live and 
breathe to please him. He had the yellow fever, and for 
twenty days and nights I watched with him I alone, and 
gave him all his medicine, and did everything for him ; and 
then he called me his good angel, and said I'd saved his life. 
"We had two beautiful children. The first was a boy, and we 
called him Henry; he was the image of his father he had 
such beautiful eyes, such a forehead, and his hair hung all 
in curls around it and he had all his father's spirit, and his 
talent too. Little Elise, he said, looked like me. He used 
to tell me that I was the most beautiful woman in Louisiana, 
he was so proud of me and the children. He used to love to 
have me dress them up, and take them and me about in an 
open carriage, and hear the remarks that people would make 
on us ; and he used to fill my ears constantly with the fine 
things that were said in praise of me and the children. Oh, 
those were happy days ! I thought I was as happy as any 
one could be ; but then there came evil times. He had a 
cousin come to New Orleans who was his particular friend 
he thought all the world of him ; but, from the first time 
I saw him, I couldn't tell why, I dreaded him, for I felt sure 
he was going to bring misery on us. He got Henry to 
going out with him, and often he would not come home 
nights till two or three o'clock. I did not dare say a word ; 
for Henry was so high-spirited, I was afraid to. He got 
him to the gaming-houses ; and he was one of the sort that 
when he once got agoing there, there was no holding back. 
And then he introduced him to another lady, and I saw 
soon that his heart was gone from me. He never told me, 
but I saw it I knew it day after day. I felt my heart 
breaking, but I could not say a word. At this the 'wretch 
offered to buy me and the children of Henry, to clear off 
his gambling debts, which stood in the way of his marrying as 
he wished and Tie sold us. He told me one day that he 
had business in the country, and should be gone two or 
three weeks. He spoke kinder than usual, and said he 
should come back ; but it didu't deceive me ; I knew that 
the time had come ; I was just like one turned into stone ; I 
couldn't speak nor shed a tear. He kissed me and kissed 
the children a good many times, and went out. I saw him 
get on his horse, and I watched him till he was quite out of 
sight ; and then I fell down and fainted. 
" Then Tie came, the cursed wretch ! he came to take 
possession. He told me that he had bought me and my 
children, and showed me the papers. I cursed him before 
God, and told him I'd die sooner than live with him. 
" ' Just as you please,' said he ; ' but if you don't behave 
reasonably I'll sell both the children, where you shall never 
see them again.' He told me that he always had meant to 
have me, from the first time he saw me ; and that he had 
drawn Henry on, and got him in debt, on purpose to make 
him willing to sell me. That he got him in love with 
another woman ; and that I might know, after all that, that 
he should not give up for a few airs and tears, and things of 
that sort. 
" I gave up, for my hands were tied. He had my children; 
whenever I resisted his will anywhere, he would talk about 
selling them, and he made me as submissive as he desired. 
Oh, what a life it was ! to live with my heart breaking, every 
day to keep on, on, on, loving, when it was only misery ; 
and to be bound, body and soul, to one I hated. I used to 
love to read to Henry, to play to him, to waltz with him, 
and sing to him ; but everything I did for this one was a 
perfect drag yet I was afraid to refuse anything. He 
was very imperious and harsh to the children. Elise was, 
a timid little thing ; but Henry was bold and high-spirited, 
like his father, and he had never been brought under in the 
least by any one. He was always finding fault, and quarrelling with him ; and I used to live in daily fear and dread. I 
tried to make the child respectful I tried to keep them 
apart, for I held on to those children like death; but it 
did no good. He sold loth those children. He took me to 
ride one day, and when I came home they were nowhere to 
be found ! He told me he had sold them ; he showed me the 
money, the price of their blood. Then it seemed as if all 
good forsook me. I raved and cursed cursed Grod and man ; 
and, for a while, I believe, he really was afraid of me. But 
he didn't give up so. He told me that my children were sold, 
but whether I ever saw their faces again depended on him ; 
and that if I wasn't quiet, they should smart for it. "Well, 
you can do anything with a woman when you've got her 
children. He made me submit ; he made me be peaceable ; he 
flattered me with hopes that perhaps he would buy them 
back ; and so things went on a week or two. One day I 
was out walking, and passed by the calaboose; I saw a 
crowd about the gate, and heard a child's voice and 
suddenly my Henry broke away from two or three men 
who were holding him, and ran, screaming, and caught my 
dress. They came up to him, swearing dreadfully ; and one 
man, whose face I shall never forget, told him that he 
wouldn't get away so ; that he was going with him into the 
calaboose, and he'd get a lesson there he'd never forget. 
I tried to beg and plead they only laughed ; the poor boy 
screamed and looked into my face, and held on to me, until, 
in tearing him off, they tore the skirt of my dress half 
away; and they carried him in screaming 'Mother! mother! 
mother ! ' There was one man stood there seemed to pity 
me. I offered him all the money I had if he'd only 
interfere. He shook his head, and said that the man said 
the boy had been impudent and disobedient, ever since he 
bought him ; that he was going to break him in, once for 
all. I turned and ran ; and every step of the way I thought 
that I heard him scream. I got into the house, ran all out 
of breath to the parlour, where I found Butler. I told him, 
and begged him to go and interfere. He only laughed, 
and told me the boy had got his deserts. He'd got to 
be broken in the sooner the better ; ' what did I expect ? ' 
he asked. 
" It seemed to me something in my head snapped at that 
moment. I felt dizzy and furious. I remember seeing a 
great sharp bowie-knife on the table; I remember something about catching it, and flying upon him ! and then 
all grew dark, and I didn't know any more not for days 
and days. 
" When I came to myself, I was in a nice room ; but not 
mine. An old black woman tended me ; and a doctor came 
to see me, and there was a great deal of care taken of me. 
After a while I found that he had gone away, and left me at 
this house to be sold ; and that's why they took such pains 
with me. 
" 1 didn't mean to get well, and hoped I shouldn't ; but, 
in spite of me, the fever went off, and I grew healthy, and 
finally got up. Then they made me dress up every day ; and 
gentlemen used to come 'in and stand and smoke their cigars, 
and look at me, and ask questions, and debate my price. I 
was so gloomy and silent that none of them wanted me. They 
threatened to whip me if I wasn't gayer, and didn't take some 
pains to make myself agreeable. At length, one day, came 
a gentleman named Stuart. He seemed to have some 
feeling for me ; he saw that something dreadful was on my 
heart, and he came to see me alone a great many times, and 
finally persuaded me to tell him. He bought me at last, and 
promised to do all he could to find and buy back my children. 
He went to the hotel where my Henry was ; they told him he 
had been sold to a planter up on Pearl Biver ; that was the 
last that I ever heard. Then he found where my daughter 
was; an old woman was keeping her. He offered an 
immense sum for her, but they would not sell her. Butler 
found out that it was for me he wanted her ; and he sent 
me word that I should never have her. Captain Stuart was 
very kind to me ; he had a splendid plantation, and took me 
to it. In the course of a year I had a son born. Oh ! that 
child ! 'how I loved it ! How just like my poor Henry the 
little thing looked ! But I had made up my mind yes, I 
had, I would never again let a child live to grow up ! I took 
the little fellow in my arms, when he was two weeks old, 
and kissed him and cried over him ; and then I gave him 
laudanum, and held him close to my bosom while he slept 
to death. How I mourned and cried over it-! and who ever 
dreamed that it was anything but a mistake that had made 
me give it the laudanum ? but it's one of the few things 
that I'm glad of now. I am not sorry to this day ; he, at 
least, is out of pain. "What better than death could I give 
him, poor child? After a while the cholera came, and 
Captain Stuart died ; everybody died that wanted to live : 
and I I, though I went down to death's door Hived! 
Then I was sold, and passed from hand to hand, till I grew 
faded and wrinkled, and I had a fever ; and then this wretch 
bought me, and brought me here and here I am ! " 
The woman stopped. She had hurried on through her 
story with a wild, passionate utterance ; sometimes seeming 
to address it to Tom, and sometimes speaking as in a 
soliloquy. So vehement and overpowering was the force 
with which she spoke, that, for a season, Tom was beguiled 
even from the pain of his wounds ; and, raising himself on 
one elbow, watched her, as she paced restlessly up and 
down, her long black hair swaying heavily about her as she 
moved. 
" You tell me," she said, after a pause, " that there is a 
God a God that looks down and sees all these things. 
Maybe it's so. The sisters in the convent used to tell me 
of a day of judgment, when everything is coming to light ; 
won't there be vengeance then ! * 
" They think it's nothing what we suffer nothing what 
our children suffer ! It's all a small matter ; yet I've walked 
the streets when it seemed as if I had misery enough in my 
one heart to sink the city. I've wished the houses would 
fall on me, or the stones sink under me. Yes ! and in the 
judgment day I will stand up before God, a witness 
against those that have ruined me and my> children, body 
and soul ! 
" When I was a girl I thought I was religious ; I used to 
love God and prayer. Now I'm a lost soul, pursued by 
devils that torment me day and night ; they keep pushing 
me on and on and I'll do it, too, some of these days!" 
she said, clenching her hand, while an insane light glanced 
in her heavy black eyes. " I'll send him where he belongs 
a short way, too one of these nights, if they burn me 
alive for it ! " A wild, long laugh rang through the 
deserted room, and ended in an hysteric sob ; she 
threw herself on the floor in convulsive sobbings and 
struggles. 
In a few moments the frenzy fit seemed to pass off ; she 
rose slowly, and seemed to collect herself. 
" Can I do anything more for you, my poor fellow ? " she 
said, approaching where Tom lay ; " shall I give you some 
more water?" 
There was a graceful and compassionate sweetness in her 
voice and manner, as she said this, that formed a strange 
contrast with the former wildness. 
Tom drank the water, and looked earnestly and pitifully 
into her face. 
" missis, I wish you'd go to Him that can give you 
living waters !" 
"G-o to him! Where is he? Who is he?" said 
Gassy. 
" Him that you read of to me the Lord." 
" I used to see the picture of him over the altar, when I 
was a girl," said Gassy, her dark eyes fixing themselves in 
an expression of mournful reverie ; " but he isn't here. 
There's nothing here but sin, and long, long, long despair ! 
Oh !" She laid her hand on her breast, and drew in her 
breath, as if to lift a heavy weight. 
Tom looked as if he would speak again, but she cut him 
short with a decided gesture. 
" Don't talk, my poor fellow. Try to sleep if you 
can." And, placing w r ater in his reach, and making whatever little arrangements for his comfort she could, Gassy left 
the shed. 
CHAPTER XXXY. 
THE TOKENS. 
" And slight withal may be the things that bring 
Back on the heart the weight which it would fling 
Aside for ever ; it may be a sound, 
A flower, the wind, the ocean, which shall wound 
Striking the electric chain wherewith we're darkly bound." 
Childe Harold's Pilgrimage Canto iv. 
THE sitting-room of Legree's establishment was a large, 
long room, with a wide, ample fire-place. It had once been 
hung with a showy and expensive paper, which now hung 
mouldering, torn, and discoloured, from the damp walls. 
The place had that peculiar sickening, unwholesome smell, 
compounded of mingled damp, dirt, and decay, which one 
often notices in close old houses. The wall-paper was 
defaced, in spots, by slops of beer and wine ; or garnished 
with chalk memorandums; and long sums footed up, as if somebody had been practising arithmetic there. In the fire-place 
stood a brazier full of burning charcoal ; for, though the 
weather was not cold, the evenings always seemed damp and 
chilly in that great room ; and Legree, moreover, wanted a 
place to light his cigars, and heat his water for punch. The 
ruddy glare of the charcoal displayed the confused and 
unpromising aspect of the room saddles, bridles, several 
sorts of harness, riding- whips, over-coats, and various articles 
of clothing, scattered up and down the room in confused 
variety ; and the dogs, of which we have before spoken, had 
encamped themselves among them, to suit their own taste 
and convenience. 
Legree was just mixing himself a tumbler of punch, 
pouring his hot water from a cracked and broken-nosed 
pitcher, grumbling, as he did so 
" Plague on that Sambo, to kick up this yer row 
between me and the new hands ! The fellow won't be 
fit to work for a week now right in the press of the 
season ! " 
" Yes, just like you," said a voice behind his chair. It 
was the woman Gassy, who had stolen upon his soliloquy. 
" Ha ! you she-devil ! you've come back, have you ?" 
" Yes, I have," she said coolly ; " come to have my own 
way, too!" 
" You lie, you jade ! I'll be up to my word. Either 
behave yourself, or stay down to the quarters, and fare and 
work with the rest." 
" I'd rather ten thousand times," said the woman, "live in 
the dirtiest hole at the quarters than be under your hoof!" 
" But you are under my hoof, for all that," said he, turning 
upon her with a savage grin ; " that's one comfort. So, sit 
down here on my knee, my dear, and hear to reason," said 
he, laying hold on her wrist. 
"Simon Legree, take care!" said the woman, with a 
sharp flash of her eye a glance so wild and insane in its 
light as to be almost appalling. " You're afraid of me, 
Simon," she said deliberately, " and you've reason to be ! 
But be careful, for I've got the devil in me ! " 
The last words she whispered in a hissing tone, close to 
his ear. 
" Get out ! I believe, to my soul, you have ! " said Legree, 
pushing her from him, and looking uncomfortably at her ; 
" After all, Gassy," lie said, "why can't you be Mends with 
me as you used to ?" 
"Used to!" said she bitterly. She stopped short a 
world of choking feelings, rising in her heart, kept her silent. 
Gassy had always kept over Legree the kind of influence 
that a strong, impassioned woman can ever keep over the 
most brutal man ; but of late she had grown more and more 
irritable and restless under the hideous yoke of her servitude, and her irritability at times broke out into raving 
insanity; and this liability made her a sort of object of 
dread to Legree, who had that superstitious horror of insane 
persons which is common to coarse and uninstructed minds. 
When Legree brought Emmeline to the house, all the 
smouldering embers of womanly feeling flashed up in the 
worn heart of Gassy, and she took part with the girl ; and a 
fierce quarrel ensued between her and Legree. Legree, in a 
fury, swore she should be put to field-service if she would 
not be peaceable. Gassy, with proud scorn, declared she 
would go to the field. And she worked there one day, as we 
have described, to show how perfectly she scorned the threat. 
Legree was secretly uneasy all day, for Gassy had an 
influence over him from which he could not free himself. 
When she presented her basket at the scales, he had hoped 
for some concession, and addressed her in a sort of half conciliatory, half scornful tone ; and she had answered with the 
bitterest contempt. 
The outrageous treatment of poor Tom had roused her 
still more ; and she had followed Legree to the house with 
no particular intention but to upbraid him for his brutality. 
"I wish, Gassy," said Legree, "you'd behave yourself 
decently." 
" You talk about behaving decently ! And what have you 
been doing ? You, who haven't even sense enough to keep 
from spoiling one of your best, hands, right in the most 
pressing season, just for your devilish temper !" 
" I was a fool, it's a fact, to let any such brangle come 
up," said Legree ; " but when the boy set up his will, he 
had to be broke in." 
" I reckon you won't break him in ! " 
" Won't I ?" said Legree, rising passionately. " I'd like 
to know if I won't! He'll be the first nigger that ever 
came ifc round me ! I'll break every bone in his body but 
he shall give up!" 
Just then the door opened and Sambo entered. He came 
forward bowing, and holding out something in a paper. 
""What's that, you dog?" said Legree. 
" It's a witch thing, mas'r !" 
"A what?" 
" Something that niggers gets from witches. Keeps 'em 
from feelin' when they's flogged. He had tied it round his 
neck with a black string." 
Legree, like most godless and cruel men, was superstitious. 
He took the paper, and opened it uneasily. 
There dropped out of it a silver dollar, and a long, shining 
curl of fair hair hair which, like a living thing, twined 
itself round Legree's fingers. 
" Damnation !" he screamed, in sudden passion, stamping 
on the floor, and pulling furiously at the hair, as if it burned 
him. "Where did this come from ? Take it off"! burn it 
up ! burn it up !" he screamed, tearing it off and throwing 
it into the charcoal. " What did you bring it to me for ?" 
Sambo stood with his heavy mouth wide open, and aghast 
with wonder ; and Gassy, who was preparing to leave 
the apartment, stopped, and looked at him in perfect 
amazement. 
"Don't you bring me any more of your devilish things !" 
said he, shaking his fist at Sambo, who retreated hastily 
towards the door ; and, picking up the silver dollar, he 
sent it smashing through the window-pane out into the 
darkness. 
Sambo was glad to make his escape. When he was gone, 
Legree seemed a little ashamed of his fit of alarm. He sat 
doggedly down in his chair, and began sullenly sipping his 
tumbler of punch. 
Gassy prepared herself for going out, unobserved by him ; 
and slipped away to minister to poor Tom, as we have 
already related. 
And what was the matter with Legree? and what was 
there in a simple curl of fair hair to appal that brutal man, 
familiar with every form of cruelty ? To answer this, we 
must carry the reader backward in his history. Hard and 
reprobate as the godless man seemed now, there had been a 
time when lie had been rocked on the bosom of a mother 
cradled with prayers and pious hymns his now seared brow 
bedewed with the waters of holy baptism. In early childhood 
a fair-haired woman had led him, at the sound of Sabbath 
bell, to worship and to pray. Far in New England that 
mother had trained her only son with long, unwearied love, 
and patient prayers. Born of a hard-tempered sire, on whom 
that gentle woman had wasted a world of unvalued love, 
Legree had followed in the steps of his father. Boisterous, 
unruly, and tyrannical, he despised all her counsel, and 
would none of her reproof; and, at an early age, broke from 
her to seek his fortunes at sea. He never came home 
but once after ; and then his mother, with the yearning of 
a heart that must love something, and has nothing else 
to love, clung to him, and sought, with passionate prayers 
and entreaties, to win him from a life of sin to his soul's 
eternal good. 
That was Legree's day of grace. Then good angels called 
him ; then he was almost persuaded, and Mercy held him by 
the hand. His heart inly relented there was a conflict 
but sin got the victory, and he set all the force of his rough 
nature against the conviction of his conscience. He drank 
and swore, was wilder and more brutal than ever. And one 
night, when his mother, in the last agony of her despair, 
knelt at his feet, he spurned her from him, threw her 
senseless on the floor, and, with brutal curses, fled to his 
ship. The next Legree heard of his mother was when one 
night, as he was carousing among drunken companions, a 
letter was put into his hand. He opened it, and a lock of 
long, curling hair fell from it, and twined about his fingers. 
The letter told him his mother was dead, and that, dying, 
she blessed and forgave him. 
There is a dread, unhallowed necromancy of evil, that 
turns things sweetest and holiest to phantoms of horror and 
affright. That pale, loving mother her dying prayers, her 
forgiving love wrought in that demoniac heart of sin only 
as a damning sentence, bringing with it a fearful looking 
for of judgment and fiery indignation. Legree burned the 
hair, and burned the letter ; and when he saw them hissing 
and crackling in the flame, inly shuddered as he thought of 
everlasting fires. He tried to drink, and revel, and swear 
away the memory; but often, in the deep night, whose 
solemn stillness arraigns the bad soul in forced communion 
with herself, he had seen that pale mother rising by his 
bedside, and felt the soft twining of that hair around his 
fingers till the cold sweat would roll down his face, and he 
would spring from his bed in horror. Te who have won- 
dered to hear, in the same evangel, that " God is love," and 
that " God is a consuming fire," see ye not how, to the soul 
resolved in evil, perfect love is the most fearful torture, the 
seal and sentence of the direst despair ? 
" Blast it ! " said Legree to himself, as he sipped his 
liquor, " where did he get that ? If it didn't look just 
like whoo ! I thought I'd forgot that. Curse me if I 
think there's any such thing as forgetting anything, any 
how hang it ! I'm lonesome ! I mean to call Em. She 
hates me the monkey! I don't  care I'll make her 
come!" 
Legree stepped out into a large entry, which went up 
stairs, by what had formerly been a superb winding-staircase ; 
but the passage-way was dirty and dreary, encumbered with 
boxes and unsightly litter. The stairs, uncarpeted, seemed 
winding up, in the gloom, to nobody knew where. The 
pale moonlight streamed through a shattered fanlight over 
the door, the air was unwholesome and chilly, like that of a 
vault. 
Legree stopped at the foot of the stairs, and heard a voice 
singing. It seemed strange and ghost-like in that dreary 
old house, perhaps because of the already tremulous state of 
his nerves. Hark ! what is it ? 
A wild, patheffic voice, chants a hymn common among the 
slaves : 
" Oh there'll be mourning, mourning, mourning, 
Oh there'll be mourning, at the judgment-seat of Christ ! " 
"Blast the girl!" said Legree. "I'll choke her. Em! 
Em ! " he called harshly : but only a mocking echo from the 
walls answered him. The sweet voice still sung on : 
" Parents and children there shall part 
Parents and children there shall part 
Shall part to meet no more ! " 
And clear and loud swelled through, the empty halls the 
refrain 
" Oh there'll be mourning, mourning, mourning, 
Oh there'll be mourning, at the judgment-seat of Christ ! " 
Legree stopped. He would have been ashamed to tell of 
it, but large drops of sweat stood on his forehead, his heart 
beat heavy and thick with fear; he even thought he saw 
something white rising and glimmering in the gloom before 
him, and shuddered to think what if the form of his dead 
mother should suddenly appear to him. 
" I know one thing," he said to himself, as he stumbled 
back in the sitting-room, and sat down ; " I'll let that fellow 
alone after this ! What did I want of his cussed paper ? I 
b'lieve I am bewitched, sure enough! I've been shivering 
and sweating ever since ! Where did he get that hair ? It 
couldn't have been that I I burnt that up, I know I did ! 
It would be a joke if hair could rise from the dead ! " 
Ah, Legree ! that golden tress was charmed ; each hair 
had in it a spell of terror and remorse for thee, and was used 
by a mightier power to bind thy cruel hands from inflicting 
uttermost evil 011 the helpless ! 
" I say," said Legree, stamping and whistling to the dogs, 
" wake up, some of you, and keep me company ! " but the 
dogs only opened one eye at him sleepily, and closed it 
again. 
" I'll have Sambo and Quimbo up here to sing, and dance 
one of their hell dances, and keep off these horrid notions," 
said Legree; and, putting on his hat, he went on to the 
verandah and blew a horn, with which he commonly summoned his two sable drivers. 
Legree was often wont, when in a gracious humour, to get 
these two worthies into his sitting-room, and, after warming 
them up with whisky, amuse himself by setting them to 
singing, dancing, or fighting, as the humour took him. 
It was between one and two o'clock at night, as Gassy 
was returning from her ministrations to poor Tom, that she 
heard the sound of wild shrieking, whooping, hallooing, and 
singing from the sitting-room, mingled with the barking of 
dogs, and other symptoms of general uproar. 
She came up on the verandah steps, and looked in. 
Legree and both the drivers, in a state of furious intoxication, were singing, whooping, upsetting chairs, and 
making all manner of ludicrous and horrid grimaces at 
each other. 
She rested her small, slender hand on the window-blind, 
and looked fixedly at them. There was a world of anguish, 
scorn, and fierce bitterness in her black eyes as she did so. 
" Would it be a sin to rid the world of such a wretch ? " she 
said to herself. 
She turned hurriedly away, and, passing round to a back 
door, glided up stairs, and tapped at Emmeline's door. 
CHAPTEE XXXVI. 
EMMELINE AND CASSY. 
CASSY entered the room, and found Emmeline sitting, 
pale with fear, in the furthest corner of it. As she came 
in, the girl started up nervously ; but, on seeing who it was., 
rushed forward, and, catching her arm, said, " O Gassy, is it 
you ? I'm so glad you've come ! I was afraid it was , 
Oh, you don't know what a horrid noise there has been 
downstairs all this evening ! " 
"I ought to know," said Cassy, dryly. "I've heard it 
often enough ! " 
" O Cassy, do tell me ; couldn't we get away from this 
place? I don't care where into the swamp among the 
snakes anywhere ! Couldn't we get somewhere away from 
here?" 
" Nowhere but into our graves," said Cassy. 
" Did you ever try ? " 
" I've seen enough of trying, and what comes of it ?" said 
Cassy. 
" I'd be willing to live in the swamps, and gnaw the bark 
from trees. I an't afraid of snakes ! I'd rather have one 
near me than him," said Emmeline, eagerly. 
"There have been a good many here of your opinion," 
said Cassy. "But you could not stay in the swamps 
you'd be tracked by the dogs, and brought back, and then 
then" 
" What would he do ? " said the girl, looking with breathless interest into her face. 
""What wouldn't he do, you'd better ask," said Gassy. 
" He's learned his trade well among the pirates in the West 
Indies. You wouldn't sleep much if I should tell you 
things I've seen things that he tells of, sometimes, for 
good jokes. I've heard screams here that I haven't been 
able to get out of my head for weeks and weeks. There's 
a place way out down by the quarters, where you can see a 
