true Christians, throughout the world. May they unite their prayers that
Christendom may be delivered from so great an evil as slavery!
                                PART I.
                               CHAPTER I.
At different times, doubt has been expressed whether the representations
of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” are a fair representation of slavery as it at
present exists. This work, more, perhaps, than any other work of fiction
that ever was written, has been a collection and arrangement of real
incidents,—of actions really performed, of words and expressions really
uttered,—grouped together with reference to a general result, in the
same manner that the mosaic artist groups his fragments of various
stones into one general picture. His is a mosaic of gems,—this is a
mosaic of facts.
Artistically considered, it might not be best to point out in which
quarry and from which region each fragment of the mosaic picture had its
origin; and it is equally unartistic to disentangle the glittering web
of fiction, and show out of what real warp and woof it is woven, and
with what real coloring dyed. But the book had a purpose entirely
transcending the artistic one, and accordingly encounters, at the hands
of the public, demands not usually made on fictitious works. It is
treated as a reality,—sifted, tried and tested, as a reality; and
therefore as a reality it may be proper that it should be defended.
The writer acknowledges that the book is a very inadequate
representation of slavery; and it is so, necessarily, for this
reason,—that slavery, in some of its workings, is too dreadful for the
purposes of art. A work which should represent it strictly as it is
would be a work which could not be read. And all works which ever mean
to give pleasure must draw a veil somewhere, or they cannot succeed.
The author will now proceed along the course of the story, from the
first page onward, and develop, as far as possible, the incidents by
which different parts were suggested.
                              CHAPTER II.
                               MR. HALEY.
In the very first chapter of the book we encounter the character of
the negro-trader, Mr. Haley. His name stands at the head of this
chapter as the representative of all the different characters
introduced in the work which exhibit the trader, the kidnapper, the
negro-catcher, the negro-whipper, and all the other inevitable
auxiliaries and indispensable appendages of what is often called the
“divinely-instituted relation” of slavery. The author’s first personal
observation of this class of beings was somewhat as follows:
Several years ago, while one morning employed in the duties of the
nursery, a colored woman was announced. She was ushered into the
nursery, and the author thought, on first survey, that a more surly,
unpromising face she had never seen. The woman was thoroughly black,
thick-set, firmly built, and with strongly-marked African features.
Those who have been accustomed to read the expressions of the African
face know what a peculiar effect is produced by a lowering, desponding
expression upon its dark features. It is like the shadow of a
thunder-cloud. Unlike her race generally, the woman did not smile when
smiled upon, nor utter any pleasant remark in reply to such as were
addressed to her. The youngest pet of the nursery, a boy about three
years old, walked up, and laid his little hand on her knee, and seemed
astonished not to meet the quick smile which the negro almost always has
in reserve for the little child. The writer thought her very cross and
disagreeable, and, after a few moments’ silence, asked, with perhaps a
little impatience, “Do you want anything of me to-day?”
“Here are some papers,” said the woman, pushing them towards her;
“perhaps you would read them.”
The first paper opened was a letter from a negro-trader in Kentucky,
stating concisely that he had waited about as long as he could for her
child; that he wanted to start for the South, and must get it off his
hands; that, if she would send him two hundred dollars before the end of
the week, she should have it; if not, that he would set it up at
auction, at the court-house door, on Saturday. He added, also, that he
might have got more than that for the child, but that he was willing to
let her have it cheap.
“What sort of a man is this?” said the author to the woman, when she had
done reading the letter.
“Dunno, ma’am; great Christian, I know,—member of the Methodist church,
anyhow.”
The expression of sullen irony with which this was said was a thing to
be remembered.
“And how old is this child?” said the author to her.
The woman looked at the little boy who had been standing at her knee,
with an expressive glance, and said, “She will be three years old this
summer.”
On further inquiry into the history of the woman, it appeared that she
had been set free by the will of her owners; that the child was legally
entitled to freedom, but had been seized on by the heirs of the estate.
She was poor and friendless, without money to maintain a suit, and the
heirs, of course, threw the child into the hands of the trader. The
necessary sum, it may be added, was all raised in the small neighborhood
which then surrounded the Lane Theological Seminary, and the child was
redeemed.
If the public would like a specimen of the correspondence which passes
between these worthies, who are the principal reliance of the community
for supporting and extending the institution of slavery, the following
may be interesting as a matter of literary curiosity. It was forwarded
by Mr. M. J. Thomas, of Philadelphia, to the National Era, and stated
by him to be “a copy taken verbatim from the original, found among the
papers of the person to whom it was addressed, at the time of his arrest
and conviction, for passing a variety of counterfeit bank-notes.”
                                     Poolsville, Montgomery Co., Md.,
                                                   March 24, 1831.
  DEAR SIR: I arrived home in safety with Louisa, John having been
  rescued from me, out of a two-story window, at twelve o’clock at
  night. I offered a reward of fifty dollars, and have him here safe
  in jail. The persons who took him brought him to Fredericktown jail.
  I wish you to write to no person in this state but myself. Kephart
  and myself are determined to go the whole hog for any negro you can
  find, and you must give me the earliest information, as soon as you
  do find any. Enclosed you will receive a handbill, and I can make a
  good bargain, if you can find them. I will in all cases, as soon as
  a negro runs off, send you a handbill immediately, so that you may
  be on the look-out. Please tell the constable to go on with the sale
  of John’s property; and, when the money is made, I will send on an
  order to you for it. Please attend to this for me; likewise write to
  me, and inform me of any negro you think has run away,—no matter
  where you think he has come from, nor how far,—and I will try and
  find out his master. Let me know where you think he is from, with
  all particular marks, and if I don’t find his master, Joe’s dead!
  Write to me about the crooked-fingered negro, and let me know which
  hand and which finger, color, &c.; likewise any mark the fellow has
  who says he got away from the negro-buyer, with his height and
  color, or any other you think has run off.
  Give my respects to your partner, and be sure you write to no person
  but myself. If any person writes to you, you can inform me of it,
  and I will try to buy from them. I think we can make money, if we
  do business together; for I have plenty of money, if you can find
  plenty of negroes. Let me know if Daniel is still where he was, and
  if you have heard anything of Francis since I left you. Accept for
  yourself my regard and esteem.
                                                    REUBEN B. CARLLEY.
  JOHN C. SAUNDERS.
This letter strikingly illustrates the character of these
fellow-patriots with whom the great men of our land have been acting in
conjunction, in carrying out the beneficent provisions of the Fugitive
Slave Law.
With regard to the Kephart named in this letter the community of
Boston may have a special interest to know further particulars, as he
was one of the dignitaries sent from the South to assist the good
citizens of that place in the religious and patriotic enterprise of
1851, at the time that Shadrach was unfortunately rescued. It therefore
may be well to introduce somewhat particularly JOHN KEPHART, as sketched
by RICHARD H. DANA, Jr., one of the lawyers employed in the defence of
the perpetrators of the rescue.
  I shall never forget John Caphart. I have been eleven years at the
  bar, and in that time have seen many developments of vice and
  hardness, but I never met with anything so cold-blooded as the
  testimony of that man. John Caphart is a tall, sallow man, of about
  fifty, with jet-black hair, a restless, dark eye, and an anxious,
  care-worn look, which, had there been enough of moral element in the
  expression, might be called melancholy. His frame was strong, and in
  youth he had evidently been powerful, but he was not robust. Yet
  there was a calm, cruel look, a power of will and a quickness of
  muscular action, which still render him a terror in his vocation.
  In the manner of giving in his testimony there was no bluster or
  outward show of insolence. His contempt for the humane feelings of
  the audience and community about him was too true to require any
  assumption of that kind. He neither paraded nor attempted to conceal
  the worst features of his calling. He treated it as a matter of
  business which he knew the community shuddered at, but the moral
  nature of which he was utterly indifferent to, beyond a certain
  secret pleasure in thus indirectly inflicting a little torture on
  his hearers.
  I am not, however, altogether clear, to do John Caphart justice,
  that he is entirely conscience-proof. There was something in his
  anxious look which leaves one not without hope.
  At the first trial we did not know of his pursuits, and he passed
  merely as a police-man of Norfolk, Virginia. But, at the second
  trial, some one in the room gave me a hint of the occupations many
  of these police-men take to, which led to my cross-examination.
    From the Examination of John Caphart, in the “Rescue Trials,”
      at Boston, in June and Nov., 1851, and October, 1852.
  Question. Is it a part of your duty, as a police-man, to take up
  colored persons who are out after hours in the streets?
  Answer. Yes, sir.
  Q. What is done with them?
  A. We put them in the lock-up, and in the morning they are brought
  into court and ordered to be punished,—those that are to be
  punished.
  Q. What punishment do they get?
  A. Not exceeding thirty-nine lashes.
  Q. Who gives them these lashes?
  A. Any of the officers. I do, sometimes.
  Q. Are you paid extra for this? How much?
  A. Fifty cents a head. It used to be sixty-two cents. Now it is
  fifty. Fifty cents for each one we arrest, and fifty more for each
  one we flog.
  Q. Are these persons you flog men and boys only, or are they women
  and girls also?
  A. Men, women, boys and girls, just as it happens.
  [The government interfered, and tried to prevent any further
  examination; and said, among other things, that he only performed
  his duty as police-officer under the law. After a discussion, Judge
  Curtis allowed it to proceed.]
  Q. Is your flogging confined to these cases? Do you not flog
  slaves at the request of their masters?
  A. Sometimes I do. Certainly, when I am called upon.
  Q. In these cases of private flogging, are the negroes sent to
  you? Have you a place for flogging?
  A. No. I go round, as I am sent for.
  Q. Is this part of your duty as an officer?
  A. No, sir.
  Q. In these cases of private flogging, do you inquire into the
  circumstances, to see what the fault has been, or if there is any?
  A. That’s none of my business. I do as I am requested. The master
  is responsible.
  Q. In these cases, too, I suppose you flog women and girls, as
  well as men.
  A. Women and men.
  Q. Mr. Caphart, how long have you been engaged in this business?
  A. Ever since 1836.
  Q. How many negroes do you suppose you have flogged, in all, women
  and children included?
  A. [Looking calmly round the room.] I don’t know how many niggers
  you have got here in Massachusetts, but I should think I had flogged
  as many as you’ve got in the state.
  [The same man testified that he was often employed to pursue
  fugitive slaves. His reply to the question was, “I never refuse a
  good job in that line.”]
  Q. Don’t they sometimes turn out bad jobs?
  A. Never, if I can help it.
  Q. Are they not sometimes discharged after you get them?
  A. Not often. I don’t know that they ever are, except those
  Portuguese the counsel read about.
  [I had found, in a Virginia report, a case of some two hundred
  Portuguese negroes, whom this John Caphart had seized from a vessel,
  and endeavored to get condemned as slaves, but whom the court
  discharged.]
Hon. John P. Hale, associated with Mr. Dana, as counsel for the defence,
in the Rescue Trials, said of him, in his closing argument:
  Why, gentlemen, he sells agony! Torture is his stock-in-trade! He
  is a walking scourge! He hawks, peddles, retails, groans and tears
  about the streets of Norfolk!
See also the following correspondence between two traders, one in North
Carolina, the other in New Orleans; with a word of comment, by Hon.
William Jay, of New York:
                                      Halifax, N. C., Nov. 16, 1839.
  DEAR SIR: I have shipped in the brig Addison,—prices are below:
                    No. 1. Caroline Ennis,  $650.00
                    No. 2. Silvy Holland,    625.00
                    No. 3. Silvy Booth,      487.50
                    No. 4. Maria Pollock,    475.00
                    No. 5. Emeline Pollock,  475.00
                    No. 6. Delia Averit,     475.00
  The two girls that cost $650 and $625 were bought before I shipped
  my first. I have a great many negroes offered to me, but I will not
  pay the prices they ask, for I know they will come down. I have no
  opposition in market. I will wait until I hear from you before I
  buy, and then I can judge what I must pay. Goodwin will send you the
  bill of lading for my negroes, as he shipped them with his own.
  Write often, as the times are critical, and it depends on the prices
  you get to govern me in buying. Yours, &c.,
                                                         G. W. BARNES.
     Mr. THEOPHILUS FREEMAN,      }
           New Orleans.           }
  The above was a small but choice invoice of wives and mothers. Nine
  days before, namely, 7th Nov., Mr. Barnes advised Mr. Freeman of
  having shipped a lot of forty-three men and women. Mr. Freeman,
  informing one of his correspondents of the state of the market,
  writes (Sunday, 21st Sept., 1839), “I bought a boy yesterday,
  sixteen years old, and likely, weighing one hundred and ten
  pounds, at $700. I sold a likely girl, twelve years old, at $500. I
  bought a man yesterday, twenty years old, six feet high, at $820;
  one to-day, twenty-four years old, at $850, black and sleek as a
  mole.”
The writer has drawn in this work only one class of the negro-traders.
There are all varieties of them, up to the great wholesale purchasers,
who keep their large trading-houses; who are gentlemanly in manners and
courteous in address; who, in many respects, often perform actions of
real generosity; who consider slavery a very great evil, and hope the
country will at some time be delivered from it, but who think that so
long as clergyman and layman, saint and sinner, are all agreed in the
propriety and necessity of slave-holding, it is better that the
necessary trade in the article be conducted by men of humanity and
decency, than by swearing, brutal men, of the Tom Loker school. These
men are exceedingly sensitive with regard to what they consider the
injustice of the world in excluding them from good society, simply
because they undertake to supply a demand in the community which the
bar, the press and the pulpit, all pronounce to be a proper one. In this
respect, society certainly imitates the unreasonableness of the ancient
Egyptians, who employed a certain class of men to prepare dead bodies
for embalming, but flew at them with sticks and stones the moment the
operation was over, on account of the sacrilegious liberty which they
had taken. If there is an ill-used class of men in the world, it is
certainly the slave-traders; for, if there is no harm in the institution
of slavery,—if it is a divinely-appointed and honorable one, like civil
government and the family state, and like other species of property
relation,—then there is no earthly reason why a man may not as
innocently be a slave-trader as any other kind of trader.
                              CHAPTER III.
                          MR. AND MRS. SHELBY.
It was the design of the writer, in delineating the domestic
arrangements of Mr. and Mrs. Shelby, to show a picture of the fairest
side of slave-life, where easy indulgence and good-natured forbearance
are tempered by just discipline and religious instruction, skilfully and
judiciously imparted.
The writer did not come to her task without reading much upon both sides
of the question, and making a particular effort to collect all the most
favorable representations of slavery which she could obtain. And, as the
reader may have a curiosity to examine some of the documents, the writer
will present them quite at large. There is no kind of danger to the
world in letting the very fairest side of slavery be seen; in fact, the
horrors and barbarities which are necessarily inherent in it are so
terrible that one stands absolutely in need of all the comfort which can
be gained from incidents like the subjoined, to save them from utter
despair of human nature. The first account is from Mr. J. K. Paulding’s
Letters on Slavery; and is a letter from a Virginia planter, whom we
should judge, from his style, to be a very amiable, agreeable man, and
who probably describes very fairly the state of things on his own
domain.
  DEAR SIR: As regards the first query, which relates to the “rights
  and duties of the slave,” I do not know how extensive a view of this
  branch of the subject is contemplated. In its simplest aspect, as
  understood and acted on in Virginia, I should say that the slave is
  entitled to an abundance of good plain food; to coarse but
  comfortable apparel; to a warm but humble dwelling; to protection
  when well, and to succor when sick; and, in return, that it is his
  duty to render to his master all the service he can consistently
  with perfect health, and to behave submissively and honestly. Other
  remarks suggest themselves, but they will be more appropriately
  introduced under different heads.
  2d. “The domestic relations of master and slave.”—These relations
  are much misunderstood by many persons at the North, who regard the
  terms as synonymous with oppressor and oppressed. Nothing can be
  further from the fact. The condition of the negroes in this state
  has been greatly ameliorated. The proprietors were formerly fewer
  and richer than at present. Distant quarters were often kept up to
  support the aristocratic mansion. They were rarely visited by their
  owners; and heartless overseers, frequently changed, were employed
  to manage them for a share of the crop. These men scourged the land,
  and sometimes the slaves. Their tenure was but for a year, and of
  course they made the most of their brief authority. Owing to the
  influence of our institutions, property has become subdivided, and
  most persons live on or near their estates. There are exceptions, to
  be sure, and particularly among wealthy gentlemen in the towns; but
  these last are almost all enlightened and humane, and alike liberal
  to the soil and to the slave who cultivates it. I could point out
  some noble instances of patriotic and spirited improvement among
  them. But, to return to the resident proprietors: most of them have
  been raised on the estates; from the older negroes they have
  received in infancy numberless acts of kindness; the younger ones
  have not unfrequently been their playmates (not the most suitable, I
  admit), and much good-will is thus generated on both sides. In
  addition to this, most men feel attached to their property; and this
  attachment is stronger in the case of persons than of things. I know
  it, and feel it. It is true, there are harsh masters; but there are
  also bad husbands and bad fathers. They are all exceptions to the
  rule, not the rule itself. Shall we therefore condemn in the gross
  those relations, and the rights and authority they imply, from their
  occasional abuse? I could mention many instances of strong
  attachment on the part of the slave, but will only adduce one or
  two, of which I have been the object. It became a question whether a
  faithful servant, bred up with me from boyhood, should give up his
  master or his wife and children, to whom he was affectionately
  attached, and most attentive and kind. The trial was a severe one,
  but he determined to break those tender ties and remain with me. I
  left it entirely to his discretion, though I would not, from
  considerations of interest, have taken for him quadruple the price I
  should probably have obtained. Fortunately, in the sequel, I was
  enabled to purchase his family, with the exception of a daughter,
  happily situated; and nothing but death shall henceforth part them.
  Were it put to the test, I am convinced that many masters would
  receive this striking proof of devotion. A gentleman but a day or
  two since informed me of a similar, and even stronger case, afforded
  by one of his slaves. As the reward of assiduous and delicate
  attention to a venerated parent, in her last illness, I proposed to
  purchase and liberate a healthy and intelligent woman, about thirty
  years of age, the best nurse, and, in all respects, one of the best
  servants in the state, of which I was only part owner; but she
  declined to leave the family, and has been since rather better than
  free. I shall be excused for stating a ludicrous case I heard of
  some time ago:—A favorite and indulged servant requested his master
  to sell him to another gentleman. His master refused to do so, but
  told him he was at perfect liberty to go to the North, if he were
  not already free enough. After a while he repeated the request; and,
  on being urged to give an explanation of his singular conduct, told
  his master that he considered himself consumptive, and would soon
  die; and he thought Mr. B—— was better able to bear the loss than
  his master. He was sent to a medicinal spring and recovered his
  health, if, indeed, he had ever lost it, of which his master had
  been unapprised. It may not be amiss to describe my deportment
  towards my servants, whom I endeavor to render happy while I make
  them profitable. I never turn a deaf ear, but listen patiently to
  their communications. I chat familiarly with those who have passed
  service, or have not begun to render it. With the others I observe a
  more prudent reserve, but I encourage all to approach me without
  awe. I hardly ever go to town without having commissions to execute
  for some of them; and think they prefer to employ me, from a belief
  that, if their money should not quite hold out, I would add a little
  to it; and I not unfrequently do, in order to get a better article.
  The relation between myself and my slaves is decidedly friendly. I
  keep up pretty exact discipline, mingled with kindness, and hardly
  ever lose property by thievish, or labor by runaway slaves. I never
  lock the outer doors of my house. It is done, but done by the
  servants; and I rarely bestow a thought on the matter. I leave home
  periodically for two months, and commit the dwelling-house, plate,
  and other valuables, to the servants, without even an enumeration of
  the articles.
  3d. “The duration of the labor of the slave.”—The day is usually
  considered long enough. Employment at night is not exacted by me,
  except to shell corn once a week for their own consumption, and on a
  few other extraordinary occasions. The people, as we generally
  call them, are required to leave their houses at daybreak, and to
  work until dark, with the intermission of half an hour to an hour at
  breakfast, and one to two hours at dinner, according to the season
  and sort of work. In this respect I suppose our negroes will bear a
  favorable comparison with any laborers whatever.
  4th. “The liberty usually allowed the slave,—his holidays and
  amusements, and the way in which they usually spend their evenings
  and holidays.”—They are prohibited from going off the estate without
  first obtaining leave; though they often transgress, and with
  impunity, except in flagrant cases. Those who have wives on other
  plantations visit them on certain specified nights, and have an
  allowance of time for going and returning, proportioned to the
  distance. My negroes are permitted, and, indeed, encouraged, to
  raise as many ducks and chickens as they can; to cultivate
  vegetables for their own use, and a patch of corn for sale; to
  exercise their trades, when they possess one, which many do; to
  catch muskrats and other animals for the fur or the flesh; to raise
  bees, and, in fine, to earn an honest penny in any way which chance
  or their own ingenuity may offer. The modes specified are, however,
  those most commonly resorted to, and enable provident servants to
  make from five to thirty dollars apiece. The corn is of a different
  sort from that which I cultivate, and is all bought by me. A great
  many fowls are raised; I have this year known ten dollars worth sold
  by one man at one time. One of the chief sources of profit is the
  fur of the muskrat; for the purpose of catching which the marshes on
  the estate have been parcelled out and appropriated from time
  immemorial, and are held by a tenure little short of fee-simple. The
  negroes are indebted to Nat Turner[1] and Tappan for a curtailment
  of some of their privileges. As a sincere friend to the blacks, I
  have much regretted the reckless interference of these persons, on
  account of the restrictions it has become, or been thought,
  necessary to impose. Since the exploit of the former hero, they have
  been forbidden to preach, except to their fellow-slaves, the
  property of the same owner; to have public funerals, unless a white
  person officiates; or to be taught to read and write. Their funerals
  formerly gave them great satisfaction, and it was customary here to
  furnish the relations of the deceased with bacon, spirit, flour,
  sugar and butter, with which a grand entertainment, in their way,
  was got up. We were once much amused by a hearty fellow requesting
  his mistress to let him have his funeral during his lifetime, when
  it would do him some good. The waggish request was granted; and I
  venture to say there never was a funeral the subject of which
  enjoyed it so much. When permitted, some of our negroes preached
  with great fluency. I was present, a few years since, when an
  Episcopal minister addressed the people, by appointment. On the
  conclusion of an excellent sermon, a negro preacher rose and thanked
  the gentleman kindly for his discourse, but frankly told him the
  congregation “did not understand his lingo.” He then proceeded
  himself, with great vehemence and volubility, coining words where
  they had not been made to his hand, or rather his tongue, and
  impressing his hearers, doubtless, with a decided opinion of his
  superiority over his white co-laborer in the field of grace. My
  brother and I, who own contiguous estates, have lately erected a
  chapel on the line between them, and have employed an acceptable
  minister of the Baptist persuasion, to which the negroes almost
  exclusively belong, to afford them religious instruction. Except as
  a preparatory step to emancipation, I consider it exceedingly
  impolitic, even as regards the slaves themselves, to permit them to
  read and write: “Where ignorance is bliss, ‘tis folly to be wise.”
  And it is certainly impolitic as regards their masters, on the
  principle that “knowledge is power.” My servants have not as long
  holidays as those of most other persons. I allow three days at
  Christmas, and a day at each of three other periods, besides a
  little time to work their patches; or, if very busy, I sometimes
  prefer to work them myself. Most of the ancient pastimes have been
  lost in this neighborhood, and religion, mock or real, has succeeded
  them. The banjo, their national instrument, is known but in name, or
  in a few of the tunes which have survived. Some of the younger
  negroes sing and dance, but the evenings and holidays are usually
  occupied in working, in visiting, and in praying and singing hymns.
  The primitive customs and sports are, I believe, better preserved
  further south, where slaves were brought from Africa long after they
  ceased to come here.
  6th. “The provision usually made for their food and clothing,—for
  those who are too young or too old to labor.”—My men receive twelve
  quarts of Indian meal (the abundant and universal allowance in this
  state), seven salted herrings, and two pounds of smoked bacon or
  three pounds of pork, a week; the other hands proportionally less.
  But, generally speaking, their food is issued daily, with the
  exception of meal, and consists of fish or bacon for breakfast, and
  meat, fresh or salted, with vegetables whenever we can provide them,
  for dinner; or, for a month or two in the spring, fresh fish cooked
  with a little bacon. This mode is rather more expensive to me than
  that of weekly rations, but more comfortable to the servants.
  Superannuated or invalid slaves draw their provisions regularly once
  a week; and the moment a child ceases to be nourished by its mother,
  it receives eight quarts of meal (more than it can consume), and one
  half-pound of lard. Besides the food furnished by me, nearly all the
  servants are able to make some addition from their private stores;
  and there is among the adults hardly an instance of one so
  improvident as not to do it. He must be an unthrifty fellow, indeed,
  who cannot realize the wish of the famous Henry IV. in regard to the
  French peasantry, and enjoy his fowl on Sunday. I always keep on
  hand, for the use of the negroes, sugar, molasses, &c., which,
  though not regularly issued, are applied for on the slightest
  pretexts, and frequently no pretext at all, and are never refused,
  except in cases of misconduct. In regard to clothing:—the men and
  boys receive a winter coat and trousers of strong cloth, three
  shirts, a stout pair of shoes and socks, and a pair of summer
  pantaloons, every year; a hat about every second year, and a
  great-coat and blanket every third year. Instead of great-coats and
  hats, the women have large capes to protect the bust in bad weather,
  and handkerchiefs for the head. The articles furnished are good and
  serviceable; and, with their own acquisitions, make their appearance
  decent and respectable. On Sunday they are even fine. The aged and
  invalid are clad as regularly as the rest, but less substantially.
  Mothers receive a little raw cotton, in proportion to the number of
  children, with the privilege of having the yarn, when spun, woven at
  my expense. I provide them with blankets. Orphans are put with
  careful women, and treated with tenderness. I am attached to the
  little slaves, and encourage familiarity among them. Sometimes, when
  I ride near the quarters, they come running after me with the most
  whimsical requests, and are rendered happy by the distribution of
  some little donation. The clothing described is that which is given
  to the crop hands. Home-servants, a numerous class in Virginia, are
  of course clad in a different and very superior manner. I neglected
  to mention, in the proper place, that there are on each of my
  plantations a kitchen, an oven, and one or more cooks; and that each
  hand is furnished with a tin bucket for his food, which is carried
  into the field by little negroes, who also supply the laborers with
  water.
  7th. “Their treatment when sick.”—My negroes go, or are carried, as
  soon as they are attacked, to a spacious and well-ventilated
  hospital, near the mansion-house. They are there received by an
  attentive nurse, who has an assortment of medicine, additional
  bed-clothing, and the command of as much light food as she may
  require, either from the table or the store-room of the proprietor.
  Wine, sago, rice, and other little comforts appertaining to such an
  establishment, are always kept on hand. The condition of the sick is
  much better than that of the poor whites or free colored people in
  the neighborhood.
  8th. “Their rewards and punishments.”—I occasionally bestow little
  gratuities for good conduct, and particularly after harvest; and
  hardly ever refuse a favor asked by those who faithfully perform
  their duty. Vicious and idle servants are punished with stripes,
  moderately inflicted; to which, in the case of theft, is added
  privation of meat, a severe punishment to those who are never
  suffered to be without it on any other account. From my limited
  observation, I think that servants to the North work much harder
  than our slaves. I was educated at a college in one of the free
  states, and, on my return to Virginia, was struck with the contrast.
  I was astonished at the number of idle domestics, and actually
  worried my mother, much to my contrition since, to reduce the
  establishment. I say to my contrition, because, after eighteen
  years’ residence in the good Old Dominion, I find myself surrounded
  by a troop of servants about as numerous as that against which I
  formerly so loudly exclaimed. While on this subject it may not be
  amiss to state a case of manumission which occurred about three
  years since. My nearest neighbor, a man of immense wealth, owned a
  favorite servant, a fine fellow, with polished manners and excellent
  disposition, who reads and writes, and is thoroughly versed in the
  duties of a butler and housekeeper, in the performance of which he
  was trusted without limit. This man was, on the death of his master,
  emancipated with a legacy of six thousand dollars, besides about two
  thousand dollars more which he had been permitted to accumulate, and
  had deposited with his master, who had given him credit for it. The
  use that this man, apparently so well qualified for freedom, and who
  has had an opportunity of travelling and of judging for himself,
  makes of his money and his time, is somewhat remarkable. In
  consequence of his exemplary conduct, he has been permitted to
  reside in the state, and for very moderate wages occupies the same
  situation he did in the old establishment, and will probably
  continue to occupy it as long as he lives. He has no children of his
  own, but has put a little girl, a relation of his, to school. Except
  in this instance, and in the purchase of a few plain articles of
  furniture, his freedom and his money seem not much to have benefited
  him. A servant of mine, who is intimate with him, thinks he is not
  as happy as he was before his liberation. Several other servants
  were freed at the same time, with smaller legacies, but I do not
  know what has become of them.
  I do not regard negro-slavery, however mitigated, as a Utopian
  system, and have not intended so to delineate it. But it exists, and
  the difficulty of removing it is felt and acknowledged by all, save
  the fanatics, who, like “fools, rush in where angels dare not
  tread.” It is pleasing to know that its burdens are not too heavy to
  be borne. That the treatment of slaves in this state is humane, and
  even indulgent, may be inferred from the fact of their rapid
  increase and great longevity. I believe that, constituted as they
  are, morally and physically, they are as happy as any peasantry in
  the world; and I venture to affirm, as the result of my reading and
  inquiry, that in no country are the laborers so liberally and
  invariably supplied with bread and meat as are the negro slaves of
  the United States. However great the dearth of provisions, famine
  never reaches them.
  P. S.—It might have been stated above that on this estate there are
  about one hundred and sixty blacks. With the exception of infants,
  there has been, in eighteen months, but one death that I
  remember,—that of a man fully sixty-five years of age. The bill for
  medical attendance, from the second day of last November, comprising
  upwards of a year, is less than forty dollars.
The following accounts are taken from “Ingraham’s Travels in the
South-west,” a work which seems to have been written as much to show the
beauties of slavery as anything else. Speaking of the state of things on
some Southern plantations, he gives the following pictures, which are
presented without note or comment:
  The little candidates for “field honors” are useless articles on a
  plantation during the first five or six years of their existence.
  They are then to take their first lesson in the elementary part of
  their education. When they have learned their manual alphabet
  tolerably well, they are placed in the field to take a spell at
  cotton-picking. The first day in the field is their proudest day.
  The young negroes look forward to it with as much restlessness and
  impatience as school-boys to a vacation. Black children are not put
  to work so young as many children of poor parents in the North. It
  is often the case that the children of the domestic servants become
