"It is well," briefly, and with much severity in his tone, replied
Mr. Howland. He was greatly relieved at this unexpected result;
although neither in word or manner did he let his real feelings
appear.
CHAPTER VI.
THE thought that came instantly to the mind of Andrew, when his
father's resolution to send him to sea was mentioned, was the
thought of Emily Winters. For the sake of spending daily a few
quickly passing minutes with her, he had subjected himself to
reprimand, punishment and disgrace. And his mind instantly reacted
against the idea of a separation such as was now threatened. Still
he was too proud and stubborn to think for a moment of retracing any
of the wrong steps he had made. Nothing but the tender appeal of his
mother, whom he did indeed love, amid all his perverseness, could
have subdued him. But for the strong attachment felt for Emily, he
would have received the intelligence that he was about to be sent to
sea, with, pleasure.
For some time after this, Andrew's external conduct was more
orderly. But there was so much about him to offend his easily
offended father, that he did not escape for even a single day
without a frown or harsh word, which soon had the effect to
extinguish the few good impulses which the recent subjugation of his
will had awakened. He continued to meet Emily on his way to school,
but was careful not to linger in her company go long as before. But
this pleasure was at length denied him. A person who frequently saw
them together, mentioned the fact to Mr. Winters, who immediately
reproved his daughter for the association, and positively forbade
its continuance. Emily had ever been obedient to her parents in all
things, and this command, grievous as it was, she felt bound to
obey. On the day after it was given, Andrew lingered for her in vain
at the place where they had met daily, until after his school hour.
On the next morning he was there earlier than usual, and waited
until past his school hour again. But she did not come. Strictly
obedient to her parents, she had gone another way so as to avoid the
meeting.
During that day, Andrew was absent from school. Having twice missed
his gentle friend, he had no heart to enter upon his studies, and so
went listlessly wandering about the streets until nearly twelve
o'clock. Then he repaired to the neighborhood of her school, and
waited to see if she was among the scholars at the time of their
dismissal. In a little while the children came pouring forth, and
among them his eager eyes soon caught the form of Emily. He was by
her side in a moment, saying, as he took her hand--
"Where have you been? I've looked for you these two days."
A crimson flush overspread the face of Emily in an instant, and she
gently disengaged the hand he had taken.
Andrew, who, with all his faults, was proud and sensitive, seemed
startled by this unexpected reception. For a moment or two he stood
gazing upon her downcast face, and then turned from her and walked
rapidly away. As he did so, the little girl lifted toward him her
gentle eyes, that were now full of tears, and stood gazing after him
with a sad expression of countenance until he was out of sight.
"I don't care for anything now!" Such was the ejaculation of Andrew,
pausing, and throwing himself, with a reckless air, upon a
door-step, so soon as he had passed beyond the view of the friend he
had so loved for years, but who now, from some cause unknown to him,
had become suddenly estranged. "I don't care for anything now," he
repeated. "Let them send me to sea, or anywhere else, if they will!
I don't care! I'm not going to school any more! What do I care for
school? I do nothing right, any how! It's scold, scold, or flog,
flog, all the time! Father says he'll beat goodness into me; but I
guess he's beaten it 'amost all out."
With such thoughts passing through his mind, the unhappy boy sat,
with his face down, and his head supported on his hands, for some
two or three minutes, when he was startled by a well-known voice,
whose tones were ever like music to his ears, pronouncing his name.
In an instant he was on his feet. Emily was before him, and her eyes
were now fixed upon his face with a sad expression.
"Andrew," said she, "don't be angry. It isn't my fault."
"What isn't your fault?" eagerly inquired the boy, as he grasped her
hand.
"Father said I mustn't--"
The little girl hesitated. It seemed as if she couldn't utter the
words.
"Said what?"
There was ill-repressed indignation in Andrew's voice.
"Don't be angry! It frightens me when you are angry!" said Emily,
looking distressed.
"What did your father say?" asked the boy, in milder tones.
"He said that I mustn't meet you as I went to school any more,"
replied Emily.
The face of the boy grew crimson, while his lips arched with the
angry indignation that swelled in his bosom. He was about giving a
passionate vent to his feelings, when he was restrained by the look
of distress that overspread the face of his gentle friend, and by
the tears that came slowly stealing from her eyes.
"Ain't I as good?"
Thus far Andrew gave utterance to what was in his thoughts, and
then, seeing the tears of Emily, checked himself and became silent.
"You ain't angry with me, are you?" asked the little girl, laying
her hand upon his, and looking earnestly in his face.
"No; I'm not angry with you, Emily. I'm never angry with you. But
it's hard. I'd rather see you than anybody. I don't care what
becomes of me now! Let them send me to sea if they will!"
At the word "sea" Emily's face grew pale, and she said in a choking
voice,
"O! they won't send you to sea, Andrew?"
"Father threatened to send me to sea if I didn't attend school
better."
"But you will attend better, Andrew. I know you will. Oh, it would
be dreadful to be sent to sea!"
"I don't know. I'd as lief be there as anywhere else, if I can't see
you!"
"But you will see me sometimes. We can't meet any more as we go to
school; but we'll see each other often, Andrew."
These words lifted much of the heavy weight that pressed on the
feelings of the boy.
"When will we see each other?" he asked.
"I don't know," replied Emily. "Father said we musn't meet going to
school; but there will be other chances. Good-by! I wouldn't like
father to see me here, for then he would think me a very disobedient
girl."
And saying this, Emily turned and ran fleetly away. Andrew's
feelings were relieved from the pressure that rested upon them.
Still he felt angry and indignant at Mr. Winters, and this state
increasing rather than subsiding, tended to encourage other states
of mind that were not good. With a feeling of rebellion in his heart
he returned home, where he found no difficulty in provoking some
reaction, and in falling under the quickly excited displeasure of
his father, who was ever more inclined to seek than overlook causes
of reproof. The consequence was, that when he left home for school
in the afternoon he felt little inclination to attend, and, after a
slight debate, yielded to this inclination. A little forbearance and
kindness would have softened the child's feelings, and prompted him
to enter the right way. But the iron hand was never relaxed, and
there was no room beneath it for the crushed heart of the boy to
swell with better impulses.
At supper time, on that evening, the boy was absent. He should have
been at home nearly two hours before.
"Where is Andrew?" asked Mr. Howland, as they gathered at the table.
"I'm sure I don't know," replied Mrs. Howland, in a voice touched
with a deeper concern than usual.
"Has he been home since school was dismissed?"
"No."
"Was there ever such a boy!" exclaimed Mr. Howland.
"Most probably he has been kept in," suggested the mother.
"Edward, go round to the house of his teacher and ask if he was
dismissed at five o'clock," said Mr. Howland.
Edward left the table and went on his errand. He soon returned with
word that Andrew had not been to school all day.
Knife and fork fell from the hands of Mr. Howland, and the mother's
face instantly grew pale.
"I felt troubled about him all day," murmured the latter.
"He was home at dinner time?" said Mr. Howland, as he pushed his
chair back from the table.
"Yes."
"Oh dear!--oh dear! What is to become of him? I've tried everything
in my power to restrain him from evil, but all is of no avail."
Just at this moment the street-door bell was rung very violently. As
each one paused to listen, and the room became perfectly silent, the
murmur of many voices could be heard in the street. For a few
moments all was breathless expectation. The sound of the servant's
feet, as she moved along the passage to the door, throbbed on each
heart, and then all sprung from their chairs, as a cry of distress
was uttered by the servant, followed by men's voices, and the
entrance of a crowd of people.
Poor Mrs. Howland sunk to the floor, nerveless, while Mr. Howland
sprung quickly out of the room. The story was soon told. Andrew had
been out on the river with some other boys in a boat, from which he
had fallen into the water, and was now brought home to his parents,
to all appearance, lifeless. It proved in the end that vitality was
only suspended; after an hour's unremitted effort, by a skillful
physician, the circle of life went on again.
The shock of this event somewhat subdued the mind of Mr. Howland. He
felt utterly discouraged about the boy. While in this state of
discouragement, he refrained from saying anything to him about his
bad conduct. Indeed, in view of this second narrow escape from
death, his feelings were a good deal softened toward Andrew, and
something like pity took the place of anger. During the two days
that the lad was convalescing, his father said little to him; but
what little he did say was spoken kindly, and with more of a
parental sentiment therein than had been apparent for years.
Electrically did this sentiment reach the heart of Andrew. Once when
Mr. Howland took his hand, and asked in a kind voice how he felt,
tears rushed to his eyes, and his lips quivered so that he could not
reply. This was perceived by Mr. Howland, and he felt that his boy
was not altogether given over to hardness of heart. In that moment
Andrew promised in his own mind, that in future he would be a more
obedient boy.
Unhappily, Mr. Howland attributed this subdued and better state of
feeling in his son, to the narrow escape from drowning that he had
had, and not to the real cause--the change of his own manner toward
him. Through the feeble moving of sympathy and kindness in his own
heart, there was the beginning of power over the perverse boy, and
this power might have been exercised, had the father possessed
enough of wisdom and self-denial, until he had gained a complete
control over him. But alas! he did not possess this wisdom and
self-denial. He was a hard man, and believed in no virtue but that
of force. He could drive, but not lead. He could hold with an iron
hand, but not restrain by a voice full of the power of kindness.
Before the close of the second day he spoke harshly to Andrew, and
did, thereby, such violence to the boy's feelings, that he turned
his face from him and wept.
On the third day after the accident Andrew went back to school, and
continued, for a time, to go punctually and to attend diligently
to his studies. But soon the angry reaction of his father, against
little acts of thoughtlessness or disobedience, threw him back into
his old state, and he was as bad as ever.
CHAPTER VII.
THUS the struggle went on, Mr. Howland's power to control his boy
growing less and less every year. Naturally, considering the
relation of the two families of Mr. Howland and Mr. Winters, and the
bad reputation of the son of the former, the intercourse between
Andrew and Emily was more and more restricted. Still their
friendship for each other remained, to a certain extent,
undiminished, and they met as often as favorable circumstances would
permit. To Emily, the kind feelings entertained for the wayward boy
proved sources of frequent unhappiness. Few opportunities for
speaking against him were omitted by her parents, and she never
heard his name coupled with words of censure without feeling pain.
One half that was said of him she did not believe; for she saw more
of the bright side of his character than did any one else.
As before intimated, by the time Emily gained her sixteenth year,
she had developed so far toward womanhood, that Andrew, who still
remained a slender boy in appearance, felt his heart tremble as he
looked upon her, and thought of the distance this earlier
development had placed between them. And even a greater distance was
beginning to exist--the distance that lies between a pure mind and
one that is corrupt. As Andrew grew older, he grew worse, and the
sphere of his spiritual quality began to be felt, oppressively, at
times, by Emily, during the periods of their brief intercourse.
Moreover, she was ever hearing some evil thing laid to his charge.
At length their intimate intercourse came to an end, and, with the
termination of this, was removed the last restraint that held the
lad in bounds of external propriety. The cause of this termination
we will relate: As Andrew grew older, he grew more and more
self-willed, and strayed farther and farther from the right way.
Social in his feelings, he sought the companionship of boys of his
own age, and by the time he was seventeen, had formed associations
of a very dangerous character. Though positively forbidden by his
father to be out after night, he disregarded the injunction, and
went from home almost every evening. At home there was nothing to
attract him; nothing to give him pleasure. A shadow was ever on the
brow of his father, and this threw a gloom over the entire
household. But, abroad, among his companions, he found a hundred
things to interest him. All license tends toward further extremes.
It was not long before Andrew found ten o'clock at night too early
for him. The theatre was a place positively interdicted by his
parents; and, restrained by some lingering respect for his mother's
feelings, Andrew had, up to the age of seventeen, resisted the
strong desire he felt to see a play. At last, however, he yielded to
temptation, and went to the theatre. On returning home about eleven
o'clock, he found his father sitting up for him. To the stern
interrogation as to where he had been so late, he replied with
equivocation, and finally with direct falsehood.
"Andrew," said Mr. Howland, at length, speaking with unusual
severity of tone, and with a deliberation and emphasis that
indicated a higher degree of earnestness than usual, "if you are out
again until after ten o'clock, you remain out all night. To this my
mind is fully made up. So act your own good pleasure."
The father and son then separated.
Ten o'clock came on the next night, and Andrew had not returned. For
the half hour preceding the stroke of the clock, Mr. Howland had
walked the floor uneasily, with his ear harkening anxiously for the
sound of the bell that marked his son's return; and, as the time
drew nearer and nearer, he half repented the utterance of a law,
that, if broken, could not, he feared, but result in injury to the
disobedient boy. At last the clock struck ten. He paused and stood
listening for over a minute; then he resumed his walk again, and
continued his measured paces for over ten minutes longer, intending
to give his erring son the benefit of that space of time. But he
yielded thus much in his favor in vain. Anger at this deliberate
disobedience of a positive order then displaced a portion of
anxiety, and he closed, mentally, the door upon his child for that
night.
Of his purpose, Mr. Howland said nothing to his wife. He hoped that
she would be asleep before Andrew returned, if he returned at all
before morning. But in this his hope was not realized. The fact of
Andrew's having staid out so late on the night before had troubled
her all day, and she had made up her mind to sit up for him now
until he came home.
"Come, Esther, it is time to go to bed," said Mr. Howland to his
wife, seeing that she made no motion towards retiring.
"You go. I will sit up for Andrew," was replied.
"Andrew can't come in, to-night," said Mr. Howland.
The mother sprung to her feet instantly; her face flushing, and then
becoming very pale.
"I told him, last night, that if he staid out again until after ten
o'clock, there would be no admission for him until morning. And I
shall assuredly keep my word!"
"Oh, Andrew! Don't, don't do this!" pleaded the unhappy mother, in a
low, choking voice. "Would you turn an erring son from your door,
when danger is hovering around him?"
"He turns himself away. The act is his, not mine," replied Mr.
Howland, coldly.
As he spoke, the bell rung.
"There he is, now!" exclaimed the mother, starting toward the door.
"Esther!" Mr. Howland stept in front of his wife, and, looking
sternly in her face, added, "Haven't I just said that there was no
entrance for him, to-night?"
"But it's early! It's only a few minutes after ten," eagerly replied
the mother.
"It's past ten o'clock, and that settles the matter," returned Mr.
Howland.
"But where will he go?" asked the mother.
"To the Station House, if he can find no better place. To-morrow he
will most probably have a higher appreciation of the comforts of
home."
As Mr. Howland closed this sentence, the bell rung again.
"Andrew! I must let him in!" exclaimed the mother, in a tone of
anguish, and she made a movement to pass her husband. But a strong
hand was instantly laid upon her arm, and a stern voice said--
"Don't interfere with me in this matter, Esther! As the father of
that wayward boy, it is my duty to control him."
"This is driving him from his home; not controlling him!"
"I'll bear the responsibility of what I am doing," said Mr. Howland,
impatiently. "Why will you interfere with me in this way?"
"Is he not my son also?" inquired Mrs. Howland, passing, in her
distress of mind, beyond the ordinary spirit of her intercourse with
her self-willed husband.
"I am his father," coldly replied the latter, "and knowing my duty
toward him, shall certainly do it."
The bell was rung again at this moment, and more loudly than before.
"Oh, Andrew! let me beg of you to open the door!" And Mrs. Howland
clasped her hands imploringly, and lifted her eyes running over with
tears to her husband's face.
"It cannot be opened to-night, Esther!" was the firm reply. "Have I
not said this over and over again. Why will you continue these
importunities? They are of no avail."
A loud knocking on the street door was now heard. By this time, a
servant who had retired came down from her room and was moving along
the passage, when Mr. Howland intercepted her, with the question--
"Where are you going?"
"Some one rung the bell," replied the servant.
"Never mind; go back to your room. You needn't open the door."
"Andrew isn't in yet," said the servant, respectfully.
"Didn't I say, go back to your room?" returned Mr. Howland, in a
sharp voice.
Twice more the bell was rung, and twice more the knocking was
repeated. Then all remained silent.
"Come, Esther!" said Mr. Howland to his wife, who was sitting on a
sofa, with her face buried in her hands. "Let us go up stairs. It is
late."
The mother did not stir.
"Esther! did you hear me?"
Slowly, more like a moving automaton than a living creature, did
Mrs. Howland arise from her place, and follow her husband up to
their chamber. There, without uttering a word, she partially
disrobed herself, and getting into bed, buried her tearful face in a
pillow. Mr. Howland was soon by her side. Both lay without moving
for nearly half an hour, and then the heavy respiration of the
husband told that he was asleep. The moment this was apparent, Mrs.
Howland, who had lain as still as if locked in deep slumber, crept
softly from the bed, and then, with a quick, eager motion, commenced
putting on a wrapper. This done, she drew a pair of slippers on her
feet, glided noiselessly from the room, and hurried down to the
street door, which she softly opened.
The mother had hoped to find her erring son still there. But, as she
looked anxiously forth into the darkness, no human form was
perceived.
"Andrew!" she called, in a low voice, as she stepped from the door,
and threw her eyes up and down the street: "Andrew!"
But all was silent. Descending to the pavement, she passed along a
few yards to the steps of the next house, a faint hope in her mind
that Andrew might have seated himself there in his disappointment
and fallen asleep. But this hope was not realized. Then she passed
on to the next house, and the next, with the same purpose and the
same result. She was near the corner of the street, when the sound
of a closing door fell upon her ear, and the thought that the wind
might have shut her own door upon her, filled her with sudden alarm.
Running back, she found that what she had feared was too true. She
was alone in the street, half-dressed and with her head uncovered,
and the door, which closed with a dead-latch, shut against her.
To ring the bell was Mrs. Howland's first impulse. But no one
answered to the summons. Every ear was sealed in slumber, and, even
were that not the case, no one would come down, unless her husband
should awaken, and discover that she was not by his side. Again and
again she pulled the bell. But eagerly though she listened, with her
ear to the door, not the slightest movement was heard within.
While the mother shrunk close to the door in a listening attitude,
the sound of a slow, heavy step was heard approaching along the
street. Soon the form of a man came in view, and in a little while
he was in front of Mrs. Howland, where he paused, and after standing
and looking at her for a few moments, said,
"What's the matter here?"
Mrs. Howland trembled so, that she could make no answer.
The man put his hand on the iron railing, and lifted one foot upon
the stone steps leading to the door of the house, saying as he did
so,
"Do you live here?"
"Yes!" was replied in a low, frightened voice.
Mrs. Howland now looking at the man more closely, perceived, by his
dress, that he was one of the night policemen, and her heart took
instant courage.
"Oh," said she, forgetting, for the moment, the unpleasant
circumstances by which she was surrounded, and turning to the man as
she spoke, "have you seen anything of my son--of Mr. Howland's
son--about here to-night?"
"Mrs. Howland! Is it possible!" replied the man, in a respectful
voice. Then he added, "I saw him go down the street about half an
hour ago."
"Did you! And do you know where he has gone?"
"No, ma'am. He passed on out of sight."
A low moan escaped the mother's lips at this intelligence. A few
moments she stood silent, and then placed her hand upon the
bell-pull and rung for admittance.
"Is the door locked?" asked the watchman, manifesting surprise.
"No; the wind blew it to, and it has become fastened with the
dead-latch."
Both stood silent for some time, but no one answered the bell. The
night dews were falling upon the mother's head, and the night air
penetrating her thin garments. A shiver ran through her frame, and
she felt a constriction of the chest as if she had inhaled sulphur.
Again she rung the bell.
"Does no one know of your being out?" asked the watchman.
"All are asleep in the house," replied Mrs. Howland.
At this the watchman came up the steps, and struck two or three
heavy blows upon the door with his mace, the sound of which went
reverberating through the house, and startling Mr. Howland from his
slumber. But not perceiving immediately that his wife was absent
from her place by his side, and thinking that his son had renewed
his efforts to gain admission, the latter did not make a motion to
rise. In a few moments, however, the repeated strokes of the mace,
to which was added the loud call of a man in the street below caused
him to start up in bed. He then perceived that his wife was not by
his side. With an exclamation, he sprang upon the floor, and
throwing up the window, called out--
"Who's there?"
"Come down and open the door," was answered by the watchman.
"Who wants to come in?" asked Mr. Howland, his mind beginning by
this time to get a little clear from the confusion into which it was
at first thrown.
"I do," replied a voice that threw all into bewilderment again.
"Bless me! What does this mean!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, aloud, yet
speaking to himself.
"Open the door, quickly," called out Mrs. Howland, in a tone of
distress. "Come down and let me in."
Hurriedly Mr. Howland now dressed himself and went down. As he
opened the door, his wife glided past him, and ran up stairs. The
watchman retired without speaking to the confused and astonished
husband, who, recovering his presence of mind, reclosed the door and
followed his wife to their chamber.
"Esther! What is the meaning of all this?" asked Mr. Howland, with
much severity of manner.
But there was no reply.
"Will you speak?" said he, in a tone of authority.
The home-tyrant had gone a step too far. The meek, patient,
long-suffering, much enduring wife, was in no state of mind to bear
further encroachments in the direction from which they were now
coming. Suddenly she raised herself up from whence she had fallen
across the bed, and looking at her husband with an expression that
caused him to step back a pace, involuntarily answered.
"By what authority do you speak to me thus?"
"By the authority vested in me as your husband," was promptly
answered.
"I was on God's errand, Mr. Howland; searching after the weak, the
simple, and the erring! Have you anything to say against the
mission? Does your authority reach above His?"
And the mother, lifting her hand, pointed trembling finger upward,
while she fixed an eye upon her husband so steady that his own sunk
beneath its gaze.
For the space of nearly a minute, the attitude of neither changed,
nor was the silence broken. Twice during the time did Mr. Howland
lift his eyes to those of his wife, and each time did they fall,
after a few moments, under the strange half-defiant look they
encountered. At last he said firmly, yet in a more subdued, though
rebuking voice,
"This to me, Esther?"
"Am I not a mother?" was asked in response to this, yet without a
perceptible tremor in her voice.
"You are a wife, as well as a mother," replied Mr. Howland, "and, as
a wife, are under a sacred obligation to regard the authority
committed to your husband by God."
"Have I not just said to you," returned Mrs. Howland, "that I was on
God's errand? Does your authority go beyond His?"
"When did He speak to you?" There was a covert sneer in the tone
with which this half impious interrogation was made.
"I heard his still, small voice in my mother's heart," replied Mrs.
Howland, meekly, "and I went forth obedient thereto, to seek the
straying child you had so harshly and erringly turned from your
door: thus does God shut the door of Heaven against no wandering one
who comes to it and knocks for entrance."
"Esther! I will not hear such language from your lips!" There was an
unsteadiness in the voice of Mr. Howland, that marked the effect his
wife's unexpected and searching words had produced.
"Then do not seek to stand between me and my duty as a mother," was
her firm reply. "Too long, already, have you placed yourself between
me and this duty. But that time is past."
As Mrs. Howland uttered these words, she passed across the room to a
window, which she threw up, and leaning her body out, looked
earnestly up and down the street. For a reaction like this Mr.
Howland was not prepared. He was, in fact, utterly confounded. Had
there been the smallest sign of irresolution on the part of his
wife--the nearest appearance of weakness in the will so suddenly
opposed to his own--he would have known what to do. But nothing of
this was apparent, and he hesitated about advancing again to the
contest, while there was so strong a doubt as to the issue.
For a long time Mr. Howland moved about the room, while his wife
continued to sit, listening, at the window.
"Come, Esther," said the former, at length, in a voice greatly
changed from its tone when he last spoke. "You had better retire. It
is useless to remain there. Besides, you are in danger of taking
cold. The air is damp and chilly."
"You can retire--I shall sleep none, to-night," was answered to
this. And then Mrs. Howland looked again from the window.
"Where--where can he have gone?" she said aloud, though speaking to
herself. "My poor, unhappy boy!"
Mr. Howland made no answer to this. He had no satisfying
intelligence to offer, nor any words of comfort that it would be of
avail to speak.
Thus the greater portion of that long remembered night was
passed--Mrs. Howland sitting at the window, vainly waiting and
watching for her son, and Mr. Howland walking the floor of the room,
his mind given up to troubled and rebuking thoughts. In his hardness
and self-will he had justified himself up to this in his course of
conduct pursued toward his children; but he was in doubt now. A
question as to whether he had been right or not had come into his
mind, and disturbed him to the very centre.
CHAPTER VIII.
WHEN Mr. Howland threatened his son with exclusion from the house,
if he were away at ten o'clock, Andrew's feelings were in a state of
reaction against his father, and he said to himself, in a rebellious
spirit--
"We'll see if you will."
But after growing cooler, he came into a better state of mind; and,
in view of consequences such as he knew would be visited on him,
decided not to come in contact with his father in this
particular--at least not for the present. If turned from his own
door at midnight, where was he to find shelter? This question he
could not answer to his own satisfaction.
After supper, on the evening succeeding that in which he had visited
the theatre, Andrew left home and went to an engine-house in the
neighborhood, where he joined about a dozen lads and young men as
idle and aimless as himself. With these he spent an hour or two,
entering into their vicious and debasing conversation, when a person
with whom he had gone to see the play on the previous evening,
proposed to him to go around to the theatre again. Andrew objected
that he had no money, but the other said that he could easily
procure checks, and volunteered to ask for them. Still Andrew, whose
thoughts were on the passing time, refused to go. He meant to be
home before the clock struck ten.
"Come round with me, then," urged the lad.
"What time is it?" asked Andrew.
"Only a little after nine o'clock," was replied.
"Are you certain?"
"Oh, yes. I heard the clock strike a short time ago. It isn't more
than a quarter past nine."
"I thought it was later than that."
"No. It's early yet; so, come along. I want to talk to you."
Thus urged, Andrew went with the boy. The theatre was some distance
away. Just as they reached it, a clock was heard to strike.
"Bless me!" exclaimed Andrew.
"Three--four--five--six--seven--eight--nine--TEN!" And, as he uttered
the last word, he started back the way he had come, running at full
speed. It was ten o'clock--the hour he was required to be at home,
under penalty of having the door closed against him. How troubled he
felt! How strongly his heart beat! He had not intended to disregard
his father's command in this instance. In fact, during the day, he
had reflected more than usual, and many good resolutions had formed
themselves in his mind.
"I wish I could be better," he said to himself involuntarily, a
great many times. And then he would sigh as he thought of the
difficulties that were in his way. At dinner time he came to the
table with his feelings a good deal subdued. But it so happened,
that, during the morning, Mr. Howland had heard of some impropriety
of which he had been guilty a month previous, and felt called upon
to reprimand him, therefore, with considerable harshness. The
consequence was, that the boy left the table without finishing his
dinner, at which his father became very much incensed. The angry
feelings of the latter had not subsided when tea-time came, and he
met the family at their evening meal with the clouded face he too
often wore. The supper hour passed in silence. After leaving the
table, Andrew, to whom the sphere of the house was really
oppressive, from its entire want of cheerfulness and mutual good
feeling, went out to seek the companionship of those who were more
congenial.
"There's nothing pleasant here," he said, as he stood in the door,
half disposed to leave the house. "If there only was! But I won't
think of it!" he added with impulsive quickness; and, as he murmured
these words, he descended the steps to the street, and walked slowly
away.
Thus, it will be seen, the wayward boy was virtually driven out by
the harshness and want of sympathy which prevailed at home, to seek
the society of those who presented a more attractive exterior, but
who were walking in the paths of evil, and whose steps tended to
destruction.
But, though thus thrust out, as it were, from the circle of safety,
Andrew still preserved his intention of being at home at the hour
beyond which his father had warned him not to be away. It has been
seen how, through an error as to time, he was betrayed into
unintentional transgression. Not an instant did he pause on his
return from the theatre, but ran all the way homeward at a rapid
speed. Arriving at the door, he pulled the bell, and then stood
panting from excitement. For a short time he waited, in trembling
anxiety, but no one answered his summons. Then he rung the bell more
violently than before. Still none came to let him in, and his heart
began to fail him.
"Surely father don't mean to keep me out!" said he to himself. "He
wouldn't do that. Where am I to go for shelter at this hour?"
And again he pulled the bell, causing it to ring longer and louder
than before. Then he leaned close to the door and listened, but no
sound reached his ears. Growing impatient, he next tried knocking.
All his efforts to gain admission, however, proved unavailing; and
ceasing at last to ring or knock, he sat down upon the stone steps,
and covering his face with his hands, wept bitterly. For over a
quarter of an hour he remained seated at the threshold of his
father's house, from which he had been excluded. During that period,
much of his previous life passed in review before him, and the
conclusions of the boy's mind were at last expressed in these
words--
