an affecting leave-taking in the dark stone entry, at the foot 
of the staircase. In the earnestness of my emotion I gave 
him all the change I had in my pocket, to buy souvenirs for 
his little folks at home, for you know I told you we had com- 
pared notes on sundry domestic points. I really flattered my- 
self that I was doing something quite liberal ; but this deceit- 
ful Swiss coin ! I found, when I came to tell C. about it, that 
 
the whole stock only amounted to about twenty cents : like a 
great many things in this world, it looked more than it was. 
The good man, however, seemed as grateful as if I had done 
something, wished all sorts of happiness to me and my chil- 
dren, and so we parted. Peace go with him in his Chamou- 
ni cottage. 
Saturday, July 9. Rose in a blaze of glory. Rode five 
mortal hours in a char-a-banc, sweltering under a burning sun. 
But in less than ten minutes after we mounted the mules and 
struck into the gorge, the ladies muffled themselves in thick 
shawls. "We seemed to have passed, almost in a moment, 
from the tropics into the frigid zone. A fur cloak was sug- 
gested to me, but as it happened I was adequately calorified 
without. Chancing to be the last in the file, my mule sudden- 
ly stopped to eat. 
" Allez, allez ! " said I, twitching the bridle. 
" I won't" said he, as plainly as ears and legs could speak. 
" Allez ! " thundered I, jumping off and bestowing a kick 
upon his ribs which made me suffer if it did not him. 
" I worCt? said he, stuffily. 
" Won't you ? " said I, pursuing the same line of inductive 
argument, with rhetorical flourishes of the bridle. 
" Never ! " he replied again, most mulishly. 
" Then if words and kicks won't do," said I, " let us see 
what virtue there is in stones ; " and suiting the action to the 
word, I showered him with fragments of granite, as from a 
catapult. At every concussion he jumped and kicked, but 
kept his nose in the same relative position. I redoubled the 
logical admonition ; he jumped the more perceptibly ; finally, 
after an unusually affecting appeal from a piece of granite, he 
fairly budged, and I seized the bridle to mount. 
 
" Not at all," said he, wheeling round to his first position, 
like a true proslavery demagogue. 
" Ah," said I ; and went over the same line of argument in 
a more solid and convincing manner. At length the salutary 
impression seemed permanently fastened on his mind ; he 
fairly gave in; and I rode on in triumph to overtake the 
party — having no need of a fur coat. 
Horeb, Sinai, and Hor ! "What a wilderness ! what a sudden change ! Nothing but savage, awful precipices of naked granite, snowy fields, and verdureless wastes ! In every other 
place in the Alps, we have looked upon the snow in the remote distance, to be dazzled with its sheeny effulgence — our- 
selves, meanwhile, in the region of verdure and warmth. 
Here we march through a horrid desert — not a leaf, not a 
blade of grass — over the deep drifts of snow ; and we find 
our admiration turns to horror. And this is the road that 
Hannibal trod, and Charlemagne, and Napoleon ! They were 
fit conquerors of Rome, who could vanquish the sterner des- 
potism of eternal winter. 
After an hour's perilous climbing, we reached, at last, the 
hospice, and in five minutes were sitting at the supper table, 
by a good blazing fire, with a lively company, chatting with a 
gentlemanly abbe, discussing figs and fun, cracking filberts and 
jokes, and regaling ourselves genially. But ever and anon 
drawing, with a half shiver, a little closer to the roaring fagots 
in the chimney, I thought to myself, " And this is our mid- 
summer nights' dream " ! 
LETTER XXXVI*. 
Dear : — 
During breakfast, we were discussing whether we could get 
through the snow to Mont St. Bernard. Some thought we 
could, and some thought not. So it goes here : we are gasping and sweltering one hour, and plunging through snow 
banks the next. 
After breakfast, we entered the char-a-banc, a crab-like, 
sideway carriage, and were soon on our way. Our path was 
cut from the breast of the mountain, in a stifling gorge, where 
walls of rock on both sides served as double reflectors to concentrate the heat of the sun on our hapless heads. To be 
sure, there was a fine foaming stream at the bottom of the 
pass, and ever so much fine scenery, if we could have seen it ; 
but our chars opened but one way, and that against the perpendicular rock, close enough, almost, to blister our faces ; and 
the sun beat in so on our backs that we were obliged to have 
the curtain down. Thus we were as uncognizant of the 
scenery we passed through as if we had been nailed up in a 
box. Nothing but the consideration that we were travelling 
for pleasure could for a moment have reconciled us to such 
inconveniences. As it was, I occasionally called out to C, in 
the back carriage, to be sure and take good care of the fur 
coat ; which always brought shouts of laughter from the whole 
party. The idea of a fur coat seemed .so supremely ridiculous 
to us, there was no making us believe we ever should or 
could want it. 
That was the most unpleasant day's ride I had in the Alps. 
"We stopped to take dinner in the little wretched village of 
Liddes. You have no idea what a disagreeable, unsavory 
concern one of these villages is. Houses, none of which look 
much better than the log barns in our "Western States, set close 
together on either side of a street paved with round stones ; 
coarse, sunburnt women, with their necks enlarged by the 
goitre ; and dirty children, with tangled hair, and the same 
disgusting disease, — these were the principal features of the 
scene. 
This goitre prevails so extensively in this region, that you 
seldom see a person with the neck in a healthy condition. 
The worst of the matter is, that in many cases of children it 
induces idiocy. Cases of this kind were so frequent, that, 
after a while, whenever I met a child, I began to search in its 
face for indications of the approach of this disease. 
They are called cretins. In many cases the whole head 
appears swelled and deformed. As usual, every one you look 
at puts out the hand to beg. The tavern where we stopped 
to dine seemed more like a great barn, or cavern, than any 
thing else. We go groping along perfectly dark stone passages, stumbling up a stone staircase, and gaining light only 
when the door of a kind of reception room opens upon us — a 
long, rough-looking room, without any carpet, furnished with 
a table, and some chairs, and a rude sofa. "We were shown 
to a bed room, carpetless, but tolerably clean, with a very 
high feather bed in each corner, under a canopy of white 
curtains. 
After dinner we went on towards St. Pierre, a miserable 
hamlet, where the mules were taken out of the chars, and we 
prepared to mount them. 
It was between three and four o'clock. Our path lav up a 
desolate mountain gorge. After we had ascended some way 
the cold, became intense. The mountain torrent, by the side 
of which we went up, leaped and tumbled under ribs of ice, 
and through banks of snow. 
I noticed on either side of the defile that there were high 
posts put up on the rocks, and a cord stretched from one to 
the other. The object of these, my guide told me. was to 
show the path, when this whole ravine is filled up with deep 
snow. 
I could not help thinking how horrible it must be to go up 
here in the winter. 
Our path sometimes came so near to the torrent as to suggest uncomfortable ideas. 
In one place it swept round the point of a rock which projected into the foaming flood, so that it was completely under 
water. I stopped a little before I came to this, and told the 
guide I wanted to get down. He was all accommodation, and 
lifted me from my saddle, and then stood to see what I would 
do next. "When I made him understand that I meant to walk 
round the point, he very earnestly insisted that I should get 
back to the saddle again, and was so positive that I had only 
to obey. It was well I did so, for the mule went round safely 
enough, and could afford to go up to his ankles in water better 
than I could. 
As we neared the hospice I began to feel the effects of the 
rarefied air very sensibly. It made me dizzy and sick, bringing on a most acute headache — a sharp, knife-like pain. S. 
was still more affected. 
I was glad enough when the old building came in view, 
though the road lay up an ascent of snow almost perpendicular. 
At the foot of this ascent we paused. Our guides, who 
looked a little puzzled, held a few moments' conversation in 
which the word "fonce" was particularly prominent, a word 
which I took to be equivalent to our English "slump ;" and 
indeed the place was suggestive of the idea. The snow had 
so far melted and softened under the influence of the July sun, 
that something of this kind, in going up the ascent, seemed 
exceedingly probable. The man stood leaning on his alpen- 
stock, looking at the thing to be demonstrated. There were 
two paths, both equally steep and snowy. At last he gathered 
up the bridle, and started up the most direct way. The mule 
did not like it at all, evidently, and expressed his disgust by 
occasionally stopping short and snuffing, meaning probably 
to intimate that he considered the whole thing a humbug, and 
that in his opinion we should all slump through together, and 
go to — nobody knows where. At last, when we were almost 
up the ascent, he did slump, and went up to his breast in the 
snow ; whereat the guide pulled me out of the saddle with one 
hand, and pulled him out of the hole with the other. In a 
minute he had me into the saddle again, and after a few moments more we were up the ascent and drawing near the hospice — a great, square, strong, stone building, standing alone 
among rocks and snowbanks. 
As we drove up nearer I saw the little porch in front of it 
crowded with gentlemen smoking cigars, and gazing on our 
approach just as any set of loafers do from the porch of a 
fashionable hotel. This was quite a new idea of the matter 
to me. AVe had been flattering ourselves on performing an 
incredible adventure ; and lo, and behold, all the world were 
there waiting for us. 
Wc came up to the steps, and I was so crippled with fatigue 
and so dizzy and sick with the thin air, that I hardly knew 
what I was doing. We entered a low-browed, dark, arched, 
stone passage, smelling dismally of antiquity and dogs, when 
a brisk voice accosted me in the very choicest of French, and 
in terms of welcome as gay and courtly as if we were entering a salon. 
Keys clashed, and we went up stone staircases, our entertainer talking volubly all the way. As for me, all the French 
I ever knew was buried under an avalanche. C. had to make 
answer for me, that madame was very unwell, which brought 
forth another stream of condolence as we came into a supper 
room, lighted by a wood fire at one end. The long table was 
stretched out, on which they were placing supper. Here I 
had light enough to perceive that our entertainer was a young 
man of a lively, intelligent countenance, in the Augustine 
monks' dress, viz., a long, black camlet frock, with a kind of 
white band over it, which looks much like a pair of suspenders worn on the outside. He spoke French very purely, and 
had all that warm cordiality and graceful vivacity of manner 
which seems to be peculiar to the French. He appeared to 
pity us very much, and was full of offers of assistance ; and 
when he heard that I had a bad headache, insisted on having 
some tea made for me, the only drink on the table being wine. 
The supper consisted of codfish, stewed apples, bread, filberts, 
and raisins. Immediately after we were shown up stone stair- 
cases, and along stone passages, to our rooms, of which the 
most inviting feature was two high, single beds covered with 
white spreads. The windows of the rooms were so narrow as 
to seem only like loopholes. There was a looking glass, table, 
chair, and some glazed prints. 
A good old woman came to see if we wanted any thing. I 
thought, as I stretched myself in the bed, with feathers under 
me and feathers over me, what a heaven of rest this place 
must have seemed to poor travellers benighted and perishing 
in the snow. In the morning I looked out of my loophole on 
the tall, grim rocks, and a small lake frozen and covered with 
snow. " Is this lake always frozen ?" said I to the old serving 
woman who had come to bring us hot water for washing. 
" Sometimes," says she, " about the latter part of August, 
it is thawed." 
I suppose it thaws the last of August, and freezes the first 
of September. 
After dressing ourselves we crept down stairs in hopes of 
finding the fire which we left the night before in the sitting 
room. No such tiling. The sun was shining, and it was what 
was called a warm day, that is to say, a day when a little thaw 
 
trickles down the south side of snow banks ; so the fire was 
out, and the windows up, and our gay Augustine friend, coming in, congratulated us on our charming day. 
The fireplace was piled up with wood and kindlings ready to 
be lighted in the evening ; but being made .to understand that 
it was a very sultry day, we could not, of course, suggest such 
an extravagance as igniting the tempting pile — an extrav- 
agance, because every stick of wood has to be brought on the 
backs of mules from the valleys below, at a very great ex- 
pense of time and money. 
The same is true of provisions of all sorts, and fodder for 
cattle. 
Well, after breakfast I went to the front porch to view the 
prospect. And what did I see there ? Banks of dirty, half- 
melted snow, bones, and scraps of offal, patches of bare earth, 
for a small space, say about fifty feet round, and then the 
whole region shut in by barren, inaccessible rocks, which cut 
off all view in every direction. 
Along by the frozen lake there is a kind of causeway path 
made for a promenade, where one might walk to observe the 
beauties of the season, and our cheery entertainer offered to 
show it to us ; so we walked out with him. Under the rocks 
in one place he showed us a little plat, about as large as a 
closet door, which, he said, laughing, was their garden. 
I asked him if any thing ever really grew there. lie 
shrugged his shoulders, and said, " Sometimes." 
We pursued this walk till we came to the end of the lake, 
and there he showed me a stone pillar. 
" There," said he, " beyond that pillar is Italy." 
« Well," said I, " I believe I shall take a trip into Italy." 
So, as he turned back to go to the house, W. and I continued 
 
on. "We went some way into Italy, down the ravine, and I 
can assure you I was not particularly struck with the country. 
I observed no indications of that superiority in the fine arts, 
or of that genial climate and soil, of which I had heard so 
much. W. and I agreed to give ourselves airs on this subject 
whenever the matter of Italy was introduced, and to declare 
that we had been there, and had seen none of the things of 
which people write in books. 
" What a perfectly dismal, comfortless place ! " said I ; but 
climbing up the rocks to rest me in a sunny place, I discovered 
that they were all enamelled with the most brilliant flowers. 
In particular I remarked beds of velvet moss, which bore a 
ther ultramarine nor any color I could find would represent 
its brilliancy ; it was a kind of living brightness. I examined 
the petals to see how this effect was produced, and it seemed 
to be by a kind of prismatic arrangement of the small round 
particles of which they were composed. The shape of the 
pink blossom, in form 
somewhat like this. 
Then there was a kind 
of low, starry gentian, 
of a bright metallic 
blue; I tried to paint 
it afterwards, but nei- 
flower was somewhat 
like this. I spread 
down my pocket hand-kerchief, and proceeded to see how many 
varieties I could gather, and in a very small 
circle W. and I collected eighteen. Could I have thought, 
when I looked from my window over this bleak region, that 
any thing so perfectly lovely as 
this little purple witch, for example, was to be found there ? It 
was quite a significant fact. 
There is no condition of life, 
probably, so dreary that a lowly 
and patient seeker cannot find 
its flowers. I began to think that I might be contented even 
there. But while I was looking I was so sickened by head- 
ache, and disagreeable feelings arising from the air, that I 
often had to lie down on the sunny side of the bank. "W., I 
found, was similarly troubled ; he said he really thought in the 
morning he was going to have a fever. We went back to the 
house. There were services in the chapel ; I could hear the 
organ pealing, and the singers responding. 
Seven great dogs were sunning themselves on the porch, 
and as I knew it was a subject particularly interesting to you, 
I made minute inquiries respecting them. Like many other 
things, they have been much overstated, I think, by travellers. 
They are of a tawny-yellow color, short haired, broad chested, 
and strong limbed. As to size, I have seen much larger Newfoundland dogs in Boston. I made one of them open his 
mouth, and can assure you it was black as night ; a fact which 
would seem to imply Newfoundland blood. In fact the breed 
originally from Spain is supposed to be a cross between the 
Pyrenean and the Newfoundland. The biggest of them was 
called Pluto. Here is his likeness, which W. sketched. 
For my part, I was a little uneasy among them, as they 
went walloping and frisking around me, flouncing and rolling 
over each other on the stone floor, and making, every now and 
then, the most hideous noises that it ever came into a dog's 
head to conceive. 
As I saw them biting each other in their clumsy frolics, I 
began to be afraid lest they should take it into their heads to 
treat me like one of the family, and so stood ready to run. 
The man who showed them wished to know if I should like 
to see some puppies ; to which, in the ardor of natural history, 
I assented : so he opened the door of a little stone closet, and 
sure enough there lay madam in state, with four little blind, 
snubbed-nosed pledges. As the man picked up one of these, 
and held it up before me in all the helplessness of infancy, 
looking for all the world like a roly-poly pudding with a short 
tail to it, I could not help querying in my mind, are you going 
to be a St. Bernard dog? 
One of the large dogs, seeing the door open, thought now 
was a good time to examine the premises, and so walked 
briskly into the kennel, but was received by the amiable mother 
with such a sniff of the nose as sent him howling hack into the 
passage, apparently a much wiser and better dog than he had 
been before. Their principal use is to find paths in the deep 
snow when the fathers go out to look for "travellers, as they 
always do in stormy weather. They are not longlived: neither 
man nor animal can stand the severe temperature and the thin 
air for a long time. Many of the dogs die from diseases of 
the lungs and rheumatism, besides those killed by accidents, 
such as the falling of avalanches, ire. A little while ago so 
many died that they were fearful of losing the breed altogether, and were obliged to recruit by sending down into the 
valleys for some they had given away. One of the monks 
told us that, when they went out after the dogs in the winter 
storms, ail they could see of them was their tails moving along 
through the snow. The monks themselves can stand the 
climate but a short time, and then they are obliged to go 
down and live in the valleys below, while others take their 
places. 
They told us that there were over a hundred people in 
the hospice when we were there. They wore mostly poor 
peasants and some beggars. One poor man came up to me, 
and uncovered his neck, which was a most disgusting sight, 
swollen with goitre. I shut my eyes, and turned another 
way, like a bad Christian, while our Augustine friend walked 
up to him. spoke in a soothing tone, and called him " my son." 
He seemed very loving and gentle to all the poor, dirty people 
by whom we were surrounded. 
I went into the chapel to look at the pictures. There was 
St. Bernard standing in the midst of a desolate, snowy waste, 
with a little child on one arm and a great dog beside him. 
This St. Bernard, it seem?, was a man of noble family, who 
lived nine hundred and sixty-two years after Christ. Almost 
up to that time a temple to Jupiter continued standing on 
this spot. It is said that the founding of this institution finally 
rooted out the idolatrous worship. 
On Monday we returned to Martagny, and obtained a 
voiture for Villeneuve. Drove through the beautiful Rhone 
valley, past the celebrated fall of the Pissevache, and about 
five o'clock reached the Hotel Byron, on the shore of the lake. 
 
LETTER XXXVII 
Hotel Byrox. 
My Dear: — 
Here I am, sitting &t my window, overlooking Lake Leman. Castle Chillon, with its old conical towers, is silently 
pictured in the still waters. It has been a day of a thousand. We took a boat, with two oarsmen, and passed 
leisurely along the shores, under the cool, drooping branches 
of trees, to the castle, which is 
scarce a stone's throw from the 
hotel. "We rowed along, close 
under the walls, to the ancient 
moat and drawbridge. There 
I picked a bunch of blue bells, 
" les clochettes," which were 
hanging their aerial pendants 
from every crevice — some 
blue, some white. 
I know not why the old 
buildings and walls in Europe 
have this vivacious habit of 
shooting out little flowery ejaculations and soliloquies at every 
turn. One sees it along through 
France and Switzerland, every 
where ; but never, that I remember, in America. 
On the side of the castle wall, in a large white heart, is 
painted the inscription, Liberte et Patrie! 
"We rowed along, almost touching the eastle rock, where 
the wall ascends perpendicularly, and the water is said to be 
a thousand feet deep. We passed the loopholes that illuminate the dungeon vaults, and an old arch, now walled up, 
where prisoners, after having been strangled, were thrown 
into the lake. 
Last evening we walked over the castle. An interesting 
Swiss woman, who has taught herself English for the benefit 
of her visitors, was our cicerone. She seemed to have all the 
old Swiss vivacity of attachment for liberte et patrie" 
She took us first into 
the dungeon, with the 
seven pillars, described 
by Byron. There was 
the pillar to which, for 
protecting the liberty of 
( i enevo, Bonnevard 
was chained. There 
the Duke of Savoy 
kept him for six years, 
confined by a chain four 
feel long. He could 
take only three steps, 
and the stone floor is 
deeply worn by the 
prints of those uenrv 
steps. Six years is so easily said; but to lire them, alone, 
helpless, a man burning with all the tires of manhood, chained 
to that pillar of stone, and those three unvarying steps ! Two 
thousand one hundred and ninety days rose and set the sun, 
while seedtime and harvest, winter and summer, and the 
whole living world went on over his grave* For him no sun, 
no moon, no star, no business, no friendship, no plans — 
nothing ! The great millstone of life emptily grinding itself 
away ! 
"What a power of vitality was there in Bonnevard, that he 
did not sink in lethargy, and forget himself to stone ! But he 
did not ; it is said that when the victorious Swiss army broke 
in to liberate him, they cried, — 
" Bonnevard, you are free ! " 
"Not Geneve ! " 
" Geneva is free also ! " 
You ought to have heard the enthusiasm with which our 
guide told this story ! 
Near by are the relics of the cell of a companion of Bonnevard, who made an ineffectual attempt to liberate him. On 
the wall are still seen sketches of saints and inscriptions by 
his hand. This man one day overcame his jailer, locked him 
in his cell, ran into the hall above, and threw himself from a 
window into the lake, struck a rock, and was killed instantly. 
One of the pillars in this vault is covered with names. I think 
it is Bonnevard's pillar. There are the names of Byron, 
Hunt, Schiller, and many other celebrities. 
After we left the dungeons we went up into the judgment 
hall, where prisoners were tried, and then into the torture 
chamber. Here are the pulleys by which limbs were broken ; 
the beam, all scorched with the irons by which feet were 
burned ; the oven where the irons were heated ; and there 
was the stone where they were sometimes laid to be strangled, 
after the torture. On that stone, our guide told us, two thou- 
Band Jews, men, women, and children, had been pulled to death.
There was also, high up, a strong beam across, where crim- 
inals were hung ; and a door, now walled up, by which they 
we,re thrown into the lake. I shivered. K 'Twas cruel," she 
said ; M 'twas almost as cruel as your slavery in America." 
Then she took us into a tower where was the oubliette. 
Here the unfortunate prisoner was made to kneel before an 
image of the Virgin, while the treacherous floor, tailing beneath 
him, precipitated him into a well forty feet deep, where he 
waa left to (lie of broken limbs and starvation. Below this 
Well was still another pi;, filled with knives, into which, when 
they were disposed to a merciful hastening of the torture, they 
let him fill. The woman has been herself to the bottom of 
the first dungeon, and found there bones of victims. The 
second pit is now walled op* 
"All this," she said, u was done for the glory of God in the 
good old times." 
The glory of God ! What has not been done in that name! 
Yet he keeps silence ; patient he watches ; the age-long fever 
of this world, the delirious night, shall have a morning. Ah, 
there is an unsounded depth in that word which says, " He 
is long-sutferiug." This it must be at which angels veil their 
faces. 
On leaving the castle we offered the woman the customary 
gratuity. * No ; " she would "have the pleasure of showing 
it to me as a friend." And she ran into a charming little 
garden, full of tlowors, and brought me a bouquet of lilies 
and roses, which I have had in my room all day. 
To-night, after sunset, we rowed to Byron's "little isle," 
the only one in the lake. O, the unutterable beauty of 
these mountains — great, purple waves, as if they had been 
dashed up bj a mighty tempest^ crested with snow-like foam! 
this purple sky, and crescent moon, and tin: lake gleaming 
and shimmering, and twinkling Btars, while .fur oil' up the sides 
of a BnOW-topped mountain u light shines like a star — BOme 
mountaineer's candle, I suppose. 
In the dark stillness we rowed again over to Chillon, and 
paused under its walls. The frogs were croaking in the moat, 
and we lay rocking on the wave, and watching the dusky out- 
lines of the towers and turrets. Then the spirit of the scene 
seemed to wrap me round like a cloak. 
Back to Geneva again. This lovely place will ever leave 
its image on my heart. Mountains embrace it. Strength and 
beauty are its habitation. The Salcve is a peculiar looking 
mountain, striped with different strata of rock, which have a 
singular effect in the hazy distance ; so is the Mole, with its 
dark marked outline, looking blacker in clear weather, from 
being set against the snow mountains beyond. 
There is one peculiarity about the outline of Mont Blanc, 
as seen from Geneva, which is quite striking. There is in 
certain positions the prolile of a gigantic head visible, lying 
with face upturned to the sky. Mrs. F. was the first to point 
it out to me, calling it a bead of Napoleon. like many of 
these fanciful profiles, I was some time in learning to see it ; 
and after thai, it became to me so plain that I wondered I had 
not seen it before. I called it not Napoleon, however, but as 
it gained on my imagination, lying there so motionless, cold, 
and still, I thought of Prometheus on Mount Caucasus ; it 
seemed as if, his sorrows ended, he had sunk at last to a 
dreamless sleep on that snowy summit. This sketch may, 
perhaps, give you some faint idea of how such an outline 
might be formed in one's imagination. 
We walked out the other evening, with M. Fazy, to a beautiful place, where Servetus was burned. Soft, new-mown 
meadow grass carpets it, and a solemn amphitheatre of mountains, glowing in the evening sky, looked down — Mont Blanc, 
the blue-black Mole, the Saleve ! Never was deed done in a 
more august presence chamber ! Ere this these two may have 
conferred together of the tragedy, with far other thoughts 
than then. 
The world is always unjust to its progressive men. If one 
fragment of past absurdity cleaves to them, they celebrate the 
absurdity as a personal peculiarity. Hence we hear so much 
of Luther's controversial harshness, of Calvin's burning Ser- 
vetus, and of the witch persecutions of New England. 
Luther was the poet of the reformation, and Calvin its 
philosopher. Luther fused the mass, Calvin crystallized. He 
who fuses makes the most sensation in his day ; he who crys- 
tallizes has a longer and wider power. Calvinism, in its 
essential features, never will cease from the earth, because the 
great fundamental facts of nature are Calvinistic, and men 
with strong minds and wills always discover it. The predestination of a sovereign will is written over all things. The 
old Greek tragedians - read it, and expressed it. So did 
Mahomet, Napoleon, Cromwell. -"VMiy ? They found it so 
by their own experience ; they tried the forces of nature 
enough to find their strength. The strong swimmer who 
breasts the Rhone is certain of its current. But Ranke well 
said, that in those days when the whole earth was in arms 
against these reformers, they had no refuge except in exalting 
God's sovereignty above all other causes. To him who strives 
in vain with the giant forces of evil, what calm in the thought 
of an overpowering will, so that will be crowned by goodness ! 
However grim, to the distrusting, looks this fortress of sov- 
ereignty in times of flowery ease, yet in times when "the 
waters roar and are troubled, and the mountains shake with 
the swelling thereof," it has been always the refuge of God's 
people. All this I say, while I fully sympathize with the 
causes which incline many fine and beautiful minds against 
the system. 
The wife of De "Wette has twice called upon me — a good, 
plain, motherly, pious old lady as any in Andover. She 
wanted me to visit her daughter, who, being recently deprived 
of her only little girl, has since been wholly lost to life. The 
only thing in which she expressed any interest was Uncle 
Tom's Cabin, and she was earnestly desiring to see me. So I 
went. I found Mrs. De Wette in a charming saloon, looking 
out upon the botanic gardens. A very beautiful picture of a 
 
 
young lady hung on the wall. " That was my poor Clara," 
said Mrs. De "Wette, " but she is so altered now ! " 
After a while Clara came in, and I was charmed at a glance 
— a most lovely creature, in deep mourning, with beautiful 
manners ; so much interested for the poor slaves ! so full of 
feeling, inquiring so anxiously what she could do for them ! 
" Do ministers ever hold slaves ? " she said. 
" O, yes ; many." 
" O ! But how can they be Christians ? " 
" They reason in this way," said I ; " they say, ' These peo- 
ple are not fit to take care of themselves ; therefore we must 
hold them, and educate them, till they are fit to be free.' " 
" I wish," said she, looking very pretty and fierce, " that 
they might all be sold themselves, and see how they would 
like it." 
Her husband, who speaks only French, now asked what we 
were talking about, and she repeated the conversation. 
" I would shoot every one of them," said he, with a signifi- 
cant movement. 
" Now, see," said Mrs. De "Wette, " Clara would sell them, 
and her husband would shoot them ; for my part, I would 
rather convert them." We all laughed at this sally. 
" Ah," said Clara, " the last thing my little darling looked 
at was the pictures in Uncle Tom ; when she came to the 
death of Eva, she said, ' Now I am weary, I will go to 
sleep ; ' and so closed her eyes, and never opened them 
more." 
Clara said she had met the Key in Turin and Milan. The 
Cabin is made a school reading book in Sardinia, for those 
who wish to learn English, witli explanatory notes in Italian. 
The feeling here on the continent for the slave is no less 
earnest than in England and Scotland. I have received most 
beautiful and feeling letters from many Christians of Switzer- 
land, which I will show you. 
I am grieved to say, that there are American propagandists 
of slavery here, who seem to feel it incumbent on them to 
recognize this hideous excrescence as a national peculiarity, 
and to consider any reflection upon it, on the part of the liberty-loving Swiss, as an insult to the American nation. The 
sophisms by which slaveholding has been justified from the 
Bible have left their slimy track even here. Alas ! is it 
thus America fulfils her high destiny ? Must she send missionaries abroad to preach despotism ? 
"Walking the other evening with M. Fazy, who is, of course, 
French in education, we talked of our English literature. He 
had Hamlet in French — just think of it. One never feels 
the national difference so much as in thinking of Shakspeare 
in French ! Madame de Stael says of translation, that music 
