
"Yes--will Josephine attend?"

"I have not heard her say--have not inquired--have not thought of it."

Despairing of broaching the subject in any other way, she took the
casket from under her shawl, and laid it upon the dress.

"The living forget sooner than the dead, Ellen!" was all she said.

The unhappy girl recoiled at the familiar characters upon the lid, and
stretched out her arms with an imploring cry. Ida reached her as she
fell. She had fainted. Charley's words were verified, and Ida blamed
herself severely for her cruel abruptness. Her tears ran fast, as
she strove to restore consciousness "Oh! Ida--Lynn!" groaned Ellen,
reviving. Reserve, pride, self-control were borne down;--they wept in
each other's arms. With the casket pressed to her bosom, Ellen heard
his last message, and the hopeful words he had spoken of the future, he
was not to know upon earth.

"I did love him! Heaven is my witness--I did love him!" she cried,
anguishedly. "He did not condemn me; but I can never forgive myself! If
I could have seen him once more to tell him so! Dead! oh! that I were
in the grave beside him!"

This was grief without a glimmer of hope. Ida had no word of comfort.

Ellen's eye fell upon the gossamer robe.--she threw it upon the floor,
and trampled it "I hate it! and myself, and everything else! I am a
hypocrite! a lying hypocrite! with my hollow smiles and broken heart.
Leave me! go! or I shall hate you!"

Ida left her thus--writhing under the scorpion-lash of remorse, and
rejecting consolation. She met Josephine, a square or two from home,
and upon the door-step, Mr. Lacy. Admitting him, she ran up stairs to
efface the marks of her recent agitation. Her pallor and swollen eyes
remained, however, and did not escape him. He did not begin, as many
would have done, in his place, to speak of topics entirely foreign
to what was in their thoughts; he wished to apply a curative, not an
anodyne.

"Charley tells me you are going to the country, before long;" he said.
"I do not regret it, as I should if I were to stay here myself. After
the first of April, I shall study at home, until autumn. You are to pay
your friend Carry a visit, are you not?"

"Yes."

"She is the 'sister' I have heard so much of?"

"The same--I wish you knew her."

"I think I do. Her cheerful society is what you need. While it is
neither possible, nor desirable to forget that we have been bereaved,
we should beware how we indulge in a luxury of woe. Our duty to those
we have lost, does not oblige us to neglect the friends who are spared
to us."

"Very few remain to me," said Ida, tremulously.

"You are wrong. You may never find one who will fill his place; but
the rest love you the more, that you are afflicted. Charley is a true
brother."

"He is--and of late he is more unreserved, more affectionate than he
used to be; his sympathy is very sweet. I must speak of yourself, also,
Mr. Lacy, although I have no language to thank you for your kindness.
I fear I have been wearisome at times; but you seem to understand why
this was no common bereavement to me."

"So far from being wearied, I am grateful for your confidence. No act
of mine shall cause you to repent it."

"Charley has given me some lines which he thinks were written
recently," said Ida. "They were among some loose sheets in a portfolio
of drawings. I wept over them, but they comforted me. I have been
wishing that you had them. This is a rough copy, you observe; and
probably not read after being penned."

Mr. Lacy's eyes filled, as he read at the top of the page, "11-1/2
P.M., after a visit from M. L."

             "ALL IN CHRIST.

  Jesus, Saviour! from Thy dwelling,
    High all stars and thrones above,
  Hear my faltering accents, telling
    Of weak faith and smouldering love.
  Poor love for Thee, the only worthy--
    Dull faith In Thee, the only wise--
  While to all things base and earthy,
    How madly cling my wistful eyes!

  I am blind! in rough paths groping,
    With outstretched hands and sightless eyes;
  Through gloom so dense, I scarce am hoping
    That dawn will ever gild the skies.
  Black, grisly spectres hover o'er me,
    Filling my quaking soul with fright;
  Thou--of all worlds the sun and glory,
    Radiant Redeemer! be my light.

  I am lonely! often keeping
    Sad vigils o'er affections dead;
  Some in the grave's strait chamber sleeping--
    Some like bursting bubbles fled!
  Yet for full love my deep soul longeth--
    Gently each seeking tendril bend
  To Thee--to whom that soul belongeth;--
    Loving Redeemer! be my friend.

  I am guilty! oh how sinning!
    Against my kind--against my God;--
  Hell and corruption ever winning
    My soul into the downward road.
  Insanely gloating on pollution--
    Quaffing thick lees for pleasures pure--
  Rend thou away each fell delusion,
    Holy Redeemer! be my cure!"

"Do you recollect the visit to which he refers?" inquired Ida.

"I was with him until late, one night, a week before his death," was
the reply; "and our conversation may have inspired the thoughts he has
expressed here; but I cannot say with certainty, that it did. If this
temper of spirit and heart was habitual to him, what may we not hope?"

"If!" exclaimed Ida, sadly. "Doubt is agonizing. It is not consistent
with God's mercy that he should be consigned to never ending misery; he
whose faults made us love him better; the soul of honor and integrity!
I will not believe that so much that was pure and good is quenched in
eternal darkness. This thought is with me night and day. What authority
have men, his inferiors by nature--hardly his equals in the practice of
virtue, to doom him, and hope a happier fate for the themselves?"

"Who has done this?" asked Mr. Lacy, sternly.

"More than one, in my hearing; and Charley was exasperated to insult a
man, a church member, who exhorted him not 'to imitate his example, and
thereby meet the same awful punishment.' Charley regrets now, that he
spoke rudely to one his senior, and whom he had hitherto respected, but
says he, 'a Christian should not forget that he is a man!'"

"Nor does he," replied Morton. "From some who cross the river of
Death we hear the 'All's Well,' when their feet touch the solid
ground; then we may rejoice in the confident assurance that we shall
meet them again. As many pass over in timid, as in despairing
silence;--timidity, exchanged for rapture, on the bright shore beyond.
God only knows the heart--only knows when the doomed oversteps the
bounds He has appointed for his mercy; and as we hope for it ourselves,
we should tremble at the thought of limiting it by our finite
judgments. In this immeasurable love and pity is our trust, Ida; doubts
and fearings cannot solve the mystery; we know this, however--'He doth
not afflict willingly,' and 'remembereth our feeble frame.' Who pardons
a child's faults more than a parent? and 'Our Father' is also his.
Yet," continued he, "Charley erred in repulsing the warning, kindly, if
injudiciously extended. The suffering we experience in our uncertainty
as to his condition, should teach us to make our salvation sure, so
that when our hour shall come--if a call at midnight, we may not leave
those who love us, comfortless."

"His death has caused a heart-rending void," said Ida. "I start
whenever the door opens at the hours he was accustomed to visit us. At
Mr. Dana's, I am listening all the time for his step or voice. Oh! why
do nonentities, cumberers of the earth, spin out a tiresome life, and
the loved and useful perish?"

"Perhaps they are taken away from the evil to come. You would not
rebel if you believed this? At best, what are the short years of toil
and change we pass below, compared with the never-ending life of our
heavenly home?"

"You forget that I have no portion in that home, Mr. Lacy."

"No portion! You do not mean to refuse an inheritance so graciously
offered! It may be long before we have another opportunity to speak of
these things; will you make me a promise?"

"If I can perform it," answered she.

"It is that you will every day, ask yourself, 'What happiness does my
soul desire that Christ cannot, and will not bestow?' Will you do this?"

She promised.

"It seems impossible," he pursued, "that a sorer trial than that which
you are now undergoing, can befall you; yet there may be such in
reserve, and then, I would have you recollect, that as He is the only
happiness, He is also the only comfort. Willingly--gladly as I would
suffer in your stead, I would not save you a pang, if I thought it was
His means to bring you to Himself."

He spoke with emotion, as if possessed with the conviction that the
event he adverted to would assuredly take place; and that this was
his sole chance of preparing her for it. He arose--she gave him her
hand--it was taken as silently, and held for a long minute.

"This is not our parting," said he; "if we both live, I shall see you
again soon, but to provide against contingencies, I will ask you now to
write to me; I mean, of course, in answer to my letters, as you would
to Charley--to a brother,--will you?"

"Yes, if your letters are as frank as your speech, and I am granted a
like indulgence."

True to his promise, he called upon the eve of her departure, but
the presence of the family and other visitors prevented private
conversation; and Charley's manoeuvres, skilful and unsuspected as they
were, failed to effect a diversion of Josephine's watchfulness. Yet as
they said "farewell" Ida felt a card slipped into her hand. Upon it was
pencilled, "Remember your promise. Mizpah."




CHAPTER XVIII.


Life at Poplar-grove was much as it had been, the previous summer;
still and bright. The mornings were spent in Carry's pleasant
sewing-room, from which male visitors were rigorously excluded; in
the afternoon, were the siesta, and ride or walk; at night, music and
social chat. Carry feared that this monotony, while it suited her
wishes and employments, might be less agreeable to her friend; that
she would miss the gay whirl, the intoxicating incense of her city
career. But Ida was contented, even happy. Beloved and caressed by the
whole household, in the home of kindred tastes and feeling; and above
all, with the firm hope that her life-long search was at last ended;
her wild cravings laid to rest beneath the waves, which welling from
the unsealed fountain, had risen higher and higher, until her soul was
overflowing with love and rapture;--she revelled in the quiet hours of
friendly communion, and the sweeter seasons of witching reverie. Carry
knew nothing of the spring of her happiness. She saw that her mind
had acquired a more healthy tone;--that her affections had expanded,
and attributed it to the influence of friendship;--to a strength of
mind, which had determined the world should be what it chose to have
it;--to anything but the true cause,--an idolatry that left no room for
suspicion or discontent. Once Carry alluded to the twilight promenade,
when Ida had told her of her forebodings of the wane of their love,
after the nuptials, which were now fast approaching; and was answered
by a warm embrace and smile, which said those fears were quelled, and
might have betrayed to more prying eyes, the enchantment that had
exorcised them. Her evening improvisations entranced, not only the
parlor-circle, but drew to the windows a larger audience from without,
spellbound by her heart-melodies. All her delight was not in memory.
Letters came and went;--from Charley and Mrs. Dana; and gossiping notes
from Anna Talbot and other of "the girls." These, Carry enjoyed with
her, and asked no questions about those which she did not see. Morton's
were what he engaged they should be; sincere and friendly, without a
hint that could alarm her delicacy. They were tinctured with a sadness,
she did not comprehend, until she noticed his many references to his
sister's sufferings, and his anxiety on her account. It was her turn
to console; and her most valued treasure was the letter, in which he
thanked and blessed her.

Carry was to be married the last of July. The middle of June brought
Mrs. Dana and the children, under Charley's protection. For the week of
his stay, he was the life of the house. One cloud was upon the spirits
of all;--Lynn was missed and mourned, and by none, with more sorrowful
tenderness, than by his vivacious friend; but he was unselfish even
in this. Ida could win him to speak of their loss; to the others, he
never mentioned it of his own accord. She was correct in saying that
he had grown more communicative and affectionate. He seemed to have
transferred to her the watchful love that had been Lynn's safeguard and
solace.

"Nothing changes you, Mars' Charley?" said Uncle Ike, the plantation
patriarch, halting at the piazza steps one afternoon, when he had
crawled out into the sunshine.

"I should like to say the same for you, Uncle Ike; time and sickness
have not treated you as well as you deserve."

"Better'n I desarve, Mars' Charles!--heap better'n I desarve! Time
for me to be packed and shoed for my journey. I'se lived in these
low-grounds of sorrow, nigh 'pon ninety years, and many' the young
folks I've seen step down into the grave before me. When I heard
that poor, handsome Mars' Lynn had gone too, 'pears-like I was ready
to grumble 'cause 'twant me--but 'twas the Almighty's will, Mars'
Charles,--'twas his will. It 'joices me to see you so well and
lively--jest like you used to be. You don't take trouble, I reckon,
Marster."

"No; it's against my principles;--beside, we'll have a plenty given to
us."

"Fact, Marster! You ain't knowed much yet; but 'the evil days will
come, when you shall say, I have no pleasure in them!'"

Charley kept his seat upon the step for some time after the old man had
gone:--once he sighed heavily. Ida was in the parlor, and longed to go
out to him, for she guessed the tenor of his thoughts, but doubted the
propriety of intruding upon them. He got up, presently, and began to
walk the porch, whistling an opera air. Spying her through the window,
he came in. "You are ruining your eyes and health with this eternal
stitching;" said he. "As I live, you are boring holes in that piece of
cloth, for the pleasure of sewing them up again! No wonder woman's work
is never ended! What are you making?"

"A handkerchief." She displayed the corner, in which she was
embroidering, "Carry Carleton."

"Where are the others?" he inquired.

"Mrs. Dana is in the nursery; Carry asleep; Dr. Carleton and Arthur
abroad."

"Come, walk with me!" requested he. "Any handkerchief,--a wedding
mouchoir--can wait an hour."

Their course was along the brink of a deep ravine; overshadowed
by large old trees; and bridged by fallen trunks. The sides were
grass-grown, and at the bottom rolled the rivulet, which had fretted
out the gorge; blending its complainings with the low rush of the wind
through the forest.

"So one feeling often wears away the soul!" remarked Charley,
reflectively. "Man is but clay after all!"

"You! the champion of your species--turning against them!" exclaimed
Ida.

"No. I am still an unbeliever in the total corruption of our nature; a
doctrine so opposed to reason and experience, that I will never assent
to it, if it is preached at me until doomsday. But this is a miserably
unsatisfactory life!"

"Yet the world says you enjoy it."

"And do you, an adept in concealment, credit a man's outward show!"

"At least, I do not practise this accomplishment upon my friends;"
replied Ida, piqued.

"Did I say that you did? I am not sure that I could not prove this
point, too;--but we will let it pass for the present. I believe you to
be what you appear to me. Carry would never forgive one who impugned
your sincerity;--and what would Mr. Germaine say?"

This was a gentleman of the neighbourhood, whose marked attentions to
Ida subjected her to the raillery of the Poplar-grove household.

"Nonsense!" said she, laughing. "He has never been beyond the outermost
court of my heart."

"I own his does not appear likely to be the hand to unlock the
penetralia. This is the spot I wanted to show you. Is it not a fairy
nook?"

It was a mossy bank at the foot of a venerable sycamore, from whose
branches the trailing vines touched their heads. A spring of the
clearest crystal bubbled among its roots.

"Oh! for a fairy goblet!" said Ida.

"It is easily made, if these leaves are large enough," answered
Charley. He gathered some, but they were too irregularly-shaped to
suit his purpose. "It is a simple process," said he, as he failed,
after several trials, to convey a thimbleful of water to his amused
companion; "but as the man said who tried to fly and couldn't--'there
is every thing in knowing how to do it.' I never like to be outdone,
even in trifles. I saw some leaves as we came along that I know will
do--excuse me a moment, and I will get them."

He was gone before she could object; and she strolled idly around
the giant trunk of the sycamore, admiring the al fresco boudoir, of
which it was the centre ornament. She set her foot upon something
harder than the soft carpet--it was a small morocco case, which she
picked up, with an ejaculation of surprise, and without a thought of
who had dropped it, opened. She had nearly let it fall, as Carry's
lovely face smiled at her from within. "Arthur has been here," was her
comment, but a glossy curl untwined itself from an envelope labelled
in Charley's hand--"The seat under the honeysuckle. May 1st, 18--,"
a date four years back. There was no impropriety in his having Carry's
likenesss;--they had long been in feeling what they were shortly
to become in name--brother and sister; but her heart beat so with
indefinable terror that she could not stand;--it was as though, instead
of the senseless case, another heart, its every throbbing revealed, lay
in her hand.

"You are tired waiting, I suppose, but I had a longer search than--"

The glow of a stormy sunset rushed to his face as he saw the miniature
she did not attempt to conceal. She had never conceived of the dormant
passion which now awoke in his eye and form; but she did not quail.

"I found this over there, and opened it thoughtlessly, not suspecting
what it was or to whom it belonged. I am very sorry."

The storm passed while she was speaking. The man's wonderful
self-command was master. He dipped up the water with a careful hand;
the leafy cup did not quiver.

"Do you like it? is it cool?"

"Yes--thank you."

He drank draught after draught himself, threw away the leaves, and
resumed his seat upon the bank.

"There is no help for it, Ida! you must hear what I did not intend
you ever should; not that I disdain your sympathy, but it is a rule
with me not to disturb my friends with troubles, which they cannot
alleviate. I do not know what suspicions have been forced upon you;
if they are of the honor and affection I owe my brother, or of her
fidelity to him, they are groundless. That picture was painted for me
before I had any intimation that his was the prize I foolishly hoped to
secure. I relinquished her; but this is the amulet which has saved me
in many temptations. Although hope was no more, memory remained; and
vice could not mate with the visions of purity that memory recalled.
There has not been a time since I first saw her, a laughing babe,
just liberated from her nurse's arms, when I have not loved her more
than any other earthly being. As boy and man I have thought, studied,
labored for her alone. When I quitted home to seek my fortune, she was
still a child, who clung weepingly to me, and kissed me as fondly as
she did her father. It was the last time! At my next visit she was away
at school;--at the second I obtained that curl. She was then fifteen;
innocent and loving, full of jesting surprise at 'Charley's mannish
ways,' and hurt that I would not call her 'sister.' She did not ask
this the ensuing summer. Lynn was with me; and in the confidence of a
hope that saw no cloud ahead, I imparted to him my dreams and desires,
and engaged him to take her portrait secretly. I went back to New York,
and wrote to her father, asking his sanction of the proposal I could
not delay. The letter was upon my desk, ready for the post, when one
arrived from Arthur. He was not to blame for his silence; I had been
as reserved to him; but he entreated my forgiveness for hiding this,
his only secret, from me. She knew it now;--her father's only objection
was their youth--a 'fault,' he remarked, jocosely, 'which will mend
with time.' In place of the letter to my guardian, I forwarded one to
my brother, congratulating him upon his happy engagement to the woman
I idolized. He is worthy of her, if a mortal can be. I can see that
it is best. He has talents and energy, and loves her as she should be
loved--I am rough and eccentric, caring and striving for nothing, now
that my guiding star has set."

"Charley! Charley! you shall not so defame yourself!" cried Ida
bursting into tears. "You--the kindest--most generous of men! you are
worthy of her! Oh! I wish it could be!"

"Hush! hush! I would not have it otherwise. I came home last summer,
and saw them together without a pang of selfish regret; and gloried in
my subjugation of a passion their betrothal made sinful, until our ride
to 'the Castle.' My arm saved her from mutilation or death, and instead
of thanksgiving, sprang up a horrible envy, that I had rescued her for
him. It was momentary, but the repentance was bitter. I abhor myself
when I think of it. I have never fancied since that I did not love
her. I know it as well now that another month will make her his bride,
as I did when hope was highest. Poor Lynn! it grieved him to his dying
day!"

Silence and tears was a fitting reply to this narration. It came to
Ida, like sudden death to a festival; producing not only sorrow and
dismay, but a trembling insecurity--an awful whisper--"Who next?" Did
human love, then, always terminate in misery? Was there no remedy?
She wanted Charley to speak again, and say that he had some source of
comfort; or at least, strength for the last, greatest trial. His words
put this hope to flight.

"I have borne as much as I can;--if it be cowardly to avert further
suffering, I am not brave. I have business in the West next month,
which could, but shall not be postponed. John will not know of it in
time to provide a substitute. Arthur will be disappointed; I would
spare him this trifling pain, if I were certain that I should not give
him more by remaining. I shall not wear this after the marriage--I may
become a castaway without it, for aught I know. When Lynn died, I said,
'My secret is buried with him.' I have committed what the Machiavelis
of the day would call an unwise act," added he, smiling; "'consigned
it to the keeping of a woman'--but I have no fears for its safety with
you. Do not let it prey upon your spirits. I would not caution a less
sympathetic nature. Be happy, Ida,--it is your manifest destiny; and I
am still disinterested enough to 'rejoice with those who do rejoice.'
The sun is setting--you shall not go to the house with that woe-begone
face. Smile! or I don't stir."

He laughed at her attempt. "Rather hysterical,--with that sob treading
upon its heels; but it will do. Come, sister!"

Ida could have cried more heartily at an expression and tone, that
reminded her of Lynn; but he was resolute in not allowing it.

Carry was upon the piazza. "My dear friends!" cried she, running to
meet them. "Where have you been! here's a house full of company, and
I have sent scouts in every direction. Did not you hear or see them?"

"'I heard the owls scream, and the crickets cry;'" said Charley. "Who
is here, that we can prefer to each other's society?"

"Your forest ramble has taught you gallantry. You'll find him but
a dull scholar, Ida--why, there are Messrs. Faulkner, Euston and
Germaine, impatiently waiting the belle's appearance."

"Irresistible--more irresistible--most irresistible! Are you going off
to beautify, Miss Ida? Don't hurry--I will tell them we got lost or
drowned in the woods."

When the girls went down, it was candle-light; and the "Irresistibles"
were laughing themselves black in the face, over the piano, and the
"funniest of fellows," who was entertaining them by an original parody
upon "Oh no! I never mention her!"




CHAPTER XIX.


Charley departed, and for several days, Ida disregarded his injunction
of cheerfulness. She liked the warm-hearted, reliable Arthur; but she
was unjust in her vexation at his happiness, when she pictured the
lonely brother, who had sacrificed his, to preserve it unabated. Her
conscience reproached her for a display of this impatience, while they
were watching the receding form of their visitor. Arthur linked her arm
in his, saying playfully, "Come, cousin Ida, tell us what made you and
my rattling brother so sober this morning. You parted as if you did not
expect to meet again in this world. Is there any hope of my claiming
nearer kinship?"

With a quick, fretful gesture she broke from him; and although she
recovered herself immediately, and answered pleasantly, he was amazed
and wounded, and never repeated the familiarity. A letter from Mr. Lacy
came opportunely to brighten the current of thought. She wished Charley
could read it; but as this was not to be, she embodied its sentiments
in her reply to a communication she had received from him. She was in
the habit of moralising speculatively; and he had no clue to betray
from what quarter this practical strain had emanated.

John arrived a week before the marriage, with intelligence that set
the house in a turmoil; Charley had started to Missouri that morning.
He "was the bearer of his excuses and the bridal gift." Carry wept;
and Arthur was indignant; Dr. Carleton proposed a postponement, which
was unanimously voted for by the servants. "Twouldn't be no wedding
wuth talking about, 'thout Mars' Charles was thar!" The motion was
strenuously opposed by a minority of three--John, Ida and Arthur; John
asserting, in his business way, that the ceremony could be performed
as well without the absentee; and that his example of punctuality in
keeping engagements should be improved. The two others deprecated a
change, without distinctly stating their reasons. They carried the
day. Poplar-grove was visible for miles around, on the moonless night
of the bridal. Lights blazed in every window; starry festoons depended
from the trees; and in the garden, the glow-worm fairies might have
been celebrating the royal birth-night. In doors, the scene was one
of bewildering beauty. Fairies of mortal mould flitted through the
summer bowers, at whose decoration, Flora must have presided in person.
Carry was too modest to covet display; but Dr. Carleton was wealthy
and liberal; and Ida and Mrs. Dana, who were both fond of splendor and
excitement, had his hearty concurrence in their designs. The former
planned everything. It was a new business to her; but she struck out
boldly, copying a gorgeous conception of her fertile brain, guided
solely by her eye and judgment. Her subordinates marvelled at first;
but had too much faith in her to rebel; and as the idea was developed,
their industry and delight surpassed her expectations. When completed,
the effect was so novel and pleasing, they were ready to fall down
and worship her; and more cultivated taste did not derogate from
their eulogistic approbation. Dr. Carleton thanked her with moistened
eyes; Arthur laughingly wondered--"what talent next? her versatile
genius kept him in a state of perpetual wonderment;" but Carry's
silent kiss was dearer praise than all. As first bridesmaid, and an
inmate of the mansion, Ida was virtually mistress of the ceremonies;
Mrs. Dana confining her attention to the arrangement of the banquet,
dressing-rooms and chambers. Carry had invited all of her schoolmates
who were within reach; among those who came, were Anna Talbot, Emma
Glenn, Ellen Morris, who was staying at Mr. Truman's, and our old
friend Celestia;--"cousin Lucindy" being again conveniently remembered.
The three first named, were bridesmaids. Ida walked with Mr. Euston;
and as the train formed, she thought of the two who would have taken
precedence of him; of the chilly sleep of the pulseless heart, and the
desolation of the living one; while the irrevocable words were said,
she heard, like the echo of a knell--"caring for nothing, striving
for nothing--now that my guiding star has set;" and the sigh, which
contended with her smile of salutation to the bride, was "poor Charley!"

Ellen Morris, too, may have had her reminiscences; this event could not
but revive the recollection of her sister's bridal, not a year before;
but the sparkling hazel orbs were unshadowed as then; her manner as
charmingly coquettish. Celestia had not forgotten Mr. Euston; and
seized an early opportunity to renew their flirtation. The gentleman
was not so willing; he was not exactly in love with his partner; but
was not insensible to her attractions, and that in his position he
was envied by most of the single men present--cordially hated by one.
Ida knew not that he was taxing every energy to achieve fascination.
She felt the nervousness of a youthful hostess that things should "go
off" well; the company be pleased with their reception and themselves;
conscious, that although the praise or censure might not be put upon
her, yet in reality the result depended upon her exertions. Solicitude
yielded to triumphant satisfaction, as the electric sympathy spread,
leaping from tongue to tongue; and evolving, in dazzling coruscations,
from kindling eyes. She did not seek her reward then, but she had it.
Few were so blind and ungrateful, as not to recognise her hand in
the pleasures offered to them. The girls, the most fastidious of the
various classes for whose whims a party-giver has to cater, forgave
her magnet influence upon the choicest beaux, as they were themselves
well-supplied notwithstanding; the old people were charmed with her
respectful affability; and of her immediate attendants, there was not
one who was not convinced that he contributed most to her amusement.

Ill-nature is indigenous to all soils, and spite creates its own
food; and she did not escape wholly unscathed. She overheard the
epithets, "flirt," and "dashing," in the same breath with her name;
but she laughed at the silly shot. If she flirted, no one was offended
or injured; if she dashed, she did it with a grace her maligners
