"Who? why, Tim Bunker of course," replied Fred.

"But he must have had some help."

"Perhaps not; he has done it to be revenged, because your father turned
him out of the club."

"Very likely."

"May be he'll smash them up," suggested William Bright.

"Have you seen anything of Charles this morning?" asked Mr. Hardy,
entering the boat-house at this moment.

"No, sir."

"He did not sleep at home last night."

The Zephyrs looked at each other with astonishment, and most of them,
probably, connected him with the disappearance of the boats. His
intimacy with Tim Bunker created a great many painful misgivings,
especially when Mr. Hardy told them that his son had played truant on
Saturday; and one of the boys had heard of his being seen with Tim on
that day. Various other facts were elicited, which threw additional
light upon the loss of the boats. Mr. Hardy was in great distress. It
was clear that his son had wandered farther from the path of truth than
he had ever suspected.

Frank had gone up to the house to inform his father of the loss of the
boats, and Captain Sedley soon joined the party. He sympathized deeply
with Mr. Hardy, and was satisfied that his son could not be far off. It
was impossible to search the lake, as there were no boats for the
purpose.

As nothing could be done at present on the lake, Captain Sedley ordered
his horse, with the intention of driving round it in search of the
fugitive and of the boats. Mr. Hardy was invited to go with him.

On their arrival at Rippleton they found that Tim Bunker was missing, as
well as a great many other boys. They continued to examine the shores of
the lake till they reached Joe Braman's house, on the north side.

Captain Sedley inquired for his boat; and Joe, after trying to evade the
truth, confessed that he had let it to Tim for a week, but did not know
where he had gone with it. They were sure then that the boys were
engaged in some mad enterprise: and at about eleven o'clock the two
gentlemen reached home, without having obtained any intelligence of
Charles.

"Have you discovered anything, Ben?" asked Captain Sedley.

"Yes, sir; I heard voices in the direction of Center Island."

"They are there, then," replied Captain Sedley, as he repaired to the
boat-house.

About one o'clock the fog lifted, and revealed to the astonished party
the camp of the Rovers. A large fire burned near the two tents, around
which the boys were gathered, for the weather was so inclement as to
render Tim's enterprise anything but romantic.

The Sylph, the two club boats, and Joe Braman's "gondola" lay near the
shore, apparently uninjured.

"This is a mad frolic," said Captain Sedley; "but we may be thankful it
is no worse."

"My boy in company with such young scoundrels!" added Mr. Hardy,
bitterly.

"He is sick of them and the adventure I will warrant."

"I hope so."

"Charles never did like Tim Bunker," suggested Frank.

"What is to be done?" asked Mr. Hardy.

"We can do nothing; they have all the boats. They have managed well, and
we are helpless."

"Can't we build a raft, father?" added Frank.

"If we did, they would take to the boats and keep out of our way. Go to
the house, Frank, and bring me the spy-glass. We will examine them a
little more closely."

"They'll get enough on't afore to-morrow," said Uncle Ben.

"It will cure them of camping out."

"Tim said, the last time he was with us, that we ought to camp out,"
added William.

"The best way is to let them have it out till they are sick on't,"
continued Uncle Ben. "It won't hurt 'em; they won't get the scurvy."

Captain Sedley took the glass on Frank's return, and examined the camp.
By its aid he obtained a very correct idea of their encampment. The
Rovers were at dinner, and he recognized Charles Hardy and several of
his companions. The glass was taken by several of the party; and, after
this examination, even Mr. Hardy concluded that it was best to make a
merit of necessity, and let the foolish boys have out their frolic.

Soon after, the Rovers took to the boats, and pulled up the lake. Then,
the anxious party on shore discovered that Charles was in command of the
Zephyr. With the help of the spy-glass, they were able to form a very
correct idea of the state of feeling on board the boats. There was a
great deal of quarreling in both; and, after they had been out half an
hour, a regular fight occurred in the Zephyr.

About five o'clock they returned to the island, and before dark it began
to rain. All the evening a great fire blazed on the island; but the
frail tents of the Rovers must have been entirely inadequate to protect
them from the severity of the weather.

At nine o'clock the Zephyrs, who had spent the evening in the hall, went
home, leaving Uncle Ben, who had been deputed by Captain Sedley to watch
the Rovers, still gazing through his night-glass at the camp-fires on
the island. Soon after, discordant cries were wafted over the waters,
and it was plain to the veteran that there was "trouble in the camp."
The sounds seemed to indicate that a fight was in progress. After a
time, however, all was quiet again, and the old sailor sought his bed.

During the night it cleared off, and Tuesday was a bright, pleasant day.
It was found in the morning that one of the tents had been moved away
from the other. About nine o'clock all the Rovers gathered on the beach;
but they were divided into two parties, and there seemed to be a violent
dispute between them. One of the parties, as they attempted to get into
the Zephyr, was assaulted by the other, and a fight ensued, in which
neither gained a victory. Then a parley, and each party took one of the
boats and pulled away from the island. It was observed that Charles was
no longer the coxswain. He seemed to have lost the favor of his
companions, and several of them were seen to kick and strike him.

The boats went in different directions--the Zephyr pulling towards
Rippleton. When her crew observed the party who were watching them from
the shore, they commenced cheering lustily, and the coxswain, out of
bravado, steered towards them.

"Who is he?" asked Frank.

"It is Barney Ropes," replied Tony. "He is as big a rascal as there is
out of jail."

"Here they come."

"Suppose we give them a volley of stones," suggested Fred Harper.

"No!" said Frank, firmly.

The boat was pulling parallel with the shore, and not more than ten
rods from it. The Rovers yelled, and indulged freely in coarse and
abusive language, as they approached. Charles Hardy, with averted face,
was pulling the forward oar; but not one of his former companions hailed
him. They pitied him; they were sure, when they saw his sad countenance,
that he was suffering intensely.

Suddenly Charles dropped his oar, and stood up.

"See! Tim Bunker!" shouted he, pointing to the opposite side of the
lake.

All the crew turned their eyes that way, and Charles, seizing his
opportunity, sprang with a long leap into the water.

The act was so sudden that the crew could not, for a moment, recover
from their astonishment, and Charles struck out lustily for the shore.

"After him!" shouted Barney; and his companions bent upon their oars.

But their excitement threw them into confusion, they lost the stroke,
and Barney was such a bungler himself that he could not get the boat
about.

"Bravo, Charley!" shouted the Zephyrs.

"Let him go," said Barney, when he realized that the fugitive was beyond
his reach; and, rallying his crew, he retreated towards the island.

"Hurrah, Charley! You are safe," said Tony, as he waded into the water
to help him ashore.

Charles was so much exhausted when he reached the land that he could not
speak. Captain Sedley, who had observed the occurrence from his library
window, hastened down to the beach.

The penitent Zephyr, in his agony, threw himself on his knees before
him, and in piteous, broken accents besought his pardon. Captain Sedley
was deeply moved, and they all realized that "the way of the
transgressor is hard."

The sufferer was kindly conveyed to his home by Captain Sedley, and his
father and mother were too glad at his return to reproach him for his
conduct. When he had changed his clothes, and his emotion had in some
degree subsided, he confessed his errors, and solemnly promised never to
wander from the right path again. And he was in earnest; he felt all he
said in the depths of his soul. He had suffered intensely during his
transgression; and his friends were satisfied that he had not sinned
from the love of sin. He had been led away by Tim Bunker, and bitter had
been the consequences of his error. He had been punished enough,--the
sin had been its own punishment,--and his father and his club freely
forgave him. He was not a hardened boy, and it was probable that his
experience with the Rovers would prove a more salutary correction than
any penalty that could be inflicted.

From Charles all the particulars of the "frolic" were obtained. After
his unsuccessful attempt to escape in the Sylph, Tim had compelled him
to stay in his tent; and, worn out with fatigue and suffering, he had
slept till nearly nine o'clock. He had passed the day in a state
bordering upon misery. At night a dispute had occurred, ending in a
fight, in which his lieutenant, Barney, had led on the Zephyr party. The
result was a separation, and Charles, deprived of Tim's aid, could no
longer sustain himself. Barney usurped his command, and treated him in
a most shameful manner.

Oh, how bitterly did he repent his folly and wickedness! When they were
about to embark, he attempted to go over to Tim's party. Barney resented
the attempt, and another fight ensued. Then he was kicked into the boat,
for his chief could not spare so able an oarsman.

His mental anguish was so great that he could no longer endure it; and,
in desperation, he had made his escape, as we have narrated. His case
was a hopeful one, and his father cheerfully remitted to Mr. Walker the
amount contained in the lost purse, with the mortifying confession of
his son's guilt.




CHAPTER XVIII.

WRECK OF THE BUTTERFLY.


The next day Mr. Walker arrived at Rippleton himself. The noble-hearted
gentleman seemed to be in unusually good spirits, and the boys noticed
that he and Captain Sedley often exchanged significant glances. They
were all satisfied that something was about to happen, but they could
not imagine what.

Frank and Tony had been requested to invite their friends to assemble at
Zephyr Hall at nine o'clock, on Wednesday morning; so that when Mr.
Walker entered the hall with Captain Sedley, the whole school, to the
number of over seventy, were gathered there.

Charles Hardy was there with the rest; but he seemed to be a different
boy. He had lost that forwardness which had often rendered him a
disagreeable companion. He had been forgiven; Mr. Walker had spoken to
him very kindly, and all his friends treated him as though nothing had
happened; but for all this, he could not feel right. His sufferings were
not yet ended; repentance will not banish at once the remembrance of
former sin and error. There was a deep feeling of commiseration
manifested towards him by his associates. He was to them the returned
prodigal, and they would fain have killed the fatted calf in honor of
his happy restoration.

The Zephyrs and the Butterflies wore their uniforms, and Mr. Walker was
so excited that all the boys were sure a good time was before them;
though, as the boats had not yet been recovered, they were at a loss to
determine the nature of the sports to which they had been invited.

The Rovers still maintained themselves on the island. The rupture
between Tim and Barney had evidently been healed; for both parties
seemed to mingle as though nothing had occurred to mar their harmonious
action.

The boys at the boat-house were not kept long in suspense in relation to
their day's sport. Captain Sedley formed them into a procession, when
all had arrived, and, after appointing Fred Harper chief marshal,
directed them to march down to Rippleton, cross the river, and halt upon
the other side till he came.

When they reached the place they found Uncle Ben there, and soon after
were joined by Captain Sedley and Mr. Walker.

"Follow us," said the former, as he led the way down to a little inlet
of the lake, whose waters were nearly enclosed by the land.

"Hurrah!" shouted Fred Harper, suddenly, when he obtained a view of the
inlet, and the cry was taken up by the whole party.

"The fleet! The fleet!" was passed from mouth to mouth; and unable to
control their excitement, they broke their ranks and ran with all their
might down to the water's side.

Resting gracefully, like so many swans, on the bright waters of the
inlet, lay five beautiful club boats. They were of different sizes, and
fore and aft floated their flags to the gentle breeze.

I will not attempt to describe the wild delight of the boys when they
beheld the splendid boats. The bright vision of a fleet, which they had
so cheerfully abandoned to be enabled to do a good and generous deed,
was realized. Here was the fleet, far surpassing in grandeur their most
magnificent ideal.

Five boats! And the Zephyr and the Butterfly would make seven!

"You have done this!" exclaimed Frank, as Mr. Walker approached.

"Your father and I together did it. Now, boys, if you will form a ring
we will explain."

"Three cheers for Mr. Walker first," suggested Tony.

They were given, and three more for Captain Sedley.

"My lads, I heard all about your giving up the fleet to help Mr. Munroe
out of trouble. It was noble--heroic, and I have since taken pains to
inform myself as to the manner in which you conducted yourself after the
brave sacrifice. As far as I can learn, not a regret has been expressed
at the mode in which your money was applied. Here is your reward," and
he pointed to the boats. "They are the gift of Captain Sedley and
myself. I am sorry that these Rovers have taken your other boats; but it
enables us to observe the difference between good boys and bad boys.
Nay, Master Hardy, you need not blush; for, though you have erred, you
have behaved heroically; you risked your life to escape from them; you
are forgiven."

This speech was received with shouts of applause, and Charles Hardy
stepped forward with tears in his eyes to thank the kind gentleman for
his generosity towards him.

"Now, boys," said Captain Sedley, "we are going to recover the lost
boats."

"Hurrah!" shouted all the boys.

"Two of these boats, you perceive, carry twelve oars each. The crew of
the Zephyr will man the Bluebird."

The Zephyrs obeyed the order.

"The crew of the Butterfly will man the Rainbow," continued Captain
Sedley.

The Butterflies seated themselves in the new boat.

"This is merely a temporary arrangement, and when we get the other
boats, we shall organize anew. We want practised oarsmen for our present
service. While we are absent, Uncle Ben will instruct the rest of the
boys in rowing."

Captain Sedley and Mr. Walker then seated themselves in the stern sheets
of the Bluebird.

"Now pull for Center Island," said the former. "Tony, you will follow
us."

The two boats darted out of the inlet, leaving Uncle Ben in charge of
the "recruits."

The Lily and the Dart were eight-oar boats, while the Dip carried only
four, and was designed as a "tender" for the fleet. Uncle Ben assigned
places to the boys, though there were about thirty left after the oars
were all manned. After an hour's drilling, he got the crews so they
could work together, and the boats were then employed in conveying the
rest of the party over to the boat-house. The others in their turn were
instructed and before noon Uncle Ben had rendered them tolerably
proficient in the art of rowing.

When the Bluebird reached Center Island, Tim had just embarked in the
Butterfly, and Barney was preparing to do the same in the Zephyr. The
Rovers were utterly confounded at this unexpected invasion of their
domain, and hastily retreated from the beach.

William Bright, who was the coxswain of the Bluebird, ran her alongside
the Zephyr, and took her in tow. In like manner they took possession of
the Sylph and the "gondola," leaving the Rovers "alone in their glory,"
with no means of escaping from the island. With the three boats in tow,
they pulled for the beach.

"Now for the Butterfly," said Captain Sedley, as he placed the Sylph in
charge of Uncle Ben, and directed William Bright to steer up the lake.

Away dashed the Bluebird. The excited crew had observed the Butterfly
about a mile off, pulling towards the river. Tim Bunker, at this safe
distance, had paused to observe the movements of the invaders. He was as
much confounded as Barney had been, and seemed to be at a loss what to
do; but when he saw the Bluebird headed towards him, he ordered his crew
to pull for the river.

"Steady, boys," said Captain Sedley, when they had approached within a
quarter of a mile of the chase. "Probably they will run her ashore and
leave her."

But Tim did not mean to do anything of the kind, and was running the
Butterfly directly for the river.

"They will dash her in pieces, I fear," continued the director, when he
perceived Tim's intention. "Pull slowly--put her about, and perhaps they
will return."

The Bluebird came round; but Tim dashed madly on, heedless of the rocks.

"She strikes!" exclaimed Mr. Walker.

"Round again--quick!" added Captain Sedley. "They will all be drowned!
She fills! There they go!"

The Butterfly had stove a hole in her bow; in an instant she was filled
with water, and, careening over, threw her crew into the lake, where
they were struggling for life.

"Your boat is stove, Tony," said Captain Sedley to the coxswain of the
Butterfly, who had exchanged places with Fred Harper, for the chase.

"Never mind the boat; save the boys!" replied Tony.

"Bravo! my little hero!" exclaimed Mr. Walker.

In a few moments the Bluebird reached the scene of the disaster. The
Butterfly was so light that she did not sink; and most of the Rovers
were supporting themselves by holding on at her gunwale. Tim and two or
three more had swum ashore, and one would have been drowned, if
assistance had not reached him when it did.

The discomfited Rovers were rescued from their perilous situation, and
after a severe reprimand, were landed at the nearest shore. Tim made his
escape; but probably none of them have since felt any inclination to
imitate the freebooters.

The Butterfly was towed down to her house, and taken out of the water.
It was found that two of her planks had been stove, and that the damage
could be easily repaired. Mr. Walker proposed sending to Boston for a
boat-builder; but Captain Sedley was sure that Uncle Ben, with the
assistance of the wheelwright, could repair her quite as well.

The Bluebird then returned to the beach, and the boys were dismissed
till three o'clock. The situation of the Rovers on the island was next
discussed by Captain Sedley and Mr. Walker, and it was decided that, as
Tim had escaped, it was not expedient to punish his companions, who were
less guilty. So Uncle Ben, with Frank and Tony, was sent off to bring
them ashore. Barney and his band were glad enough to get off. They
freely acknowledged that they had had enough of "camping out." It was
not what they anticipated. Nearly all of them had taken severe colds,
and since the rain on Monday night, which had spoiled their provisions,
they had been nearly starved. Barney declared that they meant to return
the boats that night, and if Captain Sedley would "let them off" this
time, they would never do such a thing again. Like Charles, they had
been punished enough, and with some good advice they were permitted to
depart. How they made peace with their parents I cannot say; but
probably many of them "had to take it." As for Tim Bunker, he did not
show his face in Rippleton again, but made his way to Boston, where he
shipped in a vessel bound for the East Indies; and everybody in town was
glad to get rid of him.

Thus ended the famous "camping out" of the Rovers. It was a very
pleasant and romantic thing to think about; but the reality was
sufficient to effect a radical cure, and convince them that
"yellow-covered books" did not tell the truth.

At three o'clock the boys reassembled, and the crews were organized and
officers selected. By a unanimous vote, Frank Sedley was chosen
commodore of the fleet. The next morning the Butterfly was repaired, and
the squadron made its first voyage round the lake.

But as the rest of the week was occupied in drilling, and the maneuvers
were necessarily imperfect, I pass over the time till the August
vacation, when the fleet made a grand excursion up Rippleton River.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE CRUISE OF THE FLEET.


The school year was ended; and it was remarked that the school had never
been in a more flourishing condition. The boys, stimulated by the boat
organizations, had made remarkable progress, and parents and committee
sympathized with them in the pleasant anticipations of the coming
vacation.

Since his defection in June, the conduct of Charles Hardy had been in
the highest degree satisfactory. His character seemed to be radically
changed. He did not "put on airs," nor aspire to high places. His pride
had been lowered, and he was modest and gentle; therefore my young
friends will not be surprised to learn that his associates had rewarded
his endeavors to do well by electing him coxswain of the Zephyr.

On the morning of the day appointed for the grand excursion, the
squadron, as it formed in line opposite Captain Sedley's house,
consisted of the following boats, manned and commanded as below:--

Zephyr,    12 oars, (bearing the broad pennant of
    Commodore Sedley,)        Charles Hardy.
Butterfly, 12 oars,           Paul Munroe.
Bluebird,  12  "              Fred Harper.
Rainbow,   12  "              William Bright.
Lily,       8  "              Henry Brown.
Dart,       8  "              Dick Chester.
Dip,        4  " (tender,)    Tony Weston.

My young readers need not be indignant at finding so brave and skilful
an officer as Tony Weston in command of the little Dip, deeming it an
insignificant position for him to occupy; for the tender was to be
detailed on special duty, and the appointment was a marked compliment to
his skill and judgment.

The system of signals established for the use of the fleet was very
simple, and consisted of plain flags of red, white, blue, yellow, green,
orange, and purple, each color being a distinct order. The discipline of
the fleet was of a mongrel character, composed of naval and military
tactics. When the squadron sailed in compact order verbal commands were
given; and when the boats were too far apart for the word to be heard,
signals were used. But these details will be better understood as the
squadron proceeds on its voyage.

The boats were ranged in line, side by side, with the Zephyr on the
right, the Butterfly on the left, and the Dip in the middle, each with
its gay flags floating to the breeze. All the oars were in-board, and
the clubs were waiting for the commodore's orders.

On board the Zephyr, a longer staff than she had formerly used was
erected, on which, half way up, was placed her fly, and at the top the
broad pennant--of blue, covered with silver stars. On this pole the
signals were hoisted, when the pennant had to be lowered for the time.

All eyes were directed to the commodore, who was standing up in the
stern sheets of the flag boat.

"Ready!" said he, in a voice loud enough to be heard the whole length of
the line; and every boy grasped his oar.

"Up!"

It was a beautiful sight to observe the precision with which the oars
were erected. A company of soldiers could not have handled their muskets
with more unanimity.

"Down!" and in like manner the oars dropped into the water.

Those who have observed the manner in which a military officer gives his
orders have discovered the secret of this pleasing concord of action.
Commands consist, except in a series, of two words; and dwelling for an
instant on the first keeps all in a state of readiness to act the
instant the second is given. Frank had studied the matter while
witnessing the evolutions of the Rippleton Guards, and he had adopted
the plan in the club. When the captain said "shoulder," the men knew
what was coming; and at the word "arms," the evolution was performed. So
with "present--arms!" "file--right!" "left--wheel!" etc.; and to these
observations he was indebted for the proficiency of his club, and of the
fleet.

"Ready--pull!" he continued.

The stroke was very slow, and each coxswain was obliged to keep his boat
in line with the others, the flag boat regulating their speed.

When the squadron had reached the upper part of the lake, the pennant
was dropped, and up went a red flag.

"Cease--rowing!" said all the coxswains, except the Zephyr's.

Then the red flag was lowered, and a blue one was hoisted.

"In single line," the coxswain of the Bluebird, which was next to the
Zephyr, interpreted the signal, and his boat followed the flag.

The others came into the line in proper order, and the squadron passed
entirely round the lake.

"Cease--rowing!" exclaimed the coxswains, in concert, as the red flag
again appeared.

Up went a green flag, and the line was formed; then a yellow, to form in
sections of two. In this order the squadron pulled down the lake again,
to the widest part, where various fanciful evolutions were
performed--which it would be impossible to describe on paper. One of
them was rowing in a circle round the Dip; another was two circles of
three boats each, pulling in opposite directions. Then the boats were
sent off in six different ways, forming a hexagon, with the tender in
the center; after which they all came together so that their stems
touched each other, in the shape of a star.

"Now, boys, we are ready for the voyage up Rippleton River," said
Commodore Sedley. "I need not tell you that the utmost caution must be
used. Watch the flags closely, and every coxswain be very prudent."

"Ay, ay!"

"Tony will lead in the Dip, and each boat will place a man in the bow to
look out for buoys, which he will place over rocks and shoals."

"Ay, ay," answered the coxswains.

"Now, Tony, you may go up and mark off the rocks at the mouth of the
river."

The little Dip, which had a picked crew for the occasion, darted away up
the lake, leaving the rest of the fleet to follow.

"Form a line!" shouted Frank, and the boats backed out from their
positions, and in a moment had obeyed the order.

"Ready--pull;" and the fleet moved slowly and grandly up the lake.

The boys were in high spirits. There was something inspiring in the
