James found it convenient to accept this invitation, and Uncle Lot was
twice as good-natured as if he had staid in the first of the matter.
Once fairly forced into the premises, James thought fit to forget his
long walk and excess of business, especially as about that moment Aunt
Sally and Miss Grace returned from an afternoon call. You may be sure
that the last thing these respectable ladies looked for was to find
Uncle Lot and Master James tête-à-tête, over a pitcher of cider; and
when, as they entered, our hero looked up with something of a
mischievous air, Miss Grace, in particular, was so puzzled that it took
her at least a quarter of an hour to untie her bonnet strings. But James
staid, and acted the agreeable to perfection. First, he must needs go
down into the garden to look at Uncle Lot's wonderful cabbages, and then
he promenaded all around the corn patch, stopping every few moments and
looking up with an appearance of great gratification, as if he had never
seen such corn in his life; and then he examined Uncle Lot's favorite
apple tree with an expression of wonderful interest.
"I never!" he broke forth, having stationed himself against the fence
opposite to it; "what kind of an apple tree is that?"
"It's a bellflower, or somethin' another," said Uncle Lot.
"Why, where did you get it? I never saw such apples!" said our hero,
with his eyes still fixed on the tree.
Uncle Lot pulled up a stalk or two of weeds, and threw them over the
fence, just to show that he did not care any thing about the matter; and
then he came up and stood by James.
"Nothin' so remarkable, as I know on," said he.
Just then, Grace came to say that supper was ready. Once seated at
table, it was astonishing to see the perfect and smiling assurance with
which our hero continued his addresses to Uncle Lot. It sometimes goes a
great way towards making people like us to take it for granted that they
do already; and upon this principle James proceeded. He talked, laughed,
told stories, and joked with the most fearless assurance, occasionally
seconding his words by looking Uncle Lot in the face, with a countenance
so full of good will as would have melted any snowdrift of prejudices in
the world.
James also had one natural accomplishment, more courtier-like than all
the diplomacy in Europe, and that was the gift of feeling a real
interest for any body in five minutes; so that, if he began to please in
jest, he generally ended in earnest. With great simplicity of mind, he
had a natural tact for seeing into others, and watched their motions
with the same delight with which a child gazes at the wheels and springs
of a watch, to "see what it will do."
The rough exterior and latent kindness of Uncle Lot were quite a
spirit-stirring study; and when tea was over, as he and Grace happened
to be standing together in the front door, he broke forth,--
"I do really like your father, Grace!"
"Do you?" said Grace.
"Yes, I do. He has something in him, and I like him all the better for
having to fish it out."
"Well, I hope you will make him like you," said Grace, unconsciously;
and then she stopped, and looked a little ashamed.
James was too well bred to see this, or look as if Grace meant any more
than she said--a kind of breeding not always attendant on more
fashionable polish--so he only answered,--
"I think I shall, Grace, though I doubt whether I can get him to own
it."
"He is the kindest man that ever was," said Grace; "and he always acts
as if he was ashamed of it."
James turned a little away, and looked at the bright evening sky, which
was glowing like a calm, golden sea; and over it was the silver new
moon, with one little star to hold the candle for her. He shook some
bright drops off from a rosebush near by, and watched to see them shine
as they fell, while Grace stood very quietly waiting for him to speak
again.
"Grace," said he, at last, "I am going to college this fall."
"So you told me yesterday," said Grace.
James stooped down over Grace's geranium, and began to busy himself with
pulling off all the dead leaves, remarking in the mean while,--
"And if I do get him to like me, Grace, will you like me too?"
"I like you now very well," said Grace.
"Come, Grace, you know what I mean," said James, looking steadfastly at
the top of the apple tree.
"Well, I wish, then, you would understand what I mean, without my
saying any more about it," said Grace.
"O, to be sure I will!" said our hero, looking up with a very
intelligent air; and so, as Aunt Sally would say, the matter was
settled, with "no words about it."
Now shall we narrate how our hero, as he saw Uncle Lot approaching the
door, had the impudence to take out his flute, and put the parts
together, arranging and adjusting the stops with great composure?
"Uncle Lot," said he, looking up, "this is the best flute that ever I
saw."
"I hate them tooting critturs," said Uncle Lot, snappishly.
"I declare! I wonder how you can," said James, "for I do think they
exceed----"
So saying, he put the flute to his mouth, and ran up and down a long
flourish.
"There! what do you think of that?" said he, looking in Uncle Lot's face
with much delight.
Uncle Lot turned and marched into the house, but soon faced to the
right-about, and came out again, for James was fingering "Yankee
Doodle"--that appropriate national air for the descendants of the
Puritans.
Uncle Lot's patriotism began to bestir itself; and now, if it had been
any thing, as he said, but "that 'are flute"--as it was, he looked more
than once at James's fingers.
"How under the sun could you learn to do that?" said he.
"O, it's easy enough," said James, proceeding with another tune; and,
having played it through, he stopped a moment to examine the joints of
his flute, and in the mean time addressed Uncle Lot: "You can't think
how grand this is for pitching tunes--I always pitch the tunes on Sunday
with it."
"Yes; but I don't think it's a right and fit instrument for the Lord's
house," said Uncle Lot.
"Why not? It is only a kind of a long pitchpipe, you see," said James;
"and, seeing the old one is broken, and this will answer, I don't see
why it is not better than nothing."
"Why, yes, it may be better than nothing," said Uncle Lot; "but, as I
always tell Grace and my wife, it ain't the right kind of instrument,
after all; it ain't solemn."
"Solemn!" said James; "that is according as you work it: see here, now."
So saying, he struck up Old Hundred, and proceeded through it with great
perseverance.
"There, now!" said he.
"Well, well, I don't know but it is," said Uncle Lot; "but, as I said at
first, I don't like the look of it in meetin'."
"But yet you really think it is better than nothing," said James, "for
you see I couldn't pitch my tunes without it."
"Maybe 'tis," said Uncle Lot; "but that isn't sayin' much."
This, however, was enough for Master James, who soon after departed,
with his flute in his pocket, and Grace's last words in his heart;
soliloquizing as he shut the gate, "There, now, I hope Aunt Sally won't
go to praising me; for, just so sure as she does, I shall have it all to
do over again."
James was right in his apprehension. Uncle Lot could be privately
converted, but not brought to open confession; and when, the next
morning, Aunt Sally remarked, in the kindness of her heart,--
"Well, I always knew you would come to like James," Uncle Lot only
responded, "Who said I did like him?"
"But I'm sure you seemed to like him last night."
"Why, I couldn't turn him out o' doors, could I? I don't think nothin'
of him but what I always did."
But it was to be remarked that Uncle Lot contented himself at this time
with the mere general avowal, without running it into particulars, as
was formerly his wont. It was evident that the ice had begun to melt,
but it might have been a long time in dissolving, had not collateral
incidents assisted.
It so happened that, about this time, George Griswold, the only son
before referred to, returned to his native village, after having
completed his theological studies at a neighboring institution. It is
interesting to mark the gradual development of mind and heart, from the
time that the white-headed, bashful boy quits the country village for
college, to the period when he returns, a formed and matured man, to
notice how gradually the rust of early prejudices begins to cleave from
him--how his opinions, like his handwriting, pass from the cramped and
limited forms of a country school into that confirmed and characteristic
style which is to mark the man for life. In George this change was
remarkably striking. He was endowed by nature with uncommon acuteness of
feeling and fondness for reflection--qualities as likely as any to
render a child backward and uninteresting in early life.
When he left Newbury for college, he was a taciturn and apparently
phlegmatic boy, only evincing sensibility by blushing and looking
particularly stupefied whenever any body spoke to him. Vacation after
vacation passed, and he returned more and more an altered being; and he
who once shrunk from the eye of the deacon, and was ready to sink if he
met the minister, now moved about among the dignitaries of the place
with all the composure of a superior being.
It was only to be regretted that, while the mind improved, the physical
energies declined, and that every visit to his home found him paler,
thinner, and less prepared in body for the sacred profession to which he
had devoted himself. But now he was returned, a minister--a real
minister, with a right to stand in the pulpit and preach; and what a joy
and glory to Aunt Sally--and to Uncle Lot, if he were not ashamed to own
it!
The first Sunday after he came, it was known far and near that George
Griswold was to preach; and never was a more ready and expectant
audience.
As the time for reading the first psalm approached, you might see the
white-headed men turning their faces attentively towards the pulpit; the
anxious and expectant old women, with their little black bonnets, bent
forward to see him rise. There were the children looking, because every
body else looked; there was Uncle Lot in the front pew, his face
considerately adjusted; there was Aunt Sally, seeming as pleased as a
mother could seem; and Miss Grace, lifting her sweet face to her
brother, like a flower to the sun; there was our friend James in the
front gallery, his joyous countenance a little touched with sobriety and
expectation; in short, a more embarrassingly attentive audience never
greeted the first effort of a young minister. Under these circumstances
there was something touching in the fervent self-forgetfulness which
characterized the first exercises of the morning--something which moved
every one in the house.
The devout poetry of his prayer, rich with the Orientalism of Scripture,
and eloquent with the expression of strong yet chastened emotion,
breathed over his audience like music, hushing every one to silence, and
beguiling every one to feeling. In the sermon, there was the strong
intellectual nerve, the constant occurrence of argument and statement,
which distinguishes a New England discourse; but it was touched with
life by the intense, yet half-subdued, feeling with which he seemed to
utter it. Like the rays of the sun, it enlightened and melted at the
same moment.
The strong peculiarities of New England doctrine, involving, as they do,
all the hidden machinery of mind, all the mystery of its divine
relations and future progression, and all the tremendous uncertainties
of its eternal good or ill, seemed to have dwelt in his mind, to have
burned in his thoughts, to have wrestled with his powers, and they gave
to his manner the fervency almost of another world; while the exceeding
paleness of his countenance, and a tremulousness of voice that seemed to
spring from bodily weakness, touched the strong workings of his mind
with a pathetic interest, as if the being so early absorbed in another
world could not be long for this.
When the services were over, the congregation dispersed with the air of
people who had felt rather than heard; and all the criticism that
followed was similar to that of old Deacon Hart--an upright, shrewd
man--who, as he lingered a moment at the church door, turned and gazed
with unwonted feeling at the young preacher.
"He's a blessed cre'tur!" said he, the tears actually making their way
to his eyes; "I hain't been so near heaven this many a day. He's a
blessed cre'tur of the Lord; that's my mind about him!"
As for our friend James, he was at first sobered, then deeply moved, and
at last wholly absorbed by the discourse; and it was only when meeting
was over that he began to think where he really was.
With all his versatile activity, James had a greater depth of mental
capacity than he was himself aware of, and he began to feel a sort of
electric affinity for the mind that had touched him in a way so new; and
when he saw the mild minister standing at the foot of the pulpit stairs,
he made directly towards him.
"I do want to hear more from you," said he, with a face full of
earnestness; "may I walk home with you?"
"It is a long and warm walk," said George, smiling.
"O, I don't care for that, if it does not trouble you," said James;
and leave being gained, you might have seen them slowly passing along
under the trees, James pouring forth all the floods of inquiry which the
sudden impulse of his mind had brought out, and supplying his guide with
more questions and problems for solution than he could have gone through
with in a month.
"I cannot answer all your questions now," said he, as they stopped at
Uncle Lot's gate.
"Well, then, when will you?" said James, eagerly. "Let me come home with
you to-night?"
The minister smiled assent, and James departed so full of new thoughts,
that he passed Grace without even seeing her. From that time a
friendship commenced between the two, which was a beautiful illustration
of the affinities of opposites. It was like a friendship between morning
and evening--all freshness and sunshine on one side, and all gentleness
and peace on the other.
The young minister, worn by long-continued ill health, by the fervency
of his own feelings, and the gravity of his own reasonings, found
pleasure in the healthful buoyancy of a youthful, unexhausted mind,
while James felt himself sobered and made better by the moonlight
tranquillity of his friend. It is one mark of a superior mind to
understand and be influenced by the superiority of others; and this was
the case with James. The ascendency which his new friend acquired over
him was unlimited, and did more in a month towards consolidating and
developing his character than all the four years' course of a college.
Our religious habits are likely always to retain the impression of the
first seal which stamped them, and in this case it was a peculiarly
happy one. The calmness, the settled purpose, the mild devotion of his
friend, formed a just alloy to the energetic and reckless buoyancy of
James's character, and awakened in him a set of feelings without which
the most vigorous mind must be incomplete.
The effect of the ministrations of the young pastor, in awakening
attention to the subjects of his calling in the village, was marked, and
of a kind which brought pleasure to his own heart. But, like all other
excitement, it tends to exhaustion, and it was not long before he
sensibly felt the decline of the powers of life. To the best regulated
mind there is something bitter in the relinquishment of projects for
which we have been long and laboriously preparing, and there is
something far more bitter in crossing the long-cherished expectations of
friends. All this George felt. He could not bear to look on his mother,
hanging on his words and following his steps with eyes of almost
childish delight--on his singular father, whose whole earthly ambition
was bound up in his success, and think how soon the "candle of their old
age" must be put out. When he returned from a successful effort, it was
painful to see the old man, so evidently delighted, and so anxious to
conceal his triumph, as he would seat himself in his chair, and begin
with, "George, that 'are doctrine is rather of a puzzler; but you seem
to think you've got the run on't. I should re'ly like to know what
business you have to think you know better than other folks about it;"
and, though he would cavil most courageously at all George's
explanations, yet you might perceive, through all, that he was inly
uplifted to hear how his boy could talk.
If George was engaged in argument with any one else, he would sit by,
with his head bowed down, looking out from under his shaggy eyebrows
with a shamefaced satisfaction very unusual with him. Expressions of
affection from the naturally gentle are not half so touching as those
which are forced out from the hard-favored and severe; and George was
affected, even to pain, by the evident pride and regard of his father.
"He never said so much to any body before," thought he, "and what will
he do if I die?"
In such thoughts as these Grace found her brother engaged one still
autumn morning, as he stood leaning against the garden fence.
"What are you solemnizing here for, this bright day, brother George?"
said she, as she bounded down the alley.
The young man turned and looked on her happy face with a sort of
twilight smile.
"How happy you are, Grace!" said he.
"To be sure I am; and you ought to be too, because you are better."
"I am happy, Grace--that is, I hope I shall be."
"You are sick, I know you are," said Grace; "you look worn out. O, I
wish your heart could spring once, as mine does."
"I am not well, dear Grace, and I fear I never shall be," said he,
turning away, and fixing his eyes on the fading trees opposite.
"O George! dear George, don't, don't say that; you'll break all our
hearts," said Grace, with tears in her own eyes.
"Yes, but it is true, sister: I do not feel it on my own account so
much as----However," he added, "it will all be the same in heaven."
It was but a week after this that a violent cold hastened the progress
of debility into a confirmed malady. He sunk very fast. Aunt Sally, with
the self-deceit of a fond and cheerful heart, thought every day that "he
would be better," and Uncle Lot resisted conviction with all the
obstinate pertinacity of his character, while the sick man felt that he
had not the heart to undeceive them.
James was now at the house every day, exhausting all his energy and
invention in the case of his friend; and any one who had seen him in his
hours of recklessness and glee, could scarcely recognize him as the
being whose step was so careful, whose eye so watchful, whose voice and
touch were so gentle, as he moved around the sick bed. But the same
quickness which makes a mind buoyant in gladness, often makes it
gentlest and most sympathetic in sorrow.
It was now nearly morning in the sick room. George had been restless and
feverish all night; but towards day he fell into a slight slumber, and
James sat by his side, almost holding his breath lest he should waken
him. It was yet dusk, but the sky was brightening with a solemn glow,
and the stars were beginning to disappear; all, save the bright and
morning one, which, standing alone in the east, looked tenderly through
the casement, like the eye of our heavenly Father, watching over us when
all earthly friendships are fading.
George awoke with a placid expression of countenance, and fixing his
eyes on the brightening sky, murmured faintly,--
    "The sweet, immortal morning sheds
    Its blushes round the spheres."
A moment after, a shade passed over his face; he pressed his fingers
over his eyes, and the tears dropped silently on his pillow.
"George! dear George!" said James, bending over him.
"It's my friends--it's my father--my mother," said he, faintly.
"Jesus Christ will watch over them," said James, soothingly.
"O, yes, I know he will; for he loved his own which were in the world;
he loved them unto the end. But I am dying--and before I have done any
good."
"O, do not say so," said James; "think, think what you have done, if
only for me. God bless you for it! God will bless you for it; it
will follow you to heaven; it will bring me there. Yes, I will do as you
have taught me. I will give my life, my soul, my whole strength to it;
and then you will not have lived in vain."
George smiled, and looked upward; "his face was as that of an angel;"
and James, in his warmth, continued,--
"It is not I alone who can say this; we all bless you; every one in this
place blesses you; you will be had in everlasting remembrance by some
hearts here, I know."
"Bless God!" said George.
"We do," said James. "I bless him that I ever knew you; we all bless
him, and we love you, and shall forever."
The glow that had kindled over the pale face of the invalid again faded
as he said,--
"But, James, I must, I ought to tell my father and mother; I ought to,
and how can I?"
At that moment the door opened, and Uncle Lot made his appearance. He
seemed struck with the paleness of George's face; and coming to the side
of the bed, he felt his pulse, and laid his hand anxiously on his
forehead, and clearing his voice several times, inquired "if he didn't
feel a little better."
"No, father," said George; then taking his hand, he looked anxiously in
his face, and seemed to hesitate a moment. "Father," he began, "you know
that we ought to submit to God."
There was something in his expression at this moment which flashed the
truth into the old man's mind. He dropped his son's hand with an
exclamation of agony, and turning quickly, left the room.
"Father! father!" said Grace, trying to rouse him, as he stood with his
arms folded by the kitchen window.
"Get away, child!" said he, roughly.
"Father, mother says breakfast is ready."
"I don't want any breakfast," said he, turning short about. "Sally, what
are you fixing in that 'ere porringer?"
"O, it's only a little tea for George; 'twill comfort him up, and make
him feel better, poor fellow."
"You won't make him feel better--he's gone," said Uncle Lot, hoarsely.
"O, dear heart, no!" said Aunt Sally.
"Be still a' contradicting me; I won't be contradicted all the time by
nobody. The short of the case is, that George is goin' to die just as
we've got him ready to be a minister and all; and I wish to pity I was
in my grave myself, and so----" said Uncle Lot, as he plunged out of the
door, and shut it after him.
It is well for man that there is one Being who sees the suffering heart
as it is, and not as it manifests itself through the repellances of
outward infirmity, and who, perhaps, feels more for the stern and
wayward than for those whose gentler feelings win for them human
sympathy. With all his singularities, there was in the heart of Uncle
Lot a depth of religious sincerity; but there are few characters where
religion does any thing more than struggle with natural defect, and
modify what would else be far worse.
In this hour of trial, all the native obstinacy and pertinacity of the
old man's character rose, and while he felt the necessity of submission,
it seemed impossible to submit; and thus, reproaching himself,
struggling in vain to repress the murmurs of nature, repulsing from him
all external sympathy, his mind was "tempest-tossed, and not comforted."
It was on the still afternoon of the following Sabbath that he was sent
for, in haste, to the chamber of his son. He entered, and saw that the
hour was come. The family were all there. Grace and James, side by side,
bent over the dying one, and his mother sat afar off, with her face hid
in her apron, "that she might not see the death of the child." The aged
minister was there, and the Bible lay open before him. The father walked
to the side of the bed. He stood still, and gazed on the face now
brightening with "life and immortality." The son lifted up his eyes; he
saw his father, smiled, and put out his hand. "I am glad you are
come," said he. "O George, to the pity, don't! don't smile on me so! I
know what is coming; I have tried, and tried, and I can't, I can't
have it so;" and his frame shook, and he sobbed audibly. The room was
still as death; there was none that seemed able to comfort him. At last
the son repeated, in a sweet, but interrupted voice, those words of
man's best Friend: "Let not your heart be troubled; in my Father's house
are many mansions."
"Yes; but I can't help being troubled; I suppose the Lord's will must
be done, but it'll kill me."
"O father, don't, don't break my heart," said the son, much agitated. "I
shall see you again in heaven, and you shall see me again; and then
'your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you.'"
"I never shall get to heaven if I feel as I do now," said the old man.
"I cannot have it so."
The mild face of the sufferer was overcast. "I wish he saw all that I
do," said he, in a low voice. Then looking towards the minister, he
articulated, "Pray for us."
They knelt in prayer. It was soothing, as real prayer always must be;
and when they rose, every one seemed more calm. But the sufferer was
exhausted; his countenance changed; he looked on his friends; there was
a faint whisper, "Peace I leave with you"--and he was in heaven.
We need not dwell on what followed. The seed sown by the righteous often
blossoms over their grave; and so was it with this good man. The words
of peace which he spoke unto his friends while he was yet with them came
into remembrance after he was gone; and though he was laid in the grave
with many tears, yet it was with softened and submissive hearts.
"The Lord bless him," said Uncle Lot, as he and James were standing,
last of all, over the grave. "I believe my heart is gone to heaven with
him; and I think the Lord really did know what was best, after all."
Our friend James seemed now to become the support of the family; and the
bereaved old man unconsciously began to transfer to him the affections
that had been left vacant.
"James," said he to him one day, "I suppose you know that you are about
the same to me as a son."
"I hope so," said James, kindly.
"Well, well, you'll go to college next week, and none o' y'r keepin'
school to get along. I've got enough to bring you safe out--that is, if
you'll be car'ful and stiddy."
James knew the heart too well to refuse a favor in which the poor old
man's mind was comforting itself. He had the self-command to abstain
from any extraordinary expressions of gratitude, but took it kindly, as
a matter of course.
"Dear Grace," said he to her, the last evening before he left home, "I
am changed; we both are altered since we first knew each other; and now
I am going to be gone a long time, but I am sure----"
He stopped to arrange his thoughts.
"Yes, you may be sure of all those things that you wish to say, and
cannot," said Grace.
"Thank you," said James; then, looking thoughtfully, he added, "God help
me. I believe I have mind enough to be what I mean to; but whatever I am
or have shall be given to God and my fellow-men; and then, Grace, your
brother in heaven will rejoice over me."
"I believe he does now," said Grace. "God bless you, James; I don't
know what would have become of us if you had not been here."
"Yes, you will live to be like him, and to do even more good," she
added, her face brightening as she spoke, till James thought she really
must be right.
       
It was five years after this that James was spoken of as an eloquent and
successful minister in the state of C., and was settled in one of its
most thriving villages. Late one autumn evening, a tall, bony,
hard-favored man was observed making his way into the outskirts of the
place.
"Halloa, there!" he called to a man over the other side of a fence;
"what town is this 'ere?"
"It's Farmington, sir."
"Well, I want to know if you know any thing of a boy of mine that lives
here?"
"A boy of yours? Who?"
"Why, I've got a boy here, that's livin' on the town, and I thought
I'd jest look him up."
"I don't know any boy that is living on the town. What's his name?"
"Why," said the old man, pushing his hat off from his forehead, "I
believe they call him James Benton."
"James Benton! Why, that is our minister's name!"
"O, wal, I believe he is the minister, come to think on't. He's a boy
o' mine, though. Where does he live?"
"In that white house that you see set back from the road there, with all
those trees round it."
At this instant a tall, manly-looking person approached from behind.
Have we not seen that face before? It is a touch graver than of old, and
its lines have a more thoughtful significance; but all the vivacity of
James Benton sparkles in that quick smile as his eye falls on the old
man.
"I thought you could not keep away from us long," said he, with the
prompt cheerfulness of his boyhood, and laying hold of both of Uncle
Lot's hard hands.
They approached the gate; a bright face glances past the window, and in
a moment Grace is at the door.
"Father! dear father!"
"You'd better make believe be so glad," said Uncle Lot, his eyes
glistening as he spoke.
"Come, come, father, I have authority in these days," said Grace,
drawing him towards the house; "so no disrespectful speeches; away with
your hat and coat, and sit down in this great chair."
"So, ho! Miss Grace," said Uncle Lot, "you are at your old tricks,
ordering round as usual. Well, if I must, I must;" so down he sat.
"Father," said Grace, as he was leaving them, after a few days' stay,
"it's Thanksgiving day next month, and you and mother must come and stay
with us."
Accordingly, the following month found Aunt Sally and Uncle Lot by the
minister's fireside, delighted witnesses of the Thanksgiving presents
which a willing people were pouring in; and the next day they had once
more the pleasure of seeing a son of theirs in the sacred desk, and
hearing a sermon that every body said was "the best that he ever
preached;" and it is to be remarked, that this was the standing
commentary on all James's discourses, so that it was evident he was
going on unto perfection.
"There's a great deal that's worth having in this 'ere life after all,"
said Uncle Lot, as he sat by the coals of the bright evening fire of
that day; "that is, if we'd only take it when the Lord lays it in our
way."
"Yes," said James; "and let us only take it as we should, and this life
will be cheerfulness, and the next fulness of joy."
LOVE versus LAW.
How many kinds of beauty there are! How many even in the human form!
There are the bloom and motion of childhood, the freshness and ripe
perfection of youth, the dignity of manhood, the softness of woman--all
different, yet each in its kind perfect.
But there is none so peculiar, none that bears more the image of the
heavenly, than the beauty of Christian old age. It is like the
loveliness of those calm autumn days, when the heats of summer are past,
when the harvest is gathered into the garner, and the sun shines over
the placid fields and fading woods, which stand waiting for their last
change. It is a beauty more strictly moral, more belonging to the soul,
than that of any other period of life. Poetic fiction always paints the
old man as a Christian; nor is there any period where the virtues of
Christianity seem to find a more harmonious development. The aged man,
who has outlived the hurry of passion--who has withstood the urgency of
temptation--who has concentrated the religious impulses of youth into
habits of obedience and love--who, having served his generation by the
will of God, now leans in helplessness on Him whom once he served, is,
perhaps, one of the most faultless representations of the beauty of
holiness that this world affords.
Thoughts something like these arose in my mind as I slowly turned my
footsteps from the graveyard of my native village, where I had been
wandering after years of absence. It was a lovely spot--a soft slope of
ground close by a little stream, that ran sparkling through the cedars
and junipers beyond it, while on the other side arose a green hill, with
the white village laid like a necklace of pearls upon its bosom.
There is no feature of the landscape more picturesque and peculiar than
that of the graveyard--that "city of the silent," as it is beautifully
expressed by the Orientals--standing amid the bloom and rejoicing of
nature, its white stones glittering in the sun, a memorial of decay, a
link between the living and the dead.
As I moved slowly from mound to mound, and read the inscriptions, which
purported that many a money-saving man, and many a busy, anxious
housewife, and many a prattling, half-blossomed child, had done with
care or mirth, I was struck with a plain slab, bearing the inscription,
"To the memory of Deacon Enos Dudley, who died in his hundredth year."
My eye was caught by this inscription, for in other years I had well
known the person it recorded. At this instant, his mild and venerable
form arose before me as erst it used to rise from the deacon's seat, a
straight, close slip just below the pulpit. I recollect his quiet and
lowly coming into meeting, precisely ten minutes before the time, every
Sunday,--his tall form a little stooping,--his best suit of
butternut-colored Sunday clothes, with long flaps and wide cuffs, on one
of which two pins were always to be seen stuck in with the most reverent
precision. When seated, the top of the pew came just to his chin, so
that his silvery, placid head rose above it like the moon above the
horizon. His head was one that might have been sketched for a St.
John--bald at the top, and around the temples adorned with a soft flow
of bright fine hair,--
    "That down his shoulders reverently spread,
    As hoary frost with spangles doth attire
    The naked branches of an oak half dead."
He was then of great age, and every line of his patient face seemed to
say, "And now, Lord, what wait I for?" Yet still, year after year, was
he to be seen in the same place, with the same dutiful punctuality.
The services he offered to his God were all given with the exactness of
an ancient Israelite. No words could have persuaded him of the propriety
of meditating when the choir was singing, or of sitting down, even
through infirmity, before the close of the longest prayer that ever was
offered. A mighty contrast was he to his fellow-officer, Deacon Abrams,
a tight, little, tripping, well-to-do man, who used to sit beside him
with his hair brushed straight up like a little blaze, his coat buttoned
up trig and close, his psalm book in hand, and his quick gray eyes
turned first on one side of the broad aisle, and then on the other, and
then up into the gallery, like a man who came to church on business, and
felt responsible for every thing that was going on in the house.
A great hinderance was the business talent of this good little man to
the enjoyments of us youngsters, who, perched along in a row on a low
seat in front of the pulpit, attempted occasionally to diversify the
long hour of sermon by sundry small exercises of our own, such as making
our handkerchiefs into rabbits, or exhibiting, in a sly way, the apples
and gingerbread we had brought for a Sunday dinner, or pulling the ears
of some discreet meeting-going dog, who now and then would soberly
pitapat through the broad aisle. But woe be to us during our contraband
sports, if we saw Deacon Abrams's sleek head dodging up from behind the
top of the deacon's seat. Instantly all the apples, gingerbread, and
handkerchiefs vanished, and we all sat with our hands folded, looking as
demure as if we understood every word of the sermon, and more too.
There was a great contrast between these two deacons in their services
and prayers, when, as was often the case, the absence of the pastor
devolved on them the burden of conducting the duties of the sanctuary.
That God was great and good, and that we all were sinners, were truths
that seemed to have melted into the heart of Deacon Enos, so that his
very soul and spirit were bowed down with them. With Deacon Abrams it
was an undisputed fact, which he had settled long ago, and concerning
which he felt that there could be no reasonable doubt, and his bustling
way of dealing with the matter seemed to say that he knew that and a
great many things besides.
Deacon Enos was known far and near as a very proverb for peacefulness of
demeanor and unbounded charitableness in covering and excusing the
faults of others. As long as there was any doubt in a case of alleged
evil doing, Deacon Enos guessed "the man did not mean any harm, after
all;" and when transgression became too barefaced for this excuse, he
