been granted to them. You must seek for resignation, not entire
bliss upon earth, although it is possible that you may enjoy it for
a season."
"Why is joy so transitory and unquiet so lasting?" demanded the
young man impatiently.
"The fault is not in the transitoriness of the joy, but in the very
soul itself,--it is in a state of disorder; its nature must be
changed before it can receive for ever only the image of gladness.
In a chaos of the elements, can a smiling sky be always seen? Lay
asleep all unruly elements in the spirit, and a pure heaven of
brightness will then greet the uplifted glance."
"But how can all this be done, grandfather? hath unruly elements do
you speak of? What can I do; for instance? I certainly am willing
and glad to see my kind happy--if my soul be in disorder, I do not
know in what it consists, or how to bring it to order. I am weary of
its unsatisfied desires; it is, continually in search of something
which it has never caught sight of,--and the fear, that that
unknown, yet powerfully desired something may never come to quench
my thirst, falls with the coldness of death upon my bosom."
"That something may be found by every human being, if sought for in
the right way. Those yearnings are not given us, that they may fall
back and wither the fountain from which they spring. But the
question is, do we seek for happiness in the right way? Do we not
rather ask for an impossibility, when we ask for permanent bliss,
before we have laid a foundation in our souls for it? You wish to
take this life too easy by far, my son; rouse up all your strength,
look around you with the keenness of a resolved spirit, and seek to
regenerate your whole being,--let that be your object, and let the
desire for happiness be subservient to it. You will clasp joy to
your breast, as an everlasting gift, at the end of the race. What
are your aims and objects? You hardly know; you are in pursuit of
that which flees, before you as a shadow, and your restless spirit
sinks and murmurs,--you have no grand object in view, to buoy you up
steadily and trustfully through every ill which life has power to
bestow. Those very ills are seized upon, and become instruments of
glory to the devoted and heaven-strengthened spirit,--they prepare
for a deeper draught of all things dear and desired, and though the
soul droop beneath the weight of human suffering, yet the rod that
smites is kissed with a prayer. Turn away from your individual self,
as far as you can, and regard the broad world with a philanthropic
eye--"
"Impossible--impossible!" interrupted Alfred, hastily, "I defy any
person to turn from himself, and look upon the world with a more
interested gaze than he casts upon his own heart. One may be
philanthropic in his feelings and devoted to alleviating the
distresses of less fortunate beings, but I hold it to be impossible
that our individual selves will not always be first in interest. A
sudden and powerful impulse may carry us away for a time, but after
that rushing influence leaves us, we see yourselves again, and, find
that we had only lost our equilibrium briefly. I say only what I
sincerely think, and what thousands secretly know to be the case,
even while advocating views quite opposite. There is no candour in
the world!"
"Softly, my good friend," said the grandfather, mildly smiling. "I
also hold it to be impossible that we can lose either our
individuality or our interest in ourselves, but I believe it
possible that we may love others just as well, if not better than
ourselves. I do not refer to one or two particular persons whom we
may admire, but I speak of the mass of our fellow-creatures."
"I cannot even conceive of such a love!" returned the young man,
shaking his head. "I cannot see how I could love a person who
possesses no attractive qualities whatever;--I always feel
indifference, if not dislike. I think I could sacrifice my life to
one I loved, if thrown into sudden and imminent danger; still, I
think I might give pain to that same person many times, by
gratifying myself. For instance, grandfather,--suppose you were to
be led to the stake, to be burned to-morrow,--I would take your
place to save you; yet I do not now do all I possible can, to add to
your happiness. I gratify whims of my own; I idle away hours in the
woods, or by some stream, when I fully know that it would be more
pleasing to you, to see me bending patiently over my Greek and
Latin."
"Very true!" sighed the old man. "You prove your own position, which
is that your ruling love is self-love."
Alfred lifted up his eyebrows, as if he had heard an unwelcome fact.
We are often willing to confess things, which we do not like to have
old us. He fell into deep thought. Finally he said, "It is
universally allowed that virtue is lovely; those who practise it,
appear calm and resigned, and often happy--but, to tell the truth,
such enjoyment seems rather tame and flat. I wish to be in freedom,
to let my burning impulses rush on as they will, without a yoke. I
love, and I hate, as my heart bids me, and I scorn control of any
kind."
"Yet you submit to a yoke, my son; one which is not of your own
imposing either."
"What kind of a yoke?"
"The yoke of society,--you bow to public opinion in a measure. You
avoid a glaring act, often, more because it will not be approved,
than because you have a real disinclination for it. Is not that the
case sometimes?"
Alfred did not exceedingly relish this probing, but he was too
candid to cover up his motives from himself. He answered a decided
"yes!" but it was spoken, because he could not elbow himself out of
the self-evident conviction forced upon him.
"Do you think it degrading for a man to conquer and govern the
strongest, as well as the weakest impulses of his soul?" pursued his
grandfather.
"Certainly not degrading,--it is in the highest degree worthy of
praise. It is truly noble! I acknowledge it."
"And yet you deem such enjoyment as would result from this
government, tame and flat."
"I beg pardon; when I spoke of virtue, I referred to that smooth
kind which is current, and seems more passive than active,--that
soft amiability which appears to deaden enthusiasm, and to shut up
the soul in a set of opinions, instead of expanding it widely to
everything noble and generous, wherever it may be found."
"It was not genuine virtue, you referred to, then,--it was only its
resemblance."
"It was what passes for virtue. But to come at the main point,
grandfather;--where is happiness to be found, if we are to be
warring with ourselves during a lifetime, checking every natural
spring in the soul?"
"Stop there, Alfred! We only quench the streams, which prevent the
spirit's purest wells of noble and happy feelings from gushing forth
in freedom. We must wage a warfare, it is true; why conceal it? But
it does not last for ever, and intervals of gladness come to refresh
us, which the worn and blunted spirit of the man of pleasure in vain
pants for. An exquisite joy, innocent as that of childhood, pervades
the bosom of truth's soldier in his hours of peace and rest, and he
lifts an eye of rapture to heaven--to God."
Alfred dwelt earnestly upon the noble countenance of the speaker,
and his bosom filled with unwonted emotion, as the heavenly
sweetness of the old man's smile penetrated into his inward soul.
Goodness stood before him in its wonderful power, and he bowed down
his soul in worship. How insignificant then seemed his individual
yearnings after present enjoyment, instead of that celestial love
which can fill a human soul with so strong a power from on high. He
reflected upon that venerable being's life--so strong and upright;
he dwelt upon his large and noble heart, which could clasp the world
in its embrace. He remembered months of acute suffering, both
physical and mental, which had been endured with the stillness of a
martyr's inward strength; and then, too, he recalled times when that
aged heart was more truly and deeply joyful than his own young
spirit had even been. Both relapsed into the eloquent silence of
absorbing thought. It was evident from the softened and meditative
cast of Alfred's features, that his bitterness had given way to the
true tenderness of feeling it so often quelled; he revolved in his
mind all that had been advanced by his grandfather, and he dwelt
upon every point with candour and serious reflection. A strong
impression was made upon him, but he was entirely silent in regard
to it,--he waited to try his strength, before he spoke of the better
resolutions that were formed, not without effort, in his mind. He
felt a conviction that a change from selfishness to angelic charity
might be accomplished, if he were but willing to co-operate with his
Maker,--the conception of universal love slowly dawned upon his
soul, now turned heavenward for light,--his duties as a responsible
being came before him, and a sigh of reproach was given to the past.
Then golden visions of delight thronged up to his gaze, and it was
with a severe pang he thought of losing his, hold upon the dear
domains of idle fancy,--he had so revelled for hours and hours, in
intoxicating dreams, which shut out the world and stern duty. He
felt his weakness, but he resolutely turned from dwelling upon it.
The evening air was refreshing after the warm sunset, but old Mr.
Monmouth would not trust himself to bear it. Alfred went into the
house with him, and made a brief call, then left, and wended his way
a short distance to his own home, which was a very elegant mansion,
surrounded by every mark of luxury and taste. He immediately sought
his chamber, and took up a neglected Bible which his mother had
given him when a child,--he turned over its leaves, and his eyes
fell upon the one hundred and nineteenth psalm, "Thy word is a lamp
unto my feet, and a light upon my path. I have sworn, and I will
perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments." He read on,
and the exceeding beauty and touching power of the Holy Word had
never so deeply affected him,--he wept, and all that was harsh in
his nature melted,--he prayed, and the angels of God approached,
filling his uplifted soul with heavenly strength. Sweet was the
thrill of thanksgiving, that arose from that hitherto restless
spirit--quiet and blest the peace that hushed him to deep,
invigorating slumber. Persons of an enthusiastic temperament are apt
to fall into extremes; such was the case with Alfred Monmouth. He so
feared that he would fall back into his former states of feeling,
that he guarded himself like an anchorite. For three months he
abstained from going into company, and even reasonable enjoyment he
deprived himself of. He threw aside all books but scientific and
religious ones; even poetry he shut his ears against, lest it might
beguile him again to his dreamy, but selfish musings. No doubt this
severe discipline was very useful to him at the time, in
strengthening him against the besetting faults of his character; but
it could not last long, without originating other errors. During
this time he had been, perhaps, as happy as ever in his life; his
mind had been fixed upon an object, and a wealth of new thoughts had
crowded upon him--he rejoiced with a kind of proud humility in his
capability for self-government. He thought he was rapidly verging
towards perfection. But "a change came o'er the spirit of his dream"
at last, and an unwonted melancholy grew upon him, until it settled
like a pall over his heart. An apathy in regard to what had so
lately interested him, stole over him, and indeed a cold glance fell
upon almost every pursuit he had once prized. Plunged in deep gloom,
he one evening sought his grandfather's dwelling, hoping, by a
conversation with the cheerful old man, to regain a more healthy
state of mind; to his great satisfaction, Alfred found him alone
reading.
"Well, my boy, I am glad you have come in!" was the salutation, with
a most cordial smile, for Mr. Monmouth had silently remarked the
late alteration in his somewhat reckless grandson. He also detected
the present gloom upon his fine countenance, and the earnest hope of
dispelling it, added an affectionate heartiness to his manner.
Alfred made several common-place remarks, then, with his usual
impatience, he flung aside all preamble, and said,
"I am gloomy, grandfather, even more so than I have ever been, and I
cannot explain it. The last serious conversation I had with you,
produced a strong effect upon me, and for a long time after I was
unusually cheerful and vigorous in mind. I seemed to have imbibed
something of your spirit--I delighted in the hope of regenerating
myself, through the aid of Heaven; it seemed as if angels hushed my
restless spirit to repose, and I tried in humility to draw near my
God. Yet I feared for myself, and I withdrew from temptation, from
all society which was uncongenial to my state of mind. I was
content for a long time, but now the sadness of apathy overwhelms
me."
"Endeavour, without murmuring, to bear this state of mind, and it
will soon pass off," remarked Mr. Monmouth. "We must not always fly
from temptation in every form, my boy, but we must arm ourselves
against its attacks, otherwise our usefulness will be greatly
lessened. If those who are endeavouring to make themselves better,
do so by shunning society, they are rather examples of selfishness
than benevolent goodness,--the selfishness is unconscious, and such
a course may be followed from a sense of duty. But the glance which
discovered this to be duty was not wide enough; it took in only the
claims of self, yet I would not convey the idea, that we have any
one's evils to take care of but our own. We need society, and,
however humble we may be, society needs us. We need to be refreshed
by the strength of good beings, and we must also contribute our
slight share to those whom Providence wills that we may benefit. The
life of heaven may thus circulate freely, and increase in power
among many hearts. Go forward, Alfred, unmindful of your feelings,
and pray only to trust in Providence, and to gain a deep desire for
usefulness."
"Ah! yes," returned the young man, earnestly. Light broke in upon
his darkness. "I am glad that I have spoken with you, grandfather,
for your words give me strength to persevere. I never knew that I
was weak until lately."
"Such knowledge is precious, my dear son. We are indeed strongest
when the hand of humility removes the veil that hides us from
ourselves."
"Probably such is, the case, but I cannot realize it. It is with
effort that I drag through the day; I am continually looking towards
the future, and beholding a thousand perplexing situations where my
besetting sins will be called into action. I see myself incapable of
always following out the noble principles I have lately adopted."
"As thy day is, so shall thy strength be!" said Mr. Monmouth. "Be
careful only to guard yourself against each little stumbling-block
as it presents itself, and your mountains will be changed to
mole-hills. Never fear for the future, do as well as you can in the
present."
"But it is so singular that I should feel thus, when I have been
trying as hard as a mortal could to change my erroneous views, and
to regard all the dispensations of Providence with a resigned heart.
I have cast the selfish thought of my own earthly happiness from my
mind as much as possible."
"And yet there is a repining in your gloominess. You are not
satisfied to bear it."
"Well, perhaps not. I am wrong,--I think that I could submit with
true fortitude to an outward trial, but there seems so little reason
in my low spirits. Have you ever felt so, grandfather?"
"Often; and at such times, I devote myself more earnestly than ever
to anything which will take my thoughts from myself."
"I will do so!" replied Alfred, firmly. "If my purposes are right in
the sight of Heaven, I will be supported."
"True, my son."
Alfred left the home of his grandsire, more at rest with himself and
all the world. Fresh peaceful hopes again sprang up within him, and
he began to see his way clear. He reasoned himself into resignation,
and, as day after day went on, he grew grateful for the privilege
and opportunity offered to school his rebellious spirit to order.
Four years passed; Alfred was engaged in the busy world, and he
shrunk not from it, but rather sought to do his duty in it. One
summer evening, he was called to enter the large, old-fashioned
house of his grandfather. His brow was thoughtful, but calm and
resigned--he sought a quiet room; it was the chamber of death,--yet
was its stillness beautiful and peaceful; he knelt by a dying couch,
and clasped the hand of his aged grandsire--then he wept, but the
unbidden tears were those of gratitude. The serenity of heaven was
upon the countenance of the noble old man.
"My hour has come, Alfred," he said, placing one hand upon the
beloved head bowed before him, "and I go hence with thankfulness.
Ah! even now, there is a heavenly content in my bosom. The angels
are bending over me, and wait to take my spirit to its home: there
is no mist before my sight, all is clear. The Father of love lifts
up my soul in this hour--our parting will be short, my son--" the
old man's voice trembled, an infinite tenderness dwelt in his eyes,
and Alfred felt that there was a reality in the peace of the dying
one. All the good that he had done him rushed before him, and he
exclaimed with humility,
"How can I ever repay you, dear grandfather! for all your noble
lessons to me?"
"I am repaid," was (sic) the the low reply; "they have brought forth
fruit, and I have lived to see it. I trust that you will leave the
world with all the peace that I do, and with deeper goodness in your
spirit. My blessing be upon you, my son!"
"Amen!" came low from Alfred's fervent lips.
The eyes of the aged one closed in death, and his young disciple
went forth again into the world, made better by the scene he had
witnessed.
A HYMN OF PRAISE.
  I BLESS Thee for the sunshine on the hills,
    For Heaven's own dewdrops in the vales below,
  For rain, the parent cloud alike distils,
    On the fond bridegroom's joy--the mourner's woe!
  And for the viewless wind, that gently blows
    Where'er it listeth, over field and flood,
  Whence coming, whither going, no man knows,
    Yet moved in secret at Thy will, Oh, God!
  E'en now it lifts a ring of shining hair
    From off the brow close to my bosom pressed--
  The loving angels scarce have brows more fair
    Than this, that looks so peaceful in its rest:--
  We bless Thee, Father, for our darling child,
  Oh, like Thine angels make her, innocent and mild!
  I rise and bless Thee, for the morning hours;
    Refreshed and gladdened by a timely rest,
  When thoughts like bees, rove out among the flowers,
    Still gathering honey where they find the best:
  And for the gentle influence of the night,
    Oh, Heavenly Father! do we bend the knee,
  That shuts the curtains of our mortal sight,
    Yet leaves the mind, with range and vision free,
  For dreams! the solemn, weird, and strange that come
    And bear the soul to an elysian clime,--
  Unveiling splendours of that better home,
    Where angels minister to sons of time!
  For all Thy blessings that with sleep descend,
  Our hearts shall praise Thee, God, our Father and our Friend!
AN ANGEL IN EVERY HOUSE.
IT is a trite saying, and an unique one, that there is "a skeleton
in every house." That every form however erect, that every face
however smiling, covers some secret malady of mind that no physician
can cure. This may be true, and undoubtedly is; but we contend that,
as everything has its opposite, there is also an angel in every
house. No matter how fallen the inmates, how depressing their
circumstances, there is an angel there to pity or to cheer. It may
be in the presence of a wrinkled body, treading the downward path to
the grave. Or, perhaps, in a cheerful spirit looking upon the ills
of life as so many steps toward heaven, if only bravely overcome,
and mounted with sinless feet.
We knew such an angel once, and it was a drunkard's child. On every
side wherever she moved she saw only misery and degradation, and yet
she did not fall. Her father was brutal, and her mother discouraged,
and her home thoroughly comfortless. But she struggled along with
angel endurance, bearing with an almost saintly patience the
infirmities of him who gave her existence, and then hourly
embittered it. Night after night, at the hours of ten, twelve, and
even one, barefoot, ragged, shawlless, and bonnetless, has she been
to the den of the drunkard, and gone staggering home with her arm
around her father. Many a time has her flesh been blue with the mark
of his hand when she has stepped in between her helpless mother and
violence. Many a time has she sat upon the cold curbstone with his
head in her lap; many a time known how bitter it was to cry for
hunger, when the money that should have bought bread was spent for
rum.
And the patience that the angel wrought with made her young face
shine, so that, though never acknowledged in the courts of this
world, in the kingdom of heaven she was waited for by assembled
hosts of spirits, and the crown of martyrdom ready, lay waiting for
her young brow.
And she was a martyr. Her gentle spirit went up from at couch of
anguish--anguish brought on by ill-usage and neglect. And never till
then did the father recognise the angel in the child; never till
then did his manhood arise from the dust of its dishonour. From her
humble grave, he went away to steep his resolves for the better in
bitter tears; and he will tell you to-day, how the memory of her
much-enduring life keeps him from the bowl: how he goes sometimes
and stands where her patient hands have held him, while her cheek
crimsoned at the sneers of those who scoffed at the drunkard's
child.
Search for the angels in your households, and cherish them while
they are among you. It may be that all unconsciously you frown upon
them, when a smile would lead you to a knowledge of their exceeding
worth. They may be among the least cared for, most despised; but
when they are gone with their silent influence, then will you mourn
for them as for a jewel of great worth.
ANNIE.
  THE grave is Heaven's gate, they say;
  And when dear Annie passed away,
    One calm June morning,
  I saw upon the heavenly stairs,
  A band of angels, unawares,
    Her path adorning.
  The grave is Heaven's gate, they say;
  And when dear Annie passed away,
    A music flowing
  Filled my sad soul with love and light,
  That made me seem, by day and night,
    To Heaven going.
  The grave is Heaven's gate, they say;
  And when dear Annie passed away,
    A saintly whiteness
  O'erspread the beauty of her face,
  And filled it with the tender grace
    Of angel brightness.
  The grave is Heaven's gate, they say;
  And when dear Annie passed away,
    An angel splendid
  Cast his large glories to the ground,
  While waves of throbbing music-sound
    In sweetness blended.
  The grave is Heaven's gate, they say;
  And when dear Annie passed away,
    In holy sweetness--
  When life's sad dream with her was o'er,
  Her white soul stood at Heaven's door,
    In its completeness.
MOTHER.
WHEN she changed worlds, and before the time, what was she to
others? A small old, delicate woman. What was she to us? A
radiant, smiling angel, upon whose brow the sunshine of the eternal
world had fallen. We looked into her large, tender eyes, and saw not
as others did, that her mortal garment had waxed old and feeble; or
if we saw, this, it was no symbol of decay, for beyond and within,
we recognised her in all her beauty. Oh! how heavy and bitter
would have been her long and slow decline, if we had seen her grow
old instead of young! The days that hastened to give her birth into
eternity, grow brighter and brighter, until when memory wandered
back, it had no experiences so sweet as those through which she was
passing. The long life, with its youthful romance, its prosaic
cares, its quiet sunshine, and deep tragedies, was culminating to
its earthly close; and, like some blessed story that appeals to the
heart in its great pathos, the end was drawing, near, all clouds
were rolling away, and she was stepping forth into the brilliance of
prosperity. Selfishness ceased to weep under the light of her
cheerful glance, and grew to be congratulation. Beside her couch we
sat, and traced with loving fancy the new life soon to open before
her; with tears and smiles we traced it. Doubts never mingled, for
from earliest childhood we had no memories of her inconsistent with
the expectations of a Christian. Deep in our souls there lay
gratitude that her morning drew near; beautiful and amazing it
seemed that she would never more bow to the stroke of the chastener;
fresh courage descended from on high, as we realized that there was
an end to suffering; it was difficult to credit that her discipline
was nearly over; how brief it had been, compared with the glorious
existence it had won her. How passing sweet were her assurances that
she should leave us awhile longer on earth with childlike trust,
knowing that our own souls needed to stay, and that the destiny of
others needed it! But the future seemed very near to her, and she
saw us gathered around her in her everlasting home. She grew weaker,
and said her last words to us. Throughout the last day she said but
little, but often her tender eyes were riveted upon us; they said
"Farewell! farewell!" In the hush of the chamber, a faint,
eolian-like strain came from her dying lips; it sounded as if it
came from afar; then the angels were taking her to their
companionship. She softly fell asleep, resigning her worn-out body
to us, and she entered heaven. Ah! do we apprehend what a glorious
event it is for the "pure in heart" to die? We look upon the bride's
beauty, and see in the vista before her, anguish and tears, and but
transient sunshine. The beauty fades, the splendour of life declines
to the worldly eyes that gaze upon her. Deaf and blind are such
gazers, for the bride may daily be winning imperishable beauty, yet
it is not for this world. A most sad and melancholy thing it seems
when children of a larger growth judge their parents by their frail
and decaying bodies, rather than by their spirits. And more deeply
sad still is it, when the aged learn through the young to feel that
the freshness of existence has gone by with them. Gone by? when they
are waiting to be born into a new and vast existence that shall roll
on in increasing majesty, and never reach an end! Gone by? when they
have just entered life, as it were! The glory and sweetness of
living is going by only with those who are turning away their
faces from the Prince of Peace. Sweet mother! she is breathing
vernal airs now, and with every breath a spring-like life and joy
are wafted through her being. Mother beautiful and beloved! some
sweet, embryo joy fills the chambers of my heart as I contemplate
the scenes with which she is becoming familiar. Dead and dreary
winter robes the earth, and autumn leaves lie under the snow like
past hopes; but what of them? I see only the smile of God's
sunshine. I see in the advancing future, love and peace--only
infinite peace!
GREAT PRINCIPLES AND SMALL DUTIES.
IT is observable that the trivial services of social life are best
performed, and the lesser particles of domestic happiness are most
skilfully organized, by the deepest and the fairest heart. It is an
error to suppose that homely minds are the best administrators of
small duties. Who does not know how wretched a contradiction such a
rule receives in the moral economy of many a home? how often the
daily troubles, the swarm of blessed cares, the innumerable minutiae
of arrangement in a family, prove quite too much for the generalship
of feeble minds, and even the clever selfishness of strong ones; how
a petty and scrupulous anxiety in defending with infinite
perseverance some small and almost invisible point of frugality, and
comfort, surrenders the greater unobserved, and while saving money,
ruins minds; how, on the other hand, a rough and unmellowed sagacity
rules indeed, and without defeat, but while maintaining in action
the mechanism of government, creates a constant and intolerable
friction, a gathering together of reluctant wills, a groaning under
the consciousness of force, that make the movements of life fret and
chafe incessantly? But where, in the presiding genius of a home,
taste and sympathy unite (and in their genuine forms they cannot be
separated)--the intelligent feeling for moral beauty, and the deep
heart of domestic love,--with, what ease, what mastery, what
graceful disposition, do the seeming trivialities of life fall into
order, and drop a blessing as they take their place! how do the
hours steal away, unnoticed but by the precious fruits they leave!
and by the self-renunciation of affection, there comes a spontaneous
adjustment of various wills; and not an innocent pleasure is lost,
not a pure taste offended, nor a peculiar temper unconsidered; and
every day has its silent achievements of wisdom, and every night its
retrospect of piety and love; and the tranquil thoughts, that in the
evening meditation come down with the starlight, seem like the
serenade of angels, bringing in melody the peace of God! Wherever
this picture is realized, it is not by microscopic solicitude of
spirit, but by comprehension of mind, and enlargement of heart; by
that breadth and nicety of moral view which discerns everything in
due proportion, and in avoiding an intense elaboration of trifles,
has energy to spare for what is great; in short, by a perception
akin to that of God, whose providing frugality is on an infinite
scale, vigilant alike in heaven and on, earth; whose art colours a
universe with beauty and touches with its pencil the petals of a
flower. A soul thus pure and large disowns the paltry rules of
dignity, the silly notions of great and mean, by which fashion
distorts God's real proportions; is utterly delivered from the
spirit of contempt; and, in consulting for the benign administration
of life, will learn many a truth, and discharge many ant office,
from which lesser beings, esteeming themselves greater, would shrink
from as ignoble. But in truth, nothing is degrading which a high and
graceful purpose ennobles; and offices the most menial cease to be
menial, the moment they are wrought in love. What thousand services
are rendered, ay, and by delicate hands, around the bed of sickness,
which, else considered mean, become at once holy and quite
inalienable rights! To smooth the pillow, to proffer the draught, to
soothe or obey the fancies of the delirious will, to sit for hours
as the mere sentinel of the feverish sleep; these things are
suddenly erected, by their relation to hope and life, into sacred
privileges. And experience is perpetually bringing occasions,
similar in kind, though of less persuasive poignancy, when a true
eye and a lovely heart will quickly see the relations of things
thrown into a new position, and calling for a sacrifice of
conventional order to the higher laws of the affections; and alike
without condescension and without ostentation, will noiselessly take
the post of service and do the kindly deed. Thus it is that the
lesser graces display themselves most richly, like the leaves and
flowers of life, where there is the deepest and the widest root of
love; not like the staring and artificial blossoms of dry custom
that, winter or summer, cannot change; but living petals woven in
Nature's workshop and folded by her tender skill, opening and
shutting morning and night, glancing and trembling in the sunshine
and in the breeze. This easy capacity of great affections for small
duties is the peculiar triumph of the highest spirit of love.
"OF SUCH IS THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN."
  How quietly she lies!
  Closed are the lustrous eyes,
  Whose fringed lids, so meek,
  Rest on the placid cheek;
  While, round the forehead fair,
  Twines the light golden hair,
  Clinging with wondrous grace
  Unto the cherub face.
  Tread softly near her, dear ones! Let her sleep,--
  I would not have my darling wake to weep.
  Mark how her head doth rest
  Upon her snowy breast,
  While, 'neath the shadow of a drooping curl,
  One little shoulder nestles like a pearl,
  And the small waxen fingers, careless, clasp
  White odorous flowers in their tiny grasp;
  Blossoms most sweet
  Crown her pure brow, and cluster o'er her feet,
  Sure earth hath never known a thing more fair
  Than she who gently, calmly, slumbers there.
  Alas! 'tis Death, not sleep,
  That girds her in its frozen slumbers deep.
  No balmy breath comes forth
  From the slight-parted mouth;
  Nor heaves the little breast,
  In its unyielding rest;
  Dead fingers clasp
  Flowers in unconscious grasp;--
  Woe, woe is me, oh! lone, bereaved mother!
  'Tis Death that hath my treasure, and none other.
  No more I hear the voice,
  Those loving accents made my heart rejoice;
  No more within my arms
  Fold I her rosy charms.
  And, gazing down into the liquid splendour
  Of the brown eyes serenely, softly tender,
  Print rapturous kisses on the gentle brow,
  So cold and pallid now.
  No more, no more! repining heart, be still,
  And trust in Him who doeth all things well.
  Oh, happy little one!
  How soon her race was run--
  Her pain and suffering o'er,
  Herself from sin secure.
  Not hers to wander through the waste of years,
  Sowing in hope, to gather nought but tears;
  Nor care, nor strife,
  Dimmed her brief day of life.
  All true souls cherished her, and fondly strove
  To guard from every ill my meek white dove.
  Love, in its essence,
  Pervaded her sweet presence.
  How winning were her ways;
  Her little child-like grace,
  And the mute pleadings of her innocent eyes,
  Seizing the heart with sudden, soft surprise,
  As if an angel, unaware,
  Had strayed from Heaven, here;
  And, saddened at the dark and downward road,
  Averted her meek gaze, and sought her Father, God.
  In her new spiritual birth,
  No garments soiled with earth
  Cling round the little form, that happy strays,
  Up through the gates of pearl and golden ways,
