either as principal or accessory. A vague idea of 
an all-pervading justice consoled him; and he soon 
reasoned himself into a firm assurance that he should 
escape unharmed. 

He was in the mood for reasoning ju'.t then — 
perhaps because he had nothing better to do, or per- 
haps because the added experience of the last twenty- 
four hours enabled him to reason better than before. 
His fine scheme of getting to Boston, and there 
making a rich and great man of himself, had signaliy 
failed. He did not give it up, however. 

" I have failed once, but I will try again," said he 
to himself, as the conclusion of the whole matter; 
»n I he picked up an old school book which lay on 
the tahle. 

The book contained a story, which he had often 



 

tead, aloat a man who had met with a long list of 
misfortunes, as he deemed them when they occurred 
but which proved to be blessings in disguise. 

" Oft from apparent ills our blessings rise. 
Act well your part ; there all the honor lies." 

This couplet from the school books came to his aid, 
also ; and he proceeded to make an application of 
this wisdom to his own mishaps. 

" Suppose I had gone on with Ben. He is a mis- 
erable fellow," thought Harry ; " he would bave led 
me into all manner of wickedness. I ought not to 
have gone with him, or had any thing to do with 
him. He might have made a thief and a robber of 
me. I know I ain't any better than I should be ; 
but I don't believe I'm as bad as he is. At any 
rate, I wouldn't set a barn afire. It is all for the 
best, just as the parson says when any body dies 
By this scrape I have got clear of Ben, and learned 
a lesson that I won't forget in a hurry." 

Uarry was satisfied with this logic, and really 
believed that something which an older and more 
devout person would have regarded as a special 





providence had interposed to save him from a life 
of infamy and wickedness. It was a blessed experi- 
ence, and his thoughts were very serious and earnest. 

In the afternoon, Squire Walker came down to 
the pcorhouse to subject Harry to a preliminary ex- 
amination. Ben Smart had not been taken, and the 
pursuers had abandoned the chase. 

" Boy," said the squire, when Harry was brought 
before him ; " look at me." 

Harry looked at the overseer with all his might. 
He had got far enough to despise the haughty little 
great man. A taste of freedom had enlarged his 
ideas and developed his native independence, so tbat 
he did not quail, as the squire intended he should ; 
on the contrary, his eyes snapped with the earnest- 
ness of his gaze. With an honest and just man, hia 
unflinching eye would have been good evidence in 
his favor ; but the pompous overseer wished to aiva 
him, rather than get at the simple truth. 

" You set my barn on fire," continued the squire. 

" T did not," replied Harry, firmly. 

" Yes, you did. How dare you deny it ? " 

« I did not." 




He had often read, and heard read, that passage 
of Scriptuie which says, " Let your communications 
he Yea, yea, Nay, nay ; for whatsoever is more than 
these cometh of evil."' Just then he felt the truth 
of the inspired axiom. It seemed just as though any 
amount of violent protestations would not help him ; 
and though the squire repeated the charge half a 
dozen times, he only replied with his firm and simple 
denial. 

Then Squire "Walker called his hired man, upon 
whose evidence he depended for the conviction of 
the little incendiary. 

" Is that the hoy, John ? " asked the squire, point- 
ing to Harry. 

" No, sir ; it was a bigger boy than that," replied 
John, without hesitation. 

" Are you sure ? " 

" O, very sure." 

" It must be that this is the boy," persisted the 
vquire, evidently much disappointed by the testimony 
of the man. 

" I am certain it was a bigger boy than this." 

" I feel pretty clear about it, Mr. Nason," added 

the squire. " You see, tiiis boy was mad, yesterday, 
because i wanted to send him to Jacob Wire's. My 
barn is burned, and it stands to reason he burned it," 

" But I saw the boy round the barn night afore 
last," interposed John, who was certainly better 
qualified to be a justice of the peace han his em- 
ployer. 

"I know that; but the barn wasn't burned till 
last night." 

" But Harry couldn't have had any grudge against 
you night before last," said Mr. Xason. 

" I don't know about that," mused the squire, who 
was apparently trying to reconcile the facts to hia 
theorj , rather than the theory to the facts. 

John, the hired man, lived about three miles from 
the squire's house. His father was very sick ; and 
he had been home every evening for a week, return- 
ing between ten and eleven. On the night preceding 
the fire, he had seen a boy prowling round the barn, 
who ran away at his approach. The next day, he 
found a pile of withered grass, dry sticks, and other 
rombustibles heaped against a loose board in the side 
of the barn. He had informed the squire of the




facts , but the worthy justice did not consider them 
of much moment. 

Probably Ben had intended to burn the barn tlmn, 
tut had been prevented from executing his purpose 
by the approach of the hired man. 

"This must be the boy," added the squire. 

" he had on a sack coat, and was bigger than this 
boy," replied John. 

" Harry has no sack coat," put in Mr. Xason, 
eagerly catching at this evidence. 

" It is easy to be mistaken in the night. Search 
him, and see if there are any matches about him." 

Undoubtedly this was a very brilliant suggestion 
of the squire's muddy intellect — as though every 
man who carried matches was necessarily an incen- 
diary. Rut no matches were found upon Harry ; 
and, according to the intelligent justice's perception 
of the nature of evidence, the suspected party should 
nave been acquitted. 

No matches were found on Harry; but in his 
acket pocket, carefully enclosed in a piece of brown 
paper, «*cre found the four quarters of a doilar ?iveu 
to him by Mr. Nason. 





"Where did you get those?" asked the squire, 
iternly. 

"They Were given to me," replied Harry. 

Mr. Nason averted his eyes, and was very uneasy. 
The fact of having given this money to Harry went 
to show that he had been privy to his escape ; and 
his kind act seemed to threaten him with ruin. 

" Who gave them to you ? " 

Harry made no reply. 

" Answer me," thundered the squire. 

" I shall not tell," replied Harry. 

" You shall not ? " 

" No, sir." 

The squire was nonplussed. The boy was as firm 
as a hero ; and no threats could induce him to betray 
his kind friend, whose position he fully compre- 
hended. 

" We will see," roared the squire. 

Several persons who had been present during the 
examination, and who were satisfied that Harry was 
innocent of the crime charged upon him, interfered 
to save him from the consequences of thf squ-re's 
wrath. 




Mr. Xason, finding that his young friend was 
likely to suffer for his magnanimity, explained the 
matter — thus turning the squire's anger 'rom the 
toy to himself. 

"So you helped the boy run away — did you ? *' 
said the overseer. 

" He did not ; he told me that money would keep 
me from starving." 

" Did he ? " 

Those present understood the allusion, and the 
squire did not press the matter any further. In the 
course of the examination, Ben Smart had often been 
alluded to, and the crime was fastened upon him. 
Harry told his story, which, confirmed by the evi- 
dence of the hired man, was fully credited by all 
except the squire, who had conceived a violent an- 
tipathy to the boy. 

The examination was informal ; the squire did nol 
hold it as a justice of the peace, but only as a citi- 
zen, or, at most, as an overseer of the poor. How- 
ever, it proved thut, as the burning of the barn had 
Deen planned before any difficulty had occurred be- 

twccn the squire and Hair)', he had no mothe for  

doing the deed. 

The squire was not satisfied : hut the worst he 

could do was to commit Harry to the care of Jacob 
Wire, which was immediately done. 

" I am sorry for you, Harry," whispered Mr. 
Nason. 

"Never mind; I shall fry again" he repl'.d, ae 
he jumped into the wagon with his persecutor. 




CHAPTER VII. 


" Jacob, here is the boy," said Squire Walker, as 
he stopped his horse in front of an old, decayed 
house. 

Jacob Wire was at work in his garden, by the side 
o e the house ; and when the squire spoke, he straight- 
ened his back, regarding Harry with a look of min- 
gled curiosity and distrust. He evidently did not 
like his appearance. He looked as though he would 
eat too much ; and to a man as mean as Jacob, this 
was the sum total of all enormities. Besides, the little 
pauper had earned a bad reputation within the pre- 
ceding twenty- four hours, and his new master glanced 
uneasily at his barn, and then at the boy, as though 
he deemed it unsafe to have such a desperate charac« 
tei about his premises. 




"He is a hard boy, Jacob, and will need a little 
taming. They fed him too high at the poorhoue,'' 
continued the squire. 

" That spiles boys," replied Jacob, solemnly. 

" So it does." 

" So, this is the boy that burnt your barn ? " 

" Well. I don't know. I rather think it was the 
Smart boy. Perhaps he knew about it, though ; " and 
the squire proceeded to give his brother-in-law the 
particulars of the informal examination ; for Jacob 
Wire, who could hardly afford to lie still on Sundays, 
much less other days, had not been up to the vil- 
lage to hear the news. 

" You must be pretty sharp with him," said the 
overseer, in conclusion. " Keep your eye on him all 
the time, for we may want him again, as soon as they 
can catch the other boy." 

Jacob promised to do the best he could with Harrj 
whe, during the interview, had maintained a sullen 
silence ; and the squire departed, assured that he had 
done hie whole duty to the public and to the little 
pauper. 

" Well, boy, it is about sundown now, and I guess




we will go in and get some supper before we do an^ 
Store. But let me tell you beforehand, you must 
walk pretty straight here, or you will fare hard." 

Harry vouchsafed no reply to this speech, and followed Jacob into the house. His first meal at his 
new place confirmed all he had heard about the penu- 
riousness of his master. There was very little to eat 
on the table, but Mrs. "Wire gave him the poorest 
there was — a hard crust of brown bread, a cold 
potato, and a dish of warm water with a very little 
molasses and milk in it, which he was expected to 
imagine was tea. 

Harry felt no disposition to eat. He was too sad 
and depressed, and probably if the very best had been 
Bet before him, he would have been equally indif- 
ferent. 

He ate very little, and Jacob felt more kindly to- 
wards him than before this proof of the smallness of 
his appetite. He had been compelled to get rid of 
his last boy, because he was a little ogre, and it 
neemed as though he would eat him out of house and 
aome. 

After supper Harry assisted Jacob about the barn. 





anil it was nearly eight o'clock before they finished. 

" Now, boy, it is about bed time, and I will show
you your rooms, if you like," suid Jacob. " Before 
you go, let me tell you it won't do any good to try 
to run away from here, for I am going to borrow 
Leman's bull-dog." 

Harry made no reply to this remark, and followed 
his master to the low attic of the house, where ho 
was pointed to a rickety bedstead, which he was to 
occupy. 

" There, jump into bed afore I carry the candle 
off," continued Jacob. 

" I don't care about any light. You needn't 
wait," replied Harry, as he slipped off his shoes and 
stockings. 

" That is right; boys always ought to be learnt to 
go to bed in the dark," added Jacob, as he departed. 

But Harry was determined not to go to bed in the 
lark ; so, as soon as he heard Jacob's step on the 
floor below, he crept to the stairway, and silently de- 
scended. He had made up his mind not to wait for  
tl« bull-dog. Pausing in the entry, he heard Jacol 



tell his wife that he was going over to Leman's to 
borrow his dog ; he was afraid the boy would get up 
in the night and set his barn on fire, or run away. 
Jacob then loft the house, satisfied, no doubt, that the 
bull-dog would be an efficient sentinel while the family were asleep. 

After allowing time enough to elapse for Jacob to 
reach Leman's house, he softly opened the front dooi 
and went out. It was fortunate for him that Mrs. 
Wire was as " deaf as a post," or his suddenly matured plan to " try again " might have been a failure. 
As it was, h:g departure was not observed. It was 
quite dark, and after he bad got a short distance from 
the bouse, he felt a reasonable degree of security. 

His first purpose was to get as far away from Red- 
field as possible, before the daylight should come to 
betray him ; and, taking the road, he walked as fast 
as his legs would carry him towards Boston. Jacob's 
house was on the turnpike, which was the direct roaj 
to the city, and the distance which the squire bad 
rarried him in his wagon was so much clear gain. 

He did not feel very sentimental now. The shy 
was oversha i Dwei with clouds, sc that he could aol 





Bee any stirs, ami the future did not look half Ml 
bright as his fancy had pictured it on the preceding 
night. But he was free again; and free under more 
favorable circumstances than before. This time he 
was himself commander of the expedition, and was to 
suffer for no one's bad generalship but his own. Be- 
sides, the experience he had obtained was almost a 
guarantee of success. It had taught him the neces- 
sity of care and prudence. 

The moral lesson he had learned was of infinitely 
more value than even the lesson of policy. For the 
urst time in his life he was conscious of a deep and 
earnest desire to be a good boy, and to become a true 
man. As he walked along, he thought more of being 
a good man than of being a rich man. It was very 
natural for him to do so, under the circumstances, for  
he had come very near being punished as an incendi- 
ary. The consequences of doing wrong were just 
then strongly impressed upon his mind, and he al- 
most shuddered to think he had consented to remain 
with Ben Smart after he knew that he burned the 
Darn. Ah, it was an exceedingly fortunate thing for  
him that he had got rid of Ben as he did. 





For two hours he walked as fast as he could, paus- 
ing now and then to listen for the sound of any ap- 
proaching vehicle. Possibly Jacob might have gone 
to his room, or attic, to see if he was safe, and hia 
escape had been discovered. He could not be too 
wary, and every sound that reached his waiting ear 
caused his heart to jump with anxiety. 

He heard a clock strike eleven. It was not the 
Redfield clock, and it was evident that he was ap- 
proaching Rockville, a factory village, eight miles 
from his native place. But his legs were failing him. 
He was exhausted by the labors and the excitement 
oJ the day and night, and his strength would hardly 
hold out till he should get beyond the village. 

Seating himself on a rock by the side of the road, 
he decided to hold a council of war, to determine 
what should be done. If he went forward, his 
strength might fail him at the time when a vigorous 
effort should be required of him. Somebody's dog 
might bark, and b ing the " Philistines upon him." 
He might meet some late walker, who would detain 
him. It was hardly safe for him to go through the 
Tillage by night or day, after the search which bad 





been made for Ben Smart. People would be on the 
lookout, and it would be no hard matter to mistake 
him for <he other fugitive. 

On the other hand, he did not like to pause so neai 
Itedfield. He had scarcely entered upon the consid- 
eration of this side of the question, before his quick 
ear detected the sound of rattling wheels in the direc- 
tion from which he had come. His heart beat vio- 
lently. It was Squire Walker and Jacob Wire, ha 
was sure, in pursuit of him ; but his courage did not 
fail him. 

Leaping over the stone wall by the side of the 
road, he secured the only retreat which the vicinity 
afforded, and waited, with his heart in his throat, for  
the coming of the pursuers, as he had assured him- 
self they were. The present seemed to be his only 
chance of escape,, and if he failed now, he might 
soon have another opportunity to " try again." 

The vehicle was approaching at a furious pace, and

as the noise grew more distinct, his heart leapt  the 

more violently. He thought he recognized the sounc 

'"* Squire Walker's wagon. There was not mucb 

-*ie for his fancy to conjure up strange things, for  




the carriage soon reached the place where he was 
concealed. . 

" Ur-r — woo ! " said a big bull-dog, placing his 
ugly nose against the wall, behind which Harry was 
lying. 

" Whoa ! " added a voice, which the trembling 
fugitive recognized as that of George Leman. 

" The dog has scented him," said another — that 
of Jacob Wire. 

Harry's heart sunk within him, and he felt as faint 
as though every drop of blood had been drawn from 
his veins. 

" I knew the dog would fetch him," said George 
Leman, as he leaped from the wagon, followed by 
Jacob Wire. " At him, Tiger ! " 

In obedience to this command, Tiger drew back a 
few steps, and then leaped upon the top of the wall. 
The prospect of being torn in pieces by the bull-dog 
was not pleasant to Harry, and with a powerful effort 
he summoned his sinking energies for the struggle 
before him. Grasping two large stones, he stood 
erect as the dog leaped on the wall. Inspired by the
imminence of his peril, he hurled one of the stonei 




at Tiger, the instant he showed his ugly visage above 
the fence. The missile took effect upon the animal, 
and he was evidently much astonished at this unusual 
mode of warfare. Tiger was vanquished, and fell 
back from the wall, howling with rage and pain. 

" Thunder ! He has killed my dog ! " exclaimed 
Leman, as he jumped over the wall. 

Harry did not wait any longer, but took to his 
heels, followed by both his pursuers, though not by 
the dog, which was hors de combat. Our hero was 
in a " light place," but with a heroism worthy the 
days of chivalry, he resolved not to be captured. 

He had not run far, however, before he realized 
that George Leman was more than a match for hirr , 
especially in his present worn-out condition. He was 
almost upon him, when Harry executed a counter 
movement, which was intended to " outflank " his 
adversary Dodging round a large rock in the field, 
he redoubled his efforts, running now towards the 
road where the horse was standing. Leman was a 
little confused by this sudden action, and for an in- 
giant lost ground. 

Harry reached the road and leaped the wall at a




single hound: it was a miracle that, in the darhncs* 
he had not dashed his brains out upon the rocks, iii 
the reckless leap. The horse was startled by thfi 
noisj, and his snort suggested a brilliant idea to 
Harry. 

" Go 'long ! " he shouted ; and the horse staited 
towards Kockville at a round pace. 

Harry jumped into the wagon over the hind board, 
and grasping the reins, put the high-mettled animal 
to the top of his speed. 

" Go 'long ! " hallooed Harry, mad with excite- 
ment. 

The horse manifested no feeling of partiality to- 
ward either of the parties, and seemed as willing to 
do his best for Harry as for his master. 

" Stop ! Stoj) ! " shouted George Leman, astound- 
ed at the new phase which the chase had assumed. 
" Stop ! and I will let you go." 
