My head began to feel sensations of giddiness--for I had hardly
eaten since my husband left. Of the pleasures of house-cleaning, I
had at length a surfeit; when a ring, which I knew among all others,
surprised me. I looked at the clock. It was past four, and the
kitchen still in confusion, and the hearth cold.
I sank in a chair-in a swoon from sheer exhaustion. When I awoke to
consciousness, an overturned pale of water was being absorbed by my
clothing, my nose was rejecting with violent aversion the pungency
of a bottle of prime Durham mustard, to which Kitty had applied as
the best substitute for salts which the kitchen afforded; and my
husband, carpet-bag and cane in hand, was pushing his way toward me
with more haste than good speed, as the obstacles witnessed, which
he encountered and overturned.
I was confined to my room a week--which I could not conceal from Mr.
Smith. But he does not even yet know the whole amount of the
breakage, and, thank fortune, he is too much of a man to ask. I am
only afraid that he will succeed in forcing me to admit, that what
he calls his classical proposition is true; that to clean a house
does not require the feat of a Hercules, to wit: turning a river
through it.
This is my story of house-cleaning, and it is in no very high degree
flattering to my housekeeping vanity. Perhaps the thing might be
managed differently. But I don't know. Out of chaos, order comes.
While on this subject, it will be all in place to introduce another
house-cleaning story, which I find floating about in the newspapers.
It presents the matter from another point of view, and was written,
it will be seen, by a man:
Talk of a washing day! What is that to a whole week of washing-days?
No, even this gives no true idea of that worst of domestic
afflictions a poor man can suffer--house-cleaning. The washing is
confined to the kitchen or wash-house, and the effect visible in the
dining-room is in cold or badly cooked meals; with a few other
matters not necessary to mention here. But in the
house-cleaning--oh, dear! Like the dove from the ark, a man finds no
place where he can rest the sole of his foot. Twice a year,
regularly, have I to pass through this trying ordeal, willy-nilly,
as it is said, in some strange language. To rebel is useless. To
grumble of no avail. Up come the carpets, topsyturvy goes the
furniture, and swash! goes the water from garret to cellar. I
don't know how other men act on these occasions, but I find
discretion the better part of valor, and submission the wisest
expedient.
Usually it happens that my good wife works herself half to
death--loses the even balance of her mind--and, in consequence,
makes herself and all around her unhappy. To indulge in an unamiable
temper is by no means a common thing for Mrs. Sunderland, and this
makes its occurrence on these occasions so much the harder to bear.
Our last house-cleaning took place in the fall. I have been going to
write a faithful history of what was said, done, and suffered on the
occasion ever since, and now put my design into execution, even at
the risk of having my head combed with a three-legged stool by my
excellent wife, who, when she sees this in print, will be taken, in
nautical phrase, all aback. But, when a history of our own
shortcomings, mishaps, mistakes, and misadventures will do others
good, I am for giving the history and pocketing the odium, if there
be such a thing as odium attached to revelations of human weakness
and error.
"We must clean house this week," said my good wife one morning as we
sat at the breakfast-table--"every thing is in a dreadful condition.
I can't look at nor touch any thing without feeling my flesh creep."
I turned my eyes, involuntarily, around the room. I was not, before,
aware of the filthy state in which we were living. But not having so
good "an eye for dirt" as Mrs. Sunderland, I was not able, even
after having my attention called to the fact, to see "the dreadful
condition" of things. I said nothing, however, for I never like to
interfere in my wife's department. I assume it as a fact that she
knows her own business better than I do.
Our domestic establishment consisted at this time of a cook, chamber
maid, and waiter. This was an ample force, my wife considered, for
all purposes of house-cleaning, and had so announced to the
individuals concerned some days before she mentioned the matter
incidentally to me. We had experienced, in common with others, our
own troubles with servants, but were now excellently well off in
this respect. Things had gone on for months with scarcely a jar.
This was a pleasant feature in affairs, and one upon which we often
congratulated ourselves.
When I came home at dinner-time, on the day the anticipated
house-cleaning had been mentioned to me, I found my wife with a long
face.
"Are you not well?" I asked.
"I'm well enough," Mrs. Sunderland answered, "but I'm out of all
patience with Ann and Hannah."
"What is the matter with them?" I asked, in surprise.
"They are both going at the end of this week."
"Indeed! How comes that? I thought they were very well satisfied."
"So they were, all along, until the time for house-cleaning
approached. It is too bad!"
"That's it--is it?"
"Yes. And I feel out of all patience about it. It shows such a want
of principle."
"Is John going too?" I asked.
"Dear knows! I expect so. He's been as sulky as he could be all the
morning--in fact, ever since I told him that he must begin taking up
the carpets to-morrow and shake them."
"Do you think Ann and Hannah will really go?" I asked.
"Of course they will. I have received formal notice to supply their
places by the end of this week, which I must do, somehow or other."
The next day was Thursday, and, notwithstanding both cook and
chamber maid had given notice that they were going on Saturday, my
wife had the whole house knocked into pi, as the printers say,
determined to get all she could out of them.
When I made my appearance at dinner-time, I found all in precious
confusion, and my wife heated and worried excessively. Nothing was
going on right. She had undertaken to get the dinner, in order that
Ann and Hannah might proceed uninterruptedly in the work of
house-cleaning; but as Ann and Hannah had given notice to quit in
order to escape this very house-cleaning, they were in no humor to
put things ahead. In consequence, they had "poked about and done
nothing," to use Mrs. Sunderland's own language; at which she was no
little incensed.
When evening came, I found things worse. My wife had set her whole
force to work upon our chamber, early in the day, in order to have
it finished as quickly as possible, that it might be in a sleeping
condition by night--dry and well aired. But, instead of this, Ann
and Hannah had "dilly-dallied" the whole day over cleaning the
paint, and now the floor was not even washed up. My poor wife was
a sad way about it; and I am sure that I felt uncomfortable enough.
Afraid to sleep in a damp chamber, we put two sofas together in the
parlor, and passed the night there.
The morning rose cloudily enough. I understood matters clearly. If
Mrs. Sunderland had hired a couple of women for two or three days to
do the cleaning, and got a man to shake the carpets, nothing would
have been heard about the sulkiness of John, or the notice to quit
of cook and chamber maid. Putting upon them the task of
house-cleaning was considered an imposition, and they were not
disposed to stand it.
"I shall not be home to dinner to-day," I said, as I rose from the
breakfast table. "As you are all in so much confusion, and you have
to do the cooking, I prefer getting something to eat down town."
"Very well," said Mrs. Sunderland--"so much the better."
I left the house a few minutes afterwards, glad to get away. Every
thing was confusion, and every face under a cloud.
"How are you getting along?" I asked, on coming home at night.
"Humph! Not getting along at all!" replied Mrs. Sunderland, in a
fretful tone. "In two days, the girls might have thoroughly cleaned
the house from top to bottom, and what do you think they have done?
Nothing at all!"
"Nothing at all! They must have done something."
"Well, next to nothing, then. They havn't finished the front and
back chambers. And what is worse, Ann has gone away sick, and Hannah
is in bed with a real or pretended sick-headache."
"Oh, dear!" I ejaculated, involuntarily.
"Now, a'nt things in a pretty way?"
"I think they are," I replied, and then asked, "what are you going
to do?"
"I have sent John for old Jane, who helped us to clean house last
spring. But, as likely as not, she's at work somewhere."
Such was in fact the case, for John came in a moment after with that
consoling report.
"Go and see Nancy, then," my wife said, sharply, to John, as if he
were to blame for Jane's being at work.
John turned away slowly and went on his errand, evidently in not the
most amiable mood in the world. It was soon ascertained that Nancy
couldn't come.
"Why can't she come?" enquired my wife.
"She says she's doing some sewing for herself, and can't go out this
week," replied John.
"Go and tell her that she must come. That my house is upside down,
and both the girls are sick."
But Nancy was in no mood to comply. John brought back another
negative.
"Go and say to her, John, that I will not take no for an answer:
that she must come. I will give her a dollar a day."
This liberal offer of a dollar a day was effective. Nancy came and
went, to work on the next morning. Of course, Ann did not come back;
and as it was Hannah's last day, she felt privileged to have more
headache than was consistent with cleaning paint or scrubbing
floors. The work went on, therefore, very slowly.
Saturday night found us without cook or chamber-maid, and with only
two rooms in order in the whole house, viz. our chambers on the
second story. By great persuasion, Nancy was induced to stay during
Sunday and cook for us.
An advertisement in the newspaper on Monday morning, brought us a
couple of raw Irish girls, who were taken as better than nobody at
all. With these new recruits, Mrs. Sunderland set about getting
"things to right." Nancy plodded on, so well pleased with her wages,
that she continued to get the work of one day lengthened out into
two, and so managed to get a week's job.
For the whole of another precious week we were in confusion.
"How do your new girls get along?" I asked of my wife, upon whose
face I had not seen a smile for ten days.
"Don't name them, Mr. Sunderland! They're not worth the powder it
would take to shoot them. Lazy, ignorant, dirty, good-for-nothing
creatures. I wouldn't give them house-room."
"I'm sorry to learn that. What will you do?" I said.
"Dear knows! I was so well suited in Ann and Hannah, and, to think
that they should have served me so! I wouldn't have believed it of
them. But they are all as destitute of feeling and principle as they
can be. And John continues as sulky as a bear. He pretended to shake
the carpets but you might get a wheelbarrow-load of dirt out of
them. I told him so, and the impudent follow replied that he didn't
know any thing about shaking carpets; and that it wasn't the
waiter's place, any how."
"He did?"
"Yes, he did. I was on the eve of ordering him to leave the house."
"I'll save you that trouble," I said, a little warmly.
"Don't say any thing to him, if you please, Mr. Sunderland,"
returned my wife. "There couldn't be a better man about the house
than he is, for all ordinary purposes. If we should lose him, we
shall never get another half so good. I wish I'd hired a man to
shake the carpets at once; they would have been much better done,
and I should have had John's cheerful assistance about the house,
which would have been a great deal."
That evening I overheard, accidentally, a conversation between John
and the new girls, which threw some light upon the whole matter.
"John," said one of them, "what made Mrs. Sunderland's cook and
chamber maid go aff and lave her right in the middle of
house-clainin'?"
"Because Mrs. Sunderland, instead of hiring a woman, as every lady
does, tried to put it all off upon them."
"Indade! and was that it?"
"Yes, it was. They never thought of leaving until they found they
were to be imposed upon; and, to save fifty cents or a dollar, she
made me shake the carpets. I never did such a thing in my life
before. I think I managed to leave about as much dirt in as I shook
out. But I'll leave the house before I do it again."
"So would I, John. It was downright mane imposition, so it was. Set
a waiter to shaking carpets!"
"I don't think much has been saved," remarked the waiter, "for Nancy
has had a dollar a day ever since she has been here."
"Indade!"
"Yes; and besides that, Mrs. Sunderland has had to work like a dog
herself. All this might have been saved, if she had hired a couple
of women at sixty-two and a half cents a day for two or three days,
and paid for having the carpets shaken; that's the way other
people do. The house would have been set to rights in three or four
days, and every thing going on like clockwork."
"I heard no more. I wanted to hear no more; it was all as clear as
day to me. When I related to Mrs. Sunderland what John had said, she
was, at first, quite indignant. But the reasonableness of the thing
soon became so apparent that she could not but acknowledge that she
had acted very unwisely.
"This is another specimen of your saving at the spigot," I said,
playfully.
"There, Mr. Sunderland! not a word more, if you please, of that,"
she returned, her cheek more flushed than usual. "It is my duty, as
your wife, to dispense with prudence in your household; and if, in
seeking to do so, I have run a little into extremes, I think it ill
becomes you to ridicule or censure me. Dear knows! I have not sought
my own ease or comfort in the matter."
"My dear, good wife," I quickly said, in a soothing voice, "I have
neither meant to ridicule nor censure you--nothing was farther from
my thoughts."
"You shall certainly have no cause to complain of me on this score
again," she said, still a little warmly. "When next we clean house,
I will take care that it shall be done by extra help altogether."
"Do, so by all means, Mrs. Sunderland. Let there be, if possible,
two paint-cleaners and scrubbers in every room, that the work may
all be done in a day instead of a week. Take my word for it, the
cost will be less; or, if double, I will cheerfully pay it for the
sake of seeing 'order from chaos rise' more quickly than is wont
under the ordinary system of doing things."
My wife did not just like this speech, I could see, but she bit her
lips and kept silent.
In a week we were without a cook again; and months passed before we
were in any thing like domestic comfort. At last my wife was
fortunate enough to get Ann and Hannah back again, and then the old
pleasant order of things was restored. I rather think that we shall
have a different state of things at next house-cleaning time. I
certainly hope so.
CHAPTER XVII.
BROILING A LOBSTER.
MR. SMITH'S appetite sometimes takes an epicurean turn, and then we
indulge in a lobster, calf's-head soup, terrapins, or something of
that sort.
Once upon a time, he sent home a lobster. I did not feel very well
that day, and concluded to leave the cooking of the animal to a new
girl that I had taken a week or two before, on a strong
recommendation. She claimed to be a finished cook, and her
testimonials were distinct on that head.
"Kitty," said I, "Mr. Smith has sent home a lobster, I believe?"
I had summoned the girl to my room.
"Yes, ma'am," she replied. "Is it for dinner?"
"Of course it is; and you must see that it is well cooked."
Kitty lingered a few moments, as if not entirely satisfied about
something, and then retired to the kitchen.
"I wonder if she knows how to boil a lobster?" said I to myself.
But then, the remembrance that she had come to me as a finished
cook, crossed my mind, and I answered, mentally, my own question, by
saying:
"Of course she does."
Not long afterwards, I went to the dining-room, which was over the
kitchen. I had been there only a little while, when I heard an
unusual noise below, followed by an exclamation from Kitty--
"Oh! murderation! I can't cook the straddling thing. I wonder what
Mr. Smith brought it home alive for!"
I was, of course, all attention now, and going to the top of the
stairs, stood listening to what was going on below.
"There now. Lie still!" I heard Kitty say. This was followed by a
rattling of tongs, or some other iron implements, and a rapid
shuffling of feet.
Curious to know what was going on, I stepped lightly down the
stairs, and through the open door had a full view of both Kitty and
the lobster.
Live coals had been raked out upon the hearth. Over these was placed
a gridiron, and on this not very comfortable bed Kitty was
endeavoring to force Mr. Lobster to lie still and be cooked. But
this he was by no means inclined to do; and no sooner did she place
him on the heated bars, than he made his way off in the quickest
possible time. Then she caught hold of him with the tongs, restored
him to his proper position on the gridiron, and with poker and tongs
strove to hold him there.
As the lobster, a second and a third time, struggled free of Kitty's
tongs and poker, I could no longer restrain myself, but burst forth
into a loud fit of laughter. By the time this subsided, his
lobstership was in the middle of the kitchen floor. Picking him up,
I threw him into a pot of boiling water, and then retreated from the
kitchen, so convulsed with laughter that I could not utter a word.
Kitty did not soon hear the last of her attempt to broil a lobster.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE STRAWBERRY-WOMAN.
THE observance of economy in matters of family expenditure, is the
duty of every housekeeper. But, there is an economy that involves
wrong to others, which, as being unjust and really dishonest, should
be carefully avoided. In a previous chapter, I introduced the story
of a poor fish-woman, as affording a lesson for the humane. Let me
here give another, which forcibly illustrates the subject of
oppressive and unjust economy. It is the story of a
"Strawberry-Woman," and appeared in one of the magazines some years
ago.
"Strawb'rees! Strawb'rees! cried a poorly clad, tired-looking
woman, about eleven o clock one sultry June morning. She was passing
a handsome house in Walnut street, into the windows of which she
looked earnestly, in the hope of seeing the face of a customer. She
did not look in vain, for the shrill sound of her voice brought
forward a lady, dressed in a silk morning-wrapper, who beckoned her
to stop. The woman lifted the heavy, tray from her bead, and placing
it upon the door-step, sat wearily down.
"What's the price of your strawberries?" asked the lady, as she came
to the door.
"Ten cents a box, madam. They are right fresh."
"Ten cents!" replied the lady, in a tone of surprise, drawing
herself up, and looking grave. Then shaking her head and compressing
her lips firmly, she added:
"I can't give ten cents for strawberries. It's too much."
"You can't get such strawberries as these for less, madam," said the
woman. "I got a levy a box for them yesterday."
"Then you got too much, that's all I have to say. I never pay such
prices. I bought strawberries in the market yesterday, just as good
as yours, for eight cents a box."
"Don't know how they do to sell them at that price," returned the
woman. "Mine cost nearly eight cents, and ought to bring me at least
twelve. But I am willing to take ten, so that I can, sell out
quickly. It's a very hot day." And the woman wiped, with her apron,
the perspiration from her glowing face.
"No, I won't pay ten cents," said the lady (?) coldly. "I'll give
you forty cents for five boxes, and nothing more."
"But, madam, they cost me within a trifle of eight cents a box."
"I can't help that. You paid too much for them, and this must be
your loss, not mine, if I buy your strawberries. I never pay for
other people's mistakes. I understand the use of money much better
than that."
The poor woman did not feel very well. The day was unusually hot and
sultry, and her tray felt heavier, and tired her more than usual.
Five boxes would lighten it, and if she sold her berries at eight
cents, she would clear two cents and a half, and that would be
better than nothing.
"I'll tell you what I will do," she said, after thinking a few
moments; "I don't feel as well as usual to-day, and my tray is
heavy. Five boxes sold will be something. You shall have them at
nine cents. They cost me seven and a half, and I'm sure it's worth a
cent and a half a box to cry them about the streets such hot weather
as this."
"I have told you, my good woman, exactly what I will do," said the
customer, with dignity. "If you are willing to take what I offer
you, say so; if not, we needn't stand here any longer."
"Well, I suppose you will have to take them," replied the
strawberry-woman, seeing that there was no hope of doing better.
"But it's too little."
"It's enough," said the lady, as she turned to call a servant. Five
boxes of fine large strawberries were received, and forty cents paid
for them. The lady re-entered the parlor, pleased at her good
bargain, while the poor woman turned from the door sad and
disheartened. She walked nearly the distance of a square before she
could trust her voice to utter her monotonous cry of
"Strawb'rees! Strawb'rees!"
An hour afterward, a friend called upon Mrs. Mier, the lady who had
bought the strawberries. After talking about various matters and
things interesting to lady housekeepers, Mrs. Mier said:
"How much did you pay for strawberries this morning?"
"Ten cents."
"You paid too much. I bought them for eight."
"For eight! Were they good ones?"
"Step into the dining-room, and I will show them to you."
The ladies stepped into the dining-room, when Mrs. Mier displayed
her large, red berries, which were really much finer than she had at
first supposed them to be.
"You didn't get them for eight cents," remarked the visitor,
incredulously.
"Yes I did. I paid forty cents for five boxes."
"While I paid fifty for some not near so good."
"I suppose you paid just what you were asked?"
"Yes, I always do that. I buy from one woman during the season, who
agrees to furnish me at the regular market price."
"Which you will always find to be two or three cents above what you
can get them for in the market."
"You always buy in market."
"I bought these from a woman at the door."
"Did she only ask eight cents for them?"
"Oh, no! She asked ten cents, and pretended that she got twelve and
a half for the same quality of berries yesterday. But I never give
these people what they ask."
"While I never can find it in my heart to ask a poor, tired-looking
woman at my door, to take a cent less for her fruit than she asks
me. A cent or two, while it is of little account to me, must be of
great importance to her."
"You are a very poor economist, I see," said Mrs. Mier. "If that is
the way you deal with every one, your husband no doubt finds his
expense account a very serious item."
"I don't know about that. He never complains. He allows me a certain
sum every week to keep the house, and find my own and the children's
clothes; and so far from ever calling on him for more, I always have
fifty or a hundred dollars lying by me."
"You must have a precious large allowance, then, considering your
want of economy in paying everybody just what they ask for their
things."
"Oh, no! I don't do that, exactly, Mrs. Mier. If I consider the
price of a thing too high, I don't buy it."
"You paid too high for your strawberries today."
"Perhaps I did; although I am by no means certain."
"You can judge for yourself. Mine cost but eight cents, and you own
that they are superior to yours at ten cents."
"Still, yours may have been too cheap, instead of mine too dear."
"Too cheap! That is funny! I never saw any thing too cheap in my
life. The great trouble is, that every thing is too dear. What do
you mean by too cheap?"
"The person who sold them to you may not have made profit enough
upon them to pay for her time and labor. If this were the case, she
sold them to you too cheap."
"Suppose she paid too high for them? Is the purchaser to pay for her
error?"
"Whether she did so, it would be hard to tell; and even if she had
made such a mistake, I think it would be more just and humane to pay
her a price that would give her a fair profit, instead of taking
from her the means of buying bread for her children. At least, this
is my way of reasoning."
"And a precious lot of money it must take to support such a system
of reasoning. But how much, pray, do you have a week to keep the
family? I am curious to know."
"Thirty-five dollars."
"Thirty-five dollars! You are jesting."
"Oh, no! That is exactly what I receive, and as I have said, I find
the sum ample."
"While I receive fifty dollars a week," said Mrs. Mier, "and am
forever calling on my husband to settle some bill or other for me.
And yet I never pay the exorbitant prices asked by everybody for
every thing. I am strictly economical in my family. While other
people pay their domestics a dollar and a half and two dollars a
week, I give but a dollar and a quarter each to my cook and
chambermaid, and require the chamber maid to help the washer-woman
on Mondays. Nothing is wasted in my kitchen, for I take care in
marketing, not to allow room for waste. I don't know how it is that
you save money on thirty-five dollars with your system, while I find
fifty dollars inadequate with my system."
The exact difference in the two systems will be clearly understood
by the reader, when he is informed that although Mrs. Mier never
paid any body as much as was at first asked for an article, and was
always talking about economy, and trying to practice it, by
withholding from others what was justly their due, as in the case of
the strawberry-woman, yet she was a very extravagant person, and
spared no money in gratifying her own pride. Mrs. Gilman, her
visitor, was, on the contrary, really economical, because she was
moderate in all her desires, and was usually as well satisfied with
an article of dress or furniture that cost ten or twenty dollars, as
Mrs. Mier was with one that cost forty or fifty dollars. In little
things, the former was not so particular as to infringe the rights
of others, while in larger matters, she was careful not to run into
extravagance in order to gratify her own or children's pride and
vanity, while the latter pursued a course directly opposite.
Mrs. Gilman was not as much dissatisfied, on reflection, about the
price she had paid for her strawberries, as she had felt at first.
"I would rather pay these poor creatures two cents a box too much
than too little," she said to herself--"dear knows, they earn their
money hard enough, and get but a scanty portion after all."
Although the tray of the poor strawberry-woman, when she passed from
the presence of Mrs. Mier, was lighter by five boxes, her heart was
heavier, and that made her steps more weary than before. The next
place at which she stopped, she found the same disposition to beat
her down in her price.
"I'll give you nine cents, and take four boxes," said the lady.
"Indeed, madam, that is too little," replied the woman; "ten cents
is the lowest at which I can sell them and make even a reasonable
profit."
"Well, say thirty-seven and a half for four boxes, and I will take
them. It is only two cents and a half less than you ask for them."
"Give me a fip, ma!--there comes the candy-man!" exclaimed a little
fellow, pressing up to the side of the lady. "Quick, ma! Here,
candy-man!" calling after an old man with a tin cylinder under his
arm, that looked something like an ice cream freezer. The lady drew
out her purse, and searched among its contents for the small coin
her child wanted.
"I havn't any thing less than a levy," she at length said.
"Oh, well, he can change it. Candy-man, you can change a levy?"
By this time the "candy-man" stood smiling beside the
strawberry-woman. As he was counting out the fip's worth of candy,
the child spoke up in an earnest voice, and said:
"Get a levy's worth, mother, do, wont you? Cousin Lu's coming to see
us to-morrow."
"Let him have a levy's worth, candy-man. He's such a rogue I can't
resist him," responded the mother. The candy was counted out, and
the levy paid, when the man retired in his usual good humor.
"Shall I take these strawberries for thirty-seven and a half cents?"
said the lady, the smile fading from her face. "It is all I am
willing to give."
"If you wont pay any more, I musn't stand for two cents and a half,"
replied the woman, "although they would nearly buy a loaf of bread
for the children," she mentally added.
The four boxes were sold for the sum offered, and the woman lifted
the tray upon her head, and moved on again. The sun shone out still
hotter and hotter as the day advanced. Large beads of perspiration
rolled from the throbbing temples of the strawberry-woman, as she
passed wearily up one street and down another, crying her fruit at
the top of her voice. At length all were sold but five boxes, and
now it was past one o'clock. Long before this she ought to have been
at home. Faint from over-exertion, she lifted her tray from her
head, and placing it upon a door-step, sat down to rest. As she sat
thus, a lady came up, and paused at the door of the house, as if
about to enter.
"You look tired, my good woman," she said kindly. "This is a very
hot day for such hard work as yours. How do you sell your
strawberries?"
"I ought to have ten cents for them, but nobody seems willing to
give ten cents to-day, although they are very fine, and cost me as
much as some I have got twelve and a half for."
"How many boxes have you?"
"Five, ma'am."
"They are very fine, sure enough," said the lady, stooping down and
examining them; "and well worth ten cents. I'll take them."
"Thanky, ma'am. I was afraid I should have to take them home," said
the woman, her heart bounding up lightly.
The lady rung the bell, for it was at her door that the tired
strawberry-woman had stopped to rest herself. While she was waiting
for the door to be opened, the lady took from her purse the money
for the strawberries, and handing it to the woman, said:
"Here is your money. Shall I tell the servant to bring you out a
glass of cool water? You are hot and tired."
"If you please, ma'am," said the woman, with a grateful look.
The water was sent out by the servant who was to receive the
strawberries, and the tired woman drank it eagerly. Its refreshing
coolness flowed through every vein, and when she took up her tray to
return home, both heart and step were lighter.
The lady whose benevolent feelings had prompted her to the
performance of this little act of kindness, could not help
remembering the woman's grateful look. She had not done much--not
more than it was every one's duty to do; but the recollection of
even that was pleasant, far more pleasant than could possibly have
been Mrs. Mier's self-gratulations at having saved ten cents on her
purchase of five boxes of strawberries, notwithstanding the
assurance of the poor woman who vended them, that, at the reduced
rate, her profit on the whole would only be two cents and a half.
After dinner Mrs. Mier went out and spent thirty dollars in
purchasing jewelry for her eldest daughter, a young lady not yet
eighteen years of age. That evening, at the tea-table, the
strawberries were highly commended as being the largest and most
delicious in flavor of any they had yet had; in reply to which, Mrs.
Mier stated, with an air of peculiar satisfaction, that she had got
them for eight cents a box, when they were worth at least ten cents.
"The woman asked me ten cents," she said, "but I offered her eight,
and she took them."
While the family of Mrs. Mier were enjoying their pleasant repast,
the strawberry-woman sat at a small table, around which were
gathered three young children, the oldest but six years of age. She
had started out in the morning with thirty boxes of strawberries,
for which she was to pay seven and a half cents a box. If all had
brought the ten cents a box, she would have made seventy-five cents;
but such was not the case. Rich ladies had beaten her down in her
price--had chaffered with her for the few pennies of profits to
which her hard labor entitled her--and actually robbed her of the
meager pittance she strove to earn for her children. Instead of
realizing the small sum of seventy-five cents, she had cleared only
forty-five cents. With this she bought a little Indian meal and
molasses for her own and her children's supper and breakfast.
As she sat with her children, eating the only food she was able to
provide for them, and thought of what had occurred during the day, a
feeling of bitterness toward her kind came over her; but the
remembrance of the kind words, and the glass of cool water, so
timely and thoughtfully tendered to her, was like leaves in the
waters of Marah. Her heart softened, and with the tears stealing to
her eyes, she glanced upward, and asked a blessing on her who had
remembered that, though poor, she was still human.
Economy is a good thing, and should be practiced by all, but it
should show itself in denying ourselves, not in oppressing others.
We see persons spending dollar after dollar foolishly one hour, and
in the next trying to save a five penny piece off of a wood-sawyer,
coal-heaver, or market-woman. Such things are disgraceful, if not
dishonest.
CHAPTER XIX.
LOTS OF THINGS.
"O DEAR!" said I to Mr. Smith one morning, as we arose from the
breakfast-table, at which we had been partaking of rather a
badly-cooked meal,--"more trouble in prospect."
"What's the matter now?" asked Mr. Smith, with a certain emphasis on
the word "now" that didn't sound just agreeable to my ears.
"Oh, nothing! nothing!" I answered, with as much indifference of
manner as I could assume.
"You spoke of trouble," said he, kindly, "and trouble, in my
experience, is rather more tangible than 'nothing.'"
"I've another raw Irish girl in the kitchen, who, according to her
own confession, hasn't been above ten days in the country. Isn't
that enough?"
