‘I can’t make you understand me quite,’ said Madame de Frontignac,
‘unless I go back a good many years. You see, dear Mary, my dear angel
mamma died when I was very little, and I was sent to be educated at
the Sacré Cœur, in Paris. I was very happy and very good in those
days—the sisters loved me, and I loved them, and I used to be so pious,
and loved God dearly. When I took my first communion, Sister Agatha
prepared me. She was a true saint, and is in heaven now; and I remember
when I came to her, all dressed like a bride, with my white crown
and white veil, that she looked at me so sadly, and said she hoped I
would never love anybody better than God, and then I should be happy.
I didn’t think much of those words then, but oh, I have since, many
times. They used to tell me always that I had a husband who was away in
the army, and who would come to marry me when I was seventeen, and that
he would give me all sorts of beautiful things, and show me everything
I wanted to see in the world, and that I must love and honour him.
‘Well, I was married at last, and Monsieur de Frontignac is a good,
brave man, although he seemed to me very old and sober; but he was
always kind to me, and gave me nobody knows how many sets of jewelry,
and let me do everything I wanted to, and so I liked him very much; but
I thought there was no danger I should love him, or anybody else better
than God. I didn’t love anybody in those days, I only liked people,
and some people more than others. All the men I saw professed to be
lovers, and I liked to lead them about and see what foolish things I
could make them do, because it pleased my vanity; but I laughed at the
very idea of love.
‘Well, Mary, when we came to Philadelphia I heard everybody speaking of
Colonel Burr—and what a fascinating man he was, and I thought it would
be a pretty thing to have him in my train—and so I did all I could to
charm him. I tried all my little arts—and if it is a sin for us women
to do such things, I am sure I have been punished for it. Mary, he was
stronger than I was. These men, they are not satisfied with having the
whole earth under their feet, and having all the strength and all the
glory, but they must even take away our poor little reign—it’s too bad.
‘I can’t tell you how it was. I didn’t know myself, but it seemed to
me that he took my very life away from me; and it was all done before
I knew it. He called himself my friend—my brother—he offered to teach
me English—he read with me, and by-and-by he controlled my whole life.
I that used to be so haughty, so proud—I that used to laugh to think
how independent I was of everybody. I was entirely under his control,
though I tried not to show it. I didn’t well know where I was, for he
talked friendship, and I talked friendship; he talked about sympathetic
natures that are made for each other, and I thought how beautiful it
all was; it was living in a new world. Monsieur de Frontignac was as
much charmed with him as I was; he often told me that he was his best
friend; that he was his hero—his model man; and I thought, oh Mary, you
would wonder to hear me say what I thought! I thought he was a Bayard,
a Sully, a Montmorenci; everything grand and noble and good. I loved
him with a religion. I would have died for him; I sometimes thought how
I might lay down my life to save his, like women I read of in history.
I did not know myself. I was astonished I could feel so; and I did
not dream that this could be wrong. How could I, when it made me feel
more religious than anything in my whole life? Everything in the world
seemed to grow sacred. I thought if men could be so good and admirable,
life was a holy thing, and not to be trifled with. But our good Abbé is
a faithful shepherd, and when I told him these things in confession, he
told me I was in great danger—danger of falling into mortal sin. Oh,
Mary! it was as if the earth opened under me. He told me, too, that
this noble man, this man so dear, was a heretic, and that if he died he
would go to dreadful pains. Oh, Mary! I dare not tell you half what he
told me; dreadful things that make me shiver when I think of them; and
then he said that I must offer myself a sacrifice for him; that if I
would put down all this love, and overcome it, that God would perhaps
accept it as a satisfaction, and bring him into the true church at last.
‘Then I began to try. Oh, Mary! we never know how we love till we
try to unlove; it seemed like taking my heart out of my breast, and
separating life from life. How can one do it? I wish any one would tell
me. The Abbé said I must do it by prayer; but it seemed to me prayer
only made me think the more of him.
‘But at last I had a great shock; everything broke up like a great,
grand, noble dream; and I waked out of it just as weak and wretched as
one feels when one has overslept. Oh, Mary! I found I was mistaken in
him—all, all, wholly!’
Madame de Frontignac laid her forehead on Mary’s knee, and her long
chestnut hair drooped down over her face.
‘He was going somewhere with my husband, to explore out in the regions
of the Ohio, where he had some splendid schemes of founding a state;
and I was all interest; and one day, as they were preparing, Monsieur
de Frontignac gave me a quantity of papers to read and arrange, and
among them was a part of a letter; I never could imagine how it got
there; it was to one of his confidential friends; I read it at first,
wondering what it meant, till I came to two or three sentences about
me.’ Madame de Frontignac paused a moment; and then said, rising with
sudden energy, ‘Mary, that man never loved me; he cannot love; he does
not know what love is; what I felt he cannot know; he cannot even
dream of it, because he never felt anything like it; such men never
know us women; we are as high as heaven above them; it is true enough
that my heart was wholly in his power, but why? Because I adored him
as something divine, incapable of dishonour, incapable of selfishness,
incapable of even a thought that was not perfectly noble and heroic. If
he had been all that, I would have been proud to have been even a poor
little flower that should exhale away, to give him an hour’s pleasure;
I would have offered my whole life to God as a sacrifice for such a
glorious soul; and all this time, what was he thinking of me?
‘He was using my feelings to carry his plans; he was admiring me like
a picture; he was considering what he should do with me; and were it
not for his interests with my husband, he would have tried his power
to make me sacrifice this world and the next to his pleasure. But he
does not know me. My mother was a Montmorenci, and I have the blood of
her house in my veins; we are princesses; we can give all; but he must
be a god that we give it for.’
Mary’s enchanted eye followed the beautiful narrator, as she enacted
before her this poetry and tragedy of real life, so much beyond what
dramatic art can ever furnish. Her eyes grew splendid in their depths
and brilliancy; sometimes they were full of tears, and sometimes they
flashed out like lightnings; her whole form seemed to be a plastic
vehicle which translated every emotion of her soul; and Mary sat and
looked at her with the intense absorption that one gives to the highest
and deepest in art or nature.
‘Enfin—que faire?’ she said at last, suddenly stopping, and drooping
in every limb. ‘Mary, I have lived on this dream so long—never thought
of anything else—now all is gone, and what shall I do? I think,’ she
added, pointing to the nest in the tree, ‘Mary, I see my life in many
things. My heart was once still and quiet, like the round little eggs
that were in your nest,—now it has broken out of its shell, and cries
with cold and hunger: I want my dream again,—I wish it all back,—or
that my heart could go back into its shell. If I only could drop this
year out of my life, and care for nothing, as I used to,—I have tried
to do that—I can’t—I cannot get back where I was before.’
‘Would you do it, dear Verginie,’ said Mary; ‘would you if you could?’
‘It was very noble and sweet, all that,’ said Verginie; ‘it gave me
higher thoughts than ever I had before. I think my feelings were
beautiful,—but now they are like little birds that have no mother—they
kill me with their crying.’
‘Dear Verginie, there is a real friend in heaven, who is all you can
ask or think,—nobler, better, purer, who cannot change, and cannot die,
and who loved you and gave himself for you.’
‘You mean Jesus,’ said Verginie. ‘Ah, I know it; and I say the offices
to him daily, but my heart is very wild and starts away from my words.
I say, “My God, I give myself to you,”—and after all, I don’t give
myself, and I don’t feel comforted. Dear Mary, you must have suffered
too—for you loved really—I saw it,—when we feel a thing ourselves we
can see very quick the same in others,—and it was a dreadful blow to
come so all at once.’
‘Yes it was,’ said Mary; ‘I thought I must die; but Christ has given me
peace.’
These words were spoken with that long-breathed sigh with which we
always speak of peace,—a sigh that told of storms and sorrows past,—the
sighing of the wave that falls spent and broken on the shores of
eternal rest. There was a little pause in the conversation, and then
Verginie raised her head and spoke in a sprightlier tone.
‘Well, my little fairy cat,—my white doe,—I have come to you. Poor
Verginie wants something to hold to her heart; let me have you,’ she
said, throwing her arms round Mary.
‘Dear, dear Verginie, indeed you shall,’ said Mary; ‘I will love you
dearly, and pray for you. I always have prayed for you ever since the
first day I knew you.’
‘I knew it,—I felt your prayers in my heart. Mary, I have many thoughts
that I dare not tell to any one, lately,—but I cannot help feeling that
some are real Christians who are not in the true Church. You are as
true a saint as Saint Catharine; indeed, I always think of you when I
think of our dear lady; and yet they say there is no salvation out of
the Church.’
This was a new view of the subject to Mary, who had grown up with the
familiar idea that the Romish Church was Babylon and anti-Christ,
and who had during the conversation been revolving the same surmises
with regard to her friend. She turned her grave, blue eyes on Madame
de Frontignac, with a somewhat surprised look, which melted into a
half-smile. But the latter still went on with a puzzled air, as if
trying to talk herself out of some mental perplexity. ‘Now, Burr is a
heretic,—and more than that, he is an infidel,—he has no religion in
his heart, I saw that often,—it made me tremble for him. It ought to
have put me on my guard,—but you, dear Mary, you love Jesus as your
life. I think you love Him just as much as sister Agatha, who was a
saint. The Abbé says that there is nothing so dangerous as to begin to
use our reason in religion,—that if we once begin we never know where
it may carry us; but I can’t help using mine a very little. I must
think there are some saints that are not in the true Church.’
‘All are one who love Christ,’ said Mary; ‘we are one in Him.’
‘I should not dare to tell the Abbé,’ said Madame de Frontignac; and
Mary queried in her heart whether Dr. Hopkins would feel satisfied
that she could bring this wanderer to the fold of Christ, without
undertaking to batter down the walls of her creed; and yet, there they
were, the Catholic and the Puritan, each strong in her respective
faith, yet melting together in that embrace of love and sorrow, joined
in the great communion of suffering. Mary took up her Testament, and
read the fourteenth of John:—
‘Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in
me; in my Father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would
have told you; I go to prepare a place for you; and if I go to prepare
a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that
where I am there you may be also.’
Mary read on through the chapter, through the next wonderful prayer;
her face grew solemnly transparent, as of an angel; for her soul was
lifted from earth by the words, and walked with Christ far above all
things, over that starry pavement where each footstep is on a world.
The greatest moral effects are like those of music, not wrought out
by sharp-sided intellectual propositions, but melted in by a divine
fusion, by words that have mysterious indefinite fulness of meaning,
made living by sweet voices, which seem to be the out-throbbings of
angelic hearts; so one verse in the Bible read by a mother in some hour
of tender prayer has a significance deeper and higher than the most
elaborate of sermons, the most acute of arguments.
Verginie Frontignac sat as one divinely enchanted, while that sweet
voice read on; and when the silence fell between them she gave a long
sigh as we do when sweet music stops. They heard between them the soft
stir of summer leaves, the distant songs of birds, the breezy hum when
some afternoon wind shivered through many branches, and the silver sea
chimed in; Verginie rose at last, and kissed Mary on the forehead.
‘That is a beautiful book,’ she said, ‘and to read it all by one’s self
must be lovely; I cannot understand why it should be dangerous; it has
not injured you.
‘Sweet saint,’ she added, ‘let me stay with you; you shall read to me
every day; do you know I came here to get you to take me; I want you to
show me how to find peace where you do; will you let me be your sister?’
‘Yes, indeed,’ said Mary, with a cheek brighter than it had been for
many a day; her heart feeling a throb of more real human pleasure than
for long months.
‘Will you get your mamma to let me stay?’ said Verginie, with the
bashfulness of a child; ‘haven’t you a little place like yours, with
white curtains, and sanded floor, to give to poor little Verginie to
learn to be good in?’
‘Why, do you really want to stay here with us,’ said Mary, ‘in this
little house?’
‘Do I really?’ said Virginie, mimicking her voice with a start of
her old playfulness; ‘don’t I really? Come now, mimi, coax the
good mamma for me, tell her I shall try to be very good. I shall help
you with the spinning; you know I spin beautifully,—and I shall make
butter, and milk the cow, and set the tables. Oh, I will be so useful,
you can’t spare me!’
‘I should love to have you dearly,’ said Mary, warmly; ‘but you would
soon be dull for want of society here.’
‘Quelle idée! ma petite drole,’ said the lady, who with the mobility
of her nation had already recovered some of the saucy mocking grace
that was habitual to her, as she began teasing Mary with a thousand
little childish motions. ‘Indeed, mimi, you must keep me hid up here,
or may be the wolf will find me and eat me up; who knows?’ Mary looked
at her with inquiring eyes.
‘What do you mean?’
‘I mean, Mary,—I mean that when he comes back to Philadelphia he
thinks he will find me there; he thought I should stay while my husband
was gone; and when he finds I am gone he may come to Newport; and I
never want to see him again without you; you must let me stay with you.’
‘Have you told him,’ said Mary, ‘what you think?’
‘I wrote to him, Mary, but oh, I can’t trust my heart! I want so much
to believe him; it kills me so to think evil of him that it will never
do for me to see him. If he looks at me with those eyes of his I am all
gone; I shall believe anything he tells me; he will draw me to him as a
great magnet draws a poor little grain of steel.’
‘But now you know his unworthiness, his baseness,’ said Mary, ‘I should
think it would break all his power.’
‘Should you think so? Ah, Mary, we cannot unlove in a minute; love
is a great while dying. I do not worship him now as I did. I know what
he is. I know he is bad, and I am sorry for it. I would like to cover
it from all the world, even from you, Mary, since I see it makes you
dislike him; it hurts me to hear any one else blame him; but sometimes
I do so long to think I am mistaken, that I know if I should see him I
should catch at anything he might tell me, as a drowning man at straws;
I should shut my eyes and think after all that it was all my fault, and
ask a thousand pardons for all the evil he has done. No. Mary, you must
keep your blue eyes upon me, or I shall be gone.’
At this moment Mrs. Scudder’s voice was heard, calling Mary below.
‘Go down now, darling, and tell mamma; make a good little talk to
her, ma reine; ah, you are queen here; all do as you say, even the
good priest there; you have a little hand, but it leads all; so go,
petite.’
Mrs. Scudder was somewhat flurried and discomposed at the proposition;
there were the pros and the cons in her nature, such as we all have.
In the first place, Madame de Frontignac belonged to high society, and
that was pro; for Mrs. Scudder prayed daily against worldly vanities,
because she felt a little traitor in her heart that was ready to open
its door to them if not constantly talked down. In the second place,
Madame de Frontignac was French, there was a con; for Mrs. Scudder
had enough of her father John Bull in her heart to have a very wary
look-out on anything French. But then, in the third place, she was out
of health and unhappy, and there was a pro again; for Mrs. Scudder
was as kind and motherly a soul as ever breathed. But then she was a
Catholic, con. But the Doctor and Mary might convert her, pro. And
then Mary wanted her, pro. And she was a pretty, bewitching, loveable
creature, pro. The pros had it; and it was agreed that Madame de
Frontignac should be installed as proprietress of the spare chamber,
and she sat down to the tea-table that evening in the great kitchen.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE domesticating of Madame de Frontignac as an inmate of the cottage,
added a new element of vivacity to that still and unvaried life.
One of the most beautiful traits of French nature is that fine gift
of appreciation, which seizes at once the picturesque side of every
condition of life, and finds in its own varied storehouse something to
assort with it. As compared with the Anglo-Saxon, the French appear to
be gifted with a naïve childhood of nature, and to have the power
that children have of gilding every scene of life with some of their
own poetic fancies.
Madame de Frontignac was in raptures with the sanded floor of her
little room, which commanded, through the apple-boughs, a little morsel
of a sea-view. She could fancy it was a nymph’s cave, she said.
‘Yes, ma Marie, I will play Calypso, and you shall play Telemachus,
and Dr. Hopkins shall be Mentor. Mentor was so very, very good, only a
little bit—dull,’ she said, pronouncing the last word with a wicked
accent, and lifting her hands with a whimsical gesture like a naughty
child who expects a correction.
Mary could not but laugh; and as she laughed more colour rose in her
waxen cheeks than for many days before.
Madame de Frontignac looked triumphant as a child who has made its
mother laugh, and went on laying things out of her trunk into her
drawers with a zeal that was quite amusing to see.
‘You see, ma blanche, I have left all Madame’s clothes at
Philadelphia, and brought only those that belong to Verginie,—no
tromperie, no feathers, no gauzes, no diamonds, only white dresses
and my straw hat en bergère. I brought one string of pearls that was
my mother’s; but pearls, you know, belong to the sea-nymphs. I will
trim my hat with sea-weed and buttercups together, and we will go out
on the beach to-night and get some gold and silver shells to dress ma
miroir.’
‘Oh, I have ever so many now,’ said Mary, running into her room, and
coming back with a little bag. They both sat on the bed together,
and began pouring them out, Madame de Frontignac showering childish
exclamations of delight.
Suddenly Mary put her hand to her heart as if she had been struck with
something; and Madame de Frontignac heard her say, in a low voice of
sudden pain, ‘Oh, dear!’
‘What is it, mimi?’ she said, looking up quickly.
‘Nothing,’ said Mary, turning her head. Madame de Frontignac looked
down, and saw among the sea-treasures a necklace of Venetian shells
that she knew never grew on the shores of Newport. She held it up.
‘Ah, I see,’ she said. ‘He gave you this. Ah, ma pauvrette,’ she
said, clasping Mary in her arms, ‘thy sorrow meets thee everywhere. May
I be a comfort to thee, just a little one.’
‘Dear, dear friend,’ said Mary, weeping. ‘I know not how it is.
Sometimes I think this sorrow is all gone; but then, for a moment, it
comes back again. But I am at peace; it is all right, all right; I
would not have it otherwise. But oh, if he could have spoken one word
to me before! He gave me this,’ she added, ‘when he came home from his
first voyage to the Mediterranean. I did not know it was in this bag. I
had looked for it everywhere.’
‘Sister Agatha would have told you to make a rosary of it,’ said Madame
de Frontignac; ‘but you pray without a rosary. It is all one,’ she
added; ‘there will be a prayer for every shell, though you do not count
them. But come, ma chère, get your bonnet, and let us go out on the
beach.’
That evening, before retiring, Mrs. Scudder came into Mary’s room. Her
manner was grave and tender, her eyes had tears in them; and although
her usual habits were not caressing, she came to Mary and put her arms
around and kissed her. It was an unusual manner, and Mary’s gentle eyes
seemed to ask the reason of it.
‘My daughter,’ said her mother, ‘I have just had a long and very
interesting talk with our dear good friend, the Doctor; ah, Mary, very
few people know how good he is.’
‘True, mother,’ said Mary, warmly; ‘he is the best, the noblest, and
yet the humblest man in the world.’
‘You love him very much, do you not?’ said her mother.
‘Very dearly,’ said Mary.
‘Mary, he has asked me this evening if you would be willing to be his
wife.’
‘His wife, mother?’ said Mary in the tone of one confused with a new
and strange thought.
‘Yes, daughter; I have long seen that he was preparing to make you this
proposal.’
‘You have, mother?’
‘Yes, daughter; have you never thought of it?’
‘Never, mother.’
There was a long pause, Mary standing just as she had been interrupted
in her night toilette, with her long, light hair streaming down over
her white dress, and the comb held mechanically in her hand. She sat
down after a moment, and clasping both hands over her knees, fixed her
eyes intently on the floor; and there fell between the two a silence
so intense, that the tickings of the clock in the next room seemed to
knock upon the door. Mrs. Scudder sat with anxious eyes watching that
silent face, pale as sculptured marble.
‘Well, Mary,’ she said at last.
A deep sigh was the only answer. The violent throbbings of her heart
could be seen undulating the long hair as the moaning sea tosses the
rockweed.
‘My daughter!’ again said Mrs. Scudder.
Mary gave a great sigh, like that of a sleeper awakening from a dream,
and looking on her mother, said: ‘Do you suppose he really loves me,
mother?’
‘Indeed he does, Mary, as much as man ever loved woman.’
‘Does he indeed?’ said Mary, relapsing into thoughtfulness.
‘And you love him, do you not?’ said her mother.
‘Oh yes, I love him!’
‘You love him better than any man in the world, don’t you?’
‘Oh, mother, mother! yes!’ said Mary, throwing herself passionately
forward, and bursting into sobs; ‘yes, there is no one else now that I
love better,—no one,—no one!’
‘My darling, my daughter!’ said Mrs. Scudder, coming and taking her in
her arms.
‘Oh, mother, mother!’ she said, sobbing distressfully, ‘let me cry,
just for a little,—oh, mother, mother, mother!’
What was there hidden under that despairing wail?—it was the parting of
the last strand of the cord of youthful hope.
Mrs. Scudder soothed and caressed her daughter, but maintained still in
her breast a tender pertinacity of purpose, such as mothers will, who
think they are conducting a child through some natural sorrow into a
happier state.
Mary was not one either to yield long to emotion of any kind. Her rigid
education had taught her to look upon all such outbursts as a species
of weakness, and she struggled for composure, and soon seemed entirely
calm.
‘If he really loves me, mother, it would give him great pain if I
refuse,’ said Mary, thoughtfully.
‘Certainly it would; and, Mary, you have allowed him to act as a very
near friend for a long time; and it is quite natural that he should
have hopes that you loved him.’
‘I do love him, mother,—better than anybody in the world except you. Do
you think that will do?’
‘Will do?’ said her mother; ‘I don’t understand you.’
‘Why, is that loving enough to marry? I shall love him more perhaps
after, shall I, mother?’
‘Certainly you will; every one does.’
‘I wish he did not want to marry me, mother,’ said Mary, after a pause.
‘I liked it a great deal better as we were before.’
‘All girls feel so, Mary, at first; it is very natural.’
‘Is that the way you felt about father, mother?’
Mrs. Scudder’s heart smote her when she thought of her own early
love,—that great love that asked no questions; that had no doubts, no
fears, no hesitations; nothing but one great, outsweeping impulse,
which swallowed her life in that of another. She was silent; and after
a moment, she said, ‘I was of a different disposition from you, Mary.
I was of a strong, wilful, positive nature. I either liked or disliked
with all my might; and besides, Mary, there never was a man like your
father.’
The matron uttered this first article in the great confession of
woman’s faith with the most unconscious simplicity.
‘Well, mother, I will do whatever is my duty. I want to be guided.
If I can make that good man happy, and help him to do some good in
the world,—After all, life is short, and the great thing is to do for
others.’
‘I am sure, Mary, if you could have heard how he spoke, you would be
sure you could make him happy. He had not spoken before, because he
felt so unworthy of such a blessing: he said I was to tell you that
he should love and honour you all the same, whether you could feel
to be his wife or not; but that nothing this side of heaven would be
so blessed a gift; that it would make up for every trial that could
possibly come upon him,—and you know, Mary, he has a great many
discouragements and trials;—people don’t appreciate him; his efforts to
do good are misunderstood, and misconstrued; they look down on him, and
despise him, and tell all sorts of evil things about him; and sometimes
he gets quite discouraged.’
‘Yes, mother, I will marry him,’ said Mary. ‘Yes, I will.’
‘My darling daughter,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘this has been the hope of my
life.’
‘Has it, mother?’ said Mary, with a faint smile; ‘I shall make you
happier then?’
‘Yes, dear, you will; and think what a prospect of usefulness opens
before you; you can take a position as his wife which will enable you
to do even more good than you do now; and you will have the happiness
of seeing every day how much you comfort the hearts and encourage the
hands of God’s dear people.’
‘Mother, I ought to be very glad I can do it,’ said Mary; ‘and I trust
I am. God orders all things for the best.’
‘Well, my child, sleep to-night, and to-morrow we will talk more about
it.’
CHAPTER XXVII.
MRS. SCUDDER kissed her daughter, and left her. After a moment’s
thought, Mary gathered the long silky folds of hair around her
head, and knotted them for the night. Then leaning forward on her
toilet-table, she folded her hands together, and stood regarding the
reflection of herself in the mirror.
Nothing is capable of more ghostly effect than such a silent, lonely
contemplation of that mysterious image of ourselves which seems to look
out of an infinite depth in the mirror, as if it were our own soul
beckoning to us visibly from unknown regions. Those eyes look into our
own with an expression sometimes vaguely sad and inquiring. The face
wears weird and tremulous lights and shadows; it asks us mysterious
questions, and troubles us with the suggestions of our relations to
some dim unknown. The sad, blue eyes that gazed into Mary’s had that
look of calm initiation, of melancholy comprehension, peculiar to eyes
made clairvoyant by ‘great and critical’ sorrow. They seemed to say to
her, ‘Fulfil thy mission; life is made for sacrifice; the flower must
fall before fruit can perfect itself.’ A vague shuddering of mystery
gave intensity to her reverie. It seemed as if those mirror depths
were another world; she heard the far-off dashing of sea-green waves;
she felt a yearning impulse towards that dear soul gone out into the
infinite unknown.
Her word just passed had in her eyes all the sacred force of the most
solemnly-attested vow; and she felt as if that vow had shut some before
open door between her and him; and she had a kind of shadowy sense of a
throbbing and yearning nature that seemed to call on her,—that seemed
surging towards her with an imperative, protesting force that shook her
heart to its depths.
Perhaps it is so, that souls once intimately related have ever after
this strange power of affecting each other,—a power that neither
absence nor death can annul. How else can we interpret these mysterious
hours, in which the power of departed love seems to overshadow us,
making our souls vital with such longings, with such wild throbbings,
with such unutterable sighings, that a little more might burst the
mortal band? Is it not deep calling unto deep? the free soul singing
outside the cage to her mate, beating against the bars within?
Mary even for a moment fancied that a voice called her name, and
started, shivering. Then the habits of her positive and sensible
education returned at once, and she came out of her reverie as one
breaks from a dream, and lifted all these sad thoughts with one heavy
sigh from her breast; and opening her Bible, she read: ‘They that
trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion that cannot be moved. As the
mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is about His people
from this time henceforth and for evermore.’
Then she kneeled by her bedside, and offered her whole life a sacrifice
to the loving God who had offered His life a sacrifice for her. She
prayed for grace to be true to her promise—to be faithful to the new
relation she had accepted. She prayed that all vain regrets for the
past might be taken away, and that her soul might vibrate without
discord in unison with the will of Eternal Love. So praying, she
rose calm, and with that clearness of spirit which follows an act of
uttermost self-sacrifice; and so calmly she lay down and slept, with
her two hands crossed upon her breast, her head slightly turned on
the pillow, her cheek pale as marble, and her long dark lashes lying
drooping, with a sweet expression, as if under that mystic veil of
sleep the soul were seeing things forbidden to the waking eye. Only
the gentlest heaving of the quiet breast told that the heavenly spirit
within had not gone where it was hourly aspiring to go.
Meanwhile Mrs. Scudder had left Mary’s room, and entered the Doctor’s
study, holding a candle in her hand. The good man was sitting alone
in the dark, with his head bowed upon his Bible. When Mrs. Scudder
entered, he rose and regarded her wistfully, but did not speak. He had
something just then in his heart for which he had no words; so he only
looked as a man does who hopes and fears for the answer of a decided
question.
Mrs. Scudder felt some of the natural reserve which becomes a matron
coming charged with a gift in which lies the whole sacredness of
her own existence, and which she puts from her hands with a jealous
reverence.
She therefore measured the man with her woman’s and mother’s eye, and
said, with a little stateliness,—
‘My dear sir, I come to tell you the result of my conversation with
Mary.’
She made a little pause, and the Doctor stood before her as humbly
as if he had not weighed and measured the universe; because he knew
that though he might weigh the mountains in scales, and the hills in a
balance, yet it was a far subtler power which must possess him of one
small woman’s heart. In fact, he felt to himself like a great awkward,
clumsy, mountainous earthite asking of a white-robed angel to help him
up a ladder of cloud. He was perfectly sure for the moment that he was
going to be refused, and he looked humbly firm—he would take it like
a man. His large blue eyes, generally so misty in their calm, had a
resolute clearness, rather mournful than otherwise. Of course no such
celestial experience was going to happen to him.
He cleared his throat and said,—
‘Well, Madam?’
Mrs. Scudder’s womanly dignity was appeased; she reached out her hand
cheerfully, and said,—
‘She has accepted.’
The Doctor drew his hand suddenly away, turned quickly round, and
walked to the window, although, as it was ten o’clock at night and
quite dark, there was evidently nothing to be seen there. He stood
there quietly, swallowing very hard, and raising his handkerchief
several times to his eyes. There was enough went on under the black
coat just then to make quite a little figure in a romance if it had
been uttered; but he belonged to a class who lived romance, but never
spoke it. In a few moments he returned to Mrs. Scudder and said,—
‘I trust, dear madam, that this very dear friend may never have reason
to think me ungrateful for her wonderful goodness; and whatever sins
my evil heart may lead me into, I hope I may never fall so low as to
forget the undeserved mercy of this hour. If ever I shrink from duty
or murmur at trials, while so sweet a friend is mine, I shall be vile
indeed.’
The Doctor, in general, viewed himself on the discouraging side, and
had berated and snubbed himself all his life as a most flagitious
and evil-disposed individual—a person to be narrowly watched, and
capable of breaking at any moment into the most flagrant iniquity; and
therefore it was that he received his good fortune in so different a
spirit from many of the Lords of Creation in similar circumstances.
‘I am sensible,’ he added, ‘that a poor minister, without much power
of eloquence, and commissioned of the Lord to speak unpopular truths,
and whose worldly condition, in consequence, is never likely to be very
prosperous, that such a one could scarcely be deemed a suitable partner
for so very beautiful a young woman, who might expect proposals, in a
temporal point of view, of a much more advantageous nature; and I am
therefore the more struck and overpowered with this blessed result.’
These last words caught in the Doctor’s throat, as if he were
overpowered in very deed.
‘In regard to her happiness,’ said the Doctor, with a touch of awe
in his voice, ‘I would not have presumed to become the guardian of it,
were it not that I am persuaded it is assured by a Higher Power; for
when He giveth peace, who then can make trouble? (Job xxxv. 29.) But I
trust I may say no effort on my part shall be wanting to secure it.’
Mrs. Scudder was a mother, and come to that spot in life where mothers
always feel tears rising behind their smiles. She pressed the Doctor’s
hand, silently, and they parted for the night.
We know not how we can acquit ourselves to our friends of the great
world for the details of such an unfashionable courtship, so well as by
giving them, before they retire for the night, a dip into a more modish
view of things.
The Doctor was evidently green; green in his faith, green in his
simplicity, green in his general belief of the divine in woman, green
in his particular, humble faith in one small Puritan maiden, whom a
knowing fellow might at least have manœuvred so skilfully as to break
up her saintly superiority, discompose her, rout her ideas, and lead
her up and down a swamp of hopes and fears and conjectures, till she
was wholly bewildered and ready to take him at last—if he made up his
mind to have her at all—as a great bargain for which she was to be
sensibly grateful.
Yes, the Doctor was green, immortally green, as a cedar of Lebanon
which, waving its broad archangel wings over some fast-rooted eternal
old solitude, and seeing from its sublime height the vastness of the
universe, veils its kingly head with humility before God’s infinite
majesty.
He has gone to bed now, simple old soul, first apologizing to Mrs.
Scudder for having kept her up to so dissipated and unparalleled an
hour as ten o’clock on his personal matters.
Meanwhile our Asmodeus will transport us to an easily furnished
apartment in one of the most fashionable hotels of Philadelphia, where
Col. Aaron Burr, just returned from his trip to the then aboriginal
wilds of Ohio, is seated before a table covered with maps, letters,
books, and papers. His keen eye runs over the addresses of the letters,
and he eagerly seizes one from Madame de Frontignac, and reads it;
and as no one but ourselves is looking at him now his face has no
need to wear its habitual mask. First comes an expression of profound
astonishment; then of chagrin and mortification; then of deepening
concern; there were stops where the dark eyelashes flashed together
as if to brush a tear out of the view of the keen-sighted eyes; and
then a red flush rose even to his forehead, and his delicate lips wore
