lip and cheek together. Mr. Linden bent down by her, lifting her face
to meet his eyes, which through all their intentness smiled too.
"Faith, I want to hear every word of that."
"Of what?"
"Of all that is in your mind and face just now."
Her two little answering sentences evidently only gave the key of very
deep tones.
"I think it is good, Endy. I am glad."
"I thought you would be. But that does not satisfy me, dear Faith--I
want you to say to me all the different things that your thoughts were
saying to you. You are not afraid of me at this time of day?" he said
bringing her face closer.
"I have nothing to say I need be afraid to say," Faith answered
slowly,--"but it is hard to disentangle so many thoughts. I was
thinking it is such great and high work--such happy work--and such
honour--and then that you will do it right, Endecott--" she
hesitated.--"How could I help but be glad?"
"Do you like your new prospective position, little Sunbeam?"
A deep colour came over her face, and the eyes fell Yet Faith folded
her hands and spoke.
"I was glad to think--" She got so far, but the sentence was never
finished.
"Glad to think what, dear child?"
Faith glanced up. She did not want to answer. Then she said with the
greatest simplicity, "I am glad if I may do something."
"Glad that I should realize my ideal?" Mr. Linden said with a smile,
and softly bringing her face round again. "Faith, do you know what a
dear little 'minister's wife' you will make?--Mignonette is so suitable
for a parsonage!--so well calculated to impress the people with a
notion of the extreme grave propriety which reigns there! For is not
Mignonette always sweet, demure, and never--by any chance!--high
coloured?"
She would not let her face be held up. It went down upon her lap--into
her hands, which she pressed close to hide it.
"Oh Endecott!--" she said desperately.--"You'll have to call me
something else."
"O Faith!" was his smiling reply,--"I will, just so soon as I can.
Don't you want to come over to the sofa and hear the rest of my story?"
"Your story! Oh yes!"--
And first having a sympathizing interview with the fire, Faith went
over to the sofa and sat down; but hid her face no more. Much as he had
done before tea, Mr. Linden came and sat down by her,--with the same
sort of gentle steadiness of manner, as if some strong thread of
feeling had wrapped itself round an equally deep thread of
purpose,--his gay talk now as then finding always some contrast in his
face. But of this Faith had seen little or nothing--her eyes had not
been very free to look. She did notice how silently he stood by her as
she put the fire in order, she did notice the look that rested on her
as she took her seat, but then he began his story and she could thing
of nothing else.
"It was given to me, dear Faith," he said, "to spend my boyhood in an
atmosphere more like the glow of that firelight than anything I can
compare it to, for its warmth and radiance; where very luxurious
worldly circumstances were crowned with the full luxury of earthly
love. But it was a love so heaven-directed, so heaven-blessed, that it
was but the means of preparing me to go out into the cold alone. That
was where I learned to love your diamonds," he added, taking the
jewelled hand in his,--"when I used to see them not more busy among
things of literature and taste, than in all possible ministrations to
the roughest and poorest and humblest of those whom literature
describes and taste shrinks from!--But I used to think," he said
speaking very low, "that the ring was never so bright, nor so quick
moving, as when it was at work for me."
Faith's eye fell with his to the diamonds. She was very still; the
flash all gone.
"That time of my life," Mr. Linden presently went on, "was passed
partly in Europe and partly here. We came home just after I had
graduated from a German University, but before I went away
again--almost everything I had in the world went from me." He was
silent for a little, drawing Faith's head down upon his shoulder and
resting his lightly upon it, till she felt what she was to him. Then he
looked up and spoke quietly as before.
"Pet and I were left alone. A sister of my father's was very anxious to
take her, but Pet would not hear of it, and so for a year we lived
together, and when I went to the Seminary she went too,--living where I
lived, and seeing what she could of me between times. It was not very
good for her, but it was the best we could do then. I suppose there was
some mismanagement on the part of my father's executors--or some
complication in his affairs, I need not trouble you with details; but
we were left without much more than enough to give her the income I
wished her to have for her own private use. Of course I would not touch
that for our joint expenses. But until a year ago we did still live
together--by various means. Then this sister of my father's set her
heart upon taking Pet with her to Europe--and I set mine almost as
much; I could better bear to live alone, than to have her; and her life
then amounted to that. And so between us both she consented--very
unwillingly; and she went to Italy, and I studied as long as I had ways
and means, and then came here to get more. So you see, dear child," Mr.
Linden said with a smile, "it is not my fortune I have asked you to
share, but my fortunes."
She gave him a smile, as bright and free as the glancing of a star;
then her look went away again. And it was a good little while before
perhaps she dared speak--perhaps before she wanted to speak. So very
steady and still her look and herself were, it said that they covered
thoughts too tender or too deep to be put into words. And the
thoughtfulness rather deepened as minutes rolled on--and a good many of
them rolled on, and still Faith did not speak. Mr. Linden's watch
ticked its remarks unhindered. Words came at last.
"Endecott--you said something about 'means' for study. How much means
does it want?--and how much study?" The interest at work in the
question was deeper than Faith meant to shew, or knew she shewed.
He told her the various expenses, ordinary and contingent, in few
words, and was silent a moment. But then drawing her close to him, with
that same sort of sheltering gesture she had noticed before, he went on
to answer her other question; the voice and manner giving her a perfect
key to all the grave looks she had mused over.
"Do you remember, dear Faith, that I once called you 'a brave little
child'?"
"Yes."
"You must be that now," he said gently,--"you and I must both be brave,
and cheerful, and full of trust. Because, precious child, I have two
years' work before me--and the work cannot be done here."
She looked in his face once, and was silent;--what her silence covered
could only be guessed. But it lasted a little while.
"It must be done at that place where you were with your sister?"
"Yes, little Mignonette, it must be done there."
"And when must you begin the work, Endecott?" If the words cost her
some effort, it only just appeared.
"I came for a year, dear Faith--and I ought not to stay much beyond
that."
Faith mentally counted the months, in haste, with a pang; but the
silence did not last long this time. Her head left its resting place
and bending forward she looked up into Mr. Linden's face, with a sunny
clear look that met his full. It was not a look that could by any means
be mistaken to indicate a want of other feeling, however. One might as
soon judge from the sunshine gilding on the slope of a mountain that
the mountain is made of tinsel.
"Endecott--is that what has been the matter with you?"
She needed no answer but his look, though that was a clear as her own.
"I could easier bear it if I could bear the whole," he said. "But you
can understand that Dr. Harrison's proposal tried, though it did not
tempt me."
She scarce gave a thought to that.
"There is one thing more I wanted to ask. Will there be--" she paused,
and went on,--"no time at all that you can be here?"
"Dear Faith!" he said kissing her, "do you think I could bear that? How
often I shall be able to come I cannot quite tell, but come I
shall--from time to time, if I live. And in the meanwhile we must make
letters do a great deal."
Her face brightened. She sat quietly looking at him.
"Will that shadow come any more,--now that you have told me?"
"I will give you leave to scold me, if you see it," Mr. Linden said,
answering her smile,--"I ought not to be in shadow for a minute--with
such a sunbeam in my possession. Although, although!--do you know,
little bright one, that the connexion between sunbeams and shadows is
very intimate? and very hard to get rid of?"
"Shall I talk to you about 'nonsense' again?"--she said half lightly,
resting her hand on his arm and looking at him. Yet behind her light
tone there was a great tenderness.
"You may--and I will plead guilty. But in which of the old classes of
'uncanny' folk will you put me?--with those who were known by their
having no shadow, or with those who went always with two?"
"So I suppose one must have a little shadow, to keep from being
uncanny!"
"You and I will not go upon that understanding, dear Faith."
Faith did not look like one who had felt no shadow; rather perhaps she
looked like one who had borne a blow; a look that in the midst of the
talk more than once brought to Mr. Linden's mind a shadowy remembrance
of her as she was after they got home that terrible evening; but her
face had a gentle brightness now that then was wanting.
"I don't know"--she said wistfully in answer to his last
words.--"Perhaps it is good. I dare say it is, for me. It is a shame
for me to remind you of anything--but don't you know, Endecott--'all
things are ours'? both 'things present and things to come?'" And her
eye looked up with a child's gravity, and a child's smile.
Bear it alone?--yes, he could have done that--as he had borne other
things,--it tried him to see her bear it. It touched him to see that
look come back--to see any tempering of the bright face she had worn so
long. Faith hardly knew perhaps with what eyes he had watched her
through all the conversation, eyes none the less anxious for the smile
that met hers so readily; she hardly guessed what pain her bright
efforts at keeping up, gave him. To shelter and gladden her life was
the dearest delight of his; and just now duty thwarted him in both
points. And he knew--almost better than she did--how much she depended
on him. He looked down at her for a moment with a face of such grave
submission as Faith had never seen him wear.
"My dear little child!" he said. But that sentence was let stand by
itself. The next was spoken differently. "I do know it, dear
Faith,--and yet you do well to remind me. I need to be kept up to the
mark. And it is not more true that each day has sufficient evil, than
that each has sufficient good--if it be only sought out. There cannot
much darkness live in the light of those words."
"How far have you to go," she said with demure archness,--"to find the
good of these days?"
"You are quick at conclusions"--said Mr. Linden,--"how far do you think
it is between us at present?"
"Endecott"--she said gravely--"it will never be further!"
He laughed a little--with a half moved half amused expression, wrapping
her up like some dainty piece of preciousness. "Because every day that
I am away will bring us nearer together? I suppose that is good
measurement."
"You know," she said, "you have told me two things to-night, Endecott;
and if one makes me sorry, the other makes me glad."
"I was sure of that!--And it is such great, great pleasure to think of
the times of coming back--and of leaving you work to do, and of writing
to you about it,--and then of finding out how well it is done! You must
keep my books for me, Mignonette--mine, I say!--they are as much yours
as mine--and more."
"Your books?"--she said with a flush.
"Yes--there are but a few of these that I shall want with me,--the most
of my study books I did not bring here."
"But won't you want these with you?"
"As far from that as possible. Do you think you could make up your mind
to let me tell Reuben a secret?--and give him a reason for being even
more devoted to you than he is now?"
She coloured very brightly again. "I am willing--if you wish it. Why,
Endecott?"
"The chief reason is, that I do not wish to lose any of your letters,
nor have you lose any of mine. And small postoffices are not so safe as
large ones, nor are their managers proverbially silent. I should like
to make Reuben a sort of intermediate office."
"And send your letters to him?"
"Yes. Would you mind that?"
"And my letters?"
"And yours in like manner, little Mignonette. He could either enclose
them to me, or put them in some neighbouring office,--I think Reuben
would enjoy an eight miles walk a day, taken for me. Or you could hide
your envelope with another, and let him direct that. You need not be
afraid of Reuben,"--Mr. Linden said smiling,--"you might give him forty
letters without his once daring to look at you."
"But I thought--you said--he was going to college next summer?"
"That was talked of, but I think he will stay another year at home, and
then enter a higher class. It will save expense, and he will be longer
with his father. Reuben and I hope to be brother ministers, one day,
Faith."
"Do you! Does he!"--said Faith astonished. "That is good! I am glad of
it. But what will he do for money, Endecott?"
"We shall see--part of the way is clear, so we may hope the rest will
be. Perhaps I may let him do some of his studying with me. Do you think
you would object to that?"
"Object to it! How could I? What do you mean, Endecott?"
"O little Mignonette!" he said smiling, "how sweet you are!--and what
joy it would be to see you wear the only title I can give you! Don't
you know, pretty child, that if I gave Reuben Hebrew you might be
called upon to give him--tea!"
Faith's eyes went down and her colour mounted, and mounted. But her
next remark was extremely collected. "How good it was Dr. Harrison's
money came!"--
"I believe you stipulated that we were to have tea ourselves," said Mr.
Linden, "but the question remains whether you would dispense it to any
one else."
Faith was only restrained from covering her face again by the feeling
that it would be foolish; and withal a little laughter could not be
prevented. She did shield one side of her face with her hand, and
leaning upon it looked into the fire for suggestions. Finally answered
sedately, "I should think you and he might have it together!"
"Have it--yes, if we could get it; but I am ignorant of any but the
chemical properties of milk and sugar."
"I thought you said you knew cream when you saw it!" said Faith from
behind her shield.
"That is knowing its appearance--not its properties, Miss Reason."
"What does reason want to know more, for a cup of tea?"
"But you have declared once to-night that I am not Reason," said Mr.
Linden laughing. "For instance--I once made the sudden acquaintance of
a particular person, who made as sudden an impression on my
mind,--after those three minutes I should have known her by sight (like
cream) to the end of my life. But I went on trying experiments--(as one
might taste successive drops of cream) finding out more and more
sweetness each time; until (like cream again) I discovered that she was
perfectly indispensable to my cup of tea!"
Faith bowed her glad little head, laughing, though feeling much deeper
was at work.
"After this," she said, "I shall always be greatly at a loss what you
are thinking of when you are looking at me."
"Will your reflections be carried on with such a face?" said Mr.
Linden. "Do you remember that afternoon, Faith?--when I so nearly laid
hold of you--and you wanted to laugh, and did not dare?"
"What afternoon?"--
"The one wherein I first had the pleasure of seeing you. How demurely
you eyed me!--and wondered in your little sensible heart what sort of a
person I could possibly be!"
"How did you know I wondered?" said Faith colouring.
"By your very gentle, modest, and fearful examinations, your evident
musings over my words, and the bright look now and then that told of
progress."
Faith laughed.
"You made me begin to think and wish immediately," she said.--"It was
no wonder I wondered."
"Yes, and how I longed to give you your wish, so far as I could,--and
how afraid I was to offer my services,--and how you would persist in
thanking me for pleasing myself, do you remember, little Sunbeam?--and
your fright when I asked about Prescott?"
She looked up with the prettiest, rosiest remembrance of it all; and
then her face suddenly changed, and turning from him she shielded it
again with her hand, but not to hide the rosy colour this time. Mr.
Linden drew her close to him, resting his face upon her other cheek at
first without words.
"Dear child!" he said,--"my own little Mignonette!--you must not forget
what you said to me,--and you must not forget that I hope to come home
quite often. There was a time, when I thought I might have to go away
and never have the right to come and see you again. And you must think
to yourself--though you will not speak of it to me--that after this bit
of time, all our life will be spent together. You need not expect me to
wait for anything--not even the cottage you like so much."
She did not answer immediately, as was natural, his last suggestions
not being very word-provoking with her. But when she did speak, it was
in a clear, cheerful tone.
"I'll bear my part, Endy--I should be very ungrateful if I couldn't.
And you can bear your part--I am glad to think of that!--for you are
working for a Master that always gives full pay."
"We can always bear God's will," he said, a little gravely,--"it is
only our own that points the trial and makes it unbearable."
CHAPTER XIV.
Faith had no chance to think that night. She went to sleep
conscientiously. And a chance the next morning was out of the question.
She dared not come down as early as usual, if her own strength would
have let her. The few minutes before breakfast were busy ones; and the
few hours after breakfast. Faith went about with the consciousness of
something on her heart to be looked at; but it had to bide its time.
Her household duties done, her preparations for Mr. Linden being
already in advance, she had leisure to attend to this other thing. And
alone Faith sat down and looked at it.
It was the first real steady trial her life had known. Her father's
death had come when she was too young to feel deeply any want that her
mother could not fill. To be away from anything she much loved was a
sorrow Faith hardly knew by experience. But a two years' separation was
a very, very heavy and sharp pain to think of; and Faith had an inward
assurance that the reality would be heavier and sharper than her
thoughts beforehand could make it. Perhaps it was too great a pain to
be struggled with; for Faith did not struggle--or not long. She sat
down and looked at it,--what she had not dared to do the night
before;--measured it and weighed it; and then bowed her heart and head
to it in utter submission. With it came such a crowd of glad and good
things, things indeed that made the trial and were bound up with
it,--that Faith locked the one and the other up in her heart together.
And remembering too the sunshine of joy in which she had lately lived,
she humbly confessed that some check might be needed to remind her and
make her know that earth has not the best sunshine, and that any gain
would be loss that turned her eyes away from that best, or lessened her
sense of its brightness.
So there came no shadow over her at all, either that day or afterwards.
The clear light of her face was not clouded, and her voice rung to the
same tune. There was no shadow, nor shade of a shadow. There was a
little subdued air; a little additional gravity, a trifle more of
tenderness in her looks and ways, which told of the simpleness of heart
with which she had quietly taken what God gave and was content with it.
To Mr. Linden the trial was not new, and to sorrow of various kinds he
was wonted; but it was new to him to see her tried, and to that he
found it hard to accustom himself. Yet he carried out his words,--Faith
could feel a sort of atmosphere of bright strength about her all the
time. How tenderly she was watched and watched over she could partly
see, but pain or anxiety Mr. Linden kept to himself. He set himself to
work to make her enjoy every minute. Yet he never shunned the subject
of his going away,--he let her become used to the sound of the words,
and to every little particular connected with it--they were all told
her by degrees; but told with such bright words of hope and trust, that
Faith took the pain as it were diluted.
Before all this had gone far--indeed not many days after the first
telling of his story, Faith had come down as usual one early morning to
her work. She had been down about an hour, when she heard the door open
and Mr. Linden came in. He had two seconds' view of the picture before
she rose up to meet him. There was no lamp yet burning in the room. A
fire of good hard wood threw its light over everything, reflected back
from the red curtains which fell over the windows. In the very centre
of the glow, Faith sat on a low cushion, with her book on a chair. She
was dressed exactly, for nicety, as if she might have been going to
Judge Harrison's to tea. And on the open pages, and on Faith's bright
hair, edging her ruffles, and warming up her brown dress, was the soft
red fall of the firelight. She rose up immediately with her usual glad
look, behind which lay a doubtful surmising as to his errand. It was on
her lips to ask what had brought him down so early, but she was
prudently silent. He came forward quick and quietly, according to his
wont, not at all as if she were about anything unusual, and giving her
one of those greetings which did sometimes betray the grave feeling he
kept so well in hand, he brought her back to the fire.
"Little bird," he said, "what straws are you weaving in at present?"
"I don't know. Not any--unless thoughts."
"Will it please you to state what you are doing?"
"I was reading. I had just got to the end of the story of Moses
blessing Israel. I was thinking of these words--" and she took up her
book and shewed him. "Happy art thou, O Israel, saved of the Lord, the
shield of thy help, and who is the sword of thy excellency."
"Did you ever look out any of the answering passages in other parts of
the Bible?"
"Not often. I don't know them. Once in a while I think of one. And then
they are so beautiful!"
Mr. Linden took the book from her hand, turning from place to place and
reading to her.
"'Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in
the Lord his God: which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that
therein is: which keepeth truth forever.' That is what David
said,--then hear how Isaiah answers--'Behold, God is my salvation; I
will trust, and not be afraid: for the LORD JEHOVAH is my strength and
my song; he also is become my salvation.'--And again--'Israel shall be
saved in the Lord with an everlasting salvation: ye shall not be
ashamed nor confounded, world without end.'"
Faith drew a little quick breath.
"Doesn't it seem," she said, "as if words were heaped on words to
prevent our being afraid?"
"I think it really is so; till we have a shield of promises as well as
protection. After Abraham had gone out of his own country, 'not knowing
whither he went', 'the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Fear not,
Abraham, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward.' Then David
takes that up and expatiates upon it,--finding in it 'both things
present and things to come,' dear Faith."
"'For the Lord God is a sun and a shield: the Lord will give grace and
glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O
Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.'"
She looked down at the words, then up at him with a glad, sunshiny
light in her eyes. Her comment on the whole was heartfelt, and
comprehensive. "How good it was you came down this morning!"
"Would you like to have me come every morning?"
"Oh how much!--But that's no use, Endecott."
"Why not?"
"I mustn't get to depending upon you too much," she said with a smile.
"What had you been musing about--to make you so glad this morning?" he
said looking at her.
"Nothing!--but those passages as you read them one after the other were
so beautiful, and felt so strong.--It was a great pleasure to hear you
read them,"--she said dropping her voice a little in confession.
"It shall be as you like, darling, about my coming again. But dear
Faith, of this other morning work you must let me say a word."
"What, Endecott?"
"You are doing too much."
"No. What makes you think so?"
Significantly Mr. Linden laid his hand on the pile of study books.
"Well?"
"Well.--For the future please to let these gentry rest in peaceful
seclusion until after breakfast."
"Oh no, Endy!"
"My dear, I shall have you turning into a moonbeam. Just imagine what
it would cost me to call you 'pale Cynthia'!"
"You needn't imagine it, Endecott."
"Only so far as to prevent the reality. Do you know I have been afraid
of this for some time."
"Of what?"
"Afraid that you were disregarding the bounds I have laid down for
study and the sun for sleep."
"I didn't know you had laid down any bounds," she said gaily
again--"and I never did mind the sun."
"Well won't you mind me?" said he smiling. "I have a right to expect
that in study matters, you know."
"Don't try me--" said Faith, very winningly, much more than she knew.
He stood looking at her, with the sweet unbent expression which was her
special right.
"Faith, don't you mean to love to have me take care of you?"
That brought a change of look, and it was curious to see the
ineffectual forces gather to veil what in spite of them wreathed in her
smile and laid an additional roseleaf upon each cheek. The shy eyes
retreated from view; then they were raised again as she touched his arm
and said, with a demure softness, "What must I do, Endy?"
"Be content with the old study hours, my dear child. They are long
enough, and many enough."
"Oh Endy!--not for me."
"For thee."
Faith looked down and looked disturbed.
"Then, Endecott, I sha'n't be as wise as I want to be,--nor as you want
to have me."
"Then you will be just as wise as I want you to be," he said with a
smile. "As to the rest, pretty child,--do you mean that my wife shall
deprive me of my scholar?"
Faith turned away and said rather quickly, "Endy, how did you know?"
"From some lesson evidence. And I always hear you come down--and whiles
I see a face at breakfast which has not lately come from rest."
Faith's secret thought was that it was better than rest. But after
folding her hands with a grave face, she looked up at Mr. Linden with a
smile which yielded the whole question.
"To prove to you what a naughty child you have been," said Mr. Linden,
"I shall give you an increase of outdoor lessons, and take you off on
an expedition the first mild day. On which occasion you may study
me--if you have any of Miss Essie's curiosity."
"Don't I?" said Faith. "And I am going to do it more. What expedition
are you going on, Endecott?"
"Up to Kildeer river--I have business there. Will you trust yourself to
me in a boat--if I will let you steer?"
"I'll do anything to go," said Faith. "And I suppose if I steered
wrong, the helm would come about pretty quick!" And so ended her last
early morning studies.
It was in the afternoon of the same day that Faith put in practice what
she had been thinking of when she avowed her determination of further
studying Mr. Linden. He had come home from school, and it was the dusky
hour again; the pleasant interregnum between day and night when even
busy folk take a little time to think and rest. Mr. Linden was
indulging in both apparently; he was in one of those quiet times of
doing nothing which Faith chose for making any of her very gentle
attacks upon him. One seemed to be in meditation now. She stole up
behind him and leaned down on the back of his chair, after her wont.
"Endecott"--she said softly.
Faith's voice was in ordinary a pleasant thing to hear; but this name
from her lips was always a concretion of sweetness, flavoured
differently as the case might be. Sometimes with mere gladness,
sometimes with the spirit of fun, often enough with a little timidity,
and sometimes with a rose-drop from the very bottom of her heart's
well; with various compounds of the same. But this time it was more
than timidity; Faith's one word was spoken as from lips that were
positively afraid to follow it with others.
"That note," said Mr. Linden smiling, "seems to come from the top of a
primeval pine tree--with a hawk in sight! Little bird, will you please
come down into the lower regions of air?--where you can be
(comparatively) safe."
Faith laughed; but the hawk remained in sight--of her words.
"You said this morning I never asked you any but impossible things."
"Most sorrowfully true!--have you another one ready?"
"If I ask you something possible, what will you do?" she said, softly
touching the side of his head with her hand. It was Faith's utmost
freedom; a sort of gentle admiring touch of her fingers which the thick
locks of hair felt hardly more than a spider's feet.
"That depends so much upon the thing!" he said, half turning to give
her the look which belonged to his words. "There are such a variety of
ways in which I might deal with it--and with you."
"I am not going to ask you anything but what would be right."
"You do not doubt that my answer will be conformable?"
"Yes I do. It will be your 'right,' but it may not be my 'right,' you
know."
"If you get what is not your right, you ought to be contented," said
Mr. Linden.
"Now you have turned me and my meaning round! Endecott--you know Aunt
Dilly gave me something?--mayn't I--won't you let me lend it to you?"
Very low and doubtfully the words came out! But if Faith had any more
to say, she had little chance for a while. One quick look round at her
Mr. Linden gave, but then he sprang up and came to where she stood,
lifting her face and giving her her "right" in one sense at least.
Other answer he made none.
"Endy--have I asked a possible thing this time?" she said under breath.
"My precious child!--Do you think it possible?"
"It ought to be possible, Endecott." And if ever an humble suggestion
of a possibility was made, Faith made it then.
"I shall have to go back to my first answer," said Mr. Linden,--"I have
no words for any other. Faith, dearest--don't you know that it is not
needful? Will that content you, little sweet one?"
A soft "no."
"Why not?" he said, making good his threat. "What do you want me to
have more than I need?"
"I fear the ways you will take to make that true. I should think you
might, Endecott!"--The ellipsis was not hard to supply.
"I shall not take any unlawful means--nor any unwise ones, I hope," he
said lightly. "What are you afraid I shall do?"
"Get up early in the morning," she whispered.
"But that is so pleasant! Do you suppose I get up late now, little
bird?"
"Not late, with breakfast at seven. How early do you?"
"Philosophically early! Do you know you have not had your poem
to-day?--what shall it be? sunrise or sunset?"
"Which you please," she said gently, with the tone of a mind upon
something else. Mr. Linden looked down at her in silence for a minute.
"Dear Faith," he said, "I told you truly that there is no need. This
year's work has done quite as much as I thought it would. What are you
afraid of?"
"I am not afraid of much," she said, looking up at him now with a clear
brow. "But Endy, I have changed my mind about something. Could you
easily come down and read with me a little while every morning?--or are
you busy?"
"I am never too busy to spend time with you, my child,--that is one
piece of pleasure I shall always allow myself. At what hour shall I
come?"
"At six o'clock, can you?" said Faith. "If you gave me a quarter of an
hour then, I should still have time enough for breakfast work. This
morning I was afraid--but I was foolish. This evening I want all I can
get. And when you read me a ladder of verses again," she said
smiling, "I shall mark them in my Bible, and then I shall have them by
and by--when you are gone."
"Yes, and I can send you more. It is good to go up a ladder of Bible
verses when one is afraid--or foolish," he said gently and answering
her smile. "One end of it always rests on earth, within reach of the
weakest and weariest."
"That is just it! Oh Endy," she said, clasping her hands sadly and
wishfully before her and her eyes tilling as she spoke--"I wish there
were more people to tell people the truth!"
CHAPTER XV.
It was a fair, fair May morning when Mr. Linden and Faith set forth on
their expedition to Kildeer river. After their early rising and early
breakfast, they took their way down to the shore of the Mong, where the
little sail-boat lay rocking on the incoming tide, her ropes and
streamers just answering to the morning breeze. The soft spring
sunlight glinted on every tree and hillside. The "Balm of a Thousand
Flowers"--true and not spurious--was sprinkled through the air, under
the influence of which unseen nectar the birds became almost
intoxicated with joy; pouring out their songs with a sort of
spendthrift recklessness,--the very fish caught the infection, and
flashed and sparkled in the blue water by shoals at a time.
In the sailboat now stood baskets and shawls, a book or two, an empty
basket for wild flowers, and by the tiller sat Faith--invested with her
new dignity but not yet instructed therein. Mr. Linden stood on the
shore, with the boat's detaining rope in his hand, looking about him as
if he had a mind to take the good of things as he went along. Up the
hill from the shore, trotted Jerry and Mr. Skip.
"Endecott," said Faith joyously,--"Goethe would have more than enough
if he was here."
She was not a bad part of the picture herself; fair and glad as she
looked, as fair as the May morning and the birds and the sunlight.--
"Isn't this air sweet?"
"Very! But Goethe would choose my point of view. So much depends, in a
picture, upon the principal light!"
"I wonder which is the principal light to-day!" said Faith laughing.
"How it sparkles all over the river, and then on the young leaves and
buds;--and then soft shining on the clouds. And they are all May! Look
at those tiny specks of white cloud scattered along the horizon, up
there towards Neanticut."
"The principal light to-day," said Mr. Linden, "is one particular
sunbeam, which as it were leads off the rest. It's a fair train,
altogether!" and he threw the rope into the little vessel, and jumped
in himself; then lifting Faith a little from her place, and arranging
and disposing of her daintily among shawls and cushions, and putting
her unwonted fingers upon the tiller.
"Now Miss Derrick," he said, "before we go any further, I should like
to know your estimate and understanding of the power at present in your
hands."
"I know what a rudder is good for," said Faith merrily. "I know that
this ship, 'though it be so great, and driven of fierce winds, yet is
it turned about with a very small helm whithersoever the governor
