"How many books do you carry about in your head, Mr. Linden?"

"If I should tell you, Miss Faith, then you would know--and then I
could never delude you any more! Now we must quicken our pace, or we
shall scarce get our poem before tea."

For awhile the trotting was pretty brisk, then they drew bridle again
and went gently on, but now towards the setting sun, whose bright rays
were caught and held by the white sails that gleamed here and there in
the distance. Now they met lines of cattle, driven by some bare-footed
boy or sun-bonneted girl, and ploughmen trudged along the road behind
their teams. Thicker curls of smoke from wayside chimneys spoke of
supper, and where a house stood in the shadow of some bit of forest,
lights were already gleaming from the windows.

   "How many things by season seasoned are
   To their right praise, and true perfection!"


Which bit of excellent eulogy might also have been true of Quapaw creek
and the bridge over it, which they reached in seasonable time. Quapaw
creek was here a little bit of a river, and the bridge over it was an
insignificant little bridge--'no count,' in Squire Deacon's language.
But now, of all times in the year, the little bridge was already full
of more than it could hold, literally, for it couldn't hold what was
upon it. A heavy farm-wagon loaded with some sort of produce had got
fairly upon the bridge some hour or two before and then broken through;
men and teams had for the present deserted it, and there was the way
pretty effectually blocked up. What was to be done? They were not more
now than a mile or two from home, but to go back and round by the
nearest way would be several miles. The water was not very broad, nor
generally deep; but the banks and the bed of the stream were uneven and
strewn with rocks and stones, small and great. It was fordable,
certainly; a good rider might cross well enough; but a good rider would
scarce choose to trust an unskilful one there. What was to be done?

"We shall have to go back, Mr. Linden," said Faith;--"and you mustn't
mind my riding fast now, or mother will be uneasy."

Mr. Linden took the case into consideration.

"Will you mind riding before me, Miss Faith?"

"What, sir?" she said, not understanding.

"Will you let me take you across?"

"How can you, Mr. Linden?" she said, looking a little startled, and
flushing.

"Very easily--on my horse. Stay where you are a minute, and let me try
the ford." And not waiting for an answer to that, he rode down the bank
and into the stream. It was easy enough, for a man who knew what to do
with his horse's mouth; not easy, nor perhaps safe for another. The
footing needed to be chosen by the hand of the rider; so chosen it was
good. Mr. Linden rode to the other side and came back.

"Will you try, Miss Faith?"

"Yes," she said, putting her horse in motion,--"I am not afraid. I will
follow you. It will be better than going round." But his horse did not
stir.

"I shall not follow you, Miss Faith,--and yet if you cross it must be
before me. No other way is safe for you."

"Well, we can go round, can't we?" said Faith.

"Yes," he said,--as the sun dropped down behind the low horizon, and
the cool shade fell on everything but the tree tops. "You know it is
about six times as far. Are you afraid of my horse?"

"No, not when you hold him. I will do just what you please, Mr.
Linden," she said, though her colour mounted.

"Then do not be afraid of me," he said, dropping his own bridle and
gently disengaging the hand from hers. "Please take your foot out of
the stirrup, Miss Faith--" and the transfer was made in a moment: she
was lifted across the little space between the two horses, and seated
in front of Mr. Linden, and held fast.

"Are you afraid?" he repeated, looking gravely down at her.

"No sir.--Not a bit, Mr. Linden," she said, throwing a little more
warmth into her words, for the first had been spoken somewhat under
breath. So leaving the one horse fastened to a tree-branch, the other
set forward with his unwonted burden, which indeed at first he did not
much approve; pricking his ears, and sidling about, with some
doubtfulness of intent. But being after all a sensible horse, and
apprehending the voice and rein suggestions which were made to him, he
began to pick his way slowly and carefully among the stones on the
bank, and then through the stones in the river; setting down his feet
with great judgment and precaution, and paying no heed to the rushing
and splashing of the little stream, except by his ears--which certainly
worked, for once. And so the dangerous "pass" was soon behind them, and
Mr. Linden dismounted and lifted Faith down, and seated her on a grey
stone on the bank, while he went back for her horse. Which crossing, it
may be observed, was accomplished much quicker than the last. The
twilight was falling fast, and the little river, and the two horses as
they forded its swift current, looked shadowy enough; set off by the
white foam on both. The evening wind began its fitful stir, and swept
the dry leaves past Faith's feet, and shook the cedar boughs above her
head; and so she sat there, and watched the crossing.

"I have had the best picture to-day, Mr. Linden," she said, when she
was placed in the saddle again. "You ought to have seen the river, and
you and the two horses coming over it, in this light, as I did. You
don't know how pretty it was. Now you'll let me ride fast, won't
you?--for mother will be looking for us."

"As fast as you please--but after all, you have not seen my picture,"
he said smiling.

Faith profited by the permission given and put her horse to a pace that
proved she was very much in earnest to prevent that "looking for them"
on Mrs. Derrick's part. She got out of the trot into a canter--or her
horse did--and then away they flew; too fast to see or be hindered by
any more friends or foes; till they drew bridle at home.

It was too late to have the reading before tea. So to have tea as
speedily as possible was the next object. And then they adjourned to
the fire-lit sitting-room, where Faith lighted the lamp in uncertainty
whether reading or studies was to be the next move. Mr. Linden,
however, went for his book--a little old volume, of which Faith had
never taken notice; and began, without doubt, the prettiest description
of a garden that ever was written;--

   "How vainly men themselves amaze,
   To win the palm, the oak, or bays:"--etc.


The reader paused a moment, to tell more particularly what these leafy
honours were, and then went on.

   "Fair Quiet, have I found thee here,
   And Innocence, thy sister dear?
   Mistaken long, I sought you then
   In busy companies of men.
   Your sacred plants, if here below,
   Only among the plants will grow.
   Society is all but rude
   To this delicious solitude."


At which words precisely, the spirit of contrariety opened the door and
ushered in Dr. Harrison. All he saw, was Mr. Linden with a book, in
one easy-chair; Mrs. Derrick with her knitting in another; and a little
further off, Faith, sitting on her low cushion and apparently doing
nothing. Probably for that reason the doctor made up to her first. He
sat down beside her, and enquired in a low tone how the fishes were?
Faith answered that they were well; only one of them had been eaten up
by the others.

"You are a little tired and are feeling remarkably well to-night," the
doctor went on. "What have you been doing?"

"I have been trying to do my duty," Faith said colouring and laughing.

"Don't you always do that?" said Dr. Harrison looking at her
enquiringly.

"But I didn't know what it was till to-day."

"You are doing what is very uncommon with you," said the
doctor--"fighting me with my own weapons." His smile was pleasant
though acute; but Faith coloured exceedingly.

"I can't tell you exactly what duty I mean," she said, "but Mr. Linden
can."

"Do you take your notions of duty from him?"

"To-day,"--said Faith with a smile, sweet and with spirit enough too.

"I maintain that duties are facts, not notions," said Mr. Linden.

"Hum--" said the doctor turning,--"Now you are too quick for me. May
one not have a notion of a fact?"

"One may. What are your notions about society and solitude?"

"Of duty in those regards?"

"Not at all,--your notions of those facts."

"Confused--" said the doctor,--"Incomprehensible--Melancholy--and
Distracting!"

He had got up and assumed the position he seemed to like, a
standing-place on the rug, from whence he could look down on everybody.

"What do you say to this?--

   'Two paradises were in one,
   To live in Paradise alone.'--

I suppose that meets your 'notions.'"

"No," said the doctor,--"not unless Eve were the paradise. And even
then, I shouldn't want her any more to myself than to let all the world
come and see that she was mine."

"It is a grave question," said Mr. Linden, "whether paradise becomes
smaller by being divided. In other words, whether after sharing it with
Eve, Adam still retained the whole of it for himself!"

"Just the other way!" said the doctor,--"it was doubled--or trebled.
For in the first place he had Eve; she was a second paradise;--then all
her enjoyment of paradise was his enjoyment; that was a third;--and in
short I should think the multiplication might go on ad infinitum--like
compound interest or any other series of happiness impossible to
calculate."

"Simple interest isn't a bad thing," said Mr. Linden.

"Yes," said the doctor with an answering flash of his eye, "but it
never contented anybody yet that could get it compound--that ever I
heard of. Does Miss Derrick understand arithmetic?"

"Miss Derrick," said Mr. Linden, "how many angels can stand on the
point of a (darning) needle without jostling each other?"

"Don't be deluded into thinking that is arithmetic," said the doctor.
"Some of them would get their feet hurt. What duty has Mr. Linden been
persuading you to do to-day?"

"Mr. Linden can tell," said Faith.

Which appeal Mr. Linden answered by deliberately finishing his poem
aloud, for the benefit of the company.

   "'What wondrous life is this I lead!
   Ripe apples drop about my head;
   The luscious clusters of the vine
   Upon my mouth do crush their wine.
   The nectarine, the curious peach,
   Into my hands themselves do reach.
   Stumbling on melons, as I pass,
   Ensnared with flowers, I fall on grass.'

   'Here, at the fountain's sliding foot,
   Or at some fruit-tree's mossy root,
   Casting the body's vest aside,
   My soul into the boughs does glide:
   There, like a bird, it sits and sings,
   Then whets and claps its silver wings;
   And, till prepared for longer flight,
   Waves in its plumes the various light.'" etc.


The doctor listened, faithfully and enjoyingly; but his finishing
comment was,

"What a pity it is November!"

"No," said Faith--"I think I enjoyed it better than I should in July."

"Rousseau's doctrine," said the doctor. "Or do you mean that you like
the description better than the reality?"

"It was the reality I enjoyed," said Faith.

"What have you got there, Linden?"

"Various old poets, bound up together."

"What was that you read?"

"Andrew Marvell's 'Garden.'"

"It's a famous good thing!--though I confess my soul never 'glided into
the boughs' of any tree when my body didn't go along. Apropos--Do you
like to be on the back of a good horse?"

"Why yes," said Mr. Linden, "when circumstances place me there."

"Will you let me be a circumstance to do it? I have an animal of that
description--with almost the facility of motion possessed by Andrew
Marvell's soul. Will you try him?"

"Can he run?" said Mr. Linden with comic demureness.

"Fleetly. Whether away with you depends, you know, on what I have no
knowledge of; but I should think not."

"I should like to know beforehand--" said Mr. Linden in the same tone.
"However--Is it to be on simple or compound interest, doctor?"

"I never take simple interest," said Dr. Harrison. "I want all I can
get."

"Well if I take your horse, what will you ride alongside of me?"

"That is easily arranged," said the doctor smiling. "This fellow is a
new-comer, comparatively, and a pet of mine. I want to know what you
think of him. When is your next time of leisure?"

"My daylight leisure is pretty limited now. Part of Saturday I could
take."

"Then you'll hold yourself engaged to me for Saturday morning,--and
I'll hold myself engaged to give you some thing pleasant to do with it.
The roads hereabout are good for nothing but riding--you can have the
pleasure of motion, there isn't much to take your thoughts away from
it."

"Except emotion?"

"If you're another Marvell of a man, and can send your soul into the
boughs as you pass;--as good as stumbling on melons," said the doctor.
"Unless your horse stumbles!"

"I see his character is coming out by degrees," said Mr. Linden smiling.

"He's as sure-footed--as you are! Here comes emotion--in the shape of
my aunt Ellen. Isn't Mr. Linden a careful man?" he asked whimsically in
a low voice, returning to his place by Faith. The question touched
Faith's feeling of the ludicrous, and she only laughed at the doctor.
Which he liked very well.

Mrs. Somers' errand was to invite the younger portion of the company to
spend Christmas evening with her. And having succeeded in her mission,
she made the doctor take her home.



CHAPTER XXXIII.



The week thereafter passed with the usual quiet business of those days.
Friday evening, however, when the lamp was lit, instead of opening her
books at once, Faith took the doctor's station on the rug.

"Dr. Harrison has been here this afternoon, Mr. Linden; and asked me to
go with you and him in the ride to-morrow."

"Well, Miss Faith?"

"I was afraid at first that it might hinder the good of your ride, if I
went; but Dr. Harrison said no; and he put it so that at last I said I
would. But I am afraid of it still."

"How did he put it?"

"I don't know," said Faith half laughing;--"in a way that left me no
excuse; as if he thought it would be more pleasure both to you and to
him, to have me along."

"Miss Faith, if you go, you must give me leave to keep very near you. I
trust my own care better than Dr. Harrison's. You will understand why I
do it?" Faith did not understand very well.

"I supposed of course, Mr. Linden, you would be very near! I knew
mother would not let me go to ride with Dr. Harrison, but with you I
thought she would not be afraid."

He looked at her a little doubtfully--as if he wanted to say something;
but whatever it might be, it was not what he did say,--a quiet

"I will try and take care of you. Miss Faith." Which words were
afterwards enlarged upon.

"Miss Faith, may I trust that you will not fall behind my 'fleet' horse
to-morrow?"

"Do you mean, if he goes very fast?" said Faith, with questioning eyes.

"His speed shall not put you to any inconvenience. Indeed it may chance
that he will be obliged to go slower than you like,--in which case,
Miss Faith, I hope your liking will change."

The doctor came the next day in a gay mood.

"I told you," said he, "I shouldn't be content with simple interest--I
wanted compound. I hope you approve of my addition to our plan?"

"So far so good," Mr. Linden said smiling.

They went out, and Mr. Linden's first move was towards the horse with
the side saddle; not with the intention of mounting him, however: but a
more particular, thorough, systematic examination of every buckle and
strap of his harness, that particular horse had never had. Then Mr.
Linden turned and held out his hand to Faith.

She gave him hers with a facile readiness that quite precluded
interposition, and testified either that she had expected it or had
not expected it; most probably the latter. Dr. Harrison bit his lips,
but that was a second's emotion; his next step was to dismiss the groom
who stood at the horse's head and take that office on himself.

"You are more careful than is absolutely necessary in this case," said
he smiling. "This horse, Miss Faith, is the mate, I presume, of the one
Job used to take his exercise upon. I chose him for you, thinking of
Mrs. Derrick.--Give 'Stranger' to Mr. Linden!"--The last words being a
direction to the groom.

A very different creature was Stranger! If it had been the purpose of
Dr. Harrison to give his friend so much to do with his own particular
affairs that he would have no leisure to bestow on those of other
people, he had chosen the horse at least well. A very fine and
beautiful animal, he deserved all the praise given him for facility of
motion; no feet could disdain the ground more daintily; no carriage be
more absolutely springy and soft. But the mischief and spirit of both
the runaways combined would not match his case. He did not indeed
appear to be vicious, any further than a most vehement desire to please
himself and that in all manner of eccentric ways, totally irrelevant to
the purpose of getting ahead on the road or serving the will of his
rider, might be called vice. It rather seemed the spirit of power in
full play. However it were, there was no lack of either 'motion' or
'emotion' during the first half mile of the way; for Stranger's manner
of getting over so much of the ground was continually either calling
Faith's blood into her cheeks, or driving it out from them.

They were well matched, however, the horse and the rider,--and the
spirit of power in equal exercise. Neither did Mr. Linden seem averse
to the play--though Stranger presently found that what play he
indulged in, was clearly matter of concession; his name, as regarded
his rider, soon lost its point. On the whole, the performance came as
near the 'Centaurship' declared impossible by Dr. Harrison, as most
things have in modern times; but so far as the doctor had any stake
depending upon Stranger's antics, so far he lost. Mr. Linden had never
seemed more absolutely at leisure to attend to other people's affairs,
and had rarely, it may be said, attended to them more thoroughly, than
during that 'springy' half mile. An occasional Pas seul round the
minuet of his companions, rather heightened the effect. On another
score, too, perhaps the doctor lost; for whatever efforts he made, or
she made, it was simply impossible for Faith to attend to anything
else whatever with any show of consecutiveness, but the said horse and
his rider. An attention sufficiently accounted for in the first place
by the startled changes of colour in her face; latterly the colour rose
and became steady, and a little varying play of smile on lip and eye
during the third quarter of a mile attested the fact that other
"emotions" had displaced that of fear. Clearly the doctor had lost upon
Stranger.

"How do you like him?" he said at last speaking across Faith who was
not "good" for conversation.

"Very much."

"I see you do--and he likes you, which is, to be sure, a correlative
position. As I see he don't fill your hands, may I impose upon you the
care of my sister? We are an uneven number you are aware, and as I
thought it desirable not to look odd, I gave her permission to go
with us."

Dr. Harrison did not see--if Faith did--the tiniest bit of a glance
that sought her face while he was speaking; but nothing could be easier
than the terms in which Mr. Linden declared himself ready to take
charge of any number of ladies,--it was only equalled by Stranger's
bound the next minute.

How dismayed one of the party was at this addition of Miss Harrison's
company, nobody guessed. They turned in at Judge Harrison's gate, and
found Miss Sophy all ready for them. But to Faith, the play was
suddenly taken out of "the play." She and Dr. Harrison set forward to
be sure, over a pleasant road, in delicious weather; the doctor was in
one of his balmiest moods; and though quietly, she was very well
mounted. It was pleasant, or would have been pleasant; but all the
while, what was Stranger doing behind her that she could not see! Then
in answering some kindly, graceful remark of the doctor's, Faith chid
herself for ungratefulness, and roused herself to give and take what
good was in her power.

The ride was pleasant after that! The air in all its calm sweetness was
well tasted; the barren landscape, never barren to Faith's eyes, was
enjoyed at every step. Her horse went agreeably, and the talk between
her and Dr. Harrison grew interesting and enlivening.

Meanwhile Mr. Linden's horse and his companion were at the
antipodes--of each other. Thoroughly good and estimable as Miss
Harrison was, she never left the beaten track,--and Stranger never kept
in it. Between these two opposites Mr. Linden amused himself as best he
might. To do him justice he tried his best to amuse his companion.

Several miles of way had been passed over, when in a broad grassy reach
of the road, the two riders ahead fell back upon the rest of the party;
Faith taking Miss Harrison's side, while the doctor drew up by Mr.
Linden.

"How does it go?" he said good humouredly.

"What is the impersonal in this case?" said Mr. Linden, while Stranger
snorted and bounded, and by every means in his power requested the
doctor to keep at a distance.

"A conglomerate, for which I found no better term. You, Stranger, and
my sister, and the world generally."

"Stranger is in a sufficiently ardent mood, for his share--he gives me
a fine view of the country," said Mr. Linden, as the creature brought
himself to a tolerably erect position, and seemed to like it so well as
to be in no hurry to come down; and when he did, took the precaution to
take his hind feet off the ground before the fore feet touched. "Miss
Faith--how does this agree with your ideal of Melancholy?"

Faith forgot to answer, or thought answers impertinent.

"That horse frightens me out of my wits," said Miss Harrison. "I have
been jumping out of the saddle half the time, since I came out.
Sometimes he'll go very quietly--as nice as anybody--and then he'll
play such a caper as he did then. That was just because Julius came up
alongside of him. He had been going beautifully this last mile. I wish
he'd have nothing to do with such a creature!"

"I suppose he's very pleasant to ride," said Faith eying the creature.

Perhaps Stranger--with his full, wild eyes, took note of this look of
partial favour, for he backed a little from the doctor, and came
dancing round by Faith, and there danced along at her side for a few
minutes; evidently in an excited state of mind. His rider meanwhile,
gave Faith a quiet word of admonition about keeping so loose a rein,
and asked, in the same half undertone, if she felt tired?

"O no!" Faith said with a look of thanks and pleasure.

"That piece of care I must trust in your hands--don't forget that I
do so trust it. How would you like to cross Quapaw creek on this
piece of quicksilver?"

"I don't think you'd like to have me!" Faith said very decidedly. "I
never saw anything so beautiful, quite, Mr. Linden--that I recollect at
this minute," she added smiling.

"I want to dance with you to-day--more than I ever did before," he
answered, smiling too. "Miss Faith, if you have not yet said the 'few
sensible words,' or if you have any left, won't you please say them to
me?"

"That question comes like a constable upon all my sense," said Faith
laughing, "and it feels as I suppose a man does when he is clapped on
the shoulder."

"But then the man cannot run away, you know."

"Nor my sense don't," said Faith,--"that I know of,--but it feels as if
it hadn't possession of itself, Mr. Linden."

"Well see if it is equal to this demand--What would be the consequences
if you and I were to start off and scour the country 'on our own hook,'
as people say?"

"I think 'our hook' would draw two people after us," said Faith,
looking very much amused and a little afraid of being overheard.

"That is a melancholy fact! And my self-indulgence needs to be kept in
check. Miss Faith," he said dropping his voice still more, "Stranger
regrets very much that he must now go through that figure of the
cotillion called 'Ladies change'!" And with a low and laughing bow, Mr.
Linden reined back his horse and returned to his former place with all
the soberness that circumstances allowed.

There was no soberness whatever in the face with which Faith
recommenced her tête-à-tête with Miss Harrison. The doctor was
perfectly in order.

"I have been thinking," he said, "since my question of how the world
went with you, what a very insignificant thing, as to extent, 'the
world' of any one person is."

"Compared with the universe," said Mr. Linden.

"What sort of a world have you got into?" said Dr. Harrison somewhat
impatiently. "No--the actual extent of your and my consciousness--of
that field of action and perception which we magnificently call our
world! What a mighty limited field it is!"

"I think you describe it correctly," said Mr. Linden: "it is both
mighty and limited. A little space railed off for every man--and yet
larger than that man can ever fill."

"It seems to me too insignificant to be worth filling."

"There is a little outlet on every side that makes it impossible to
fill!"

"What do you mean?"

"I mean, that while our action at every step touches other people, and
their consequent action moves on with like effect, the limits of our
power in this world can never be known."

"Will you think me impertinent if I ask once more what you mean?--or
rather, ask you to enlarge a little?"

"If a man plants the first clover seed or thistle-down in some great
continent," said Mr. Linden, "from whose little field is it, that in a
hundred years the whole land bears thistles or clover?"

"It won't," said the doctor, "if a hundred other things are sown at the
same time. And so it seems to me in life--that one action is
counteracted by another, universally,--and nothing makes anything!--of
any avail."

"If nothing is of any avail, things don't counteract each other. You
are proving my position."

The doctor smiled, not unpleasantly.

