at this moment in Rome. The monk then certified upon the holy cross
to the true marriage of her mother, and besought Father Francesco to
make the same known to one of the kindred whom he named. He further
informed him, that this family, having fallen under the displeasure of
the Pope and his son, Cæsar Borgia, had been banished from the city,
and their property confiscated, so that there was none of them to be
found thereabouts except an aged widowed sister of the young man, who,
having married into a family in favor with the Pope, was allowed to
retain her possessions, and now resided in a villa near Rome, where
she lived retired, devoting her whole life to works of piety. The old
man therefore conjured Father Francesco to lose no time in making this
religious lady understand the existence of so near a kinswoman, and
take her under her protection. Thus strangely did Father Francesco find
himself obliged to take up that enchanted thread which had led him into
labyrinths so fatal to his peace.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE SAINT'S REST
Agnes entered the city of Rome in a trance of enthusiastic emotion,
almost such as one might imagine in a soul entering the heavenly
Jerusalem above. To her exalted ideas she was approaching not only the
ground hallowed by the blood of apostles and martyrs, not merely the
tombs of the faithful, but the visible "general assembly and church of
the first-born which are written in heaven." Here reigned the appointed
representative of Jesus,--and she imagined a benignant image of a
prince clothed with honor and splendor, who was yet the righter of all
wrongs, the redresser of all injuries, the friend and succorer of the
poor and needy; and she was firm in a secret purpose to go to this
great and benignant father, and on her knees entreat him to forgive the
sins of her lover, and remove the excommunication that threatened at
every moment his eternal salvation. For she trembled to think of it,--a
sudden accident, a thrust of a dagger, a fall from his horse, might put
him forever beyond the pale of repentance,--he might die unforgiven,
and sink to eternal pain.
If any should wonder that a Christian soul could preserve within itself
an image so ignorantly fair, in such an age, when the worldliness and
corruption in the Papal chair were obtruded by a thousand incidental
manifestations, and were alluded to in all the calculations of simple
common people, who looked at facts with a mere view to the guidance of
their daily conduct, it is necessary to remember the nature of Agnes's
religious training, and the absolute renunciation of all individual
reasoning which from infancy had been laid down before her as the first
and indispensable prerequisite of spiritual progress. To believe,--to
believe utterly and blindly,--not only without evidence, but against
evidence,--to reject the testimony even of her senses, when set against
the simple affirmation of her superiors,--had been the beginning,
middle, and end of her religious instruction. When a doubt assailed her
mind on any point, she had been taught to retire within herself and
repeat a prayer; and in this way her mental eye had formed the habit
of closing to anything that might shake her faith as quickly as the
physical eye closes at a threatened blow. Then, as she was of a poetic
and ideal nature, entirely differing from the mass of those with whom
she associated, she had formed that habit of abstraction and mental
reverie which prevented her hearing or perceiving the true sense of a
great deal that went on around her. The conversations that commonly
were carried on in her presence had for her so little interest that
she scarcely heard them. The world in which she moved was a glorified
world,--wherein to be sure, the forms of every-day life appeared,
but appeared as different from what they were in reality as the old
mouldering daylight view of Rome is from the warm translucent glory of
its evening transfiguration.
So in her quiet, silent heart she nursed this beautiful hope of finding
in Rome the earthly image of her Saviour's home above, of finding in
the head of the Church the real image of her Redeemer,--the friend to
whom the poorest and lowliest may pour out their souls with as much
freedom as the highest and noblest. The spiritual directors who had
formed the mind of Agnes in her early days had been persons in the same
manner taught to move in an ideal world of faith. The Mother Theresa
had never seen the realities of life, and supposed the Church on earth
to be all that the fondest visions of human longing could paint it.
The hard, energetic, prose experience of old Jocunda, and the downright
way with which she sometimes spoke of things as a trooper's wife must
have seen them, were repressed and hushed down, as the imperfect faith
of a half-reclaimed worldling,--they could not be allowed to awaken
her from the sweetness of so blissful a dream. In like manner, when
Lorenzo Sforza became Father Francesco, he strove with earnest prayer
to bury his gift of individual reason in the same grave with his family
name and worldly experience. As to all that transpired in the real
world, he wrapped himself in a mantle of imperturbable silence; the
intrigues of popes and cardinals, once well known to him, sank away
as a forbidden dream; and by some metaphysical process of imaginative
devotion, he enthroned God in the place of the dominant powers, and
taught himself to receive all that came from them in uninquiring
submission, as proceeding from unerring wisdom. Though he had begun
his spiritual life under the impulse of Savonarola, yet so perfect had
been his isolation from all tidings of what transpired in the external
world that the conflict which was going on between that distinguished
man and the Papal hierarchy never reached his ear. He sought and aimed
as much as possible to make his soul like the soul of one dead, which
adores and worships in ideal space, and forgets forever the scenes and
relations of earth; and he had so long contemplated Rome under the
celestial aspects of his faith, that, though the shock of his first
confession there had been painful, still it was insufficient to shake
his faith. It had been God's will, he thought, that where he looked
for aid he should meet only confusion, and he bowed to the inscrutable
will, and blindly adored the mysterious revelation. If such could be
the submission and the faith of a strong and experienced man, who can
wonder at the enthusiastic illusions of an innocent, trustful child?
Agnes and her grandmother entered the city of Rome just as the
twilight had faded into night; and though Agnes, full of faith and
enthusiasm, was longing to begin immediately the ecstatic vision of
shrines and holy places, old Elsie commanded her not to think of
anything further that night. They proceeded, therefore, with several
other pilgrims who had entered the city, to a church specially set
apart for their reception, connected with which were large dormitories
and a religious order whose business was to receive and wait upon
them, and to see that all their wants were supplied. This religious
foundation is one of the oldest in Rome; and it is esteemed a work of
especial merit and sanctity among the citizens to associate themselves
temporarily in these labors in Holy Week. Even princes and princesses
come, humble and lowly, mingling with those of common degree, and all,
calling each other brother and sister, vie in kind attentions to these
guests of the Church.
When Agnes and Elsie arrived, several of these volunteer assistants
were in waiting. Agnes was remarked among all the rest of the company
for her peculiar beauty and the rapt enthusiastic expression of her
face.
Almost immediately on their entrance into the reception hall connected
with the church, they seemed to attract the attention of a tall lady
dressed in deep mourning, and accompanied by a female servant, with
whom she was conversing on those terms of intimacy which showed
confidential relations between the two.
"See!" she said, "my Mona, what a heavenly face is there!--that sweet
child has certainly the light of grace shining through her. My heart
warms to her."
"Indeed," said the old servant, looking across, "and well it
may,--dear lamb come so far! But, Holy Virgin, how my head swims! How
strange!--that child reminds me of some one. My Lady, perhaps, may
think of some one whom she looks like."
"Mona, you say true. I have the same strange impression that I have
seen a face like hers, but who or where I cannot say."
"What would my Lady say, if I said it was our dear Prince?--God rest
his soul!"
"Mona, it is so,--yes," added the lady, looking more intently, "how
singular!--the very traits of our house in a peasant-girl! She is of
Sorrento, I judge, by her costume,--what a pretty one it is! That old
woman is her mother, perhaps. I must choose her for my care,--and,
Mona, you shall wait on her mother."
So saying, the Princess Paulina crossed the hall, and, bending affably
over Agnes, took her hand and kissed her, saying,--
"Welcome, my dear little sister, to the house of our Father!"
Agnes looked up with strange, wondering eyes into the face that was
bent to hers. It was sallow and sunken, with deep lines of ill-health
and sorrow, but the features were noble, and must once have been
beautiful; the whole action, voice, and manner were dignified and
impressive. Instinctively she felt that the lady was of superior birth
and breeding to any with whom she had been in the habit of associating.
"Come with me," said the lady; "and this--your mother"--she added.
"She is my grandmother," said Agnes.
"Well, then, your grandmother, sweet child, shall be attended to by my
good sister Mona here."
The Princess Paulina drew the hand of Agnes through her arm, and,
laying her hand affectionately on it, looked down and smiled tenderly
on her.
"Are you very tired, my dear?"
"Oh, no! no!" said Agnes,--"I am so happy, so blessed to be here!"
"You have traveled a long way?"
"Yes, from Sorrento; but I am used to walking,--I did not feel it to be
long,--my heart kept me up,--I wanted to come home so much."
"Home?" said the Princess.
"Yes, to my soul's home,--the house of our dear Father the Pope."
The Princess started, and looked incredulously down for a moment; then
noticing the confiding, whole-hearted air of the child, she sighed and
was silent.
"Come with me above," she said, "and let me attend a little to your
comfort."
"How good you are, dear lady!" said Agnes.
"I am not good, my child,--I am only your unworthy sister in Christ;"
and as the lady spoke, she opened the door into a room where were a
number of other female pilgrims seated around the wall, each attended
by a person whose peculiar care she seemed to be.
At the feet of each was a vessel of water, and when the seats were all
full, a cardinal in robes of office entered, and began reading prayers.
Each lady present, kneeling at the feet of her chosen pilgrim, divested
them carefully of their worn and travel-soiled shoes and stockings,
and proceeded to wash them. It was not a mere rose-water ceremony, but
a good hearty washing of feet that for the most part had great need
of the ablution. While this service was going on, the cardinal read
from the Gospel how a Greater than they all had washed the feet of His
disciples, and said, "If I, your Lord and Master, have washed your
feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet." Then all repeated in
concert the Lord's Prayer, while each humbly kissed the feet she had
washed, and proceeded to replace the worn and travel-soiled shoes and
stockings with new and strong ones, the gift of Christian love. Each
lady then led her charge into a room where tables were spread with a
plain and wholesome repast of all such articles of food as the season
of Lent allowed. Each placed her protégée at table, and carefully
attended to all her wants at the supper, and afterwards dormitories
were opened for their repose.
The Princess Paulina performed all these offices for Agnes with a
tender earnestness which won upon her heart. The young girl thought
herself indeed in that blessed society of which she had dreamed, where
the high-born and the rich become through Christ's love the servants
of the poor and lowly; and through all the services she sat in a sort
of dream of rapture. How lovely this reception into the Holy City! how
sweet thus to be taken to the arms of the great Christian family, bound
together in the charity which is the bond of perfectness!
"Please tell me, dear lady," said Agnes, after supper, "who is that
holy man that prayed with us?"
"Oh, he--he is the Cardinal Capello," said the Princess.
"I should like to have spoken with him," said Agnes.
"Why, my child?"
"I wanted to ask him when and how I could get speech with our dear
Father the Pope, for there is somewhat on my mind that I would lay
before him."
"My poor little sister," said the Princess, much perplexed, "you do not
understand things. What you speak of is impossible. The Pope is a great
king."
"I know he is," said Agnes,--"and so is our Lord Jesus; but every soul
may come to him."
"I cannot explain to you now," said the Princess,--"there is not time
to-night. But I shall see you again. I will send for you to come to
my house, and there talk with you about many things which you need to
know. Meanwhile, promise me, dear child, not to try to do anything of
the kind you spoke of until I have talked with you."
"Well, I will not," said Agnes, with a glance of docile affection,
kissing the hand of the Princess.
The action was so pretty,--the great, soft, dark eyes looked so
fawn-like and confiding in their innocent tenderness, that the lady
seemed much moved.
"Our dear Mother bless thee, child!" she said, laying her hand on her
head, and stooping to kiss her forehead.
She left her at the door of the dormitory.
The Princess and her attendant went out of the church-door, where her
litter stood in waiting. The two took their seats in silence, and
silently pursued their way through the streets of the old dimly-lighted
city and out of one of its principal gates to the wide Campagna beyond.
The villa of the Princess was situated on an eminence at some distance
from the city, and the night-ride to it was solemn and solitary. They
passed along the old Appian Way over pavements that had rumbled under
the chariot-wheels of the emperors and nobles of a bygone age, while
along their way, glooming up against the clear of the sky, were vast
shadowy piles,--the tombs of the dead of other days. All mouldering and
lonely, shaggy and fringed with bushes and streaming wild vines through
which the night-wind sighed and rustled, they might seem to be pervaded
by the restless spirits of the dead; and as the lady passed them, she
shivered, and, crossing herself, repeated an inward prayer against
wandering demons that walk in desolate places.
Timid and solitary, the high-born lady shrank and cowered within
herself with a distressing feeling of loneliness. A childless widow
in delicate health, whose paternal family had been for the most part
cruelly robbed, exiled, or destroyed by the reigning Pope and his
family, she felt her own situation a most unprotected and precarious
one, since the least jealousy or misunderstanding might bring upon
her, too, the ill-will of the Borgias, which had proved so fatal
to the rest of her race. No comfort in life remained to her but her
religion, to whose practice she clung as to her all; but even in this
her life was embittered by facts to which, with the best disposition
in the world, she could not shut her eyes. Her own family had been
too near the seat of power not to see all the base intrigues by which
that sacred and solemn position of Head of the Christian Church had
been traded for as a marketable commodity. The pride, the indecency,
the cruelty of those who now reigned in the name of Christ came over
her mind in contrast with the picture painted by the artless, trusting
faith of the peasant-girl with whom she had just parted. Her mind had
been too thoroughly drilled in the non-reflective practice of her faith
to dare to put forth any act of reasoning upon facts so visible and so
tremendous,--she rather trembled at herself for seeing what she saw and
for knowing what she knew, and feared somehow that this very knowledge
might endanger her salvation; and so she rode homeward cowering and
praying like a frightened child.
"Does my Lady feel ill?" said the old servant, anxiously.
"No, Mona, no,--not in body."
"And what is on my Lady's mind now?"
"Oh, Mona, it is only what is always there. To-morrow is Palm Sunday,
and how can I go to see the murderers and robbers of our house in
holy places? Oh, Mona, what can Christians do, when such men handle
holy things? It was a comfort to wash the feet of those poor simple
pilgrims, who tread in the steps of the saints of old; but how I felt
when that poor child spoke of wanting to see the Pope!"
"Yes," said Mona, "it's like sending the lamb to get spiritual counsel
of the wolf."
"See what sweet belief the poor infant has! Should not the head of the
Christian Church be such as she thinks? Ah, in the old days, when the
Church here in Rome was poor and persecuted, there were Popes who were
loving fathers and not haughty princes."
"My dear Lady," said the servant, "pray, consider, the very stones have
ears. We don't know what day we may be turned out, neck and heels, to
make room for some of their creatures."
"Well, Mona," said the lady, with some spirit, "I'm sure I haven't said
any more than you have."
"Holy Mother! and so you haven't, but somehow things look more
dangerous when other people say them. A pretty child that was, as you
say; but that old thing, her grandmother, is a sharp piece. She is a
Roman, and lived here in her early days. She says the little one was
born hereabouts; but she shuts up her mouth like a vise, when one would
get more out of her."
"Mona, I shall not go out to-morrow; but you go to the services, and
find the girl and her grandmother, and bring them out to me. I want to
counsel the child."
"You may be sure," said Mona, "that her grandmother knows the ins and
outs of Rome as well as any of us, for all she has learned to screw up
her lips so tight."
"At any rate, bring her to me, because she interests me."
"Well, well, it shall be so," said Mona.
CHAPTER XXVIII
PALM SUNDAY
The morning after her arrival in Rome, Agnes was awakened from sleep
by a solemn dropping of bell-tones which seemed to fill the whole air,
intermingled dimly at intervals with long-drawn plaintive sounds of
chanting. She had slept profoundly, overwearied with her pilgrimage,
and soothed by that deep lulling sense of quiet which comes over one,
when, after long and weary toils, some auspicious goal is at length
reached. She had come to Rome, and been received with open arms into
the household of the saints, and seen even those of highest degree
imitating the simplicity of the Lord in serving the poor. Surely,
this was indeed the house of God and the gate of heaven; and so the
bell-tones and chants, mingling with her dreams, seemed naturally
enough angel-harpings and distant echoes of the perpetual adoration
of the blessed. She rose and dressed herself with a tremulous joy.
She felt full hope that somehow--in what way she could not say--this
auspicious beginning would end in a full fruition of all her wishes, an
answer to all her prayers.
"Well, child," said old Elsie, "you must have slept well; you look
fresh as a lark."
"The air of this holy place revives me," said Agnes, with enthusiasm.
"I wish I could say as much," said Elsie. "My bones ache yet with the
tramp, and I suppose nothing will do but we must go out now to all the
holy places, up and down and hither and yon, to everything that goes
on. I saw enough of it all years ago when I lived here."
"Dear grandmother, if you are tired, why should you not rest? I can go
forth alone in this holy city. No harm can possibly befall me here. I
can join any of the pilgrims who are going to the holy places where I
long to worship."
"A likely story!" said Elsie. "I know more about old Rome than you do,
and I tell you, child, that you do not stir out a step without me; so
if you must go, I must go too,--and like enough it's for my soul's
health. I suppose it is," she added, after a reflective pause.
"How beautiful it was that we were welcomed so last night!" said Agnes;
"that dear lady was so kind to me!"
"Ay, ay, and well she might be!" said Elsie, nodding her head. "But
there's no truth in the kindness of the nobles to us, child. They don't
do it because they love us, but because they expect to buy heaven by
washing our feet and giving us what little they can clip and snip off
from their abundance."
"Oh, grandmother," said Agnes, "how can you say so? Certainly, if any
one ever spoke and looked lovingly, it was that dear lady."
"Yes, and she rolls away in her carriage, well content, and leaves you
with a pair of new shoes and stockings,--you, as worthy of a carriage
and a palace as she."
"No, grandmamma; she said she should send for me to talk more with her."
"She said she should send for you?" said Elsie. "Well, well, that is
strange, to be sure!--that is wonderful!" she added, reflectively. "But
come, child, we must hasten through our breakfast and prayers, and go
to see the Pope, and all the great birds with fine feathers that fly
after him."
"Yes, indeed!" said Agnes, joyfully. "Oh, grandmamma, what a blessed
sight it will be!"
"Yes, child, and a fine sight enough he makes with his great canopy
and his plumes and his servants and his trumpeters;--there isn't a king
in Christendom that goes so proudly as he."
"No other king is worthy of it," said Agnes. "The Lord reigns in him."
"Much you know about it!" said Elsie, between her teeth, as they
started out.
The streets of Rome through which they walked were damp and
cellar-like, filthy and ill-paved; but Agnes neither saw nor felt
anything of inconvenience in this: had they been floored, like those of
the New Jerusalem, with translucent gold, her faith could not have been
more fervent.
Rome is at all times a forest of quaint costumes, a pantomime of
shifting scenic effects of religious ceremonies. Nothing there, however
singular, strikes the eye as out-of-the-way or unexpected, since no
one knows precisely to what religious order it may belong, or what
individual vow or purpose it may represent. Neither Agnes nor Elsie,
therefore, was surprised, when they passed through the doorway to the
street, at the apparition of a man covered from head to foot in a long
robe of white serge, with a high-peaked cap of the same material drawn
completely down over his head and face. Two round holes cut in this
ghostly head-gear revealed simply two black glittering eyes, which
shone with that singular elfish effect which belongs to the human eye
when removed from its appropriate and natural accessories. As they
passed out, the figure rattled a box on which was painted an image
of despairing souls raising imploring hands from very red tongues of
flame, by which it was understood at once that he sought aid for souls
in Purgatory. Agnes and her grandmother each dropped therein a small
coin and went on their way; but the figure followed them at a little
distance behind, keeping carefully within sight of them.
By means of energetic pushing and striving, Elsie contrived to secure
for herself and her grandchild stations in the piazza in front of the
church, in the very front rank, where the procession was to pass. A
motley assemblage it was, this crowd, comprising every variety of
costume of rank and station and ecclesiastical profession,--cowls
and hoods of Franciscan and Dominican,--picturesque head dresses
of peasant-women of different districts,--plumes and ruffs of more
aspiring gentility,--mixed with every quaint phase of foreign costume
belonging to the strangers from different parts of the earth;--for,
like the old Jewish Passover, this celebration of Holy Week had its
assemblage of Parthians, Medes, Elamites, dwellers in Mesopotamia,
Cretes, and Arabians, all blending in one common memorial.
Amid the strange variety of persons among whom they were crowded, Elsie
remarked the stranger in the white sack, who had followed them, and who
had stationed himself behind them,--but it did not occur to her that
his presence there was other than merely accidental.
And now came sweeping up the grand procession, brilliant with scarlet
and gold, waving with plumes, sparkling with gems,--it seemed as if
earth had been ransacked and human invention taxed to express the
ultimatum of all that could dazzle and bewilder,--and, with a rustle
like that of ripe grain before a swaying wind, all the multitude went
down on their knees as the cortege passed. Agnes knelt, too, with
clasped hands, adoring the sacred vision enshrined in her soul; and as
she knelt with upraised eyes, her cheeks flushed with enthusiasm, her
beauty attracted the attention of more than one in the procession.
"There is the model which our master has been looking for," said a
young and handsome man in a rich dress of black velvet, who, by his
costume, appeared to hold the rank of first chamberlain in the Papal
suite.
The young man to whom he spoke gave a bold glance at Agnes and
answered,--
"Pretty little rogue, how well she does the saint!"
"One can see that with judicious arrangement she might make a nymph as
well as a saint," said the first speaker.
"A Daphne, for example," said the other, laughing.
"And she wouldn't turn into a laurel, either," said the first.
"Well, we must keep our eye on her." And as they were passing into
the church-door, he beckoned to a servant in waiting and whispered
something, indicating Agnes with a backward movement of his hand.
The servant, after this, kept cautiously within observing distance of
her, as she with the crowd pressed into the church to assist at the
devotions.
Long and dazzling were those ceremonies, when, raised on high like
an enthroned God, Pope Alexander VI. received the homage of bended
knee from the ambassadors of every Christian nation, from heads of
all ecclesiastical orders, and from generals and chiefs and princes
and nobles, who, robed and plumed and gemmed in all the brightest and
proudest that earth could give, bowed the knee humbly and kissed his
foot in return for the palm-branch which he presented. Meanwhile,
voices of invisible singers chanted the simple event which all this
splendor was commemorating,--how of old Jesus came into Jerusalem meek
and lowly, riding on an ass,--how His disciples cast their garments
in the way, and the multitude took branches of palm-trees to come
forth and meet Him,--how He was seized, tried, condemned to a cruel
death,--and the crowd, with dazzled and wondering eyes following the
gorgeous ceremonial, reflected little how great was the satire of the
contrast, how different the coming of that meek and lowly One to suffer
and to die from this triumphant display of worldly pomp and splendor in
His professed representative.
But to the pure all things are pure, and Agnes thought only of the
enthronement of all virtues, of all celestial charities and unworldly
purities in that splendid ceremonial, and longed within herself to
approach so near as to touch the hem of those wondrous and sacred
garments. It was to her enthusiastic imagination like the unclosing
of celestial doors, where the kings and priests of an eternal and
heavenly temple move to and fro in music, with the many-colored glories
of rainbows and sunset clouds. Her whole nature was wrought upon by
the sights and sounds of that gorgeous worship,--she seemed to burn
and brighten like an altar-coal, her figure appeared to dilate, her
eyes grew deeper and shone with a starry light, and the color of her
cheeks flushed up with a vivid glow; nor was she aware how often eyes
were turned upon her, nor how murmurs of admiration followed all her
absorbed, unconscious movements. "Ecco! Eccola!" was often repeated
from mouth to mouth around her, but she heard it not.
When at last the ceremony was finished, the crowd rushed again out
of the church to see the departure of various dignitaries. There was
a perfect whirl of dazzling equipages, and glittering lackeys, and
prancing horses, crusted with gold, flaming in scarlet and purple,
retinues of cardinals and princes and nobles and ambassadors all in one
splendid confused jostle of noise and brightness.
Suddenly a servant in a gorgeous scarlet livery touched Agnes on the
shoulder, and said, in a tone of authority,--
"Young maiden, your presence is commanded."
"Who commands it?" said Elsie, laying her hand on her grandchild's
shoulder fiercely.
"Are you mad?" whispered two or three women of the lower orders to
Elsie at once; "don't you know who that is? Hush, for your life!"
"I shall go with you, Agnes," said Elsie, resolutely.
"No, you will not," said the attendant, insolently. "This maiden is
commanded, and none else."
"He belongs to the Pope's nephew," whispered a voice in Elsie's ear.
"You had better have your tongue torn out than say another word."
Whereupon, Elsie found herself actually borne backward by three or four
stout women.
Agnes looked round and smiled on her,--a smile full of innocent
trust,--and then, turning, followed the servant into the finest of the
equipages, where she was lost to view.
Elsie was almost wild with fear and impotent rage; but a low,
impressive voice now spoke in her ear. It came from the white figure
which had followed them in the morning.
"Listen," it said, "and be quiet; don't turn your head, but hear what
I tell you. Your child is followed by those who will save her. Go your
ways whence you came. Wait till the hour after the Ave Maria, then come
to the Porta San Sebastiano, and all will be well."
When Elsie turned to look she saw no one, but caught a distant glimpse
of a white figure vanishing in the crowd. She returned to her asylum,
wondering and disconsolate, and the first person whom she saw was old
Mona.
"Well, good-morrow, sister!" she said. "Know that I am here on a
strange errand. The Princess has taken such a liking to you that
nothing will do but we must fetch you and your little one out to her
villa. I looked everywhere for you in church this morning. Where have
you hid yourselves?"
"We were there," said Elsie, confused, and hesitating whether to speak
of what had happened.
"Well, where is the little one? Get her ready; we have horses in
waiting. It is a good bit out of the city."
"Alack!" said Elsie, "I know not where she is."
"Holy Virgin!" said Mona, "how is this?"
Elsie, moved by the necessity which makes it a relief to open the
heart to some one, sat down on the steps of the church and poured forth
the whole story into the listening ear of Mona.
"Well, well, well!" said the old servant, "in our days, one does
not wonder at anything, one never knows one day what may come the
next,--but this is bad enough!"
"Do you think," said Elsie, "there is any hope in that strange promise?"
"One can but try it," said Mona.
"If you could but be there then," said Elsie, "and take us to your
mistress."
"Well, I will wait, for my mistress has taken an especial fancy to your
little one, more particularly since this morning, when a holy Capuchin
came to our house and held a long conference with her, and after he was
gone I found my lady almost in a faint, and she would have it that we
should start directly to bring her out here, and I had much ado to let
her see that the child would do quite as well after services were over.
I tired myself looking about for you in the crowd."
The two women then digressed upon various gossiping particulars,
as they sat on the old mossy, grass-grown steps, looking up over
house-tops yellow with lichen, into the blue spring air, where flocks
of white pigeons were soaring and careering in the soft, warm sunshine.
Brightness and warmth and flowers seemed to be the only idea natural
to that charming weather, and Elsie, sad-hearted and foreboding as she
was, felt the benign influence. Rome, which had been so fatal a place
to her peace, yet had for her, as it has for every one, potent spells
of a lulling and soothing power. Where is the grief or anxiety that can
resist the enchantment of one of Rome's bright, soft, spring days?
CHAPTER XXIX
THE NIGHT-RIDE
The villa of the Princess Paulina was one of those soft, idyllic
paradises which lie like so many fairy-lands around the dreamy
solitudes of Rome. They are so fair, so wild, so still, these villas!
Nature in them seems to run in such gentle sympathy with Art, that
one feels as if they had not been so much the product of human skill
as some indigenous growth of Arcadian ages. There are quaint terraces
shadowed by clipped ilex-trees, whose branches make twilight even in
the sultriest noon; there are long-drawn paths, through wildernesses
where cyclamens blossom in crimson clouds among crushed fragments
of sculptured marble green with the moss of ages, and glossy-leaved
myrtles put forth their pale blue stars in constellations under the
leafy shadows. Everywhere is the voice of water, ever lulling, ever
babbling, and taught by Art to run in many a quaint caprice,--here
to rush down marble steps slippery with sedgy green, there to spout
up in silvery spray, and anon to spread into a cool, waveless lake,
whose mirror reflects trees and flowers far down in some visionary
underworld. Then there are wide lawns, where the grass in spring is a
perfect rainbow of anemones, white, rose, crimson, purple, mottled,
streaked, and dappled with ever varying shade of sunset clouds. There
are soft, moist banks where purple and white violets grow large
and fair, and trees all interlaced with ivy, which runs and twines
everywhere, intermingling its dark, graceful leaves and vivid young
shoots with the bloom and leafage of all shadowy places.
In our day, these lovely places have their dark shadow ever haunting
their loveliness: the malaria, like an unseen demon, lies hid in their
sweetness. And in the time we are speaking of, a curse not less deadly
poisoned the beauties of the Princess's villa,--the malaria of fear.
The graveled terrace in front of the villa commanded, through the
clipped arches of the ilex-trees, the Campagna with its soft,
undulating bands of many-colored green, and the distant city of Rome,
whose bells were always filling the air between with a tremulous
vibration. Here, during the long sunny afternoon while Elsie and Monica
were crooning together on the steps of the church, the Princess Paulina
walked restlessly up and down, looking forth on the way towards the
city for the travelers whom she expected.
Father Francesco had been there that morning and communicated to her
the dying message of the aged Capuchin, from which it appeared that
the child who had so much interested her was her near kinswoman.
Perhaps, had her house remained at the height of its power and
splendor, she might have rejected with scorn the idea of a kinswoman
whose existence had been owing to a mésalliance; but a member of
an exiled and disinherited family, deriving her only comfort from
unworldly sources, she regarded this event as an opportunity afforded
her to make expiation for one of the sins of her house. The beauty and
winning graces of her young kinswoman were not without their influence
in attracting a lonely heart deprived of the support of natural
ties. The Princess longed for something to love, and the discovery
of a legitimate object of family affection was an event in the weary
monotony of her life; and therefore it was that the hours of the
afternoon seemed long while she looked forth towards Rome, listening to
the ceaseless chiming of its bells, and wondering why no one appeared
along the road.
The sun went down, and all the wide plain seemed like the sea at
twilight, lying in rosy and lilac and purple shadowy bands, out of
which rose the old city, solemn and lonely as some enchanted island of
dreamland, with a flush of radiance behind it and a tolling of weird
music filling all the air around. Now they are chanting the Ave Maria
in hundreds of churches, and the Princess worships in distant accord,
and tries to still the anxieties of her heart with many a prayer.
Twilight fades and fades, the Campagna becomes a black sea, and the
distant city looms up like a dark rock against the glimmering sky,
and the Princess goes within and walks restlessly through the wide
halls, stopping first at one open window and then at another to listen.
Beneath her feet she treads a cool mosaic pavement where laughing
Cupids are dancing. Above, from the ceiling, Aurora and the Hours look
down in many-colored clouds of brightness. The sound of the fountains
without is so clear in the intense stillness that the peculiar voice
of each one can be told. That is the swaying noise of the great jet
that rises from marble shells and falls into a wide basin, where
silvery swans swim round and round in enchanted circles; and the other
slenderer sound is the smaller jet that rains down its spray into the
violet-borders deep in the shrubbery; and that other, the shallow
babble of the waters that go down the marble steps to the lake. How
dreamlike and plaintive they all sound in the night stillness! The
nightingale sings from the dark shadows of the wilderness; and the
musky odors of the cyclamen come floating ever and anon through the
