turning round and looking the recruit full in the face.
But there was a pleasant smile upon his face, and his words were
gentle, and even respectful.
"Yes, sir," replied Richard.
"Then you are aware that pupils are not allowed to have money--are you
not?"
"Yes, sir."
"Boys are tempted to purchase various articles which injure them, such
as cakes and candy, and improper books. Therefore we think it is better
that they should not be provided with money. Is this a satisfactory
explanation?"
"I don't know but it is, sir," replied Richard, doubtfully.
"It satisfies me, at any rate. How much money have you?"
"About five dollars."
"Now, Grant, if you will hand it to me, I will give you a receipt for
it, or send it to your father. I will keep it, subject to your order,
if you desire it."
"I don't like the rule, sir."
"I think it is an excellent rule. But you waste my time. Your decision,
Grant."
"I should like to think of the matter, sir."
"Your decision at once," said the colonel; and Richard saw the sharp
eyes grow a shade sharper, and heard the deep voice grow a shade
sterner.
The recruit winced under the necessity thus laid upon him. The
principal could not be trifled with, and he must either submit, or take
the consequences, which were so indefinite to him that they seemed
sufficiently terrible.
"I will give up the money," said he, with a struggle, as he handed his
wallet to the colonel.
"I am glad to find you are a discreet and sensible youth," added the
colonel, as he wrote the receipt, and handed it, with the wallet, from
which he had taken the money, back to the owner. "If you wish to use
money for any proper purpose, you can draw on me, and your paper shall
be honored to the extent of the funds in my hands."
"I don't think I am likely to want money here," answered Richard,
gloomily.
"Every needed article will be furnished. Now, Grant, I am afraid you
have come here with an intention to resist our wholesome regulations.
If so, you must learn the meaning of "right about, face"--in its moral
application, I mean. Your father has told me all about you, and given
me explicit instructions to make a man of you. I understand your case
perfectly. If you are disposed to observe the rules of the Institute,
we shall treat you like a gentleman. The future is before you, young
man, and you must choose for yourself."
"I intend to obey the rules, sir," said Richard, rather crest-fallen
after what had happened.
"I am very glad to hear you say so. In a few days you will be provided
with the uniform worn by the pupils of the Institute. Here is a time
card for the fall term. Look it over carefully, for you will be
required to conform to it very strictly. To-morrow morning you will
take your place with the boys, and go through with the programme just
as though you had been here all your lifetime. We make no allowances
for beginners; they will have seasonable warning, and they must be on
the ground promptly at the moment. There will be a dress parade in a
few moments, and you can go out and witness it, if you choose," said
Colonel Brockridge, as he handed Richard the card. "After supper, Mr.
Gault will introduce you to the boys of your barrack."
Richard took the card, and left the room. As he passed out of the
building he descried the boys at play on the lawn. They were all
dressed in a uniform of gray cloth, though some wore a loose blouse,
and some, in the heat of play, had thrown off their jackets. The new
scholar walked over to the flagstaff, where the stars and stripes were
flying, and seated himself on a bench. The boys seemed to be having a
good time, in spite of the strictness of the discipline. As he listened
to the tremendous noise they made, and saw the rough-and-tumble games
in which they were engaged, he became convinced that the Institute was
not of the Blember style, and he began to have some hope that he should
survive the shock.
While he was waiting for the dress parade, he examined the time card
given him by the principal. To him it had a decidedly strait-jacket
odor, and he read it with a feeling of repugnance, not to say disgust.
It was as follows:--
    "TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.
    FALL TERM.
    From Sept. 1 to Dec. 1.
     6     A. M.  Reveille.
     6.30    "    Study.
     7.30    "    Breakfast.
     8       "    Squad Drill.
     9       "    Study and Recitation.
    11       "    Battalion Drill.
     1     P. M.  Dinner.
     1.30    "    Recreation.
     3       "    Study and Recitation.
     5       "    Recreation.
     6       "    Dress Parade.
     6.30    "    Supper.
     7       "    Off Time.
     9       "    Retire.
    The 'Off Time' belongs to the student; but deficient lessons must
    be made up during these hours.
    Camp duty will be performed by all students for one week, in each
    term, except the winter term.
                             J. BROCKRIDGE,
                                   Principal."
Richard thought the time card was rather formidable, but he came to the
conclusion that he could stand it, if the rest of the boys could.
While he was musing upon the present and the future, the rattling drum
sounded, and the boys instantly suspended their play. In a moment the
whole crowd had disappeared within the buildings that flanked the lawn;
but presently the rattle of several drums was heard, and one company
after another marched upon the parade ground, and formed the line.
Every boy was dressed in full uniform now, the blouses and other
non-conforming garments having been thrown aside, and every one wore
white gloves.
Richard found that the teachers were not the officers of the companies,
or the battalion, as he had expected. Several of the instructors were
present, but they appeared to take no part in the proceedings. Every
thing was managed by the boys, apparently without any assistance from
the teachers. The captains, lieutenants, sergeants, and corporals were
all in appropriate uniform, with their rank designated as in the United
States army. The swords and muskets were genuine weapons, though not so
large and heavy as those used by older soldiers. The students varied in
age from fourteen to eighteen.
The various evolutions of the dress parade were regularly performed.
The adjutant announced to the major that the parade was formed; the
band, consisting of eight pieces, marched up and down the line; the
first sergeants reported "all present or accounted for," and the
company officers marched up to the commander of the battalion. The boys
were as rigid as statues when the order, "Parade--rest," was given. The
companies marched back to the armories, broke ranks, and were
dismissed.
Richard was delighted with this exhibition, and the Tunbrook Military
Institute went up many degrees in his estimation. He followed the boys
into the supper room, where, without much ceremony, he made the
acquaintance of several captains and lieutenants. He received a hearty
welcome from his new associates, and began to feel very much at home.
The supper was not exactly what he had been accustomed to at Woodville,
but it was plain wholesome food; and when he saw officers and privates,
from the major down to the drummers, partake of it with hearty relish,
he was not disposed to grumble.
After supper, the boys scattered in every direction. Some went out
doors, some to the barracks, some to the school rooms. It was
"off-time," and without much assistance from Mr. Gault, who attempted
to introduce him, he made the acquaintance of half the students in the
Institute. At nine o'clock the sound of the drum rolled through the
halls, and the boys all retired.
CHAPTER XI.
RICHARD GOES THROUGH THE DRILL, AND HAS A SET-TO IN THE GROVE.
Richard slept very well, and was attending to the business of sleeping
with great pertinacity, when the reveille sounded at six o'clock in the
morning. He did not feel much like getting up, and though the other
boys in Barrack B instantly jumped out of bed, he did not heed the
summons. It went against his grain to get up at the sound of a drum, or
of a bell; not that he cared to lie in bed any longer, but the
principle of the thing was utterly objectionable.
"Come, Grant," said the boy who occupied one of the beds next to him,
in a kind and friendly tone, "it's time to turn out."
"I suppose it is," yawned Richard, "but I'm not quite ready to get up
yet."
"Better get up at once. They call the roll to half past six. You are in
our company, you know."
"Suppose I don't get up--what then?"
"It will be all the worse for you."
"What will they do?"
"I don't know; but fellows don't like to be late at roll-call."
Richard concluded to get up, for he preferred to see a punishment
inflicted upon some one besides himself before he got into trouble.
Bailey--for this was the name of the boy next to him--told him what to
do, and where to go, till they made their appearance at the armory of
Company D, to which the recruit had been assigned. They were then sent
to the school room for an hour's study. Richard was examined to
ascertain his attainments, and placed in a class, and he was told to
prepare himself for the lessons of the day. There was no great hardship
in this, and as Richard's talents were of a high order, he had no
difficulty in performing the work assigned to him.
The breakfast call scattered the boys again, and they were soon
reassembled in the dining room. When they were seated, profound silence
reigned throughout the apartment. The principal, all the assistant
teachers, and every one else belonging to the establishment, were
present. The chaplain then read a short passage from the Scriptures,
which was followed by a prayer, the whole service occupying not more
than three or four minutes.
The breakfast consisted of coffee, beefsteak, potatoes, with cold bread
and butter. The new comer was perfectly satisfied with this fare, and
taking it as a sample of his living, he did not believe he should
starve.
"What next, Nevers?" asked Richard of the boy who sat next to him, and
who wore the designation of an orderly sergeant.
"Squad drill, my boy. We shall give you some now," replied Nevers. "We
begin to find out what a fellow is made of on drill."
There was a little spare time before the drill came on, and the new
student improved it by inquiring particularly into the nature of his
duties. Bailey was patient and communicative, and he obtained from him
all the information he wanted.
Again the drum rattled, and the boys made their way to the several
armories. The doors and windows were thrown open, and the drill
commenced. It was conducted by Mr. Gault, who was assisted by various
officers of the company.
"Nevers," said the assistant, "you may take Grant and instruct him in
the positions."
Richard glanced at the orderly sergeant to whom this command had been
given, and the look of satisfaction which Nevers put on did not please
him.
"This way, if you please, Grant," said the young orderly sergeant, as
he led the way to one corner of the armory.
"What are you going to do?" demanded the recruit.
"Give you the positions."
"Are you my teacher?"
"I am ordered to give you the positions," replied Nevers, chuckling
with a delight which the new comer could not understand.
"You want to find out what I am made of--don't you?" said Richard,
remembering what the other had said to him at breakfast.
"I always obey orders."
"Well, I think I should rather be instructed by the regular teachers."
"Very well; I will report to Mr. Gault."
"You needn't trouble yourself. If this is the custom, go ahead. I am
ready."
"Stand as I do, if you please--heels on the same line, feet turned out
equally, knees straight."
Richard observed all these instructions, and being a very tractable
scholar, he was soon master of the positions.
"Eyes--right!" continued Nevers, explaining the meaning of the order.
"Front."
There were three other boys, who had not yet been supplied with
uniforms, having come to the Institute a few days before. These also
were placed in Nevers's care, and he began to drill them in the
facings.
"Attention--squad," said the drill master, explaining what he meant,
and going through with the next movement. "Right--face."
Richard did not come to time, and the sergeant repeated his
instructions, and gave the order again; but it was done no better than
the first time.
"Move quicker, Grant. How long will it take you to turn on your left
heel? Now, try again. Right--face!"
The young gentleman from Woodville did not like the style of the drill
master's remarks. Though he had been scrupulously polite in all he had
said, up to the point of Richard's failure to obey the order with
promptness, there was something in his tone and manner that was very
offensive to him. Nevers seemed to feel that he was armed with
authority, and he intended to make the new comer feel it; but Richard
took his own time, and after they had tried half a dozen times, he
could not "right face" till after the others had completed the
movement.
"How long will it take you to turn on your heel, Grant?" said Nevers,
sharply, when his patience had been sorely tried.
"Till you speak a little more civilly," replied Richard, quietly.
"Perhaps not till you have found out what I am made of."
Nevers bit his lip at this reply. Perhaps he was conscious that he
ought not to have used the remark, or he might have reported the
contumacy of the recruit to the assistant in charge of the room.
"We will try again," continued Nevers. "Right--face."
The result was no better than before; for Richard was so offended at
the manner of the instructor that he determined not to obey.
"Well, Grant, you won't get round till the first day of January. You
are a perfect dough-head," said Nevers, the last remark being in a low
tone, though it was distinctly heard by the subject of it.
"All right," muttered Richard. "If you have found out what my head is
made of, I will show you, by and by, what my fist is made of."
"Ready when you are," replied Nevers, dropping his voice so that the
assistant teacher could not hear him. "Now, about--face;" and he
explained the movement, and went through with it himself.
Richard, having made up his mind what to do when the occasion offered,
did not deem it necessary to carry his resistance any farther at
present. Besides, he was very desirous of learning the drill, that he
might join the company. His "about face," therefore, was
unexceptionable.
"Very well, Grant," said the drill master, in a satirical tone, and
with a patronizing air.
"Your praise and your censure are all the same to me. Spare me both, if
you please," replied Richard, with a dignity becoming the male heir of
Woodville.
"No impudence, you puppy!" growled Nevers, his cheek flushed with
anger. "If Gault wasn't here, I'd boot you."
"I will make an opportunity for you when he is not present. Do your
duty like a decent fellow, if you can," answered Richard.
"Squad, forward--march," said Nevers, as he explained how the command
was to be executed.
As Richard and his companions in the squad were very tractable
scholars, they soon mastered all the mysteries of the step in common
time, and were then instructed in the principles of the "double quick."
They were then reviewed several times in what they had learned: after
which muskets were placed in their hands, and they were taught to
"shoulder arms," "support arms," and "present arms."
The hour devoted to drill was finished, and in spite of the overbearing
manner of the instructor, Richard was pleased with the exercise, and
even began to entertain visions of military glory.
The two hours devoted to study and recitations passed off without any
thing to distinguish them. Richard had learned his lessons, and every
thing went off to his satisfaction. The next item on the time card was
the battalion drill. The recruits were placed in the ranks, and for an
hour and a half they were exercised in the school of the battalion;
part of the time by Colonel Brockridge, and part of the time by the
young gentleman who had been elected by the company officers to the
command of the battalion--Major Morgan. If Richard was pleased with the
squad and company drill, he was delighted with that of the battalion.
After dinner came the hour of recreation. During this time the boys
were allowed to go any where upon the estate, which contained about a
hundred acres of land. Some of them made up games on the parade ground,
and others went over to the grove, a short distance from the Institute
buildings. Richard and Bailey, who had become good friends in the short
time they had been acquainted, took a walk over the estate. They found
the students engaged in every amusement which the genius of a boy could
devise, from base ball and cricket down to mud dams and water wheels.
In the grove they found Nevers, whom Richard was very anxious to meet.
The orderly sergeant was a year older than Richard, and somewhat
heavier.
"There is the fellow I've been looking for," said Richard to his
companion.
"Who--Nevers?"
"Yes, that's his name."
"Do you know him?"
"He drilled our squad this morning, and took the trouble to insult me
several times."
"Just like him. He is the biggest bully in the school."
"I am going to knock some of his impudence out of him."
"You?" exclaimed Bailey, stopping short, and looking with astonishment
at the new comer.
"I am going to try it, at any rate," added Richard, more modestly. "I
don't let any fellow insult me."
"Why, he will break every bone in your body. He can lick any fellow in
the school."
"I don't care for that. I won't be imposed upon by him."
"But it won't do; if any fellow gets up a fight here, it goes hard with
him."
"Can't help that."
"But he will whip you, as sure as you attempt it. I tell you he is the
bully of the school."
"He called me a dough-head, on drill, this morning."
"If you had reported him to Mr. Gault, he would have punished him
severely. No officer is allowed to speak impudently to a private,
especially to a new fellow. Why didn't you report him?"
"Because I feel able to fight my own battles; besides, I don't like the
idea of being a tell-tale."
"I advise you not to touch him. He will make mince meat of you, if you
do."
"Perhaps he will; he shall have a chance to try it."
"I should like to see him licked, and so would every other fellow in
the school."
"I think I can take care of him."
"Do you know any thing about the science?"
"O, well, something," replied Richard, with assumed indifference.
But Richard had been very thoroughly educated in the science of
self-defence by Bob Bleeker, who had served his time as a butcher's boy
in New York city, and done duty there as a rough of the first water.
"Nevers knows all about it. He has had half a dozen pitched battles
with fellows whom he bullied, and all of them got whipped. Nevers has
been 'cock of the walk' for the last year, for no fellow dares say a
word to him."
Richard said no more, but went directly to the place where the bully
was standing. He walked up to him with a bold and defiant air.
"I am glad to meet you, Nevers," said he, with easy self-possession.
"Are you, my fighting chicken?" laughed Nevers.
"You called me a dough-head this morning," added Richard.
"I did; and to make sure that there is no mistake, I repeat it--You are
a dough-head."
"Then take that for your impudence!" said Richard, as with a sudden
movement he slapped the bully's face.
"A fight! A fight!" shouted the dozen boys who were gathered in that
part of the grove.
"What do you want, Grant?" demanded Nevers, turning pale and red with
rage. "Do you want me to lick you?"
"If you please. You wanted to know what I am made of. I am ready to
show you."
"Clear the ring!" shouted the boys, forming a circle round the two
belligerents.
Richard coolly threw off his jacket and vest, rolled up his shirt
sleeves, unloosed his suspenders, and wound them round his waist, to
support his pants. Nevers threw off his jacket only. By this time, at
least fifty boys had assembled to witness the encounter; and so
unpopular was the bully, that Richard had the sympathy of the whole
crowd, except a few personal friends of his opponent.
"I am all ready," said Richard, taking the most approved attitude.
"So am I," replied the ready Nevers, as he edged up to Richard, and
attempted to plant a blow by the side of his head, which was handsomely
parried, and a left-handed rap lodged under the eye of the bully.
This blow maddened Nevers, and he redoubled his efforts to crush his
opponent, as he had expected to do at the first onset. "Keep cool, and
have both eyes open," had been the oft-repeated admonition of Richard's
distinguished instructor in the sublime art of self-defence, and he
carefully observed the instruction. After a few more plunges on the
part of Nevers, he found himself on the ground, from the effect of a
stunning blow which Richard had given him on the side of the head.
"Are you satisfied?" called Richard, flushed with victory.
"No!" yelled Nevers, as he sprang to his feet, and rushed upon his
antagonist.
Richard's coolness enabled him to do wonders, and the bully was down
again in a moment more.
"Come on if you are not satisfied," said Richard, whose nose was
bleeding, and on whose face there was a huge swelling, caused by the
bully's hard fist.
"Time!" shouted the boys.
"Gault's coming! Dry up!" "Settle it another time," added others, as
they began to scatter.
CHAPTER XII.
RICHARD DOES A "BIG THING," AND TAKES THE CONSEQUENCES.
In the language of the "prize ring," Nevers was still able to "come to
time;" therefore Richard could not be regarded as the victor in the
fierce contest. The boys who formed the ring began to scatter as soon
as the coming of the assistant teacher was announced. But they helped
the combatants to clothe themselves, and used every effort in their
power to conceal the fact that a fight had taken place.
"A drawn battle," said one of the students.
"Grant," said Nevers, "I am far from being satisfied. At five o'clock,
if you are ready, we will finish this business."
"With all my heart," replied Richard, wiping the blood from his nose.
"I hope you will do so," said the bully, earnestly.
"You hope I will! Do you suppose I will not? I am willing to be put
under bonds to appeal at the time named, Nevers. If any body backs out,
I shall not be the one."
"I am sure I shall not."
"Good!" shouted the boys.
"Now, keep still, fellows," added Nevers. "Don't say a word about it,
or all the fun will be spoiled."
The spectators of the barbarous spectacle all promised to keep still,
and Richard moved over to a brook behind the grove to wash the blood
from his face. His opponent had sundry very bad-looking places on his
physiognomy, but no blood had been drawn.
By this time Mr. Gault made his appearance in the grove; but so well
did the boys play their parts, that he did not even suspect that any
unusual event had transpired. Some of them commenced a game of "tag,"
and played with such zeal that no one could have suspected they were
not in earnest. Others engaged in conversation, and those who had
followed Richard to the brook resumed their labors upon the dam and
water wheel.
Mr. Gault had no particular motive in visiting the grove. He was merely
taking a walk in the discharge of his duty, which included a general
supervision of the boys on all the grounds. But Richard kept out of his
way, fearful lest his swelled face should betray him, and thus prevent
the final settlement of the account. He felt like a victor already, for
he was perfectly confident that his superior science and coolness would
give him the battle.
I am sorry to add that he did not think of the good resolutions he had
made; or, if he did, he banished the thought as inconvenient and
uncomfortable. He really believed that he had been deeply injured by
the bully of the Institute, and if he did not regard it as a positive
duty to obtain satisfaction, he at least felt that such a course was
perfectly justifiable.
Nevers was the bully of the school. Weak and timid boys were obliged
to submit to his insults. He had won the position of the "best man" in
the school, and he employed his power in playing the tyrant. Richard
felt that he must either whip him, or acknowledge him as his superior,
and submit to his rule.
The element of pride also had a powerful influence upon his mind.
Bailey had told him that Nevers could whip any fellow in the Institute;
and it followed, of course, if he could master him, he should at once
become the champion of the ring. Richard regarded this as a proud
distinction, and he was quite willing to have a battered nose and a
swelled face in the achievement of such an honor.
More than all this, Richard was animated by the generous sentiment
that, in fighting and whipping the bully of the ring, he became the
champion of the weak and the timid, who dared not resent the insolence
of Nevers.
When he had washed his face and stopped the bleeding, he followed the
course of the brook, till it emptied itself into the river, which was a
small stream some four or five rods wide. He was attended by Bailey and
two or three other boys, who had suddenly conceived a very great
admiration for him. If he was not the victor in the fight, he had the
advantage, and he had already partially entered upon the enjoyment of
the honors which would be bestowed upon the conqueror of Nevers.
A short distance above the mouth of the brook, the river received the
waters of the beautiful and picturesque Tunbrook Lake. The Institute
grounds bordered upon it for some distance, and great was the
satisfaction of Richard when he saw several boats, which his companions
informed him belonged to the school. There was a large schooner-rigged
sail boat, two twelve-oar race boats, besides three smaller craft. He
felt at home here, and inquired particularly whether the boys were
allowed to use these boats. They were only permitted to sail in company
with some of the instructors.
The boys were exercised in rowing on Saturday afternoons, when the
regular sessions of the school were suspended, and also upon the
occasional holidays which were granted. The lake was seven miles long,
by about two in breadth, so that there was abundant sea room. While
they were examining the boats, and viewing the beautiful lake, the
signal bell in the tower of the Institute school room sounded its
warning peal, and summoned them to study and recitation.
"How does my face look, Bailey?"
"Not very bad."
"Do you think Gault will smell a mice when he hears my lessons?"
"I don't see why he should."
"I guess I can stave him off if he does," added Richard, confidently.
"Didn't you see me tumble down when that fellow chased me?"
"What fellow?" asked Bailey.
"Any fellow you please," replied Richard, with a knowing smile.
"I didn't see any fellow chase you," added Bailey, innocently.
"Can't you see through a millstone when there is a hole in it?"
"Of course I can."
"Don't you see what I mean?"
"No, I don't."
"If Gault asks me how I hurt my face, I will tell him a fellow was
chasing me, and I tumbled down. Of course all the rest of you saw it."
"But I don't see it," persisted Bailey.
"Don't you, indeed! Then I think you ought to have a pair of leather
spectacles."
"O, I know what you mean, but I don't believe in lying about it."
"Ah, then you are a military saint--are you?" said Richard, with a
sneer.
"All but the saint," laughed Bailey. "I don't think there is any use in
lying about it."
"Then I suppose you think it was very wicked of me to fight with
Nevers."
"No, I don't," answered Bailey, promptly and decidedly. "Nevers is a
bully, and he insulted you. My father always told me never to take an
insult, but he would thrash me for telling a lie."
"Well, Bailey, I believe you are right. I think it is mean to tell a
lie; but how shall I manage it?"
"Face the music. A fellow who can stand such a pounding as you have
had, wouldn't mind being punished."
"I don't like to be punished."
"I don't know as the colonel would punish you. If a fellow gets up a
fight, he has to take it; but if he only defends himself, he says he
does no more than his duty."
"Well, who got up this fight?"
"That's the point. Nevers insulted you, and you pitched into him. I
don't know which is most to blame."
"We will leave it to the powers that be, and not bother our heads about
the question. I won't lie about it, any how."
By the time this point was settled the boys had reached the school
room. Richard applied himself with zeal and patience to the labors of
the afternoon, determined to do his whole duty. When called out to
recite, Mr. Gault noticed the swelling upon his face, and at recess
asked him what had caused it.
"It was done in a little affair out in the grove sir," replied Richard.
"What kind of an affair?"
"Nevers and I had a little set-to," said Richard.
"Rather rough play, I should think," added Mr. Gault, as he struck the
bell for the work to be resumed.
Richard congratulated himself that he had escaped, and, as he thought,
without telling a lie. He told none with his lips, but his manner was
such as to assure the teacher that the affair in the grove had been
nothing but friendly sport. Deception, or wilfully misleading another,
for the accomplishment of a purpose, is, in our opinion, just as
culpable a falsehood as gaining the same end by a lie expressed in
words. But Richard had not come up to this standard.
At the close of the school session, Richard hastened to the grove, as
did all the boys who were in the secret of the fight. Nevers was on the
ground soon after him, and the arrangements for the fight were hastily
completed. A line of scouts reaching from the parade ground to the
grove was stationed at convenient distances to give warning of the
approach of any of the teachers. The ring was formed, and Richard
coolly divested himself of all superfluous clothing, and prepared with
the utmost care for the desperate encounter.
Nevers was ready sooner than Richard, for he was not so precise in the
arrangement of his garments. As he took his place in the ring, though
he stood strong and defiant, there was a kind of nervousness in his
manner, which might have been detected by a keen observer.
"Come, Grant, we shall not get to work to-day, if you don't hurry up,"
said Nevers, his lip curling into a sneer.
But it was the bully in him that spoke. He had a reputation to sustain,
and he was saying and doing all he could to ward off any imputation
upon his courage.
"In one moment, Nevers," added Richard.
"You are as particular as though you were going to a ball," continued
Nevers.
"I suppose you are too much of a man to bawl, whatever happens; so
there won't be any," replied Richard.
"We shall have the colonel and all the teachers down upon us, if you
don't get fixed soon."
"I'm all ready," said Richard, throwing himself into the attitude of
the pugilist.
"Come on, then."
Richard edged up to his antagonist, and after considerable sparring,
the fight commenced in good earnest. Nevers was too much excited to use
all his strength to the best advantage, for the first hit he received
seemed to make him angry. In the first round Richard had the advantage.
In the second, Nevers knocked him down; but he was not at all
disconcerted. The heavy blows he received did not appear to disturb his
equanimity, while his opponent worked himself up into a towering
passion. The fight went on for ten minutes with varying results. At one
time all the spectators were sure that Nevers would win, and at another
they were equally sure that Grant would be the victor.
The anger of Nevers exhausted him more than his tremendous efforts.
Both parties had been terribly punished, but Richard was still cool and
self-possessed. At last Nevers became desperate, and rushed upon his
foe, determined at one effort to crush him. He was furious, and
abandoned all the science he had brought to his aid, and apparently
depended entirely upon brute force. The consequence was, that he laid
himself open to his cool rival, and Richard rained a series of
tremendous blows upon his head, which carried him under. He fell
heavily upon the ground, and lay there incapable of moving.
Richard, though his nose was bleeding, and he could not see out of one
eye, seated himself on the ground for a moment, till he had recovered
his breath, and then took his place in the ring.
"Time!" cried the friends of Richard.
But Nevers could not "come to time." He raised himself partly up, but
sank back again, incapable of making the effort to rise.
"Come on!" said Richard, as he sparred a little with his fists to
assure the spectators that he was "game" to the last.
Nevers made no reply, and Richard was declared the victor by his own
friends, and the proposition was admitted by those of his prostrate
antagonist.
"I am satisfied," added Richard, as he picked up his clothes, and made
his way down to the brook, attended by an admiring crowd.
When Nevers recovered his breath, he rose from the ground, and his
companions helped him down to the water, where he was bathed by his
sympathizing friends. Both of the combatants were severely though not
seriously injured.
"What's to be done now, fellows?" asked Richard, when all that cold
water could do for him had been done. "I suppose we are all in a bad
scrape."
"That's so," replied several. "We will stand by you, Grant, as well as
we can."
"I am not exactly in condition to appear at dress parade," added
Richard, turning his head round, so as to bring his available eye to
bear upon his companions.
"You are better off than Nevers, who is first sergeant of Company D."
"Can't we keep out of sight till we get our eyes open, as little
kittens do?"
"Roll call before dress parade," suggested Bailey.
