On the 2d of July, they arrived at Washington, and Tom had an opportunity
to see the "city of magnificent distances," of which he had heard so much.
The regiment marched from the station, through Pennsylvania Avenue, to
their camp ground in the rear of the White House. They were received with
enthusiasm by the people, but the miserable uniforms with which they had
been supplied, now faded and dilapidated, with the finishing touch of
destruction given to them by the perilous journey they had made, gave the
politicians their first lesson on the worthlessness of "shoddy."
The regiment entered the grounds of the White House, and as it passed up
the avenue, President Lincoln appeared in front of his mansion. The boys
greeted him with a volley of stunning cheers, which the President
acknowledged by a series of bows, which were not half so ungraceful as one
might have expected after reading the descriptions of him contained in the
newspapers.
To Tom Somers the President was a great institution, and he could scarcely
believe that he was looking upon the chief magistrate of this great
nation. He was filled with boyish wonder and astonishment; but, after all,
he was forced to admit that the President, though a tall specimen of
humanity, looked very much like the rest of mankind--to borrow a phrase
from one of his illustrious predecessors.
Tom was too tired to wonder long at the grandeur of the Capitol, and the
simple magnificence of the President. The tents were pitched, and the
weary men were allowed a season of rest. In a couple of days, however, our
soldier boy was "as good as new."
"Come, Tom, it is about time for you too see something of the city," said
Ben Lethbridge, one afternoon, after the regiment had become fairly
settled in its new quarters.
"I should like to take a tramp. There are lots of congressmen here, and I
should like to know what they look like," replied Tom. "I haven't been
outside the lines since we came here."
"I have; and I'm going again! Fred and I mean to have a good time to-day.
Will you go?"
"Have you got a pass?"
"A pass! What a stupid! What do you want of a pass? You can't get one.
They won't give any."
"Then we can't go, of course."
"Bah! What a great calf you are! Don't you want to cry again?"
"Ben, you needn't say cry to me again as long as you live," added Tom. "If
you do, I'll give you something to cry for."
Tom did not like the style of remark which the other had adopted. He was
angry, and, as he spoke, his fist involuntarily clinched, and his eye
looked fierce and determined.
"Come, come, Tom; don't bristle up so. If you are a man, just show that
you are, and come along with us."
"I say, Ben, I want to know who's a baby or a calf, you or I, before we
go, I won't stand any more of your lip."
"Will you go with us?" demanded Ben, who was rather disposed to dodge the
issue.
"What do you mean by calling me a calf and a baby? And this isn't the
first time you've done it."
"Don't you know that every man in the regiment has been all over the city,
and without any pass? When I ask you to go, you begin to talk about a
pass."
"I choose to obey orders," replied Tom.
"O, you daresn't go with us."
"Come along!" said Tom, who had not yet learned to bear the taunts of his
companion.
"Get your pail."
Tom got his pail, and was immediately joined by Fred and Ben, each of whom
was also supplied with a pail. There was no water to be had within the
camp ground, and the men were obliged to bring it in pails from the
hydrants in the street. A pail, therefore, was quite as good as a written
document to enable them to pass the guard.
The party thus provided had no difficulty in passing the sentinels. At a
convenient place outside the line, they concealed the pails, and, for
three hours, roamed at will over the city.
"Now, Tom, you wanted to see the congressmen?" said Ben, after they had
"done" the city pretty thoroughly.
"Yes, but I have seen them at the Capitol."
"But don't you want to get nearer to them, and hear them talk?"
"Well, I should like to."
"Come with us, then."
Ben led the way down the avenue, and entered a building not far from the
railroad station. After passing through a long, narrow entry, they
ascended a flight of stairs, at the head of which the conductor gave two
raps. The door was opened by a negro, and they were invited to enter. At a
table in the middle of the room was seated a foppish-looking man who held
in his hand a silver box. As he turned it, Tom saw that it contained a
pack of cards.
"Where are your congressmen?" asked the soldier boy, whose eyes had been
opened by the appearance of the cards.
"They will be here pretty soon," replied Ben.
The foppish man looked at his watch, and declared they would come in the
course of five or ten minutes. He then took the cards out of the box, and,
after shuffling them, returned them to their place. Fred placed a
"quarter" on the table; the gambler put another by its side, and drew out
a card from the silver case. Tom did not understand the game; but his
companion put the quarters in his pocket.
"See that, Tom!" said he. "Got any money?"
"If I have I shall keep it."
"Put down a quarter, and make another."
"No, sir! I'm no gambler!" replied Tom, with emphasis.
"Quite respectable, I assure you," added the blackleg at the table.
"I'm going," said Tom, decidedly.
"Baby!" sneered Ben. "Afraid to play!"
"I won't play! I'm going."
The negro opened the door, and he passed out. Contrary to his expectation,
he was followed by Fred and Ben.
"Baby is afraid of cards!" sneered Ben, as they passed through the long
entry.
"Afraid of cards, but not afraid of you," replied Tom, as he planted a
heavy blow between the eyes of his companion.
Ben Lethbridge returned the blow, and it cost him another, and there was a
prospect of quite a lively skirmish in the entry; but Fred Pemberton
interposed his good offices, and effected a compromise, which, like most
of the political compromises, was only the postponement of the conflict.
"I told you not to call me 'baby,' again," said Tom, as they passed out of
the building. "I will convince you before I am done that I'm not a baby."
Ben found it convenient to offer no reply to this plain statement of
facts, and the three soldiers made their way back to the camp, and, having
obtained their pails and filled them with water at the hydrants, they
passed the guard without a question.
CHAPTER XII.
ON TO RICHMOND.
It so happened that Ben Lethbridge, probably satisfied that it was not the
fist of a baby which had partially blackened both of his eyes, and
produced a heavy pain under his left ear, did not demand the satisfaction
which was needed to heal his wounded honor. The matter was duly discussed
in the tent of Tom's mess; but our soldier boy, while he professed to be
entirely satisfied, was willing to meet Ben at such time and place as he
desired, and finish up the affair.
The other party was magnanimous, and declared that he too was satisfied;
and old Hapgood thought they had better proceed no further with the
affair, for both of them might be arrested for disorderly conduct.
"I am satisfied, Ben; but if you ever call me a baby or a calf again, it
will all have to be settled over again," said Tom, as he laid aside his
musket, which he had been cleaning during the conversation.
"I don't want to quarrel with you, Tom," replied Ben, "but I wish you
would be a little more like the rest of the fellows."
"What do you mean by that? I am like the rest of the fellows."
"You wouldn't play cards."
"Yes, I will play cards, but I won't gamble; and there isn't many fellows
in the company that will."
"That's so," added Hapgood. "I know all about that business. When I went
to Mexico, I lost my money as fast as I got it, playing cards. Don't
gamble, boys."
"I won't, for one," said Tom, with emphasis.
"Are you going to set up for a soldier-saint, too?" sneered Ben, turning
to the old man.
"I'm no saint, but I've larned better than to gamble."
"I think you'd better stop drinking too," added Ben.
"Come, Ben, you are meaner than dirt," said Tom, indignantly.
Old Hapgood was a confirmed toper. The people in Pinchbrook said he was a
good man, but, they used to add, with a shrug of the shoulders, "pity he
drinks." It was a sad pity, but he seemed to have no power over his
appetite. The allusion of Ben to his besetting sin was cruel and
mortifying, for the old man had certainly tried to reform, and since the
regiment left Boston, he had not tasted the intoxicating cup. He had
declared before the mess that he had stopped drinking; so his resolution
was known to all his companions, though none of them had much confidence
in his ability to carry it out.
"I didn't speak to you, Tom Somers," said Ben, sharply.
"You said a mean thing in my presence."
"By and by we shall be having a prayer meeting in our tent every night."
"If you are invited I hope you will come," added Tom, "for if prayers will
do any body any good, they won't hurt you."
"If you will take care of yourself, and let me alone, it's all I ask of
you."
"I'm agreed."
This was about the last of the skirmishing between Tom and Ben. The latter
was a little disposed to be bully; and from the time the company left
Pinchbrook, he had been in the habit of calling Tom a baby, and other
opprobrious terms, till the subject of his sneers could endure them no
longer. Tom had come to the conclusion that he could obtain respectful
treatment only by the course he had adopted. Perhaps, if he had possessed
the requisite patience, he might have attained the same result by a less
repulsive and more noble policy.
The regiment remained in Washington about a fortnight. The capital was no
longer considered to be in danger. A large body of troops had been massed
in and around the city, and the rebels' boast that they would soon capture
Washington was no longer heeded. Fear and anxiety had given place to hope
and expectation. "On to Richmond!" was the cry sounded by the newspapers,
and repeated by the people. The army of newly-fledged soldiers was burning
with eagerness to be led against the rebels. "On to Richmond!" shouted
citizens and soldiers, statesmen and politicians. Some cursed and some
deprecated the cautious slowness of the old general who had never been
defeated.
"On to Richmond!" cried the boys in Tom's regiment, and none more
earnestly than he.
"Don't hurry old Scott. He knows what he is about. I know something about
this business, for I've seen old Scott where the bullets flew thicker'n
snow flakes at Christmas," was the oft-repeated reply of Hapgood, the
veteran of Company K.
The movement which had been so long desired and expected was made at last,
and the regiment struck its tents, and proceeded over Long Bridge into
Virginia. The first camp was at Shuter's Hill, near Alexandria.
"Now we are in for it," said Tom Somers, when the mess gathered in their
tent after the camp was formed. "I hope we shall not remain here long."
"Don't be in a hurry, my brave boy," said old Hapgood. "We may stop here a
month."
"I hope not."
"Don't hope anything about it, Tom. Take things as they come."
But the impatience of the soldier boy was soon relieved; for at daylight
on the morning of the 16th of July, the regiment was routed out, the tents
were struck, and at nine o'clock they took up the line of march to the
southward. It was "on to Richmond," in earnest, now, and merrily marched
the men, who little knew what trials and sufferings, what scenes of blood
and death, lay in their path.
The little colonel's command had been put in Franklin's brigade, which
formed a part of Heintzelman's division; but little did Tom or his
fellow-soldiers know of anything but their own regiment. The "sacred soil"
of Virginia seemed to be covered with Federal soldiers, and whichever way
he turned, columns of troops might be seen, all obedient to the one grand
impulse of the loyal nation--"On to Richmond."
The great wagons, gun carriages, and caissons rolling slowly along, the
rattling drums, with here and there the inspiring strains of a band, the
general officers, with their staffs, were full of interest and excitement
to the soldier boy; and though the business before him was stern and
terrible, yet it seemed like some great pageant, moving grandly along to
celebrate, rather than win, a glorious triumph.
The novelty of the movement, however, soon wore away, and it required only
a few hours to convince the inexperienced soldiers in our regiment that it
was no idle pageant in which they were engaged. The short intervals of
rest which were occasionally allowed were moments to be appreciated. All
day long they toiled upon their weary way, praying for the night to come,
with its coveted hours of repose. The night did come, but it brought no
rest to the weary and footsore soldiers.
Tom was terribly fatigued. His knapsack, which had been light upon his
buoyant frame in the morning, now seemed to weigh two hundred pounds,
while his musket had grown proportionally heavy. Hour after hour, in the
darkness of that gloomy night, he trudged on, keeping his place in the
ranks with a resolution which neither the long hours nor the weary miles
could break down.
"I can't stand this much longer," whined Ben Lethbridge. "I shall drop
pretty soon, and die by the roadside."
"No, you won't," added Hapgood. "Stick to it a little while longer; never
say die."
"I can't stand it."
"Yes, you can. Only think you can, and you can," added the veteran.
"What do they think we are made of? We can't march all day and all night.
I wish I was at home."
"I wish I hadn't come," said Fred Pemberton.
"Cheer up! cheer up, boys. Stick to it a little longer," said the veteran.
It was three o'clock the next morning before they were permitted to halt,
when the boys rolled themselves up in their blankets, and dropped upon the
ground. It was positive enjoyment to Tom, and he felt happy; for rest was
happiness when the body was all worn out. A thought of the cottage and of
his mother crossed his mind, and he dropped asleep to dream of the joys of
home.
Short and sweet was that blessed time of rest; for at four o'clock, after
only one brief hour of repose, the regiment was turned out again, and
resumed its weary march to the southward. But that short interval of rest
was a fountain of strength to Tom, and without a murmur he took his place
by the side of his grumbling companions. Ben and Fred were disgusted with
the army, and wanted to go back; but that was impossible.
Again, for weary hours, they toiled upon the march. They passed Fairfax,
and encamped near the railroad station, where a full night's rest was
allowed them. By the advice of Hapgood, Tom went to a brook, and washed
his aching feet in cold water. The veteran campaigner gave him other
useful hints, which were of great service to him. That night he had as
good reason to bless the memory of the man who invented sleep as ever
Sancho Panza had, and every hour was fully improved.
At six o'clock, the next morning, the regiment marched again. Tom's legs
were stiff, but he felt so much better than on the preceding day, that he
began to think that he could stand any thing. In the early part of the
afternoon his ears were saluted by a new sound--one which enabled him more
fully than before to realize the nature of the mission upon which he had
been sent. It was the roar of cannon. On that day was fought the battle of
Blackburn's Ford; and when the regiment reached its halting-place at
Centreville, the story of the fight was told by enthusiastic lips.
Massachusetts men had stood firm and resolute before the artillery and
musketry of the rebels, and every man who heard the story was proud that
he hailed from the Old Bay State, and panted for the time when he might
show himself worthy of his origin, and true to the traditions of the past.
The regiment lay in camp the two following days, and the men had an
opportunity to recover in some measure from the fatigues of their first
severe march. Visions of glory and victory were beginning to dawn upon
them. They had listened to the cannon of the enemy, and they knew that the
rebels were not many miles distant in front of them. A few days, perhaps a
few hours, would elapse before the terrible conflict would commence. Some
of those manly forms must soon sleep in the soldier's grave; some of those
beating hearts must soon cease to beat forever; but still the brave and
the true longed for the hour that would enable them to "strike home" for
the nation's salvation.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE BATTLE OF BULL RUN.
"Tumble out! Tumble out!" shouted the sergeant, who was in the mess with
the soldiers we have introduced. "Reveille! Don't you hear it?"
"But it isn't morning," growled Ben Lethbridge.
"I haven't been asleep more than an hour or two," snarled Fred Pemberton.
"Shut up your heads, and turn out!" said the sergeant.
It was the morning of the eventful twenty-first of July, and it was only
two o'clock when the regiment was roused from its slumbers; but there was
no great hardship in this fact, for most of the men had been sleeping the
greater portion of the time during the preceding two days. Tom Somers was
ready to take his place in the line in a few moments.
"Come, fellows, hurry up," said he to his tardy companions. "The time has
come, and, I tell you, there'll be music before many hours."
"Where are we going, Tom? Have you any idea?" asked Fred.
"Going down to Manassas Junction, I suppose. That's where the rebels are."
"Do you suppose we shall get into a fight?" asked Ben.
"I don't know; I hope so."
"So do I," returned Ben, faintly; "but I don't like to be broke of my rest
in this way."
Tom, full of excited anticipations in regard to the events of the day,
laughed heartily at this reply, and left the tent. The regiment was formed
in line, but there were two vacancies in the section to which he belonged.
Fred and Ben had answered to their names at roll call. On some pretence
they had asked permission to leave the line for a few moments, and that
was the last that had been seen of them.
"Where do you suppose they are?" said Tom to Hapgood.
"I don't know. I hain't got much confidence in Ben's pluck, and I
shouldn't wonder if he had run away."
"But that is desertion."
"That's just what you may call it; and I've seen men shot for it."
The regiment remained in line several hours before the order came to move.
At daylight, while the men were still standing in the road, four soldiers,
attended by a staff officer, conducted the two missing men of Company K
into the presence of the regiment.
"These men say they belong to your regiment," said the officer, saluting
the little colonel.
Captain Benson immediately claimed them, and Fred and Ben were ordered
into the ranks.
"Cowards--are you?" said the captain. "You shall take your places in the
ranks, and at the right time we will settle this case."
"I enlisted without my father's consent, and you can't hold me if I don't
choose to stay," replied Fred Pemberton.
"Next time you must ask your father before you come. It is too late to
repent now."
"I'm going home."
"No, you're not. Sergeant, if either of those men attempt to leave the
ranks again, shoot them!" said the captain.
Fred and Ben took their places in the ranks amid the laughter and jeers of
the company.
"Who's the baby now?" said Bob Dornton.
"You have disgraced the company," added old Hapgood. "I didn't think you
would run away before the battle commenced."
"I shall keep both eyes on you, my boys, and if you skulk again, I'll obey
orders--by the Lord Harry, I will!" said the sergeant, as he glanced at
the lock of his musket. "Company K isn't going to be laughed at for your
cowardice."
At six o'clock the order came for the brigade to march. It now consisted
of only three regiments, for the time of one, composed of three months'
men, had expired while at Centreville; and though requested and importuned
to remain a few days longer, they basely withdrew, even while they were on
the very verge of the battlefield. This regiment left, and carried with it
the scorn and contempt of the loyal and true men, who were as ready to
fight the battles of their country on one day as on another.
The men knew they were going to battle now, for the enemy was only a few
miles distant. The soldier boy's heart was full of hope. He knew not what
a battle was; he could form no adequate conception of the terrible scene
which was soon to open upon his view. He prayed and trusted that he might
be able to do his duty with courage and fidelity. To say that he had no
doubts and fears would be to say that he was not human.
As the brigade toiled slowly along, he tried to picture the scene which
was before him, and thus make himself familiar with its terrors before he
was actually called to confront them. He endeavored to imagine the sounds
of screaming shells and whistling bullets, that the reality, when it came,
might not appall him. He thought of his companions dropping dead around
him, of his friends mangled by bayonets and cannon shot; he painted the
most terrible picture of a battle which his imagination could conjure up,
hoping in this manner to be prepared for the worst.
The day was hot, and the sun poured down his scorching rays upon the
devoted soldiers as they pursued their weary march. They were fatigued by
continued exertion, and some of the weary ones, when the sun approached
the meridian, began to hope the great battle would not take place on that
day. Tom Somers, nearly worn out by the tedious march, and half famished
after the scanty breakfast of hard bread he had eaten before daylight,
began to feel that he was in no condition to face the storm of bullets
which he had been imagining.
No orders came to halt at noon, though the crowded roads several times
secured them a welcome rest: but on marched the weary soldiers, till the
roar of cannon broke upon their ears; and as they moved farther on, the
rattling volleys of musketry were heard, denoting that the battle had
already commenced. These notes of strife were full of inspiration to the
loyal and patriotic in the columns. A new life was breathed into them.
They were enthusiastic in the good cause, and their souls immediately
became so big that what had been body before seemed to become spirit now.
They forgot their empty stomachs and their weary limbs. The music of
battle, wild and terrible as it was to these untutored soldiers, charmed
away the weariness of the body, and, to the quickstep of thundering cannon
and crashing musketry, they pressed on with elastic tread to the horrors
before them.
Tom felt that he had suddenly and miraculously been made over anew. He
could not explain the reason, but his legs had ceased to ache, his feet to
be sore, and his musket and his knapsack were deprived of their
superfluous weight.
"God be with me in this battle!" he exclaimed to himself a dozen times.
"God give me strength and courage!"
Animated by his trust in Him who will always sustain those who confide in
him, the soldier boy pressed on, determined not to disgrace the name he
bore. The terrible sounds became more and more distinct as the regiment
advanced, and in about two hours after the battle had opened, the brigade
arrived at the field of operations. One regiment was immediately detached
and sent off in one direction, while the other two were ordered to support
a battery on a hill, from which it was belching forth a furious storm of
shells upon the rebels.
The little colonel's sword gleamed in the air, as he gave the order to
march on the double-quick to the position assigned to him.
"Now, Tom, steady, and think of nothing but God and your country," said
old Hapgood, as the regiment commenced its rapid march. "I know something
about this business, and I can tell you we shall have hot work before we
get through with it."
"Where are the rebels? I don't see any," asked Tom, who found that his
ideas of the manner in which a battle is fought were very much at fault.
"You will see them very soon. They are in their breastworks. There! Look
down there!" exclaimed the veteran as the regiment reached a spot which
commanded a full view of the battle.
Tom looked upon the fearful scene. The roar of the artillery and the crash
of the small arms were absolutely stunning. He saw men fall, and lie
motionless on the ground, where they were trampled upon by the horses, and
crushed beneath the wheels of cannon and caisson. But the cry was, that
the army of the Union had won the field, and it inspired him with new zeal
and new courage.
Scarcely had the remnant of the brigade reached the right of the battery,
before they were ordered to charge down the valley, by Colonel Franklin,
the acting brigadier. They were executing the command with a dash and
vigor that would have been creditable to veterans, when they were ordered
to cross the ravine, and support the Eire Zouaves. The movement was made,
and Tom soon found himself in the thickest of the fight. Shot and shell
were flying in every direction, and the bullets hissed like hailstones
around him.
In spite of all his preparations for this awful scene, his heart rose up
into his throat. His eyes were blinded by the volumes of rolling smoke,
and his mind confused by the rapid succession of incidents that were
transpiring around him. The pictures he had painted were sunlight and
golden compared with the dread reality. Dead and dying men strewed the
ground in every direction. Wounded horses were careering on a mad course
of destruction, trampling the wounded and the dead beneath their feet. The
hoarse shouts of the officers were heard above the roar of battle. The
scene mocked all the attempts which the soldier boy had made to imagine
its horrors.
In front of the regiment were the famous Eire Zouaves, no longer guided
and controlled by the master genius of Ellsworth. They fought like tigers,
furiously, madly; but all discipline had ceased among them, and they
rushed wildly to the right and the left, totally heedless of their
officers. They fought like demons, and as Tom saw them shoot down, hew
down, or bayonet the hapless rebels who came within their reach, it seemed
to him as though they had lost their humanity, and been transformed into
fiends.
As soon as the regiment reached its position, the order was given to fire.
Tom found this a happy relief; and when he had discharged his musket a few
times, all thoughts of the horrors of the scene forsook him. He no longer
saw the dead and the dying; he no longer heard the appalling roar of
battle. He had become a part of the scene, instead of an idle spectator.
He was sending the bolt of death into the midst of the enemies of his
country.
"Bravo! Good boy, Tom," said old Hapgood, who seemed to be as much at ease
as when he had counselled patience and resignation in the quiet of the
tent. "Don't fire too high, Tom."
"I've got the idea," replied the soldier boy. "I begin to feel quite at
home."
"O, you'll do; and I knew you would from the first."
The shouts of victory which had sounded over the field were full of
inspiration to the men; but at the moment when the laurels seemed to be
resting securely upon our banners, the rebel line moved forward with
irresistible fury. Tom, at one instant, as he cast his eye along the line,
found himself flanked on either side by his comrades; at the next there
was a wild, indescribable tramp and roar, and he found himself alone. The
regiment was scattered in every direction, and he did not see a single man
whom he knew. There was a moving mass of Federal soldiers all around him.
The Zouaves had been forced back, and the cry of victory had given place
to the ominous sounds which betokened a defeat, if not a rout.
The rebels had been reënforced, and had hurled their fresh legions upon
our exhausted troops, who could no longer roll back the masses that
crowded upon them. The day was lost.
Tom, bewildered by this sudden and disastrous result, moved back with the
crowds around him. Men had ceased to be brave and firm; they were fleeing
in mortal terror before the victorious battalions that surged against
them.
"It's all up with us, my lad," said a panting Zouave. "Run for your life.
Come along with me."
Tom followed the Zouave towards the woods, the storm of bullets still
raining destruction around them.
CHAPTER XIV.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
Tom Somers floated with the tide of humanity that was setting away from
the scene of disaster and defeat. The panic that prevailed was even more
fearful than the battle, for wounded and dying men were mercilessly
trodden down by the feet of the horses, and run over by the wheels of the
cannon and the baggage wagons. Though the battle was ended, the rebels
still poured storms of shot and shell into the retreating, panic-stricken
host.
Tom did not know where to go, for there were panic and death on all sides
of him. The soldiers were flying in every direction, some of them into the
very arms of their remorseless enemies. But the woods seemed to promise
the most secure retreat from the fury of the Black Horse Cavalry, which
was now sweeping over the battle-field. The Zouave ran in this direction,
and our soldier boy followed him. Now that the excitement of the conflict
was over, the enthusiasm which had buoyed him up began to subside. The day
was lost; all hopes of glory had fled; and a total defeat and rout were
not calculated to add much strength to his over-tasked limbs.
He was nearly used up, and it was hard work to run--very hard work; and
nothing but the instinct of self-preservation enabled him to keep the tall
and wiry form of the Zouave in sight. They reached the ravine, where the
water was about three feet deep. The shot, and shell, and bullets still
fell in showers around them, and occasionally one of the luckless
fugitives was struck down. They crossed the stream, and continued on their
flight. An officer on horseback dashed by them, and bade them run with all
their might, or they would be taken.
"For Heaven's sake, get me some water!" said a rebel, who was wounded in
the leg, to a Zouave, who passed near him.
"You are a rebel, but I will do that for you," replied the Zouave; and he
gave him a canteen filled with water.
The rebel drank a long, deep draught, and then levelled his musket at the
head of his Samaritan enemy and fired. This transaction had occupied but a
moment, and Tom saw the whole. His blood froze with horror at the
unparalleled atrocity of the act. The Zouave, whom Tom had followed,
uttered a terrible oath, and snatching the musket from the hands of the
soldier boy, he rushed upon the soulless miscreant, and transfixed him
upon the bayonet. Uttering fierce curses all the time, he plunged the
bayonet again and again into the vitals of the rebel, till life was
extinct.
"Boy, I used to be human once," said the Zouave, when he had executed this
summary justice upon the rebel; "but I'm not human now. I'm all devil."
"What a wretch that rebel was!" exclaimed Tom, who seemed to breathe freer
now that retribution had overtaken the viper.
"A wretch! Haven't you got any bigger word than that, boy? He was a fiend!
But we mustn't stop here."
"I thought the rebels were human."
"Human? That isn't the first time to-day I've seen such a thing as that
done. Come along, my boy; come along."
Tom followed the Zouave again; but he was too much exhausted to run any
farther. Even the terrors of the Black Horse Cavalry could not inspire him
with strength and courage to continue his flight at any swifter pace than
a walk.
"I can go no farther," said he, at last.
"Yes, you can; pull up! pull up! You will be taken if you stop here."
"I can't help it. I can go no farther. I am used up."
"Pull up, pull up, my boy!"
"I can't."
"But I don't want to leave you here. They'll murder you--cut your throat,
like a dog."
"I will hide myself in the bushes till I get a little more strength."
"Try it a little longer. You are too good a fellow to be butchered like a
calf," added the generous Zouave.
But it was no use to plead with him, for exhausted nature refused to
support him, and he dropped upon the ground like a log.
"Poor fellow! I would carry you in my arms if I could."
"Save yourself if you can," replied Tom, faintly.
The kind-hearted fireman was sorry to leave him, but he knew that one who
wore his uniform could expect no mercy from the rebels. They had been too
terrible upon the battle-field to receive any consideration from those
whom they had so severely punished. He was, therefore, unwilling to trust
himself to the tender mercies of the cavalry, who were sweeping the fields
to pick up prisoners; and after asking Tom's name and regiment, he
reluctantly left him.
Tom had eaten nothing since daylight in the morning, which, added to the
long march, and the intense excitement of his first battle-field, had
apparently reduced him to the last extremity. Then, for the first time, he
realized what it was to be a soldier. Then he thought of his happy
home--of his devoted mother. What must she not suffer when the telegraph
should flash over the wires the intelligence of the terrible disaster
which had overtaken the Union army! It would be many days, if not weeks or
months, before she could know whether he was dead or alive. What anguish
must she not endure!
He had but a moment for thoughts like these before he heard the sweep of
the rebel cavalry, as they dashed down the road through the woods. He must
not remain where he was, or the record of his earthly career would soon be
closed. On his hands and knees he crawled away from the road, and rolled
himself up behind a rotten log, just in season to escape the observation
of the cavalrymen as they rode by the spot.
Here and there in the woods were the extended forms of Federals and
rebels, who had dragged their wounded bodies away from the scene of mortal
strife to breathe their last in this holy sanctuary of nature, or to
escape from the death-dealing shot, and the mangling wheels that rumbled
over the dead and the dying. Close by the soldier boy's retreat lay one
who was moaning piteously for water. Tom had filled his canteen at a brook
on the way, and he crawled up to the sufferer to lave his dying thirst. On
reaching the wounded man, he found that he was a rebel, and the fate of
the Zouave who had done a similar kindness only a short time before
presented itself to his mind.
"Water! Water! For the love of God, give me a drop of water," moaned the
dying soldier.
Tom thought of the Zouave again, and had almost steeled his heart against
the piteous cry. He turned away.
"Water! Water! If you are a Christian give me some water," groaned the
sufferer.
Our soldier boy could no longer resist the appeal. He felt that he could
not be loved on earth or forgiven in heaven if he denied the petition of
the dying rebel; but before he granted it, he assured himself that the
sufferer had no dangerous weapon in his possession. The man was deadly
pale; one of his arms hung useless by his side; and he was covered with
blood. He was a terrible-looking object, and Tom felt sick and faint as he
gazed upon him.
Placing his canteen at the lips of the poor wretch, he bade him drink. His
frame quivered as he clutched the canteen with his remaining hand. The
death damp was on his forehead; but his eye lighted up with new lustre as
he drank the grateful beverage.
"God bless you! God bless you!" exclaimed he as he removed the canteen
from his lips. "You are a Yankee," he added, as he fixed his glazing eyes
upon Tom's uniform. "Are you wounded?"
"No; I am worn out. I have eaten nothing since daylight, and not much
then. I am used up."
"Put your hand in my haversack. There is something there," gasped the
dying man.
Tom bent over him to comply with the invitation; but, with a thrill of
horror, he started back, as he listened to the death-rattle in the throat
of the rebel, and saw his eyes fixed and lustreless in death. It was an
awful scene to the inexperienced youth. Though he had seen hundreds fall
in the battle of that day, death had not seemed so ghastly and horrible to
him as now, when he stood face to face with the grim monster. For a few
moments he forgot his own toil-worn limbs, his craving hunger, and his
aching head.
He gazed upon the silent form before him, which had ceased to suffer, and
he felt thankful that he had been able to mitigate even a single pang of
the dying rebel. But not long could he gaze, awe-struck, at the ghastly
spectacle before him, for he had a life to save. The words of the
sufferer--his last words--offering him the contents of his haversack
recurred to him; but Tom's sensibilities recoiled at the thought of eating
