the wind changed, and dire was the confusion occasioned thereby.
Like the sage fowl in the story, Dick said nothing, but “kept up a
terrible thinking,” and, not having had experience enough to know
that when a woman says No she is very apt to mean Yes, he took Dolly
at her word. Believing it to be his duty to warn “Old Bopp,” he
resolved to do it like a Roman brother, regardless of his own
feelings or his sister’s wrath, quite unconscious that the motive
power in the affair was a boyish love of ruling the young person who
ruled every one else.
Matters stood thus, when the town was electrified by a general
invitation to the annual jubilee at Jollyboys Hall, which this
spring flowered into a masquerade, and filled the souls of old and
young with visions of splendor, frolic, and fun. Being an amiable
old town, it gave itself up, like a kind grandma, to the wishes of
its children, let them put its knitting away, disturb its naps, keep
its hands busy with vanities of the flesh, and its mind in a state
of chaos for three mortal weeks. Young ladies were obscured by
tarletan fogs, behind which they concocted angels’ wings, newspaper
gowns, Minnehaha’s wampum, and Cinderella’s slippers. Inspired but
incapable boys undertook designs that would have daunted a costumer
of the first water, fell into sloughs of despond, and, emerging,
settled down from peers and paladins into jovial tars, friar
waterproofs, and officers in miscellaneous uniforms. Fathers laughed
or grumbled at the whole thing and advanced pecuniary loans with
good or ill grace, as the case might be; but the mothers, whose
interest in their children’s pleasure is a sort of evergreen that no
snows of time can kill, sewed spangles by the bushel, made
wildernesses of tissue-paper blossom as the rose, kept tempers
sweet, stomachs full, and domestic machinery working smoothly
through it all, by that maternal magic which makes them the human
providences of this naughty world.
“What shall I go as?” was the universal cry. Garrets were taken by
storm, cherished relics were teased out of old ladies’ lavendered
chests (happy she who saw them again!), hats were made into boots,
gowns into doublets, cloaks into hose, Sunday bonnets despoiled of
their plumage, silken cauliflowers sown broadcast over the land, and
cocked-up caps erected in every style of architecture, while “Tag,
Rag, and Bobtail” drove a smashing business, and everybody knew what
everybody else was going to be, and solemnly vowed they
didn’t--which transparent falsehood was the best joke of the whole.
Dolly allowed her mates to believe she was to be the Queen of
Hearts, but privately laid hold of certain brocades worn by a trim
grandmother half a century ago, and one evening burst upon her
brother in a charming “Little Bo-Peep” costume, which, for the
benefit of future distressed damsels, may be described as a “white
silk skirt, scarlet overdress neatly bundled up behind,” as ancient
ladies expressed it, blue hose with red clocks, high-heeled shoes
with silver buckles, a nosegay in the tucker, and a fly-way hat
perched in this case on the top of black curls, which gave
additional archness to Dolly’s face as she entered, singing that
famous ditty.
Dick surveyed her with approval, turning her about like a lay
figure, and expressing his fraternal opinion that she was “the
sauciest little turn-out he ever saw,” and then wet-blanketed the
remarks by adding, “Of course you don’t call it a disguise, do you?
and don’t flatter yourself that you won’t be known; for Dolly Ward
is as plainly written in every curl, bow, and gimcrack, as if you
wore a label on your back.”
“Then I shan’t wear it;” and off went the hat at one fell blow, as
Dolly threw her crook in one corner, her posy in another, and sat
down an image of despair.
“Now don’t be a goose, and rip everything to bits; just wear a
domino over all, as Fan is going to, and then, when you’ve had fun
enough, take it off and do the pretty. It will make two rigs, you
see, and bother the boys to your heart’s content.”
“Dick, I insist upon kissing you for that brilliant suggestion; and
then you may run and get me eight yards of cambric, just the color
of Fan’s; but if you tell any one, I’ll keep her from dancing with
you the whole evening;” with which bribe and threat Dolly embraced
her brother, and shut the door in his face, while he, putting
himself in good humor by imagining she was somebody else, departed
on his muddy mission.
If the ghosts of the first settlers had taken their walks abroad on
the eventful Friday night, they would have held up their shadowy
hands at the scenes going on under their venerable noses; for
strange figures flitted through the quiet streets, and instead of
decorous slumber, there was decidedly,--“A sound of revelry by
night.”
Spurs clanked and swords rattled over the frosty ground, as if the
British were about to make another flying call; hooded monks and
nuns paced along, on carnal thoughts intent; ancient ladies and
bewigged gentlemen seemed hurrying to enjoy a social cup of tea, and
groan over the tax; barrels staggered and stuck through narrow ways,
as if temperance were still among the lost arts, while bears, apes,
imps, and elves pattered or sparkled by, as if a second Walpurgis
Night had come, and all were bound for Blocksberg.
“Hooray for the Rooster!” shouted young Ireland, encamped on the
sidewalk to see the show, as Mephistopheles’ red cock’s feather
skimmed up the stairs, and he left a pink domino at the ladies’
dressing-room door, with the brief warning, “Now cut your own capers
and leave me to mine,” adding, as he paused a moment at the great
door,--
“By Jove! isn’t it a jolly sight, though?”
And so it was; for a mammoth boot stood sentinel at the entrance; a
Bedouin Arab leaned on his spear in one corner, looking as if ready
to say,--
“Fly to the desert, fly with me,”
to the pretty Jewess on his arm; a stately Hamlet, with
irreproachable legs, settled his plumage in another, still undecided
to which Ophelia he would first address “The honey of his music
vows.”
Bluff King Hal’s representative was waltzing in a way that would
have filled that stout potentate with respectful admiration, while
Queen Katherine flirted with a Fire Zouave. Alcipades whisked Mother
Goose about the room till the old lady’s conical hat tottered on her
head, and the Union held fast to a very little Mac. Flocks of
friars, black, white, and gray, pervaded the hall, with flocks of
ballet girls, intended to represent peasants, but failing for lack
of drapery; morning and evening stars rose or set, as partners
willed; lively red demons harassed meek nuns, and knights of the
Leopard, the Lion or Griffin, flashed by, looking heroically
uncomfortable, in their gilded cages; court ladies promenaded with
Jack tars, and dukes danced with dairy-maids, while Brother Jonathan
whittled, Aunt Dinah jabbered, Ingomar flourished his club, and
every one felt warmly enthusiastic and vigorously jolly.
“Ach himmel! Das ist wunder schon!” murmured a tall, gray monk,
looking in, and quite unconscious that he spoke aloud.
“Hullo, Bopp! I thought you weren’t coming,” cried Mephistopheles in
an emphatic whisper.
“Ah, I guess you! yes, you are well done. I should like to be a
Faust for you, but I haf no time, no purse for a dress, so I throw
this on, and run up for a hour or two. Where is--who is all these
people? Do you know them?”
“The one with the Pope, Fra Diavolo; the telegraph, and two knights
asking her to dance, is Dolly, if that’s what you want to know. Go
in and keep it up, Bopp, while you can; I am off for Fan;” and
Mephistopheles departed over the banisters with a weird agility that
delighted the beholders; while the gray friar stole into a corner
and watched the pink domino for half an hour, at the end of which
time his regards were somewhat confused by discovering that there
were two pink damsels so like that he could not tell which was the
one pointed out by Dick and which the new-comer.
“She thinks I will not know her, but I shall go now and find out for
myself;” and, starting into sudden activity, the gray brother strode
up to the nearest pink lady, bowed, and offered his arm. With a
haughty little gesture of denial to several others, she accepted it,
and they joined the circle of many-colored promenaders that eddied
round the hall. As they went, Mr. Bopp scrutinized his companion,
but saw only a slender figure shrouded from head to foot, and the
tip of a white glove resting on his arm.
“I will speak; then her voice will betray her,” he thought,
forgetting that his own was undisguisable.
“Madame, permit me that I fan you, it is so greatly warm.”
A fan was surrendered with a bow, and the masked face turned fully
toward his own, while the hood trembled as if its wearer laughed
silently.
“Ah, it is you,--I know the eyes, the step, the laugh. Miss Dolly,
did you think you could hide from me?”
“I did not wish to,” was the whispered answer.
“Did you think I would come?”
“I hoped so.”
“Then you are not displease with me?”
“No; I am very glad; I wanted you.”
The pink head drooped a little nearer, and another white glove went
to meet its mate upon his arm with a pretty, confiding gesture. Mr.
Bopp instantly fell into a state of bliss,--the lights, music, gay
surroundings, and, more than all, this unwonted demonstration, put
the crowning glory to the moment; and, fired with the hopeful omen,
he allowed his love to silence his prudence, and lead him to do,
then and there, the very thing he had often resolved never to do at
all.
“Ah, Miss Dolly, if you knew how much, how very much you haf
enlarged my happiness, and made this efening shine for me, you would
more often be a little friendly, for this winter has been all summer
to me, since I knew you and your kind home, and now I haf no sorrow
but that after the next lesson I come no more unless you gif me
leaf. See now I must say this even here, when so much people are
about us, because I cannot stop it; and you will forgif me that I
cannot wait any longer.”
“Mr. Bopp, please don’t, please stop!” began the pink domino in a
hurried whisper. But Mr. Bopp was not to be stopped. He had dammed
up the stream so long, that now it rushed on fast, full, and
uncontrollable; for, leading her into one of the curtained recesses
near by, he sat down beside her, and, still plying the fan, went on
impetuously,--
“I feel to say that I lofe you, and tho’ I try to kill it, my love
will not die, because it is more strong than my will, more dear than
my pride, for I haf much, and I do not ask you to be meine Frau till
I can gif you more than my heart and my poor name. But hear now; I
will work, and save, and wait a many years if at the end you will
take all I haf and say, ‘August, I lofe you.’ Do not laugh at me
because I say this in such poor words; you are my heart’s dearest,
and I must tell it or never come again. Speak to me one kind yes,
and I will thank Gott in himmel for so much joy.”
The pink domino had listened to this rapid speech with averted head,
and, when it ended, started up, saying eagerly, “You are mistaken,
sir, I am not Dolly;” but as she spoke her words were belied, for
the hasty movement displaced her mask, and Mr. Bopp saw Dolly’s
eyes, a lock of dark hair, and a pair of burning cheeks, before the
screen was readjusted. With redoubled earnestness he held her back,
whispering,--
“Do not go mitout the little word, Yes, or No; it is not much to
say.”
“Well then, No!”
“You mean it? Dolly! truly mean it?”
“Yes, let me go at once, sir.”
Mr. Bopp stood up, saying slowly,--“Yes, go now; they told me you
had no heart; I beliefe it, and thank you for that No;” then bowed,
and walked straight out of the hall, while the pink domino broke
into a fit of laughter, saying to herself,--
“I’ve done it! I’ve done it! but what a piece of work there’ll be
to-morrow.”
“Dick, who was that tall creature Fan was parading with last night?
No one knew, and he vanished before the masks were taken off,” asked
Dolly, as she and her brother lounged in opposite corners of the
sofa the morning after the masquerade, “talking it over.”
“That was old Bopp, Mrs. Peep.”
“Gracious me! why, he said he wasn’t coming.”
“People sometimes say what they don’t mean, as you may have
discovered.”
“But why didn’t he come and speak to a body, Dick?”
“Better employed, I suppose.”
“Now don’t be cross, dear, but tell me all about it, for I don’t
understand how you allowed him to monopolize Fan so.”
“Oh, don’t bother, I’m sleepy.”
“No you’re not; you look wicked; I know you’ve been in mischief, and
I insist upon hearing all about it, so come and ‘fess’ this
instant.”
Dolly proceeded to enforce her command by pulling away his pillow
and dragging her brother into a sitting posture in spite of his
laughing resistance and evident desire to exhaust her patience; for
Dick excelled in teasing, and kept his sister in a fidget from
morning till night, with occasional fits of penitence and petting
which lasted till next time. Therefore, though dying to ‘fess,’ he
was undecided as to the best method of executing that task in the
manner most aggravating to his listener and most agreeable to
himself, and sat regarding her with twinkling eyes, and his curly
pate in a high state of rumple, trying to appear innocently meek,
but failing signally.
“Now, then, up and tell,” commanded Dolly.
“Well, if you won’t take my head off till I’m done, I’ll tell you
the best joke of the season. Are you sure the pink domino with Bopp
wasn’t yourself,--for she looked and acted very like you?”
“Of course I am. I didn’t even know he was there, and think it very
rude and ungentlemanly in him not to come and speak to me. You know
it was Fan, so do go on.”
“But it wasn’t, for she changed her mind and wore a black domino; I
saw her put it on myself. Her Cousin Jack came unexpectedly, and she
thought if she altered her dress and went with him, you wouldn’t
know her.”
“Who could it have been, Dick?”
“That’s the mystery, for, do you know, Bopp proposed to her.”
“He didn’t!” and Dolly flew up with a startled look that, to adopt a
phrase from his own vocabulary, was “nuts” to her brother.
“Yes he did; I heard him.”
“When, where, and how?”
“In one of these flirtation boxes; they dropped the curtain, but I
heard him do it, on my honor I did.”
“Persons of honor don’t listen at curtains and key-holes. What did
they say?”
“Oh, if it wasn’t honorable to listen, it isn’t to hear; so I won’t
tell, though I could not help knowing it.”
“Mercy! don’t stop now, or I shall die with curiosity. I dare say I
should have done the same; no one minds at such a place, you know.
But I don’t see the joke yet,” said Dolly dismally.
“I do,” and Dick went off into a shout.
“You idiotic boy, take that pillow out of your mouth, and tell me
the whole thing,--what he said, what she said, and what they both
did. It was all fun of course, but I’d like to hear about it.”
“It may have been fun on her part, but it was solemn earnest on his,
for he went it strong I assure you. I’d no idea the old fellow was
so sly, for he appeared smashed with you, you know, and there he was
finishing up with this unknown lady. I wish you could have heard him
go on, with tears in his eyes”--
“How do you know if you didn’t see him?”
“Oh, well, that’s only a figure of speech; I thought so from his
voice. He was ever so tender, and took to Dutch when English was too
cool for him. It was really touching, for I never heard a fellow do
it before; and, upon my word, I should think it was rather a tough
job to say that sort of thing to a pretty woman, mask or no mask.”
“What did she say?” asked Dolly, with her hands pressed tight
together, and a curious little quiver of the lips.
“She said, No, as short as pie-crust; and when he rushed out with
his heart broken all to bits apparently, she just burst out
laughing, and went and polked at a two-forty pace for half an hour.”
Dora unclasped her hands, took a long breath, and cried out,--
“She was a wicked, heartless hussy! and if I know her, I’ll never
speak to her again; for if he was really in earnest, she ought to be
killed for laughing at him.”
“So ought you, then, for making fun of poor Fisher when he went down
on his knees behind the huckleberry bushes last summer. He was
earnest enough, for he looked as black-and-blue as his berries when
he got home. Your theory is all right, ma’am, but your practice is
all bosh.”
“Hold your tongue about that silly thing. Boys in college think they
know everything, can do everything, have everything, and only need
beckon, and all womankind will come and adore. It made a man of him,
and he’ll thank me for taking the sentimental nonsense and conceit
out of him. You will need just such a lesson at the rate you go on,
and I hope Fan will give it to you.”
“When the lecture is over, I’ll go on with the joke, if you want to
know it.”
“Isn’t this enough?”
“Oh, bless you, no! the cream of it is to come. What would you give
to know who the lady was?”
“Five dollars, down, this minute.”
“Very good, hand ‘em over, and I’ll tell you.”
“Truly, Dick?”
“Yes, and prove it.”
Dolly produced her purse, and, bill in hand, sat waiting for the
disclosure. Dick rose with a melo-dramatic bow,--
“Lo, it was I.”
“That’s a great fib, for I saw you flying about the whole evening.”
“You saw my dress, but I was not in it.”
“Oh! oh! who did I keep going to, then? and what did I do to
make a fool of myself, I wonder?”
Purse and bill dropped out of Dolly’s hand, and she looked at her
brother with a distracted expression of countenance. Dick rubbed his
hands and chuckled.
“Here’s a jolly state of things. Now I’ll tell you the whole story.
I never thought of doing it till I saw Bopp and told him who you
were; but on my way for Fan I wondered if he’d get puzzled between
you two; and then a grand idea popped into my head to puzzle him
myself, for I can take you off to the life. Fan didn’t want me to,
but I made her, so she lent me hoops and gown and the pink domino,
and if ever I thanked my stars I wasn’t tall, I did then, for the
things fitted capitally as to length, tho’ I kept splitting
something down the back, and scattering hooks and eyes in all
directions. I wish you could have heard Jack roar while they rigged
me. He had no dress, so I lent him mine, till just before the masks
were taken off, when we cut home and changed. He told me how you
kept running to him to tie up your slippers, find your fan, and tell
him funny things, thinking it was me. I never enjoyed anything so
much in my life.”
“Go on,” said Dolly in a breathless sort of voice, and the deluded
boy obeyed.
“I knew Bopp, and hovered near till he came to find out who I was. I
took you off in style, and it deceived him, for I’m only an inch or
two taller than you, and kept my head down in the lackadaisical way
you girls do; I whispered, so my voice didn’t betray me; and was
very clinging, and sweet, and fluttery, and that blessed old goose
was sure it was you. I thought it was all over once, for when he
came the heavy in the recess, I got a bit flustered, he was so
serious about it, my mask slipped, but I caught it, so he only saw
my eyes and forehead, which are just like yours, and that finished
him, for I’ve no doubt I looked as red and silly as you would have
done in a like fix.”
“Why did you say No?” and Dolly looked as stern as fate.
“What else should I say? You told me you wouldn’t have him, and I
thought it would save you the bother of saying it, and him the pain
of asking twice. I told him some time ago that you were a born
flirt; he said he knew it; so I was surprised to hear him go on at
such a rate, but supposed that I was too amiable, and that misled
him. Poor old Bopp, I kept thinking of him all night, as he looked
when he said, ‘They told me you had no heart, now I believe it, and
I thank you for that No.’ It was rather a hard joke for him, but
it’s over now, and he won’t have to do it again. You said I wouldn’t
dare tell him about you; didn’t I? and haven’t I won the”--
The rest of the sentence went spinning dizzily through Dick’s head,
as a sudden tingling sensation pervaded his left ear, followed by a
similar smart in the right; and, for a moment, chaos seemed to have
come again. Whatever Dolly did was thoroughly done: when she danced,
the soles of her shoes attested the fact; when she flirted, it was
warm work while it lasted; and when she was angry, it thundered,
lightened, and blew great guns till the shower came, and the whole
affair ended in a rainbow. Therefore, being outwitted, disappointed,
mortified, and hurt, her first impulse was to find a vent for these
conflicting emotions, and possessing skillful hands, she left them
to avenge the wrong done her heart, which they did so faithfully,
that if ever a young gentleman’s ears were vigorously and completely
boxed, Dick was that young individual. As the thunder-clap ceased,
the gale began and blew steadily for several minutes.
“You think it a joke, do you? I tell you, it’s a wicked, cruel
thing; you’ve told a lie; you’ve broken August’s heart, and made me
so angry that I’ll never forgive you as long as I live. What do you
know about my feelings? and how dare you take it upon yourself to
answer for me? You think because we are the same age that I am no
older than you, but you’re mistaken, for a boy of eighteen is a
boy, a girl is often a woman, with a woman’s hopes and plans; you
don’t understand this any more than you do August’s love for me,
which you listened to and laughed at. I said I didn’t like him, and
I didn’t find out till afterward that I did; then I was afraid to
tell you lest you’d twit me with it. But now I care for no one, and
I say I do like him,--yes, I love him with all my heart and soul and
might and I’d die this minute if I could undo the harm you’ve done,
and see him happy. I know I’ve been selfish, vain, and thoughtless,
but I am not now; I hoped he’d love me, hoped he’d see I cared for
him, that I’d done trifling, and didn’t mind if he was poor, for
I’d enough for both; that I longed to make his life pleasant after
all his troubles; that I’d send for the little sister he loves so
well, and never let him suffer any more; for he is so good, so
patient, so generous, and dear to me, I cannot do enough for him.
Now it’s all spoilt; now I can never tell him this, never comfort
him in any way, never be happy again all my life, and you have done
it.”
As Dolly stood before her brother, pouring out her words with
glittering eyes, impetuous voice, and face pale with passionate
emotion, he was scared; for as his scattered wits returned to him,
he felt that he had been playing with edge tools, and had cut and
slashed in rather a promiscuous manner. Dazed and dizzy, he sat
staring at the excited figure before him, forgetting the indignity
he had received, the mistake he had made, the damage he had done, in
simple wonder at the revolutions going on under his astonished eyes.
When Dolly stopped for breath, he muttered with a contrite look,--
“I’m very sorry,--it was only fun; and I thought it would help you
both, for how the deuce should I know you liked the man when you
said you hated him?”
“I never said that, and if I’d wanted advice I should have gone to
mother. You men go blundering off with half an idea in your heads,
and never see your stupidity till you have made a mess that can’t be
mended; we women don’t work so, but save people’s feelings, and are
called hypocrites for our pains. I never meant to tell you, but I
will now, to show you how I’ve been serving you, while you’ve been
harming me: every one of those notes from Fan which you admire so
much, answer so carefully, and wear out in your pocket, though
copied by her, were written by me.”
“The devil they were!” Up flew Dick, and clapping his hand on the
left breast-pocket, out came a dozen pink notes tied up with a blue
ribbon, and much the worse for wear. He hastily turned them over as
Dolly went on.
“Yes, I did it, for she didn’t know how to answer your notes, and
came to me. I didn’t laugh at them, or make fun of her, but helped
her silly little wits, and made you a happy boy for three months,
though you teased me day and night, for I loved you, and hadn’t the
heart to spoil your pleasure.”
“You’ve done it now with a vengeance, and you’re a pair of deceitful
minxes. I’ve paid you off. I’ll give Fan one more note that will
keep her eyes red for a month; and I’ll never love or trust a girl
again as long as I live,--never! never!”
Red with wrath, Dick flung the treasured packet into the fire,
punched it well down among the coals, flung away the poker, and
turned about with a look and gesture which would have been comically
tragic if they had not been decidedly pathetic, for, in spite of his
years, a very tender heart beat under the blue jacket, and it was
grievously wounded at the perfidy of the gentle little divinity whom
he worshipped with daily increasing ardor. His eyes filled, but he
winked resolutely; his lips trembled, but he bit them hard; his
hands doubled themselves up, but he remembered his adversary was a
woman; and, as a last effort to preserve his masculine dignity, he
began to whistle.
As if the inconsistencies of womankind were to be shown him as
rapidly as possible, at this moment the shower came on, for, taking
him tenderly about the neck, Dolly fell to weeping so infectiously,
that, after standing rigidly erect till a great tear dropped off the
end of his nose, ignominiously announcing that it was no go, Dick
gave in, and laying his head on Dolly’s shoulder, the twins quenched
their anger, washed away their malice, and soothed their sorrow by
one of those natural processes, so kindly provided for poor
humanity, and so often despised as a weakness when it might prove a
better strength than any pride.
Dick cleared up first, with no sign of the tempest but a slight mist
through which his native sunshine glimmered pensively.
“Don’t dear, don’t cry so; it will make you sick, and won’t do any
good, for things will come right, or I’ll make ‘em, and we’ll be
comfortable all round.”
“No, we never can be as we were, and it’s all my fault. I’ve
betrayed Fan’s confidence, I’ve spoiled your little romance, I’ve
been a thoughtless, wicked girl, I’ve lost August; and, oh, dear me,
I wish I was dead!” with which funereal climax Dolly cried so
despairingly that, like the youngest Miss Pecksniff, she was indeed
“a gushing creature.”
“Oh, come now, don’t be dismal, and blame yourself for every trouble
under the sun. Sit down and talk it over, and see what can be done.
Poor old girl, I forgave you the notes, and say I was wrong to
meddle with Bopp. I got you into the scrape, and I’ll get you out if
the sky don’t fall, or Bopp blow his brains out, like a second
Werther, before to-morrow.”
Dick drew the animated fountain to the wide chair, where they had
sat together since they were born, wiped her eyes, laid her wet
cheek against his own, and patted her back, with an idea that it was
soothing to babies, and why not to girls?
“I wish mother was at home,” sighed Dolly, longing for that port
which was always a haven of refuge in domestic squalls like this.
“Write, and tell her not to stay till Saturday.”
“No; it would spoil her visit, and you know she deferred it to help
us through this dreadful masquerade. But I don’t know what to do.”
“Why, bless your heart, it’s simple enough. I’ll tell Bopp, beg his
pardon, say ‘Dolly’s willing,’ and there you are all taut and
ship-shape again.”
“I wouldn’t for the world, Dick. It would be very hard for you, very
awkward for me, and do no good in the end; for August is so proud
he’d never forgive you for such a trick, would never believe that I
‘had a heart’ after all you’ve said and I’ve done; and I should only
hear with my own ears that he thanked me for that No. Oh, why can’t
people know when they are in love, and not go heels over head before
they are ready!”
“Well, if that don’t suit, I’ll let it alone, for that is all I can
suggest; and if you like your woman’s way better, try it, only
you’ll have to fly round, because to-morrow is the last night, you
know.”
“I shan’t go, Dick.”
“Why not? we are going to give him the rose-wood set of things, have
speeches, cheers for the King of Clubs, and no end of fun.”
“I can’t help it; there would be no fun for me, and I couldn’t look
him in the face after all this.”
“Oh, pooh! yes, you could, or it will be the first time you dared
not do damage with those wicked eyes of yours.”
“It is the first time I ever loved any one.” Dolly’s voice was so
low, and her head drooped so much, that this brief confession was
apparently put away in Dick’s pocket, and being an exceedingly novel
one, filled that inflammable youth with a desire to deposit a
similar one in the other pocket, which, being emptied of its
accustomed contents, left a somewhat aching void in itself and the
heart underneath. After a moment’s silence, he said,--
“Well, if you won’t go, you can settle it when he comes here, though
I think we should all do better to confess coming home in the dark.”
“He won’t come here again, Dick.”
“Won’t he! that shows you don’t know Bopp as well as I. He’ll come
to say good-by, to thank mother for her kindness, and you and me for
the little things we’ve done for him (I wish I’d left the last
undone!), and go away like a gentleman, as he is,--see if he don’t.”
“Do you think so? Then I must see him.”
“I’m sure he will, for we men don’t bear malice and sulk and bawl
when we come to grief this way, but stand up and take it without
winking, like the young Spartan brick when the fox was digging into
him, you know.”
“Then, of course, you’ll forgive Fan.”
“I’ll be hanged if I do,” growled Dick.
“Ah ha! your theory is very good, sir, but your practice is bosh,”
 quoted Dolly, with a gleam of the old mischief in her face.
Dick took a sudden turn through the room, burst out laughing, and
came back, saying heartily,--
“I’ll own up; it is mean to feel so, and I’ll think about forgiving
you both; but she may stop up the hole in the wall, for she won’t
get any more letters just yet; and you may devote your epistolary
powers to A. Bopp in future. Well, what is it? free your mind, and
have done with it; but don’t make your nose red, or take the starch
out of my collar with any more salt water, if you please.”
“No, I won’t; and I only want to say that, as you owe the
explanation to us both, perhaps it would be best for you to tell
August your part of the thing as you come home to-morrow, and then
leave the rest to fate. I can’t let him go away thinking me such a
heartless creature, and once gone it will be too late to mend the
matter. Can you do this without getting me into another scrape, do
you think?”
“I haven’t a doubt of it, and I call that sensible. I’ll fix it
capitally,--go down on my knees in the mud, if it is necessary;
treat you like eggs for fear of another smash-up; and bring him home
in such a tip-top state, you’ll only have to nod and find yourself
Mrs. B. any day you like. Now let’s kiss and be friends, and then go
pitch into that pie for luncheon.”
So they did, and an hour afterward were rioting in the garret under
pretence of putting grandma’s things away; for at eighteen, in spite
of love and mischief, boys and girls have a spell to exorcise blue
devils, and a happy faculty of forgetting that “the world is hollow,
and their dolls stuffed with saw-dust.”
Dick was right, for on the following evening, after the lesson, Mr.
Bopp did go home with him, “to say good-by, like a gentleman as he
was.” Dolly got over the first greeting in the dusky hall, and as
her guest passed on to the parlor, she popped her head out to ask
anxiously,--
“Did you say anything, Dick?”
“I couldn’t; something has happened to him; he’ll tell you about it.
I’m going to see to the horse, so take your time, and do what you
like,” with which vague information Dick vanished, and Dolly wished
herself anywhere but where she was.
Mr. Bopp sat before the fire, looking so haggard and worn out that
the girl’s conscience pricked her sorely for her part in the change,
but plucking up her courage, she stirred briskly among the tea-cups,
asking,--
“What shall I give you, sir?”
“Thank you, I haf no care to eat.”
Something in his spiritless mien and sorrowful voice made Dolly’s
eyes fill; but knowing she must depend upon herself now, and make
the best of her position, she said kindly, yet nervously,--
“You look tired; let me do something for you if I can; shall I sing
for you a little? you once said music rested you.”
“You are kind; I could like that I think. Excoose me if I am dull, I
haf--yes, a little air if you please.”
More and more disturbed by his absent, troubled manner, Dolly began
a German song he had taught her, but before the first line was sung
he stopped her with an imploring--
“For Gott sake not that! I cannot hear it this night; it was the
last I sung her in the Vaterland.”
“Mr. Bopp, what is it? Dick says you have a trouble; tell me, and
let us help you if we can. Are you ill, in want, or has any one
wronged or injured you in any way? Oh, let me help you!”
Tears had been streaming down Mr. Bopp’s cheeks, but as she spoke he
checked them, and tried to answer steadily,--
“No, I am not ill; I haf no wants now, and no one has hurt me but in
kindness; yet I haf so great a grief, I could not bear it all alone,
and so I came to ask a little sympathy from your good Mutter, who
has been kind to me as if I was a son. She is not here, and I
thought I would stop back my grief; but that moosic was too much;
you pity me, and so I tell you. See, now! when I find things go
bright with me, and haf a hope of much work, I take the little store
I saved, I send it to my friend Carl Hoffman, who is coming from my
home, and say, ‘Bring Ulla to me now, for I can make life go well to
her, and I am hungry till I haf her in my arms again.’ I tell no
one, for I am bold to think that one day I come here with her in my
hand, to let her thank you in her so sweet way for all you haf done
for me. Well, I watch the wind, I count the days, I haf no rest for
joy; and when Carl comes, I fly to him. He gifs me back my store, he
falls upon my neck and does not speak, then I know my little Kind
will never come, for she has gone to Himmel before I could make a
home for her on earth. Oh, my Ulla! it is hard to bear;” and, with a
rain of bitter tears, poor Mr. Bopp covered up his face and laid it
down on his empty plate, as if he never cared to lift it up again.
Then Dolly forgot herself in her great sympathy, and, going to him,
she touched the bent head with a soothing hand; let her tears flow
to comfort his; and whispered in her tenderest voice,--
“Dear Mr. Bopp, I wish I could heal this sorrow, but as I cannot,
let me bear it with you; let me tell you how we loved the little
child, and longed to see her; how we should have rejoiced to know
you had so dear a friend to make your life happy in this strange
land; how we shall grieve for your great loss, and long to prove our
respect and love for you. I cannot say this as I ought, but, oh, be
comforted, for you will see the child again, and, remembering that
she waits for you, you will be glad to go when God calls you to meet
your Ulla in that other Fatherland.”
