done so. From what passed between us last night and 
this morning, it is plain that certain base and inhuman 
suspicions in regard to me have entered your mind 
suspicions that I feel as outrages. This being the case, 
I prefer not standing between you and Mr. Larobe, as 
the medium of intelligence touching your father. Go 
to him, and seek the information you desire." 

Mrs. Guy showed unusual feeling for a woman of her 
cold temperament, and great self-command. 

Adam was not prepared for this. His step-mother 
observed him closely ; noting the effect of her opening 
assault, which was only preparatory of one of greater 
violence. 

" You are to quick to imagine the supposition ot 
wrong," he said, with a significant curl of his upper 
lip. ' 

" What do you mean, sir ! " demanded Mrs. Guy, 
with a fierceness of manner that startled Adam. He 



 

had never seen his step-mother so moved in his life 
never felt such a fear of her as suddenly fell upon him. 

" I said," he repeated, but with not half the firmness 
of his first utterance, " that you were quick to imagine 
the supposition of wrong." 

" I am quick to feel the sting of a false and base in 
sinuation, sir! quick, as all true and honorable minds 
are," answered Mrs. Guy, with increasing indignation 
of manner. " And I tell you, sir, that you have gone 
just one step too far in a series of long continued out 
rages ; and from this hour, I shall hold you at a dis 
tance. If you choose to place yourself in a position of 
antagonism, well ; you have a right to the election, and 
also to the fruits thereof. Consider me from this time 
your enemy, if you will. I shall not shrink from the 
relation, depend upon it ! " 

Adam had in him too much of his father's dogged 
self-will to dream of stooping to conciliation. 

" As you like," he simply said. Then added, with 
a threat in his voice, " The law is just ; and I shall be 
of age in two months." 

A gleam of cruel triumph lit the eyes of his step 
mother ; and she answered, in a hissing whisper 

"Those who take the sword, sometimes perish by 
the sword. Try the law, and abide by the law." 

Both parties were too much excited to continue 
that wordy contest, as each felt ; and so they mutually 
retired from the field. The quarrel was really of Mrs. 
Guy's seeking, though apparently brought on by Adam ; 
but she was betraying herself a little too far under the 
pressure of feeling, and was glad to recede, lest some 
unwise utterance should fall from her lips. 




CHAPTER XXXIV. 



AVING precipitated a quarrel with 
Adam, it was no part of his step-mother's 
programme to let the fires of antagonism 
go out for lack of fuel. Oil and faggot 
were always at hand, and furnished with 
out stint, so that they were perpetually 
in a blaze. It ended as the step-mother 
desired. Adam left the house in a pas 
sion, vowing not to cross the threshold again, and took 
lodgings at one of the hotels. This occurred in a week 
after the brief interview mentioned as having taken 
place between Adam and Doctor Hofland. In order to 
make this separation complete, Mrs. Guy gathered ev 
erything belonging to the young man clothing, books 
and other articles and sent them to his address at the 
hotel, accompanied by a note couched in language that 
left him in no doubt of her purpose to hold him forever 
at a distance. He had turned from the door of his fath 
er's house, and now it was closed against him. He 
was out in the world alone, friendless and almost pow 
erless. As he sat, in the small room at the hotel so 
mean and poor compared with the one he left sat 
there on the first night of his voluntary exile, and 
looked into the dark, mysterious future, his heart shiv- 



 

ered, his spirit grew faint and fearful. He realized 
more consciously than ever, that his step-mother was too 
strong and subtle for him, that in her hands, he was 
weak as an infant. 

As Adam sat thus, alone, looking with dismay at the 
prospect before him, Mr. Larobe and his step-mother 
were in close conference. 

" You say," remarked Mrs. Guy, " that he has nev 
er called on you to ask the direction of the Asylum." 

" I have not seen him," answered the lawyer. 

" Just as I supposed it would be. Not a spark of 
filial love burns in one of their souls. I never saw such 
a heartless brood. If they had their father's money, he 
might be at the bottom of the ocean for all they cared." 

" You think that Adam will not return here ? " said 
Mr. Larobe. 

" He can't return." Mrs. Guy's voice was soft and 
low, but it expressed the purpose of an iron will. 

" I received a letter from Doctor Du Pontz to-day," 
remarked the lawyer. 

" Well ! What does he write ? " The manner of 
Mrs. Guy changed instantly, and she leaned towards 
her companion with an expression of hope on her coun 
tenance. 

" The Doctor wishes to see me, immediately." 

" Ah ! For what purpose ? " 

" Here is his letter." And Mr. Larobe read, "I 
wish to see you at once, about Mr. Guy. His condition 
is less favorable than when I last wrote. Closer con 
finement, I fear, will be necessary ; but, ere making a 
change, I think it best to ask an interview. Come with 
as little delay as possible." 



 

" Is that all he says ? " asked Mrs. Guy, taking a long 
breath. 

"All." And Larobe handed her the letter, which 
she scanned closely. 

Then they looked at each other, silently, for some 
moments. 

" When will you go ? " 

" To-morrow. The case, as you see, admits of no 
delay." 

" The Doctor writes with consummate prudence," 
said Mrs. Guy. 

" He understands his business," replied the lawyer, 
with an expression of face that would have made inno 
cence shudder. 

On the evening of the third day following this inter 
view, Mr. Larobe and Mrs. Guy met again. 

" When did you arrive ? " was the first, and natural 
question. 

" Two hours ago." 

" How is my husband ? " 

" That will inform you." And' Mr. Larobe handed 
a letter from Doctor Du Pontz. Hastily opening it, 
Mrs. Guy read 

DEAR MADAM I regret to inform you, that, within 
the last two weeks, all the symptoms in your honored 
husband's case have assumed more discouraging features. 
Mr. Larobe has visited him at my desire ; and we agree, 
in the conclusion, that his safety will require a still 
greater restriction of liberty. The few gleams of in 
telligence which, lighting up now and then, gave us so 



 

much hope, seem to have died away forever, and left 
his mind in total darkness. It is exceedingly painful, 
my dear madam, to write in so disheartening a way of 
your excellent husband ; but my duty is to state the 
case exactly. Have no fear that any harsh means will 
be adopted. These are not in my system. He shall be 
tenderly cared for, and permitted all the freedom con 
sistent with safety. Very truly, 

ALEXIS Du PONTZ, M. D." 

" You saw him ? " There was a look of inexpress- 
able anxiety on the countenance of Mrs. Guy. 

" Yes." 

" He knew you ? " 

" Of course." 

" What did he say ? " 

" He was violent demanded a release and threat 
ened all manner of consequences." 

Mrs. Guy's face grew pale. 

" What did you say ? " 

" Nothing. It is not my custom to waste words on 
an insane man." 

Larobe continued cool and self-possessed, but Mrs. Guy 
was nervous, and vaguely alarmed. 

" Is there no danger of his escape ? " she asked. 

" He made several attempts recently," replied Larobe, 
" but the Doctor has now put him in such close confine 
ment, that no apprehension need' be entertained." 

" I tremble at the bare imagination of such a thing," 
said Mrs. Guy, the paleness of her face remaining. 

" You may fully depend on Doctor Du Pontz," were 



 

Larobe's assuring words. " I have studied the man, 
and know him. Mr. Guy is safe." 

" Adam will be of age in a few weeks." Mrs. Guy- 
still spoke with manifest concern. 

" Trust him with me, my dear madam. I understand 
his relation to the estate, and will take care that no dis 
turbance of our plans originate with him." Thus the 
lawyer spoke in reassuring words. 

" He will visit his father," said Mrs. Guy. 

Larobe merely shrugged his shoulders. 


" And see him " 

" No ; that does not follow," 

" Doctor Du Pont will hardly deny the son an inter 
view. Were he to do so, suspicion would be aroused, 
and legal steps follow." 

The lawyer bent close to the ear of Mrs. Guy, and 
whispered a brief sentence. 

" Ah ! I never thought of that ! " she answered, 
light breaking into her face. 

" Leave all with the Doctor," said Larobe. u He 
understands the case just as well as you' or I, and will 
see that all things work to the good result we have in 
view." 

Thus assured, the heart of Mrs. Guy took courage 
again. 

Sooner than expected by Mrs. Guy, Adam's resolu 
tion to visit his father assumed the form of a present 
purpose. He called on Mr. Larobe within a few days 
after his separation from his step-mother, and asked for 
such information in regard to the Woodville Asylum as 
would enable him to find his way there by the directest 


course. Mr. Larobe treated him politely even kind 
ly and not only gave him the information he sought, 
but also an open letter to Dr. Du Pontz, introducing 
him as the son of Mr. Guy, who wished to visit his 
father. 

Adam left immediately for New York, and in an hour 
after his arrival was on his way to Staten" Island. On 
reaching the landing, he hired a conveyance, according 
to the direction received from Mr. Larobe, and started 
for the Woodville Asylum, which was yet ten or twelve 
miles distant. A ride of two hours brought him in view 
of Doctor Du Pontz's establishment. Instead of a 
large and imposing modern edifice, as Adam had pictur 
ed it to himself, he found the Woodville Asylum to con 
sist of an old-fashioned, two storied brick house, with 
high pitched roof and dormer windows, built, evidently, 
in the first years of the century by a well-conditioned 
farmer, or gentleman of wealth having rural tastes. 
The space covered by the main building and attach 
ments was large; and the ground covered with fine old 
trees. 

A chill crept along Adam's nerves as he passed from 
the avenue leading up to the house, and entered the 
grounds more immediately surrounding it. The old 
gate awry on the decaying posts, from which the paint 
had disappeared years before. The heavy box borders 
were ragged, broken, and untrimed ; and the shrubbery, 
of which there was considerable, showed only partial and 
unskilled care. But, the walks were in good condition, 
and clean. A dead silence dwelt in the air so dead, 
that to every footfall of the young man, an echo was 
stirred, and came distinctly to his sense of hearing. 



 

As Adam ascended the steps leading to the door, he 
was met by a short, stout man, over fifty years of age, 
with a heavy black and grey beard, and a sallow coun 
tenance. 

" Can I see Doctor Du Pontz ? " he asked. 

" That is my name," replied the short, stout man, with 
a slight French accent ; bowing and smiling. " Walk 
in." And he moved back, giving way for Adam to 
enter. 

The hall was spacious, having a broad stairway in the 
center. Doors opened into rooms on either side. From 
the hall Doctor Du Pontz conducted his visitor to a 
small apartment, evidently used as his private office, as 
it contained books, papers, medicine cases, and profes 
sional apparatus. On entering, Adam gave the Doctor 
his letter of introduction. 

" Oh ; Mr. Guy," said the Doctor, cordially, yet in 
a tone of sympathy, extending his hand and grasping 
that of Adam. " I'm gratified to receive a visit from 
you ; though pained, of course, in view of the occasion." 

" How is my father ? " asked Adam, passing at once 
to the subject that was first in his thoughts. 

The Doctor's face became serious. 

" The case, I regret to say, is not as hopeful as could 
be desired." 

"Can I see him ?" 

" O, yes." There was not a sign of hesitation. 
" But you must prepare yourself for a great change in 
his appearance. When mind gives way at the fearful 
rate witnessed in your father's case, bodily changes 
equally important, almost always attend the disaster. 
You will look upon a sadly altered man." 



 

There was a tone of pity and sympathy in the Doc 
tor's voice, that won a little on the confidence of Adam, 
and softened the unfavorable impression at first made. 

" Do you think my father's case hopeless ? " Adam's 
voice was husky and choked. 

The Doctor gave a shrug, and arched his heavy eye 
brows. Then, as his countenance fell back to its grave 
seriousness, he answered, 

" Hopeless, I fear." 

Adam caught his breath. The Doctor showed con- 



siderable feeling, and spoke kindly and sympathizingly. 
" Wait here for a little while," he said, after convers 
ing a short time with the young man ; and Adam was 
left alone. In the ten minutes that passed before the 
Doctor's return, he did not observe with much care 
what was around him, for his mind was absorbed in the 
coming; interview. 



" Come," said Doctor Du Pontz, appearing at the 
door. 

Adam arose and followed. So suddenly did the blood 
now flow back upon his heart, that it labored, half 
suffused, and felt like one on the eve of suffocation. 
All his soul shrunk from the meeting with his father 
about to occur. But it was too late to recede. 

" Will he know me? " the young man found voice to 
inquire, in a suppressed whisper, as they paused before 
entering a room on the second floor of one of the addi 
tions which had been made to the main building an 
addition not seen in approaching the house. 

" I cannot say," replied the Doctor. "He is not 
much inclined to notice any one. But, he may remem 
ber you." 




And the Doctor turned the key, that was in the lock 
on the outside of the door, and pushing it gently open, 
passed in, followed by Adam. 

Sitting near the window was a man, to all appearance, 
sixty years of age, his face covered with a short, grizzly 
beard. He did not stir, nor seem in any way surprised 
or disconcerted by the intrusion ; but fixed his wild 
looking eyes intently on Adam, who, recognizing scarce 
ly a feature, advanced quickly, and holding out his hand, 
pronounced the word " Father ! " in an eager tone. 

The man started, and bending towards Adam, who 
had already grasped his hand, looked at him curiously, 
yet with evident doubt. 

" I am Adam, father ; your son Adam," said the 
young man, with much tenderness and feeling. 

" Adam ? Adam ? My son Adam ? I thought he 
died a long while ago." The man looked doubtfully at 
Adam, and then in a mute questioning way from him to 
the Doctor. 

" O, no," said Doctor Du Pontz, falling in with his 
humor, " that was a mistake. He didn't die. He was 
dangerously sick for a long time, and word came that 
his illness had terminated fatally. But, you'll remem 
ber I told you last week, that this was true, and that he 
would be here in a few days." 

" He looks like my boy." And a light shone in the 
vacant face, as this was said. 

" I am your boy, your own boy, father ! " Adam's 
voice shook, and his eyes were blinded with tears. 

" Are you indeed ? Well, I couldn't have believed 
it. They say the dead come to life again, sometimes." 



 

And the poor old man smoothed, with both of his hands, 
the temples and face of Adam, along whose nerves the 
cold, unearthly touches sent a shudder. 

" Can't I go home with you, my son ? " he asked, in 
a plaintive, pleading voice. " I don't like to stay here. 
I want to go home." 

" Why don't you like to stay here ? " asked Adam. 

Instead of answering, the old man threw a half fear 
ful look at Doctor Du Pontz. Adam turned quickly, 
and saw an intimidating glance in the Doctor's eyes. 

" Why don't you like to stay ? " Doctor Du Pontz re 
peated Adam's question, and in a tone that, to all ap 
pearance, invited confidence. 

But, no answer was returned. That one glance from 
the Doctor seemed to have touched him like a spell. 
His face lost all signs of intelligence or feeling. He re 
ceded from an awakened state of dim, hopeful conscious 
ness, to the gloomy caverns where his soul had been 
dwelling. Fruitless were Adam's efforts to call him 
back again. Voice and words failed to penetrate the re 
gion of conscious life. He sat, still as a statue, with an 
unchanging countenance, and eyes that never, for an in 
stant, lifted themselves from the floor. 

"I am going, father," said Adam, after exhausting 
all the means of gaining attention that were suggested 
to his mind. 

No response was made. Adam partly turned, and 
moved a step or two in the direction of the door ; then 
stopped and waited ; but there was no recognition of the 
movement. 

" Good-by, father ! " Adam's voice trembled. He 



 

came back a few paces, and held out his hand. " Good- 
by, father," he repeated. But, the form before him re 
mained immovable. He stooped, and lifting one of 
the impassive hands, said 

" I'm going now father." 

The touch aroused the old man. Springing to his 
feet, he caught the shoulder of Adam with a strong grip, 
and holding him off at arm's length, glared wildly into 
his face. Instantly Doctor Du Pontz was between them, 
and, by the exertion of great strength, broke away the 
hold on Adam, and pressing back the now foaming and 
raving maniac, called, in a quick, warning voice for the 
young man to leave the room instantly, an injunction 
which he did not fail to obey. On the outside of the 
door Adam stood, all in a tremor, listening to the strug 
gle that still went on, and which continued for nearly a 
minute. Then the clanking of a chain chilled his blood, 
and with a sickening heart he made his way to the of 
fice in which he had been at first received, there to 
await the Doctor's return. 

Soon Doctor Du Pontz joined him, his dress in con 
siderable disorder, and his sallow face flushed. 

" Poor man ! You see how sad the case is. Mind 
nearly gone." The Doctor spoke in a tone of pity. 

"Are such dreadful paroxysms frequent?" asked 
Adam. 

" No. If all causes of excitement are avoided, he re 
mains calm and indifferent," replied the Doctor. 

" He knew me," said Adam. 

" There was, certainly, a partial recognition, and the 
disturbance which followed was a consequence. We 



 

are obliged to keep all exciting influences as far away as 
possible." 

" Do you see any improvement, taking his condition 
now, and comparing it with his condition one, two or 
three months back? " inquired Adam. 

The Doctor shook his head. 

" Is there any change ? " 

" I think so." 

" Unfavorable ? " 

Yes." 

Adam sighed heavily, and remained silent. 

" It pains me," said Doctor Du Pontz, " to be obliged 
to speak with so little encouragement ; but truth com 
pels me to affirm, that I see little in your father's case 
to inspire hope. But, of one thing you may be assured, 
while in this establishment, he will receive the kindest 
care, and the best moral discipline his case demands. 
Time, and a wise patience, may bring salutary results. 
As in diseases of the body, so we say in diseases of the 
mind, while there is life there is hope." 

Adam went back from Woodville, sadder than when 
he came, and with a darker cloud resting on all his fu 
ture. He felt a sense of weakness creeping into his soul, 
as if forces, impossible to be conquered, were arraying 
themselves against him. Between his step-mother and 
Mr. Larobe, evidently existed a league ; and there was 
little doubt in Adam's mind as to the object. But, 
what could he do to thwart the evil purpose they had, 
as he believed, in view ? Nothing, certainly, until he 
attained his majority. 

