add, in the presence of a company which seems to be 
inimical to my antecedents, if not to me had unlimited 
confidence in my ability to perform this delicate duty 
with skill and success. Well, gentlemen, I passed our 
pickets : of course I mean the French pickets ; for I 
was, as you are all aware, a colonel in the French 
infantry at that time." 
" We are all aware of it," laughed Mimroe, " over 
the left." 
" That is a slang phrase, and repulsive to the ears of a 
cultivated gentleman. As I was saying, gentlemen, I 
passed our pickets, and soon encountered a Russian 
general of division." 
"Russian?" 
" Austrian, I should have said ; and I thank you, 
Somers, for the correction. I suppose he was making 
the grand rounds with the officer of the day. Be that 
as it may, he considered it his duty to stop me ; and I 
 
was uuder the disagreeable necessity of putting a bullet 
through his head. He was a count, and the father of a 
large family : however, I could not help it, though I was 
sorry to make orphans of his children. I stepped into 
his uniform without the delay of a moment." 
" Where was the sergeant of the guard, the officer 
of the day, and the sentinels ? " demanded Lieutenant 
Munroe. 
" I beg you will not interrupt me, Lieutenant Munroe, 
with these ill-timed remarks, which are merely intended 
to throw discredit on my character for truth and vera- 
city. I remarked, that I stepped into the uniform of 
the defunct major-general. To abbreviate the narrative 
somewhat, I walked through the Austrian lines for three 
hours, till I had discovered the position of the infantry, 
cavalry, and artillery. But the most singular part of the 
affair was, that, when the long roll was beat once during 
that eventful night, I placed myself at the head of the 
departed general's division, and manoeuvred it for an 
hour on the field, intending to place it in such a position 
that the French could capture it. Unfortunately, no 
attack was made by the Emperor's forces, and I could 
not carry out my plan ' 
"Can you talk the Austrian- lingo, captain?' 1 asked 
Munroe. 
" Of course I can," replied De Banyan with dignity, 
" Here, Schrugenheimer, let us have a specimen of 
 
the lingo ! " said the tormentor, appealing to a Ger- 
man officer. " Ask him some questions in your own 
language," 
" Gentlemen, if my word is not sufficient, I shall not 
condescend to demonstrate what I have said. You wil) 
notice the similarity between the adventures of Lieu- 
tenant Somers and my own." 
The officers of the mess all laughed heartily at the 
conclusion of the comparison ; for the story, like a fairy 
tale, was pleasant to hear, but hard to believe. But 
weightier matters than these were at hand for these 
gallant men ; and before night the gay laugh had ceased, 
and they had nerved themselves for the stern duties of 
the hour. Cannon had been thundering to the right of 
them for three days ; and in the afternoon they had seen 
the smoke of burning bridges, which assured them that 
their communications with White House had been cut 
off. At night, orders were given to have the men ready to 
move, and to prepare for a hurried march. Extra stores 
were destroyed, clothing thrown away, and tents were 
cut in pieces, or otherwise rendered useless to the next 
occupants of the ground. Every thing to be transported 
was reduced to the smallest possible compass. 
These orders were ominous of disaster ; but on the 
following morning a general order was read, to the effect 
that all was right. The troubled expression on the 
countenances of officers and men indicated their in- 
 
credulity ; for the destruction in which they had been 
engaged belied the words of the order. The brigade 
was then moved back three miles from the camp. A 
portion of the regiment was posted near a house, in 
which was a bedridden old woman, attended by her 
daughter. The rebels were advancing by the Williams- 
burg Road, and soon had a battery of artillery in posi- 
tion to shell the vicinity of the house. 
It was an intensely hot day. Captain de Banyan sat 
asleep on the fence near the house. He was very much 
exhausted by the labors of the two preceding nights on 
picket, and at the destruction of the stores ; and while 
Somers was watching the progress of the battle on the 
right, where a sharp fight was in progress, a shell 
screamed between them, and struck the house about a 
foot from the ground. 
" That reminds me of the night before Magenta," 
said the veteran, opening his eyes, without even a start. 
" A hundred-pounder shell knocked my hat off, and then 
passed through the two open windows at each gable of 
a house, without even breaking a pane of glass." 
" A narrow escape for you and for the house," replied 
Somers with a languid smile. 
CHAPTER XVII. 
GLENDALE AND MALVERN HILLS. 
CAPTAIN DE BANYAN was as cool and in- 
different to danger as though he had been shotproof. 
Cannon-balls and shell flew through the 
air ; but the veteran paid no attention to them, 
except that once in a while they reminded him of 
Magenta, or some other of the numerous battle-fields 
where he had displayed his valor. There was little 
fighting for our regiment at this point, though there 
was a sharp action on the right of the position. 
The rebels attacked our forces with tremendous vigor 
at Savage's Station. It was believed by their generals 
that the Union army was utterly demoralized ; that it 
was retreating in disorder towards the James River ; 
and that a vigorous onslaught would result in its cap- 
ture. The first intimation of the blunder was received 
at Savage's Station, where the Confederates were deci- 
sively repulsed ; yet the hope was not abandoned of 
ending the war by the destruction of the Army of the 
Potomac. The hosts of the Rebellion were poured down 
 
the roads, where they could intercept the loyal forces ; 
and the full extent of their blunder was realized only at 
Malvern Hills 
At noon our regiments marched through White-oak 
Swamp, and late in the evening bivouacked in a field near 
the road. During all this time the road was filled with 
troops, and with trains of army wagons on their way to 
the new " base." Very early the next morning, the 
march was resumed. It was an exceedingly hot day, 
and the troops suffered severely from the heat. Somers 
was nearly exhausted when the regiment halted at noon 
near a church, which the surgeons had already occupied 
as a hospital. But nothing could disturb the equanimity 
of Captain de Banyan. If an opportunity offered, he 
rested, and went to sleep amid the screaming shells as 
readily as though he had been in his chamber in the 
 Fifth Avenue." It was not quite so hot as it was at 
Magenta, nor the march quite so severe as before Sol- 
ferino, uor the shot quite so thick as at Chapultepec. 
He never grumbled himself, and never permitted any one 
else to do so. If Somers ventured to suggest that events 
were rather hard upon him, he wondered what he would 
have done if he had been at Magenta, Solferino, Bala- 
clava, or Chapultepec. 
Somers was disposed to make the best of the circum- 
stances ; and though hungry, tired, and nearly melted, 
he sustained himself with unfaltering courage amid 
 
the trials of that eventful march. All day long, the 
tide of army wagons and cattle flowed down the road ; 
and the brigade remained near the church at Glendale, 
waiting for them to pass. At dark the order was given 
to move forward, while the roar of cannon and musketry 
reverberated on the evening air, assuring the weary 
veterans that the baptism of blood was at hand for 
them, as it had been before for their comrades in 
arms. 
The regiment followed a narrow road through the 
woods, which was thronged with the debris of the con- 
flict, hurled back by the fierce assaults of the rebels. 
The cowardly skulkers and the non-combatants of the 
engaged regiments were here with their tale of disaster 
and ruin ; and, judging from the mournful stories they 
told, the once proud Army of the Potomac had been 
utterly routed and discomfited. Cowards with one bar, 
cowards with two bars, cowards with no bar, and cow- 
ards with the eagle, on their shoulders, repeated the wail 
of disaster ; and the timid would have shrunk from the 
fiery ordeal before them, if the intrepid officers and the 
mass of the rank and file had not been above the influ- 
ence of the poltroons' trembling tones and quaking 
limbs. 
" Forward, my brave boys ! I've been waiting all my 
lifetime for such a scene as this ! " shouted Captain de 
Banyan, as he flourished his sword after the most 
approved style. 
 
" Don't mind the cowards ! " said Somers, as the 
stragglers poured out their howls of terror. 
There was little need of these stirring exhortations ; for 
the men were as eager for the fight as the officers, and 
laughed with genuine glee at the pitiful aspect of the 
runaways. They advanced in line of battle to the sup- 
port of the hard-pressed troops in front of them, and 
poured a withering fire into the enemy. With that 
fiendish yell which the Southern soldiers invariably use 
in the hour of battle, they rushed forward with a fury 
which was madness, and into which no fear of death 
entered. 
" They are coming ! " shouted Somers, as the legions 
of rebellion surged down upon the line, yelling like so 
many demons, as though they expected the veterans to 
be vanquished by mere noise. " Stand steady, my 
men ! " 
" That reminds me of the Russian advance at Ma- 
genta," said Captain de Banyan, who happened to pass 
near the spot where Somers stood. 
" The Austrians, you mean," replied Somers, trying 
to keep as cool and unmoved as his companion. 
" Excuse me ; I meant the Austrians," replied the 
captain. " The fact is Forward, my brave fellows !" 
roared he as the order came down the line. 
The enemy had been temporarily checked, and the 
brigade advanced to pursue the advantage gained. They 
 
poured another terrible volley into the rebels ; when a 
regiment of the latter, infuriated by whiskey and the 
fierce goadings of their officers, rushed down with irre- 
sistible force upon a portion of the Union line, and suc- 
ceeded in making a partial break in our regiment. The 
only remaining line officer in one of the companies 
where the rupture occurred was wounded at this critical 
moment, and borne under the feet of the excited com- 
batants. 
"Lieutenant Somers, take command of that com- 
pany ! ' : shouted the colonel, as he dashed towards the 
imperilled portion of the line. 
Somers made haste to obey the order when the line 
was giving way before the impetuous charge. He felt 
that the safety of the whole army depended upon himself 
at that momentous instant, and that on the salvation of 
the army rested the destiny of his country. What was 
the life of a single man, of a hundred thousand even, 
compared with the fearful issue of that moment? It 
was the feeling of the young soldier, and he was ready 
to lay down his life for the flag which symbolized the 
true glory of the nation. 
" Rally round me ! ' : he cried, as he discharged his 
revolver into the breast of a brave captain who was 
urging his company forward with the most unflinching 
resolution. " Down with them ! ' he shouted, as h 
waved his sword above his head. 
 
" Hurrah ! ' : roared a brave sergeant near him, and 
the cry was taken up by the gallant fellows who had been 
pressed back by sheer force of numbers. 
" Forward 1 " shouted Somers, as he dashed down a 
bayonet, which would have transfixed him on the spot 
if he had not been on the alert. 
The men rallied, and stood boldly up to the work 
before them. They were inspired by the example of the 
young lieutenant ; and the rebel regiment slowly and 
doggedly retired, leaving many of their number dead or 
wounded on the field, and a small number as prisoners in 
the hands of Somers's new command. 
After alternate repulses and successes, the rebels were 
signally defeated and driven back. It was a sharp and 
decisive struggle ; but again had the army been saved 
from destruction, and the long line of army wagons still 
pursued its way in safety towards the waters of the 
James. 
Again had the rebel general's brilliant calculation 
failed. His troops, maddened by the fires of the whiskey 
demon, had done all that men or fiends could do ; but the 
trained valor of the Army of the Potomac had again 
saved the country. Onward it marched towards the goal 
of safety under the sheltering wings of the gunboat fleet 
in the river. 
All night long the men marched, with frequent in- 
tervals of rest, as the movements of the army trains 
required them. There was no sleep, even after that hard- 
fought battle ; no real rest from the exciting and wearing 
events of the day. There was little or no food to be 
had ; and the fainting soldiers, though still ready to fight 
and march in their weakness, longed for the repose of a 
few hours in camp. But not yet was the boon to be 
granted. On the following morning, our regiment arrived 
at Malvern Hills, where they were again formed in line of 
battle, in readiness to receive the menacing hosts of the 
rebels. 
" We are all right now, Sorners," said Captain de 
Banyan while they were waiting for the onset. 
" Not quite yet, captain. Don't you see those signal- 
flags on the houses yonder?" 
" They mean something, of course. I did not intend 
to say there will be no fighting ; only, that we have a 
good position, and all the rebels in the Confederacy can't 
start us now." 
" Those flags indicate that the rebels are moving." 
"Let them come ; the sooner the better, and the sooner 
it will be over. Hurrah ! ' exclaimed the captain, as 
the inspiring strains of the band in the rear saluted 
his ears. 
Cheer after cheer passed along the extended lines as 
the notes of the "Star-spangled Banner" thrilled the 
hearts of the weary, fainting soldiers. The bands had 
not been heard during the operations in front of Richmond
; and their music, as Sergeant Hapgood expressed 
it, " sounded like home." 
" That does me good, Somers," continued the captain. 
" There's nothing like music for the nerves. It wakes 
men up, and makes them forget all their troubles. For- 
ward, the light brigade ! " he added, nourishing his sword 
in the air. " I suppose you know that poem, Somers? '" 
" Of course ; I know it by heart ; read it in school the 
last day I ever went." 
"Did you, indeed ! " 
"Nothing very singular about that, is there?' 
" Rather a remarkable coincidence, I should say," 
replied the captain with easy indifference, as he twirled 
his sword on the ground. 
" I don't see it." 
" You read the poem at school, and I w r as in that 
charge." 
"You?" 
"Yes, my boy . I was a captain in that brigade. But 
what called the circumstance to my mind was the music 
which struck up just now. I had a bugler in my com- 
pany who played ' Hail Columbia' during the whole of the 
fight." 
" 'Hail Columbia'?" demanded Somers. 
" Certainly : the fellow had a fancy for that tune ; and, 
though it wasn't exactly a national thing to the British 
army, he always played it when he got a chance. We- 1 !, 
 
sir, I think that bugler did more than any other man ii. 
the charge of the light brigade. He never lost a note, 
and it fired the men up to the pitch of frenzy." 
" He was a brave fellow," replied Somers languidly ; 
for he was too thoroughly worn out to appreciate the 
stories of his veteran companion. 
" He was the most determined man I ever met in my 
life. He was killed in the charge, poor fellow ; but he 
had filled his bugle so full of wind, that the music did not 
cease till full five minutes after he was stone-dead." 
" Come, come, captain ! that's a little too bad," said 
Somers seriously. 
"Too bad? Well, I should not be willing to take 
oath that the time was just five minutes after the bugler 
died. I did not take out my watch, and time it ; and, 
of course, I can only give you my judgment as to the 
precise number of minutes." 
"You are worse than Baron Munchausen, who told a 
story something like that ; only his was the more reason- 
able of the two." 
" Somers, my boy ! you have got a villanously bad 
habit of discrediting the statements of a brother-officer 
and a gentleman," said Captain de Banyan seriously. 
" And you have got a bad habit of telling the most 
abominable stories that ever proceeded from the mouth 
of any man." 
" We'll drop the subject, Somers ; for such discussions 
 
lead to unpleasant results. Do you see that rebel bat- 
tery? " added the captain, pointing to a road a mile off, 
where the enemy had taken position to shell the Union 
line. 
" I see it." 
The rebel battery opened fire, which was vigorously 
answered by the other side. The scene began to increase 
in interest as the cannonade extended along the whole 
c> 
line ; and, through the entire day, there raged the most 
furious artillery conflict of the war. The rebel masses 
were hurled time after time against the Union line ; but 
it maintained its position like a wall of iron, while 
thousands of the enemy were recklessly sacrificed in the 
useless assault. General M had probably drunk 
more than his usual quantity of whiskey ; and, though he 
was as brave as a lion, hundreds of his men paid the 
penalty with their lives of his rashness and indis- 
cretion. 
Night came again upon a victorious field, while hun- 
dreds of weeping mothers in the neighboring city sighed 
for the sons who would return no more to their arms ; 
and while mothers wept, fathers groaned, and sisters 
moaned, the grand army of the Confederacy had been 
beaten, and the proud rulers of an infatuated people 
were trembling for their own safety in the presence of 
the ruin with which defeat threatened them. 
After the battle commenced the movement of the 
 
Army of the Potomac down the river to Harrison's Land- 
ing. The rain fell in torrents, and the single road was 
crowded with troops and wagons. Though the exhausted 
soldiers slept, even while the guns of the enemy roared 
in front of them, and during the brief halts which the 
confusion in the road caused, there was no real repose. 
The excitement of the battle and the retreat, and the \\i\- 
definable sense of insecurity which their situation en- 
gendered, banished rest. Tired Nature asserted her 
claims, and the men yielded to them only when endu- 
rance had reached its utmost limit. 
At Harrison's Landing, the work of intrenching the 
position was immediately commenced ; and it was some 
days before the army were entirely assured that defeat 
and capture were not still possible. The failure of the 
campaign was not without its effect upon the troops. 
They felt, that, instead of marching under their victorious 
banners into the enemy's capital, they had been driven 
from their position. It was not disaster, but it was 
failure. Though the soldiers were still in good con- 
dition, and as ready as ever to breast the storm of 
battle, they were in a measure dispirited by the mis- 
fortune. 
General McClellan and General Lee had each failed 
to accomplish his purpose. It was the intention of the 
latter to send Stonewall Jackson into the rear of the 
Union army, cut it off from its base of supplies, and 
 
then attack in front and on the left. The plan was 
defeated by General McClellan's change of base, which 
was forced upon him by the cutting-off of his communi- 
cations with the Parnimkey River. The Union generals, 
who were first attacked on the right, supposed they were 
confronted by Jackson, who had come down to flank 
them in this direction ; while Lee intended that he 
should attack farther down the Peninsula. Each command- 
ing general, to some extent, mistook the purpose of the 
other. Whatever errors were made by the grand players 
in this mighty game, about one thing there can be no 
mistake, that the courage and fortitude of the rank and 
file saved the Army of the Potomac, and pushed aside the 
mighty disaster in which its ruin would have involved 
the country. All honor to the unnamed heroes who 
fought those great battles, and endured hardships which 
shall thrill the souls of Americans for ages to come ! 
 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
LIEUTENANT SOMERS HAS A NEW SENSATION. 
experience of the soldiers at Harrison's Land- 
ing, for a month following their arrival, was not 
S of the most agreeable nature ; and consisted of 
too large a proportion of exercise with pick and 
shovel to be very pleasant to those who had not been 
accustomed to handling these useful implements. In- 
trenchments and batteries were constructed ; and the 
position was as carefully fortified as the genius of the 
distinguished engineer in command could suggest, and 
o o oo 
as thoroughly as though he expected to spend the 
balance of the term of his natural life at this place. 
The army was soon in a condition to defy the operations 
of the enemy, who were wise enough not to molest it. 
Somers, in common with the rest of the command, 
recovered from the severe trials of the movement from 
White-oak Swamp, and again longed for active opera- 
tions. About two weeks after the cessation of active 
operations, the official documents which announced his 
THE ADVENTURES OF AN AllMY OFFICER. 207 
promotion to the rank of first lieutenant came down to 
the army ; but this was a foregone conclusion. He had 
won his first bar by his scouting services, and his com- 
mission was expected for a fortnight before its arrival. 
It did not, therefore, cause him any surprise ; and was 
so small an elevation, that his comrades hardly con- 
gratulated him upon its reception. 
A fortnight later, there came a startling sensation to 
thrill him with satisfaction and delight. An orderly from 
the division headquarters summoned him to attend upon 
the general. The message startled him ; for it indicated 
some momentous event to him, and he hastily prepared 
to obey the order. 
"You are hi luck again," said De Banyan, grasping 
his hand. 
Perhaps not," replied Somers, bewildered at the 
suggestion. 
" I know you are, my dear boy. I was sent for just 
four weeks after the battle of Solferino, and made a 
brigadier-general," persisted the captain. 
Ah ! then you are General de Banyan?" 
No, no : I dropped the title when I ceased to hold 
the office." 
" That was modest, general." 
" Captain, if you please." 
" You are entitled by courtesy to the use of the title, 
and you shall not be robbed of any of your honors.'' 
' A? a particular favor. Somers, never call me gen- 
eral. I do not wish to rise above my actual rank. I 
have never mentioned the little circumstance of my pro- 
motion before. Your srood fortune was so similar to my 
own. that I was surprised into doing so." 
" What do you mean by my good fortune, captain?" 
TThv. you are promoted asrain. I will bet my vear's 
pay you have had another lift." 
" Nonsense ! I have just been promoted." 
Bah ! what was that to a man of your merit, with a 
senator to speak at court for you ? A petty first-lieu- 
tenancv is nothing for a brilliant fellow like you." 
' I am not half so brilliant a fellow as you declare, 
and I think that a commission as first lieutenant is a 
bis: thins: for a young man like me. I'm sure I never 
had an idea of being an officer at all ; and, when I was 
made a sergeant, I didn't think I deserved it." 
" AVhat do you suppose a major-general can want 
with you t You have heard from Senator Guilford once 
before, and I am satisfied you will hear from him aorain. 
Now. Somers, what do you suppose the general wants 
of you?" 
" I don't know : I think it very likely he wants a man 
of my size to go up the river, or on the other side, scouting ; 
nothing more than that. I am satisfied. But I must obey 
the order.'' added Somers, who had been making his 
preparations during the conversation. 
 
" Well, good-by, my boy ; and I shall have to stand 
one side for you after this, and salute you as major." 
"As what?" 
" Major." 
" How absurd you are, captain ! You always talk 
like a sensible fellow ; that is, when you mean what 
you say." 
" A hard hit ; and very likely the first thing you do, 
when you get to be a major, will be to arrest me for 
lying." 
" Your hit is the hardest, my dear captain. .We have 
seen some hard times together ; and you may be sure, 
that, whatever I am, I shall never forget you." 
" That's hearty, my boy ! Your hand once more," 
replied De Banyan, extending his own. "After the 
battle of Solferiuo " 
" Really, captain, you must excuse me this' time, or 
the general will put me under arrest for my want of 
promptness, instead of sending me on special duty." 
"Well, good luck to you, Somers," said the captain, as 
the lieutenant started for the division headquarters. 
As he passed out of sight, an expression of sadness 
-ottled clown upon Captain de Banyan's face. He looked 
disappointed and uncomfortable, and it is quite probable 
that he envied the good fortune of his young companion 
in arms. If Somers had been brave, and attentive to his 
duty, he had been no less so himself: and he could not 
help feeling that the destruction of those railroad cars 
had made the young man's fortune ; that his rapid 
advancement was a mere stroke of good luck. 
Lieutenant Somers, wondering what could possibly be 
wanted of him, hastened to the headquarters of the 
division. He had no faith whatever in the prognosti- 
cations of Captain de Banyan, and was too modest to 
believe that he had done any thing to merit another pro- 
motion so soon. Recalling the incidents of his career 
since his eventful expedition within the rebel lines, there 
was nothing in his conduct to merit even the notice of 
his superiors, unless it was what others called his skill 
and courage in rallying the broken company at Glendale. 
He had been warmly praised for this act ; but he deemed 
it of little importance, for the memory of AVilliamsburg 
cast into the shade any thing that had occurred to him 
since that bloody day. 
He was ushered into the presence of the general, who 
gave him the kindly welcome which he always bestowed 
upon those of humble rank. Now, Somers cherished 
an intense admiration for this distinguished officer, and 
esteemed it a greater honor to stand in his presence than 
in that of the most powerful sovereign of the earth. 
" Lieutenant Somers?" said the general, extending his 
hand ; a piece of condescension which made our officer 
blush, and appear as awkward as a country school- 
boy. 
 
" Yes, sir ; thank you, sir," stammered Somers, as he 
took the proffered hand. 
" You behaved well at Glendale, Somers," said the 
general bluntly. 
" I endeavored to do my duty, general." 
"You did well on that scout, too ; and I'm going to 
send you out on another, if you have any fancy for such 
work." 
" I will do the best I can," 
" But, my brave fellow, I wish you to be very careful ; 
for we can't afford to lose officers like you." 
" I am always careful, general," said Somers with a 
smile. 
" Can you handle a boat?" 
" Yes, sir : I was brought up among boats." 
" You will go over the river. There is rebel cavalry 
over there, and very likely a considerable force of 
infantry. I am inclined to think they are building 
batteries in the woods, to close up the navigation of 
the river, or perhaps to shell us out of our position. 
In a word, I am instructed to solve the problem, and I 
have selected you to do the work. "What do you 
say?" 
" I am all ready, sir, to undertake that, or any service 
to which I may be ordered." 
"That's the right spirit, Captain Somers ; and I thank 
you for the promptness with which you enter into my 
 
plans. I am satisfied, captain, that you will discharge 
the duty to my entire satisfaction." 
" Thank you, sir."  
" Well, Captain Somers, you shall take what force 
you think necessary. As it will not be prudent for you 
to go over before dark, you may make up your plan, and 
I will listen to the details before you go. How many 
boats shall you want, captain ? ' 
" Only one, sir," replied Somers promptly ; though he 
was wondering with all his might how the general hap- 
pened to make so many blunders in regard to his military 
title, for he had called him captain four or five times. 
"Only one? You will need force enough to protect 
you, captain," replied the general. 
Captain again ! 
" I do not intend to fight the whole rebel army, if it 
is over there. I do not propose to take more than half 
a dozen men with me." 
" I think that is a sensible view of the enterprise ; for 
the more men you take, the greater your chances of being 
discovered. Select your own men, Captain Somers." 
Captain Somers ! The general had certainly forgotten 
