GYPSY, Gypsy ! ” 
Nobody answered. 
“ Gypsy ! ” 
A social young rooster, thinking 
himself personally addressed, replied 
to the name by a cheerful crow, and the cat, 
roused from her nap in the sunny corner by the 
hogshead, came up purring to rub herself 
against Tom’s boot. Otherwise, the yard was 
quite still ; so was the lane, and he had searched 
the chaise-house thoroughly. Of twenty or 
more places, any one of which Gypsy was as 
likely to be in as in any other, it was by no 
means easy to know which to choose. Tom 
decided on the barn, and pushing open the 
stable door, he walked in, as Tom walked in 
everywhere, — with his hands in his pockets, 
whistling. 
There was a stir of the warm, clover-scented 
air, and a faint rustling somewhere overhead. 
“ Gypsy, is that you? ” 
“Yes. What do you want ? “ 
“Why didn’t you answer a fellow before? 
I ’ve been calling you post Jiominmn niemoriam!' 
“ He might show off his Latin, — so he 
might ! ” interrupted the voice from overhead. 
“Didn’t you hear me?’’ demanded Tom, 
sublimely ignoring the thrust. Gypsy did not 
answer, and he climbed up into the loft to see 
about it. 
“ Well done ! If you don’t look as much 
like the brown pullet as any other simile that 
presents itself to the vivid imagination ! ” 
Down in the sweet warm hay, among the 
dried clover and buttercups and feathered grass, 
a great hollow was scooped like a nest, and out 
of it rose a round, nut-brown face, with brown 
eyes and ripe red lips, and hair as black as a 
coal. As one climbed up the ladder, that was 
all that could be seen. 
“ Oh, thank you,” said Gypsy, looking up 
carelessly, “ you ’re always complimentary, but 
I ’m afraid you ’re outdoing yourself The brown 
pullet ’s a handsome hen, anyway.” 
“ I really should like to know whether you 
heard me or not,” said Tom, sitting down on 
the hay beside her. Gypsy arched her pretty 
eyebrows. 
“ Can’t you give a fellow a civil answer?” 
“Certainly; but I’m afraid you won’t think 
it ’s very civil after I ’ve given it. Will you have 
it, or won’t you ? ” 
“ I ’ll have it.” 
“Well, then, I — suppose I did hear you. 
I didn’t mean you should know, but ‘ I can’t 
tell a lie, pa, I can’t tell a lie.’ ” 
“ Why didn’t you have the politeness to 
answer, then?” said Tom, with a genuine elder- 
brotherly frown. 
“ It was impolite, I know, but you see I 
wanted to get through.” 
“ Through ? ” 
“Yes. I knew if you came I shouldn’t do 
a stitch, and I came up here to mend, — don’t 
you tell? ” 
“ No.” 
“ Well, I tore my dress, my bran new fall 
delaine, — and the very first morning I ’ve 
had it on, — down the placket, clear way to 
the hem, running after Mrs. Surly’s puppy, 
and the horrid little thing stood and barked 
at me just as if he were glad of it. Then 
you see she does so much mending for 
me.” 
“ The puppy? ” 
“ Of course.” 
“ Oh, Mrs. Surly? ” 
“ Exactly. Mother sends the clothes over to 
her every Wednesday night, and brings them 
back in a wheelbarrow Saturdays. I ’m astonished 
you didn’t know that without asking. 
Any more remarks?” 
“ Well, not just at present. If I think of any 
more, I ’ll let you know.” 
“Very well; I’ll go on, then. You see 
mother is for ever sewing for me, and so I 
thought it was too bad in me, and I ’d come up 
here and get it all mended without anybody’s 
knowing. Besides, I’m in a terrible hurry to 
go to Sarah Rowe’s. Ow ! — there goes my 
needle ! Move away a little, please, and let me 
hunt.” 
“Well, that’s the first time I ever saw anybody 
seriously set to work to ‘ hunt for a needle 
in a hay-mow.’ If it isn’t just like you ! I 
hope you expect to find it.” 
“ Here it is,” said Gypsy, in triumph, picking 
it out from her boot-lacing, where it had stuck. 
Tom subsided. 
“ There ! ” said Gypsy, after a moment’s 
silence, in which her needle had been flying fast, 
— so fast that I would not undertake to say any- 
thing about the size of the stitches, — “I guess 
that will go. To be sure, it’s all puckers, and I 
don’t know what mother ’d say to sewing it with 
green thread, but it doesn’t deserve any better, 
the old thing ! it needn’t have torn anyway. 
Now I ’m going to Sarah’s.” 
“ My company’s not wanted, then,” said Tom, 
beginning to climb down the ladder. “ I ’ll 
make myself scarce.” 
“ Why, I didn’t mean to send you off. Did 
you want anything particular?” 
“ Oh, nothing, only I felt kind of social. 
You’ll be rid of me soon enough, when I’m 
gone to college.” 
“ I don’t want to be rid of you, Tom. I ’d 
love to stop and talk now, only you see Sarah, 
she ’s got a mud-turtle as big as a dinner-plate, 
swimming round in a hogshead, and I promised 
I ’d come over and see it.” 
“ Oh, well, run along.” 
Tom was out of the barn by this time. 
“ Do you care?” called Gypsy, going down 
the ladder as nimbly as a monkey. But Tom 
was out of sight and hearing. 
Gypsy walked slowly out of the yard and up 
the street. She had not gone far before her 
bright face clouded, and she stopped, standing 
irresolute, then turned round and ran back as 
fast as she could go, which was pretty fast. 
She found Tom sitting on the back-door steps, 
whittling and whistling. 
“ Well,” said Gypsy. 
“ Well ? ” said Tom. 
“ I ’ve come back.” 
“ So I perceive.” 
“ I thought I ’d rather see you than Sarah. 
What did you want to talk about? ” 
“Oh, nothing in particular. You needn’t 
have troubled yourself.” 
Gypsy saw at once that there had been something 
in particular, and that she had thrown 
away the chance of hearing it. She thought, too, 
how soon Tom was going away, and how few 
more talks they should have together. She felt 
sorry and vexed ; but vexed with herself only. 
Tom whittled his pine stick to a point, and 
looked out of the corners of his eyes at her as 
she sat on the step beside him, her face half 
turned away, her merry lips saddened a little. 
After his genuine boy’s fashion, Tom was not 
quite ready to yield his point, and his pride with 
it. Whatever he had meant to say, he preferred 
that Gypsy should tease for it ; or come at it by 
some extra touch of humility. Gypsy did not 
see the sidelong look, and no one could have 
inferred from Tom’s cool, obstinate silence, and 
the remarkably absorbed manner with which he 
was devoting himself to his whittling, that he 
really appreciated the little sacrifice that she had 
made in coming back to talk with him; that he 
was thinking of just that and nothing else; that 
it had pleased and surprised him. You remem- 
ber the old Bible story of the seed dropped into 
good ground? Just such a seed was that little 
sacrifice, the first of many others with which 
this year, just now begun, should be filled ; the 
forerunner of much toilsome planting and wearying 
watch, — the promise of a golden harvest. 
Both brother and sister had in that moment, 
when they were sitting there in silence, a vague, 
half-conscious thought like this ; and both the 
thought, and the circumstance which led to it, 
were of more importance to them than either 
supposed. 
“Tom,” said Gypsy, presently, “ I wish you ’d 
come down to the Basin and take a row.” 
“ I don’t know as I care much about it. 
Better go see your turtle.” 
“ I don’t want to go and see the turtle. 
Please, Tom, do.” 
It went very much against the grain for Gypsy 
to tease. Tom knew that she never did it 
without some unusual object in view, and he 
understood what the object was in this case. 
So, throwing away his pine stick, he said, with 
somewhat less of his lordly style, — 
“ Well, I don’t care if I do. Come along.” 
Gypsy came along with a brighter face. 
The lane was looking somewhat seared and 
brown in the late August sun ; but the hazelnuts 
were ripe on the long row of bushes that 
grew by the wall, so that one could pick and 
eat as one walked ; then the sunlight was cool, 
and the wind was sweet and strong, — so that, 
on the whole, the half-mile walk to the pond 
was quite as pleasant as in the earlier summer. 
Upon the water it was much more comfortable 
than it would be under a burning July sun. 
Tom and Gypsy took each an oar, and 
pushed off into the shade of the Kleiner Berg. 
Then they let the Dipper float idly back and 
forth at the foot of the mountain, framed in by 
shadow and coolness and stillness. 
“ I wish you ’d tell me what you were going 
to say,” said Gypsy, leaning over the side of 
the boat to let her hand fall in the water. 
” Oh, nonsense ! let that go. I wasn’t going 
to say anything, and if I was, I ’ve forgotten it 
now. See here, do you know I go week after 
next? ” 
“Week after next! So soon! Why, I’d 
forgotten.” 
“Week after next Monday, at six A. M., 
ma’am.” 
“Tom, what do you suppose I ’m going to do 
without you?” 
“ Mend your dresses and run after puppies.” 
“ No, but,” said Gypsy, laughing in spite of 
herself, “ I mean really. I shall miss you 
terribly, Tom.” 
“ I ’ll risk it.” 
“Thom-as Breynton!'' 
She pulled her hand up suddenly out of the 
water, and jumped into his lap, throwing both 
her arms around his neck, her soft brown eyes 
looking into his. 
“Tom, don’t you know I shall miss you? 
Don’t you know I love you better than anything 
on this earth but mother ? And I haven’t been 
away from you more than a fortnight in all my 
life. Oh, Tom ! ” 
“You’ll tip the boat over,’’ said undemon- 
strative Tom. Nevertheless, he kissed her. 
“ I do believe you ’re glad to go,” said Gypsy, 
putting up her red lips reproachfully. 
“ Yale College is a jolly place. Swe-de-le- 
we-tchu-hi-ra-sa ! ” sang Tom. “ Can’t say I ’m 
sorry. I expect to have a gay time. Swe-de- 
le-we-dum ” 
“ I believe it ’s you that are glad to get rid of 
me, Tom.” 
“ Oh, no,” said Tom, coolly, “ not at all ; I ’ve 
no desire to get rid of you. You do very well 
for a girl.” 
“Well,” said Gypsy, half mollified, for this 
was Tom’s way of saying how much he loved 
her, “ anyway, I don’t think you ought to be 
glad to go.” 
Tom snapped a hazel-nut into the water, took 
off his cap, put it on, and then said, his manner 
suddenly changing, — 
“ I say. Gyp, it ’s rather queer work, a chap’s 
ending everything up so all at once, and starting 
out fresh.” 
“ Ending everything up? ” 
“The old high-school days, — there were a 
jolly set of boys there, Gypsy, no mistake, — 
and home and mother and all together.” 
“ Yes,” said Gypsy, musingly, “ it seems as 
if you needed something to start on, doesn’t 
it?” 
“ What do you mean? ” 
“ Why, I don’t know exactly ; something to 
make you know what to do and not make mis- 
takes.” 
“ I don’t believe you know what you ’re talking 
about,” said Tom. But Gypsy did know 
very well. She had a thought which it was 
hard for her to express, and which Tom’s manner 
of receiving it stopped short. But she did not 
forget it ; it came up another time. 
“ Let ’s go ashore ; I ’m tired of this,” said 
Tom, suddenly. Gypsy took her oar, and they 
rowed ashore in silence. 
“ Gypsy ! ” said Tom, when they had walked 
a little way. 
“ Tom ! ” 
“How much do you suppose father’s going 
to put me on a year? ” 
Gypsy felt at once that she had come to the 
root of matters ; this was what Tom had come 
out into the barn to talk about. 
“ I don’t know, I ’m sure. How much? ” 
“Only six hundred.” 
“ Only six hundred ! Why, Tom, I think 
that’s ever so much.” 
“That’s because you ’re a girl,” said Tom, 
with his superior smile, “ and that ’s all you 
know.” 
“ Why, if / had six hundred dollars ! ” 
began Gypsy. But Tom interrupted. 
“ I ’d as lief be put on rations and kept in a 
guard-house, while I ’m about it. I call it 
mean.” 
“ Mean ! Why, Tom, father wouldn’t be 
mean for anything ! He ’ll give you every cent 
he can afford, and you know it. Why, Tom ! ” 
‘Well,” said Tom, rather abashed by the 
flash in Gypsy’s eyes, “ I didn’t mean exactly 
that, I suppose. I guess he means to do about 
right by me ; but I call it pretty small potatoes. 
Why, Gypsy, there are fellows there who 
grumble and swear at being cut off with two 
thousand, Frank Rowe says.” 
“ But you can’t do everything the other boys 
do,” said Gypsy ; “ some of them are a great 
deal richer than you, you know. Besides, I 
don’t see how you could use more than six hundred 
dollars, if you tried to. If I could get a 
hundred, I shouldn’t know how to spend it.” 
“ My dear child,” said Tom, patronisingly, 
“ you cost father three hundred a year, if you 
cost him a cent.” 
“Three hundred? Oh, I don’t believe it!” 
“ You do, every bit of it. In the first place, 
there ’s your board isn’t a copper short of a hundred 
and fifty; then you don’t get your shoes, 
and dresses, and alpacas, and bonnets, and feathers,
and nonsense, and things, under a hundred 
more ; then — oh, school-books, and dentists’ 
bills, and windows you break, and plates you 
smash, and lamp-chimneys, and nobody knows 
what not, — you can put it up as much higher 
as you choose.” 
“ How funny ! ” said Gypsy. “ I didn’t suppose it 
was more than seventy-five dollars.” 
“ Of course you did n ’t. Girls never know 
anything about business ; give them a bank bill 
and an account book, and they ’re just like fish 
out of water. So you see, what with board, 
clothes, tuition, and various other little 
necessaries of life, I could make way with six hun- 
dred.” 
“ But they wouldn’t take it all ? ” 
“Then there are the taxes, — Sigma Eps., 
and all, my dear.” 
“ But taxes and Sarah Eps, — would they 
take it all ? ” 
“ Well, a fellow wants something to get 
drunk on.” 
“ Oh, Tom ! ” 
“ Well, for sprees — gales — good times — 
anything you call it.” 
“ But father thinks it’s enough, doesn’t he? ” 
“ I suppose so ; ye-es.” 
“ He must know. I don’t exactly under- 
stand,” said Gypsy, slowly. 
They had reached the house by this time, 
and she passed on ahead of him and went up- 
stairs with a sober face. She was puzzled and 
a little troubled by this talk with Tom. 
and knick-knacks upon the mantel, and 
books upon the shelves ; there were bright 
curtains at the windows, and bright flowers upon 
the carpet, and bright figures upon the paper- 
ing; there was also — a little — dust upon the 
table ; but then, that was an old story, and one 
became used to it. The window was open, and 
beyond it hung a sky of flame, golden and 
ruddy and quivering, deepening and paling, 
shut in with low gray clouds. By this window 
sat the pleasantest thing in the room, and that 
was Gypsy; her figure and face in bold relief 
against the west, her head bent, her bright 
black hair falling against her cheeks. She 
looked flushed and excited and tired ; she held 
some bit of fancy work in her hands, on which 
she was sewing very fast, straining her eyes to 
catch the last of the lingering light ; scraps of 
ribbon and silk and tinsel were scattered about 
her on the floor. It was evident that something 
very mysterious and important was going on ; 
for her door was locked, and nobody was 
allowed to come in. 
Somebody thought he ought to come in, 
though, and that was Winnie. This young 
gentleman having a constitutional inability to 
comprehend why any privilege, anywhere, 
under any circumstances, should be denied to 
him by anybody, stamped up-stairs, and hammered
on the door, and demanded entrance. 
“ Can’t come in.” 
“Yes, I can come in, too. I’m five years 
old.” 
“ I can’t help it if you are. I ’m busy. Go 
away.” 
(Thump, thump, thump!) 
“ Winnie, stop making such a noise, and go 
downstairs ! ” 
“I want (thump, thump!) to come in” 
(thump !) 
“No you can’t; and when I say so, I mean 
it. Run away, like a good boy.” 
“You don’t (bang!) mean it neither, and I 
ain’t goin’ to run away (hammer !) to be a good 
(bang !) boy.” 
No answer. Thump ! hammer ! bang ! thump ! 
Then the enemy changed tactics. 
“ I say, Gypsy, Delia Guest wants you.” 
“ Indeed ! ” 
“ Yes, she does, and I was a-goin’ to tell you 
so to the beginnin’, only it — well, it gives me 
a sore throat to holler through the key-hole. 
She wants to see you like everything.” 
“ I don’t believe it.” But there was a rustle 
as if Gypsy had dropped her work and were 
becoming interested. 
“ Well, she does, ’n she says she ’s got the 
funniest thing to tell you. Let me come 
(thump!) in.” 
“ Oh, Delia always thinks she has something 
funny to say. I don’t believe this is anything. 
Tell her I ’m too busy to come.” 
‘‘ Yes it is anything too. She says it ’s something 
or nuther ’bout George Holman driving 
tack-nails into Mr. Guernsey’s chair. I want to 
come in ! ” 
“ Tack-nails into Mr. Guernsey’s chair ! — 
why, I wonder — no, I can’t, though. I can’t 
go, Winnie. Tell her I ’ll hear about it tomorrow. 
I ’m doing something for Tom now, 
and I can’t leave it. Be a good little boy and 
go away and let me finish.” 
“Tom — Tom — Tom! It’s nothing but 
Tom, all the time ! ” called vanquished Winnie, 
through the key-hole. “ Anyways, I see what 
you ’re doin’ — so ! ” 
“What?” 
“You’re makin’ a skating-cap out of green 
ribbing. I ’m going to tell him.” 
“ Do, dear. Run right along quick. Be 
sure you get it right.” And Winnie stamped 
downstairs in good faith. 
It was very much as Winnie had said, — 
“ nothing but Tom all the time.” It is a great 
day when the first boy goes to college, and Tom 
suddenly found himself of unheard-of and very 
agreeable importance in the eyes of all the 
family. His father must be so busy and worried 
over his fitting-out, — afraid he had given the 
boy too much money ; then afraid he had not 
given him enough ; wishing he had more for 
him ; wishing he were a rich man like the 
children’s Uncle George; afraid Tom would never 
keep his accounts straight ; half afraid to trust 
him; anxious to teach him properly; wondering 
if he would be ruined by college life like 
young Rowe ; anxious, too, to arrange all his 
plans pleasantly for him ; bringing up nobody 
knew how many ledgers and diaries, pens and 
ink-bottles, and specimens of paper, from the 
store, that Tom might take his choice ; changing 
any and every arrangement at Tom’s suggestion, 
a dozen times a day; spoiling him by indulgence 
one minute, and worrying him by anxiety the 
next; behaving, generally, very much like 
Mr. Breynton. Tom was used to his father, 
and, though often worried out of good temper 
by his nervous peculiarities and particularities, 
yet he undoubtedly loved him, and loved him 
more than ever in these last days of home-life. 
He would have been a very ungrateful boy if he 
had not. 
As for his mother, who could tell what there 
was that she did not do? For weeks she had 
scarcely been seen without her thimble. No 
one but herself knew exactly how much sewing 
she had done. So many shirts to be cut, 
button-holes to make, wrist-bands to stitch ; so 
much mending and making over ; so much 
planning and contriving to make a little go a 
great way ; so much care to sponge up old coats 
and re-bind old vests, that might save the new a 
little, and yet never make the boy ashamed of 
them. Such pies and doughnuts, such cookies 
and stray bunches of grapes, and mellow, golden 
pears, as she had collected on the pantry shelf, 
to adorn the table during Tom’s “ last days,” or 
to tuck into corners of his trunk. Such scraps 
 
of gentle lessons about this strange life into 
which he was going, as she gave him sometimes 
when they sat together in the twilight; such 
soft kisses as fell on his forehead when she said 
good-night at last, — these were best of all ; 
and so Tom thought, though he never said so. 
Was there ever a boy of seventeen who did? 
Neither was Winnie by any means inactive. 
For ten days before Tom went, had he not 
spasmodic attacks of “ popping corn for Tom, 
sir, and you might just let him alone, sir?” 
And did he not collect just twenty-five corns, of 
which twenty were burnt, and three had never 
“ popped ” at all, tie them up in an old lace 
bag, and carry them in his pocket morning, 
noon, and night, to say nothing of sleeping 
with them under his pillow? And is it not 
recorded that the bag burst, and the contents 
one by one grew small by degrees and beautifully 
less, but that Winnie didn’t mind that in 
the least ; how he finally pinned it with a rusty 
pin on the cleanest collar he could find in the 
trunk, and how he believes to this day that Tom 
ate every one of those corns, with a faith that 
amounts to sublimity? 
Even Patty must contribute her mite, and, 
having a vague idea that a collegian was always 
glad of an addition to his library, what should 
she do but purchase a Biography of the Blessed 
Mary, profusely illustrated in gamboge and 
vermilion, and hope “ Misther Tom would 
take it kindly, and be a good boy, poor fellow ! ” 
But to no one in the family was Tom’s going 
away just what it was to Gypsy. Even his 
mother could not miss him as she should. 
Tom was very much to her. Since they were 
little children it had been just so. They had 
rolled hoop, and played marbles, and played 
horse, and baked mud-pies together; as they 
grew older, no boating, riding, skating, and 
base-ball were quite complete unless they could 
share them together. Tom was very proud of 
Gypsy, — “she didn’t scream or faint; and if 
he had any particular abhorrence it was a 
screaming, fainting girl. She could handle her 
oar very well, really very well, — under his 
teaching. She was always on hand for any 
fun, and never spoiled things by ‘ being nervous.’ 
Besides, she mended a fellow’s gloves 
without scolding, and if you put her in a parlour 
she was as much of a lady as anybody.” 
Gypsy was very proud of Tom. “ Tom was 
so tall. Tom was handsome. All the girls 
liked Tom. Tom was so generous, too, and 
good, and let her go about with him. Tom 
never scolded. Make fun of her? Oh, yes, 
he did that, but she didn’t care ; she should 
miss that as much as anything. To have Tom 
gone, — gone hour after hour, day in and day 
out, week upon week, — why, it seemed like 
cutting a piece of her life right out.” 
Some such thought as this was in her mind as 
she sat alone in the twilight which had gathered 
and deepened, her work lying idly in her lap, — 
it was quite too dark to sew now, — and her 
eyes looking sadly off into the dying west. In 
the midst of the thought there came a great 
noise, — a banging and pounding and scraping 
on the garret floor ; then a banging and pounding 
and scraping and jouncing and bouncing 
down the stairs. Gypsy jumped up, wonder- 
ing what had happened, and opened the door to 
see. A huge brown trunk, and Tom behind it. 
“ Oh, Tom ; ” 
“ Oh, Gypsy ! ” 
“ Not the trunk, so soon?” 
“ Yes, the trunk, so soon. Going to begin 
to pack to-morrow morning; so I thought I’d 
have her on hand, as I hadn’t anything else to 
do this particular minute.” 
“ Pack to-morrow ! ” 
“ Couldn’t pack Sunday very well. Don’t 
you remember what the catechism says about 
it?” 
“ But it seems so — so — ” 
“ So what? ” 
“So — why, so exactly as if you were 
going off.” 
Tom sat down on the trunk to fan himself 
with his hat and laugh. Gypsy did not join in 
the laugh; she slipped away, and when Tom 
had carried the trunk down, and dusted it out 
(with a clean handkerchief), and put in his 
blacking-box on top of his shirt, “just to see 
how things were going to look,” he missed 
her. After a long and fruitless hunt, he went 
up garret, 
“ Gypsy, are you here? ” 
Something stirred faintly in an old trunk that 
stood under the eaves, and there sat Gypsy all 
in a heap, with something very suspiciously 
bright in both eyes. Tom stared. 
“ If you could inform the inquiring mind 
what you are supposed to be doing?” 
“ I believe — I came up to — cry,” said 
Gypsy. 
“ My dear, I would not be such a goose.” 
“ On the whole, I don’t think I will,” said 
Gypsy, and jumped out of the trunk, rubbing 
both fists into her eyes. 
As they went past her room — 
“ What were you locked up so long for to 
night?” asked Tom. 
“ Oh, something. I ’ll let you know — let me 
see — Sunday night, I guess.” 
“ You needn’t bother yourself so much about 
me,” said Tom, looking a little surprised. 
“ You ’re always doing something. I should 
