think Jack meant anything.”
“I’m sure, what I said was complimentary,” said Jack.
Rachel shook her head incredulously.
“Yes it was. Ask Ida. Why won’t you draw Aunt Rachel, Ida? I think she’d
make a capital picture.”
“So I will,” said Ida, hesitatingly, “if she will let me.”
“Now, Aunt Rachel, there’s a chance for you,” said Jack. “I advise you
to improve it. When it’s finished, it can be hung up at the Art Rooms,
and who knows but you may secure a husband by it?”
“I wouldn’t marry,” said his aunt, firmly compressing her lips, “not if
anybody’d go down on their knees to me.”
“Now I am sure, Aunt Rachel, that’s cruel in you.”
“There ain’t any man that I’d trust my happiness to.”
“She hasn’t any to trust,” observed Jack, sotto voce.
“They’re all deceivers,” pursued Rachel, “the best of ‘em. You can’t
believe what one of ‘em says. It would be a great deal better if people
never married at all.”
“Then where would the world be a hundred years hence?” suggested her
nephew.
“Come to an end, most likely,” said Aunt Rachel; “and I don’t know but
that would be the best thing. It’s growing more and more wicked every
day.”
It will be seen that no great change has come over Miss Rachel Crump
during the years that have intervened. She takes the same disheartening
view of human nature and the world’s prospects, as ever. Nevertheless,
her own hold upon the world seems as strong as ever. Her appetite
continues remarkably good, and although she frequently expresses herself
to the effect that there is little use in living, probably she would be
as unwilling to leave the world as any one. I am not sure that she does
not derive as much enjoyment from her melancholy as other people from
their cheerfulness. Unfortunately, her peculiar way of enjoying herself
is calculated to have rather a depressing influence upon the spirits of
those with whom she comes in contact--always excepting Jack, who has a
lively sense of the ludicrous, and never enjoys himself better than in
bantering his aunt.
Ida is no less a favorite with Jack than with the other members of the
household. Rough as he is sometimes, Jack is always gentle with Ida.
When she was just learning to walk, and in her helplessness needed the
constant care of others, he used, from choice, to relieve his mother of
much of the task of amusing the child. He had never had a little sister,
and the care of a child as young as Ida was a novelty to him. It was,
perhaps, this very office of guardian to the child, assumed when she was
so young, that made him feel ever after as if she was placed under his
special protection.
And Ida was equally attached to Jack. She learned to look up to him for
assistance in anything which she had at heart, and he never disappointed
her. Whenever he could, he would accompany her to school, holding her by
the hand; and fond as he was of rough play, nothing would induce him to
leave her.
“How long have you been a nurse-maid?” asked a boy, older than himself,
one day.
Jack’s fingers itched to get hold of his derisive questioner, but he had
a duty to perform, and contented himself with saying, “Just wait a few
minutes, and I’ll let you know.”
“I dare say,” was the reply. “I rather think I shall have to wait till
both of us are gray before that time.”
“You won’t have to wait long before you are black and blue,” retorted
Jack.
“Don’t mind what he says, Jack,” whispered Ida, fearful lest he should
leave her.
“Don’t be afraid, Ida; I won’t leave you; I guess he won’t trouble us
another day.”
Meanwhile the boy, emboldened by Jack’s passiveness, followed, with more
abuse of the same sort. If he had been wiser, he would have seen a storm
gathering in the flash of Jack’s eye; but he mistook the cause of his
forbearance.
The next day, as they were again going to school, Ida saw the same boy
dodging round the corner, with his head bound up.
“What’s the matter with him, Jack?” she asked.
“I licked him like blazes, that’s all,” said Jack, quietly.
“I guess he’ll let us alone after this.”
CHAPTER VIII. A STRANGE VISITOR.
IT was about eleven o’clock in the forenoon, Mrs. Crump was in the
kitchen, busy in preparations for dinner, when a loud knock was heard at
the door.
“Who can it be?” ejaculated Mrs. Crump. “Aunt Rachel, there’s somebody
at the door; won’t you be kind enough to see who it is?”
“People have no business to call at such an hour in the morning,”
 grumbled Aunt Rachel, as she laid down her knitting reluctantly, and
rose from her seat. “Nobody seems to have any consideration for anybody
else. But that’s the way of the world.”
Opening the outer door, she saw before her a tall woman, dressed in
a gown of some dark stuff, with marked, and not altogether pleasant
features.
“Are you the lady of the house?” inquired the visitor.
“There ain’t any ladies in this house,” said Rachel. “You’ve come to the
wrong place. We have to work for a living here.”
“The woman of the house, then. It doesn’t make any difference about
names. Are you the one I want to see?”
“No, I ain’t,” said Rachel, shortly.
“Will you lead me to your mistress, then?”
“I have none.”
The visitor’s eyes flashed, as if her temper was easily roused.
“I want to see Mrs. Crump,” she said, impatiently. “Will you call her, or
shall I go and announce myself?”
“Some folks are mighty impatient,” muttered Rachel. “Stay here, and I’ll
call her to the door.”
In a short time Mrs. Crump presented herself.
“Won’t you come in?” she asked, pleasantly.
“I don’t care if I do,” was the reply. “I wish to speak to you on
important business.”
Mrs. Crump, whose interest was excited, led the way into the
sitting-room.
“You have in your family,” said the stranger, after seating herself, “a
girl named Ida.”
Mrs. Crump looked up suddenly and anxiously. Could it be that the secret
of Ida’s birth was to be revealed at last!
“Yes,” she said.
“Who is not your child.”
“But whom I love as such; whom I have always taught to look upon me as
a mother.”
“I presume so. It is of her that I wish to speak to you.”
“Do you know anything of her parentage?” inquired Mrs. Crump, eagerly.
“I was her nurse,” said the other, quietly.
Mrs. Crump examined, anxiously, the hard features of the woman. It was
a relief at least to know, though she could hardly have believed, that
there was no tie of blood between her and Ida.
“Who were her parents?”
“I am not permitted to tell,” was the reply.
Mrs. Crump looked disappointed.
“Surely,” she said, with a sudden sinking of heart, “you have not come
to take her away?”
“This letter will explain my object in visiting you,” said the woman,
drawing a sealed envelope from a bag which she carried on her arm.
The cooper’s wife nervously broke open the letter, and read as
follows:--
“MRS. CRUMP;
“Eight years ago last New Year’s night, a child was left on your
door-steps, with a note containing a request that you would care for
it kindly as your own. Money was sent, at the same time, to defray the
expenses of such care. The writer of this note is the mother of the
child Ida. There is no need to say, here, why I sent the child away
from me. You will easily understand that only the most imperative
circumstances would have led me to such a step. Those circumstances
still prevent me from reclaiming the child, and I am content, still, to
leave Ida in your charge. Yet, there is one thing of which I am
desirous. You will understand a mother’s desire to see, face to face,
the child who belongs, of right, to her. With this view, I have come to
this neighborhood. I will not say where, for concealment is necessary
to me. I send this note by a trustworthy attendant,--Mrs. Hardwick,
my little Ida’s nurse in her infancy,--who will conduct Ida to me, and
return her again to you. Ida is not to know whom she is visiting. No
doubt she believes you her mother, and it is well. Tell her only, that
it is a lady who takes an interest in her, and that will satisfy her
childish curiosity. I make this request as
“IDA’S MOTHER.”
Mrs. Crump read this letter with mingled feelings. Pity for the writer;
a vague curiosity in regard to the mysterious circumstances which had
compelled her to resort to such a step; a half feeling of jealousy,
that there should be one who had a claim to her dear adopted daughter
superior to her own; and a strong feeling of relief at the assurance
that Ida was not to be permanently removed,--all these feelings affected
the cooper’s wife.
“So you were Ida’s nurse,” she said, gently.
“Yes, ma’am,” said the stranger. “I hope the dear child is well.”
“Perfectly well. How much her mother must have suffered from the
separation!”
“Indeed, you may say so, ma’am. It came near to break her heart.”
“So it must,” said sympathizing Mrs. Crump. “There is one thing I would
like to ask,” she continued, hesitating and reddening. “Don’t answer it
unless you please. Was--is Ida the child of shame?”
“She is not,” answered the nurse.
Mrs. Crump looked relieved. It removed a thought from her mind which
would now and then intrude, though it had never, for an instant,
lessened her affection for the child.
At this point in the conversation, the cooper entered the house. He had
just come home on an errand.
“It is my husband,” said Mrs. Crump, turning to her visitor, by way of
explanation. “Timothy, will you come in a moment?”
Mr. Crump regarded his wife’s visitor with some surprise. His wife
hastened to introduce her as Mrs. Hardwick, Ida’s nurse, and handed to
the astonished cooper the letter which the latter had brought with her.
He was not a rapid reader, and it took him some time to get through the
letter. He laid it down on his knee, and looked thoughtful. The nurse
regarded him with a slight uneasiness.
“This is, indeed, unexpected,” he said, at last. “It is a new
development in Ida’s history. May I ask, Mrs. Hardwick, if you have
any further proof. I want to be prudent with a child that I love as my
own,--if you have any further proof that you are what you claim to be?”
“I judged that this letter would be sufficient,” said the nurse; moving
a little in her chair.
“True; but how can we be sure that the writer is Ida’s mother?”
“The tone of the letter, sir. Would anybody else write like that?”
“Then you have read the letter?” said the cooper, quickly.
“It was read to me, before I set out.”
“By----”
“By Ida’s mother. I do not blame you for your caution,” she continued.
“You must be so interested in the happiness of the dear child of whom
you have taken such (sic) excelent care, I don’t mind telling you that I
was the one who left her at your door eight years ago, and that I never
left the neighborhood until I found that you had taken her in.”
“And it was this, that enabled you to find the house, to-day.”
“You forget,” said the nurse, “that you were not then living in this
house, but in another, some rods off, on the left-hand side of the
street.”
“You are right,” said the cooper. “I am disposed to believe in the
genuineness of your claim. You must pardon my testing you in such a
manner, but I was not willing to yield up Ida, even for a little time,
without feeling confident of the hands she was falling into.”
“You are right,” said the nurse. “I don’t blame you in the least. I
shall report it to Ida’s mother, as a proof of your attachment to your
child.”
“When do you wish Ida to go with you?” asked Mrs. Crump.
“Can you let her go this afternoon?”
“Why,” said Mrs. Crump, hesitating, “I should like to have a chance to
wash out some clothes for her. I want her to appear as neat a possible,
when she meets her mother.”
The nurse hesitated.
“I do not wish to hurry you. If you will let me know when she will be
ready, I will call for her.”
“I think I can get her ready early to-morrow morning.”
“That will answer excellently. I will call for her then.”
The nurse rose, and gathered her shawl about her.
“Where are you going, Mrs. Hardwick?” asked the cooper’s wife.
“To a hotel,” was the reply.
“We cannot allow that,” said Mrs. Crump, kindly. “It is a pity if we
cannot accommodate Ida’s old nurse for one night, or ten times as long,
for that matter.”
“My wife is quite right,” said the cooper; “we must insist upon your
stopping with us.”
The nurse hesitated, and looked irresolute. It was plain she would have
preferred to be elsewhere, but a remark which Mrs. Crump made, decided
her to accept the invitation.
It was this. “You know, Mrs. Hardwick, if Ida is to go with you, she
ought to have a little chance to get acquainted with you before you go.”
“I will accept your kind invitation,” she said; “but I am afraid I shall
be in your way.”
“Not in the least. It will be a pleasure to us to have you here. If you
will excuse me now, I will go out and attend to my dinner, which I am
afraid is getting behindhand.”
Left to herself, the nurse behaved in a manner which might be regarded
as singular. She rose from her seat, and approached the mirror. She took
a full survey of herself as she stood there, and laughed a short, hard
laugh.
Then she made a formal courtesy to her own reflection, saying, “How do
you do, Mrs. Hardwick?”
“Did you speak?” asked the cooper, who was passing through the entry on
his way out.
“No,” said the nurse, a little awkwardly. “I believe I said something to
myself. It’s of no consequence.”
“Somehow,” thought the cooper, “I don’t fancy the woman’s looks, but I
dare say I am prejudiced. We’re all of us as God made us.”
While Mrs. Crump was making preparations for the noon-day meal, she
imparted to Rachel the astonishing information, which has already been
detailed to the reader.
“I don’t believe a word of it,” said Rachel, resolutely.
“She’s an imposter. I knew she was the very first moment I set eyes on
her.”
This remark was so characteristic of Rachel, that Mrs. Crump did not
attach any special importance to it. Rachel, of course, had no grounds
for the opinion she so confidently expressed. It was consistent,
however, with her general estimate of human nature.
“What object could she have in inventing such a story?”
“What object? Hundreds of ‘em,” said Rachel, rather indefinitely. “Mark
my words, if you let her carry off Ida, it’ll be the last you’ll ever
see of her.”
“Try to look on the bright side, Rachel. Nothing is more natural than
that her mother should want to see her.”
“Why couldn’t she come herself?” muttered Rachel.
“The letter explains.”
“I don’t see that it does.”
“It says that the same reasons exist for concealment as ever.”
“And what are they, I should like to know? I don’t like mysteries, for
my part.”
“We won’t quarrel with them, at any rate, since they enable us to keep
Ida with us.”
Aunt Rachel shook her head, as if she were far from satisfied.
“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Crump, “but I ought to invite Mrs. Hardwick in
here. I have left her alone in the front room.”
“I don’t want to see her,” said Aunt Rachel. Then changing her mind,
suddenly, “Yes, you may bring her in. I’ll find out whether she is an
imposter or not.”
Mrs. Crump returned with the nurse. “Mrs. Hardwick,” said she, “this is
my sister, Miss Rachel Crump.”
“I am glad to make your acquaintance, ma’am,” said the nurse.
“Aunt Rachel, I will leave you to entertain Mrs. Hardwick,” said Mrs.
Crump. “I am obliged to be in the kitchen.”
Rachel and the nurse eyed each other with mutual dislike.
“I hope you don’t expect me to entertain you,” said Rachel. “I never
expect to entertain anybody again. This is a world of trial and
tribulation, and I’ve had my share. So you’ve come after Ida, I hear?”
 with a sudden change of subject.
“At her mother’s request,” said the nurse.
“She wants to see her, then?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“I wonder she didn’t think of it before,” said Aunt Rachel, sharply.
“She’s good at waiting. She’s waited eight years.”
“There are circumstances that cannot be explained,” commenced the nurse.
“No, I dare say not,” said Rachel, dryly. “So you were her nurse?”
“Yes, ma’am,” said Mrs. Hardwick, who evidently did not relish this
cross-examination.
“Have you lived with the mother ever since?”
“No,--yes,” stammered the nurse. “Some of the time,” she added,
recovering herself.
“Umph!” grunted Rachel, darting a sharp glance at her.
“Have you a husband living?” inquired Rachel, after a pause.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Hardwick. “Have you?”
“I!” repeated Aunt Rachel, scornfully. “No, neither living nor dead. I’m
thankful to say I never married. I’ve had trials enough without that.
Does Ida’s mother live in the city?”
“I can’t tell you,” said the nurse.
“Humph, I don’t like mystery.”
“It isn’t my mystery,” said the nurse. “If you have any objection to
make against it, you must make it to Ida’s mother.”
The two were not likely to get along very amicably. Neither was gifted
with the best of tempers, and perhaps it was as well that there should
have been an interruption as there was.
CHAPTER IX. A JOURNEY.
“OH, mother,” exclaimed Ida, bounding into the room, fresh from school.
She stopped short, in some confusion, on seeing a stranger.
“Is this my own dear child, over whose infancy I watched so tenderly?”
 exclaimed the nurse, rising, her harsh features wreathed into a smile.
“It is Ida,” said Mrs. Crump.
Ida looked from one to the other in silent bewilderment.
“Ida,” said Mrs. Crump, in a little embarrassment, “this is Mrs.
Hardwick, who took care of you when you were an infant.”
“But I thought you took care of me, mother,” said Ida, in surprise.
“Very true,” said Mrs. Crump, evasively, “but I was not able to have the
care of you all the time. Didn’t I ever mention Mrs. Hardwick to you?”
“No, mother.”
“Although it is so long since I have seen her, I should have known her
anywhere,” said the nurse, applying a handkerchief to her eyes. “So
pretty as she’s grown up, too!”
Mrs. Crump, who, as has been said, was devotedly attached to Ida,
glanced with pride at the beautiful child, who blushed at the
compliment.
“Ida,” said Mrs. Hardwick, “won’t you come and kiss your old nurse?”
Ida looked at the hard face, which now wore a smile intended to express
affection. Without knowing why, she felt an instinctive repugnance to
her, notwithstanding her words of endearment.
She advanced timidly, with a reluctance which she was not wholly able to
conceal, and passively submitted to a caress from the nurse.
There was a look in the eyes of the nurse, carefully guarded, yet not
wholly concealed, which showed that she was quite aware of Ida’s feeling
towards her, and resented it. But whether or not she was playing a part,
she did not betray this feeling openly, but pressed the unwilling child
more closely to her bosom.
Ida breathed a sigh of relief when she was released, and walked quietly
away, wondering what it was that made her dislike the woman so much.
“Is my nurse a good woman?” she asked, thoughtfully, when alone with
Mrs. Crump, who was setting the table for dinner.
“A good woman! What makes you ask that?” queried her adopted mother, in
surprise.
“I don’t know,” said Ida.
“I don’t know anything to indicate that she is otherwise,” said Mrs.
Crump. “And, by the way, Ida, she is going to take you on a little
excursion, to-morrow.”
“She going to take me?” exclaimed Ida. “Why, where are we going?”
“On a little pleasure trip, and perhaps she may introduce you to a
pleasant lady, who has already become interested in you, from what she
has told her.”
“What could she say of me?” inquired Ida, “she has not seen me since I
was a baby.”
“Why,” said the cooper’s wife a little puzzled, “she appears to have
thought of you ever since, with a good deal of affection.”
“Is it wicked,” asked Ida, after a pause, “not to like those that like
us?”
“What makes you ask?”
“Because, somehow or other, I don’t like this Mrs. Hardwick at all, for
all she was my old nurse, and I don’t believe ever shall.”
“Oh yes, you will,” said Mrs. Crump, “when you find she is exerting
herself to give you pleasure.”
“Am I going to-morrow morning with Mrs. Hardwick?”
“Yes. She wanted you to go to-day, but your clothes were not in order.”
“We shall come back at night, sha’n’t we?”
“I presume so.”
“I hope we shall,” said Ida, decidedly, “and that she won’t want me to
go with her again.”
“Perhaps you will think differently when it is over, and you find you
have enjoyed yourself better than you anticipated.”
Mrs. Crump exerted herself to fit Ida up as neatly as possible, and when
at length she was got ready, she thought to herself, with sudden fear,
“Perhaps her mother won’t be willing to part with her again.”
When Ida was ready to start, there came over all a little shadow of
depression, as if the child were to be separated from them for a year,
and not for a day only. Perhaps this was only natural, since even this
latter term, however brief, was longer than they had been parted from
her since, an infant, she was left at their door.
The nurse expressly desired that none of the family should accompany
her, as she declared it highly important that the whereabouts of Ida’s
mother should not be known at once. “Of course,” she said, “after
Ida returns, she can tell you what she pleases. Then it will be of no
consequence, for her mother will be gone. She does not live in this
neighborhood; she has only come here to have an interview with Ida.”
“Shall you bring her back to-night?” asked Mrs. Crump.
“I may keep her till to-morrow,” said the nurse. “After eight years’
absence, that will seem short enough.”
To this, Mrs. Crump agreed, but thought that it would seem long to her,
she had been so accustomed to have Ida present at meals.
The nurse walked as far as Broadway, holding Ida by the hand.
“Where are we going?” asked the child, timidly. “Are we going to walk
all the way?”
“No,” said the nurse, “we shall ride. There is an omnibus coming now. We
will get into it.”
She beckoned to the driver who stopped his horse. Ida and her companion
got in.
They got out at the Jersey City ferry.
“Did you ever ride in a steamboat?” asked Mrs. Hardwick, in a tone
intended to be gracious.
“Once or twice,” said Ida. “I went with brother Jack once, over to
Hoboken. Are we going there, now?”
“No, we are going over to the city, you can see over the water.”
“What is it? Is it Brooklyn?”
“No, it is Jersey City.”
“Oh, that will be pleasant,” said Ida, forgetting, in her childish love
of novelty, the repugnance with which the nurse had inspired her.
“Yes, and that is not all; we are going still further,” said the nurse.
“Are we going further?” asked Ida, her eyes sparkling. “Where are we
going?”
“To a town on the line of the railroad.”
“And shall we ride in the cars?” asked the child, with animation.
“Yes, didn’t you ever ride in the cars before?”
“No, never.”
“I think you will like it.”
“Oh, I know I shall. How fast do the cars go?”
“Oh, a good many miles an hour,--maybe thirty.”
“And how long will it take us to go to the place you are going to carry
me to!”
“I don’t know exactly,--perhaps two hours.”
“Two whole hours in the cars!” exclaimed Ida. “How much I shall have to
tell father and Jack when I get back.”
“So you will,” said Mrs. Hardwick, with an unaccountable smile, “when
you get back.”
There was something peculiar in her tone as she pronounced these last
words, but Ida did not notice it.
So Ida, despite her company, actually enjoyed, in her bright
anticipation, a keen sense of pleasure.
“Are we most there?” she asked, after riding about two hours.
“It won’t be long,” said the nurse.
“We must have come ever so many miles,” said Ida.
An hour passed. She amused herself by gazing out of the car windows at
the towns which seemed to flit by. At length, both Ida and her nurse
became hungry.
The nurse beckoned to her side a boy who was going through the cars
selling apples and seed-cakes, and inquired their price.
“The apples are two cents apiece, ma’am, and the cakes a cent apiece.”
Ida, who had been looking out of the window, turned suddenly round, and
exclaimed, in great astonishment; “Why, William Fitts, is that you?”
“Why, Ida, where did you come from?” asked the boy, his surprise
equalling her own.
The nurse bit her lips in vexation at this unexpected recognition.
“I’m making a little journey with her,” indicating Mrs. Hardwick.
“So you’re going to Philadelphia,” said the boy.
“To Philadelphia!” said Ida, in surprise. “Not that I know of.”
“Why, you’re most there now.”
“Are we, Mrs. Hardwick?” asked Ida, looking in her companion’s face.
“It isn’t far from there where we’re going,” said the nurse, shortly.
“Boy, I’ll take two of your apples and four seed-cakes. And now you’d
better go along, for there’s somebody by the stove that looks as if he
wanted to buy of you.”
William looked back as if he would like to question Ida farther, but her
companion looked forbidding, and he passed on reluctantly.
“Who is that boy?” asked the nurse, abruptly.
“His name is William Fitts.”
“Where did you get acquainted with him?”
“He went to school with Jack, so I used to see him sometimes.”
“With Jack! Who’s Jack?”
“What! Don’t you know Jack, brother Jack?” asked Ida, in childish
surprise.
“O yes,” replied the nurse, recollecting herself; “I didn’t think of
him.”
“He’s a first-rate boy, William is,” said Ida, who was disposed to be
communicative. “He’s good to his mother. You see his mother is sick most
of the time, and can’t do much; and he’s got a little sister, she ain’t
more than four or five years old--and William supports them by selling
things. He’s only sixteen; isn’t he a smart boy?”
“Yes;” said the nurse, mechanically.
“Some time,” continued Ida, “I hope I shall be able to earn something
for father and mother, so they won’t be obliged to work so hard.”
“What could you do?” asked the nurse, curiously.
“I don’t know as I could do much,” said Ida, modestly; “but when I have
practised more, perhaps I could draw pictures that people would buy.”
“So you know how to draw?”
“Yes, I’ve been taking lessons for over a year.”
“And how do you like it?”
“Oh, ever so much! I like it a good deal better than music.”
“Do you know anything of that?”
“Yes, I can play a few easy pieces.”
Mrs. Hardwick looked surprised, and regarded her young charge with
curiosity.
“Have you got any of your drawings with you?” she asked.
“No, I didn’t bring any.”
“I wish you had; the lady we are going to see would have liked to see
some of them.”
“Are we going to see a lady?”
“Yes, didn’t your mother tell you?”
“Yes, I believe she said something about a lady that was interested in
me.”
“That’s the one.”
“Where does she live? When shall we get there?”
“We shall get there before very long.”
“And shall we come back to New York to-night?”
“No, it wouldn’t leave us any time to stay. Besides, I feel tired and
want to rest; don’t you?”
“I do feel a little tired,” acknowledged Ida.
“Philadelphia!” announced the conductor, opening the car-door.
“We get out, here,” said the nurse. “Keep close to me, or you may get
lost. Perhaps you had better take hold of my hand.”
“When are you coming back, Ida?” asked William Fitts, coming up to her
with his basket on his arm.
“Mrs. Hardwick says we sha’n’t go back till to-morrow.”
“Come, Ida,” said the nurse, sharply. “We must hurry along.”
“Good-by, William,” said Ida. “If you see Jack, just tell him you saw
me.”
“Yes, I will,” was the reply.
“I wonder who that woman is with Ida,” thought the boy. “I don’t like
her looks much. I wonder if she’s any relation of Mr. Crump. She looks
about as pleasant as Aunt Rachel.”
The last-mentioned lady would hardly have felt complimented at the
comparison, or the manner in which it was made.
Ida looked about her with curiosity. There was a novelty in being in a
new place, since, as far back as she could remember, she had never left
New York, except for a brief excursion to Hoboken; and one Fourth of
July was made memorable in her recollection, by a trip to Staten Island,
which she had taken with Jack, and enjoyed exceedingly.
“Is this Philadelphia?” she inquired.
“Yes;” said her companion, shortly.
“How far is it from New York?”
“I don’t know; a hundred miles, more or less.”
“A hundred miles!” repeated Ida, to whom this seemed an immense
distance. “Am I a hundred miles from father and mother, and Jack,
and--and Aunt Rachel?”
The last name was mentioned last, and rather as an after-thought, if Ida
felt it her duty to include the not very amiable spinster, who had never
erred in the way of indulgence.
“Why, yes, of course you are,” said Mrs. Hardwick, in a practical,
matter-of-fact tone. “Here, cross the street here. Take care or you’ll
get run over. Now turn down here.”
They had now entered a narrow and dirty street, with unsightly houses on
either side.
“This ain’t a very nice looking street,” said Ida, looking about her.
“Why isn’t it?” demanded the nurse, looking displeased.
“Why, it’s narrow, and the houses don’t look nice.”
“What do you think of that house, there?” asked Mrs. Hardwick, pointing
out a tall, brick tenement house.
“I shouldn’t like to live there,” said Ida, after a brief survey.
“You shouldn’t! You don’t like it so well as the house you live in in
New York?”
“No, not half so well.”
The nurse smiled.
“Wouldn’t you like to go up and look at the house?” she asked.
“Go up and look at it!” repeated Ida, in surprise.
“Yes, I mean to go in.”
“Why, what should we do that for?”
“You see there are some poor families living there that I go to see
sometimes,” said Mrs. Hardwick, who appeared to be amused at something.
“You know it is our duty to visit the poor.”
“Yes, that’s what mother says.”
“There’s a poor man living in the third story that I’ve made a good many
clothes for, first and last,” said the nurse, in the same peculiar tone.
“He must be very much obliged to you,” said Ida, thinking that Mrs.
Hardwick was a better woman than she had supposed.
“We’re going up to see him, now,” said the nurse. “Just take care of.
that hole in the stairs. Here we are.”
Somewhat to Ida’s surprise, her companion opened the door without
the ceremony of knocking, and revealed a poor untidy room, in which a
coarse, unshaven man, was sitting in his shirt-sleeves, smoking a pipe.
“Hallo!” exclaimed this individual, jumping up suddenly. “So you’ve got
along, old woman! Is that the gal?”
Ida stared from one to the other, in unaffected amazement.
CHAPTER X. UNEXPECTED QUARTERS.
THE appearance of the man whom Mrs. Hardwick addressed so familiarly was
more picturesque than pleasing. He had a large, broad face, which, not
having been shaved for a week, looked like a wilderness of stubble. His
nose indicated habitual indulgence in alcoholic beverages. His eyes,
likewise, were bloodshot, and his skin looked coarse and blotched; his
coat was thrown aside, displaying a shirt which bore evidence of having
been useful in its day and generation. The same remark may apply to his
nether integuments, which were ventilated at each knee, indicating a
most praiseworthy regard to the laws of health. He was sitting in a
chair pitched back against the wall, with his feet resting on another,
and a short Dutch pipe in his mouth, from which volumes of smoke were
pouring.
Ida thought she had never seen before so disgusting a man. She continued
to gaze at him, half in astonishment, half in terror, till the object of
her attention exclaimed,--
“Well, little girl, what you’re looking at? Hain’t you never seen a
gentleman before?”
Ida clung the closer to her companion, who, she was surprised to find,
did not resent the man’s impertinence.
“Well, Dick, how’ve you got along since I’ve been gone?” asked Mrs.
Hardwick, to Ida’s unbounded astonishment.
“Oh, so so.”
“Have you felt lonely any?”
“I’ve had good company.”
“Who’s been here?”
Dick pointed significantly to a jug, which stood beside his chair.
“So you’ve brought the gal. How did you get hold of her?”
There was something in these questions which terrified Ida. It seemed to
indicate a degree of complicity between these two, which boded no good
to her.
“I’ll tell you the particulars by and by,” said the nurse, looking
significantly at the child’s expressive face.
At the same time she began to take off her bonnet.
“You ain’t going to stop, are you?” whispered Ida.
“Ain’t going to stop!” repeated the man called Dick. “Why shouldn’t she?
Ain’t she at home?”
“At home!” echoed Ida, apprehensively, opening wide her eyes in
astonishment.
“Yes, ask her.”
