covered his face with his hands.
"Drinking!" gasped the chaplain, filled with horror at the confession.
"I told you I was worse than you thought I was," moaned Shuffles.
"Is it possible!"
"It is true, sir; I say it with shame."
"Are you in the habit of taking intoxicating drinks?" asked the
chaplain, confounded beyond measure at this complication of the
difficulty.
"I am not in the habit of it, because I can't get liquor all the time.
My father has wine on his table, and I always was allowed to drink one
glass."
"Can it be!" ejaculated the chaplain. "A youth of seventeen----"
"I'm eighteen now, sir."
"A youth of eighteen in the habit of taking wine!" groaned Mr. Agneau.
"I drank a great deal more than my father knew of while I was at home."
"I am amazed!"
"I knew you would be, sir; but I have told you the truth now."
"But where did you get your liquor to-day?"
"It was wine, sir."
"Where did you get it?"
"I brought two bottles on board with me when I reported for duty
yesterday."
"This is terrible, Shuffles! Do you know what an awful habit you are
contracting, my dear young friend?"
"I never thought much about it till to-night. It has got me into such a
scrape this time, that I don't believe I shall ever drink any more."
"As you respect yourself, as you hope for peace in this world, and peace
in the next, never put the cup to your lips again. 'Wine is a mocker;
strong drink is raging; and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.'
Did you drink the two bottles?"
"No, sir; only part of one bottle," replied Shuffles, with commendable
promptness.
"Where is the rest of it?"
"Under my berth-sack."
"Are you willing I should take possession of it, and hand it to Mr.
Lowington?"
"I will agree to anything which you think is right."
"Then I will take the wine and throw it overboard."
"Just as you think best, sir. You will find the two bottles in my berth,
No. 43, Gangway D,--the forward one on the starboard side."
"I hope you will never touch the wine-cup again."
"I will not--till next time," added Shuffles, as the chaplain moved
towards the door of the brig.
"'Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his color
in the cup, at the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an
adder,'" continued the chaplain, as he passed out of the lock-up.
Mr. Agneau went to the prisoner's berth, and found the two bottles of
wine. They were a sufficient explanation of the remarkable conduct of
Shuffles. The youth had "drank wine, and was drunken," otherwise he
would not have been guilty of such flagrant disobedience. Though in his
own estimation the excuse was worse than the original fault, yet it was
an explanation; and if the root of the evil could be removed, the evil
itself would cease to exist. The wine could be thrown overboard, and as
no more could be obtained during the voyage, the good conduct of the
young tippler would be insured, at least till the ship reached
Queenstown, which was the port to which she was bound.
With the two bottles in his hands, the chaplain returned to the
professors' cabin. Mr. Lowington was on deck. He did not deem it prudent
to leave the ship in the hands of the students, at first, without any
supervision, and it was arranged that the principal, Mr. Fluxion, and
Mr. Peake, the boatswain, should take turns in observing the course and
management of the vessel. Mr. Agneau carried the prize he had captured
on deck, and informed Mr. Lowington what had just transpired in the
brig.
"I knew the boy drank wine when he was at home," replied the principal;
"and if he is ruined, his father must blame himself."
"But it is really shocking!" exclaimed the chaplain as he tossed one of
the bottles of wine over the rail. "How can a parent permit his son to
drink wine, when he knows that more men are killed by intemperance than
by war and pestilence? I am amazed!"
"So am I, Mr. Agneau."
"The boy is hardly to blame for his conduct, since he contracted this
vicious habit under the eye of his father."
"The discipline of the ship must be preserved."
"Certainly, Mr. Lowington."
"And the boy is just as much to blame for his act of disobedience as
though it had been done in his sober senses."
"But you can afford to pardon him, under the circumstances."
"I will do that when he is willing to make a proper acknowledgment of
his offence in the presence of the ship's company, before whom the act
was committed."
"He is quite ready to do so now."
"If he will say as much as that to me, he shall be released at once."
"He will, sir."
"It is very strange to me that I noticed nothing peculiar in the boy's
speech or manner at the time," added the principal. "He certainly did
not seem to be intoxicated."
"Probably he had taken just enough to inflame his evil passions, without
affecting his manner," suggested the chaplain.
"I did not even discover the odor of wine upon him."
"Perhaps you did not go near enough to him. If you please, Mr.
Lowington, we will go down and see him; and you can judge for yourself
whether or not it is prudent to release him."
"I will."
"Thank you, sir. I feel a deep interest in the young man, and I hope he
may yet be saved."
When Mr. Agneau left the brig, after his second visit, Wilton, who was
very anxious to know what Shuffles meant by "making a chain," came out
of his mess room. He had been watching the chaplain, and wondering what
the prisoner could have to say to him.
"What's up, Shuffles?" asked Wilton, when Mr. Agneau had left the
steerage.
"I've been smoothing him down," laughed Shuffles, with an audible
chuckle. "I have concluded not to stay in here any longer."
"What do you mean?"
"I'm coming out pretty soon, though it has cost me a bottle and a half
of old sherry to get out," laughed Shuffles.
"I don't know what you mean."
"I told the parson that I was drunk when I disobeyed orders, and that I
was very sorry for it, and wouldn't get drunk any more."
"Did you tell him that?"
"I did; I assured him I was the worst fellow in the whole world, and
ought to be hung, drawn, and quartered for my wickedness; and he
swallowed it as a codfish does a clam."
"And you gave him all the wine?"
"No, I didn't; I gave him one full bottle, and what was left in the one
from which we drank this afternoon. I have two more."
"We were going to have a good time with that wine."
"I have enough left."
"Where is it?"
"In my locker."
"They may find it."
"No, they won't; I will put it in some other place before inspection
day. There is plenty of wine in the medical stores. It was a good joke
for the parson to suppose I was drunk."
"Perhaps you were," suggested Wilton.
"I felt good; but I was as sober as I am now."
"The drink I took went into my head, and I felt as though I was going up
in a ballon."
"That was because you are not used to the article. It waked me up a
little, but I knew what I was about."
"I think you were a confounded fool to do what you did."
"Wilton, I'm not going to live in the steerage--you may take my word for
it. I've been an officer too long to come down to that. If we don't
succeed in making a chain, I shall quit the concern the first time I put
my foot on shore in Ireland."
"What do you mean by making a chain?" asked Wilton, eagerly.
"A chain is strong."
"Well; what of it?"
"It is composed of many links. Can't you understand that?"
"Hush up! Some one is coming," said Wilton, as he walked away from the
brig.
"Here! who is that?" demanded Mr. Lowington, as he saw Wilton moving
away from the lock-up.
"No. 59, sir--Wilton," replied he. "I was just going on deck to find
you, sir."
"To find me?" asked the principal.
"Yes, sir. Shuffles called me when I was passing, and wished me to tell
you he wanted to see you very much. I was just going after you, sir."
"If there is any blame, sir, it rests on me," interposed Shuffles,
through the bars of his prison.
Mr. Lowington unlocked the door of the brig, and entered, followed by
Mr. Agneau, leaving Wilton to congratulate himself on the result of the
lies he had uttered.
"I am told you wish to see me, Shuffles," said the principal.
"Yes, sir; I wish to say that I am extremely sorry for what I have
done."
"I thought you were crazy when you refused to obey; and now I find you
were."
"I had been drinking, sir, I confess."
"Mr. Agneau has told me your story; it is not necessary to repeat it
now. To-morrow I shall require you to acknowledge your error at muster,
and promise obedience in the future. Are you willing to do so?"
"I am, sir."
"You are discharged from confinement then, and will at once return to
your duty," replied Mr. Lowington, upon whom Shuffles did not venture to
intrude his extremely penitential story. "To which watch do you belong?"
"To the port watch, first part, sir."
"It will be on deck during the first half of the mid watch, from twelve
till two," added the principal, as he came out of the brig.
Mr. Lowington made no parade of what he had done. He never subjected any
student to unnecessary humiliation. He indulged in no reproaches, and
preached no sermons. He went on deck, intending to leave the culprit to
the influence of the better thoughts which he hoped and believed had
been kindled in his mind by the events of the day. Mr. Agneau remained a
moment to give a final admonition to the penitent, as he regarded him,
and then went to his cabin.
"Are you going to turn in, Shuffles?" asked Wilton.
"Not yet. Are there any of our fellows below?"
"Plenty of them."
"Our fellows" was a term applied to that portion of the crew who were
understood to be ready for any scrape which might be suggested. Shuffles
had coined the expression himself, while at the Brockway Academy, and
introduced it on board the ship. Without concealment or palliation, they
were bad boys. By the discipline of the ship they were kept in good
order, and compelled to perform their duties.
As in every community of men or boys, where persons of kindred tastes
find each other out, the bad boys in the Young America had discovered
those of like tendencies, and a bond of sympathy and association had
been established among them. They knew and were known of each other.
On the other hand, it is equally true, that there was a bond of sympathy
and association among the good boys, as there is among good men. If a
good man wishes to establish a daily prayer meeting, he does not apply
to the intemperate, the profane swearers, and the Sabbath breakers of
his neighborhood for help; there is a magnetism among men which leads
him to the right persons. If a bad man intends to get up a mob, a
raffle, or a carousal, he does not seek assistance among those who go to
church every Sunday, and refrain from evil practices, either from
principle or policy. He makes no mistakes of this kind.
In every community, perhaps one fourth of the whole number are
positively good, and one fourth positively bad, while the remaining two
fourths are more or less good or more or less bad, floating undecided
between the two poles of the moral magnet, sometimes drawn one way, and
sometimes the other.
The Young America was a world in herself, and the moral composition of
her people was similar to that of communities on a larger scale. She had
all the elements of good and evil on board. One fourth of the students
were doubtless high-minded, moral young men, having fixed principles,
and being willing to make great sacrifices rather than do wrong. As good
behavior, as well as proficiency in the studies, was an element of
success in the ship, a large proportion of the positively good boys were
in the after cabin.
Another fourth of the students were reckless and unprincipled, with no
respect for authority, except so far as it was purchased by fear of
punishment or hope of reward. Occasionally one of this class worked his
way into the cabin by superior natural ability, and a spasmodic attempt
to better his condition on board.
The rest of the ship's company belonged to the indefinite, undecided
class, floating more or less distant from the positive elements of good
or evil. They were not bad boys, for, with proper influences, they could
be, and were, kept from evil ways. They were not good boys on principle,
for they could be led away in paths of error.
"Our fellows" were the positively bad boys of the floating academy; and
they existed in no greater proportion in the ship's company than in the
communities of the great world. To this class belonged Shuffles, Wilton,
Monroe, and others. To the positively good boys belonged Gordon,
Kendall, Martyn, and others--not all of them in the after cabin, by any
means.
Shuffles and Wilton walked forward to find some of these kindred
spirits. They seemed to know just where to look for them, for they
turned in at Gangway D. Over each of the six passages from which the
mess rooms opened, a lantern was suspended, besides four more in the
middle of the steerage. It was light enough, therefore, in the rooms for
their occupants to read coarse print.
In the lower berths of mess room No. 8 lay two students, while another
sat on a stool between them. Their occupation was sufficient evidence
that they belonged to "our fellows," for they were shaking props for
money, on a stool between the bunks. As Shuffles and Wilton approached,
they picked up the props and the stakes, and drew back into their beds.
"It's Shuffles," said Philip Sanborn. "How did you get out?"
"Worked out," replied Shuffles, gayly.
"You don't mean to say you broke jail?"
"No; that would have been too much trouble. There was an easier way, and
I took that."
"How was it?"
"Why, I soft-sawdered the parson, and he soft-sawdered Lowington."
"It's all right; go ahead with the game," said Lynch, as he produced the
props again.
Sanborn placed the money on the stool, consisting of two quarters in
fractional currency. Lynch shook the props, and dropped them on the
stool.
"A nick!" exclaimed he, snatching the money. "I'll go you a half now."
"Half it is," replied Sanborn, as he placed the requisite sum on the
money the other laid down.
Lynch rattled the props, and threw them down again.
"A browner!" cried he, intensely excited, as he seized the money with
eager hand.
"Don't talk so loud, you fool!" added Sanborn. "The fellows are asleep
above us, and you will wake them up. I'll go you a half again."
"Half it is!" replied Lynch, in a whisper, as he shook again.
"An out!" said Sanborn, picking up the money.
"Three bells! Dry up!" interposed Wilton. "One of the officers of the
deck will be down in a minute."
The young gamblers put away the implements, and drew back into their
berths until the inspecting officer had looked into the room. When the
master had gone on deck again, the play was resumed, and Shuffles and
Wilton watched it with deep interest.
Gambling was a new thing on board the Young America. It had not been
practised at all in the preceding year, having been introduced by
Shuffles and Monroe, who had visited a prop saloon in the city where
they resided, during their late furlough. Each of them had brought a set
of props on board, with which they intended to amuse themselves during
the voyage. As yet, the practice was confined to a few of "our
fellows;" but the crew in the steerage were certainly in very great
danger of being carried away by the passion for gaming, for it was
spreading rapidly.
The prop-shaking was carried on in the mess rooms, while the students
were off duty. Shuffles had played with half a dozen boys the night
before; Sanborn and Lynch had been engaged in the game since the first
watch was set, and another party had been employed in the same manner in
another room. All of the boys were supplied with money in considerable
sums, generally in sovereigns and half sovereigns, for use when they
reached Europe. It was changing hands now, though no one had as yet been
particularly lucky.
"Have a game, Shuffles?" said Lynch, when Sanborn declared that he had
no money left but gold.
"No," replied Shuffles, "I shall not play any more."
"Why not?"
"I haven't time; and I don't want to become too fond of it."
"Haven't time!" exclaimed Lynch.
"No; I've got a big job on my hands."
"What's that?"
"Making a chain."
"Making a what?"
"Making a chain."
"A watch chain?"
"I think it will be a watch chain; but I'll tell you about it when we
are alone. Do you understand?"
"No, I don't."
"Keep still then."
Shuffles turned in, and the others followed his example. He did not
sleep, if they did, for his soul was full of rage and malice. He was
studying up the means of revenge; and he had matured a project, so
foolhardy that it was ridiculous, and his mind was fully occupied with
it.
At twelve o'clock he was called to take his place with the first part of
the port watch on deck. Belonging to each quarter watch, there were five
petty officers, four of whom were to call the portion of the crew who
were to relieve those on duty. Shuffles was called by one of these.
The wind was freshening when he went on deck, and the ship was going
rapidly through the water. At the last heaving of the log she was making
eleven knots, with her studding sails still set. Mr. Fluxion came on
deck at eight bells.
Wilton, Sanborn, and Adler were in the watch with Shuffles, and the
malcontent lost not a moment in pushing forward the scheme he had
matured. Fortunately or unfortunately, he was placed on the lookout with
Wilton, and the solitude of the top-gallant forecastle afforded them a
good opportunity for the conference.
CHAPTER XI.
THE GAMBLERS IN NO. 8.
"It's coming on to blow," said Wilton, as the lookouts took their
stations on the top-gallant forecastle.
"I don't think it will blow much; it is only freshening a little,"
replied Shuffles.
"Now, what about the mutiny?" demanded Wilton, impatiently, after he had
become more accustomed to the dash of the sea under the bows of the
ship.
"Don't call it by that name," replied Shuffles, earnestly. "Never use
that word again."
"That's what you mean--isn't it? You might as well call things by their
right names."
"It's an ugly word, and if any one should happen to hear it, their
attention would be attracted at once. We musn't get in the habit of
using it."
"I don't know what you are going to do yet," added Wilton.
"It's a big job; but I mean to put it through, even if I am sure of
failure."
"What's the use of doing that? Do you want to get the fellows into a
scrape for nothing?"
"There will be no failure, Wilton; you may depend upon that. There will
be a row on board within a day or two, and, if I mistake not, nearly
all the fellows will be so mad that they will want to join us."
"What row?"
"Do you know the reason why I wouldn't shake props this evening?"
"I'm sure I don't."
"Lowington has found out what is going on in the rooms."
"He hasn't, though!"
"Yes, he has."
"How do you know?"
"What odds does it make how I know?" answered Shuffles, impatiently, for
Wilton was much too inquisitive to suit his purposes. "I talked with the
chaplain half an hour to-night. When he went to my berth after the wine,
I rather think he heard the rattle of the props. At any rate the whole
thing will be broken up to-morrow or next day."
"I don't see how that will make a row. Not more than a dozen fellows
have played any; and they won't think of making a row about that."
"You see!" added Shuffles, confidently.
"Ugh!" exclaimed Wilton, as a cloud of spray dashed over the bow, and
drenched the lookout; but they wore their pea-jackets, and such an
occurrence was to be expected at sea.
"Stand by to take in studding sails!" shouted Paul Kendall, who was the
officer of the deck; and the order was repeated by his subordinates in
the waist and on the forecastle.
"We must go," said Wilton; and they descended from their position.
The wind had continued to freshen, until the ship labored somewhat under
her heavy press of canvas. It was the policy of the principal to go as
easily and comfortably as possible, and he had directed Mr. Fluxion, if
the wind continued to increase, to have the sail reduced, though neither
the safety of the ship nor of the spars absolutely required such a step.
The quarter watch on deck was sufficient to perform this labor.
"Lay aloft, foretopmen!" said the second lieutenant; and those of the
watch who had their stations in the fore rigging sprang up the shrouds.
"Stand by the halyard of the top-gallant studding sails! Man the tacks
and sheets!"
"All ready, sir," reported the second midshipman, who was in the
foretop, superintending the operation.
"Lower on the halyards! Ease off the tacks, and haul on the sheet!"
The two top-gallant studding-sails were thus brought into the top, where
they were made up. The fore-topmast and the lower studding sails were
taken in by a similar routine, and the Young America then moved along
less furiously through the water.
"Now about the chain," said Wilton, when the lookouts had returned
to their stations.
"Let me see; where did I leave off?" replied Shuffles.
"You said there was to be a row; which I don't believe."
"I may be mistaken about that; if I am, the job will be all the more
difficult. Lowington has got us out to sea now, and, in my opinion, he
means to shake us up. He is a tyrant at heart, and he will carry it
with a high hand. I hate the man!" added Shuffles, with savage
earnestness.
"You may, but the fellows don't generally."
"They will as soon as he begins to put the twisters on them. You won't
hear him say, 'If you please, young gentlemen,' now that we are in blue
water. You know how savage he was with me."
"Well, but you were disobedient. You told him, up and down, you wouldn't
do what he ordered you to do."
"No matter for that. You had a chance to see the spirit of the man. He
was a perfect demon. He put me in irons!" exclaimed Shuffles, still
groaning under this indignity. "I have been insulted and outraged, and I
will teach him that Bob Shuffles is not to be treated in that manner! I
will be revenged upon him, if it costs me my life."
"The fellows won't go into any such desperate game as that," replied
Wilton, cautiously.
"But there will be fun in the thing," added the malcontent, softening
his tone. "We shall have the ship all to ourselves. We needn't trouble
ourselves anything about Latin and Greek, and trigonometry and algebra.
We shall go in for a good time generally."
"It is all moonshine; it can't be done. What's the use of talking about
such a thing?" said Wilton.
"It can be done, and it shall be," replied Shuffles, stamping his foot
on the deck.
"How?"
"I am not quite ready to tell you yet."
"Very well; I don't want to know anything more about it," answered the
timid conspirator, who was almost disgusted at the foolhardiness of the
plan.
"I can get along without you," added Shuffles, with assumed
indifference.
"I would rather have you do so."
"All right; but you will want to come in when we have got along a little
farther."
"Perhaps I shall; if I do, I suppose the door will be open to me."
"It may be open; but perhaps you can't walk into the cabin then."
"Why not?"
"Do you suppose the fellows who do the burden of the work are going to
be shut out of the cabin? If you join at the eleventh hour, you will
have to be what you are now--a foremast hand."
"What can I be if I join now?"
"Second or third officer."
"Who will be first."
"I can't mention his name yet. He belongs in the cabin now."
"You don't mean so!" said Wilton, astonished to learn that his bold
companion expected to find friends among the present officers of the
ship.
"I know what I'm about," replied Shuffles, confidently.
With this information Wilton thought more favorably of the mad
enterprise. If it was to be a winning game, he wished to have a part in
it; if a losing one, he desired to avoid it. There was something in the
decided manner of the chief conspirator which made an impression upon
this doubting mind.
"I don't want to go in till I know more about it," said he, after
walking two or three times across the top-gallant forecastle.
"You can't know anything more about it until you have been toggled,"
replied Shuffles.
"Toggled?" repeated the sceptic, curiously.
"This thing is to be well managed, Wilton. We shall not use any hard
words, that outsiders can understand; and if any of them happen to hear
anything that don't concern them, they will not know what it means. Will
you join, or not?"
"I will," replied Wilton, desperately.
The strange words which Shuffles used, and the confidence he manifested
in the success of his project, carried the hesitating lookout man. He
was fascinated by the "clap-trap" which the leader of "our fellows" had
adopted to help along his scheme, for it promised to afford no little
excitement during the voyage.
"Now you talk like a man, Wilton," replied Shuffles. "You shall be a
member of the league at once."
"What's the league?"
"The Chain League."
"Upon my word, Shuffles, you have been reading yellow-covered novels to
some purpose."
"I didn't get this idea from a novel. I invented it myself."
"The Chain League!" repeated Wilton, who was pleased with the title of
the conspirators.
"It will be called simply 'The Chain.' I am the first member, and you
are the second; or you will be when you have been toggled."
"Toggled again!" laughed Wilton. "What do you mean?"
"Initiated."
"Go ahead, then."
"Repeat after me."
"Go on," replied Wilton, deeply interested in the proceeding, even while
he was amused at its formality.
"I am a link of the chain."
"I am a link of the chain," repeated Wilton.
"I will obey my superior officers."
"I will obey my superior officers."
"And I will reveal none of its secrets."
"And I will reveal none of its secrets."
"This I promise----"
"This I promise----"
"On penalty of falling overboard accidentally."
"On penalty of what?" demanded Wilton, both puzzled and terrified by the
mysterious words.
"Repeat the words after me. On penalty," said Shuffles, sternly.
"I know what the words are, but I'll be hanged if I will repeat them.
'Falling overboard accidentally!' What does that mean?"
"It means that, if you betray the secrets of The Chain, you might fall
overboard accidentally, some day."
"That is, you would push me over when no one was looking," added Wilton,
involuntarily retreating from the conspirator, whom, for the moment, he
regarded as a very dangerous companion.
"That's what the words mean," replied Shuffles, coolly.
"Have I been toggled?" demanded Wilton.
"No; you didn't repeat all the words."
"Then you needn't toggle me any more. I've got enough of this thing."
"All right; just as you say. But I can tell you this, my dear fellow? if
you should whisper the first word of what has passed between us
to-night, you might fall overboard," continued Shuffles, sharply, as he
laid his hand on his companion's shoulder.
Wilton grasped the sheet of the fore-topmast staysail which was the
nearest rope to him, and held on as though he was then in imminent
danger of "falling overboard accidentally."
"I won't say a word," protested he, vehemently; for he did not know but
that Shuffles was wicked enough to push him into the sea.
"Wilton, you are a fool!" added the disappointed conspirator, with deep
disgust. "Why didn't you say what I told you?"
"I don't want to be bound in any such way as that," replied the
terrified student.
"Don't you see it is only a form?"
"No, I don't; or if it is, I don't want anything to do with such forms.
You won't get any fellows to be toggled in that way."
"Yes, I shall? I shall get plenty of them. They are not babies, like
you."
"I'm not a baby."
"Yes, you are--a great calf! What are you afraid of?"
"I'm not afraid; I didn't think you meant to have any murder in your
Chain."
"I don't; no fellow will think of such a thing as betraying one of the
secrets."
"Then what's the use of having such a penalty?"
"It will prevent any fellow from opening his mouth when he ought to keep
it shut."
"I don't want anything to do with a concern that means murder. I'm not
any better than I should be, but I'm too good for that."
"Suit yourself; but remember, if you should happen to say a word, you
will fall overboard accidentally, some night when you are on the
lookout, or out on the yard-arm."
"Two bells," said Wilton, greatly relieved to hear them, for he did not
like to stand any longer on the top-gallant forecastle, where there was
no railing, with such a dangerous fellow as Shuffles proved to be.
Two other members of the watch were sent forward to take their places.
Wilton and Shuffles went down and mingled with their shipmates, who were
talking about what they should do and what they should see in Ireland,
where the ship would first make a harbor. Wilton breathed easier, and
the topic was a more agreeable one than the dark and terrible matter
which had been under discussion on the top-gallant forecastle.
Shuffles was disappointed by the scruples of his generally unscrupulous
companion. He regarded the machinery of the plot, the clap-trap of the
secret league, as decidedly attractive; and he depended largely upon it
to influence his companions. Though he claimed that his plan was
original, it was suggested by a secret political organization in
Europe, of which he had read in a pamphlet; and the idea had doubtless
been modified by his more extensive readings in the department of
fiction, in which midnight juntos laid out robbery, treason, and murder;
Venetian tales in which bravos, assassins, and decayed princes in
disguise largely figured; in which mysterious passwords opened
mysterious dungeons beneath ruined castles; in which bravo met bravo,
and knew him by some mysterious sign, or cabalistic word.
Shuffles had a taste for these things, and out of his lively imagination
he had coined a similar association to be recruited from the crew of the
Young America, which was to redress fancied wrongs, and even take the
ship out of the hands of the principal. He could think of nothing but
this brilliant enterprise; and while his shipmates were talking of the
future, and indulging in the old salts' vocation of "spinning yarns," he
was busy maturing the details of "The Chain League." He did not, for
reasons best known to himself attempt to make any more proselytes that
night.
The ship continued to go along easily on her course till morning. It was
a clear night, and though the wind was fresh, the sea was not rough, and
the Young America behaved very handsomely. The programme for the watches
was carried out to the letter, but on the first night out, the boys were
too much excited by the novelty of the situation to be able to sleep
much.
At eight bells in the morning, after the port watch had breakfasted, all
the students off duty attended prayers. Then the starboard watch had
their morning meal, after which all hands were piped to muster.
Mr. Lowington mounted the hatch, and it was understood that the case of
discipline which had come up the day before was to be settled now.
"Shuffles!" called the principal.
The culprit came forward.
"Are you still of the same mind as when I saw you last evening?"
continued Mr. Lowington.
"I am, sir," replied Shuffles, with a becoming exhibition of meekness.
"You will step upon the hatch, then."
Shuffles took position by the side of the principal.
"You will repeat after me," added Mr. Lowington.
The culprit was startled at these words, and began to suspect that
Wilton had betrayed him in spite of his fear of falling overboard
accidentally. It looked just then as though the principal intended to
"toggle" him.
"I acknowledge that I have done wrong," Mr. Lowington continued.
Shuffles repeated the words, happy to find that he was not to take the
obligation of "The Chain League."
"And I will hereafter endeavor to do my duty faithfully."
The promise was repeated with the lips, but of course it had no meaning,
and did not reach the heart.
"That is all, Shuffles," added the principal.--"Young gentlemen, you are
dismissed from muster."
This was certainly a very mild atonement for the grave offence which
Shuffles had committed, and the lenity of the principal was generally
commented upon by the boys. The starboard watch was piped below to
study and recite, while the port watch were to be off and on during the
forenoon. The first part now had the deck, while the second was off
duty, and the boys belonging to it were permitted to remain on deck or
to spend their time in the mess rooms. They were not allowed to linger
in the steerage where the recitations were going on, but might pass
directly through on their way to their apartments.
At ten o'clock the first part of the port watch was relieved, and the
second part went on duty. Shuffles and Wilton were at liberty now, but
there appeared to be a coldness between them, and Wilton sought another
