thought, and his wife would reign a very queen. I am 
afraid they all like me too well. I did resolve, a few days 
ago, to  please him, but I cannot ; " and Lily shivered 
violently. 
" Why ? " Daisy was observing her narrowly. 
" Because I cannot make myself love him. Is it not 
curious that the heart should decide against a person who 
is in every respect worthy, who would take pleasure in 
devoting to one his whole life ? Why not love one good 
man as well as another ? Yet I know I should make him 
wretched." 
" O, it would be wrong, wicked, to hold out hope to him," 
Daisy exclaimed, vehemently. 
" I know it. For even if I promised, I don't think I ever 
could marry him. But to disappoint him so bitterly ! And 
yet I suppose I must get wefl, and go through with it all 
tell him how little I meant, how selfish and heartless I have 
been. It seems as if good and honorable people will despise 
me henceforth. I hate myself! It is all 'blackness of 
darkness.' " 
" ' So when they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, he 
delivered them out of their distress,' " repeated Daisy. 
" What a comfort you are ! After all, it is best to meet 
the result of one's wrong-doing fairly and without evasion. 
And I have been very wrong." 
" Dear Lily, when we have confessed this, God will give 
us strength for the rest, and peace, and happiness." 
 
" No ; I shall never be happy again. I don't mean on 
account of any one particular event," and Lily colored 
violently, " but life changes so much. Every bright thing 
fades away, and leaves you only a cold, gray shadow. May- 
be it is the autumn and the mournful winds that make me 
feel so dreary ; but I know there can never be another spring 
to my life." 
" There is a ripe and glowing summer yet to come. One 
shadow can never stretch through all time." 
" I think I must be content to sit in the shade, without 
spring or sunshine. Forgive me, darling, for all the trouble 
I have caused you. I will try and be a better girl." 
Lily turned away her face, and Daisy felt it -would be 
unwise to continue the conversation. Although she ex- 
pressed no special regret for the lost love, Daisy gathered 
that it was still strong upon her. She had little fear of the 
final result. And now that the ice had been broken, she 
could gradually lead Lily to a better state of mind. There 
was a visible improvement in her on the following morning. 
She went out to the sitting-room, admired Mr. Joslyn's 
flowers, and seemed resolved to be rarely good-humored 
with everything. But though she discussed the gentleman 
freely, and regretted her behavior towards him with sincere 
earnestness, she seemed resolutely resolved to date her un- 
happiness no farther back than that. She did not shun any 
mention of their stay at the Catskills, but refrained from 
alluding to the relation that had existed between herself 
and Mr. Auchester. In vain Daisy tried to lead the con- 
versation to this point. She fully understood the delicacy 
of her position, that while attempting to mediate between 
them, she must in no wise compromise Mr. Auchester's sen- 
sitive pride. 
Accident brought about the result at last. Lily was gain- 
ing rapidly again. Richard desired her to be very careful, 
for the least over-exertion brought on a most distressing 
headache and a recurrence of the fever. Lily was really 
glad to be excused from visitors ; in her present mood she 
wanted no one but Daisy. She walked about her two rooms, 
but had not yet ventured down stairs at the commencement 
of the fourth week. 
She was dressed in a pretty wrapper, and lying on the 
lounge in the sitting-room, still pale and somewhat thin, but 
not, as she expressed it, " altogether frightful." Daisy had 
curled her hair, which Philip declared the greatest improve- 
ment that could have been made. After reading aloud to 
her the psalms for the day, Daisy took up a little dress she 
was embroidering for Alice, and to please Lily, sang some 
old ballads. This morning it was " Lord Jamie Douglas." 
She noted the scornful yet approving smile that crossed 
Lily's face at the verse, 
" I whispered in at my lord's window, 
Yet never a word would lie answer me. 
Fare ye well, then, Jamie Douglas ; 
I care as little as ye care for me." 
But at the last, where true love triumphs over all, Lily 
turned away her face, and presently fell into a light slumber. 
Daisy bethought herself of a letter to Mr. Auchester that 
she had been prevented from writing the day before. Open- 
ing her desk that stood on the table, she went rapidly over 
two pages. Then she began to wonder whether she should 
ever be able to send him the fruit of her faith in Lily. All 
this time he had waited patiently, asking no questions ; but 
soon his departure would put it out of her power to do any- 
thing for them. Indeed, could she do anything ? 
Lily stirred, opened her eyes, and closed them again. 
The girls were at opposite sides of the room, the little wood 
fire on the hearth shining out between them. The atmos- 
phere without was soft, mellow, and hazy, the sun partially 
obscured by drifting clouds, only breaking forth now and 
then, with a rosy orange hue. 
Lily's tone was more careless than curious as she asked, - 
" What are you writing ? " 
 
" A letter," answered Daisy, with a slight flush and hesi- 
tation. 
"How odd! Is it to Dick? I expect he misses you 
sadly." 
" No ; it is to Mr. Auchester." 
Lily gave a violent start, and flushed redly. 
'' He is going to Europe shortly," Daisy went on, keeping 
her voice steadier than the throbbing at her heart. " He 
has accepted a governmental appointment, and will be ab- 
sent three years at least." 
" You have seen him," Lily assumed, faintly. 
" Yes ; he had been over twice before the day of the 
accident, and after that came regularly. He was very 
anxious about you, and asked me to write as frequently as I 
could." 
" Shall you write to him while he is abroad ? " 
" Perhaps." Daisy made an effort to keep her face tran- 
quil. 
There was a long, long pause. Daisy bit the end of her 
pen-holder, and considered what to say next. 
Lily spoke. Her voice was low, as if there had been a 
great struggle, and she was hardly sure of it. 
" I can think how it will end. I am glad you will both be 
happy. You are the only woman in the world good enough 
for him." 
" O Lily ! you are quite mistaken. There can never be 
any sentiment warmer than friendship between us." 
" Why, Daisy ? Is it quite impossible for you to love 
again ? " 
" You do not consider whether Mr. Auchester's affection 
can be transferred at a moment's notice." 
" There would be nothing to transfer," she answered, bit- 
terly. " His fancy for me has perished. I question whether 
it ever amounted to positive love." 
Lily ! " 
" Yes," Lily raised herself a trifle in her excitement, 
 
" he thought he loved me, but events proved he had a much 
higher regard for his own will." 
" And you ! " 
" I couldn't endure being tyrannized over like a baby." 
" And so. you bestow this tyrant on me ? " Daisy could 
not forbear smiling. 
"I mean " and Lily flushed hotly "I don't know 
that I can make you understand ; but Mr. Auchester is a 
really superior man grand in many things, capable of 
loving with devoted earnestness. He would make some 
woman entirely happy. I want to do him full justice. But 
all the sharp points in our natures were forever coming in 
contact. And so you can see how he needed some one bet- 
ter and nobler, who would study to please him to whom 
his wishes would be positive delights. I'm not sure but he 
would be very indulgent in that case. Instead of derogating 
from this woman, I acknowledge she would be very much 
my superior." 
" I question if he would love her as well. It is not, after 
all, so much what is fit for us as what satisfies us ; and I 
think, in the majority of cases, one's own heart decides 
rightly. But if you understood so perfectly what was 
needed, why did you not conform more to his will ? " 
" Because it isn't in me. I can't be good. I shall always 
be a trouble to myself and every one else. I shall always 
rush through brambles and thorns for something that looks 
bright beyond, and find it only a Dead-Sea apple." 
" Yes, if you depend solely on yourself. But God means 
we shall look to him in the great straits of life, ask him for 
strength. He stands ready to lead us out of by and forbid- 
den places." 
Lily's eyes filled with tears. " You are so sweet," she 
said ; " so good. And yet somehow God gave you a great 
deal of sorrow. Isn't it so all through life ? Don't the 
fragrance and beauty drop out just as one reaches forth a 
hand to gather the flowers, and one finds withered leaves 
 
instead ? And to go on weary, waiting, hungering for wh.it 
will never come ! " 
Daisy smiled over the perversity and inconsequent reason- 
ing. She knew there were many places on the green and 
sunny shore of peace that Lily dared not linger over, but 
glided lightly by, as one does on broken ice, and that her 
heart was longing for the ark from whence it had flown. 
" Lily," she said, " why do you not go back, and confess 
you have been wrong ? You had in your hand all that any 
woman can have ; you blindly threw it away. You taxed 
Mr. Auchester's love, and faith, and patience to the utmost, 
and in one fatal moment it gave way. Is it wise to sit over 
the ruins, and make them stumbling blocks for all the future 
years ? You cannot deny to yourself that you loved him. 
And in some solitary hours, in some spasm of the better 
nature struggling within you, your heart will refuse the pot- 
tage, and cry out for its lost birthright." 
" You think me altogether to blame," replied Lily, warmly. 
" He was often unjust and unreasonable for a mere trifle. 
And if he knew me at all, he must have known that in my 
heart I cared for no one but him. Was it pleasant, think 
you, to be continually watched and suspected ? taken to task 
for a word or a laugh  Ulric Auchester's jealousy is a very 
tiger." 
" You must confess, Lily, he bore many things patiently. 
What proof did you ever give him of your love ? How could 
he trust, when he knew the beacon liked to dazzle with false 
lights ? When you showered favors, that he had sued for, on 
newer faces, and gave him some little fragment, why should 
he have been content ? You are sorry that your heedlessness 
has caused and will cause Mr. Joslyn so much suffering ; but 
have you no thought for the man who had a right to build 
all his future on your love ? Think, Lily, he should have 
been your prince your pride and joy. Do you believe, if 
you had loved as he desired, he would have proved dis- 
trustful ? " 
Lily was silent. The voice that she had never been wholly 
able to stifle smote her heart bitterly. 
" Well," said she, wearily, " it is all over. No matter 
whose the fault, it is done, past recall. The -sooner we for- 
get, the better for both." 
" No ; there is a wiser course." 
" What ? " Lily glanced up eagerly. Their eyes met, and 
she read it all without a word. Burying her face in the 
pillow, her whole frame shook with the effort she made to 
repress her emotion. She murmured, brokenly, 
" No ; I couldn't, I couldn't, Daisy. And then he doesn't 
care for me now. It is right and just that he should despise 
me. He will find some one better." 
" I think the woman a man loves truly is always the best 
to him. And if her love proved stronger than her pride; 
if sorrow was deeper than anger ; if she was brave enough 
to repent, confess " 
" Daisy, he wouldn't forgive me ! He spoke to me the 
morning he went away. I saw his will in his eyes, and his 
resolve to be complete master, if anything. It roused all 
the defiant blood in my nature made me wild. I couldn't 
have felt sorry then if his glance had killed me. O, you 
little know him if you think he would ever humble himself 
that much again ! His pride is a very giant ! " 
" Lily ! " the voice was solemnly tender, "I have 
only to write one word in my letter ; I have only to say, 
" Come,' and he will be here to listen to forgive, if you 
ask it." 
Lily choked down her sobs. Now and then one bitter, 
burning cry tore its way up, and was smothered by sternest 
resolution. A cold shiver seemed freezing her. Happiness 
within her reach ! Love at her very door and such love ! 
The weary desolation of the future, that so terrified her 
when she glanced out upon its midnight blackness, ex- 
changed for peace, for blissful rest ! 
" What did he say : " Her voice quivered with anguish. 
 
" My darling, what he said to me is a matter of confidence 
between us alone, which I cannot betray. I can only tell 
you that if you want him he will come. And there is but 
one condition^" 
She went on with her letter. Lily's face was hidden ; 
but Daisy saw the convulsive movements, heard the sobs. 
She wondered how she could write so calmly when her heart 
throbbed with a wild tumult of hope and fear. 
" Lily," she asked, presently, " shall I send ? " 
Lily's heart beat audibly. Without moving, she said, low 
and huskily, 
" No." 
Then Daisy folded her letter, sealed it, and took it down 
to be sent with Philip's. When she returned, she raised the 
tearful face, and kissed it again and again. 
" My dearest," she said, " since you have decided, you 
must be brave to bear the cross you have assumed. For 
your own sake, for all our sakes, you must not make your- 
self ill and miserable. There are many happy days yet in 
store." 
Happy ! What a mockery it seemed ! This man, who 
should have been the crown and glory of her life, learning 
slowly to forget her to think her unworthy, incapable of 
high and generous regard ! How the thought stung her ! 
She did love him. How his nobleness shamed her ! Never, 
never to see him again ! never to be held to his heart ! to 
hear his voice, and yet to live ! 
 
CHAPTEK XXXIII. 
Come back with me to the first of all; 
Let us learn and love it over again 
Let us forget and then recall, 
Break the rosary in a pearly rain, 
And gather what we let fall. 
ROBERT BROWNING. 
IT would be difficult to describe the mood that led Lily 
to reject this last overture of Mr. Auchester's. There 
was a little wounded feeling that Daisy should have been so 
preferred in his confidence, and that she should refuse to 
repeat what had passed between them. Yet when Lily 
came to reconsider this point, she blushed for her unworthy 
thoughts. 
Pride was still strong within her. Could she make the 
thorough acknowledgment he would demand? Her nature 
was strongly self-centred one of those which refuse utterly 
at first to be purified by suffering ; which, when evasion is no 
longer possible, bear on in stoical silence and contempt. It 
seemed to her now that Mr. Auchester might have taken 
some kinder way to win her back, as if the grandest and 
kindest thing in the whole world was not the simple truth. 
A sense of shame had much to do with her resolution. 
Looking over the past summer, she could not find any place 
where he had given the provocation. As Daisy said, she had 
tried his patience until it resolved itself into distrust of her 
love. She had been wayward, trifling, fond of power, eager 
for admiration, when, if his would have sufficed, she might 
have had it in lavish abundance. How many times she had 
put him off with a little, cold caress, when he had bean ready 
 
to lay his whole heart at her feet. Not because she did not 
love him indeed, she could hardly understand the madness 
now. He was not a humble man, like Mr. Joslyn. He would 
grant favors, but he could not be ruled or forced into any 
step. His manhood, so glorious in its power and integrity, 
could be depended upon to the uttermost. She had always 
admired this resolute strength, even when most earnestly 
contesting it. Yet how could she confess herself altogether 
in the wrong, and have him smile over her with the stately 
consciousness of right ! 
Daisy watched the conflict with a sort of breathless calm 
just as we sit still in the luminous light of some great hope, 
knowing it is ours, yet hardly daring to believe. With a 
girl less true and sound at heart than Lily, she might have 
had some doubts, or even if solitude had not been so strongly 
in Mr. Auchester's favor. It seemed cruel to stand aloof 
from the struggle ; yet she knew if Lily fought this battle 
alone, and conquered self effectually, it would be the begin- 
ning of a new life for her. One by one the strongholds 
behind which she had intrenched herself were giving way. 
She grew more uniformly gentle, and by degrees came to a 
higher standard of thought and belief. Her affection had in 
it a vein of sad, yearning tenderness, that one can scarcely 
refrain from answering with fears. 
A mental contest of this kind could not pass without leav- 
ing some marks of the fire. Philip began to grow extremely 
anxious. 
" I cannot bear to see her so wan and sad-eyed. This 
lovely Indian-summer weather would brace her up, and bring 
some roses to her cheeks. I have half a mind to take her 
out, without waiting for Richard's fiat." 
Lily looked wistfully through the golden air, over the hills, 
to the purple river, and then said, almost sadly, 
" Not to-day." 
" But I'm afraid you'll never get well and blooming. I 
should like to see the old riotous spirit once more." 
 
" No," she returned, softly ; " help me to pray for a better 
one. First, ' the kingdom of God.' " 
" ' And all these things shall be added unto you,' " he 
continued, reverently. " My dear child, God often leads us 
through dark paths, that we may see only the great light 
surrounding Him. And if we follow, even with fear and 
trembling, He will accept. But we must do what He bids, 
suffer what He lays upon us, never doubting but that it will 
be for the best. We must not question what might have 
been, or what will be ; but only believe, take up the cross 
in our way, and find rest in its shadow." 
Daisy wheeled her chair up to the window, and stood with 
her arm around her, a few moments after Philip had left 
the room. 
Lily was thinking of the cross in her way, that she had 
stumbled over so many times during the past few days. God 
meant she should be very happy. If she missed the great 
joy, it would be only through her own perversity. 
" Daisy ! " The voice was faint a mere breath, as she 
whispered, " Do you think he would come would for- 
give ? " 
How the words thrilled her ! She could hardly repress a 
wild cry of joy. 
" My darling, I know he would." 
The fair face buried itself on her shoulder. There was a 
low, quivering, but distinct sound the shy entreaty of a 
child, 
" Will you ask him to come ? " , 
Daisy kissed her for the answer she could not give. She 
hardly knew how full of tears her own eyes were until she 
heard Lily's sobs. Smiling through them, she ran away. 
Lily sat in the silence of a great joy, too happy to think. 
Her crown of thorns had blossomed into roses. She trem- 
bled in every pulse, she drew her breath gaspingly, and yet 
she was no longer miserable. The dear old world glittered 
and was full of rejoicing ; the sky above shone as in other 
 
days. Involuntarily there went through her heart the 
words, 
' And yet, perchance O Heaven ! such thing might be, 
As that one giant joy should come to me, 
Eclipsing common joys." 
Daisy lingered a moment in the hall, to regain her com- 
posure. Then she went to the study. Mr. Chaloner safe 
reading a paper. 
" You are going to New York ? " she said. 
" Yes, in the next train. Can I do anything for you ? " 
" A great favor, if you will." 
She drew some paper towards her, and took up Philip's 
pen. Her greatest trial for the past week had been to 
refrain from prematurely startling Mr. Auchester. But she 
had the gift of rare, exceeding silence. Now she hardly 
knew what she wrote ; but it was enough to send the shad- 
ows of unhappiness trooping to their darksome abode. < 
" If you will call at the Metropolitan and leave this note ; 
or better still, see Mr. Auchester. He might like to send an 
answer." 
" With pleasure." And Mr. Chaloner gave her one of 
those courtly bows to which his white hair seemed to add a 
peculiar grace. 
Philip drove around at that instant. A moment later her 
messenger of peace was on its way. 
Then she returned to Lily. Both girls flushed with 
unwonted embarrassment. Lily's eyes still shone with tears. 
"My darling!" Daisy exclaimed, "you deserve much 
praise for your courage. I wanted to help you, but I had 
been put under bonds." 
" I feel weak and cowardly enough. My heart faints 
within me at the thought of meeting him, and yet I long to. 
I am glad it cannot be until to-morrow." 
Daisy started, but held her peace, and allowed Lily to 
believe the letter was going by mail. But in her inmost 
soul she felt that the day and evening would not pass without 
bringing Mr. Auchester. 
 
" He won't think it unwomanly will he ? Ho is so par- 
ticular on some points." 
" Since he gave the permission, you shall not render your- 
self miserable with vain surmises. What else could have 
been done ? " 
" If I were only better ! But when I think of all that has 
occurred since, I am afraid he can never love me again. It 
is right that he should know." 
" Yes. But he has never ceased to love you ; so there is 
no need of beginning again. Do not conjure up mountains 
of unnecessary trouble. Rather wait on the Lord, and .he 
will bring it to pass." 
Sound, healthy vitality was a component part of Lily's 
temperament. Repentant she might be, but not morbid. 
So resilient a nature works its own cure. Her spirits began 
to rise visibly, for the battle was ended. Never in all her 
life would she have to fight such a contest over again. 
Daisy read to her a long while. After dinner she bestowed 
her on the lounge, administered a composing draught, closed 
the shutters, and gave her strict injunctions to go imme- 
diately to sleep. Her strained nerves relaxed, yielded to 
the pleasant influence, and she soon fell into a tranquil 
slumber. 
A peaceful air seemed brooding over the house. The 
drone of bees, the chirp of late insects, and the song of 
birds, had a lazy, monotonous sound, brimmed with the de- 
liciousness of languor. The spicy air was full of golden 
films, the tree tops shone in crimson and gold, and wher- 
ever Daisy's eyes fell, a glowing picture of still life pre- 
sented itself. You could not connect it with motion. She 
always remembered this day with wondrous vividness. 
Baby Alice was in a quiet mood also. She lay on a pillow 
on the floor, while Mabel sewed, now and then turning 
her wondering eyes gravely to her father, who looked up 
from his book to chirrup to her occasionally. 
Daisy knew some explanation was needed before Mr, 
 
Aachester made his appearance. Both Philip and Mabel 
had delicately refrained from questioning her about the let- 
ters. Seizing this golden opportunity, she bespoke Philip's 
attention, and related her story, excepting the episode con- 
cerning herself, that events had proved manifestly untrue. 
Philip listened in astonishment. 
" My dear Daisy ! " he exclaimed, " you are a most coura- 
geous little body. You have certainly bearded the lion in 
his den, and come off more than conqueror. That you 
should have found the way to Lily's heart, actually made her 
take the first step towards a reconciliation, surprises me 
beyond measure." 
" I could not have done it but for her love. That was my 
most powerful ally." 
" I was sure of it," rejoined Philip, triumphantly. " I 
knew Lily must have a heart it's a distinctive Bertrand 
feature. As for Ulric Auchester, he's a splendid fellow, and 
deserves a better wife ; but I'm thankful he has fallen to 
Lily's share. I only hope he will keep her in better order 
than heretofore. She used to vex me last summer. If he 
had used a ' high hand,' as people say, he would have saved 
himself much trouble." 
Mabel laughed. " We have all tried at managing Lily, 
and Daisy has succeeded the best of any. In the depths of 
my heart I am glad she is to fall into such good keeping. 
She would drive a weak man to distraction, and make herself 
miserable. Such a nature is best governed by a superior will." 
" I question if Lily has not more thoroughly subdued her- 
s<:lf than any one would have been able to subdue her," said 
Daisy. 
" Auchester will take good care that the volcano doesn't 
break out again, I think. Daisy, there is no possible adjec- 
tive that can be bestowed on you to do you justice. Who 
would have thought, a month ago, that we could all be so 
happy ? " And Philip caught up Alice, half smothered her 
with kisses, and held her out at arm's length. 
" My little daughter," he continued, with amusing gravity, 
" if you grow up half as beautiful, and are half as great a 
fi'rt, as your aunt Lily, you shall be soundly whipped and 
sent to bed without your supper ! " 
Alice gave a smile that portended she might grow up as 
pretty. 
Lily slept for three hours. Daisy brushed her hair and 
put on a dress, announcing her intention of asking Philip 
and Mabel up to tea. 
" I certainly feel well enough to go down," said Lily. 
" May I to-morrow ? " 
" If you wish," was the rejoinder. 
The supper was a decided success. Lily received her 
visitors in great state. She looked bright and charming, 
and was in excellent spirits. 
" Tessy ought to be here," remarked Philip. " She enjoys 
anything like this wonderfully, for her grave face is only a 
mask that covers a fund of inexhaustible drollery. I expect 
she matronizes Richard in an astonishing degree. You will 
find him perfection when you return, Daisy." 
" As if he had not always been perfection in Daisy's 
eyes ! " responded Lily, archly. 
A torrent of brilliant blood rushed to Daisy's face. She 
could not give the slightest reason for it, and to banish it, 
joined the laugh against herself. It was well she did not 
notice the freemasonry of glance between husband and wife, 
or .she might have blushed again. 
Philip rose and made a speech in his most grandiloquent 
style, regretting that it was necessary for him to leave the 
delightful group, but he really was compelled to go to the 
station after Mr. Chaloner. 
The housekeeper carried away the dishes. Lily sat on 
the lounge, having a good romp with baby Alice. Mabel 
and Daisy tried to talk unconcernedly. But when the sound 
of carriage wheels broke upon them, Daisy's heart gave a 
great bound. Three men alighted, and there was no mis- 
 
taking that tall, handsome third, although the purple dusk 
was falling fast. 
" Come, my little lady ; " and Mabel took her baby in her 
arms. " It's bedtime ; so you must make believe kiss aunt 
Lily, and go." 
" dear'! " said Lily, ruefully. " Don't send me to bed, 
please. I slept through seven distinct spheres this after- 
noon, and feel in a most royal state. I have half a mind to 
go down and surprise Mr. Chaloner." 
" Daisy ! " called Philip. 
Mabel made a pretence of baby " good nights " to cover 
the retreat. Daisy almost ran over Mr. Chaloner in the 
hall. He caught her in his arms. 
" Did I bring you home the proper reply ? " he aske'd. 
" But your smile answers. Is there to be peace in the 
household ? " 
" I believe so." 
" Thank God, for Lily's sake." And Mr. Auchester is 
worthy of the highest happiness." 
She entered the open drawing-room door. Both her hands 
were taken in an earnest clasp. 
" Daisy ! " Mr. Auchester began, in a voice so full and 
rich that she listened, unconsciously entranced. " How can 
I believe it ! ' Her own wish,' you said, ' after days of strug- 
gling.' What a will the child has ! I have read your letter 
times without number to-day. My precious, precious friend ! 
Your clear vision and brave heart have saved me pangs of 
untold anguish. Can I see her soon ? Every moment seems 
an age ! " 
" Yes," Daisy answered, with a tremulous laugh, " if you 
will only release my hands, so that I can go and prepare 
her. She fancied that the letter went by mail, and doesn't 
expect you until to-morrow." 
" You would be a perfect treasure to a stage manager for 
surprises ! " he returned, gayly. " You need not put a girdle 
round the earth in forty minutes, but bring me to happinesa 
in less time than that, I pray you." 
 
She was gone. Mabel, on the stairs, gave her a squeeze 
and kiss. She went straight on to Lily, and then stood still 
in perfect bewilderment. 
" Let me go down stairs," pleaded Lily. 
" No." She drew a long breath, and struggled for com- 
posure. 
" What is the matter, Daisy ? " Lily glanced in her face 
with startled eyes. 
" I have word from Mr. Auchester." 
" Daisy ! " and she uttered a wild cry. " Will he come ? 
No, don't tell me he will not ; it would kill me now." 
"^ My dearest, he is here ! The note went with Mr. 
Chaloner. Be calm, for I cannot send him up until I am 
sure of you." 
" Here ! Let me think a moment. I seem blind, and 
drowned in happiness ! The long, dreary night is to end, 
the everlasting day has come ! Daisy ! is it all true, 
true f How good God has been to me ! And how good 
you have been ! " 
She sat still, quite exhausted. Presently, in a tone that 
was calm from excess of joy, she said, 
" Go for him, Daisy." 
He was in the hall, and sprang up stairs the instant he 
heard the door open. Daisy beckoned him in, and passed 
out herself. The room was in a glow of orange and purple 
twilight, through which the fire sent arrows of gleaming 
flame. His eye took in the drooping figure, the shining 
curls, the sweet face. 
" Lily ! " he said, softly ; and yet it was the man's invol- 
untary authority that spoke. 
A cry, sad, sweet, touching in -its utter humility, faltered 
up through quivering sobs. 
" Ulric ! let me come back to my old place in your 
