On your return, you can stop for me," continued Mr. 
Sherwood. " What is your engagement for to- 
morrow." 

" At Whitehall, sir." 

" Capital ! You can convey my gold through, so 
that I can take the morning train at Whitehall for 
New York." 

"If we get back to Port Rock by six, we can 
reach Whitehall by twelve." 

" Well, that is sooner than I wish to arrive," added 
Mr. Sherwood, thoughtfully. " I shall have ten thou- 
sand dollars in gold with me, which, at the present 
rate, is worth about twenty-five thousand dollars in 








currency. It would be a great temptation to any 
rogues, who might find out the specie was on board. 
How wotJd it do to start from Port Rock at mid- 
night ? " 

" It will do just as well, sir." 

" Then I shall reach Whitehall just in time for the 
train. But, Lawry, I see that you must have another 
pilot on board." 

" I think I can get along, sir." 

" You will wear yourself out. You have run a 
portion of the last two nights, and this arrangement 
will make the third." 

" I can sleep just as well at Port Rock as at White- 
hall. To-morrow will be Saturday, and my engage- 
ments for Monday and Tuesday are at the upper end 
of the lake, so that I shall have no more night work 
at present. I can stand it well enough." 

"I'm afraid it will be too much for you ; but if 
you have to engage an extra pilot, you must raise 
your price to sixty dollars a day." 

" I think we shall need another engineer at the 
same time. Ethan has just as hard a time of it as 
I do." 



 

" You had better raise your price ; people will not 
object." 

" I was thinking, sir, that Ben would make a good 
pilot. He is a good wheel-man, and it wouldn't 
take him long to learn the courses on the lake." 

Mr. Sherwood shook his head, 

" Would you be willing to trust him with the 
boat ? turn in and go to sleep yourself, while he is 
at the helm ? " asked he. 

" I think I would, after he had learned the navi- 
gation." 

" He is your brother, Lawry, and I don't like to 
say anything to wound you ; but I feel that your 
brother is not a reliable person. You must be very 
prudent. Even a trifling accident, resulting from 
mismanagement, might ruin your business ; for people 
will not expose their lives needlessly. If Ben will 
run the ferry the rest of the year, keep sober, and 
behave well in every respect, you might make a pilot 
of him, or even captain, another season." 

Doubtless this was good advice, and the little cap- 
tain had so much confidence in his friend and bene- 
factor, that he could not help adopting it. Mr. 



 



Sherwood went into the cabin again, without any 
conversation with the subject of his severe but just 
comments. Lawry was on the point of leaving the 
hurricane deck, where he had talked with his adviser, 
when he noticed that the boat was headed toM'ards 
the shore, and in a moment more would be aground 
in the shoal water off Barber's Point. He rushed 
into the wheel-house, and found that Ben had aban- 
doned the helm. Grasping the wheel, the pilot 
brought her up to her course, and then turned to 
his brother. 

" What do you mean, Ben, by leaving the wheel ? " 
demanded Lawry, filled with indignation at his 
brother's treachery. 

" Don't talk to me," growled Ben. 

" The boat would have been aground in a minute 
more." 

" I wish she was." 

" What's the matter, Ben ? " 

" I thought you were my brother; but you are not." 

" I'm sorry to hear you talk so ; and I didn't think 
you would do so mean a thing as to run the boat 
ashore." 



 

" I'll do anything now. I heard what Sherwood 
said to you, and what you said to him. I didn't 
think you would let any man talk about your brother 
as he did. Do you suppose I would let any man talk 
like that about my brother ? I'll bet I wouldn't ! 
I'd knock him over before the words were out of his 
mouth." 

" Why, what did he say, Ben ? " 

" What did he say ! Didn't you hear what he 
said ? Didn't he tell you I was a drunken fellow, 
and couldn't be trusted ? " 

" Well, he certainly did," replied Lawry, moodily. 

" And you heard him ! And you didn't say a 
word ! " said Ben, furiously. 

" What could I say ? I wish it wasn't true." 

" Do you ? " 

Ben looked his brother in the face, while his lips 
curled into a sneer of contempt. 

" What could I say when Mr. Sherwood spoke 
only what I know is true ? " 

" Then you think I'm a drunken fellow, and can't 
be trusted?" demanded Ben, with an injured look. 

" Don't you drink too much sometimes ? " 




" No, I don't ! I drink what I want ; but no one 
ever saw me the worse for liquor. Who says I can't 
be trusted ? " 

" When I gave you the wheel, at your own request, 
you left it, and the boat would have been ashore in 
another minute. Does that look as though you could 
be trusted ? " added Lawry, his indignation rekindled, 
as he thought of the peril to which his beautiful craft 
had been so maliciously exposed. 

" That was because you wouldn't trust me. I was 
mad." 

" One who would expose the lives of twenty or 
thirty persons when he got mad ought not to be 
trusted." 

" Lawry, you are no longer my brother. You and 
your mother, and Sherwood here, have been trying to 
put me down, and make a nobody of me. You can't 
do it. I'm your enemy now. You have made me 
mad, and you must take the consequences. I'll burn 
or smash this boat the first chance I get ! As for 
Sherwood, I'll teach him to talk about me ! " 

The angry young man rushed out of the wheel- 
house. If Mr. Sherwood had heard his insane threats. 



 

he would probably have insisted that he should be 
immediately put on shore ; but Lawry did not think 
his brother capable of the madness of malice his 
speech indicated ; he was in a passion, and when 
he cooled off he would be reasonable again. 

Ben sat down on the forecastle where the pilot 
could see him, and nursed his wrath till the Wood- 
ville arrived at Burlington. He was in deep thought 
all the time, and did not heed the singing or other 
amusements of the party on board, who were enjoy- 
ing themselves to the utmost. Apparently with no 
perception of his own faults and short-comings, he 
regarded himself as a deeply injured young man. 
His mother and his brother had turned against him, 
and M'ere persecuting him to the best of their ability. 
He had come on board to gain his purpose by con- 
ciliation ; he had failed, and, in his own view, there 
was nothing left for him but revenge. 

The boat touched at Burlington, and to the great 
relief of Lawry, his brother followed Mr. Sherwood 
on shore. At three o'clock the Woodville returned 
from Port Kent with the happy excursionists. While 
the steamer lay at the wharf, waiting for Mr. Sher- 







wood, many persons, moved by curiosity to inspect 
the beautiful craft, came aboard ; and whenever she 
stopped, she had plenty of visitors of this description. 
Among them Lawry saw his brother, accompanied 
by two men, who, from the remarks they made, were 
evidently familiar with the machinery and appoint- 
ments of steamers. 

Mr. Sherwood presently appeared attended by a 
bank messenger with the precious coin he had pur- 
chased at 2.44, the telegraphic quotation from New 
York for that day. 

" Where shall I put this gold. Captain Lawry ? " 
asked Mr. Sherwood. 

" I don't know, sir ; I'm really afraid of it," re- 
plied the captain, nervously. " Can't you carry it 
in your pockets ? " 

" It weighs about thirty-seven pounds," laughed 
Mr. Sherwood. " I will lock it up in my state-room. 
I shall sleep on board to-night, and it will be safe 
enough after we leave the wharf, for no one but you 
and me knows there is any specie on board." 

The man of gold went aft with the coin, which 
was contained in two bags. 



 



"I suppose I can go home with you — can't I, 
La wry ? " asked Ben, as the little captain started 
for the wheel-house. 

 Lawry could not refuse this request, though his. 
brother was evidently a little excited by the liquor 
he had drank. He hoped Ben had not heard any
thing about the treasure on board ; for he feared that 
revenge, if not dishonesty, might prompt him to com- 
mit a crime. 

The visitors were warned ashore, and the Wood- 
ville departed for Port Rock, where she arrived at 
about six o'clock. The excursion party went on 
shore, after the usual compliments to the steamer 
and her commander. 

" Now, Lawry, I must go up to the house for my 
valise ; but I will return in an hour," said Mr. Sher- 
wood, whose carriage was waiting for him at the 
head of the wharf. 

" But the gold, sir ? " whispered Lawry, anxiously. 

" You or Ethan may watch the state-room till I 
return, if you please ; but there is no danger here. 
You must turn in at once, Lawry, so as not to lose 
your sleep." 





" I shall be gone four or five days, this time, and 
I must go home after some clean clothes." 

" Very well ; I will get Ethan to keep his eye on 
the state-room," replied Mr. Sherwood ; and Lawry 
ran up to the cottage. 

Ethan, who had ordered the fires to be banked 
in the furnaces, and was letting off the superfluous 
steam, consented to watch the room containing the 
gold. Rounds, the deck hand, and the first fireman 
turned in, that they might be ready for duty at mid- 
night, when the boat would start for Whitehall. 



 



CHAPTER XIX. 

CAPTUKED AND KECAPTUEED. 

Unfortunately for Ben Wilford, he had heard 
Mr. Sherwood inform Lawry of his intentions in 
regard to the purchase and transportation of the 
gold. Before the Woodville reached Burlington, 
the dissolute young man had resolved to obtain the 
money if possible, prompted partly by revenge, and 
partly by the desire to possess so large a sum, with 
which he could revel in luxury in some distant part 
of the country. It must be confessed that this re- 
solve to commit a crime was not simply an impulse, 
for the young man who leads a life of indolence and 
dissipation is never at any great distance from crime. 
Ben had been schooling himself for years for the very 
deed he now determined to do. 

With more energy and decision, Ben was, in other 
respects, the counterpart of his father. His moral 







perceptions were weak, and the dissolute life he led 
had not contributed to strengthen them. He was the 
antipode of Lawry, who had been more willing to 
listen to the teachings of his mother. 

Ben had resolved to commit a crime, but he had 
not the skill or the courage to do it alone. When he 
went on shore at Burlington, he met two of his former 
boon companions, with whom he had often tippled, 
gambled, and caroused. One of them had been a 
fireman, and the other a deck hand, on board a 
steamer with Ben, and he knew them thoroughly. 
By gradual approaches he sounded them, to ascer- 
tain their willingness to join him in the robbery. 
The gold converted into currency would give them 
seven or eight thousand dollars apiece, and the temp- 
tation was sufficiently strong to remove all prudential 
obstacles. 

While the Woodville was absent on her trip to 
Port Kent, the details of the robbery had been set- 
tled. The confederates sat on the corner of the 
wharf and arranged their plans, which were mainly 
suggested by the one who had been a fireman. The 
scheme was to be executed while the boat lay at Port 



 



Rock, and the two men whom Lawry had seen with 
his brother were his associates in the intended crime. 
Ben had concealed them in the fore-hold of the 
steamer. While the excursion party were going on 
shore at the gangway abaft the wheels, and all hands 
had gone aft to witness their departure, Ben had 
called them from their hiding-place, and sent them 
on the wharf, where he soon joined them. From a 
point near the head of the pier, where they were 
not observed, they waited till Mr. Sherwood and 
Lawry had gone, and all was quiet on board of the 
steamer. 

" Now is our time," said Ben, nervously ; for he 
was not familiar enough with crime to be unmoved 
by the desperate situation in which he had placed 
himself. 

" Is the coast clear ? " asked the firemen. 

" Yes," replied Ben, whose teeth actually chattered 
with apprehension. 

" Who is there on board now ? " 

" No one but the engineer and the fireman, except 
two boys," answered Ben. " They were all going to 
turn in as soon as they got to the wharf." 




 



" The firemen are both men, but I reckon they 
won't fight ; all the rest are boys," 

" One fireman and two boys have turned in by 
this time," added Ben. 

" Then there is no one up but the engineer and 
one fireman ? " 

" No." 

" Where is the gold, Ben ? " 

" In the starboard saloon state-room." 

" All right ; have your pistols ready, but don't 
use them, for it will be bad for us if we have to 
kill any one." 

The party walked down to the Woodville. All 
was still on board of her, except the sound of 
escaping steam. Ethan stood sentry at the door of 
the state-room containing the gold, and the man on 
watch in the fiire-room was busy reading a newspaper. 
It was not sunset yet, but the crew of the Woodville 
had been worked so hard for three days, that those 
off duty could sleep without an opiate. 

" Put on that hatch," said the fireman, who became 
the leading spirit of the party, as he pointed to the 
companion-way of the fore-bold, where the hands 
slept. 



 

Ben obeyed the order without making any noise, 
and then the party went aft, where Ethan was 
keeping guard over the treasure. 

" Good evening, Ethan," said Ben, with more 
suavity than he was in the habit of using, 

" Good evening," replied the engineer. 

" Haven't turned in yet ? " continued Ben. 

" No." 

" Going to start at midnight, I hear." 
" Yes." 

" Some friends of mine wanted to look over the 
boat ; I suppose I can show them through." 

" I don't know ; Captain La wry can tell you," 
answered Ethan, who did not like Ben, and was not 
favorably impressed by the appearance of the other 
men. 

Ben walked aft into the saloon, followed by his 
companions. Ethan was sitting in a chair by the 
side of the state-room door. The fireman passed 
round behind, and suddenly fell upon him, throwing 
him on the floor, and pinioning his arms to his back. 

" What are you about ? " cried Ethan, struggling 
to release himself. " Help ! help ! " 







" Stop his mouth ! " said Ben, fearfully. 

Vainly poor Ethan endeavored to shake off his 
assailants ; his arms were tied together hehind him, 
and a handkerchief stuffed into his mouth. In this 
condition he was lashed to a stanchion, so that he 
could move neither hand nor foot. 

The commotion of this outrage attracted the atten- 
tion of Mrs. Light and the two waiter-girls, who were 
employed in the lower cabin. The fireman exhibited 
a pistol to them, drove them below again, and threat- 
ened to shoot them if they made any noise. A 
similar demonstration quieted the fireman, and com- 
pelled him to return to the fire-room. 

" The job is done," said Baker, the leader of the 
enterprise. 

" But we haven't got the money," added Flint, 
the deck hand. 

" We don't want that yet. It is safe where it is. 
Now both of you to your stations," continued Baker ; 
and he went down into the fire-room. 

Ben's station was in the wheel-house, Flint's at the 
fasts, and Baker's at the engine, as it appeared from 
their subsequent movements ; and it was evident, from 



 

the operations in progress, that the villains intended 
to make their escape in the steamer. Baker stopped 
the hissing steam which was going to waste, and 
compelled the fireman to renew the fires. 

" Be lively ! " shouted Ben, from the wheel-house, 
as he discovered Lawry on the shore, hastening back 
to the steamer with his bundle of clothes. 

" All ready ! " replied Baker, finding there was 
steam enough to start the boat. 

Flint had already cast ofi" the fasts, without waiting 
for orders, and was standing on the forecastle, as 
impatient to be off as a man can be who is engaged 
in the commission of a crime. 

Ben rang the bell to back her ; the wheels turned, 
but as the stern line had been cast ofi", her bow was 
not carried out from the wharf. By this time Lawry 
had discovered that the Woodville was in motion. 
He was astonished and alarmed, though he was far 
from surmising that his boat had been captured by 
robbers. Running with all his speed, he reached the 
head of the vharf just as the boat had backed far 
enough to permit Ben to see him, and for him 
to see that Ben was at the wheel. Then he 







realized that his brother was engaged in another 
conspiracy. 

Notwithstanding his extensive knowledge of 
" steamboating " in general, Ben Wilford was a 
very unskilful pilot. If he had understood the man- 
agement of a boat half as well as Lawry, the nefa- 
rious scheme might have been successful. He saw 
his brother ; he did not wish to have him come on 
board, for Lawry might be so obstinate as to induce 
one of his dissolute companions to fire at him. He 
rang the bell to stop her, and then to go ahead, at 
the same time putting the helm hard a-port. 

The Woodville went forward, and as she met the 
helm her bow came round, and she was headed out 
into the middle of the lake. As she went ahead, 
her stern swept in a circle within a few feet of the 
wharf, just as Lawry, breathless with haste and alarm, 
reached the end of the pier. The little captain knew 
nothing of the state of things on board, except that 
his brother Ben was at the wheel, which, however, 
was a sufficient explanation to him. The Woodville 
was going, and he could not let her depart without 
him. Dropping his bundle, he leaped to the plank- 



 

shear, grasping the rail with both hands. Jumping 
over the bulwark, he stood on the guard from which 
opened the windows of the saloon. 

Neither of the three conspirators were in a sit- 
uation to see this movement on the part of Lawry. 
Ben was too much occupied in steering — for he was 
not a little fearful of getting aground in some shoal 
water between the ferry and the wharf — to notice 
