cold it becomes hard, and dry, and brittle, but it melts easily 
enough. The bricks were laid in hot bitumen' It is not 
equal to good mortar by any means." 
"Where could they get enough of it ? " said lipL. 
" Close at hand, in their own country. There is plenty of 
it there. Above at Hill on the Euphrates, there are and 
always have been bitumen springs; in other parts of the 
country there are pits of it The Arabs have a way of setting 
fire to them when they are passing by; and that makes 
bonfires that would satisfy you boys. Hie smoke can be 
seen for miles oK Then they throw stones in to break the 
crust which the burning makes on the surface ; and the jets 
of fire leap up into the smoke in beautiful style." 
" What do they do that for, sir ? " 
" For fun, I suppose ; precisely the same reason that would 
make you do it" 
" Then people do not use the bitumen now ? " said Dan. 
" Yes, they da These very Arabs coUect it and carry it to 
Mosul, and sell it there for building purposes, and for lining 
boats, and for other uses. People do in the East just what 
they used to do thousands of years aga It is said that old 
boats plastered with bitumen, like those they have now, are 
found sometimes buried up under the soil in Babylonia." 
" Why do they bum it, if they want to sell it ?" I asked. 
" It keeps coming, Tiny. It only bums for an hour or so 
a time ; bat there comes a fresh supply, babbling up out of 
"We threw ouraelves down in the ahade of some trees.' 
crevices in the earth There is some wonderful manufactory 
of it underground. In Palestine, near Hasbeiya, there are 
wells of bitumen which have been dug for ages; but the 
bitumen is always there. Down, more than a hundred feet 
below the surface, there is a stream, or a stratum, of the black 
stuffi fifteen feet thick in some places— sometimes only five. 
I might call it a stream, for it must flow from somewhere. 
Then there is a manufactory of it under the Dead Sea. From 
time to time great masses of it, cooled by the water, come 
-up and float on the siurface, and the Arabs collect it carefully. 
In Babylonia and Assyria the natives use it for fuel when it 
is dry." 
" I should think stone and mortar were a great deal better 
than brick and shme," said Priscilla. 
" Undoubtedly, Prissy. And yet, in that climate, those 
old piles of unbaked bricks and reeds stand yet, and have 
stood as long as any pieces of stronger masonwork that I am 
acquainted with." 
" You said they had a furious sun to dry their bricks 
uncle Sam." 
"Yes, it 's the chmate. It keeps things dry. I ought to 
know about the heat of the sun ; for I made an excursion 
once with an EngUshman, a fellow-traveUer, there, to see if 
we could trace out any remains of the great wall of Babylon. 
It was in July— when the thermometer stood at 117° in tbe 
deepest shade we could get ; and in the sun it was 1.35 and 
140" We rode, I suppose, twenty miles under that sun, and 
had Hke to have died. Our water-bottles gave out ; the sun 
crlared at us from the yellow sand; and every now and then 
when a blast of the hot north-west wmd came, we just 
lilently wheeled about and took it on our backs. I shall 
never forget that day We had gone out and we had to get 
Sack again. At last, when we were almost dead, we saw a 
S of green in the distance. We had been going over 
Nothing but sand and rums and broken pottery, where the 
X of Babylon once covered the ground ; and now we came 
to little enclosed garden, where was an old dervish taking 
re of a small sanctuary erected to ' Solomon the sou of 
care ' 
David the prophet,' he told us. We swallowed first any 
quantity of the brackish water we found there— and then 
threw ourselves down in the shade of some trees, without 
even fastening our horses, and went to sleep. The poor 
beasts were in no danger of straying ; they were as much 
exhausted as we were, and lay down in the shade to rest, 
without offering to stir. When we awoke, the old dervish 
had got a melon for us ; we devoured that and some hard 
bread out of our sacks, and so got back to Hillah in safety. 
I had a view of the land of Shinar that day. It was one 
waste of yellow sand, as far as the eye could see ; where once 
it was full of green and fruitful beauty, and those old settlers 
thought to build a city and a tower and make themselves a 
name." 
" Uncle Sam, did they really think they could build a 
tower the top reaching to heaven ?" 
" Oh, no, Tiny ; that is only a form of speech. Just so, 
when the children of Israel were afraid to go over into 
Palestine, they declared that ' the cities were walled up to 
heaven ! ' Just as I said, or as you say sometimes, that you 
are ' tired to death.'" 
"Then why did God stop their building ?" said Dan. 
" It was a proud, impious scheme to be great without Him, 
or perhaps in spite of Him. Such schemes the Lord always 
breaks to pieces — as you will see. They proposed it to keep 
together, and be one great, powerful people. But ' the Lord 
bringeth the counsel of the people to nought : he maketh 
the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the 
Lord standeth for ever.' He had determined and declared 
by the mouth of His servant Noah, that the families of 
Shem, Ham, and Japheth, should have different and separate 
fortunes. That could not be, if they all lived together, intermarried, and made one family. So when they made 
arrangements for that, the Lord confounded their language, 
so that Shem's people could not understand Japheth's, and 
neither of them could talk comfortably with the children of 
Ham. They could not go on building together nor living 
together after that. ' The Lord scattered them abroad from 
thence upon the face of the whole earth ' — exactly what they 
had been scheming against ' He disappointeth the devices 
of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise. He taketh the wise in their own craftiness : and the 
counsel of the froward is carried headlong.' " 
 
Sept. 11.— THE DIVISION. 
"Now we come to Abraham!" said Priscilla the next day, 
when we opened our Bibles after dinner as usual. 
" No, we don't," said Liph. 
" Why, his name comes in the very first verse of the next 
chapter," said Priscilla. 
" But the tenth chapter comes before the twelfth, Prissy," 
said my uncle ; " though it comes after the first verses of the 
eleventh. We want to see what became of the rest of the 
children of Noah, and then we shall have a clear field for 
Abraham." 
"Why, they were scattered abroad over all the earth," 
said Prissy. 
" It will be a good plan for us to see where they went," 
said my uncle. " When all that multitude on the plains of 
SMnar were confounded in their speech, and were obliged to 
break off building, they found very soon that it would not 
be convenient for them to live together. Business could not 
be carried on, nor friendship, nor government, unless they 
could understand each other; and as the world was wide 
enough, the simplest way was to divide their forces and each 
great division go off by itself." 
" Did they speak French and English, and everything that 
is spoken now ?" asked Priscilla. 
" I think not. French and English have grown up since, 
and not a great while ago either, as we speak them. No ; it 
seems, Prissy, from all we can make out by study, that the 
first division of tongues was not into languages so utterly 
different but that a good deal of likeness often remained. 
However, the people were no longer 'of one lip,' as the 
Hebrew baa it, even if they used the same words. They 
spoke them variously; and so it followed that they did just 
what the Lord meant them to do ; they went off by families 
to settle the earth. And in this division the sons of Japheth 
took the ' isles of the Gentiles;' which means, the islands 
and coasts of the Mediterranean and its sister waters." 
"That wasn't much for Japheth to have," said Priscilla. 
" Wasn't it? Let us see. Japheth, you know, means 
' extension.' His first son mentioned is Gomer. Now you 
want the map." 
" Here it is, sir," said the boys. 
"Gomer went to the shores around the Sea of Azof, 
especially the peninsula; where his children were called 
Cimmerians, and the name of the Crimea is a relic of theirs. 
That place was thought then to be next door to the infernal 
regions ; and it was supposed they could not see much of the 
sun, because of the clouds and mists of their savage country. 
There they dwelt, however; a hard set, suited to their circumstances ; till about seven hundred years before the Christian 
era — or a little less — when the Scythians drove them out. 
They poured down into Asia Minor then at first, and did a 
terrible deal of mischief. After that, when they were at last 
conquered and driven away, we hear no more of them under 
the name of Cimmerians ; but they seem to have pushed off 
to the far west, where they took possession of Denmark and 
the northern coast of Germany and Belgium ; and there you 
know them, boys, in the time of the Romans, as the Cimbri," 
"Oh, were they Gomer's children ?" said Dan. 
" There is every reason to think so. From the north of 
Europe they crossed over into Britain ; and there they were 
eventually forced into comers of the land ; into the north, 
where their descendants are called Gael, and into the little 
nook of the mountains of Wales, where their name appears 
very clearly in the Cymri ; as it does too in Cambria, and 
Cumberland" 
"Then Gomer has not done much for the world," said 
Dan. " They were always a wild, fierce set." 
" I am afraid Japheth had a good deal of that blood," 
said my uncle. " In the early times of the world?" 
 
at least, his children were distinguished for nothing but 
fighting. The accomplishments and arts of those times 
were in the hands of Shem and Cush — especially the latter." 
" Of Cush, uncle Sam ? ' said L. 
"Even so, Tiny." 
" But he was Ham's son." 
"True. We shall come to him in time. Gomer's next 
brother was worse than himself. That was Magog. Magog 
seems to be the name of the wild hordes of men who 
inhabited northern Asia ; beginning here, at the east of the 
Caspian Sea, and spreading north and north-east, into the 
cold and savage regions of those parts. They were the 
Scythians." 
" I know them," said Dan. 
" Gomer was the head of the whole Celtic race. Magog 
is supposed at least to represent the Scythians. Certainly 
that is what the name meant in the time when Ezekiel wrote 
— all the tribes living north of the Caucasus." 
"Where is the Caucasus, uncle Sam ? " 
" Look here, Tiny. From the straits that let the waters of 
the Sea of Azof into the Black Sea, there stretches across to 
the shore of the Caspian this straight long mountain range. 
It is a high range, so high as to have its peaks in various 
places covered with perpetual snow. North of this went 
Magog ; and from tUb earliest times the notion held, that the 
enemies of religion and civilisation had their abode there. 
The Scythians were at any rate a terrible, fierce people. 
They were said to be the inventors of the bow and arrow, 
and they were great at the use of them on horseback ; and 
famous for their character of cruelty and wildness. In the 
seventh century before Christ, they, too, were driven out of 
their place by the inroad of another tribe ; and then they came 
south, with the Cimmerians, and spread terror over all the 
eastern world. For thirty years they ravaged one country 
after another, till they were at last overcome and obliged to 
draw themselves offl It was a very few years later, while 
everybody remembered this terribly well, that the prophet 
Hzekiel took them as a type of the enemies of God and His 
Church ; described how the bands of such enemies would 
come up against the Church, and with what an overthrow 
the Lord would destroy them. Turn to the thirty-eighth 
chapter of Ezekiel, and there, serving as a figure of the Lord's 
enemies, you will see how he describes them. 
"Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I am against thee, 
O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal ; and I will 
turn thee back, and put hooks into thy jaws, and I will bring 
thee forth, and all thine army, horses and horsemen, all of 
them clothed with all sorts of armour, even a great company 
with bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords: 
Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them ; all of them with shield 
and helmet : Gomer, and all his bands ; the house of Togarmah of the north quarters, and all his bands; and many people 
with thee And thou shalt come from thy place out of 
the north parts, thou, and many people with thee, all of them 
riding upon horses, a great company, and a mighty army.' " 
"Gomer— that is the Cimmerians," said Dan. "But it 
sounds like a description of what you were telling about, 
uncle Sam; that invasion of the Scythians and the other 
people." 
"Yes, and he uses them to picture forth the terribleness 
and greatness of the enemies of God and the Church, who 
will some time be gathered together against it. 'It shall be 
in the latter days,' the prophet says ; and he goes on to tell 
how the Lord will overthrow and destroy them. 'I will 
smite thy bow out of thy left hand ; and will cause thine 
arrows to fall out of thy right hand. Thou shalt fall upon 
the mountains of Israel, thou and all thy bands ; and the 
people that is with thee : I will give thee unto the ravenous 
birds of every sort, and to the beasts of the field to be devoured. Thou shalt fall upon the open field: for I have 
spoken it, saith the Lord God.' The invasion of the real 
bands of the real Magog had just happened ; and it was the 
strongest figure Ezekiel could use to give the people a notion 
of the force and fury of the enemies of the Lord's cause and 
people in later times." 
" So that is all about the Scythians ? " said Prisdlla. 
"All for the present. They only appear in Bible times as 
a wild, warlike, fierce, rude people." 
"Madai is the next son of Japheth mentioned ; and that 
is the same word that in the whole of Scripture is used for 
the nation of the Medes." 
" I know about the Medes," said LipL " Cyrus was their 
king." 
"A long while after Japheth's time," said uncle Sam. We 
know nothing for certain about the Medes, though they 
were one of the oldest nations in the world, until about eight 
hundred and eighty years before Christ; then their name 
appears in cuneiform inscriptions among the enemies of 
Assyria. Here they lived, you see, just on the other side of 
these mountains, the Zagros range, which separated them 
from Assyria. At first they were not a great nation ; only a 
collection of independent hardy tribes, each governed by its 
own chief. The Assyrian monarchs were for ever trying to 
bring them under subjection ; but never could succeed 
thoroughly ; until the day of the Median kingdom came, about 
six hundred and fifty years before Christ. Some leader, it is 
supposed Cyaxares the Great, united all the petty tribes into 
one kingdom; and then began to make them and himself 
famous. First he had to fight his cousins the Scyths, who 
were in the mountains of Zagros, and get them under, with 
perhaps Scythian tribes from the north to help them. This 
was done at last ; and then Cyaxares conquered Assyria, and 
took Nineveh ; and Media was the third great eastern empire 
with Lydia and Babylon." 
" Then the Medes always were the Medes," said Daniel ; 
"and not anybody else." 
"Arians is another name often given to them. Cyrus 
was king of the Persians, Liph, and only became king of the 
Medes by conquest, seventy -five years after their empire had 
been established." 
"Well, these were a more respectable Japhetian race," 
said Dan. 
" They were more respectable, as you say. They were like 
the Persians and Armenians in many things. They were 
brave men, good soldiers, capital horsemen, and good archers ; 
and they must have excelled in some domestic arts, for they 
were very fond of dressing splendidly. Now their country 
lay here, east of Armenia and Assyria, south and south-west 
of the Caspian Sea ; and extending north and south about 
five hundred and fifty miles. All told, it was not near so 
large as modern France ; but a great deal of it is very pleasant. The northern part is a fine fertile country, with a tem- 
perate climate ; it grows all kinds of corn, wine, silk, and 
great plenty of delicious fruits. Tabriz is a beautiful place, 
in a forest of orchards." 
"That is the capital," said Dan. 
"That is the capital. Farther south there is a lovely 
mountainous country, where everything grows ; cotton, Indian 
corn, tobacco, wheat, wine, and every variety of fruit. There 
was the old famous breed of horses, which the Persians 
valued so much. But the eastern part of the land becomes 
very poor, and ends at last in the great salt desert which 
hems in Media on that side." 
" I like to know what sort of a country people lived in," 
said Dan. " It seems to help one to understand." 
" It does help one," said my uncle. " The inhabitants of 
the cold, gloomy regions of Scythia would never have learned 
to weave beautiful stuffs and garments, or cared to dress 
themselves in scarlet and gold, as the Medes did. The 
Medes, on the other hand, were not a weak, luxurious people, 
as the nations of warm climates are apt to become. Speaking of the destruction of Babylon, Isaiah says the Lord's 
word — ' Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which 
shall not regard silver; and as for gold, they shall not 
delight in it.' They were not made effeminate by the love of 
splendour and luxury, like the Babylonians." 
" Now, uncle Sam," said Priscilla, who kept her Bible open, 
" Javan comes next. Who is he ? " 
" The head of the whole Greek race, undoubtedly." 
" Was he ! " said Daniel " Then I know where he went." 
"There can be little doubt about it. The Greeks were 
for a long time hardly known to the Hebrew nation. But 
 
the Phoenicians had commercial dealings with all the sea- 
board peoples of the Mediterranean; and then, as now, 
commerce was the means of spreading knowledge. Through 
them it seems that the name of Javan, as representing the 
Greek nation, became known in Asia; for in the time of 
Sargon, king of Assyria, it appears in a cmieif orm inscription 
as Yuvnan, or Yunan, given to describe the people of Cyprus. 
In that island the Assyrians first came in contact with the 
Greek power." 
"Then why is it not Javan, instead of Yunan, uncle Sam ?' 
"Because, Tiny, in the different ways of pronunciation 
used in different languages, names are constantly changed 
from their true original sound to suit the tongues of people 
that cannot pronounce it. We do that now. We do not 
pronounce the word ' Paris ' as the French people pronounce 
it ; and they change London into Londres, and England into 
Angkterre; those are more unlike than Javan and Yuvnan 
— don't you see f ' 
" Javan and Yuvnan are close enough," said Liph. 
" Of Javan's four sons, Elishah was on the sea-coast, in 
some place or places where the shell-fish are found of which 
the Tyrians made their beautiful purple dye ; for in EzekiePs 
time we know a trade in that article was carried on between 
the two peoples. 'Blue and purple from the isles of Elishah' 
was that which covered thee,' the prophet says, speaking to 
Tyre. The iEolians were perhaps the children of Elishah ; 
they had situations in the north-west of Asia Minor where 
those fish are found; but they are found elsewhere too. 
Chittim drove out the Hamite settlers who first occupied 
Crete and other islands, and afterwards crossed over to the 
south-west comer of Asia Minor, and was the nation called 
Carians. The Dodanim were in Illyricum and in the city of 
Troy." 
" Where is Illyricum, uncle Sam ? " 
"Here, Tiny — along the eastern shore of the Adriatic. 
The Dodanim settled there. Tarshish seems to have gone 
to Spain. The Bible does not tell us directly as much ; but 
the prophet JSzekiel speaking of Tyre says, 'Tarshish was 
thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all kinds of 
riches ; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in thy 
fairs. Now Spain in old time, we know from old historians, 
was rich in these metals ; her silver especially was very 
abundant and beautiful; and the Phoenicians made great 
merchandise of it, and planted colonies there to work the 
metal, which the natives did not know how to do. The lead 
fields of Spain are still some of the richest in the world; and 
as for tin, there was hardly any other place where the 
Phoenicians could have got it. The only other places were 
Lusitania, or Portugal, and Cornwall in Great Britain ; and 
it is very unlikely they went to any such far away and hardly 
known region, when the coast of Spain offered them plenty. 
Even the coast of Spain was a long voyage off in those days ; 
and ' ships of Tarshish ' are supposed to mean great merchant 
vessels — like what English people mean now by an East 
Indiaman ; a vessel built to go the longest and most difficult 
kind of a trading voyage. I should remark, that in aftertimes, when the power of Tyre fell and this close trade and 
intercourse with Tarshish came to an end, the Hebrews, who 
were not a trading people then, and knew little or nothing 
about the whole Greek nation except through the Phoeni- 
cians, lost sight of Tarshish, and even lost the knowledge of 
where it had been. So we are driven to collect evidence." 
" I like collecting evidence," said Dan. " Now there are 
three sons of Japheth yet to be settled." 
"They will not hold us long. Tubal and Meshech took 
their place, we believe, along the borders of the Black Sea, 
and between that and the Caspian. They were one of the 
most powerful nations of Western Asia at one time; but 
they dwindled to a mere strip of country. They were close 
neighbours of Armenia and Colchis ; you will find them in 
history, boys, under the names of Tibareni and MoschicL 
Ezekiel helps us to place them. He says Tubal and Meshech 
traded with Tyre, in 'the persons of men and vessels of 
brass.' Now that is still the region whence the most 
beautiful slaves are brought— the modem province of 
Georgia; and the copper of a tribe neighbouring to that 
 
region was known for its brightness and its purity. So you 
see, commerce helps us, boys." 
" And where did Tiras go ? " 
"It is not certain. His name is not mentioned again. 
But there are two sons of Gomer to be spoken of, who did 
not go westward. Ashkenaz is thought to have settled along 
the southern coast of the Black Sea, and to have given his 
name to it. From the Sea of Ashkenaz, it came to be Pontus 
Axenus, and so Pontus Euxinus. Togarmah was certainly 
Armenia. The Armenians themselves have a tradition that 
they are descended from Thorgomass or Tiorgarmah ; and 
the way the name is mentioned in the Bible leaves no reason- 
able doubt of it Ezekiel says, speaking to Tyre, ' They of 
the house of Togarmah traded in thy fairs with horses and 
horsemen and mules.' You remember I told you the wealth 
of Armenia was in her horses and mules, that the rich 
pasturages of the country supplied. And the people were 
and are keen traders. So, Tiny—'by these were the isles of 
the Gentiles divided in their lands; every one after his 
tongue, after their families, in their nations.' . They were a 
wild set, the sons of Japheth, in the first ages of the world's 
history. Fighting seemed to be the business they did best ; 
and they have kept up the taste I I really do not know what 
they were remarkable for, during long periods of those 
early times, but warring and conquering. To act out their 
father's name and extend themselves, seemed, the family 
passion. I believe it is yet. Only among the Greeks it 
would appear that Javan left an inheritance of taste and love 
of the beautiful to his children, which early began to show 
itself. When Esarhaddon, king of Assyria, was building his 
splendid temples and palaces, he had Greek artists to help 
in the ornamenting of them. Their names are mentioned 
in an inscription which says so. And there the inscription 
stands to this day to tell us !" 
"Where, uncle Sam?" 
"Found among the ruins. But we have not got to Esarhaddon yet, children." 
"But, air, the children of Japheth do better things now 
than merely extend themselves. They make discoveries and 
find out sciences." 
" Extension in another way," said my uncle ; " and conquest and power in another way. They are a restless race 
still. But now let us go on to the children of Ham. Open 
the atlas, boys — let us see the map of Egjrpt and Arabia and 
Southern Asia. 
" Gush is the first mentioned of Ham's children, and the 
Cushites were one of the greatest of the Hamite nations. 
Egypt was the ' land of Ham ' — but Gush was not in Egypt. 
Here is his place, just south of Egypt; the kingdom of 
Ethiopia ; and you must not think of these people as being 
negroes. They are said by Herodotus to have been the 
handsomest people in the world; tall, stalwart, dark, and 
very fine-looking. Besides Ethiopia, in the very early times, 
the Gushites spread far abroad. You must fancy a line of 
Gushite settlements all along the southern shore of Arabia, 
and up the Persian Gulf, and in Babylonia and Assyria, and 
from there onward north and east to the banks of the Indus. 
They did not retain these possessions, but for a time there 
they were ; and they have left signs of their presence in 
magnificent architectural remains, the ruins of which can be 
traced to this day. The sons of Shem or Japheth sooner or 
later overwhelmed these early colonists ; bnt there was the 
Gushite stock left, and a mingling of Gushite language with 
the Shemitic, and the riches of the old Gushite arts and 
accomplishments. But only in Ethiopia they held their 
ground as a pure Gushite nation. The old kingdom of 
Ethiopia included what we call Nubia and Abyssinia and 
Sennaar, &c. ; from Syene on the border of Egypt, down 
south and west. It was often under the same rule as Egypt; 
the king sometimes Ethiopian, sometimes and oftener not ; 
and MeroS here, at the grand fork of the Nile, was the 
principal city, and gave name to the principal part of the 
territory. Seba, the son of Gush, settled in Ethiopia ; the 
others seem to have scattered themselves all along the shores 
of the Indian Ocean for some distance, as far as Susiana, or 
ChuzUtan, beyond the Tigris. But the Arabian settlements 
 
were early overlaid, as I said, by a Shemitic race, the sons of 
Joktan. Only upon the shores of the Persian Gulf it would 
seem that Sheba and Dedan were connected with Joktanite 
tribes of the same name and neighbournood, and carried on 
in after-times the great caravan trade with Palestine in the 
goods of India. iJimrod's name was not so soon lost." 
"  He began to be a mighty one in the earth,' the Bible 
says; and of all the people who ever tried to exalt themselves, he was certainly one of the most successful ' The 
beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, 
and Calneh, in the land of Shinar;' and from there it seems 
he went up into Assyria and founded four more great cities. 
Our English Bible says Asshur founded them ; but that is 
probably a mistranslation. The Hebrew words will read 
the other way ; and Asshur is out of place among the Cushites ; and the Bible elsewhere calls Assyria ' the land of 
Nimrod.' So I think it is certain." 
''Are any of those cities left yet, uncle Sam ?" 
" Nothing but ruins ; and in most cases we cannot be sure 
of the place the ruins represent. But the old Erech is thought 
to be found in the modern Warka, or Irak; and there and 
at Mugheir there are, as I told you, ruins of temple-towers 
dating back to Nimrod's time. Babylon was rebuilt long 
afterwards, and Nineveh; but in spite of Nebuchadnezzar 
and all the kings who ever lived, over all that land Nimrod's 
name still lives in the mouths of the Arabs. 
" I shall not forget when I first heard it from one of them. 
I was going down the Tigris on a raft. Towards evening, 
one pleasant evening in spring, we came near an immense 
heap of ruins on the eastern bank of the river. It was all 
green then, as the Assyrian ruins are after the spring rains ; 
the mound and the meadows around it were all fresh and 
green and full of flowers of every colour ; the ruin looked 
very like a natural hill, and you might think it was, but for 
the bits of pottery and brick and alabaster scattered over it, 
half hid among the grass. The river was swollen from the 
rains, and rushed along rather furiously ; a sort of dam, a 
large piece of mason work, stretched across it; and over this 
and around this the waters whirled and eddied, and made a 
tolerably large cataract We went over with a dash, safely 
and when my Arab boatman had got through his religious 
exclamations, which the danger had called up, he informed 
me that the dam was built by Nimrod, and that it was 
made for a causeway to let him cross over from the city, 
the ruins of which we were passing, to a palace on the opposite bank." 
" What ruins were those, uncle Sam ? " 
" I believe they were f oimd to be the ruins which mark 
the place of the old city of Calah. The Arabs call them 
NimroucL Nimrod was made a deified hero of the early 
Babylonish religion ; and his name in the inscriptions ia the 
same with the name given to Meroe, the chief city of the 
Cushites in Ethiopia. That shows the connexion between 
the peoples. But now we must finish up the children of 
Ham. 
" Miaraim is next to Cush That means, the two Egypts, 
Upper and Lower. They were reckoned two regions, though 
under one king. The crown of Upper Egypt was white, and 
the crown of Lower Egypt was red ; and the two together 
made the royal diadem, or pshent, as it was called. Now 
here are a great many tribes spoken of as children of Miz- 
raim. Some of them, the Naphtuhim, the Pathrusim, Caslu- 
him, and Caphtorim, were in Egypt itself ; others branched 
off The Philistines we shall come to by and by." 
" Then where was Phut ? What a name !" said Prissy. 
" We are not certain of more than that he was in Africa
probably not far from Egypt proper. He is not much men- 
tioned ; but the prophet Nahum speaks of him as one of 
the supporters of the strength of the great Egyptian city 
Thebes. ' Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was 
infinite : Put and Lubim were thy helpers.' " 
" Where is that, sir ? " said Liph. 
" In the third chapter— ninth verse." 
" But Thebes is not spoken of here." 
"What makes you think so? 'Populous No, that was 
situate among the rivers'— that was Thebes, my boy." 
 
" Then who was Lubim ?" said Priscilla. 
"Perhaps the same as the Mizraite Lehabim. They are 
tiot the same as the Ludim ; those were probably another 
African branch. The Lubim were a Mizraite family that 
went off towards the west. In the Bible, and also in old 
Egyptian monuments, we find them mentioned as a people 
under tribute to Egypt, or under its rule ; and as a white 
northern people. So they were along the north coast of 
Africa, and with their kindred tribes were called the Libyans. 
From the earliest times a stream of emigration has poured 
westward into Africa, between the Mediterranean and the 
Great Desert. The first of these emigrants were no doubt 
the Lubim and their fellow tribes. Later, they were conquered by the Egyptians in the time of Rameses III ; and 
later still, the fate of Ham's children overtook them. They 
were forced to go back from the sea-coast by the incoming 
Phoenicians and Greek colonists ; and now there they are 
yet, on the borders of the Great Desert, and partly within 
it and in the mountains; while their Shemitic successors 
pasture their flocks in the rich plains they once owned. One 
great Arab tribe holds the ground from Egypt to Morocco — 
the old territory, I suppose, of the Libyans. Some of these 
Mizraite people spread into the islands of the sea and the 
corner of Asia Minor, whence the children of Chittim drove 
them out ; they could not stand anywhere." 
" Now, uncle Sam," said Liph, who sat with the map be- 
fore him while Daniel held an open Bible, (and so did Prissy 
and I, for that matter,) " there is nobody else left of the 
Hamites but Canaan." 
" Well, you see where he went. Sidon was his first-bom, 
and the father of the great Phoenician nation ; here is his 
city, Sidon, it is a city yet, — up high on the coast of Palestine. The other sons and descendants of Canaan were scat- 
tered over the land' The Hamathite was up here, in the 
valley of the Orontes, at the very northern border of it ; the 
Sinite, farther up yet, on the slopes of Lebanon ; the Arkite 
and Arvadite were in Phoenicia. The rest of the family, of 
whom ife JbaoiF anything, filled the country of Canaan; with 
one exception. In the south-west, on the sea-coast, stretch- 
ing along for many a mile, is a rich level plain ; a great 
cornfield it is and was, and has been for centuries. That the 
Philistines got hold o£ They were another branch of Ham
family, and came very early indeed out of Egypt and planted 
themselves here. That is the end of the list of the Hamites. 
They became great nations; they established themselves 
in great power ; they had arts and accomplishments supe- 
rior to other peoples at that day. Homes of civilisation 
grew up from a Hamite stock in many and many a place ; 
they were merchants, and builders, and people of great 
ability in forming and establishing empire ; yet they sooner 
or later everywhere went down before their brethren Shem 
