acquiescence. 
" There," said Bert, triumphantly, " Topsy says I am 
right. I don't know what I should do without Topsy." 
" She makes a very suitable companion for you, Bert," 
said Mr. Bowman, smiling. 
" Why?" asked the cat's mistress, suspiciously. 
" Because you can sympathize so well. Both are 
equally mischievous, and it is very difficult to tell which 
knows the most of books." 
" Now, papa, that is a slander. I will sue you for 
libel." 
" On your own account, or the kitten's?" asked Mr. 
Bowman. "I really don't know which I have done 
injustice to." 
" Now you are laughing at me, papa. I knew you 
are." 
" Not entirely, Bert. The fact is, you are terribly 
ignorant for one of your age." 
 
 
" I suppose I am," said Bert, shaking her head in 
comic despair. 
" You'll grow up with no more knowledge than a 
Hottentot." 
'  Don't they have any schools among the Hottentots ? " 
'' I suppose not." 
" How delightful that must be ! Why can't we move 
out where they live ? " 
" I don't know but we shall have to," said her father, 
" as, hereabouts, young ladies are expected to know 
something about books. But that reminds me I don't 
knOw but I shall succeed in engaging a governess for 
you to-day." 
" A governess to-day ! " exclaimed Bert, in dismay. 
"Yes. I have made an appointment with a lady to 
call here at nine o'clock, and, if I am satisfied with her, 
I intend to engage her." 
" And if Jam satisfied with her," added Bert. 
" Is that essential? " asked her father, smiling. 
" Yes, for you know she will be with me most of the 
time. If she is like Julia Campbell's governess, I 
sha'n't like her." 
" Well, and what fault do you find with Julia Camp- 
bell's' governess? " asked Mr. Bowman, with more interest than his tone conveyed; for he knew that if Bert 
did not fancy her governess she would be a most incorrigible little rebel, and would be likely to profit very 
little by her instructions. 
' 0h, she's as disagreeable as she can be. In the 
first place, she's an old maid, — not that that's so very 
bad. In fact, I've about made up my mind to be an old 
maid myself." 
 
" Indeed ! " said Mr. Bowman, answered. " May I 
inquire your reasons ? " 
 " Too numerous to mention." 
" Perhaps one is, that you don't expect to have any 
chance to change your name." 
" I've had a chance ahready," said Bert, in a matter-- 
of-fact tone. 
''Had a chance already!" exclaimed her father, in 
amazelnent. 
" Yes," said the young lady of ten, " Charlie Morrill 
offered himself the other day, and I refused him." 
" What is the world coming to? " thought Mr. Bow- 
man. " Why did you refuse him? " 
" Because," said Bert, soberly, " I don't like the way 
he parts his hair. . But as for Julia's governess, I know 
she never had an offer. She's as homely as — as — well, 
I don't know who. Then she wears glasses, and has a 
nose ever so long, and a long face, and she never smiles, 
and she makes Julia study terrible hard." 
And Bert drew a long breath. 
" Not a very charming picture, certainly," said Mr. 
Bowman ; " but I'll promise you that, if the lady who 
applies for the post of governess to-day sbould be anything like this, I won't engage her." 
" That's right, papa. When do you expect her ? " 
'' Let me see. She was to be here at nine, a&d now 
it wants only ten minutes of that time." 
'' And you won't send me out of the room, papa, will 
you?" 
"Mr. Bowman hesitated. 
 ' You know I am very anxious to see how she looks. 
 
 
If I like her, I will make a sign to you, and then you 
can engage her." 
" What sign will yon make, Bert?" asked her father, 
amused, and yet alive to the necessity of securing his 
daughter's acquiescence in his choice. 
' "1 don't know," said Bert, reflecting ; " suppose I . 
wink." 
" And suppose the lady should see you winking at me ? 
What do you suppose she would think ? " 
" Oh; I could tell her afterwards, you know, and she 
would feel flattered, knowing it was a sign that I liked 
her." 
" She might not think it very lady-like in you." 
" What's the use of being lady-like? I don't want to 
be. There's Florence Gates ; I suppose she's lady-like. 
I'll show you how she walks." 
Bert imitated the gait of the young lady, swaying 
herself from side to side, as she walked with mincing 
step, tossing her head, and exhibiting a caricature of 
the airs and affectations which girls sometimes delight 
to display. 
" Why, she wouldn't run for a thousand dollars,'' 
exclaimed Bert. '  She would think it beneath her dignity. If she is lady-like, I don't want to be. But, 
hark ! there goes the bell. She's coming. Now, papa, 
just remember, I shall wink if I like her, and if I don't 
I'll make up a face." 
Bert transferred herself to an ottoman, and took 
Topsy into her lap. 
  Both she and her father looked towards the door with 
curiosity. 
 
Mrs. Codmak had been carefully educated at a large 
expense, and was versed in all the accomplishments 
which are considered indispensable in a young lady's 
education nowadays. It was with no degree of hesita- 
tion on this point, therefore, that she set out this particular morning to present herself as an applicant for 
the post of governess. Having no influential friends, 
however, and not being able to present references from 
a former employer (this being her first essay in this 
line), she feared that her application would be unsuccessful. She could not but feel a considerable degree 
of anxiety, for- her circumstances h&d become desperate, 
owing to the refusal of her former employers to give 
her any more sewing. 
She dressed herself as neatly as her limited wardrobe 
would admit, and with hearty good wishes and many 
glowing predictions of success from her humbly friend, 
Mrs. O'Grady, she set out. 
Though some years past thirty, Mrs. Codman so far 
retained the freshness of youth, that she would hardly 
have been taken for this age. As a girl she had been 
very boautifUl, and her womanhood did not belie her 
early promise. Her attire, though not expensive, was 
in good taste, and characterized by a lady-like simplicity.
Such was the applicant for the post of governess, 
upon whom the curious eyes of Bert and her father fell 
as she was ushered into the breakfast-room by the ser' 
vant, who had received orders to do so. She entered 
the room with the easy grace of a lady. Mr. Bowman 
at once recognized her claim to be considered such by 
deferentially rising, and inviting her to be seated. 
"If I mistake not," he said, politely, "you are the 
lady who has been recommended to me as possessing 
excellent qualifications for the office of governess." 
"Perhaps the recommendation was too strong and 
decided," said Mrs. Codman, modestly. "I shall be 
glad, however, to be considered an applicant for the 
position." 
Here Mr. Bowman, who chanced to glance at Bert, 
detected her executing a surprising succession of winks, 
indicating the favorable impression which had been made 
upon her by the appearance of Mrs. Codman. 
Ah'eady prepossessed in favor of the applicant, this 
was an ' additional inducement to engage her, as her 
success would depend, to a very great extent, upon the 
young lad3''s good-will. 
"I suppose," he said, "you feel prepared to teach 
the branches and accomplishments usually included in 
the education of a young lady." 
Mrs. Codman bowed. 
" I ain't a young lady," interrupted Bert, at this 
point, who thought she was in imminent danger of 
becoming too learned. 
" We hope you will be some time," said Mr. Bowman. 
 
In reply, Bert winked once more. 
There was a piano in the room. 
" Will you favor, us with a specimen of your play- 
ing?" asked Mr. Bowman. 
Mrs. Codman sat down to the piaiio and played two 
pieces, one slow in movement, the other rapid, showing 
a nice touch and easy execution. 
" Thank you," said Mr. Bowman. " I am inclined to 
think that I shall be glad to avail myself of your services. Should you be willing to engage for three months 
at first, to see how we are mutually pleased with each 
other ? The pupil I have to offer j ou is a litle addicted 
to mischief, and I dont know how you may like her." 
" I am quite willing to enter into such an arrangement," said Mrs. Codman; "and in reference to the 
last point, I am quite sure I shall like my pupil. I 
begin to like her already." 
"Do you?" said Bert, with much satisfaction, rising 
from the ottoman, and unceremoniously dropping the 
black kitten, who turned a somerset, and ran off shaking 
her head. 
In answer, LIrs. Codman held out her hand with a 
smile. 
. Bert hurried across the room, and placed her own in 
it confidingly. , 
" I am so glad you do," said she. "You won't make 
me study my eyes out, T ill you ? " 
"That would, indeed, be a pity," said Mrs. Codman, 
looking at Bert's bright eyes, sparkling with fun and 
mischief. 
Mr. Bowman observed these signs of agreement be- 
tween Bert and her new governess with pleasure, and 
 
 
hastened to say, " In regard to business arrangements 
we will speak by and by. I think I can promise that 
they will be satisfactory to you." 
It may be mentioned here, that Mr. Bowman, who 
was by no means 'disposed to deal parsimoniously with 
those in his employ, fixed Mrs. Codman's salary at six 
hundred dollars a year, which was four times as much 
as she had ever been able to gain by her needle. 
" When may we expect you ? " he asked. " You h ve, 
doubtless, some preliminary arrangements to make, for 
which you will please take whatever time yoii may 
require. Meanwhile, accept this sum in advance." 
He drew from his pocket-book a fifty-dollar note, which 
he haoded to Mrs. Codman. She could not feel any 
embarrassment in accepting a sum so tendered, and 
bowing her thanks, intimated that she would make her 
appearance on the following Monday, it being now 
Thursday. 
The advance payment provecj very acceptable to Mrs. 
Codman, as with it she was enabled to replenish her 
 wardrobe, a step rendered necessary by her residence in 
Mr. Bowman's family. She was busily engaged for the 
remainder of the week in supplying its deficiencies. 
No one could be more overjoyed than was the humble 
washer-woman at the success of her friend, of which she 
felt sure from the first, knowing Mrs. Codman to be a 
rale lady. The latter, feeling that she owed her present 
good fortune mainly to the zealous recommendation of 
her friendly neighbor, purchased a heat dress, which 
Mrs. O'Grady was prevailed upon to accept, on being 
convinced she would not thereby be distressing herself, 
 
a fact of which she was assured on being told of Mr. 
Bowman's liberality. 
Yet there was, as the reader well knows, one thought 
which contributed to diminish jthe joy which Mrs. Cod- 
man would otherwise have felt at being restored, in a 
measure, to the mode of life to which she had been 
accustomed, and relieved from the necessity of unremitting labor in order to sustain life. This was, the 
thought of Charlie, her own brave, handsome boy, who 
had been the joy and life of her little household, now 
gone, :— she knew not whither. The uncertainty as to 
his fate cost her many a sleepless night. She was sustained, however, by a strong confidence that he was yet 
living, and had little doubt that the suggestion of Peter 
Manson was correct, that he had been carried off by the 
captain of some vessel short of hands. Of course, she 
did not for an instant harbor the suspicion that Peter 
himself had had anything to do with his disappearance, 
being quite unaware that any motive existed powerful 
enough to tempt the old man to such a crime. 
" I shall hear from him ; I shall see him again," she 
said, with earnest conviction. " He is under the eye of 
Providence, wherever he may be, and no harm shall 
befall him." 
Still, even with this strong feeling of trust, there was 
an uncertainty about the time when her wishes could be 
realized, which could not fail to weigh upon the moth- 
er's heart. Then there was the constant longing for his 
bright and enlivening presence, greater, because he was 
her only child, and she was a widow. 
The furniture which Mrs. Codman had in her rooms 
she was enabled to dispose of without a very great sacrifice. She reserved a few articles, endeared to her by 
association, which she stored in the room of her friendly 
neighbor. 
With her, also, she left a sum of money, sufficient to 
pay for her month's rent, which would not be due for a 
fortnight after her removal to the house of Mr. Bowman. Peter Manson was not a little surprised and disappointed when, on visiting his tenant, — prepared to witness her distress and hear entreaties for a reduction of 
her rent, — to find her already gone, and to hear that she 
had obtained an advantageous situation, though where, 
he was unable to ascertain, as Mrs. O'Grady, with whom 
he was no favorite, was not disposed to be communicative. 
Leaving Mrs. Codman thus comfortably provided for, 
we must now follow the fortunes of our young hero, 
Charlie, whom we left securely bound in the forecastle 
of the Bouncing Betsy. 
 
XVI. 
THE BEGINKING OF CHABLIE's SEA-LIFE. 
When the Bouncing Betsy was fairly out to sea, Captain Brace, anticipating, with the malicious delight 
which a petty tyrant feels in the sufferings of those subject to him, the grief and terror of our young hero, 
ordered Charlie to be released from his bonds and 
brought before him. 
This order the mate chose to execute in person. 
The pressure of the cords, with which he had been 
bound, had chafed his limbs, and the constraint of his 
position had made them ache. 
As the mate busied himself in unbinding him, Charlie 
inquired, with a glimmering of hope, "Are you going 
to let me go?" 
" Where? " asked Randall. 
« On shore." 
" Perhaps you don't know that, by this time, we are 
at least forty miles from Boston." 
" Could you send me back? " asked Charlie, his heart 
sinking within him. 
" I suppose we might turn the ship about, and go back 
for your accommodation," said the mate, with a sneer ; 
" but I don't think Capt. Brace would consent." 
 
 
"Is there no way?'' implored Charlie. "Couldn't 
you put me on board some ship going back ? '' 
" You can speak to the captain about that. He has 
sent for you. Come along, and don't be all day about 
it." 
Charlie stretched himself with the intent of gaining 
some relief from the stricture he had suffered, and prepared to do what he knew there was no means of evading, he followed Randall to the presence of Capt. Brace. 
" "Well, Jack," said Capt. Brace, showing his teeth 
in an unpleasant manner, " how do you like life on ship- 
board?'" 
" My name is not Jack," was our hero's reply. 
" Indeed ! Perhaps you will do me the favor to tell 
me what it is." 
" My name," said our hero, hot liking the captain's 
tone, " is Charlie Codman." 
' So you pretend to be wiser than your uncle," said 
Capt. Brace, looking towards the mate. 
" He is not my uncle," said Charlie, boldly. If he 
had felt it to be prudent, he would have added that he 
had no desire for a relationship to Randall, but he knew 
that it would not be wise. 
"Do you dare to contradict my first officer?" demanded the captain, with a frown. 
" I am only telling the truth," said Charlie, undauntedly. 
" Silence I " roared the captain, in a passion. " If he 
chooses to call you his nephew, you shall be so ; do you 
hear that? I say, do you hear that?" he repeated, 
pounding with his clenched fist upon the table before 
him. 
"" Yes, sir," said our hero. 
" Take care that you remember it then. Your name, 
henceforth, is Jack Randall, — at any rate, as long as 
you remain aboard this ship." 
"How long am I to remain on board, sir?" Charlie 
could not help asking. 
" How long?" repeated the captain. " Forever  if I 
choose. And now as this is the last conversation which 
I intend to hold with you on this point, you will bear in 
mind that you are shipped on board this vessel as a boy, 
and that, if you don't do your duty you'll get." 
We suppress the word with which the captain closed 
his sentence, not being willing to soil our pages with it. 
This was rather a hard trial for our young hero, 
accustomed to a mother's gentle and affectionate words. 
Had he been less manly, he would have burst into tears ; 
but he only turned pale a little, and bit his lips. 
"Take him on deck, Mr. Randall, and set him to 
work," said the captain ; " and mind. Jack, that I don't 
hear any complaints of you." 
Charlie followed the mate to the deck. He had made 
up his mind that he must stay in the ship during the 
voyage, or, at all events until they reached land some- 
where, and resolved that, since it was forced upon him, 
he would do his duty as well as he could, and so afford 
as little advantage as possible to those who seemed 
determined to persecute him. 
He was set to work by Randall, who told him, in a 
sharp tone, to " mind his eye, and keep to work, if he 
knew what was best for himself." 
The work was not difficult, but Charlie's fingers were 
unpractised, and he might very soon have incurred the 
 
 
wrath of the captain and mate, if Bill Sturcly , the 
sailor whose friendly advances to our hero have already 
been noticed, had not approached him, the mate being 
temporarily out of earshot, and given him a little '
instruction. 
" Well, my lad, what news ? " inquired Bill. " Shipped 
for the voyage, are you? " 
"That's what the captain: and mate say," returned 
Charlie. . 
" They're a pair of precious rascals," said Bill, lowering his voice, " and it's my opinion . they're well 
matched, so far as villany goes." 
" What made you ship on board the vessel?" inquired 
Charlie. 
" Bless your soul, boy, I wouldn't a done it if I'd 
known who was in command ; leastways, if I had known 
a little more about him. But I didn't ask any questions. 
I had just got in from a v'y'ge to Calcutta, and happened 
to see one of my old shipmates, Jim Davis, walking on 
the wharf. ' Bill,' says he, ' why won't you ship along 
of me?' I asked him where he was bound, and he 
telled me to Valparaiso, on board the Bouncing Betsy. 
Well, I've been most everywhere else, but I had never 
been there, and reckoned I should like to see it. Besides, I'd got tired of going to Calcutta. I've been 
there, man and boy, six or eight times. It's too hot to 
live there some parts of the year. So I just told him I 
was in for it if he was, provided there was a vacancy. 
I asked him if he knew anything about, the officers. He 
said he didn't, but he guessed they would pass. So I 
just stepped into the office and  pped. There, lad, 
that's the whole story. I don't mind it much m 'self. 
They don't generally meddle much with me." 
'' Have you sailed with bad captains before? " inquired 
our hero.   
" Yes, my lad, sometimes. One captain I sailed with 
— I was a young man then — was Captain Maguire. 
He was a sort of an Irishman, I surmise, and mighty 
fond of drink. He was pleasant enough when he was 
sober, but that wasn't often. When he was drunk, he 
got' into a regular fury. He would tear round the deck 
like as if he was crazy, and so he was after a fashion, 
for he didn't seem to know, after he had got out of his 
fits, what he had done when he was in 'em. One day, I 
remember, as I was at work, he came up to me, and 
gave me a terrible thwack side of the head, swearing 
like a trooper all the time." 
'' What did you do? " asked Charlie, looking up with 
interest into the weathei'-beaten face of the old sailor. 
" I'll tell you," said Sturdy ; " you see, I'm pretty 
strong," glancing at his brawny arms and Herculean 
frame wit& pardonable complacency ; " I don't often 
meet a man I can't manage as easily as the mate can 
manage you. Now the captain wasn't a large man, by 
any means, nor very strong, either. As to the mates, — 
one of them was sick in his berth, and the other was in 
another part of the ship ; so I just took the captain up 
in my arms, and carried him down to the cabin, kickin' 
and cursin', as might be expected, and laid him down 
there. The officers didn't see what was goin' on, or 
there'd have been trouble. As for the crew, they enjoyed it, and wouldn't a man of 'em tell ; and as the 
 
 
captain didn't remember anything about it the next day, 
I didn't get punished." 
" Did you ever get punished? " asked Charlie. 
"Never since I grew up, and had these to fight my 
way with,'' said Bill Sturdy, showing his fists, which 
looked as if a blow from either of them would have 
felled an ox. " No, my lad, these are what I call my 
sledge hammers, and I'd as lives have them to rely upon 
as a pair of pistols." 
At this point in the conversation Bill was called off 
to some other part of the vessel, and the mate coming 
up discovered, somewhat to his disappointment, that our 
hero had discharged his task in a manner which did not 
admit of censure. 
It is customary to divide a ship's crew into two 
watches, whose duty it is to alternate in keeping a 
lookout at night. The first night-watch commenced at 
eight o'clock, and continues till midnight. This watch 
is then relieved by the second, who have had an opportunity of sleeping in the mean time, and who remain on 
duty till four A. M. They then give place to the first, 
who are again on duty till eight in the morning. Thus 
it will be seen that a part of the crew have eight hours 
sleep, while the remainder have but four. This inequality, however, is remedied the next evening, when the 
hours are changed. 
Charlie was fortunate in one respect. He was placed 
on the same watch with Bill Sturdy, who had established 
himself, in some sort, as the boy's protector, aild did not 
scruple to avow it. When some of the crew began to 
tease and play rough practical jokes upon Charliei — a 
mode of treatment to which boys are frequently sub- 
jected on board ship, — Bill Sturdy interfered, and in a 
sonorous voice exclaimed, — 
"Look here, shipmates, don't lay a finger on this 
boy!" 
"And why not?" inquired a burly sailor, with nat- 
urally repulsive features. 
"Because I say so," retorted Bill Sturdy. 
" Who is he, I should like to know, that we are to 
keep our distance ? " 
" I'll tell you who he is, shipmates," was the answer. 
"He's a boy that the mate has entrapped on board 
without his own consent." 
' ' Isn't he the mate's nephew ? " 
"No more than I am, though the mate chooses to 
call him so. He's got a mother living in Boston, and 
he's her only boy. She doesn't know what has become 
of him. Now, shipmates,- he seems to be a fine lad, 
and I'm going to stand by him for his sake and his 
mother's." 
Sailors are generous when you   reach their hearts, 
and there was a murmur of approbation when Bill 
concluded. 
But there is no rule without an exception, and that 
exception was the scowling sailot who has already be mentioned. Few knew much about him. This was his 
second voyage on board the Bouncing Betsy. Next to 
Bill Sturdy he was the stoutest and most athletic sailor 
on board the ship. During the previous voyage he had 
been the bully of the crew, taking advantage of his 
personal strength. Now they were released from his 
tyi-anny. In Bill Sturdy he had 'more than found his 
match. No one, comparing the two men, could doubt, 
that in . a contest, the odds would be decidedly in favor 
of Bill. Antonio, for tHis was his name, for he was a 
Spaniard by birth, could not help seeing the changed 
state of affairs. Now no one likes to be eclipsed, and 
 
to see tlio authority passing from his hands into those ' 
of another. Certainly Antonio did not behold this 
transfer with indifference. He' could not -brook hold- 
ing the second place, where the first had been his. But 
how could he help it? Very evidently the opinions of 
the crew favored Bill Sturdy; not only because they 
believed him to excel Antonio in physical qualities, 
which hold a high value in the eyes of a sailor, but 
because he had, as yet, shown no disposition to abuse 
his power. Antonio was resolved, not to yield without 
a struggle, and therefore determined to take the first 
occasion to pick a quarrel with his rival j as this would 
give him an opportunity to measure his strength with 
him. Antonio did not see, what was evident to all else, 
that his rival was undeniably his superior in prowess. 
People are generally slow to admit their own inferiorty. That is only natural. He hoped, therefore, that 
he should be able to re-establish his supremacy by coming off a conqueror in the contest which he had determined to do all in his power to bring about. 
Antonio's attention had not been especially called to 
our hero, until he heard Bill Sturdy avow his determination to take him under his protection. Then, in a spirit 
of perverseness, and because he thought it would open 
the way for the trial of strength which he courted, he 
resolved t(him, and openly espouse the other 
side. 
Accordingly, when the murmurs of applause, which 
had been elicited by his rival's frank and generous 
appeal to the sympathies of the crew, had subsided, 
Antonio looked round on the rough faces which surrounded him, and growled, — 
 
  " Well, shipmates, are you going to submit to what 
this fellow says? He dares you to touch this snivelling 
milk-sop of a boy." 
Some of the faces grew dark and threatening at this 
representation. Nothing stirs up a sailor's heart to 
opposition so readily as anything which resembles a 
threat. 
Bill Sturdy hastened to reply. 
" He is wrong. I don't threaten any of you. I only 
ask if it is right to play tricks, and abuse a boy who has 
already been treated so scurvily by the mate. I don't 
believe there's any one of you that wants to curry favor 
with Mr. Randall and the captain. Now there is nothing they will like better than to see you kicking round 
this lad." . 
Neither the captain nor the mate stood very high in 
the good graces of the crew, and the effect produced by 
this statement showed that it was adroitly conceived. 
Bill Sturdy took advantage of this to add, " Now, 
lads, when I say I am going to stand by this boy, and 
see that he isn't abused, I know you'll stand by me." 
This frank and bold speech produced a decided reac- 
tion in favor of Charlie. 
There was another murmur of approbation, which was 
interrupted by a stamp upon the deck by Antonio, who, 
with a ferocious contortion of countenance, shouted, 
" If you're all going to follow this man's lead, and do 
like dogs whatever he bids you, you'll find there's one 
here that dares to be independent." 
Saying this, he advanced suddenly to Charlie, who 
was at work near by, and, seizing him by the shoulder, 
was about to proceed to some act of violence. 
 
As soon as Bill Sturdy perceived his design, he sprang, 
forward and gave him a powerful blow which would have 
felled him to the deck, had not Bill slipped a little, as 
hedelivered.it. 
Instantly the Spaniard's sallow face was suffused, and, 
with a torrent of oaths and a howl of fury, he precipitated himself upon Sturdy. 
But it was easier to catch a weasel asleep, than to take 
the stout sailor unprepared. 
With his feet firmly planted upon the deck, and his 
fists in a proper position, he received the bully, parry- 
ing his blows with wonderftil dexterity, and succeeding 
in planting others no less effective. 
A ring of sailors gathered around, eager to watch the 
progress and termination of the affray. There were not 
a few among them, who enjoyed the punishment which 
they foresaw the Spaniard would receive from his antag- 
onist. He had so tyrannized over them in the past, 
that they felt little sympathy for him now. 
Baffled, blinded, and howling with mingled rage and 
vexation, the Spaniard continued the unequal fight. As 
for Bill Sturdy, he was cool and collected, apparently 
neither angry nor excited, but wary and on the alert. 
At length Antonio, perceiving a marline spike at a 
little distance, sprang towards it. It was a critical 
moment for Bill Sturdy, for a marline spike, m the 
hands of a furious and determined man, is a formidable 
weapon. 
His movement did not escape the notice of Sturdy. 
He had acted principally on the defensive thus far, 
but he now saw that something decisive must be done. 
Springing forward, he closed with his assailant,' lifted 
 
 
him from the deck, and, carrying him to the companionway, hurled him down stairs. 
Then, turning to the crew, he exclaimed, " Shipmates, 
I call you to witness that this quarrel was forced upon 
me. Have I done right or wrong? " 
" Right ! '' exclaimed all, in concert. 
At this moment the mate, attracted by the noise, 
came on deck. 
" What has been going on? " asked Randall, perceiving, from the position of the sailors and their looks-, 
that something had happened. What it was, he surmised, having heard something of the noise of the 
conflict. 
No one of the sailors spoke, but all looked at each 
other in hesitating silence. 
" What was it? Are you all deaf?" demanded the 
mate, impatiently. 
" A little fight, that is all, lilr. Bandall," answered 
Bill Sturdy, coolly hitching up his pants. 
'' And you were one of the parties? '' 
" I believe I was." 
" And who was the other? " 
