their capture. They were now placed on board of the Ben Lomond to be
sent north. An apartment was specially fitted up for their use in the
steerage, for they were regarded as dangerous men, to whom bolts, bars,
and other obstacles, were but trifling impediments. A sufficient number
of marines to guard them were detailed for duty on the passage, and the
steamer sailed for Boston, where the prize was to be adjusted.
Somers was now improving very rapidly, and before he left the hospital,
had sat up a small portion of each day. The pleasant intelligence
brought to him by Tom Longstone had not retarded his recovery; on the
contrary, the bright hopes of the future which it suggested, rather
stimulated his feeble frame, and assisted in his restoration to health.
The steamer had fine weather on the passage, with the exception of a
gale of thirty hours' duration. She put into Hampton Roads, and landed
her prisoners at Fortress Monroe, in accordance with the orders of her
commander, and then proceeded to Boston. The Ben Lomond behaved
remarkably well in the heavy weather she experienced, proving herself to
be a strongly-built and substantial vessel. Somers sent his despatches
to Washington from Fortress Monroe.
When the Ben Lomond sailed into Boston Harbor, Somers was able to go on
deck, for with each day of the voyage his health had continued to
improve. The steamer was duly handed over to the naval authorities, and
the young lieutenant was granted a furlough of sixty days.
"Our cruise is up," said Tom Longstone, when the business had been
completed.
"For the present, we have nothing to do; but I hope we shall soon
receive our orders," replied Somers. "Now, Tom, you will go down to
Pinchbrook with me, and spend a couple of months."
"Thank you, Jack; I hardly think I should know how to behave in a house
on shore, it is so long since I have been in one."
"You will soon learn."
They went to Pinchbrook, and Tom received a welcome almost as cordial as
that extended to Somers. The veteran was soon made entirely at home by
his young friend's father, and such a "spinning of yarns" for thirty
days had never been known before. Tom told a story of the Cumberland;
then Captain Somers had a West India yarn; and gran'ther Greene was
indulgently permitted to relate his experience in the "last war," though
it was observed that the old man, whose memory was much impaired, always
told the same story.
Never did a happier trio gather around a kitchen fire than that which
sat around the cook-stove at Pinchbrook on those autumn mornings. Very
likely Mrs. Somers thought the "men folks" were in the way at times;
but, she was too much interested in the stories told, and too good
natured to raise an objection, especially when John joined the party.
In the mean time, Somers was rapidly regaining his health and strength.
As may be supposed, he was a lion in Pinchbrook, and was invited to
every party and every merry-making in the place. Captain Barney was with
him a great deal, and was as fond of him as though he had been his own
son. Of course the young ladies of Pinchbrook regarded the lieutenant as
a great man; and if it had not been known in town that he was "paying
attention" to a commodore's daughter, he might have been absolutely
persecuted by the fair ones of his native village.
In strict observance of his promise, Somers had written several letters
to Kate Portington, but had received no answer. These epistles, with the
exception of an occasional playful remark, were confined to the details
of his naval operations. The events of his career were faithfully
recorded, and they were in no sense such productions as many silly young
men would have written under similar circumstances. No answer to any of
them had been received.
Since his arrival at Pinchbrook, Somers had written two letters; but at
the end of the first month of his furlough, he had not heard a word from
Kate. He was troubled, and no doubt thought Kate was very cold and
cruel. He knew that Pillgrim had not seen her, and therefore could not
have prejudiced her against him. It was possible that his letters had
not reached their destination; Kate might be away from home; and he was
not willing to believe that anything had occurred to make her less
friendly to him than formerly.
Somers, as we have so often had occasion to represent him, was always in
favor of "facing the music." If there was anything the matter, he wanted
to know it. If the lady wished to discontinue the acquaintance, he
wanted to know that; and when he could no longer content himself in
Pinchbrook, with the question unsettled, he started for Newport. On his
arrival he proceeded at once to the residence of Commodore Portington.
With a firm hand he rang the bell--in surprising contrast with his first
visit, for now he was firm and decided.
The servant informed him that Miss Portington was at home, and he sent
up his card. Somers sat nervously waiting the issue. Presently the
servant returned and handed him a card, on which was written, "Miss
Portington is not at home to Mr. John Somers."
He was confounded by this cool reply. Though her present conduct was in
accordance with the unanswered letters, he had not expected to be thus
rudely repelled. If she had any objection to him, why didn't she tell
him so? He had done his duty to his country, and kept his promises to
her. It was the severest blow he had ever received.
He read the card, rose from his chair, and left the house, as dignified
as though he had been on the quarter deck of the Ben Lomond. He was too
proud to ask or to offer any explanations. We will not undertake to say
how bad he felt. Perhaps he wished he had died in the Pensacola
hospital, when he lay at death's door; perhaps he felt like rushing into
the hottest of a fight, and laying down his life for the cause he had
espoused, without thinking that this would be suicide, rather than a
generous sacrifice to a holy duty.
Mr. Pillgrim had informed him that he would meet with a "chilly"
reception. It was even worse than that; but as it was evidently caused
by the traitor's machinations, he was content to suffer. If she chose to
let the words of the wretched conspirator against his country bias her
against him, he could not help it; and his only remaining duty was to
submit with the best possible grace.
Of course he could not leave Newport without calling at the Naval
Academy. Mr. Revere, the commandant of midshipmen, was his firm friend,
and it would be treason to him to leave the city without seeing him. He
was cordially received, and his experience in Mobile Bay was listened to
with the most friendly interest.
"I need not ask you if you have been to Commodore Portington's," said
Mr. Revere.
"I have, sir."
"Well, how is Miss Portington?"
"I did not see her," replied Somers, who, conscious that he had done no
wrong, was not disposed to conceal his misfortune from so good a friend.
"Did not see her!" exclaimed the commandant.
Somers explained.
The story of Pillgrim's treason had been circulated, but the particulars
by which it had been exposed were known to only a few. Mr. Revere saw at
once the cause of the rupture.
"The villain has sent her the bond you signed," said he.
"Perhaps he has."
"Probably she knows nothing of the circumstances under which you signed
it."
"I have had no opportunity to explain."
"But, Somers, you musn't be too stiff. Any lady would be fully justified
in refusing to see a gentleman who signed a paper like that, which
contained her name in such a connection."
"I think so myself; and therefore I will not blame her."
"Pillgrim got you to sign that document for this very purpose."
"I surmised as much."
"But it is a wrong to the lady as well as to you, to permit this thing
to go on."
"I have no remedy."
"Write her a note, explaining your position."
"My motives would be misconstrued."
"Then I shall act for you."
Somers went to his hotel, and Mr. Revere did act it for him. Kate was
not satisfied. A high-minded man would have died rather than sign such a
paper. So would Somers, if the bond had any real meaning. The commandant
was not successful in the negotiation, as mediators seldom are in such
cases.
"I am satisfied, Mr. Revere," said Somers: but he was as far from
satisfied as a young man could be.
"There is no help for it; but, Somers, I have invited a few friends to
my house this evening, and you must be with us."
"Will Miss Portington be there?"
"She has been invited, with her mother."
"I will go," replied he, still carrying out his principle that it is
always best to "face the music."
He did go. The few friends were about fifty--to celebrate the birthday
of the commandant's lady. There were music, and dancing, and revelry;
and Kate Portington was there, with her mother. He saw the fair girl;
saw her smile as pleasantly and unconcernedly as though nothing had
happened. He met her face to face; she bowed coldly, and passed on. Mrs.
Portington was not quite so "chilly," but not at all as she had been in
former times.
"Mr. Somers, we shall always remember you with gratitude, for the
service you so kindly rendered us," said she.
"It is hardly worth remembering, madam, much less mentioning," replied
Somers.
"It shall always be gratefully remembered, and cordially mentioned. You
cannot yourself regret more than I do, that anything should have
occurred to disturb the pleasant relations which formerly existed."
"I regret it very much, madam; but as I think I have done my duty to my
country and to my friends, I must regret it without reproaching myself
for my conduct in that which has proved so offensive."
"Was it your duty to sign that vile paper?" asked the lady, in excited
tones.
"I think it was."
"I must take a different view of the matter; but, Mr. Somers, I shall
still be interested in your success."
"Thank you, madam."
And the lady passed on. Somers looked at Kate. She was dancing with a
young officer who had greatly distinguished himself in the waters of
North Carolina. She looked happy. Was she so? She certainly had a
wonderful command of herself if she was not. Somers retired at an early
hour.
Did Kate think he was an adventurer? His superior officer had directed
him to sign the bond, as a "war measure." He had done so with regret and
disgust. The paper meant nothing to him. Why should it mean anything to
her and her mother?
The next day, Somers returned to Pinchbrook, where he found certain
official documents in the post office, directed to him. He was appointed
to the command of the Firefly, which was the new name given by the
department to the Ben Lomond. The steamer had been duly condemned, and
purchased by the government, her great speed admirably adapting her as a
cruiser for rebel pirates. Somers was generously rewarded for his zeal
and success in the capture of the twin steamers, which had been intended
to prey on the commerce of the country.
Acting Ensign Longstone was appointed second lieutenant of the Firefly.
The third and fourth lieutenants, and the sailing master, were acting
ensigns, like Tom Longstone.
All was excitement now at the cottage in Pinchbrook, in anticipation of
Somers's departure. A lieutenant commanding was a higher position than
he had ever hoped to obtain; but even while he rejoiced over his bright
future, he could not help being "blue" over his affair at Newport. He
tried to forget the fair lady, but he found that was not an easy matter.
He devoted himself to the fitting up of the Firefly, spending part of
his time at Pinchbrook, till his orders came from Washington. A kind
word from Kate would have made him the happiest man in the world. As
that did not come, he went to sea without it.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE BEN LEDI.
The Firefly had been strengthened and otherwise improved for the purpose
to which she was to be applied. Her armament had been changed, to adapt
it to the standard of the United States navy. She now carried a hundred
pounder rifle amidships, a rifled thirty on her forecastle, four
twenty-four pounders on the broadsides, and two howitzers on the quarter
deck. The cabin, ward-room, and steerage remained as before.
It was a pleasant November day--in the full reign of the Indian
summer--when she went down the harbor. Somers stood on the quarter deck,
as dignified as the commander of a man-of-war should be, but he could
hardly repress the feeling of pride and exultation with which he
regarded his position. He was hardly twenty-one, though he was mature
enough in appearance and in judgment for twenty-five. He had realized
the warmest hope he had permitted himself to cherish. He was in command
of a beautiful vessel, with a hundred officers and men under his
charge. He was the supreme authority; every man on board touched his cap
to him.
Below was a cabin, appropriated wholly to his use, where he could live
as luxuriously as a lord. He had no watch to keep, no work to perform.
As he contemplated his position, he was absolutely amazed. He had hoped,
but not expected, to reach this pinnacle of his ambition. But there was
another side to the question. A fearful responsibility was imposed upon
him. The lives of his hundred men depended upon him. This valuable
steamer, with her armament and stores, was intrusted to him, and he must
account for all loss or waste on board of her. More than this, the honor
of the flag under which he sailed had been committed to him. If he lost
his ship by bad management, it would be his ruin. If he permitted the
ensign which floated at his peak to be disgraced, it would be infamy to
him.
In the public service he might have occasion to run into foreign ports,
or to visit neutral waters. His want of knowledge, or his want of
judgment, might entangle his country in perplexing broils with other
nations, or even involve her in another war. As he thought of his
delicate and difficult duties, he felt like shrinking from them, and
avoiding the immense responsibility. Being "captain," in this view, was
quite a different thing from what he had anticipated.
With a smile he recalled his own reflections, when, as an ordinary
seaman, he had observed the captain of his ship walk the deck. Then he
had thought the commander had the easiest and jolliest time of all the
men on board, with his fine cabin all to himself, and no watch to keep,
and apparently no work to do. From his present stand-point, the captain
occupied the most difficult and trying place in the ship, and he almost
wished he had declined the command offered to him.
Outside the bay, the sealed orders were opened. As he had anticipated,
he was ordered to cruise in search of rebel steamers, whose depredations
on the coast had severely tried the patience of the nation. He was
directed to proceed first to the eastward, and then to use his own
judgment. There were several rebel privateers, or naval vessels
belonging to the Confederacy. The Tallahassee, the Chickamauga, and the
Olustee had been the most mischievous; and it was believed that there
were others at Wilmington, and the neutral ports of New Brunswick,
Nova Scotia, and the West Indies.
Having learned where he was to go, and what he was to do, he went on
deck and gave his orders to Mr. Gamage, the first lieutenant. The
Firefly was headed to the north-east, and all sail set to help her
along. Before Somers went below, she logged fifteen knots, which was
splendid for a ship with her bunkers full of coal.
In the evening the young commander invited Tom Longstone to visit his
cabin. The veteran was in his happiest frame of mind. All the
aspirations of his earlier years seemed to have been rekindled in his
soul; he had abandoned the use of slang, and conducted himself so much
like a gentleman, outwardly, that no one could have suspected he had
spent thirty odd years of his life before the mast; but as he had always
been a gentleman at heart, it was comparatively easy for him to assume
the externals of his new profession.
The old man had donned a new uniform; and though his hair and beard were
iron gray, he looked as "spruce" as a dry goods clerk. No change of
dress, however, could make him any other than an "old salt." He walked
with a rolling gait, and had all the airs of a veteran seaman. It is
true that in the transposition from the forecastle to the ward-room he
had discarded "pigtail," and confined himself to "fine cut," taken from
a silver box; but he still used as much of the "weed" as an old
sheet-anchor man.
"You sent for me, Captain Somers," said the second lieutenant, as he
touched his fore-top, from the force of habit.
"Sit down, Mr. Longstone," said the captain. "It is one of the blessings
of my present position that I have a place to sit down and talk with old
friends. I suppose you know we are bound to the eastward in search of
rebel privateers."
"So Mr. Gamage told me, sir. I hope we shall catch some of them."
"So do I; but I'm afraid we are on a wild-goose chase."
"Perhaps not--at least, I hope not. If there is a rebel ship in these
waters, we'll have her, if we have to dive after her."
"The ocean is very broad. None of our ships have had much luck in
catching these rebel pirates. I would rather have gone down on the
blockade, where there is some show for us."
"Don't give it up, Captain Somers."
"I don't give it up; but I do not see any reason why I should be more
fortunate than others. A score of our ships have cruised for months
without catching a single one of them."
"They didn't look where they were," laughed Tom.
"If I knew where they were, I would look there."
"You will certainly catch one of the pirates, Captain Somers."
"Why do you say so?"
"Because you are smart, and you are lucky. I know you will make a
capture on this cruise. I feel it in my bones."
"I hope I shall. Wouldn't it be glorious, if I could send such a
despatch as Captain Winslow did, after he had sunk the Alabama?"
Somers's eyes glistened as he thought of it, but it was only an
air-castle; and after he had contemplated it for a moment, his common
sense obliged him to come down from the clouds.
The cruise of the Firefly would supply matter enough for a whole volume,
but we have only space for a mere outline of the voyage. The steamer lay
off and on for a week without meeting with anything that looked like a
rebel privateer, when her commander decided to run into Halifax, where
he hoped to obtain some information. The city was a nest of "secesh
sympathizers," and the captain of the Firefly was not received with much
enthusiasm outside of the American consulate. He had not been in the
habit of hearing his country and her rulers vilified, and as he sat in
the parlor of the hotel, and listened to hostile remarks, evidently
intended for his ear, nothing but prudence prevented him from indulging
in the luxury of pulling the noses of the speakers. He preserved his
dignity in spite of his inclination.
"Upon my word, this is a very unexpected pleasure," said a familiar
voice.
He looked up from the newspaper he was reading. Before him stood Mr.
Pillgrim!
"Quite as unexpected to me as to you, Mr. Pillgrim!" replied Somers,
with abundant self-possession.
"I dare say, Mr. Somers," laughed Pillgrim. "Of course you did not
expect to see me. Will you take a glass of wine with me, Mr. Somers?"
"No, I thank you; I never indulge--as you are aware."
"I didn't know but your rapid advancement had changed your tastes."
"No, sir."
"You command the Ben Lomond now, Mr. Somers, I learn from the papers."
"The Firefly is her present name."
"Bah! What an ugly name for a fine steamer like her. The Tallapoosa is
much better. Be that as it may, I congratulate you on your promotion and
your appointment; and you know how sincere I am!
"I do know; and, therefore, cannot even thank you for your good wishes."
"Don't be savage, Mr. Somers. You can afford to be very good-natured."
"I am."
"You don't seem to be very glad to see me."
"On the contrary, I am. I hope, with your usual candor, that you will
tell me what you are going to do next, and give me an opportunity to cut
out your vessel. I am up here for that purpose."
Pillgrim bit his lip.
"At present, Mr. Somers, I must be silent; but we shall yet meet and
settle up old accounts. Let us not be ill-natured. If we meet as
enemies, we will fight it out."
"We can never meet in any other way."
"That isn't friendly. How is Miss Portington?"
"She was well, last time I saw her;" and Somers blushed, and looked
disconcerted--as he really was.
"I am glad to hear it, Mr. Somers," said Pillgrim, significantly.
Somers changed the topic at once, and finally contrived to ask the
traitor how he happened to be in Halifax, instead of Fortress Monroe.
Pillgrim laughed exultingly, and declared there were no irons, bolts, or
bars that could keep him a prisoner; and the facts seemed to justify the
assertion.
"Mr. Somers, not more than one half of the people of the North are in
favor of this cruel war. I have friends in Washington and other cities
whom no one suspects of favoring the South. I am indebted to them for my
liberation. I shall yet carry out my original purpose. I have lost three
vessels. I was paid for two by the Confederacy; and I have your bond for
half the value of the third. I am a commander in the Confederate navy.
In one week I shall be at sea. I shall sink, burn, and destroy! You
can't help yourself."
"Is your ship here?"
"Yes--no."
Pillgrim laughed, turned on his heel, and walked away. Somers was
excited. He wanted to know more. He went to the American consul. A
"blue-nose" sailor of the Firefly was sent on shore, who found Pillgrim,
and without much difficulty shipped in the "Sunny South" for a voyage on
the coast. This was all the information that could be obtained. There
was no such craft as the Sunny South in port. Somers examined all the
vessels in the harbor, and found a steamer called the Ben Ledi--another
Scottish mountain. She was Clyde-built, and similar to the Ben Nevis and
the Ben Lomond. The name alone satisfied the inquirer that she belonged
to the same family as the two vessels he had already captured.
Things began to look a little more hopeful, and the young commander
carefully read his books on international law. He attempted to place the
Firefly where he could watch the suspected steamer; but the authorities,
on various pretences, prevented him from doing so. The next morning the
Ben Ledi was gone. Somers was exceedingly mortified, for he might as
well look for a needle in a haymow as try to find the vessel on the
ocean. He put to sea at once. A "blue-nose" official laughed at him as
his gig pulled off to the ship, and everybody on shore was in high glee
because the Confederate had eluded the Yankee.
Somers kept cool in spite of his chagrin; and believing the Ben Ledi
would run for Wilmington, where she would probably be fitted out as a
cruiser, he headed the Firefly in that direction, and gave chase.
CHAPTER XXIX.
A LONG CHASE.
Somers was somewhat bewildered by the events which had transpired during
his brief stay at Halifax. It was almost incredible that Pillgrim had
again escaped; but the traitor had powerful friends--men who appeared to
be loyal while they were in full sympathy with the leaders of the
rebellion. The three "Bens," the last of which was now fleeing before
him, were certainly an interesting family. Pillgrim, while abroad, and
operating for the Southern Confederacy, had apparently purchased a whole
line of Clyde-built steamers. Two of them were now in good hands, and
doing good service to the loyal cause; but Somers feared that the third
would escape him.
Pillgrim had learned prudence from the experience of the past. Somers
hoped he would indulge in his customary reckless boasting; that his
thirst for revenge would again lead him to betray himself; but he had
not dropped even a hint that could be of any service. The decoy seaman
had only learned that he was to sail in the "Sunny South." The sudden
departure of the Ben Ledi was the only important fact in possession of
the commander of the Firefly.
When the ship was well out of the bay, and her course laid down, Somers
went into his cabin to consult his charts, and consider a plan for
future operations. Unfortunately there was no information on which to
base a theory in regard to the pirate's course. He could only guess at
her destination. The Firefly was run at her best speed during the rest
of the day, but her course for a large portion of the time was through a
dense Nova Scotia fog, and nothing was seen or heard.
On the following day, the sun shone through a clear air, and at noon
there was seen, dead ahead, some evidences of black smoke in the
horizon. This was a hopeful sign, for there was a steamer burning
English coal in the direction indicated. It might be the Ben Ledi, and
it might not; but the appearance created a tremendous excitement on
board the Firefly.
"Captain Somers, you will have her," said Tom Longstone, placing himself
by the side of the young commander. "It is your luck."
"That may not be the steamer we are after. We haven't seen her yet."
"That's the Ben Ledi; you may depend upon it. I wouldn't give five cents
to any man to guarantee my share of prize money in her."
"Don't be too confident, Mr. Longstone."
"She is ours, Captain Somers."
"I wish I could believe it."
"You must believe it, and work for it."
"I shall certainly work for it."
And he did work for it. Everything that would add a fraction of a knot
to the speed of the Firefly was done. The black smoke was visible all
the rest of the day, but not a sight of the steamer from which it
proceeded could be obtained. Darkness settled down upon the ocean, and
nothing could be seen during the night. The next day was cloudy, and
there was not a sign of encouragement to those on board of the pursuing
vessel. Then came a gale of twenty hours' duration; but the Firefly held
her course, and proved herself to be a perfect sea boat.
The fourth day out from Halifax was fine, and shortly after sunrise the
cloud of black smoke was again discovered, and a thrill of delight
coursed through the veins of Somers as he discovered it. The steamer was
on the port bow now, but it was evident that both steamers were bound to
the same point, though their courses had slightly varied during the
gale.
"I told you so, Captain Somers!" exclaimed Lieutenant Longstone, as he
rubbed his hands briskly in view of the bright prospect.
"We haven't caught her yet, Mr. Longstone."
"But you will catch her, just as sure as the sun shines."
"Mr. Pillgrim will not allow himself to be taken."
"He cannot help himself."
"Perhaps he can. That steamer sails as well as the Firefly, and we are
not a hundred and fifty miles from Cape Fear."
"No matter; we have got ten hours' working time, and we shall use her
up. Shall we put the helm to starboard, Captain Somers?"
"No; keep her as she is," replied the commander. "If she is going into
Wilmington we shall be making something on this tack. We have the
weather-gage of her."
It was soon clearly demonstrated that the chase had "slowed down," so as
not to approach the coast before night should favor her operations,
though her great speed gave her every advantage over an ordinary
pursuer. The Firefly had run down so that the Ben Ledi was on her port
beam, about eight miles distant. Both steamers had hoisted English
colors, for Somers had no idea of being cheated out of the game by
"showing his hand."
The most intense excitement prevailed on board of the Firefly, for it
was evident that a few hours more would settle the question one way or
the other. Somers was not disposed to wait until night, which would
favor the chase more than himself; and he was afraid, if he headed
towards her, that she would take the alarm and beat him on time. He kept
quiet for a couple of hours, just as though he were waiting for the
darkness to cover him in running the blockade.
His plan seemed to be a success, for after a while the Ben Ledi began to
bear down upon him. It was an anxious hour for Somers. He ordered the
first lieutenant to beat to quarters, and the chief engineer to have on
a full head of steam. The guns were loaded with solid shot, and every
preparation made for an exciting time. Pillgrim did not seem to suspect
thus far that the steamer under English colors was the one he had left
in Halifax harbor. It was certain that he did not yet recognize her.
The Firefly reciprocated the attention of the Ben Ledi, and moved slowly
towards her, for Somers was careful not to excite suspicion by being
precipitate. The two steamers approached within three miles, and the
respective captains were busy in examining each other's ship through
their glasses. The chase now hoisted her number. As Somers had the
Lloyd's signal book, he read it without difficulty. It was the Ben Ledi.
To the question, "What ship is that?" he had no answer to give, for it
was not prudent to hoist the old number of the Ben Lomond.
Our younger readers may not understand how a conversation is carried on
between ships at sea, several miles distant from each other. There are
ten small signal flags representing the nine digits and the zero. Any
number can of course be formed of these figures. Every ship is provided
with a number, which if it consists of two figures is represented by two
flags, hoisted together; three figures, three flags; and so on.
The signal book also contains a great number of questions and answers,
such as, "What ship is that?" "Where bound?" "All well." "Short of
water," &c. Each sentence has its invariable number, which may be
indicated by the signal flags. If one vessel shows the number 124, the
captain of the ship signalized would find this number in his signal
book; and against it would be printed the question or answer.
Somers was not disposed to reply to the question of Pillgrim; and as he
did not do so, the traitor immediately took the alarm. The Ben Ledi went
about, and made off to the eastward under full steam. The Firefly was
all ready to follow, and then commenced a most exciting chase. It was
useless to waste shot at that distance, and Somers confined his
attention to the speed of his vessel. For three hours the pursuit was
continued, without any perceptible decrease of the distance between the
two steamers.
But it was soon discovered that Pillgrim was gradually wearing round.
Somers perceived his intention, but it was not prudent to attempt to
cut him off all at once, by taking the arc of a smaller circle; but he
worked his ship slowly round; and when both vessels were headed to the
west, he had gained a mile. Pillgrim had evidently made up his mind to
go into Wilmington at any risk, though under ordinary circumstances the
more prudent course would have been for him to continue at sea, where a
dark night or a fog might have enabled him to elude his pursuer. Somers
concluded, therefore, that the Ben Ledi was short of coal, for his own
supply was nearly exhausted.
The furnaces of the Firefly were now worked to their utmost capacity,
and every expedient to make steam was resorted to by the excited
engineers and firemen. There was a stiff breeze from the south-west, and
both vessels had crowded on every stitch of canvas that could be spread.
It had already been demonstrated that there was no appreciable
difference in the speed of the two steamers, and the result of the chase
was to depend entirely upon the management of each.
When the two vessels had come about so as to make a fair wind, the
Firefly had been the first to spread her canvas, and the superior
discipline of her crew was thus made apparent. A slight advantage had
thus been gained, and it was certain that "the balance of power" lay in
the sails. At meridian an observation was obtained, and the position of
the ship was accurately laid down on the chart. The latitude was 33°
59' 7"; the longitude 76° 29' 23". To make the Swash Channel, which was
covered by the guns of Fort Fisher, the Ben Ledi would have laid a
course about half a point south of west; but her present course was
west-south-west. Somers, after examining his chart, had some doubts
whether she was going into Wilmington.
Tom Longstone had the deck during the afternoon watch. He was a veteran
seaman, and his experience had made him more familiar with canvas than
with steam. With the most anxious solicitude he watched the sails during
the afternoon, and under his skilful directions they were kept perfectly
trimmed. On that momentous occasion everything was reduced down to the
finest point, as well in the handling of the engine as the tacks,
sheets, and halliards.
The case was hopeful, though the gain could not be perceived in one, or
two, hours; but at eight bells hardly a mile lay between the contending
steamers. The first lieutenant wanted to open on the chase with the
rifled gun on the top-gallant forecastle; but Somers refused permission,
for while he was gaining on the Ben Ledi only in inches, he could not
afford to lose feet by the recoil of the gun, until there was a better
chance of hitting the mark. At two bells in the first dog watch, just as
the sun was setting, the Ben Ledi doubled Frying Pan Shoals, passing
close to the breakers. Then, as her people discovered a couple of
vessels belonging to the blockading squadron, she sheered off, and went
to the westward.
These changes, with the doubt and uncertainty which prevailed on board
of the Ben Ledi, had been very favorable to the Firefly, now within half
a mile of her. Two vessels from the blockading fleet had started to
engage in the exciting work, but they were too late to help or hinder
the pursuit. Somers gave the order to fire upon the Ben Ledi, which was
now endeavoring to work round to the Beach Channel.
Though the darkness had settled down upon the chase, the Firefly
continued the pursuit with unabated vigor. Her pilot was familiar with
the channels, bars, and shoals. Shot after shot was fired at the Ben
Ledi, and it was soon evident that one of them had in some way damaged
her wheels, for she was rapidly losing ground. But now a battery on Oak
Island suddenly opened on the Firefly.
"We must end this thing," said Somers, as a shot from the fort whizzed
over his head.
"Yes, sir," replied the first lieutenant. "We can hardly pass that
battery."
"Try the hundred pounder."
When the pivot gun was ready, the Firefly swung round, and the heavy
piece roared out its salutation to the blockade runner. It was aimed by
Tom Longstone, and the bolt struck the Ben Ledi square in the stern,
breaking in her counter, and leaving her helpless on the water. The
Firefly stopped her wheels. A shot from the fort crushed through her
smoke-stack.
The chase, completely disabled, drifted on the beach and grounded, under
the guns of the battery. The Firefly now poured shell into her from
every gun that could be brought to bear. In a few moments a sheet of
flame rose from her, and lighted up the channel for miles around,
clearly revealing to the gunners in the fort the exact position of
Somers's vessel.
The work had been accomplished, the Ben Ledi had been destroyed, and the
Firefly hastened to escape from her dangerous locality. In coming about
she poured a parting broadside into the burning steamer. As she swung
round, a hail from the water was heard, and a boat containing several
men was discovered. It had been carried by the tide away from the beach.
The occupants were taken on board, though one of them was wounded and
utterly helpless. They had no oars, and were in danger of being carried
out to sea.
"Here's the cap'n; he was hit by a piece of a shell," said one of the
men.
"Who is he?" asked Somers.
"Cap'n Pillgrim."
The sufferer was taken down into the ward-room, and the surgeon began to
examine him as the Firefly steamed down the channel under a shower of
shot and shell from the battery.
"How is he?" asked the young commander, when the ship had passed out of
the reach of the guns of the fort.
"He is dead!" replied the surgeon.
"Dead! Good Heaven!" exclaimed Somers, impressed by the terrible
retribution which had at last overtaken the traitor.
"Yes, sir; he died a few moments since. A fragment of a shell tore open
his breast and penetrated his lungs," added the surgeon.
"That's the last of him," said Lieutenant Longstone. "He will lay no
more plots."
"He has been a dangerous enemy to his country," continued Somers. "If he
had succeeded in running in with that vessel, he would have obtained her
armament, and made terrible havoc among the merchant ships on the coast.
He was a daring fellow; he was reckless at times. He told me on board of
the Chatauqua that he had purchased three steamers in Scotland; this is
