'em."

Ethan went to a window on the front of the house, and soon returned
with the gratifying intelligence that the redskins were actually moving
off in the direction of the burning buildings to the west of them.

"How thankful we ought to be that we have been saved!" said Fanny. "Let
us thank God with all our hearts, Ethan."

"We can't stop to do no more prayin' now, Fanny. Besides, we ain't out
o' the woods yet."

"We need not stop to pray," replied Fanny, devoutly. "If the prayer is
in our hearts, God will understand it."

"I'm thankful, I'm sure, as a body kin be. Now, you git together
everything you kin find to eat, and I'll git a wheelbarrer to fetch 'em
down to the lake. Ef we kin only git on the island, I don't keer for
all the redskins this side o' sundown."

Wahena was tied up in such a way that he could not escape, and Fanny
hurriedly collected everything in the shape of provisions which had
escaped the depredations of the Indians. Ethan brought from the
chambers an armful of blankets and bed-quilts, and the wheelbarrow was
loaded with all it would contain. A bushel of potatoes, a leg of bacon,
a bucket of corn-meal, a small supply of groceries, and a few cooking
utensils, constituted the stock upon which they were mainly to depend
for sustenance during their banishment from civilized life for they
knew not how long a time. But both of the exiles were hopeful, though
very sad, when they thought of the death and desolation they were
leaving behind them.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE YOUNG EXILES.


Wahena, with his hands still tied behind him, was led by Fanny, while
Ethan trundled the wheelbarrow, across the handles of which lay the two
guns, ready for use if occasion should require. The Indians had halted
on one of the little eminences of the prairie, and appeared to be
watching the departure of the fugitives from their once happy home.
Lean Bear was evidently very fond of his little son, who was a boy of
bright promise, measured by the Indian standard. He had exhibited no
concern for the mother while she lay senseless upon the ground, but he
seemed to be willing to make any sacrifice, even to the curbing of his
ferocious nature, for Wahena's sake.

The party of Indians on the knoll appeared to be impressed with the
misfortune of their leader in the loss of his favorite son. Though the
work of rapine and death was still going on in the settlement, they did
not heed it. The messenger had probably represented to Lean Bear that
Wahena would certainly be killed if he attempted to molest the little
party, and the chief had withdrawn far enough to remove all temptation
on the part of Ethan to execute his threat.

The wheelbarrow was heavily loaded, and it was hard work for the
prairie boy to move it along over the soft soil. On a hill, just before
the descent to the lake commenced, he paused to rest for a moment. He
was in excellent spirits, and was proud of the success which had thus
far attended his stratagem. He was confident that he should reach the
island in safety, where, having the only boat on the lake in his
possession, he was satisfied that he should be able to defend himself
and his companion, especially with Wahena as a guaranty for the good
behavior of the Indians.

Ethan was entirely satisfied with himself, and he was about to resume
the march towards the lake, when his attention was attracted by a noise
in the direction opposite to that in which Lean Bear and his party had
retreated.

"Creation hokee!" shouted Ethan.

"What's the matter?" asked Fanny.

"Don't you see the Injins comin' out of the woods?" replied he, as he
grasped the rifle, and raised it to his shoulder.

"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the band of savages, as they rushed
out of the covert of the trees, and ran towards the spot where Ethan
stood.

"We are lost!" gasped Fanny, almost overcome by this new peril.

"No, we ain't lost, Fanny. You keep a stiff upper lip. Lay right down
on the ground, behind the wheelbarrer, and don't let the varmints see
you. If they kim hyer, use that ere pistil."

One of the new enemies was considerably in advance of the others, as if
anxious to drink the first blood of the victims before him. Suddenly he
came to a halt, raised his rifle, and fired.

"Creation hokee!" exclaimed Ethan, as the ball whistled frightfully
near his head.

"Hadn't we better run?" asked Fanny, in trembling tones.

"'Tain't no use to run; them redskins kin beat you all to pieces
runnin'," replied Ethan, as he retreated behind the wheelbarrow, and
resting the rifle upon it, took careful aim at the savage who was in
advance of the others.

He fired; the Indian fell, and lay still on the ground.

"That's sunthin' towards it, anyhow," continued Ethan, encouraged by
the success of his first shot. "Ef I kin fetch down one more on 'em, it
will make the rest a leetle grain skeery."

"The other Indians are coming too, Ethan," said Fanny.

"Let 'em kim; if they do we are safe."

The immediate followers of Lean Bear were rushing towards the spot with
all their might. The swiftest runner of the party had far outstripped
his companions, but it was evident to Ethan and Fanny that he was
moving towards the other band of savages, rather than towards them. He
was shouting in his own tongue words which were unintelligible to the
white boy and girl. But if the words were not understood, their effect
was, for the hostile band presently halted, and awaited the arrival of
the messenger.

In the mean time Ethan placed Wahena in a position where he could be
seen by all the savages, and with the revolver in his hand, stood in
readiness to make another demonstration at the life of the boy if it
should be necessary. It was not needed, for all these Indians belonged
to the tribe of Lean Bear, whose command was law to them.

"We are safe, Ethan," said Fanny.

"So we are; but I've killed one Injin, and I reckon I could kill some
more."

"Don't you feel sorry you killed him?" asked Fanny.

"Not ef I knows myself, I don't. I'd like to kill the whole boodle on
'em, after what they've did, consarn thar picters! I reckon we'd better
be go'n along."

"I think we had. It is really terrible to think of killing a man."

"'Tain't no more terrible 'n killin' all them women 'n childern up to
the settlement," replied Ethan, as he raised the handles of the barrow
and moved on. "I hope they'll send the sogers up here, and kill off all
the Injins this side o' sundown."

"I hope it won't be necessary to do that," added Fanny.

"It ought to be did. What's them Injins good for but to be shot? I
kinder wish they'd kim, so I could have fetched down some more on 'em,
consarn 'em!"

"It is lucky the party of Lean Bear was near enough to turn them back.
We might have been killed before this time."

"I dunno," replied Ethan, shaking his head.

"You have done nobly, Ethan; but Wahena has saved us so far."

"I know that; I ketched him for jest what he has did for us."

The rest of the way to the lake was down a gentle declivity, and the
wheelbarrow moved more easily than before. In a short time they reached
their destination, on the shore of the beautiful sheet of water at
which was moored a boat. It was not such a craft as the Greyhound, in
which Fanny had been accustomed to sail; it was a bateau, or
flat-bottomed boat, with very sharp slopes under the bow and stern. It
had a keel and rudder, and was provided with a sail.

The stores and utensils from the wheelbarrow were quickly transferred
to the boat, and then the barrow itself was placed on board. The wind
now blew tolerably fresh, and was fair for reaching the island; but
Ethan, with all his other accomplishments, knew no more about the
management of a boat than of a ship, which he had never even seen. This
boat had been built by Mr. Grant and a carpenter of the settlement
during the preceding winter, and Ethan had never sailed in it but once.

"I don't know nothin' about this hyer thing," said Ethan. "I kin
paddle, but I reckon the sail would tip us over."

"I can manage it," replied Fanny, confidently.

"Kin ye? Did ye ever manage a boat with a sail?"

"Yes, once," answered Fanny, and she thought with shame of the cruise
she had made in the Greyhound. "Let us hoist the sail, and we can run
over to the island in a few moments."

Fanny, assisted by Ethan, hoisted the sail, and the bateau darted out
of the little cove where she had been moored. Wahena, who had been as
stoical in danger as his race, uttered an exclamation of alarm, perhaps
called forth by the novelty of the situation and of the peril. Ethan
was not entirely satisfied with the movements of the boat under sail,
for she careened under the fresh breeze, till her gunwale was within an
inch of the surface of the lake. Fanny took the helm, and, as she eased
off the sheet, which her previous experience had taught her to do in
such an emergency, the boat came up to an even keel, and the confidence
of the prairie boy was fully restored.

"I don't want to be tipped over and drownded, arter we've got away from
the Injins," said he, in apology for his timidity.

"I'm sure I don't fear the water, after the terrible scenes we have
passed through," replied Fanny; "but there is no danger."

"I dunno 's there is; but even the little Injin boy was skeered when
she tipped so."

"I ought to have unfastened this rope before we hoisted the sail,"
added Fanny, pointing to the sheet.

"I ain't afeerd, if you ain't, Fanny. I don't reckon we could 'a
paddled her over to the island in seven year."

"It would have taken a long time," said Fanny, glancing back at the
smoking buildings of the settlement.

She was sad at heart when she thought of the murder and destruction
which had occurred that morning. It was pleasant on the lake, but
neither Fanny nor Ethan was in a condition to enjoy the sail. Each was
thinking of friends in the settlement who had probably been slain by
the remorseless savages. Fanny steered the bateau in silence, till she
reached the shore of the island, which was about two miles from the
point where the party had embarked. It was very small, containing not
more than half an acre of land. A single tree grew on the highest part,
and all of it was covered with grass, like the ground on the western
shores of the lake.

A landing was effected under the lee of the land, and the cargo of the
bateau removed to the shore. Wahena was taken to the middle of the
island, and fastened to the tree. From this point a view of all the
surrounding country could be obtained, and with ordinary care on the
part of the exiles, it would be impossible for an enemy to approach
without their knowledge. The provisions and other articles were
transported on the wheelbarrow to the tree.

"I should kinder like this, ef the folks hadn't all been killed off,"
said Ethan, when the work was done, and he had seated himself at
Fanny's side, in the shade of the tree.

"We were very fortunate to escape with our lives, Ethan, and I feel
very thankful," replied Fanny.

"So do I; and ef you want to say your prayers now, we hain't got
nothin' else to do."

"I have said them many times; God can hear us even when we do not speak
aloud."

"I s'pose so; well, I said mine, too; and that's a thing I don't do
very often."

"I have no doubt they strengthened your arm, and made you feel brave."

"I dunno but they did; but I feel as though a leetle grain o' breakfast
would strengthen my arm most jest now."

Fanny was not very well pleased with the manner in which her rude
companion spoke of serious things, and she improved the opportunity to
embody the prayer of her heart in words. It was a fervent utterance,
and Ethan seemed to join her in spirit. Both of them were grateful--not
abstractly grateful, but grateful to God for his mercy in saving them
from torture and death at the hands of the savages.

They sat in silence for a moment after the prayer, and then Fanny
suggested that they should prepare their breakfast. Ethan had brought
with him a shovel and a sharp axe, and while Fanny was peeling the
potatoes and cutting the bacon, he dug out a kind of fireplace in the
side of the hill. Some dead branches from the tree supplied them with
dry fuel. Fried ham and fried potatoes were soon provided, and they sat
down to their morning meal.

"I should like this fust rate if we hadn't been druv away from hum jest
as we was," said Ethan.

"It would be very pleasant if we could forget the poor people who have
been killed and mangled by the savages," replied Fanny, sadly.

"I reyther like campin' out, and travellin' over the peraries, as we
did when we kim up hyer."

"What is to become of us, after all, Ethan?"

"I dunno; we must stop hyer, I s'pose."

"We cannot remain here a great while."

"Why not?"

"Our provisions will not last many days."

"We kin git more."

"I don't think it is safe for us to go over to the settlement again."

"We've got plenty o' powder'n shot, and thyers ducks and birds enough.
And this lake's full of fish."

"But we must leave some time. We could not stay here through the
winter."

"We kin git off somewhar bime-by. I dunno what all this business
means--whether the Injins is killin' off everybody or not. Sunthin' 'll
happen one o' these days."

It was impossible to plan for the future, for no one could tell what a
day might bring forth. It was evident to the young exiles that the lake
settlement had been destroyed, and the greater portion of the people
killed, though they had no positive knowledge of the extent of the
horrible massacre. They did not know, what was really true, that the
onslaught of the savages extended over hundreds of miles of territory,
and that its victims were numbered by hundreds.

When Ethan and Fanny had finished their breakfast, Wahena was unbound
and permitted to eat all he wanted. His appetite did not seem to be at
all impaired by his imprisonment, for he ate with a greediness which
threatened to make serious inroads upon the scanty stock of provisions.
While he was thus occupied, Fanny sang one of her Sunday school hymns,
a sad and plaintive air, which not only moved Ethan to the depths of
his heart, but visibly affected the little savage. Noticing the effect,
she followed up the impression until she was surprised to see Wahena
offer her his hand.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE NIGHT ATTACK.


Fanny sang "Sweet Home" to the young Indian, with the feeling that
there was no longer a spot on earth which she could call by that
endearing name. By this time, Mr. Grant, with Bertha and Fanny, were in
Europe, and it would be months before she could see them again. Her
uncle had probably been killed by the war party of Lean Bear, while
returning to his home, as the possession of his horses by the Indians
indicated. Her aunt lay mangled and unburied near the house which had
been her happy home. The settlement was doubtless broken up and
deserted; for all who had not been killed or captured by the Indians
must have fled to the woods and the prairies for safety.

The feeling of loneliness in Fanny gave to her song a touching pathos,
which, with the sad sweetness of the melody itself, made the great
tears roll down the bronzed checks of Ethan, and touched the heart of
even the young savage. Wahena looked long and earnestly at Fanny, when
he had finished his breakfast. The music pleased him, and its charms
literally soothed his savage breast. She sang other songs, and he began
to make friendly demonstrations towards her, which ended in the offer
of his hand. She accepted the proffered token of friendship.

Wahena spoke to her, but of course she could not understand a word of
his language. He made signs, using the earnest gestures peculiar to the
Indians. He shook his head, pointed to her, and then to the shore of
the lake in the direction of the settlement. She thought he meant to
say that he would not permit his father to injure her; but she was not
very sure. The young savage was certainly disposed to be her friend,
and manifested his interest in her by all the means within his power.

"Well, Fanny, it's about time for me to go to work," said Ethan, after
he had observed the demonstrations between her and Wahena for a time.

"What are you going to do, Ethan? I thought you had no work."

"Plenty of it, I reckon. 'Tain't no use to groan over what can't be
helped. We may as well make the best on't."

"Of course we will not complain of what we cannot help. Ethan, do you
know what my motto is?"

"Your what?" asked Ethan, with a vacant stare.

"My motto."

"That's sunthin' in Latin, or some outlandish lingo--ain't it?"

"Mine is in plain English."

"I've hearn tell of some Latin stuff they called a motto out in
Illinois; I forgit what it was now."

"'Hope and have,' is my motto."

"What does that mean? 'Tain't Latin, but it might as well be."

"It means hope for the best, and then you will work the harder to have
it."

"Thet jest fits my case."

"The motto was given me by a very good girl in New York, who was dying
of consumption. They were the last words she spoke, and they were
engraved on her tombstone. I will tell you the whole story about her
some time."

"I should like to hear it, fust rate; but I reckon we've got sunthin'
else to do jest now. I hope we shall hev sunthin' like a house for you
to sleep in to-night."

"Hoping alone will not build the house, Ethan; besides, we don't hope
much for that which we are not willing to work for."

"I know thet; and I'm go'n to work on the house right away now,"
replied Ethan, as he rose from the ground, and took his shovel.

"I will help you, for I hope we shall have a house to keep us out of
the wet if it should happen to rain."

"You are nothin' but a gal," said Ethan, rather contemptuously.

"But I can help you. How shall you build a house?"

"Well, I don't quite know."

"I can help you think, if nothing more, Ethan."

"So you kin, Fanny. You are right down smart. I don't know as we should
ever hev got over to this island ef't hadn't been for you."

"Do you think we could get the boat out of the water, Ethan?"

"I reckon we could," replied Ethan, rubbing his head to stimulate his
ideas. "I kin cut some rollers, and kinder pry it along."

Fanny minutely detailed her plan for a house, which, after much
explanation, was adopted. As soon as Ethan comprehended her idea, he
became very enthusiastic for its execution.

"I reckon we must tie up the young Injin afore we go to work," said he,
taking the cord, and moving towards Wahena.

The little savage looked appealingly at Fanny, placed his hand upon his
breast, shook his head violently, and frequently pointed to the shore
of the lake. She interpreted his signs to mean that he would not
attempt to escape, and she so informed Ethan.

"I dassent trust him," said he.

"He can't get away if he tries," replied Fanny.

"But he may take one of the guns and kill one on us."

"Put all the weapons out of the way, then, and I will keep watch of
him," added Fanny, who wished to conciliate Wahena.

Ethan consented, and climbing the tree with his axe, he commenced
cutting off the large branches which were to be used in the
construction of the house.

The plan which Fanny had devised was a very simple one. The slope of
the land on the island was about four feet to a rod. The bateau was to
be rolled up the acclivity about thirty feet, and turned bottom upward.
The lower end was then to be gradually pried up until it was level with
the upper end, leaving a space of four feet under the higher part.
Stakes were to be set in the ground under the gunwale to support the
boat, and form the sides of the house. The smaller branches of the tree
were to be interlaced in the stakes, beginning at the bottom, and the
sods and the dirt thrown from the inside against this network, leaving
the ground level under the roof.

The bateau was sixteen feet long and five feet wide, and the most
difficult part of the work was getting it out of the water, and moving
it up the hill. Ethan and Fanny worked as hard as they could till
sundown with rollers and levers, when they had the boat in position,
and the end elevated to the required level. Wahena showed his gratitude
for the freedom granted to him by assisting in the labor, and made
himself very useful.

After the party had taken their suppers, Ethan made a bed of the
blankets and quilts for Fanny, under the boat, covering the open sides
with the sail and a coverlet.

"Where are you going to sleep, Ethan?" she asked.

"I ain't go'n to sleep nowhar," replied he.

"You are not going to stay up all night."

"That's jest what I'm go'n to do."

"What for?"

"S'pose'n them Injins should kim over in the night."

"I thought you said they could not get over here."

"I reckon they can't, ef I keep my eyes open."

"But you must sleep."

"Ef I do, I must do my sleepin' in the daytime. Ef we should all go to
sleep hyer, we might wake up in the mornin', and find our throats cut.
'Tain't safe, nohow."

"You have worked hard to-day, Ethan, and you must be very tired."

"I am kinder tired."

"We will take turns keeping watch, as they do on board a ship."

"I don't know nothin' about a ship."

"I will keep watch the first half of the night, and you may the other
half."

"S'pose'n the Injins should kim; what would you do then?"

"I can call you."

"Well, Fanny, ef you ain't very tired, I agree to it, for I feel jest
as ef I should go to sleep now."

"I am not so tired as I have been, and not so tired as you are. I will
take the first watch. But do you really think the Indians will come to
the island?"

"I hope not, but they might."

"How do you expect them to come?"

"I dunno; but I shouldn't wonder ef Lean Bear sent some of his redskins
over arter that boy."

Fanny did not see how the savages could reach them at this distance
from the main land, but she agreed with Ethan that it would be better
to keep watch, and be on the safe side. Wahena's hands were tied
together, and he was bound to one of the posts under the boat, in such
a manner that he could lie down and sleep comfortably. Ethan stretched
himself on the bed he had prepared for his companion, and was soon
asleep.

Fanny seated herself under the tree at the top of the hill. It was not
yet dark, and she had a full view of the water on every side. Until a
later hour there was no possibility of a hostile approach by the
Indians, and she gave herself up to the melancholy reflections excited
by the tragic events of the day. Though a great many thoughts passed
through her mind, there was only one which it is important to record
here; and that was, the feeling that she was better prepared for the
bitter experience upon which she had now entered than she would have
been a few months before. If her friends knew that she was a changed
being, the fact was still more evident to her own consciousness.

A religious faith and hope had sustained her in those terrible hours,
when the shrieks of the mangled and the cries of the dying had pierced
her heart, and when torture and death stared her full in the face.
Ethan, in his own quaint terms, had confessed that her prayers and her
unwavering trust in God had awed him and solemnized his mind, thus
raising him to a level with the momentous issues he was to meet. She
felt that her prayers for herself and the brave prairie boy had been
answered, not only in their effect upon themselves, but more directly
in the turning aside of the knife which had been pointed at their
hearts. Renewedly she thanked God for his goodness; and renewedly, as
she thought of the dying Jenny, she felt that to hope was to have.

Thus thinking of the past, thus hoping and praying for the future, the
darkness gathered upon her, and with her mind thus illuminated by
divine wisdom, the words of the Psalmist seemed to be literally
verified, and even the darkness became light about her. As the shades
of evening deepened over her, cutting off her view of the distant
shores of the lake, she felt the necessity of a more vigilant
watchfulness.

Hour after hour wore heavily away, and still Ethan slept. Fanny had no
idea of the time of night, and could not tell whether or not it was
time to call her companion. She knew how hard he had worked during the
day, and she resolved not to call him as long as she could keep awake
herself. Her position was by the tree; but in order to rouse her torpid
faculties, she took a walk around the island. When she reached the side
of their narrow domain where they had landed in the morning, she was
startled by what she thought was a slight splashing in the water, at a
considerable distance from her. After the manner of the Indians, she
lay down upon the ground, and placed her ear near the surface of the
lake, listening with trembling interest for any sounds which might be
borne over the still waters.

This expedient satisfied her that she had not been mistaken in the
sound. She distinctly heard the light dip of a paddle in the water,
worked with the utmost caution. She was almost paralyzed with terror at
the thought of a night visit from the savages, and dreaded the sharp
crack of the rifle and the flashing of the knife. She strained her eyes
to discover any object on the water, but she could see nothing. She
hastened to the house, and roused Ethan.

"I'm comin'," said he, only half awake, and turned over to finish his
nap.

"Ethan, Ethan!" gasped Fanny, shaking him with all her might, "the
Indians are almost upon us."

If she had said Indians before, it would have awakened him in a moment.
He sprang to his feet, and rushed out of the house.

"What's the matter?" he demanded.

"The Indians are coming--at least some one is coming, for I heard a
paddle on the lake."


