the service has been satisfactory ; and I demanded of 
Antonino this caparra, as it is called. " What ca- 
parra? " said he, lifting the lid of his wicked eye with 
his forefinger ; " this is the best caparra' meaning a 
face as honest and trustworthy as the devil's. The 
stroke confirmed my subjection to Antonino, and I 
took his boat without further parley, declining even 
to feel the muscle of his boatmen's arms, which he ex- 
 
posed to my touch in evidence that they were strong 
enough to row us swiftly to Capri. The men were 
but two in number, but they tossed the boat lightly 
into the surf, and then lifted me aboard, and rowed 
to the little pier from which the ladies and T. 
got in. 
The sun shone, the water danced and sparkled, 
and presently we raised our sail, and took the gale 
that blew for Capri an oblong height rising ten 
miles beyond out of the heart of the azure gulf. On 
the way thither there was little interest but that of 
natural beauty in the bold, picturesque coast we 
skirted for some distance ; though on one mighty 
rock there were the ruins of a seaward-looking Tem- 
ple of Hercules, with arches of the unmistakable 
Roman masonry, below which the receding waves 
rushed and poured over a jetting ledge in a thun- 
derous cataract. 
Antonino did his best to entertain us, and lect- 
ured us unceasingly upon his virtue and his wisdom, 
dwelling greatly on the propriety and good policy 
of always speaking the truth. This spectacle of ve- 
racity became intolerable after a while, and I was 
goaded to say : " Oh then, if you never tell lies, you 
expect to go to Paradise." " Not at all," answered 
Antonino compassionately, " for I have sinned much. 
But he lie does n't go ahead " (non va avanti), added 
this Machiavelli of boatmen ; yet I think he was 
mistaken, for he deceived us with perfect ease and 
admirable success. All along, he had pretended that 
we could see Capri, visit the Blue Grotto, and return 
 
that day ; but as we drew near the island, painful 
doubts began to trouble him, and he feared the sea 
would be too rough for the Grotto part of the affair. 
" But there will be an old man," he said, with a sub- 
tile air of prophecy, " waiting for us on the beach. 
This old man is one of the Government guides to the 
Grotto, and he will say whether it is to be seen to- 
day." 
And certainly there was the old man on the beach 
a short patriarch, with his baldness covered by a 
kind of bloated wollen sock a blear-eyed sage, and 
a bare-legged. He waded through the surf toward 
the boat, and when we asked him whether the 
Grotto was to be seen, he paused knee- deep in the 
water, (at a secret signal from Antonino, as I shall 
always believe,) put on a face of tender solemnity, 
threw back his head a little, brought his hand to his 
cheek, expanded it, and said, " No ; to-day, no ! To- 
morrow, yes ! " Antonino leaped joyously ashore, 
and delivered us over to the old man, to be guided 
to the Hotel di Londra, while he drew his boat upon 
the land. He had reason to be contented, for this 
artifice of the patriarch of Capri relieved him from 
the necessity of verifying to me the existence of an 
officer of extraordinary powers in the nature of a 
consul, who, he said, would not permit boats to leave 
Capri for the main -land after five o'clock in the even- 
ing. 
When it was decided that we should remain on 
the island till the morrow, we found so much time on 
our hands, after bargaining for our lodging at the 
 
Hotel di Londra, that we resolved to ascend the 
mountain to the ruins of the palaces of Tiberius, and 
to this end we contracted for the services of certain 
of the muletresses that had gathered about the inn- 
gate, clamorously offering their beasts. The mule- 
tresses chosen were a matron of mature years and 
of a portly habit of body ; her daughter, a mere 
child ; and her niece, a very pretty girl of eighteen, 
with a voice soft and sweet as a bird's. They placed 
the ladies, one on each mule, and then, while the 
mother and daughter devoted themselves to the 
hind-quarters of the foremost animal, the lovely niece 
brought up the rear of the second beast, and the 
patriarch went before, and T. and I trudged behind. 
So the cavalcade ascended ; first, from the terrace of 
the hotel overlooking the bit of shipping village on 
the beach, and next from the town of Capri, clinging 
to the hill-sides, midway between sea and sky, until 
at last it reached the heights on which the ruins 
stand. Our way was through narrow lanes, bordered 
by garden walls ; then through narrow streets bor- 
dered by dirty houses ; and then again by gardens, 
but now of a better sort than the first, and belong- 
ing to handsome villas. 
On the road our pretty muletress gossiped cheer- 
fully, and our patriarch gloomily, and between the 
two we accumulated a store of information concerning 
the present inhabitants of Capri, which, I am sorry 
to say, has now for the most part failed me. I re- 
member that they said most of the land-owners at 
Capri were Neapolitans, and that these villas were 
 
their country-houses ; though they pointed out one 
of the stateliest of the edifices as belonging to a 
certain English physician who had come to visit 
Capri for a few days, and had now been living on the 
island twenty years, having married (said the mule- 
tress) the prettiest and poorest girl in the town. 
From this romance something like which the 
muletress seemed to think might well happen con- 
cerning herself we passed lightly to speak of 
kindred things, the muletress responding gayly be- 
tween the blows she bestowed upon her beast. The 
accent of these Capriotes has something of German 
harshness and heaviness : they say non bosso instead 
of nonposso, and monto instead of mondo, and inter- 
change the t and d a good deal ; and they use for 
father the Latin pater, instead of padre. But this 
girl's voice, as I said, was very musical, and the 
island's accent was sweet upon her tongue. 
I. What is your name ? 
She. Caterina, little sir (signorin). 
I. And how old are you, Caterina ? 
She. Eighteen, little sir. 
 And you are betrothed ? 
She feigns not to understand; but the patriarch, 
who has dropped behind to listen to our discourse, 
explains, " He asks if you are in love." 
She. Ah, no ! little sir, not yet. 
I. No ? A little late, it seems to me. I think 
there must be some good-looking youngster who 
pleases you no ? 
She. Ah, no! one must work, one cannot think 
 
of marrying. We are four sisters, and we have only 
the buonamano from hiring these mules, and we must 
spin and cook. 
The Patriarch. Don't believe her ; she has two 
lovers. 
She. Ah, no ! It is n't true. He tells a fib he ! 
But, nevertheless, she seemed to love to be accused 
of lovers, such is the guile of the female heart in 
Capri, and laughed over the patriarch's wickedness. 
She confided that she ate maccaroni once a day, and 
she talked constantly of eating it just as the North- 
ern Italians always talk of polenta. She was a true 
daughter of the isle, and had never left it but once 
in her life, when she went to Naples. " Naples was 
beautiful, yes ; but one always loves one's own coun- 
try the best." She was very attentive and good, 
but at the end was rapacious of more and more 
buonamano. " Have patience with her, sir," said 
the blameless Antonino, who witnessed her greedi- 
ness ; " they do not understand certain- matters here, 
poor little things ! '' 
As for the patriarch, he was full of learning rela- 
tive to himself and to Capri ; and told me witli much 
elaboration that the islanders lived chiefly by fishing, 
and gained something also by their vineyards. But 
they were greatly oppressed by taxes, and the strict 
enforcement of the conscriptions, and they had little 
love for the Italian Government, and wished the 
Bourbons back again. The Piedmontese, indeed, 
misgoverned them horribly. There was the Blue 
Grotto, for example : formerly travellers paid the 
guides five, six, ten francs for viewing it ; but now the 
Piedmontese had made a tariff, and the poor guides 
could only exact a franc from each person. Things 
were in a ruinous condition. 
By this we had arrived at a little inn on the top of 
the mountain, very near the ruins of the palaces. 
" Here," said the patriarch, " it is customary for 
strangers to drink a bottle of the wine of Tiberius." 
We obediently entered the hostelry, and the land- 
lord a white-toothed, brown-faced, good-humored 
peasant gallantly ran forward and presented the 
ladies with bouquets of roses. We thought it a 
pretty and graceful act, but found later that it was 
to be paid for, like all pretty and graceful things in 
Italy ; for when we came to settle for the wine, and 
the landlord wanted more than justice, he urged that 
he had presented the ladies with flowers, yet he 
equally gave me his benediction when I refused to 
pay for his politeness. 
" Now here," again said the patriarch in a solemn 
whisper, " you can see the Tarantella danced for two 
francs ; whereas down at your inn, if you hire the 
dancers through your landlord, it will cost you five 
or six francs." The difference was tempting, and 
decided us in favor of an immediate Tarantella. 
The muletresses left their beasts to browse about the 
door of the inn and came into the little public room, 
where were already the wife and sister of the land- 
lord, and took their places vis-d-vis, while the land- 
lord seized his tambourine and beat from it a wild 
and lively measure. The women were barefooted 
 
and hoopless, and they gave us the Tarantella with 
all the beauty of natural movement and free floating 
drapery, and with all that splendid grace of pose 
which animates the antique statues and pictures of 
dancers. They swayed themselves in time with the 
music ; then, filled with its passionate impulse, ad- 
vanced and retreated and whirled away ; snapping 
their fingers above their heads, and looking over their 
shoulders with a gay and a laughing challenge to 
each other, they drifted through the ever-repeated 
figures of flight and wooing, and wove for us pictures 
of delight that remained upon the brain like the ef- 
fect of long-pondered vivid colors, and still return to 
illumine and complete any representation of that 
indescribable dance. Heaven knows what peril there 
might have been in the beauty and grace of the 
pretty muletress but for the spectacle of her fat aunt, 
who, I must confess, could only burlesque some of 
her niece's airiest movements, and whose hard-bought 
buoyancy was at once pathetic and laughable. She 
earned her share of the spoils certainly, and she 
seemed glad when the dance was over, and went 
contentedly back to her mule. 
The patriarch had early retired from the scene as 
from a vanity with which he was too familiar for en- 
joyment, and I found him, w r hen the Tarantella was 
done, leaning on the curb of the precipitous rock 
immediately behind the inn, over which the Capriotes 
say Tiberius used to cast the victims of his pleasures 
after he was sated with them. These have taken 
their place in the insular imagination as Christian 
 
martyrs, though it is probable that the poor souls 
were any thing but Nazarenes. It took a stone 
thrown from the brink of the rock twenty seconds to 
send back a response from the water below, and the 
depth was too dizzying to look into. So we looked 
instead toward Amalfi, across the Gulf of Salerno, 
and toward Naples, across her bay. On every hand 
the sea was flushed with sunset, and an unspeakable 
calm dwelt upon it, while the heights rising from it 
softened and softened in the distance, and withdrew 
themselves into dreams of ghostly solitude and phan- 
tom city. His late majesty the Emperor Tiberius 
is well known to have been a man of sentiment, and 
he may often have sought this spot to enjoy the even- 
ing hour. It; was convenient to his palace, and he 
could here give a fillip to his jaded sensibilities by 
popping a boon companion over the cliff, and thus 
enjoy the fine poetic contrast which his perturbed 
and horrible spirit afforded to that scene of innocence 
and peace. Later he may have come hither also, 
when lust failed, when all the lewd plays and devices 
of his fancy palled upon his senses, when sin had 
grown insipid and even murder ceased to amuse, and 
his majesty uttered his despair to the Senate in that 
terrible letter : " What to write to you, or how to 
write, I know not ; and what not to write at this 
time, may all the gods and goddesses torment me 
more than I daily feel that I suffer if I do know." 
The poor patriarch was also a rascal in his small 
way, and he presently turned to me with a counte- 
nance full of cowardly trouble and base remorse. 
 
" I pray you, little sir, not to tell the landlord below 
there that you have seen the Tarantella danced 
here ; for he has daughters and friends to dance it 
for strangers, and gets a deal of money by it. So, 
if he asks you to see it, do me the pleasure to say, 
lest he should take on (pigliarsi) with me about it : 
' Thanks, but we saw the Tarantella at Pompeii ! ' 
It was the last place in Italy where we were likely to 
have seen the Tarantella ; but these simple people 
are improvident in lying, as in every thing else. 
The patriarch Had a curious spice of malice in 
him, which prompted him to speak evil of all, and to 
as many as he dared. After we had inspected the 
ruins of the emperor's villa, a clownish imbecile of a 
woman, professing to be the wife of the peasant who 
had made the excavations, came forth out of a cleft 
in the rock and received tribute of us why, I do 
not know. The patriarch abetted the extortion, but 
Parthianly remarked, as we turned away, " Her 
husband ought to be here ; but this is a,festa, and 
he is drinking and gaming in the village," while the 
woman protested that he was sick at home. There 
was also a hermit living in great publicity among the 
ruins, and the patriarch did not spare him a sneering 
comment.* He had even a bad word for Tiberius, 
and reproached the emperor for throwing people over 
the cliff, though I think it a sport in which he would 
* This hermit I have heard was not brought up to the profession 
of anchorite, but was formerly a shoemaker, and according to his 
own confession abandoned his trade because he could better in- 
dulge a lethargic habit in the character of religious recluse. 
 
himself have liked to join. The only human creat- 
ures with whom he seemed to be in sympathy were 
the brigands of the main-land, of whom he spoke 
poetically as exiles and fugitives. 
As for the palace of Tiberius, which we had come 
so far and so toilsomely to see, it must be confessed 
there was very little left of it. When that well- 
meaning but mistaken prince died, the Senate de- 
molished his pleasure-houses at Capri, and left only 
those fragments of the beautiful brick masonry which 
yet remain, clinging indestructible to the rocks, and 
strewing the ground with rubbish. The recent ex- 
cavations have discovered nothing besides the unin- 
teresting foundations of the building, except a sub- 
terranean avenue leading from one part of the palace 
to another : this is walled with delicate brickwork, 
and exquisitely paved with white marble mosaic ; and 
this was all that witnessed of the splendor of the 
wicked emperor. Nature, the all-forgetting, all-for- 
giving, that takes the red battle-field into her arms 
and hides it with blossom and hardest, could not 
remember his iniquity, greater than the multitudi- 
nous murder of war. The sea, which the despot's 
lust and fear had made so lonely, slept with the white 
sails of boats secure upon its breast ; the little bays 
and inlets, the rocky clefts and woody dells, had for- 
gotten their desecration ; and the gathering twilight, 
the sweetness of the garden-bordered pathway, and 
the serenity of the lonely landscape, helped us to 
doubt history. 
We slowly returned to the inn by the road we had 
 
ascended, noting again the mansion of the surprising 
Englishman who had come to Capri for three months 
and had remained thirty years ; passed through the 
darkness of the village, dropped here and there 
with the vivid red of a lamp, and so reached the 
inn at last, where we found the landlord ready to 
have the Tarantella danced for us. We framed a 
discreeter fiction than that prepared for us by the pa- 
triarch, and went in to dinner, where there were two 
Danish gentlemen in dispute with as many rogues 
of boatmen, who, having contracted to take them 
back that night to Naples, were now trying to fly 
their bargain and remain at Capri till the morrow. 
The Danes beat them, however, and then sat down 
to dinner, and to long stories of the imposture and 
villany of the Italians. One of them chiefly bewailed 
himself that the day before, having unwisely eaten a 
dozen oysters without agreeing first with the oyster- 
man upon the price, he had been obliged to pay this 
scamp's extortionate demand to the full, since he was 
unable to restore him his property. We thought 
that something like this might have happened to an 
imprudent man in any country, but we did not the 
less join him in abusing the Italians the purpose 
for which foreigners chiefly visit Italy. 
ii. 
STANDING on the height among the ruins of Ti- 
berius's palace, the patriarch had looked out over 
the waters, and predicted for the morrow the finest 
 
weather that had ever been known in that region ; 
but in spite of this prophecy the day dawned storm- 
ily, and at breakfast time we looked out doubtfully on 
waves lashed by driving rain. The entrance to the 
Blue Grotto, to visit which we had come to Capri, is 
by a semicircular opening, some three feet in width 
and two feet in height, and just large enough to ad- 
mit a small boat. One lies flat in the bottom of this, 
waits for the impulse of a beneficent wave, and is 
carried through the mouth of the cavern, and res- 
cued from it in like manner by some receding billow. 
When the wind is in the wrong quarter, it is impos- 
sible to enter the grot at all ; and we waited till nine 
o'clock for the storm to abate before we ventured 
forth. In the mean time one of the Danish gentle- 
men, who after assisting his companion to compel 
the boatmen to justice the night before had stayed 
at Capri, and had risen early to see the grotto, re- 
turned from it, and we besieged him with a hundred 
questions concerning it. But he preserved the wise 
silence of the boy who goes in to see the six-legged 
calf, and comes out impervious to the curiosity of all 
the boys who are doubtful whether the monster is 
worth their money. Our Dane would merely say 
that it was now possible to visit the Blue Grotto ; 
that he had seen it ; that he was glad he had seen it. 
As to its blueness, Messieurs yes, it is blue. 
The ladies had been amusing themselves with a 
perusal of the hotel register, and the notes of admi- 
ration or disgust with which the different sojourners 
 
at the inn had filled it. As a rule, the English peo- 
ple found fault with the poor little hostelry and the 
French people praised it. Commander Joshing and 
Lieutenant Prattent, R. N., of the former nation, 
" were cheated by the donkey women, and thought 
themselves extremely fortunate to have escaped with 
their lives from the effects of Capri vintage. The 
landlord was an old Cossack." On fhe other hand, 
we read, " J. Cruttard, homme de lettres, a passS 
quinze jours ici, et n'a eu que des felicity's du patron 
de cet hotel et de sa famille." Cheerful man of let- 
ters ! His good-natured record will keep green a 
name little known to literature. Who are G. Brad- 
shaw, Duke of New York, and Signori Jones and 
Andrews, Hereditary Princes of the United States ? 
Their patrician names followed the titles of several 
English nobles in the register. But that which most 
interested the ladies in this record was the warning 
of a terrified British matron against any visit to the 
Blue Grotto except in the very calmest weather. 
The British matron penned her caution after an all 
but fatal experience. The ladies read it aloud to us, 
and announced that for themselves they would be 
contented with pictures of the Blue Grotto and our 
account of its marvels. 
On the beach below the hotel lay the small boats 
of the guides to the Blue Grotto, and we descended 
to take one of them. The fixed rate is a franc for 
each person. The boatmen wanted five francs for 
each of us. "We explained that although not indige- 
nous to Capri, or even Italy, we were not of the sue- 
 
culent growth of travellers, and would not be eaten. 
We retired to our vantage ground on the heights. 
The guides called us to the beach again. They 
would take us for three francs apiece, or say six 
francs for both of us. We withdrew furious to the 
heights again, where we found honest Antonino, who 
did us the pleasure to yell to his fellow-scoundrels on 
the beach, " You had better take these signori for a 
just price. They are going to the syndic to com- 
plain of you." At which there arose a lamentable 
outcry among the boatmen, and they called with one 
voice for us to come down and go for a franc apiece. 
This fable teaches that common-carriers are rogues 
everywhere ; but that whereas we are helpless in 
their hands at home, we may bully them into recti- 
tude in Italy, where they are afraid of the law. 
We had scarcely left the landing of the hotel in 
the boat of the patriarch for I need hardly say he 
was first and most rapacious of the plundering crew 
when we found ourselves in very turbulent waters, 
in the face of mighty bluffs, rising inaccessible from 
the sea. Here and there, where their swarthy fronts 
were softened with a little verdure, goat- paths wound 
up and down among the rocks ; and midway between 
the hotel and the grotto, in a sort of sheltered nook, 
we saw the Roman masonry of certain antique baths 
baths of Augustus, says Valery ; baths of Tiberius, 
say the Capriotes, zealous for the honor of their in- 
famous hero. Howbeit, this was all we saw on the 
way to the Blue Grotto. Every moment the waves 
rose higher, emulous of the bluffs, which would not 
 
have afforded a foothold, or any thing to cling to, had 
we been upset and washed against them and we 
began to talk of the immortality of the soul. As we 
neared the grotto, the patriarch entertained us with 
stories of the perilous adventures of people who in- 
sisted upon entering it in stormy weather, espe- 
cially of a French painter who had been imprisoned 
in it four days, and kept alive only on rum, which 
the patriarch supplied him, swimming into the grotto 
with a bottle-full at a time. " And behold us ar- 
rived, gentlemen ! " said he, as he brought the boat 
skillfully around in front of the small semicircular 
opening at the base of the lofty bluff. We lie flat on 
the bottom of the boat, and complete the immersion 
of that part of our clothing which the driving tor- 
rents of rain had spared. The wave of destiny rises 
with us upon its breast sinks, and we are inside of 
the Blue Grotto. Not so much blue as gray, how- 
ever, and the water about the rnouth of it green 
rather than azure. They say that on a sunny day 
both the water and the roof of the cavern are of the 
vividest cerulean tint and I saw the grotto so rep- 
resented in the windows of the paint-shops at Na- 
ples. But to my own experience it did not differ 
from other caves in color or form: there was the 
customary clamminess in the air ; the sound of drop- 
ping water ; the sense of dull and stupid solitude, 
a little relieved in this case by the mighty music of 
the waves breaking against the rocks outside. The 
grot is not great in extent, and the roof in the rear 
shelves gradually down to the water. Valery says 
 
that some remains of a gallery have caused the sup- 
position that the grotto was once the scene of Tibe- 
rius's pleasures ; and the Prussian painter who dis- 
covered the cave was led to seek it by something 
he had read of a staircase by which Barbarossa used 
to descend into a subterranean retreat from the town 
of Anacapri on the mountain top. The slight frag- 
ment of ruin which we saw in one corner of the cave 
might be taken in confirmation of both theories ; 
but the patriarch attributed the work to Barbarossa, 
being probably tired at last of hearing Tiberius so 
much talked about. 
We returned, soaked and disappointed, to the ho- 
tel, where w,e found Antonino very doubtful about 
the possibility of getting back that day to Sorrento, 
and disposed, when pooh-poohed out of the notion of 
bad weather, to revive the fiction of a prohibitory 
consul. He was staying in Capri at our expense, 
and the honest fellow would willingly have spent a 
fortnight there. 
We summoned the landlord to settlement, and he 
came with all his household to present the account, 
each one full of visible longing, yet restrained 
from asking buonamano by a strong sense of previous 
contract. It was a deadly struggle with them, but 
they conquered themselves, and blessed us as we 
departed. The pretty muletress took leave of us 
on the beach, and we set sail for Sorrento, the ladies 
crouching in the bottom of the boat, and taking their 
sea-sickness in silence. As we drew near the beau- 
tiful town, we saw how it lay on a plateau, at the 
 
foot of the mountains, but high above the sea. An- 
tonino pointed out to us the house of Tasso, in 
which the novelist Cooper also resided when in Sor- 
rento, a white house not handsomer nor uglier 
than the rest, with a terrace looking out over the 
water. The bluffs are pierced by numerous arched 
caverns, as I have said, giving shelter to the fisher- 
men's boats, and here and there a devious stairway 
mounts to their crests. Up one of these we walked, 
noting how in the house above us the people, with 
that puerility usually mixed with the Italian love of 
beauty, had placed painted busts of terra-cotta in the 
windows to simulate persons looking out. There was 
nothing to blame in the breakfast we found ready at 
the Hotel Rispoli ; and as for the grove of slender, 
graceful orange-trees in the midst of which the hotel 
stood, and which had lavished the fruit in every di- 
rection on the ground, why, I would willingly give 
for it all the currant-bushes, with their promises of 
jelly and jam, on which I gaze at this moment. 
Antonino attended us to our carriage when we 
went away. He had kept us all night at Capri, it is 
true, and he had brought us in at the end for a pro- 
digious buonamano ; yet I cannot escape the convic- 
tion that he parted from us with an unfulfilled pur- 
pose of greater plunder, and I have a compassion, 
which I here declare, for the strangers who fell next 
into his hands. He was good enough at the last 
moment to say that his name, Silver-Eye, was a 
nickname given him according to a custom of the 
Sorrentines ; and he made us a farewell bow that 
could not be bought in America for money. 
 
At the station of Castellamare sat a curious cripple 
on the stones, a man with little, short, withered 
legs, and a pleasant face. He showed us the ticket- 
office, and wanted nothing for the politeness. After 
we had been in the waiting-room a brief time, he 
came swinging himself in upon his hands, followed by 
another person, who, when the cripple had planted 
himself finally and squarely on the ground, whipped 
out a tape from his pocket and took his measure for 
a suit of clothes, the cripple twirling and twisting 
himself about in every way for the tailor's conven- 
ience. Nobody was surprised or amused at the sight, 
and when his measure was thus publicly taken, the 
cripple gravely swung himself out as he had swung 
himself in. 
XL 
THE PROTESTANT BAGGED SCHOOLS AT NAPLES. 
I HAD the pleasure one day of visiting nearly all 
the free schools which the wise philanthropy of the 
Protestant residents of Naples has established in that 
city. The schools had a peculiar interest for me, be- 
cause I had noticed (in an un careful fashion enough, 
no doubt) the great changes which had taken place 
in Italy under its new national government, and was 
desirous to see for myself the sort of progress the 
Italians of the south were making in avenues so long 
closed to them. I believe I have no mania for mis- 
sionaries ; I have heard of the converted Jew-and-a- 
half, and I have thought it a good joke ; but I cannot 
help offering a very cordial homage to the truth that 
the missionaries are doing a vast deal of good in Na- 
ples, where they are not only spreading the gospel, but 
the spelling-book, the arithmetic, and the geography. 
It is not to be understood from the word mission- 
aries, that this work is done by men especially sent 
from England or America to perform it. The free 
Protestant schools in Naples are conducted under the 
auspices of the Evangelical Aid Committee, com- 
posed of members of the English Church, the Swiss 
Church, and the Presbyterian Church ; the Presi- 
 
dent of this committee is Dr. Strange, an English- 
man, and the Treasurer is Mr. Rogers, the American 
banker. The missionaries in Naples, therefore, are 
men who have themselves found out their work and 
appointed themselves to do it. The gentleman by 
whose kindness I was permitted to visit the schools 
was one of these men, the Rev. Mr. Buscarlet, the 
pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Naples, a Swiss 
by birth, who had received his education chiefly in 
