and some bank bills, laid out straight, with a crisp, 
fresh look, although not new. Six fifties and ten 
twenties five hundred dollars ! 

This was what had tempted his old father. This 
was what he had gone back to search for. A few 
hours agone Stephen had been wishing for just this. 
It would give him the means to perfect his engine, start 
him on the road to fortune. Ah, if it were only his, 
with no stain of blood upon it !

He put the money back, and shut the book. What 
should he do with it? hold it there in the flame until 
it was all consumed? Or, better still, take it down 
stairs and lay it upon the coals ? Destroy this sure and 
fatal evidence. 

But the money ? 

He had not robbed; he had not but a shiver 
choked off the words. Still, why should the money be 
wasted ? More than this had Thomas Vennard wrung 
out of his workmen. Mrs. Vennard and the child 
would have an' abundance. Little sunny-haired Hope ! 

Yes, it would do so much for him ; give him the 



 

knowledge for which he was madly thirsting ; save them 
all, perhaps ; take them out of this homblc, grovelling 
life. It had come to him by one of those blind chances 
of fate. Was it best to destroy it ? 

He stood there a long while, with a devil at his el- 
bow. To send it back in any manner would be certain 
detection. Was he not answerable for his father's life? 
No, it could not be returned. 

His tall figure swayed to and fro in the intense ex- 
citement ; his knees smote weakly together ; his fingers 
trembled and clutched at each other, as if for support. 
His eyes stared wildly about, and he stood there mo- 
ment after moment, scarcely breathing. 

Joe's step sounded on the threshold. He darted 
one quick glance around. There was a chink in the 
chimney, by the rafter. He thrust it in, muttering, 
" For to-night only." 

He opened the door, and went stumbling down stairs, 
candle in hand, but keeping his face averted from Joe. 
Everything about him seemed so unreal ! This yellow 
flicker of light ; that ghostly pine table, to-day sand- 
scrubbed to new whiteness by Joe ; the blank space of 
the doorway, and the shadowy windows. A kind of 
dazed, dreamy terror was stealing over him, a terror 
that stupefied. He walked in obedience to some me- 
chanical law, not because he willed. He seemed to 
have no sentience, to be a sort of breathing machine, 
guided by blind instinct. 





"Are you sick, Stephen?" ^ . 

Joe's tone had in it a thread of "curious awe. 

"No. I believe I'll go and look after father," 

He reached down his old hat, and walked slowly to 
the end of the lane. He fancied that he must be losing 
his reason, so slowly did every thought come, and with 
such a great effort . What was lying in the depths of 
the river? A stone, with a clot of human flesh and 
blood. Anything else ? Would it float up to the sur- 
face some day, and tell its own hideous tale? Would 
there be any marks, fingers at the throat, or a grip that 
might disprove accident? 

And what had Archy Dane betrayed over his cups ? 
He was not greatly given to being close-mouthed. No 
steps coming along the road. The town clocks rang out 
ten on the balmy summer air. In this deathly stillness 
Stephen could hear his heart beat. What was this un- 
utterable glory of earth and sky to him? In a mood 
of feeble passion he wondered why he had been created ! 
What was life, even after the threescore and ten years 
had been reached ? And yet he felt a power growing 
up in his heart with great giant strides. It was not all 
dull clay. A fierce power struggling for utterance. 
Somewhere a spark like a diamond, that, held in cer- 
tain lights, shot out arrowy, golden rays. Was that a 
man's soul? Would he ever come to full stature, then? 
He had seen theoi'ies applied to cold, inanimate iron 
that warmed it into life, gave it a vitality, so to 




 

speak, that astonished the world. All this money might 
have done for him. 

And then he thought of the blear-eyed man down at 
the tavern. He could not go there to-night. If, in a 
weak, unconscious moment, Archy Dane had loosened 
his hold on the slippery neck of his secret, and trusted 
it to the gaping, gossiping crew, what then? 

The moments lengthened out intolerably. The chirp 
of insects in the neighboring- thicket grew faint and 
drowsy. The stars overhead sailed through fleecy 
drifts, sometimes half obscured. In spite of midsum- 
mer warmth, he felt chilled to the very marrow. 

A shuffling, irregular step. He heard it when a long 
way off, and went out to meet his father. 

"Keep away ! " the thick, guttural voice blurted, ac- 
companying it with a feeble brandishing of the arms. 

"It is I Stephen." 

"O, Stephen." The tone became one of whining 
terror. " Doggin' your poor old father around ! " 

The young man caught him by the shoulder, almost 
fiercely. 

" What have you been talking about down at the 
tavern ? " 

w Nothin', Stephen. I ain't told nothin' " piteously. 

A strange emotion sped along Stephen's veins. He 
drew the shaky arm within his own. In spite of all, 
there was a bond between them, subtile and strong ; a 
tie of blood that could not be easily rent asunder. This 





life was his to save, or to destroy. Did justice ask it 
at his hands ? What reparation could the utmost of 
this feeble soul and body make ? A solemn tenderness 
came over him, a weak, womanish shrinking. If God 
managed these things in His own way, if He brought 
every evil deed to light some time, why not wait until 
that day came, and not vex himself with vain ques- 
tions ? 

He held up the trembling figure ; he even seemed to 
put new life in the straggling limbs by his own firm 
step. But he did not dare trust himself with a reply. 
He wanted to hear no confession. So they walked up 
to the cottage door, when the old man lagged back, and 
appeared unwilling to enter. 

" It's late," Stephen said, " and you are tired, father." 

Joe sprang up from the settle, where she had fallen 
asleep, rubbed her eyes, and snuffed the candle. 

Stephen lighted another, and took it into his father's 
room, the old man following. And all the while he was 
helping him to bed, he never glanced into his face. Then 
he went up stairs, but not to sleep. All night the man's 
soul travailed in strong agony, though his lips were dry 
and dumb, and could utter no moan. He did not even 
pray to be delivered from any danger, but just endured, 
with a sort of sullen hardihood. At morning's dawn 
he sat there on the window sill, his brow pressed against 
the glass, his eyes strained far over the river, but seeing 
nothing in the gray distance. No promise, no hope. 



 

When Joe had breakfast ready, he forced himself to 
eat. His father was sleeping soundly in the adjoining 
room. It came to Joe, although she was not very 
keen-sighted, that never in her whole life had she seen 
Stephen's face wear such an expression. It chilled her 
into silence. Only when he rose and took down his hat, 
from force of habit, she said, 

"I want some flour, Stephen. I forgot it yesterday. 
You'll have time to stop before you go to work, and 
some one's always there." 

" I wasn't going to the Foundery," he answered, 
slowly. " Did you want a barrel ? " 

"Yes." Then curiosity mastered her. "What's up, 
Stephen?" 

He felt that it must come. Perhaps, indeed, before 
night he would be in jail, and the terrible story in every 
one's mouth. 

" I was discharged yesterday." 

" What for ? What you goin' to do ? " 

"I don't know "-^ in a vague, absent tone. 

" You can't go back ? " 

" No." 

"Tfcat hateful old Vennard ! He'll keep on till he 
drives every man to ruin. I wish he " 

" Hush, Joe." He said it with white, quivering lips. 
Then he turned away. 

Joe left the table as it was, made her own bed, and 
tidied her room, and, hearing no stir on her uncle's 





part, went to Stephen's. His bed in perfect order I 
what did it mean ? How strange Stephen was ! Some- 
thing on his mind always. Looking out of the window, 
she drummed idly on the sash, and speculated. Stephen 
had never been the same since he took to following John 
Gilbert about. And this Adams What had occurred 
at the Foundery? In a blind way she espoused Ste- 
phen's side, whatever the trouble might be. 

She turned, at length, and took up her broom. The 
chimney ran up close by the window, and a long, hang- 
ing dust-web caught her eye. Sweeping it slowly 
down, she espied a book lodged there in the crevice. 
The space was too narrow for fingers. Joe glanced 
around, then broke a twig of woodbine just outside, 
stripped off the leaves, and used it for a lever. The 
book fell into the other hand she was holding for sup- 
port, and some papers fluttered out. Bank bills ! For 
some seconds she was motionless with surprise. 

Josephine Dane had none of that nice honor and del- 
icate self-respect born in some women. She felt that 
of late Stephen had rather defrauded her in the matter 
of confidence ; and if she could learn anything in this 
way, she had no scruples to hold her back. So she 
turned the leaves slowly. 

Thomas Vennard's property. 

Then she counted the money, and replaced it. Five 
hundred dollars. 

She stared around in a blank, puzzled manner. How 



 

did Stephen come by this ? Hidden away, too ! Was 
he a thief? But her cheek burned indignantly at the 
thought. Did he mean to take it back? Had it any- 
thing to do with his being discharged ? Joe's brain was 
in a sad whirl. 

If the money was only theirs ! Why, she had never 
seen half so much together. They could build the new 
room Stephen had been talking about ; they could have 
carpet and chairs ; and may be he would give her a silk 
dress. But then it ought to be a wedding dress ; and 
here Joe sighed. 

She concluded at last that he would surely return it. 
Perhaps he was waiting for Mr. Vennard to offer a re- 
ward. That was right enough. How odd that he should 
have put it just there, and she should have seen it ! If 
she dared tease him a little ! 

She dropped it back into its hiding-place, and swept 
the room. Then, hearing her uncle stumbling about, 
she ran down, with a most innocent face. 

Archy Dane had reached the settle. His blood-shot 
eyes were staring around, with an eager, frightened 
look. His face, was dismally gray, the lips pinched 
and colorless. 

" He's had a buster this time," thought Joe ; but she 
said aloud, "Will you have some breakfast ?" 

"Where's Stephen?" feebly and piteously. 

" Why, it's after seven ; " and Joe forced a short, dis- 
cordant laugh. Was the world being turned upside down ? 





" Stephen's a good boy. He allers was. He won't 
stan' by and see his old father 'bused. Is the Fotmdery 
open, Joe?" 

" Lord ! Why should the Foundery be shut up ? 
You're half fuddled." 

He looked up at her, his eyes glazing over with dull 
terror. 

"I don't want any breakfast, Joe " staggering up. 
"Take me back to bed. And if anybody comes, send 
for Stephen. He'll stan' by me. He's a good boy 
Stephen. He's all I've got ; " and the old man 
maundered on, while Joe cleared away the dishes, her 
usually torpid brain roused to new activity. 

Meanwhile Stephen Dane had gone down the street, 
in a slow, irresolute manner, peering cautiously into the 
faces of those he passed, as he gave his familiar, half- 
abstracted nod. Arrived at the flouring-mill, he went 
in ami did his errand. As he took out his money he 
thought of the hundreds at home with a bright red 
mark upon them. This was honestly earned and free 
from stain. He fingered it with a little manly pride ; 
but as he recalled the bitter sneers that had come with 
it, his brow grew fiercely hot. 

He lingered until the Foundery bell rang. Some one 
said, 

" Taking a holiday, Dane ? " 

He gave a sickly smile, but had not the courage to 
own the truth. Had no one heard ? 



 

Two men halted, seeing him standing in the door. 
One was Forbes. 

"Dane," he asked, "what's the row down yonder? 
Doesn't any one know where Vennard is ? He's plaguy 
close-mouthed ; but he wouldn't go off without a word 
to any one would he ? " 

Stephen Dane made a great effort. " Gone off 
where?" he asked, incredulously. 

"Why, man, haven't you heard? haven't you been 
down to the Foundery ? " 

"No." 

"They're all up in arms. Mrs. Vennard sent over 
he wasn't home last night didn't leave any mes- 
sage. No one can tell anything about him. Fact. You 
needn't look as if you didn't believe a fellow ! " 

"He might have had business," said Dane, speaking 
over a great lump in his throat. 

" He'd a' told time-keeper, any how. And it's mighty 
odd. There's no love lost atween Vennard and some 
o' the men." 

" You don't mean " and Mr. Bross paused amid the 
bags he was lifting. 

" I don't mean anything special," said Forbes. " Only, 
if an accident had happened to him, I know a few who 
wouldn't make their black very expensive. He's a mean 
old niggard. It was a sorry day for Trcgony when he 
came into it. And I'll bless the Lord for the day he goes 





out o' it. I don't see why God lets such men live and 
prosper." 

Forbes was growing excited. Stephen Dane shiv- 
ered. 

"Wasn't he home last night?" asked Mr. Bross. 

"No. And it ain't just his style to go off without a 
word. It looks queer." 

Dane could not endure the talk ; so he stepped out. 
The glare of the sunlight in the street blinded him. 
How strange this glowing wealth of summer appeared, 
when human souls were hourly dying and leaving 
it all ! Then his mind wandered to the secluded spot 
in the river, where some one lay sleeping never to 
waken again. 

Some inexplicable whim dragged him to the Foun- 
dery. His breath came hard and short ; every nerve 
in his body seemed bare and exposed to a biting blast. 
The fearful expectation of something kept his senses 
alert and keen, yet his outward self was 'as rigid as if 
slowly turning to stone. 

No gate-keeper peering suspiciously out at the en- 
trance. A knot of men in the office groups else- 
where, talking and gesticulating, their faces full of 
dumb wonder. What if he went to his place and 
worked as usual? A whole day's idleness would drive 
him crazy. He paused in the wide doorway. 

"Pretty work this, Dane !" ejaculated a gruff fore- 
man. "Everybody's about cracked, I think. As if 



 

Vennard didn't know his own business ! There'll be a 
nice breeze when he comes back. What you gaping 
there for ? You was off all yesterday afternoon. Go 
to work." 

Then the man did not know he had been discharged. 
He hung up his hat and coat, tied on his leathern apron, 
and went to work with a resolute will. Yet his mind 
was full of busy thoughts an island floating in a dim 
sea of space, with no sure rock for foundation. 

By noon the excitement had increased. About four 
on the preceding afternoon Mr. Vennard had been seen 
to leave the Foundery. He had gone to the office of 
Slocum & Adsley, to discuss the new mill, and had 
promised to view the site, and give his opinion of it. 
No one had seen him since. The place had been 
searched, but not a vestige discovered. Inquiries had 
been made everywhere. Mr. Ellicott had telegraphed 
to several business friends in the city. The town au- 
thorities had even taken up the matter. He surely was 
not in Tregony. 

Stephen Dane drew a long breath of 'relief. The 
place had been searched, then ! What had led him to 
destroy that sure evidence, that inanimate tongue whose 
wordless story would have been certain proof? A 
strange awe fell upon him. What if God meant to 
save him? For now he must believe in something 
higher and stronger than mere blind chance. 

No one remarked his silence. He took his way 





through the groups unnoticed. He was glad to have 
Adams still absent ; for friendly eyes are often keen. 

What of his father through all this long morning? 
He almost dreaded to enter the house. 

An expression in Joe's face startled him. Those 
slow-moving brown eyes were quickened with a sense 
of fear or suspicion. He turned pale through all the 
grime and heat. 

"Where have you been all the morning?" she asked, 
excitedly. 

" To work." 

"Why, they say Mr. Vennard is that he has no 
one can find him. Is it so, Stephen?" 

Her voice sank to a terrified whisper. 

"What's the matter?" he exclaimed, roughly, more 
to regain his own self-possession than to startle her. 
" Can't a man go off if he likes ? Where's father ? " 

" He's sick, and wouldn't eat any breakfast," Joe said, 
sulkily. 

What is it fever ? Does he talk ? " 

Stephen was washing his face and hands and wiping 
them on the coarse towel. Did this girl know or sus- 
pect? Had she penetrated the poor old man's secret? 

"Mutters to himself that's all. Guess he was 
pretty drunk last night." 

Stephen winced, but went straight to the bedroom. 
His father moved uneasily, and drew the soiled counter- 
pane over his head. 



 

" You're sick, father." The tone was tender and re- 
assuring. 

"Yes, Stephen, sick," was the quavering reply. 

" What can I do for you ? " 

"Nothin', Stephen, nothin'. I'm gettin' to be a 
feeble old man. Le' me lay here and rest." 

All this time he had not once turned his eyes towards 
his son. 

"I think rest will be the best medicine," was the 
decisive answer " After a few days' quiet you will 
come around all right again ; " and Stephen gave the 
withered hand a pressure that said so much. It com- 
forted the poor soul suffering all the remorse and agony 
possible for such a nature. If Stephen suspected his 
secret, it was in safe keeping. 

"Have you been to work, Stephen?" Joe asked, as 
he seated himself at the table. 

" Yes. I went down there, and Bartow told me to 
go to work. Vennard hasn't been in all the morning. 
There's a precious row about him." 

"And Mrs. Vennard is taking on like a crazy 
woman ! Sally Fawcett says she'll bet anything that 
that " 
" That what? " Stephen stirred his coffee impatiently. 

" That he's been murdered ! " Joe's tone dropped to 
a whisper, and she glanced around fearfully. 

" Well," Stephen replied, slowly, " Vennard has 
made some bitter enemies j but a man must hate another 





pretty fiercely to murder him in cold blood. Hard 
blows are sometimes given in a quarrel, but they can't 
prove that against any one. Slocum was the last man 
who saw him." 

" They've been searching haven't they ? Down by 
theP'int?" 

"Yes. They fancied he might have gone to view 
the new mill-site. And they are sending everywhere." 

" What do you think of it, Stephen?" 

Joe dared not raise her eyes from her plate. 

"I don't want to think just now. It looks very 
mysterious; but Vennard was. a close man, not much 
given to telling his plans. If he should come back this 
afternoon " 

" If he shouldn't what then ? " 

" I should begin to suspect foul play. Saturday is an 
important day for him." 

Stephen's tones were calm and measured. Some- 
how he began to distrust Joe, and thought it best to 
allay any vague suspicious. 

" Stephen," the old man called as he rose. "What's 
come o' Mr. Vennard ? " The eyes seemed starting out 
of their deep sockets. 

" No one knows." Stephen cleared his throat, and 
told the story, the surmises, and the search. 

" Didn't they find nothin' ? " Each word came 
with a gasp. 

"Not a fragment. Not a trace " 



 

