go to college ever since we packed Tom off 
Freshman; and if the horrid old men won't 
let girls have colleges, you see I don't call a 
place where they learn how to dance and play 
and sew and talk French a college, why, 
then, boarding-school is the next best thing, and 
I 'm in for it, thorough , as who was it? 
Henry the First? used to say in that funny 
little English History with the magenta cover." 
" Gypsy ! It is high time for your education 
to be looked after; that is evident. I would 
suggest, by the way, that you write a composi 
tion on Strafford, my dear." 
" Oh, well ! why isn't one name as gooef as 
another? It 's all the same in Dutch, as Tom 
says to me. Well, anyway, I am going tG 
have a good time." 
" And not be homesick a bit ? " 
" No, ma 'am ! that is to say n-no-oo." 
Gypsy was particularly engaged at that mo 
ment in wondering why she had never noticed 
what a soft hand her mother had, and in 
thinking that it must be time to light the 
lamps. 
Mrs. Breynton 's touch rested a moment still 
upon the bright falling hair, and it fell lower 
down about Gypsy 's face. 
" Gypsy, I 've been thinking I could tell 
you much about this new school life, but if it 
looks so bright, I don't know, I never could 
even bear to wake you up in the morning if 
you were having a pretty dream." 
" But if you didn't, I should lose my 
breakfast, you know, said Gypsy, sittii.g up 
straight. 
" Yet if you could learn to wake yourself up, 
it would be better for you." 
" Then you don't think I am going to have a 
nice time? " 
"The best of times, and the most dangerous-" 
Gypsy sat up straighter, and looked intensely 
incredulous. 
" It is a little hard to let you go out of my 
arms," said Mrs. Breynton, slowly, " right out 
all at once; yet, letting you go, I must give 
you a wide sweep. In a certain sense you 
must live without me." 
Gypsy gave her a squeeze, and said she 'd 
see about that. 
" I think, after all," said her mother, after a 
moment 's thought, " that I have but one piece 
of advice to give ; it rests with you to the 
particulars to it." 
" But what is the advice? " 
" That you sit down every night a few 
minutes, and tell me, in your heart, just as if we 
were sitting together as we are now " 
" You stroking my hair," interrupted Gypsy. 
" I stroking your hair, if you like, and tell 
me what has happened since morning, and what 
you suppose will happen to-morrow." 
"Want me to promise?" asked Gypsy, after 
some thinking. 
" Just as you like." 
" Well, I 'll promise ; it will be a sort of 
string, you know; a little piece of sewing-silk. 
I never tried to break sewing-silk in my life 
without cutting my fingers. Mother, you have 
something else to say; it 's so dark I can't see 
much of you but just your eyes, and I know by 
the way they re looking out of the window." 
" One thing more, yes. I want you to have 
a little talk every night with Somebody else 
besides me, dear." 
Just at that moment Winnie began to ring 
the tea-bell, and he made such a noise about it 
that Gypsy did not try to answer, but her 
mother felt in the dark two soft pats on her 
hand which she 
seemed to think were as good as words. 
At least she caught her up in her 
arms and gave her a very long kiss. 
" Oo-oo-ooh ! What a 
racket that little scamp is 
making! I 'm going to write 
the very first night I get 
there, and here I am in my 
sack with every solitary hair 
flying, and you 'll be all 
through supper, and I 'm not going to be 
homesick a bit, you know, and would you 
mind wringing Winnie 's neck when you go 
downstairs? " said Gypsy, a little incoherently. 
It was unaccountable, to be sure; but as she 
flew about in the dark, whisking her hair into 
her net, tossing on her dress, losing all her 
combs behind the bureau, and dropping the 
soap into the water-pitcher, she certainly did 
wonder if Joy could possibly have made a 
mistake about boarding-school. But that was only 
for a minute. 
It is a great thing to have a pleasant tea- 
table; and I believe that was what Mrs. 
Breynton 's tea-table always was. Everything 
about it seemed to fit, like the notes of a 
beautiful tune. In the first place there seemed 
to be a tacit understanding that people should 
say something pleasant, or not talk at all 
No cross words ever came from behind the 
teacups, and, as a consequence, a cross word 
from anywhere else made such a jar that it 
was as much as one 's peace of mind was worth 
for an evening. Then the silver was always 
bright, and the warm colours of the plaided 
supper-cloth, and Mrs. Breynton used to wear 
a bit of ribbon or fine lace with her " afternoon 
dress," and the room was flooded with the 
soft light of porcelain-shaded lamps. Besides
all the work and worry and lessons of the day 
were over, and there was nothing but reading 
and play and chatter to come. 
It was very pleasant, that night, and so 
Gypsy thought, when she had exchanged the 
red flannel sack for her pretty gray travelling- 
dress with the blue trimmings, the only dress 
now outside of the trunks, and coming in 
just as her father was asking the blessing, 
stopped a moment in the doorway and looked 
around, very pleasant. But then, she was so 
happy that night that almost anything would 
have looked pleasant. Her eyes were dancing 
behind their long lashes, her cheeks were afire 
with excitement, and as for her dimple, it 
seemed to twinkle all over her face. 
" Well, my dear," said her father, laying 
down his fork, " you don't look as if your 
heart were breaking." 
" Not so much as a crack, sir. Why, griddle- 
cakes ! Mother, you blessed little woman. 
If that isn't just like you ! "  
I thought they would taste good, your last 
night, dear; here, Patty has just brought these 
in hot. Sugar, or maple? Winnie, pass her 
the butter. See, they are done brown just as 
you like them." 
She does not say that she has been out her 
self to cook them just as Gypsy liked them, 
nor what the kitchen fire had done to the 
headache left by the hard day 's packing; but 
Gypsy knows. Ah, yes, Gypsy knows. 
There is a queer, quick droop of her eyes, 
and for three whole minutes she has not a 
word to say. That little promise made up 
stairs in the dark is riveted into its place by 
who would have thought it? a griddle-cake. 
" My mother is all wound up together," Gypsy 
writes sometimes to her cousin Joy. " All 
the big things and all the little things are 
tangled into each other, and I don't believe she 
knows the difference." 
After the three minutes are over, Gypsy 
begins to talk again, and Gypsy always has 
plenty to say, and the silver flashes, and the 
light deepens and glows through the soft white 
shades, and her mother 's face smiles in it be 
hind the tea-things ; everybody talks a great 
deal, but nobody says much about to-morrow. 
Gypsy misses Tom, and wishes he were there 
to say good-bye with the rest, and Winnie 's 
kitty curls up into her arms and tries to put 
her cold nose down her neck, and there 
is a scarlet maple which she notices, flut 
tering softly in the wind against the window- 
glass. 
She feels these things and remembers them 
with very much such a sensation as if she 
were going to heaven to find something sub 
limely superior to them all, yet with a wistful 
tenderness clinging to the tried and proved. 
Snapberry griddle-cakes may be as melting 
and brown as these, to be sure. Supper at the 
Golden Crescent will doubtless have something 
to take the place of her father 's stories and 
Winnie 's escapades with his mug of milk, if 
one only knew what. Mrs. McMunn 's eyes 
may be as well worth looking at as her 
mother 's, but she should like to have * the 
evidence on t." 
When she has thought as far as this, over 
goes Winnie 's milk, splash ! all down his neck 
and up his jacket sleeve, and out goes the big 
book which helped him to fill out his chair, 
and up jumps Winnie, strangling, gasping, red 
in the face. 
" Oh I never hum ! look here ! I can't 
swallow either way ! I 've got a crumb in my 
breath-pipe ! " 
Gypsy laughs at this, laughs more than 
usual, and supper ends merrily. 
" The middle of March," her father says, as 
they stand there all together in the lamplight; 
" what a long time to wait ! " 
But Gypsy does not think it long. Besides, 
Mrs. McMunn may give them a day or two at 
the holidays when Tom is at home. 
She listens to her father 's evening prayer, 
but wonders a little between the sentences who 
her room-mate will be. She goes up herself to 
put Winnie to bed, because it is her last night, 
and she has promised him a story. She had 
expected to begin to feel sober and wonder 
what girls did at school without any little 
brother to tease; but Winnie is very sleepy, 
and when he tries to say his prayers, goes all 
the way through " Baa, baa, black sheep," and 
doesn't know the difference. 
Bedtime comes early for her, too, for waking 
time must be early to-morrow; so she kisses 
her mother good-night with an extra squeeze, 
and steals away to bed to dream till morning 
of this beautiful new future which is coming. 
Of what it will be like, she has a few ideas. 
There will be no dishes to wash, no errands ta 
do. Somebody will dust her room for her. 
The dinners will be very much like the dinners 
at a large hotel, probably, and there will always 
be hot biscuit for supper. She will wear long 
dresses, and go to the bank and draw her own 
checks. 
There will always be a girl at hand to talk 
all night with, if she wants to. There will be 
a great many "scrapes" to keep out of or 
fall into. There will be a few books, and a 
composition class, and she expects to study - 
some. 
IN the first place it rained. 
Gypsy woke at half-past five 
to find her room filled with 
gray gloom, and to hear an 
ominous, pattering sound upon the leaden 
piazza roof. 
Her mother, coming in to call her, found her 
shivering in her night-dress at the window, her 
face pressed up against the glass, down which 
sluggish streams of rain were rolling and col 
lecting in little puddles on the sill. Outside, 
huge clouds of mist were drifting about and 
settling to the ground, and the leaves of the 
maples hung dull and drenched. 
" Ugh ! " said Gypsy, shrugging her shoul 
ders. That really seemed to be the only thing 
there was to say. She liked a journey in an 
easterly storm no better than most people, and 
had certainly made up her mind to have the 
sun shine. Moreover, she had cherished secret 
expectations of looping her dress over a cer 
tain pretty white skirt that hung in the closet; 
white always is and always must be so much 
more ladylike-looking than anything else. 
Now there was nothing to look forward to 
but a balmoral. 
It was not over-pleasant to hear the driving 
of the rain as she locked the last trunk, 
fastened the last pin, and turned, cape and hat 
and little bag over her arm, to take the last 
look around her deserted room before she shut 
the door. She wished that the wind would not 
blow so while she sat eating her breakfast ; and 
her mother, softly busy about her luncheon, 
stopped to stroke her cheek a little. 
She felt very sure that the driver had come 
too early when his long sharp ring pealed 
through the house, and he ran clattering up 
stairs and clattering downstairs with the trunks, 
and Patty came from the kitchen wiping her 
hands on her apron to say good-bye ; and when 
the last words came upon the steps, and sleepy 
Winnie, who had to pry both fists into his eyes 
to keep them open, insisted that he was " cry 
ing because Gypsy 's gone off to a Boarded 
School ; " when her mother, with wet eyelashes 
and face a little pale, caught her up into her 
arms once, twice, and once again, and her 
father, looking straight ahead, went down the 
path holding the umbrella carefully over her. 
She stopped a moment on the carriage steps, 
half in and half out, the rain whisking against 
the pretty gray travelling-dress, where her 
waterproof blew aside, her face turned back 
towards the house, a rather forlorn-looking 
little Gypsy. The first they knew, she had 
jumped right out into the rain, and was up 
the path and the steps, her arms about her 
mother 's neck. 
" Oh, mother, mother, mother ! I love you 
hard!" 
And the year at the Golden Crescent began 
to look a little misty. 
It was a day 's journey to the little Massachu 
setts town of Snapberry. You did not know 
that there was such a town? Very well; find 
ft on the map if you can. It is there, 
whether you find it or not ; only it happens to 
be a little differently spelled. 
Nothing of any importance happened on the 
way, except that Gypsy could not get her bag 
gage checked, and lost her luncheon out of the 
car-window, and once walked straight into the 
smoking-car. Though a very courageous, she 
was not a very old traveller. 
It poured all day. Gypsy patronised the 
" popcorn boy " till she could eat no more, 
bought a Harper 's Weekly and looked at the 
pictures, read a remarkable story by Cousin 
Somebody of a young lady who climbed into a 
burning house to save her lover, watched the 
people in the car till she knew them by heart 
and had made up a story for every one of 
them, counted the telegraph poles till she was 
dizzy, and at last, as the twilight began to fail, 
leaned her forehead against the side of the 
window and idly watched the storm, the driv 
ing rain, the gusts of wind tossing the leaves 
about, the muddy pools collected by the 
tracks, the clenched figures loitering at the 
stations, the soaked meadows, soaked feru.es, 
soaked grass trying to grow in the shade of 
brick walls and bridges, dripping umbrellas, 
dripping roofs, dripping trees, her face catch 
ing a bit of dreariness from it as she looked. 
There was a bright fire in the parlor now at 
home ; Winnie was picking up his blocks to be 
ready for father 's coming home early from the 
store ; mother had gone out to the kitchen to 
see Patty about supper; she would take her 
knitting when she came back, and the little 
hair-cloth rocking-chair; down at her feet there 
would be a cricket with nobody on it. 
The year at the Golden Crescent looked 
decidedly gray. 
The train was due at Snapberry at six o'clock. 
A young lady came in about half-past five 
from one of the junctions where she had been 
waiting, and took a seat a little in front of 
Gypsy. She had on a very pretty bonnet, and 
Gypsy, glad to have something else than that 
cricket at home to think of, sat up straight and 
looked at it. It was a brown travelling straw 
with a brown feather, neither very simple nor 
very showy, but with that indescribable some 
thing about it which girls call " so stylish," and 
which means more than conformity of shape 
and trimming to the prevailing mode. There 
was a spray of pink heather inside, which fell 
against a mass of black hair, black as onyx, 
Gypsy could see from the side glimpses which 
she had when the light struck it. 
The young lady 's dress, a brown mozam- 
bique, softly shaded off around the skirt by a 
heavy fold of browner silk, though covered by 
her cloak, and decorously looped over her 
dainty white skirt, was yet sufficiently visible 
for one to remark upon its elegance. 
Her very waterproof, finished at the throat 
by a high tucked linen collar, and thrown 
gracefully back from her free arms, had more 
of an "air" about it than would velvet upon 
nine-tenths of the people who wear it. 
It was also observable, as she slightly turned 
her head, and the curve of her cheek was outlined
in rich dark carmine, that the pink feathet 
was chosen with a studied aptitude of tints. 
It is an " old saw," almost worn out in these 
days of high wages and bead trimmings, that a 
lady can always be recognised by her dress. 
Perhaps the trimmed skirt was a little rich for 
such a dingy, muddy, dripping day, but there 
was something about the tout ensemble of this 
young lady with which Gypsy was pleased. 
There was, however, one exception. She 
wore a pair of light, very light, kid gloves. 
Whether this was a notch in the saw, could 
not be decided at once. 
When she had been a little while in the car, 
she turned around to speak to the conductor, 
and Gypsy could see her face fully. Her first 
impression was that it was a very handsome 
face, and as Gypsy liked to watch handsome 
faces much as she liked to watch pictures, she 
looked at it every chance she had, till the 
whistle sounded for Snapberry. Her second 
impression was that it was a handsome face 
without the "very; " her third, that handsome 
was not the word. A striking face it certainly 
was. There was an abundance of that oynx- 
like hair ; good eyes, full, black, expressive ; 
the mouth, however, was peculiar, it was 
well shaped, with warm, rich colour in the lips, 
but something, one could scarcely tell what, 
was the matter with it. 
As the train shrieked into Snapberry, and 
Gypsy was putting on her gloves, she observed 
the young lady take down her little bag from 
the rack above her head. When Snapberry 
passengers left the cars, she left with them. 
Gypsy stepped out into the pouring rain 
upon the uncovered platform of the little 
wooden depot, with a great sinking sense of 
loneliness. Wet umbrellas spattered into her 
face, and wet overcoats brushed against her; 
wet baggage-men were slamming wet trunks 
about, and a very wet little girl who stood upon 
the platform was crying because nobody had 
come to meet her. Gypsy, seeking for the 
Ladies Room, ran against a little coachman 
with a moustache, who agreed to carry her to 
the Golden Crescent, and appeared to be the 
only arrangement for such case made and 
provided. 
The Ladies Room consisted of a floor, and a 
bench running around a wall. It contained a 
very smoky kerosene lamp, and one old lady in 
a poke-bonnet. Gypsy sat down on the bench 
and winked very hard, first at the lamp, and 
then at the old lady. While she was waiting 
there for the coachman to find her trunks, the 
wet little girl was brought in by a dripping 
father, held warmly in his arms, with his kisses 
dropping on her forehead. 
"Did Dolly think papa 'd forgotten her?" 
Gypsy heard him say; and it seemed as if 
the great sinking would take away her breath. 
Presently the little coachman came in, jing 
ling a check. 
" Can't find but one of yer trunks, mum ; 
the big un 's here, but there 's no signs of 
t other." 
" My little trunk ! not here ! " 
" No, mum, it hain 't. Dy er thinks it "s got 
took to the Junction, an will be long down the 
fust train in the morning; you jest take your 
check and stick to t, and you 'll git it, no dan 
ger. This way, mum, this way." 
Gypsy followed him out into the rain, with a 
very sober face. 
It is not exactly a cheering thing to lose 
one 's baggage in bright sunlight. Now, in the 
dark and loneliness and strangeness, it seemed 
to be the straw that broke the camel 's back. 
What would her mother say? And what 
should she do for the very dress which she had 
meant to wear to-morrow morning? And 
what if the trunk did not come back by the 
"fust train" or any train? and that Honi- 
ton collar ! and the corn-coloured necktie ! 
and that bridle with bead fringe ! 
Gypsy found several girls in the coach be 
fore her. One was the young lady with the 
heather in her bonnet and the Mozambique 
dress. Just before the door was shut, the 
driver handed in a pretty girl with light hair 
and very small hands; she muttered some- 
thing about it 's being scandalously crowded, 
and swept into the only vacant seat, beside this 
young lady. She wore no waterproof, and 
her showy travelling-suit was drenched and 
spattered with mud ; the other, either by acci 
dent or design, moved away a little into the 
corner, and gathered her cloak closely about 
her. The new-comer saw the act and turned 
sharply, some words upon her lips, which she 
apparently found difficulty in restraining. The 
two girls eyed each other for a moment with 
that sort of dislike which comes and goes 
too, sometimes by instinct, but neither spoke. 
The coach was dimly and drearily lighted, 
the rain pattering in a dismal style upon the 
drawn windows, and Gypsy noted these things 
by way of something to think about. 
There were two girls old scholars, evi 
dently upon the back seat, chatting merrily 
with each other. It never occurred to them 
that the new-comers might feel strange and 
homesick, and glad to be spoken to; so they 
had all the talking to themselves. 
Presently, however, the young lady in the 
Mozambique turned around with a smile to 
Gypsy, and asked if she were going to the 
Golden Crescent. 
"Yes," said Gypsy; "is it very dreadful, do 
you think?" 
"I don't know," said the young lady; "I 
am a new scholar too." 
"Oh!" 
" Didn't I see you in the cars, I wonder?" 
" Did you? Well, I saw you, and I 'm much 
obliged for your bonnet." 
" Obliged for my bonnet?" 
" Yes ; you see I came just about as near 
being homesick ! and when your bonnet walked 
in, it was so pretty I had to sit up and look 
at it." 
The young lady laughed, and looked very 
much amused ; not ill-pleased, either, it seemed. 
The rest of the girls had by this time all 
grown quiet to listen to the conversation, and 
Gypsy, hearing a little laugh go round, shrank 
back, somewhat appalled, into the dark. 
Fifteen minutes ride brought them to a high 
white house surrounded by large grounds and 
many trees. Gypsy could see them dimly 
through the rain, as she jumped from the coach 
door at a bound, regardless of the helping hand 
of the little coachman. Her acquaintance of 
the cars came down more sedately, but seemed 
quite able to take care of herself. The pretty 
girl made a great commotion ; she handed her 
umbrella to one, and thrust her bag into the lap 
of another, and caught her crinoline upon the 
steps, and must needs scream about it, gave the 
driver both her very little hands, and finally 
allowed him to lift her to the ground. Little 
things make great impressions, and Gypsy 
noticed. 
A lady whom she concluded must be Mrs. 
McMunn met the girls in the hall, shook hands 
with each in turn, asked their names, and sent 
a servant to show them their rooms. Gypsy 
was taken to the third story, and shown into a 
room by herself. 
It was a low, small room, with one good 
sized window, an indescribable carpet, plain 
furniture, brown papering, no pictures, and a 
bare mantelpiece. 
Somebody brought up her trunk; she un 
locked it as she would unlock a trunk in a 
dream, and dressed herself for supper with her 
eyes shut, so as not to see that lonely, bare 
mantelpiece and the staring walls; they had 
the singular effect of making her feel as if she 
were going to choke. 
Presently a strange girl knocked at the door, 
said that supper was ready, and went away again. 
Gypsy found her way down through the 
crooked entries to the first floor, where she 
encountered her friend of the coach. 
" Oh, is that you ? Good ! We 'll go in to 
gether," said the young lady, drawing Gypsy 's 
arm through hers. Gypsy was pleased. She 
had dreaded to walk the length of the long 
dining-hall alone, and she was glad to have 
somebody to speak to. She did not say so, but 
there was a little grateful snap to her eyes, 
which the young lady saw, and she slipped her 
arm about her waist, with a half-confidential, 
half-patronising air, laughing. 
" It is an undertaking to walk down a dining- 
hall, but we won't look green if we are new 
scholars, will we, Miss " 
" There isn't any Miss about it I 'm just 
Gypsy Breynton." 
" Gypsy Breynton ! Gypsy Breynton ! What 
an odd name ! Did your mother find it in a 
book? Well, I 'm Maude Clare." 
Gypsy thought that Maude Clare was a very 
pretty name, and said so ; which Maude Clare 
appeared to like. 
" I don't see what they call this the Golden 
Crescent for," said Gypsy, as they passed the 
length of the table, arm-in-arm, to the seats 
which Mrs. McMunn pointed out to them. 
" I believe there are some yellow maples or 
something on the hill behind the house," said 
Maude Clare; and then in a whisper as they 
sat down, "Plated forks ! did you ever?" 
" Never," said Gypsy, without a very deaf 
idea what she was talking about ; and the next
she knew, Mrs. McMunn was asking the 
blessing. 
The supper was good, but the table was long 
and somewhat dimly lighted, and the girls 
looked homesick and cold. Maude Clare 
talked a good deal. 
When Gypsy went up to her room after tea, 
she was surprised and disappointed to find a 
quiet, rather plain girl in black there, unpack 
ing a bag. She and Maude Clare had been 
hoping that they should room together* 
She walked over to the window, and stood 
looking out, with her forehead on the glass. 
It was raining still, and the wind was blowing 
bitterly. A little hill rolled up just behind the 
house from the garden ; on its top, through the 
darkness, she could faintly see the outline, high 
against the sky, of a curve of tossing trees. 
" I should like to know where the Golden 
comes in, anyway," she said drearily. 
" The old girls say it "s beautiful in the 
sun," said the quiet room-mate, creeping into 
bed. 
