During the months of August, September and October, according to the
honest western custom, these two opposing candidates stumped the State
together, and presented their opposing claims and views in a series of
public gatherings. These meetings were in consequence of Mr. Lincoln's
invitation, but Mr. Douglas in accepting adroitly contrived to name
terms that gave him the opening and the closing turns, not only of the
whole series, but of four out of seven of the meetings.
In the June and July preceding, Mr. Lincoln made three other speeches,
two at Springfield and one at Chicago, which may be considered a sort
of preface to the great debates. The first of these, at Springfield,
June 17, 1858, was in some respects the most remarkable of Mr.
Lincoln's oratorical productions. It was made at the close of the
Republican State Convention which nominated Mr. Lincoln a candidate for
the U. S. Senate; and its opening paragraph is so remarkable for style,
so heavy with meaning, and so instinct with political foresight, that
it is worth quoting entire. It is as follows:
"Mr. President, and Gentlemen of the Convention:--If we could first
know where we are, and whither we are tending, we could better judge
what to do, and how to do it. We are now far into the fifth year since
a policy was initiated with the avowed object and confident promise
of putting an end to slavery agitation. Under the operation of that
policy, that agitation has not only not ceased, but has constantly
augmented. In my opinion it will not cease until a crisis shall have
been reached and passed. 'A house divided against itself cannot stand.'
I believe this government cannot endure permanently half slave and half
free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved--I do not expect the
house to fall--but I do expect it will cease to be divided. It will
become all one thing or all the other. Either the opponents of slavery
will arrest the further spread of it, and place it where the public
mind shall rest in the belief that it is in the course of ultimate
extinction; or its advocates will push it forward, till it shall
become alike lawful in all the States, old as well as new, North as
well as South."
In this brief statement, Mr. Lincoln set forth the whole object of
the southern and northern parties on the slavery question, and though
he did not prophesy which way the contest would be decided, he did
prophesy exactly the two alternatives to one of which the country
was necessarily to advance. It is further noticeable here that Mr.
Lincoln's statement includes exactly the same prophecy, only not so
classically worded, as Mr. Seward's famous phrase, in his speech at
Rochester, the following October, of "an Irrepressible Conflict." And
once more; the opening sentence, as a writer upon Mr. Lincoln has
shown, is in like manner curiously coincident in thought with the first
sentence of another still more famous speech--Daniel Webster's reply to
Hayne. Mr. Webster said:
"When the mariner has been tossed for many days in thick weather, and
on an unknown sea, he naturally avails himself of the first pause in
the storm, the earliest glance of the sun, to take his latitude, and
ascertain how far the elements have driven him from his true course.
Let us imitate that prudence, and before we float further, refer to
the point from which we departed, that we may at least be able to
conjecture where we now are."
That is a stately and sonorous opening, majestic and poetical. Now
compare it with Mr. Lincoln's synonym: "If we could first know where
we are, and whither we are tending, we could better judge what to do,
and how to do it." The thing could not have been said more shortly,
more directly, more clearly, more strongly in English. As the writer
observes from whom this parallel is taken, "Mr. Webster used eighty-two
words, nearly a quarter of them having over one syllable; Mr. Lincoln
only twenty-five, of which only three, or less than one-eighth, have
more than one syllable. Counting still more closely, we find that Mr.
Webster used 347 letters, to Mr. Lincoln's 88." In less than one-third
the words, in just over one-fourth the letters, and without the least
approach to a figure of speech, Mr. Lincoln said what Mr. Webster did.
"This," to quote once more, "may seem a petty method of comparing
orators; but it reveals a great secret of directness, clearness,
simplicity and force of style; it goes far to explain how Mr. Lincoln
convinced an audience."
"This speech," says Mr. Arnold, "was the text of the great debate
between Lincoln and Douglas." It states the question in the United
States as between slavery and freedom, with very great strength and
plainness, and lays down the principles that apply to it with equal
power. It had been carefully prepared beforehand, as a manifesto for
which the times were ripe. For the first time it placed the speaker
publicly upon advanced anti-slavery ground; and it is by no means
improbable that in taking that ground, Mr. Lincoln had some secret
conscious or half conscious feeling not only that he was marking out
the place that his party must occupy in the coming struggle, but that
in doing so he assumed the place of standard-bearer. He explained the
doctrines of the Nebraska Act, and the Dred Scott decision; showed
how the Democratic party had become ranged on the side of slavery;
explained how the result of the Dred Scott decision, together with
the indifferent policy so jauntily vaunted by Douglas, of "not caring
whether slavery were voted up or down," must result in a final victory
of slavery; and showed how Mr. Douglas' doctrines permitted and invited
that final victory. And having thus showed "where we are, and whither
we are tending," he ended with a solemn but cheering exhortation, "what
to do and how to do it." "The result," he said, "is not doubtful. We
shall not fail, if we stand firm we shall not fail. Wise counsels may
accelerate, or mistakes delay it, but sooner or later, THE VICTORY IS
SURE TO COME."
That is the language, not of a party politician, recommending expedient
nostrums, but of a statesman who feels profoundly that his people
are sound at heart, and will assuredly one day do full justice; who
proclaims in advance the eternal victory of the right side, and boldly
calls on all who hear him to advance up to the line of their own
consciences.
Before delivering this speech, Mr. Lincoln locked himself into a room
with his partner, Mr. Herndon, and read him the first paragraph of
the speech. "What do you think of it?" said he. Herndon answered, "I
think it is all true, but I doubt whether it is good policy to say it
now." Mr. Lincoln replied, "That makes no difference; it is the truth,
and the nation is entitled to it." This was both honest and politic;
for if the ground of principle as against expediency had not been
taken, there was none left to oppose the reasonings of Mr. Douglas,
which were extremely adroit, and so far as expediency admitted, indeed
unanswerable.
In the conduct of that remarkable campaign of 1858, Mr. Douglas was
the advocate of expediency, Mr. Lincoln of principle. Mr. Douglas
appealed to the prejudices of the white race against the black, and
argued in favor of present ease and selfish indifference to justice
in our conduct as a nation. Mr. Lincoln incessantly appealed to the
consciences of his audience, to all that part of human nature which
is kindly, which is just, which is noble; to the broad doctrines upon
which our national freedom was originally based. It is true that along
with these main currents of debate numerous minor questions and side
issues came up; but such was the pervading color, the chief drift of
the discussion. Over and over and over again, there sounds out among
the words of Douglas, "This is a white man's government; the negro
ought not to vote." And even more constant is the lofty reply, "I stand
by the Declaration of Independence, and the everlasting rights of
humanity. The negro is a man, and he ought to have all the rights of a
man!"
Mr. Lincoln's speech at Springfield, on June 17th, has been briefly
described. Mr. Douglas, coming home to his own State, to justify his
course, and receive his re-election, answered him in his Chicago speech
of July 9th, and Mr. Lincoln rejoined next day. Douglas spoke again,
at Bloomington on the 16th, and at Springfield on the 17th, and on the
latter day Mr. Lincoln spoke also at Springfield. In this speech he
set forth a curious and characteristic contrast between himself and
his opponent, in a grotesque and sarcastic manner that must have told
sharply upon his western audience, while its comic surface is underlaid
with the usual solid basis of conscious adherence to justice and
principle. Mr. Lincoln said:
"Senator Douglas is of world-wide renown. All the anxious politicians
of his party, or who have been of his party for years past, have
been looking upon him as certainly, at no distant day, to be the
President of the United States. They have seen in his round, jolly,
fruitful face, post-offices, land-offices, marshalships and cabinet
appointments, chargeships and foreign missions, bursting and sprouting
out in wonderful exuberance, ready to be laid hold of by their greedy
hands. And as they have been gazing upon this attractive picture so
long, they cannot, in the little distraction that has taken place
in the party, bring themselves to give up the charming hope; but
with greedier anxiety they rush about him, sustain him, and give him
marches, triumphal entries, and receptions beyond what even in the
days of his highest prosperity they could have brought about in his
favor. On the contrary, nobody has ever expected me to be President.
In my poor, lean, lank face, nobody has ever seen that any cabbages
were sprouting out. These are disadvantages, all taken together,
that the Republicans labor under. We have to fight this battle upon
principle, and upon principle alone. I am, in a certain sense, made
the standard-bearer in behalf of the Republicans. I was made so
merely because there had to be some one so placed--I being in no wise
preferable to any other one of the twenty-five--perhaps a hundred, we
have in the Republican ranks. Then I say I wish it to be distinctly
understood and borne in mind, that we have to fight this battle without
many--perhaps without any--of the external aids which are brought
to bear against us. So I hope those with whom I am surrounded have
principle enough to nerve themselves for the task and leave nothing
undone that can be fairly done, to bring about the right result."
Two years before, Mr. Lincoln had used even stronger terms in
contrasting himself and his antagonist. In 1856 he said: "Twenty-two
years ago, Judge Douglas and I first became acquainted; we were
both young men--he a trifle younger than I. Even then we were both
ambitious, I perhaps quite as much as he. With me, the race of ambition
has been a failure--a flat failure. With him, it has been one of
splendid success. His name fills the nation, and it is not unknown
in foreign lands. I affect no contempt for the high eminence he has
reached. So reached that the oppressed of my species might have shared
with me in the elevation, I would rather stand on that eminence than
wear the richest crown that ever pressed a monarch's brow."
Mr. Lincoln's exact position on the emancipation question at this time,
is an interesting illustration of his firm adherence to principle, and
at the same time of his extreme caution in touching established laws,
and his natural tendency to give voice to the average public sentiment
of his day, rather than to go beyond it, or to reprove that sentiment
for not going further. He averred over and over again, that he was "not
in favor of negro citizenship;" but he said "there is no reason in the
world why the negro is not entitled to all the rights enumerated in the
Declaration of Independence--the right of life, liberty and the pursuit
of happiness. In the right to eat the bread without the leave of
anybody else, which his own hand earns, he is my equal, and the equal
of Judge Douglas, and the equal of every other man."
The same primary granite substratum of moral right, of everlasting
justice, underlies all these speeches. It crops out here and there,
in passages, a specimen of which is worth quoting, not merely for the
sake of their aptness then or now; but also as excellent patterns
for the application of moral principles to political practices--a
lesson peculiarly important in a republic, simply because its diligent
employment is the sole possible basis of national strength and
happiness. In the debate at Quincy, October 13th, Mr. Lincoln stated a
whole code of political ethics, along with its application to the case
in hand, in one paragraph, as follows:
"We have in this nation this element of domestic slavery. It is a
matter of absolute certainty that it is a disturbing element. It is the
opinion of all the great men who have expressed an opinion upon it,
that it is a dangerous element. We keep up a controversy in regard to
it. That controversy necessarily springs from difference of opinion,
and if we can learn exactly--can reduce to the lowest elements--what
that difference of opinion is, we perhaps shall be better prepared for
discussing the different systems of policy that we would propose in
regard to that disturbing element. I suggest that the difference of
opinion, reduced to its lowest terms, is no other than the difference
between the men who think slavery a wrong and those who do not think it
a wrong. The Republican party think it wrong--we think it is a moral,
a social and a political wrong. We think it is a wrong not confining
itself merely to the persons or the States where it exists, but that it
is a wrong in its tendency, to say the least, that it extends itself
to the existence of the whole nation. Because we think it wrong, we
propose a course of policy that shall deal with it as a wrong. We
deal with it as with any other wrong, in so far as we can prevent its
growing any larger, and so deal with it that in the run of time there
may be some promise of an end to it. We have a due regard to the actual
presence of it amongst us and the difficulties of getting rid of it in
any satisfactory way, and all the Constitutional obligations thrown
about it. I suppose that in reference both to its actual existence in
the nation, and to our Constitutional obligations, we have no right at
all to disturb it in the States where it exists, and we profess that
we have no more inclination to disturb it than we have the right to do
it. We go further than that; we don't propose to disturb it where, in
one instance, we think the Constitution would permit us. We think the
Constitution would permit us to disturb it in the District of Columbia.
Still we do not propose to do that, unless it should be in terms which
I don't suppose the nation is very likely soon to agree to--the terms
of making the emancipation gradual and compensating the unwilling
owners. Where we suppose we have the Constitutional right, we restrain
ourselves in reference to the actual existence of the institution and
the difficulties thrown about it. We also oppose it as an evil so
far as it seeks to spread itself. We insist on the policy that shall
restrict it to its present limits."
Still more sharply and strongly he stated the question in the last
debate, at Alton, as simply this: Is Slavery wrong?
"That is the real issue. That is the issue that will continue in this
country when these poor tongues of Judge Douglas and myself shall be
silent. It is the eternal struggle between these two principles--right
and wrong--throughout the world. They are the two principles that have
stood face to face from the beginning of time; and will ever continue
to struggle. The one is the common right of humanity and the other the
divine right of kings. It is the same principle, in whatever shape it
develops itself. It is the same spirit that says, "You work and toil
and earn bread, and I'll eat it." No matter in what shape it comes,
whether from the mouth of a king who seeks to bestride the people
of his own nation and live by the fruit of their labor, or from one
race of men as an apology for enslaving another race, it is the same
tyrannical principle."
With equal force he often exposed and rebuked the moral levity shown
by his opponent--his affectation of indifference to all principle,
his supercilious dazzling contempt of moral distinctions. In his last
speech at Alton, he very fully reviewed the whole question, and Mr.
Douglas' individual position before the country, with great breadth and
power.
There was as striking a contrast between the externals of the two
champions, as between their political doctrines. Douglas went pompously
up and down the land, with special trains of railroad cars, bands of
music, long processions, banners, cannon firing, and all the flourish
and gaudy show of a triumphing conqueror; and he is said to have paid
away half his fortune in securing this fatal victory. But Mr. Lincoln
went about almost as frugally, as plainly, as quietly, as if he had
been on one of his accustomed legal circuits, and reflected with a
queer astonishment upon the trifling sum that he did actually expend.
He said to a friend after the campaign was over, "I don't believe I
have expended in this canvass one cent less than Five Hundred Dollars
in cash!" He sometimes good humoredly alluded to these demonstrations.
"Auxiliary to these main points," he says, "to be sure, are their
thunderings of cannon, their marching and music, their fizzle-gigs
and fire works; but I will not waste time with them, they are but
the little trappings of the campaign." Mr. Townsend, a picturesque
writer, thus contrasts the bearing of the two men: "Douglas was
uneasily arrogant in Lincoln's presence; the latter, never sensitive
nor flurried, so grew by his imperturbability that when he reached
the White House, Mr. Douglas was less surprised than anybody else.
The great senatorial campaign, in which they figured together, is
remembered by every Springfielder. Douglas, with his powerful voice and
facile energy, went into it under full steam. Lincoln began lucidly
and cautiously. When they came out of it, Douglas was worn down with
rage and hoarseness, and Lincoln was fresher than ever. He prepared
all the speeches of this campaign by silent meditation, sitting or
lying alone, studying the flies on the ceiling. "The best evidence
of his superiority in this debate is the fact that the Republicans
circulated both sets of speeches as a campaign document in 1860, but
Mr. Douglas's friends refused to do so.
And Mr. Arnold, a personal friend of Mr. Lincoln's, attributes to Mr.
Lincoln just that sort of superiority that comes from a consciousness
of being on the right side and of having an antagonist in whose
attitude there is reason for contempt. "He had one advantage," says Mr.
Arnold, "over Douglas, he was always good humored; he had always an
apt and happy story for illustration, and while Douglas was sometimes
irritable, Lincoln never lost his temper." And Mr. Arnold says that
when Lincoln and Douglas came to Chicago together just after the close
of the seven debates, "Lincoln was in perfect health, his face bronzed
by the prairie suns, but looking and moving like a trained athlete. His
voice was clearer, stronger and better than when he began the canvass.
Douglas was physically much broken. He was so hoarse that he could
hardly articulate, and was entirely unintelligible in an ordinary tone."
But the circumstance that shows most clearly of all, how entirely
Mr. Lincoln saw over, and through, and beyond his adversary, both as
statesman and politician, how entirely he managed him, wielded him,
used him, is the fearful grip into which he put the "Little Giant" on
the question of the conflict between "Popular Sovereignty" and the Dred
Scott decision. In return for a series of questions by Mr. Douglas,
Mr. Lincoln, having answered them all categorically, prepared certain
others to put to Mr. Douglas; and of these one was:
"Can the people of a United States Territory, in any lawful way,
against the wish of any citizen of the United States, exclude slavery
from its limits prior to the formation of a State Constitution?"
When Mr. Lincoln consulted a friend upon this set of questions, the
friend remonstrated against this one; saying in substance, "In answer,
Mr. Douglas must either accept the Dred Scott decision as binding,
which would lose him the election to the Senate in consequence of the
popular feeling in Illinois against it, or else that he must assert
that his doctrine of "squatter sovereignty" would enable the territory
to keep slavery out, by "unfriendly legislation," contrary to the
Dred Scott decision. And this," urged the friend, "he will do; it
will satisfy Illinois, and give Douglas the senatorship. You are only
placing the step for him to rise upon."
"That may be," said Mr. Lincoln, with a shrewd look, "but if he
takes that shoot he never can be President." This meant, that while
the doctrine of legislating slavery out of a territory might satisfy
Illinois, it would be odious and inadmissible to the whole South, and
that it would therefore render Douglas' election to the Presidency
impossible. And it came to pass exactly as Mr. Lincoln foretold at
this time, and as he told "Billy" when he returned home at the end of
the canvass. One of Mr. Lincoln's characteristic sentences afterwards
summed all the contradiction of Douglas' position, in the statement
that it was "declaring that a thing may be lawfully driven away from a
place where it has a lawful right to go."
These seven debates were the most widely known of Mr. Lincoln's labors
in this campaign, but he made about fifty other speeches in different
parts of the State.
The result of this celebrated canvass was to return Douglas to the
Senate, although the vote of the people was in favor of Lincoln.
The Legislative districts in the State had been so arranged by the
Democratic party as to secure their majority in the Legislature. But
even if the popular majority had been with Douglas, Mr. Lincoln had
won. He set out to lose the State; he set out to carry the nation;
and he did it. It was the foresight of the statesman, contending with
the cunning of the politician. It was part of the victory that he who
really lost thought he had won. Mr. Herndon, Mr. Lincoln's law partner,
told afterwards how Mr. Lincoln came home and said, "Billy, I knew I
should miss the place, when I competed for it. This defeat will make
me President."
In the period between this canvass and the Presidential nomination at
Chicago, Mr. Lincoln, while at work in his profession, did good service
in the cause of freedom in several of the States, making a number of
effective speeches in Ohio, Kansas, and particularly in New England
and New York. His contest with Douglas had probably already made Mr.
Lincoln the second choice of large numbers of Republicans for the
nomination of 1860. His great speech at Cooper Institute in February,
1860, confirmed this choice, and enlarged those numbers.
The invitation which resulted in his great Cooper Institute speech
was originally to give a lecture in Plymouth Church, in Brooklyn, and
he was to receive $200 for it. After some delay, at last he agreed
to speak on February 27th; but the three young men who had organized
the course, thought the time late in the season, and began to fear
that they would lose money. It sounds curious enough now, to think of
a fear lest a speech by Mr. Lincoln should not refund $350 expenses,
but so they thought. A political friend of his who had negotiated
the engagement, at last assumed one fourth of the risk, and with a
good deal of trouble, managed to have the speech at Cooper Institute,
instead of Brooklyn. Attempts were vainly made to induce one and then
another Republican club to assume the risk of the engagement. The New
York Times, in announcing the lecture, kindly spoke of the speaker as
"a lawyer who had some local reputation in Illinois."
The Cooper Institute speech was prepared with much care, and was
a production of very great power of logic, history and political
statement. It consisted of an exposition of the true doctrines of the
founders of our nation on the question of slavery, and of the position
of the two parties of the day on the same question. It was alive and
luminous throughout with the resolute and lofty and uncompromising
morality on principle, which had colored all his debates with Douglas,
and made a very deep impression upon the audience present, and upon the
far greater audience that read it afterwards.
Its close was very powerful. After showing that the demands of the
South were summed up in the requirement that the North should call
slavery right instead of wrong, and should then join the south in
acting accordingly, he added:
"If our sense of duty forbids this, then let us stand by our duty,
fearlessly and effectively. Let us be diverted by none of those
sophistical contrivances wherewith we are so industriously plied and
belabored--contrivances such as groping for some middle ground between
the right and the wrong, vain as the search for a man who should
be neither a living man nor a dead man--such as a policy of "don't
care" on a question about which all true men do care--such as Union
appeals, beseeching true Union men to yield to disunionists, reversing
the Divine rule, and calling, not the sinners, but the righteous to
repentance--such as invocations of Washington, imploring men to unsay
what Washington said, and undo what Washington did. Neither let us be
slandered from our duty by false accusations against us, nor frightened
from it by menaces of destruction to the Government, nor of dungeons to
ourselves. Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith
let us, to the end, dare to do our duty, as we understand it."
The words are singularly plain, they are nakedly homely. But the
thoughts are very noble and very mighty.
At the close of the speech, the same friend who had engineered it, made
a few remarks, in which he prophesied. He said, "One of three gentlemen
will be our standard bearer in the Presidential contest of this year;
the distinguished Senator from New York--Mr. Seward; the late able and
accomplished Governor of Ohio, Mr. Chase, or the unknown knight who
entered the political list, against the Bois Guilbert of democracy,
Stephen A. Douglas, on the prairies of Illinois, in 1858, and unhorsed
him--Abraham Lincoln."
The narrator adds, "Some friends joked me after the meeting, as not
being a good prophet. The lecture was over; all the expenses were paid;
I was handed by the gentlemen interested, the sum of $4.25 as my share
of the profits." It is worth adding that Mr. Lincoln observed to the
same gentleman, after his subsequent tour further eastward, "when I was
East, several gentlemen made about the same remark to me that you did
to-day about the Presidency; they thought my chances were about equal
to the best."
The story of the nomination at Chicago, of the election, of the
perilous journey to Washington, need not be repeated. While the
nominating convention was sitting, Mr. Lincoln's friends telegraphed
to him that in order to be nominated he needed the votes of two of the
delegations, and that to secure these, he must promise that if elected
the leaders of those delegations should be made members of his Cabinet.
He telegraphed at once back again; "I authorize no bargains and will be
bound by none." The adoption of those ten words as a rule would go very
far to purify the whole field of political party action.
Little did the convention that nominated Abraham Lincoln for President,
know what they were doing. Little did the honest, fatherly, patriotic
man, who stood in his simplicity on the platform at Springfield, asking
the prayers of his townsmen and receiving their pledges to remember
him, foresee how awfully he was to need those prayers, the prayers
of all this nation and the prayers of all the working, suffering
common people throughout the world. God's hand was upon him with a
visible protection, saving first from the danger of assassination at
Baltimore, and bringing him safely to our national capital.
Perhaps the imperturbable cool courage of Mr. Lincoln was the trait in
him least appreciated in proportion to his share of it. He promptly and
unhesitatingly risked his life to keep his Philadelphia appointment on
the way to Washington, filling his programme, because it was his duty,
without any variance for assassins. It should be here recorded, by the
way, that the story that he fled from Harrisburg, disguised in a Scotch
cap and cloak, which made so much noise in the country at the time, was
a forgery, devised by a disreputable reporter. Mr. Lincoln never used
any disguises, and it would have required more than one "Scotch cap" to
bring his six feet four down to an average height.
He was so kind-hearted, so peaceable, so averse, either to cause or to
witness controversy or wrath, that only the extremest need would force
him to the point of wrath and of fighting. But when the need was real,
the wrath and the fight came out. Whether moral or physical courage,
upon a real demand for it, it never failed. On his flat boat trip to
New Orleans in his youth, he and his mate, armed only with sticks of
wood, beat off seven negro marauders who attacked and would have robbed
their boat. When clerk in a country store he seized, flung down and
subdued a bully who was insolent to some women, and what is more, the
beaten bully became his friend. He once, alone, by suddenly dropping
from a scuttle down upon the platform, kept off a gang of rowdies who
were about to hustle his friend Col. Baker off the stand. He and
Baker once, with no others, escorted to the hotel, a speaker who was
threatened with violence by a Democratic crowd whom he had offended.
When some Irishmen at Springfield once undertook to take possession of
the poll and restrict the voting to their friends, Lincoln, hearing
of it, stepped into the first store, seized an axe helve, and marched
alone through the turbulent crowd up to the poll, opening the road
as he went; and alone he kept the ballot-box free and safe until the
foolish crowd gave up their plan. His anger sometimes--though very
seldom--flamed up at ill usage of himself; but never so hotly as
at ill usage to others. When a poor negro citizen of Illinois was
imprisoned at New Orleans, simply for being a free negro from outside
of Louisiana, and was about to be sold into slavery, to pay jail fees,
Mr. Lincoln found that the Governor of Illinois could not help the poor
fellow. When the fact became plain, he jumped up and swore, "By the
Almighty," he said, "I'll have that negro back, or I'll have a twenty
years' agitation in Illinois, until the Governor can do something in
the premises!" Somebody sent money and set the man free; or else the
twenty years' agitation would have begun, and finished too. An officer,
a worthless fellow, after being dismissed and repeatedly trying to get
back into the army, at last insolently told President Lincoln, "I see
you are fully determined not to do me justice." Now this was just what
he was determined to do him; and in righteous anger he arose, laid
down his papers, collared the fellow, walked him to the door and flung
him out, saying, "Sir, I give you fair warning, never to show yourself
in this room again. I can bear censure, but not insult!"
In Mr. Lincoln's administration, the world has seen and wondered at the
greatest sign and marvel of our day, to wit, a plain working man of the
people, with no more culture, instruction or education than any such
working man may obtain for himself, called on to conduct the passage of
a great nation through a crisis involving the destinies of the whole
world. The eyes of princes, nobles, aristocrats, of dukes, earls,
scholars, statesmen, warriors, all turned on the plain backwoodsman,
with his simple sense, his imperturbable simplicity, his determined
self-reliance, his impracticable and incorruptible honesty, as he sat
amid the war of conflicting elements, with unpretending steadiness,
striving to guide the national ship through a channel at whose perils
the world's oldest statesmen stood aghast. The brilliant courts of
Europe levelled their opera glasses at the phenomenon. Fair ladies saw
that he had horny hands and disdained white gloves; dapper diplomatists
were shocked at his system of etiquette; but old statesmen, who knew
the terrors of that passage, were wiser than court ladies and dandy
diplomatists, and watched him with a fearful curiosity, simply asking,
"Will that awkward old backwoodsman really get that ship through? If
he does, it will be time for us to look about us." Sooth to say, our
own politicians were somewhat shocked with his State papers at first.
"Why not let us make them a little more conventional, and file them
to a classical pattern?" "No," was his reply, "I shall write them
myself. The people will understand them." "But this or that form of
expression is not elegant, nor classical." "The people will understand
it," was his invariable reply. And whatever may be said of his State
papers, as compared with the diplomatic standards, it has been a fact
that they have always been wonderfully well understood by the people,
and that since the time of Washington, the State papers of no President
have more controlled the popular mind. And one reason for this is, that
they have been informal and undiplomatic. They have more resembled a
father's talks to his children than a State paper. And they have had
that relish and smack of the soil, that appeal to the simple human
heart and head, which is a greater power in writing than the most
artful clerices of rhetoric. Lincoln might well say with the apostle,
"But though I be rude in speech yet not in knowledge, but we have been
thoroughly made manifest among you in all things." His rejection of
what is called fine writing, was as deliberate as St. Paul's, and for
the same reason--because he felt that he was speaking on a subject
which must be made clear to the lowest intellect, though it should fail
to captivate the highest. But we say of Lincoln's writings, that for
all true, manly purposes of writing, there are passages in his State
papers that could not be better put--they are absolutely perfect.
They are brief, condensed, intense, and with a power of insight and
expression which make them worthy to be inscribed in letters of gold.
Such are some passages of the celebrated letter to the Springfield
convention, especially that masterly one where he compares the conduct
of the patriotic and loyal blacks with that of the treacherous and
disloyal whites. No one can read this letter and especially the passage
mentioned, without feeling the influence of a mind both strong and
generous. "Peace does not appear so distant as it did. I hope it will
come soon and come to stay; and so come as to be worth the keeping in
all future time. It will then have been proved that among freemen there
can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet, and that
they who take such appeal are sure to lose their case and pay the cost.
And then there will be some black men who can remember that with silent
tongue, and clenched teeth, and steady eye, and well-poised bayonet,
they have helped mankind on to this great consummation, while I fear
there will be some white ones unable to forget that with malignant
heart and deceitful speech they have striven to hinder it."
The lesson of Mr. Lincoln's career as President, is a manifold
one. He was in a strangely full and close manner the exponent, the
representative, the federal head, the voice, the plenary agent, of
the people of the United States. As such, his life teaches what the
war teaches, to wit; the strength and the magnificent morality of
an intelligent people, trained in self-control, in thought, in the
doctrines of justice and freedom, and in the fear of God.
As one man's life, the life of Mr. Lincoln after his election is simply
the picture over again, on a gigantic scale, in stronger colors, in
bolder relief, of the same courage, devotion, strength, industry,
energy, sense, decision, kindness, caution, instinctive feeling of
what was right and what was practicable, and deliberate execution of
it, that had marked his career before, as the political leader in a
great state controversy, and as a laborious lawyer at the bar. As he
mounted upon a higher plane of action, his views became enlarged and
elevated. Especially is it noticeable how as President, he was very
much more open and specific in avowing an immediate dependence upon
help higher than man's, in doing the work before him. Mr. Lincoln was
naturally inclined to religious feelings. His habit of considering all
the affairs of life from the religious point of view, at the tribunal
of the laws of God, is clearly traceable in his private history and
even in his political campaigns. He was not obtrusive nor unreasonable
however in avowals of this feeling. It would have been out of place
to request the prayers of his fellow citizens during the debates
with Douglas, almost as much as to ask the prayers of the jury while
arguing a case. But while placed at the head of his nation, during the
vastest peril of its existence--while occupying the most prominent,
the most powerful, the most responsible, the most difficult, and the
most dangerous position upon the whole round world--while at the very
front of the very vanguard of humanity in the great battle which was
deciding whether good or evil should overcome--in such a position, no
avowals of the need of Divine aid, no repetition of the consciousness
of that need, no requests for the sympathy and the help of all good
men's prayers, could be too frequent or too free. This profound sense
of human weakness and of God's strength, and a distinct sentiment of
mournful foreboding, give the whole coloring to the brief address in
which he bade good bye to his neighbors at Springfield, at setting out
for Washington in 1861.
This habit of religious feeling, and the avowal of it, remained a very
marked one during all Mr. Lincoln's Presidency. Subordinate to this,
the acts of his official life, his written and spoken utterances, and
his personal conduct, were mainly marked by solicitous and extreme
sense of duty, unfailing resolution, unerring tact and wisdom, and
a kindness and patience entirely unparalleled in the history of
governments. These traits were often hidden by his quaint modes of
expression, by the wonderful flow of humorous anecdotes which he
so constantly used in arguing, in answering, in evading, or for
entertainment; and by his confirmed habit of arguing all questions
against himself, against his own views, before coming to a conclusion.
These externals often concealed him, often occasioned him to be
misunderstood, distrusted, and opposed. It was only as time passed on,
and his public acts gradually formed themselves into his history, that
it was possible for those broad and massive characteristics to be seen
in a just perspective. Now however, they are visible throughout all
his life, whether traced in anecdote, in speech, in state papers, in
cabinet debates, in intercourse with the representatives of bodies of
the people, or in executive orders and acts.
Of all these traits, Mr. Lincoln's kindness was unquestionably the
rarest, the most wonderful. It may be doubted whether any human being
ever lived whose whole nature was so perfectly sweet with the readiness
to do kind actions; so perfectly free from even the capacity of
revenge. He could not even leave a pig in distress. He once on circuit,
drove past a pig, stuck fast in a mud hole. Having on a suit of new
clothes, he felt unable to afford them for the pig, but after going two
miles, he could not stand it, turned and drove back, made a platform
of rails, helped out the pig, spoiled his new clothes, and then went
