it was not Thursday. But I know it was Saturday evening when
the next thing happened which stands clear in my memory. I was
in my own room, forlornly endeavouring to work some worsted
embroidery; - though the sickness of my heart seemed to find
its way into my fingers, and it was with pain and difficulty
that they pulled the needle in and out. It was only more
difficult to sit still and do nothing; and to read was
impossible. I sat drawing the wool through the canvass-drawing
long threads of thought at the same time - when Mrs. Sandford
burst in.
"Daisy! - they say McDowell has had a bad time - they have
driven him back, or something; isn't it dreadful! - and there
you sit embroidering as quiet as can be. But bless me, child!
you haven't a bit of colour. Washington will kill us all yet."
"Who told you?"
"Doctor Barnard says it's so; it's all through the city. And
if the rebels get the better of McDowell, they'll come
straight here, Daisy, and take Washington. Oh, I wish Grant
was well enough to set right off to-morrow! but he isn't. How
can you be so quiet? I tell you, our army has been repulsed,
and how bad it is nobody knows."
"We had better wait till somebody does know," I said. "We have
had repulses before. There was Big Bethel - and Vienna - and a
great many."
"But this is McDowell and the great army; and Beauregard has
hosts at his back."
"Well! -" I said.
"But you are dreadfully pale, Daisy. How can you keep so
quiet? What are you made of?"
"I do not think they will take Washington," I said. "I am in
no hurry, for my part, to get away. Look - do you say maroon
or dark purple for this bit of grounding? I cannot make up my
mind."
Mrs. Sandford dived into the purples and browns of my coloured
wools; came back again to McDowell and Beauregard, but came
back quieted, and presently left the room. Then, I put down my
needle and laid my head on the table, and shook from head to
foot with the trembling she had given me. And a longing to see
Christian took possession of me; a sick, crying thirst for the
sight, if it were only for a minute; the impatient agony of
self-will. Necessity's bands and manacles put it down after a
time.
The next day was Sunday. I went to church alone, and with my
usual average of calm. But I heard some one say to his
neighbour, that there was a great battle going forward - with
what promise nobody knew. The words sent me home with a sort
of half breath. I avoided Mrs. Sandford, took no dinner; and
in the afternoon feverishly crept out to church again. The air
seemed to me full of bodings. Yet I heard nothing. I saw
people whisper each other, and nod; I thought good news was
given and received, and I breathed a little easier. It was not
till I was coming out from the service that any one spoke to
me. I found myself then near a gentleman whom we knew.
"Glorious news, Miss Randolph!" he half whispered. "General
Scott will dine with a good appetite to-day."
"What is the news"
"Oh, a great victory! We have not got the details yet, of
course; but it seems all is going right."
"It seems going right."
"Yes. You know we have not details yet. There's been heavy
fighting, though."
"Is it a general engagement?"
"Oh, yes! All in that could be in. And some that had no
business to be in. They say, Johnston has reinforced
Beauregard; but they are totally routed, I believe. So it is
said."
"Who says it?"
"The accounts from the battlefield, I presume. They are coming
in all the time. The Nation has triumphed. I congratulate you.
I know you are loyal. Mrs. Sand- ford will be rejoiced. Good
afternoon."
It was too sudden, too soon, and too confused. I could not
breathe freely yet. Johnston reinforced Beauregard? That was
just what Patterson was expected to prevent; ought to have
prevented. Then, probably, Patterson had done no fighting? I
was pondering, when I suddenly found Major Fairbairn beside
me. He belonged with the troops left to guard Washington.
"Oh, Major," said I, "what is the news?"
"Firing down in Virginia, -" said the major, laconically.
"Is it true, that a battle has been won by McDowell?"
"I wish it were," said he; "but in general it is safe not to
speak of a fight till it is over."
"Then it is not over?"
"I have not heard that it is."
"But they tell me a fight has been won."
"They tell every conceivable thing in war-time," said the
major. "Don't you know that? It is safe to believe nothing."
"Has Johnston joined Beauregard?"
"I am afraid he has. The advices seem to put that beyond
disbelief."
"You are afraid! Then the news means nothing to you; nothing
good, I mean?"
"The rumours mean nothing to me," said the major, smiling.
"The reliable news is really, so far, not much. It is certain
there is a battle going on, Miss Randolph, and a battle along
the whole line. And it is certain that Patterson had orders to
follow up Johnston, and keep him from troubling us. And I am
afraid it is also certain that he has not done it - confound
him! Excuse me; but a man who don't obey orders deserves to
have people swear at him, Miss Randolph."
I left the major at a corner, and before I got home, another
acquaintance informed me that the victory was undoubted,
though severely purchased, and that the city was in a state of
exultation. I did not know what to think. I said as little as
possible to Mrs. Sandford; but later in the evening Dr.
Barnard came with the details of the day, and the added
intelligence that since seven o'clock the firing had
recommenced.
"What for? if the victory is sure?" said Mrs. Sandford; and I
went to my room feeling that it was not sure. Nevertheless I
slept that night. I cannot tell why, or how. Whether it were
most akin to weariness or despair, I slept, and quietly, and
the whole night through. But I know very well that I awaked
with a full sense that it was not to quietness nor peace. I
took up my burden as I got out of bed.
My room was at the back of the house. Consequently I heard and
saw nothing of the outer world till I came down to the
breakfast-room. Nobody was there yet, and I went to the
window. The first thing I saw then made my heart stand still.
A group was gathered just before the window, on the sidewalk.
In the midst a soldier, one of a gay Zouave regiment, not at
all gay now, stood talking to a little crowd of listeners;
talking in a pouring rain, which nobody seemed to care about.
He was wet; his bright uniform was stained and draggled; he
had no musket; and his tasseled cap sat on a head which in
every line and movement expressed defeat and disgrace. So they
all listened who stood around; I read it as well as if I had
heard the words they were hearing. I saw dejection, profound
sorrow, absorbed attention, utter forgetfulness of present
bodily discomfort. I noticed that one man who carried an
umbrella had put it down, and stood listening in the rain.
Occasionally the soldier raised his arm to eke out his words
with a gesture; and then moved a step as if to go on, but they
closed around him again and staid him with eager questions or
urgings. I was very near throwing up the sash to ask what it
all was; and then I thought, what matter! I should know soon
enough, But I could not move from the window; and Mrs.
Sandford entering and seeing me there came and looked over my
shoulder. I did not know it, till I heard her -
"Good Heavens! - Daisy, my dear, what is the matter?"
"We shall hear presently," I said, turning away from the
window.
"But what is it?" - And Mrs. Sandford first took my place, and
then did what I had been tempted to do; - threw up the sash.
"What is the matter?" she said. "Is there news. Men, is there
news?"
I do not know what was answered; I did not hear; I had gone
into the middle of the room; but Mrs. Sanford closed the
window presently and came to me, looking even pale. A rare
thing for her.
"Daisy, there is trouble," she said.
"Yes, -" I answered.
"How do you know? They say - they say, the army is all cut to
pieces!"
I could not speak about it. We knew nothing yet; but Mrs.
Sandford went on -
"He says, everybody is killed. All routed and destroyed, the
army is. Can it be possible?"
I thought it was very possible: I never had doubted but that
the Southerners - as a body - were the best fighters. But I
said nothing; while Mrs. Sandford poured out sorrows and fears
and speculations in a breath. I could have smiled, but that I
could not have smiled. We stood still, looking at each other,
nobody remembering breakfast. I was thinking, if the cause was
lost, where would Mr. Thorold be then. And I ceased to hear
Mrs. Sandford.
"But Daisy!" she said suddenly - "the other army -
Beauregard's - they will be here directly to take Washington,
if all this is true; and it must be true; or that soldier
would not have been out there in the rain. They will be coming
here directly, Daisy. And, bless me! how wicked I am! You are
standing there, patient and pale, and you have had no
breakfast. Come here and let me give you some coffee. Grant
said he would be down to dinner perhaps; and how angry he
would be."
We drank cups of coffee, but I do not think either of us broke
bread.
That was a weary day. All the day long new groups were forming
and dispersing in the street, telling and talking over the
news; groups of all sorts. Soldiers discoursing to audiences
like the one in the morning; knots of officers; twos and
threes of business men; debating, inquiring, discussing; all
under the dark rain, all with downcast faces and dispirited
bearing. Late in the day Major Fairbairn called. He somewhat
reassured us. The carnage was not so great; the loss not so
tremendous, as we had at first been told; the damage done not
so absolutely overwhelming.
"Then you do not think Beauregard will come and take
Washington?" Mrs. Sandford asked.
"I don't know!" the major said, with a smile. "He must be
quick about it, or it will be too late."
"But is this a final settling of the question, Major
Fairbairn?" I inquired. "That is what I want to know."
"We have been whipped," he said, looking at me.
"Yes, I know; but the North - will they take this as a
settlement of the question?"
"The North!" echoed the Major. "Will they give up, you mean?
Not just yet! The Government does not feel like it. Do you?"
"I am so ignorant -" I answered.
"You must be, - pardon my saying so. Not at all. The sting of
the whip will make us move faster. Orders are issued already
for the reinforcement and reorganisation of the army. General
McClellan is to take command here; and we will get things upon
a new basis."
"Is McClellan the man we want?" Mrs. Sandford inquired.
"I cannot say. If he is not, we will wait for another."
"You are very cool, Major Fairbairn!" said the lady.
"It is the best plan, in July."
"But it is very hard to keep cool."
The major smiled and looked at me.
"What has Patterson been doing all this while?" I asked.
Smiles died out of the major's face.
"He has kept cool," he said. "Easy - when a man never was
warm."
"And you think, major," said Mrs. Sandford, "you really think
that the truth is not so bad as it has been reported. Why, Mr.
May was positive the rebels would come and take Washington.
You think there has not been such dreadful loss of life after
all?".
"A tenth of the story will be nearer the mark," said the
major. "But we shall know more particulars to-morrow; and I
will step in again, as I can, and let you know what I know. I
must not stay now." And with a bow to me, the major went.
I did not stop then to inquire what his bow meant. Nor did I
hear Mrs. Sandford's long string of comments and speculations,
any further than was necessary to enable me to reply from time
to time with some show of connectedness. I was eagerly
calculating chances, without any basis of data to go upon.
Trying to conjecture General Patterson's probable coming duty,
and to what it might lead. If his foe had disappeared from
before him, must he not follow on this way, where (I thought)
men were so imperatively needed? If he came, there would be
fighting for him, certainly, the next time! Beauregard would
muster again for the fray; I knew that; and it seemed the
Union army was going to make ready also on its side. If
Patterson and his command staid where he was, to take care of
that part of the country, perhaps it might be a bloodless
charge for a while; it might, till the two grand armies should
encounter once more, and one or the other get the mastery.
Then, how long might it be, before these two armies would be
ready to try another, a third tussle together? and would Mr.
Thorold be willing to stay permanently where inaction would be
his portion? Twenty such incongruous unreasonable questions I
was mooting and turning over, while Mrs. Sandford's running
fire of talk made it impossible for me to think to any
conclusion.
When I went up to my room, however, and got free of her, I sat
down to it. There had been no fighting for this bout in that
part of the army where Patterson commanded and where Thorold
served. So far he had escaped. Now, if Patterson could only be
kept in that region, for a little time, and the question
between the North and South be brought to an issue meanwhile
and decided here -
I was in a fever of hope and fear, cogitating deeply things
which I had no means of knowing or settling, when the question
suddenly occurred to me, What was I doing? What was I doing?
Only, trying to arrange the wheels of Providence; trying to
make peace and war; to kill and to keep alive. I was taking
and bearing on my shoulders the burden of the nation's armies
and of their destiny. It fell on my heart all at once, what I
was doing. And my nerves were straining, even now, to throw
around my beloved the shield of circumstances; to keep him
where he would be safe; to put my hand between his life and a
blow. Could Daisy do that? Was her arm long enough, or her eye
enough far-seeing? In despair and in humiliation both, I fell
on my knees. This must be given up. I must leave armies and
battles, yes and every several bullet and cannon ball, yes,
yes, and more; I must leave Mr. Thorold's life and heart in
other hands than mine. I must put the care of them out of
mine; I must give up even the thought of shielding him, or
arranging for him. More. Yes, though it pressed upon my heart
with the great difficulty, I must be willing to have God do,
with him and with me, just what He pleased. How else could I
live, with the struggle before me? How else could I live at
all as a believing and obedient child of God? "I must," and "I
will," are not words for a child to say.
My heart, my heart, how it died within me as I saw my duty! as
I saw that it behoved me to give up all, and then wait in
patience to see what the Lord would let me have. My heart died
first, and then rose again to the struggle. But those only
know what a struggle it is, who, have tried. It seems to me,
most people, even Christians, do not try. Yet, to "forsake
all," the test of discipleship, what is it but to cease saying
"I must" and "I will," about anything, and to hold everything
thenceforth at the will of God. I spent that night on my
knees, when I was not walking the floor. I spent it in tears
and in pleading the promises; sometimes almost in despair. But
I reached at last a place of great calm. I gave up insisting
upon my own will; and though with every nerve of affection
throbbing, as it were, I gave up the care of myself and of
Thorold; I gave up the disposal of the lives of both. And when
the calm was once reached, it grew deeper and quieter, and the
throbbing nerves were stilled, and a great burden was taken
off my shoulders. And then, the sense of a love better than
mine, and of a power stronger than mine, stole over my heart
with an infinite sweetness; the parched and thirsty places of
my spirit seemed to catch the dews of heaven; and still
soothed and quieted more and more, I went to sleep with my
head upon the bed's side, where I was kneeling.
CHAPTER VII.
DETAILED FOR DUTY
I awaked in the peace of one who has laid his burden down. My
joints were a little stiff, from the position in which I had
slept; my mind was set free. The charge of the rival armies
and their conflicts was no longer on my shoulders; even the
care of individual life and safety I thought no longer to
secure. Myself I was a soldier, in a different army; and I had
been forgetting my business and presuming into the General's
province. No wonder my nerves were strained and my heart
almost broken. That was now all given up; and I went through
my morning duties in a quiet that was profound, if it was also
very humble. I had found the only harbour of rest that can be
found on the shores of this world; that one which is entered
by paying the tribute of one's self-will. The tides of the
great sea do not rise and fall there; the anchorage is good;
the winds that weep over the waters bring balm with them; and
the banner that floats at the entrance bears this inscription
-
"He shall not be afraid of evil tidings; his heart is fixed,
trusting in the Lord."
The first thing I heard from Mrs. Sandford was that he doctor
was almost well, and would come down stairs after breakfast. I
knew what that portended for me; thought I knew; but as I
said, I had given up the management of myself and my concerns.
"If ye be not able to do that thing which is least, why take
ye thought for the rest?" I got my worsted and sat down stairs
at my work, to be ready to see the doctor when he should come.
Mrs. Sandford took post at the window; and so we waited. The
weather to-day was clear and bright; the street full yet of
motley groups, returned soldiers and gathered civilians,
looking however far less dismal than the day before. Mrs.
Sandford from the window detailed all she saw; while my
worsted needle went in and out to an interrupted refrain - "He
shall not be afraid of evil tidings" - "Why take ye thought?"
-
Then Mrs. Sandford said, "Here comes the major, Daisy. It
seems to me he is very attentive -" and in the major walked.
He gave his hand to me, and his eye glanced at the figure in
the window. I could not help the thought that he wished it not
there. But things too far down had been stirred in me, for a
little surface matter like this to move my calm.
"What news, major?" my friend asked.
"Good. How do you do, Mrs. Sandford? I told you yesterday that
it would be good."
"Yes, but how good is it, Major Fairbairn?"
"Fine."
"Well, go on and tell us. You are a nice major."
"Thank you. In the first place, as you may remember I said it
would be, the lists of casualties are greatly reduced."
"Casualties?" said Mrs. Sandford. "What is that? I am learning
so many new things."
"The lists of the killed and wounded."
"Oh! That is what a military man calls casualties, Daisy, my
dear."
"It is the term in common use -" said the major, looking
somewhat taken aback.
"I know. Pray, Major Fairbairn, have the officers of the army
the reputation of making good husbands and heads of families?"
"I have always heard that they did," said the major, colouring
a little and by no means free of his astonishment.
"I don't see how they can have any sympathy for little common
heartaches and headaches, though, when to be run through the
body is such a trifle. They can't, I think, major."
"But Mrs. Sandford -"
"For instance," the lady went on, unmercifully, - "for
instance, Miss Randolph has her head taken off by a cannon
ball. The doctor and I are desolate; but Major Fairbairn says
it is a 'casualty.' Or, the doctor himself may be hit by a
shot not intended for him, and put out of charge of his
hospital for ever. Miss Randolph and I are in ashes; but our
friend Major Fairbairn says it is only a 'casualty.' "
"But friends, Mrs. Sandford, -" the major began.
"Everybody has friends," said Mrs. Sandford. "I was reading in
the paper just now a list of these little accidents. One man
had his leg shattered by a minie ball; it killed him in a few
hours. Another had a charge of grape-shot in his breast; it
struck the spine. He is dead. What is grape-shot, Major
Fairbairn?"
The major hastily passed to the sideboard in the other room
and brought me a glass of water.
"Daisy!" Mrs. Sandford exclaimed. "Are you faint, my dear?
These are only casualties. My dear, are you faint? what is the
matter? - Bless me, how white you are! What is it?"
I drank the water, and struggled back into composure, at least
outwardly; being very much surprised at myself.
"But what is the matter, Daisy? what is the matter? I have
said nothing in the world. Cannot you bear that?"
"Major Fairbairn was going to tell us something, ma'am," I
said, endeavouring to throw my thoughts off.
"That can wait until you are better."
"No," I said, "do not wait. I am well. What were you going to
say, major?"
"Only that things are much better than they were supposed to
be yesterday."
"You said that before. Please go on."
"Well, it is always so," said the major. "At first all the
stragglers are counted for lost. Then they come in. They are
coming in now, by scores, all the while. Instead of thousands
killed and wounded, it is found to-day that there are but five
or six hundred; and without being particularly hard-hearted, I
rejoice at it. That is part of what I was going to say."
The major spoke gravely, and looked at me with an anxious
expression. I assured him I was better, and begged him to tell
us the rest.
"You have put it all out of my head, Miss Randolph. Will you
have - won't you have - something else? - wine? Pardon me, you
have not regained your usual colour."
"The best thing would be some more of your good news. I have a
great appetite for good news, after yesterday."
"Naturally. Well, the rest of my news is very good. The
country is answering the call made upon her."
"The call for fortitude?" said Mrs. Sandford.
"The call for men, - and for pluck, if you like," said the
major.
"More men," - said Mrs. Sandford.
"Certainly. We must have men. And from every quarter, wherever
we have heard, there comes an enthusiastic response. Sixty
thousand new men have been accepted already by the Government;
and they are coming in all the while. There will be a very
great number of fresh arrivals here in a very few days. Miss
Randolph, your question is answered."
"What question, Major Fairbairn?"
"Whether the North would give up, you know."
"I am glad," I said. "I am glad!"
"And even in saying it, you grow pale again, Daisy. You are
not well!" Mrs. Sandford exclaimed.
"Perfectly well. These times are exciting."
"Rather too exciting. I like the excitement that brings the
blood into the cheeks. Do go out and take a walk; you want
fresh air; or yesterday has unstrung your nerves. But you were
so quiet, I thought nothing moved you. Do go and take a walk,
Daisy."
The major added a quiet word of urging, saying that if I could
go at once, he would see that I did not faint before I got
home.
I was bewildered, I think, or I should not have gone; but I
wanted to get away from the talk and to feel the fresh air; I
was stifled; and I went. My nervous perturbation was a
surprise to me. I had given up everything, I thought; I was
quite calm, ready for everything. I thought I was; and yet, so
little a word had unsettled me. So I went with the major. And
then, I was brought to myself presently by more than the fresh
air; for I found my friend somewhat too happy in his charge,
and more careful of me than I chose he should think there was
any occasion for. Moreover, I could not bear to accept his
care. I summoned my forces and plunged him into a depth of
political and philosophical discussion which he could not get
out of till he left me again at my own door. I reassured Mrs.
Sandford then; and sat down to my worsted embroidery with a
profound sense of how little my strength was. A few minutes
afterwards Dr. Sandford came in.
I had not seen him now for several weeks; and I never saw him
look better. It immediately struck me, that with him well, it
mattered comparatively little whether Mr. Thorold and I were
in the same place together or not. Dr. Sandford's clear blue
eye was not to be braved with impunity. No more was it to be
shunned. But I needed not to shun it. I met it full now. I
could, since last night. The disposal of my affairs, if it was
not in me, it certainly was not in him. He met me with a smile
and a look of pleasure; and sat down by me to watch the
progress of my worsted work. So ostensibly; but I soon knew
that he was watching not my work, but me.
"How have these weeks been with Miss Randolph? Dull?"
"No," I said; - "not dull."
"How have they escaped that?"
"There has been too much to interest, Dr. Sandford."
"Yet I see you at your Berlin wools. Pardon me - but whenever
I see a lady busy with her needle and a bit of canvass, I
always think she is hard up for something to think of. Pardon
again, Daisy. I know you have no mercy upon slang."
"See how mistaken you are, Dr. Sandford."
"In that? Not in that."
"No; but in your notions about wool and canvass."
"They are true!" said the doctor.
"Ah, but, don't you know that extremes meet?"
"What extremes?"
"All extremes, perhaps. I have been working worsted; for a
day or two, just because I had so much to think of."
"They have been exciting days," said the doctor slowly, "to a
sick man who could do nothing."
"Why not to a woman, for the same reason?"
"Have they tried you very much, Daisy?"
"Why, she was turning faint here a little while ago," broke in
Mrs. Sandford, "because I was giving an account of some
wounded soldiers I had read about in the papers; and the major
and I persuaded her to go out and take a walk to recover
herself."
"The major? - that is indefinite, though you use the definite
article. What major?"
"Oh, we have a number of military friends. They have kept us
alive since you have been shut up. What is this one, Daisy? He
is a very good one. Major Fairbairn."
"Fairbairn? I do not know him," said the doctor.
"It is not necessary that you should know everybody," said his
sister-in-law. "Daisy knows him very well."
"And likes him -" said the doctor; "or he could not have a
share in persuading Miss Randolph to anything."
"Yes, I like him," I said. I thought, the more friends in the
army I had, the better; and also, that Dr. Sandford must not
be permitted to push his lines too far.
"Who is Major Fairbairn?"
"I do not know; he is from Maine or New Hampshire, I think."
"Your parents, Daisy, would not desire these Northern
associations for you; would they?"
I do not know with what calm I faced the doctor and answered
him. "These Northern associations" - the words touched the
innermost beatings of my heart - if such an expression can be
used. Yet I looked at Dr. Sandford in absolute calm, knowing
all that the doctor did not know, and spoke with perfect
composure.
"I cannot escape them, you know, Dr. Sandford, unless I were
to go over to the enemy's lines; and I cannot do that."
"I would not wish that," said the doctor.
"Then your feelings continue all with the Northern men,
Daisy?"
"All -" I said.
I went back to my worsted work, but I had a sense that the
doctor was studying me. One cannot judge, of course, of one's
own manner, or know what is in it; so I cannot tell what had
been in mine. The doctor sat and considered me; I thought, in
some perplexity.
"Daisy's feelings are appreciated and returned by the Northern
men," Mrs. Sandford said, laughing. "Rides and walks - how
many rides and walks have you taken, Daisy, these forlorn
weeks, with officers of the Northern army? Oh! they are not
ungrateful."
Dr. Sandford made no answer, and when he spoke I knew he was
not making answer to these words. But they startled me.
"Is there anybody engaged in this struggle, Daisy, that you
are concerned for?"
"Certainly!" I said; - "several."
"I was not aware -" the doctor began.
"Some whom you know, and some whom you don't know, and on both
sides."
"You have a cousin, I believe, somewhere in the Southern army.
He was at West Point, if I remember."
"Preston Gary. I do not know where he is now, only he is among
them. They say, he is with Beauregard. I was very fond of him.
Then there is my brother; he either is with them or he will
be; and there are still others."
"On the Southern side," said the doctor.
"Those two are on the Southern side," I said. "Others are on
the Northern. I am there myself."
"Not exactly in the struggle," said the doctor; "and yet, I do
not know. These women!"
I think the doctor was baffled by my perfect quietness and
readiness. He spoke presently in a disengaged manner, -
"Mr. Ransom Randolph is in no danger at present. I know from a
word in a late letter from your father, that he is in Europe
still. Would you not like to get out of this confused state of
things, and join them there?"
"I would like better to go if it was peace here," I said.
"Would you? Then you are not afraid lest the rebels should
take Washington and confiscate the whole of us?"
"Major Fairbairn thinks the danger of that is past."
"He does! However, other dangers might arise -"
"I knew you would not think Washington very safe ground for
us," Mrs. Sandford rejoined.
"Mrs. Sandford is at her own risk. But I should hardly be
doing the duty of a good guardian if I risked anything, where
so important a charge is committed to me. I shall get you away
from here without delay. How soon can you both be ready?"
I wanted to say I was ready, but I could not get out the
words. My two friends debated the matter, and the doctor fixed
his own time. The day after to-morrow.
It was good for me, that I had given up the charge of my own
interests; or I never could have maintained the ease of manner
which it was desirable to maintain in face of this
proposition. I was very calm, remembering that "a man's heart
deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps." I went on
with my worsted stitching under the eye of the doctor. I do
not know why he watched me so.
"Has anybody ventured to tell you, Miss Randolph, that you
have changed within a few months?" This question was put after
I had forgotten the doctor and was marching somewhere before a
battery in Patterson's column. I started a little.
"Yes, indeed! has she not?" exclaimed Mrs. Sandford. "Changed!
She came out of school the dearest little schoolgirl that ever
lived; or I should say, she went back to school so, last year.
What has the year done to you, Daisy?"
"What has it done to me?" I replied, smiling at her. "How am I
changed?"
"Changed!" Mrs. Sandford repeated. "Tell her, Grant, what is
she now?"
"She would not thank me for telling her," said the doctor.
"But I will thank you, Mrs. Sandford," I said. "I was 'the
dearest little schoolgirl.' "
"My dear, you are not that now," Mrs. Sandford said solemnly.
"It all comes to this, Daisy," said the doctor. "You are a
psychological puzzle to me. For the matter of that, now I
think of it, you always were. When you went to visit Molly
Skelton, and carried rose-bushes round the country in your
pony-chaise, just as much as now. You are not the same Daisy,
however."
"Yes, I am; just the same," I said earnestly.
"Fancy it!" said Mrs. Sandford. "My dear, you do I not see
yourself; that is clear."
"I would like to do the same things again," I insisted. But
that nearly choked me. For a vision of myself in my happy
pony-chaise; the free, joyous child that I was, ignorant of
