he disturbed the fractured glass of the lantern. The globe had been
broken, but the lamp was still whole.
Though Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier had a great many bright parts, he was
inclined to be a "swell." He smoked a pipe on the forecastle of the
yacht, but when he walked through the principal streets of Rockport, in
his plaid pants and bobtail sack, he smoked an Havana cigar, with a
meerschaum mouthpiece, in deference to his huge mustache--it was more
genteel to smoke a cigar than a pipe. The steward carried a cigar case,
which always contained two or three of the choicest brand, and he
claimed to have brought them from Havana himself. In this case he also
carried matches, which now promised to serve him a better turn than for
the lighting of his cigar.
In a moment he had the lamp from the lantern burning, and was looking
curiously and eagerly about the premises. The steward had an idea;
perhaps not a very brilliant one, but as brilliant as could be expected
of a man whose intellect had been so rudely jarred twice within a brief
period. The conduct of the two transient guests at the Hotel de Poisson
had been suspicious, to say the least. That afternoon the robbery had
been fully discussed, and he was confident that the visitors were in
some manner connected with that affair. His idea was, that the
fish-house had been used as a place of concealment for the plunder. He
made a hasty examination of the ground and the rocks which formed the
first floor of the Hotel de Poisson, but discovered nothing to confirm
his impression.
The steward crossed the place to examine under the rickety stairs. On
his way he hit his head against a splintered board, which was hanging
from the floor above, partly detached by his movement through the
structure. It scratched the top of his head, already tender from rough
usage, and thereby vexed and angered him, as slight accidents often
ruffle even great minds. With a gesture of impatience, and a petulant
word not in good taste for a drawing-room, he seized the projecting
board, and gave it a savage wrench.
Mr. Ebénier was not a poet himself, but he was fond of the poets, and
had perused Milton, Shakspeare, Beattie, Cowper, and Keats with real
pleasure, to say nothing of having read Corneille and Racine in the
original. The steward, therefore, was prepared to appreciate the poet's
sentiment, "Oft from apparent ills our blessings rise." His impatient
gesture and his petulant exclamation when the board scratched his head,
indicated that he regarded the accident as "an apparent ill;" but, as
he wrenched the board, a shot-bag, plethoric with gold coin, tumbled,
with a clinking clang, upon the ground at his feet, narrowly avoiding
his head, and thus saying him from being knocked senseless a third
time.
The steward opened his eyes, and regarded the bag as the blessing. He
shook the board again, and another bag came this time. Then he pulled
it away, and the sail which had formed his bed in the loft rolled down.
Overhauling this, he found a third bag; and this was the last he could
find. Picking up the lamp till it blazed like a torch, he renewed the
search; but no more of these heavy blessings were available.
Mr. Ebénier was satisfied, and he set his lamp down on the ground,
intending to open one of the bags, and ascertain the nature of its
contents. Under ordinary circumstances the steward would have been too
careful to set his lamp down so near a pile of dry seaweed as he did on
the present occasion. But his mind was, probably, so confused by the
hard knocks his head had received, and by the excitement of finding the
gold, that he took little note of his surroundings. His thought was
concentrated upon the bags of gold. He did not even think of the two
men whose conference he had disturbed, and did not seem to fear that
they would return and deprive him of his booty.
He was about to untie the string of one of the heavy bags, when a
bright glare overspread the space before him. The pile of dry seaweed,
which had been used to cover a sail-boat in the winter, was all in a
light blaze. The steward tried to quench the flames with his feet, but
his efforts were unavailing. The dry stuff burned like shavings, and
the more he kicked, the more the fire leaped up and spit at him. He
fought the flames as long as his courage held out, and then he
"allowed" that the Hotel de Poisson was a doomed structure.
Taking the money-bags, he retreated down the peninsula towards the
landing-place at the Point, lighted on his way by the burning building.
Crossing the plank, he reached the shore. There was a dory there, and
putting the three bags into it, the steward launched it, and pulled off
to the yacht. The treasure was conveyed to the cabin, and deposited
temporarily in a locker under a berth. The dory was towed back to the
shore, and placed where the steward had found it, that no early
fisherman might be deprived of his morning trip. Augustus was in a
flurry of excitement all this time, and had not even considered what he
should do with the bags. His present object was to secure the plunder
so that it could not be recovered by the robbers; and, having done
this, he was entirely satisfied with himself, and everybody else,
except Dock Vincent, to whom he owed a balance on account, for that
night's business.
There was an alarm of fire on shore. The bright glare of the flames
from the Hotel de Poisson penetrated the windows of a house near Dock
Vincent's, and lighted up the bed-chamber of a sleeping stone-cutter.
He gave the alarm; the bells rang, the engines rattled, and the whole
town was aroused from its peaceful slumbers. Hundreds of men, who had
worked hard all day, lost two hours of sleep for an old shanty which
was not worth five dollars.
The Hotel de Poisson was burned to the ground before many people had
gathered. Some good men thanked God that it had not been a poor man's
house; young men enjoyed the excitement of "running with the machine,"
and those with an eye for the picturesque were thankful that the
unsightly shanty had been removed from a place where it disfigured the
landscape. No one appeared to be sorry; but every one wondered how the
fire had caught. Various conjectures were suggested; but, after all, no
one knew anything about it. Some thought a straggler had used it as a
lodging, and set it on fire in lighting his pipe. Others thought some
bad boys had set the fire for fun.
If the two men who had met there to confer about their ill-gotten gold
were in the crowd, doubtless they were sadder and wiser men. Probably
they thought that the breaking of the lantern had communicated the
flame to the shanty. The people present knew nothing of the event in
the Hotel de Poisson wherein Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier had been the
principal actor. The finding of the half-melted remains of a lantern
had no significance or suggestiveness to them. The building burned up
clean, and there was nothing left of it but a few smoking timbers, and
a thin sprinkling of ashes on the ground and the rocks.
If the robbers, whoever they were, went to the fire, it is more than
likely that they searched eagerly among the ruins for the gold. If they
did, they saw nothing which looked like the fused coins of the
treasure. The old sail, in which the gold appeared to have been
concealed, or which had been thrown over its place of concealment, was
burned to tinder, and there was not a vestige of the bags or the money.
CHAPTER XIV.
"LOSE HIS OWN SOUL!"
The steward of The Starry Flag, after he had returned the dory to the
rocks, and secured the jolly-boat of the yacht, had an opportunity to
rest his fevered, mixed-up brain, and to consider his next step. The
four seamen of the schooner slept on shore, at their own homes, and
there was no one on board but the cook, who slumbered heavily in the
forecastle, and did not hear Augustus when he conveyed the bags to the
cabin.
Mr. Ebénier lighted a lamp, closed the cabin doors, and drew the silken
curtains over the ports in the upper part of the trunk, so that no one
could see what he was doing. Though it was not lawful for the steward
to use the wash-bowl in Mr. Watson's stateroom, he considered that the
present emergency would justify him in doing so. He performed his
ablutions with the utmost care, paying particular attention to his
wounded head. He then changed his clothing throughout, and devoted half
an hour to cleansing his plaid pants, which had been somewhat soiled by
contact with the burning seaweed. He even polished his boots before he
put them away.
So far as cleanliness was concerned, the steward was a gentleman, which
no unclean person can be. Having completed his toilet, and removed all
signs of the operation from the state-room, he sat down on a locker in
the cabin. He was thinking of the extraordinary incidents of the night.
He was fully satisfied that he had found Mr. Fairfield's treasure, and
that the opportunity entirely to free his young captain from suspicion
was within his grasp. It was a pleasant thought; but, after all, who
was Captain Fairfield? Only a young fellow behind whose chair at dinner
he was privileged to stand. He had seen him for the first time but a
few days before, and he did not feel under any peculiar obligations to
him.
Mr. Ebénier took the three bags of gold from the locker, and laid them
on the cabin table. It was midnight by the clock which hung in the
cabin--the dead hour of night, when all were sleeping. The fire on
shore had burned out, and all was still save the rolling sea. The
steward went to the door, opened it, passed up to the deck; there was
no one in sight, and hardly a light to be seen on the land. Returning
to the cabin, he poured out the contents of one of the bags on the
table, and proceeded to count the gold. It was a long job, and there
was more money than the steward had ever before seen together. On a
piece of paper he noted each hundred dollars with a tally-mark. His
last pile contained but fifty dollars. Counting up his marks, he made
thirty-eight of them; and the whole sum, according to his reckoning,
was thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars.
The old man had lost four thousand dollars, and the steward, concluding
he had made a mistake, performed the agreeable task of counting the
gold a second time, but with the same result as before. After making
the allowance for the fifty dollars found in the captain's state-room,
the amount was one hundred dollars short. Mr. Ebénier had the impudence
to ask himself if this could be the miser's money, since it did not
hold out in the sum he had lost. But the bags were plainly marked, as
the fourth had been, "N. Fairfield," in the cramped handwriting of the
miser. Of course there could be no doubt in regard to the ownership of
the treasure, and Mr. Ebénier could not but wonder at the stupidity of
the thieves in hiding it in or under the old sail in the Hotel de
Poisson. But he did them the justice to conclude that it had only been
placed there for a short time, perhaps for but a few hours; at any
rate, their presence in the shanty indicated that it was to have been
removed during the night.
It had been removed during the night! The steward chuckled when he
thought of it, but his capacious intellect was agitated by a great
moral question. Thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars was an immense
sum to a person in his station, who had never had even a hundred
dollars in his possession at one time. Honesty was a precious jewel,
but it was not possible for him to make thirty-eight hundred and fifty
dollars, at one stupendous haul, by being honest. He did not steal the
money. He did not rob the old man. If the steward had not suffered the
perils and discomforts of two broken heads, or rather one head broken
twice, the robbers, whoever they were, would doubtless have divided the
money between them, and the old man would never know what had become of
his cherished gold.
Mr. Ebénier asked himself if this was not a freak of fortune in his
favor; if the money was not a providential compensation for his
twice-broken head. Thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars would be a
very handsome atonement for two such raps as he had received, and he
was Mammon-worshipper enough to feel willing that his head should be
pounded to a jelly at this rate, so long as the germ of his mighty
intellect was not extinguished.
The steward was a man of exquisite tastes, and was ambitious for social
recognition and distinction. In Paris a colored man was just as good
as, if not a little better than, a white man. His former master, in
Louisiana, had believed in Paris, and seeing with his eyes, he had been
fully converted to his master's faith. Mr. Ebénier wanted to go to
Paris, wanted to live there, even as a waiter in a café, if no better
situation presented itself. With the money before him, he could realize
his dream of luxury and splendor. He could convert these half eagles
into napoleons, and revel like a prince in the gay metropolis of
France. He would wear the finest of broadcloth, eat the most sumptuous
of dinners, and saunter up and down the Champs Elysées like a
gentleman. In short, thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars, or nearly
twenty thousand francs in the currency of France, would make a
gentleman of him.
Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier was sorely tempted. It might be only once in
his lifetime that such a chance to be a gentleman would be presented to
him. He could put the gold into his carpet-bag, walk over to
Gloucester, and take the first train for Boston. No one would know what
had become of him; or, if they did, he would not be suspected of having
the gold. But he would be missed, and his absence might cause a
commotion. It would be better not to leave at present. The money could
be concealed on board of the yacht, and when he was disposed to abandon
the vessel it would be within his reach.
After more reflection on this important matter, the steward became
convinced that it would be safer and better to hide the gold on board.
At the stern of the vessel, under the standing-room, there was a space
not available for cabin use, which formed a kind of store-room for
extra supplies. It was reached by removing the cabin steps. The tempted
man entered this contracted and low apartment with the lamp in his
hand. He found a narrow aperture, which led to the space under the
cabin floor, where the ballast was deposited, and over which a board
had been nailed to prevent the odor of bilge water from penetrating the
apartment of the passengers. He removed this board, and reaching down
into the hold, placed the bags in a position where they were not likely
to be discovered, even by a person searching for them. Nailing on the
board again, he covered it with various articles, and returned to the
cabin.
On the table lay a Bible, which the steward occasionally read. Though
it was now two o'clock in the morning, he was not sleepy; he was too
much excited to think of slumber. He opened the good book mechanically,
turned its leaves, and read a verse here and there; but he was thinking
all the time of the luxurious gayety of the French capital, and the
pleasures which thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars would purchase.
"For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose
his own soul?"
This was the last verse he read, and he closed the book, as though this
appeal of Holy Writ grated harshly on his feelings.
"Lose his own soul," repeated he, almost in spite of himself.
He tried to think of the Boulevards and the gardens of the Tuileries
again; but "lose his own soul" came up to his lips still, as though
some invisible power compelled him to whisper the impressive sentence.
He attempted to whistle, and then to sing an air; but "lose his own
soul" came up to his lips, and he could not help whispering the
sentence again.
"This money don't belong to me," said he, in audible words. "I am not
the happy owner of this princely sum. Unto but few is it appointed to
be both rich and good-looking, and I am not of the number. I must be
contented with my good looks."
It was no use to say it; he did not mean it, and the idea of Paris and
its luxuries still haunted his imagination. He turned in, but it was
only to think what thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars would
purchase; and "lose his own soul" not only came to his lips, but the
solemn sentence seemed to be printed, in sombre-hued capitals, all over
the cabin. He went to sleep at last; but "lose his own soul" followed
him into his dreams, yelled in the distance and muttered in his ears by
grinning demons, such as those with which his fancy peopled the realms
of the lost. But he slumbered uneasily till the sun was far up on his
day-journey. When he went on deck, he saw The Starry Flag, Jr. almost
alongside. Captain Fairfield and the four seamen came on board.
The young skipper announced that the trip to the eastward, which had
been postponed from the day before, would be commenced at once, and the
party would be on board at eight o'clock. The steward had enough to do
to keep his hands, if not his mind, engaged in making preparations for
the occupants of the cabin. At the time appointed the party came on
board, and the yacht sailed on her cruise.
Our story need not follow them during the ten days to which the trip
was prolonged. It is enough to say that the party enjoyed every moment
of the time. Even Mrs. Watson, who had no taste for the sea, was
delighted; for Levi, at her request, was careful to bring the yacht to
anchor in smooth water every night, and to stay in port when the sea
was very rough.
During those ten days Mr. Ebénier considered and reconsidered, and then
considered again, what he should do with the money that had so
strangely come into his possession. He was disposed to use it; but the
gospel sentence thundered in his ears, and trembled upon his lips, and
rolled like the chariot of an avenger through his mind. Once or twice
he was on the point of telling the captain all about the gold, but the
vision of Parisian luxury checked him.
When the yacht entered Sandy Bay, the Caribbee lay anchored off the
Point, and The Starry Flag moored a couple of cables' length from her.
CHAPTER XV.
ANOTHER LITTLE PLAN.
When The Starry Flag returned from her pleasant excursion to the
eastward, Mr. Fairfield had so far recovered from the effects of his
fall as to be out, and to be making his preparations again to catch
dog-fish. It seemed to him to be absolutely necessary that he should
make some more money. He felt like a poor man, and his stocks and
bonds, notes and mortgages, afforded him but little comfort. His heart
seemed to have been lost with the four thousand in gold.
When the yacht made her moorings, the old man was at the landing-place,
getting ready to go dog-fishing the next day. His bones still ached,
and nothing but bitter necessity could have induced one so feeble as he
was to think of going off in a dory, miles from the shore, braving the
perils of ocean and storm. He believed that poverty and want stared him
in the face, and that he must go to the poorhouse if he did not make an
effort to retrieve his great misfortune.
Dock Vincent was never far off when a vessel came into port; and,
though he was very busy in making the preparations for his departure,
he hastened down to the Point when The Starry Flag hove in sight.
"That's Levi's vessel, Squire Fairfield," said he.
"I s'pose 'tis," replied the old man, casting an indifferent glance to
seaward.
"I sold my house to-day, Squire Fairfield," continued Dock, seating
himself by the shore.
"Did ye? What d'ye git for 't?"
"Fifteen hundred dollars. It was worth two thousand; but, as I'm going
to Australia right off, I couldn't afford to hold it for a better
price."
"You'll have a good deal of money to kerry off with you."
"Not much. I paid six thousand for that vessel, and she's dog-cheap at
that; but I shall make my fortune in her, carrying passengers."
"I hope you will, for you've done well by me, though you didn't find my
money;" and the old man sighed heavily. "I reckon I shall never see
nothin' more on't."
"I'm afraid you never will, Squire Fairfield. That nigger lied so like
all possessed that Levi got clear, and then we couldn't do anything.
I'm afraid it's too late to do anything more. I calculate that nigger
and Levi understand one another pretty well. They fixed things between
them, and I'm just as sure as I can be that your money went off in that
vessel."
"In the yack?"
"Yes, in the yacht," replied Dock, warmly. "It was stowed away
somewhere in her; but I suppose they have got rid of it by this time."
"You think I shan't never see it again," groaned the old man, with a
piteous expression on his thin face.
"I'm sorry to say I don't think you ever will, Squire Fairfield."
"Then I'm a ruined man! I can't afford to lose four thousand dollars.
It was e'enamost all I had, and I don't see but I must go to the
poorhouse."
Dock Vincent took off his hat, rubbed his head, gazed upon the ground,
and seemed to be in deep thought for several minutes. So was the miser
in deep thought--brooding over his lost treasure.
"Squire Fairfield, when I begin to do a thing I always do it, sooner or
later," said Dock, glancing doubtfully at the old man.
"You didn't find my money," added Mr. Fairfield.
"No; but I'm going to find it, or some more just like it. Squire
Fairfield, I can put you in the way of making twenty thousand dollars
just as easy as you lost that four thousand."
"You don't say!" exclaimed the old man, his sunken eyes glowing at the
suggestion.
"I can; there isn't any doubt about it."
"You don't mean to steal it--do you?"
"Steal it! You don't think I'd steal--do you? If you do, I won't say
anything more about my little plan."
Another little plan!
"Well, no; I never knowed you to steal nothin'."
"Twenty thousand dollars is a good deal of money, Squire Fairfield."
"So 'tis--more 'n I ever expect to see."
"But you shall see it, and have it, if you will take hold of my little
plan."
"What is't?" asked the old man, curiously and eagerly.
"It's something we must keep still about. I'm going to make my fortune
out of it, and yours too."
"What do you want to keep still for, ef you ain't go'n' to steal it?"
"I see it's no use to talk with you," said Dock, petulantly. "If you
think I'd steal, I can't depend upon you, or you upon me. So there's an
end of it."
Dock rose from his seat, looked at The Starry Flag, which was just
coming to anchor, and then began to walk up the Point; but he expected
to be called back, and he was not disappointed.
"Why don't you tell me on't, so I can know what you're go'n' to do?"
demanded the miser.
"I shall not say anything to you. I don't think I can trust you. The
business isn't all regular; but it isn't stealing," protested Dock.
"You can trust me, Cap'n Vincent, jest as long as you can trust
anybody. You know I never says nothin' to nobody about business. I
allers keeps things to myself," whined Mr. Fairfield.
"Will you keep this to yourself?"
"Sartin, I will."
"'Pon honor?" added Dock, earnestly.
"Yes; 'pon honor. Nobody ever knowed me to say nothin' about business.
I never trust nobody, not even my wife, with business matters."
"Sit down, squire, and we'll talk it over between us," replied Dock,
apparently satisfied with the old man's promise.
Mr. Fairfield, with some difficulty, seated himself on the rock, and
with glaring eyes--so interested was he in a project which was to put
twenty thousand dollars in his pocket--he listened to the rather prolix
explanations of his companion. For twenty thousand dollars he would
have sold his soul; but he was timid.
"I never fail in doing a thing without wanting to try it over again,"
Dock began. "I always put things through when I begin upon them."
The old man was not quite sure of this, but he did not interrupt the
speaker.
"Three years ago twenty thousand dollars slipped through my fingers
just as easy as though the money had been greased," continued Dock.
"I didn't know on't."
"Yes, you did. Watson had his money all ready to pay over to me when I
had the girl before, and if Levi Fairfield hadn't come between me and
him, I should have had the money. Now, Squire Fairfield, I'm going to
try that over again; and I'm not going to fail this time. I've got
things fixed so that I can't fail."
"I donno about that," said the old man.
"I know, and I'm just as certain about it as though the thing was done
already. But I'm not going to tell you anything more about it than I'm
obliged to, and then you won't know anything about it, and can't be
held responsible for it."
"I don't see how I'm go'n' to make any money by it," interposed the
miser, who was more interested in this part of the plan than any other.
"Don't you, squire? How much money do you suppose Watson's worth?"
"I donno."
"More than a million! I know that to be a fact; and I shouldn't wonder
if he was worth two millions: folks in Boston think he is."
"He's spendin' on't all on yacks and sech things."
"What that yacht cost to him is no more than a copper to you and me. He
don't mind a hundred thousand dollars any more than you would half a
cent."
"Not so much!"
"But he don't believe in throwin' on't away."
"I'm going to bleed him just seventy thousand dollars--fifty thousand
for myself, and twenty thousand for you."
"I don't see how it's go'n' to be done."
"He shall pay the money over to you; that's what I want you for."
"Then they'll ketch me, and put me in jail," suggested the old man,
timorously.
"Nonsense! They won't do it. The whole matter will be between you and
Watson. You won't know anything about the business--not a thing. All
you've got to do is to take the money and keep it till I call for it.
After the girl has been gone a month or two, he will be glad to give
you twice as much as I ask. I shall get her aboard the Caribbee."
"How you go'n' to do it? She won't go with you, any more'n she'll go
with the evil sperit."
"I'll take care of that. You are to know nothing about it. I shall
leave things so that Mr. Watson will go to you, and offer to pay the
money without your saying a word about it beforehand. All you have to
do is to keep what he gives you till I call for it."
"I donno about it."
"It's all right. We shan't hurt the girl. She shall have a good
state-room, and my wife will be on board to see to her. I tell you I'm
going to have this thing done over again."
"Where's Levi go'n' to be all this time? He sticks to the gal all the
time, and if you git her off, he'll follow you way round the world."
"He won't know anything about it; besides, I calculate he'll be in jail
for stealing your money before that time."
"You don't think so!"
"Yes, I do; I'm going to fix that nigger, and I'll bet Levi won't have
his wool to hold on to much longer."
"But I don't understand nothin' about this business, Cap'n Vincent,"
said the old man, doubtfully.
"I don't want you to understand anything about it. It's all right as it
is. When the money comes, you hold on to it."
"Ain't you go'n' off to Australia?"
"Of course I am."
"Then how you go'n' to git the money?"
"Leave all that to me," replied Dock, impatiently. "If you don't know
anything, you'll keep out of trouble. You will make your twenty
thousand dollars out of it, and that ought to satisfy you. Now, Squire
Fairfield, there's only just one thing more to be done."
"What's that?"
"I'll give you a chance to make another ten thousand, if you like."
The old man's eyes brightened again, as he asked how it was to be done.
"I find I'm going to be a little short fitting out. I'm going to take
out some notions to sell that will pay me five dollars for one; but I
haven't got the money to do it," continued Dock.
The old man's chin dropped, and he looked sad and sorrowful.
"I want ten thousand dollars more than I've got. I shall make forty
thousand out of the venture, and I can afford to pay a heavy interest.
I will give you ten thousand for the use of ten thousand."
"I hain't got no sech money," protested the miser.
"But you can raise it."
"I ain't sure of ever gittin' on't back."
"Yes, you are. You will lend me ten thousand dollars, and then take
twenty thousand out of my fifty when Watson pays it over to you."
"Perhaps he never'll pay it over to me."
"You may be sure he will. If he don't, he never will see his daughter
again. He will be glad of the chance to pay it. But if he don't, you
know, you shall have my note, and I will pay it as soon as I've turned
my notions."
Mr. Fairfield, eager as he was to make the ten thousand dollars, had no
more idea then of letting the sum asked for pass out of his hands than
he had of giving away that amount. It was not his style to let money go
from him without the best of security. The approach of a boat
interrupted Dock's argument, and the old man promised to think of the
proposition.
"I shall not want that dory any more, and I'll give it to you, Squire
Fairfield," said Dock, hoping his munificence would touch the
money-lender's heart, as he walked away.
"I'm much obleeged to you; it will sarve me a good turn," replied Mr.
Fairfield.
"Think over my offer, and I'll see you again soon," added Dock, as he
passed out of hearing.
CHAPTER XVI.
PISTOLS FOR TWO.
It was about three o'clock in the afternoon when The Starry Flag
arrived from her cruise. Her passengers were immediately landed; and,
after the vessel had been put in order, the four young men who lived in
Rockport were permitted to go on shore; and the cook went with them,
intending to return in the evening with the boat. The steward did not
wish to visit the town, and remained on board as ship-keeper.
Mr. Ebénier was so polite and attentive to the wants of the passengers,
and, above all, used such choice language, that he had become quite a
favorite. Bessie, who had made considerable progress in her French, was
delighted with him, as well because he was an original character, as
because he anticipated all her wants. She talked French with him;
indeed, all except Levi used the "polite language" at the table to a
great extent. The steward was treated with a great deal of
consideration by all the occupants of the cabin. This was what he most
desired, and after the party had been on board two or three days, he
ceased to think of leaving the yacht before the close of the season.
Such a friend as Mr. Watson was worth more than the contents of the
three bags concealed in the vessel's run.
But ever since he had placed the treasure in its hiding-place, the
gospel malediction, "lose his own soul," had been thundering in his
ears. The temptation was a strong one; but the steward had thus far
been an honest man, and the present seemed to be the crisis of his
lifetime. The kindness and consideration of the captain and his
passengers won his heart, and he had determined that Levi, in the words
with which he clothed the idea, should be triumphantly vindicated.
Mr. Ebénier reasoned that his captain could not be vindicated by simply
returning the gold to the old man, his uncle. The two men whom he had
failed to identify in the Hotel de Poisson must be discovered; and he
determined to find them, if it were possible. On this subject he had
some views of his own, and he concluded to let the gold remain where it
was until he could institute an investigation: we use the gentleman's
own words, subsequently uttered.
The steward dared not leave the yacht when the others went on shore. If
he had not recognized the two men, they had probably recognized him.
They must suppose he had taken possession of the money, and they would
expect to find it if an opportunity to search the yacht was afforded to
them. Mr. Ebénier did not intend to give them any such opportunity;
therefore he remained on board. He went farther than this. The robbers
might come on board while he was there alone, overpower him, and thus
regain their plunder. The steward kept a revolver in his carpet-bag;
for, being a man of varying fortunes, he was liable at any time to be
in a situation to need such a weapon. He took the pistol from the bag,
loaded it, and put it into his pocket. It was his duty, as ship-keeper,
to defend the vessel in the absence of the captain; and the weapon gave
him a strong assurance of safety.
From his house Dock Vincent watched the movements of the crew of the
yacht. Levi and five men had landed; consequently the steward must be
on board alone. But he had decided to pay him a visit, whether alone or
not. In Dock's classic speech, he was "going to fix that nigger," and
he was watching for the opportunity to do the "fixing." One of the
Caribbee's boats was at the landing, and as soon as the crew of the
yacht had landed, he pulled off to her. His coming was not unexpected,
and Mr. Ebénier, in spite of the injuries he had received at the hands
of the visitor, was as smooth and polite as though his temper had never
been ruffled.
"Steward, I want to talk with you a little while," said Dock, as,
without an invitation, he stepped upon the deck of the yacht.
"Though I have no particular inducements to condescension, so far as
you are concerned, I am willing, in this instance, to gratify you,"
replied Mr. Ebénier, graciously.
"If you don't object, we will go down into the cabin, where we shall
not be interrupted," added Dock.
"Though it is not customary to admit any but gentlemen into the cabin,
I shall be happy to waive the rule in this instance, as all our people
are on shore," answered Mr. Ebénier, as he led the way to the cabin.
Dock Vincent paid no attention to the polished insults of the steward,
but seated himself on a stool, at the side of the table. Mr. Ebénier
took his place opposite the guest.
"Now, Captain Dock Vincent, I am entirely at your service," said the
steward.
"It won't take a great while to get off what I want to say," Dock
began, putting a very uncompromising look upon his ugly face. "I
suppose you know the old man that lost the money."
"I have not the honor to be personally acquainted with him, but I am
informed that he is the paternal uncle of Captain Levi Fairfield."
"That's so; and Levi has treated him in the most shabby manner."
"Permit me to interrupt you, Captain Vincent," interposed the steward.
"It would not be possible for Captain Fairfield to treat any person in
a shabby manner, certainly not his own uncle."
"On that point we differ, steward; but let me say what I was going to
say."
"Proceed, Captain Vincent. I simply refuse to indorse your statement,
and I protest against it."
"All this is neither here nor there. To come right down to the p'int,
the old man lost four thousand dollars in gold. I'm trying to help him
find it. I know just as well as I know anything, that Levi stole that
money. All the circumstances go to show that he did, letting alone the
fact that one of the bags was found in his state-room."
"Not without an earnest protest can I permit my worthy captain to be
maligned in this unjustifiable manner. On my own responsibility I
declare that your statement is utterly false."
"I am satisfied it's just as I say," persisted Dock. "Now, we'll go a
p'int closer to the wind. I'm almost certain that the gold Levi stole
is hid aboard this vessel."
"And you wish to search the yacht for it?" added the steward.
"That's just my idea," replied Dock, promptly.
"Permitting such a search would be an acknowledgment, on my part, of
the possibility of my worthy captain's guilt; therefore I cannot suffer
such an investigation to be instituted."
"Well, steward, whether you are going to suffer it or not, it's going
to be done," said Dock, savagely. "I didn't come off here, this time,
to be fooled with. I know the gold's on board, and I'm going to have
it."
"You know it," repeated the steward, calmly.
"Yes, I know it."
"So do I," added Augustus, quietly.
"You do!" exclaimed Dock. "I knew you did! I've been satisfied all
along that you knew all about it, and that you was helping Levi cover
up his guilt. I suppose he was going to give you something for it."
"One of your statements, namely, that the money is on board of this
yacht, is assuredly correct; but your theory, your logic, your
premises, and your conclusions are undoubtedly false and absurd," said
the steward, a cheerful smile playing beneath his huge mustache.
"Isn't the gold here?" demanded Dock, impatiently.
"It is."
"Then quit your flabbergast, and talk in plain English. Of course Levi
stole it."
"Not he!"
