This was joyful news, but it was a dreary while to wait.
The door suddenly opened, and Mrs. Fishley bounced into the kitchen,
followed by her husband, both of them apparently wrought up to the
highest pitch of anger by my misdeeds.
CHAPTER III.
ON THE DEFENSIVE.
At the approach of Captain Fishley, I felt the shudder that swept
through the feeble frame of Flora, as she stood infolded in my arms. I
gently placed her in the chair again, and released myself from her
clinging embrace; for I realized that, in the brief moment left to me,
it was necessary to prepare for war. I knew the temper of Captain
Fishley; and, though he had never yet struck me, I believed that it was
only because I had been all submission.
I was fully resolved to defend myself, and especially to defend Flora. I
picked up the heavy iron poker which lay on the back of the stove, and
placed myself in front of my trembling sister. The captain was a brute,
and his wife was hardly better than a brute. I feared that she,
supported by her husband, would again lay violent hands upon Flora,
knowing that such a course would sting me deeper than a blow upon my
own head.
I did not flourish the poker, or make any irritating demonstrations with
it; on the contrary, I held it behind me, rather for use in an emergency
than to provoke my tyrants. I was not disposed to make the affair any
worse than the circumstances required, and by this time I was cool and
self-possessed. Perhaps my critical reader may wonder that a boy of my
age should have set so high a value upon controlling his temper, and
preserving the use of his faculties in the time of peril, for it is not
exactly natural for boys to do so. Youth is hot-blooded, and age and
experience are generally required to cool the impetuous current that
courses through its veins.
My father--blessings on his memory--had taught me the lesson. One day, a
fire in the long grass of the prairie threatened the destruction of all
our buildings. Clarence and myself went into a flurry, and did a great
many stupid things, so excited that we did not know what we were about.
Father stopped in the midst of the danger to reprove us, and gave us
such a solemn and impressive lesson on the necessity of keeping cool,
that I never forgot it. Then he told us to harness the horses to the
plough. Clarence struck a furrow along the imperilled side of the house;
my father mowed a wide swath through the tall grass, and I raked it
away. Before the fire reached us, we had made a barrier which it could
not pass. We kept cool, and fought the devouring element with entire
success.
I do not mean to say that I never got mad; only that, when I had a fair
chance to think an instant, I nerved myself to a degree of
self-possession which enabled me to avoid doing stupid things. Such was
my frame of mind on the present occasion, and I coolly awaited the
coming of the tyrants. Both of them were boiling over with wrath when
they entered the kitchen, and rushed towards me so fiercely that I
thought they intended to overwhelm me at a single blow.
"What does all this mean, Buck? What have you been doing?" demanded
Captain Fishley, as soon as he had crossed the threshold of the room.
I deemed it advisable to make no answer.
"I'll teach you to insult your betters!" he continued, as he rushed
forward, with arms extended, ready to wreak his vengeance upon me.
I was satisfied that the blow was to come with the word, and I slung the
poker over my shoulder, in the attitude of defence.
"Hold on, Captain Fishley!" I replied.
He had evidently not expected any such demonstration. He had no occasion
to suspect it, for previously I had been uniformly submissive, not only
to him and his wife, but even to Ham, which had always been a much
harder task. The tyrants halted, and gazed at me with a look of
stupefied astonishment.
"What are you going to do with that poker?" asked the captain, after a
long breath, in which much of his wrath seemed to have evaporated.
"Defend myself," I replied.
"Do you mean to strike me with that poker?"
"Not unless you put your hands on me or my sister. If you touch me, I'll
knock you down, if I have to be hanged for it," was my answer,
deliberately but earnestly uttered.
"Has it come to this?" groaned he, completely nonplussed by the
vigorous show of resistance I made.
"Yes, sir."
"I think it is time something was done," he added, glancing around the
room, apparently in search of some weapon.
"I think so too, and I am going to do something, if need be."
"What are you going to do?"
"If you want to talk, I'll talk. I wish you to understand that I'm just
as cool as well-water, and this thing has gone just as far as it's going
to."
"What do you mean by that, you scoundrel? What thing?"
"My sister Flora is a poor, weak, sick child. She isn't your servant,
nor your wife's servant; and she shall not be kicked round by either one
of you. That's all I have to say."
"Who has kicked her round?" growled the captain.
"Mrs. Fishley has done just the same as to kick her. She took her by the
arm, dragged her out of her chair, and was shaking her when I stepped
in."
I was particular to state the facts thus explicitly, because I did not
believe Mrs. Fishley had been careful to include this portion of the
affair in her complaint to her husband.
"It's no such thing! I should like to know!" exclaimed Mrs. Fishley,
who, by some miracle, had been enabled to hold her tongue thus far.
"I saw her do it," I added.
"It's no such thing!"
"Didn't you take her by the arm?" I demanded.
"Well, I did just touch her on the arm, but I didn't hurt her none. I
wouldn't hurt her for a million dollars."
"Let Flora speak for herself," I continued. "What did she do to you,
Flora?"
"I don't like to say anything about it, Buckland. She didn't hurt me
much," answered the terrified child.
"You see, she won't say I shook her, or did any such awful thing," said
the virago, triumphantly.
"Speak, my dearest sister. We had better settle this matter now," I
added.
"She did take me by the arm, pull me out of the chair, and was shaking
me, when you interfered," replied the poor girl, trembling with fear of
the consequences of her truthful confession.
"Well, I never!" gasped Mrs. Fishley.
Captain Fishley evidently believed that his wife was lame; but this did
not make much difference to him. He was a tyrant and a bully; but, as
tyrants and bullies always are, he was a coward, or he would have
demolished me before this time. He had a wholesome respect for the
poker, which I still kept in readiness for immediate use.
"No matter whether Mrs. Fishley touched the child or not," said he,
savagely. "No boy in my house shall insult my wife, or raise his hand
against her."
"And no man or woman, in this or any other house, shall raise his hand
against my sister," I answered.
"She sat there like a log of wood, and let the flapjacks burn," snarled
Mrs. Fishley.
"She hadn't anything to do with the flapjacks. Flora boards here, and
isn't anybody's servant," I replied.
"I should like to know! Is that girl to sit there before the fire and
let whatever's on the stove burn up before she'll raise her hand to save
it?"
"It's no use of talking," said I. "You know all about it as well as I
do. All I have to say is, that Flora shall not be abused by anybody, I
don't care who it is."
"Nobody's going to abuse her," snapped the shrew.
"I've got another account to settle with you, Buck Bradford," continued
Captain Fishley. "Did Ham tell you to black his boots?"
"He did."
"And you told him you wouldn't?"
"I told him so."
"What do you mean, you rascal?"
"I only meant that I wouldn't do it. That's all I meant."
"I should like to know what we're coming to!" ejaculated Mrs. Fishley.
"We are coming to an understanding, I hope," I answered.
"I hope so too, and I mean to do it," added the captain. "High times
we're having here, when the boys won't do what they are told, and then
take the poker when they're spoken to."
"Captain Fishley, I think there are two sides to this question. The
agreement my brother Clarence made with you was, that I should take care
of the horse and go after the mail for my board. That's what he said to
me in one of his letters. Instead of that, you make me do all the dirty
work about the place, and run from pillar to post at everybody's beck
and call."
"That's all you're good for," interposed Captain Fishley, sourly.
"Perhaps it is; but that's not what my brother, who is my guardian,
agreed to have me do. You have kept me at home from school half the
time--"
"Too much learning spoils boys."
"That wasn't what spoiled you. But that's nothing to do with the
agreement."
"None of your impudence, you saucy young cub," said he, shaking his
head, and moving a step nearer to me; whereat I demonstrated mildly with
the poker.
"I don't mean to be impudent, but I won't be treated like a dog any
longer. I was willing enough to do all I was told, even if it wasn't
according to the agreement; but I get blowed up twenty times a day by
all hands. Ham never speaks civilly to me, and treats me like a nigger
servant. This thing has gone just as far as it can go. I have made up my
mind not to stand it any longer."
"We'll see," replied the captain, grinding his teeth and puckering up
his lips.
"But I don't want to fight, or have any trouble, Captain Fishley," I
proceeded, more gently, for I had warmed up considerably as I recited
the history of my wrongs. "If Ham wants me to black his boots, and will
ask me civilly to do so, I will do it, though that's not my work, and my
brother never meant that I should be anybody's boot-black."
"You will do what you are told to," bullied the masculine tyrant.
"And not meddle with things in the house," added the feminine tyrant.
"All I ask is, that Flora shall be let alone, and to be used fairly
myself," I continued. "I will do the work just as I have done till
October, if I can be treated decently. That's all I have to say."
"That isn't all I've got to say," replied the captain. "Buck Bradford,
drop that poker!"
"I will not."
"You won't?"
"Not till I think it is safe to do so."
"Do you think I'm going to be threatened with a poker in my own house?"
"I won't threaten you if you'll let me alone. I've said all I have to
say."
I know very well that Captain Fishley had not pluck enough to touch me
while I had the poker in my hand; and I was fully satisfied that Mrs.
Fishley would not meddle with Flora again very soon. The scene was
becoming rather embarrassing to me, and I decided either to end it or to
shift the battle-field. I turned and walked towards the back room. As
one dog pitches into another when the latter appears to show the white
feather, Captain Fishley made a spring at me, hoping to take me in the
rear. I was too quick for him, and, facing about, I again drew up in
the order of battle.
"We'll settle this another time. You haven't seen the end of it yet,"
said he, as he turned and walked into the store.
CHAPTER IV.
WHO IS MASTER.
I remained in the back room long enough to assure myself that Mrs.
Fishley did not intend to put a rude hand upon Flora. I even ventured to
hope that she was ashamed of herself, and would not repeat the dastardly
act. I went to the barn to consider the situation. I felt just as though
I had won the victory over my tyrants in the present battle; but I was
confident that the conflict would be renewed at some more favorable
time.
Like all small-minded men, like all tyrants and oppressors, Captain
Fishley was a revengeful person. He would wait till he caught me
napping, and then spring some trap upon me. He would delay his vengeance
till some circumstances conspired against me, and then come down upon me
with the whole weight of his malignity. I determined to keep a sharp
lookout upon all his movements, and especially to avoid all cause of
offence myself. I meant to keep myself as straight as I possibly could.
I had time only to run my course through my mind before the supper-bell
was rung at the back door by Mrs. Fishley. Should I go in to supper as
usual, and meet the whole family, including Ham? I answered this
question in the affirmative, deciding that I would not sulk, or make any
unnecessary trouble to any one. I went in, and took my seat as usual at
the table, by the side of Flora. It was a very solemn occasion, for
hardly a word was spoken during the meal. If I had been ugly, I might
have congratulated myself upon the sensation I had produced.
The head of the family sweetened his tea twice, and upset the
milk-pitcher upon the table-cloth, which, under ordinary circumstances,
would have brought forth some sharp criticisms from his wife; but Mrs.
Fishley neglected to express her disapprobation of her spouse's
carelessness, even in the mildest terms. All these things assured me
that our host and hostess were busy thinking of the great event of the
afternoon. The captain looked morose and savage, and Mrs. Fishley looked
as though a new burden, or a new grief, had been added to her heavy load
of worldly cares.
I half suspected that Captain Fishley was not entirely satisfied with
the conduct of either his wife or his son. It was even possible that he
had spoken to them in disapprobation of their course; but I had no means
of knowing. It seemed to me that otherwise father, mother, and son would
have joined in a general jaw at me, as they had often done before.
Whatever good or evil had been wrought by my vigorous action, my
appetite was not impaired. I ate a hearty supper, and then went into the
store for the mail-bag, which was to be carried down to Riverport.
"Are you going after the mail, Buck?" asked Captain Fishley, in an ugly,
taunting tone, which assured me that he had not recovered from the
shock.
"Yes, sir."
"O, you are! I didn't know but you would give up work altogether,"
sneered he, apparently disappointed to find me no longer a rebel.
"I told you I should do my work just as I always did. All I want is fair
treatment for my sister and myself," I replied in the least offensive
tones I could command.
"I expect my brother, Squire Fishley, will come up to-night," added the
captain, more mildly. "You will go to the hotel in Riverport for him,
and bring him up. Take a lantern with you; it will be dark to-night."
Squire Fishley had been a state senator, and the captain regarded him as
one of the greatest men in Wisconsin. I was rather pleased to have his
company home on the lonely ride from Riverport, and I confess that I was
somewhat proud of making the acquaintance of the distinguished
gentleman.
"Don't be in a hurry, Buck," said Ham Fishley, as I picked up the
mail-bag.
I stopped and looked at him, for his tones were more conciliatory than I
had heard him use within my remembrance. I actually flattered myself
that I had conquered a peace.
"I want to ride with you as far as Crofton's," he added. "I have been
very busy getting ready, and haven't had time to black my boots yet.
It's a pretty stylish party I'm going to, and I want to look as
scrumptious as any of them. Will you black them for me? I'll be much
obliged to you if you will."
"Certainly I will, Ham, when you ask me in that way, and glad to do it
for you," I replied, without hesitating an instant.
I took the boots and went to work upon them. There was an unmistakable
smile of triumph on his face as I did so; but I was perfectly satisfied
that the triumph was mine, not his. Doubtless those civil, polite words
were an invention of the enemy, to win my compliance; and Ham,
forgetting that I had not rebelled against the work, but only the
tyrannical style of his order, was weak enough to believe that he had
conquered me. I made up my mind to review the circumstances, and explain
my position to him, on the way to Crofton's.
"Hasn't that letter come yet, Captain Fishley?" asked an ancient maiden
lady, who entered the store while I was polishing Ham's boots.
"I haven't seen anything of it yet, Miss Larrabee," replied the
postmaster.
"Dear me! What shall I do!" exclaimed the venerable spinster. "My
brother, down in Ohio, promised to send me forty dollars; and I want the
money awfully. I was going down to see Jim's folks, but I can't go, nor
nothin', till that money comes. I hain't got nothin' to pay for goin'
with, you see."
"I'm very sorry, Miss Larrabee. Perhaps the letter will come in
to-night's mail," added the captain.
"But the mail don't git in till nine or ten o'clock, and that's after
bedtime. Ethan writ me the money would be here by to-day, at the
furthest. You don't suppose it's got lost--do you?"
"I think not. We've never lost anything in our office, leastwise not
since I've been postmaster," answered Captain Fishley, who seemed to
attribute the fact to his own superior management.
"It may come up to-night, as you say, and I will be down again in the
morning to see about it," replied Miss Larrabee, as she left the store,
hopeful that the money would arrive in season to enable her to depart
the next day on her journey.
I finished blacking Ham's boots, and he put them on. He was going to a
party at Crofton's, and had already dressed himself as sprucely as the
resources of Torrentville would permit. He was seventeen years old, and
somewhat inclined to be "fast." He was rather a good-looking fellow--an
exceedingly good-looking fellow in his own estimation. Being an only
son, his father and mother were disposed to spoil him, though not even
Ham wholly escaped the sharp points and obliquities of his mother's
temper. His father gave him what he believed to be a liberal allowance
of spending money; but on this subject there was a disagreement between
Ham and the "old man."
The young man always wanted more money, and the old man thought he had
enough. Ham was pleasantly inclined towards some of the young ladies,
and some of the young ladies were pleasantly inclined towards him. Ham
liked to take them out to ride, especially Squire Crofton's youngest
daughter, in the stable-keeper's new buggy; but his father thought the
light wagon, used as a pleasure vehicle by the family, was good enough
even for Elsie Crofton. I had heard some sharp disputes between them on
this subject.
There was to be a party that evening at Crofton's. Ham was invited of
course; I was not. Ham was considered a young man. I was deemed a boy,
not competent to go to parties yet. As long as Flora could not go, I was
content to stay at home with her.
I placed the mail-bag in the wagon, Ham took his seat by my side, and I
drove off. As the reader already knows my position in regard to my
tyrants, I need not repeat what passed between Ham and me. I told him I
had made up my mind to do all the work I had been in the habit of doing,
without grumbling, until October, but that I would not be treated like a
dog any longer; I would take to the woods and live like a bear before I
would stand it. My remarks were evidently very distasteful to my
companion. He did not say much, and I was sorry to see that he was
nursing his wrath against me. He regarded me as a being vastly inferior
to himself, and the decided stand I had taken filled him with the same
kind of indignation which a brutal teamster feels towards his contrary
horse.
"Hold on a minute, Buck; I want to get a drink of water," said Ham, as
we approached a spring by the roadside, half a mile before we reached
Crofton's.
I drew up the black horse, and he jumped out of the wagon. He did not
drink more than a swallow; and I did not think he was very thirsty.
"Go ahead!" said he, leaping into the rear of the wagon, behind the
seat, where I had thrown the mail-bag.
He sat down on the end-board of the wagon, and though I thought it a
little strange that he should take such an uncomfortable seat,
especially when he had on his best clothes, I did not suspect any
mischief. The first thing I knew after I had started the horse, the
mail-bag came down upon my head with a force which made me see more
stars than ever before twinkled in the firmament of my imagination. At
the next instant, Ham seized me by the collar of my coat with both
hands, in such a way that I could not easily move.
"Now, Buck Bradford, we'll settle this business. I'm going to know who's
master, you or I," cried Ham.
"All right, Ham; you shall know in about two minutes and a half," I
replied, choking with wrath, as I hauled in the horse.
Then commenced a struggle which it is impossible to describe. I do not
myself know what I did, only that I thrashed, squirmed, and twisted till
I found myself behind the seat with my antagonist; but he held on to my
coat-collar as though his salvation depended upon the tenacity of his
grip. Finally I doubled myself up, and came out of my coat. In the
twinkling of an eye, I sprang upon him, and tumbled him out of the
wagon, into the dirt of the road. Though he was a year older and two
inches taller than I was, while he had been clerking it in the store, I
had been nursing my muscles with the shovel and the hoe, the pitchfork
and the axe; and I was the stronger and tougher of the two. I could do
more, and bear more, than he. A fight depends as much upon the ability
to endure injury as it does to inflict it.
The rough usage I had given Ham was very disheartening to him; while I,
with the exception of being a little shaky about the head from the blow
of the mail-bag, was as fresh as ever.
"Have you found out who's master yet, Ham?" I demanded, edging up to
him.
He looked sheepish, and retreated a pace at every step I advanced. At
this point, however, the black horse started, and I was obliged to
abandon the field for a moment to attend to him, for the reins had
fallen under his feet. I turned the horse around, and then I saw that my
cowardly assailant had armed himself with a club.
CHAPTER V.
A BATTLE AT LONG RANGE.
I was always very fond of a dog and a horse, and had a taste for
everything appertaining to these animals. Darky, as the black horse was
called, and my dog Bully, were prime favorites with me. If I bore a
divided love, it was so equally divided that I could not tell which I
liked the best. I was fond of working over the horse, the wagon, the
harnesses, and most especially I had a decided penchant for a graceful
whip; but I wish to protest, in the same breath, that I never used it
upon Darky. Though I was a firm believer in corporal punishment for
vicious boys and vicious horses, I did not think he ever needed it. I
had a suspicion that Ham Fishley had never had half enough of it, owing
to the fact that he was a spoiled child. It seemed to me then that a
good opportunity had come to supply the deficiency, even if it were
administered strictly in self-defence.
When I had turned Darky, and admonished him to stand still, I saw that
Ham had picked up a club, which appeared to be a broken cart-stake. It
was necessary that I should provide for this new emergency. I glanced at
the wagon, to see if there was anything about it that would answer my
purpose. My eye fell upon the whip, which rested in the socket at the
end of the seat. It was a very elegant whip in my estimation, with a
lash long enough to drive a four-horse team. The brilliant thought
occurred to me that this whip was better than a cart-stake for my
present purpose, and I took it from its place.
I wish to say, most emphatically, in this connection, that I am not a
fighting character; but, in the present instance, I was obliged to fight
or submit to the most degrading abuse. Ham was in the act of asserting
his right, not to ask me, but to order me, in the most offensive manner,
to black his boots, or to perform other menial offices for him. I trust
that I have already proved my willingness to do my duty, and to oblige
even those whom I regarded as my enemies. Ham had made a cowardly
assault upon me, and with the club in his hand he proposed to reduce me
to what he considered a proper state of subjection.
I purposed that he should not reduce me at all. I walked towards the
place where he stood, with the whip in my hand. As I approached him he
moved towards me with his weapon thrown back in readiness to hit me. I
halted first, and then retreated a few paces, to afford me time to
disengage the lash from the handle of the whip,--I used to consider
myself very skilful with the whip,--though this may be vanity,--and I
could take a piece out of a maple leaf at twelve feet, three times out
of four, all day long. This was one of my accomplishments as a boy, and
I enjoyed the practice.
Retreating before the advance of Ham, I brought the whip smartly around
the calves of his legs, with a regular coachman's flourish. This did not
operate to cool my antagonist's temper; indeed, I am forced to confess
that this was not exactly the way to subdue his ire. I am sorry to say
that Ham used some naughty words, which politeness will not permit me
to repeat. Then he rushed forward with redoubled energy, and I gave him
another crack with the whip, which hit him in the tenderest part of his
pedestals.
I knew by his wrinkled brow that the part smarted; but, as long as it
did not cure him of the infatuation of "licking" me, I felt that he was
responsible for all consequences. He wanted to throw himself upon me
with that club, and I am satisfied that a single blow of the formidable
weapon would have smashed my head. He followed up his treatment, and I
followed up mine, keeping just out of the reach of his stick, and
lathering his legs with the hard silk snapper of my whip.
He foamed, fretted, and struggled to gain the advantage of me; but he
was mad, and I was cool, and I kept my respectful distance from him,
punishing him as rapidly as I could swing the long lash. Ham soon became
fearfully disgusted. At the rate he was subduing me, he must have felt
that it would be a long job. His patience--not very carefully
nursed--gave out at last; and, when he found that it would be
impossible for him to inflict a single blow upon me, he raised the club,
and let it fly at my head. If it had hit me there, I think the reader
would have been saved the trouble of reading my adventures "Down the
River." As it was, it struck me on the left shoulder, and I did not get
over the effects of the blow for a fortnight. But I was too proud to
show any signs of pain, or even to let him know that I had been hit.
I picked up the club, and held it in my left hand, to prevent him from
making any further use of it, leaving my right to manipulate the whip. I
felt that I had disarmed and overpowered him; but I was not yet quite
content with his frame of mind, and I continued my favorite exercise for
some time longer. I did not actually punish him any more; I only cracked
the whip in unpleasant proximity to his tender extremities. He hopped
and leaped like a Winnebago chief in the war-dance.
"Quit, Buck Bradford!" cried he, in tones of anguish.
"You have got enough of it--have you, Ham Fishley?" I replied,
suspending the exercise.
"We'll settle this another time," howled he.
"No, we won't; we'll settle it now. You began it, and I want it finished
now," I added, cracking the whip once more in the neighborhood of his
pedal extremities.
"Quit--will you!"
"I will quit when you say you have had enough of it."
"You won't hear the last of this very soon, I can tell you!"
"What are you going to do about it, Ham?"
"I'll pay you off for it yet!"
"Will you!" I continued, startling his sensibilities again with the
noise of the snapper.
"Yes, I will!" snarled he, passionately.
If the calf of his left leg had been a maple leaf at that moment, I
should have taken a piece out of it as big as a dime.
"Mind out, Buck Bradford!"
"Have you had enough?" I demanded.
"Yes, I have!"
"O, well, if you are satisfied, I am, though you are not very
good-natured about it. Next time you want to hit me over the head with
the mail-bag, just remember that when I am awake I keep my eyes open," I
replied, coiling up the lash of my whip. "When I told you I had stood
this thing long enough, I got myself ready for anything that might come.
I'm ready for anything more, and I shall be ready the next time you want
to try it on."
"You had better go along with the mail," snapped he, in a tone so like
his mother's that I could not have told who spoke if I had not seen Ham
before me.
"I made this stop to accommodate you, not myself. After what has
happened, I want to tell you once more, that I am ready to do my work
like a man, and to treat you and everybody else like gentlemen, if you
use me decently. If you know how to behave like a gentleman, I'd like to
have you try it on for a few days, just to see how it would seem. If you
will only do that, I promise you shall have no reason to complain of me.
That's all I've got to say."
"You've said enough, and you had better go along with the mail," growled
he.
I turned Darky again, very much to that knowing animal's
dissatisfaction apparently, for my singular proceedings had doubtless
impressed him with the idea that he was to escape his regular trip to
Riverport.
"Aren't you going along to Crofton's?" I called to Ham, as I got into
the wagon.
"A pretty fix I'm in to go to a party," replied he, as he glanced in
disgust at his soiled garments.
"Well, you ought to have thought of that before you began the sport," I
added, consolingly.
Ham made no reply, but fell vigorously to brushing his clothes with his
hands.
"Better come along with me, Ham," I continued, kindly; for I felt that I
could afford to be magnanimous; and I think one ought to be so, whether
he can afford it or not.
"I'm not going to Crofton's in this fix," said he.
"I can help you out, if you like, Ham. I don't bear any ill will towards
you, and just as lief do you a good turn as not," I added, taking from
the box of the wagon-seat a small hand broom, which I kept there to dust
off the cushion, and brush down the mail-bag after a dusty trip.
I jumped down from the wagon again, and moved towards him. He was shy of
me after what had happened, and retreated at my approach.
"Let me brush your clothes, Ham. I won't hurt you."
"You have brushed me about enough already," said he, shaking his head.
"What are you afraid of?"
"I'm not afraid."
"Let me brush you, then. I wouldn't hurt you now any more than I would
my own sister."
He stood still, and I brushed and rubbed his garments till he looked as
bright and fresh as if he came out of the bureau drawer.
"There, you are all right now," I added, when I had finished the job.
"Jump into the wagon, and I will take you along to Crofton's."
"You are up to some trick, Buck," said he, suspiciously.
"No, I'm not. I'm not afraid of you. I don't hit a fellow over the head
with a mail-bag," I replied, seating myself in the wagon again.
Half a dozen "fellows and girls" were approaching from the direction of
the village; and, as Ham did not care to see company just yet, he got
into the wagon, and I drove off. He kept one eye on me all the time, and
seemed to be afraid that I intended to continue the battle by some
underhand measures.
"I am sorry this thing has happened, Ham; but I couldn't help it," I
began, after we had ridden a quarter of a mile in silence. "You pitched
in, and I had to defend myself. I hope you won't do it again."
Ham made no reply.
"Because, if you do, it will come out just as this has," I continued. "I
suppose you feel a little sore about this scrape, for you don't come out
first-best in it. You know that as well as I do. I reckon you won't want
to talk much to the fellows about it. I don't blame you for not wanting
to, Ham. But what I was going to say was this: if you don't say anything
about it, I shall not."
"I don't know what I shall do," replied he, doggedly.
"I don't, either; but, between you and me, Ham, I don't think you feel
much like bragging over it. If you don't mention it, I won't."
"I suppose you mean by that, you don't want me to say anything to the
old man about it," growled he, involuntarily putting himself in the
attitude of a conqueror, and me in that of a supplicant.
"No, Ham; that isn't what I meant. If you want to tell your father or
anybody else of it, I'm willing; but one story's good till another's
told. That's all."
Our arrival at Crofton's prevented any further consideration of the
matter. Ham leaped out of the wagon without another word, rushed through
the front gate, and disappeared, while I drove on towards Riverport.
CHAPTER VI.
SQUIRE FISHLEY.
Ham was quick-tempered, and I hoped he would get over the vindictive
feelings which he manifested towards me. At the same time, I could not
help thinking that he was fully in earnest when he told me I had not
seen the end of it. Of Ham's moral attributes the least said would be
the soonest mended. Certainly he was not a young man of high and noble
purposes, like Charley Woodworth, the minister's son. Captain Fishley
himself, as I had heard Clarence say, and as I knew from what I had seen
and heard myself, was given to low cunning and overreaching. If he could
make a dollar, he made it, and did not stand much upon the order of his
making it.
I cannot say that he put prairie sand into the sugar, or put an ounce
bullet into the side of the scale which contained the goods; but some
people accused him of these things, and from what I knew of the man I
could not believe that he was above such deeds. Ham was an apt scholar,
and improved upon the precept and example of his father. I had heard him
brag of cheating the customers, of mean tricks put upon the inexperience
of women and children. If he had been a young man of high moral
purposes, I might have hoped that we had seen the end of our quarrel.
I could not help thinking of this subject during the rest of my ride to
Riverport, and I could not get rid of a certain undefined dread of
consequences in the future. I criticise Ham and his father in the light
of my own after experience rather than from any settled opinions which I
had at the time; and I don't wish it to be understood that I was any
better myself than I ought to be. I had no very distinct aspirations
after goodness and truth. My character had not been formed. My dear
little sister was my guide and Mentor. If I did wrong, she wept and
prayed for me; and I am sure she saved me from many an evil deed by the
sweet influence of her pure and holy life. If I had drank in more of
her gentle spirit, the scene between Ham and myself could not have
transpired.
I reached the post-office in Riverport, and took the mail-bag for
Torrentville into the wagon, leaving the one I had brought down. Then I
drove to the hotel, and inquired for Squire Fishley. The landlord told
me that he was engaged with a party of gentlemen in a private room.
Fortunately I was in no hurry, for I could not think of disturbing a
person of so much consequence as Squire Fishley. I never reached home
with the mail till nine o'clock, and the bag was not opened till the
next morning, when sorting the mail was Ham's first business. I drove
Darky into a shed, and amused myself by looking around the premises.
I walked about for half an hour, and then asked the landlord to tell
Squire Fishley that I was waiting to take him up to his brother's. I was
told that my passenger was just going down to the boat to see some
friends off, and directed to put the squire's trunk into the wagon, and
drive down to the steamboat landing. The landlord conducted me into the
entry, and there, for the first time, I saw the captain's brother. He
would have been a good-looking man under ordinary circumstances, but he
was as boozy as an owl!
I was astonished, shocked, at this spectacle; for, unlike politicians in
general, Squire Fishley had made his reputation, and his political
capital, on his high moral and religious character. I had often heard
what a good man the distinguished senator was, and I was horrified at
seeing him drunk. With unsteady gestures, and in maudlin tones, he
