Will God pity me a little, and give me rest ? " 
How rarely I had thought of Him ! 
"I don't want to go away. When I come to the worst 
I want you to stay with me. It will not be long." 
" Child," I exclaimed, in terror, " you must have imme- 
diate attention !" 
"I saw the doctor yesterday. He assured Mrs. Elling- 
wood that I had only to guard against excitement and 
over exertion, and should be quite well by summer. That 
means I shall be asleep under the daisies. God knows 
best. I shall be glad to go away from all the toil and 
trouble. Don't wish anything else for me, Miss Adriance. 
I am quite content." 
Something about her awed me. She had changed so 
much, grown absolutely dignified and commanding. For 
 
several days I debated upon what course I should pursue; 
then a second attack decided the matter. By accident she 
was borne to my room, and there I watched her for nearly 
a month. In that time there came a deep and holy love 
between us. As if she had learned the secret of life at last, 
the faith that gains an abundant entrance into heaven. 
During those watchful hours I told the dying girl my 
secret. Her eyes lighted up with a strange gleam of joy. 
" You will be blest," she said, " in your power to carry 
joy to weary souls that faint on the highways. God must 
reward you for all you have been to me." 
I smiled over these tender visions of her last days. It 
was too late for them to come true, but it was all that her 
love could give. And one midnight her weary soul flut- 
tered up to the keeping of angels, leaving only a little 
death-cold clay in my arms. Seventeen brief years, and 
the sweetest draught of all turned bitter upon her lips. 
God help us to keep the faith, and not question too closely 
why these things are so, 
The event made a great sensation. A death of this kind 
always fills one with awe, as if it could hardly be time for 
one to die in the very bloom of youth. Mrs. Ellingwood 
regretted that she had not sent her home immediately after 
the first attack. 
But the break closed presently, and we all went on with 
our duties. Spring was filling up the hollows with the 
murmurous sound of unchained brooks. The brown hill- 
sides changed to a faint glimmering green and drowsed 
sleepily in the sunshine. The pipe of birds sounded sweet 
in the early morn, and the air was fresh with dewy fra- 
grance. What was it to me? I was sick and tired of the 
endless round. Of what avail was it for miserable souls to 
live at all ! 
My book had been a failure. The hope that I should 
one day stand proudly in the place I had chosen for my- 
self reach the temple of fame with full hands, and lay my 
gift upon the altar was slowly perishing. And now I 
told myself the truth I could not endure the miserable, 
aimless life I was leading; but what else was there for me ? 
To content myself with commonplace duties and events 
was sure mental starvation. I seemed to be isolated, as if 
there were a mark upon me, which, others seeing, might 
avoid. 
I was twenty-two. That was early in life to have the 
worst of the battle. To sit on this monotonous bank, 
watching the ebb and flow of life, and never going beyond 
the dreary-looking shore on either side, was intolerable. 
I was fast becoming irritable, but how could I resist this 
constant feeling of rebellion ? I could not shut my eyes to 
the fact that I was out of place; that there was nothing to 
call forth the energies within me that were absolutely 
starving for want of proper nourishment and use. 
I cannot make circumstances; I cannot even rule them. 
I cannot understand life. Why are people created only 
for misery? It does not sweeten their tempers or improve 
their hearts, so far as my experience goes. Faith thrives 
best in the genial warmth of happiness. 
The old cry of the Psalmist rises to my lips, " O that I 
had wings like a dove, for then I would flee away and bo 
at rest." 
Still I kept on with my duties, and saw the change that 
I dreaded approaching nearer and nearer. Anne was as 
anxious as ever for my visit, and there was no reason why 
I should not go, but I shrank from it with a curious in- 
tensity. Torpid as my brain seemed, it had some torturing, 
sensitive nerves. The sight of her peace and happiness 
 
would not soothe this wayward mood. Sometimes I 
thought of a journey; but where could I go alone? I 
had no ambition to guide me, no desires. 
It is strange that in some seasons of life one seems to 
have several distinct individualities. With one I performed 
each task mechanically. Another seemed drifting about 
with every passing tide, while a third weakly rebelled, and 
yet had not sufficient force to marshal the others, or reduce 
them to obedience. 
I wondered how many times Mrs. Ellingwood would go 
through the form of a new engagement. Of course I 
should stay all my life if she wanted me. Then I packed 
my clothes, put everything in order, and said a few fare- 
wells. The brightest vision of all was Magdalene at rest in 
her grave. 
I had no desire to pause in New York, but went direct 
to Baltimore. I found Anne alone, but bright and happy ; 
her serene eyes marvellous wells of content. Every event 
and sight that day is stamped so vividly upon my mind! 
Her cool, white dress, and a pale pink rose on her bosom^ 
her baby smiling and winsome, the house with its usual 
neat adornment. Everywhere repose and peace. 
I had just time to change my dress for the late supper 
awaiting me, but I could not eat. I sipped my tea lan- 
guidly, and then took a long draught of cold water, that 
proved reviving. 
" Your hands are hot and feverish," Anne said presently, 
" and your temples throb visibly. Are you quite certain 
it is only fatigue ? " 
"Foolish fatigue at that," I answered, almost sharply, as 
a keen, cruel sense of disappointment stole over me. I 
had meant to come to her in such triumph this time. I. 
was she who was calm and strong, and I a rudderless bark, 
tossed about by every stray wave. 
 
"My darling, have you come to any dark days?" 
The sweet voice unnerved me. A choking spasm con- 
stricted my throat. 
" Am I not your sister, your dearest friend ? Can I not 
dispel the cloud ? " 
" One comes to the dregs of life occasionally, even if 
one is not utterly adrift." 
" But there is One who can make the bitter sweet. No, 
don't look so faithless ; you surely have not cast away this 
anchor?" 
"Anne," I said, "it is not in the power of some hearts 
to believe at will. Was there never but one Hagar in the 
desert, who sat down to perish out of sight of all she 
loved?" 
" And succor came to her." 
"But in these later days one does not find it so easily." 
" Sydnie, don't you believe that God is still merciful, and 
listens to all who cry unto him ?" 
" I have ceased to believe anything," I said, with sullen 
despair. " I have seen all my hopes perish miserably, and 
am ready to cry, Let me die with them." 
" My darling, you are ill and dispirited." 
"Anne," I exclaimed, vehemently, " you peaceful, happy 
women can never understand the struggles of others tor- 
mented before their time. Why is such continual suffering 
permitted? Why arc people created with hearts that only 
the highest aspirations can fill, and then doomed to remain 
forever barren of fruit ? Why do we wander in deserts, 
and clasp phantoms when we fold our hands together?" 
" We would be less free if God did not permit us to 
stray and follow our own devices. But he is ready to 
bring us back when we earnestly desire it. And for the 
suffering and sorrow why question if we do our part to 
relieve the oppressed ? " 
 
"I have exhausted life," I said. "I have come to the 
end, and all is darkness." 
" I am not going to let you talk in this despairing fashion. 
Your nerves have been strained to the utmost, and it is 
folly to rasp the tender edges. You shall go to bed and 
rest." 
She led me to my chamber, and the ministrations of her 
cool, soft hands tranquillized rne. Then she kissed me and 
bade me sleep. 
A broad sheet of moonlight lay on the floor like a silver 
lake. The peerless blue of the sky was broken by stars 
of faint gold, and the trees were edged with white as in a 
monochrome. I rose and went to the window, sitting a 
long while in the mild air, fragrant with night dews. But 
it could not cool the fever of my brain. Strange, distorted 
visions glimmered before my eyes. The old solitude of 
childhood oppressed me ; then I was Hearing my bridal 
with Aylmer Channing, and no hand was stretched forth 
to save rne. Snowy robes mocked me with their softness. 
There was a dazzle of lace and satin, a smothering sweet- 
ness of perfume, and in my wildness I broke away from 
it all. 
Then the vision changed. St. John and I rambled 
through the leafy groves at Laurelvvood. Listening to his 
voice, I grew calm again, and though I knew it was a 
dream, the old spell reasserted itself. My heart, long cold 
and arid, softened to these tender tones. I seemed to 
realize now how this man had loved me, and what heaven- 
ly satisfaction life might have been with him. Yes, I had 
cast away my pearl because of some flaw in the setting. 
Did I sleep then? I do not know. It was a long, 
blessed unconsciousness of pain or want, a sense of perfect 
rest. I was satisfied to be at peace at last. 
 
CHAPTER XX. 
" Cast off the weakness of regret, and gird tbee to redeem thy loss; 
Thou hast gained in the furnace of affliction 
Self-knowledge, patience and humility." 
PKOVERBIAL PHILOSOPHY. 
I REMEMBER rousing myself one day and glancing out 
of the window, surprised that it was not draped in moon- 
beams as I saw it last. Instead, a soft rain pattering on 
the leaves without. 
I tried to rise, but my head fell back upon the pillow. 
Anne was beside me in a moment. 
I experienced a weak, confused consciousness of having 
been ill, though then I felt well at heart. 
" How long have I been here, Anne?" I asked. 
" A month. But you are better now." 
" Have I been very sick ? " 
She kissed me tenderly, her eyes swimming in tears. 
I don't know why, but I felt glad and happy, just as if 
it were a pleasant thing to come back to life. She, seeing 
this, smiled. 
I begin to understand some of these mysteries better. 
I have been groping about in the dark, intent upon my 
own way, trying to force a path through thorny hedges, 
while JQtt outside lay the clear road. My imagination had 
been roused to some great achievement, rather than my 
soul awakened to the serious and earnest duties of life. 
Lying there, day after day, too weak to talk much, but 
with a mind cleared from all its doubts and distraction, I 
 
was content merely to exist. Whatever the future held 
for me would come in its own good time. The calm that 
followed was delightful in its entire peace. Anne's slender 
figure, nearly always robed in white, angel-like in its har- 
monious movements, comforted me exceedingly. She had 
found the grand secret of a happy life, which must ever be 
more of a triumph than a happy death. Her whole study 
seemed to be how she could best minister to others. The 
highest and purest philosophy lies herein, for this broad, 
comprehensive charity alike blesses the bestower and the 
recipient. 
I felt humbled as I glanced over my past. "What had I 
ever done for another ? Ellen's happiness had, after all, 
been more the result of circumstances. Poor Magdalene 
I had taken to my heart, biit it had been purely material 
comfort I had never been able to appeal to her soul, for 
my own was in the depths of doubt. I preferred to be 
wretched ; I fanned each trivial circumstance into a with- 
ering flame that scorched, but did not consume. Though 
I had borne my misfortunes with outward equanimity, my 
heart had rebelled continually. I had exaggerated my ills, 
and transformed them into mountains. 
I cannot say that I gave up my one great hope without 
a pang. Was the quality I had fancied genius a wretched 
impostor only? Did God mean that I should always keep 
to common ways, and glorify them by patience and love 
to my kind? 
At last I said, "Not my will, but Thine." Not from 
apathy, but humility and Designation. And then I was 
ready to begin life again. 
The first of September was coming on apace. I realized 
that I should not be strong enough to fill my old position, 
and wrote to Mrs. Ellingwood to that effect. Anne was 
eve) joyed. 
 
" I have a book for you to rend," she said one morning. 
"Mr. Otis and I liked it so very much, and I have been 
waiting for you to improve sufficiently to undertake it. I 
can't tell why ; but there is so much in it that reminds me 
of you. I should have written to you about it, only I 
wanted to watch the effect it would have upon. you." 
I smiled a little. 
She came with it in her hand. " It is not merely for 
the sake of the story," she went on, and then my eyes 
caught the title. My own book ! The crimson blood 
rushed to my face in torrents, and I trembled violently in 
every pulse. 
"Why, what is the matter?" and her sweet eyes were 
filled with amazement. 
" I have read it," I stammered. 
" Do you know anything about it ? It was published 
last winter ; but I believe it did not begin to attract much 
attention until spring. The author seems to be enveloped 
in profound mystery." 
I covered my face with my hands. That she should 
bring these precious tidings to me ! 
"I almost believe you wrote it yourself, and yet I 
never thought of that before. Confess ! " 
Her voice had a certain exultant ring that inspired me. 
" It is mine," I said under my breath, scarcely daring to 
lay claim to it. 
"My darling!" and with a glad cry there came a rain 
of kisses upon my forehead, baptizing me afresh. O, 
blessed sympathy of friendship, with the bliss, but not the 
torture nor wild desires of love ! And then we clasped 
hands in that cordial tenderness that needs no words, but 
is a language unto itself. 
" How blind I must have been ! Nay, I think I had a 
dim perception that in it I saw your soul. When you 
 
taught these earnest-, glowing truths, my dear friend, had 
they no voice for you ?" 
"Anne," I rejoined, *' I have suffered much bitter self- 
upbraiding. I wrote the book in spells of something that 
appears to me now like inspiration. The rest of my life 
was wretched and dreary in the -extreme. I had reached 
that utter weariness of heart and soul when all is black 
unbelief. I wanted fame success. Pride was my domi- 
nant ruler apd guide. I have been justly punished." 
" But you have achieved success ! Why, the book is 
everybody's admiration. You have only to confess, and 
you will find yourself famous," 
Sweet words from the lips of love. Nothing ever 
thrills one so completely as that sense of first triumph, all 
the dearer and more satisfying for the many hours of de- 
spair that had preceded it. But my eyes filled with tears, 
rapturous, yet strangely sad, and for many moments we 
were both silent. 
"I must hear all," Anne said at length. "How well 
you kept your secret ! yet I shall have to exercise a good 
deal of Christian charity in order to forgive you for shut- 
ting me out of your confidence." 
I told her the whole story. It appeared* strange even 
to myself. Anne's sympathy was unbounded; more than 
once I saw the tears softly falling. 
"O, my darling, how you have suffered!" she said at 
length, with a tremulous sob. 
" You must not pity me, nor help me to make a martyr 
of myself, I am done with that forever. I turned wil- 
fully away from the light, and God allowed me to wander 
in the darkness of my own making." 
"I think there is a time in nearly all our lives when We 
go into the wilderness, and are tempted of the devil. It is 
only by keeping close to God that we escape." 
 
 
I understood the peculiar light in her tender eyes. She, 
too, had known the anguish, the passion, and pain of 
standing a brief while without the portals of hope. 
But the marvels for the day were not ended. I received 
a brief letter from Mrs. Ellingwood, expressing much regret 
that I would not be able to resume my place, and offering 
to wait a month. She enclosed a letter that had come 
while she was away, and had been mislaid. It was from 
my publishers. They were very much encouraged at the 
late success of my book, and proposed that I should come 
to New York, if it was convenient, as there were several 
points in the business they wished to discuss with me. 
It had been written a month before. 
I was too tired and excited to sleep well that night, 
yet was not materially worse the next day. Some time 
elapsed before we recovered our nsual serenity ; indeed, 
the whole course of my life appeared changed. New 
plans and aims haunted me continually; but I tried to 
keep my expectations within bounds. It was only one 
little step in a long journey. 
I made arrangements to go to New York as soon as 
possible, asking Mrs. Westervelt to take me in during my 
stay, to which she readily agreed. I longed to see the 
Bweet, motherly face again. She was very lonesome, 
missing the society of Philip and Ellen very much. They 
did not expect to return until mid-winter. 
Anne was loath to have me go, but she yielded her de- 
sires in her own sweet fashion. Her brother Walter had 
been in Italy nearly a year, and was making rapid im- 
provement in health as well as art. " I shall have an in- 
terest in two famous people," she said, with her bright 
smile. 
I found that Mrs. Westervelt had lost none of her 
charms. I wag the better able to appreciate the exceed- 
 
ing loveliness of her character, and the refined and tender 
geniality of her temper. Crowds of olden memories 
thronged about me, filling the very rooms and halls with 
phantoms. I almost expected to see Mrs. Lawrence enter 
in all her airy grace and beauty, and meet Mr. St. John's 
deep, questioning eyes. There in the library a strange 
little episode had occurred ; and I felt the blood mantling 
my brow at the very thought. Did he remember it? 
What spirit had possessed us in those days, in all days 
indeed? Had it been love, or simply desire to rule to 
gratify a longing for power and influence ? I wondered 
if we would ever meet again, and how ? Mrs. Westervelt 
talked them both over in her delightful fashion, but what 
did she know of him ? I smiled to myself. 
Mrs. Varick, nee Laura Hastings, was living in elegant 
style. Gertrude, also, had married, and Mrs. Hastings might 
well plume herself upon her success. I did not care to see 
either of them ; indeed, I desired quiet and seclusion. I 
told Mrs. Westervelt the story of the past two years, or 
at least the main incidents, and surprised her greatly by 
the new triumph I had gained. After my first business 
interview, I felt quite assured that success was possible. I 
had gained a little fame and made a little money, but it 
was a very fair beginning. The prospect warranted my 
continuance ; yet now I found myself wondering whether 
I should ever do as well again. I received the most gra- 
cious encouragement, and resolved that I would not fail 
for lack of trial, at least. There was much to do before I 
could repose in the shadow of my well-earned laurels. 
I sometimes wonder whether there is any settled plan 
to life. I determined to return to Baltimore, and devote 
my winter to writing another book. I was making my 
last call at the little office that I had once entered with 
such trembling steps, when I met a sister of my publisher, 
 
a pale, sweet-looking woman, hardly middle age, but bear- 
ing marks of great fragility of constitution. She was on 
the eve of going abroad, but had met with some disap- 
pointment, I gathered from the few sentences I heard. As 
it did not concern me, I paid little attention to their con- 
versation. I had just risen, and was about to leave them, 
when there was a flutter beside me, and a familiar face 
glanced into mine. 
"O, Miss Adriance!" 
Grace Endicott had been a pupil at Elm Grove Semi- 
nary. The similarity of names had escaped me. 
" Have I kept you waiting, mamma?" she asked, eagerly. 
"I was detained unavoidably." Then to me, "Miss Adri- 
ance, I am delighted to see you. Mamma can bear witness 
that I have been won by your wonderful gift of music. It 
has actually inspired me." 
She was one of the few girls it had been no trouble to 
teach ; a great favorite with all in school ; yet I had held 
myself aloof from the girls, and hardly felt familiar. 
" This is your Miss Adriance, then ?" her mother said. 
The word, simple S it was, touched me profoundly. Had 
I unwittingly inspired this girl with regard ? 
"I wish she was mine," Miss Endicott exclaimed, impul- 
sively ; " then we would take her to Europe, mamma, and 
have no more worry. Miss Adriance, are you not going 
back to Elm Grove ? " 
" No," I replied. 
"And are you quite at liberty?" 
"My dear," her mother said, mildly. 
"O, mamma, it would be just what we want. And may- 
be Miss Adriance would like to travel. I'm enchanted 
with the idea of going; and I never knew any one who 
did not sigh for Italy." 
" I shall have to explain," Mrs. Endicott began, with a 
 
winsome smile. ""We expect to be abroad for two or 
three years; but Grace is so young that her father does 
not like to trust her altogether to foreign teachers. We 
want some one who is capable of exercising a supervision 
over her, and who would prove a companion for me. Just 
as we thought ourselves nicely suited, a break occurred in 
the negotiations, and we all regretted it extremely. It 
would be so much more pleasant to have a person who 
was not an entire stranger ; but I suppose your arrange- 
ments would not permit of such an engagement, even if it 
should prove otherwise agreeable. Pardon us both for 
mentioning it." 
There was something so refined and lady-like in her 
demeanor that it won me instantly. Then the proposal 
did look tempting. It would be many years before I could 
afford such a journey as a luxury; and in the life I pro- 
posed to myself the culture and knowledge thus acquired 
would prove invaluable. I had no tie to hold me here. 
Yet I could not decide thus suddenly. 
"If it would not interfere too much with my plans in 
another direction, I should hardly hesitate," I returned, 
frankly. 
"Mamma," Grace said, "suppose we take Miss Adriance 
home with us, and talk the matter over at our leisure." 
Mrs. Endicott seconded the invitation so strongly that 
I acquiesced. Their carriage was at the door, and entering 
it, we drove to a quiet but aristocratic part of the city. 
Grace was vehemently urgent. In vain her mother tried 
to restrain her. Still she was charming, and would prove 
a pleasant charge, I thought. 
We discussed the matter at length. The duties would 
be light, leaving me much leisure time, if I could manage 
not to be distracted with the constant variety of travelling, 
though they expected to go to Florence immediately, and 
 
remain there for the first winter. The proffered salary was 
liberal, to say the least. 
In return, I informed Mrs. Endicott of my desires. It 
certainly was one of those cases of mutual attraction, and 
seemed to promise a delightful acquaintance. I staid to 
lunch, and was then sent home in the carriage, the ladies 
promising to call upon me in a few days. 
I related my odd encounter to Mrs. Westervelt that 
evening, as we sat alone. 
" It looks very tempting to you, I dare say ; but, my 
dear, I wish you had been more like ordinary women." 
" Why ? " and I laughed gayly. " In what respect am 
I different?" 
"I should like to see you happily married and content." 
"I shall have enough to content me, I am sure." 
" Sydnie, you are still very young, and, may be, have not 
come to the great want of a woman's life a cheerful 
household hearth. And though genius may be a fasci- 
nating possession, I am not sure but it brings in its train 
restlessness and dissatisfaction with common daily duties. 
We had other hopes for you, my dear child." 
I understood the allusion, and colored faintly. 
" It hurts me to hear a woman sneer against love, or 
treat it in the flippant manner so common among girls of 
the present day," she continued. " If any feeling is held 
in holy reverence, that should be." 
" I shall always honor pure, true love," I said, with emo- 
tion. 
She glanced earnestly in my face. I know we both 
thought of Mr. St. John ; but there was nothing I could 
tell, and her delicacy forbore to question. 
Grace came the next day, and spent an hour with me, 
quite delighting Mrs. Westervelt. 
The longer I considered the scheme, the more feasible 
 
it became. I went to Mr. Harold and asked his advice 
for the grave, kindly face held a potent charm for me. 
It was advisable that I should follow up my first success 
as soon as possible; but he thought the merits of the tour 
would outweigh its few disadvantages. He was extremely 
fond of his sister, and really desirous that I should go, 
though he would not urge. The interview decided me, 
however. 
When Mrs. Endicott came, I gave her my answer, and 
she expressed her warmest satisfaction. They were anx- 
ious to start by the middle of October, which gave me 
but three weeks in which to complete my arrangements. 
It was best to return to Baltimore immediately. 
Anne and Mr. Otis both congratulated me upon my im- 
provement : I had begun to look quite like myself. I 
could not spoil my first day's pleasure by the announce- 
ment of my speedy departure, though I smiled a little 
over Anne's castle-building. 
" I am so glad to have you back again," she said, the 
next morning. " I've planned such lovely times for the 
winter; and, as you write your new book, I shall read and 
criticise. Are you afraid, that you look so sober?" 
" I shall not be here, my dear friend," I said, with a touch 
of sadness, for I had begun to realize how sweet it was to 
be so well loved. 
"Not here?" she echoed, in dismay. 
" I am going to Europe." 
" Have you made your fortune, or is some one going to 
send you as a travelling correspondent?" she asked, in as- 
tonishment. 
" Neither ; " and then I explained what had befallen me. 
" It is selfish to be sorry ; but I had counted so much 
upon our enjoyment together I I am never to have you, 
it seems." 
 
"'There nre a good many ye firs yet to come," I rejoined, 
"And hosts of friends, possibly a husband." 
At this I shook my head. 
" Have you taken a vow of celibacy?" 
"Not exactly. Out of the three IViends, one ought to 
remain single. You and Laura are married." 
" And I used to think you would be the first to go." 
"Undiscovered merit;" and I laughed. 
"You really did not care for Ayhner?" 
" Set your heart at rest. I am thoroughly ashamed of 
that episode. His cruelty towards Magdalene crushed out 
the last vestige of even friendly feeling." 
"And you ::re quite fancy free?" 
"Worshipping the hero of my dreams," I said, with a 
rising color. 
Though Anne "was grieved to the heart, she gave me 
all the assistance in her power. My wardrobe had not 
been replenished since the Laurel wood days, and many 
dresses needed only alteration and retrimming to make 
them presentable. Some I never should wear again. I 
seemed so much older and graver than when those mar- 
vellous robes of tulle and lace were fashioned. And the 
" Something sweet 
That follows youth with flying feet)" 
was forever gone. 
I was not hopeless nor dispiiited, and yet there were 
moments when the years looked long and almost weari- 
some. After fame was gained, and the restless yearning 
for change satisfied, what then ? 
The partings were all ended at last, and I stood on the 
steamer's deck, catching last glimpses of New York. Once 
I had rocked to the plash of the tide up there in the river, 
viewing a sunrise. Everywhere something recalled Mr. 
St. John. He would Lear of my departure, also of my 
 
debut in the world of literature, and be in nowise affected. 
Well, I had found a place in the world, and a work to do, 
and that ought to satisfy. 
Does it ? 
No. Are women such weak, unreasonable beings that 
they must long continually for a crumb of love ? 
It humiliated me to confess it, even to myself; and yet, 
as Mr. St. John's wife, I should know more perfect, satisfy- 
ing happiness in a month, than in all my solitary lifetime. 
I can see now my fatal, irremediable mistake. 
t 
CHAPTER XXI. 
" Life will not flow as rivers flow, nor seas; 
It is a flood but made of raindrops ; days, 
Hours, aud moments; several, pitiless." 
IT is a long while since I have looked at this journal. 
A life that is at once changeful, busy, and interesting 
leaves little time for retrospection. Mine has been crowded 
with delight and variety, and I have known more real 
enjoyment than I once thought possible. 
In the Emlieotts I found warm and delightful friends. 
Mrs. Endicott seems like an elder sister, for she has none 
of Mi-s. Westervelt's motherly ways. Grace was piquant, 
charming, and full of girlish enthusiasms. In her I dis- 
covered many things that reminded me of myself, in my 
impulsive, undiscipined girlhood. 
After geeinj; us domesticated at Florence, Mr. Endicott 
O ' 
left for Paris and London, whither business called him. 
We were occupants of a picturesque old house that had 
doubtless been a palace in bygone year?. At first I be- 
lieve I was a little disappointed in the place. The nar- 
row, irregular streets, and tall houses, with their sleepy, 
