"No, and I wouldn't. Lots of boys does it, but I wouldn't."
"Well, I'm glad to hear you say that. I believe there's some
good in you, Dick, after all."
"Oh, I'm a rough customer!" said Dick. "But I wouldn't steal.
It's mean."
"I'm glad you think so, Dick," and the rough voice sounded gentler
than at first. "Have you got any money to buy your breakfast?"
"No, but I'll soon get some."
While this conversation had been going on, Dick had got up. His
bedchamber had been a wooden box half full of straw, on which the
young boot-black had reposed his weary limbs, and slept as soundly
as if it had been a bed of down. He dumped down into the straw
without taking the trouble of undressing.
Getting up too was an equally short process. He jumped out of the
box, shook himself, picked out one or two straws that had found
their way into rents in his clothes, and, drawing a well-worn cap
over his uncombed locks, he was all ready for the business of the
day.
Dick's appearance as he stood beside the box was rather peculiar.
His pants were torn in several places, and had apparently belonged
in the first instance to a boy two sizes larger than himself. He
wore a vest, all the buttons of which were gone except two, out of
which peeped a shirt which looked as if it had been worn a month.
To complete his costume he wore a coat too long for him, dating
back, if one might judge from its general appearance, to a remote
antiquity.
Washing the face and hands is usually considered proper in
commencing the day, but Dick was above such refinement. He had no
particular dislike to dirt, and did not think it necessary to remove
several dark streaks on his face and hands. But in spite of his dirt
and rags there was something about Dick that was attractive. It was
easy to see that if he had been clean and well dressed he would
have been decidedly good-looking. Some of his companions were sly,
and their faces inspired distrust; but Dick had a frank,
straight-forward manner that made him a favorite.
Dick's business hours had commenced. He had no office to open. His
little blacking-box was ready for use, and he looked sharply in
the faces of all who passed, addressing each with, "Shine yer
boots, sir?"
"How much?" asked a gentleman on his way to his office.
"Ten cents," said Dick, dropping his box, and sinking upon his knees
on the sidewalk, flourishing his brush with the air of one skilled
in his profession.
"Ten cents! Isn't that a little steep?"
"Well, you know 'taint all clear profit," said Dick, who had already
set to work. "There's the blacking costs something, and I have to
get a new brush pretty often."
"And you have a large rent too," said the gentleman quizzically,
with a glance at a large hole in Dick's coat.
"Yes, sir," said Dick, always ready to joke; "I have to pay such a
big rent for my manshun up on Fifth Avenoo, that I can't afford to
take less than ten cents a shine. I'll give you a bully shine, sir."
"Be quick about it, for I am in a hurry. So your house is on Fifth
Avenue, is it?"
"It isn't anywhere else," said Dick, and Dick spoke the truth there.
"What tailor do you patronize?" asked the gentleman,
surveying Dick's attire.
"Would you like to go to the same one?" asked Dick, shrewdly.
"Well, no; it strikes me that he didn't give you a very good fit."
"This coat once belonged to General Washington," said Dick,
comically. "He wore it all through the Revolution, and it got torn
some, 'cause he fit so hard. When he died he told his widder to give
it to some smart young feller that hadn't got none of his own; so
she gave it to me. But if you'd like it, sir, to remember General
Washington by, I'll let you have it reasonable."
"Thank you, but I wouldn't want to deprive you of it. And did your
pants come from General Washington too?"
"No, they was a gift from Lewis Napoleon. Lewis had outgrown 'em
and sent 'em to me,--he's bigger than me, and that's why they
don't fit."
"It seems you have distinguished friends. Now, my lad, I suppose you
would like your money."
"I shouldn't have any objection," said Dick.
"I believe," said the gentleman, examining his pocket-book, "I
haven't got anything short of twenty-five cents. Have you got
any change?"
"Not a cent," said Dick. "All my money's invested in the Erie
Railroad."
"That's unfortunate."
"Shall I get the money changed, sir?"
"I can't wait; I've got to meet an appointment immediately. I'll
hand you twenty-five cents, and you can leave the change at my
office any time during the day."
"All right, sir. Where is it?"
"No. 125 Fulton Street. Shall you remember?"
"Yes, sir. What name?"
"Greyson,--office on second floor."
"All right, sir; I'll bring it."
"I wonder whether the little scamp will prove honest," said Mr.
Greyson to himself, as he walked away. "If he does, I'll give him
my custom regularly. If he don't as is most likely, I shan't mind
the loss of fifteen cents."
Mr. Greyson didn't understand Dick. Our ragged hero wasn't a model
boy in all respects. I am afraid he swore sometimes, and now and
then he played tricks upon unsophisticated boys from the country,
or gave a wrong direction to honest old gentlemen unused to the
city. A clergyman in search of the Cooper Institute he once directed
to the Tombs Prison, and, following him unobserved, was highly
delighted when the unsuspicious stranger walked up the front steps
of the great stone building on Centre Street, and tried to obtain
admission.
"I guess he wouldn't want to stay long if he did get in," thought
Ragged Dick, hitching up his pants. "Leastways I shouldn't. They're
so precious glad to see you that they won't let you go, but board
you gratooitous, and never send in no bills."
Another of Dick's faults was his extravagance. Being always
wide-awake and ready for business, he earned enough to have
supported him comfortably and respectably. There were not a few
young clerks who employed Dick from time to time in his professional
capacity, who scarcely earned as much as he, greatly as their style
and dress exceeded his. But Dick was careless of his earnings. Where
they went he could hardly have told himself. However much he managed
to earn during the day, all was generally spent before morning. He
was fond of going to the Old Bowery Theatre, and to Tony Pastor's,
and if he had any money left afterwards, he would invite some of
his friends in somewhere to have an oyster-stew; so it seldom
happened that he commenced the day with a penny.
Then I am sorry to add that Dick had formed the habit of smoking.
This cost him considerable, for Dick was rather fastidious about his
cigars, and wouldn't smoke the cheapest. Besides, having a liberal
nature, he was generally ready to treat his companions. But of
course the expense was the smallest objection. No boy of fourteen
can smoke without being affected injuriously. Men are frequently
injured by smoking, and boys always. But large numbers of the
newsboys and boot-blacks form the habit. Exposed to the cold and wet
they find that it warms them up, and the self-indulgence grows upon
them. It is not uncommon to see a little boy, too young to be out
of his mother's sight, smoking with all the apparent satisfaction
of a veteran smoker.
There was another way in which Dick sometimes lost money. There was
a noted gambling-house on Baxter Street, which in the evening was
sometimes crowded with these juvenile gamesters, who staked their
hard earnings, generally losing of course, and refreshing themselves
from time to time with a vile mixture of liquor at two cents a
glass. Sometimes Dick strayed in here, and played with the rest.
I have mentioned Dick's faults and defects, because I want it
understood, to begin with, that I don't consider him a model boy.
But there were some good points about him nevertheless. He was above
doing anything mean or dishonorable. He would not steal, or cheat,
or impose upon younger boys, but was frank and straight-forward,
manly and self-reliant. His nature was a noble one, and had saved
him from all mean faults. I hope my young readers will like him as
I do, without being blind to his faults. Perhaps, although he was
only a boot-black, they may find something in him to imitate.
And now, having fairly introduced Ragged Dick to my young readers,
I must refer them to the next chapter for his further adventures.
CHAPTER II
JOHNNY NOLAN
After Dick had finished polishing Mr. Greyson's boots he was
fortunate enough to secure three other customers, two of them
reporters in the Tribune establishment, which occupies the corner
of Spruce Street and Printing House Square.
When Dick had got through with his last customer the City Hall clock
indicated eight o'clock. He had been up an hour, and hard at work,
and naturally began to think of breakfast. He went up to the head
of Spruce Street, and turned into Nassau. Two blocks further, and he
reached Ann Street. On this street was a small, cheap restaurant,
where for five cents Dick could get a cup of coffee, and for ten
cents more, a plate of beefsteak with a plate of bread thrown in.
These Dick ordered, and sat down at a table.
It was a small apartment with a few plain tables unprovided with
cloths, for the class of customers who patronized it were not very
particular. Our hero's breakfast was soon before him. Neither the
coffee nor the steak were as good as can be bought at Delmonico's;
but then it is very doubtful whether, in the present state of his
wardrobe, Dick would have been received at that aristocratic
restaurant, even if his means had admitted of paying the high
prices there charged.
Dick had scarcely been served when he espied a boy about his own
size standing at the door, looking wistfully into the restaurant.
This was Johnny Nolan, a boy of fourteen, who was engaged in the
same profession as Ragged Dick. His wardrobe was in very much the
same condition as Dick's.
"Had your breakfast, Johnny?" inquired Dick, cutting off a piece of
steak.
"No."
"Come in, then. Here's room for you."
"I aint got no money," said Johnny, looking a little enviously at
his more fortunate friend.
"Haven't you had any shines?"
"Yes, I had one, but I shan't get any pay till to-morrow."
"Are you hungry?"
"Try me, and see."
"Come in. I'll stand treat this morning."
Johnny Nolan was nowise slow to accept this invitation, and was soon
seated beside Dick.
"What'll you have, Johnny?"
"Same as you."
"Cup o' coffee and beefsteak," ordered Dick.
These were promptly brought, and Johnny attacked them vigorously.
Now, in the boot-blacking business, as well as in higher avocations,
the same rule prevails, that energy and industry are rewarded, and
indolence suffers. Dick was energetic and on the alert for business,
but Johnny the reverse. The consequence was that Dick earned
probably three times as much as the other.
"How do you like it?" asked Dick, surveying Johnny's attacks upon
the steak with evident complacency.
"It's hunky."
I don't believe "hunky" is to be found in either Webster's or
Worcester's big dictionary; but boys will readily understand what
it means.
"Do you come here often?" asked Johnny.
"Most every day. You'd better come too."
"I can't afford it."
"Well, you'd ought to, then," said Dick. "What do you do I'd
like to know?"
"I don't get near as much as you, Dick."
"Well you might if you tried. I keep my eyes open,--that's the way
I get jobs. You're lazy, that's what's the matter."
Johnny did not see fit to reply to this charge. Probably he felt the
justice of it, and preferred to proceed with the breakfast, which he
enjoyed the more as it cost him nothing.
Breakfast over, Dick walked up to the desk, and settled the bill.
Then, followed by Johnny, he went out into the street.
"Where are you going, Johnny?"
"Up to Mr. Taylor's, on Spruce Street, to see if he don't want a
shine."
"Do you work for him reg'lar?"
"Yes. Him and his partner wants a shine most every day. Where are
you goin'?"
"Down front of the Astor House. I guess I'll find some customers
there."
At this moment Johnny started, and, dodging into an entry way, hid
behind the door, considerably to Dick's surprise.
"What's the matter now?" asked our hero.
"Has he gone?" asked Johnny, his voice betraying anxiety.
"Who gone, I'd like to know?"
"That man in the brown coat."
"What of him. You aint scared of him, are you?"
"Yes, he got me a place once."
"Where?"
"Ever so far off."
"What if he did?"
"I ran away."
"Didn't you like it?"
"No, I had to get up too early. It was on a farm, and I had to get
up at five to take care of the cows. I like New York best."
"Didn't they give you enough to eat?"
"Oh, yes, plenty."
"And you had a good bed?"
"Yes."
"Then you'd better have stayed. You don't get either of them here.
Where'd you sleep last night?"
"Up an alley in an old wagon."
"You had a better bed than that in the country, didn't you?"
"Yes, it was as soft as--as cotton."
Johnny had once slept on a bale of cotton, the recollection
supplying him with a comparison.
"Why didn't you stay?"
"I felt lonely," said Johnny.
Johnny could not exactly explain his feelings, but it is often the
case that the young vagabond of the streets, though his food is
uncertain, and his bed may be any old wagon or barrel that he is
lucky enough to find unoccupied when night sets in, gets so attached
to his precarious but independent mode of life, that he feels
discontented in any other. He is accustomed to the noise and bustle
and ever-varied life of the streets, and in the quiet scenes of the
country misses the excitement in the midst of which he has always
dwelt.
Johnny had but one tie to bind him to the city. He had a father
living, but he might as well have been without one. Mr. Nolan was
a confirmed drunkard, and spent the greater part of his wages for
liquor. His potations made him ugly, and inflamed a temper never
very sweet, working him up sometimes to such a pitch of rage that
Johnny's life was in danger. Some months before, he had thrown a
flat-iron at his son's head with such terrific force that unless
Johnny had dodged he would not have lived long enough to obtain a
place in our story. He fled the house, and from that time had not
dared to re-enter it. Somebody had given him a brush and box of
blacking, and he had set up in business on his own account. But he
had not energy enough to succeed, as has already been stated, and
I am afraid the poor boy had met with many hardships, and suffered
more than once from cold and hunger. Dick had befriended him more
than once, and often given him a breakfast or dinner, as the case
might be.
"How'd you get away?" asked Dick, with some curiosity. "Did
you walk?"
"No, I rode on the cars."
"Where'd you get your money? I hope you didn't steal it."
"I didn't have none."
"What did you do, then?"
"I got up about three o'clock, and walked to Albany."
"Where's that?" asked Dick, whose ideas on the subject of geography
were rather vague.
"Up the river."
"How far?"
"About a thousand miles," said Johnny, whose conceptions of distance
were equally vague.
"Go ahead. What did you do then?"
"I hid on top of a freight car, and came all the way without their
seeing me.* That man in the brown coat was the man that got me the
place, and I'm afraid he'd want to send me back."
* A fact.
"Well," said Dick, reflectively, "I dunno as I'd like to live in the
country. I couldn't go to Tony Pastor's or the Old Bowery. There
wouldn't be no place to spend my evenings. But I say, it's tough in
winter, Johnny, 'specially when your overcoat's at the tailor's, an'
likely to stay there."
"That's so, Dick. But I must be goin', or Mr. Taylor'll get somebody
else to shine his boots."
Johnny walked back to Nassau Street, while Dick kept on his way to
Broadway.
"That boy," soliloquized Dick, as Johnny took his departure, "aint
got no ambition. I'll bet he won't get five shines to-day. I'm glad
I aint like him. I couldn't go to the theatre, nor buy no cigars,
nor get half as much as I wanted to eat.--Shine yer boots, sir?"
Dick always had an eye to business, and this remark was addressed to
a young man, dressed in a stylish manner, who was swinging a jaunty
cane.
"I've had my boots blacked once already this morning, but this
confounded mud has spoiled the shine."
"I'll make 'em all right, sir, in a minute."
"Go ahead, then."
The boots were soon polished in Dick's best style, which proved very
satisfactory, our hero being a proficient in the art.
"I haven't got any change," said the young man, fumbling in his
pocket, "but here's a bill you may run somewhere and get changed.
I'll pay you five cents extra for your trouble."
He handed Dick a two-dollar bill, which our hero took into a store
close by.
"Will you please change that, sir?" said Dick, walking up to the
counter.
The salesman to whom he proffered it took the bill, and, slightly
glancing at it, exclaimed angrily, "Be off, you young vagabond, or
I'll have you arrested."
"What's the row?"
"You've offered me a counterfeit bill."
"I didn't know it," said Dick.
"Don't tell me. Be off, or I'll have you arrested."
CHAPTER III
DICK MAKES A PROPOSITION
Though Dick was somewhat startled at discovering that the bill he
had offered was counterfeit, he stood his ground bravely.
"Clear out of this shop, you young vagabond," repeated the clerk.
"Then give me back my bill."
"That you may pass it again? No, sir, I shall do no such thing."
"It doesn't belong to me," said Dick. "A gentleman that owes me for
a shine gave it to me to change."
"A likely story," said the clerk; but he seemed a little uneasy.
"I'll go and call him," said Dick.
He went out, and found his late customer standing on the Astor House
steps.
"Well, youngster, have you brought back my change? You were a
precious long time about it. I began to think you had cleared out
with the money."
"That aint my style," said Dick, proudly.
"Then where's the change?"
"I haven't got it."
"Where's the bill then?"
"I haven't got that either."
"You young rascal!"
"Hold on a minute, mister," said Dick, "and I'll tell you all about
it. The man what took the bill said it wasn't good, and kept it."
"The bill was perfectly good. So he kept it, did he? I'll go with
you to the store, and see whether he won't give it back to me."
Dick led the way, and the gentleman followed him into the store.
At the reappearance of Dick in such company, the clerk flushed a
little, and looked nervous. He fancied that he could browbeat a
ragged boot-black, but with a gentleman he saw that it would be a
different matter. He did not seem to notice the newcomers, but
began to replace some goods on the shelves.
"Now," said the young man, "point out the clerk that has my money."
"That's him," said Dick, pointing out the clerk.
The gentleman walked up to the counter.
"I will trouble you," he said a little haughtily, "for a bill which
that boy offered you, and which you still hold in your possession."
"It was a bad bill," said the clerk, his cheek flushing, and his
manner nervous.
"It was no such thing. I require you to produce it, and let the
matter be decided."
The clerk fumbled in his vest-pocket, and drew out a bad-looking
bill.
"This is a bad bill, but it is not the one I gave the boy."
"It is the one he gave me."
The young man looked doubtful.
"Boy," he said to Dick, "is this the bill you gave to be changed?"
"No, it isn't."
"You lie, you young rascal!" exclaimed the clerk, who began to find
himself in a tight place, and could not see the way out.
This scene naturally attracted the attention of all in the store,
and the proprietor walked up from the lower end, where he had been
busy.
"What's all this, Mr. Hatch?" he demanded.
"That boy," said the clerk, "came in and asked change for a bad
bill. I kept the bill, and told him to clear out. Now he wants it
again to pass on somebody else."
"Show the bill."
The merchant looked at it. "Yes, that's a bad bill," he said. "There
is no doubt about that."
"But it is not the one the boy offered," said Dick's patron.
"It is one of the same denomination, but on a different bank."
"Do you remember what bank it was on?"
"It was on the Merchants' Bank of Boston."
"Are you sure of it?"
"I am."
"Perhaps the boy kept it and offered the other."
"You may search me if you want to," said Dick, indignantly.
"He doesn't look as if he was likely to have any extra bills. I
suspect that your clerk pocketed the good bill, and has substituted
the counterfeit note. It is a nice little scheme of his for making
money."
"I haven't seen any bill on the Merchants' Bank," said the clerk,
doggedly.
"You had better feel in your pockets."
"This matter must be investigated," said the merchant, firmly. "If
you have the bill, produce it."
"I haven't got it," said the clerk; but he looked guilty
notwithstanding.
"I demand that he be searched," said Dick's patron.
"I tell you I haven't got it."
"Shall I send for a police officer, Mr. Hatch, or will you allow
yourself to be searched quietly?" said the merchant.
Alarmed at the threat implied in these words, the clerk put his hand
into his vest-pocket, and drew out a two-dollar bill on the
Merchants' Bank.
"Is this your note?" asked the shopkeeper, showing it to the
young man.
"It is."
"I must have made a mistake," faltered the clerk.
"I shall not give you a chance to make such another mistake in my
employ," said the merchant sternly. "You may go up to the desk and
ask for what wages are due you. I shall have no further occasion for
your services."
"Now, youngster," said Dick's patron, as they went out of the store,
after he had finally got the bill changed. "I must pay you something
extra for your trouble. Here's fifty cents."
"Thank you, sir," said Dick. "You're very kind. Don't you want some
more bills changed?"
"Not to-day," said he with a smile. "It's too expensive."
"I'm in luck," thought our hero complacently. "I guess I'll go to
Barnum's to-night, and see the bearded lady, the eight-foot giant,
the two-foot dwarf, and the other curiosities, too numerous to
mention."
Dick shouldered his box and walked up as far as the Astor House. He
took his station on the sidewalk, and began to look about him.
Just behind him were two persons,--one, a gentleman of fifty; the
other, a boy of thirteen or fourteen. They were speaking together,
and Dick had no difficulty in hearing what was said.
"I am sorry, Frank, that I can't go about, and show you some of the
sights of New York, but I shall be full of business to-day. It is
your first visit to the city, too."
"Yes, sir."
"There's a good deal worth seeing here. But I'm afraid you'll have
to wait to next time. You can go out and walk by yourself, but don't
venture too far, or you will get lost."
Frank looked disappointed.
"I wish Tom Miles knew I was here," he said. "He would go around
with me."
"Where does he live?"
"Somewhere up town, I believe."
"Then, unfortunately, he is not available. If you would rather go
with me than stay here, you can, but as I shall be most of the time
in merchants'-counting-rooms, I am afraid it would not be very
interesting."
"I think," said Frank, after a little hesitation, "that I will go
off by myself. I won't go very far, and if I lose my way, I will
inquire for the Astor House."
"Yes, anybody will direct you here. Very well, Frank, I am sorry I
can't do better for you."
"Oh, never mind, uncle, I shall be amused in walking around, and
looking at the shop-windows. There will be a great deal to see."
Now Dick had listened to all this conversation. Being an
enterprising young man, he thought he saw a chance for a
speculation, and determined to avail himself of it.
Accordingly he stepped up to the two just as Frank's uncle was about
leaving, and said, "I know all about the city, sir; I'll show him
around, if you want me to."
The gentleman looked a little curiously at the ragged figure before
him.
"So you are a city boy, are you?"
"Yes, sir," said Dick, "I've lived here ever since I was a baby."
"And you know all about the public buildings, I suppose?"
"Yes, sir."
"And the Central Park?"
"Yes, sir. I know my way all round."
The gentleman looked thoughtful.
"I don't know what to say, Frank," he remarked after a while. "It is
rather a novel proposal. He isn't exactly the sort of guide I would
have picked out for you. Still he looks honest. He has an open face,
and I think can be depended upon."
"I wish he wasn't so ragged and dirty," said Frank, who felt a
little shy about being seen with such a companion.
"I'm afraid you haven't washed your face this morning," said Mr.
Whitney, for that was the gentleman's name.
"They didn't have no wash-bowls at the hotel where I stopped," said
Dick.
"What hotel did you stop at?"
"The Box Hotel."
"The Box Hotel?"
"Yes, sir, I slept in a box on Spruce Street."
Frank surveyed Dick curiously.
"How did you like it?" he asked.
"I slept bully."
"Suppose it had rained."
"Then I'd have wet my best clothes," said Dick.
"Are these all the clothes you have?"
"Yes, sir."
Mr. Whitney spoke a few words to Frank, who seemed pleased with the
suggestion.
"Follow me, my lad," he said.
Dick in some surprise obeyed orders, following Mr. Whitney and Frank
into the hotel, past the office, to the foot of the staircase. Here
a servant of the hotel stopped Dick, but Mr. Whitney explained that
he had something for him to do, and he was allowed to proceed.
They entered a long entry, and finally paused before a door. This
being opened a pleasant chamber was disclosed.
"Come in, my lad," said Mr. Whitney.
Dick and Frank entered.
CHAPTER IV
DICK'S NEW SUIT
"Now," said Mr. Whitney to Dick, "my nephew here is on his way to a
boarding-school. He has a suit of clothes in his trunk about half
worn. He is willing to give them to you. I think they will look
better than those you have on."
Dick was so astonished that he hardly knew what to say. Presents
were something that he knew very little about, never having received
any to his knowledge. That so large a gift should be made to him by
a stranger seemed very wonderful.
The clothes were brought out, and turned out to be a neat gray suit.
"Before you put them on, my lad, you must wash yourself. Clean
clothes and a dirty skin don't go very well together. Frank, you may
attend to him. I am obliged to go at once. Have you got as much
money as you require?"
"Yes, uncle."
"One more word, my lad," said Mr. Whitney, addressing Dick; "I may
be rash in trusting a boy of whom I know nothing, but I like your
looks, and I think you will prove a proper guide for my nephew."
"Yes, I will, sir," said Dick, earnestly. "Honor bright!"
"Very well. A pleasant time to you."
The process of cleansing commenced. To tell the truth Dick needed
it, and the sensation of cleanliness he found both new and pleasant.
Frank added to his gift a shirt, stockings, and an old pair of
shoes. "I am sorry I haven't any cap," said he.
"I've got one," said Dick.
"It isn't so new as it might be," said Frank, surveying an old felt
hat, which had once been black, but was now dingy, with a large hole
in the top and a portion of the rim torn off.
"No," said Dick; "my grandfather used to wear it when he was a boy,
and I've kep' it ever since out of respect for his memory. But I'll
get a new one now. I can buy one cheap on Chatham Street."
"Is that near here?"
"Only five minutes' walk."
"Then we can get one on the way."
When Dick was dressed in his new attire, with his face and hands
clean, and his hair brushed, it was difficult to imagine that he was
the same boy.
He now looked quite handsome, and might readily have been taken for
a young gentleman, except that his hands were red and grimy.
"Look at yourself," said Frank, leading him before the mirror.
"By gracious!" said Dick, starting back in astonishment, "that isn't
me, is it?"
"Don't you know yourself?" asked Frank, smiling.
"It reminds me of Cinderella," said Dick, "when she was changed into
a fairy princess. I see it one night at Barnum's. What'll Johnny
Nolan say when he sees me? He won't dare to speak to such a young
swell as I be now. Aint it rich?" and Dick burst into a loud laugh.
His fancy was tickled by the anticipation of his friend's surprise.
Then the thought of the valuable gifts he had received occurred to
him, and he looked gratefully at Frank.
"You're a brick," he said.
"A what?"
"A brick! You're a jolly good fellow to give me such a present."
"You're quite welcome, Dick," said Frank, kindly. "I'm better off
than you are, and I can spare the clothes just as well as not. You
must have a new hat though. But that we can get when we go out. The
old clothes you can make into a bundle."
"Wait a minute till I get my handkercher," and Dick pulled from the
pocket of the pants a dirty rag, which might have been white once,
though it did not look like it, and had apparently once formed a
part of a sheet or shirt.
"You mustn't carry that," said Frank.
"But I've got a cold," said Dick.
"Oh, I don't mean you to go without a handkerchief. I'll give you
one."
Frank opened his trunk and pulled out two, which he gave to Dick.
"I wonder if I aint dreamin'," said Dick, once more surveying
himself doubtfully in the glass. "I'm afraid I'm dreamin', and shall
wake up in a barrel, as I did night afore last."
"Shall I pinch you so you can wake here?" asked Frank, playfully.
"Yes," said Dick, seriously, "I wish you would."
He pulled up the sleeve of his jacket, and Frank pinched him pretty
hard, so that Dick winced.
"Yes, I guess I'm awake," said Dick; "you've got a pair of nippers,
you have. But what shall I do with my brush and blacking?" he asked.
"You can leave them here till we come back," said Frank. "They will
be safe."
"Hold on a minute," said Dick, surveying Frank's boots with a
professional eye, "you aint got a good shine on them boots. I'll
make 'em shine so you can see your face in 'em."
And he was as good as his word.
"Thank you," said Frank; "now you had better brush your own shoes."
This had not occurred to Dick, for in general the professional
boot-black considers his blacking too valuable to expend on his
own shoes or boots, if he is fortunate enough to possess a pair.
The two boys now went downstairs together. They met the same servant
who had spoken to Dick a few minutes before, but there was no
recognition.
"He don't know me," said Dick. "He thinks I'm a young swell like
you."
"What's a swell?"
