night."
"Yes, they have. I used to see some hard times, Rufus. But everything
has changed since I got acquainted with you and little Rose. I sometimes
am tempted to regard you as my good angel."
"Thank you, I don't know much about angels, but I'm afraid I don't look
much like one. They never have red cheeks, and do business in Wall
Street, do they?"
"From what I have heard, I don't believe Wall Street is a favorite
resort with them. But, seriously, everything seems to have prospered
since I met you. Really, I am beginning to be a capitalist. How much
money do you think I have saved up out of the three dollars a week which
you pay me?"
"You've bought some things for yourself and Rose, haven't you?"
"Yes, we have each had a dress, and some little things."
"Then I don't see how you could save up much."
"I made the dresses myself, and that was a great saving. Let me see,
you've paid me forty-two dollars, in all, for fourteen weeks. I will see
how much I have left."
She went to the bureau, and took out her pocket-book.
"I have twenty-five dollars," she said, counting the contents. "Am I not
growing rich?"
"Perhaps you'd like to speculate with it in Wall Street?" suggested
Rufus.
"I think I'd better keep the money, or put it in a savings-bank."
"When you have money enough, I can buy you a fifty-dollar government
bond."
"I shall have to wait a while first."
"Well, as for me," said Rufus, "I can't tell exactly how I do stand. I
took fifty dollars out of that five hundred I had in the savings-bank. I
think I've got about half of it left. The rest of it went for a trunk,
car fare, and other expenses. So, you see, I've been going down hill,
while you've been climbing up."
"Have you drawn anything from your store yet, Rufus? You were to draw
fifty dollars a quarter, I believe."
"Yes; and that reminds me that George Black promised to call this
evening, and pay the money. It's about time to expect him."
Rufus had hardly spoken, when a servant knocked at the door.
Rufus opened it.
"There's a young man downstairs, that would like to see you, Mr.
Rushton," she said.
"Where is he, Nancy?"
"In the parlor."
"I'll go right down. I think it must be Black," he said, turning to Miss
Manning.
"If it is, of course you will bring him up."
"Yes, I should like to. We can't talk very well in such a public place."
Rufus went down, and shortly reappeared with George Black.
"Good-evening, Mr. Black," said Miss Manning; "take a seat. I hope you
are well."
"I'm thriving," said Black. "How pleasant and cheerful you look!"
"Yes, the room is rather high up; but it is pleasant when you get to
it."
"We were just speaking of you, when the girl came to let us know that
you were here."
"I hope you said nothing very bad about me."
"Not very."
"I think I shall be welcome, as I have brought you some money."
"Money is always welcome here," said Rufus. "I'll take care of all you
can bring."
"I have brought fifty dollars, according to our agreement."
"Can you spare that amount without affecting the business?"
"Oh, yes."
"I suppose you can't tell me what the profits have been for the last
three months."
"Not exactly; but I have made a rough calculation. As it was the first
quarter, I knew you would like to know."
"Well, what is your estimate?"
"As well as I can judge we have cleared about two hundred and fifty
dollars."
"That is at the rate of a thousand dollars a year."
"Yes; isn't that doing well?"
"Capitally. Do you think the business will hold out at that rate?"
"I feel sure of it. I hope to improve upon it."
"Even if you don't, that will give you nearly seven hundred dollars a
year, and me over three hundred."
"That's better than clerking,--for me, I mean."
"Perhaps you might get more as a clerk."
"Perhaps I might; but now I am my own master, and then I shouldn't be.
Besides, I have plans in view which I think will increase our custom,
and of course our profits also."
"Success to the firm of Rushton & Black!" said Miss Manning, smiling.
"Thank you," said Rufus; "I like that sentiment, and I'd drink to it if
I saw anything to drink. Have you got any champagne in the closet, Miss
Manning?"
"All that I ever had there, Rufus. If a glass of water will do as well,
I can give you that."
At this moment a knock was heard at the door. Miss Manning rose and
opened it. The visitor proved to be Mrs. Clifton, of whom mention has
already been made.
"Good-evening, Mrs. Clifton," said the governess; "come in."
"Thank you, but I didn't know you had company."
"Don't stand on ceremony, Mrs. Clifton," said Rufus; "my friend, Mr.
Black, is perfectly harmless, I assure you. He is neither a bull nor a
bear."
"What spirits you have, Mr. Rushton!"
"No spirits at all, Mrs. Clifton. Miss Manning has just been offering us
some water as a substitute."
"You are so lively, Mr. Rushton. You remind me so much of my friend,
Mr. Hunter."
"I suppose he was one of your admirers before you became Mrs. Clifton."
"Really, Mr. Rushton, you mustn't say such things. Mr. Hunter and I were
very intimate friends, but nothing more, I assure you."
"Is Mr. Clifton well?" asked Miss Manning.
"He hasn't got home from the store. You know the dry goods stores always
keep open late. Really, I might as well have no husband at all, it is so
late when Mr. Clifton gets home, and then he is so sleepy that he can't
keep his eyes open."
It was generally believed that Mr. and Mrs. Clifton did not live
together as happily as they might have done,--a fact that will not at
all surprise those who are familiar with their history before their
marriage, which was quite a business arrangement. Mrs. Clifton married
because she did not want to be an old maid, and Mr. Clifton because he
knew his prospective wife had money, by means of which he could
establish himself in business.
"Are you in business in Wall Street, Mr. Black?" inquired Mrs. Clifton.
"No; I keep a store on Sixth Avenue."
"Indeed! my husband keeps a dry goods store on Eighth Avenue."
"Mine is a periodical and fancy goods store. Mr. Rushton here is my
partner."
"Indeed, Mr. Rushton, I am surprised to hear that. You have not left
Wall Street, have you?"
"No; I have only invested a portion of my extensive capital. My friend
Black carries on the business."
Thus far, Rufus had said nothing in the house about his connection with
the Sixth Avenue store; but now that it was no longer an experiment he
felt that there was no objection to doing so. Mrs. Clifton, who liked to
retail news, took care to make it known in the house, and the impression
became general that Rufus was a young man of property. Mr. Pratt, who
was an elderly man, rather given to prosy dissertations upon public
affairs, got into the habit of asking our hero's opinion upon the
financial policy of the government, to which, when expressed, he used to
listen with his head a little on one side, as though the words were
those of an oracle. This embarrassed Rufus a little at first; but as
during the day he was in a situation to hear considerable in reference
to this subject, he was generally able to answer in a way that was
regarded as satisfactory.
"That young man," remarked Mr. Pratt to his wife in private, "has got a
head upon his shoulders. He knows what's what. Depend upon it, if he
lives long enough, he will become a prominent man."
"I can't judge of that," said good-natured Mrs. Pratt; "but he's a very
agreeable young man, I am sure, and his sister is a little darling."
CHAPTER X.
MR. MARTIN AGAIN APPEARS ON THE SCENE.
The success of the periodical store put Rufus into good spirits. He saw
that it would yield him, if only the present degree of prosperity
continued, at least three hundred dollars a year, which would make quite
a handsome addition to his income. He felt justified in going to a
little extra expense, and determined to celebrate his good luck by
taking Martha and Rose to a place of amusement. It happened that at this
time a company of Japanese jugglers were performing at the Academy of
Music, which, as my New York readers know, is situated on Fourteenth
Street.
Meaning it to be a surprise, he said nothing to Rose or Martha, but
before going down town the next day, went to the box-office, and secured
three reserved seats in an excellent situation. They were expensive;
but Rufus was resolved that he would not spare expense, for this
occasion at least.
When he reached home at half-past five in the afternoon, he went up at
once to Martha's room.
"Miss Manning," he said, "have you any engagement this evening?"
"It is hardly necessary to ask, Rufus," she replied; "my company is not
in very great demand."
"You have heard of the Japanese jugglers at the Academy of Music?"
"Yes; Mrs. Florence was speaking of them this morning. She and her
husband went last evening."
"And we are going this evening. Wouldn't you like to go, Rosy?"
"Ever so much, Rufie. Will you take me?"
"Yes, I have got tickets: see here;" and Rufus drew out the three
tickets which he had purchased in the morning.
"Thank you, Rufus," said Miss Manning; "I shall like very much to go. It
is long since I went to any place of amusement. How much did the tickets
cost?"
"A dollar and a half apiece."
"Isn't that rather extravagant?"
"It would be if we went every week; but now and then we can afford it."
"You must let me pay for my ticket, Rufus."
"Not if I know it," said Rufus. "It's a pity if a Wall Street banker
can't carry a lady to a place of amusement, without charging her for the
ticket."
"If you put it that way, I suppose I must yield," said Miss Manning,
smiling.
Rose was highly excited at the idea of going to see the Japanese, whose
feats, as described by Mrs. Florence at the breakfast-table, had
interested her exceedingly. The prospect of sitting up till eleven in
the evening also had its charm, and she was quite too excited to eat
much dinner.
"Really," said Mrs. Clifton, "I quite envy you, Miss Manning. I tried to
get Mr. Clifton to buy tickets, but he hasn't done it."
"First time I heard of it," said her husband.
"You pay very little attention to what I ask,--I am aware of that," said
Mrs. Clifton, in an aggrieved tone.
"We'll go now, if you say so."
"We couldn't get any decent seats. When did you buy yours, Mr. Rushton?"
"This morning."
Mrs. Clifton, who was thoroughly selfish, hinted that probably Rose
wouldn't care about going, and that she should be glad to buy the
ticket, and accompany Rufus and Miss Manning; but this hint failed to be
taken, and she was forced unwillingly to stay at home.
To tell the truth, Miss Manning was scarcely less pleased than Rose at
the idea of going. Until recently she had been a poor seamstress,
earning scarcely enough to subsist upon, much less to pay for
amusements. Sometimes in the early evening she had passed the portals of
places of amusement, and wished that she were able to break the tedious
monotony of her daily life by entering; but it was quite out of the
question, and with a sigh she would pass on. Now she was very
differently situated, and her life was much pleasanter.
"Can I wear my new dress, Martha?" asked Rose.
"Yes, Rosy. It was fortunate that I got it finished to-day."
"And will you wear yours, too, Martha?"
"Yes, I think so," she said. "Rufus has bought us nice seats, and we
must look as well as we can."
When both were dressed, they surveyed themselves with satisfaction. Miss
Manning was not above the weakness, if it is a weakness, of liking to
appear well dressed, though she was not as demonstrative as Rose, who
danced about the room in high enjoyment.
When they were quite ready, Rufus came into the room. He had a pair of
kid gloves in his hand, which he twirled about in rather an embarrassed
way.
"I can't get the confounded things on, Miss Manning," he said. "I've
been trying for some time, but it's no go. The fact is, I never owned a
pair of kid gloves before. I'd enough sight rather go without any, but I
suppose, if I am going to sit in a fashionable seat, I must try to look
fashionable."
Miss Manning soon explained to Rufus how the gloves should go on. This
time the success was better, and he was soon neatly gloved.
"They are pretty gloves, Rufus," she said.
"I don't like the feeling of them," said Rufus; "they feel strange."
"That is because you are not used to them. You'll like them better
soon."
"I wonder what some of my old street friends would say to see me now,"
said Rufus, smiling. "They'd think I was a tip-top swell."
Though the gloves did not feel comfortable, Rufus looked at his hands
with satisfaction. Step by step he was getting into the ways of
civilized life, and he was very anxious to leave as far behind him as
possible his street experiences.
Soon after dinner they left the house, and, proceeding to Broadway,
walked up as far as Union Square. Then they turned down Fourteenth
Street, and a few minutes brought them to the Academy of Music.
The entrance and vestibule were brilliantly lighted. On the steps and in
front were a number of speculators, who were eagerly offering their
tickets to those who appeared unprovided.
Rufus pushed his way through, with Martha and Rose at his side. His
tickets were taken at the gate, but the portion indicating the number
of their reserved seats was torn off, and given back to them. On showing
them to the usher, they were conducted to their seats, which were in the
sixth row from the stage, and fronting it.
"We'll have a good view here, Miss Manning," he said.
Soon the curtain rose, and the performance commenced. To those who have
not seen the Japanese in their peculiar performance, it is enough to say
that they show marvellous skill and agility in their feats, some of
which are so difficult as to seem almost impossible.
All three enjoyed the performance. Miss Manning, though so much older,
was almost as much unaccustomed as little Rose herself to such scenes,
and took a fresh interest in it, which those who go often cannot feel.
Every now and then, little Rose, unable to restrain her enthusiasm,
exhibited her delight openly.
I should like, for the benefit of my younger readers, to give a detailed
account of some portions of the performance which seemed most wonderful;
but my memory is at fault, and I can only speak in general terms.
It was a little after ten when the curtain finally fell.
"Is that all?" asked Rose, half in disappointment.
"That's all, Rosy. Are you sleepy?"
"Not a bit," said Rose, vivaciously; "I should like to stay here an hour
longer. Wasn't it perfectly beautiful, Rufie?"
"Yes; it was very good," said Rufus; "I don't know but I like it almost
as well as the Old Bowery."
Though he had risen in the social scale, he had not quite lost his
relish for the style of plays for which the Old Bowery, the favorite
theatre with the street boys, is celebrated. But that he had a suspicion
that it was not exactly a fashionable place of amusement, he would like
to have taken Rose and Miss Manning there this evening. He would hardly
have liked to mention it at the table afterwards, however.
The audience rose from their seats, and Rufus with them. Slowly they
moved towards the door, and at last made their way to the entrance. Had
Rufus known who was waiting there, he might have felt a little nervous.
But he did not know, and it devolves upon us to explain.
Three days before, Mr. Martin, who had been sentenced to the
penitentiary for three months, on account of his attempt at picking
pockets, which we have already chronicled, was released. To say the
least, he left the prison no better than he had entered it. Better in
one sense he was, for he had been forced for three months to abstain
from drink, and this he felt to be a great hardship. But it had a
favorable influence upon his health, and his skin was clearer, and his
nose not quite so ruddy as when he was arrested. But so far as good
intentions went, he had not formed any during his exile from society,
and now that he was released he was just as averse to living by honest
industry as before.
However, his resources were still limited. Money had never been very
plentiful with him, and just at present he was not encumbered with any.
It did not occur to him that the shortest way to obtain some was to go
to work; or, if it did, the suggestion did not strike him favorably. It
did occur to him, however, that there were charitable persons in the
metropolis who might be induced to help him, and he resolved to act upon
this suggestion. Accordingly, he haunted the neighborhood of the Academy
of Music, until the stream of people began to pour out from it, and then
he felt that the time had come for him to carry out his plans.
He went up to a gentleman who was coming out with a young lady leaning
on his arm.
"Will you listen to me a minute, sir?" he said, in a whining tone. "I
haven't eaten anything since yesterday, and I have no money to pay for a
night's lodging."
"Why don't you go to work?" said the gentleman.
"I can't get anything to do, sir. I've been trying for something all
day."
The fact was that Mr. Martin had been lounging about a low bar-room all
day.
"Here, take this, and clear the way."
The gentleman, more to get rid of him than anything else, dropped five
cents into his hand, and passed on.
"He might have given a quarter," grumbled Martin; "it wouldn't have hurt
him."
He looked up, intending to make a similar application to the next
person, when he uttered an exclamation of surprise and exultation. Close
before him he saw Rufus and his little sister, accompanied by Miss
Manning.
CHAPTER XI.
MR. MARTIN'S WILD-GOOSE CHASE.
Probably nothing could have given Martin greater pleasure than this
unexpected meeting with his step-children. He did not reflect that the
pleasure might not be mutual, but determined to make himself known
without delay. Hurrying forward, he placed one hand on the shoulder of
Rufus, saying, "Glad to see you, Rufus; what have you been up to lately?
Here's Rose too, I expect she's glad to see me."
At the first sound of his voice poor Rose began to tremble. Clinging
closer to her brother, she said, "Don't let him take me, Rufie."
"He shan't touch you, Rose," said Rufus, manfully.
"You don't seem very glad to see me," said Martin, smiling maliciously.
"That's where you're right," said Rufus, bluntly. "We are not glad to
see you. I suppose that don't surprise you much. Come along, Rose."
He tried to leave Martin, but Martin did not choose to be left. He
shuffled along by the side of our hero, considerably to the disgust of
the latter, who was afraid he might fall in with some acquaintance whose
attention would be drawn to the not very respectable-looking object who
had accosted him, and learn the relationship that existed between them.
"You seem to be in a hurry," sneered Martin.
"I am in a hurry," said Rufus. "It's late for Rose to be out."
"That's what I was thinking," said Martin. "Considerin' that I'm her
natural protector, it's my duty to interfere."
"A pretty sort of protector you are!" retorted Rufus, scornfully.
"You're an undootiful boy," said Martin, "to speak so to your father."
"Who do you mean?"
"Aint I your father?"
"No, you are not. If you were, I'd be ashamed of you. Mr. Martin, we
haven't anything to do with each other. You can go your way, and I'll
go mine. I shan't interfere with you, and I shan't allow you to
interfere with me."
"Ho, ho!" said Martin, "when was you twenty-one, I'd like to know?"
"It doesn't make any difference when. Good-night."
"You don't get rid of me so easy," said Martin. "I'll follow you home."
By this time they had reached the corner of Broadway and Union Square.
Rufus was placed in an awkward position. He had no authority to order
Martin away. He might follow them home, and ascertain where they lived,
and probably would do so. Rufus felt that this would never do. Were
their home known to Mr. Martin, he would have it in his power to lie in
wait for Rose, and kidnap her as he had done once before. He would never
feel easy about his little sister under these circumstances. Yet what
could he do? If he should quicken his pace, Martin would do the same.
"What do you want to follow us for?" he asked. "What good is it going to
do you?"
"Don't you trouble yourself about that," said Martin, exulting in our
hero's evident perplexity. "Considerin' that you two are my children, I
may want to come and see you some time."
Here Rose began to cry. She had always been very much afraid of Martin,
and feared now that she might fall into his hands.
"Don't cry, Rose," said Rufus, soothingly. "He shan't do you any harm."
"Maybe he won't if you treat him well," said Martin. "Look here, Rufus.
I'm hard up--dead broke. Haven't you a dollar to spare?"
"Are you going to follow us?"
"Maybe I won't if you'll give me the dollar."
"I can't trust you," said Rufus, suspiciously. "I'll tell you what," he
added, after a little thought; "go up to Madison Park, and sit down on
one of the seats, and I'll come up in half an hour, or three quarters at
most, and give you the dollar."
"Do you think I'm so green?" sneered Martin. "I might stop there all
night without seein' you. All you want is a chance to get away without
my knowin' where."
"No," said Rufus; "I'll do what I promise. But you must go up there now,
and not follow us."
"That don't go down," said Martin. "You don't ketch a weasel asleep."
"Well," said Rufus, coolly, "you can do just as you please. If you
accept my offer, you shall have a dollar inside of an hour. If you
don't, you won't get a penny."
Still Martin was not persuaded. He felt sure that Rufus meant to mislead
him, and, being unreliable himself, he put no confidence in the promise
made by our hero. He prepared to follow him home, as the knowledge of
where Rose lived would probably enable him to extort more than a dollar
from the fear and anxiety of Rufus. So he repeated:--
"That don't go down! You aint quite smart enough to take me in. I'm
goin' to follow you, and find out where you live."
"Better give him the dollar now, Rufus," suggested Miss Manning, who
felt nearly as anxious as Rose.
"No," said Rufus, decidedly; "I shan't gain anything by it. As soon as
he got the money, he'd follow us all the same."
"What will you do?" asked Miss Manning, anxiously.
"You'll see," said Rufus, composedly.
He had been busily thinking, and a plan had suggested itself to his
mind, which he thought offered probably the best way out of the
difficulty. He reflected that probably Mr. Martin, judging from his
appearance, was penniless, or nearly so. He therefore decided to jump on
board a horse-car, and thus elude him.
When they reached the corner of University Place, a car was seen
approaching.
Rufus hailed it.
"Are we going to ride?" asked Rose.
"Yes, Rose; and now, whatever I do, I want you to keep perfectly still
and say nothing. Will you promise?"
"Yes, Rufie."
Rufus exacted this promise, as Rose might unconsciously, by some
unguarded exclamation, betray the very knowledge which he was anxious to
conceal.
Martin fathomed the purpose of our hero, and determined not be balked.
He had five cents which had just been given him out of charity at the
door of the Academy, and, though the fare on the horse-cars was one cent
more, he thought he might make it do. Accordingly he got into the car
after Rufus.
"I couldn't bear to leave such agreeable company," he said, with a leer.
"Horse-cars are free, I believe."
"I believe they are," said Rufus.
"I wonder how much money he's got," thought our hero. "I guess I can
drain him after a while."
The conductor came along, and Rufus paid for Miss Manning and Rose, as
well as himself. Martin was hanging on a strap near by.
"Your fare," said the conductor.
Martin plunged his hand into his pocket, and drew out five cents. He
plunged his hand in again, and appeared to be hunting about for the
extra penny.
"I declare," said he, "I believe I've lost the other cent. Won't five
cents do?"
"Couldn't let you ride under six cents," said the conductor. "It's
against the rules."
"I can't see where it is," said Martin, hunting again.
"I'll pay the other penny," said a gentleman sitting near.
"Thank you, sir," said Martin. "Very much obliged to you. I'm a poor
man; but it's on account of some undutiful children that I've spent all
my money on, and now they begrudge their poor father a few pennies."
He looked at Rufus; but our hero did not see fit to apply the remark to
himself, nor, considering that he used to help support Martin, did he
feel any particular remorse.
If Martin had been a more respectable-looking object, if his nose had
been a trifle less red, and his whole appearance less suggestive of
intemperate habits, the remark he had let fall might have stirred some
of his listeners to compassion. But no one, to look at him, would wonder
much at a want of filial affection towards such a father. So, though he
looked round to notice the effect, hoping that he might elicit some
sympathy which should take a pecuniary form, he perceived that his
appeal had fallen upon stony ground. Nobody seemed particularly
impressed, and the hope of a contribution from some compassionate
listener faded out.
Rufus was a witness of this scene, and of course it enabled him to
fathom Martin's resources. He congratulated himself that they were so
speedily exhausted. He did not get out when the car reached Waverley
Place, for obvious reasons, but kept on till they came to Bleecker
Street. Rose was about to express surprise, but a look from Rufus
checked her.
At Bleecker Street he signalled to the conductor to stop. The latter
obeyed the signal, and our hero got out, followed not only by Rose and
Miss Manning, but, as might have been expected, also by Martin.
"You don't get rid of me so easy," said the latter, triumphantly.
"Don't I?" asked Rufus, coolly. "Are you going to follow me still?"
Martin answered in the affirmative, with an oath.
"Then," said Rufus, coolly, "I'll give you all the following you want to
do."
A car bound in the opposite direction was approaching. Rufus hailed it,
and it came to a stop.
Martin, who had not been anticipating this move, stopped a moment,
staring, crestfallen, at Rufus; but, recovering himself quickly, jumped
on the platform, resolved to try his luck.
Rufus paid his fare. Martin didn't volunteer to pay his, but looked
steadily before him, hoping that he might escape the conductor's
observation. But the latter was too sharp for that.
"Fare?" he said.
"All right," said Martin, plunging his hand into his pocket. Of course
he drew out nothing, as he anticipated.
"I declare," he said; "I believe I haven't any money with me."
"Then get off."
"Couldn't you let me off this time?" asked Martin, insinuatingly; "I'm a
poor man."
"So am I," said the conductor, bluntly. "You must get off."
"Isn't there any gentleman that'll lend a poor man six cents?" asked
Martin, looking round.
But nobody seemed disposed to volunteer assistance, and Martin was
compelled reluctantly to jump off.
But he didn't give up yet. The car didn't go so fast but that he could
keep up with it by running. It chafed him that Rufus should get the
better of him, and he ran along on the sidewalk, keeping the car
continually in sight.
"He's running," said Miss Manning, looking out. "What a determined man
he is! I'm afraid he'll find us out."
"I'm not afraid," said Rufus. "He'll get tired of running by the time we
get to Central Park."
"Shall you ride as far as that?"
"If necessary."
For about a mile Martin held out, but by this time he became exhausted,
and dropped behind. The distance between him and the car gradually
increased, but still Rufus rode on for half a mile further. By this time
Martin was no longer in sight.
"We'll cross over to Sixth Avenue," he said, "so that Martin may not see
us on our return."
This suggestion was adopted, luckily, for Martin had posted himself at a
favorable place, and was scanning attentively every returning car. But
he waited and watched in vain till long after the objects of his pursuit
were safe at home and in bed.
CHAPTER XII.
MARTIN'S LUCK TURNS.
Martin continued to watch for an hour or two, sitting in a door-way. At
length he was forced to conclude that Rufus had given him the slip, and
this tended by no means to sweeten his temper. In fact, his position was
not altogether a pleasant one. It was now past midnight, and, having no
money, he saw no other way than to spend the night in the street.
Besides he was hungry, and that was a complaint which was likely to get
worse instead of better. As for Rufus, Martin had never before seen him
so well dressed, and it seemed clear that he was prospering.
"He's an ungrateful young rascal," muttered Martin,--"livin' in ease and
comfort, while I am left to starve in the street!"
It would have been rather hard to tell what Rufus had to be grateful
for, unless for the privilege which he had enjoyed for some time of
helping support his step-father; but Martin persuaded himself that he
was ungrateful and undutiful, and grew indignant over his fancied
wrongs, as he lay back in discomfort on the stone step which he had
selected as his resting-place.
The night passed slowly away, and when the morning light came Martin got
up very stiff and sore, and more hungry than ever, and began to wonder
where he was likely to get any breakfast. Begging seemed to him, on the
whole, the easiest way of getting along; but it was too early for that.
After a while, however, the street began to be peopled, and he walked up
to a gentleman who was approaching, and, assuming a look which he
thought indicative of wretchedness, whined out, "Would you be willing to
help a poor man, sir?"
The gentleman stopped.
"So you are poor?" he said.
"Yes," said Martin, "I have been very unfortunate."
"Why don't you work?"
"I can't find any work to do," answered Martin.
"Haven't you got any friends to help you?"
"They've all turned against me," said Martin. "Even my own children have
turned me out of the house to shift for myself."
"How old are your children?" asked the other.
Martin hesitated, for this question was a little embarrassing.
"One of them is sixteen," he said.
"A son?"
"Yes."
"Did you support him, or did he support you?" was the natural inquiry.
"I supported him," said Martin; "but he's an undootiful, ungrateful
scamp, and--"
"Then it appears that he has relieved you from taking care of him, and
you have only yourself to provide for. It appears to me that you ought
to get along better than before."
"If I could get any work."
"What sort of work do you want to do?"
"If I had a few dollars I could set up in some light business."
"You will have to apply elsewhere for the money, my friend," said the
gentleman. "To be frank with you, your appearance doesn't speak in your
favor;" and he walked on.
"That's the way the rich and prosperous treat the poor," soliloquized
Martin, feeling that the whole world was in a conspiracy against him.
Those who undertake to live without work are very apt to arrive at such
conclusions.
Martin concluded, on the whole, that he wouldn't refer to being turned
out of his house next time, as it might lead to embarrassing questions.
He approached another gentleman, and began with the same appeal for
assistance.
"What's the matter? Can't you work?" was the reply.
"I've had a severe fit of sickness," said Martin, forcing a cough; "and
I'm very feeble. I haint had anything to eat for twenty-four hours, and
I've got a wife and five little children dependent on me."
"If that don't bring something," thought Martin, "nothing will."
"Where do you live?"
"No. 578 Twenty-Fourth Street," answered Martin, glibly.
Now the individual addressed was a gentleman of leisure, of a
philanthropic turn of mind, and one who frequently visited the poor at
their homes. Martin's story seemed pitiful, and he concluded to inquire
into it.
"I'm sorry for you," he said. "I'll go round with you and see your
family, and see what can be done for them."
This was just what Martin did not want. As the family he spoke of was
entirely imaginary, it would only result in exposure and disappointment.
Yet he knew not how to refuse.
"I'm much obliged to you, sir," he said. "I'm afraid it would be too
much trouble."
"No, I've nothing pressing for an hour. I always like to relieve the
unfortunate."
"What shall I do?" thought Martin, as he walked by the side of the
benevolent stranger. At length an idea struck him.
"It isn't everybody that would be willing to risk going with me," he
said.
"Why not?"
"They'd be afraid to come."
"Why? What danger is there?"
"My third child is 'most dead with the small-pox," answered Martin, with
a very dejected look.
"Good heavens! and I might have carried the infection home to my
children," exclaimed the stranger, in excitement.
"Then you won't go with me?" asked Martin.
"Here," said the gentleman, producing fifty cents, "here's a little
money. Take it, and I hope it'll do you good."
"I reckon it will," thought Martin, as he took the money. "It'll buy me
some breakfast and a couple of cigars. That's a pretty good idea, havin'
a child sick with the small-pox. I'll know what to do next time anybody
wants to go home with me."
As soon as Martin found himself in funds he took measures to satisfy his
