surpassing symmetry ; hands browned and hardened by toil, 
but shapely as if carved out of marble, and feet that were their_ 
counterpart. Nobler than the vision she had seen long ago, for 
all the smile was cynical instead of sweet; the eyes almost fiery 
in their impatience ; the brows contracting with every trifling 
emotion. 
And what of his soul ? Her life had been so quiet, so gov 
erned by rules springing from the wishes of another, that she had 
hardly looked at her child's future in the light in which she now 
saw it. Some old taint of ancestry cropping out that terrified her. 
When the dishes were washed and put away, and the 
table moved to its accustomed place, she came and stood by 
her son, threading his silken hair with her soft fingers, and 
starting a little at the bounding throb in his temples. 
" It is a hard fight, my son. " 
"Yes." 
" I think God never turned away from the soul that cried 
unto Him." 
" I have cried !" gloomily. 
"With faith?" 
"Not with faith, rather despair. For I have no faith in 
what can be done here. When I go away " 
"You will wait until you can go honorably." Something in 
her voice appeared to guide and repress. 
"I will wait." He uttered the words coldly, and they gave 
her no secret thrill. He had yielded from a sense of persua 
sion, perhaps duty, not any tender son's love for her, not any 
pity for her loneliness. 
And then she thought of another who had not hesitated to 
trample upon her crushed and bleeding soul, to leave her 
perishing by. the wayside; and of the good Samaritan who 
had bound up the wounds and given her a home in his heart 
freely. To which of the two owed she the most fealty ? 
The darkness fell around them. A cricket began to chirp in 
the corner, adding his voice to the chorus outside. Far down 
the woods the Whip-poor-will sent out his plaintive note ; and 
the fire-flies sunned themselves in each other's radiance. All 
was still and lovely, and the air made fragrant with the dewy 
sweet-brier. 
But neither of them spoke. She drew her low rocking- 
chair beside him, and began to sing in a soft, untrained voice, 
a grand old hymn, for she had long ago done with sweet 
girlish ballads. 
*' Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, 
But trust Him for His grace." 
The sound and the words passed idly through the son's ears. 
He was brooding over the wreck of plans that looked so fair an,d 
feasible a few hours ago. Almost ten months to wait. Oh, 
if he had not yielded so weakly, so easily. After all, was it 
any point of honor ? His father had bound him at the Nor- 
cross Machine Works, knowing that he disliked it ; that he 
had no taste for the business, except a peculiar vein for me 
chanics which cropped out now'and then in some odd improve 
ment about the house, or a fantastic design of drawing, rude 
yet bold. 
For John Hurst had a horror of lawless, vagabondish ways. 
This boy, who had now and then played truant from school, 
spent nights in the mountain wilds, and whom he had once 
found playing cards at the tavern, needed the strictest watch 
and ward to keep him from going to ruin. Some alien blood 
ran in his veins. 
At sixteen the bonds had been entered into. A tall, slender 
stripling then, standing in strange awe of his father. Now he 
was little past twenty. 
But he, clinching his fist softly in the darkness, wondered how 
deep a debt he owed John Hurst. Ah, how short-sighted and 
ungrateful is youth ! A little money, he fancied, would make 
it all straight between them. And if he managed to earn that 
sum and send it to them, the rest of his time and his daily life 
would be his own, subject to no scrutiny. But ah, the long 
intervening months ! 
The voice faltered its last tender cadence, and they sat silent 
in the dark, her eyes seeming to wander over his face with a 
pathetic hungering. Day and night it was ever present to her 
mind, for the mother vision was always illumined. But the 
fingers trailed slowly over his, and a few foolish tears quietly 
dropped. Her son should have been a gentleman. 
"Victor," she said presently, and her voice sounded like an 
angel's, cleaving the darkness, "I think you will never regret 
the sacrifice you have made for my sake." 
"Not for your sake," almost ungraciously. His heart was 
so sore and tossed about by the whirlwind of defeat. "That 
my father's word might not be broken. He shall not say that 
I marred his good name." 
"Thank you in his stead. And if you could be happy in 
the consciousness of duty " 
" No, I cannot; at least, not untii I am sure which is my 
duty. If it is right to stay in this place and become a clod, to 
stifle all those keen and fine aspirations, for something in my 
soul tells me that I might do a nobler work than moulding steel 
and iron into various given shapes. However, it is all done ;" 
with a bruskness in his voice. " I'll wait until I'm twenty-one, 
 
and then no man shall be my master. I'll draw a free breath 
for once." 
He rose and groped his way to the mantel, striking a match 
so savagely that the phosphorus fell on the hearth at his feet. 
Then another, and this time he lighted the candle. 
"Good-night;" coldly, going toward the door. 
"Good-night;" over seas of tears that would fall unheeded 
by her child. 
The dull, smothered fires had broken out at last. The lurid 
breath seemed to scorch her very soul. Would it have been if 
this boy had never known any guardianship but hers? Ah, 
would anything have been better? The hard present was here, 
and if it carried the result of mistakes and failures, lapsing into 
it from that far past, what then ? Nothing could be undone ; 
that was dreariest misery of all ! 
So she sat there crying softly. Did God keep watch and 
ward over all, and heed the call of useless ravens ? For twenty 
years she had been trying to do her duty faithfully, and the 
child of her love, of her anxious hours and many prayers, 
was ready to turn away and leave her desolate. 
After awhile, ten o'clock, perhaps, she heard a slow, weary 
step coming down the street, and springing up lighted her 
candle, giving a glimpse at herself as she passed the little 
mirror. Not to see if her dusky hair was smooth, or her plain 
collar neat as usual. But she pulled out a little bunch of 
withered madeira blossoms, still sweet, and started at the heavy 
eyes, with the dark circle about them plainly visible. 
"You are tired, John," she said, with gentle pity, as he 
sank into a chair. 
"The flesh is weak yes ; and poor human nature shrinks 
from watching even one hour with the Master in His agony." 
He wiped his pale face and drew a long breath. 
"Was the man very ill?" 
"Yes. He has gone to his last account. Oh, why will 
men put off the great work of salvation until the hour of death ? 
 
Why will they slight the mercy held out to them until the very 
grave opens to receive them, and the jaws of hell yawn beyond ? 
If they find a limit to God's mercy, they have but themselves 
to blame." 
"We cannot set limits," she returned, gently. 
Somehow she pitied these poor creatures with a new and 
infinite pity to-night. If she, with her opportunities, went 
groping around in the dark, how much more they? 
' ' As the tree falls, so it shall lie. There is no device in the 
grave. " 
How hard and cold the text seemed, merciless even ! And yet 
this morning she would have preached it without a misgiving. 
" Will you not have a cup of tea?" she asked, timidly. " I 
kept the kettle upon the coals." 
"Why should I pamper my vile body to-night? Rather it 
should be fasting and prayer for those poor souls possessed by 
devils, who are hourly rushing down to perdition." 
She spread a napkin over the table and brought out a plate 
of bread, and filled a glass with cool water. 
" Or if you will have milk " with a little hesitation. 
"No." 
He bowed his head reverently, and half unconsciously she 
followed the motion. Yet her heart ached to see him sit over 
the ascetic meal after his long hours of both mental and phys 
ical strain. Her heart was so tender and pitiful ! All these 
years of rigid life had not hardened it. 
"It was terrible !" he began, presently. " The man had met 
with a shocking accident his limbs crushed to a jelly, and the 
woman, his wife, was half stupefied with liquor. Last winter 
they both came to the chapel for awhile, and I hoped the seed 
might be sown in good ground. Am I an unprofitable servant 
to the Master ?" 
"You shall not perplex yourself about it to-night, dear. 
You look pale and worn ; and you need rest for both body 
and mind." 
 
Her voice was very gentle and persuasive ; and now she 
raised her eyes to his face, knowing well that he would be too 
preoccupied with his thoughts to find traces of her weeping. 
'" Rest with the whole world lying in wickedness ! Do we 
believe God's truth? Are we shepherds of ruined and stray 
souls ?" 
She was silent, having learned, long ago, that in these 
nervous and highly-wrought moods no words could soothe, 
and that quiet was best. Yet somehow she longed to stand 
beside him in drooping tenderness, to brush the straggling 
gray hair from his brow, and kiss the pale, thin lips. 
Between these two the man whose whole soul had been 
given to the salvation of his fellow-creatures, and the youth so 
engrossed in wild dreams her being was almost rent assunder. 
Longing to love and to do, they crowded her out of their plans 
and aims, leaving the uncounted wealth of her woman's heart 
to be poured out uselessly. The cruelest sting of all was in 
that. 
John Hurst was nearing sixty. With youth, health, and vigor, 
he might have been prepossessing ; now you would pass him by 
with hardly a second thought. Barely medium height his 
son had far outstripped him, of a rather loose, awkward figure 
now that it was so thin and angular. For the shoulders were 
still broad, though the chest was considerably shrunken, and 
the coarse, faded black coat hung loosely over it. His face 
was closely shaven, and strongly marked. High cheek-bones 
that left great hollows underneath, a short and rather thick 
nose, deep set, light-gray eyes, and a forehead somewhat high 
and narrow, though with a certain boldness. But the lower 
jaw was quite square, and gave a dominant expression to the 
face. 
It indicated a strong nature held in abeyance by certain 
fixed rules. The man's will was iron, bowing only to his 
stern conscience and his religion. He had cast out the graces 
of youth as so many snares of the devil. Saint Paul was not 
 
a more rigid moralist, not more stern in his self-denials. I 
think he had come to fashion himself on that grand old model, 
with his own translation of it. There remained not a point 
around which imagination might play. Every thought, every 
emotion was subjected to the severest scrutiny. He would 
have plucked out his right eye, or cut off his right hand, lit-!, 
erally, if thereby he might have served God the better. 
If you had brought Victor down and placed him beside his 
father, you would have found not one sign of likeness. The 
boy was right some old trick of ancestry must have been 
revived at his birth, some -mark stronger in its organization 
and power than these two people could have given him. 
CHAPTER IV. 
WHEN John Hurst placed his son Victor at the Norcross 
Machine Works, he fancied that he had done a wise thing for 
the boy. They had been living at Weareham about a year, and 
during that time Victor had been in and out of half a dozen 
situations. He was quick to resent, and answered back with 
more spirit than most employers admire. The weeks between 
situations were the happiest time of all, for he rambled about 
aimlessly, picking up odd bits of knowledge, but growing 
more wayward and difficult to manage with every day. 
The "Works" had won a good deal of prestige under old 
Mr. Norcross. He had retired with a competency to ease and 
Missionary meetings. He and his wife took a great deal of 
interest in the religious affairs of all countries, according to 
their faith. It was through the old gentleman's influence that 
John Hurst had come to Weareham. 
"A hard-working, self-denying man; just the one for a 
home missionary. I think he would soon build up an inter 
est at the Corners. He is not one of your fine clergymen, who 
carry a scented handkerchief in any miserable hovel to purify 
the air." 
Taking the advice, the Board of Missions, at their yearly 
meeting, had extended to John Hurst a call to come and labor 
among them. There was the usual talk about the field being 
white for harvest, the laborers few, the enemy sowing tares, 
and all the opportune or inopportune figures of speech. 
John Hurst thought he heard the Master's voice in it, and 
came. The district assigned to' him was the outskirts of the 
factories, where the ignorant, the poorly paid, the vicious 
herded together. The Church spent something to redeem 
 
them, the City and State still more, and yet they were not 
redeemed. 
John Hurst had worked among them for more than five 
years. They had promised him six hundred a year, but it was 
oftener five. The Rev. Mr. Underwood, his special clerical 
adviser, had a flourishing church and a rather stylish parson 
age : Brussels carpets, lace curtains, furniture that combined 
both ease and elegance. His station demanded it. He was 
much higher in the social scale than his poor brother in the 
Lord. The elder Norcrosses used to go and take tea in state, 
and send their pastor rich presents. Occasionally they would 
speak of John Hurst. 
"An excellent man, a most ex-cel-lent man," and the Rev 
erend Underwood would rub his hands together with peculiar 
unction. ' ' He is doing a good work among the poor heathen 
at home." 
So they classed the poor heathen and Mr. Hurst together, 
and let them go. 
John Hurst went at his work courageously. Some ten 
years before this, he thought he had been called of the Lord, 
and he gave up all expectations of worldly ease and advance 
ment to follow. What downfall of blindly climbing hopes there 
had been to Anah Hurst's life no one ever knew. A grave, reti 
cent woman, with a shadow in her soft eyes, ready to follow 
her husband anywhere. 
He felt himself particularly drawn toward the poor and igno 
rant. He had very little pride or ambition, in a worldly sense, 
and he did give upeverything for the cause he had espoused. 
To him the salvation of souls was of earnest, vital importance 
the loss of them, agony itself. He just as much believed that 
a man dying without any open declaration of faith in Christ 
went straight to perdition, as he believed in God himself. He 
leaned more toward the Law than the Gospel, toward the 
terror than the mercy ; but it was because he was so fearfully 
in earnest. 
 
His son's peculiar and restless habits often tried him sorely. 
He was a stern man in every relation of life, or at least he had 
grown sterner since the weight of souls pressed so heavily upon 
him. He barred out noisy boyish pleasures from the child's 
life, and would fain have kept him in the straight and narrow 
path, but Victor's feet seemed to have a fondness for by-paths 
and intricate ways. 
One day he ventured to ask some advice of his clerical 
brother. 
"Why not send him away to school," said the superior, 
absently. 
"He has little taste for books, and, since he has his own 
way to make in the world " 
"Ah yes, I see;" stroking his patriarchal beard, thought 
fully. ' "Some kind of store business ;" and he pondered the 
Feasibility of grocer's clerk. 
"I cannot keep him in a store he is too unsettled." 
"A trade, then, brother Hurst. There's nothing like a 
trade for boys. It tides them over the dangerous years ; for 
if a boy is bound, there he must stay. It gives them steady, 
industrious habits." 
"Yes," returned Hurst; and that instant he decided upon 
a trade. Why had he not thought of it before, in his per 
plexity ? 
"And while I think of it, you can't do a better thing than 
place him at the Norcross Works. James and William are 
both fine men, fine men," in his pompous way, as if it had 
been partly through his instrumentality. "And it is an excel 
lent business. Why, it is said," lowering his voice a trifle, 
as if there might be treason in the admission, "that brother 
Norcross began life without a dollar and a good trade. One 
of the first men in Weareham." 
James Norcross was at the head of the Works. William 
did the travelling and out-of-door business. James followed 
in his father's footsteps, was a pillar of the Church, and orna-" 
 
ment of society. A fine looking man, with a strong, shrewd, 
yet pleasant face. To him went John Hurst, and the contract 
was entered into immediately. 
Great was the anger and indignation of Victor. 
" At least you might have chosen something decently clean," 
he flung out, disrespectfully. " I hate it ! I never will go !" 
"You know nothing about it," was the stern rejoinder. " I 
am the proper one to choose for you." 
I think, but for his mother's sake, Victor Hurst would have 
run away. He loved her passionately at that time, and her 
grief and suffering won from him what his father's commands 
could not have done acquiescence. Not without a hard 
struggle, however. 
She had interceded for her bpy as mothers rarely do. 
" Anah," he said, with a quiet resolve that somehow always 
awed her, "let me decide this matter. Do you think that I have 
not the boy's good at heart ? Another year of such life as he 
has been leading would be the ruin of him. He is wilful, 
headstrong ; chooses his associates from among the most 
lawless, and in a little while will defy any authority. I have 
yielded to you in many other things which have not been for 
his good, as you have plainly seen. Will you help him on 
the downward path ?" 
" Oh, John, let us try once more, once more. Perhaps I 
understand him better. I am his mother " 
Her eyes overflowed with tears, and drooped with apparent 
shame as John Hurst turned his own full upon her. 
"Will you let me save him or not?" and his voice seemed 
to fall on her heart like drops of molten lead, withering, crush 
ing. "You know what I said then, Anah I Have I not kept 
my word ? Have I not done all things in my power for your 
sake ? And now choose this day whom he shall serve. If it is 
God and the right, so far as in you lies, I will help to my 
utmost ; if not, I wash my hands of him. . Let your foolish 
indulgence rescue him if it can." 
She remembered her past, and what he had done for her. If 
the boy had been different, what delight would he not have 
taken in him ! It was Victor who had made the first disturb 
ance, and surely in all those early years John Hurst had 
been very patient with him. If the lad came to ruin now 
through her weak love. She seemed to understand so little of 
men's natures, she knew next to nothing of the temptations 
outside. John was among them every day, in hovels, taverns, 
prisons. And oh, most of all, she wanted her boy clean and 
pure, as white in soul as John Hurst. 
' ' Do what is best, " she answered, humbly ; and then she set 
herself to work to smooth over the path for her child, and per 
suade him to yield. 
There was one curious thing in it all that Victor Hurst could 
not explain even now. He had always felt afraid of his father 
when it came to an open struggle; but John Hurst had never 
struck the lad, as he himself bore witness. The power was 
something deeper than any physical force. 
Victor yielded sullenly. He had no choice of trades or place. 
I am not sure but he would have been better satisfied with a 
peddler's pack and freedom.' But all these years the slow general 
dislike had been culminating into a special hatred. Because 
Norcross was a gentleman, it did not follow that his workmen 
were. Now and then some choice hand came from over the 
water, with old-world ways, like Connor and Garrick ; the latter 
of whom hardly had his equal in the country for tempering steel. 
Victor tried to keep in with his boyish friends at first, but his 
father's keen surveillance was too much. If he remained out 
late of an evening, both parents sat up until the hour of his 
return. Once John Hurst had fetched him home from a 
roystering company of card-players. Well for him, perhaps, as 
some of the crowd found themselves in jail before daylight. 
And then came a brief change. One of those spasmodic 
revivals which sweep the length and breadth of the land drew 
Victor Hurst in its current. For awhile his mother was almost 
i 
in heaven. She had never known so sweet a satisfaction in her 
whole life. 
Was the creed too narrow, that he outgrew it so soon ? For 
the hymns, and prayers, and sermons lost their power ; and 
after that a dread and terrible vacuity fell upon him. Every 
thing failed to charm. The fires of the soul roused for an 
instant, and then, unemployed, burned sullenly, leaving a 
blackened desert waste. 
From that time the rebellion had gone on gaining strength. 
But one favorable feature in it was that he outgrew the old 
companions as well. A new and finer sense seemed springing 
up within him ; but with every day's unfolding, his toil, from 
being simply distasteful, became an abhorrence. 
So he had made another struggle and failed. He thought 
it over bitterly in the silence of his room. Was there some fate 
to step in always? But he had given fair warning now. Next 
May he would be a free man, and August was half gone. 
Out here, in this half country-place, the night dews soon 
cooled the air and the roofs of the houses. Soft airs went 
wandering by, sentient with a life that touched him, and that 
he could not understand, which perplexed him from its vast- 
ness, its underlying strand of solemn yet exquisite pleasures. 
Presently, he shook out a roll of drawings. Not valves, and 
pistons, and wheels, and rings his taste did not run that way. 
Some quaint severe studies a massive arm and clinched swell 
ing fist, a shapely ankle and foot, a few faces rude almost to 
savageness, but wonderfully expressive. 
"No, I'm not a genius," he commented, with a kind of 
regal scorn. "But if I could have a fair chance if the 
world does not crowd me too hard yes, the only salvation is 
to go away." 
He took up his pencil, but did not draw any. It fell from 
his listless fingers presently, and the delicate chin dropped 
upon his breast, the eyes wandering far off into some visionary 
future. For the soul that stirred within him seemed so strong, 
 
so capable. If there was only a place in which to begin ! If 
he had been some other man's son, with the birthright of wealth 
and culture ! 
He scarcely stirred until he heard his father enter. The 
low hum of voices floated up to him, and once he rose, walk 
ing slowly toward the window. The vast, silent night brooded 
over all. Millions of stars that might be worlds trembled in 
infinite space. Did God hold them all in the hollow of His 
hand ? Was there any power great enough for that ; and if 
so, would this wonderful possessor of all knowledge trouble 
Himself about the paltry concerns of human beings here, and 
the low, vile souls down in Kent's Lane ? Did He demand 
that any other life should be spent in the useless effort of 
humanizing them just as John Hurst was doing? For he 
remembered hearing his mother say once, that his father had 
given up a good business to become a minister. 
Victor slept rather late the next morning, and was aroused 
by his mother's voice. When he entered the tidy kitchen his 
father was in his place by the small stand, an open Bible before 
him. The same old life, with nothing unchanged in it. 
The morning prayer, simple, touching in its fervor ; for the 
man was earnest and honest. No one was forgotten the son 
in the family circle, the souls stranded on desert shores per 
ishing by hundreds, and grace for his own, lest after having 
preached to others he himself might become a castaway. 
Anah Hurst poured the coffee, and waited upon the table 
with a sweet, silent grace. She seemed very beautiful to Victor 
this morning, though she was paler than usual. 
"Where is your napkin ?" she asked, presently, not finding 
it in the basket. 
"Oh " and he remembered the outburst of yesterday. 
" I did not bring it home. Never mind my lunch, mother. I 
do not want any." 
" Why?" And she glanced up with a strange misgiving. 
"It is too warm to eat at noon." 
 
" But to wait all day " and the mother's heart was seized 
with a chill foreboding. 
"I can't eat it;" and the emphasis was impatient, though 
he did not mean it to be so. 
John Hurst took a slow survey of his son, and for a moment 
appeared to be on the verge of speaking, then checked himself 
and was silent. 
" If I want anything, I will buy a few crackers," said Victor. 
Just at the door he turned back and gave his mother a glance. 
If she could have seen what was in his heart, she need not 
have shivered with such deadly fear. 
"Good-morning." 
No tender kiss, no little fondness between the mother and 
child. Was it right? Did God demand the sacrifice of all 
human love? 
Was it God? When she allowed John Hurst to interpret His 
teaching, and resigned herself to a guidance she thought so 
much wiser than her own, was she not disloyal to something 
higher than man's interpretation ? And farther back had she 
elected rightly in the choice of this child's father ? 
For it had come to this, that father and son were drifting 
wider apart with every day that passed. To which should she 
cling ? Ah, if it came to that 
" Anah,"her husband said, "after your dishes are put away, 
get your bonnet and walk down to Kent's Lane with me. They 
need a woman's hands in that God-forsaken place, and a 
woman's voice might find its way to souls that I cannot 
reach." 
She was sore-hearted and weary herself, longing for some 
tender words how, then, should she comfort others ? And 
the anchor to which her faith had been securely bound these 
many years, had slipped its moorings, dragging her over rough 
rock and shifting sands. 
"Not this morning," she said, with a strange tremor in hei 
voice. 
 
"Is not God's work of more importance than ours?" in a 
slow, grave tone. 
"It is not that, not that," wanderingly, as if the sound of 
her own voice amazed her. "But I am not well;" with a 
shiver. 
He guessed that she was fretting inwardly because Victor 
had refused his lunch. If it had been from any other cause 
he might have endeavored to persuade. 
"Well," with a-kind of wounded gravity, "I will do my 
best alone." 
And then he went out. She watched him down the street, 
shambling awkwardly along. Anah Hurst was in a peculiarly 
sensitive mood this morning. It seemed to jar upon some 
nice sense or old remembrance of better times. Quite an old 
man already, and losing the vigor that once characterized him. 
Again the thought entered her mind had she done wisely in 
marrying John Hurst ? If it came to an open issue, which 
would be dearer, husband or child ? 
She went around in a wear)', listless fashion. A cloud 
appeared to overshadow her ; something awesome and intan 
gible. The poor helpless, souls down in Kent's Lane were as 
nothing to her to-day. 
She had just spread up Victor's bed, and was tenderly caress 
ing the branch of woodbine that he was training round the 
window inside, many shades paler than its wild, riotous com 
panions without, when a quick, manful step startled her. She 
glanced down he looked up and smiled. In another instant 
he had mounted the stairs. 
"Victor!" ' 
But the fresh, eager face was not one to create alarm. No 
fatal conspiracy was hidden in these genial lines. 
"I can't help it," he exclaimed with a boy's eagerness. 
" I'm glad of the holiday, for it would have half killed me 
to go on." 
" But what has happened ?" 
 
"Oh !" and he tried to look grave because he thought he 
must. "Old Mr. Norcross died last night, and is to be 
buried to-morrow. The Works will be shut up for two days." 
"And you t" 
" I am going off for a ramble where, I cannot tell. Nay, 
do not look disquieted. I shall do nothing that will shock 
you. I want to run off to the mountains for a breath of fresh, 
free air. Put me up a little bread anything you may happen 
to have and to-morrow night you will see me again." 
It had been so long since he had worn such a smile. The 
old gloomy frown was a thing of the past, dropped with the 
work-day world. 
"And you are glad to go?" with a touching sadness in her 
tone. 
"Glad !" He came nearer, placed his hands gently upon 
her shoulders, she realizing with a little pang how very far he 
had outgrown her. And then a kind of confused flush suf 
fused his face. 
"Yes, I am glad ! You do not want me to tell an untruth 
about it. Should I be the happier for staying here .in a gloomy 
frame of mind because because a man is dead ? If his faith 
was true, he is better in heaven to-day ; and then he was an 
old man. But life and freedom are sweet to me, so let me 
enjoy them in my rare holiday." 
"I will not persuade you to stay;" and she choked down 
the great throb of pain in her throat. "But you will come 
back ?" 
"I promised you last night," he said, huskily. "I had a 
hard fight with rrjy 'familiar,'" and his voice dropped still 
lower. "I told you that my father should have no cause to 
condemn me in thai matter. So I shall return to-morrow night." 
She went down stairs. He threw off his gray blouse with an 
air of disdain, and habited himself in last night's attire. A 
small roll of paper, a pencil, and note-book were thrust into a 
travelling satchel. Then he rejoined his mother. 
 
"There is so little," she said, regretfully. " If I had 
known " 
"A crust of bread will taste good out there under the trees, 
flavored with freedom. It is sufficient." 
.He packed it in and shut the clasp with a sharp click. 
" Good-by nothing will happen to me, save that I shall be 
the better for the change." 
He flung the strap over his shoulder, and stooping, gave 
her a long, tender kiss, so sudden, so sweet, that it brought 
the tears to her eyes. 
"I am an ungrateful dog," he exclaimed, vehemently. 
"You do love me. Mother ! Mother !" 
The words still rang in her ears as she saw him striding over 
toward the woods, a young Apollo, the sun glinting on his 
tawny hair, his limbs strong, supple, graceful, his step light, 
his whole air joyous as a bird. And an hour's freedom had 
so changed him. 
Oh, God ! what if he had been born free I 
CHAPTER V. 
AN hour's freedom ! The first perfect holiday of his life 
lather. For over such anniversaries as Christmas, New Year, 
Thanksgiving, and Fourth of July, John Hurst had hitherto 
kept strict watch. He labored for this child's soul with an 
earnestness that could hardly have failed to touch an older per 
son. But the seeds of heathenism spring up apace in youth ; 
and perhaps, having once turned from the narrow way in a kind 
of disgust, it left him in a mood for the license of the fascinat 
ing broad path. 
When he listened to the announcement of the death, his 
first thought was what he should do with the two days ; his 
second, a decision. He would go off to solitude. Not al 
together in the fashion of the monks of old there should be 
little fasting or praying, but much enjoyment. No narrow 
