you have ? ” 
“I don’t know,” she answered, slowly. “I ’m 
afraid I shall want too many things.” 
“ If uncle will give us three wishes,” said Rob. 
“ Well, begin. Let us see what they are. Fred 
wants a sled and a parrot. What else ? You can 
have one more wish, Freddy.” 
K 
 
“ Can I have a pair of skates ? I think I ’m big 
enough.” 
“ Why, Fred, you are laying in a stock for next 
winter,” said his uncle, gayly. 
“ But I can have the parrot on rainy days, when I 
have to stay in the house.” 
“ Down in the cellar or up in the garret,” laughed 
Rob. “ You make so much noise that the addition 
of a parrot close by one ’s ears mightn’t always be 
agreeable. Or perhaps we can build you both a coop 
out in the garden.” 
“ And couldn’t I take my dinner there, mamma, 
and live ? Wouldn’t it be fun ? ” 
“ Now, Rob, let us hear yours ! ” 
“ Three yards of black pudding — ” 
“ Fast of your nose,” appended Kathie, merrily. 
“ Don’t interrupt me now, Kathie. It ’s serious 
business, and I must consider. First of all, I ’d like 
a beauty of a sail-boat. There ’s such a lovely river 
here, Uncle Robert.” 
“ Then you ’ll have to engage me as captain, and I 
shall ask a large salary.” 
“ But couldn’t you teach me to manage a boat ? ” 
“ In the course of time. What else ? ” 
 
“ A real fine, handsome horse. But Oh dear, only 
one more ! ” and Rob made a comical gesture of de- 
spair. “ Uncle, the purse of Fortunatus.” 
“ O Rob, that will break me. I can’t promise 
about that last. Kathie, it ’s your turn.” 
The child was silent some moments, then she said, 
slowly, “ I don’t know as you can give me what I 
would most like.” She put her arms up suddenly 
and drew Uncle Robert’s head nearer in range of her 
voice and whispered something in his ear. 
“ Oh, I heard, — a blue silk dress for Aunt Ruth, 
’cause she gave hers to Kathie ! ” shouted Fred. 
“ A miss that time, Freddy ” ; and a sweet serious- 
ness came over Uncle Robert’s face. “ I don’t know, 
Kathie ; you are a darling little girl to think of it 
first. That must be our secret, and we will talk it 
over to-morrow. Now another.” 
Rob looked as if he was trying to divine his sister’s 
wish, but his uncle’s face did not afford him the 
slightest clew. 
“ I ’d like to have a pretty little cottage, Uncle 
Robert, if it wouldn’t cost too much, and a lawn in 
front with beautiful flowers and trees.” 
“ We might compass that.” 
 
“ And a servant for mamma, so she will not have 
to work so hard.” 
“ Nothing for yourself, Kathie ? ” 
“ Why, it ’s all for me,” answered Kathie, in a sur~ 
prised tone. 
Uncle Robert kissed her. “Yon are a dear, gen- 
erous little girl,” he said, with deep feeling. 
“ And it ’s past eleven o’clock, so we must all go to 
bed,” announced Mrs. Alston. “ The rest will keep 
until to-morrow.” 
There was a protest against this, but Uncle Robert 
overruled it. Then the children made an onslaught 
upon him and kissed him nearly to pieces, he said. 
“ I am almost afraid to go to sleep, lest our castle 
tumbles down and Uncle Rob disappears,” Kathie 
said, as she nodded her golden-crowned head at the 
door. 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
THE PURSE OF FORTUNATUS. 
Kathie knelt a long while at the side of her little 
bed, for she had such a great number of mercies to 
acknowledge. Uncle Robert would have smiled if 
he had heard the last clause, — that she might find 
everything true to-morrow morning. She was so 
happy and so excited that she could hardly go to 
sleep. How good and kind God had been to her, 
and to them all ! 
It seemed to Katliie that she had had just one 
little nap when she opened her eyes and found the 
sun shining. Mrs. Alston was hardly dressed. 
“ O mamma, is it true that Uncle Robert came 
home ? ” 
“ Quite true, dear. And now if you will get up, 
for I have overslept myself.” 
Katliie was out of bed in a twinkling. She looked 
so merry and happy that Aunt Ruth fairly laughed. 
“ I do feel as if I couldn’t hardly stay in my 
 
skin,’ she said, gayly. “ It ’s so odd and strange, 
auntie. I do really believe in fairies.” 
Kathie ran down stairs to wait upon her mother a 
little, then she came back and helped Aunt Ruth 
dress. By that time Uncle Robert’s voice was heard, 
and he carried Aunt Ruth down in his strong arms. 
“We didn’t hear half last night,” Rob began ; 
“ I ’ve been wondering how you came home from 
Australia and found us out at last.” 
“We will have many a long talk about that, Rob,” 
said his uncle. “ I came to the conclusion, while I 
was in Australia, that you were all very happy and 
had forgotten about me. Now and then I used to 
write, always directing my letters to New York. 
When I was tired of Australia and satisfied with 
what I had made, I went to London. Putting my 
affairs in a good shape there, I decided to take a little 
trip through Germany and France. At Paris I met 
an old friend and learned for the first time that your 
papa was dead. This gentleman could tell me 
nothing more than that the family had gone to 
some country place ; so I hurried back to London, 
and started at once for America.” 
“ O Uncle Robert, Europe must be splendid ! I 
wish I could go some time.” 
 
“Wish the fourth,” said his uncle, laughing; “yet 
it may all be possible.” 
“ And when you reached New York how did you 
find Brookside ? ” asked Kathie. 
“ I started first to find where you had gone. Your 
papa’s partner was dead also, and his family had 
removed to the South. I made inquiries everywhere 
among old friends, but no one could tell anything 
about you.” 
“ I think we were wrong in dropping all our old 
friends,” Mrs. Alston remarked ; “ but I felt so 
utterly disheartened, and found so much to do, that 
I neglected to correspond with any one. And I 
suppose most of our acquaintances had their own 
cares and interests, and so we faded from their 
minds.” 
The oddest part of the search was, that I found 
two Mrs. Frederick Alstons, — one living out on Long 
Island, and one in Connecticut. Then a lawyer 
friend, to whom I applied, searched the record and 
found the name of the town in which your mother 
had bought a little property, sold by Mr. Golder. I 
felt sure that time of being right, and came hither 
directly. At the hotel I made some more inqui- 
 
ries ; and once on the way, when I met a little 
fairy — ” 
Kathie smiled at this. 
“So I took your mamma and Aunt Ruth quite 
by surprise. 
“ Did they know you ? ” asked Rob. 
“ Aunt Ruth guessed first.” 
“ I remembered his eyes and his voice,” said 
Aunt Ruth ; “ but the rest of his face has changed 
altogether.” 
“And I remember his eyes,” said Fred, anxious 
to be heard on the subject. 
Rob laughed heartily at this. “ Doesn’t your 
memory date back to the flood, Freddy ? I ’ve 
observed that it isn’t so good about more recent 
occurrences.” 
Freddy looked rather cross at this. 
It was decided after breakfast that Kathie might 
stay at home, as Uncle Rob desired it very much. 
“ You ’ll miss some fun,” said Rob ; “ I mean to 
tell all the boys. Oh, won’t Lottie Thorne make big 
eyes ? I ’ll say that Uncle Robert is as rich as a 
Jew. I feel pretty sure that I ’ll have my boat.” 
“ Charlie will be so glad,” said Kathie, thoughtfully. 
Uncle Robert spent most of the morning talking 
with Aunt Ruth in the parlor. Kathie assisted her 
mother cheerfully, though she could hardly bear 
to go out of his sight. 
“ O mamma,” she said, “ how very happy we shall 
be ! It is nice to have plenty of money.” 
“ And as generous a heart as Uncle Robert pos- 
sesses.” 
That was the great thing, after all ; and Kathie 
hoped she would never be selfish or proud, no mat- 
ter how much might come to her in the way of good 
fortune. 
Uncle Robert asked her to take a walk with 
him presently, and she started off in a most delighted 
fashion. 
“ Now, Kathie, about the wish. Poor Aunt 
Ruth — ” 
“ If she only could be cured ! People are some- 
times.” 
“ I think she can be helped very much. She 
has not been in circumstances to have very good 
medical advice. Some day she and you and I will 
take a trip to New York, and learn what can be 
done.” 
“ Uncle Robert — ” Then Kathie made a long 
pause. 
“ Well, my dear ? ” 
“ I ’d like to know ” — and the color deepened in 
her face — “ how much money we could spend ? I 
don’t want to be extravagant, — and we can be very 
happy with a little more.” 
“ I think we can count on the purse of Fortunatus 
in a moderate way. I ’ll promise to keep a piece of 
gold in yours always. We ’ll have a new house any- 
where you choose, and a servant as soon as we can 
find one. I wish we could do it this morning.” 
“ O Uncle Robert ! ” 
“ My little girl, I mean to make you all as happy 
as possible. You are such a wise, prudent little body 
that I can trust you with this wonderful purse, and 
I ’ll be your prince to come and go at your bid- 
ding.” 
Kathie gave his arm a hug and glanced at him 
with eyes that looked the brighter for their tears. 
“ To have a pretty house, and if Aunt Ruth could 
be cured ! Uncle Robert, it must be such a comfort 
to make people happy.” 
“ Haven’t you tried it on a small scale ? ” 
 
Kathie blushed. “ But it has been such a very 
little.” 
“ I have observed that the people who have a 
desire to do a little under difficulties generally man- 
age to keep their kind heart in prosperity. Riches 
bring us new cares, and we should strive for pure 
motives, also to be kept from too much pride and 
vainglory. No amount of fine and beautiful things 
do us any good if our hearts are not right.” 
“That is just what Miss Jessie says, Uncle 
Robert.” 
“I shall begin to be jealous of Miss Jessie.” 
“And that will not be right. Miss Jessie was so 
good to us while we were poor, and visited us, and — 
You must love her. Mamma and Aunt Ruth do.” 
Uncle Robert laughed. 
“ Somehow I can’t believe it at all,” Kathie went 
on, after several moments’ seriousness. “ I was just 
becoming content with poverty, and learning what to 
do for mamma. Not but what I am very glad and 
thankful, still I seem a little afraid, as if it was only 
a dream.” 
“ You need not have any doubts, Kathie. If you 
should grow up to womanhood as sweet and simple 
 
as you are now, you will be able to do a great deal 
of good and make many people happy.” 
Katliie studied Uncle Robert’s face for some time, 
then she said, gravely, “ Do you always think of the 
good, uncle ? ” 
“ I am trying now, Katliie. There was a time 
when I sought my own pleasure without reference to 
any other object, but I trust it will never be so 
again.” 
“ And what made you think first ? ” 
“ I was very sick once in Australia, and all alone. 
It ’s a hard place when one is not well enough to 
rough it through, for there every man cares for him- 
self, and never minds his neighbor. I thought I 
should die, and then I wanted God ; so like the 
Psalmist  cried unto him day and night.” 
“ And then — ” There was a sweet, grave light in 
the child’s eyes. 
“ Something very curious happened to me. An old 
miner, a man who had been an English convict, found 
me one day and nursed me back to life. It seemed 
to me just as if God sent him. And though he 
wasn’t what some people would call religious, there 
was an earnest, simple clinging to the light, an un- 
 
usual sense of honor and honesty. Well, I recovered, 
and took the man in my employ. About a year after 
that he died, and in ministering to him I learned 
another lesson that I hope I shall never forget.” 
“ What, Uncle Robert ? ” 
“Doing the good that comes right in one’s way. 
Our Saviour must have meant this when he said, ‘ The 
poor ye have always with you.’ So it is not worth 
while to look very far for work. But I think you 
have managed to find it as well, and I am glad that 
you have been such a comfort.” 
Kathie did not reply immediately. Uncle Robert 
saw that she was revolving some grave subject in her 
mind, and presently asked her what it was. 
She smiled a little. “ I wonder,” she said, “ if it is 
easy for people to be good ? ” 
“ What has been your experience on the subject ?” 
“ Oh Uncle Robert, I’ve had to try very hard some- 
 
times when it almost seemed as if I did ’nt want to. 
I used to stay and play with the children after school, 
and though it appeared only a few moments to me, it 
was a great deal longer, and mamma wanted me at 
home. But some of the girls thought it was mean, 
and one day Charlie Darrell asked me why I was so 
queer ? ” 
 
“ Did you tell him ? ” 
“ No, Uncle Eobert ; it doesn’t seem right to talk 
much about those things.” 
“ The best example, Katliie, is a quiet one. Just as 
soon as we begin to parade our good deeds before the 
world they become a snare. I know it is hard not to 
be appreciated, but this comes in time. There ’s a 
higher reward than being seen of men.” 
Katliie gave Uncle Eob’s hand a little squeeze. 
“ And now, Katliie, we will have a little talk about 
the new house. Do you like Brookside, or would you 
rather go to some other place ? I believe I have a 
great fancy for a little country town, and it doesn’t 
make any difference to mamma and Aunt Eutli, 
except that I think Aunt Eutli’s health would be 
better in the country.” 
“ Oh, I don’t want to go away,” Katliie said, with 
a gasp. a I like all the girls so much, and Miss 
Jessie — ” 
“ Then let us take a walk among the pretty places. 
I thought I saw some yesterday.” 
“ Mr. Grayson lives in the nicest part of the town, 
I think, but — ” 
“ But what ? ” 
 
“They ’re very handsome,” said Kathie, slowly, 
“with lawns and barns and carriage-houses.” Then 
she glanced up at Uncle Robert, doubtfully. 
“ And cost a great deal of money, — was that 
what you were about to say ? ” 
Kathie smiled and colored. 
“We will take a look at them, at all events. I 
expect you to grow up a young lady in this house, 
and I want it pretty and comfortable, with a good 
deal of room.” 
Kathie walked slowly along, revolving these things 
in her mind. She had thought only of moderate 
wealth, but such grandeur startled her a little. So 
she grasped Uncle Robert’s hand tighter, until he 
looked down into the perplexed little face. 
“ What ’s the trouble now ? ” he asked, cheerily. 
“Not exactly trouble. Uncle Robert, I think you 
are very generous to come back and spend so much 
on mamma and the rest of us.” 
“If your father had lived, Kathie, it is not 
probable that you would have known any want. 
He was beginning to be very prosperous when I 
went away, and he possessed a large, noble soul. I 
am going to take his place as far as I can. I want a 
 
pleasant home for myself, and I expect you to be my 
little girl, so I shall give you all the advantages in 
my power.” 
Kathie’s eyes filled with tender tears. Looking 
around at the bright world on this sunshiny day, 
she thanked God softly for all his blessings. 
“ Here is Mr. Grayson’s,” she said, as they turned 
into a broad avenue, lined with wide-spreading elms. 
Mr. Grayson’s was certainly a very pretty country- 
house, roomy, with a large lawn sloping down to the 
street, a wide, vine-covered porch across the front 
and one end, a deep bay-window, and a profusion of 
handsome shrubbery. 
“Very cosey and lionre-like. Now if we had such 
a house — ” 
“ As handsome as that ! ” ejaculated Kathie. 
“ Quite as handsome ” ; and Uncle Robert’s eyes 
had a merry twinkle in them, which showed how 
much he was enjoying Kathie’s surprise. 
"This is a lovely part of the town,” he said, at 
length. “ Over beyond is the river.” 
" Silver River, because it is so clear. That ’s where 
Rob wants to go boating, but mamma doesn’t like to 
have him.” 
 
They went to the end of the street. Here the 
river broadened, making a pretty little lake. In fact 
it was only a slender arm connecting the lake with 
Guilford Eiver. 
Just at this point, facing the lake, stood a rather 
deserted-looking mansion. The shrubbery around 
was luxuriant but untrimmed, the flower-beds had 
gone to weeds and grass the fall before, and presented 
a very untidy appearance. 
“ Does any one live here ? ” Uncle Eobert asked. 
“ No. It belongs to a Mr. Tompkins, who had 
it rented out awhile. I believe some one died and 
left the place to him ; but don’t you think it ’s 
dreary ? ” 
u It could be made very pleasant. If this space 
down to the lake was cleared and transformed into a 
lawn, — you see lying to the south would add a great 
charm. There are some noble old trees around. 
And this isn’t very far from the depot, while it is 
quite removed from the manufactories. If it was 
touched with an enchanter’s wand — You don’t half 
believe in my unlimited powers, Kathie. When you 
come to find a piece of gold always in your purse — ” 
At this Kathie laughed. 
 
“Here is Mr. Darrell’s,” she said, turning into 
another street. “ It always seems so bright here.” 
“ Suppose Miss Jessie was haughty and Charlie a 
disagreeable boy ? Isn’t it the pleasant association 
that makes a place bright ? ” 
“ I believe it is,” she answered, thinking of the 
happy Saturday so long ago, when it seemed so hard 
to come away. 
Going round by the school, they found that it was 
twelve o’clock, for the children were just being dis- 
missed. 
“ How fast the morning has gone ! ” Katliie re- 
marked, and then, looking over, she nodded gayly to 
the girls. 
Rob ran across to them. “ Oh, hasn’t it been 
jolly ! ” he began. “ I ’ve had lots of fun this morn- 
ing, and I told Charlie that I thought I ’d have a 
boat.” 
“ Where ’s Freddy ? ” 
“ Oh the little lag-behind ! He ’s somewhere.” 
Kathie looked as if she must go and find him. 
But while she was debating he emerged from the 
crowd, and they all went homeward. 
Mamma had dinner prepared. Aunt Ruth had 
 
tied a ribbon in lier soft hair and looked quite 
girlish. 
“ We will have to go out again this afternoon,” 
Uncle Eobert said to Kathie. “ We must find mam- 
ma a servant, so that she will be a little more at 
liberty. And if there ’s a horse to be had we might 
take a drive.” 
Kathie’s eyes sparkled. 
“ You ’re having all the fun,” exclaimed Eob. 
“ There will be a good many days in which to 
have fun,” rejoined his uncle. 
.They had a long, serious talk after dinner. The 
house was altogether too small, even if there had 
been no other fault, so Uncle Eobert proposed that 
they should have a new one as soon as possible. He 
had hosts of traps in New York and wanted a place 
to accommodate them. If no one lived in the 
Tompkins house, that might be purchased and re- 
arranged to their liking. They drove past it and 
took another look. It was rather pretentious. A 
two-story bay-window, and one corner of the house 
built up in turret fashion with a cupola on the top. 
“ There must be plenty of room,” Uncle Eobert said, 
and that was just what they wanted. The apart- 
 
ment on the second floor containing the hay-window 
should be Aunt Ruth’s, on account of the nice south- 
ern outlook. And they would all go in there to 
spend their evenings. 
" Something of an air-castle until we learn whether 
it will be sold or not,” he went on, with a smile ; 
“ but as Kathie is fond of the fairy element in real 
life, we will not mind.” 
They found a servant who promised to come the 
next day, and went home quite well satisfied. 
“ Now for the purse,” Uncle Robert said in the 
evening, producing a gold piece ; but Kathie laugh- 
ingly confessed that she had never owned one. 
“ Then Aunt Ruth must lend you hers. Now, here 
is a veritable purse of Fortunatus, and it is never to 
be empty.” 
“ Can’t I have one too ? ” said Fred. 
“ I ’m afraid you and Rob do not understand the 
mysteries of fairydom quite so well,” he answered, 
with a comical face. 
“ Rut, Uncle Robert, I ’m afraid I shall never have 
a chance to spend it.” 
“ Then it will never be empty,” explained 
Rob. 
 
“ That isn’t in the bargain,’ said his uncle. 
“ Kathie and I know how to manage, I think.” 
Kathie went to sleep dreaming of her gold piece 
that was never to fail. Had she really been trans- 
ported to fairy -land ? 
 
CHAPTEK XII. 
AN ENCHANTED COUNTRY. 
There was a great time at school the next day. 
Kathie was besieged on every hand. Was it really 
true that her uncle had come home, and was he ever 
so rich ? Were they going to live in New York, and 
keep a carriage ? 
Mary Cox gave her a warm squeeze. “ I ’m so 
glad,” she said, “ though I couldn’t love you any 
better if you owned the whole world.” 
“ Wasn’t it queer that man should be your uncle ? ” 
asked Lucy Gardiner. “ Don’t you feel a little afraid 
of him ? ” 
“ Afraid! Why?” 
“ Oh, he has such a great beard ! ” 
Kathie laughed gayly. “ He ’s just delightful,” she 
said. 
“ And I suppose you will have lots of beautiful 
dresses,” was Lottie Thorne’s comment. 
Kathie hadn’t thought of that, and she felt as 
 
nice in her pink gingham as if it had been 
silk. 
Just after school was dismissed Miss Moore beck- 
oned her to the desk, and put her arm around the 
little girl, kissing her fondly. 
“ I must congratulate you, Kathie,” she said. “ I 
am very glad that such good fortune has befallen you ; 
but there is another thing that pleases me nearly as 
much.” 
Kathie’s soft eyes questioned her teacher. 
" I have observed a very great improvement in you 
since Christmas. You have always been studious, 
but, like the majority of children, quite thoughtless. 
It ’s very natural, I suppose ; but of late you have 
grown orderly, and always seem to be studying the 
pleasure and comfort of others. And now, my child, 
I hope nothing in your new life will induce you to 
forget this good beginning.” 
“ I have been trying pretty hard,” Kathie an- 
swered, as a little flush quivered over her face. “ I 
used to forget so easily, but I ’m learning to put 
everything in its place, and not make trouble for 
others. Fighting giants, Aunt Ruth calls it.” 
“ You make pretty steady war upon them.” 
 
“ Oh Miss Moore, I want to be good, first of all.” 
“ You are in the right way, Kathie, but you will 
find it difficult work. There is nothing like perse- 
verance.” 
“ It seems to me that everything will come easier. 
Why, I ’ve been so happy since Uncle Robert re- 
turned that I hardly know myself. Then to think 
of mamma and Aunt Ruth — ” 
“ While you carry them so close to your heart you 
will not be in much danger. And I wish for you a 
happy, useful life.” 
It was all pleasure, Kathie thought. Uncle Robert 
was so good-natured and untiring, full of merriment, 
and always planning charming surprises. Aunt Ruth 
seemed to grow young every day, and the careworn 
look faded out of mamma’s face. 
After one or two consultations, inquiries were made 
about the house to which Uncle Robert had taken 
such a fancy. He learned that it could be purchased 
for a very moderate sum, much below its real value. 
It was considerably out of repair, and the grounds 
needed rearranging. He, Rob, and Kathie were first 
to inspect it, and she was very much interested. 
There was a nice wide hall through the middle, 
 
with a spacious parlor on one side, larger than that 
at the Darrells’. A library with the bay-window, a 
dining-room adjoining, and at the end of this a 
large conservatory. There were two or three kitch- 
ens in the rear, and on the next floor four handsome 
sleeping-rooms, with one smaller one over the con- 
servatory. Eob took a great fancy to the tower, and 
thought he and Fred would take possession of the 
third floor, so as to be handy. 
“ Handy for what ? ” asked Kathie. 
“ Oh, a ghost. There ought to be a ghost here.” 
“ I hope not.” 
“ You wouldn’t be afraid, Uncle Robert ? ” 
“ Not much,” said he, with a droll smile. 
“ There are no such things as ghosts,” Kathie re- 
turned, with an assumption of bravery. 
“ Go up in this tower on a dark night ! ” 
They mounted it now and were charmed with the 
prospect. As the house stood on a slight elevation 
they could see all the neighboring towns, and Brook- 
side lay at their very feet. 
“ Oh, I do like it ! ” Kathie exclaimed with enthu- 
siasm. 
“ This will be Point Lookout,” said Eob. “ Oh, I 
 
wish we were on the sea-shore and could see the 
ships go by.” 
“ It may serve some other useful purpose,” replied 
his uncle. 
“ When Fred is particularly noisy he can come up 
here and racket to his heart ’s content.” 
“ I once heard of a man who used to have bad 
tempers when the wind was in the east ; so he built 
himself a little room which he called a growlery, 
and when he felt ill-humored he could retire to it,’
Uncle Robert said. 
“ Do you think we shall need a growlery ? ” asked 
Kathie. 
“ Rather a dungeon to put our giants in,” said Rob. 
Uncle Robert looked from one to the other for an 
explanation. 
“ Kathie and I fight giants sometimes,” Rob re- 
turned, with a rising flush. 
“ Which of you is the better warrior ? ” 
“ Kathie,” Rob said, frankly. “ I mean to, but I 
forget.” 
“ And what are the giants, — bad habits ? ” 
“ That ’s it, Uncle Robert. I believe it is easier 
for girls to be good than for boys.” 
