Presently Kathie entered, fancying the matter had 

been amicably settled in her absence. Uncle Eobcrt 
kissed her with grave tenderness. " My darling," he 
whispered, " I am going to dismiss you for this even- 
ing. Amuse yourself in the best manner that you 
can." 

Kathie went out quietly, wishing with all her 
heart that she could bring Eob to her way of think- 
ing ; but Eob much preferred his own will. 

To a third person the silence would have become 
absolutely laughable. The clock struck nine, at 
length, and Eob was growing sleepy from the en- 
forced quiet. He supposed he would have to toll. 
It was hard that he never could have any fun like 
other boys, but that he must always be treated like a 
baby, as if he didn't know anything, or have any 
wants ; and every pulse swelled with indignation. 



This government was worse than his mother's. 

He made a desperate effort. Eising, he went 
almost past his uncle, and, without looking at him, 
said, in no very amiable tone, " I 'll tell you how 
it was ; the boys treated me and I hated to be mean, 
so I couldn't help but treat in return." 

Then he would have left the room, but Uncle Eob- 
ort clasped his arm gently. " I supposed that it was 





something like this," he returned, in a clear, encour- 
aging manner ; " sit down and let us talk it all over. 
What were the treats ? ' 

But Eob had made his effort, and now relapsed 
into sullenness. " Soda-water and creams," he said, 
after another pause, " and nuts and oranges." 

" Because you were hungry or thirsty ? " 

" Well, the other boys do it." 

" My dear boy, I wish you felt in a better mood. 
This is one of the temptations that I knew would 
befall you. I consider it a foolish and useless prac- 
tice, and one that leads to a great deal of harm ; but 
boys and men are always exposed to it at some time 
during their lives, and perhaps it is less difficult to 
break when one is young. Now, do all the boys 
treat, or only a part of them, Charlie Darrell, for 
instance, or Dick Grayson, and those who are really 
high-toned and studious ? ' 

Lu Simonds was one of the worst boys in school, 
and yet one of the best-natured. His father was rich 
and indulgent, and Lu thought it looked rather grand 
to spend lots of money, even if he rarely had a 
correct lesson. Several of these boys had taken a 
great fancy to Eob. He was so gay and amusing 



t?' 



 

so ready for any kind of fun. Yet the association 
was rather dangerous for a boy of his temperament, 
and he had a secret consciousness that Uncle Eobert 
would not altogether approve of his companions. 

" Is it the best and noblest boys in school who do 
this, Rob ? " 

" They 're well enough, I suppose." 

" I am afraid they are not ; and this treating is a 
bad habit that I want you to correct. I would much 
rather have you do it for yourself than from any 
compulsion." 

Eob made no answer. 

" Possibly you may think me strict about it, or 
' grannified ' as boys say ; but I want to feel that 
when the time comes you can be safely trusted away 
from home for your mother's sake. I want to see 
you a brave, honest, truthful boy. You must do 
what is right without thinking what this one or that 
one will say. It is a hard thing, I know. Boys 
make mistakes and so do men, but I firmly believe 
that if the boys were trained to have more strength, 
the men would not fall into so many errors. Have 
you anything more to tell me about it ? ' 

was not a bit penitent. He was sorry and 





ashamed at being forced, as it were, to confess, but he 
thought it very hard to be called to an account for 
every little thing. 

" I 've told you all," he said, shortly. 

Uncle Eobert had meant to forgive the debt and 
let him start fair again, but the tone was so very 
unpromising that he changed his mind. 

" And what do you propose to do ? " 

" Oh, I 'll pay Kathie ; I told her I would," he 
answered, loftily. 

" And then resolve not to borrow any more for 
pleasure. We all have to learn these things by ex- 
perience." 

" Good night," said Bob, coldly, leaving the room. 

Uncle Eobert sighed. This was so different from 
Kathie's frankness and love. Freddy was less stub- 
born, though he did not retain any impression per- 
manently, yet much of this was due to his childish- 
ness. Eob had some fine, sturdy qualities if the 
right ones could only keep the ascendency and rule. 

In his own room he felt that he could do as he 
liked, so he flung his coat on the first chair and 

\ 

kicked his slippers half across the room. As that 
did not restore his mental equilibrium, he gave vent 



 

to a flood of angry tears. A boy of almost fifteen to 
be treated like a baby ! Uncle Eobert might keep 
his money, and Kathie hers, he wouldn't touch 
another penny if- -if he was starving, he pretty 
nearly said. Then he wondered how they would feel 
if he ran away and went to sea. He used to think 
that would be a gay life, and anything would be 
better than this tyranny. I am sorry to say that 
he hurried through with his prayers, for he did not 
exactly dare to -go to sleep without repeating them, 
and he soon sobbed himself to forgetfulness. 

He was rather quiet the next morning and cross to 
Freddy, but his anger unwittingly gave him courage 
for one good move. After school the boys had a 
game of ball, and of course they played until they 
were tired and hungry. Just beyond the green there 
was a confectionery, the place of temptation for them. 
It had a small saloon attached, where one could 
obtain almost any kind of refreshments. 

" Come," exclaimed Lu Simonds, " let 's go in and 
have some oysters. They 'll taste good after this 
hard work. I 'll stand treat." 

Two of the boys started with alacrity, but Eob 
hung back. 





" Come, Alston, don't be fussy ! " 

" No, I cannot." 

" Why, that 's funny ! You 're not often counted 
out when the good things are going round." 

Rob's face was scarlet. 

" I shall have to be after this," he said. 

"Why? Do they disagree with you? Or have 
you grown delicate ? " 

Eob turned fairly round, though he little guessed 
what a brave deed he was about to undertake. 

: Boys," and there was a great lump in his throat 
that almost choked him, - - " I can't treat any more 
myself, and I 'm not shabby enough to take anything 
that I can't return." 

" Has the governor shut down on you ? " asked Lu. 

" Yes." 

" Come along, it will not make a bit of difference. 
Only it 's mighty hard for you, and awful mean, I 
say." 

'' And he has lots of tin ! He 's a precious miser, 
Alston, but maybe he will leave you a big pile in the 
end," said the elegant Walter. 

" Good night, boys " ; and with that Eob turned 
away abruptly. 



GETTING OUT OF DEBT. Ill 

" I hope they 're satisfied," he muttered, with tears 
of mortification in his eyes, the they meaning Kathie 
and Uncle Eobert. " No, I 'll never take a cent 
again, and I was bound that the boys should know 
just why. It 's real mean and hateful." 

Eob was a little glum for several days, it must be 
confessed. They all treated him exactly the same at 
home, as if, indeed, they saw no difference in him. 
The boys renewed their invitations, and offered him 
anything that chanced to be going round, but he 
steadily refused. He did not notice that every time 
it came easier. 

And so the next Monday morning when he received 
his quarter, he turned it over to Kathie at once. He 
was still too sore to have any discussion about it, but 
he was thawing out a little. 

As he was going in the school-room he met Mr. 
Crittenden. A rather stern-faced yet not unkindly 
man, holding the boys in check more by awe than 
love. 

" Good morning, Master Alston," he said, pleasantly. 
" I was glad to find a marked improvement in your 
recitations last week. I began to think you were 
falling off rather fast. You ought to be a good 





scholar, for you look like a boy who has work in 
him." 

Eob had been in that desperate state where hard 
study was a relief, and yet now he did feel pleased to 
be thus complimented. It made him resolve to study 
this week. He had fallen into careless habits, or 
rather his habits of application had never been very 
remarkable. 

He wanted very much to tell Uncle Kobert, and he 
really could not keep it from Kathie. She was so 
delighted that she repeated it immediately. Uncle 
Eobert did not mean to ask for any confidence, yet he 
was deeply pained by its being withheld. A stranger 



would hardly have noticed the reserve, but these little 
things are keenly felt by those who love. 

Ah, children, do you ever think how often you give 
pain to your best and dearest friends in this man- 
ner ? Household confidence and freedom are so sweet 
that coldness and reserve seem grievous in the place. 
And though this pride may appear a grand armor to 
the one who is wearing it in some fit of anger or dis- 
dain, remember how it would be regretted if death 

* o 

should come between ! What if you should never be 
able to express your love again, and find the lips that 
might have kissed yours cold and still ! 



 

The news from New York was still very favorable. 
Mrs. Alston expected to return in the course of a 
week or two, and though they had become quite 
used to her absence, they were delighted with the 
prospect of having her back. Aunt Euth was con- 
fined to her bed yet, as Dr. Markham did not think 
it safe for her to attempt sitting up. 

" I wonder if she will want me ? " Kathie asked, 
thoughtfully. " I only wish she could come home 
with mamma." 

" I shall miss you very much if it is considered 
best for you to go. You are a great comfort, little 
girl." 

" Am I ? * and Kathie kissed him fondly, but 
there was a peculiar wistfulness in her soft eyes. 

" Uncle Eobert," she said, some time afterward, 
" don't you think we might forgive Bob the rest of 
the debt ? I am afraid he isn't very happy, and then 
he doesn't have a penny for anything." 

" I 'm not sure, Pussy, but that it will be best to 
let Eob fight out his battle alone, as he seems to 
desire no interference. I think he will come around 
right in the end." 

This gratified Kathie extremely. The fall was 


very pleasant, and they had many nice drives and 
rambles through the woods. Uncle Robert procured 
some large rustic baskets, and helped Kathie to fill 
them with flowers and mosses. Two were to be kept 
in Aunt Ruth's room. 

" And we might have a jar of ivy standing here ; 
it will run up beside the 'window and look very 
pretty." 

" do," exclaimed Kathie, eagerly. " I want this 
place to look just as lovely as it can when Aunt 
Ruth comes back." 

So they found a large urn-shaped jar and put in 
not only the ivy, but some scarlet geranium and tufts 
of tropical grass. 

"Why, the room begins to look like a conserva- 
tory ! " declared Kathie, with joy. 

"There are so many entertaining things that one 
might do, my little worker. I was thinking how 
nice it would be to have a collection of autumn 
leaves." 

" Oh, can't we ? " asked Kathie, pleadingly. " I 've 
saved ever so many." 

" They want to be pressed very nicely, and var^ 
nished with the thinnest coating we can give them. 



 

Then we might get a portfolio and arrange them on 
the pages. In this manner one can look at them 
without tumbling them over, and they will last a 
long while." 

Even Eob was interested in the collection, and 
brought them home some very beautiful specimens. 
On Saturday morning they all went to the woods and 
had a gay time gathering nuts and leaves. Kob was 
quite like himself and in the best of spirits. 

In the afternoon several girls came over to see 
Kathie. Uncle Eobert asked his nephew if he did 
not want to help him varnish the leaves, and Eob 
went at it with much interest. They had a very 
brilliant collection in mingled scarlet, gold, crimson, 
and brown. They were laid on a smooth board to 
dry, and were to be left there over Sunday. After- 
ward Eob washed his hands and changed his clothes, 
and then he did not know exactly what to do with 
himself. Uncle Eobert found him sauntering around 
the library. 

" Eob," he said, cheerily, " you have not had any 
money for so long that I believe I shall give you 
your allowance to-day." 

Eob drew back rather haughtily. He had resolved 





all along that lie would not take any more money, 
but lie remembered that he still owed seven cents, 
so there was quite a- struggle between pride and 
justice. 

" I owe you seven cents for the mislaid articles/' 
he answered, huskily, " and - I don't want the rest." 

" Why, Eob ! Do you get along better without 
money ? " 

Eob's lip quivered a little, and he averted his 
eyes for a moment; but one of those sudden and 
irrepressible impulses seized him, and he glanced 
up in spite of himself. 

" Eob," said his uncle, in a very winning tone, 
" let us forgive and forget, and be good friends." 

Somehow Eob couldn't help thinking of the first 
night of joy at his uncle's return, and his stubborn 
courage gave way. He winked very hard to keep 
the tears out of his eyes. 

" My boy, you have been fighting a rather severe 
battle alone " ; and his uncle's hand was laid softly 
upon his shoulder, and how it was he could never 
exactly tell, but he hid his face in the little nook 
made by the protecting arm, and actually cried. 

" Eob," his uncle began, in a low tone, " I have 



 

suffered too by being shut out of your confidence 
for the last two weeks. Suppose we try again. I 
did not mean to be as severe to you as you have 
been to yourself." 

And so they clasped hands in token of reconcilia- 
tion, but it was some moments before Eob was calm. 

" I suppose it did seem hard, but I have a fancy 
that the discipline has been productive of some good. 
The first week you were at school your record was 
perfect, and it has not been since, until the past fort- 
night. But I want you to try the money again. I 
think it better that a boy should be able to face 
temptation than always be kept out of it." 

Eob was thinking. The first week it had been a 
sore trial, and every day he had felt angry and mor- 
tified, but of late he had hardly remarked it. He 
had not gone quite so much with Luther Simonds's 
party, and he believed that was the reason his de- 
portment had been better, and his scholarship more 
perfect. 

" You don't say a word, Eob. Do you not care to 
be friends ? ' 

" O Uncle Eobert, it wasn't that. Yes, I 'm very 

it 

glad " ; and his voice choked up again. 





"Then we will begin anew. The old debt shall 
be forgiven, and we will start fair." 

There was something so frank and cheery in his 
uncle's tone that Eob's heart warmed to a very 
tender love. 

" I didn't mean not to take any more money be- 
cause I was better without it, but " 

" Because you felt too proud." 

"How did you know ?" and Eob glanced up eagerly. 

His uncle smiled. "That was no great mystery. 
After one has studied people for a good many years 
one can guess pretty correctly." 

" I didn't like to be thought the worst boy in the 
world," said Eob, " though I 'm bad enough " ; which 
was quite an admission for him. 

" No one entertained such an idea." 

" I wish I could be good, but I don't believe I ever 
can. It doesn't come natural to me as it does to 
Kathie." 

"We all have to try, I believe. In two weeks 
you have made some improvement." 

" Uncle Eobert, it wasn't for the sake of being 
good " ; and there was a strand of penitence in the 
boy's tone. 



 

"But you might try next time for the sake of 
being good." 

Eob sighed. Instead of being a martyr and a 
hero, as he had fancied himself, many of his motives 
looked very poor and unworthy. 

"Now suppose we finish the afternoon and our 
talk by going to drive," proposed his uncle, who 
thought that a change of scene might conduce to 
a still further confidence. 

In this he was right. By degrees Eob went over 
his late experience with much clearer eyes. He even 
admitted that the system of treating was not a good 
one, for, beside spending the money foolishly, it 
made some of the poorer ones feel very uncomfort- 
able because they could not join in the indulgence. 
"I don't believe I shall ever do it again," he said, 
thoughtfully. 

Eob was not one to make great professions of 
penitence and forget them the next day. He was 
thoughtless and careless, to be sure, but there were 
some good, strong elements in his character. As a 
boy, he would never be the favorite with girls that 
Charlie Darrell was, yet he might mature into as 
noble and good a man. 





Uncle Kobert was striving earnestly to do his duty 
by all these dear ones that he had taken in charge. 
His own experience had been peculiar and varied, 
and the height to which he was striving to attain for 
himself was that of a Christian gentleman. He had 
his trials, too, for we are none of us exempt ; and 
few who had known the gay, rollicking Eobert Cono- 
ver of fifteen years before, always as intent upon his 
own pleasures as Eob was now, would have looked 
for the patience and self-denial and tender thought- 
fulness that had become his leading characteristics; 
but with him, too, it had been a hard fight. 



 



CHAPTER Til. 

JUST IN LUCK. 

ROB came home from school the following Monday 
with a look of peculiar satisfaction upon his face. 
He made a rush through the house to find his uncle, 
and discovered him helping Kathie to put the finish- 
ing touches to their collection of autumn leaves. 
They were tastefully arranged, and made a series of 
brilliant and interesting pictures. 

" And, Oh, there 's some news ! " exclaimed Kathie. 
" We have had letters, and mamma wants to come 
home this week. Uncle Robert will have to go to 
New York to-morrow." 

" I 'm glad about mamma ; she has been away five 
weeks ; but I think we have done pretty well, all 
bat the first week," he added, as an after-thought. 

"And this week will be lonesome again," said 
Kathie, disconsolately. 

"Why, I thought you were going to be brave," 
Uncle Kobert said, with a laugh. 



. 

" Well, so I am ; I wasn't complaining exactly. 

"We shall all miss you, more than we did at 
first, I think," confessed Eob. 

" It 's a wonder to me how we ever lived without 
you," said Kathie, with her arch, mirthful look. 
" Now these are all arranged. Where shall we keep 
