I was not suspicious; I had no idea that any one intended to wrong
me. I was even willing to believe that Morgan Blair was sincere, and
really thought that I ought to advance him money from the estate of his
uncle, even before he had proved his claim. After all, it is pleasant
to believe that no one intends to injure you; it is even better to be
occasionally deceived than to be always suspicious.

I went up the stairs in the house to which the note from Mr. Lamar had
given me the address without a suspicion that anything was, or could
be, wrong. I had never before seen the handwriting of my correspondent,
and had no reason to suppose that the note was a fraud upon me. Though
I had had a sharp experience of the villany of men since I came from my
home in the wilderness, I was still a child in the ways of the great
world.

I entered the room to which I had been conducted by the man in a white
jacket, and the door was instantly closed behind me and locked. The
apartment was an attic chamber, on the fourth floor of the house, and
contained the ordinary furniture of a bedroom. Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne,
otherwise Lynch, sat in a rocking-chair, smoking a cigar. Blair had
slipped in behind me when I entered in order to secure the door; and
having done this, he took a chair near the blackleg. On a small table,
over which hung the gas-light, was a silver box, such as I had seen
in the hands of Redwood at Leavenworth. It contained a pack of cards,
and another lay upon the table. There was also a dice-box, and some
other gambling implements, of which I do not even know the names. I
concluded, from the position of the parties and the articles on the
table between them, that Lynch had been giving the young man a lesson
in the art of winning money.

"How are you, Phil Farringford?" said Lynch, with a sort of triumphant
smile, which indicated the pleasure he felt at the success of his trick.

"How are you, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?" I replied, cheerfully; for
I felt it to be my duty to demonstrate that I was not alarmed at my
situation.

The demonstration was not a feint, either. I felt an utter contempt
for Lynch, and, now that I realized his rascality, for Morgan Blair.
I had fought the savage Indians in the forest, which had developed my
courage, if nothing more. I glanced around the room, and saw at the
grate an iron poker, with which I thought I might neutralize the odds
against me, in case the interview resulted in anything more dangerous
to life and health than mere words. The letter, in its postscript,
as though it had been an afterthought, requested me to bring Mr.
Gracewood's note. Blair had asked me to give it up to him. I was
inclined to think that the parties before me wanted this note, though
I could not imagine what earthly use it could be to them.

"You need not call me by that name any longer," added Lynch, biting
his lip, and evidently vexed to find that I was not intimidated by my
situation.

"As you gave me the name of Leonidas Lynchpinne, I shall consult my own
inclination, rather than yours, in the use of it."

"You will change your tune before you are an hour older, Phil."

"If I do I shall take the pitch from you."

"You are here at my summons, my lad."

"I see now that I am; brought here by a lie and a swindle, which seem
be your stock in trade."

"Don't be impudent, Phil."

"If you speak to me like a gentleman, I will answer you in the same
way. You need not put on airs."

"I have business with you, Phil."

"I have no business with you; and I respectfully decline having
anything whatever to do with you."

"Your declination is not accepted. I want to tell you that I never
forget a friend or forgive an enemy."

"I have fought Indians before, and though I don't like the business, I
can do it again."

"Do you call that talking like a gentleman, Phil?"

"No gentleman ever utters an Indian sentiment."

"You are in my power, Phil, and you had better come down from that high
horse."

"I'm not in your power, and never shall be till I become a thief, a
blackleg, and a swindler," I replied, calmly, as I glanced at Morgan
Blair, who, I thought, was completely in his power.

"What!" exclaimed Lynch, springing to his feet, his face red with anger.

I fell back two or three steps, and quietly took up the poker, which
rested against the bracket at the side of the grate.

"What are you going to do with that?" demanded he.

"That will depend upon circumstances."

"Drop that poker!"

"For the present I shall regard this poker as a part of myself; and I
hope you will so regard it."

"You impudent puppy!"

"Foul words are cheap, defiling only him who utters them," I added,
quoting a sentence from the instructions of Mr. Gracewood.

"I'm not to be trifled with, Phil," said Lynch, taking a small
Derringer pistol from his pocket.

"That's just my case," I answered, elevating the poker.

"Look here, Lynch," interrupted Morgan Blair, rising from his chair
in evident alarm, "if you are going to use pistols and such things, I
won't have anything to do with the scrape."

"Shut up, Blair!" replied Lynch.

"I won't!"

"You are a fool!" exclaimed the older villain, dropping into his
rocking-chair with an expression of utter disgust upon his face.

I felt that I was fighting my battle very well indeed, and I was
encouraged in the course I had chosen.

"I don't want any shooting where I am," said Blair. "I'm willing to
lick him within an inch of his life, if he don't play fair, but I
don't want him shot."

  [Illustration: PHIL DEFIES LYNCH. Page 224.]

"I don't intend to shoot him, unless he attacks me with that poker. I
want to show him that two can play at his game," added Lynch. "Will you
drop that poker, Phil?"

"I will not."

"If you undertake to use it, I want you to understand that pistol balls
travel faster than pokers."

"Very true; and if you are satisfied with your pistol, I am with my
poker. I am ready to end this meeting at any time."

"I am not ready to end it. I have business with you. I don't forgive an
enemy."

"I do, when he deserves to be forgiven."

"None of your cant! I'm not going to a prayer-meeting with you now."

"It would do you good to go to one; and I know of no one who needs to
go any more than you."

"If you can hold your tongue long enough, we will proceed to business,
Phil."

"I have no business to proceed to; and I'm going to speak as I feel
inclined," I replied, resting the poker in a chair near me.

"I have business with you, if you have not with me. As I told you, I
never forgive an enemy."

"As I told you before, that is an Indian sentiment."

"Will you hold your tongue?"

"No, sir, I will not."

"You knocked me down in the street, and took my money from me."

"At your request I took it; and you were kind enough to pay me the
balance in my favor when we parted at the police station," I replied.

"You must give me back that money, Phil."

"Not if I know it. Let me remind you that the money belonged to me, and
that I did not charge you any interest upon it for the time you had it."

"The money wasn't yours. It belonged to Matt Rockwood. You stole it;
and I intended to get all I could for my friend here, Morgan Blair, to
whom all of it belongs."

"You and your friend seem to understand each other very well, except
so far as the pistol is concerned."

"I act for him. He is a young fellow, and don't know much about the
ways of the world."

"He appears to be learning very rapidly."

"He is the rightful heir of the man up the river, whose money you have.
I expect you to give it up to him."

"And I expect to do so myself, just as soon as he proves the claim.
Though I think I have a better right to the money than he has, I will
give it up whenever he satisfies me that he is the nephew of Matt
Rockwood. If this is your business with me, you can't get ahead any
farther with it to-night."

"Have you the note with you--the note of Mr.--What's his name?"

"Mr. Gracewood," added Blair.

"I respectfully decline to answer," I replied.

"But you must give it up before you leave this house."

"Then I shall stay here longer than you will want to board me."

"I don't intend to board you," sneered Lynch. "You will neither eat nor
drink till you give up this note, and the hundred dollars you got out
of me at the police station."

"So far as the money is concerned, I spent a part of it, and the rest I
left at my boarding-house."

"You can give me an order on your landlady for what you have left, and
Blair will go and get it."

"I will not give him that trouble."

"You prefer to stay here--do you?"

"I do; this isn't a bad place to stay, and I can stand it here a while."

"Consider well your situation, Phil. This is my room. I board here when
I am in town, and--"

"It's good enough for me, if it is for you."

"It is a gambling-house, and the people who live here are my friends. I
can bring in half a dozen men to help me."

"Bring them in," I replied, laughing, though I confess that I was not
very much amused.

"It's no joke."

"It will not be for you when you are done with it. When my father
misses me, he will be very likely to send for our friends, Mr. Lamar
and Mr. Gray."

"In a word, Phil, will you give me that note."

"In a word, I will not; and in another word, I will fight just as long
as I have a breath in my body, if you or anybody else attempts to
meddle with me."

"Phil, you go to prayer-meetings, and claim to be honest," continued
Lynch, changing his tone when he found that he did not terrify me.

"I do go to prayer-meetings when I can, and I try to be honest."

"I hope you will keep on trying. By the merest accident Blair stumbled
upon you, and turns out to be the heir of the man whose money you have.
He is the last of the Rockwoods. Do you think it is honest to keep him
out of his money?"

"I'm not so sure now that he stumbled upon me."

"Didn't he ask you something about the upper Missouri, and tell you he
had an uncle there? and didn't he tell you the name of his uncle before
you had mentioned it?"

"He certainly did; but since I have found out what company he keeps, I
begin to think you posted him up, and sent him to stumble upon me."

"That's absurd."

"Not at all. Didn't you hear me tell the whole story in the police
station, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?"

"I never saw him till after that," replied Lynch, angrily, as he picked
up the pistol, which he had laid upon the table. "It is useless to
reason with you. Come, Blair, we will leave him here to think about it
till morning."

The villain moved towards the door, pointing his pistol at me. It was
capped, and I supposed it was loaded. Blair unlocked the door, and
retreated into the entry. Lynch followed his example, and as it was
possible that he might fire at me, I did not deem it prudent to be the
aggressor. I heard the door locked upon me.




  CHAPTER XX.

  IN WHICH PHIL IS STARTLED BY THE SIGHT OF A FAMILIAR FACE.


I actually laughed when I heard the bolt of the lock snapped upon me;
partly because I thought it was better to laugh over my mishaps than to
cry, and partly because the trick of which I had been made the victim
was simply ridiculous. Perhaps, if I had been a boy brought up in the
city, and had never been thrown upon my own resources in times of
peril, I might have taken a different view of the matter. I can easily
believe that many boys would have been intimidated, and given up the
money and the note. Lynch ought to have known me better, though I had
been a lamb at Leavenworth.

I seated myself in the rocking-chair, and looked around the room. There
was a luthern window in it, which opened upon the roof. A cheerful
coal fire burned in the grate, and the room was quite comfortable.
I examined the silver card box on the table, and the other articles
there; but I was not much interested in them, and soon gave myself up
to a consideration of the situation. Of course the whole trick was
intended to intimidate me; but I positively refused to be intimidated.
I supposed my persecutors would soon return, and renew the onslaught.

For my own part, I could not see what they intended to gain, even if
they obtained the note against Mr. Gracewood. It was stupid of them to
imagine that he would give up the money to total strangers. Still they
must have believed he would let them have the gold, for they could not
have taken all this trouble for the seventy dollars which I had. But
it was no use to speculate upon their intentions. The note was safe in
my pocket, and the money at my boarding-house. If I had supposed there
was any possibility of the villains obtaining the former, I would have
burned it on the spot, for I knew that Mr. Gracewood would pay the
money whether there was any legal document to show for it or not.

I rose from my chair, and walked to the door, in order to examine it.
This same Lynch had once before locked me into a room, and it was
possible that I might break this door open, as I had done on the former
occasion. But I found this was a different piece of work from that at
Leavenworth. It fitted well in the frame. I tried the handle, and found
that it was securely locked.

"No use, Phil," said a voice in the entry, which I recognized as that
of Morgan Blair.

It appeared that my late fellow-workman was stationed as a sentinel at
the door to prevent my escape.

"Where's Lynch?" I asked, placing my mouth at the key-hole.

"Down stairs. Are you ready to give up the note?"

"No."

"When you are, let me know."

I made no reply, but walked to the window to see what the prospect was
in that direction. I did not wish to stay in my prison a great while,
for I knew that my father would worry about me if I did not return
soon. I was in the hands of the enemy, and I was afraid that Lynch
would keep me in the room till the middle of the night, and then, with
the aid of others, overcome me, and rob me of the note. I was not so
well satisfied with the situation as at first, when I could realize the
possibilities of the occasion.

The window opened upon a steep roof. I raised the sash very carefully,
so that Blair might not know what I was about. But, then, I had hardly
a hope of being able to escape in this direction; for I did not see how
it was possible for me to descend to the street. However, I should be
out of the reach of my inquisitors, even if I passed the night on the
cold slates of the roof. I climbed out of the window, and my head swam
when I looked down the fearful depth below me. I was on the rear slope
of the roof, and beneath me was the back yard of the house.

The darkness rather favored me, for I could not so readily measure
distances, and in a short time I became accustomed to the giddy height,
though I thought it best not to look down. Holding on with one hand at
the side of the luthern window, I closed the lower sash, and dropped
the upper one. Grasping the inside of the window-frame for support, I
climbed up till my feet were placed upon the top of the two sashes.
I could then reach the roof of the luthern window. A ledge on the
top of it afforded me a good hold, and I drew myself up, though with
considerable difficulty, and my breath was all gone when I reached the
point, exhausted by the violence of my exertions.

I lay where I was a few moments to recover my wind and my strength. I
had placed the poker on the roof before I ascended, for I was afraid
that I might yet have to fight a battle. I had worked very carefully,
so as not to disturb the sentinel at the door of the room; and, so far
as I could judge, I had been successful, for I heard nothing of him. I
was on the top of the luthern window; and, so far as the inquisitors
were concerned, I was safe. I preferred to stay there, though the night
was quite chilly, rather than in the chamber of Lynch. But if I could
have my choice, it would suit me better to go home, and sleep in my
own bed.

About half way between the luthern window and the ridge-pole of the
house there was a skylight. The light shone up through it, and I
concluded from its position that it was used to light the entry where
Blair was keeping guard over the door. Lying down on the slated roof,
with my feet resting upon the luthern window, I found I could reach the
upper end of the skylight with my hands. I looked through the glass
into the entry below, and saw a gas-light burning there. Under me was
the door of the gambling-chamber, but Blair was not there. I tried to
raise the skylight; but it was secure, and could not be moved. It was
at least fourteen feet above the floor, and the space between the glass
and the ceiling of the entry was boxed in, forming a ventiduct for the
passage of the air.

If I could have opened the skylight, it would have been hardly
prudent for me to drop down fourteen feet upon a hard floor, with the
additional peril of encountering my enemies in going down the stairs. I
could not see Blair, and I concluded that he had heard me, in spite of
all my precautions, and had gone to procure the aid of Lynch. Whether
this view was correct or not, I decided to act upon it, and increase
the distance between myself and my persecutors. Grasping the upper part
of the skylight, I dragged myself up to the point where I had placed my
hands. Here I paused to breathe again.

While I was waiting I heard voices through the skylight. Looking
through the glass, I saw Lynch and Blair, the latter unlocking the
chamber door. I immediately concluded not to rest any longer, and
laying hold of the ridge-pole, I drew myself up, and took a seat
astride the saddle-boards. The block extended as far as I could see in
the gloom of the night. With my hands upon the saddle-boards, I hopped
along like a frog till I was satisfied that I was out of the reach of
any pursuers. But I began to be very anxious to reach terra firma
once more, and I continued to hop till I came to a four-story block
with a flat roof. This was hopeful, and passing from the steep slope I
found myself in a very comfortable position.

I could discover no signs of any pursuers behind me; and I concluded
that the inquisitors were not enterprising enough to follow me in
the perilous track I had chosen. Pleasant as was my present location
compared with the slippery sides of the slated roof, I was not disposed
to spend the night there. But I did not think it safe to jump down into
the street, for I knew that the pavement could stand the shock of such
a descent better than I could. On one of the roofs there were planks
laid down, and places for lines, and I concluded that it was used for
drying clothes. At every house I found a scuttle, and some of them
were not fastened; but I did not like the idea of being captured as a
burglar, and sent to the station-house to remain over Sunday. I walked
to the end of the block, where a cross-street interrupted my further
progress in that direction.

Between the several tenements which composed the block there were brick
walls rising about a foot above the flat roof. They were the dividing
lines between the houses. I observed that the house at the corner of
the cross-street occupied as much space as three of the others, and
was planked all over, with stanchions for clothes-lines. I concluded
that the building was used for a purpose different from the others. I
went to the front, and looked down into the street. There were a couple
of gas-lamps before the door, and people were constantly arriving and
departing. I satisfied myself that the house was a hotel.

In the rear of the roof there was a kind of crane, with a couple of
ropes reaching to the ground. I reasoned that the apparatus was used
for hoisting up baskets of clothes. I also found a scuttle door, which
was not fastened, and I began to consider whether I should go down by
the rope or by the stairs. I did not like the idea of dangling in the
air fifty feet from the ground on the one hand, or of being captured
as a thief on the other. If I went down the rope, it might drop me in
some back yard, where I might be liable to suspicion if discovered. On
the whole, I concluded that the stairs were the safer expedient, and I
carefully opened the scuttle door.

The steps led down to a well-lighted entry; and, having satisfied
myself that no one was there, I descended, taking the precaution to
hook the door behind me, which some careless servant had neglected to
do, though I was not disposed to blame her for the neglect. Passing
down the steps, I came to a long entry, from which opened on each side
the sleeping-rooms. The stairs were at the other end, and I walked
as lightly as my thick boots would permit through the hall. At the
stairs I heard the sound of voices on the floor below, and I paused. I
concluded that the upper floors were used for sleeping-rooms, and that
no one would remain long in the entry. Presently I heard a door open,
and then the sound of footsteps on the stairs below. As all was still
again, I ventured to descend the steps to the next hall.

I had hardly reached this floor before a gentleman came out of one
of the rooms; but he passed me, and went down stairs without taking
any notice of me. I was now on the third story, and must descend two
more flights in order to reach the street. I was not a thief, and
there was no stolen property upon me. But men in white jackets were
always whisking about in hotels, as I had observed at the Planters'.
I determined to be ready with an answer if any of these fellows
challenged me, and to tell the whole truth if I was detained.

I had hardly reached this conclusion before a waiter in a white jacket
confronted me, looked at me suspiciously, and demanded my business.

"Where is Mr. Rockwood?" I asked, using the name most familiar to me.

"That's his room over there, where the door is open," said he, pointing
towards the other end of the hall, and then continuing on his way up
stairs.

I walked in the direction indicated, intending to rush down stairs as
soon as the waiter was out of hearing. I went as far as the open door,
and looked into the apartment. A gentleman sat in an arm-chair, reading
a newspaper. A glance at him startled me more than anything that had
ever occurred to me before.

That gentleman was Matt Rockwood, it seemed to me, dressed in his best
clothes. He glanced from his paper into the entry, as I paused there.
The face, the expression, the white beard,--everything about him was
Matt Rockwood.




  CHAPTER XXI.

  IN WHICH PHIL FINDS HIMSELF SIXTY-FIVE DOLLARS OUT.


I repeat that I was startled when I saw the gentleman in the room with
the open door. He was the very image of Matt Rockwood, who had taken
me from the cold waters of the upper Missouri, and brought me up in
his log cabin. Of course I could not believe it was old Matt, for I
had seen him fall before the rifle-shot of the Indian, and had wept
bitterly over his grave when his remains were committed to the earth.

The gentleman before me was dressed better than old Matt ever clothed
himself; but his face was as brown from exposure, and his brow as
deeply indented with wrinkles. If I had not known that my foster-father
was dead, I should have been willing to declare, at the first glance,
that this gentleman was he.

"What do you want, young man?" said he, as I paused rather longer that
politeness would tolerate before his door.

His voice was that of Matt Rockwood; and, as I do not care to prolong a
sensation, I at once jumped to the conclusion that the person before me
was the brother of my foster-father, though Morgan Blair had assured me
that he also was in his grave.

"If you please, sir, I would like to speak to you," I replied to his
question.

"Come in," he added, laying aside his newspaper. "What is your business
with me?"

I entered the room, which was a parlor, and from it a bedroom opened
on one side. The apartments were very handsomely furnished, and as the
gentleman before me was very well dressed, I concluded that fortune had
dealt more kindly with him than with Matt.

"Are you Mr. Rockwood?" I asked, gazing earnestly at him.

"I am."

"Mr. Mark Rockwood?"

"Yes."

"You had a brother, sir?"

"I had."

"And a sister?"

"No; or rather I had two, but both of them died in their childhood," he
replied, evidently astonished at my line of questions.

He had no sister, and Morgan Blair's story, as I had suspected after I
found him in the company of Lynch, was all a fiction.

"Have you heard from your brother within a few years?" I inquired.

"Not for twenty years. But who are you, young man?" he demanded,
evidently supposing that I had known his brother.

At this moment the waiter of whom I had inquired for Mr. Rockwood
appeared before the door and looked in.

"What do you want, John?" asked the old gentleman.

"Nothing, sir; the young man with you inquired for your room, and I
came to see if he found you," replied the servant, retiring.

"Who are you, young man, and why do you ask me these questions?"

"I have seen your brother Matthew since you have, and I did not know
but you might wish to hear about him, though I haven't any good news
for you."

"You knew Matthew, then?"

"Yes, sir; I lived with him about ten years. In fact, he brought me up."

"But the last I heard of him, he had gone up the Missouri River."

"Yes, sir; and it was there that I lived with him."

"Where is he now?" asked Mr. Rockwood; and I saw that he was
considerably moved.

"I am sorry to say I have no good news to tell you."

"Is he living?"

"No, sir; he died last spring. But I want to tell you, before I say
anything more, that no better man than your brother ever lived."

Mr. Rockwood was silent for a few moments. Doubtless the intelligence
I communicated revived the memories of the past, when they had been
children together.

