3rd. Those addressed to the moral faculties, accusing her as artful,
treacherous, untruthful, malignant.
All these various devices he held in his hand, shuffling and dealing
them as a careful gamester his pack of cards according to the
exigencies of the game. He played adroitly, skilfully, with blinding
flatteries and seductive wiles, that made his victims willing dupes.
Nothing can more clearly show the power and perfectness of his
enchantments than the masterly way in which he turned back the moral
force of the whole English nation, which had risen at first in its
strength against him. The victory was complete.
CHAPTER IV.
RESULTS AFTER LORD BYRON'S DEATH.
At the time of Lord Byron's death, the English public had been so
skilfully manipulated by the Byron propaganda, that the sympathy of
the whole world was with him. A tide of emotion was now aroused in
England by his early death--dying in the cause of Greece and liberty.
There arose a general wail for him, as for a lost pleiad, not only
in England, but over the whole world; a great rush of enthusiasm for
his memory, to which the greatest literary men of England freely gave
voice. By general consent, Lady Byron seems to have been looked upon as
the only cold-hearted unsympathetic person in this general mourning.
From that time the literary world of England apparently regarded Lady
Byron as a woman to whom none of the decorums, nor courtesies of
ordinary womanhood, nor even the consideration belonging to common
humanity, were due.
'She that is a widow indeed, and desolate,' has been regarded in all
Christian countries as an object made sacred by the touch of God's
afflicting hand, sacred in her very helplessness; and the old Hebrew
Scriptures give to the Supreme Father no dearer title than 'the widow's
God.' But, on Lord Byron's death, men not devoid of tenderness, men
otherwise generous and of fine feeling, acquiesced in insults to his
widow with an obtuseness that seems, on review, quite incredible.
Lady Byron was not only a widow, but an orphan. She had no sister for
confidante; no father and mother to whom to go in her sorrows--sorrows
so much deeper and darker to her than they could be to any other human
being. She had neither son nor brother to uphold and protect her. On
all hands it was acknowledged that, so far, there was no fault to be
found in her but her utter silence. Her life was confessed to be pure,
useful, charitable; and yet, in this time of her sorrow, the writers
of England issued article upon article not only devoid of delicacy,
but apparently injurious and insulting towards her, with a blind
unconsciousness which seems astonishing.
One of the greatest literary powers of that time was the 'Blackwood:'
the reigning monarch on that literary throne was Wilson, the
lion-hearted, the brave, generous, tender poet, and, with some sad
exceptions, the noble man. But Wilson had believed the story of Byron,
and, by his very generosity and tenderness and pity, was betrayed into
injustice.
In 'The Noctes' of November 1824 there is a conversation of the Noctes
Club, in which North says, 'Byron and I knew each other pretty well;
and I suppose there's no harm in adding, that we appreciated each
other pretty tolerably. Did you ever see his letter to me?'
The footnote to this says, 'This letter, which was PRINTED in Byron's
lifetime, was not published till 1830, when it appeared in Moore's
"Life of Byron." It is one of the most vigorous prose compositions in
the language. Byron had the highest opinion of Wilson's genius and
noble spirit.'
In the first place, with our present ideas of propriety and good taste,
we should reckon it an indecorum to make the private affairs of a
pure and good woman, whose circumstances under any point of view were
trying, and who evidently shunned publicity, the subject of public
discussion in magazines which were read all over the world.
Lady Byron, as they all knew, had on her hands a most delicate and
onerous task, in bringing up an only daughter, necessarily inheriting
peculiarities of genius and great sensitiveness; and the many
mortifications and embarrassments which such intermeddling with her
private matters must have given, certainly should have been considered
by men with any pretensions to refinement or good feeling.
But the literati of England allowed her no consideration, no rest, no
privacy.
In 'The Noctes' of November 1825 there is the record of a free
conversation upon Lord and Lady Byron's affairs, interlarded with
exhortations to push the bottle, and remarks on whisky-toddy. Medwin's
'Conversations with Lord Byron' is discussed, which, we are told in a
note, appeared a few months after the noble poet's death.
There is a rather bold and free discussion of Lord Byron's
character--his fondness for gin and water, on which stimulus he wrote
'Don Juan;' and James Hogg says pleasantly to Mullion, 'O Mullion! it's
a pity you and Byron could na ha' been acquaint. There would ha' been
brave sparring to see who could say the wildest and the dreadfullest
things; for he had neither fear of man or woman, and would ha' his joke
or jeer, cost what it might.' And then follows a specimen of one of
his jokes with an actress, that, in indecency, certainly justifies the
assertion. From the other stories which follow, and the parenthesis
that occurs frequently ('Mind your glass, James, a little more!'), it
seems evident that the party are progressing in their peculiar kind of
civilisation.
It is in this same circle and paper that Lady Byron's private affairs
come up for discussion. The discussion is thus elegantly introduced:--
 Hogg.--'Reach me the black bottle. I say, Christopher, what, after
 all, is your opinion o' Lord and Leddy Byron's quarrel? Do you
 yoursel' take part with him, or with her? I wad like to hear your real
 opinion.'
 North.--'Oh, dear! Well, Hogg, since you will have it, I think
 Douglas Kinnard and Hobhouse are bound to tell us whether there be any
 truth, and how much, in this story about the declaration, signed by
 Sir Ralph' [Milbanke].
The note here tells us that this refers to a statement that appeared
in 'Blackwood' immediately after Byron's death, to the effect that,
previous to the formal separation from his wife, Byron required and
obtained from Sir Ralph Milbanke, Lady Byron's father, a statement to
the effect that Lady Byron had no charge of moral delinquency to bring
against him.[18]
[Footnote 18: Recently, Lord Lindsay has published another version of
this story, which makes it appear that he has conversed with a lady who
conversed with Hobhouse during his lifetime, in which this story is
differently reported. In the last version, it is made to appear that
Hobhouse had this declaration from Lady Byron herself.]
North continues:--
 'And I think Lady Byron's letter--the "Dearest Duck" one I
 mean--should really be forthcoming, if her ladyship's friends wish to
 stand fair before the public. At present we have nothing but loose
 talk of society to go upon; and certainly, if the things that are
 said be true, there must be thorough explanation from some quarter,
 or the tide will continue, as it has assuredly begun, to flow in a
 direction very opposite to what we were for years accustomed. Sir,
 they must explain this business of the letter. You have, of course,
 heard about the invitation it contained, the warm, affectionate
 invitation, to Kirkby Mallory'----
Hogg interposes,--
 'I dinna like to be interruptin' ye, Mr. North; but I must inquire, Is
 the jug to stand still while ye're going on at that rate?'
 North.--'There, Porker! These things are part and parcel of
 the chatter of every bookseller's shop; à fortiori, of every
 drawing-room in May Fair. Can the matter stop here? Can a great
 man's memory be permitted to incur damnation while these saving
 clauses are afloat anywhere uncontradicted?'
And from this the conversation branches off into strong, emphatic
praise of Byron's conduct in Greece during the last part of his life.
The silent widow is thus delicately and considerately reminded in the
'Blackwood' that she is the talk, not only over the whisky-jug of the
Noctes, but in every drawing-room in London; and that she must speak
out and explain matters, or the whole world will set against her.
But she does not speak yet. The public persecution, therefore,
proceeds. Medwin's book being insufficient, another biographer is to
be selected. Now, the person in the Noctes Club who was held to have
the most complete information of the Byron affairs, and was, on that
account, first thought of by Murray to execute this very delicate task
of writing a memoir which should include the most sacred domestic
affairs of a noble lady and her orphan daughter, was Maginn. Maginn,
the author of the pleasant joke, that 'man never reaches the apex of
civilisation till he is too drunk to pronounce the word,' was the first
person in whose hands the 'Autobiography,' Memoirs, and Journals of
Lord Byron were placed with this view.
The following note from Shelton Mackenzie, in the June number of 'The
Noctes,' 1824, says,--
 'At that time, had he been so minded, Maginn (Odoherty) could have got
 up a popular Life of Byron as well as most men in England. Immediately
 on the account of Byron's death being received in London, John Murray
 proposed that Maginn should bring out Memoirs, Journals, and Letters
 of Lord Byron, and, with this intent, placed in his hand every line
 that he (Murray) possessed in Byron's handwriting.... The strong
 desire of Byron's family and executors that the "Autobiography"
 should be burned, to which desire Murray foolishly yielded, made such
 an hiatus in the materials, that Murray and Maginn agreed it would not
 answer to bring out the work then. Eventually Moore executed it.'
The character of the times in which this work was to be undertaken will
appear from the following note of Mackenzie's to 'The Noctes' of August
1824, which we copy, with the author's own Italics:--
 'In the "Blackwood" of July 1824 was a poetical epistle by the
 renowned Timothy Tickler to the editor of the "John Bull" magazine,
 on an article in his first number. This article ... professed to
 be a portion of the veritable "Autobiography" of Byron which was
 burned, and was called "My Wedding Night." It appeared to relate
 in detail everything that occurred in the twenty-four hours
 immediately succeeding that in which Byron was married. It had plenty
 of coarseness, and some to spare. It went into particulars such as
 hitherto had been given only by Faublas; and it had, notwithstanding,
 many phrases and some facts which evidently did not belong to a mere
 fabricator. Some years after, I compared this "Wedding Night" with
 what I had all assurance of having been transcribed from the actual
 manuscripts of Byron, and was persuaded that the magazine-writer must
 have had the actual statement before him, or have had a perusal of
 it. The writer in "Blackwood" declared his conviction that it really
 was Byron's own writing.'
The reader must remember that Lord Byron died April 1824; so that,
according to this, his 'Autobiography' was made the means of this gross
insult to his widow three months after his death.
If some powerful cause had not paralysed all feelings of gentlemanly
honour, and of womanly delicacy, and of common humanity, towards Lady
Byron, throughout the whole British nation, no editor would have dared
to open a periodical with such an article; or, if he had, he would have
been overwhelmed with a storm of popular indignation, which, like the
fire upon Sodom, would have made a pillar of salt of him for a warning
to all future generations.
'Blackwood' reproves the 'John Bull' in a poetical epistle, recognising
the article as coming from Byron, and says to the author,--
  'But that you, sir, a wit and a scholar like you,
  Should not blush to produce what he blushed not to do,--
  Take your compliment, youngster; this doubles, almost,
  The sorrow that rose when his honour was lost.'
We may not wonder that the 'Autobiography' was burned, as Murray says
in a recent account, by a committee of Byron's friends, including
Hobhouse, his sister, and Murray himself.
Now, the 'Blackwood' of July 1824 thus declares its conviction that
this outrage on every sentiment of human decency came from Lord Byron,
and that his honour was lost. Maginn does not undertake the memoir. No
memoir at all is undertaken; till finally Moore is selected, as, like
Demetrius of old, a well-skilled gilder and 'maker of silver shrines,'
though not for Diana. To Moore is committed the task of doing his
best for this battered image, in which even the worshippers recognise
foul sulphurous cracks, but which they none the less stand ready to
worship as a genuine article that 'fell down from Jupiter.'
Moore was a man of no particular nicety as to moralities, but in that
matter seems not very much below what this record shows his average
associates to be. He is so far superior to Maginn, that his vice is
rose-coloured and refined. He does not burst out with such heroic
stanzas as Maginn's frank invitation to Jeremy Bentham:--
  'Jeremy, throw your pen aside,
    And come get drunk with me;
  And we'll go where Bacchus sits astride,
    Perched high on barrels three.'
Moore's vice is cautious, soft, seductive, slippery, and covered at
times with a thin, tremulous veil of religious sentimentalism.
In regard to Byron, he was an unscrupulous, committed partisan: he was
as much bewitched by him as ever man has been by woman; and therefore
to him, at last, the task of editing Byron's 'Memoirs' was given.
This Byron, whom they all knew to be obscene beyond what even their
most drunken tolerance could at first endure; this man, whose foul
license spoke out what most men conceal from mere respect to the
decent instincts of humanity; whose 'honour was lost,'--was submitted
to this careful manipulator, to be turned out a perfected idol for a
world longing for an idol, as the Israelites longed for the calf in
Horeb.
The image was to be invested with deceitful glories and shifting
haloes,--admitted faults spoken of as peculiarities of sacred
origin,--and the world given to understand that no common rule or
measure could apply to such an undoubtedly divine production; and so
the hearts of men were to be wrung with pity for his sorrows as the
yearning pain of a god, and with anger at his injuries as sacrilege on
the sacredness of genius, till they were ready to cast themselves at
his feet, and adore.
Then he was to be set up on a pedestal, like Nebuchadnezzar's image on
the plains of Dura; and what time the world heard the sound of cornet,
sackbut, and dulcimer, in his enchanting verse, they were to fall down
and worship.
For Lady Byron, Moore had simply the respect that a commoner has for
a lady of rank, and a good deal of the feeling that seems to underlie
all English literature,--that it is no matter what becomes of the woman
when the man's story is to be told. But, with all his faults, Moore was
not a cruel man; and we cannot conceive such outrageous cruelty and
ungentlemanly indelicacy towards an unoffending woman, as he shows in
these 'Memoirs,' without referring them to Lord Byron's own influence
in making him an unscrupulous, committed partisan on his side.
So little pity, so little sympathy, did he suppose Lady Byron to be
worthy of, that he laid before her, in the sight of all the world,
selections from her husband's letters and journals, in which the
privacies of her courtship and married life were jested upon with a
vulgar levity; letters filled, from the time of the act of separation,
with a constant succession of sarcasms, stabs, stings, epigrams, and
vindictive allusions to herself, bringing her into direct and insulting
comparison with his various mistresses, and implying their superiority
over her. There, too, were gross attacks on her father and mother, as
having been the instigators of the separation; and poor Lady Milbanke,
in particular, is sometimes mentioned with epithets so offensive, that
the editor prudently covers the terms with stars, as intending language
too gross to be printed.
The last mistress of Lord Byron is uniformly brought forward in
terms of such respect and consideration, that one would suppose that
the usual moral laws that regulate English family life had been
specially repealed in his favour. Moore quotes with approval letters
from Shelley, stating that Lord Byron's connection with La Guiccioli
has been of inestimable benefit to him; and that he is now becoming
what he should be, 'a virtuous man.' Moore goes on to speak of the
connection as one, though somewhat reprehensible, yet as having all
those advantages of marriage and settled domestic ties that Byron's
affectionate spirit had long sighed for, but never before found; and in
his last résumé of the poet's character, at the end of the volume, he
brings the mistress into direct comparison with the wife in a single
sentence: 'The woman to whom he gave the love of his maturer years
idolises his name; and, with a single unhappy exception, scarce an
instance is to be found of one brought ... into relations of amity with
him who did not retain a kind regard for him in life, and a fondness
for his memory.'
Literature has never yet seen the instance of a person, of Lady Byron's
rank in life, placed before the world in a position more humiliating to
womanly dignity, or wounding to womanly delicacy.
The direct implication is, that she has no feelings to be hurt, no
heart to be broken, and is not worthy even of the consideration which
in ordinary life is to be accorded to a widow who has received those
awful tidings which generally must awaken many emotions, and call for
some consideration, even in the most callous hearts.
The woman who we are told walked the room, vainly striving to control
the sobs that shook her frame, while she sought to draw from the
servant that last message of her husband which she was never to hear,
was not thought worthy even of the rights of common humanity.
The first volume of the 'Memoir' came out in 1830. Then for the first
time came one flash of lightning from the silent cloud; and she who
had never spoken before spoke out. The libels on the memory of her
dead parents drew from her what her own wrongs never did. During all
this time, while her husband had been keeping her effigy dangling
before the public as a mark for solemn curses, and filthy lampoons,
and secretly-circulated disclosures, that spared no sacredness
and violated every decorum, she had not uttered a word. She had
been subjected to nameless insults, discussed in the assemblies of
drunkards, and challenged to speak for herself. Like the chaste lady
in 'Comus,' whom the vile wizard had bound in the enchanted seat to
be 'grinned at and chattered at' by all the filthy rabble of his
dehumanised rout, she had remained pure, lofty, and undefiled; and the
stains of mud and mire thrown upon her had fallen from her spotless
garments.
Now that she is dead, a recent writer in 'The London Quarterly' dares
give voice to an insinuation which even Byron gave only a suggestion
of when he called his wife Clytemnestra; and hints that she tried the
power of youth and beauty to win to her the young solicitor Lushington,
and a handsome young officer of high rank.
At this time, such insinuations had not been thought of; and the only
and chief allegation against Lady Byron had been a cruel severity of
virtue.
At all events, when Lady Byron spoke, the world listened with respect,
and believed what she said.
Here let us, too, read her statement, and give it the careful attention
she solicits (Moore's 'Life of Byron,' vol. vi. p. 275):--
 'I have disregarded various publications in which facts within my
 own knowledge have been grossly misrepresented; but I am called upon
 to notice some of the erroneous statements proceeding from one who
 claims to be considered as Lord Byron's confidential and authorised
 friend. Domestic details ought not to be intruded on the public
 attention: if, however, they are so intruded, the persons affected
 by them have a right to refute injurious charges. Mr. Moore has
 promulgated his own impressions of private events in which I was most
 nearly concerned, as if he possessed a competent knowledge of the
 subject. Having survived Lord Byron, I feel increased reluctance to
 advert to any circumstances connected with the period of my marriage;
 nor is it now my intention to disclose them further than may be
 indispensably requisite for the end I have in view. Self-vindication
 is not the motive which actuates me to make this appeal, and the
 spirit of accusation is unmingled with it; but when the conduct of
 my parents is brought forward in a disgraceful light by the passages
 selected from Lord Byron's letters, and by the remarks of his
 biographer, I feel bound to justify their characters from imputations
 which I know to be false. The passages from Lord Byron's letters, to
 which I refer, are,--the aspersion on my mother's character (p. 648,
 l. 4):[19] "My child is very well and flourishing, I hear; but I must
 see also. I feel no disposition to resign it to the contagion of its
 grandmother's society." The assertion of her dishonourable conduct
 in employing a spy (p. 645, l. 7, &c.): "A Mrs. C. (now a kind of
 housekeeper and spy of Lady N.'s), who, in her better days, was a
 washerwoman, is supposed to be--by the learned--very much the occult
 cause of our domestic discrepancies." The seeming exculpation of
 myself in the extract (p. 646), with the words immediately following
 it, "Her nearest relations are a----;" where the blank clearly implies
 something too offensive for publication. These passages tend to throw
 suspicion on my parents, and give reason to ascribe the separation
 either to their direct agency, or to that of "officious spies"
 employed by them.[20] From the following part of the narrative (p.
 642), it must also be inferred that an undue influence was exercised
 by them for the accomplishment of this purpose: "It was in a few
 weeks after the latter communication between us (Lord Byron and Mr.
 Moore) that Lady Byron adopted the determination of parting from him.
 She had left London at the latter end of January, on a visit to her
 father's house in Leicestershire; and Lord Byron was in a short time
 to follow her. They had parted in the utmost kindness,--she wrote
 him a letter, full of playfulness and affection, on the road; and,
 immediately on her arrival at Kirkby Mallory, her father wrote to
 acquaint Lord Byron that she would return to him no more."
 [Footnote 19: The references are to the first volume of the first
 edition of Moore's Life', originally published by itself.]
 [Footnote 20: 'The officious spies of his privacy,' p. 650.]
 'In my observations upon this statement, I shall, as far as possible,
 avoid touching on any matters relating personally to Lord Byron
 and myself. The facts are,--I left London for Kirkby Mallory, the
 residence of my father and mother, on the 15th of January, 1816.
 Lord Byron had signified to me in writing (Jan. 6) his absolute
 desire that I should leave London on the earliest day that I could
 conveniently fix. It was not safe for me to undertake the fatigue of a
 journey sooner than the 15th. Previously to my departure, it had been
 strongly impressed on my mind that Lord Byron was under the influence
 of insanity. This opinion was derived in a great measure from the
 communications made to me by his nearest relatives and personal
 attendant, who had more opportunities than myself of observing him
 during the latter part of my stay in town. It was even represented to
 me that he was in danger of destroying himself. With the concurrence
 of his family, I had consulted Dr. Baillie, as a friend (Jan. 8),
 respecting this supposed malady. On acquainting him with the state of
 the case, and with Lord Byron's desire that I should leave London, Dr.
 Baillie thought that my absence might be advisable as an experiment,
 assuming the fact of mental derangement; for Dr. Baillie, not
 having had access to Lord Byron, could not pronounce a positive
 opinion on that point. He enjoined that, in correspondence with Lord
 Byron, I should avoid all but light and soothing topics. Under these
 impressions I left London, determined to follow the advice given by
 Dr. Baillie. Whatever might have been the nature of Lord Byron's
 conduct towards me from the time of my marriage, yet, supposing him
 to be in a state of mental alienation, it was not for me, nor for
 any person of common humanity, to manifest at that moment a sense
 of injury. On the day of my departure, and again on my arrival at
 Kirkby (Jan. 16), I wrote to Lord Byron in a kind and cheerful tone,
 according to those medical directions.
 'The last letter was circulated, and employed as a pretext for the
 charge of my having been subsequently influenced to "desert"[21] my
 husband. It has been argued that I parted from Lord Byron in perfect
 harmony; that feelings incompatible with any deep sense of injury had
 dictated the letter which I addressed to him; and that my sentiments
 must have been changed by persuasion and interference when I was
 under the roof of my parents. These assertions and inferences are
 wholly destitute of foundation. When I arrived at Kirkby Mallory, my
 parents were unacquainted with the existence of any causes likely to
 destroy my prospects of happiness; and, when I communicated to them
 the opinion which had been formed concerning Lord Byron's state of
 mind, they were most anxious to promote his restoration by every means
 in their power. They assured those relations who were with him in
 London, that "they would devote their whole care and attention to the
 alleviation of his malady;" and hoped to make the best arrangements
 for his comfort if he could be induced to visit them.
 [Footnote 21: 'The deserted husband,' p. 651.]
 'With these intentions, my mother wrote on the 17th to Lord Byron,
 inviting him to Kirkby Mallory. She had always treated him with an
 affectionate consideration and indulgence, which extended to every
 little peculiarity of his feelings. Never did an irritating word
 escape her lips in her whole intercourse with him. The accounts given
 me after I left Lord Byron, by the persons in constant intercourse
 with him, added to those doubts which had before transiently occurred
 to my mind as to the reality of the alleged disease; and the reports
 of his medical attendant were far from establishing the existence of
 anything like lunacy. Under this uncertainty, I deemed it right to
 communicate to my parents, that, if I were to consider Lord Byron's
 past conduct as that of a person of sound mind, nothing could induce
 me to return to him. It therefore appeared expedient, both to them and
 myself, to consult the ablest advisers. For that object, and also
 to obtain still further information respecting the appearances which
 seemed to indicate mental derangement, my mother determined to go to
 London. She was empowered by me to take legal opinions on a written
 statement of mine, though I had then reasons for reserving a part
 of the case from the knowledge even of my father and mother. Being
 convinced by the result of these inquiries, and by the tenor of Lord
 Byron's proceedings, that the notion of insanity was an illusion, I no
 longer hesitated to authorise such measures as were necessary in order
 to secure me from being ever again placed in his power. Conformably
 with this resolution, my father wrote to him on the 2nd of February
 to propose an amicable separation. Lord Byron at first rejected this
 proposal; but when it was distinctly notified to him that, if he
 persisted in his refusal, recourse must be had to legal measures, he
 agreed to sign a deed of separation. Upon applying to Dr. Lushington,
 who was intimately acquainted with all the circumstances, to state in
 writing what he recollected upon this subject, I received from him the
 following letter, by which it will be manifest that my mother cannot
 have been actuated by any hostile or ungenerous motives towards Lord
 Byron:--
 '"MY DEAR LADY BYRON,--I can rely upon the accuracy of
 my memory for the following statement. I was originally consulted
 by Lady Noel, on your behalf, whilst you were in the country. The
 circumstances detailed by her were such as justified a separation;
 but they were not of that aggravated description as to render such
 a measure indispensable. On Lady Noel's representation, I deemed a
 reconciliation with Lord Byron practicable, and felt most sincerely
 a wish to aid in effecting it. There was not on Lady Noel's part
 any exaggeration of the facts; nor, so far as I could perceive, any
 determination to prevent a return to Lord Byron: certainly none was
 expressed when I spoke of a reconciliation. When you came to town,
 in about a fortnight, or perhaps more, after my first interview with
 Lady Noel, I was for the first time informed by you of facts utterly
 unknown, as I have no doubt, to Sir Ralph and Lady Noel. On receiving
 this additional information, my opinion was entirely changed: I
 considered a reconciliation impossible. I declared my opinion, and
 added, that, if such an idea should be entertained, I could not,
 either professionally or otherwise, take any part towards effecting it.
  '"Believe me, very faithfully yours,
  '"STEPH. LUSHINGTON.
  '"Great George Street, Jan. 31, 1830."
 'I have only to observe, that, if the statements on which my legal
 advisers (the late Sir Samuel Romilly and Dr. Lushington) formed
 their opinions were false, the responsibility and the odium should
 rest with me only. I trust that the facts which I have here briefly
 recapitulated will absolve my father and mother from all accusations
 with regard to the part they took in the separation between Lord Byron
 and myself.
 'They neither originated, instigated, nor advised that separation;
 and they cannot be condemned for having afforded to their daughter
 the assistance and protection which she claimed. There is no other
 near relative to vindicate their memory from insult. I am therefore
 compelled to break the silence which I had hoped always to observe,
 and to solicit from the readers of Lord Byron's "Life" an impartial
 consideration of the testimony extorted from me.
  'A. I. NOEL BYRON.
  'Hanger Hill, Feb. 19, 1830.'
The effect of this statement on the literary world may be best judged
by the discussion of it by Christopher North (Wilson) in the succeeding
May number of 'The Noctes,' where the bravest and most generous of
literary men that then were--himself the husband of a gentle wife--thus
gives sentence: the conversation is between North and the Shepherd:--
 North.--'God forbid I should wound the feelings of Lady Byron, of
 whose character, known to me but by the high estimation in which
 it is held by all who have enjoyed her friendship, I have always
 spoken with respect!... But may I, without harshness or indelicacy,
 say, here among ourselves, James, that, by marrying Byron, she took
 upon herself, with eyes wide open and conscience clearly convinced,
 duties very different from those of which, even in common cases, the
 presaging foresight shadows ... the light of the first nuptial moon?'
 Shepherd.--'She did that, sir; by my troth, she did that.'
 North.--'Miss Milbanke knew that he was reckoned a rake and a
 roué; and although his genius wiped off, by impassioned eloquence
 in love-letters that were felt to be irresistible, or hid the worst
 stain of, that reproach, still Miss Milbanke must have believed it a
 perilous thing to be the wife of Lord Byron.... But still, by joining
 her life to his in marriage, she pledged her troth and her faith and
 her love, under probabilities of severe, disturbing, perhaps fearful
 trials, in the future....
 'But I think Lady Byron ought not to have printed that Narrative.
 Death abrogates not the rights of a husband to his wife's silence
 when speech is fatal ... to his character as a man. Has she not
 flung suspicion over his bones interred, that they are the bones of
 a--monster?... If Byron's sins or crimes--for we are driven to use
 terrible terms--were unendurable and unforgivable as if against the
 Holy Ghost, ought the wheel, the rack, or the stake to have extorted
 that confession from his widow's breast.... But there was no such
 pain here, James: the declaration was voluntary, and it was calm.
 Self-collected, and gathering up all her faculties and feelings
 into unshrinking strength, she denounced before all the world--and
 throughout all space and all time--her husband, as excommunicated by
 his vices from woman's bosom.
        *       *       *       *       *
 ''Twas to vindicate the character of her parents that Lady Byron
 wrote,--a holy purpose and devout, nor do I doubt sincere. But filial
 affection and reverence, sacred as they are, may be blamelessly, nay,
 righteously, subordinate to conjugal duties, which die not with the
 dead, are extinguished not even by the sins of the dead, were they as
 foul as the grave's corruption.'
Here is what John Stuart Mill calls the literature of slavery for
woman, in length and breadth; and, that all women may understand the
doctrine, the Shepherd now takes up his parable, and expounds the true
position of the wife. We render his Scotch into English:--
 'Not a few such widows do I know, whom brutal, profligate, and savage
 husbands have brought to the brink of the grave,--as good, as bright,
 as innocent as, and far more forgiving than, Lady Byron. There
 they sit in their obscure, rarely-visited dwellings; for sympathy
 instructed by suffering knows well that the deepest and most hopeless
 misery is least given to complaint.'
Then follows a pathetic picture of one such widow, trembling and
fainting for hunger, obliged, on her way to the well for a can of
water, her only drink, to sit down on a 'knowe' and say a prayer.
 'Yet she's decently, yea, tidily dressed, poor creature! in sair worn
 widow's clothes, a single suit for Saturday and Sunday; her hair,
 untimely gray, is neatly braided under her crape cap; and sometimes,
 when all is still and solitary in the fields, and all labour has
 disappeared into the house, you may see her stealing by herself, or
 leading one wee orphan by the hand, with another at her breast, to the
 kirkyard, where the love of her youth and the husband of her prime is
 buried.
 'Yet,' says the Shepherd, 'he was a brute, a ruffian, a monster. When
 drunk, how he raged and cursed and swore! Often did she dread that, in
 his fits of inhuman passion, he would have murdered the baby at her
 breast; for she had seen him dash their only little boy, a child of
 eight years old, on the floor, till the blood gushed from his ears;
 and then the madman threw himself down on the body, and howled for
 the gallows. Limmers haunted his door, and he theirs; and it was hers
 to lie, not sleep, in a cold, forsaken bed, once the bed of peace,
 affection, and perfect happiness. Often he struck her; and once when
 she was pregnant with that very orphan now smiling on her breast,
 reaching out his wee fingers to touch the flowers on his father's
 grave....
 'But she tries to smile among the neighbours, and speaks of her boy's
 likeness to its father; nor, when the conversation turns on bygone
 times, does she fear to let his name escape her white lips, "My
 Robert; the bairn's not ill-favoured, but he will never look like his
 father,"--and such sayings, uttered in a calm, sweet voice. Nay, I
 remember once how her pale countenance reddened with a sudden flush
 of pride, when a gossiping crone alluded to their wedding; and the
 widow's eye brightened through her tears to hear how the bridegroom,
 sitting that sabbath in his front seat beside his bonny bride, had
 not his equal for strength, stature, and all that is beauty in man,
 in all the congregation. That, I say, sir, whether right or wrong,
 was--forgiveness.'
Here is a specimen of how even generous men had been so perverted by
the enchantment of Lord Byron's genius, as to turn all the pathos and
power of the strongest literature of that day against the persecuted,
pure woman, and for the strong, wicked man. These 'Blackwood' writers
knew, by Byron's own filthy, ghastly writings, which had gone sorely
against their own moral stomachs, that he was foul to the bone. They
could see, in Moore's 'Memoirs' right before them, how he had caught an
innocent girl's heart by sending a love-letter, and offer of marriage,
at the end of a long friendly correspondence,--a letter that had been
written to show to his libertine set, and sent on the toss-up of a
copper, because he cared nothing for it one way or the other.
They admit that, having won this poor girl, he had been savage, brutal,
drunken, cruel. They had read the filthy taunts in 'Don Juan,' and the
nameless abominations in the 'Autobiography.' They had admitted among
themselves that his honour was lost; but still this abused, desecrated
woman must reverence her brutal master's memory, and not speak, even
to defend the grave of her own kind father and mother.
That there was no lover of her youth, that the marriage-vow had been
a hideous, shameless cheat, is on the face of Moore's account; yet
the 'Blackwood' does not see it nor feel it, and brings up against
Lady Byron this touching story of a poor widow, who really had had a
true lover once,--a lover maddened, imbruted, lost, through that very
drunkenness in which the Noctes Club were always glorying.
It is because of such transgressors as Byron, such supporters as
Moore and the Noctes Club, that there are so many helpless, cowering,
broken-hearted, abject women, given over to the animal love which they
share alike with the poor dog,--the dog, who, beaten, kicked, starved,
and cuffed, still lies by his drunken master with great anxious eyes
of love and sorrow, and with sweet, brute forgiveness nestles upon his
bosom, as he lies in his filth in the snowy ditch, to keep the warmth
of life in him. Great is the mystery of this fidelity in the poor,
loving brute,--most mournful and most sacred!
But, oh that a noble man should have no higher ideal of the love of a
high-souled, heroic woman! Oh that men should teach women that they
owe no higher duties, and are capable of no higher tenderness, than
this loving, unquestioning animal fidelity! The dog is ever-loving,
ever-forgiving, because God has given him no high range of moral
