herself to her husband’s circumstances.”
“No, it’s a husband’s duty to accommodate himself to his wife’s
wishes,” said John. “What’s that fellow’s address? I’ll write to him
about doing our house, forthwith.”
“But, John, do pray tell Gracie that it’s your wish. I don’t want her
to think that it’s I that am doing this. Now, pray do think whether you
really want it yourself. You see it must be so natural for you to like
the old things! They must have associations, and I wouldn’t for the
world, now, be the one to change them; and, after all, how silly it was
of me to feel blue!”
“Don’t say any more, Lillie. Let me see,—next week,” he said, taking
out his pocket-book, and looking over his memoranda,—“next week I’ll
take you down to Newport; and you write to-day to your mother to meet
you there, and be your guest. I’ll write and engage the rooms at once.”
“I don’t know what I shall do without you, John.”
“Oh, well, I couldn’t stay possibly! But I may run down now and then,
for a night, you know.”
“Well, we must make that do,” said Lillie, with a pensive sigh.
Thus two very important moves on Miss Lillie’s checker-board of life
were skilfully made. The house was to be refitted, and the Newport
precedent established.
Now, dear friends, don’t think Lillie a pirate, or a conspirator, or a
wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing, or any thing else but what she was,—a pretty
little, selfish woman; undeveloped in her conscience and affections,
and strong in her instincts and perceptions; in a blind way using what
means were most in her line to carry her purposes. Lillie had always
found her prettiness, her littleness, her helplessness, and her tears
so very useful in carrying her points in life that she resorted to them
as her lawful stock in trade. Neither were her blues entirely shamming.
There comes a time after marriage, when a husband, if he be any thing
of a man, has something else to do than make direct love to his wife.
He cannot be on duty at all hours to fan her, and shawl her, and admire
her. His love must express itself through other channels. He must be a
full man for her sake; and, as a man, must go forth to a whole world of
interests that takes him from her. Now what in this case shall a woman
do, whose only life lies in petting and adoration and display?
Springdale had no beau monde, no fashionable circle, no Bois de
Boulogne, and no beaux, to make amends for a husband’s engrossments.
Grace was sisterly and kind; but what on earth had they in common
to talk about? Lillie’s wardrobe was in all the freshness of bridal
exuberance, and there was nothing more to be got, and so, for the
moment, no stimulus in this line. But then where to wear all these fine
French dresses? Lillie had been called on, and invited once to little
social evening parties, through the whole round of old, respectable
families that lived under the elm-arches of Springdale; and she had
found it rather stupid. There was not a man to make an admirer of,
except the young minister, who, after the first afternoon of seeing
her, returned to his devotion to Rose Ferguson.
You know, ladies, Æsop has a pretty little fable as follows: A young
man fell desperately in love with a cat, and prayed to Jupiter to
change her to a woman for his sake. Jupiter was so obliging as to grant
his prayer; and, behold, a soft, satin-skinned, purring, graceful woman
was given into his arms.
But the legend goes on to say that, while he was delighting in her
charms, she heard the sound of mice behind the wainscot, and left him
forthwith to rush after her congenial prey.
Lillie had heard afar the sound of mice at Newport, and she longed
to be after them once more. Had she not a prestige now as a rich young
married lady? Had she not jewels and gems to show? Had she not any
number of mouse-traps, in the way of ravishing toilets? She thought it
all over, till she was sick with longing, and was sure that nothing
but the sea-air could do her any good; and so she fell to crying, and
kissing her faithful John, till she gained her end, like a veritable
little cat as she was.
CHAPTER XI.
NEWPORT; OR, THE PARADISE OF NOTHING TO DO.
BEHOLD, now, our Lillie at the height of her heart’s desire, installed
in fashionable apartments at Newport, under the placid chaperonship
of dear mamma, who never saw the least harm in any earthly thing her
Lillie chose to do.
All the dash and flash and furbelow of upper-tendom were there; and
Lillie now felt the full power and glory of being a rich, pretty, young
married woman, with oceans of money to spend, and nothing on earth to
do but follow the fancies of the passing hour.
This was Lillie’s highest ideal of happiness; and didn’t she enjoy it?
Wasn’t it something to flame forth in wondrous toilets in the eyes of
Belle Trevors and Margy Silloway and Lottie Cavers, who were not
married; and before the Simpkinses and the Tomkinses and the Jenkinses,
who, last year, had said hateful things about her, and intimated that
she had gone off in her looks, and was on the way to be an old maid?
And wasn’t it a triumph when all her old beaux came flocking round her,
and her parlors became a daily resort and lounging-place for all the
idle swains, both of her former acquaintance and of the newcomers, who
drifted with the tide of fashion? Never had she been so much the rage;
never had she been declared so “stunning.” The effect of all this good
fortune on her health was immediate. We all know how the spirits affect
the bodily welfare; and hence, my dear gentlemen, we desire it to be
solemnly impressed on you, that there is nothing so good for a woman’s
health as to give her her own way.
Lillie now, from this simple cause, received enormous accessions of
vigor. While at home with plain, sober John, trying to walk in the
quiet paths of domesticity, how did her spirits droop! If you only
could have had a vision of her brain and spinal system, you would have
seen how there was no nervous fluid there, and how all the fine little
cords and fibres that string the muscles were wilting like flowers out
of water; but now she could bathe the longest and the strongest of
any one, could ride on the beach half the day, and dance the German
into the small hours of the night, with a degree of vigor which showed
conclusively what a fine thing for her the Newport air was. Her
dancing-list was always over-crowded with applicants; bouquets were
showered on her; and the most superb “turn-outs,” with their masters
for charioteers, were at her daily disposal.
All this made talk. The world doesn’t forgive success; and the ancients
informed us that even the gods were envious of happy people. It is
astonishing to see the quantity of very proper and rational moral
reflection that is excited in the breast of society, by any sort of
success in life. How it shows them the vanity of earthly enjoyments,
the impropriety of setting one’s heart on it! How does a successful
married flirt impress all her friends with the gross impropriety of
having one’s head set on gentlemen’s attentions!
“I must say,” said Belle Trevors, “that dear Lillie does astonish me.
Now, I shouldn’t want to have that dissipated Danforth lounging in
my rooms every day, as he does in Lillie’s: and then taking her out
driving day after day; for my part, I don’t think it’s respectable.”
“Why don’t you speak to her?” said Lottie Cavers.
“Oh, my dear! she wouldn’t mind me. Lillie always was the most
imprudent creature; and, if she goes on so, she’ll certainly get
awfully talked about. That Danforth is a horrid creature; I know all
about him.”
As Miss Belle had herself been driving with the “horrid creature”
only the week before Lillie came, it must be confessed that her
opportunities for observation were of an authentic kind.
Lillie, as queen in her own parlor, was all grace and indulgence.
Hers was now to be the sisterly rôle, or, as she laughingly styled
it, the maternal. With a ravishing morning-dress, and with a killing
little cap of about three inches in extent on her head, she enacted the
young matron, and gave full permission to Tom, Dick, and Harry to make
themselves at home in her room, and smoke their cigars there in peace.
She “adored the smell;” in fact, she accepted the present of a fancy
box of cigarettes from Danforth with graciousness, and would sometimes
smoke one purely for good company. She also encouraged her followers
to unveil the tender secrets of their souls confidentially to her, and
offered gracious mediations on their behalf with any of the flitting
Newport fair ones. When they, as in duty bound, said that they saw
nobody whom they cared about now she was married, that she was the only
woman on earth for them,—she rapped their knuckles briskly with her
fan, and bid them mind their manners. All this mode of proceeding gave
her an immense success.
[Illustration: “And would sometimes smoke one purely for good
company.”]
But, as we said before, all this was talked about; and ladies in their
letters, chronicling the events of the passing hour, sent the tidings
up and down the country; and so Miss Letitia Ferguson got a letter from
Mrs. Wilcox with full pictures and comments; and she brought the same
to Grace Seymour.
“I dare say,” said Letitia, “these things have been exaggerated; they
always are: still it does seem desirable that your brother should go
there, and be with her.”
“He can’t go and be with her,” said Grace, “without neglecting his
business, already too much neglected. Then the house is all in
confusion under the hands of painters; and there is that young artist
up there,—a very elegant gentleman,—giving orders to right and left,
every one of which involves further confusion and deeper expense; for
my part, I see no end to it. Poor John has got ‘the Old Man of the Sea’
on his back in the shape of this woman; and I expect she’ll be the ruin
of him yet. I can’t want to break up his illusion about her; because,
what good will it do? He has married her, and must live with her; and,
for Heaven’s sake, let the illusion last while it can! I’m going to
draw off, and leave them to each other; there’s no other way.”
“You are, Gracie?”
“Yes; you see John came to me, all stammering and embarrassment, about
this making over of the old place; but I put him at ease at once. ‘The
most natural thing in the world, John,’ said I. ‘Of course Lillie has
her taste; and it’s her right to have the house arranged to suit it.’
And then I proposed to take all the old family things, and furnish
the house that I own on Elm Street, and live there, and let John and
Lillie keep house by themselves. You see there is no helping the thing.
Married people must be left to themselves; nobody can help them. They
must make their own discoveries, fight their own battles, sink or swim,
together; and I have determined that not by the winking of an eye will
I interfere between them.”
“Well, but do you think John wants you to go?”
“He feels badly about it; and yet I have convinced him that it’s best.
Poor fellow! all these changes are not a bit to his taste. He liked the
old place as it was, and the old ways; but John is so unselfish. He has
got it in his head that Lillie is very sensitive and peculiar, and that
her spirits require all these changes, as well as Newport air.”
“Well,” said Letitia, “if a man begins to say A in that line, he must
say B.”
“Of course,” said Grace; “and also C and D, and so on, down to X,
Y, Z. A woman, armed with sick-headaches, nervousness, debility,
presentiments, fears, horrors, and all sorts of imaginary and real
diseases, has an eternal armory of weapons of subjugation. What can a
man do? Can he tell her that she is lying and shamming? Half the time
she isn’t; she can actually work herself into about any physical state
she chooses. The fortnight before Lillie went to Newport, she really
looked pale, and ate next to nothing; and she managed admirably to seem
to be trying to keep up, and not to complain,—yet you see how she can
go on at Newport.”
“It seems a pity John couldn’t understand her.”
“My dear, I wouldn’t have him for the world. Whenever he does, he will
despise her; and then he will be wretched. For John is no hypocrite,
any more than I am. No, I earnestly pray that his soap-bubble may not
break.”
“Well, then,” said Letitia, “at least, he might go down to Newport
for a day or two; and his presence there might set some things right:
it might at least check reports. You might just suggest to him that
unfriendly things were being said.”
“Well, I’ll see what I can do,” said Grace.
So, by a little feminine tact in suggestion, Grace despatched her
brother to spend a day or two in Newport.
       *       *       *       *       *
His coming and presence interrupted the lounging hours in Lillie’s
room; the introduction to “my husband” shortened the interviews. John
was courteous and affable; but he neither smoked nor drank, and there
was a mutual repulsion between him and many of Lillie’s habitués.
“I say, Dan,” said Bill Sanders to Danforth, as they were smoking on
one end of the veranda, “you are driven out of your lodgings since
Seymour came.”
“No more than the rest of you,” said Danforth.
“I don’t know about that, Dan. I think you might have been taken for
master of those premises. Look here now, Dan, why didn’t you take
little Lill yourself? Everybody thought you were going to last year.”
“Didn’t want her; knew too much,” said Danforth. “Didn’t want to keep
her; she’s too cursedly extravagant. It’s jolly to have this sort of
concern on hand; but I’d rather Seymour’d pay her bills than I.”
“Who thought you were so practical, Dan?”
“Practical! that I am; I’m an old bird. Take my advice, boys, now: keep
shy of the girls, and flirt with the married ones,—then you don’t get
roped in.”
“I say, boys,” said Tom Nichols, “isn’t she a case, now? What a head
she has! I bet she can smoke equal to any of us.”
“Yes; I keep her in cigarettes,” said Danforth; “she’s got a box of
them somewhere under her ruffles now.”
“What if Seymour should find them?” said Tom.
“Seymour? pooh! he’s a muff and a prig. I bet you he won’t find her
out; she’s the jolliest little humbugger there is going. She’d cheat a
fellow out of the sight of his eyes. It’s perfectly wonderful.”
“How came Seymour to marry her?”
“He? Why, he’s a pious youth, green as grass itself; and I suppose she
talked religion to him. Did you ever hear her talk religion?”
A roar of laughter followed this, out of which Danforth went on. “By
George, boys, she gave me a prayer-book once! I’ve got it yet.”
“Well, if that isn’t the best thing I ever heard!” said Nichols.
“It was at the time she was laying siege to me, you see. She undertook
the part of guardian angel, and used to talk lots of sentiment. The
girls get lots of that out of George Sand’s novels about the holiness
of doing just as you’ve a mind to, and all that,” said Danforth.
“By George, Dan, you oughtn’t to laugh. She may have more good in her
than you think.”
“Oh, humbug! don’t I know her?”
“Well, at any rate she’s a wonderful creature to hold her looks. By
George! how she does hold out! You’d say, now, she wasn’t more than
twenty.”
“Yes; she understands getting herself up,” said Danforth, “and touches
up her cheeks a bit now and then.”
“She don’t paint, though?”
“Don’t paint! Don’t she? I’d like to know if she don’t; but she does
it like an artist, like an old master, in fact.”
“Or like a young mistress,” said Tom, and then laughed at his own wit.
Now, it so happened that John was sitting at an open window above, and
heard occasional snatches of this conversation quite sufficient to
impress him disagreeably. He had not heard enough to know exactly what
had been said, but enough to feel that a set of coarse, low-minded men
were making quite free with the name and reputation of his Lillie; and
he was indignant.
“She is so pretty, so frank, and so impulsive,” he said. “Such women
are always misconstrued. I’m resolved to caution her.”
“Lillie,” he said, “who is this Danforth?”
“Charlie Danforth—oh! he’s a millionnaire that I refused. He was wild
about me,—is now, for that matter. He perfectly haunts my rooms, and is
always teasing me to ride with him.”
“Well, Lillie, if I were you, I wouldn’t have any thing to do with him.”
“John, I don’t mean to, any more than I can help. I try to keep him off
all I can; but one doesn’t want to be rude, you know.”
“My darling,” said John, “you little know the wickedness of the world,
and the cruel things that men will allow themselves to say of women who
are meaning no harm. You can’t be too careful, Lillie.”
“Oh! I am careful. Mamma is here, you know, all the while; and I never
receive except she is present.”
John sat abstractedly fingering the various objects on the table; then
he opened a drawer in the same mechanical manner.
“Why, Lillie! what’s this? what in the world are these?”
“O John! sure enough! well, there is something I was going to ask you
about. Danforth used always to be sending me things, you know, before
we were married,—flowers and confectionery, and one thing or other;
and, since I have been here now, he has done the same, and I really
didn’t know what to do about it. You know I didn’t want to quarrel
with him, or get his ill-will; he’s a high-spirited fellow, and a man
one doesn’t want for an enemy; so I have just passed it over easy as I
could.”
“But, Lillie, a box of cigarettes!—of course, they can be of no use to
you.”
“Of course: they are only a sort of curiosity that he imports from
Spain with his cigars.”
“I’ve a great mind to send them back to him myself,” said John.
“Oh, don’t, John! why, how it would look! as if you were angry, or
thought he meant something wrong. No; I’ll contrive a way to give ’em
back without offending him. I am up to all such little ways.”
“Come, now,” she added, “don’t let’s be cross just the little time you
have to stay with me. I do wish our house were not all torn up, so that
I could go home with you, and leave Newport and all its bothers behind.”
“Well, Lillie, you could go, and stay with me at Gracie’s,” said John,
brightening at this proposition.
“Dear Gracie,—so she has got a house all to herself; how I shall miss
her! but, really, John, I think she will be happier. Since you would
insist on revolutionizing our house, you know”—
“But, Lillie, it was to please you.”
“Oh, I know it! but you know I begged you not to. Well, John, I don’t
think I should like to go in and settle down on Grace; perhaps, as I am
here, and the sea-air and bathing strengthens me so, we may as well
put it through. I will come home as soon as the house is done.”
“But perhaps you would want to go with me to New York to select the
furniture?”
“Oh, the artist does all that! Charlie Ferrola will give his orders to
Simon & Sauls, and they will do every thing up complete. It’s the way
they all do—saves lots of trouble.”
John went home, after three days spent in Newport, feeling that Lillie
was somehow an injured fair one, and that the envious world bore down
always on beauty and prosperity.
But incidentally he heard and overheard much that made him uneasy. He
heard her admired as a “bully” girl, a “fast one;” he heard of her
smoking, he overheard something about “painting.”
The time was that John thought Lillie an embryo angel,—an angel a
little bewildered and gone astray, and with wings a trifle the worse
for the world’s wear,—but essentially an angel of the same nature with
his own revered mother.
Gradually the mercury had been falling in the tube of his estimation.
He had given up the angel; and now to himself he called her “a silly
little pussy,” but he did it with a smile. It was such a neat, white,
graceful pussy; and all his own pussy too, and purred and rubbed its
little head on no coat-sleeve but his,—of that he was certain. Only a
bit silly. She would still fib a little, John feared, especially when
he looked back to the chapter about her age,—and then, perhaps, about
the cigarettes.
Well, she might, perhaps, in a wild, excited hour, have smoked one
or two, just for fun, and the thing had been exaggerated. She had
promised fairly to return those cigarettes,—he dared not say to himself
that he feared she would not. He kept saying to himself that she would.
It was necessary to say this often to make himself believe it.
As to painting—well, John didn’t like to ask her, because, what if she
shouldn’t tell him the truth? And, if she did paint, was it so great
a sin, poor little thing? he would watch, and bring her out of it.
After all, when the house was all finished and arranged, and he got her
back from Newport, there would be a long, quiet, domestic winter at
Springdale; and they would get up their reading-circles, and he would
set her to improving her mind, and gradually the vision of this empty,
fashionable life would die out of her horizon, and she would come into
his ways of thinking and doing.
But, after all, John managed to be proud of her. When he read in the
columns of “The Herald” the account of the Splandangerous ball in
Newport, and of the entrancingly beautiful Mrs. J. S., who appeared in
a radiant dress of silvery gauze made à la nuage, &c., &c., John was
rather pleased than otherwise. Lillie danced till daylight,—it showed
that she must be getting back her strength,—and she was voted the belle
of the scene. Who wouldn’t take the comfort that is to be got in any
thing? John owned this fashionable meteor,—why shouldn’t he rejoice in
it?
Two years ago, had anybody told him that one day he should have a wife
that told fibs, and painted, and smoked cigarettes, and danced all
night at Newport, and yet that he should love her, and be proud of her,
he would have said, Is thy servant a dog? He was then a considerate,
thoughtful John, serious and careful in his life-plans; and the wife
that was to be his companion was something celestial. But so it is. By
degrees, we accommodate ourselves to the actual and existing. To all
intents and purposes, for us it is the inevitable.
CHAPTER XII.
HOME À LA POMPADOUR.
WELL, Lillie came back at last; and John conducted her over the
transformed Seymour mansion, where literally old things had passed
away, and all things become new.
There was not a relic of the past. The house was furbished and
resplendent—it was gilded—it was frescoed—it was à la Pompadour,
and à la Louis Quinze and Louis Quatorze, and à la every thing
Frenchy and pretty, and gay and glistening. For, though the parlors
at first were the only apartments contemplated in this renaissance,
yet it came to pass that the parlors, when all tricked out, cast such
invidious reflections on the chambers that the chambers felt themselves
old and rubbishy, and prayed and stretched out hands of imploration to
have something done for them!
So the spare chamber was first included in the glorification programme;
but, when the spare chamber was once made into a Pompadour pavilion, it
so flouted and despised the other old-fashioned Yankee chambers, that
they were ready to die with envy; and, in short, there was no way to
produce a sense of artistic unity, peace, and quietness, but to do the
whole thing over, which was done triumphantly.
The French Emperor, Louis Napoleon, who was a shrewd sort of a man in
his day and way, used to talk a great deal about the “logic of events;”
which language, being interpreted, my dear gentlemen, means a good deal
in domestic life. It means, for instance, that when you drive the first
nail, or tear down the first board, in the way of alteration of an old
house, you will have to make over every room and corner in it, and pay
as much again for it as if you built a new one.
John was able to sympathize with Lillie in her childish delight in the
new house, because he loved her, and was able to put himself and his
own wishes out of the question for her sake; but, when all the bills
connected with this change came in, he had emotions with which Lillie
could not sympathize: first, because she knew nothing about figures,
and was resolved never to know any thing; and, like all people who know
nothing about them, she cared nothing;—and, second, because she did
not love John.
Now, the truth is, Lillie would have been quite astonished to have been
told this. She, and many other women, suppose that they love their
husbands, when, unfortunately, they have not the beginning of an idea
what love is. Let me explain it to you, my dear lady. Loving to be
admired by a man, loving to be petted by him, loving to be caressed by
him, and loving to be praised by him, is not loving a man. All these
may be when a woman has no power of loving at all,—they may all be
simply because she loves herself, and loves to be flattered, praised,
caressed, coaxed; as a cat likes to be coaxed and stroked, and fed with
cream, and have a warm corner.
But all this is not love. It may exist, to be sure, where there
is love; it generally does. But it may also exist where there is
no love. Love, my dear ladies, is self-sacrifice; it is a life out
of self and in another. Its very essence is the preferring of the
comfort, the ease, the wishes of another to one’s own, for the love
we bear then? Love is giving, and not receiving. Love is not a sheet
of blotting-paper or a sponge, sucking in every thing to itself; it is
an out-springing fountain, giving from itself. Love’s motto has been
dropped in this world as a chance gem of great price by the loveliest,
the fairest, the purest, the strongest of Lovers that ever trod this
mortal earth, of whom it is recorded that He said, “It is more blessed
to give than to receive.” Now, in love, there are ten receivers to
one giver. There are ten persons in this world who like to be loved
and love love, where there is one who knows how to love. That, O my
dear ladies, is a nobler attainment than all your French and music and
dancing. You may lose the very power of it by smothering it under a
load of early self-indulgence. By living just as you are all wanting
to live,—living to be petted, to be flattered, to be admired, to be
praised, to have your own way, and to do only that which is easy and
agreeable,—you may lose the power of self-denial and self-sacrifice;
you may lose the power of loving nobly and worthily, and become a mere
sheet of blotting-paper all your life.
You will please to observe that, in all the married life of these two,
as thus far told, all the accommodations, compliances, changes, have
been made by John for Lillie.
He has been, step by step, giving up to her his ideal of life, and
trying, as far as so different a nature can, to accommodate his to
hers; and she accepts all this as her right and due.
She sees no particular cause of gratitude in it,—it is what she
expected when she married. Her own specialty, the thing which she has
always cultivated, is to get that sort of power over man, by which she
can carry her own points and purposes, and make him flexible to her
will; nor does a suspicion of the utter worthlessness and selfishness
of such a life ever darken the horizon of her thoughts.
John’s bills were graver than he expected. It is true he was rich; but
riches is a relative term. As related to the style of living hitherto
practised in his establishment, John’s income was princely, and left
a large balance to be devoted to works of general benevolence; but he
perceived that, in this year, that balance would be all absorbed; and
this troubled him.
Then, again, his establishment being now given up by his sister must be
reorganized, with Lillie at its head; and Lillie declared in the outset
that she could not, and would not, take any trouble about any thing.
“John would have to get servants; and the servants would have to see to
things:” she “was resolved, for one thing, that she wasn’t going to be
a slave to housekeeping.”
By great pains and importunity, and an offer of high wages, Grace and
John retained Bridget in the establishment, and secured from New York
a seamstress and a waitress, and other members to make out a domestic
staff.
This sisterhood were from the isle of Erin, and not an unfavorable
specimen of that important portion of our domestic life. They were
quick-witted, well-versed in a certain degree of household and domestic
skill, guided in well-doing more by impulsive good feeling than by any
very enlightened principle. The dominant idea with them all appeared
to be, that they were living in the house of a millionnaire, where
money flowed through the establishment in a golden stream, out of which
all might drink freely and rejoicingly, with no questions asked. Mrs.
Lillie concerned herself only with results, and paid no attention to
ways and means. She wanted a dainty and generous table to be spread
for her, at all proper hours, with every pleasing and agreeable
variety; to which she should come as she would to the table of a
boarding-house, without troubling her head where any thing came from
or went to. Bridget, having been for some years under the training and
surveillance of Grace Seymour, was more than usually competent as cook
and provider; but Bridget had abundance of the Irish astuteness, which
led her to feel the genius of circumstances, and to shape her course
accordingly.
With Grace, she had been accurate, saving, and economical; for Miss
Grace was so. Bridget had felt, under her sway, the beauty of that
economy which saves because saving is in itself so fitting and so
respectable; and because, in this way, a power for a wise generosity
is accumulated. She was sympathetic with the ruling spirit of the
establishment.
But, under the new mistress, Bridget declined in virtue. The
announcement that the mistress of a family isn’t going to give herself
any trouble, nor bother her head with care about any thing, is one the
influence of which is felt downward in every department. Why should
Bridget give herself any trouble to save and economize for a mistress
who took none for herself? She had worked hard all her life, why not
take it easy? And it was so much easier to send daily a basket of cold
victuals to her cousin on Vine Street than to contrive ways of making
the most of things, that Bridget felt perfectly justified in doing it.
If, once in a while, a little tea and a paper of sugar found their way
into the same basket, who would ever miss it?
The seamstress was an elegant lady. She kept all Lillie’s dresses and
laces and wardrobe, and had something ready for her to put on when
she changed her toilet every day. If this very fine lady wore her
mistress’s skirts and sashes, and laces and jewelry, on the sly, to
evening parties among the upper servant circles of Springdale, who was
to know it? Mrs. John Seymour knew nothing about where her things were,
nor what was their condition, and never wanted to trouble herself to
inquire.
It may therefore be inferred that when John began to settle up
accounts, and look into financial matters, they seemed to him not to be
going exactly in the most promising way.
He thought he would give Lillie a little practical insight into his
business,—show her exactly what his income was, and make some estimates
of his expenses, just that she might have some little idea how things
were going.
So John, with great care, prepared a nice little account-book, prefaced
by a table of figures, showing the income of the Spindlewood property,
and the income of his law business, and his income from other sources.
Against this, he placed the necessary out-goes of his business, and
showed what balance might be left. Then he showed what had hitherto
been spent for various benevolent purposes connected with the schools
and his establishments at Spindlewood. He showed what had been the
bills for the refitting of the house, and what were now the running
current expenses of the family.
He hoped that he had made all these so plain and simple, that Lillie
might easily be made to understand them, and that thus some clear
financial boundaries might appear in her mind. Then he seized a
favorable hour, and produced his book.
“Lillie,” he said, “I want to make you understand a little about our
expenditures and income.”
“Oh, dreadful, John! don’t, pray! I never had any head for things of
that kind.”
“But, Lillie, please let me show you,” persisted John. “I’ve made it
just as simple as can be.”
“O John! now—I just—can’t—there now! Don’t bring that book now; it’ll
just make me low-spirited and cross. I never had the least head for
figures; mamma always said so; and if there is any thing that seems
to me perfectly dreadful, it is accounts. I don’t think it’s any of a
woman’s business—it’s all man’s work, and men have got to see to it.
Now, please don’t,” she added, coming to him coaxingly, and putting
her arm round his neck.
“But, you see, Lillie,” John persevered, in a pleading tone,—“you see,
all these alterations that have been made in the house have involved
very serious expenses; and then, too, we are living at a very different
rate of expense from what we ever lived before”—
“There it is, John! Now, you oughtn’t to reproach me with it; for you
know it was your own idea. I didn’t want the alterations made; but you
would insist on it. I didn’t think it was best; but you would have
them.”
“But, Lillie, it was all because you wanted them.”
“Well, I dare say; but I shouldn’t have wanted them if I thought it was
going to bring in all this bother and trouble, and make me have to look
over old accounts, and all such things. I’d rather never have had any
thing!” And here Lillie began to cry.
“Come, now, my darling, do be a sensible woman, and not act like a
baby.”
“There, John! it’s just as I knew it would be; I always said you wanted
a different sort of a woman for a wife. Now, you knew when you took me
that I wasn’t in the least strong-minded or sensible, but a poor little
helpless thing; and you are beginning to get tired of me already. You
wish you had married a woman like Grace, I know you do.”
“Lillie, how silly! Please do listen, now. You have no idea how simple
and easy what I want to explain to you is.”
“Well, John, I can’t to-night, anyhow, because I have a headache. Just
this talk has got my head to thumping so,—it’s really dreadful! and I’m
so low-spirited! I do wish you had a wife that would suit you better.”
And forthwith Mrs. Lillie dissolved in tears; and John stroked her
head, and petted her, and called her a nice little pussy, and begged
her pardon for being so rough with her, and, in short, acted like a
fool generally.
“If that woman was my wife now,” I fancy I hear some youth with a
promising moustache remark, “I’d make her behave!”
Well, sir, supposing she was your wife, what are you going to do about
it?
What are you going to do when accounts give your wife a sick headache,
so that she cannot possibly attend to them? Are you going to enact the
Blue Beard, and rage and storm, and threaten to cut her head off? What
good would that do? Cutting off a wrong little head would not turn it
into a right one. An ancient proverb significantly remarks, “You can’t
have more of a cat than her skin,”—and no amount of fuming and storming
can make any thing more of a woman than she is. Such as your wife is,
sir, you must take her, and make the best of it. Perhaps you want your
own way. Don’t you wish you could get it?
But didn’t she promise to obey? Didn’t she? Of course. Then why is it
that I must be all the while yielding points, and she never? Well, sir,
that is for you to settle. The marriage service gives you authority;
so does the law of the land. John could lock up Mrs. Lillie till she
learned her lessons; he could do any of twenty other things that no
gentleman would ever think of doing, and the law would support him
in it. But, because John is a gentleman, and not Paddy from Cork, he
strokes his wife’s head, and submits.
We understand that our brethren, the Methodists, have recently decided
to leave the word “obey” out of the marriage-service. Our friends are,
as all the world knows, a most wise and prudent denomination, and
guided by a very practical sense in their arrangements. If they have
left the word “obey” out, it is because they have concluded that it
does no good to put it in,—a decision that John’s experience would go a
long way to justify.
CHAPTER XIII.
JOHN’S BIRTHDAY.
“MY dear Lillie,” quoth John one morning, “next week Wednesday is my
birthday.”
“Is it? How charming! What shall we do?”
“Well, Lillie, it has always been our custom—Grace’s and mine—to give a
grand fête here to all our work-people. We invite them all over en
masse, and have the house and grounds all open, and devote ourselves
to giving them a good time.”
Lillie’s countenance fell.
“Now, really, John, how trying! what shall we do? You don’t really
propose to bring all those low, dirty, little factory children in
Spindlewood through our elegant new house? Just look at that satin
furniture, and think what it will be when a whole parcel of freckled,
tow-headed, snubby-nosed children have eaten bread and butter and
doughnuts over it! Now, John, there is reason in all things; this
