" Was she pleased ? " 

" Well, ' pleased ' ain't to say much. I got 
Sabriny Rogers to clean the house first. 
They thought I was crazy, I do belie.ve. 
' Clean that 'ere old place ? ' says she. 
' Why yes,' says I; 'don't it want cleanin' ? ' 
' But what on airth's the use ? ' says she. 
' Well,' says I, ' I don't know ; but we'll try.' 
So she went at it ; and the first day she 
didn't do no more than to fling her file round, 
and you could see a spot where it had 
lighted ; that's all. ' Sabriny,' says I, ' that 



 

ain't what we call cleanin' in my country ; 
and if I pay you for cleanin' it's all I'll do ; 
but I'll not pay nobody for just lookin' at it.' 
So next time it was a little better; and then 
I made her go over the missed places, and we 
got it real nice by the time I had done. And 
then Sally looked like somethin' that didn't 
belong there ; and we began upon her. She 
was wonderful taken up with seein' Sabriny 
and the scrubbin' brush go round ; and then 
she begun to cast eyes down on herself, as if 
she wished it could reform her. Well, I did 
it all in one day. I had in the bedstead, and 
put-it up, and had a comfortable bed fetched 
and laid on it ; and I made it up with the 
new sheets. ' Who's goin' to sleep there ? ' 
says Sally Eldridge at last. ' You,' says I. 
Me?' says she; and she cast one o' them 
doubtful looks down at herself; doubtful, and 
kind o' pitiful; and I knew she 'd make no 
objection to whatever I'd please to do with 
her ; and she didn't. I got her into a tub o' 
water, and washed her and dressed her ; and 



 

while I was doin' that, the folks in the other 
room had put in the table and the other things, 
and brought the flour and cheese and that ; and 
laid a little rag carpet on the floor; and when 
Sally was ready I marched her out. And she 
sat down and looked round her, and looked 
round her; and I watched to see what was 
cornin'. And then she begun to cry." 

" To cry ! " Matilda echoed. 

" The tears come drop, drop, down on her 
new calico ; it fitted nice and looked real 
smart ; and then, the first word she said was, 
* I ain't a good woman.' ' I know you ain't,' 
says I; 'but you kin be.' So she looked 
round and round her at everything; and then, 
the next word she said was, ' The dominie 
kin come now.' Well! I thought that was 
good enough for one day ; so I give her her 
tea and come home to my own, an ashamed 
woman." 

" Why, Miss Redwood ? " 

"'Cause I hadn't done it ages ago, dear, 
but it was left for you to shew me how." 



 

" And is Mrs. Eldridge really better? " 

" Has twice as much sense as ever she 
shewed when she was in all that muss. I am 
sure, come to think of it, I don't wonder. 
Things outside works in, somehow. I be 
lieve, if I didn't keep my window panes clear, 
I should begin to grow deceitful or melancholy. And folks can't have clean hands and 
a dirty house." 

" Thank you, Miss Redwood," said Ma 
tilda rising. 
" Well, you ain't goin' now ? The minister'll be in directly." 

" I'll come another time," said Matilda. 
" I'm afraid Mrs. Laval would be anxious." 

" La, she don't mind when her horses come 
home, I'll engage." 

"But she might mind when we come 
home," said Matilda. " We have been out 
a great while." 

"Out? why, you don't never mean yon 
come from Mrs. Laval's'?" 



 

" Yes, she does," said Norton. " We've 
got her." 

" Hm ! Well I just wish you'd keep her," 
said the housekeeper. u She's as poor as a 
peascod in a drouth." 

At which similitude Norton laughed all the 
way home. 




CHAPTER X. 

IT is impossible to tell how pleasant Ma 
tilda's room was to her that night. She 
had a beautiful white candle burning in a 
painted candlestick, and it shed light on the 
soft green furniture and the mat and the white 
quilt and the pictures on the walls, till it all 
looked more fairylandish than ever; and Ma 
tilda could hardly believe her own senses that 
it was. real. And when the candle was covered with its painted extinguisher, and the 
moonlight streamed in through the muslin 
curtains, it was lovelier yet. Matilda went to 
the window and gazed out. The fields and 
copses lay all crisp and bright in the cool 
moonbeams; and over beyond lay the blue 
mountains, in a misty indistinctness that was 
even more ensnaring than their midday 




beauty. And no bell of Mrs. Candy's could 
sound in that fairy chamber to summon Matilda to what she didn't like. She was almost 
too happy ; only there came the thought, how 
she would ever bear to go away again. 

That thought ' came in the morning too. 
But pleasure soon swept it away out of sight. 
She had a charming hour with Mrs. Laval in 
the greenhouse; after which they. went up to 
Matilda's room ; and Mrs. Laval made some 
little examination into the state of that small 
wardrobe which had been packed up the day 
before and now lay in the drawers of the 
green dressing-table. Following which, Mrs. 
Laval carried Matilda off into another room 
where a young woman sat sewing ; and her 
she directed to take Matilda's measure and 
fit her with a dress from a piece of white 
cambrick which lay on the table. 

" It's getting pretty cool, ma'am, for this 
sort of thing," said the seamstress. 

" Yes, but it will be wanted, and it is all I 
have got in the house just now. I will get 



 

something warmer to-day or to-morrow, or 
whenever I go out. And Belinda, you may 
make a little sacque to wear with this ; there 
is enough of that red cashmere left for it. 
That will do." 

Two or three days saw the white frock 
done and the sacque. Mrs. Laval provided 
Matilda with pretty slippers and a black sash ; 
and furthermore desired that she would put 
these things on and wear them at once. Matilda did not know herself, in such new cir 
cumstances, but obeyed, and went downstairs 
very happy. Norton cast an approving 
glance at her as she met him. 

" Come here," said he stretching out his 
hand to her; "mamma's busy with her new 
people, and we will have another drive pres 
ently. Come and sit down till it is time to 

go-" 

They went on the verandah, where it was 
warm and yet shady ; the October sun was 
so genial, and the winds were so still. 

" So they have come? " said Matilda. 



 

" Yes, a lot of them. Look as if they 
had come from the other end of creation. 
Pink, I think I'll cover all that bank with 
bulbs." 

" What are bulbs ? " 

" You don't know much, if you are a 
brick," said Norton. "I mean, tulips and 
hyacinths and crocuses arid ranunculuses and 
well, I don't know all, but those specially. 
Wouldn't it be fine?" 

Norton was a great gardener. 

" I know tulips," said Matilda. " We have 
a bunch of red tulips in our garden. I think 
they are beautiful." 

" I do not mean red tulips. Did you never 
see any but those ? " 

"No." 

" Then you do not know what I mean by 
tulips. They are everything else except plain 
red ; I shall not have one of those." 

"Yellow?" 

" Well perhaps I may have two or three 
yellow ones. They are pretty ; clear lemon colour, you know ; the colour of even 
ing primroses." 

" Are there blue tulips too ? " 

" Not that ever I heard," said Norton. " No, 
there are red, and yellow, and yellow striped 
with red, and white striped with red, and white 
blotched with carmine, and yellow edged with 
brown or purple, and a thousand sorts; but 
never a blue." 

" That's odd, isn't it ? " said Matilda. 
" And nobody ever heard of a blue rose." 

" Perhaps they will, though." said Norton. 
" There are black roses, and green roses. But 
I don't believe either there can be a blue rose ; 
it is against nature." 

" But how many tulips will you have, Norton ? you said two or three yellow ones ; and 
there are a thousand sorts." 

" Well, I will not have all the sorts," said 
Norton ; " but I tell you what I will do. I 
will fill all that bank with them and hyacinths, 
I shall want a hundred or so." 

" Do they cost much ? " 



 

" Pretty well," said Norton ; " if you get 
the costly sorts. They are a dollar apiece, 
some of them. But plenty are nice for fifty 
cents, and thirty cents." 

" Your tulip bed will cost a great deal, 
Norton ! " 

" And that bed over there," Norton went 
on, pointing, " shall be your bed; and I will 
fill it with hyacinths for you. You shall 
choose what colours, Pink. They will be 
beautiful in May. Those shall be yours." 

" O thank you ! But do they cost much ? " 

" You always ask that," said Norton laughing. " Yes, some of them do. I will tell you 
what I will do, Pink and then you will be 
easy. I will spend twenty five dollars on my 
tulip bed, and you shall spend twenty five 
dollars dn your hyacinth bed; and you shall 
say now what sorts you will have." 

" Twenty five dollars!" said Matilda. O 
Norton, thank you. How nice ! And I 
never saw a hyacinth in my life. What are 
they like ? " 





 

Norton was endeavouring to tell, when Mrs. 
Laval came upon the verandah. She came 
with business upon her lips, but stopped and 
her face changed when she saw Matilda. 

" My dear child ! " she said. 

" Mamma," said Norton, " isn't she a 
brick ? " 

" A brick ? " said Mrs. Laval, taking Matilda in her arms and sitting down with her. 
" A brick ! this soft, sweet, fresh Delight of 
mine ! " And as she spoke she emphasized 
her words with kisses. " My darling ! There 
is nothing rough or harsh or stiff about you 
nor anything angular ; nor anything coarse ; 
and he calls you a brick ! " 

" I think he means something good by it, 
ma'am," Matilda said laughing. 

" I don't know about the angles," said Norton. " Pink has a stiff corner now and then 
that I haven't been able to break off yet." 

" Break off! " said Mrs. Laval, sitting with 
her arms round Matilda. And then they all 
went off into a laugh together. 



 

" I had forgotten what I was going to say," 
Mrs. Laval resumed. " When you are out, 
Norton, I wish you would stop and send the 
doctor here." 

" What's the matter ?" . 

" I don't know ; but those poor people are 
in a state under the bank, and maybe the 
doctor could best tell what they want." 

"Sick?" said Norton. 

" No, not sick, but dull and spiritless. I 
don't know what is the matter. They are 
tired with their journey perhaps, and forlorn 
in a strange place. Maybe they would feel 
better if they saw the doctor. I think such 
people often do." 

And then Norton and Matilda had another 
ride in the basket wagon. 

On their return, Norton proposed that they 
should go down under the bank and see the 
new comers. Matilda w.as ready for any 
thing. Under the bank, was the place for 
Mrs. Laval's farm-house and dairy house, and 
barns and stables ; a neat little settlement it 



 

looked like. A pretty little herd of cows had 
come home to be milked, and a woman in a 
strange costume, never before known at Shadywalk, had come out with a milking pail. 
To her Norton marched up, and addressed 
her in French ; Matilda could not understand 
a word of it ; but presently Norton went off 
into the farm-house. Here, in the kitchen, 
they found the rest of the family. A pleasant-faced middle-aged woman was busy with 
supper; a young pretty girl was helping her; 
and two men, travel-worn and bearing the 
marks of poverty, sat over the fire holding 
their heads. Norton entered into conversation 
here again. It was very amusing to Matilda, 
the play of face and interchange of lively 
words between him and these people, while 
yet she could not understand a word. Even 
the men lifted up what seemed to be heavy 
heads to glance at the young master of the 
place; and the women looked at him and 
spoke with unbent brows and pleasant and 
pleased countenances. But the elder woman 



 

had a good deal to say ; and Norton looked 
rather thoughtful as he came out. 

" What is it all, Norton? " Matilda asked. 
" Is all right ? " 

" Well, not exactly,* said Norton. " Those 
two men are sick." 

" Hasn't the doctor come yet ? " 

" Yes, and he says they want a few days 
of rest ; but J say they are sick." 

" But the doctor must know ? " 

" Perhaps," said Norton. " Perhaps he 
don't." 

The people under the bank were forgotten 
soon, in the warm luxury of the drawing- 
room and the bright tea-table, and the com 
fort of sugared peaches. And then Matilda 
and Norton played chess all the evening, 
talking to Mrs. Laval at intervals. The 
tulip bed and the hyacinth bed were proposed, and approved ; a trip to Poughkeepsie 
was arranged, to see Maria ; and Norton told 
of Miss Redwood's doings in Lilac lane. 
Mrs. Laval was much amused 




" And you two children have done that ! " 
she said. 

" You gave me the money for it, ma'am," 
said Matilda. 

" It was yours after I had given it," said 
the lady. " I wonder how much good really 
now, all that will amount to ? or whether it 
is just a flash in the pan ? That is the question that always cornes to me." 

Matilda looked up from the chess men, 
wondering what she could mean. 

" It is a real good to have the house 
cleaned; you would never doubt that, 
mamma, if you had seen it," Norton remarked. 

" And it is a real good that the poor 
woman is ready to have Mr. Richmond come 
to see her now," said Matilda. 

" Mr. Richmond," repeated Mrs. Laval. 
" That's your minister. You think a great 
deal of Mr. Richmond, don't you, Matilda ? " 

" Everybody does," said Matilda. Mrs. 
Laval smiled. 




" I don't know him, you know. But about 
your doings in the lane there is no end to 
that sort of work. You might keep on for 
ever, and be no nearer the end. That is what 
always discourages me. There are always 
new old women to comfort, and fresh poor 
people to help. There is no end." 

"But then" said Matilda. She began 
timidly, and stopped. 

" What then ? " said Mrs. Laval smiling. 

" Yes, just hear Pink, mamma," said Nor 
ton. 

" What then, Matilda ? " said Mrs. Laval, 
still looking at her as at something pleasant 
to the eyes. 

" I was going to say," Matilda began again 
with a blush, ' isn't it meant that we should 
keep on forever ' ? " 

" Doing good to the poor? But then one 
would soon have nothing to do good with. 
One must stop somewhere." 

Clearly, one must stop somewhere. A line 




must be found ; inside or outside of her bed 
of hyacinths, Matilda wondered? She did 
not press her doubts, though she did not for 
get them; and the talk passed on toother 
things. Nothing could be more delightful 
than that evening, she thought. 

The next day there was charming work to 
be done. Norton was to take her by the 
early train the morning after to go to Pough- 
keepsie ; and Matilda was to prepare to-day 
a basket of fruit, and get ready some little 
presents to take to her sister. The day was 
swallowed up in these delights ; and the next 
day, the day of the journey, was one long 
dream of pleasure. The ride to the station, 
the hour in the cars, or less than an hour; 
but the variety of new sights and sensations 
made it seem long; the view of a new place ; 
the joyful visit to Maria, and the uncommonly 
jolly dinner the three had together at a good 
restaurant, made a time of unequalled de 
light. Only Maria looked gloomy, Matilda 
thought; even a little discomposed at so much 




pleasure coming to her little sister and missing her. And in this feeling, Matilda feared, 
Maria lost half the good of the play-day that 
had come to her. However, nothing could 
spoil it for the other two ; and Matilda came 
home in the cars towards nightfall again with 
a heart full of content. Only a pang darted 
through her, as they were driving home under 
the stars, at the thought how many days of 
her fortnight were already gone. Matilda did 
not know it was to be a month. 

They found Mrs. Laval in perplexity. 

" I wish, Norton," she said, " that you 
would go and bring the doctor here immediately. The two women are ailing now, and 
the men are quite sick. I don't know what 
to do. York is gone to town, you know, to 
look after the interest on his bonds ; and 
Francis demanded permission this afternoon 
to go and see his father who is dying. I 
have no one to send for anything. I could 
not keep Francis, and I do not believe he 
would have been kept." 



 

" Who's to look after the horses, mamma? " 

" I don't know. You must find some one, 
for a day or so. You must do that too, to 
night" 

Norton went and came back, and the even 
ing passed as gayly as ever ; York's absence 
being made up by the services of the children, 
which, Mrs. Laval said, were much better. 
Matilda made toast at the fire, and poured 
out tea ; and Norton managed the tea-kettle 
and buttered the toast, and fetched and 
carried generally ; and they had a merry time. 
But the next morning shewed a change in the 
social atmosphere. 

Matilda came downstairs, as she always 
did, the earliest of the family. In the hall 
she encountered the housemaid, not broom in 
hand as usual, but with her bonnet and shawl 
on. 

" I'm going out this way, miss, ye see, 
becaase it's shorter," she said with a certain 
smothered mystery of tone. 

" What is shorter ? and where are you 



 

going, Jane ? " Matilda asked, struck by 
something in the girl's air. 

" Och, it's no lady wouldn't expict one to 
stop, whin it's that's the matter.." 

" When what is the matter ? what do you 
mean ? Are you going away ? " 

" Faith, it's glad I be, to be off; and none 
too soon. I'd shew 'em the back of me head, 
you, dear, if it was me, goin' out at the front 
door. The likes o' you isn't obleeged to stop 
no more nor meself." This advice was given 
in the same mysterious undertone, and 
puzzled Matilda exceedingly. 
