books for which she had expressed a longing. 

" I began to think there was nothing else for me to 
have," she said, archly. 

" Did you suppose that you had gone to the end 
of pleasures so soon ? " asked Uncle Robert. 

" No, I can never do that " ; and her soft eyes were 
lustrous with emotion. 

A lovely day with a crisp, fresh air, not too cold for 
sleigh-riding, and the whole world seemed musical 
with the undertone of bells. They all went to church 
in the morning, and then had a quiet dinner. It was 
so good to have Aunt Ruth once more that Kathie 
almost dreaded the advent of any one. There were 
so many dear old events to talk over. 

She only went down to the Morrisons' to light their 
tree and witness the children's joy. Ethel's father 
had come back for a brief visit. He was doing very 
well indeed, and thought another year he might ven- 
ture to take his little daughter out with him. 

Fred came home from every tree laden with spoils. 
His mother felt quite sure that he would make him- 
self sick eating so many cakes and candies, and be- 



 

sought him to save his appetite for the party. At 
last he began his grand dressing operations, but came 
to a dead halt about his neck-ribbon. What color 
did Aunt Euth think the prettiest ? Kathie was sure 
to say blue, but he wore blue to school and every- 
where. 

" I think I have a pretty lavender one," said Aunt 
Ruth. 

She found it, and tied it to perfection. Kathie 
scented his handkerchief with her " Kiss me quick," 
and gave him a fond kiss herself. 

"Why, it is almost like the time you went to a 
party," exclaimed Freddy, " ever and ever so long ago 
in a blue silk dress." 

Kathie laughed merrily. She could never forget 
that Cinderella episode. 

"Bat you are grander still," she answered. "I 
did not have any Uncle Robert, nor any ponies and 
sleigh." 

Mr. Meredith and Jessie were over a little while 
in the evening. Kathie felt that it had been a very 
happy day, if a quiet one. Her heart seemed full 
to overflowing. 

Fred's party was a brilliant success. Several little 



girls kissed him for the prettiest, and he danced in 
every set. His head ached a little the next morning, 
and he did not want any breakfast, but by noon he 
was out snowballing, as merry as a cricket. 

Kathie went over to Emma's on Tuesday afternoon 
and stayed all night with her. She had wanted Ka- 
thie for her bridesmaid at first, but this had not been 
deemed advisable, so Sue Coleman was to stand 
instead, with a friend of Mr. Langdon. Kathie took 
her pretty gift with her. There would be no display 
of bridal presents, or, indeed, of any kind. A simple 
marriage in church with a few friends present, and a 
serious taking up of the new life before them. Yet 
Emma was very happy with the tender joy of love 
and trust. During her brief engagement she had 
grown into her lover's heart to be a part of himself. 
Somewhere their lives had touched and assimilated, 
and they were not the lives to stray off again into 
tangled or hidden paths. 

There was a larger concourse than they had ex- 
pected. Emma was in an exquisitely becoming trav- 
elling-dress, and the long plume in her hat drooped 
over her soft hair like a spray of showering mist. 
Much fashion had not been called upon to lend its 



 

aid, yet she looked more truly beautiful and bride- 
like than if overloaded with laces and ribbons, 
though Sue declared afterward that it was a pity 
it could not have been a full-dress wedding with such 
a handsome couple. 

The Alstons and several others rode to the station 
to see them off. 

" It is just the kind of a marriage to give one new 
faith," General Mackenzie said. " It was like a quaint 
old English picture. You could see love and rev- 
erence and trust in both faces, in every gesture and 
word. Mr. Langdon is be commended for choosing 
the pure gold when the world is so full of dross." 

Kathie did not care to talk any that evening. Ev- 
ery week it appeared as if life deepened and widened. 
There was a sweet awe and tenderness in it that she 
had never known before, mingled, too, with a reverent 
humility. Friends came in and brought their sweet- 
ness, which lingered like the scent of lavender and 
rosemary in some old drawer, and would never fade 
wholly away. 

" It is always hard to go back to school after a 
holiday,' she said the next week. " But there is one 
comfort, Aunt Euth, you will not disappear in a trice 



 

It will be very charming to come home of an after- 
noon and find your sweet face in this familiar room." 

No, Aunt Euth did not mean to disappear in a 
hurry. General Mackenzie went down to New York 
and stayed a night or two, and was even recalled to 
Washington for a week, but Aunt Ruth remained at 
Cedarwood. She and Kathie enjoyed each other's 
society as much as in the sick-room at Dr. Mark- 
ham's, perhaps more, for now there were journeys 
and people to talk about, and many subjects that 
Kathie was just coming to understand. 

Emma was a month away, and in that time a new 
world had been opened to her. Mr. Langdon had en- 
joyed the exquisite delight of bringing rich stores to 
her appreciative mind, and reading the guileless soul, 
so different from the worldly, hackneyed ones too often 
met. He had indeed won a prize, and perhaps he 
understood still better than she where the child Ka- 
thie's influence had unconsciously given her strength. 

" If Ada was only as happy as everybody else I 
should feel quite well satisfied," Kathie would say to 
Aunt Ruth. 

Ada's record appeared to be a troublous one indeed. 
She wrote to Kathie with tolerable fairness. She had 



 

seen the true way, she had known by brief glimpses 
of that higher and more satisfying life, and yet it was 
hard to walk therein. She realized daily that it was 
difficult to serve God and mammon. 

Mrs. Meredith had made another plunge into gay 
society, for Ada's sake, she said. It would not do 
to let her daughter's best years pass by with no at- 
tempt to regain what they had lost. Ada was really 
prettier than she had ever been, and her health so 
fully re-established that a fashionable season could 
be very well endured. They were more prosperous, 
and though it was not possible to indulge in the old 
style and luxuries, they could have some society at 
least. The Meredith name had not lost all its pres- 
tige. Now that the world saw a probability of Mr. 
Meredith once more becoming a wealthy man, it 
hasted to do them honor. 

So there were late nights of dissipation, dancing in 
hot, crowded rooms, suppers when the system wa\ 
weary and relaxed, the excitement of dressing, the 
temptation to " envy, hatred, malice, and all unchar- 
itableness." For Ada's eyes were clearer now. She 
could see the pretence and hollowness, the captious, 
critical spirit that tore one's best friends into shreds, 



 

that was fair to one's face and full of deceit in one's 
absence. And the great aim of all the weakness, sin, 
and folly was a good marriage. 

Even here she found that her ideas had undergone 
a great change. Truth and honor and manliness on 
the one side, with purity and reverence on the other, 
were becoming indispensable. The men she had been 
studying lately were nobler in mind than the vapid 
butterflies of fashion, or middle-aged exquisites who 
tried to counterfeit the semblance of youth without 
its freshness and natural grace. 

She did try to keep her heart and mind from 
being again entangled in this rubbish. Mrs. Arde 
proved a true and valuable friend, and Uncle Edward 
was always ready to cheer and sustain with the ten- 
derest love. But the late nights brought the usual 
result of weary mornings, when she felt depressed, 
feverish, overstrained in every nerve, and absolutely 
fretful. The old disorder began to creep into her 
room. Florence said, with a grave shake of her head, 
"I don't love you any more, 'cause you are cross 
to me." 

Sometimes she wondered if there was any use in 
trying. It was very well for Kathie in her simple 



 

home, with everything to help her, but could she 
make any headway ? Was it not useless striving ? 
And perhaps, in her moments of despondency, she 
would have given up and drifted with the tide but 
for her father. Without precisely understanding the 
difficulties in her way, he bridged many of them over 
by his tender love. Now and then a quiet evening 
with him refreshed and strengthened her, and af- 
forded him so much pleasure that she felt amply 
repaid. But it was hard work to serve two masters, 
and not even Kathie guessed the many failures 
and discouragements. Although Dr. Markham was 
" queer," he discerned the struggle more readily than 
any one, and steered her now and then through rapids 
and over shoals. For so it is in this life that one 
planteth and another gathereth the fruit. 

Mrs. Alston and her brother were driving home- 
ward one morning after numerous calls, the last of 
which had been at the post-office. He opened his 
letter from Eob carelessly, but after he had read 
half a dozen lines his brow was crossed by a little 
perplexity. 

" Some trouble again ! " Mrs. Alston exclaimed, ap- 
prehensively. " No mischief, I hope, nor disgrace ? " 



 

" No, set your heart at rest. Nothing of inuch 
importance, and it can be easily remedied." 

She could not be satisfied with the answer, how- 
ever. After a silence of some minutes, she said, in a 
low, sad tone, " What is it, Eobert ? His mother 
surely has a right to know." 

" He has foolishly run in debt again." 

" And we thought him going on so well. Will 
there never come an end to the anxiety about him ? 
It seems to me that he might learn." 

" My dear Dora, he has his whole lifetime for the 
purpose. We must not abridge the liberal allowance 
God has made, to have it conform to our narrow 
ideas." 

" Are you not too indulgent ? " 

Mr. Conover smiled thoughtfully. "I rather ex- 
pected it," he said. " It would be strange if he passed 
all temptations, with his impulsive nature and want 
of thought. He has gone through the best part of his 
year with only this grave error, so we must excuse 
him. And I like the manner in which he writes 
about it." 

" How much is it ? " 

" Only forty dollars now. Let me read you this. 



 

" ' I want to come to confession in Kathie's fashion, 
dear Uncle Robert, sorry indeed that I have gone 
astray, and needing a little help to extricate me from 
trouble. I have been foolish and gone in debt 
again. The first was about the holidays. Half the 
class gave a little supper, and, not supposing it would 
be very expensive, I joined. We had a gay, jolly 
time, but the bills amazed us all. One of the fellows 
loaned me some money, and I thought I could soon 
pay it back. That took me into the set, and some- 
how there has been one thing and another, and the 
treating that I thought I was cured of, until I have 
gone behindhand every month. In a week I must 
pay twenty dollars, and I haven't anything at all 
towards it. I have tried to save and to pay, but I 
seem to be getting deeper all the time. I have re- 
solved solemnly, however, that I will break with the 
set, for there are the temptations of drinking, smok- 
ing, and gambling ; and, if one doesn't do much at it, 
the money goes before one thinks. But I have not 
smoked a cigar nor touched a drop of liquor since I 
have been here. I have been tempted a good many 
times, but I thought of my promise to you, which, 
God helping me, I mean to keep. And now I am 



going to get out of this set and stay out, so I don't 
want to ask any more favors of them. Will you 
please advance me the money and take it out of my 
allowance afterward ? It w T as the only way I saw 
out of the difficulty, and I thought I would summon 
courage enough to tell you the whole truth. I did 
mean to be so good and trustworthy too ; but it seems 
as if I was always getting into some trouble. Dear 
Uncle Robert, have you any faith left in me ? ' 

" You see he discovered the best way out, and that 
is something. I like his frankness." 

" But how could he have gone so in debt ? ): 
" I merely allowed him enough for comforts, not 
luxuries, and he has been indulging in them. We 
will make this all straight, however, and let him take 
a fair start." 

" His lessons have to be learned over many times." 
" Is it not so with the most of us until we follow 
the true light that never leads men astray ? It will 
dawn for him some time." 

Mrs. Alston sighed, and breathed a prayer for her 
first-born. 



 



CHAPTER XIV. 

BRINGING IN THEIR SHEAVES. 

MRS. WILDER'S rooms were filled with visitors 
again. It was quite as much to go to her exami- 
nation as to the Academy. A number of last year's 
pupils were there as well, though the graduating class 
was not as large this summer. 

Kathie had been studying very diligently for the 
last three months, anxious to have school-life close 
tor her. Not that she expected to drop everything 
then and sink into idleness. Each year she under- 
stood better the value of knowledge, and the many 
duties life held for her. But change is always sweet 
to youth. 

They were warmly congratulated on their success. 
Emma, and Sue, and a bevy of girls, hovered about 
Kathie. 

" I am so glad it is over. I feel free as a bird " ; 
and the sweet face was full of smiles and dimples. 

" And you will get dreadfully bored before another 



 

year has ended," exclaimed Sue. " I am so tired of 
myself sometimes that I have half a mind to set up 
school-teaching in sheer self-defence." 

Tired of one's self and freedom ! Why, it was the 
loveliest thing in the world ! 

" And now you are going to West Point. You are 
a lucky girl. One cannot help envying you." 

Yet how many changes and pleasures Sue Coleman 
had ! Kathie could not understand the spirit of un- 
rest and dissatisfaction. 

" Yes. We shall be in time for the very last. I 
am sorry we could not go sooner." 

" And you will bring Cadet Mackenzie home with 
you. Is he going in the army ? ' 

" I suppose so, of course." 

" Well, do give us a chance to see him. He is a 
cousin, so you need not be afraid." 

" Afraid of what ? " 

Two or three of the girls laughed, and Kathie's 
cheeks were scarlet. 

Mrs. Wilder stopped her to have a few last words. 
"We have taken a great deal of pleasure together," 
she said, " and I am honestly sorry to lose you. Your 
courage and truth and sweetness have comforted me 



 

many a time when I felt half discouraged, and I can 
see more plainly than any one else what good service 
it has done in the school. I wish there were more 
girls like you. And now, though I lose my pupil, I 
hope always to keep a sunny -hearted girl-friend. 
You will be able to find an occasional hour for me." 

" Indeed I shall," Kathie returned, warmly, her face 
full of radiant blushes at the unlooked-for commen- 
dation. What had she done that should bear fruit so 
manifold ? 

There were kisses and partings, promises to call 
and to visit, and the confusion of a general disper- 
sion. When Kathie reached home she was absolutely 
tired out. She and Aunt Euth had some lunch to' 
gether. 

"Now you must lie down and rest," Aunt Euth 
said ; " for we must be up early to-morrow, and it 
will be a tiresome day." 

" But I feel as if I couldn't keep still," Kathie 
returned. " I am all in a flutter." 

" Nervous excitement, which a little rest will allay. 
I will sit and read to you, which will divide youi 
thoughts and tranquillize you." 

" Let it be ' Songs of Seven ' then." 



 

Kathie listened dreamily to the sweet voice mak- 
ing melody with the poet's meanings. She, too, had 
said her lesson " over and over." 

General Mackenzie was awaiting them in New 
York. He was deeply interested in his son's exami- 
nation, and had been up nearly every day. So they 
started the next morning, and, as they had to wait 
but an hour for the train, took a little lunch without 
calling upon anybody. And by night they were 
making themselves comfortable at the hotel. 

It was glorious weather. Nature was out in her 
holiday array. The parlor, the long promenades, and 
the Academy grounds were brilliant with flitting fig- 
ures of parents, friends, and stray visitors for pleas- 
ure's sake merely. Young cadets went smiling about, 
and there was no lack of older military men. Kathie 
thought it an endless procession of strange faces. 
And how gay they were ! 

Then there were the beautiful parades and drills 
and evolutions, the invitations to dinners, suppers, 
hops, and all manner of festivities. 

"Aunt Euth and I have concluded that to pity 
poor cadets for their hard time is a sheer waste of 
sympathy," Kathie said, laughingly, to Bruce. 



 

" O, it is not all like this, you need not imagine. 
This is a sort of summer glorifying, when sisters and 
cousins and sweethearts smile upon us like June 
roses. There is many a week when it is dull 
enough." 

" It seems like a daily festival, with all the music 
and parades and beautiful dressing. I wonder that 
you do not forget your important points for exami- 
nation." 

"I am nearly through mine, and glad enough I 
shall be. I feel as if I had been on the rack for the 
past fortnight, and my brain has been so stretched 
and twisted and tortured that presently there will 
be a fearful collapse. Pity me when you hear the 
report." 

" Shall you lose your senses ? " 

" And become an idiot ? I hope not. I want to 
enjoy all that may happen after this trying time " ; 
and he gave her an odd smile. " But I am so glad 
you came. I counted every day." 

She smiled too, and colored a little. 

" I can sympathize with you, as I have just been 
passing the dreaded ordeal,' she said, in mock condo- 
lence. 



 

" And very successfully too, I heard. I must be 
careful not to shame you. But O, won't there be 
one immense thanksgiving when the matter has been 
brought to a triumphant conclusion ! Then there are 
all the years of service." 

" But you are not to enter immediately." 

"No. It is my debt of honor, though. And I 
shall be proud to follow my father's footsteps." 

There could be little doubt of that, Kathie thought, 
as she glanced at the manly figure, lithe yet rounded, 
supple, and graceful. How imperceptibly the boy 
had changed into the man ! And how strange to be 
as familiar with him as with Eob or Charlie ! 

At last came the final tug, but Bruce, like a good 
soldier, had his forces all in light marching order. 
No tripping up, or stammering, or having an idea slip 
out of one's mind just when it was most needed. As 
Kathie said afterward to Eob, it was really magnifi- 
cent. 

General Mackenzie was congratulated upon his 
promising son, and well might he be proud of him. 
Essentially truthful, honest, and noble, perfect in 
health, and possessing not a few attributes of manly 
beauty. What more could one ask ? 



 

They remained for a grand supper and ball, though 
Aunt Ruth declared that Kathie must go as the sim- 
plest of wild flowers, since they had not counted upon 
so much gayety. But she looked as pretty in her 
kheer white muslin as the others in tarletan and silk, 
and enjoyed the dancing quite as well. Indeed, sev- 
eral of the cadets rather envied Bruce his cousin. 

They came down to New York on the boat. It 
was a very lovely sail, and Bruce kept her interested 
by descriptions and legends of sundry places that 
they passed. To Kathie it appeared almost like an 
enchanted country. After a while they lapsed into 
silence. It was so unutterably beautiful, with the 
cloudless sky overhead, and the broad, rippling river, 
with its banks of green foliage or gray rock tangled 
about with moss and vines. Here and there a nook 
where fairies might dwell in safety, or a vista among 
the opening trees that appeared to lead to another 
world. 

" I sometimes wonder if Italy can be any lovelier," 
Kathie said, slowly. 

Bruce glanced up with a peculiar expression. 
" Would you like to see it ? ' he asked. 

" O, what a question ! As if any one could refuse. 

But I don't suppose I ever shall. So many delight- 
ful things happen to me continually that I must not 
be selfish enough to want everything." 

He laughed softly. " But if it should really be 
possible 

She gave him a quick, questioning look. 

