more courage than to march down to the valley of death as did the 'Six
Hundred.'"
"O," said Rob, fired again with a boy's enthusiasm, "that's just the
grandest thing that ever was written! I don't like poetry as a general
thing, it always sounds so girlish to me; but Marco Bozzaris and that
are so fine, especially the lines,--
    'Theirs not to reason why,
     Theirs but to do and die.'"
"After all, dying is not the grandest thing," said Aunt Ruth, quietly;
"and the detached instances of heroism in one's life have not always
required the most courage."
"No, indeed," answered Mr. Meredith, warmly. "I know men who have
acquitted themselves bravely under fire, who at home possessed so small
an amount of moral courage that they really could not resist temptations
which were to their mental and physical detriment."
"But it is the fighting that interests me," said Robert.
"One may be a brave soldier with purely physical courage, but to be a
good soldier one needs moral courage as well."
Just then Ada Meredith came down on the porch. She was Kathie's little
New York friend, and her uncle had brought her to Cedarwood for a few
days. She was growing tall rapidly, and considered herself quite a young
lady, especially as she had been to Saratoga with her mother.
So this made a little break in the conversation. Rob somehow didn't get
on very well with her; but then he admitted that he didn't like girls
anyhow, except Miss Jessie. He was rather glad, therefore, to see Dick
Grayson coming up the path, taking it for an excuse to get away.
Ada looked after them with secret mortification. Dick was quite a young
man in her estimation, and only that morning he had been very gallant.
She hated to have Rob take him off to the lake or any other haunt, so
she bethought herself of a little stratagem.
"You promised me a game of croquet," she said to Kathie, with great
earnestness.
Kathie glanced up in surprise. When she had proposed it that morning Ada
declared it stupid, and said she had grown tired of it. Uncle Robert,
knowing nothing of this, answered for her. "Of course," he said; "there
are the boys. Rob, don't go away, you are wanted."
Rob made an impatient gesture with his hand, as if he would wave them
all out of sight. Uncle Robert walked down to the boys. "Ada would like
to play croquet," he remarked, pleasantly.
"I'm just in the humor for a game myself," answered Dick; but Rob's brow
knit itself into a little frown.
"Come, girls!"
Mr. Meredith accompanied them. "We will be umpires," he declared.
Ada chose Dick for a partner. Rob thought it wasn't much fun playing
with Kathie. He was rather careless, and in the first game they were
badly beaten, which made Rob altogether out of humor. Why couldn't the
girls have stayed on the balcony and talked?
"I can't play!" he said, throwing down his mallet.
Uncle Edward picked it up. "Now, Kathie, let us beat them all to ribbons
and fragments!" he exclaimed, gayly, taking her brother's place.
Rob fell out of the ranks to where his uncle stood in the shade of a
great tulip-tree.
"Soldiers!" he said, in a low, half-laughing tone.
Rob colored. "I didn't want to play a bit! I wish girls--"
"But a brave soldier goes off of the field after a defeat in good order.
If he has done his best, that is all that is required of him."
Rob knew that he had not done his best at all, although he was angry
with the mortification of losing the game.
    "Theirs not to reason why,
     Theirs but to do and die,"
said Uncle Robert, using his quotation against him.
"But that doesn't mean paltry little matters like this!"--with all a
boy's disdain in his voice.
"It means everything when one is right. As Mr. Meredith said a few
moments ago, there is a good deal of soldiering in life which must be
all voluntary. That ought to suit your ideas. And I think the great
Captain is often very patient with us, Rob. He bought us all with a
price, you know, whether we serve him or not."
"But it is so hard for me to be"--Rob made a great effort and said,
frankly--"good-tempered."
"I do not think that is it altogether."
"What then?" and Rob looked up in a little astonishment.
"We will put it on a military basis,--shirking one's duty because it is
not pleasant."
"There was no particular duty about playing croquet!"--in the same
surprised tone.
"Why did you do it at all then?"
"Because--"
"Courtesy to a guest becomes a duty in a host."
"But there was Kathie. Dick and I were going down to take a row."
"I have a fancy Dick likes the croqueting as well as he would have liked
the rowing."
Dick Grayson's pleasant laugh floated over to them as he said, "Not so
bad a beat, after all, Mr. Meredith."
"The life soldiering is not quite so arbitrary. A good deal of it is
left to conscience. But if a sentinel at some outpost followed his own
devices and let a spy pass the line--"
"He would be shot, of course."
"It seems hard, doesn't it, just for one little thing? Yet if one or two
men escaped punishment the army would soon be in a state of
insubordination. Then when a captain came to lead them in battle each
man might consider his way and opinion best. Would it answer?"
"No, it wouldn't," replied the boy. "But, Uncle Robert, if God had made
us--stronger."
"He offers us his strength daily."
"But it is so--I mean you never can think of it at the right moment."
"That is the secret of our duty to him,--to think of his wishes at the
right time. He means, in this life, that we shall not seek to please
ourselves altogether; but there is no guard-house, no bread-and-water
rations, only a still, small voice to remind us."
Rob was silent for some moments, watching the players, and wondering why
everything fretted him so easily. Were all the rest of the world to have
their own way and pleasures, and he never? "Uncle Robert," he began,
presently, "don't you think it fair that I should follow out my own
wishes sometimes? Is it not unjust to ask me to give up always?"
"Are you asked to give up always?"--and the elder smiled.
"Well--" Rob grew rather red and confused.
"Which would give you the most satisfaction,--to know that you had made
two or three people happy, or to enjoy some pleasure alone by yourself?
This is the chief thing the Captain asks of us voluntary soldiers; and
did not a wise man say that 'he who ruleth his own spirit is greater
than he who taketh a city'?"
"There is more in volunteering than I thought," Rob said, gravely, after
a long pause; "I am afraid, after all, that I am one of the kind waiting
for a draft."
"And, if you wait for that, you may be left out altogether. Rob, it is
not very easy work to march and countermarch, to dig trenches, throw up
earthworks, keep your eyes open and your senses keen through dreary
night-watches and the many other duties that fill up a soldier's life.
It is harder for some men to keep faithful to these than to go into
battle and die covered with glory. But on the other side there will be a
few questions asked. What was the man's life? I often think of what the
Saviour said,--not be faithful in death, but be 'faithful unto
death.' There, we have had quite a sermon. Next month you will be a new
recruit, you know."
"Two games!" exclaimed Dick, as they advanced. "Each party has won one."
"And I am tired," said Ada, languidly.
"Just one more," pleaded Dick; "I know that I shall have better luck."
"I can't," Ada replied.
Rob's first impulse was to say, "I'll take her place"; but he felt that
would leave Ada to her own resources again. He did not care anything
about Ada's noticing him,--indeed, she rather ignored him when Dick was
around; but he had a fancy that Dick was his friend, and did not
belong so exclusively to the girls.
"Rob, I'll try you," Mr. Meredith exclaimed, remarking the wistful face.
So Ada and Dick had a ramble about the grounds, as Kathie, feeling she
was not very earnestly desired, lingered to watch the players. It was a
pretty sharp game, but Robert beat.
"Though I do not think you played your best at the last," the boy said.
Uncle Edward gave a queer little smile that set Rob to musing. What if
people sometimes acted a little differently, for the sake of sparing his
unlucky temper!
"I shall have to fight giants," he confessed to himself, understanding,
as he never had before, how serious a warfare life really is.
Dick could not be persuaded to remain to supper, though Ada made herself
very charming. But they passed a pleasant evening without him. Indeed,
it seemed to Rob that there was some new element in their enjoyment. Was
it because Ada was more gracious than usual?
Uncle Robert could have told the secret easily.
"Don't you get dreadfully dull sometimes?" Ada asked as they were alone
in their room, for Ada had chosen to share Kathie's.
"Dull!" and Kathie gave her pleasant little laugh.
"When there is no company? For it is not quite like the city, where one
can have calls and evening amusements."
"I hardly ever think of it. You know I was not here last winter, and the
summer has been so very delightful!" Kathie's cheeks glowed at the
remembrance.
"But your brother will be away this coming winter."
"Yes." It would make some difference, to be sure, but Kathie fancied
that she should not be entirely miserable.
"If I were you, I should want to go to boarding-school. Where there is a
crowd of girls they always manage to have a nice time."
"But I have nice times at home. I do not want to go away."
"What a queer girl you are, Kathie!"
It was not the first time she had been called queer. But she said,
rather gayly, "In what respect?"
"I shouldn't like to do as you have to. Why, there are five servants in
our house, and only one in this great place! And we have only four
children, while your mother has three. It is hardly fair for you to be
compelled to do so much work when there is no necessity."
"Mamma thinks it best," Kathie answered.
"If you expected to be very poor--or would have to do housework--"
"I might," returned Kathie, pleasantly. "People are sick sometimes, and
servants go away."
"Isn't your uncle willing that you should have a chambermaid?"
"I suppose he would be if mamma desired it."
"So you have to keep your own room in order, and dust the parlor, and do
all manner of little odds and ends. I believe I saw you wiping some
dishes in the kitchen this morning."
"And it did not injure me," returned Kathie, laughingly.
"But all this work makes your hands hard and red. Mine are as soft as
satin. I believe no money would tempt me to sweep a room!"
Ada uttered this in a very lofty fashion.
"Mamma thinks it best for me to learn to do everything. She was brought
up in a good deal of luxury, but met with reverses afterward."
Kathie smiled inwardly at the picture she remembered of the little room
where her mother used to sit and sew, and how she did errands, swept,
washed dishes, and sometimes even scrubbed floors. Her hands were not
large or coarse, for all the work they had done.
"I think it would be hard enough if one was compelled to do it. I am
thankful that I have no taste for such menial employments. I do not
believe that I could even toast a piece of bread"; and Ada leaned back
in the low rocker, the very picture of complacency.
Kathie was silent, revolving several matters in her mind "all in a
jumble," as she would have said. She knew it would be useless to
undertake to explain to Ada the great difference between their lives.
Mamma, Aunt Ruth, and Uncle Robert believed in the great responsibility
of existence. Weeks, months, and years were not given to be squandered
away in frivolous amusement. To do for each other was one of the first
conditions, not merely the small family circle, but all the wide world
outside who needed help or sympathy. And if one did not know how to do
anything--
"But when you go to school you cannot do so much," pursued Ada. "There
will be all your lessons. I suppose you will study French and Italian.
You cannot think how I was complimented on my singing while I was at
Saratoga. Several gentlemen said my pronunciation was wonderful in one
so young. I hope I shall be able to come out next summer."
"Come out!" repeated Kathie, bewildered.
"Yes, be regularly introduced to society. I am past fifteen, and growing
tall rapidly. I hope I shall have an elegant figure. I want to be a
belle. Don't you suppose you shall ever go to Saratoga?"
"I don't know,"--dubiously.
"It would be a shame for you to grow up here where there is no society.
You would surely be an old maid, like your Aunt Ruth."
"She isn't so very old," returned Kathie, warmly.
"But every woman over twenty-five is an old maid. I mean to be married
when I am eighteen."
Kathie brushed out her hair, hung up her clothes, and waited for Ada to
get into bed so that she might say her prayers in peace. Ada had
outgrown "Our Father which art in heaven," and "had no knack of making
up prayers," she said.
But it seemed to Kathie that there were always so many things for which
to give thanks, so many fresh blessings to ask. She almost wondered a
little, sometimes, if God didn't get tired of listening.
CHAPTER II.
DRAFTED.
MISS JESSIE smiled a little at Ada's assumption of womanhood when the
two girls came over to drink tea.
"Ah," said Grandmother Darrell, wiping her glasses, "she's no such a
girl as Kathie! The child's worth half a dozen of her. After all,
there's no place like the country to bring up boys and girls."
For Grandmother Darrell, like a good many other people, fancied
everything that came from the city must be more or less contaminated.
"I think Miss Darrell would make your uncle a very nice wife," Ada
said, graciously. "Do you suppose there is anything in it?"
Kathie flushed scarlet, remembering the pain and trouble of last winter.
"I don't want to talk about it," she answered, in a low tone.
Ada nodded her head sagaciously. It was quite evident that she had hit
upon the truth.
Some of the Brookside girls thought Ada "so splendid," Lottie Thorne
among them, who now treated Kathie in a very amiable manner, and always
took pains to speak with her as they came out of church. Of course,
Lottie was growing older and a little more sensible, as well as worldly
wise.
They took Ada to all the pleasant haunts, rowed over the lake, made two
or three visits, and Mrs. Alston invited some girls, or rather young
ladies, to tea; but Ada showed a decided preference for the young
gentlemen. Even unsuspicious Kathie remarked how soon her headaches
disappeared, and how ready she was to sing if some of the boys would
stand at the piano and turn her music.
"A budding coquette," said Aunt Ruth, with a quiet smile.
"What a pity that girls should be reared to such idle, frivolous lives,
and have their minds so filled with vanity and selfishness!" Mrs. Alston
replied. "Can such blossoming bring forth good, wholesome fruit?"
Mr. Meredith felt a little annoyed. The visit was not quite the success
he had hoped, and he saw more clearly than ever the difference between
the two girls; but ah, how unlike their mothers were!
Was he growing more serious, clearer-eyed? What was there about this
family that charmed so insensibly? The higher motives, the worthier
lives, with a more generous outlook for neighbor and friend!
Kathie was ashamed to confess it even to herself, but she said good by
at the station with a sense of relief. For days a horrible thought had
been haunting her,--suppose Uncle Robert should be drafted! The
abruptly terminated conversation had not been renewed; indeed, there had
been so many pleasures at Cedarwood that one hardly wanted to bring in
such a subject. But if it did happen, Kathie felt she should want no
stranger eyes to witness her grief.
For when the question came directly home, she felt that she could not
give him up; yet how brave she had been last winter! If General
Mackenzie could look into her heart, he would find that she hardly
deserved all his praise.
But all Brookside was much excited over the prospect. Business was very
dull and bounties tempting; so numbers enlisted.
"Uncle Robert," Kathie said, as they were riding homeward, "could a
drafted man offer a substitute just the same?"
"Why, yes, to be sure."
He uttered the words in such a light-hearted manner that she felt quite
relieved, but lacked courage to pursue the subject further. A little
quiver would keep rising from her heart to her throat, interfering with
the steadiness of her voice.
By Monday night seventy men were still needed to complete the quota.
That gave Brookside about forty.
Kathie wondered how they could all go on with their usual routine. Aunt
Ruth, even, sat by the window and sang "Bonnie Doon," as she sewed upon
Rob's outfit. His uncle had decided upon a school about sixty miles
distant, a flourishing collegiate institution, in a healthy locality,--a
quaint, quiet, old-fashioned town, with a river where the boys could
have boating and swimming.
"It is so far!" Mrs. Alston had said at first.
"Not too far, though. Of course we do not expect him to come home every
few weeks. That always unsettles a boy."
So she made no further demur. The principal, Dr. Goldthwaite, was a
truly religious man, and the place was held in high esteem. Perhaps this
took their thoughts a little from the subject that was so absorbing to
Kathie.
Rob went over to the hall and hung about all the morning. He did find a
good deal of amusement in it. The crowd was disposed to be rather jolly,
and several of the men took their luck with great good-humor. It was as
his uncle had said. While they would not willingly leave their homes and
families, still, if the country had need of them in her imminent peril,
they would go. Others, sure of a substitute, took the news with
unconcern. Only a few exhibited any anger, or declared loudly what they
would and what they would not do.
At three o'clock the printed list was complete, and the notices were
being made up.
"So your uncle's in for it, Rob!" exclaimed a voice at his side.
"No, you're mistaken. I listened to every name."
"Here it is,--Robert Conover!"
Rob followed the grimy finger down the list. Sure enough! His heart
stood still for a moment.
"He will get a sub, though! He'd be a fool to go when he's rich enough
to stay at home!"
"Yes, that's it!" and a burly fellow turned, facing them with a savage
frown. "It's the poor man this 'ere thing comes hard on! Rich men are
all cowards! They kin stay to hum and nuss themselves in the
chimbly-corner. I say they're cowards!"
Rob's heart swelled within him for a twofold reason. First, the shock.
He had not been able to believe that the draft would touch them, and the
surprise was very great. Then to have his uncle called a coward! All the
boy's hot, unreasoning indignation was ablaze.
"He is not!" he answered, fiercely.
"Say that agin and I'll knock you over!"
Rob was not to be dared or to be bullied into silence. He stood his
ground manfully.
"I say that my uncle is no coward, whether he gets a substitute or not!"
The fellow squared off. It was Kit Kent, as he was commonly called, a
blacksmith of notoriously unsteady habits.
"None of that!" and a form was interposed between Bob and his
assailant. "Hit a fellow of your size, Kent, not a boy like that."
"Let the youngster hold his tongue then! Much he knows!"
Rob did not stir, but his lips turned blue and almost cold with the
pressure. If he had been a little larger, it seemed to him that he could
not have let Kent alone.
"There's a chance for you to make some money," exclaimed a voice in the
crowd. "Six or seven hundred dollars, and you're grumbling about being
out of work! It's a golden opportunity, and you'll never find another
like it."
That turned the laugh upon Kent. Rob walked off presently. Turning into
a quiet street, he nearly ran over two men who stood talking.
"The trouble is that you can hardly find a substitute. Most of the
able-bodied men who will go have enlisted or been drafted. The look is
mighty poor!"
That startled Rob again. He began to feel pretty sober now. What if--
Kathie and Aunt Ruth had gone out into the garden, and were taking up
some flowers for winter.
"O Rob!" exclaimed Kathie, with a cry, "is there any news? It's the
worst, I know," answering her own question, her breath almost strangling
her.
"Yes, it is the worst!"
"Uncle Robert has been drafted!" Kathie dropped her trowel and flew to
her mother. "But he won't go," she sobbed; "do you think he will? How
can we spare him?"
"It would be no worse for us than for hundreds of others," replied her
mother. "Kathie, my darling, be brave until we know, at least."
"Where is he?"
"He went to Connor's Point with Mr. Langdon. Hush, dear, don't cry."
Kathie wiped away her tears. "It is very hard," she said. "I never
realized before how hard it was."
But the flowers lost their charm. Kathie put away her implements, laid
off her garden-dress, as she called it,--a warm woollen sack and
skirt,--and sat down, disconsolately enough, to practise her music. Next
week she was going to school.
She heard Uncle Robert's voice on the porch at the side entrance. Rob
was talking in great earnest; but somehow she couldn't have gone out, or
trusted the voice still so full of tears.
He came in at length. "You have heard the news, Kitty?"
She rose and went to his arms, hid her face upon his shoulder. "O Uncle
Robert!"
"What ought I to do, little one?"
It was such a solemn question that she could not answer it readily,
selfishly.
"Rob came very near getting into a row on my behalf. It was rather
funny. Poor boy! I believe he would go willingly in my stead."
The story interested Kathie a good deal, and turned the current of her
feelings somewhat. Then one or two of the neighbors came in, and they
had no more quiet until they gathered round the supper-table. Freddy
thought it a great honor to be drafted.
"Is it true that there is a scarcity of substitutes?" asked Rob of his
uncle.
"I believe it is. Mr. Langdon put in one about a month ago, and paid a
thousand dollars."
"But you could afford that," said Rob, decisively.
"What about the cowardice of the proceeding?"
Rob colored. The matter appeared so different to him now.
"O Uncle Robert!"--in a most deprecating tone.
"I will not perplex you, nor keep you in suspense," he said, gravely.
"If your father was alive I think I should not hesitate a moment. The
country is at her sorest need, and calls upon her loyal children for
assistance. It is the duty of every man who can be spared to answer the
call, to swell the list so that the struggle may be brief. It seems to
me that another year will certainly see our war ended, now that we have
such brave and able generals in the field, but if the stress should be
any greater, I must respond. Now, however, I shall do my best to
procure a substitute."
They all drew a relieved breath. Kathie looked up with a tender light in
her eyes.
"I am so glad!" she said afterward, nestling beside him upon the sofa.
"Did it surprise you when you heard that you were drafted?"
"I must confess that it did. I had a presentiment that I should escape,
so it seems such things are not always to be depended upon."
Kathie was silent for some time, her eyes engrossed with a figure in the
carpet.
"Well, Miss Thoughtful, what is it now? Are you not satisfied to have me
stay, or am I less of a hero in your eyes?"
"No, Uncle Robert. I was only thinking of the men who were compelled to
go and did not want to, who had families to leave--"
"My darling, it is not necessary to lay the cares of others so deeply to
heart. Instead, we must do all we can for those who are left behind."
"I don't think a draft quite a fair thing, after all," declared Rob,
coming out of a brown study.
Mrs. Alston entered the room. "Mr. Morrison is over here and wishes to
see you,--Ethel's father."
Uncle Robert rose and went out.
In the mean while Aunt Ruth and Rob had quite a warm discussion
concerning the draft. Kathie somehow felt very tender-hearted, and was
silent.
Presently they heard steps in the hall and the door opened.
"I have brought Mr. Morrison in to see you all," Mr. Conover said, "and
to explain to you that he desires to go in my stead, a willing
substitute."
There was something very solemn and withal sweet in Uncle Robert's
voice. Rob winked away a tear, Kathie walked over to Mr. Morrison and
laid her hand in his,--a pretty white hand if she did dust the rooms and
do gardening with it.
"It is so very kind and generous in you," she began, falteringly,
thinking of another love and another substitute.
"No, Miss Kathie, it isn't all pure generosity, so don't praise me too
soon. If I'd been real lucky about getting work, maybe I shouldn't have
taken the idea so strongly into my mind, or if poor Ethel's mother had
lived. But times are unsettled, and business of all kinds is so very
dull that I'd half made up my mind to 'list and get the bounty. That
would be something for my little girl in case she didn't have me. Then
when I heard talk of the draft I thought to myself, 'If Mr. Conover gets
taken I'll offer to go in his place'; and so I waited. Being an
Englishman, I am not liable, you know."
"And that makes it the more noble," returned Kathie, softly. "It was so
good to--to think of him"; and her voice sank to a whisper.
"You have all been so kind to my poor old mother, and to me, for that
matter, as well. I seem to owe some sort of duty to you first."
"Did you mean to enlist any way?" asked Kathie.
"Yes, miss, it would have come to that; for, said I, 'Here is a country
and a government battling in a good cause, begging for men, and willing
to provide for the little ones they may leave behind.' Though I should
be no skulk, nor eye-server, Miss Kathie, if I did go for the money."
"We should never think that of you," returned Uncle Robert, warmly.
"So I'll be glad to go in your place, sir, if it's any favor; and if
you'll look after Ethel a little, if anything should happen to me. If
I'm too bold in asking--"
"No," said Aunt Ruth; "it will be a sacred duty, and a pleasure as well;
but we shall count upon your return."
"Life is uncertain with us all," was the grave reply. With that he rose
and bowed. Uncle Robert left the room with him, for he had much more to
say.
"I couldn't have uttered a word," exclaimed Rob, his voice still a
little tremulous. "Why, it's just like a dream! There are noble and
heroic men who may go to war even for the money, though I think they are
a good deal sneered at,--subs, as the boys call them; but I shall never
ridicule them again,--never, although bad men may do the same thing."
"It is not quite the same," subjoined Kathie.
"No, the motive makes a great difference."
Uncle Robert returned and took his seat between the children. He
appeared to be invested with a new virtue in their eyes, as if he had
just escaped an imminent and deadly peril. And there is something in the
simplest act of chivalry that touches one's soul.
"It was so good in Mr. Morrison to think of you," Rob said, after a
while.
"Yes; going farther back, I don't know but we owe it all to Kathie. If
she had not thought of our trusty and efficient gardener, we should
never have known his brother. The lodge has made a charming home for
them, and they feel deeply grateful."
"It is worse to go away to war than I imagined," Rob continued, gravely
following out his own musings.
"You have been looking at the glory and listening to the music, my boy;
but there is quite another side to it. It is one thing to go out as a
mounted officer, in glittering uniform, with a servant to wait upon you,
and if you fall in battle to have whole cities weep your loss, and quite
another to tramp as a common soldier, often weary and footsore, to be
subject to the caprice of those in authority, to work night and day
sometimes, to stand in the front rank and be swept down by a terrific
charge, be trampled under foot and thrown into a nameless grave, perhaps
forever lost to your kindred. It is no light matter, Rob, and requires a
good deal of courage when a man does it intelligently."
"You wouldn't have gone out as a private, though!"
A grave smile crossed Uncle Robert's face "I should not have gone for
the glory, but the duty. Yes, Rob, I should have taken my place in the
ranks, and if the great Captain of all had said, 'Friend, come up
higher,' I should have trusted through his grace to be ready for the
promotion. But one goes in my stead."
Kathie thought of the One who had gone in the place of us all, been
mocked, derided, spit upon, and put to a cruel death. Maybe the rest
remembered it too, for there was no more talking. Their hearts were too
full.
CHAPTER III.
TRUE TO ONE'S COLORS.
THERE was a week of great excitement at Brookside. Head-quarters were
established on the confines of the town to render it accessible to
Taunton and the adjacent places. Hundreds thronged the camp daily;
uniforms were sent down, and drilling commenced in good earnest.
Kathie began school on Monday morning. A large, pleasant room had been
obtained, and Mrs. Wilder opened with ten young ladies, though nearly as
many more had been enrolled.
"I feel as if I were drafted," she declared to Uncle Robert. "I know it
is my duty to go and do the best that I can, but I would so much rather
have remained at home."
"You find, then, that no one is quite exempt from the warfare?" and he
smiled. "Still, I think I can trust you to be a good soldier."
"I am second in the regiment," she said. "Mr. Morrison must always stand
first."
It seemed very quiet and lonesome in that large room, where you were put
upon your honor not to speak, and the silence was broken only by the
recitations, or some remark of Mrs. Wilder. A long, dull day, though the
session closed at two, there being no intermission.
Lottie Thorne was the only girl Kathie was well acquainted with. That
ambitious young lady had pleaded very hard for boarding-school, and,
being disappointed, was rather captious and critical. Emma Lauriston sat
next to her, and Kathie fancied she might like her very much. She had
met her in the summer at the rowing-matches.
But she was glad enough to get home. Rob had his head full of Camp
Schuyler, and Freddy had arrayed himself in gorgeous regimentals and sat
out on a post drumming fearfully.
"I want a little more talk about this substitute business," said Uncle
Robert, at the table. "Mr. Morrison offered to go for seven hundred
dollars. He has three hundred of his own. Now what do you think we ought
to give him?"
He addressed the question more particularly to Rob and Kathie.
Rob considered. In his boy's way of thinking he supposed what any one
asked was enough.
"Would a thousand dollars be too much?" Kathie ventured, timidly. "It
doesn't seem to me that any money could make up to Ethel for--"
There Kathie stopped.
"He will come back," exclaimed Rob.
"We were talking over Ethel's future this morning. Mr. Morrison would
like to have her educated for a teacher. I am to be appointed her
guardian in case of any misfortune."
"It ought not to be less than a thousand," said Aunt Ruth.
"I thought so myself. And I believe I shall pledge my word to provide a
home for Ethel in case of any change at her uncle's."
Kathie's deep, soft eyes thanked him.
The next day the bargain was concluded. Mr. Morrison handed his small
sum over to Mr. Conover for safe-keeping, and the whole amount, thirteen
hundred dollars, was placed at interest. Then he reported himself at
Camp Schuyler for duty.
Kathie tried bravely to like her school, but home was so much dearer and
sweeter. It was quite hard after her desultory life, and spasmodic
studying made so very entertaining by Uncle Robert's explanations, to
come down to methodical habits and details. She meant to be a good
soldier, even if it did prove difficult in the early marches.
But this week was one of events. On Thursday afternoon Mr. Meredith
surprised them all again. It seemed to Kathie that there was something
unusual in his face. Uncle Robert was absent on important business, and
at first he appeared rather disappointed.
"It is such a glorious afternoon, Kitty, that I think you will have to
invite me out to drive, by way of comfort. Are the ponies in good
order?"
"Yes, and at home. How fortunate that Rob did not take them!"
Kathie ordered them at once.
"You have had great doings here. So you came near losing your dear
uncle, my child?"
Kathie winked away a tear. There would always be a tender little spot in
her heart concerning the matter.
"It is best under the circumstances," was Mr. Meredith's grave comment.
"I should not want him to go."
They took their seats in the phaeton. "Where shall we drive?" Kathie
asked. "To--" breaking off her sentence with a little blush.
"Miss Darrell is away from home. It is owing to that circumstance that
you are called upon to entertain me"; and he laughed a little, but less
gayly than usual.
It was a soft, lovely autumn day, full of whisperings of oaks and pines
and cedars, fragmentary chirps of birds, and distant river music, Kathie
drew a few long breaths of perfect content, then with her usual
consideration for others she stole a shy glance to see if Mr. Meredith
was enjoying it as well, he was so very quiet.
"I am afraid something troubles you," she said, softly; and her voice
sounded as if it might have been a rustle of maple branches close at
hand. "Is it about Uncle Robert?"
"No, child," in a grave, reflective tone; "it is--about myself."
She did not like to question him as she would have done with Uncle
Robert.
"Kitten," he began, presently, "I have been thinking this good while,
and thinking slowly. A great many things puzzle me, and all my
perplexities have culminated at last in one grand step; but whether I am
quite prepared for it--"
The sentence was a labyrinth to Kathie, and she was not quite sure that
she held the clew.
"I am going to enlist--at least, I am going out for three months--with
my regiment. They have volunteered, most of them."
"And what troubles you?" in her sweet, tender voice, and glancing up
with an expression that no other eyes save Kathie Alston's could have
had.
"Child," he asked, "how did you stand fire last winter when you were so
suddenly brought to the front? About the singing, I mean."
She understood. He referred to the Sunday evening at Mrs. Meredith's
when she had refused to join Ada in singing songs. The remembered pain
still made her shiver.
"There is something about you, Kathie, just a little different from
other children,--other girls. You often carry it in your face; and for
the life of me I cannot help thinking how the wise virgins must have
been illuminated with their tiny lamps while the others stood in
darkness. Is it a natural gift or grace?"
She knew now what he meant. She was called upon to give testimony here,
