closely as if they had both died for the same cause.
Some lasting dignity seems to linger about the city that has once been a
capital; and this odor of fallen nobility belongs to Quebec, which was
a capital in the European sense, with all the advantages of a small
vice-regal court, and its social and political intrigues, in the French
times. Under the English, for a hundred years it was the centre
of Colonial civilization and refinement, with a governor-general’s
residence and a brilliant, easy, and delightful society, to which the
large garrison of former days gave gayety and romance. The honors of
a capital, first shared with Montreal and Toronto, now rest with
half-savage Ottawa; and the garrison has dwindled to a regiment
of rifles, whose presence would hardly be known, but for the natty
sergeants lounging, stick in hand, about the streets and courting
the nurse-maids. But in the days of old there were scenes of carnival
pleasure in the Governor’s Garden, and there the garrison band still
plays once a week, when it is filled by the fashion and beauty of
Quebec, and some semblance of the past is recalled. It is otherwise a
lonesome, indifferently tended place, and on this afternoon there was
no one there but a few loafing young fellows of low degree, French and
English, and children that played screaming from seat to seat and path
to path and over the too-heavily shaded grass. In spite of a conspicuous
warning that any dog entering the garden would be destroyed, the place
was thronged with dogs unmolested and apparently in no danger of the
threatened doom. The seal of a disagreeable desolation was given in
the legend rudely carved upon one of the benches, “Success to the Irish
Republic!”
The morning of the next day our tourists gave to hearing mass at the
French cathedral, which was not different, to their heretical senses,
from any other mass, except that the ceremony was performed with a
very full clerical force, and was attended by an uncommonly devout
congregation. With Europe constantly in their minds, they were
bewildered to find the worshippers not chiefly old and young women, but
men also of all ages and of every degree, from the neat peasant in
his Sabbath-day best to the modish young Quebecker, who spread his
handkerchief on the floor to save his pantaloons during supplication.
There was fashion and education in large degree among the men, and there
was in all a pious attention to the function in poetical keeping with
the origin and history of a city which the zeal of the Church had
founded.
A magnificent beadle, clothed in a gold-laced coat aid bearing a silver
staff, bowed to them when they entered, and, leading them to a pew,
punched up a kneeling peasant, who mutely resumed his prayers in the
aisle outside, while they took his place. It appeared to Isabel very
unjust that their curiosity should displace his religion; but she
consoled herself by making Basil give a shilling to the man who,
preceded by the shining beadle, came round to take up a collection.
The peasant could have given nothing but copper, and she felt that this
restored the lost balance of righteousness in their favor. There was
a sermon, very sweetly and gracefully delivered by a young priest of
singular beauty, even among clergy whose good looks are so notable as
those of Quebec; and then they followed the orderly crowd of worshippers
out, and left the cathedral to the sacristan and the odor of incense.
They thought the type of French-Canadian better here than at Montreal,
and they particularly noticed the greater number of pretty young girls.
All classes were well dressed; for though the best dressed could not be
called stylish according to the American standard, as Isabel decided,
and had only a provincial gentility, the poorest wore garments that were
clean and whole. Everybody, too, was going to have a hot Sunday dinner,
if there was any truth in the odors that steamed out of every door and
window; and this dinner was to be abundantly garnished with onions, for
the dullest nose could not err concerning that savor.
Numbers of tourists, of a nationality that showed itself superior to
every distinction of race, were strolling vaguely and not always
quite happily about; but they made no impression on the proper local
character, and the air throughout the morning was full of the sentiment
of Sunday in a Catholic city. There was the apparently meaningless
jangling of bells, with profound hushes between, and then more jubilant
jangling, and then deeper silence; there was the devout trooping of
the crowds to the churches; and there was the beginning of the long
afternoon’s lounging and amusement with which the people of that faith
reward their morning’s devotion. Little stands for the sale of knotty
apples and choke-cherries and cakes and cider sprang magically into
existence after service, and people were already eating and drinking at
them. The carriage-drivers resumed their chase of the tourists, and the
unvoiceful stir of the new week had begun again. Quebec, in fact, is but
a pantomimic reproduction of France; it is as if two centuries in a new
land, amidst the primeval silences of nature and the long hush of the
Northern winters, had stilled the tongues of the lively folk and made
them taciturn as we of a graver race. They have kept the ancestral
vivacity of manner; the elegance of the shrug is intact; the talking
hands take part in dialogue; the agitated person will have its share of
expression. But the loud and eager tone is wanting, and their dumb show
mystifies the beholder almost as much as the Southern architecture under
the slanting Northern sun. It is not America; if it is not France, what
is it?
Of the many beautiful things to see in the neighborhood of Quebec, our
wedding-journeyers were in doubt on which to bestow their one precious
afternoon. Should it be Lorette, with its cataract and its remnant of
bleached and fading Hurons, or the Isle of Orleans with its fertile
farms and its primitive peasant life, or Montmorenci, with the unrivaled
fall and the long drive through the beautiful village of Beauport?
Isabel chose the last, because Basil had been there before, and it had
to it the poetry of the wasted years in which she did not know him. She
had possessed herself of the journal of his early travels, among the
other portions and parcels recoverable from the dreadful past, and from
time to time on this journey she had read him passages out of it, with
mingled sentiment and irony, and, whether she was mocking or admiring,
equally to his confusion. Now, as they smoothly bowled away from the
city, she made him listen to what he had written of the same excursion
long ago.
It was, to be sure, a sad farrago of sentiment about the village and the
rural sights, and especially a girl tossing hay in the field. Yet it
had touches of nature and reality, and Basil could not utterly despise
himself for having written it. “Yes,” he said, “life was then a thing
to be put into pretty periods; now it’s something that has risks and
averages, and may be insured.”
There was regret, fancied or expressed, in his tone, that made her
sigh, “Ah! if I’d only had a little more money, you might have devoted
yourself to literature;” for she was a true Bostonian in her honor of
our poor craft.
“O, you’re not greatly to blame,” answered her husband, “and I forgive
you the little wrong you’ve done me. I was quits with the Muse, at any
rate, you know, before we were married; and I’m very well satisfied to
be going back to my applications and policies to-morrow.”
To-morrow? The word struck cold upon her. Then their wedding journey
would begin to end tomorrow! So it would, she owned with another sigh;
and yet it seemed impossible.
“There, ma’am,” said the driver, rising from his seat and facing round,
while he pointed with his whip towards Quebec, “that’s what we call the
Silver City.”
They looked back with him at the city, whose thousands of tinned roofs,
rising one above the other from the water’s edge to the citadel, were
all a splendor of argent light in the afternoon sun. It was indeed as if
some magic had clothed that huge rock, base and steepy flank and crest,
with a silver city. They gazed upon the marvel with cries of joy that
satisfied the driver’s utmost pride in it, and Isabel said, “To live
there, there in that Silver City, in perpetual sojourn! To be always
going to go on a morrow that never came! To be forever within one day of
the end of a wedding journey that never ended!”
From far down the river by which they rode came the sound of a cannon,
breaking the Sabbath repose of the air. “That’s the gun of the Liverpool
steamer, just coming in,” said the driver.
“O,” cried Isabel, “I’m thankful we’re only to stay one night more,
for now we shall be turned out of our nice room by those people who
telegraphed for it!”
There is a continuous village along the St. Lawrence from Quebec, almost
to Montmorenci; and they met crowds of villagers coming from the church
as they passed through Beauport. But Basil was dismayed at the change
that had befallen them. They had their Sunday’s best on, and the women,
instead of wearing the peasant costume in which he had first seen them,
were now dressed as if out of “Harper’s Bazar” of the year before. He
anxiously asked the driver if the broad straw hats and the bright sacks
and kirtles were no more. “O, you’d see them on weekdays, sir,” was
the answer, “but they’re not so plenty any time as they used to be.” He
opened his store of facts about the habitans, whom he praised for every
virtue,--for thrift, for sobriety, for neatness, for amiability; and his
words ought to have had the greater weight, because he was of the Irish
race, between which and the Canadians there is no kindness lost. But the
looks of the passers-by corroborated him, and as for the little houses,
open-doored beside the way, with the pleasant faces at window and
portal, they were miracles of picturesqueness and cleanliness. From each
the owner’s slim domain, narrowing at every successive division among
the abundant generations, runs back to hill or river in well-defined
lines, and beside the cottage is a garden of pot-herbs, bordered with a
flame of bright autumn flowers; somewhere in decent seclusion grunts
the fattening pig, which is to enrich all those peas and onions for the
winter’s broth; there is a cheerfulness of poultry about the barns; I
dare be sworn there is always a small girl driving a flock of decorous
ducks down the middle of the street; and of the priest with a book under
his arm, passing a way-side shrine, what possible doubt? The houses,
which are of one model, are built by the peasants themselves with the
stone which their land yields more abundantly than any other crop, and
are furnished with galleries and balconies to catch every ray of the
fleeting summer, and perhaps to remember the long-lost ancestral summers
of Normandy. At every moment, in passing through this ideally neat and
pretty village, our tourists must think of the lovely poem of which all
French Canada seems but a reminiscence and illustration. It was Grand
Pre, not Beauport; and they paid an eager homage to the beautiful genius
which has touched those simple village aspects with an undying charm,
and which, whatever the land’s political allegiance, is there perpetual
Seigneur.
The village, stretching along the broad interval of the St. Lawrence,
grows sparser as you draw near the Falls of Montmorenci, and presently
you drive past the grove shutting from the road the country-house in
which the Duke of Kent spent some merry days of his jovial youth, and
come in sight of two lofty towers of stone,--monuments and witnesses of
the tragedy of Montmorenci.
Once a suspension-bridge, built sorely against the will of the
neighboring habitans, hung from these towers high over the long plunge
of the cataract. But one morning of the fatal spring after the first
winter’s frost had tried the hold of the cable on the rocks, an old
peasant and his wife with their little grandson set out in their cart
to pass the bridge. As they drew near the middle the anchoring wires
suddenly lost their grip upon the shore, and whirled into the air; the
bridge crashed under the hapless passengers and they were launched from
its height, upon the verge of the fall and thence plunged, two hundred
and fifty feet, into the ruin of the abyss.
The habitans rebuilt their bridge of wood upon low stone piers, so far
up the river from the cataract that whoever fell from it would yet have
many a chance for life; and it would have been perilous to offer
to replace the fallen structure, which, in the belief of faithful
Christians, clearly belonged to the numerous bridges built by the Devil,
in times when the Devil did not call himself a civil engineer.
The driver, with just unction, recounted the sad tale as he halted his
horses on the bridge; and as his passengers looked down the rock-fretted
brown torrent towards the fall, Isabel seized the occasion to shudder
that ever she had set foot on that suspension-bridge below Niagara, and
to prove to Basil’s confusion that her doubt of the bridges between
the Three Sisters was not a case of nerves but an instinctive wisdom
concerning the unsafety of all bridges of that design.
From the gate opening into the grounds about the fall two or three
little French boys, whom they had not the heart to forbid, ran noisily
before them with cries in their sole English, “This way, sir” and led
toward a weather-beaten summer-house that tottered upon a projecting
rock above the verge of the cataract. But our tourists shook their
heads, and turned away for a more distant and less dizzy enjoyment of
the spectacle, though any commanding point was sufficiently chasmal and
precipitous. The lofty bluff was scooped inward from the St. Lawrence in
a vast irregular semicircle, with cavernous hollows, one within another,
sinking far into its sides, and naked from foot to crest, or meagrely
wooded here and there with evergreen. From the central brink of these
gloomy purple chasms the foamy cataract launched itself, and like a
cloud,
     “Along the cliff to fall and pause and fall did seem.”
I say a cloud, because I find it already said to my hand, as it were, in
a pretty verse, and because I must needs liken Montmorenci to something
that is soft and light. Yet a cloud does not represent the glinting
of the water in its downward swoop; it is like some broad slope of
sun-smitten snow; but snow is coldly white and opaque, and this has a
creamy warmth in its luminous mass; and so, there hangs the cataract
unsaid as before. It is a mystery that anything so grand should be so
lovely, that anything so tenderly fair in whatever aspect should yet be
so large that one glance fails to comprehend it all. The rugged wildness
of the cliffs and hollows about it is softened by its gracious beauty,
which half redeems the vulgarity of the timber-merchant’s uses in
setting the river at work in his saw-mills and choking its outlet into
the St. Lawrence with rafts of lumber and rubbish of slabs and shingles.
Nay, rather, it is alone amidst these things, and the eye takes note of
them by a separate effort.
Our tourists sank down upon the turf that crept with its white clover
to the edge of the precipice, and gazed dreamily upon the fall, filling
their vision with its exquisite color and form. Being wiser than I, they
did not try to utter its loveliness; they were content to feel it,
and the perfection of the afternoon, whose low sun slanting over the
landscape gave, under that pale, greenish-blue sky, a pensive sentiment
of autumn to the world. The crickets cried amongst the grass; the
hesitating chirp of birds came from the tree overhead; a shaggy colt
left off grazing in the field and stalked up to stare at them; their
little guides, having found that these people had no pleasure in
the sight of small boys scuffling on the verge of a precipice, threw
themselves also down upon the grass and crooned a long, long ballad in a
mournful minor key about some maiden whose name was La Belle Adeline. It
was a moment of unmixed enjoyment for every sense, and through all their
being they were glad; which considering, they ceased to be so, with a
deep sigh, as one reasoning that he dreams must presently awake. They
never could have an emotion without desiring to analyze it; but perhaps
their rapture would have ceased as swiftly, even if they had not tried
to make it a fact of consciousness.
“If there were not dinner after such experiences as these,” said Isabel,
as they sat at table that evening, “I don’t know what would become of
one. But dinner unites the idea of pleasure and duty, and brings you
gently back to earth. You must eat, don’t you see, and there’s nothing
disgraceful about what you’re obliged to do; and so--it’s all right.”
“Isabel, Isabel,” cried her husband, “you have a wonderful mind, and
its workings always amaze me. But be careful, my dear; be careful. Don’t
work it too hard. The human brain, you know: delicate organ.”
“Well, you understand what I mean; and I think it’s one of the great
charms of a husband, that you’re not forced to express yourself to him.
A husband,” continued Isabel, sententiously, poising a bit of meringue
between her thumb and finger,--for they had reached that point in the
repast, “a husband is almost as good as another woman!”
In the parlor they found the Ellisons, and exchanged the history of the
day with them.
“Certainly,” said Mrs. Ellison, at the end, “it’s been a pleasant day
enough, but what of the night? You’ve been turned out, too, by those
people who came on the steamer, and who might as well have stayed on
board to-night; have you got another room?”
“Not precisely,” said Isabel; “we have a coop in the fifth story, right
under the roof.”
Mrs. Ellison turned energetically upon her husband and cried in tones of
reproach, “Richard, Mrs. March has a room!”
“A coop, she said,” retorted that amiable Colonel, “and we’re too good
for that. The clerk is keeping us in suspense about a room, because
he means to surprise us with something palatial at the end. It’s his
joking way.”
“Nonsense!” said Mrs. Ellison. “Have you seen him since dinner?”
“I have made life a burden to him for the last half-hour,” returned the
Colonel, with the kindliest smile.
“O Richard,” cried his wife, in despair of his amendment, “you wouldn’t
make life a burden to a mouse!” And having nothing else for it, she
laughed, half in sorrow, half in fondness.
“Well, Fanny,” the Colonel irrelevantly answered, “put on your hat and
things, and let’s all go up to Durham Terrace for a promenade. I know
our friends want to go. It’s something worth seeing; and by the time we
get back, the clerk will have us a perfectly sumptuous apartment.”
Nothing, I think, more enforces the illusion of Southern Europe in
Quebec than the Sunday-night promenading on Durham Terrace. This is the
ample space on the brow of the cliff to the left of the citadel, the
noblest and most commanding position in the whole city, which was
formerly occupied by the old castle of Saint Louis, where dwelt the
brave Count Frontenac and his splendid successors of the French regime.
The castle went the way of Quebec by fire some forty years ago, and Lord
Durham leveled the site and made it a public promenade. A stately arcade
of solid masonry supports it on the brink of the rock, and an iron
parapet incloses it; there are a few seats to lounge upon, and some idle
old guns for the children to clamber over and play with. A soft twilight
had followed the day, and there was just enough obscurity to hide from a
willing eye the Northern and New World facts of the scene, and to bring
into more romantic relief the citadel dark against the mellow evening,
and the people gossiping from window to window across the narrow streets
of the Lower Town. The Terrace itself was densely thronged, and there
was a constant coming and going of the promenaders, who each formally
paced back and forth upon the planking for a certain time, and then went
quietly home, giving place to the new arrivals. They were nearly all
French, and they were not generally, it seemed, of the first fashion,
but rather of middling condition in life; the English being represented
only by a few young fellows and now and then a redfaced old gentleman
with an Indian scarf trailing from his hat. There were some fair
American costumes and faces in the crowd, but it was essentially
Quebecian. The young girls walking in pairs, or with their lovers,
had the true touch of provincial unstylishness, the young men the
ineffectual excess of the second-rate Latin dandy, their elders the rich
inelegance of a bourgeoisie in their best. A few, better-figured avocats
or notaires (their profession was as unmistakable as if they had carried
their well-polished brass doorplates upon their breasts) walked and
gravely talked with each other. The non-American character of the
scene was not less vividly marked in the fact that each person dressed
according to his own taste and frankly indulged private preferences
in shapes and colors. One of the promenaders was in white, even to
his canvas shoes; another, with yet bolder individuality, appeared in
perfect purple. It had a strange, almost portentous effect when these
two startling figures met as friends and joined each other in the
promenade with linked arms; but the evening was already beginning to
darken round them, and presently the purple comrade was merely a sombre
shadow beside the glimmering white.
The valleys and the heights now vanished; but the river defined itself
by the varicolored lights of the ships and steamers that lay, dark,
motionless bulks, upon its broad breast; the lights of Point Lewis
swarmed upon the other shore; the Lower Town, two hundred feet below
them, stretched an alluring mystery of clustering roofs and lamplit
windows and dark and shining streets around the mighty rock,
mural-crowned. Suddenly a spectacle peculiarly Northern and
characteristic of Quebec revealed itself; a long arch brightened over
the northern horizon; the tremulous flames of the aurora, pallid violet
or faintly tinged with crimson, shot upward from it, and played with
a weird apparition and evanescence to the zenith. While the strangers
looked, a gun boomed from the citadel, and the wild sweet notes of the
bugle sprang out upon the silence.
Then they all said, “How perfectly in keeping everything has been!” and
sauntered back to the hotel.
The Colonel went into the office to give the clerk another turn on the
rack, and make him confess to a hidden apartment somewhere, while Isabel
left her husband to Mrs. Ellison in the parlor, and invited Miss Kitty
to look at her coop in the fifth story. As they approached, light and
music and laughter stole out of an open door next hers, and Isabel,
distinguishing the voices of the theatrical party, divined that this
was the sick-chamber, and that they were again cheering up the afflicted
member of the troupe. Some one was heard to say, “Well, ‘ow do you feel
now, Charley?” and a sound of subdued swearing responded, followed by
more laughter, and the twanging of a guitar, and a snatch of song, and a
stir of feet and dresses as for departure.
The two listeners shrank together; as women they could not enjoy these
proofs of the jolly camaraderie existing among the people of the
troupe. They trembled as before the merriment of as many light-hearted,
careless, good-natured young men: it was no harm, but it was dismaying;
and, “Dear!” cried Isabel, “what shall we do?”
“Go back,” said Miss Ellison, boldly, and back they ran to the parlor,
where they found Basil and the Colonel and his wife in earnest conclave.
The Colonel, like a shrewd strategist, was making show of a desperation
more violent than his wife’s, who was thus naturally forced into the
attitude of moderating his fury.
“Well, Fanny, that’s all he can do for us; and I do think it’s the most
outrageous thing in the world! It’s real mean!”
Fanny perceived a bold parody of her own denunciatory manner, but just
then she was obliged to answer Isabel’s eager inquiry whether they had
got a room yet. “Yes, a room,” she said, “with two beds. But what are we
to do with one room? That clerk--I don’t know what to call him”--(“Call
him a hotel-clerk, my dear; you can’t say anything worse,” interrupted
her husband)--“seems to think the matter perfectly settled.”
“You see, Mrs. March,” added the Colonel, “he’s able to bully us in this
way because he has the architecture on his side. There isn’t another
room in the house.”
“Let me think a moment,” said Isabel not thinking an instant. She had
taken a fancy to at least two of these people from the first, and in the
last hour they had all become very well acquainted now she said, “I’ll
tell you: there are two beds in our room also; we ladies will take one
room, and you gentlemen the other!”
“Mrs. March, I bow to the superiority of the Boston mind,” said the
Colonel, while his females civilly protested and consented; “and I might
almost hail you as our preserver. If ever you come to Milwaukee,--which
is the centre of the world, as Boston is,--we--I--shall be happy to
have you call at my place of business.--I didn’t commit myself, did I,
Fanny?--I am sometimes hospitable to excess, Mrs. March,” he said, to
explain his aside. “And now, let us reconnoitre. Lead on, madam, and the
gratitude of the houseless stranger will follow you.”
The whole party explored both rooms, and the ladies decided to keep
Isabel’s. The Colonel was dispatched to see that the wraps and traps of
his party were sent to this number, and Basil went with him. The things
came long before the gentlemen returned, but the ladies happily employed
the interval in talking over the excitements of the day, and in saying
from time to time, “So very kind of you, Mrs. March,” and “I don’t know
what we should have done,” and “Don’t speak of it, please,” and “I’m
sure it’s a great pleasure to me.”
In the room adjoining theirs, where the invalid actor lay, and where
lately there had been minstrelsy and apparently dancing for his solace,
there was now comparative silence. Two women’s voices talked together,
and now and then a guitar was touched by a wandering hand. Isabel
had just put up her handkerchief to conceal her first yawn, when the
gentlemen, odorous of cigars, returned to say good-night.
“It’s the second door from this, isn’t it, Isabel?” asked her husband.
“Yes, the second door. Good-night. Good-night.”
The two men walked off together; but in a minute afterwards they had
returned and were knocking tremulously at the closed door.
“O, what has happened?” chorused the ladies in woeful tune, seeing a
certain wildness in the face that confronted them.
“We don’t know!” answered the others in as fearful a key, and related
how they had found the door of their room ajar, and a bright light
streaming into the corridor. They did not stop to ponder this fact, but,
with the heedlessness of their sex, pushed the door wide open, when they
saw seated before the mirror a bewildering figure, with disheveled locks
wandering down the back, and in dishabille expressive of being quite
at home there, which turned upon them a pair of pale blue eyes, under a
forehead remarkable for the straggling fringe of hair that covered it.
They professed to have remained transfixed at the sight, and to have
noted a like dismay on the visage before the glass, ere they summoned
strength to fly. These facts Colonel Ellison gave at the command of his
wife, with many protests and insincere delays amidst which the curiosity
of his hearers alone prevented them from rending him in pieces.
“And what do you suppose it was?” demanded his wife, with forced
calmness, when he had at last made an end of the story and his
abominable hypoocisies.
“Well, I think it was a mermaid.”
“A mermaid!” said his wife, scornfully. “How do you know?”
“It had a comb in its hand, for one thing; and besides, my dear, I hope
I know a mermaid when I see it.”
“Well,” said Mrs. Ellison, “it was no mermaid, it was a mistake; and I’m
going to see about it. Will you go with me, Richard?”
“No money could induce me! If it’s a mistake, it isn’t proper for me to
go; if it’s a mermaid, it’s dangerous.”
“O you coward!” said the intrepid little woman to a hero of all the
fights on Sherman’s march to the sea; and presently they heard her
attack the mysterious enemy with a lady-like courage, claiming the
invaded chamber. The foe replied with like civility, saying the clerk
had given her that room with the understanding that another lady was to
be put there with her, and she had left the door unlocked to admit her.
The watchers with the sick man next door appeared and confirmed this
speech, a feeble voice from the bedclothes swore to it.
“Of course,” added the invader, “if I’d known ‘ow it really was, I never
would lave listened to such a thing, never. And there isn’t another ‘ole
in the louse to lay me ‘ead,” she concluded.
“Then it’s the clerk’s fault,” said Mrs. Ellison, glad to retreat
unharmed; and she made her husband ring for the guilty wretch, a
pale, quiet young Frenchman, whom the united party, sallying into
the corridor, began to upbraid in one breath, the lady in dishabille
vanishing as often as she remembered it, and reappearing whenever some
strong point of argument or denunciation occurred to her.
The clerk, who was the Benjamin of his wicked tribe, threw himself upon
their mercy and confessed everything: the house was so crowded, and
he had been so crazed by the demands upon him, that he had understood
Colonel Ellison’s application to be for a bed for the young lady in his
party, and he had done the very best he could. If the lady there--she
vanished again--would give up the room to the two gentlemen, he would
find her a place with the housekeeper. To this the lady consented
without difficulty, and the rest dispersing, she kissed one of the sick
man’s watchers with “Isn’t it a shame, Bella?” and flitted down the
darkness of the corridor. The rooms upon it seemed all, save the two
assigned our travellers, to be occupied by ladies of the troupe; their
doors successively opened, and she was heard explaining to each as she
passed. The momentary displeasure which she had shown at her banishment
was over. She detailed the facts with perfect good-nature, and though
the others appeared no more than herself to find any humorous cast in
the affair, they received her narration with the same amiability. They
uttered their sympathy seriously, and each parted from her with some
friendly word. Then all was still.
“Richard,” said Mrs. Ellison, when in Isabel’s room the travellers had
briefly celebrated these events, “I should think you’d hate to leave us
alone up here.”
“I do; but you can’t think how I hate to go off alone. I wish you’d come
part of the way with us, Ladies; I do indeed. Leave your door unlocked,
at any rate.”
This prayer, uttered at parting outside the room, was answered from
within by a sound of turning keys and sliding bolts, and a low thunder
as of bureaus and washstands rolled against the door. “The ladies are
fortifying their position,” said the Colonel to Basil, and the two
returned to their own chamber. “I don’t wish any intrusions,” he said,
instantly shutting himself in; “my nerves are too much shaken now. What
an awfully mysterious old place this Quebec is, Mr. March! I’ll tell you
what: it’s my opinion that this is an enchanted castle, and if my ribs
are not walked over by a muleteer in the course of the night, it’s all I
ask.”
In this and other discourse recalling the famous adventure of Don
Quixote, the Colonel beguiled the labor of disrobing, and had got as far
as his boots, when there came a startling knock at the door. With one
boot in his hand and the other on his foot, the Colonel limped forward.
“I suppose it’s that clerk has sent to say he’s made some other
mistake,” and he flung wide the door, and then stood motionless before
it, dumbly staring at a figure on the threshold,--a figure with the
fringed forehead and pale blue eyes of her whom they had so lately
turned out of that room.
Shrinking behind the side of the doorway, “Excuse me, gentlemen,” she
said, with a dignity that recalled their scattered senses, “but will
you ‘ave the goodness to look if my beads are on your table--O thanks,
thanks, thanks!” she continued, showing her face and one hand, as Basil
blushingly advanced with a string of heavy black beads, piously adorned
with a large cross. “I’m sure, I’m greatly obliged to you, gentlemen,
and I hask a thousand pardons for troublin’ you,” she concluded in a
somewhat severe tone, that left them abashed and culpable; and vanished
as mysteriously as she had appeared.
“Now, see here,” said the Colonel, with a huge sigh as he closed the
door again, and this time locked it, “I should like to know how long
this sort of thing is to be kept up? Because, if it’s to be regularly
repeated during the night, I’m going to dress again.” Nevertheless, he
finished undressing and got into bed, where he remained for some time
silent. Basil put out the light. “O, I’m sorry you did that, my dear
fellow,” said the Colonel; “but never mind, it was an idle curiosity, no
doubt. It’s my belief that in the landlord’s extremity of bedlinen, I’ve
been put to sleep between a pair of tablecloths; and I thought I’d like
to look. It seems to me that I make out a checkered pattern on top and
a flowered or arabesque pattern underneath. I wish they had given me
mates. It’s pretty hard having to sleep between odd tablecloths. I
shall complain to the landlord of this in the morning. I’ve never had to
sleep between odd table-cloths at any hotel before.”
The Colonel’s voice seemed scarcely to have died away upon Basil’s
drowsy ear, when suddenly the sounds of music and laughter from the
invalid’s room startled him wide awake. The sick man’s watchers were
coquetting with some one who stood in the little court-yard five stories
below. A certain breadth of repartee was naturally allowable at that
distance; the lover avowed his passion in ardent terms, and the ladies
mocked him with the same freedom, now and then totally neglecting him
while they sang a snatch of song to the twanging of the guitar,
or talked professional gossip, and then returning to him with some
tormenting expression of tenderness.
All this, abstractly speaking, was nothing to Basil; yet he could
recollect few things intended for his pleasure that had given him more
satisfaction. He thought, as he glanced out into the moonlight on the
high-gabled silvery roofs around and on the gardens of the convents
and the towers of the quaint city, that the scene wanted nothing of the
proper charm of Spanish humor and romance, and he was as grateful to
those poor souls as if they had meant him a favor. To us of the hither
side of the foot-lights, there is always something fascinating in the
life of the strange beings who dwell beyond them, and who are never so
unreal as in their own characters. In their shabby bestowal in those
mean upper rooms, their tawdry poverty, their merry submission to the
errors and caprices of destiny, their mutual kindliness and careless
friendship, these unprofitable devotees of the twinkling-footed
burlesque seemed to be playing rather than living the life of strolling
players; and their love-making was the last touch of a comedy that Basil
could hardly accept as reality, it was so much more like something seen
upon the stage. He would not have detracted anything from the commonness
and cheapness of the ‘mise en scene’, for that, he reflected drowsily
and confusedly, helped to give it an air of fact and make it like an
episode of fiction. But above all, he was pleased with the natural
eventlessness of the whole adventure, which was in perfect agreement
with his taste; and just as his reveries began to lose shape in dreams,
he was aware of an absurd pride in the fact that all this could have
happened to him in our commonplace time and hemisphere. “Why,” he
thought, “if I were a student in Alcala, what better could I have
asked?” And as at last his soul swung out from its moorings and lapsed
down the broad slowly circling tides out in the sea of sleep, he was
conscious of one subtle touch of compassion for those poor strollers,--a
pity so delicate and fine and tender that it hardly seemed his own but
rather a sense of the compassion that pities the whole world.
X. HOMEWARD AND HOME.
The travellers all met at breakfast and duly discussed the adventures of
the night; and for the rest, the forenoon passed rapidly and slowly with
Basil and Isabel, as regret to leave Quebec, or the natural impatience
of travellers to be off, overcame them. Isabel spent part of it in
shopping, for she had found some small sums of money and certain odd
corners in her trunks still unappropriated, and the handsome stores on
the Rue Fabrique were very tempting. She said she would just go in and
look; and the wise reader imagines the result. As she knelt over her
boxes, trying so to distribute her purchases as to make them look as if
they were old,--old things of hers, which she had brought all the way
round from Boston with her,--a fleeting touch of conscience stayed her
hand.
“Basil,” she said, “perhaps we’d better declare some of these things.
What’s the duty on those?” she asked, pointing to certain articles.
“I don’t know. About a hundred per cent. ad valorem.”
“C’est a dire--?”
“As much as they cost.”
“O then, dearest,” responded Isabel indignantly, “it can’t be wrong to
smuggle! I won’t declare a thread!”
“That’s very well for you, whom they won’t ask. But what if they ask me
whether there’s anything to declare?”
Isabel looked at her husband and hesitated. Then she replied in terms
that I am proud to record in honor of American womanhood: “You mustn’t
fib about--it, Basil” (heroically); “I couldn’t respect you if you did,”
 (tenderly); “but” (with decision) “you must slip out of it some way!”
The ladies of the Ellison party, to whom she put the case in the parlor,
agreed with her perfectly. They also had done a little shopping in
Quebec, and they meant to do more at Montreal before they returned to
the States. Mrs. Ellison was disposed to look upon Isabel’s compunctions
as a kind of treason to the sex, to be forgiven only because so quickly
repented.
The Ellisons were going up the Saguenay before coming on to Boston, and
urged our friends hard to go with them. “No, that must be for another
time,” said Isabel. “Mr. March has to be home by a certain day; and we
shall just get back in season.” Then she made them promise to spend
a day with her in Boston, and the Colonel coming to say that he had a
carriage at the door for their excursion to Lorette, the two parties
bade good-by with affection and many explicit hopes of meeting soon
again.
“What do you think of them, dearest?” demanded Isabel, as she sallied
out with Basil for a final look at Quebec.
“The young lady is the nicest; and the other is well enough, too. She is
a good deal like you, but with the sense of humor left out. You’ve only
enough to save you.”
“Well, her husband is jolly enough for both of them. He’s funnier
than you, Basil, and he hasn’t any of your little languid airs and
affectations. I don’t know but I’m a bit disappointed in my choice,
