guise of a noble old Folio, quaintly lettered across 
his back in old English text, Tom. J." 

While our friends talked and looked about them, 
a sudden change had come over the brightness and 
warmth of the day ; the blue heaven had turned a 
chilly gray, and the water looked harsh and cold. 
Now, too, they noted that they were drawing near a 
wooden pier built into the water, and that they had 
been winding about in a crooked channel between 
muddy shallows, and that their course was overrun 
with long, disheveled sea-weed. The shawls had 
been unstrapped, and the ladies made comfortable in 
them. 

" Ho for the beach ! " cried Cousin Frank, with a 
vehement show of enthusiasm. " Now, then. Aunt 
Melissa, prepare for the great enjoyment of the day. 
In a few moments we shall be of the elves 

' That on the sand with printless foot 
Do chase the ebbing Neptune, and do fly him 
When he comes back.' 

Come ! we shall have three hours on the beach, and 
that will bring us well into the cool of the evening, 
and we, can return by the last boat." 

"As to the cool of the evening," said Aunt 
Melissa, " I don't know. It's quite cool enough for 
comfort at present, and I'm sure that anything more 
wouldn't be wholesome. What's become of our 
beautiful weather ? " she asked, deeply plotting tc 
gain time. 



 

 " It 's one of our Boston peculiarities, not to say 
merits," answered Frank, "which you must have 
noticed already, that we can get rid of a fine day 
sooner than any other region. While you're saying 
how lovely it is, a subtle change is wrought, and 
under skies still blue and a sun still warm the keen 
spirit of the east wind pierces every nerve, and all 
the fine weather within you is chilled and extin- 
guished. The gray atmosphere follows, but the day 
first languishes in yourself. But for this, life in 
Boston would be insupportably perfect, if this is 
indeed a drawback. You'd find Bostonians to de- 
fend it, I dare say. But this isn't a regular east 
wind to-day ; it's merely our nearness to the sea." 

" I think, Franklin," said Aunt Melissa, " that we 
won't go down to the beach this afternoon," as if 
she had been there yesterday, and would go to-mor- 
row. " It 's too late in the day ; and it wouldn't be 
good for the child, I'm sure." 

" Well, aunty, it was you determined us to wait 
for the boat, and it 's your right to say whether we 
shall leave it or not. I'm very willing not to go 
ashore. I always find that, after working up to an 
object with great efibrt, it 's surpassingly sweet to 
leave it unaccompHshed at last. Then it remains 
forever in the region of the ideal, amongst thq songs 
that never were sung, the pictures that never were 
painted. Why, in fact, should we force this pleas- 
ure ? We've eaten our lunch, we've lost the warm 
heart of the day ; why should we poorly drag over 
to that damp and sullen beach, where we should find 



 

three hours very long, when by going back now we 
can keep intact that glorious image of a day by the 
sea which we've been cherishing all summer ? You're 
right, Aunt Melissa ; we won't go ashore ; we will 
stay here, and respect our illusions." 

At heart, perhaps, Lucy did not quite like this 
retreat ; it was not in harmony with the youthful 
spirit of her sex, but she' reflected that she could 
come again, — beneficent cheat of Another Time, 
how much thou sparest us in our over-worked, over- 
enjoyed world ! — she was very comfortable where 
jshe was, in a seat commanding a perfect view for the 
return trip ; and she submitted without a murmur. 
Besides, now that the boat had drawn up to the pier, 
and discharged part of her passengers, and was wait- 
ing to take on others, Lucy was interested in a mass 
of fluttering dresses and wide-rimmed straw hats 
that drew down toward the "Rose Standish," and 
gracefully thronged the pier, and prettily hesitated 
about, and finally came aboard with laughter and 
little false cries of terror, attended through all by the 
New England disproportion of that sex which is so 
foolish when it is silly. It was a large picnic party 
which had been spending the day upon the beach, as 
each of the ladies showed in her face, where, if the 
roses upon her cheeks were somewhat obscured by 
the imbrowning seaside sun, a bright pink had been 
compensatingly bestowed upon the point of her nose. 
A mysterious quiet fell upon them all when they 
were got aboard and had taken conspicuous places, 
which was accounted for presently when a loud shout 



 

was heard from the shore, and a man beside an am- 
bulant photographic machine was seen wildly waving 
his hat. It is impossible to resist a temptation of 
this kind, and our party all yielded, and posed them- 
selves in striking and characteristic attitudes, — even 
Aunt Melissa sharing the ambition to appear in a 
picture which she should never see, and the nurse 
coming out strong from the abeyance in which she 
had been held, and lifting the baby high into the air 
for a good hkeness. The frantic gesticulator on the 
shore gave an impressive wave with both hands, took 
the cap from the instrument, turned his back, as pho- 
tographers always do, with that air of hiding their 
tears, for the brief space that seems so long, and 
then clapped on the cap again, while a great sigh of 
relief went up from the whole boat-load of passen- 
gers. They were taken. 

But the interval had been a luckless one for the 
" Rose Standish," and when she stirred her wheels, 
clouds of mud rose to the top of the water, and 
there was no responsive movement of the boat. She 
was aground in the falling tide. 

" There seems a pretty fair prospect of our spend- 
ing some time here, after all," said Frank, while the 
ladies, who had reluctantly given up the idea of stay- 
ing, were now in a quiver of impatience to be off. 
The picnic was shifted from side to side ; the engine 
groaned and tugged. Captain Miles Standish and his 
crew bestirred themselves vigorously, and at last the 
boat swung loose, and strode down the sea-weedy 
channels ; while our friends, who had already done 



 

the great sights of the harbor, now settled themselves 
to the enjoyment of its minor traits and beauties. 
Here and there they passed small parties on the 
shore, which, with their yachts anchored near, or 
their boats drawn up from the water, were cooking 
an out-door meal by a fire that burned bright red 
upon the sands in the late afternoon air. In such 
cases, people willingly indulge themselves in salut- 
ing whatever craft goes by, and the ladies of these 
small picnics, as they sat round the fires, kept up 
a great waving of handkerchiefs, and sometimes 
cheered the " Rose Standish," though I believe the 
Bostonians are ordinarily not a demonstrative race. 
Of course the large picnic on board fluttered multi- 
tudinous handkerchiefs in response, both to these 
people ashore and to those who hailed them irom 
vessels which they met. They did not refuse the 
politeness even to the passengers on a rival boat 
when she passed them, though at heart they must 
have felt some natural pangs at being passed. The 
water was peopled everywhere by all sorts of sail 
lagging slowly homeward in the light evening breeze ; 
and on some of the larger vessels there were family 
groups to be seen, and a graceful smoke, suggestive 
of supper, curled from the cook's galley. I suppose 
these ships were chiefly coasting craft, of one kind 
or another, come from the Provinces at farthest ; but 
to the ignorance and the fancy of our friends, they 
arrived from all remote and romantic parts of the 
world, — from India, from China, and from the South 
Seas, with cargoes of spices and gums and tropical 



 

fruits ; ajid I see no reason why one should ever 
deny himself the easy pleasure they felt in painting 
the unknown in such hvely hues. The truth is, a 
strange ship, if you will let her, always brings you 
precious freight, always arrives from Wonderland 
under the command of Captain Sinbad. How like a 
beautiful sprite she looks afar off, as if she came from 
some finer and fairer world than ours ! Nay, we will 
not go out to meet her ; we will not go on board ; 
Captain Sinbad shall bring us the invoice of gold- 
dust, slaves, and rocs' eggs to-night, and we will 
have some of the eggs for breakfast ; or if he never 
comes, are we not just as rich ? But I think these 
friends of ours got a yet keener pleasure out of the 
spectacle of a large and stately ship, that with all 
sails spread moved silently and steadily out toward 
the open sea. It is yet grander and sweeter to sail 
toward the unknown than to come from it; and 
eveiy vessel that leaves port has this destination, and 
will bear you thither if you will. 

" It may be that the gulf shall wash ns down ; 
It may be we shall touch the Happy Isles, 
And see the great Achilles, whom we knew," 

absently murmured Lucy, looking on this beautiful 
apparition. 

" But I can't help thinking of Ulysses' cabin-boy, 
yonder," said Cousin Frank, after a pause ; " can 
you. Aunt Melissa ? " 

"I don't understand what you're talking about, 
Franklin," answered Aunt Melissa, somewhat se- 
verely. 



 

" Why, I mean that there is a poor wretch of a 
boy on board there, who's run away, and whose 
heart must be aching just now at the thought of the 
home he has left. I hope Ulysses will be good to 
him, and not swear at him for a day or two, or 
knock him about with a belaying-pin. Just about 
this time his" mother, up in the country, is getting 
ready his supper, and wondering what's become of 
him, and torturing herself with hopes that break one 
by one ; and to-night when she goes up to his empty 
room, having tried to persuade herself that the tru- 
ant's come back and climbed in at the window " — 

" Why, Franklin, this isn't true, is it ? " asks 
Aunt Melissa. 

" Well, no, let's pray Heaven it isn't, in this case. 
It's been true often enough to be false for once." 

" What a great, ugly, black object a ship is ! " said 
Cousin Lucy. 

Slowly the city rose up against the distance, 
sharpening all its outlines, and filling in all its famil- 
iar details, — like a fact which one dreams is a 
dream, and which, as the mists of sleep break away, 
shows itself for reality. 

The air grows closer and warmer, — it is the 
breath of the hot and toil-worn land. 

The boat makes her way up through the shipping, 
seeks her landing, and presently rubs herself afiec- 
tionately against the wharf. The passengers quickly 
disperse themselves upon shore, dismissed each with 
an appropriate sarcasm by the tipsy man, who has 
had the means of keeping himself drunk throughout, 



 

and who now looks to the discharge of the boat's 
cargo. 

As our friends leave the wharf-house behind them, 
and straggle uneasily, and very conscious of sun- 
burn, up the now silent length of Pearl Street to 
seek the nearest horse-cars, they are aware of a 
curious fidgeting of the nurse, who flies from one 
side of the pavement to the other and violently shifts 
the baby from one arm to the other. 

"What's the matter? "asks Frank; but before 
the nurse can answer, " Thim little divils," he per- 
ceives that the whooping-coughers of the morning 
have taken the occasion to reneiw a pleasant ac- 
quaintance, and are surrounding the baby and nurse 
with an atmosphere of whooping-cough. 

" I say, friends ! we can't stand this, you know,'.' 
says the anxious father. " We must part some time, 
and this is a favorable moment. Now I'll give you all 
this, if you don't come another step ! " and he emp- 
ties out to them, from the hand-bags he carries, 
the fragments of lunch which the frugal mind of 
Aunt Melissa had caused her to store there. Upon 
these the whooping-coughers hurl themselves in* a 
body, and are soon left round the comer. Yet they 
would have been no disgrace to our party, whose 
appearance was now most disreputable : Frank and 
Lucy stalked ahead, with shawls dragging from their 
arms, the former loaded down with hand-bags and 
the latter with India-rubbers ; Aunt Melissa came 
next under a burden of bloated umbrellas ; the nurse 
last, with her hat awry, and the baby a caricature of 



 

its morning trimness, in her embrace. A day's 
pleasure is so demoralizing, that no party can stana 
it, and come out neat and orderly. 

" Cousin Frank," asked Lucy, awiully, " what if 
we should meet the Mayflowers now ? " — the May- 
flowers being a very ancient and noble Boston family 
whose acquaintance was the great pride and terror 
of our friends' lives. 

"I should cut them dead," said Frank, and 
scarcely spoke again till his party cfragged slowly up 
the steps of their minute suburban villa. 

At the door his wife met them with a troubled and 
anxious face. 

" Calamities ? " asked Frank, desperately. 

" O, calamities upon calamities ! We've got a 
Igst child in the kitchen," answered Mrs. Sallie. 

" O good heavens ! " cried her husband. " Adieu, 
my dreams of repose, so desirable after the quantity 
of active enjoyment I've had ! Well, where is the 
lost child? " 



III. — The EvEinNG. 

"Where is the lost child?" repeats Frank, des- 
perately. " Where have you got him ? " 

" In the kitchen." 

" Why in the kitchen ? " 

" How's baby ? " demands Mrs. Sallie, with the 
incoherent suddenness of her sex, and running half- 
way down the steps to meet the nurse. " Um, irni, 
um-m-m-m," sounds, which may stand for smothered 
kisses of rapture and thanksgiving that baby is not a 
lost child. " Has he been good, Lucy ? Take him 
off and give him some cocoa, Mrs. O'Gonegal," she 
adds in her business-like way, and with a little push 
to the combined nurse and baby, while Lucy 
answers, " O beautiful ! " and from that moment, 
being warned through all her being by something in 
the other's tone, casts aside the matronly manner 
which she has worn during the day, and lapses into 
the comfortable irresponsibility of young-ladyhood. 

" What kind of a time did you have ? " 

" Splendid ! " answers Lucy. " Delightfiil, I 
think," she adds, as if she thought others might not 
think so. 

"I suppose you found Gloucester a quaint old 
place." 



 

" O," says Frank, " we didn't go to Gloucester ; 
" we found that the City Fathers had chartered the 
boat for the day, so we thought we'd go to Nahant." 

" Then you've seen your favorite G.ardens of 
Maolis ! What in the world are they like '? " 

" Well ; we didn't see the Gardens of Maolis ; 
the Nahant boat was so crowded that we couldn't 
think of going on her, and so we decided we'd drive 
over to the Liverpool Wharf and go down to Nan- 
tasket Beach." 

" That was nice. I'm so glad on Aunt MeHssa's 
account. It 's much better to see the ocean from a 
long beach than from those Nahant rocks." 

" That's what I said. But, you know, when we 
got to the wharf the boat had just left." 

" You dofbt mean it ! Well, then, what under 
the canopy did you do ? " 

"Why, we sat down in the wharf-house, and 
waited from nine o'clock till half-past two for the 
next boat." 

" Well, I'm glad you didn't back out, at any rate. 
You did show pluck, you poor things ! I hope you 
enjoyed the beach after you did get there." 

"Why," says Frank, looking down, "we never 
got there." 

" Never got there ! " gasps Mrs. Sallie. " Didn't 
you go down on the afternoon boat ? " 

" Yes." 

" Why didn't you get to the beach, then ? " 

" We didn't go ashore." 

" Well, that's Vke you, Frank." 



 

" It 's a great deal more like Aunt Melissa," an- 
swers Frank. " The air felt so raw and chilly by 
the time we reached the pier, that she declared the 
baby would perish if it was taken to the beach. 
Besides, nothing would persuade her that Nantasket 
Beach was at all different from Liverpool Wharf." 

" Never mind, never mind ! " says Mrs. SalUe. 
" I don't wish to hear anything more. That's your 
idea of a day's pleasure, is it ? I call it a day's dis- 
grace, a day's miserable giving-up. There, go in, 
go in ; I'm ashjimed of you all. Don't let the 
neighbors see you, for pity's sake. — We keep him 
in the kitchen," she continues, recurring to Frank's 
long-unanswered question concerning the lost child, 
" because he prefers it as being the room nearest to 
the closet where the cookies are. He 's taken ad- 
vantage of our sympathies to refuse everything but 
cookies." 

" I suppose that's one of the rights of lost child- 
hood," comments Frank, languidly ; " there's no 
law that can compel him to touch even cracker." 

" Well, you'd better go down and see what you 
can make of him. He's driven us all wild." 

So Frank descends to the region now redolent of 
the preparing tea, and finds upon a chair, in the 
middle of the kitchen floor, a very forlorn little fig- 
ure of a boy, mutely munching a sweet-cake, while 
now and then a tear steals down his cheeks and 
moistens the grimy traces of former tears. He and 
baby are, in the mean time regarding each other with 
a steadfast glare, the cook and the nurse supporting 
baby in this rite of hospitahty. 



 

' Well, my little man," says his host, " how did 
you get here ? " 

The little man, perhaps because he is heartily sick 
of the question, is somewhat slow to answer that 
there was a fire ; and that he ran after the steamer ; 
and a girl found him and brought him up here. 

" And that's all the blessed thing you can get out 
of him," says cook ; and the lost boy looks as if he 
felt cook to be perfectly right. 

In spite of the well-meant endeavors of the house- 
hold to wash him and brush him, he is still a dread- 
fully travel-stained little boy, and he is powdered in 
every secret crease and wrinkle by that dust of old 
Charlesbridge, of which we always speak with an 
air of affected disgust, and a feeling of ill-concealed 
pride in an abomination so strikingly and peculiarly 
our own. He looks very much as if he had been 
following fire-engines about the streets of our learned 
and pulverous suburb ever since he could walk, and 
he certainly seems to feel himself in trouble to a 
certain degree ; but there is easily imaginable in his 
bearing a conviction that after all the chief care is 
with others, and that, though unhappy, he is not 
responsible. The principal victim of his sorrows is 
also penetrated by this opinion, and aftsr gazing 
forlornly upon him for a while, asks mechanically, 
" What's your name ? " 

" Freddy," is the laconic answer. 

" Freddy — ? " trying with an artful inflection to 
lead him on to his surname. 

" Freddy," decidedly and conclusively. 



 

" O, bless me ! What's the name of the street 
your papa lives on ? " 

This problem is far too deep for Freddy, and he 
takes a bite of sweet-cake in sign that he does not 
think of solving it. Frank looks at him gloomily for 
a moment, and then determines that he can grapple 
with the diiBculty more successfully after he has had 
tea. " Send up the supper, Bridget. I think, my 
dear," he says, after they have sat down, " we'd 
better all question our lost child when we've fin- 
ished." 

So, when they have finished, they have him up in 
the sitting-room, and the inquisition begins. 

" Now, Freddy," his host says, with a cheerful air 
of lifelong friendship and confidence, " you know 
that everybody has got two names. Of course your 
first name is Freddy, and it 's a very pretty name. 
well, I want you to think real hard, and then tell 
me what your other name is, so I can take you back 
to your mamma." 

At this allusion the child looks round on the circle 
of eager and compassionate faces, and begins to shed 
tears and to wring all hearts. 

" What's your name ? " asks Frank, cheerfully, — 
" your other name, you know ? " 

" Freddy," sobbed the forlorn creature. 

" O good heaven ! this'll never do," groaned the 
chief inquisitor. " Now, Freddy, try not to cry. 
What is your papa's name, — Mr. — ? " with the 
leading inflection as before. 

" Papa," says Freddy. 



 

" O, that'll never do I Not Mr. Papa? " 

" Yes," persists Freddy. 

" But, Freddy," interposes Mrs. Sallie, as her 
husband falls back baffled, " when ladies come to see 
your mamma, what do they call her? Mrs. — ?" 
adopting Frank's alluring inflection. 

"Mrs. Mamma," answers Freddy, confirmed in 
his error by this course ; and a secret dismay pos- 
sesses his questioners. They skirmish about him 
with every sort of query ; they try to entrap him into 
some kind of revelation by apparently irrelevant 
remarks ; they plan ambuscades and surprises ; but 
Freddy looks vigilantly round upon them, and guards 
his personal history from every approach, and seems 
in every way so to have the best of it, that it is 
almost exasperating. 

" Kindness has proved fiitile," observes Frank, 
" and I think we ought as a last resort, before yield- 
ing ourselves to despair, to use intimidation. Now, 
Fred," he says, with sudden and terrible severity, 
" what's your father's name ? " 

The hapless little soul is really moved to an efFort 
of memory by this, and blubbers out something that 
proves in the end to resemble the family name, 
though for the present it is merely a puzzle of unin- 
telligible sounds." 

" Blackman ? " cries Aunt Melissa, catching des- 
perately at these sounds. 

On this, all the man and brother is roused in 
Freddy's bosom, and he roars fiercely, " No I he 
ain't a black man ! He's white ! " 


" I give it up," says Frank, who has been looking 
for his hat. " I'm afraid we can't make anything 
out of him ; and I'll have to go and report the case 
to the police. But, put him to bed, do, Sallie ; he's 
dropping with sleep." 

So he went out, of course supported morally by a 
sense of duty, but I am afraid also by a sense of ad- 
venture in some degree. It is not every day that, 
