“What are you goin’ to do now?”
“I don’t know,” said Tom. “I haven’t got but two cents, and I don’t know
where to sleep.”
“Where’s the old woman you used to live with?”
“I shan’t go back to her,” said Tom, firmly. “I hate her.”
“You’ve got some good clo’es,” said Mike. “I didn’t know you, at first.
I thought you was a young lady.”
“Did you?” asked Tom, rather pleased.
The time had been when she did not want to look like a young lady,—when
she would have preferred to be a boy. But her tastes had changed
considerably since then. Something of the instinct of her sex had sprung
up in her, as she was brought to a closer knowledge of more refined ways
of life. She was no longer a young Arab in her feelings, as before.
Three months had wrought a great change in Tom.
“If you haven’t any place to sleep, Tom,” said Mike, “you can come along
of me.”
“Can I?” asked Tom. “What’ll your mother say?”
“Oh, she won’t mind. Only you’ll maybe have to sleep on the floor.”
“I don’t mind,” said Tom. “It’ll be better than sleeping in the street.
Where do you live?”
“In Mulberry Street.”
“I guess I’ll get something to do to-morrow,” said Tom.
“What did you use to do?”
“Sweep the crossings sometimes. I won’t do that again. It’s too dirty.”
“It would sp’ile them nice clo’es of yours.”
“Yes,” said Tom. “Besides, I wouldn’t want Mrs. Merton, or Mary, to see
me doin’ that.”
“Who’s Mary?”
“It’s her child.”
“Did you like her?”
“No, I didn’t. She hated me too.”
“Well, I’m goin’ home. Come along, Tom.”
Tom got up from her seat with alacrity, and prepared to accompany Mike.
It was a great burden off her mind to think she was likely to have a
shelter for the night. Perhaps something would turn up for her the next
day. This thought brought back some of her old courage and confidence.
Mike Murphy’s home was neither elegant nor spacious. Mulberry Street is
not an aristocratic locality, and its residents do not in general move
in fashionable society. Mrs. Murphy was a retail merchant, being the
proprietor of an apple-stand on Nassau, near Spruce Street. Several
years’ exposure to the weather had made her face nearly as red as the
apples she dealt in, and a sedentary life had enlarged her proportions
till she weighed close upon two hundred pounds. In nearly all weathers
she was to be found at her post, sometimes sheltered by a huge cotton
umbrella, whose original color had been changed by the sun to a pale
brown. Though she had not yet been able to retire from trade upon a
competence, she had earned enough, with Mike’s assistance, to support a
family of six children,—in Mulberry Street style, to be sure, but they
had never been obliged to go to bed hungry, and the younger children had
been kept at the public school.
When Mike entered, his mother was already at home. She usually closed up
her business about five o’clock, and went home to get supper.
She looked up as Mike entered, and regarded his companion with some
surprise.
“What young leddy have you got with you, Mike?” asked Mrs. Murphy.
“She thinks you are a young lady, Tom,” said Mike, laughing.
“Don’t you know me, Mrs. Murphy?” asked Tom, who had known Mike’s mother
for several years.
“By the powers, if it aint Tom. Shure and you’ve had a rise in the
world, I’m thinkin’. Why, you’re dressed like a princess!”
“Maybe I am,” said Tom; “but if I was one I’d be richer’n I am now.”
“Tom was took up by a lady,” explained Mike; “but she’s sent her away,
and she’s got nothing barrin’ her clo’es. I told her you’d let her sleep
here to-night, mother.”
“To be sure I will,” said the kind-hearted woman. “It isn’t much of a
bed I can offer you, Tom, but it’s better than sleepin’ out.”
“I can lie on the floor,” said Tom. “I don’t mind that.”
“But why did the leddy turn you out?” inquired the apple-merchant.
Tom told her story, which Mrs. Murphy never thought of doubting.
“She’s a hard, cruel woman. I’ll say that for her, Tom dear,” said Mrs.
Murphy. “But never you mind. You’re welcome to stay here, though it’s a
poor place. We’re going to have some supper directly, and you must take
some with us.”
“I’ve eaten supper,” said Tom.
“What did you have?”
“Two apples.”
“I don’t say nothin’ ag’in’ apples, for it’s them I live by, but tay and
toast is better for supper. Biddy, toast the bread, and I’ll set the
table. When a body’s tired, a cup of tay goes to the right spot, and
you’ll find it so, Tom dear.”
The good-hearted woman bustled about, and set the table, while Biddy, a
girl of ten, toasted a large number of slices of bread, for the young
Murphys were all blessed with good appetites. The tea soon diffused a
fragrant aroma about the little room. Mrs. Murphy, humble as were her
means, indulged in one solitary extravagance. She always purchased the
best quality of “tay,” as she called it, no matter what might be the
price.
“It’s a dale chaper than whiskey,” she used to say, in extenuation of
her extravagance. “It’s mate and drink to me both, and warms me up
besides, when I’ve got chilled by rason of stayin’ out all day.”
There was a plate of cold meat placed on the table. This, with the tea
and toast, constituted Mrs. Murphy’s evening repast.
“You can sit by me, Tom dear,” she said, her face beaming with
hospitality. “It isn’t much I’ve got, but you are heartily welcome to
what there is. Children, set up to the table, all of you. Mike, see that
Tom has enough to ate. There’s one thing I can give you, and that’s a
cup of illigant tay, that a quane might not turn up her nose at.”
In spite of the two apples, Tom made room for a fair share of Mrs.
Murphy’s supper. Once more she felt that she had a home, humble enough,
to be sure, but made attractive by kindness.
“I wish I could stay here,” thought Tom; and it occurred to her that she
might be able to make such an arrangement with the old apple-woman, on
condition of paying a certain sum towards the family expenses.
                               CHAPTER XX
                        TOM SPECULATES IN GOLD.
During the evening some of the neighbors came in, and received a hearty
greeting from Mrs. Murphy.
“And who is this young leddy?” asked Mrs. O’Brien, looking at Tom.
“It’s a friend of mine,” said Mrs. Murphy.
“Don’t you know me?” asked Tom, who, in the days of her rags and
tatters, had known Mrs. O’Brien.
“Shure and it isn’t Tom?” said Mrs. O’Brien, in surprise.
“Did ye iver see such a change?” said Mrs. Murphy. “Shure and I didn’t
know her meself when she came in wid my Mike.”
“It’s mighty fine you’re dressed, Tom,” said Mrs. O’Brien. “Your granny
aint come into a fortun’, has she?”
“I don’t live with granny now,” answered Tom. “She’s a bad old woman,
and she isn’t my granny either.”
“It was only yesterday I saw her, and fine she was dressed too, wid a
nice shawl to her back, and quite the leddy, barrin’ a red nose. She
says she’s come into some money.”
Tom opened wide her eyes in astonishment. She had speculated more than
once on granny’s circumstances, but it had never entered her thoughts
that she had taken a step upwards in respectability.
“Where did you see her?” asked Tom.
“She was gettin’ out of a Third Avenue car. She said she had just come
from up town.”
“She was lookin’ after me, it’s likely,” said Tom.
“Where did she get her new clothes from?” Tom wondered.
“Maybe she’s been adopted by a rich family in Fifth Avenoo,” remarked
Mike,—a sally which nearly convulsed his mother with laughter.
“Shure, Mike, and you’ll be the death of me some time,” she said.
“She’d make an interestin’ young orphan,” continued Mike.
“Hadn’t you better marry her, Mike? and then you’d be my grandfather,”
suggested Tom.
“Such a beauty aint for the likes of me,” answered Mike. “Besides,
mother wouldn’t want her for a daughter-in-law. She’d likely get jealous
of her good looks.”
“O Mike, you’re a case!” said Mrs. Murphy, with a smile on her broad,
good-humored face.
So the evening passed, enlivened with remarks, not very intellectual or
refined, it is true, but good-natured, and at times droll. Tom enjoyed
it. She had a home-feeling, which she had never had at Mrs. Merton’s;
and above all she was cheered by the thought that she was welcome,
though the home was humble enough.
By and by the callers departed, and the family made preparations for
bed.
“I can’t give you a very nice bed, Tom,” said Mrs. Murphy, “but I’ll fix
you up a place to slape on the floor wid my Biddy.”
“That’ll be jolly,” said Tom. “If it wasn’t for you, I’d have to sleep
out in the street.”
“That would be a pity, entirely, as long as I have a roof over me.
There’s room enough for you, Tom, and it won’t be robbin’ any of us.”
Tom slept comfortably. Her bed was not one of the softest; but she had
never been used to beds of down, sleeping on a hard straw bed even at
Mrs. Merton’s. She woke, feeling refreshed, and in much better spirits
than when she set out from Mrs. Merton’s.
When breakfast was over, Mrs. Murphy set out for her place of business,
and Mike for his daily occupation. Biddy remained at home to take charge
of the younger children. With the rest Tom went too.
“Come back to-night, Tom,” said Mrs. Murphy.
“I should like to,” said Tom, “if you’ll let me pay for my board.”
“Shure we won’t quarrel about that. And what are you goin’ to do, Tom,
the day?”
“I don’t know,” said Tom. “If I had any money I’d buy some papers.”
“How much wud you want?”
“Twenty-five cents would give me a start.”
Mrs. Murphy dived into the recesses of a capacious pocket, and drew out
a handful of currency.
“I’ll lind it to you,” she said. “Why didn’t you ask me before?”
“Thank you,” said Tom. “I’ll bring it back to-night. You’re very kind to
me, Mrs. Murphy,” she added, gratefully.
“It’s the poor that knows how to feel for the poor,” said the
apple-woman. “It’s I that’ll trust you, Tom, dear.”
Three months before Tom would have told Mrs. Murphy that she was a
trump; but though some of her street phrases clung to her, she was
beginning to use less of the slang which she had picked up during her
long apprenticeship to a street life. Though her position, even at Mrs.
Merton’s, had not been as favorable as it might have been elsewhere, the
influences were far better than in the home (if it deserved the name) in
which she had been reared, and the association of the school which she
attended had, likewise, been of advantage to her. I do not wish it to be
understood that Tom had in three months changed from a young Arab into a
refined young lady. That would be hardly possible; but she had begun to
change, and she could never again be quite the wild, reckless girl whose
acquaintance we made at the street-crossing.
Tom went out with Mrs. Murphy, helping her to carry her basket of
apples. Leaving her at her accustomed stand, she went to the newspaper
offices, and laid in a small supply. With these she went to Fulton
Ferry, partly because she fancied that there was no danger of granny’s
coming there in pursuit of her. Even if the encounter did take place she
was resolved not to go back. Still it was better to avoid it altogether.
Tom was rather late in the field. Most of her competitors had been
selling papers for an hour, and some had already sold quite a number.
However, not being in the least bashful, she managed to obtain her share
of the trade that remained. The boats came in at frequent intervals,
loaded down with passengers,—clerks, shop-boys, merchants, bankers,
book-keepers, operatives, who made a home in Brooklyn, but spent the day
in the busy metropolis.
“Morning papers, sir?” asked Tom, to a rather portly gentleman, who did
business in Wall Street.
“Yes; give me the ‘Herald.’”
He drew a coin from his pocket, and handed to Tom.
“Never mind about the change,” he said.
Tom was about to put it in her pocket, supposing from the size that it
was a five-cent piece; but, chancing to glance at it more particularly,
she saw that it was a five-dollar gold piece.
Her eyes sparkled with joy. To her it was an immense fortune. She had
never, in all her life, had so much money before. “But did he mean to
give her so much?” was the question that suggested itself to her
immediately. He had, to be sure, told her to keep the change, but Tom
knew too much of human nature and the ways of the world to think it
likely that anybody would pay five dollars in gold for a morning paper,
without asking for a return of the change.
Now I am quite aware that in three cases out of four the lucky
news-vender would have profited by the mistake, and never thought of
offering to correct it. Indeed, I am inclined to think that Tom herself
would have done the same three months before. Even now she was strongly
tempted to do so. But she remembered the false charge that had been made
against her by Mrs. Merton the day before, and the indignation she felt.
“If I keep this, and it’s ever found out, she’ll be sure I took the
twenty dollars,” thought Tom. “I won’t do it. I won’t let her call me a
thief. I’ll give it back.”
The purchaser of the paper was already half through Fulton Market before
Tom made up her mind to return the money. She started on a run, afraid
her resolution might give way if she stopped to consider.
She easily recognized the man who had paid her the money.
“Mister,” said Tom, touching him to attract his attention.
“What’s wanted?” he inquired, looking at our heroine.
“Did you mean to give me this?” and Tom displayed the gold piece.
“Did I give it to you?”
“Yes, you bought a ‘Herald,’ you know, and told me to keep the change.”
“Well, why didn’t you?” he asked, in some curiosity.
“I thought you made a mistake.”
“I shouldn’t have found it out. Didn’t you want to keep it?”
“Yes,” said Tom, unhesitatingly.
“Why didn’t you?”
“I thought it would be stealing.”
“You’re a natural phenomenon!”
“Is that a bad name?” demanded Tom.
“No, not in this case. So I told you to keep the change, did I?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then you’d better do it.”
“Do you mean it?” asked Tom, astonished.
“To be sure. I never break my word.”
“Then I’ll do it,” said Tom. “Aint I in luck this morning, though?”
“Yes, I think you are. As I probably know more of business than you, my
young friend, will you permit me to give you a piece of advice?”
“All right,” said Tom.
“Then, as gold is at a premium, you had better sell that gold piece, and
take the value in currency.”
“Where can I sell it?” asked Tom.
“I don’t, in general, solicit business, but, if you have confidence in
my integrity, you may call at my office, No. — Wall Street, any time
to-day, and I will give you the market value of the gold.”
“I don’t understand all them big words,” said Tom, rather puzzled, “but
I’ll go as soon as I have sold my papers.”
“Very good. You may ask for Mr. Dunbar. Can you remember the name?”
Tom said she could, repeating it two or three times, to become familiar
with it.
An hour later she entered the broker’s office, looking about her for her
acquaintance of the morning.
“Ah, there you are,” said the broker, recognizing her.
“So you want to sell your gold?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Gold sells at 141 to-day. Will that be satisfactory?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Mr. Johnson,” said Mr. Dunbar, addressing a clerk, “give that young
lady value in currency for five dollars in gold.”
Tom handed in the gold, and received in return seven dollars and five
cents. She could hardly credit her good luck, not being familiar with
the mysteries of banking.
“Thank you, sir,” said she gratefully, to the broker.
“I hope you will favor us with any future business you may have in our
line,” said Mr. Dunbar, with a friendly smile.
“Yes, sir,” answered Tom, rather mystified by his manner, but mentally
deciding that he was one of the jolliest gentlemen she had ever met.
When Tom emerged from the office, and was once more in the hurry and
bustle of Wall Street, it is very doubtful whether, in that street of
millionnaires and men striving to become such, there was a single one
who felt so fabulously wealthy as she.
                              CHAPTER XXI
                   TOM FALLS INTO THE ENEMY’S HANDS.
Tom found herself the possessor of seven dollars and fifty cents,
including the quarter which she owed to Mrs. Murphy for money advanced.
It was not yet eleven o’clock. She decided to call on Mrs. Murphy, pay
back the loan, and inform her of her good luck.
Mrs. Murphy was seated at her stand, keeping a sharp lookout for
customers, when she espied Tom approaching.
“Have you sold your papers, Tom?” she asked.
“Yes, Mrs. Murphy. Here’s the money I borrowed of you.”
“Keep it longer; you’ll maybe nade it. I aint afraid to trust you.”
“I don’t need it. I have been lucky. See there!” and Tom displayed a
roll of bills.
“Where’d ye get all them?” asked the apple-woman, in amazement.
“A gentleman paid me a gold piece for a ‘Herald,’ and wouldn’t take any
change.”
“Is it truth you’re tellin’, Tom?”
“Of course it is. Do you think I’d tell you a lie?”
“Tell me all about it, Tom.”
Tom did so, to the intense interest of Mrs. Murphy, who, after
ejaculations as to Tom’s luck, added, “I wish he’d buy some apples of
me, and trate me in the same way. And what are you goin’ to do wid your
money, Tom, dear?”
“I’m going to get a square meal pretty soon, Mrs. Murphy. If you’ll come
along, I’ll treat you.”
“Thank you, Tom, all the same, but I can’t lave my business. You’d
better put it in the savings-bank, where it’ll be safe. Maybe you might
lose it.”
“Have you got any money in the savings-bank?”
“No, Tom, dear. It takes all I earn for the rint, and atin’ for the
childers.”
“I want to live with you, Mrs. Murphy, if you’ll take me.”
“Shure and I’d be glad to have you, Tom, if you’ll put up wid my poor
room.”
“I’d rather be there than at Mrs. Merton’s,” said Tom.
After some negotiation, Mrs. Murphy agreed to take Tom as a boarder,
furnishing her with lodging, breakfast and supper, for a dollar and a
half a week. It seemed a small sum, but it would be a welcome addition
to the apple-woman’s weekly income, while it would take Tom from the
streets, and give her a cheerful and social home.
“I’ll pay you now for a week,” said Tom. “Then I’ll be all right even if
I lose the money.”
After some persuasion, Mrs. Murphy was induced to accept the payment in
advance.
“Now I’ll go and get some dinner,” said Tom.
Tom directed her steps to the Belmont House Restaurant, on Fulton
Street. It has two rooms,—one for ladies, the other for gentlemen; and
is well-patronized by a very respectable class, chiefly clerks and
business men. It was of a higher grade than the restaurants which those
in Tom’s line of business were accustomed to frequent. Her dress,
however, prevented any surprise being felt at her entrance. She sat down
at a table, and looked over a bill of fare. She observed that roast
turkey was marked forty cents. This was rather a large price for one in
her circumstances to pay. However, she had been in luck, and felt that
she could afford an unusual outlay.
“Roast turkey and a cup of coffee!” ordered Tom, as the waiter
approached the table.
“All right, miss,” said that functionary.
Soon the turkey was set before her, with a small dish of cranberry
sauce, and a plate of bread and butter. Two potatoes and the cup of
coffee made up Tom’s dinner. She surveyed it with satisfaction, and set
to with an appetite.
“I should like to live this way every day,” thought Tom; “but I can’t
afford it.”
The waiter brought a check, and laid it beside her plate. It was marked
45 cents.
Tom walked up to the desk near the door, and paid her bill in an
independent manner, as if she were accustomed to dine there every day.
In making the payment she had drawn out her whole stock of money, and
still held it in her hand as she stood on the sidewalk outside. She
little guessed the risk she ran in doing so, or that the enemy she most
dreaded was close at hand. For just at the moment Tom stood with her
face towards Broadway, granny turned the corner of Nassau and Fulton
Streets, and bore down upon her, her eyes sparkling with joy and
anticipated triumph. She was not alone. With her was a man of
thirty-five, bold and reckless in expression, but otherwise with the
dress and appearance of a gentleman.
“There’s the gal now!” said granny, in excitement.
“Where?” said her companion, sharing her excitement.
“There, in front of that eating-house.”
“The one with her back towards us?”
“Yes. Don’t say a word, and I’ll creep up and get hold of her.”
Tom was about to put back her money in her pocket, when she felt her arm
seized in a firm grasp. Turning in startled surprise, she met the
triumphant glance of her old granny.
“Let me alone!” said Tom, fiercely, trying to snatch away her arm.
“I’ve got you, have I?” said granny. “I knowed I’d get hold of you at
last, you young trollop! Come home with me, right off!”
“I won’t go with you,” said Tom, resolutely. “I don’t want to have
anything to do with you. You haven’t got anything to do with me.”
“Haven’t I, I should like to know? Aint I your granny?”
“No, you aint.”
“What do you mean by that?” demanded Mrs. Walsh, rather taken aback.
“You aint any relation of mine. I don’t know where you got hold of me;
but I won’t own such an old drunkard for a granny.”
“Come along!” said granny, fiercely. “You’ll pay for this, miss.”
“Help!” exclaimed Tom, finding that she was likely to be carried away
against her will, at the same time struggling violently.
“What’s the matter?” asked a gentleman, who had just come out of the
restaurant.
“It’s my grand-child, sir,” said Mrs. Walsh, obsequiously. “She run away
from me, and now she don’t want to go back.”
“She hasn’t got anything to do with me,” said Tom. “Help!”
This last exclamation was intended to attract the attention of a
policeman who was approaching.
“What’s the trouble?” he demanded, authoritatively.
Mrs. Walsh repeated her story.
“What is the child’s name?” asked the policeman.
“Jane,” answered the old woman, who was at first on the point of saying
“Tom.”
“How long has she lived with you?”
“Ever since she was born, till a few weeks ago.”
“What do you say to this?” asked the officer.
“I did live with her; but she beat me, so I left her. She says she is my
granny, but she isn’t.”
“Where do you live now?”
“With Mrs. Murphy, in Mulberry Street.”
This intelligence rather astonished granny, who heard it for the first
time.
“Is the child related to you?” asked the officer.
“She’s my grandchild, but she’s always been a wild, troublesome child.
Many’s the time I have kept awake all night thinkin’ of her bad ways,”
said granny, virtuously. “It was only yesterday,” she added, with a
sudden thought suggested by the sight of the money which she had seen
Tom counting, “that she came to my room, and stole some money. She’s got
it in her pocket now.”
“Have you taken any money from your grandmother?” demanded the
policeman.
“No, I haven’t,” said Tom, boldly.
“I saw her put it in her pocket,” said granny.
“Show me what you have in your pocket.”
“I’ve got some money,” said Tom, feeling in rather a tight place; “but
it was given me this morning by a gentleman at Fulton Ferry.”
“Show it,” said the officer, authoritatively.
Tom was reluctantly compelled to draw out the money she had left,—a
little over five dollars. Granny’s eyes sparkled as she saw it.
“It’s the money I lost,” said she. “Give it to me;” and she clutched
Tom’s hand.
“Not for Joe!” said Tom, emphatically. “It’s mine, and I’ll keep it.”
“Will you make her give it up?” asked granny, appealing to the
policeman. “It’s some of my hard earnings, which that wicked girl took
from me.”
“That’s a lie!” retorted Tom. “You never saw the money. There was a
gentleman down to Fulton Ferry that give it to me this morning.”
“That’s a likely story,” said granny, scornfully.
“If you don’t believe it you can ask him. He’s got an office on Wall
Street, No. —, and his name is Mr. Dunbar. Take me round there, and see
if he don’t say so.”
“Don’t believe her,” said granny. “She can lie as fast as she can talk.”
“Ask Mrs. Murphy then. She keeps an apple-stand corner of Nassau and
Spruce Streets.”
“You are sure she took this money from you?” inquired the policeman.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Walsh. “I put it in my drawer yesterday forenoon, and
when I come to look for it it was gone. Mrs. Molloy, that lives on the
next floor, told me she saw Tom, I mean Jane, come in about three
o’clock, when I was out to work. It was then that she took it.”
If granny had been dressed in her old fashion, she would have inspired
less confidence; but it must be remembered that, through money advanced
by the lawyer, she was now, in outward appearance, a very respectable
old woman; and appearances go a considerable way. The officer was,
therefore, disposed to believe her. If he had any doubt on the subject
it was settled by the interference of Mr. Lindsay, who had hitherto kept
aloof, but who now advanced, saying, “I know this woman, Mr. Officer,
and I can assure you that her story is correct. The child has been wild
and rebellious, and stolen money. But her grandmother does not wish to
have her arrested, as she might rightfully do. She prefers to take her
back, and do what she can to redeem her.”
Mr. Lindsay was in outward appearance a gentleman. His manner was quiet,
and calculated to inspire confidence.
“That is sufficient,” said the officer, respectfully. “Hark you,” he
added, addressing Tom, “you had better go away quietly with your
grandmother, or I shall advise her to give you in charge for theft.”
Granny had conquered. Tom saw that further immediate resistance would be
unavailing; without a word, therefore, she allowed herself to be led
away, mentally resolving, however, that her stay with granny would be
brief.
                              CHAPTER XXII
                       THE LAWYER AND HIS CLIENT.
Mr. Selwyn, the lawyer who has already been introduced to the reader,
sat in his office with a pile of papers before him, when a knock was
heard at the door. His clerk being absent, he arose and opened it. A
lady stood before him.
“Will you enter, madam?” he said.
“Is this Mr. Selwyn?” she asked.
“That is my name, madam.”
“My name will probably be familiar to you. I am Mrs. Lindsay.”
“I am glad to see you, madam. Will you be seated?”
She sat down, and the lawyer regarded with interest the client whom he
now saw for the first time. She was still young, less than forty
probably, and, though her face bore the impress of sorrow, she was still
beautiful.
“I suppose you have no news for me,” she said.
“I am sorry to say that I have as yet no trace of the child. Margaret
Walsh is on the lookout for her, and, as you have made it worth her
while, I do not doubt that she will eventually find her for you.”
“Do you think my child is still in the city?” asked Mrs. Lindsay,
anxiously.
“I have no doubt of it. A child, bred as she has been, does not often
leave the city voluntarily, unless in the case of those children who are
from time to time carried away to homes in the West, through the agency
of the Children’s Aid Society.”
“But may she not be of the number of these?”
“I thought it possible, and have accordingly inquired particularly of
the officers of the society whether any child answering to her
description has been under their charge, and I am assured that this is
not the case. She is probably earning a living for herself somewhere in
the streets, though we cannot tell in what way, or in what part of the
city. Having run away from Mrs. Walsh, whom I suspect she did not like,
she probably keeps out of the way, to avoid falling again into her
hands.”
“It is terrible to think that my dear child is compelled to wander about
the streets homeless, and no doubt often suffering severe privations,”
said Mrs. Lindsay, with a sigh.
“Have good courage, madam,” said the lawyer. “I am convinced that we
shall find her very soon.”
“I hope indeed that your anticipations may be realized,” said the
mother. “But I have not yet told you what brings me to New York at this
time.”
Mr. Selwyn bowed and assumed an air of attention.
“It is not pleasant,” said Mrs. Lindsay, after a slight pause, “to speak
ill of a relative; but I am obliged to tell you that the worst foe I
have is my brother-in-law, a younger brother of my late husband. It was
he who in the first place contrived the abduction of the child, and,
though he witnessed my distress, he has never relented, though it was
doubtless in his power, at any time, to restore her to me.”
“How lately have you become aware of his connection with the affair?”
“Only a few months since. One day I opened a desk belonging to him, in
search of an envelope, when I accidentally came upon a letter from
Margaret Walsh, written some years since, giving an account of her
arrival in New York with my dear child, and claiming from him a sum of
money which it appears he had promised as a compensation for her
services. This discovery astounded me. It was the first intimation I had
of my brother-in-law’s perfidy. He had always offered me such a delicate
and unobtrusive sympathy, and appeared to share so sincerely in my
sorrow, that I could scarcely believe the testimony of my senses. I read
the letter three times before I could realize his treachery. Of course I
did not make known to him the discovery I had made, but, calling on a
lawyer, I asked him to recommend to me some trustworthy gentleman in his
profession in this city. Your name was suggested, and I at once
authorized him to communicate with you, and employ you in the matter.”
“I trust I shall prove worthy of the recommendation,” said the lawyer,
inclining his head.
“There is one question which I should like to ask,” he continued. “In
what manner would your brother-in-law be likely to derive advantage from
your child’s disappearance?”
“My husband left a large property,” said Mrs. Lindsay. “Half of this was
bequeathed to me, the remaining half I was to hold in trust for my
child. If, however, she should die before reaching her majority, my
brother-in-law, Mr. James Lindsay, was to receive my child’s portion.”
“That constitutes a very powerful motive,” said the lawyer. “The love of
money is the root of all evil, you know.”
“I do not like to suspect my brother-in-law of such baseness,” said Mrs.
Lindsay, “but I fear I must.”
“How are his own means? Has he considerable property?”
“He had. Both my husband and himself inherited a large property; but I
have reason to think that, at the time I speak of, he had lost large
sums by gambling. He had passed two years abroad, and I heard from
acquaintances, who met him there, that he played for high stakes at
Baden Baden and other German gambling resorts, and lost very heavily. I
suspect that he must have reduced his means very much in this way.”
“You are probably correct, and this supplies what we lawyers always
seek—the motive. I can quite understand that to a man so situated a
hundred thousand dollars must have been a powerful temptation. I must
ask you another question. Has Mr. James Lindsay derived any advantage
from your child’s property thus far?”
“He has, though it was legally decided that he could not come into
absolute possession, since my child’s death was not definitely
ascertained; at least, until such time as, if living, she would have
attained her majority, it was decreed that the income derived from the
property should be paid to him, this payment to cease only in case of
Jenny’s restoration.”
“And has this been done?”
“It has.”
“Then Mr. James Lindsay has for the last six years received the income
of a hundred thousand dollars.”
Mrs. Lindsay inclined her head.
“And you never suspected his agency in the affair, in spite of all
this?”
“Never. I knew James profited by my dear child’s loss, but I was not
prepared to suspect him of such baseness.”
“I should have thought of it at once; but then we lawyers see so much of
the bad side of human nature that we are prone to suspect evil.”
“Then I should not wish to be a lawyer. It pains me to think ill of
others.”
“I respect you for the sentiment, madam, though in my profession I am
compelled to repudiate it. May I inquire whether your brother-in-law yet
suspects that you have discovered his complicity in the plot against
your child?”
“It is that which brings me to see you to-day. I feel sure that in some
way he has gained a knowledge of my secret, though I endeavored to
conceal it from him.”
“That is not surprising. He might accidentally have seen the
advertisement for Margaret Walsh, which, under your directions, I
inserted in the leading New York daily papers.”
“He must have found out in this way.”
“He will now doubtless do what he can to prevent your recovering
possession of her.”
“I fear he has already commenced. Three days since, he told me that he
was about to go to Washington, and possibly further south for a few
weeks. He added that, having much business to occupy him, he doubted if
he should be able to write often. I supposed this to be true, until
yesterday I heard that, instead of taking the cars to Baltimore, he had
bought a ticket for New York. This attempt to deceive me convinces me
that he has penetrated my secret.”
“Do you know where he is staying in New York?”
“No, I do not. I only reached the city to-day, and came at once to your
office to inform you of the new danger which menaced our cause.”
“The information is important, Mrs. Lindsay,” said the lawyer,
thoughtfully. “I must endeavor to guard against his machinations. No
doubt he will first try to find out Margaret Walsh, and when he has
found her will seek to buy her over to his interest. From what I know of
the woman, he will have no difficulty in succeeding.”
“What can we do?” asked Mrs. Lindsay, anxiously.
“I don’t care to bid against him, for, having such large interests at
stake, he will take care to go as high as we. We must do what we can to
keep them apart.”
“Will that be possible?”
“We can at least try. I must have time to think what methods are to be
used.”
