manning of the yards in honor of his visit. At the invitation of Paul
Kendall he went on board of the Grace, and took a sail up the Sound,
dining on board, and returning in the afternoon. The students again
went on shore, and visited the Rosenberg Palace, an irregular
structure of red brick, with a high peaked roof and four towers.
Connected with it is an extensive and beautiful garden, adorned with
statues. The palace was built for Christian IV., in 1604, but is no
longer a royal residence, being filled with various national
collections of arms, medals, and antiquities, including many
historical mementos of kings and other great men of Denmark. Among
them are the saddle, bridle, and caparisons, the sword and pistols,
presented by King Christian IV. to his eldest son at his marriage.
They are adorned with diamonds, pearls, and gold, and cost a million
francs in Paris.

In the afternoon the students marched to the Palace of Frederiksberg,
whose park is a favorite resort of the people of the city. The
building contains nothing worth seeing; indeed, portions of it have
been rented for the use of private families; but the garden is
beautifully laid out with kiosks, bridges over the winding canal,
on which float a great number of white swans, with little islands,
studded with groves and pleasant grassy slopes. The palace stands on
the only eminence near Copenhagen. On pleasant days, especially on
Sundays, this park is filled with family picnics, little parties
bringing their own lunch, and spending the day in these delightful
groves.

During the remainder of the day the students wandered over the city,
each seeking what pleased him most. When they went on board the
vessels, they were entirely satisfied with what they had seen of
Copenhagen, and were ready to visit some other city. Very early the
next morning, Mr. Blaine, with all but three of the absentees, came on
board. The head steward told his story, and Scott and Laybold told
their story; the former, as usual, being the spokesman. The wag told
the whole truth, exactly as it was; that they were ashamed to come on
board while so tipsy, and had missed the train at the junction.

"Have you drank any finkel since?" asked the principal.

"No, sir; not a drop. One glass was enough for me," replied Scott.

"And you, Laybold?"

"No, sir."

"You may both return to your duty," added the principal.

Both were astonished at being let off so easily; but Mr. Lowington was
satisfied that they spoke the truth, and had not intended to run away.
The others were also ordered to attend to their duty, but with the
intimation that their conduct would be investigated at the return of
Sanford and Stockwell, who, with Ole, had left the party at
Katherineholm.

The signal for sailing was flying on board of the Young America, and
at seven o'clock the squadron was under way, continuing the voyage "up
the Baltic." No notice seemed to be taken of the absence of Sanford
and Stockwell, but everybody believed that the principal knew what he
was about. The wind was tolerably fresh from the west-south-west, and
the squadron made rapid progress through the water, logging ten knots
all day. The students watched with interest the villages on the coast
of Denmark, with their sharp, red roofs, and the swarms of
fishing-boats moored in front of them. The shores of Sweden were in
sight all the time, and at three o'clock in the afternoon land was
also seen on the starboard bow. But the masters, who were constantly
watching the chart, were not at all astonished, though the seamen
were.

"What land is that, Scott?" asked Laybold.

"That? Why, don't you know?"

"I'm sure I don't. I know Germany is over there somewhere, but I
didn't expect to run into it so near Sweden."

"That's Gabogginholm."

"Is it in Germany?"

"No; it's an island, at least a hundred and fifty miles from Germany.
The Baltic is rather a big thing out here."

"How do you remember those long names, Scott?"

"What long names?"

"Such as the name of that island. I couldn't recollect such a word ten
minutes."

"Nor I either. I know them by instinct."

"What did you say the name of the island is?"

"Gastringumboggin."

"That isn't what you said before."

"I've forgotten what I did say it was. You musn't ask me twice about a
name, for I say I can't remember," laughed Scott.

"You are selling me."

"Of course I am; and you go off cheaper than any fellow I ever saw
before. I haven't the least idea what the land is, except that it must
be an island not less than a hundred and fifty miles from Prussia."

"That's Bornholm," said Walker, a seamen, who had heard the name from
the officers. "It's an island twenty-six miles long and fifteen wide,
belongs to Denmark, and has thirty-two thousand inhabitants, and a lot
of round churches on it. That's what the fellows on the quarter-deck
say."

"Precisely so," replied Scott. "You have learned your lesson well.
What is the principal town on that island?"

"I don't know," answered Walker.

"Stubbenboggin," said Scott.

"Who told you so?"

"My grandmother," laughed the wag, as he turned on his heel, and
walked away.

Towards night the wind subsided, and the squadron was almost becalmed;
but a light breeze sprang up after dark, and in the morning the ship
was off the southern point of Oland, an island ninety miles long by
ten wide, and well covered with forests. On the narrow strait which
separates it from the main land is Calmar, a town of historic
interest, in Sweden. At noon the southern point of Gottland was seen,
and Scott insisted upon calling it "Gabungenboggin," though the real
name was soon circulated. It is eighty miles long by thirty-three
wide, and contains fifty-four thousand inhabitants. Wisby is the only
town. The island is noted for its beautiful climate, which makes it a
pleasant resort for summer tourists.

At sunrise on the following morning, the ship leading the squadron was
approaching the islands which cover the entrance to the harbor of
Stockholm. Pilots were taken by the several vessels, and the fleet
entered the archipelago, through which it was to sail for thirty
miles. At first the openings were very wide, and not much of the shore
could be seen; but soon the distances grew less, and the shores were
studded with villages and fine residences. The little steamers--some
of them not so large as the ship's first cutter--began to appear; and
at eight o'clock the Young America let go her anchor between Staden
and Skeppsholm, off the quay near the palace, which was crowded with
steamers.

"Here we are, Laybold," said Scott, when the sails had been furled,
and every rope coiled away in its place.

"That's so. What's that big building on the shore?"

"That's the Slottenboggin," laughed Scott.

"No, you don't! You can't sell me again with your boggins."

"I'll bet half a pint of salt water it is the king's palace."

"Very likely it is; and here is a fine building on the other side."

"That must be the Wobbleboggin."

"No, it isn't."

"Perhaps it isn't; but twig these little steamers," added Scott,
pointing to one of the snorting miniature boats that plied across the
arm of the sea opposite the quay. "The pilot and engineer, and a boy
to take the fares, seem to be the officers, crew, and all hands."

"And in some of them all hands are boys."

The boats seemed to contain nothing but the engine and boiler, which
were in a compact mass, without covering. All around them were seats.
Forward of the engine was a little steering-wheel, hardly more than a
foot in diameter, at which the pilot--often a boy--was seated.

"I want a complete view of the city," said Captain Lincoln, at this
moment coming into the waist with the surgeon and Norwood. "I think I
can get it from the main cross-trees."

"I am too stiff to go aloft," replied Dr. Winstock; "but I commend
your plan."

"I'm with you," added Norwood, as he followed the captain up the main
rigging.

From this lofty position on the cross-trees the two officers obtained
a good idea of the situation of the city. The three islands which form
the central portion of the city lay in the strait leading to the Mäler
Lake. The north and south suburbs were on each side of it. Skeppsholm,
Castellholm, and the Djurg[)a]rden--Deer Garden--were other islands,
lying nearer the Baltic. The finest portion of the city seemed to be
the northern suburbs. While they were studying the panorama of the
place, all hands were called to lecture, and they hastened to their
places in the steerage. Professor Mapps was at his post, with the map
on the foremast.

"Sweden is called Sverige by the natives; La Suède by the French;
Schweden by the Germans; La Svezia by the Italians; and Suecia
by the Spaniards. It contains one hundred and sixty-eight thousand
square miles--a territory equal in extent to the six New England
States, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware united. Its
population is a little over four millions--about the same as that of
the State of New York. It is nearly a thousand miles long from north
to south, with an average breadth of two hundred miles. By far the
greater portion of it is very sparsely settled, for it extends from
fifty-five degrees of north latitude up to the arctic regions. It
contains no important rivers, though its large lakes and arms of the
sea are valuable as avenues of navigation. Over eighty lakes are
mentioned."

The instructer described the Wenern and Wettern Lakes, and the Göta
Canal, which passes through them.

"Sweden is an agricultural country, and its principal manufactures are
lumber and iron. It has six hundred and thirty-eight miles of railway,
and the steamers which you see at the quay, mostly of iron, and built
in Sweden, ply to all parts of the country.

"The average of the temperature in Stockholm is forty-two degrees, or
twenty-five degrees for winter, and sixty-two degrees for summer. From
what you have already seen of Sweden, I think you will consider it
very like New England. The interior has about the same physical
features, and you will see there similar houses, barns, and fences.

"The government is a limited monarchy, based on the constitution of
1809, and since amended. The king must be a Lutheran. He has an
absolute veto on the acts of the legislature. The Diet, or Parliament,
consists of two houses, the upper of which is composed of one hundred
and twenty-seven members, or one for every thirty thousand
inhabitants. The lower house consists of one hundred and eighty-eight
members, fifty-five of whom are elected by the towns, and the rest by
the rural districts, at the rate of one for every forty thousand
people. Property qualifications are required for either house, and all
members must be Protestants. They are paid a salary of three hundred
and thirty-five dollars of our money, and their travelling expenses,
for the session of four months.

"I have incidentally spoken of the history of Sweden in connection
with that of Norway and Denmark. The kingdom was founded by Odin, and
for a long period the history of the country is a record of the wars
with Norway and Denmark, and it was finally conquered by Margaret, and
by the Union of Calmar the three kingdoms were consolidated in 1397.
It became a Christian nation early in the eleventh century. Sweden was
doubtless the first anti-slavery power; for, during the reign of
Birger II., about 1300, a law against the sale of slaves was enacted,
with the declaration that it was 'in the highest degree criminal for
Christians to sell men whom Christ had redeemed by his blood.'

"In 1520 Gustavus Ericsson excited a rebellion against Christian II.,
of Denmark, who had murdered his father and many other Swedes. This
revolution was successful three years later, and its leader made king,
under the title of Gustaf I., often called Gustavus Vasa, or Wasa. He
was succeeded by his son, and the throne continued in his family; but
the next notable sovereign was Gustaf II., or Gustavus Adolphus. His
grandfather, Gustavus Vasa, had established the Protestant religion
in Sweden; but his nephew, Sigismond, who had been elected king of
Poland, and had become a Catholic, succeeded to the throne.
Endeavoring to change the established religion, he was deposed, and
the succession changed. This caused a war between Sweden, and Russia,
and Poland. Gustavus was only eighteen when he came to the throne,
with this war bequeathed to him. He was full of energy, and defeated
his enemies on all sides. Austria was the leader of the Catholic party
in Europe, which was striving to restore the papal supremacy. Gustavus
Adolphus held a similar relation to the Protestant party. He was
engaged in the Thirty Years' War, and won many decisive victories. He
captured Munich, and overran Bavaria, but was finally killed in the
battle of Lützen, in 1632. By his prowess and skill he raised Sweden
to the rank of one of the first kingdoms of Europe.

"He was succeeded by his daughter, Christina, then only six years old.
She reigned but seven years after she became of age, abdicating in
favor of her cousin Charles X. She died in Rome, after a dissolute
and shameful life, and was interred in St. Peter's Church. Charles was
at war with the Danes during his brief reign, and achieved the daring
military feat of crossing the Great and Little Belts on the ice, which
enabled him to dictate his own terms of peace with the Danes. The
Swedes consider him one of their greatest kings. His son, Charles XI.,
followed him, and ruled for thirty-seven years. After a brief period
of peace, another war with Denmark ensued, which resulted to the
ultimate advantage of Sweden. This king contrived to obtain from the
Diet the gift of absolute power, which, in the hands of his son and
successor, Charles XII., nearly ruined the nation. Russia, Poland, and
Denmark combined to rob him of a considerable portion of his kingdom,
and Charles XII., at the age of sixteen, displayed an energy and a
skill far beyond his years. He conquered a peace with Denmark first,
and then turned his attention to the rest of his enemies, whom he
overwhelmed and subdued. With nine thousand men he defeated a Russian
army of forty thousand, under Peter the Great, at Narva. He vanquished
the armies of Poland and Saxony, and attempted the conquest of Russia,
but was utterly defeated in the battle of Pultowa, and escaped into
Turkish territory, where he remained for five years. Here he brought
about a war between Turkey and Russia, and the army of the former shut
up that of Peter the Great in the Crimea. The lady who was afterwards
Catharine I. bribed the grand vizier with all her jewels to allow the
Russians to escape, and this event utterly ruined the hopes of the
monarch of Sweden. Finally the Turks drove him from their country,
and, after various vicissitudes, he arrived in his own, and was
killed, in 1718, at Frederikhald, in Norway. While he was away, his
enemies had been appropriating his territory, and Sweden was reduced
to a second-class power.

"The Diet elected Ulrica Eleonora, sister of Charles, queen, who
resigned in favor of her husband, Fredrik I. Another war with Russia
followed, and Sweden lost more of her territory. Adolf Fredrik
succeeded to the throne in 1751, who was elected by the Diet. Still
another war with Russia was carried on during his reign. His son,
Gustaf III., with the aid of his soldiers, increased the powers of the
crown; but he was assassinated at a ball, in 1792, and his son, Gustaf
Adolf IV., came to the throne. His policy involved the nation in a
war with the allies, and he lost Finland and Pomerania. He was so
unpopular that he was compelled to abdicate, and his uncle, Charles
XIII., was raised to the throne in 1809. He had no children, and the
Prince of Holstein-Augustenburg was elected as his successor; but he
was assassinated, and one of Napoleon's generals, Bernadotte, was
chosen crown prince, and in 1818 he succeeded to the throne as Charles
XIV. His reign was a successful one, and his efforts to secure Norway
to his adopted country made him popular even before he was king. He
espoused the cause of the allies against Napoleon, and was well cared
for by them when the affairs of Europe were finally settled.

"His son Oscar was his heir, and came to the throne at the death of
his father in 1844. He was followed by his son, Charles XV., the
present king, in 1859.

"The army organization is similar to that of Denmark, and about one
hundred and fifty thousand men are available for service. The navy
contains four monitors on the American plan, which were invented by
John Ericsson, a Swede, two iron-clad gunboats, twenty-one steamers,
and sixteen sailing vessels, besides a great number of floating
batteries, and other stationary craft. Although only about six
thousand sailors are actually in the navy, nearly thirty thousand can
be had in case of war."

The professor finished his lecture, and the students hastened on deck,
to see more of the sights which surrounded them.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE CRUISE IN THE LITTLE STEAMER.


"What's the use, Stockwell?" said Sanford, as the absentees seated
themselves on the train for Malmö, under the charge of the head
steward. "Blaine got his despatch from the principal last night, but
he didn't say a word to us till this morning. He's playing a sharp
game."

"That's so," replied Stockwell. "He don't mean to trust us out of
sight again."

"Don't say a word to any fellow," whispered the coxswain. "You and I
will fight it out on our own hook."

"I understand. It is plain enough that Blaine regards us as runaways,
and I suppose the principal will do the same."

"Very likely; and when we get to Russia, all we shall have to do will
be to count our fingers in the steerage, while the rest of the fellows
are seeing the Russians," continued Sanford, who now appeared to
regard "the independent excursion without running away" as a failure.
"We shall not even see anything more of Stockholm. I don't like the
idea."

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" asked Stockwell.

"At the first chance we will leave this train, and make our way back
to Stockholm," whispered Sanford. "There is a steamer to St.
Petersburg twice a week, and we have money enough to carry us
through."

"Right; I am with you."

"We will take Ole, if you like, to do the talking for us."

"I don't object."

The train stopped at Katherineholm about half past nine. The boys had
taken nothing but the Swedish early breakfast of coffee and a biscuit,
and the head steward allowed them to have a more substantial meal,
each paying for himself. They entered the restaurant, where, on a
large table in the centre of the room, were great dishes of broiled
salmon and veal cutlets, with high piles of plates near them. Each
passenger helped himself at these dishes, and then seated himself at
one of the little tables. When he had finished his salmon, he helped
himself to veal cutlets; beer and coffee were served by the waiters.
Sanford and Stockwell hurried through the meal, and went to the
counter where the woman received payment. She asked them some question
and they were obliged to call Ole, to know what she said. She asked if
they had had beer or coffee, which was extra, the meal being one and a
half rix dalers. She gave them a tin check; for at this place they
seemed to be sharper than the Swedes usually are, and the check was to
enable them to get out of the restaurant. A man at the door received
it, and no one was allowed to pass without it; and thus none could
leave without paying for the meal.

"Finished your breakfast, Ole?" said Sanford, carelessly.

"Yes; and that salmon was very good."

"First rate. Come with us, Ole," added the coxswain, as he led the way
out of the restaurant.

The trio entered the station, and as no one followed them, they left
by the front door. Dodging behind the buildings, they soon cleared the
station. Taking the public road, they walked for half an hour at a
rapid pace, and then halted to consider the situation. The train had
gone, for they had heard its departure; but whether Mr. Blaine had
gone or not was an open question.

"What next?" said Sanford, as he seated himself at the side of the
road.

"Take the train back to Stockholm," replied Stockwell.

"Perhaps Blaine did not go on, after he missed us."

"Of course he did. But whether he did or not, the train has gone, and
he cannot take us to Copenhagen. If we find him at the station, why,
we took a little walk, and lost the train, you know."

"That's played out," replied Sanford. "We have missed the train too
many times, already. What time does the next one return to Stockholm?"

"I don't know. Let's go back to the station."

This course was adopted, and on their arrival they learned that they
could return to Stockholm at half past two in the afternoon. The man
in charge said that the gentleman with the young men had been looking
for them. Sanford replied, through Ole, that they had lost the train,
but would return to Stockholm, and start again the next morning.
After dining in the restaurant, the runaways--as they certainly were
now, if not before--departed, and arrived at their destination in
about three hours. They immediately went to the office on the quay,
and learned that a steamer would leave for St. Petersburg at two
o'clock on Friday morning.

"Can we engage places now?" asked Sanford,--for the clerk in charge
spoke English.

"Certainly."

"We will take three places in one room," added the coxswain.

"Have you passports?" asked the clerk.

"No, sir."

"We cannot sell you tickets then."

"Not without passports?" exclaimed Sanford, appalled at this new
difficulty.

"No; and passports must be visé by the Russian consul before we can
issue a ticket."

"We are down then," added the coxswain. "My passport is on board of
the ship."

"So is mine," added Stockwell.

"And I never had any," said Ole.

The party left the steamer's office, and were unable to devise any
means of overcoming the obstacle. They went to the Hotel Rydberg
again, and consulted the porter, who had been very kind to them
before. This functionary is entirely different in European hotels
from those of the same name in the United States. He stands at the
entrance, usually dressed in uniform, to answer all inquiries of
guests, and to do all that is required of the clerks in American
hotels. He assured the anxious inquirers that, even if they got into
Russia, their passports would be immediately demanded, and that no one
could remain in any city there over night without one. The American
minister in Stockholm would give them the required documents.

"But Ole, here, is a Norwegian," suggested Sanford.

"No matter. Have him put into your passport as your courier or
servant."

"All right; we will see him to-morrow," replied the coxswain; and the
problem seemed to be solved.

The next day they went to the American legation, but the minister had
gone to Upsala for a week, and the secretary declined to issue the
passports, because the boys could not prove that they were citizens of
the United States. Vexed and discouraged, they wandered about the city
till Friday noon, when an English steamer came into port. They stood
on the quay, watching the movements of the passengers as they landed.
They had almost concluded to take a steamer to Stettin, Lübeck, or
some other port in Germany; but Russia was a strange land, and they
were not willing to abandon the idea of seeing its sights.

"I wonder whether this steamer goes any farther," said Stockwell.

"I don't know," added Sanford.

"Perhaps she goes to St. Petersburg. It may be her officers are not so
particular about the confounded passports."

"But you can't stay in Russia over night without one, even if you get
there."

"The American minister will fit us out with them. I expect to find a
letter of credit in St. Petersburg, and that will prove that I am an
American."

"Let us go on board of the steamer and ascertain where she is going,"
continued Sanford, as he led the way across the plank, which had been
extended from the deck to the stone pier.

The boys went upon the hurricane deck, where they had seen an officer
who looked as though he might be the captain.

"Do you go to St. Petersburg, captain?" asked the coxswain.

"No; we return to London, touching only at Copenhagen," replied the
officer.

"That's too bad!" exclaimed Stockwell.

"So it is," said a tall man, who had followed the runaways up the
steps from the lower deck. "But you are not going to St. Petersburg
without the rest of us--are you?"

Sanford was startled, and turning sharp around, saw Peaks, who had
come out of the cabin as the boys stepped on board. He had followed
them to the hurricane deck, and suspecting that something was wrong,
he had waited till the coxswain's question betrayed their intention.

"No, we are not going to St. Petersburg; we are waiting for the ship,"
replied Sanford, recovering his self-possession in an instant.

"O, you are? All right, then. But the last I heard of you was, that
you were all on your way to Copenhagen to join the ship," added the
boatswain.

"So we were, Mr. Peaks; but after we had taken breakfast at a station
on the railroad, we went to have a little walk, and see something of
the country. We thought we had time enough, but the train--confound
it!--went off without us. We were terribly provoked, but we couldn't
help ourselves, you know; so we made our way back to this city."

"I think you must have been very badly provoked," said Peaks.

"O, we were,--honor bright."

"But you thought you would go over to St. Petersburg before the ship
arrived?"

"Certainly not; we had no idea of going to St. Petersburg."

"And that's the reason you asked whether this steamer was going
there,--because you hadn't any idea of going."

"We know very well that we can't go to St. Petersburg without our
passports, which are on board of the ship," protested Sanford.

"Yes, I understand; but who is this?" asked Peaks, as he glanced at
Ole.

"That's Ole Amundsen; don't you remember him?"

"I think I do. And he is on a lark with you."

"We are not on a lark. We have been trying with all our might to find
the ship, for the last fortnight; and we are bound to do so, or die in
the attempt," said Stockwell.

"And Ole has been with you all the time?"

"Yes, sir; we couldn't have done anything without him."

"And would have been on board the ship long ago, if you hadn't had
him to speak the lingo for you."

"When we tell you our story, you will see that we have done our best
to find the ship."

"I don't know that I care to hear any more of your story; it's too
much story for me, and you can tell it to Mr. Lowington, who will be
here by to-morrow, I think. Very likely you can take me to a good
hotel."

"Yes, sir; we are staying at the Hotel Rydberg, which is the best in
Stockholm."

"Heave ahead, then."

The runaways led the way.

"Do you talk the Swedish lingo, Ole?" asked the boatswain.

"Yes, sir."

"Where did you stow yourself, when we went into Christiansand?"
