David came out of the house with his travelling bag in hand, and in a
minute more the house door was shut, so was the carriage door, and they
were all three rolling off towards the Station.
"O David, I'm so glad!" burst from Matilda. "How did you manage it?"
"Like himself," said Norton; "kept his own counsel and had his own way.
It's a good thing to be Davy Bartholomew."
"I don't know about that," said David.
"Don't you? Never heard a doubt on that subject expressed before. But
anyhow, it's jolly to have you along, Davy. Why you've never seen
Shadywalk, nor Briery Bank."
Matilda smiled a very bright and expressive smile at David which said,
"nor Mr. Richmond either." The smile was so genial and glad and winsome
that it cheated David out of some part of his gloom; or perhaps he
thought it unworthy to shew it before his kind little companion. He
brightened up, and talked about the things that were interesting her
and Norton; and at the station behaved like the manly boy he was;
getting tickets and taking care of Matilda and finding a good place in
the cars where they could all sit together. The moment was so full of
joy to Matilda that it made her sober. Going to see her old haunts and
old friends was a great deal of itself; going on an expedition with
Norton was delightsome; but that David should really be going too, to
see Mr. Richmond, almost took away her breath with gladness. The slow
movement of the cars, beginning to roll away from the station, was
accompanied by a perfect leap and bound of her little heart making an
aerial flight on the instant to the end of the journey.
The end of the journey, however, had to be reached by the usual
patient, or impatient, stages. Patient in this case, to Matilda. She
was so happy that she enjoyed every foot of the way. The spring
sunlight on the river it was quite delightful to see again; the
different stations on the road were passed with curious recollections
of the last time, and comparisons of herself now and herself then. The
evening fell by the time they reached Poughkeepsie; and shadowy visions
of Maria seemed to occupy all the place while the train stopped there.
Poor Maria! Matilda was glad to have the cars move on, since she could
get no nearer than visions. Then it grew dark; and she sat musing and
dreaming pleasant dreams, till the station of Shadywalk was whistled
for.
The old omnibus was in waiting, as usual, and it happened that no other
passenger occupied it to-night except their three selves and one cosy
old lady, who "didn't count," Norton said. It was dark; they could not
see the landscape.
"Briery Bank ought to be worth a good deal," said David, "when it takes
so long to reach it."
"So it is," said Norton.
"O it's lovely, David!" cried Matilda. "Not so much now, though, when
the leaves are not out."
"Are you going to the minister's to-night?"
"To be sure I am. Mr. Richmond would be very much surprised if I went
anywhere else."
"Well, when I get the beds uncovered, Pink, I'll come for you; and we
can see what we will do."
"You'll come with me to-night, Norton?"
"I'll let Davy see you there, while I make arrangements."
"What arrangements? O come now, Norton. Mr. Richmond will like to see
you."
"He can wait till to-morrow, I dare say," replied Norton. "Anyhow, I
can. You will be enough for to-night."
"What sort of a man is the one you are talking of?" David asked Norton.
"He's a brick," said Norton, and began to whistle; then interrupted
himself. "But he is Pink's friend, you understand, much more than mine."
"Some old tutor of yours?" said David smiling.
"Old! not exactly. Nor a tutor neither, that ever I heard; though he
does teach folks, or tries to. No, you're out, Davy. I tell you, he's a
brick."
"O we're going over the bridge now, Norton!" Matilda exclaimed. "We're
almost there. Look! I can see lights, can't I?"
There was no question about it in a few minutes more. Norton got out at
the Shadywalk hotel; and the omnibus lumbered on through Butternut
Street to the parsonage gate and drew up at last before the old brown
door. But it was too dark to see colours. Indeed David had some
difficulty in finding the knocker; and meanwhile the omnibus lumbered
off, while they were not attending. David knocked and knocked again.
Matilda was trembling with delight.
"There's nobody at home," said David. "It is all dark."
But at that instant a step was heard in the hall, and the door was
opened. A little light that came from within a door somewhere beyond
revealed nothing except the outline of a figure.
"Who is it?" said a voice. "My lamp's gone out; I guess it wants a new
wick. Who's here?"
"Don't you know me, Miss Redwood?" said Matilda's voice, quivering with
pleasure.
"Don't know anybody without I see 'em. I ain't called to guess who you
be, as I know. Come in, if you want to, and tell your errand. Is it me
or the minister you're after?"
"Miss Redwood, it's Matilda Laval. And I'm so glad to see you!" said
Matilda, waiving further recognition and throwing her arms round the
housekeeper's neck. "O I'm so glad to see you! Is Mr. Richmond at home?"
"Tilly Englefield!" exclaimed the housekeeper in her turn. "Wherever
did the child come from? Mr. Richmond?--no, he ain't to home yet, but
he will be directly. Come in, child, and take off your things. Who's
this other one?"
"My cousin David Bartholomew, Miss Redwood. O David, come in! Don't go,
till Mr. Richmond comes."
"Yes, come right in," said Miss Redwood heartily. "You're just in time
for tea; for the minister's been out as usual all the afternoon; he had
to ride to Suffield, and he ain't home yet. Come right in here."
She drew Matilda, and David followed, into the little dining room,
where the lamp shone and the tea table stood looking very hospitable.
David made some proposition of going back to the hotel and Norton; but
Matilda was very urgent that he should not, and Miss Redwood very
positive on the same subject; and to Matilda's surprise David made no
great opposition. He sat down quietly enough. Meanwhile the housekeeper
took off Matilda's wrappings and examined her with her eyes.
"La! it does look natural to see you!" she broke out. "But you ain't
so little as you was; and, my!--but I suppose it's New York."
"What's New York?" inquired Matilda laughing.
"Well, 'taint so easy to tell. I don't know myself. But it's all over
you, from the hair of your head down to the soles of your boots. You
ain't the same you was."
"Yes, I am, Miss Redwood; just the same!"
"La, child, you don't feel that you've growed, do you? Folks grow
in'ardly and out'ardly; and they change, too, in'ardly and out'ardly;
and it's other folks that see it, not them."
"But how do you think I'm changed, Miss Redwood? I am sure you're
mistaken."
The housekeeper gave another benevolent, keen look at her, smiling a
little, and then went off into her pantry without answering.
"It's all right I made gingerbread to-day," she said, coming out with a
beautiful loaf of that article. "Have you had any dinner? I'll be bound
you'd like some beef and eggs. Wait a bit, and you shall have it. Mr.
Richmond will be all ready for it too, after his ride. I reckon you
hain't much to do with handling of spiders now?" This with a sidelong
glance at Matilda.
"No, Miss Redwood; I haven't time for such things."
"How do ye expect to keep house one o' these days, if you don't know
how?"
"That's a great way off," said Matilda smiling.
"Just as it happens," said the housekeeper. "You're eleven or twelve
this summer; which is it? and you won't be any wiser in the kitchen
just by growing older in the parlour."
"I know some things now, Miss Redwood."
"La, child, knowledge ain't all; it's practice; and you ain't in the
way to practise much, I can see. That's the fashion now-a-days; young
heads filled full and clever, maybe; and hands as empty and useless as
ever hands kin be. Now I don't believe, for my part, that our hands was
given us to do nothin'."
"O no, nor I," said Matilda.
"Well, then, what be your hands learning? See if I'm wrong."
Matilda cast about how to answer, for in truth her hands had got no new
skill in the past months, although the old skill had come in play very
conveniently. While she hesitated, came the welcome sound of the
opening and closing front door. Mr. Richmond was returned. His steps
went however first upstairs, and then came down and went into the
study. Miss Redwood had disappeared and was getting her beef ready in
the kitchen. Matilda could wait no longer. Taking David's hand and
gently persuading him to allow of her leading, she went to the study
door and knocked.
Mr. Richmond had just made the fire blaze up; so they had light to see
each other by. David stood by and watched the greeting; it was very
glad and affectionate, he saw, on both sides, with a certain tender
confidence that impressed him. He was surprised also to see that Mr.
Richmond was so young a man and so handsome a man; and when the
brilliant eyes were turned on himself he was quite susceptible to their
fascination. Matilda lost no time.
"David Bartholomew, Mr. Richmond; one of my new cousins, you know. And
Mr. Richmond,--David knows about the Messiah in the Old Testament, and
he wants to know if the Messiah is Jesus; and so I wanted him to see
you, because you could tell him; and so I got him to come with me."
If David's shyness was at all disturbed by this speech, it was entirely
soothed again by Mr. Richmond's reception of it, and of him. The
genial, frank clasp of his hand, the kindly, free glance of the blue
eyes, quite won David, as it was apt to win everybody; and in a minute
more he found himself sitting at his ease in this strange house,
perfectly contented to be then, and interested to watch Matilda's
intercourse with her old friend and her pleasure in it. There was time
for but little, however, before Miss Redwood's activity had got the
"beef and eggs" and all the rest of the tea-table in a state of
readiness, and her call summoned them into the other room. David made a
little demur about staying, instantly overruled both by Mr. Richmond
and Matilda, and he sat down with the rest. And if he said little, the
other three tongues were busy enough.
"And how do you like New York?" inquired the housekeeper. Matilda's
answer was very unqualified.
"'Tain't no better a place than this, is it?" the lady asked rather
defiantly.
"It is a larger place, Miss Redwood," said the minister.
"Ain't Shadywalk big enough for a little mite of a thing like her?"
"I don't know," said the minister. "'Big enough' depends upon what she
wants, or what anybody wants. I knew a man once who said he had seen
everything in the world there was to be seen, and he was quite at a
loss what to do with himself. You perceive the world was not 'big
enough' for him. And another man once wrote, 'My mind to me a kingdom
is.' Difference of taste, you see."
"That first fellow thought his head was only made to set his eyes in, I
s'pose," said the housekeeper dryly.
"Seemed to be all the use he had for it," said the minister.
"But that other man," said Matilda,--"was he contented with himself all
alone, and wanted nothing else?"
"I hope not," said Mr. Richmond smiling. "That's a new view of the
case. Your king David hit the truth more surely," he went on addressing
David, "when he said, 'The Lord is the portion of my inheritance.'"
David's eye brightened; but then he said,
"I have read the words, but I never understood exactly what he meant."
"Your people, you remember, on taking possession of the promised land,
had it divided to them by lot; each tribe and family took its share as
it was portioned out to them by Joshua."
"Yes, I know," David answered.
"So from that time each family had its own inalienable lands, which
were the inheritance of that family; its portion and riches; for the
Hebrews were not in those days a commercial people."
David assented, looking a little surprised.
"What should a man mean, who declared, disregarding all this, that his
portion and inheritance was the Lord himself?"
The boy's keen, intelligent eyes looked deep into the intent blue ones
regarding him.
"Sir, I do not know," he said at length. "Was it, that he expected the
Highest would give him greater possessions?"
"Notice, he says not his inheritance is from the Lord, but is the
Lord himself."
"I don't understand it," said David.
"In another place, when he was nearly done with earthly possessions, he
says again, 'My flesh and my heart faileth; but God is the strength of
my heart and my portion for ever.' It is an inheritance that exists
beyond time, you see."
"I don't understand it, sir," David repeated.
"And in that sixteenth psalm he goes on to declare his content in his
portion, in that it is not of earth. 'The lines are fallen unto me in
pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.' There is a word in the
New Testament that explains it," Mr. Richmond went on, looking keenly
at David; "a word of one who was in the same case; and he says of the
children of God, 'And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint
heirs with Messiah.'"
David started and shivered, as if a nerve had suddenly been touched;
but Mr. Richmond went on to something else, as if he had not observed
it. All through supper time he was so gentle, pleasant, and spirited
too in his talk, that the boy who was unaccustomed to such society felt
the charm holding him; and Matilda who had not known it for long, felt
like a flower opening to the sunshine.
CHAPTER X.
After tea Mr. Richmond led the way back to his study. The first thing
he did there was to make the fire blaze up merrily; and then, just as
David was thinking how to take leave, the blue eyes came full round
upon him, with a look as bright as the fire shine.
"And so," he said, "you are seeking after your Messiah?"
David seemed tongue-tied; he said nothing; he bowed slightly.
"How far have you got?"
"Far enough to be confused, sir."
"Ay? How is that?"
"I feel myself too ignorant yet to be able to judge. Our wise men are
saying--I heard them saying--that if Messiah come not soon, he must
have come." David's colour changed even as he spoke.
"Do you know anything of the New Testament, the record of the life and
teaching, and death and resurrection, of Jesus?"
"Very little," David answered. "Matilda has shewn me passages in those
writings--which have struck me very much," he added, as if with
difficulty.
"I should think they would. Well, when a thing is to be done, the best
way is to do it. Suppose you take the book in your hands now, and let
me direct your attention to one or two things more."
David was very ready. He took the book Mr. Richmond placed in his hands
and drew near to the table, while Matilda on her part seized another
Bible and did likewise. Mr. Richmond had been lighting the lamp. Before
he had finished his preparations, David began.
"But that story of the resurrection is a very unlikely one."
"Do you think so? The same might be said of the crossing of the Red Sea
by your fathers."
"That is well enough attested by witnesses," said David, proudly
raising his head.
"So is this. If a thing can be made sure by the testimony of credible
witnesses, this has been; witnesses who were ready to go to the death
in support of their words, and who did so die, many of them."
"But," said David, "our Messiah was to be the King of our people; and
your Christ belongs to the Gentiles."
"Thank God he does!" said Mr. Richmond smiling. "But now let us see if
you are correct in that first statement."
"He was to be a King on David's throne," interrupted the boy.
"He is. Wait. Do you remember, in the promise to Abraham it was said
that all the families of the earth should be blessed in him?"
"Yes."
"And Isaiah declares, 'In that day there shall be a root of Jesse,
which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the
Gentiles seek.'"
"Yes, but they will come to Messiah; not the Messiah go to them," said
David, lifting his head with the same air again.
Mr. Richmond answered in words of Isaiah. "'Behold my servant, whom I
uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my Spirit
upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles.' And again in
the forty-ninth chapter--and Master Bartholomew, you know that these
words were spoken of Messiah--'And now, saith the Lord that formed me
from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him. Though
Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the
Lord, and my God shall be my strength. And he said, It is a light thing
that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and
to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also give thee for a light
to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the
earth.'"
Matilda looked eagerly at David as these words were finished; the boy's
face was troubled and dark. He made no answer.
"Now let us see how those words were to be fulfilled," Mr. Richmond
went on. "It is a hard reading for you; but we are seeking the truth,
and you are seeking it. The apostle John, one of the servants and
witnesses of Christ, says, 'He came unto his own, and his own received
him not.'"
David looked up with a white face. "If that is true"--he said. "I just
want to know whether that is true!"
"You know Isaiah said it would be true. 'Who has believed our report?'
'He is despised and rejected of men;... we hid as it were our faces
from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.'"
"Some of the rabbis held that there were two Messiahs," David said.
"Because they knew not how to understand of one the various seemingly
contradictory things, which were and are all fulfilled in Jesus."
"Of Nazareth," said David.
"Yes, he lived there; but he was born in the city of David. Come, you
do not know him, and it is needful you should. Let us read this first
chapter of John all through."
They read slowly, with many interruptions. David had explanations to
ask, and then there were prophecies to consult. The boy's eagerness and
excitement infected his companions; the reading began to take on a sort
of life and death interest, though Mr. Richmond kept it calm, with some
difficulty.
His next proposition was, that they should go through the life of
Christ regularly; and they began with the first chapters of Luke.
Nothing that Matilda had ever known in her life was like the interest
of that reading. David was startled, curious, excited, as if he were
beginning to find the clue to a mystery; though he did not admit that.
On the contrary, he studied every step, would understand every
allusion, and verify every reference to the Old Testament scriptures.
The boy's cheeks were flushed now, like one in a fever. The hours flew.
"My boy," said Mr. Richmond, laying his hand on David's open book, "we
cannot finish what we want to do this evening."
David looked up, pushed his hair off his face, and recollected himself.
"I beg your pardon, sir," he said. "I have taken up a great deal of
your time."
"You shall have a great deal more," said Mr. Richmond smiling; "but we
had better sleep upon it first. And pray," he added soberly. "Pray,
that if this Jesus is indeed He whom you seek, you may know him."
David bowed silently, feeling too much apparently to say anything.
When, however, he would have taken leave, Mr. Richmond detained him and
would not hear of it. Norton, he said, would not miss him; he would be
gone to bed by this time, tired of waiting; and they would send and
invite him to breakfast. To Matilda's surprise, and as well to her huge
delight, she saw that David was won by the influence that had long been
so potent with her, and made no very great opposition. Miss Redwood was
called in to prayers, and after that the little family separated for
the night.
Matilda thought she surely would not go to sleep soon; but she did,
nearly as her face touched the pillow. So it was not till she awoke in
the morning that she could think over her happiness. It was early yet;
the sunbeams striking the old cream coloured tower of the church and
glittering on the pine leaves here and there. How delicious it was! The
spring light on the old things that she loved, and the peaceful
Shadywalk stillness after New York's bustle and roar. And David
Bartholomew in Mr. Richmond's house! and Norton coming to breakfast!
With that, Matilda jumped up. Perhaps she might help Miss Redwood; at
any rate she could see her.
Miss Redwood was in full blast of business by the time Matilda's little
figure appeared at the kitchen door.
"Don't say you're up, and down!" said the housekeeper.
"Yes, Miss Redwood; I thought perhaps I could help you."
"Do you wear dresses like that into the kitchen?" the housekeeper
asked, with a sidelong glance at the beautiful merino Matilda had on.
"I don't go into the kitchen now-a-days."
"Thought not. Nor you don't never put on a frock fit to make
gingerbread in, now do you?"
"I don't think I do."
"Well, what are your gowns good for, then?"
"Good for?" said Matilda; "why, they are good for other things, Miss
Redwood."
"I don't think a gown is worth much that is too good to work in; it is
just a bag to pack so many hours of your life in, and lose 'em."
"Lose them how?"
"By not doin' anythin', child! What's life if it ain't busy?"
"But don't you have company dresses, Miss Redwood?"
"I don't let company hinder my work much," said Miss Redwood, as she
shoved a pan of biscuits into the oven of the stove. "What do you think
'ud become of the minister?"
"O yes!" said Matilda laughing; "but then, you see, I haven't got any
minister to take care of."
"Maybe you will, some day," said Miss Redwood with a kind of grim
smile; "and if you don't know how, what'll become of you? or of him
either?"
It seemed a very funny and very unlikely supposition to Matilda. "I
don't think I shall ever have anybody to take care of but mamma and
Norton," she said smiling.
"I s'pose they've money enough to make it easy," said Miss Redwood.
"But somehow--that don't seem to me livin'."
"What, Miss Redwood?"
"That sort o' way o' goin' on;--havin' money do all for you and you do
nothin'. Havin' it do all for your friends too. I don't think life's
life, without you have somebody to work for; somebody that wants you
and that can't get along without you."
"O they want me," said Matilda.
"Maybe; but that ain't what I mean. 'Tain't dependin' on you for their
breakfast in the morning and their tea at night, and their comfort all
day. You have folks to do that. Now I wouldn't give much for life, if I
couldn't make nice light biscuits for somebody and see that their
coffee was right and the beefsteak just as it had oughter be, and all
that. I used to have some one to do it for," said Miss Redwood, with
something of pathetic intonation in her voice;--"and now," she added
cheerily, "it's a blessin' to do it for the minister."
"I should think it was," said Matilda.
"There is another friend one may always work for,"--said the voice of
the person they were speaking of. Both his hearers started. The door of
the dining-room was a little ajar and he had quietly pushed it open and
come in. "Miss Redwood, how about breakfast? I have a sudden summons to
go to Suffield."
"Again!" said the housekeeper. "Well, Mr. Richmond--in two minutes. La,
it's never safe to speak of you; you're sure to know it."
"I didn't hear anything very bad," said the minister smiling.
Norton had come to breakfast. David made his appearance looking pale
and heavy-eyed, as if he had sat up half the night. Mr. Richmond looked
at him attentively but made no remark; only to both the boys he was
exceedingly kind and gracious; engaging them in talk that could not
fail to interest them; so that it was a gay breakfast. David was not
gay, indeed; that was rarely a characteristic of his; but he was
gentle, and gentlemanly, and very attentive to his host. After prayers
Mr. Richmond went out into the hall and came back in his overcoat.
"My boy," he said, laying his hand affectionately on David's shoulder,
"I should like to sit down with you and go on with our reading; I meant
to give the first of the morning to it; but I have a call of duty that
takes me away. I shall see you at dinner or this evening; meanwhile,
this is your home. Take care of him, Matilda."
So Mr. Richmond went away. Norton had received, and refused, a similar
invitation. David did not refuse it.
"No," said Norton, "I must be nearer those flower-beds. Come along,
Pink; we'll go and make our calculations. Davy, you'll come and see
Briery Bank? it's jolly, this morning; and this afternoon we'll go take
a drive."
"I should like to do a great many things," said Matilda; "only there'll
never be time for them all. However, we'll go first and see about the
tulips and hyacinths."
David went with them so far and looked at the place; but after that he
disappeared. Matilda and Norton had a delightful day, overseeing the
garden work and arranging for more garden work to be done; then
lunching together at the hotel, for so he persuaded her, and going on
with their operations afterwards. At tea time Matilda went back to the
parsonage alone; Norton said he was tired and sleepy and did not want
to hear reading, but he would come to breakfast again.
David was not pale but flushed now, with excited eyes. All Mr.
Richmond's talk and manner at table were kindly and soothing as
possible; and Matilda could see that he liked David and that David
liked him; but the look of the latter puzzled her. It came from
disturbance so much deeper than her little head had ever known.
Immediately after tea the study lamp was lit and the books were opened.
"What have you read to-day, Master Bartholomew?" Mr. Richmond asked.
"Just those two chapters," said the boy.
"Of Luke?"
"Yes, sir. Mr. Richmond, those people, Zechariah and Simeon and the
rest, they were Jews?"
"Yes."
"And they kept the law of Moses?"
"Faithfully."
"And--they thought that Jesus was the Promised One?"
"They did not think--they knew, by the teaching of the Spirit of God."
"But," said David, "the writer of this did not wish to discredit the
law of Moses?"
"Not at all. Let us go on with our his story."
The reading began again and went on steadily for some hours. As before,
David wanted to verify everything by references to the prophets. His
voice trembled sometimes; but he kept as close to business as possible.
The first chapters of Matthew excited him very much, with their
declarations of things done "that the scriptures might be fulfilled;"
and the sermon on the mount seemed to stagger the boy. He was silent a
while when it had come to his turn to read; and at last looking up, he
said,
"If people took this for a rule of life, everything in the world
would have to be turned round?"
"Precisely," said Mr. Richmond. "And so the word says--'If any man be
in Christ, he is a new creature; old things are passed away; behold,
all things are become new.'"
"Do you think anybody really lives like this?"
"O yes," said Mr. Richmond.
"I never saw anybody who did," said David; "nor anything like
it;--unless," he added looking up, "it is Matilda there."
Matilda started and flushed. Mr. Richmond's eyes fell on her with a
very moved pleasure in them. Neither spoke, and David went on with the
reading. He was greatly struck again, in another way, with the
quotation from Isaiah in the thirteenth chapter, and its application;
indeed with the whole chapter. But when they came to the talk with the
woman of Samaria, David stopped short.
"'I that speak unto thee am he.' Then he said himself that he was
Messiah?"
"To this woman, to his twelve disciples, and to two or three more."
"Why not to the whole people?"
"Is it likely they would have believed him?"
David pondered.
"They asked him once the direct question--'How long dost thou make us
to doubt? If thou be Messiah, tell us plainly.'"
"What did he say?"
"He said, 'I told you, and ye believed not; the works that I do in my
Father's name, they bear witness of me.'"
"Then they thought perhaps he was Messiah."
"The people on one or two occasions were so persuaded of it that they
wanted to take him by force and make him king."
"And he refused?"
"He refused. You know, he came 'to give his life a ransom for many;'
not to enjoy worldly honour."
"But how then should he save Israel from all their enemies?"
"Who are Israel's enemies? 'He shall redeem Israel from all his
iniquities;' and when once they turn to the Lord, there will be no
other enemies that can work them harm. You know it was always so."
David sighed and the reading went on. But again he started at the
fourth chapter of Luke and the words read by the Lord from Isaiah and
his appropriation of them. David stopped.
"Here it is again," he said. "'This day is this scripture fulfilled--'
That is plain."
"Nothing could be plainer. But they would not see it."
David paused still, and then said with some difficulty, "I want to know
the truth. Because--if he is Messiah,--he is my King!" And a dark
gleam, partly of pain, partly of incipient loyalty, crossed his face.
Mr. Richmond's eyes flashed.
"Come on," he said; "let us see whether he is Messiah."
The parables indicating the taking away of their privileges from the
Jews and giving them to the Gentiles, were hard reading. David stopped
to understand them, and looked very black. When they came to the
discourses of Christ with the Jews, David's excitement grew very great,
though he controlled himself. And just there came a summons to Mr.
Richmond which it was impossible to pass by. He was forced to go, and
left the two younger ones at the table. For a few minutes they were
silent; and then David rose up, pale with intense feeling, and took his
book. Matilda looked at him inquiringly.
"I must find it out by myself," he said; and walked to the door.
"David!" cried Matilda, "shall I call you when dinner is ready?"
"No, don't. I don't want dinner. And I can't go with you to look up
Norton. Can you do without me?"
Matilda assured him of that, feeling quite at home in Shadywalk. And as
it was about eleven o' clock, she thought to look up Norton would be
the best thing she could do.
So she went down the old village street, where every step was full of
memories, feeling very glad to see it again. She would have liked to
stop and visit several people; but she knew Norton would be impatient
for her; and so he was. He was overseeing the uncovering of his bulbs
to-day.
"Twelve o' clock, Pink; twelve o' clock! and this is the first I have
seen of you since breakfast. What have you been doing?"
"We've been busy, Norton."
"Where's Davy?"
"At the parsonage. He's busy."
"Look at those hyacinths,--up already, all of an inch above ground.
It's well I came to see after them."
"What makes them so yellow, Norton, instead of green?"
"Why because they've been covered up and shaded from the sun. A little
longer, and they would have been spoiled."
"How beautiful it would be, Norton, if we had our two new beds planted!
all full of roses and hyacinths."
"Ah, wouldn't it!" repeated Norton. "You see, we were a bit too late
about it last fall; or, I'll tell you! it was that sickness kept us
away. We'll have 'em next year. What have you and David been doing
yonder?"
"Reading"--said Matilda doubtfully.
"Reading what?"
"Mr. Richmond and David were reading together."
"That's jolly!" said Norton. "David and the parson! What's come over
Bartholomew? Where's he going to get dinner?"
"He didn't come with me, and I don't think he was coming."
"Let him stay and read, then," said Norton. "If he can afford it, we
can. Pink, we'll go and get something presently--as soon as I see all
this mulching off."
They managed to employ themselves all the rest of the day; dining at
the hotel, overseeing work in the grounds of Briery Bank, roaming about
the place and enjoying its spring sweetness; talking over what they
thought ought to be done; and making a very nice holiday of it
generally. Towards evening Norton was persuaded to return with Matilda
to the parsonage; perhaps urged by a little curiosity of his own. David
had not been seen, Miss Redwood reported.
Neither did he come when tea-time came; and when sought in his room it
was discovered that he was not there. Matilda was very much exercised
on this subject; but Mr. Richmond took it quietly. Norton declared it
was just like David Bartholomew.
"I don't think it it, Norton," said Matilda; "for he is always polite."
"Except this time," said Norton.
"We'll not except this time, if you please," said Mr. Richmond
pleasantly. "Things are different from their seeming, oftentimes."
It was Saturday evening, and the minister was busy in his study. The
two children kept Miss Redwood company in the dining room. It was a
great falling off from last evening, Matilda thought; nevertheless she
had a very entertaining talk with Miss Redwood about people and things
in Shadywalk; and Norton listened, half amused and half sleepy. Mrs.
Candy had been absent from Shadywalk near all winter; in New York.
"In New York!" exclaimed Matilda. "And I never saw her or Clarissa!"
"She didn't come to see you then," said Miss Redwood. "I guess she was
skeered o' something. But la! New York must be a queer place."
"Why now?" Norton asked.
"Seems as if folks couldn't be runnin' round in it all winter long and
manage to keep out o' sight."
"That's its peculiarity," said Norton.
"I s'pect a great deal could happen there, and the world not know," the
housekeeper went on.
"Much more than what it does know," said Norton.
"I allays think sich must be poor kind o' places. Corners that the
world can't see into ain't healthy. Now I like a place like Shadywalk,
that you know all through; and if there's something wrong, why it has a
chance to get mended. There's wrong enough here, no doubt; but most of
it'll bear the light of day. And most of us are pretty good sort o'
folks."
"Now that Mrs. Candy is out of town," Norton remarked.
Matilda had a great deal to hear about Sunday school people, and her
friends in Lilac Lane. For Lilac Lane was there yet, Miss Redwood
observed. Through it all, Matilda watched for David's coming in. But
the evening ended and he came not.
It hurt a little the joy of her Sunday waking up, which else would have
been most joyous. Norton was in the house this time; he had consented
to be at the parsonage for the Sunday. Monday morning they were all to
go home by the earliest train. So there was no drawback to Matilda's
joy except this one. It was delightful to hear the old bell once more;
delightful to see the spring light streaming between the pines and
lighting the ugly old church tower; pleasanter than any other beautiful
one to Matilda's eyes. With all the coming delights of the day crowding
upon her mind, she rose and dressed, hoping that David would come to
breakfast.
