The new government was received with considerable cool- 
ness. It was not only a foreign intruder, but a poor one. It 
was not even worth plucking — except by the smallest of small 
fry office-seekers and such. Everybody knew that Congress 
had appropriated only twenty thousand dollars a year in green- 
backs for its support — about money enough to run a quartz 
mill a month. And everybody knew, also, that the lirst year's 
money was still in Washington, and that the getting hold of 
it would be a tedious and difficult process. Carson City was 
too wary and too wise to open up a credit account with the 
imported bantling with anything like indecent haste. 
There is something solemnly funny a'jout the struggles of 
a new-born Territorial government to get a start in this world. 
Ours had a trying time of it. The Organic Act and the 
" instructions " from the State Department commanded that a 
legislature should be elected at such-and-such a time, and its 
sittings inaugurated at such-and-such a date. It was easy to 
get legislators, even at three dollars a day, although board was 
four dollars and fifty cents, for distinction has its charm in 
Nevada as well as elsewhere, and there were plenty of patriotic 
souls out of employment ; but to get a legislative hall for them 
to meet in was another matter altogether. Carson blandly 
declined to give a room rent-free, or let one to the government 
on credit. 
But when Curry heard of the difficulty, he came forward, 
solitary and alone, and shouldered the Ship of State over the 
bar and got her afloat again. I refer to "Curry — Old Curry 
— Old Ahe Curry." But for him the legislature would have 
been obliged to sit in the desert. He offered his large stone 
building just outside the capital limits, rent-free, and it was 
gladly accepted. Then he built a horse-railroad from town 
to the capitol, and carried the legislators gratis. He also 
furnished pine benches and chairs for the legislature, and 
covered the floors with clean saw-dust by way of carpet and 
spittoon combined. But for Curry the government would 
have died in its tender infancy. A canvas partition to sepa- 
rate the Senate from the House of Representatives was put 
up by the Secretary, at a cost of three dollars and forty cents, 
but the United States declined to pay for it. Upon being re- 
minded that the " instructions " permitted the payment of a 
liberal rent for a legislative hall, and that that money was saved 
to the country by Mr. Curry's generosity, the United States 
said that did not alter the matter, and the three dollars and 
forty cents would be subtracted from the Secretary's eighteen 
hundred dollar salary — and it was ! 
The matter of printing was from the beginning an inter- 
esting feature of the new government's difficulties. The 
Secretary was sworii to obey his volume of written " instruc- 
tions," and these commanded him to do two certain things 
without fail, viz. : 
1. Get the House and Senate journals printed ; and, 
2. For this work, pay one dollar and fifty cents per 
" thousand " for composition, and one dollar and fifty cents 
per " token " for press-work, in greenbacks. 
It was easy to swear to do these two things, but it was en- 
tirely impossible to do more than one of them. When green- 
backs had gone down to forty cents on the dollar, the prices 
regularly charged everybody by printing establishments were 
one dollar and fifty cents per " thousand " and one dollar and 
fifty cents per " token," in gold. The " insiructions " com- 
manded that the Secretary regard a paper dollar issued by the 
government as equal to any other dollar issued by the gov- 
ernment. Hence the printing of the journals was dis- 
continued. Then the United States sternly rebuked the 
Secretary for disregarding the " instructions," and warned him 
to correct his ways. "Wherefore he got some printing done, 
forwarded the bill to Washington with full exhibits of the 
high pnces of things in the Territory, and called attention to 
a printed market report wherein it would be observed that 
even hay was two hundred and fifty dollars a ton. The 
United States responded by subtracting the printing-bill from 
the Secretary's suffering salary — and moreover remarked with 
dense gravity that he would find nothing in his " instructions '" 
requiring him to purchase hay ! 
Nothing in this world is palled in such impenetrabk 
obscurity as a U. S. Treasury Comptroller's understanding. 
The very fires of the hereafter could get up nothing more 
than a fitful glimmer in it. In the days I speak of he never 
could be made to comprehend why it was that twenty 
thousand dollars would not go as far in Nevada, where all 
commodities ranged at an enormous figure, as it would in the 
other Territories, where exceeding cheapness was the rule. 
He was an officer who looked out for the little expenses all 
the time. The Secretary of the Territory kept his oflice in 
his bedroom, as I before remarked ; and he charged the 
United States no rent, although his " instructions " provided 
for that item and he could have justly taken advantage of it 
(a thing which I would have done with more than lightning 
promptness if I had been Secretary myself). But the United 
States never applauded this devotion. Indeed, I think my 
country was ashamed to have so improvident a person in its 
employ. 
Those "instructions" (we used to read a chapter from 
them every morning, as intellectual gymnastics, and a couple 
of chapters in Sunday school every Sabbath, for they treated 
of all subjects under the sun and had much valuable religious 
matter in tliem along with the other statistics) those " instruc- 
tions" commanded that pen-knives, envelopes, pens and 
writing-paper be furnished the members of the legislature. 
So the Secretary made the purchase and the distribution. 
The knives cost three dollars apiece. There was one too 
many, and the Secretary gave it to the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives. The United States said the Clerk of the 
House was not a " member " of the legislature, and took that 
three dollars out of the Secretary's salary, as usual. 
White men charged three or four dollars a "load" for 
sawing up stove-wood. The Secretary was sagacious enough 
to know that the United States would never pay any such 
price as that ; so he got an Indian to saw up a load of office 
wood at one dollar and a half. He made out the usual 
voucher, but signed no name to it — simply appended a note 
explaining that an Indian had done the work, and had done 
it in a very capable and satisfactory way, but could not sign 
the voucher owing to lack of ability in the necessary direction. 
The Secretary had to say that dollar and a half. He 
thought the United States would admire both his economy and 
his honesty in getting the work done at half price and not 
putting a pretended Indian's signature to the voucher, but the 
United States did not see it in that light. The United States 
was too much accustomed to employing dollar-and-a-half 
thieves in all manner of official capacities to regard his expla- 
nation of the voucher as having any foundation in fact. 
But the next time the Indian sawed wood for us I taught 
him to make a cross at the bottom of the voucher — it looked 
like a cross that had been dnink a year — and then I " wit- 
nessed " it and it went through all right. The United States 
never said a word. I was sorry I had not made the voucher 
for a thousand loads of wood instead of one. The government 
of my country snubs hpnest simplicity but fondles 
artistic villainy, and I think I might have developed into a 
very capable pickpocket if I had remained in the public 
service a year or two. 
That was a fine collection of sovereigns, that first Nevada 
legislature. They levied taxes to the amount of thirty or 
forty thousand dollars and ordered expenditures to the extent 
of about a million. Yet they had their little periodical explo- 
sions of economy like all other bodies of the kind. A mem- 
ber proposed to save three dollars a day to the nation by 
dispensing with the Chaplain. And yet that short-sighted 
man needed the Chaplain more than any other member, per- 
haps, for he generally sat with his feet on his desk, eating 
raw turnips, during the morning prayer. 
The legislature sat sixty days, and passed private toll- 
road franchises all the time. When they adjourned it was 
estimated that every citizen owned about three franchises, 
and it was believed that unless Congress gave the Territory 
another degree of longitude there would not be room enough 
to accommodate the toll-roads. The ends of them were 
hanging over the boundary line everywhere like a fringe. 
The fact is, the freighting business had grown to such im- 
portant proportions that there was nearly as much excitement 
over suddenly acquired toll-road fortunes as over the wonder, 
ful silver mines. 
CHAPTEE XXVI. 
BY anci by I was smitten with the silver fever, '' Prospect- 
ing parties " were leaving for the mountains every day, 
and discovering and taking possession of rich silver-bearing 
lodes and ledges of quartz. Plainly this was the road to for- 
tune. '!riie great " Gould and Curry " mine was held at three 
or four hundred dollars a foot when we arrived ; but in two 
months it had sprung up to eight hundred. The " Ophir" 
h?id been worth only a mere trifle, a year gone by, and now it 
Y'as selling at nearly four thousand dollars afoot. Not a 
I mine could be named that had not experienced an astonishing 
f advance in value within a short time. Everybody was talking 
about these marvels. Go where you would, you heard nothing 
else, from morning till far into the night. Tom So-and-So had 
sold out of the " Amanda Smith " for $40,000— hadn't a cent 
when he "took up" the ledge six months ago. John Jones 
had sold half his interest in the " Bald Eagle and Mary Ann " 
for $65,000, gold coin, and gone to the States for his family. 
The widow Brewster had " struck it rich " in the " Golden 
Eleece" and sold ten feet for $18,000— hadn't money enough 
to buy a crape bonnet when Sing-Sing Tommy killed her 
husband at Baldy Johnson's wake last spring. The " Last 
Chance" had found a "clay casing" and knew they were 
" right on the ledge " — consequence, " feet " that went begging 
yesterday were worth a brick house apiece to-da,y, and seedy 
owners who could not get trusted for a drink at any bar in the 
country yesterday were roaring drunk on champagne to-day 
and had hosts of warm personal friends in a town where they 
had forgotten how to bow or shake hands from long-continued 
want of practice. Johnny Morgan, a common loafer, had gone 
to sleep in the gutter and waked up worth a hundred thousand 
dollars, in consequence of the decision in the " Lady Franklin 
and Rough and Ready " lawsuit. And so on — day in and day 
out the talk 
pelted our 
ears and the 
excitement 
waxed hotter and hotter around us. 
I would have been more or less 
than human 
if I had not gone maid 
like the rest. , 
Cart-loads of solid silver 
large as pigs of lead, were arriving from the mills every day, 
and such sights as that gave substance to the wild talk about 
me. I succumbed and grew as frenzied as the craziest. 
Every few days news would come of the discovery of a 
bran-new mining region ; immediately the papers would teem 
with accounts of its richness, and away the surplus population 
would scamper to take possession. By the time I was fairly 
inoculated with the disease, " Esmeralda " had just had a run 
and "Humboldt" was beginning to shriek for attention. 
" Humboldt ! Humboldt ! ' was the new cry, and straightway 
Humboldt, the newest of the new, the richest of the rich, the 
most marvellous of the marvellous discoveries in silver-land- 
was occupying two columns of the public prints to "Esmeralda's" one. 
I was just on the point of starting to Esmeralda, 
but turned with the tide and got ready for Humboldt. That 
the reader may see what moved me, and what would as surely 
have moved him had he been there, I insert here one of the 
newspaper letters of the day. It and several other letters 
from the same calm hand were the main means of converting 
me. I shall not garble the extract, but put it in just as it ap- 
peared in the Daily Territorial Enterprise : 
But what about our mines ? I shall be candid with you. I shall express 
an honest opinion, based upon a thorough examination. Humboldt county 
is the richest mineral region upon God's footstool. Each mountain range is 
gorged with the precious ores. Humboldt is the true Golconda. 
The other day an assay of mere croppings yielded exceeding four 
thousand dollars to the ton. A weelc or two ago an assay of just such sur- 
face developments made returns of seven thousand dollars to the ton. Our 
mountains are full of rambling prospectors. Each day and almost every 
hour reveals new and more startling evidences of the profuse and intensified 
wealth of our favored county. The metal is not silver alone. There are 
distinct ledges of auriferous ore. A late discovery plainly evinces cinnabar. 
The coarser metals are in gross abundance. Lately evidences of bituminous 
coal have been detected. My theory has ever been that coal is a ligneous for- 
mation. I told Col. Whitman, in times past, that the neighborhood of Dayton 
(Nevada) betrayed no present or previous manifestations of a ligneous foun- 
dation, and that hence I had no confidence in his lauded coal mines. I 
repeated the same doctrine to the exultant coal discoverers of Humboldt. I 
talked with my friend Captain Burch on the subject. My pyrhanism van- 
ished upon his statement that in the very region referred to he had seen 
petrified trees of the length of two hundred feet. Then is the fact estab- 
lished that huge forests once cast their grim shadows over this remote 
section. I am firm in the coal faith. Have no fears of the mineral resources 
of Humboldt county. They are immense — incalculable. 
Let me state one or two things which will help the reader 
to better comprehend certain items in the above. At this 
time, our near neighbor, Gold Hill, was the most successful 
silver mining locality in Kevada. It was from there that more 
tlian half the daily shipments of silver bricks came. " Yery 
rich" (and scarce) Gold Hill ore yielded from $100 to $400 
to the ton ; but the usual yield was only $20 to $40 per ton — 
that is to say, each hundred pounds of ore yielded from one 
dollar to two dollars. But the reader will perceive by the 
above extract, that in Humboldt from one fourth to nearly- 
half the mass was silver! That is to say, every one hun- 
dred pounds 
of the ore had 
from two hundred dollar 
up to about three hundred 
and fifty in it. Some days 
later this same correspondent 
wrote : 
I have spoken 
of the vast and 
almost fabulous 
wealth of this region — it is incredible 
The intestines of our mountains aie 
gorged with precious ore to plethora I 
have said that nature has so shaped oui 
mountains as to furnish most excellent 
facilities for the working of our mines. 
I have also told you that the country 
about here is pregnant with the finest 
mill sites in the world. But what is the 
mining history of Humboldt '? The Sheba 
mine is in the hands of energetic San 
Francisco capitalists. It would seem that 
the ore is combined with metals that ren- 
der it difficult of reduction with our im- 
perfect mountain machinery. The proprietors have combined the capita] 
and labor hinted at in my exordium. They are toiling- and probing. Tlieir 
tunnel has reached the lengtli of one hundred feet. From primal assays 
alone, coupled with the development of the mine and public confidence m 
the continuance of effort, the stock had reared itself to eight hundred dollars 
market value. I do not know that one ton of the ore has been converted 
into current metal. I do know that there are many lodes in this section 
that surpass the Sheba in prhnal assay value. Listen a monieiit to the cal- 
culations of the Sheba operators. They purpose transporting the ore con- 
centrated to Europe. The conveyance from Star City (its locality) to Virginia 
City will cost seventy dollars per ton • from Virginia to San Francisco, forty 
dollars per ton ; from thence to Liverpool, its destination, ten dollars per ton. 
Their idea is that its conglomerate metals will reimburse them their cost of 
original extraction, the price of transportation, and the expense of reduction, 
and that then a ton of the raw ore will net them twelve hundred dollars. 
The estimate may be extravagant. Cut it in twain, and the product is enor- 
mous, far transcending any previous developments of our racy Territory. 
A very common calculation is that many of our mines will yield five 
hundred dollars to the ton. Such fecundity throws the Gould & Curry, the 
Ophir and the Mexican, of your neighborhood, in the darkest shadow. I 
have given you the estimate of the value of a single developed mine. Its 
richness is indexed by its market valuation. The people of Humboldt 
county are feet crazy. As I write, our towns are near deserted. They look 
as languid as a consumptive girl. VYhat has become of our sinewy and 
athletic fellow-citizens ? They are coursing through ravines and over 
mountain tops. Their tracks are visible in every direction. Occasionally a 
horseman will dash among us. His steed betrays hard usage. He alights 
before hi& adobe dwelling, hastily exchanges courtesies with his townsmen, 
hurries to an assay office and from thence to the District Recorder's. In the 
morning, having renewed his provisional supplies, he is off again on his 
wild and unbeaten route. Why, the fellow numbers already his feet by the 
thousands. He is the horse-leech. He has the craving stomach of the 
shark or anaconda. He would conquer metallic worlds. 
This was enougli. The instant we had finished reading 
the above article, four of us decided to go to Hnniboldt. We 
commenced getting ready at once. And we also commenced 
upbraiding ourselves for not deciding sooner— for we were in 
terror lest all the rich mines would be found and secured 
before we got tliere, and we might have to put up with ledges 
that would not yield more than two or three hundred dollars 
a ton, maybe. An hour before, I would have felt opulent if 
I had owned ten feet in a Gold Hill mine whose ore produced 
twenty-five dollars to the ton ; now I was already annoyed at 
the prospect of having to put up with mines the poorest of 
which would be a marvel in Gold Hill. 
OHAPTEB XXTII. 
HURRY, was the word ! We wasted no time. Our 
party consisted of four persons — a blacksmith sixty 
years of age, two yonng lawyers, and myself. We bought a 
wagon and two miserable old horses. We put eighteen 
hundred pounds of provisions and mining tools in the wagon 
and drove out of Carson on a chilly December afternoon. 
The horses were so weak and old that we soon found that it 
would be better if one or two of us got out and walked. It 
was an improvement. Iext, we found that it would be better 
if a third man got out. That was an improvement also. It 
was at this time that I volunteered to drive, although I had 
never driven a harnessed Iiorse before and many a man in 
8uch a position would have felt fairly excused from such a 
responsibility. But in a little while it was found that it 
would be a line thing if the driver got out and walked also. 
It was at this time that I resigned the position of driver, and 
never resumed it again. Within the hour, we found that it 
would not only be better, but was absolutely necessary, that 
we four, taking turns, two at a time, should put our hands 
against the end of the wagon and push it through the sand, 
leaving the feeble horses little to do but keep out of the way 
and liold up the tongue. Perhaps it is well for one to know 
his fate at first, and get reconciled to it. We had learned 
ours in one afternoon. It was plain that we had to walk 
throuo-h the sand and shove that wao-on and those horses two 
hundred miles. So we accepted the situation, and from that 
time forth we never rode. More than that, we stood regular 
and nearly constant watches pushing up behind. 
We made seven miles, and camped in the desert. Young 
Clagett (now member of Congress from Montana) unharnessed 
and fed and watered the horses ; Oliphant and I cut sage- 
brush, built the tire and brought water to cook with ; and old 
Mr. Ballon the blacksmith did the cooking. This division of 
labor, and this appointment, was adhered to throughout the 
journey. We had no tent, and so we slept under our blankets 
in the open plain. We were so tired that we slept soundly. 
We were fifteen days making the trip — two hundred 
miles ; thirteen, rather, for we lay by a couple of days, in one 
place, to let the horses rest. We could really have accom- 
plished the journey in ten days if we had towed the horses 
behind the wagon, but we did not think of that until it was 
too late, and so went on shoving the horses and the wagon too 
when we might have saved half the labor. Parties who met 
us, occasionally, advised us to put the horses in the wagon, 
but Mr. Ballou, through whose iron-clad earnestness no sar- 
casm could pierce, said that that would not do, because the 
provisions were exposed and would suffer, the horses being 
" bituminous from long deprivation." The reader will excuse 
me from translating. What Mr. Ballou customarily meant, 
when he used a long word, was a secret between himself and 
his Maker. He was one of the best and kindest hearted men 
that ever graced a humble sphere of life. He was gentleness 
and simplicity itself — and unselfishness, too. Although he was 
more than twice as old as the eldest of us, he never gave him- 
self any airs, privileges, or exemptions on that account. He did 
a young man's share of the work ; and did his share of convers- 
ing and entertaining from the general stand-point of any age — 
not from the arrogant, overawing summit-height of sixty years. 
His one striking peculiarity was his Partingtonian fashion of 
loving and using big words for their own sakss, and inde- 
pendent of any bearing they might have upon the thought he 
was purposing to convey. He always let his ponderous sylla- 
bles fall with an easy unconsciousness that left them wholly 
without offensiveness. In truth his air was so natural and so 
simple that one was always catching himself accepting his 
stately sentences as meaning something, when they really 
meant nothing in the world. If a word was long and grand 
and resonant, that was suthcient to win the old man's love 
and he would drop that word into the most out-of-the-way 
place in a sentence or a subject, and be as pleased with it as 
if it were perfectly luminous with meaning. 
We four always spread our conmion stock of blankets 
together on the frozen ground, and slept side by side ; and 
finding that our foolish, long-legged hound pup had a deal of 
animal heat in him, Oliphant got to admitting him to the bed, 
between himself and Mr. Ballou, hugging the dog's warm 
back to his breast and finding great comfort in it. But in the 
night the pup would get stretchy and brace his feet against the 
old man's back and shove, grunting complacently the while ; 
and now and then, being warm and snug, grateful and happy, 
he would paw the old man's back simply in excess of comfort ; 
and at yet other times he would dream of the chase and in 
his sleep tug at the old man's back hair and bark in his ear. 
The old gentleman complained mildly about these familiarities 
at last, and when he got through with his statement he said 
that such a dog as that was not a proper animal to admit to bed 
with tired men, because he was " so meretricious in his move- 
ments and so organic in his emotions." We turned the dog out. 
It was a hard, wearing, toilsome journey, but it had its 
bright side; for after each day was done and our wolfish 
hunger appeased with a hot supper of fried bacon, bread, 
molasses and black coffee, the pipe-smoking, song-singing and 
yarn-spimiing around the evening camp-fire in the still soli- 
tudes of the desert was a happy, care-free sort of recreation 
that seemed the very summit and culmination of earthly 
luxury. It is a kind of life that has a potent charm for all 
men, whether city or country-lyed. We are descended frorm 
desert-lounging Arabs, and countless ages of growth toward 
perfect civilization have failed to root out of us the nomadie 
instinct. We all confess to a gratified thrill at the thought of 
" camping out." 
Once we made twenty-five miles in a day, and once we 
made forty miles (through the Great American Desert), and 
ten miles beyond — fifty in all — in twenty-three hours, without 
halting to eat, drink or rest. To stretch out and go to sleep,, 
even on stony and frozen ground, after pushing a wagon and 
two horses fifty miles, is a delight so supreme that for the 
moment it almost seems cheap at the price. 
We camped two days in the neighborhood of the " Sink 
of the Humboldt." We tried to use the strong alkaline water 
of the Sink, but it would not answer. It was like drinking 
lye, and not weak lye, either. It left a taste in the mouth bitter 
and every way execrable, and a burning in the stomach 
that was very uncomfortable. We put molasses in it, but that 
helped it very little ; we added a pickle, yet the alkali was the 
prominent taste, and so it was unfit for drinking. The coffee 
we made of this water was 
the meanest compound man 
has yet invented. It was 
really viler to the taste than 
the unameliorated water itself. Mr. Ballon, being the 
architect and builder of the 
beverage felt constrained to endorse and uphold it, and so 
drank half a cup, by little sips, making shift to praise it faintly 
the while, but finally threw out the remainder, and said frankly 
it was " too technical for A?'m." 
But presently we found a spring of fresh water, conve- 
nient, and then, with nothing to mar our enjoyment, and no 
stragglers to interrupt it, we entered into our rest. 
CHAFTEE XXVIII. 
AFTER leaving the Sink, we traveled along the Humboldt 
river a little way. People accustomed to the monster 
mile-wide Mississippi, grow accustomed to associating the 
term "river" with a high degree of watery grandem*. 
Consequently, such people feel rather disappointed when they 
stand on the shores of the Humboldt or the Carson and iind 
that a "river" in Nevada is a sickly rivulet which is just 
the counterpart of the Erie csnal in all respects save that 
the canal is twice as long and foui* times as deep. One of 
the pleasantest and most invigorating exercises one can con- 
trive is to run and jump across the Humboldt river till he is 
overheated, and then drink it dry. 
On the fifteenth day we completed our march of two 
hundred miles and entered Unionville, Humboldt county, in 
the midst of a driving snow-storm. Unionville consisted 
of eleven cabins and a liberty-pole. Six of the cabins were 
strung along one side of a deep canyon, and the other five 
faced them. The rest of the landscape was made up of bleak 
mountain walls that rose so high into the slcy from both 
sidei-, of the canyon that the village was left, as it were, far 
down in the bottom of a crevice. It was always daylight on 
the mountain tops a long time before the darkness lifted and 
revealed Unionville. 
We built a small, rude cabin in the side of the crevice and 
roofed it with canvas, leaving a corner open to serve as a 
chimney, through which the cattle used to tumble occasionally, 
at night, and masli our furniture and interrupt our sleep. It 
was very cold weather and fuel was scarce. Indians brought 
brush and bushes several miles on their backs ; and when we 
could catch a laden Indian it was well — and when we could 
not (which was the rule, not the exception), we shivered and 
bore it. 
I confess, without shame, that I expected to find masses 
of silver lying all about the ground. I expected to see it 
glittering in the sun on the mountain summits. I said 
nothing about this, for some instinct told me that I 
might possibly have an exaggerated idea about it, and so 
if I betrayed my thought I might bring derision upon 
myself. Yet I was as perfectly satisfied in my own mind 
as I could be of anything, that I was going to gather up, in 
a day or two, or at furthest a week or two, silver enough 
to make me satisftxctorily wealthy — and so my fancy was 
already busy with plans for spending this money. The first 
opportunity that offered, I sauntered carelessly away from the 
cabin, keeping an eye on the other boys, and stopping and 
contemplating the sky when they seemed to be observing me ; 
but as soon as the coast was manifestly clear, I fled away as 
guiltily as a thief might have done and never halted till I was 
far beyond sight and call. Then I began my search with 
a feverish excitement that was brimful of expectation — almost 
of certainty. I crawled about the ground, seizing and ex- 
amining bits of stone, blowing the dust from them or rubbing 
them on my clothes, and then peering at them with anxious 
hope. Presently I found a bright fragment and my heart 
bounded ! I hid behind a boulder and polished it and scruti- 
nized it with a nervous eagerness and a delight that was more 
pronounced than absolute certainty itself could have afforded. 
The more I examined the fragment the more I M-as convinced 
that I had found the door to fortune. I marked the spot and 
carried away my specimen. Up and down the rugged moun- 
tain side I searched, with always increasing interest and 
always augmenting gratitude that I had come to Humboldt 
and come in time. Of all the experiences of my life, this 
secret search among the hidden treasures of silver-land waa 
the nearest to unmarred ecsrasy. It was a delirious revel. 
By and by, in the bed of a shallow jivulet, I found a de- 
posit of shining 
yellow scales,aud 
my breath almost 
forsook me! A gold mine, and 
in my simplicity I had been con- 
tent with vulgar 
silver ! I was so 
excited that I 
Imlf-believed my 
evey wrought imagination was deceiving me. Then 
a fear came upon me that people 
might be observing me and would 
guess my secret. 
Moved by this thought, I made a circuit of the place, and 
ascended a knoll to receimoiter. Solitude. No creature was 
near. Then I returned to my mine, foitifyiag -myself against 
pobife-disftppointeient, but my fears were groundless — the 
shining scales were still there. I set about scooping them out, 
and for an hour I toiled down the windings of the stream 
and robbed its bed. But at last the descending sun warned 
me to give up the C[uest, and I turned homeward laden with 
wealth. As I walked along I could not help smiling at the 
thought of my being so excited over my fragment of silver 
when a nobler metal was almost under my nose. In this little 
time the former had so fallen in my estimation that once or 
twice I was on the point of throwing it away. 
The boys were as hungry as usual, but I could eat nothing. 
Keither could I talk. I was full of dreams and far away. 
Their conversation interrupted the flow of my fancy some- 
what, and annoyed nie a little, too. I despised the sordid and 
commonplace things they talked about. But as they proceeded, 
it began to amuse me. It grew to be rare fun to hear them 
planning their poor little economies and sighing over possible 
privations and distresses when a gold mine, all our own, lay 
within sight of the cabin and I could point it out at any 
moment. Smothered hilarity began to oppress me, presently. 
It was hard to resist the impulse to burst out with exultation 
and reveal everything; but I did resist. I said within myself 
that I would filter the great news through my lips cahnly and 
be serene as a summer morning while I watched its effect in 
their faces. I said : 
" Where have you all been ? " 
" Prospecting." 
"What did you find?" 
" Nothing." 
" Nothing ? What do you think of the country ? " 
"Can't tell, yet," said Mr. Ballon, who was an old gold 
miner, and had likewise had considerable experience among 
the silver mines. 
" Well, haven't you formed any sort of opinion ? " 
" Yes, a sort of a one. It's fair enough here, may be, but 
overrated. . Seven thousand dollar ledges are scarce, though. 
That Sheba may be rich enough, but we don't own it ; and 
besides, the rock is so full of base metals that all the science 
in the world can't work it. We'll not starve, here, but we'll 
not get rich, I'm afraid." 
" So you think the prospect is pretty poor ? " 
" No name for it ! " 
" Well, we'd better go back, hadn't we? " 
" Oil, not yet — of course not. We'll try it a rifile, first." 
" Suppose, now — this is merely a supposition, you know — 
suppose you could find a ledge that would yield, say, a 
hundred and fifty dollars a ton — would that satisfy you?" 
" Try us once ! " from the whole party. 
" Or suppose — merely a supposition, of course — suppose 
you were to find a ledge that would yield two thousand 
dollars a ton — would that satisfy you ? " 
" Here — what do you mean ? What are you coming at ? 
Is there some mystery behind all this ? " 
" ever mind. I am not saying anything. You know 
perfectly well there are no rich mines here — of course you do. 
Because you have been around and examined for yourselves. 
Anybody would know that, that had been around. But 
just for the sake of argument, suppose — in a kind of general 
way — suppose some person were to tell you that two-thousand- 
dollar ledges were simply contemptible — contemptible, under- 
stand — and that right yonder in sight of this very cabin there 
were piles of pure gold and pure silver — oceans of it — enough 
to make you all rich in twenty-four hours ! Come ! " 
"cast your eye on that!" 
" I should say he was as crazy as a loon ! " said old Ballou-, 
but wild with excitement, nevertheless. 
" Gentlemen," said I, " I don't say anything — I haven't 
