it, literally, on her knees, transforming thus the 
simple deed into an act of devotion. Mandeville 
says that it is bad for her eyes, but the sight of it 
is worse for his eyes. He begins to doubt the 
wisdom of reliance upon that worn apothegm 
about absence conquering love. Memory has the 
singular characteristic of recalling in a friend 
 
absent, as in a journey long past, only that which 
is agreeable. Mandeville begins to wish he were 
in New South Wales. 
I did intend to insert here a. letter of Herbert's 
to the Young Lady, obtained, I need not say, 
honorably, as private letters which get into print 
always are, not to gratify a vulgar curiosity, 
but to show how the most unsentimental and 
cynical people are affected by the master passion. 
But I cannot bring myself to do it. Even in the 
interests of science one has no right to make 
an autopsy of two loving hearts, especially when 
they are suffering under a late attack of the one 
agreeable epidemic. All the world loves a lover, 
but it laughs at him none the less in his extrava 
gances. He loses his accustomed reticence ; he 
has something of the martyr's willingness for pub 
licity ; he would even like to show the sincerity of 
his devotion by some piece of open heroism. Why 
should he conceal a discovery which has trans 
formed the world to him, a secret which explains 
all the mysteries of nature and humanity ? He is 
in that ecstasy of mind which prompts those who 
were never orators before to rise in an experience- 
 
meeting and pour out a flood of feeling in the 
tritest language and the most conventional terms. 
I am not sure that Herbert, while in this glow, 
would be ashamed of his letter in print, but this 
is one of the cases where chancery would step in 
and protect one from himself by his next friend. 
This is really a delicate matter, and perhaps it is 
brutal to allude to it at all. 
In truth, the letter would hardly be interesting 
in print. Love has a marvellous power of vivify 
ing language and charging the simplest words 
with the most tender meaning, of restoring to 
them the power they had when first coined. They 
are words of fire to those two who know their 
secret, but not to others. It is generally admit 
ted that the best love-letters would not make very 
good literature. " Dearest," begins Herbert, in a 
burst of originality, felicitously selecting a word 
whose exclusiveness shuts out all the world but 
one, and which is a whole letter, poem, confes 
sion, and creed in one breath. What a weight 
of meaning it has to carry ! There may be 
beauty and wit and grace and naturalness and 
even the splendor of fortune elsewhere, but there 
 
is one woman in the world whose sweet presence 
would be compensation for the loss of all else. It 
is not to be reasoned about ; he wants that one ; 
it is her plume dancing down the sunny street 
that sets his heart beating ; he knows her form 
among a thousand, and follows her; he longs to 
run after her carriage, which the cruel coachman 
whirls out of his sight. It is marvellous to him 
that all the world does not want her too, and he 
is in a panic when he thinks of it. And what 
exquisite flattery is in that little word addressed 
to her, and with what sweet and meek triumph 
she repeats it to herself, with a feeling that is not 
altogether pity for those who still stand and wait. 
To be chosen out of all the available world it 
is almost as much bliss as it is to choose. "All 
that long, long stage-ride from Blim's to Portage 
I thought of you every moment, and wondered 
what you were doing and how you were looking 
just that moment, and I found the occupation so 
charming that I was almost sorry when the jour 
ney was ended." Not much in that ! But I have 
no doubt the Young Lady read it over and over, 
and dwelt also upon every moment, and found in 
it new proof of unshaken constancy, and had in 
that and the like things in the letter a sense of 
the sweetest communion. There is nothing in 
this letter that we need dwell on it, but I am 
convinced that the mail does not carry any other 
letters so valuable as this sort. 
I suppose that the appearance of Herbert in 
this new light unconsciously gave tone a little to 
the evening's talk ; not that anybody mentioned 
him, but Mandeville was evidently generalizing 
from the qualities that make one person admired 
by another to those that win the love of man 
kind. 
MANDEVILLE. There seems to be something 
in some persons that wins them liking, special or 
general, independent almost of what they do or 
say. 
THE MISTRESS. Why, everybody is liked by 
some one. 
MANDEVILLE. I 'm not sure of that. There 
are those who are friendless, and would be if 
they had endless acquaintances. But, to take 
the case away from ordinary examples, in which 
habit and a thousand circumstances influence 
 
liking, what is it that determines the world upon 
a personal regard for authors whom it has never 
seen ? 
THE FIRE-TENDER. Probably it is the spirit 
shown in their writings. 
THE MISTRESS. More likely it is a sort of tra 
dition ; I don't believe that the world has a feel 
ing of persona] regard for any author who was 
not loved by those who knew him most inti 
mately. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. Which comes to the same 
thing. The qualities, the spirit, that got him the 
love of his acquaintances he put into his books. 
MANDEVILLE. That doesn't seem to me suf 
ficient. Shakespeare has put everything into 
his plays and poems, swept the whole range of 
human sympathies and passions, and at times is 
inspired by the sweetest spirit that ever man 
had. 
THE YOUNG LADY. No one has better inter 
preted love. 
MANDEVILLE. Yet I apprehend that no per 
son living has any personal regard for Shake 
speare, or that his personality affects many, 
 
except they stand in Stratford church and feel a 
sort of awe at the thought that the bones of the 
greatest poet are so near them. 
THE PARSON. I don't think the world cares 
personally for any mere man or woman dead for 
centuries. 
MANDEVILLE. But there is a difference. I 
think there is still gather a warm feeling for 
Socrates the man, independent of what he said, 
which is little known. Homer's works are cer 
tainly better known, but no one cares person 
ally for Homer any more than for any other 
shade. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. Why not go back to Moses ? 
We 've got the evening before us for digging up 
people. 
MANDEVILLE. Moses is a very good illustra 
tion. No name of antiquity is better known, 
and yet I fancy he does not awaken the same 
kind of popular liking that Socrates does. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. Fudge ! You just get up 
in any lecture assembly and propose three cheers 
for Socrates, and see where you 'll be. Mande- 
ville ought to be a missionary, and read Robert 
Browning to the Fijis. 
 
THE FIRE-TENDER. How do you account for 
the alleged personal regard for Socrates ? 
THE PARSON. Because the world called Chris 
tian is still more than half heathen. 
MANDEVILLE. He was a plain man ; his sym 
pathies were with the people ; he had what is 
roughly known as "horse-sense," and he was 
homely. Franklin and Abraham Lincoln be 
long to his class. They were all philosophers 
of the shrewd sort, and they all had humor. 
It was fortunate for Lincoln that, with his 
other qualities, he was homely. That was the 
last touching recommendation to the popular 
heart. 
THE MISTRESS. Do you remember that ugly 
brown-stone statue of St. Antonino by the bridge 
in Sorrento ? He must have been a coarse saint, 
patron of pigs as he was, but I don't know any 
one anywhere, or the homely stone image of one, 
so loved by the people. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. Ugliness being trump, I 
wonder more people don't win. Mandeville, why 
don't you get up a "centenary" of Socrates, and 
put up his statue in the Central Park? It would 
 
make that one of Lincoln in Union Square look 
beautiful. 
THE PARSON. O, you 'll see that some day, 
when they have a museum there illustrating the 
" Science of Religion." 
THE FIRE-TENDER. Doubtless, to go back to 
what we were talking of, the world has a fond 
ness for some authors, and thinks of them with 
an affectionate and half-pitying familiarity ; and 
it may be that this grows out of something in 
their lives quite as much as anything in their 
writings. There seems to be more disposition 
of personal liking to Thackeray than to Dickens, 
now both are dead, a result that would hardly 
have been predicted when the world was cry 
ing over Little Nell, or agreeing to hate Becky 
Sharp. 
THE YOUNG LADY. What was that you were 
telling about Charles Lamb, the other day, Man- 
deville ? Is not the popular liking for him some 
what independent of his writings ? 
MANDEVILLE. He is a striking example of an 
author who is loved. Very likely the remem 
brance of his tribulations has still something to 
- 
do with the tenderness felt for him. He sup 
ported no dignity, and permitted a familiarity 
which indicated no self-appreciation of his real 
rank in the world of letters. I have heard ' that 
his acquaintances familiarly called him " Charley." 
OUR NEXT DOOR. It 's a relief to know that ! 
Do you happen to know what Socrates was 
called ? 
MANDEVILLE. I have seen people who knew 
Lamb very well. One of them told me, as illus 
trating his want of dignity, that as he was going 
home late one night through the nearly empty 
streets, he was met by a roystering party who 
were making a night of it from tavern to tavern. 
They fell upon Lamb, attracted by his odd figure 
and hesitating manner, and, hoisting him on their 
shoulders, carried him off, singing as they went. 
Lamb enjoyed the lark, and did not tell them 
who he was. When they were tired of lugging 
him, they lifted him, with much effort and diffi 
culty, to the top of a high wall, and left him there 
amid the broken bottles, utterly unable to get 
down. Lamb remained there philosophically in 
the enjoyment of his novel adventure, until a 
 
passing watchman rescued him from his ridicu 
lous situation. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. How did the story get 
out ? 
MANDEVILLE. O, Lamb told all about it next 
morning; and when asked afterwards why he did 
so, he replied that there was no fun in it unless 
he told it. 
HE King sat in the winter-house in 
the ninth month, and there was a 
<r fire on the hearth burning before 
him When Jehudi had read three or 
four leaves he cut it with the penknife. 
That seems to be a pleasant and home-like 
picture from a not very remote period. less 
than twenty-five hundred years ago, and many 
centuries after the fall of Troy. And that was 
not so very long ago, for Thebes, in the splendid 
streets of which Homer wandered and sang to 
the kings when Memphis, whose ruins are older 
than history, was its younger rival, was twelve 
centuries old when Paris ran away with Helen. 
I am sorry that the original and you can 
 
usually do anything with the "original" does 
not bear me out in saying that it was a pleasant 
picture. I should like to believe that Jehoiakim 
for that was the singular name of the gentleman who sat by his hearthstone had just received the Memphis " Palimpsest," fifteen days in 
advance of the date of its publication, and that 
his secretary was reading to him that monthly, 
and cutting its leaves as he read. I should like 
to have seen it in that year when Thales was 
learning astronomy in Memphis, and Necho was 
organizing his campaign against Carchemish. If 
Jehoiakim took the " Attic Quarterly," he might 
have read its comments on the banishment of the 
Alcmaeonidae, and its gibes at Solon for his pro 
hibitory laws, forbidding the sale of unguents, 
limiting the luxury of dress, and interfering with 
the sacred rights of mourners to passionately 
bewail the dead in the Asiatic manner ; the same 
number being enriched with contributions from 
two rising poets, a lyric of love by Sappho, 
and an ode sent by Anacreon from Teos, with 
an editorial note explaining that the MAGA was 
not responsible for the sentiments of the poem. 
 
But, in fact, the gentleman who sat before the 
backlog in his winter-house had other things to 
think of. For Nebuchadnezzar was coming that 
way with the chariots and horses of Babylon and 
a great crowd of marauders ; and the king had 
not even the poor choice whether he would be 
the vassal of the Chaldean or of the Egyptian. 
To us, this is only a ghostly show of monarchs 
and conquerors stalking across vast historic 
spaces. It was no doubt a vulgar enough scene 
of war and plunder. The great captains of that 
age went about to harry each other's territories 
and spoil each other's cities very much as we do 
nowadays, and for similar reasons.; Napoleon 
the- Great in Moscow, Napoleon the Small in 
Italy, Kaiser William in Paris, Great Scott in 
Mexico ! Men have not changed much. 
The Fire-Tender sat in his winter-garden in 
the third month ; there was a fire on the hearth 
burning before him. He cut the leaves of " Scrib- 
ner's Monthly" with his penknife, and thought of 
Jehoiakim. 
That seems as real as the other. In the gar 
den, which is a room of the house, the tall callas, 
 
rooted in the ground, stand about the fountain ; 
the sun, streaming through the glass, illumines 
the many-hued flowers. I wonder what Jehoia- 
kim did with the mealy-bug on his passion-vine, 
and if he had any way of removing the scale-bug 
from his African acacia ? One would like to 
know, too, how he treated the red-spider on the 
Le Marque rose. The record is silent. I do 
not doubt he had all these insects in his winter- 
garden, and the aphidae besides ; and he could 
not smoke them out with tobacco, for the world 
had not yet fallen into its second stage of the 
knowledge of good and evil by eating the for 
bidden tobacco-plant. 
I confess that this little picture of a fire on the 
hearth so many centuries ago helps to make real 
and interesting to me that somewhat misty past. 
No doubt the lotus and the acanthus from the 
Nile grew in that winter-house, and perhaps Je- 
hoiakim attempted the most difficult thing in 
the world the cultivation of the wild-flowers 
from Lebanon. Perhaps Jehoiakim was interested 
also, as I am through this ancient fireplace, 
which is a sort of domestic window into the an 
 
cient world, in the loves of Bernice and Abaces 
at the court of the Pharaohs. I see that it is the 
same thing as the sentiment perhaps it is the 
shrinking which every soul that is a soul has, 
sooner or later, from isolation which grew up 
between Herbert and the Young Lady Staying 
With Us. Jeremiah used to come in to that fire 
side very much as the Parson does to ours. The 
Parson, to be sure, never prophesies, but he grum 
bles, and is the chorus in the play that sings the 
everlasting ai.ai of " I told you so ! " Yet we like 
the Parson. He is the sprig of bitter herb that 
makes the pottage wholesome. I should rather, 
ten times over, dispense with the flatterers and 
the smooth-sayers than the grumblers. But the 
grumblers are of two sorts, the healthful-toned 
and the whiners. There are makers of beer who 
substitute for the clean bitter of the hops some 
deleterious drug, and then seek to hide the fraud 
by some cloying sweet. There is nothing of this 
sickish drug in The Parson's talk, nor was there 
in that of Jeremiah. I sometimes think there is 
scarcely enough of this wholesome tonic in mod 
ern society. The Parson says he never would 
 
give a child sugar-coated pills. Mandeville says 
he never would give them any. After all, you 
cannot help liking Mandeville. 
II. 
WE were talking of this late news from Jeru 
salem. The Fire-Tender was saying that it is 
astonishing how much is telegraphed us from the 
East that is not half so interesting. He was at a 
loss philosophically to account for the fact that the 
world is so eager to know the news of yesterday 
which is unimportant, and so indifferent to that 
of the day before which is of some moment. 
MANDEVILLE. I suspect that it arises from the 
want of imagination. People need to touch the 
facts, and nearness in time is contiguity. It 
would excite no interest to bulletin the last siege 
of Jerusalem in a village where the event was 
unknown, if the date was appended ; and yet the 
account of it is incomparably more exciting than 
that of the siege of Metz. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. The daily news is a neces 
sity. I cannot get along without my morning 
 
paper. The other morning I took it up, and was 
absorbed in the telegraphic columns for an hour 
nearly. I thoroughly enjoyed the feeling of 
immediate contact with all the world of yester 
day, until I read among the minor items that 
Patrick Donahue, of the city of New York, died 
of a sunstroke. If he had frozen to death, I 
should have enjoyed that; but to die of sun 
stroke in February seemed inappropriate, and I 
turned to the date of the paper. When I found 
it was printed in July, I need not say that I lost 
all interest in it, though why the trivialities and 
crimes and accidents, relating to people I never 
knew, were not as good six months after date as 
twelve hours, I cannot say. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. You know that in Con 
cord the latest news, except a remark or two by 
Thoreau or Emerson, is the Vedas. I believe 
the Rig- Veda is read at the breakfast-table in 
stead of the Boston journals. 
THE PARSON. I know it is read afterward in 
stead of the Bible. 
MANDEVILLE. That is only because it is sup 
posed to be older. I have understood that the 
 
Bible is very well spoken of there, but it is not 
antiquated enough to be an authority. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. There was a project on 
foot to put it into the circulating library, but 
the title New in the second part was considered 
objectionable. 
HERBERT. Well, I have a good deal of sym 
pathy with Concord as to the news. We are fed 
on a daily diet of trivial events and gossip, of 
the unfruitful sayings of thoughtless men and 
women, until our mental digestion is seriously 
impaired ; the day will come when no one will 
be able to sit down to a thoughtful, well-wrought 
book and assimilate its contents. 
THE MISTRESS. I doubt if a daily newspa 
per is a necessity, in the higher sense of the 
word. 
THE PARSON. Nobody supposes it is to wo 
men, that is, if they can see each other. 
THE MISTRESS. Don't interrupt, unless you 
have something to say ; though I should like to 
know how much gossip there is afloat that the 
minister does not know. The newspaper may 
be needed in society, but how quickly it drops 
 
out of mind when one goes beyond the bounds 
of what is called civilization. You remember 
when we were in the depths of the woods last 
summer how difficult it was to get up any inter 
est in the files of late papers that reached us, 
and how unreal all the struggle and turmoil of 
the world seemed. We stood apart, and could 
estimate things at their true value. 
THE YOUNG LADY. Yes, that was real life. 
I never tired of the guide's stories ; there was 
some interest in the intelligence that a deer had 
been down to eat the lily-pads at the foot of the 
lake the night before ; that a bear's track was 
seen on the trail we crossed that day ; even 
Mandeville's fish-stories had a certain air of 
probability ; and how to roast a trout in the 
.ashes and serve him hot and juicy and clean, 
and how to cook soup and prepare coffee and 
heat dish-water in one tin-pail, were vital prob 
lems. 
THE PARSON. You would have had no such 
problems at home. Why will people go so far 
to put themselves to such inconvenience ? I hate 
the woods. Isolation breeds conceit ; there are 
 
no people so conceited as those who dwell in 
remote wildernesses and live mostly alone. 
THE YOUNG LADY. For my part, I feel hum 
ble in the presence of mountains, and in the vast 
stretches of the wilderness. 
THE PARSON. I 'll be bound a woman would 
feel just as nobody would expect her to feel, 
under given circumstances. 
MANDEVILLE. I think the reason why the 
newspaper and the world it carries take no hold 
of us in the wilderness is that we become a kind 
of vegetable ourselves when we go there. I 
have often attempted to improve my mind in 
the woods with good solid books. You might 
as well offer a bunch of celery to an oyster. 
The mind goes to sleep : the senses and the 
instincts wake up. The best I can do when it 
rains, or the trout won't bite, is to read Dumas's 
novels. Their ingenuity will almost keep a man 
awake after supper, by the camp-fire. And there 
is a kind of unity about them that I like ; the 
history is as good as the morality. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I always wondered where 
Mandeville got his historical facts. 
 
THE MISTRESS. Mandeville misrepresents 
himself in the woods. I heard him one night 
repeat " The Vision of Sir Launfal " 
(THE FIRE-TENDER. Which comes very near 
being our best poem.) 
as we were crossing the lake, and the guides 
became so absorbed in it that they forgot to 
paddle, and sat listening with open mouths, as 
if it had been a panther story. 
THE PARSON. Mandeville likes to show off 
well enough. I heard that he related to a 
woods' boy up there the whole of the Siege of 
Troy. The boy was very much interested, and 
said " there 'd been a man up there that spring 
from Troy, looking up timber." Mandeville al 
ways carries the news when he goes into the 
country. 
MANDEVILLE. I 'm going to take the Par 
son's sermon on Jonah next summer ; it 's the 
nearest to anything like news we Ve had from 
his pulpit in ten years. But, seriously, the boy 
was very well informed. He 'd heard of Albany ; 
his father took in the Weekly Tribune, and he 
had a partial conception of Horace Greeley. 
 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I never went so far out of 
the world in America yet that the name of Hor 
ace Greeley didn't rise up before me. One of 
the first questions asked by any camp-fire is, 
" Did ye ever see Horace ? " 
HERBERT. Which shows the power of the 
press again. But I have often remarked how 
little real conception of the moving world, as it 
is, people in remote regions get from the news 
paper. It needs to be read in the midst of 
events. A chip cast ashore in a refluent eddy 
tells no tale of the force and swiftness of the 
current. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I don't exactly get the 
drift of that last remark ; but I rather like a 
remark that I can't understand ; like the land 
lady's indigestible bread, it stays by you. 
HERBERT. I see that I must talk in words of 
one syllable. The newspaper has little effect 
upon the remote country mind, because the remote country mind is interested in a very limited 
number of things. Besides, as the Parson says, 
it is conceited. The most accomplished scholar 
will be the butt of all the guides in the woods, 
 
because he cannot follow a trail that would puz 
zle a sable (saple the trappers call it). 
THE PARSON. It's enough to read the sum 
mer letters that people write to the newspapers 
from the country and the woods. Isolated from 
the activity of the world, they come to think 
that the little adventures of their stupid days 
and nights are important. Talk about that 
being real life ! Compare the letters such peo 
ple write with the other contents of the news 
paper, and you will see which life is real. That 's 
one reason I hate to have summer come, the 
country letters set in. 
THE MISTRESS. I should like to see some 
thing the Parson doesn't hate to have come. 
MANDEVILLE. Except his quarter's salary, 
and the meeting of the American Board. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. I don't see that we are 
getting any nearer the solution of the original 
question. The world is evidently interested in 
events simply because they are recent. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I have a theory that a 
newspaper might be published at little cost, 
merely by reprinting the numbers of years be- 
 
fore, only altering the dates ; just as the Parson 
preaches over his sermons. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. It 's evident we must 
have a higher order of news-gatherers. It has 
come to this, that the newspaper furnishes 
thought-material for all the world, actually pre 
scribes from day to day the themes the world 
shall think on and talk about. The occupation 
of news-gathering becomes, therefore, the most 
important. When you think of it, it is aston 
ishing that this department should not be in the 
hands of the ablest men, accomplished scholars, 
philosophical observers, discriminating selectors 
of the news of the world that is worth thinking 
over and talking about. The editorial com 
ments frequently are able enough, but is it 
worth while keeping an expensive mill going to 
grind chaff? I sometimes wonder, as I open my 
morning paper, if nothing did happen in the 
twenty-four hours except crimes, accidents, defal 
cations, deaths of unknown loafers, robberies, 
monstrous births, say about the level of po 
lice-court news. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I have even noticed that 
 
murders have -deteriorated ; they are not so high- 
toned and mysterious as they used to be. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. It is true that the news 
papers have improved vastly within the last 
decade. 
HERBERT. I think, for one, that they are 
very much above the level of the ordinary gos 
sip of the country. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. But I am tired of having 
the under-world still occupy so much room in 
the newspapers. The reporters are rather more 
alert for a dog-fight than a philological conven 
tion. It must be that the good deeds of the 
world outnumber the bad in any given day ; 
and what a good reflex action it would have 
on society if they could be more fully reported than the bad ! I suppose the Parson 
would call this the Enthusiasm of Humanity . 
THE PARSON. You 'll see how far you can 
lift yourself up by your boot-straps. 
HERBERT. I wonder what influence on the 
quality (I say nothing of quantity) of news the 
coming of women into the reporter's and editor's 
work will have. 
