to guide him in his pursuit of Phil. He was disappointed. Still,
he reflected that Phil had but a quarter of an hour’s start of
him--scarcely that, indeed--and if he stopped to play anywhere, he would
doubtless easily find him. There was danger, of course, that he would
turn off somewhere, and Pietro judged it best to inquire whether such a
boy had passed.
Seeing two boys playing in the street, he inquired: “Have you seen
anything of my little brother?”
“What does he look like?” inquired one.
“He is not quite so large as you. He had a fiddle with him.”
“No, I haven’t seen him. Have you, Dick?”
“Yes,” said the other, “there was a boy went along with a fiddle.”
This was true, but, as we know, it was not Phil.
“Did you see where he went?” demanded Pietro, eagerly.
“Straight ahead,” was the reply.
Lured by the delusive hope these words awakened, Pietro went on. He did
not stop to play on his organ. He was too intent on finding Phil. At
length, at a little distance before him, he saw a figure about the size
of Phil, playing on the violin. He hurried forward elated, but when
within a few yards he discovered to his disappointment that it was not
Phil, but a little fiddler of about his size. He was in the employ of a
different padrone. He was doubtless the one the boy had seen.
Disappointed, Pietro now turned back, and bent his steps to the ferry.
But he saw nothing of Phil on the way.
“I would like to beat him, the little wretch!” he said to himself,
angrily. “If I had not been too late for the boat, I would have easily
caught him.”
It never occurred to Pietro that Phil might have taken the cars for a
more distant point, as he actually did. The only thing he could think
of, for he was not willing to give up the pursuit, was to go back. He
remained in Jersey City all day, wandering about the streets, peering
here and there; but he did not find Phil, for a very good reason.
The padrone awaited his report at night with some impatience. Phil was
one of the smartest boys he had, and he had no mind to lose him.
“Did you find him, Pietro?” he asked as soon as his nephew entered his
presence.
“I saw him,” said Pietro.
“Then why did you not bring him back?”
Pietro explained the reason. His uncle listened attentively.
“Pietro, you are a fool,” he said, at length.
“Why am I a fool?” asked Pietro, sullenly.
“Because you sought Filippo where he is not.”
“Where is he?”
“He did not stop in Jersey City. He went farther. He knew that you were
on his track. Did you ask at the station if such a boy bought a ticket?”
“I did not think of it.”
“Then you were a fool.”
“What do you want me to do?”
“To-morrow you must go to Newark. That is the first large town. I must
have Filippo back.”
“I will go,” said Pietro, briefly.
He was mortified at the name applied to him by his uncle, as well as by
the fact of Phil’s having thus far outwitted him. He secretly determined
that when he did get him into his power he would revenge himself for all
the trouble to which he had been put, and there was little doubt that he
would keep his word.
CHAPTER XX
PIETRO’S DISAPPOINTMENT
Though Phil had not taken in much money during the first day of
independence, he had more than paid his expenses. He started on the
second day with a good breakfast, and good spirits. He determined to
walk back to Newark, where he might expect to collect more money than in
the suburbs. If he should meet Pietro he determined not to yield without
a struggle. But he felt better now than at first, and less afraid of the
padrone.
Nine o’clock found him again in Newark. He soon came to a halt, and
began to play. A few paused to listen, but their interest in music did
not extend so far as to affect their pockets. Phil passed around his hat
in vain. He found himself likely to go unrewarded for his labors. But
just then he noticed a carriage with open door, waiting in front of
a fashionable dry-goods store. Two ladies had just come out and taken
their seats preparatory to driving off, when Phil stepped up bareheaded
and held his cap. He was an unusually attractive boy, and as he smiled
one of the ladies, who was particularly fond of children, noticed him.
“What a handsome boy!” she said to her companion.
“Some pennies for music,” said Phil.
“How old are you?” asked the lady.
“Twelve years.”
“Just the age of my Johnny. If I give you some money what will you do
with it?”
“I will buy dinner,” said Phil.
“I never give to vagrants,” said the second lady, a spinster of
uncertain age, who did not share her niece’s partiality for children.
“It isn’t his fault if he is a vagrant, Aunt Maria,” said the younger
lady.
“I have no doubt he is a thief,” continued Aunt Maria, with acerbity.
“I am not a thief,” said Phil, indignantly, for he understood very well
the imputation, and he replaced his cap on his head.
“I don’t believe you are,” said the first lady; “here, take this,” and
she put in his hand twenty-five cents.
“Thank you, signora,” said Phil, with a grateful smile.
“That money is thrown away,” said the elderly lady; “you are very
indiscriminate in your charity, Eleanor.”
“It is better to give too much than too little, Aunt Maria, isn’t it?”
“You shouldn’t give to unworthy objects.”
“How do you know this boy is an unworthy object?”
“He is a young vagrant.”
“Can he help it? It is the way he makes his living.”
The discussion continued, but Phil did not stop to hear it. He had
received more than he expected, and now felt ready to continue his
business. One thing was fortunate, and relieved him from the anxiety
which he had formerly labored under. He was not obliged to obtain a
certain sum in order to escape a beating at night. He had no master
to account to. He was his own employer, as long as he kept out of the
clutches of the padrone.
Phil continued to roam about the streets very much after the old
fashion, playing here and there as he thought it expedient. By noon he
had picked up seventy-five cents, and felt very well satisfied with his
success. But if, as we are told, the hour that is darkest is just before
day, it also happens sometimes that danger lies in wait for prosperity,
and danger menaced our young hero, though he did not know it. To explain
this, we must go back a little.
When Pietro prepared to leave the lodging-house in the morning, the
padrone called loudly to him.
“Pietro,” said he, “you must find Filippo today.”
“Where shall I go?” asked Pietro.
“Go to Newark. Filippo went there, no doubt, while you, stupid that
you are, went looking for him in Jersey City. You have been in Newark
before?”
“Yes, signore padrone.”
“Very good; then you need no directions.”
“If I do not find him in Newark, where shall I go?”
“He is in Newark,” said the padrone, confidently. “He will not leave
it.”
He judged that Phil would consider himself safe there, and would prefer
to remain in a city rather than go into the country.
“I will do my best,” said Pietro.
“I expect you to bring him back to-night.”
“I should like to do so,” said Pietro, and he spoke the truth. Apart
from his natural tendency to play the tyrant over smaller boys, he felt
a personal grudge against Phil for eluding him the day before, and so
subjecting him to the trouble of another day’s pursuit, besides the
mortification of incurring a reprimand from his uncle. Never did agent
accept a commission more readily than Pietro accepted that of catching
and bringing Filippo to the padrone.
Leaving the lodging-house he walked down to the ferry at the foot
of Cortlandt Street, and took the first train for Newark. It was ten
o’clock before he reached the city. He had nothing in particular to
guide him, but made up his mind to wander about all day, inquiring from
time to time if anyone had seen his little brother, describing Phil.
After a while his inquiries were answered in the affirmative, and he
gradually got on the track of our hero.
At twelve o’clock Phil went into a restaurant, and invested thirty cents
in a dinner. As the prices were low, he obtained for this sum all he
desired. Ten minutes afterward, as he was walking leisurely along with
that feeling of tranquil enjoyment which a full stomach is apt to give,
Pietro turned the corner behind him. No sooner did the organ-grinder
catch sight of his prey, than a fierce joy lighted up his eyes, and he
quickened his pace.
“Ah, scelerato, I have you now,” he exclaimed to himself. “To-night you
shall feel the stick.”
But opportunely for himself Phil looked behind him. When he saw Pietro
at but a few rods’ distance his heart stood still with sudden fright,
and for an instant his feet were rooted to the ground. Then the thought
of escape came to him, and he began to run, not too soon.
“Stop!” called out Pietro. “Stop, or I will kill you!”
But Phil did not comprehend the advantage of surrendering himself to
Pietro. He understood too well how he would be treated, if he returned
a prisoner. Instead of obeying the call, he only sped on the faster. Now
between the pursuer and the pursued there was a difference of six years,
Pietro being eighteen, while Phil was but twelve. This, of course, was
in Pietro’s favor. On the other hand, the pursuer was encumbered by a
hand-organ, which retarded his progress, while Phil had only a violin,
which did not delay him at all. This made their speed about equal,
and gave Phil a chance to escape, unless he should meet with some
interruption.
“Stop!” called Pietro, furiously, beginning to realize that the victory
was not yet won.
Phil looked over his shoulder, and, seeing that Pietro was no nearer,
took fresh courage. He darted round a corner, with his pursuer half a
dozen rods behind him. They were not in the most frequented parts of
the city, but in a quarter occupied by two-story wooden houses. Seeing
a front door open, Phil, with a sudden impulse, ran hastily in, closing
the door behind him.
A woman with her sleeves rolled up, who appeared to have taken her arms
from the tub, hearing his step, came out from the back room.
“What do ye want?” she demanded, suspiciously.
“Save me!” cried Phil, out of breath. “Someone is chasing me. He is bad.
He will beat me.”
The woman’s sympathies were quickly enlisted. She had a warm heart, and
was always ready to give aid to the oppressed.
“Whist, darlint, run upstairs, and hide under the bed. I’ll send him off
wid a flea in his ear, whoever he is.”
Phil was quick to take the hint. He ran upstairs, and concealed himself
as directed. While he was doing it, the lower door, which he had shut,
was opened by Pietro. He was about to rush into the house, but the
muscular form of Phil’s friend stood in his way.
“Out wid ye!” said she, flourishing a broom, which she had snatched up.
“Is that the way you inter a dacint woman’s house, ye spalpeen!”
“I want my brother,” said Pietro, drawing back a little before the
amazon who disputed his passage.
“Go and find him, thin!” said Bridget McGuire, “and kape out of my
house.”
“But he is here,” said Pietro, angrily; “I saw him come in.”
“Then, one of the family is enough,” said Bridget. “I don’t want
another. Lave here wid you!”
“Give me my brother, then!” said Pietro, provoked.
“I don’t know anything of your brother. If he looks like you, he’s a
beauty, sure,” returned Mrs. McGuire.
“Will you let me look for him?”
“Faith and I won’t. You may call him if you plase.”
Pietro knew that this would do very little good, but there seemed
nothing else to do.
“Filippo!” he called; “come here. The padrone has sent for you.”
“What was ye sayin’?” demanded Bridget not comprehending the Italian.
“I told my brother to come.”
“Then you can go out and wait for him,” said she. “I don’t want you in
the house.”
Pietro was very angry. He suspected that Phil was in the rear room, and
was anxious to search for him. But Bridget McGuire was in the way--no
light, delicate woman, but at least forty pounds heavier than Pietro.
Moreover, she was armed with a broom, and seemed quite ready to use it.
Phil was fortunate in obtaining so able a protector. Pietro looked at
her, and had a vague thought of running by her, and dragging Phil out if
he found him. But Bridget was planted so squarely in his path that this
course did not seem very practicable.
“Will you give me my brother?” demanded Pietro, forced to use words
where he would willingly have used blows.
“I haven’t got your brother.”
“He is in this house.”
“Thin he may stay here, but you shan’t,” said Bridget, and she made a
sudden demonstration with the broom, of so threatening a character
that Pietro hastily backed out of the house, and the door was instantly
bolted in his face.
CHAPTER XXI
THE SIEGE
When the enemy had fairly been driven out of the house Mrs. McGuire
went upstairs in search of Phil. Our hero had come out from his place of
concealment, and stood at the window.
“Where is Pietro?” he asked, as his hostess appeared in the chamber.
“I druv him out of the house,” said Bridget, triumphantly.
“Then he won’t come up here?” interrogated Phil.
“It’s I that would like to see him thry it,” said Mrs. McGuire, shaking
her head in a very positive manner, “I’d break my broom over his back
first.”
Phil breathed freer. He saw that he was rescued from immediate danger.
“Where is he now?”
“He’s outside watching for you. He’ll have to wait till you come out.”
“May I stay here till he goes?”
“Sure, and you may,” said the warm-hearted Irishwoman. “You’re as
welcome as flowers in May. Are you hungry?”
“No, thank you,” said Phil. “I have eaten my dinner.”
“Won’t you try a bit of bread and cold mate now?” she asked, hospitably.
“You are very kind,” said Phil, gratefully, “but I am not hungry. I only
want to get away from Pietro.”
“Is that the haythen’s name? Sure I niver heard it before.”
“It is Peter in English.”
“And has he got the name of the blessed St. Peter, thin? Sure, St. Peter
would be mightily ashamed of him. And is he your brother, do you say?”
“No,” said Phil.
“He said he was; but I thought it was a wicked lie when he said it. He’s
too bad, sure, to be a brother of yours. But I must go down to my work.
My clothes are in the tub, and the water will get cold.”
“Will you be kind enough to tell me when he goes away?” asked Phil.
“Sure I will. Rest aisy, darlint. He shan’t get hold of you.”
Pietro’s disappointment may be imagined when he found that the victim
whom he had already considered in his grasp was snatched from him in
the very moment of his triumph. He felt nearly as much incensed at Mrs.
McGuire as at Phil, but against the former he had no remedy. Over the
stalwart Irishwoman neither he nor the padrone had any jurisdiction,
and he was compelled to own himself ignominiously repulsed and baffled.
Still all was not lost. Phil must come out of the house some time, and
when he did he would capture him. When that happy moment arrived he
resolved to inflict a little punishment on our hero on his own account,
in anticipation of that which awaited him from his uncle, the padrone.
He therefore took his position in front of the house, and maintained a
careful watch, that Phil might not escape unobserved.
So half an hour passed. He could hear no noise inside the house, nor
did Phil show himself at any of the windows. Pietro was disturbed by a
sudden suspicion. What if, while he was watching, Phil had escaped by
the back door, and was already at a distance!
This would be quite possible, for as he stood he could only watch the
front of the house. The rear was hidden from his view. Made uneasy by
this thought, he shifted his ground, and crept stealthily round on the
side, in the hope of catching a view of Phil, or perhaps hearing some
conversation between him and his Amazonian protector by which he might
set at rest his suddenly formed suspicions.
He was wrong, however. Phil was still upstairs. He was disposed to be
cautious, and did not mean to leave his present place of security until
he should be apprised by his hostess that Pietro had gone.
Bridget McGuire kept on with her washing. She had been once to the front
room, and, looking through the blinds, had ascertained that Pietro was
still there.
“He’ll have to wait long enough,” she said to herself, “the haythen!
It’s hard he’ll find it to get the better of Bridget McGuire.”
She was still at her tub when through the opposite window on the side
of the house she caught sight of Pietro creeping stealthily along, as we
have described.
“I’ll be even wid him,” said Bridget to herself exultingly. “I’ll tache
him to prowl around my house.”
She took from her sink near by a large, long-handled tin dipper, and
filled it full of warm suds from the tub. Then stealing to the window,
she opened it suddenly, and as Pietro looked up, suddenly launched the
contents in his face, calling forth a volley of imprecations, which I
would rather not transfer to my page. Being in Italian, Bridget did not
exactly understand their meaning, but guessed it.
“Is it there ye are?” she said, in affected surprise.
“Why did you do that?” demanded Pietro, finding enough English to
express his indignation.
“Why did I do it?” repeated Bridget. “How would I know that you were
crapin’ under my windy? It serves ye right, anyhow. I don’t want you
here.”
“Send out my brother, then,” said Pietro.
“There’s no brother of yours inside,” said Mrs. McGuire.
“It’s a lie!” said Pietro, angrily stamping his foot.
“Do you want it ag’in?” asked Bridget, filling her dipper once more
from the tub, causing Pietro to withdraw hastily to a greater distance.
“Don’t you tell Bridget McGuire that she lies.”
“My brother is in the house,” reiterated Pietro, doggedly.
“He is no brother of yours--he says so.”
“He lies,” said Pietro.
“Shure and it’s somebody else lies, I’m thinkin’,” said Bridget.
“Is he in the house?” demanded Pietro, finding it difficult to argue
with Phil’s protector.
“I don’t see him,” said Bridget, shrewdly, turning and glancing round
the room.
“I’ll call the police,” said Pietro, trying to intimidate his adversary.
“I wish you would,” she answered, promptly. “It would save me the
trouble. I’ll make a charge against you for thryin’ to break into my
house; maybe you want to stale something.”
Pietro was getting disgusted. Mrs. McGuire proved more unmanageable than
he anticipated. It was tantalizing to think that Phil was so near him,
and yet out of his reach. He anathematized Phil’s protector in his
heart, and I am afraid it would have gone hard with her if he could have
had his wishes fulfilled. He was not troubled to think what next to
say, for Bridget suddenly terminated the interview by shutting down the
window with the remark: “Go away from here! I don’t want you lookin’ in
at my windy.”
Pietro did not, however, go away immediately. He moved a little further
to the rear, having a suspicion that Phil might escape from the door at
the back. While he was watching here, he suddenly heard the front door
open, and shut with a loud sound. He ran to the front, thinking that
Phil might be taking flight from the street door, but it was only a
ruse of Mrs. McGuire, who rather enjoyed tantalizing Pietro. He looked
carefully up and down the street, but, seeing nothing of Phil, he
concluded he must still be inside. He therefore resumed his watch, but
in some perplexity as to where he ought to stand, in order to watch both
front and rear. Phil occasionally looked guardedly from the window
in the second story, and saw his enemy, but knew that as long as he
remained indoors he was safe. It was not very agreeable remaining in
the chamber alone, but it was a great deal better than falling into
the clutches of Pietro, and he felt fortunate to have found so secure a
place of refuge.
Pietro finally posted himself at the side of the house, where he could
command a view of both front and rear, and there maintained his
stand nearly underneath the window at which his intended prisoner was
standing.
As Phil was watching him, suddenly he heard steps, and Bridget McGuire
entered the chamber. She bore in her hand the same tin dipper before
noticed, filled with steaming hot water. Phil regarded her with some
surprise.
“Would you like to see some fun now?” she asked, her face covered by a
broad smile.
“Yes,” said Phil.
“Open the windy, aisy, so he won’t hear.”
Phil obeyed directions, and managed not to attract the attention of his
besieger below, who chanced at the moment to be looking toward the door
in the rear.
“Now,” said Bridget, “take this dipper and give him the binifit of it.”
“Don’t let him see you do it,” cautioned his protector.
Phil took the idea and the dipper at once.
Phil, holding the dipper carefully, discharged the contents with such
good aim that they drenched the watching Pietro. The water being pretty
hot, a howl of pain and rage rose from below, and Pietro danced about
frantically. Looking up, he saw no one, for Phil had followed directions
and drawn his head in immediately. But Mrs. McGuire, less cautious,
looked out directly afterward.
“Will ye go now, or will ye stand jist where I throw the hot water?”
In reply, Pietro indulged in some rather emphatic language, but being
in the Italian language, in which he was more fluent, it fell unregarded
upon the ears of Mrs. McGuire.
“I told you to go,” she said. “I’ve got some more wather inside.”
Pietro stepped back in alarm. He had no disposition to take another warm
shower bath, and he had found out to his cost that Bridget McGuire was
not a timid woman, or easily frightened.
But he had not yet abandoned the siege. He shifted his ground to the
front of the house, and took a position commanding a view of the front
door.
CHAPTER XXII
THE SIEGE IS RAISED
Though Phil was the besieged party, his position was decidedly
preferable to that of Pietro. The afternoon was passing, and he was
earning nothing. He finally uncovered his organ and began to play. A few
gathered around him, but they were of that class with whom money is not
plenty. So after a while, finding no pennies forthcoming, he stopped
suddenly, but did not move on, as his auditors expected him to. He still
kept his eyes fixed on Mrs. McGuire’s dwelling. He did this so long as
to attract observation.
“You’ll know the house next time, mister,” said a sharp boy.
Pietro was about to answer angrily, when a thought struck him.
“Will you do something for me?” he asked.
“How much?” inquired the boy, suggestively.
“Five cents,” answered Pietro, understanding his meaning.
“It isn’t much,” said the boy, reflectively. “Tell me what you want.”
Though Pietro was not much of a master of English, he contrived to make
the boy understand that he was to go round to the back door and tell
Mrs. McGuire that he, Pietro, was gone. He intended to hide close
by, and when Phil came out, as he hoped, on the strength of his
disappearance, he would descend upon him and bear him off triumphantly.
Armed with these instructions, the boy went round to the back door and
knocked.
Thinking it might be Phil’s enemy, Mrs. McGuire went to the door,
holding in one hand a dipper of hot suds, ready to use in case of
emergency.
“Well, what do you want?” she asked, abruptly, seeing that it was a boy.
“He’s gone,” said the boy.
“Who’s gone?”
“The man with the hand-organ, ma’am.”
“And what for do I care?” demanded Bridget, suspiciously.
This was a question the boy could not answer. In fact, he wondered
himself why such a message should have been sent. He could only look at
her in silence.
“Who told you to tell the man was gone?” asked Bridget, with a
shrewdness worthy of a practitioner at the bar.
“The Italian told me.”
“Did he?” repeated Bridget, who saw into the trick at once. “He’s very
kind.”
“He didn’t want you to know he told me,” said the boy, remembering his
instructions when it was too late.
Mrs. McGuire nodded her head intelligently.
“True for you,” said she. “What did he pay you for tellin’ me?”
“Five cents.”
“Thin it’s five cints lost. Do you want to earn another five cints?”
“Yes,” said the boy, promptly.
“Thin do what I tell you.”
“What is it?”
“Come in and I’ll tell you.”
The boy having entered, Mrs. McGuire led him to the front door.
“Now,” said she, “when I open the door, run as fast as you can. The man
that sint you will think it is another boy, and will run after you. Do
ye mind?”
The young messenger began to see the joke, and was quite willing to help
carry it out. But even the prospective fun did not make him forgetful of
his promised recompense.
“Where’s the five cents?” he asked.
“Here,” said Bridget, and diving into the depths of a capacious pocket,
she drew out five pennies.
“That’s all right,” said the boy. “Now, open the door.”
Bridget took care to make a noise in opening the door, and, as it
opened, she said in a loud and exultant voice, “You’re all safe now; the
man’s gone.”
“Now run,” she said, in a lower voice.
The boy dashed out of the doorway, but Mrs. McGuire remained standing
there. She was not much surprised to see Pietro run out from the
other side of the house, and prepare to chase the runaway. But quickly
perceiving that he was mistaken, he checked his steps, and turning, saw
Mrs. McGuire with a triumphant smile on her face.
“Why don’t you run?” she said. “You can catch him.”
“It isn’t my brother,” he answered, sullenly.
“I thought you was gone,” she said.
“I am waiting for my brother.”
“Thin you’ll have to wait. You wanted to chate me, you haythen! But
Bridget McGuire ain’t to be took in by such as you. You’d better lave
before my man comes home from his work, or he’ll give you lave of
absence wid a kick.”
Without waiting for an answer, Bridget shut the door, and bolted
it--leaving her enemy routed at all points.
In fact Pietro began to lose courage. He saw that he had a determined
foe to contend with. He had been foiled thus far in every effort to
obtain possession of Phil. But the more difficult the enterprise seemed,
the more anxious he became to carry it out successfully. He knew that
the padrone would not give him a very cordial reception if he returned
without Phil, especially as he would be compelled to admit that he had
seen him, and had nevertheless failed to secure him. His uncle would
not be able to appreciate the obstacles he had encountered, but would
consider him in fault. For this reason he did not like to give up
the siege, though he saw little hopes of accomplishing his object. At
length, however, he was obliged to raise the siege, but from a cause
with which neither Phil nor his defender had anything to do.
The sky, which had till this time been clear, suddenly darkened. In ten
minutes rain began to fall in large drops. A sudden shower, unusual
at this time of the year, came up, and pedestrians everywhere, caught
without umbrellas, fled panic-stricken to the nearest shelter. Twice
before, as we know, Pietro had suffered from a shower of warm water.
This, though colder, was even more formidable. Vanquished by the forces
of nature, Pietro shouldered his instrument and fled incontinently. Phil
might come out now, if he chose. His enemy had deserted his post, and
the coast was clear.
“That’ll make the haythen lave,” thought Mrs. McGuire, who, though sorry
to see the rain on account of her washing, exulted in the fact that
Pietro was caught out in it.
She went to the front door and looked out. Looking up the street, she
just caught a glimpse of the organ in rapid retreat. She now unbolted
the door, the danger being at an end, and went up to acquaint Phil with
the good news.
“You may come down now,” she said.
“Is he gone?” inquired Phil.
“Shure he’s runnin’ up the street as fast as his legs can carry him.”
“Thank you for saving me from him,” said, Phil, with a great sense of
relief at the flight of his enemy.
“Whisht now; I don’t nade any thanks. Come down by the fire now.”
So Phil went down, and Bridget, on hospitable thoughts intent, drew her
only rocking-chair near the stove, and forced Phil to sit down in it.
Then she told him, with evident enjoyment, of the trick which Pietro had
tried to play on her, and how he had failed.
“He couldn’t chate me, the haythen!” she concluded. “I was too smart for
the likes of him, anyhow. Where do you live when you are at home?”
“I have no home now,” said Phil, with tears in his eyes.
“And have you no father and mother?”
“Yes,” said Phil. “They live in Italy.”
“And why did they let you go so far away?”
“They were poor, and the padrone offered them money,” answered Phil,
forced to answer, though the subject was an unpleasant one.
“And did they know he was a bad man and would bate you?”
“I don’t think they knew,” said Phil, with hesitation. “My mother did
not know.”
“I’ve got three childer myself,” said Bridget; “they’ll get wet comin’
home from school, the darlints--but I wouldn’t let them go with any man
to a far country, if he’d give me all the gowld in the world. And where
does that man live that trates you so bad?”
“In New York.”
“And does Peter--or whatever the haythen’s name is--live there too?”
“Yes, Pietro lives there. The padrone is his uncle, and treats him
better than the rest of us. He sent him after me to bring me back.”
“And what is your name? Is it Peter, like his?”
“No; my name is Filippo.”
“It’s a quare name.”
“American boys call me Phil.”
“That’s better. It’s a Christian name, and the other isn’t. Before I
married my man I lived five years at Mrs. Robertson’s, and she had a boy
they called Phil. His whole name was Philip.”
“That’s my name in English.”
“Then why don’t you call it so, instead of Philip-O? What good is the O,
anyhow? In my country they put the O before the name, instead of to the
tail-end of it. My mother was an O’Connor. But it’s likely ivery country
has its own ways.”
Phil knew very little of Ireland, and did not fully understand Mrs.
McGuire’s philosophical remarks. Otherwise they might have amused him,
as they may possibly amuse my readers.
I cannot undertake to chronicle the conversation that took place between
Phil and his hostess. She made numerous inquiries, to some of which he
was able to give satisfactory replies, to others not. But in half
an hour there was an interruption, and a noisy one. Three stout,
freckled-faced children ran in at the back door, dripping as if they had
just emerged from a shower-bath. Phil moved aside to let them approach
the stove.
Forthwith Mrs. McGuire was engaged in motherly care, removing a part
of the wet clothing, and lamenting for the state in which her sturdy
offspring had returned. But presently order was restored, and the bustle
was succeeded by quiet.
“Play us a tune,” said Pat, the oldest.
Phil complied with the request, and played tune after tune, to the great
delight of the children, as well as of Mrs. McGuire herself. The result
was that when, shortly after, on the storm subsiding, Phil proposed
to go, the children clamored to have him stay, and he received such
a cordial invitation to stop till the next morning that he accepted,
nothing loath. So till the next morning our young hero is provided for.
CHAPTER XXIII
A PITCHED BATTLE
Has my youthful reader ever seen a dog slinking home with downcast
look and tall between his legs? It was with very much the same air
that Pietro in the evening entered the presence of the padrone. He had
received a mortifying defeat, and now he had before him the difficult
task of acknowledging it.
“Well, Pietro,” said the padrone, harshly, “where is Filippo?”
“He is not with me,” answered Pietro, in an embarrassed manner.
“Didn’t you see him then?” demanded his uncle, hastily.
For an instant Pietro was inclined to reply in the negative, knowing
that the censure he would incur would be less. But Phil might yet be
taken--he probably would be, sooner or later, Pietro thought--and then
his falsehood would be found out, and he would in consequence lose the
confidence of the padrone. So, difficult though it was, he thought it
politic to tell the truth.
“Si, signore, I saw him,” said he.
“Then why didn’t you drag him home?” demanded his uncle, with contracted
brow. “Didn’t I tell you to bring him home?”
“Si, signore, but I could not.”
“Are you not so strong as he, then?” asked the padrone, with a sneer.
“Is a boy of twelve more than a match for you, who are six years older?”
“I could kill him with my little finger,” said Pietro, stung by this
taunt, and for the moment he looked as if he would like to do it.
“Then you didn’t want to bring him? Come, you are not too old for the
stick yet.”
Pietro glowed beneath his dark skin with anger and shame when these
words were addressed to him. He would not have cared so much had they
been alone, but some of the younger boys were present, and it shamed him
to be threatened in their presence.
“I will tell you how it happened,” he said, suppressing his anger as
well as he could, “and you will see that I was not in fault.”
“Speak on, then,” said his uncle; but his tone was cold and incredulous.
Pietro told the story, as we know it. It will not be necessary to repeat
it. When he had finished, his uncle said, with a sneer, “So you were
afraid of a woman. I am ashamed of you.”
“What could I do?” pleaded Pietro.
“What could you do?” repeated the padrone, furiously; “you could
push her aside, run into the house, and secure the boy. You are a
coward--afraid of a woman!”
“It was her house,” said Pietro. “She would call the police.”
“So could you. You could say it was your brother you sought. There was
no difficulty. Do you think Filippo is there yet?”
“I do not know.”
“To-morrow I will go with you myself,” said the padrone. “I see I cannot
trust you alone. You shall show me the house, and I will take the boy.”
Pietro was glad to hear this. It shifted the responsibility from his
shoulders, and he was privately convinced that Mrs. McGuire would prove
a more formidable antagonist than the padrone imagined. Whichever way
it turned out, he would experience a feeling of satisfaction. If the
padrone got worsted, it would show that he, Pietro, need not be ashamed
of his defeat. If Mrs. McGuire had to surrender at discretion, he would
rejoice in her discomfiture. So, in spite of his reprimand, he went to
