and tolerably good-looking, but I can t say that I 
liked his face altogether, and saw nothing in it to set 
a young girl crazy. As for Maggy, she was lov 
able and no mistake. There was something about 
her that made her seem different from any other girl 
I had ever met. Her manners were those of a born 
lady, and she had always appeared like one lifted up 
 
somehow above the people with whom she asso 
ciated one very tender and sensitive cast in among 
the coarse and the common, with whom she could 
have but little in kind, and who hurt her always 
when they touched her. 
This incident of meeting Watson in the park had 
the effect to throw Maggy away back. All she had 
gained in months was lost. 
" I feel so troubled about her," Lloyd remarked 
to me some weeks later. " She used to be so strong 
and bright, and had such a happy heart. But now 
she has scarcely the strength of a child, and her pale 
face is a picture of sadness. She wants change. 
The doctor says I must take her to the seashore." 
" The very thing for her," I replied. 
" Yes, but she will not go," he answered. 
"You will have to use authority," I suggested. 
" She is sick in mind as well as body, and not capa 
ble of judging for herself. Take my advice, and in 
sist on her going. Say that the doctor has positively 
ordered her to be taken to the shore." 
" Suppose she were to meet Watson there ?" said 
Lloyd. " It 's as likely a thing as not." 
" She 's got to get over that somehow," I rejoined, 
" and the sooner the better. A second meeting will 
not be half so bad as the first. A scary horse is 
cured by making him look again and again at the 
thing that frightened him. I don 't  believe she 'd be 
half as much disturbed if she were to meet him face 
to face to-day as she was when she saw him for the 
 
first time in over a year. Two or three meetings 
will make it an old story." 
Lloyd was inclined to take my view of the case. 
He saw the doctor, and got him to give a positive 
order to take Maggy down to the seashore. Find 
ing that her father 's heart was set upon it, Maggy 
ceased to offer any opposition. 
" It will be of no use," she said. " But if you wish 
it, I will go." 
She stayed a couple of weeks, and came back 
stronger and brighter. Her father was much elated 
by the result, and wanted to go with her to the moun 
tains. But she begged so not to be taken away 
again that he had not the heart to compel her. 
After that she led a quiet, dreamy sort of life. 
She read but little. Books seemed to disturb her. 
Of her two younger brothers she was very fond, and 
had them with her a great deal. 
So it went on for another year. Then a new life 
began to awaken in her. She had become interested 
in some poor people living near by, and in her visits 
to their houses met one day a lady who was drawn 
toward her at once. This lady, a member of one of 
the churches, was devoting herself to works of char 
ity among the poor. She saw in Maggy all the qual 
ities of mind and heart needed for a companion and 
helper, while Maggy found in her a friend and guide 
who could lead her into new paths of life and lift 
her mind into more peaceful regions than it had ever 
been able alone to reach. 
 
Through the influence of this lady, Maggy was 
led to join the church and to become a Sunday- 
school teacher. 
Lloyd told me about it one day with a pleased 
manner, at which I could not but wonder, seeing 
that our interests were all on the other side. 
" It won t work well," I answered. 
" Why not ?" he asked. 
" Can t you see ? It won t be a month before 
every teacher and every scholar in the school will 
know that her father keeps a liquor-saloon." 
" Confound you, Hiram ! Haven t you anything 
else to say?" An angry flush reddened Lloyd 's 
face as he spoke. " And suppose they do know it, 
what then ?" 
" It won t be long before some good Christian 
among them will draw back the skirts of her gar 
ment as she passes, lest the touch be pollution." 
" Christian ! Faugh ! Better say Pharisee !" 
" Christian or Pharisee, it will be all the same to 
Maggy," I returned. 
I had troubled the waters of his spirit. The light 
went out of his face ; he looked very sober. 
"And then," I continued, "it won t be a great 
while after that before some other good and wise 
Christian brother or sister will feel moved to talk 
with her about the iniquity of your business, and 
urge her to use her influence to get you to abandon 
it." 
" Good heavens !" Lloyd ejaculated, beginning to 
 
walk about and show considerable agitation. " No, 
no, Hiram. I don 't  believe any one would be so 
thoughtless and cruel. Why, it would almost kill 
the poor child. She 'd never hold up her head 
among people again." 
" I'm sorry she 's got into this thing, Tom," I replied, speaking seriously. " It can t go on long. 
You must look for a break at any time, and be pre 
pared for it. Sunday-schools and churches are not 
in our line, and Sunday-school and church people 
don 't  tolerate us. They re down on us in every way 
set us over to the devil 's side and there is nothing 
too bad for them to say about us. No, Tom. It 
isn 't the place for one like Maggy. She isn 't strong 
enough to bear what will surely come upon her. 
Just imagine some cur of a boy looking up into her 
face and saying, 
" Doesn 't your father sell rum ? " 
Lloyd fairly caught his breath and seemed to 
stagger back as I said this, while he grew dark with 
anger and pain. 
" But I see no help for it," I went on. " Poor 
thing ! It 's gone hard with her ever since we went 
into this business, and it is sure to get no better. 
I'm beginning to think, with our temperance friends, 
that it 's under a curse. You can make money, and 
money 's about everything in this world at least 
you and I thought so once. But peace of mind 
and a good conscience, if they are of any account, 
don 't  come, I'm thinking, in this way. If my pile 
was large enough, I 'd shut up shop or sell out 
to-morrow." 
" Yes, if the pile were large enough, Hiram," 
Lloyd answered, moodily, "but it isn t, you see. 
We can t afford to shut up shop: what would you 
and I be worth as bookbinders? Not much, I 
take it. My hand 's out, and I couldn 't make my 
salt." 
" I don 't  intend trying," I returned. " In for a 
penny, in for a pound. Going to get my pile, and 
so be able to snap my fingers in the world 's face. 
After that the gentleman !" 
The trouble for poor Maggy was not in the far 
distance. She was a liquor-seller 's daughter, and in 
a Sunday-school and among religious and charitable 
people out of place. The needy and suffering poor 
whose miseries she sought to alleviate were in most 
cases made poor and miserable through the very 
traffic that she was aware gave her a pleasant home, 
good food and fine clothing. 
One day she went to visit a poor woman who 
she learned was sick and unable to work. She took 
food to her hungry children, and did all in her power 
to comfort and help her. But the woman seemed 
hard and unthankful, and had a look in her face 
that hurt Maggy. 
Just as she was going away, this woman, whose 
drunken husband spent most of his earnings in 
dram-shops, took hold of Maggy 's dress, which was 
I wonder how many children went starving that you might wear this 
Page mi. 
 
of some fine material, and said, with a bitter sneer in 
her voice, 
" I wonder how many children went starving that 
you might wear this ?" 
Lloyd found her in bed when he got home that 
day, with her white face turned to the wall. All he 
could learn from her mother was that she had come 
home from one of her visits to the poor and gone 
quietly to her room. To all their questions she 
gave no answers as to the cause of her trouble, but 
her father had his guess, and it was not far out of 
the way. 
After a few days Maggy was about again, but the 
sweet, tender patience that made her face heavenly 
was gone. Instead of saintly peace you saw the 
martyr 's calm endurance. She went back to her 
work self-compelled, treading on thorns, but sus 
tained by a pious trust in God. It was her duty to 
do what in her lay to help and comfort the poor and 
wretched, most of whom were in need because of 
the evil wrought among them by just such work as 
her father was doing daily. 
One Sunday a temperance lecture was given to 
the children of the Sabbath-school where she taught, 
and the lecturer was very severe on men who sold 
liquor, classing them among the worst in the com 
munity. His strong denunciations sent the hot blood 
to her thin cheeks, and though she held down her 
head in shame, keeping her eyes on the floor, she 
was conscious that many eyes looked often toward 
  
her. She felt them striking her with the pain of 
arrows. 
On coming home she went to her room, and as 
she did not appear at tea-time, her mother, going 
to see what was the matter, found her again with 
her white face to the wall. She had learned to let 
her alone when such states fell upon her, and quietly 
left the room. 
"What can have happened?" the father asked as 
they gathered about the table. 
" It was that man who talked to us in school," 
said little Harvey. 
" In Sunday-school ?" inquired Lloyd. 
"Yes, sir. And I don 't  like to go there. The 
boys call me rummy, and say that my daddy keeps 
a whisky-mill, so they do." 
A dead silence fell upon the little group sitting at 
the tea-table. Mrs. Lloyd did not venture to look at 
her husband. He was dumb for a while. 
"What did the man say?" he asked, at length, 
anxious to know the truth. 
" It was about temperance," answered Harvey. 
" Well, what did he say ?" 
" Oh, he talked ever so much about rum-sellers, 
and called them dreadful bad names." 
"He did?" 
" Yes, sir. And it made Maggy turn red and then 
white, and she held down her head, and the teachers 
and children looked at her. And Tom Grant, he 
punched me and said, Your daddy 's one of em.  I 
don 't  want to go to that Sunday-school any more, I 
don 't . Can t I stay home, father ?" 
Lloyd pushed back his chair with a bitter excla 
mation and flung himself out of the room. He was 
angry beyond measure, yet with an anger so blended 
with pain that he was in torture. 
CHAPTER XVI. 
"PROPHET of evil!" Lloyd said to me in a 
A- strange rasping voice as he came in that Sun 
day evening to help in the bar. His eyes had a wild, 
desperate expression, and he looked something like 
an animal at bay. 
" It has come at last ?" I responded, for I guessed 
what he meant. 
" What has come ?" he asked, with a thrill of fierce 
anger in his tones. 
" The evil I prophesied. I told you a Sunday- 
school was no place for Maggy. You can t mix oil 
and water, and it 's no use to try." 
" How did you know there had been anything 
wrong at the school ?" 
" I didn 't know. I only guessed. I knew it would 
come, and that it was likely to come any day. Well, 
what was it ?" 
He told me all he knew. 
" Are you going to let Maggy and the boys go 
back there to be picked at and insulted after this 
fashion?" I asked. 
" They 'll never go again, if I have my say," he 
replied. " But it wor. t do to interfere with Maggy, 
poor thing ! She must have her will. I can t say 
no to her. And Jane is so anxious about Harvey 
and Willy, and wants them in the Sunday-school. I 
don 't  know what to do." 
We were interrupted by customers. Not long 
afterward our bar-tender, who had been up stairs in 
answer to calls for liquor, said to me aside, that 
Lloyd might not hear, 
" Tom 's up stairs." 
" Not Tom Lloyd ?" I answered. 
"Yes, and he 's been in a muss with somebody, 
and got battered up dreadfully. He don 't  want his 
father to know he 's here. Says, won t you come up 
and see him ?" 
As soon as I could get away from customers I 
went up to see the boy, who was going to ruin fast, 
I am sorry to say. I found him in a wretched con 
dition. His face was cut and bruised, and the fingers 
of one hand badly hurt, swollen and very painful 
broken, it proved to be. He had been drinking. I 
gathered from him that he had been across the river 
with a gang of rowdy boys and young men, and that 
he had got into a fight with one of them, that two 
or three joined against him, beating and kicking him 
about the body and in the face in a most savage 
manner. I wondered, from his account of the way 
they set upon him, that worse injuries had not been 
the consequence. 
" Don 't let father know about it," he said, in a 
piteous way. w I can t stand any more." 
  
" He 'll not do anything to you. Don 't be afraid,"
I replied. 
I then examined his hurts as well as I could. 
" There 's a broken bone here, I'm afraid, Tom," 
said I, after turning his hand about and examining 
the swollen finger, "and we 'll have to send for a 
doctor." 
He groaned from pain of mind as well as body. 
" Will father have to know ?" he asked. 
" I don 't  see how it is to be helped, Tom," I re 
plied. " I 'll see him first, and have a talk with 
him." 
He shut his eyes and closed his mouth tightly. 
Poor boy! My heart ached for him. Two years 
before he was such a nice lad, more like his sister 
Maggy than any of the other children. He was a 
favorite in the bindery, all spoke well of him, and all 
prophesied that he would grow up to be a good and 
useful man. Alas ! what a change had come over 
him! In less than two years he had been trans 
formed into a coarse, profane rowdy, the slave of 
evil passion. 
I went down, and as soon as I could get Lloyd by 
himself, said, 
" Tom 's got into trouble." 
A scowl darkened his face. 
" What 's the matter ? Where is he ?" he asked, 
harshly. 
"You 've got to be cool about it, Tom," said I. 
"It isn 't a case for anger, but care and concern. 
 
He 's been badly beaten, and one finger is broken, 
I'm afraid." 
The fierceness went out of his face. 
" Oh dear !" he almost groaned. " There 's no end 
to trouble." 
" You 'd better send some one for Dr. ," I 
suggested. 
" Is it so bad as that ?" he inquired. 
" If it 's no more than a broken finger, there will 
have to be a doctor," I replied. 
"Where is he? At home?" 
" No ; he 's up stairs." 
He seemed relieved at this, saying, " I'm glad he 
didn 't go home. They re in trouble enough there, as 
it is." 
I went up stairs in company with Lloyd. I did so 
in order to keep him from breaking out angrily. It 
was no time for a passionate assault upon the un 
happy boy. 
The face of Tom, swollen, cut, blood-marked and 
purple in spots from knuckle strokes and kicks, as 
he raised his head and looked in a wistful, fright 
ened way at his father, was a sight to shock any 
body 's nerves. I did not wonder at the exclamation 
of pain and alarm that fell from Lloyd as his eyes 
first rested upon him. 
A doctor wa^. sent for, and the boy examined 
carefully. His finger, as I feared, was broken. There 
was a deep, ugly bruise on one of his cheeks, his 
nose was swollen to double its usual size and one 
 
of his eyes was black. On his body were several 
bad bruises. He had been kicked in the side just 
above the hip, and from the pain he felt there, the 
doctor feared there might be an internal injury. 
After setting the finger the doctor very naturally 
asked how Tom came to be beaten in so shocking a 
manner. 
" It wasn 't in Sunday-school, I guess," he added, 
before there was time for an answer to his question. 
I saw Lloyd wince a little. 
" I never heard of Sunday-school boys fighting 
like dogs and beating their companions after this 
savage fashion," added the doctor. 
Neither Tom nor his father felt inclined to go into 
particulars. 
After the doctor went away we held a consulta 
tion as to what would be best to do with the boy. 
If he did not come home that night, his mother 
would be frightened about him, and if she were told 
of what had happened, she would be made wretched 
beyond description. Oh, but he was a dreadful ob 
ject for a mother to look upon ! 
"Better keep him here for to-night, at least," I 
counseled. " It will never do for his mother and 
Maggy to see him as he is." 
" But what can I say at home ?" asked Lloyd. He 
looked like a man lost and bewildered. 
"Trump up some story that will pass muster. 
Say anything except the naked truth. That will 
come soon enough." 
 
" It 's easy to talk," he answered, fretfully. " If 
you had two or three women to manage, you 
wouldn 't see it all so clearly." 
" Which, thank Heaven ! I have not," was my fer 
vent reply. 
It was decided to let Tom stay where he was, and 
get up some story to explain his absence. 
On the next day he went home to lay another 
sorrow on the heart of his mother. 
I had not seen Harry Glenn but two or three 
times since the night his brother-in-law made an 
assault upon him. He felt the disgrace so deeply 
that he did not go back to work in the office, but got 
in somewhere else. He went down very rapidly 
after his wife left him. 
One evening about this time he came shuffling 
into our bar-room, a most forlorn-looking object. 
His clothes were shabby and dirty, and he presented 
the appearance of a man who had been on a spree 
for a week or more. His eyes were bloodshotten 
and had a wild, restless way of glancing about that 
suggested mania. All his motions were nervous. 
He came up to the bar, and leaning on the silver- 
plated railing, bent his face over toward me, and said 
in a hoarse, shaky kind of voice, 
" Brandy." 
I did not often refuse men, drunk or sober. But I 
felt an impulse to say no to this wretched man, fallen 
bO deep and in so short a time. I remembered that 
he was a sober man with a wife and child and a 
 
home when we opened "The Retreat," and I saw 
what he was now. It all passed through my mind 
in an instant, and I said kindly but firmly, 
"You 've had enough, Harry, for to-night. I 
wouldn 't take any more if I were you." 
" Brandy ! Brandy, Hiram \" he answered, in a 
wild, eager way, reaching out his hand. " I want 
brandy or whisky, or any kind of spirits. Quick, 
Hiram !" and I saw him glare over his shoulder 
with a nervous, half-alarmed start, as if he thought 
some one had followed him in. 
" I 've been trying to shut down," he added, in a 
lower voice and in a confidential way, " but it don 't  
work right. Just a glass, Hiram. Ugh !" 
And he gave a quick spring backward, while fear 
and disgust writhed in his face. 
" Give him brandy," cried old Jacobs, who was 
present, and who had been watching Glenn very 
closely since he came in. The old pressman came 
forward as he spoke, and taking the miserable- 
looking man by the arm, drew him again up to 
the bar. 
I hesitated no longer. The brandy was set before 
him. With a kind of desperate eagerness, Glenn 
reached out his shaking hand toward the decanter, 
and was lifting it to fill a glass when he let it fall, 
with an exclamation of alarm. There was a look 
of abject horror on his face. 
" Don 't be a fool," said Jacobs. " Tisn 't outside 
of you. Here ! Drink ! Quick !" He had filled 
 
the glass hastily, and now held it toward the agitated 
man. 
There were two or three of the rougher and 
more unfeeling kind of bar-room loungers present. 
" Ho ! ho !" laughed one of them, starting up and 
coming to the bar. " The old chap 's after him, dead 
sure! Snakes and lizards, devils and crocodiles, 
and all that fancy crew ! Bad company, my friend." 
And he eyed Glenn with the excited interest of a 
bully enjoying a dog-fight. 
In the mean time, Glenn had clutched the glass 
with both hands and was gulping down the brandy. 
"Steady, man!" said the last speaker, his face 
twitching with merriment. " That 's the way. Fight 
em with brandy." 
But the fiends had too strong a grip on the poor 
fellow. His eyes as he drank were looking suspi 
ciously into the glass, and before the last drops were 
drained, he saw in them some horrid thing of life. 
A cry, a start of fear and a dashing of the glass to 
the floor followed. 
" Got him, sure !" chuckled the man to whom I 
have referred, and two or three joined in the laugh. 
" Give him another dose." 
By this time Glenn had rushed desperately across 
the room, and was crouching behind a table trying 
to hide himself. Jacobs followed, and sought to 
allay his fears. 
" Tisn 't anything outside of you, Harry ! Tisn 't 
in the room here. I don 't  see anything. I'm not 
 
afraid," he said, bending down over the frightened 
man and laying his hand upon his shoulder. " I 
know. I 've had it. It 's only an ugly kind of dream." 
" Maybe it is," Glenn answered, partially assured. 
" But I never had it before, you see. It " 
He gave another start and cry, almost throwing 
Jacobs over, and bounded across the room, where he 
stood crouching and shivering against the wall. 
" Go for a policeman," Lloyd said to the bar 
keeper, in a cold, half-indifferent way. 
" Don 't do any such thing," spoke up Jacobs, an 
grily. " It isn 't a case for the police." 
" Go, I tell you !" Lloyd waved his hand to the 
bar-keeper. 
" I say don 't  !" cried Jacobs, in a tone of command. 
"Gentlemen" and he appealed to the company 
"it 's a shame! We know what 's the matter. This 
poor fellow mustn t go to the lock-up. He might 
die. He 's a fellow-creature, and not a dog to let 
perish in the gutter." 
This had the desired effect. The company were 
unanimously against Lloyd, and the police were not 
sent for. 
A second glass of brandy was given, but it did 
not do the work. Glenn 's unstrung nerves would 
not respond and tighten their loosened fibres. Hor 
rible things, great and small, filled the air around 
him, crept into his bosom, twined about his neck, 
grinned in his face, crawled over his hands, stretched 
great claws to seize him, swooped down upon him 
 
from wall and ceiling, sprung upon him from the 
floor. It was an awful scene. The poor man 's 
cries of horror and calls for help and looks of deep 
est terror made the flesh creep. Even the rough, 
unfeeling men who had laughed at first, grew sober 
and silent. 
We got him up stairs, so as to relieve the bar 
room of his presence, and there we worked with 
him for hours before exhausted nature retired from 
the struggle. 
I noticed, as they were taking him out of the bar 
room, the pale, frightened face of a boy who had 
retreated near the door. He was one of our Sun 
day-evening guests, a lad from the bindery and the 
only son of a widow. He had been losing ground 
pretty fast of late. I could see the love of liquor 
growing on him steadily. He did not seem to care 
for it at first. Other lads in the bindery had told 
him of the nice evenings they spent at " The Re 
treat," and so he had been enticed to come. He was 
social, and liked games. There were dominoes, cards, 
checkers, backgammon and bagatelle and boys he 
knew quite enough to lure him, and more than 
enough, when the taste for drink was formed, to hold 
him upon our enchanted ground. But this taste for 
liquor grew, and of late I had often seen him too 
much under its influence. 
I gathered from what journeymen said to him 
occasionally that he was not doing as well in the 
bindery as he should. 
 
Now and then he would slip away from his work 
in the daytime, and come in .to have a little rest 
and play at backgammon or bagatelle with some 
other boys, idlers like himself. 
" You here !" I had often heard a journeyman say 
to him in reproof. " You 'd better be at your work. 
You 'll have Ashley down on you." 
" Not afraid of Ashley," he would answer, jauntily, 
or, " Look out for Ashley yourself." 
He had learned to swear as well as drink, and 
could talk dirty talk as freely as any one. His face 
had changed noticeably. It was coarser and more 
sensual, and the boyish innocence had gone out of 
his eyes. 
As Glenn was taken struggling and crying from 
the room, I saw this boy 's pale face vanish through 
the door. He never came back again. It was the 
first time he had seen or heard of the drunkard 's 
strange, appalling delirium a delirium of which 
every one who drinks steadily and freely is in 
danger and it so rilled him with dread and horror 
that he turned his steps out of the way he had en 
tered, and never went back into it, so far as I know, 
again. 
Poor Glenn had been running down fearfully of 
late. He had drank until appetite for food was nearly 
gone, and kept himself up almost entirely by stimu 
lants. There always comes an end to a state of 
things like this. Stimulants cannot take the place 
of food. They excite, but do not give nutrition they 
 
diminish waste, but cannot build up. In the end, if 
too much relied on, they fail. The time comes when 
reaction ceases when the bow will not pull against 
the string. Then follows the struggle for life. 
In such a struggle this young man found himself. 
It was a death-struggle indeed. A doctor was with 
him all night, and it was only by the greatest care 
that he was saved. If he had been given over to the 
police and taken to a cell in the station-house, he 
would have died there. I said so to Lloyd on the 
next day, and he answered gruffly, 
" It would have been the best thing for him. When 
a man gets as far gone as he is, he ought to die." 
I was hard enough and indifferent enough, but 
not so brutal as this. 
" If he were your son," I replied, with the covert 
contempt I felt for him at that moment trembling in 
my voice, " you might have something else to say." 
" I 'd rather see a son of mine dead than ever come 
to that," he said, dropping his high manner, and with 
a change of tone I did not fail to notice. I had 
meant to touch him in a tender spot, and was suc 
cessful. 
It was not until the afternoon of the day following 
Glenn 's attack of delirium tremens that he was in a 
condition to be taken away by his friends. His 
presence in the house annoyed us very much. We 
didn 't propose to keep a hospital, much less for 
diseases of this kind. It was our business to make 
men sick, not to nurse and cure them. Other people 
 
might do that if they had a fancy for it, but it 
wasn 't in our line. 
I noticed that a number of our regular drinkers 
tried to taper off after this. The ten-glass-a-day 
men cut down to six or eight, and the six-glass men 
to four or five. But it didn 't last. After a few days 
