obtained so much money, while the others in the office believed that her
answer was merely a subterfuge to conceal the guilt of her son. Ezekiel
could not help thinking, just then, that his wife always had money;
that, while she had no visible means of obtaining it, she always had
enough to feed and clothe the family. He had considered this subject,
and wondered over it before; and the only solution of the mystery he
could suggest was, that her first husband had left her more money than
she ever acknowledged he did, and she had concealed it to prevent him
from spending it. As to her son, he had never thought of the matter at
all. All that confused and confounded him was, his mother's refusal to
answer what seemed to him a very simple question.
"Mrs. Taylor, you will be a witness, and the most important one in the
case, when it comes up before Squire Norwood to-morrow," added the
lawyer.
"I suppose I shall," replied Mrs. Taylor, with a gasp.
"You will be put under oath, and compelled to testify."
"But you are not under oath now, and you need not say anything, if you
don't wish to," said Mr. Brooks.
"As the matter looks now, you are a party to the theft, and I can cause
your arrest," added the squire, vexed at the officiousness of the deputy
sheriff.
"O, dear me!" groaned Mrs. Taylor.
"Don't be frightened, mother," interposed Bobtail. "You know, and I
know, that you did not obtain the money from me."
"And the Lord knows I did not, and that I came honestly by it, too,"
sobbed the poor woman, who had a mortal terror of courts and the law.
"If you came honestly by the money, why don't you tell where you
obtained it?" added Squire Gilfilian.
"I have my reasons."
"If your son did not give you this bill--"
"He did not! I'm sure he never saw it before," protested Mrs. Taylor.
"Whoever gave you this bill must have stolen it," said the squire,
sternly.
"That don't follow," replied Mr. Brooks. "It may have passed through the
hands of half a dozen persons after it was taken from the letter."
"Are you the counsel for these parties, Mr. Brooks?" demanded the
squire, smartly.
"I am not; but the prisoner is in my keeping, and shall have fair play.
I'll take him away if you are not satisfied, for I brought him here to
oblige you," answered the deputy sheriff, who was certainly very
considerate towards his charge.
"All I want is, to get at the truth," added the squire, in a milder
tone. "If Mrs. Taylor did not receive this bill from her son, and will
tell us where she got it, we can trace out the thief."
"That's the point," said Captain Chinks. "We want to find the guilty
party."
Captain Chinks winked rapidly for an instant, as though his brain was
fearfully exercised to discover the thief. He had one black eye, which
winked faster than the other--it was the result of his interview with
Little Bobtail the day before, for the boy struck hard when he was
assailed.
"I can't tell you where I got the bill," said Mrs. Taylor; "but I came
honestly by it."
"It's no use of saying anything more, then," added the lawyer. "Under
these circumstances, I am compelled to regard you as a party to your
son's guilt, Mrs. Taylor; and I must cause your arrest."
"Don't do that, Squire Gilfilian," pleaded Bobtail.
"I must do it. It becomes my duty to do it."
"Let him do it," whispered Mr. Brooks.
"I can't help it if you do," sobbed the poor woman. "If I have to go to
jail, I can't tell."
"Nothing more can be done, and I shall procure a warrant for the arrest
of Mrs. Taylor," said the lawyer, gathering up the papers on his desk,
and restoring the five hundred dollar bill to his pocket-book.
Mr. Brooks and Bobtail left the office, followed by Mrs. Taylor and her
husband.
"I am responsible for you, Bobtail," said the officer.
"I won't run away, sir. You have been very kind to me, Mr. Brooks, and I
won't go back on you," replied Bobtail.
"But I must not lose sight of you; and I don't want to send you to jail.
I'll take you to my house."
"Just as you say, sir; but I should like to go home and have a talk with
mother. I want to see Squire Simonton, too."
"Very well; I will go home with you. I saw Squire Simonton walking
towards his house just now. There he is, in front of the hotel, talking
with Mr. Hines."
They walked towards the Bay View House. It was nearly tea time, and the
guests of the house were seated on the platform, under the shade of the
trees which surround the hotel. There was an excited group there, for
the particulars of the cruise of the Penobscot that day had just been
related by the Walkers and others.
"I want to see you, Squire Simonton," said Bobtail.
"There he is. Three cheers for Little Bobtail!" shouted Mr. Walker, as
he pointed to the hero of the day.
There were gentlemen enough who had heard the story to give the cheers,
and the ladies clapped their hands.
"That's for you, Bobtail," said Mr. Hines. "We have heard of your brave
deeds, and all the people in the hotel are talking about you."
Little Bobtail blushed like a beet, and while Mr. Hines was telling the
deputy sheriff how the boy had saved Grace Montague from the waves and
the rocks, the hero related his own troubles to Mr. Simonton. Mr. Walker
and Emily came out, and insisted that Bobtail should go into the hotel,
and see the ladies. Ever so many of them shook his brown hand, and he
blushed and stammered, and thought the scene was ten times as trying as
that off Blank Island. Then he must take tea with the Walkers. He could
not be excused.
"I can't, sir," protested Bobtail. "I have been taken up for stealing
since I came a shore. But I didn't do it."
"For stealing!" exclaimed Emily Walker, with horror.
"I didn't do it."
"I know you didn't, Captain Bobtail," replied Emily.
"This is Mr. Brooks, the deputy sheriff, and he is responsible for me,"
added Bobtail. "So you see I can't leave him."
"Then Mr. Brooks must come too," said Mr. Walker.
The officer was very obliging, and went too. Bobtail was a first-class
lion, though under arrest for stealing. The gentlemen patted him on the
head, and the ladies petted him. A party wanted the Skylark for the next
day, another for Monday, and a third for Tuesday. The hero could not go
the next day, for he had to be examined before Squire Norwood for
stealing the letter. It was dark when he escaped from the hotel, and
went home attended by Mr. Brooks. Squire Simonton was there waiting to
see him.
After the scene at the office, Ezekiel and his wife had walked to the
cottage together. Neither of them was in a pleasant frame of mind. The
tippler was sober, because he had neither rum nor money. He wanted both,
for he was thirsting and hankering for a dram.
"So it seems you've got money somewhere," said Ezekiel to his troubled
wife.
"No, I haven't," replied Mrs. Taylor, who was only thinking how she
could extricate herself from the difficulties of her situation, and not
at all troubled about the thoughts or suspicions of her worthless
husband.
"Yes, you have! When I don't have a dollar, you always have somethin',"
persisted Ezekiel. "You've kept money hid away from me ever since we was
married. Your first husband left more'n you told on."
"All that my first husband left me was gone years ago," added Mrs.
Taylor, indifferently.
"You've got money somewhere."
"If I have, I shall keep it."
"You hain't no right to do so."
"Yes, I have. If I had any money, I would not let you have it to spend
for rum. Every dollar you get goes for that, and you would have starved
to death if I hadn't taken care of you."
"If you've got any money, I wan't some on't; and I'm go'n to have it,
too."
"I haven't any money; at least not much of any; and what I have I mean
to keep."
Ezekiel was mad. He was fully convinced that his wife had money
concealed somewhere, or in the hands of some friend, who gave it to her
as she wanted it. She always paid the bills of the house very promptly,
and had enough to buy a dress for herself, or a suit of clothes for
Robert, and even for him. He felt that he had a right to his wife's
property, even if he spent it for rum. But Mrs. Taylor was too much for
him; for whatever secret she had, she kept it. This was not the first
time that Ezekiel had been vexed by these suspicions, and he had
searched the house several times, when she was absent, for the hidden
treasure, but without finding it. The debate on this question was
continued long after they returned to the cottage, but the husband was
no wiser at the end of it than at the beginning.
All the points of the case were stated to Squire Simonton, who
volunteered to act as counsel for Bobtail.
"But where did this bill come from, Mrs. Taylor?" asked the legal
gentleman.
"I can't tell," replied the troubled woman.
"You can't tell!"
"No, sir; I cannot."
"But your refusal will certainly insure the conviction of your son."
"Robert did not give me that bill," protested she.
"I don't believe he did, nuther," said Ezekiel. "She's got money hid
away somewhere."
"If it had been hid away long, it could not have been the bill which was
sent in the letter."
"It wasn't hid away," added Mrs. Taylor. "I might injure somebody by
telling where I got the bill; and for that reason I can't say a single
word, even if I go to prison for it."
"But your son will be sent to prison, certainly, if you don't tell,"
said the lawyer.
"O, dear! What shall I do?"
She positively refused to tell even Squire Simonton, who explained that,
as counsel, he could not be obliged to reveal the secrets of his
clients. It was finally arranged that a postponement of the examination
should be obtained, if possible; and Mr. Walker and half a dozen others
had promised to give bail for Bobtail.
CHAPTER XII.
CAPTAIN CHINKS IS INDIFFERENT.
"I don't know that we can do any better under the circumstances," said
Squire Simonton, after the arrangement of the legal business had been
agreed upon. "But we are making a strange case of it."
The squire bestowed one of his pleasant smiles upon the case, for he was
one of those sweet-tempered men who never frown, even when they are
vexed. He was perplexed, and very properly claimed the right, as
counsel, to know all the facts. But it was evident that Mrs. Taylor had,
or supposed she had, a good reason for concealing the source from which
came the five hundred dollar bill.
"Squire Gilfilian purposes to make Mrs. Taylor a party to the theft,"
said Mr. Brooks. "Probably he will get out a warrant for her arrest in
the morning."
"I never thought it would come to this, that I should be taken up for
stealing," added the poor woman, bursting into tears.
"You can hardly wonder at being arrested," suggested the squire. "The
stolen property was in your possession, and you refuse even to explain
where you got it."
"I could tell a lie about it, but I won't do that," sobbed Mrs. Taylor.
"If you can only get the case put off for a few days, or a week, I
hope--I may be able--that is, I may be able to explain how I came by
that bill."
"We must give some reason for desiring a postponement," replied the
lawyer. "Can you really say, Mrs. Taylor, that you expect to obtain more
testimony?"
"I hope to obtain it."
"Very well. Then I think we can have the case put off till, say, next
Tuesday."
"I will try to have matters explained by that time; but I am to be taken
up and sent to jail."
"O, no," laughed the squire. "You may be arrested; but that will amount
to nothing. Your husband can give bail for you, for it appears that this
house belongs to him now, since the mortgage is cancelled."
"I won't go bail for her," said Ezekiel, sourly; and this was the first
time he appeared to be of the slightest consequence.
"Won't you?"
"No, I won't. She has kept money hid away from me."
"Never mind, mother. We shall get bail enough to keep a coaster afloat,"
interposed Bobtail. "If we can't do any better, I'll send for Colonel
Montague. He told me, if I ever wanted a friend, to send for him."
"Certainly he will help you, after what you have done to-day," smiled
the lawyer.
"But I don't want to have you to go away up to Belfast for him," said
Mrs. Taylor, who appeared now to be more troubled than ever.
"I don't think we need to do so, mother. Mr. Walker and two or three
other gentlemen said they would bail me out; and so I don't believe we
shall sink," laughed Little Bobtail.
"Now, Mr. Brooks, I don't think you need take the boy away from his
friends. I am sure he won't run away," added the squire.
"I am satisfied. Though this is the oddest case I have had anything to
do with for a long time. I am inclined to think Bobtail will come out
right, though for the life of me I can't see how," added the deputy
sheriff.
"I'll trust Bobtail anywhere. He goes to our Sunday school, and I know
he is an honest boy, however bad his case may look just now," continued
Mr. Simonton.
Mr. Brooks was entirely willing to trust the lion of the day out of his
custody; and he left the cottage with the lawyer.
"I s'pose I ain't o' no account here," said Ezekiel, as the door closed
behind the departing gentlemen.
"What do you mean by that?" asked Mrs. Taylor.
"I wan't to know sunthin' about this business. I s'pose I ain't the head
of this family."
"I don't think you are," replied the wife. "You haven't done much for it
the last seven years."
"You bring that boy of yourn up to steal. If he'll take my property,
he'll take other folks' property."
"It's no use to talk any more about that matter," said Mrs. Taylor,
impatiently.
"I believe the boy stole the letter and took the money out on't,"
muttered Ezekiel.
"A little while ago you believed I had money hid away, and took the five
hundred dollars from that."
"It was one way or t'other, and one ain't no wus 'n t'other. I hain't
been consulted in this business at all."
"You refused to be bail for me, and that's enough for one day," answered
Mrs. Taylor.
"I ain't a goin' to resk my property for a woman that keeps money hid
away from me, and won't tell no thin' about this business."
"Your property would have been all taken away from you long ago if I
hadn't paid the interest, and paid the mortgage, too."
"But where did you get the money to pay the mortgage with?"
"That will all be explained in due time."
Ezekiel went over the same ground again and again. He was angry, and
finally left the house. He felt that he was an abused man, because he
was ignored. He objected to giving bail for his wife simply to increase
his own importance, and a little importunity would have won his
consent. He was vexed because he had not even been asked a second time
to yield the point.
"Now, mother, we are alone," said Bobtail. "Can't you tell me where you
got that bill?"
"I can't tell anybody, Robert," replied his mother. "I am sure that all
will be explained in time."
"The case looks bad against me, mother."
"I know it does;" and the tears began to flow from her eyes again.
"I don't like to be accused of stealing, and have it proved, as it seems
to be in this case. I don't blame anybody for thinking I'm guilty, when
the very bill that was in the letter was handed to the squire by you,
and you won't tell where you got it. I shall be sent to the state prison
for two or three years."
"O, Robert, I shall be crazy! Do you think I stole the bill?"
"No, mother; nothing of that kind. I know you wouldn't steal. You know I
didn't give you that bill, and you are the only one that does know it
positively. I wonder that Squire Simonton don't give me the cold
shoulder, though he is my Sunday school teacher. I can't see what
difference it would make if you should tell where you got the bill."
"I can't say a word about it. I will try to have the whole matter
explained before Tuesday," said the poor woman, troubled as she had
never been troubled before.
"I think I shall call on Colonel Montague, if I get a chance. He told me
I should hear from him again," said Bobtail, as he put on his cap, for
he intended to sleep on board of the Skylark.
"I wouldn't bother him with the matter, Robert."
"Why not? He told me to send for him if I ever wanted a friend; and I
want one now, if ever I did."
"It will look as though you wanted to make too much of what you did for
him to-day."
"I don't think so, mother. He is a great man, and has influence. If I
can get a chance to run up to Belfast in the Skylark, I will do so."
"Don't tell him that I sent you, Robert," said Mrs. Taylor, actually
trembling with emotion.
"Of course I won't; but I don't see why you are so particular about not
calling on him. I know he would be glad to help me."
Mrs. Taylor made no reply, and her son, bidding her good night, left the
house. He went on board of the Skylark, and after he had told the
Darwinian the whole story of his misfortune, he turned in. He did not
sleep as well as usual. He could not help thinking half the night of his
troubles. They worried him, and he wondered if people were ever really
punished for crimes they did not commit.
Ezekiel Taylor left the cottage hardly less disturbed than his wife was.
He had a strong suspicion that he was not the head of the family; that
Mrs. Taylor had actually usurped his powers and prerogatives; that she
dared to think and act for herself and her son without much, if any,
regard to him. He felt belittled and degraded; not because he was a
drunkard, and neglected to provide for his family, but because he was
not in fact, as he was in name, the head of the house. He was thirsty
and hankering for rum, and this condition made him ugly. He had not a
cent in his pocket, and his credit at the saloon was not good even for a
single dram. But he went to the saloon, for it was possible that some
one might treat him. The first person he saw when he entered was Captain
Chinks.
Almost everybody seemed to be troubled that night, and Captain Chinks
was among the number. Things did not work to suit him; and every time he
viewed himself in the glass he saw that black eye which Bobtail had
given him, and every time he touched that eye there was a soreness there
to remind him of that affair in the cabin of the Skylark. He did not
love Little Bobtail, and the event of the day that had set everybody to
talking about and praising the boy made him feel ten times worse. It
would be hard to convict him of stealing the letter while almost
everybody was making a lion of him.
"Ah, Zeke!" exclaimed Captain Chinks, as the tippler entered the saloon.
"How d'y do, cap'n?" replied the nominal head of the family.
"I'm glad to see you, Zeke. I've been wanting to see you. Won't you take
something?"
"Thank ye; I don't care if I do take a little o' sunthin'. I don't feel
jest right to-night," answered Ezekiel, placing his hand upon his
diaphragm, to intimate that this was the seat of his ailing.
"We will go into this little room, if you like," added Captain Chinks,
as he led the way into a small apartment, where a party could dine or
sup in privacy. "Give us a bottle of that brandy," he continued,
addressing the keeper of the saloon.
Ezekiel smiled, for a private room indicated a free-and-easy time. A
bottle of brandy promised a succession of drams, enough to warm up that
disagreeable coldness at the diaphragm, and to lift his brain up to the
pitch of a tippler's highest enjoyment. Then "that brandy" suggested a
liquor of choice quality, something which his companion had tested, and
knew to be good. Ezekiel was happy, and for the moment he forgot that he
was not the actual head of the family; that his wife had kept money "hid
away from him;" and that her son had destroyed his property. But he
wondered what Captain Chinks could want of him, for that worthy did not
generally treat him with much consideration, whereas now he was polite,
generous, and ready to invest to the extent of a whole bottle of that
brandy, which must be very choice, and therefore expensive.
The bottle came, and the door of the little room was closed. Captain
Chinks seated himself on one side of the table, on which the bottle and
glasses were placed, and invited Ezekiel to occupy a chair on the other
side. The captain pushed the brandy and a glass towards his guest, who
needed no persuasion to induce him to partake of the choice liquor. He
poured out about half a tumbler of the stuff, but he kept his hand over
the glass,--he was a wily toper,--so that his host should not see how
much he took. He added a very little water to the fiery fluid, and then
held the glass in his trembling hand till the captain was ready to join
him. The man with a doubtful reputation did not cover his glass with his
hand; if he had thought it necessary, he would have done it in order to
conceal how small, rather than how large, a dram he took. He only
covered the bottom of the tumbler, and then deluged the liquor with
water. Captain Chinks was a cunning man, and he knew that brandy unfits
a man for business, impairs his judgment, and blunts his perception. He
took a small dram.
"Here's to you," said Ezekiel.
"Thank you; my respects," added Captain Chinks.
The toper drained his glass. The liquor was strong, and the tears
drowned his eyes as he swallowed the fiery fluid.
"That's good brandy!" exclaimed he, as soon as he could speak.
"First chop," replied Captain Chinks. "You couldn't buy that brandy in
Portland for three dollars a bottle. In my opinion that article never
paid tribute to Uncle Sam."
"'Tain't no wus for that," said Ezekiel, with a cheerful grin.
"That's so."
"'Tain't right to charge no duties on liquors. That's the reason we git
so much pizen stuff. You can hardly git a drop of good brandy for
sickness now, without you pay four or five dollars a bottle for it; and
I can't afford to pay no such prices," added Ezekiel, deeply moved at
this terrible grievance.
"Well, I reckon there's more of it comes in from the provinces without
paying any duties than most people think, though I don't know anything
about it myself."
Even Ezekiel Taylor had his doubts on this point, though he was not
disposed, under the present agreeable circumstances, to indulge in any
controversy on the point.
"The more they bring in, the better," said he, encouragingly.
"By the way, Zeke, that boy of yours is in luck to-day," continued
Captain Chinks, toying with his glass.
"He ain't no boy o' mine," said the toper, with no little indignation in
his tones. "He's my wife's boy."
"Well, it's all the same. He's a smart boy."
"He's smart enough; but he ain't the right sort of a boy. He's rather
too smart."
"That was a bad scrape he got into about that letter; but I can't
believe he opened it, and took the money out," added Captain Chinks,
still toying with the glass, and apparently without the least interest
in the conversation in which he was engaged.
"He ain't none too good to do sech a thing," muttered Ezekiel, as he
recalled the wickedness of the boy in destroying "his property."
"I thought he was a nice boy, went to Sunday school, and belonged to the
Band of Hope," continued the captain, who, however, judging from his
manner, did not care whether the boy was a saint or a demon.
"I don't care what he b'longs to, nor how many Sunday schools he goes
to: he stole sunthin' from me, and I cal'late he'd steal from other
folks, if he would from me."
"That's good logic, Zeke; but you mustn't be hard on the boy."
"I ain't hard on him."
"I reckon that folks generally think more of him than you seem to. By
the way, did he say anything to you about that boat he picked up over on
the other shore?"
"No; he never said nothin' to me about it."
"Didn't he?"
"No; he never says nothin' to me about anything."
"That's a fine boat," added Captain Chinks, who had taken a lead pencil
from his pocket, and was tapping the glass with it, as if to ascertain
the quality of the material of which it was composed.
"So I've hearn tell; but I hain't seen her only from the shore."
"It's strange no one comes after her," suggested the captain. "Zeke,
there's a mystery about that boat."
"Sho!"
"Of course I don't know anything about it; but I reckon the owner would
have been after her, if there hadn't been some reason for keeping in the
dark."
"You don't say so!"
"Well, you see I only guess at it. I don't know no more about it than
you do; perhaps not so much."
"I don't know nothin' at all about it," protested Ezekiel.
Captain Chinks tapped the glass, and did not seem to care about anything
in particular, least of all about that boat, which was the subject of
the conversation.
"What do you mean by a mystery, cap'n? I hain't hearn nothin' of no
mystery afore."
"I had some talk with your boy about the boat and her cargo."
"What cargo? I hain't hearn nothin' o' no cargo."
"Won't you take another nip of this brandy, Zeke?" added Captain Chinks,
pushing the bottle towards him.
"Don't care if I do. That's good brandy."
"But it isn't any better than a lot which was aboard that boat when your
boy picked her up."
"Sho! You don't say she had brandy in her?"
"No, I don't say so. I say again that I don't know anything at all about
the matter. I only had my suspicions, you know."
"I understand," replied Ezekiel, as he drank off his dram.
"I don't know, but in my judgment that boat was loaded with brandy, or
something that don't pay tribute to Uncle Sam."
"You don't say so!"
"No, I don't say so," replied Captain Chinks, sharply, for he was very
particular not to be regarded as affirming what he only suspected. "I
only guess so."
"Well, you don't say that you guess so! That's what I meant to say,"
explained the toper.
"The talk I had with your boy satisfied me I wasn't far from right. Now,
the brandy's worth more than the boat. I'm always up to a trade, you
know; and I didn't know but I might make something. I asked your boy if
he would give up the cargo and keep the boat, in case I could find the
owner."
"Sho! Did you know the owner, cap'n?"
"Of course I didn't. I haven't the least idea who he is. Your boy
wouldn't give up the cargo and keep the boat."
"That boy's a fool, and allus was."
"I thought, if I could get hold of the cargo, I could make something out
of it. Perhaps you and I can now;" and the captain looked sharply into
the toper's face.
"I'm ready," replied Ezekiel, who was now considerably "boozed."
"Bobtail must have landed that cargo somewhere, and concealed it;
perhaps on some island; may be in your house. I say, Zeke, can you keep
a quiet tongue in your head?"
"I cal'late I can."
Captain Chinks enlarged on this point, and the toper promised to be as
silent as the grave.
"Now, I reckon you can find this brandy. I suppose it was brandy, but I
don't know. If it was, it comes in cases."
"Yes, I know," added Ezekiel, eagerly; and he wished he might get hold
of that brandy; if he did, Captain Chinks would not get the whole of
it.
"If you keep an eye on the boy, you can easily find it. The boat was
seen at anchor early in the morning after he picked her up, and I'm
pretty sure he has hid the goods somewhere about your house. If you find
them, just let me know, and I'll give you a case of the brandy, and a
hundred dollars besides. Will you do it, Zeke?"
"If it don't b'long to you, I don't see why I should give it up to you."
This was a brilliant idea on the part of the toper, and Captain Chinks
could not help acknowledging the force of it.
"You can't do anything with it. The government will take it away from
you. You see, I mean to make a trade with the owner of the goods. It is
no more than fair that he should have his own property, if he will pay
you and me for our trouble. Take something, Zeke."
The toper drank again, and then Captain Chinks made him a present of
what was left in the bottle. Ezekiel agreed to do all that was required
of him, and his companion cautioned him not to say a word to Bobtail
about it, but only to watch him. They separated, and the inebriate
staggered to his home.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE EXAMINATION.
Mrs. Taylor did not sleep any better than her son. Her troubles kept her
awake, and not her worthless husband, who was so tipsy when he returned
from the saloon, that he dropped asleep as soon as he lay down. The poor
woman had done nothing to improve the situation, for she could not leave
the town until after the examination. At nine o'clock Mr. Brooks came to
the cottage with a warrant for her arrest, but he considerately begged
her not to disturb herself about the matter. All he required of her was
to appear at the office of Squire Norwood at ten o'clock, and no one
need ever know she was in custody before that hour.
Little Bobtail came on shore before the officer left the house, and
reported himself ready, in his own words, to "face the music." At the
appointed hour there was a considerable collection of people in the
office of Squire Norwood. Mr. Walker, who was quite a distinguished man,
the mayor of Bangor, Judge Hamblin, and several other notable gentlemen
of the state were present, all of them interested in the fate of the
brave youth who had behaved so well off Blank Island. They were members
of the Penobscot's party, and each of them was willing to do all that
Colonel Montague would do if present.
Mrs. Taylor and her son appeared, and they were warmly greeted by the
interested spectators. The business proceeded in due form, and Mr.
Simonton astonished Squire Gilfilian by asking for a postponement until
the next Tuesday. The reasons for this request were considered, and they
were deemed sufficient; but Squire Gilfilian stoutly objected, because a
certain witness would be obliged to remain in Camden three days. Judge
Hamblin consulted with Squire Simonton, and it was agreed to proceed
with the examination. Mrs. Taylor trembled and wept when this decision
was reached, and a smile of triumph played upon the lips of Squire
Gilfilian. Captain Chinks tried to be indifferent, but he was evidently
pleased with the result. The case was commenced, and Squire Gilfilian,
Captain Chinks, and the ill-visaged man gave their evidence as they had
stated it in the office of the lawyer. It appeared that Robert Taylor
had left the letter on the squire's desk. The five hundred dollar bill
was produced and identified by Mr. Slipwing, and it was shown that this
bill had been paid to the squire by Mrs. Taylor. No evidence was
introduced to show that the boy had returned to the office after Captain
Chinks left, but it seemed impossible to escape the conclusion that he
had done so. Mrs. Taylor now appeared as a defendant, and could not be
compelled to testify. At this point in the proceedings, Squire Simonton
renewed his request that the further examination of the defendants be
postponed till the next Tuesday, when he hoped to bring forward an
important witness in the case. Captain Chinks, in spite of his assumed
indifference, was uneasy at this statement. The request was granted; Mr.
Walker and the mayor of Bangor offered themselves as bail for the
defendants, and they were released from custody.
The case certainly looked very black for Mrs. Taylor and her son. The
kind friends who appeared to assist them were staggered at the evidence,
and feared it would be impossible to save him from conviction. They
could only hope for the best, and hope against what appeared to be an
absolute certainty. Judge Hamblin was confounded, but he was so averse
to believing the brave boy was guilty, that he suspected there was a
conspiracy. After the postponement of the examination, he asked Squire
Gilfilian to let him see the five hundred dollar bill.
"Mrs. Taylor, have you looked at this bill?" he asked, as he showed it
to the troubled woman.
"No, sir; I have not," she replied.
"Won't you look at it? Do you remember the bill you paid Mr. Gilfilian?"
"I didn't look at it much."
"How long did you have the bill in your possession?"
"Not long, sir."
"Did you examine it?"
"Not much; I looked it over a little."
Mrs. Taylor turned over the note in her hands, and examined it very
carefully.
"Does that one look like it?" asked the judge, anxiously.
"You don't suppose we have changed the bill--do you?" demanded Squire
Gilfilian, rather indignantly.
"Certainly not, Mr. Gilfilian," replied the judge. "At least I don't
suppose you have any knowledge of such a trick. But there may be some
mistake. The witness who identifies this bill is taking charge of the
defence of the Buckingham Bank robbers. Perhaps he is one of them
himself, and it is even possible that he sent you no money in the
letter."
"I have no desire to convict the boy, if he is not guilty," added Mr.
Gilfilian.
"Certainly not; I do not suppose the contrary, but I would like to hear
what the boy's mother says about this bill. Now, Mrs. Taylor," continued
the judge, turning to the troubled woman, "does that bill look like the
one you paid Mr. Gilfilian?"
"Yes, sir; very much like it," answered she, sadly.
"Do you think it is the one?"
"I think it is, sir."
"Look at it very carefully, if you please."
"I have looked at it; and I'm sure this is the one," said Mrs. Taylor.
Squire Gilfilian looked triumphantly at the judge, who was more amazed
than ever. He knew the workings of crime well enough to see the bearing
of poor Mrs. Taylor's present conduct. If guilty she would not have
acknowledged the identity of the bill. She would have encouraged the
lawyers to save herself and her son, by following out the suggestion
that the letter had contained no bill.
"Then where did you get this bill, Mrs. Taylor?" asked the judge.
"I can't tell at present, sir," replied the poor mother, as she glanced
at her son.
Mr. Simonton explained that, for some reason inexplicable to him, the
woman positively refused to explain where the bill came from. The judge
was still more confounded; though, after the straightforward and
damaging answers she had given in regard to the identity of the bill, he
could not believe she was guilty, even while it was impossible to see
how she could be innocent. The parties left the office, and everybody
talked about the examination for the rest of the day.
Ezekiel Taylor did not attend the examination, for he was engaged in an
examination on his own account. He improved the opportunity while
Bobtail and his mother were absent in searching for the contraband
merchandise. He had already consumed the bottle of brandy given him by
Captain Chinks, and was anxious to find the goods, in order to obtain
another. He ransacked the house from cellar to garret, without finding
anything which looked like a case of brandy. He was bitterly
disappointed, but he continued his search in the vicinity of the house,
