looked and spoke so wildly.
“A puny, half-starved, half-frozen little thing, in the arms of a
drunken beggar,” she added. “And, doctor, an awful thought has haunted
me ever since.”
“Hush, hush!” said the doctor, who saw what was in her mind. “You must
not indulge such morbid fancies.”
“It is that I may not indulge them that I have come to you. I want
certainty, Dr. Radcliffe. Somebody knows all about my baby. Who was my
nurse?”
“I never saw her before the night of your baby’s birth, and have never
seen her since. Your mother procured her.”
“Did you hear her name?”
“No.”
“And so you cannot help me at all?” said Edith, in a disappointed voice.
“I cannot, my poor child,” answered the doctor.
All the flush and excitement died out of Edith’s face. When she arose to
go, she was pale and haggard, like one exhausted by pain, and her steps
uneven, like the steps of an invalid walking for the first time. Dr.
Radcliffe went with her in silence to the door.
“Oh, doctor,” said Edith, in a choking voice, as she lingered a moment
on the steps, “can’t you bring out of this frightful mystery something
for my heart to rest upon? I want the truth. Oh, doctor, in pity help me
to find the truth!”
“I am powerless to help you,” the doctor replied. “Your only hope lies
in your mother. She knows all about it; I do not.”
And he turned and left her standing at the door. Slowly she descended
the steps, drawing her veil as she did so about her face, and walked
away more like one in a dream than conscious of the tide of life setting
so strongly all about her.
CHAPTER V.
MEANTIME, obeying the unwelcome summons, Mrs. Dinneford had gone to
see Mrs. Bray. She found her in a small third-story room in the lower
part of the city, over a mile away from her own residence. The meeting
between the two women was not over-gracious, but in keeping with their
relations to each other. Mrs. Dinneford was half angry and impatient;
Mrs. Bray cool and self-possessed.
“And now what is it you have to say?” asked the former, almost as soon
as she had entered.
“The woman to whom you gave that baby was here yesterday.”
A frightened expression came into Mrs. Dinneford’s face. Mrs. Bray
watched her keenly as, with lips slightly apart, she waited for what
more was to come.
“Unfortunately, she met me just as I was at my own door, and so found
out my residence,” continued Mrs. Bray. “I was in hopes I should never
see her again. We shall have trouble, I’m afraid.”
“In what way?”
“A bad woman who has you in her power can trouble you in many ways,”
 answered Mrs. Bray.
“She did not know my name--you assured me of that. It was one of the
stipulations.”
“She does know, and your daughter’s name also. And she knows where the
baby is. She’s deeper than I supposed. It’s never safe to trust such
people; they have no honor.”
Fear sent all the color out of Mrs. Dinneford’s face.
“What does she want?”
“Money.”
“She was paid liberally.”
“That has nothing to do with it. These people have no honor, as I said;
they will get all they can.”
“How much does she want?”
“A hundred dollars; and it won’t end there, I’m thinking. If she is
refused, she will go to your house; she gave me that alternative--would
have gone yesterday, if good luck had not thrown her in my way. I
promised to call on you and see what could be done.”
Mrs. Dinneford actually groaned in her fear and distress.
“Would you like to see her yourself?” coolly asked Mrs. Bray.
“Oh dear! no, no!” and the lady put up her hands in dismay.
“It might be best,” said her wily companion.
“No, no, no! I will have nothing to do with her! You must keep her away
from me,” replied Mrs. Dinneford, with increasing agitation.
“I cannot keep her away without satisfying her demands. If you were to
see her yourself, you would know just what her demands were. If you do
not see her, you will only have my word for it, and I am left open
to misapprehension, if not worse. I don’t like to be placed in such a
position.”
And Mrs. Bray put on a dignified, half-injured manner.
“It’s a wretched business in every way,” she added, “and I’m sorry that
I ever had anything to do with it. It’s something dreadful, as I told
you at the time, to cast a helpless baby adrift in such a way. Poor
little soul! I shall never feel right about it.”
“That’s neither here nor there;” and Mrs. Dinneford waved her hand
impatiently. “The thing now in hand is to deal with this woman.”
“Yes, that’s it--and as I said just now, I would rather have you deal
with her yourself; you may be able to do it better than I can.”
“It’s no use to talk, Mrs. Bray. I will not see the woman.”
“Very well; you must be your own judge in the case.”
“Can’t you bind her up to something, or get her out of the city? I’d
pay almost anything to have her a thousand miles away. See if you can’t
induce her to go to New Orleans. I’ll pay her passage, and give her a
hundred dollars besides, if she’ll go.”
Mrs. Bray smiled a faint, sinister smile:
“If you could get her off there, it would be the end of her. She’d never
stand the fever.”
“Then get her off, cost what it may,” said Mrs. Dinneford.
“She will be here in less than half an hour.” Mrs. Bray looked at the
face of a small cheap clock that stood on the mantel.
“She will?” Mrs. Dinneford became uneasy, and arose from her chair.
“Yes; what shall I say to her?”
“Manage her the best you can. Here are thirty dollars--all the money I
have with me. Give her that, and promise more if necessary. I will see
you again.”
“When?” asked Mrs. Bray.
“At any time you desire.”
“Then you had better come to-morrow morning. I shall not go out.”
“I will be here at eleven o’clock. Induce her if possible to leave the
city--to go South, so that she may never come back.”
“The best I can shall be done,” replied Mrs. Bray as she folded the
bank-bills she had received from Mrs. Dinneford in a fond, tender sort
of way and put them into her pocket.
Mrs. Dinneford retired, saying as she did so,
“I will be here in the morning.”
An instant change came over the shallow face of the wiry little woman as
the form of Mrs. Dinneford vanished through the door. A veil seemed to
fall away from it. All its virtuous sobriety was gone, and a smile of
evil satisfaction curved about her lips and danced in her keen black
eyes. She stood still, listening to the retiring steps of her visitor,
until she heard the street door shut. Then, with a quick, cat-like step,
she crossed to the opposite side of the room, and pushed open a door
that led to an adjoining chamber. A woman came forward to meet her. This
woman was taller and stouter than Mrs. Bray, and had a soft, sensual
face, but a resolute mouth, the under jaw slightly protruding. Her eyes
were small and close together, and had that peculiar wily and alert
expression you sometimes see, making you think of a serpent’s eyes. She
was dressed in common finery and adorned by cheap jewelry.
“What do you think of that, Pinky Swett?” exclaimed Mrs. Bray, in a
voice of exultation. “Got her all right, haven’t I?”
“Well, you have!” answered the woman, shaking all over with unrestrained
laughter. “The fattest pigeon I’ve happened to see for a month of
Sundays. Is she very rich?”
“Her husband is, and that’s all the same. And now, Pinky”--Mrs. Bray
assumed a mock gravity of tone and manner--“you know your fate--New
Orleans and the yellow fever. You must pack right off. Passage free and
a hundred dollars for funeral expenses. Nice wet graves down there--keep
off the fire;” and she gave a low chuckle.
“Oh yes; all settled. When does the next steamer sail?” and Pinky almost
screamed with merriment. She had been drinking.
“H-u-s-h! h-u-s-h! None of that here, Pinky. The people down stairs are
good Methodists, and think me a saint.”
“You a saint? Oh dear!” and she shook with repressed enjoyment.
After this the two women grew serious, and put their heads together for
business.
“Who is this woman, Fan? What’s her name, and where does she live?”
 asked Pinky Swett.
“That’s my secret, Pinky,” replied Mrs. Bray, “and I can’t let it go; it
wouldn’t be safe. You get a little off the handle sometimes, and don’t
know what you say--might let the cat out of the bag. Sally Long took the
baby away, and she died two months ago; so I’m the only one now in
the secret. All I want of you is to keep track of the baby. Here is a
five-dollar bill; I can’t trust you with more at a time. I know your
weakness, Pinky;” and she touched her under the chin in a familiar,
patronizing way.
Pinky wasn’t satisfied with this, and growled a little, just showing her
teeth like an unquiet dog.
“Give me ten,” she said; “the woman gave you thirty. I heard her say so.
And she’s going to bring you seventy to-morrow.”
“You’ll only waste it, Pinky,” remonstrated Mrs. Bray. “It will all be
gone before morning.”
“Fan,” said the woman, leaning toward Mrs. Bray and speaking in a low,
confidential tone, “I dreamed of a cow last night, and that’s good
luck, you know. Tom Oaks made a splendid hit last Saturday--drew twenty
dollars--and Sue Minty got ten. They’re all buzzing about it down in our
street, and going to Sam McFaddon’s office in a stream.”
“Do they have good luck at Sam McFaddon’s?” asked Mrs. Bray, with
considerable interest in her manner.
“It’s the luckiest place that I know. Never dreamed of a cow or a hen
that I didn’t make a hit, and I dreamed of a cow last night. She was
giving such a splendid pail of milk, full to the brim, just as old Spot
and Brindle used to give. You remember our Spot and Brindle, Fan?”
“Oh yes.” There was a falling inflection in Mrs. Bray’s voice, as if
the reference had sent her thoughts away back to other and more innocent
days.
The two women sat silent for some moments after that; and when Pinky
spoke, which she did first, it was in lower and softer tones:
“I don’t like to think much about them old times, Fan; do you? I might
have done better. But it’s no use grizzling about it now. What’s done’s
done, and can’t be helped. Water doesn’t run up hill again after it’s
once run down. I’ve got going, and can’t stop, you see. There’s nothing
to catch at that won’t break as soon as you touch it. So I mean to be
jolly as I move along.”
“Laughing is better than crying at any time,” returned Mrs. Bray; “here
are five more;” and she handed Pinky Swett another bank-bill. “I’m going
to try my luck. Put half a dollar on ten different rows, and we’ll go
shares on what is drawn. I dreamed the other night that I saw a flock of
sheep, and that’s good luck, isn’t it?”
Pinky thrust her hand into her pocket and drew out a worn and soiled
dream-book.
“A flock of sheep; let me see;” and she commenced turning over the
leaves. “Sheep; here it is: ‘To see them is a sign of sorrow--11, 20,
40, 48. To be surrounded by many sheep denotes good luck--2, 11, 55.’
That’s your row; put down 2, 11, 55. We’ll try that. Next put down 41
11, 44--that’s the lucky row when you dream of a cow.”
As Pinky leaned toward her friend she dropped her parasol.
“That’s for luck, maybe,” she said, with a brightening face. “Let’s see
what it says about a parasol;” and she turned over her dream-book.
“For a maiden to dream she loses her parasol shows that her sweetheart
is false and will never marry her--5, 51, 56.”
“But you didn’t dream about a parasol, Pinky.”
“That’s no matter; it’s just as good as a dream. 5, 51, 56 is the row.
Put that down for the second, Fan.”
As Mrs. Bray was writing out these numbers the clock on the mantel
struck five.
“8, 12, 60,” said Pinky, turning to the clock; “that’s the clock row.”
And Mrs. Bray put down these figures also.
“That’s three rows,” said Pinky, “and we want ten.” She arose, as she
spoke, and going to the front window, looked down upon the street.
“There’s an organ-grinder; it’s the first thing I saw;” and she came
back fingering the leaves of her dream-book. “Put down 40, 50, 26.”
Mrs. Bray wrote the numbers on her slip of paper.
“It’s November; let’s find the November row.” Pinky consulted her book
again. “Signifies you will have trouble through life--7, 9, 63. That’s
true as preaching; I was born in November, and I’ve had it all trouble.
How many rows does that make?”
“Five.”
“Then we will cut cards for the rest;” and Pinky drew a soiled pack from
her pocket, shuffled the cards and let her friends cut them.
“Ten of diamonds;” she referred to the dream-book. “10, 13, 31; put that
down.”
The cards were shuffled and cut again.
“Six of clubs--6, 35, 39.”
Again they were cut and shuffled. This time the knave of clubs was
turned up.
“That’s 17, 19, 28,” said Pinky, reading from her book.
The next cut gave the ace of clubs, and the policy numbers were 18, 63,
75.
“Once more, and the ten rows will be full;” and the cards were cut
again.
“Five of hearts--5, 12, 60;” and the ten rows were complete.
“There’s luck there, Fan; sure to make a hit,” said Pinky, with almost
childish confidence, as she gazed at the ten rows of figures. “One
of ‘em can’t help coming out right, and that would be fifty
dollars--twenty-five for me and twenty-five for you; two rows would give
a hundred dollars, and the whole ten a thousand. Think of that, Fan!
five hundred dollars apiece.”
“It would break Sam McFaddon, I’m afraid,” remarked Mrs. Bray.
“Sam’s got nothing to do with it,” returned Pinky.
“He hasn’t?”
“No.”
“Who has, then?”
“His backer.”
“What’s that?”
“Oh, I found it all out--I know how it’s done. Sam’s got a backer--a man
that puts up the money. Sam only sells for his backer. When there’s a
hit, the backer pays.”
“Who’s Sam’s backer, as you call him?”
“Couldn’t get him to tell; tried him hard, but he was close as an
oyster. Drives in the Park and wears a two thousand dollar diamond pin;
he let that out. So he’s good for the hits. Sam always puts the money
down, fair and square.”
“Very well; you get the policy, and do it right off, Pinky, or the
money’ll slip through your fingers.”
“All right,” answered Pinky as she folded the slip of paper containing
the lucky rows. “Never you fear. I’ll be at Sam McFaddon’s in ten
minutes after I leave here.”
“And be sure,” said Mrs. Bray, “to look after the baby to-night, and see
that it doesn’t perish with cold; the air’s getting sharp.”
“It ought to have something warmer than cotton rags on its poor little
body,” returned Pinky. “Can’t you get it some flannel? It will die if
you don’t.”
“I sent it a warm petticoat last week,” said Mrs. Bray.
“You did?”
“Yes; I bought one at a Jew shop, and had it sent to the woman.”
“Was it a nice warm one?”
“Yes.”
Pinky drew a sigh. “I saw the poor baby last night; hadn’t anything on
but dirty cotton rags. It was lying asleep in a cold cellar on a little
heap of straw. The woman had given it something, I guess, by the way
it slept. The petticoat had gone, most likely, to Sam McFaddon’s. She
spends everything she can lay her hands on in policies and whisky.”
“She’s paid a dollar a week for taking care of the baby at night and on
Sundays,” said Mrs. Bray.
“It wouldn’t help the baby any if she got ten dollars,” returned Pinky.
“It ought to be taken away from her.”
“But who’s to do that? Sally Long sold it to the two beggar women, and
they board it out. I have no right to interfere; they own the baby, and
can do as they please with it.”
“It could be got to the almshouse,” said Pinky; “it would be a thousand
times better off.”
“It mustn’t go to the almshouse,” replied Mrs. Bray; “I might lose track
of it, and that would never do.”
“You’ll lose track of it for good and all before long, if you don’t get
it out of them women’s bands. No baby can hold out being begged with
long; it’s too hard on the little things. For you know how it is, Fan;
they must keep ‘em half starved and as sick as they will bear without
dying right off, so as to make ‘em look pitiful. You can’t do much at
begging with a fat, hearty-looking baby.”
“What’s to be done about it?” asked Mrs. Bray. “I don’t want that baby
to die.”
“Would its mother know it if she saw it?” asked Pinky.
“No; for she never set eyes on it.”
“Then, if it dies, get another baby, and keep track of that. You can
steal one from a drunken mother any night in the week. I’ll do it for
you. One baby is as good as another.”
“It will be safer to have the real one,” replied Mrs. Bray. “And now,
Pinky that you have put this thing into my head, I guess I’ll commission
you to get the baby away from that woman.”
“All right!”
“But what are we to do with it? I can’t have it here.”
“Of course you can’t. But that’s easily managed, if your’re willing to
pay for it.”
“Pay for it?”
“Yes; if it isn’t begged with, and made to pay its way and earn
something into the bargain, it’s got to be a dead weight on somebody. So
you see how it is, Fan. Now, if you’ll take a fool’s advice, you’ll
let ‘it go to the almshouse, or let it alone to die and get out of its
misery as soon as possible. You can find another baby that will do just
as well, if you should ever need one.”
“How much would it cost, do you think, to have it boarded with some one
who wouldn’t abuse it? She might beg with it herself, or hire it out two
or three times a week. I guess it would stand that.”
“Beggars don’t belong to the merciful kind,” answered Pinky; “there’s no
trusting any of them. A baby in their hands is never safe. I’ve seen ‘em
brought in at night more dead than alive, and tossed on a dirty rag-heap
to die before morning. I’m always glad when they’re out of their misery,
poor things! The fact is, Fan, if you expect that baby to live, you’ve
got to take it clean out of the hands of beggars.”
“What could I get it boarded for outright?” asked Mrs. Bray.
“For ‘most anything, ‘cording to how it’s done. But why not, while
you’re about it, bleed the old lady, its grandmother, a little deeper,
and take a few drops for the baby?”
“Guess you’re kind o’ right about that, Fan; anyhow, we’ll make a start
on it. You find another place for the brat.”
“‘Greed; when shall I do it?”
“The sooner, the better. It might die of cold any night in that horrible
den. Ugh!”
“I’ve been in worse places. Bedlow street is full of them, and so is
Briar street and Dirty alley. You don’t know anything about it.”
“Maybe not, and maybe I don’t care to know. At present I want to settle
about this baby. You’ll find another place for it?”
“Yes.”
“And then steal it from the woman who has it now?”
“Yes; no trouble in the world. She’s drunk every night,” answered Pinky
Swett, rising to go.
“You’ll see me to-morrow?” said Mrs. Bray.
“Oh yes.”
“And you won’t forget about the policies?”
“Not I. We shall make a grand hit, or I’m a fool. Day-day!” Pinky waved
her hand gayly, and then retired.
CHAPTER VI.
A COLD wet drizzling rain was beginning to fall when Pinky Swett
emerged from the house. Twilight was gathering drearily. She drew her
thin shawl closely, and shivered as the east wind struck her with a
chill.
At hurried walk of five or ten minutes brought her to a part of the town
as little known to its citizens generally as if it were in the centre
of Africa--a part of the town where vice, crime, drunkenness and beggary
herd together in the closest and most shameless contact; where men and
women, living in all foulness, and more like wild beasts than human
beings, prey greedily upon each other, hurting, depraving and marring
God’s image in all over whom they can get power or influenced--a very
hell upon the earth!--at part of the town where theft and robbery and
murder are plotted, and from which prisons and almshouses draw their
chief population.
That such a herding together, almost in the centre of a great Christian
city, of the utterly vicious and degraded, should be permitted, when
every day’s police and criminal records give warning of its cost
and danger, is a marvel and a reproach. Almost every other house, in
portions of this locality, is a dram-shop, where the vilest liquors are
sold. Policy-offices, doing business in direct violation of law, are in
every street and block, their work of plunder and demoralization going
on with open doors and under the very eyes of the police. Every one of
them is known to these officers. But arrest is useless. A hidden and
malign influence, more potent than justice, has power to protect the
traffic and hold the guilty offenders harmless. Conviction is rarely, if
ever, reached.
The poor wretches, depraved and plundered through drink and
policy-gambling, are driven into crime. They rob and steal and debase
themselves for money with which to buy rum and policies, and sooner or
later the prison or death removes the greater number of them from their
vile companions. But drifting toward this fatal locality under the
attraction of affinity, or lured thither by harpies in search of new
supplies of human victims to repair the frightful waste perpetually
made, the region keeps up its dense population, and the work of
destroying human souls goes on. It is an awful thing to contemplate.
Thousands of men and women, boys and girls, once innocent as the
babes upon whom Christ laid his hand in blessing, are drawn into this
whirlpool of evil every year, and few come out except by the way of
prison or death.
It was toward this locality that Pinky Swett directed her feet, after
parting with Mrs. Bray. Darkness was beginning to settle down as she
turned off from one of the most populous streets, crowded at the time by
citizens on their way to quiet and comfortable homes, few if any of whom
had ever turned aside to look upon and get knowledge of the world or
crime and wretchedness so near at hand, but girdled in and concealed
from common observation.
Down a narrow street she turned from the great thoroughfare, walking
with quick steps, and shivering a little as the penetrating east wind
sent a chill of dampness through the thin shawl she drew closer and
closer about her shoulders. Nothing could be in stronger contrast than
the rows of handsome dwellings and stores that lined the streets through
which she had just passed, and the forlorn, rickety, unsightly and
tumble-down houses amid which she now found herself.
Pinky had gone only a little way when the sharp cries of a child cut the
air suddenly, the shrill, angry voice of a woman and the rapid fall of
lashes mingled with the cries. The child begged for mercy in tones of
agony, but the loud voice, uttering curses and imprecations, and the
cruel blows, ceased not. Pinky stopped and shivered. She felt the pain
of these blows, in her quickly-aroused sympathy, almost as much as
if they had been falling on her own person. Opposite to where she had
paused was a one-story frame house, or enclosed shed, as unsightly
without as a pig-pen, and almost as filthy within. It contained two
small rooms with very low ceilings. The only things in these rooms that
could be called furniture were an old bench, two chairs from which the
backs had been broken, a tin cup black with smoke and dirt, two or
three tin pans in the same condition, some broken crockery and an iron
skillet. Pinky stood still for a moment, shivering, as we have said. She
knew what the blows and the curses and the cries of pain meant; she had
heard them before. A depraved and drunken woman and a child ten years
old, who might or might not be her daughter, lived there. The child was
sent out every day to beg or steal, and if she failed to bring home a
certain sum of money, was cruelly beaten by the woman. Almost every
day the poor child was cut with lashes, often on the bare flesh; almost
every day her shrieks rang out from the miserable hovel. But there was
no one to interfere, no one to save her from the smarting blows, no one
to care what she suffered.
Pinky Swett could stand it no longer. She had often noticed the ragged
child, with her pale, starved face and large, wistful eyes, passing
in and out of this miserable woman’s den, sometimes going to the
liquor-shops and sometimes to the nearest policy-office to spend for
her mother, if such the woman really was, the money she had gained by
begging.
With a sudden impulse, as a deep wail and a more piteous cry for mercy
smote upon her ears, Pinky sprang across the street and into the hovel.
The sight that met her eyes left no hesitation in her mind. Holding up
with one strong arm the naked body of the poor child--she had drawn the
clothes over her head--the infuriated woman was raining down blows from
a short piece of rattan upon the quivering flesh, already covered with
welts and bruises.
“Devil!” cried Pinky as she rushed upon this fiend in human shape and
snatched the little girl from her arm. “Do you want to kill the child?”
She might almost as well have assaulted a tigress.
The woman was larger, stronger, more desperate and more thoroughly given
over to evil passions than she. To thwart her in anything was to rouse
her into a fury. A moment she stood in surprise and bewilderment; in
the next, and ere Pinky had time to put herself on guard, she had sprung
upon her with a passionate cry that sounded more like that of a wild
beast than anything human. Clutching her by the throat with one hand,
and with the other tearing the child from her grasp, she threw the
frightened little thing across the room.
“Devil, ha!” screamed the woman; “devil!” and she tightened her grasp
on Pinky’s throat, at the same time striking her in the face with her
clenched fist.
Like a war-horse that snuffs the battle afar off and rushes to the
conflict, so rushed the inhabitants of that foul neighborhood to the
spot from whence had come to their ears the familiar and not unwelcome
sound of strife. Even before Pinky had time to shake off her assailant,
the door of the hovel was darkened by a screen of eager faces. And
such faces! How little of God’s image remained in them to tell of
their divine origination!--bloated and scarred, ashen pale and wasted,
hollow-eyed and red-eyed, disease looking out from all, yet all lighted
up with the keenest interest and expectancy.
Outside, the crowd swelled with a marvelous rapidity. Every cellar and
room and garret, every little alley and hidden rookery, “hawk’s nest”
 and “wren’s nest,” poured out its unseemly denizens, white and black,
old and young, male and female, the child of three years old, keen,
alert and self-protective, running to see the “row” side by side with
the toothless crone of seventy; or most likely passing her on the way.
Thieves, beggars, pick-pockets, vile women, rag-pickers and the like,
with the harpies who prey upon them, all were there to enjoy the show.
Within, a desperate fight was going on between Pinky Swett and the woman
from whose hands she had attempted to rescue the child--a fight in which
Pinky was getting the worst of it. One garment after another was torn
from her person, until little more than a single one remained.
“Here’s the police! look out!” was cried at this juncture.
“Who cares for the police? Let ‘em come,” boldly retorted the woman. “I
haven’t done nothing; it’s her that’s come in drunk and got up a row.”
Pushing the crowd aside, a policeman entered the hovel.
“Here she is!” cried the woman, pointing toward Pinky, from whom she
had sprung back the moment she heard the word police. “She came in here
drunk and got up a row. I’m a decent woman, as don’t meddle with nobody.
But she’s awful when she gets drunk. Just look at her--been tearing her
clothes off!”
At this there was a shout of merriment from the crowd who had witnessed
the fight.
“Good for old Sal! she’s one of ‘em! Can’t get ahead of old Sal, drunk
or sober!” and like expressions were shouted by one and another.
Poor Pinky, nearly stripped of her clothing, and with a great bruise
swelling under one of her eyes, bewildered and frightened at the aspect
of things around her, could make no acceptable defence.
“She ran over and pitched into Sal, so she did! I saw her! She made
the fight, she did!” testified one of the crowd; and acting on this
testimony and his own judgment of the case, the policeman said roughly,
as he laid his hand on Pinky.
“Pick up your duds and come along.”
Pinky lifted her torn garments from the dirty floor and gathered them
about her person as best she could, the crowd jeering all the time. A
pin here and there, furnished by some of the women, enabled her to get
them into a sort of shape and adjustment. Then she tried to explain the
affair to the policeman, but he would not listen.
“Come!” he said, sternly.
“What are you going to do with me?” she asked, not moving from where she
stood.
“Lock you up,” replied the policeman. “So come along.”
“What’s the matter here?” demanded a tall, strongly-built woman,
pressing forward. She spoke with a foreign accent, and in a tone of
command. The motley crowd, above whom she towered, gave way for her as
she approached. Everything about the woman showed her to be superior in
mind and moral force to the unsightly wretches about her. She had the
fair skin, blue eyes and light hair of her nation. Her features were
strong, but not masculine. You saw in them no trace of coarse sensuality
or vicious indulgence.
“Here’s Norah! here’s the queen!” shouted a voice from the crowd.
“What’s the matter here?” asked the woman as she gained an entrance to
the hovel.
“Going to lock up Pinky Swett,” said a ragged little girl who had forced
her way in.
“What for?” demanded the woman, speaking with the air of one in
authority.
“‘Cause she wouldn’t let old Sal beat Kit half to death,” answered the
child.
“Ho! Sal’s a devil and Pinky’s a fool to meddle with her.” Then turning
to the policeman, who still had his hand on the girl, she said,
“What’re you goin’ to do, John?”
“Goin’ to lock her up. She’s drunk an’ bin a-fightin’.”
“You’re not goin’ to do any such thing.”
“I’m not drunk, and it’s a lie if anybody says so,” broke in Pinky. “I
tried to keep this devil from beating the life out of poor little Kit,
and she pitched into me and tore my clothes off. That’s what’s the
matter.”
The policeman quietly removed his hand from Pinky’s shoulder, and
glanced toward the woman named Sal, and stood as if waiting orders.
“Better lock her up,” said the “queen,” as she had been called. Sal
snarled like a fretted wild beast.
“It’s awful, the way she beats poor Kit,” chimed in the little girl who
had before spoken against her. “If I was Kit, I’d run away, so I would.”
“I’ll wring your neck off,” growled Sal, in a fierce undertone, making a
dash toward the girl, and swearing frightfully. But the child shrank to
the side of the policeman.
“If you lay a finger on Kit to-night,” said the queen, “I’ll have her
taken away, and you locked up into the the bargain.”
Sal responded with another snarl.
“Come.” The queen moved toward the door. Pinky followed, the policeman
offering no resistance. A few minutes later, and the miserable crowd of
depraved human beings had been absorbed again into cellar and garret,
hovel and rookery, to take up the thread of their evil and sensual
lives, and to plot wickedness, and to prey upon and deprave each
other--to dwell as to their inner and real lives among infernals, to be
in hell as to their spirits, while their bodies yet remained upon the
earth.
Pinky and her rescuer passed down the street for a short distance until
they came to another that was still narrower. On each side dim lights
shone from the houses, and made some revelation of what was going on
within. Here liquor was sold, and there policies. Here was a junk-shop,
and there an eating-saloon where for six cents you could make a meal out
of the cullings from beggars’ baskets. Not very tempting to an ordinary
appetite was the display inside, nor agreeable to the nostrils the odors
that filled the atmosphere. But hunger like the swines’, that was not
over-nice, satisfied itself amid these disgusting conglomerations, and
kept off starvation.
Along this wretched street, with scarcely an apology for a sidewalk,
moved Pinky and the queen, until they reached a small two-story frame
house that presented a different aspect from the wretched tenements amid
which it stood. It was clean upon the outside, and had, as contrasted
with its neighbors, an air of superiority. This was the queen’s
residence. Inside, all was plain and homely, but clean and in order.
The excitement into which Pinky had been thrown was nearly over by this
time.
“You’ve done me a good turn, Norah,” she said as the door closed upon
them, “and I’ll not soon forget you.”
“Ugh!” ejaculated Norah as she looked into Pinky’s bruised face; “Sal’s
hit you square in the eye; it’ll be black as y’r boot by morning. I’ll
get some cold water.”
A basin of cold water was brought, and Pinky held a wet cloth to the
swollen spot for a long time, hoping thereby not only to reduce the
swelling, but to prevent discoloration.
“Y’r a fool to meddle with Sal,” said Norah as she set the basin of
water before Pinky.
“Why don’t you meddle with her? Why do you let her beat poor little Kit
the way she does?” demanded Pinky.
Norah shrugged her shoulders, and answered with no more feeling in her
voice than if she had been speaking of inanimate things:
“She’s got to keep Kit up to her work.”
“Up to her work!”
“Yes; that’s just it. Kit’s lazy and cheats--buys cakes and candies; and
Sal has to come down on her; it’s the way, you know. If Sal didn’t come
down sharp on her all the while, Kit wouldn’t bring her ten cents a day.
They all have to do it--so much a day or a lickin’; and a little lickin’
isn’t any use--got to ‘most kill some of ‘em. We’re used to it in here.
Hark!”
The screams of a child in pain rang out wildly, the sounds coming from
across the narrow street. Quick, hard strokes of a lash were heard at
the same time. Pinky turned a little pale.
“Only Mother Quig,” said Norah, with an indifferent air; “she has to do
it ‘most every night--no getting along any other way with Tom. It beats
all how much he can stand.”
“Oh, Norah, won’t she never stop?” cried Pinky, starting up. “I can’t
bear it a minute longer.”
“Shut y’r ears. You’ve got to,” answered the woman, with some impatience
in her voice. “Tom has to be kept to his work as well as the rest of
‘em. Half the fuss he’s making is put on, anyhow; he doesn’t mind a
beating any more than a horse. I know his hollers. There’s Flanagan’s
Nell getting it now,” added Norah as the cries and entreaties of another
child were heard. She drew herself up and listened, a slight shade of
concern drifting across her face.
A long, agonizing wail shivered through the air.
“Nell’s Sick, and can’t do her work.” The woman rose as she spoke. “I
saw her goin’ off to-day, and told Flanagan she’d better keep her at
home.”
Saying this, Norah went out quickly, Pinky following. With head erect
and mouth set firmly, the queen strode across the street and a little
way down the pavement, to the entrance of a cellar, from which the cries
