bright shawls squatted about on the rocks, each with a circle of dogs
and papooses. But all this warmth of color only served, like a winter
sunset, to heighten the chilly and desolate sentiment of the scene. The
light dresses of the ladies on the veranda struck cold upon the eye; in
the faces of the sojourners who lounged idly to the steamer's
landing-place, the passenger could fancy a sad resolution to repress
their tears when the boat should go away and leave them. She put off two
or three old peasant-women who were greeted by other such on the pier,
as if returned from a long journey; and then the crew discharged the
vessel of a prodigious freight of onions which formed the sole luggage
these old women had brought from Quebec. Bale after bale of the pungent
bulbs were borne ashore in the careful arms of the deck-hands, and
counted by the owners; at last order was given to draw in the plank,
when a passionate cry burst from one of the old women, who extended both
hands with an imploring gesture towards the boat. A bale of onions had
been left aboard; a deck-hand seized it and ran quickly ashore with it,
and then back again, followed by the benedictions of the tranquillized
and comforted beldam. The gay sojourners at Murray Bay controlled their
grief, and as Mr. Arbuton turned from them, the boat, pushing out, left
them to their fashionable desolation. She struck across to the southern
shore, to land passengers for Cacouna, a watering-place greater than
Murray Bay. The tide, which rises fifteen feet at Quebec, is the
impulse, not the savor of the sea; but at Cacouna the water is salt, and
the sea-bathing lacks nothing but the surf; and hither resort in great
numbers the Canadians who fly their cities during the fierce, brief
fever of the northern summer. The watering-place village and hotel is
not in sight from the landing, but, as at Murray Bay, the sojourners
thronged the pier, as if the arrival of the steamboat were the great
event of their day. That afternoon they were in unusual force, having
come on foot and by omnibus and calash; and presently there passed down
through their ranks a strange procession with a band of music leading
the way to the steamer.

"It's an Indian wedding," Mr. Arbuton heard one of the boat's officers
saying to the gentleman with the ex-military air, who stood next him
beside the rail; and now, the band having drawn aside, he saw the bride
and groom,--the latter a common, stolid-faced savage, and the former
pretty and almost white, with a certain modesty and sweetness of mien.
Before them went a young American, with a jaunty Scotch cap and a visage
of supernatural gravity, as the master of ceremonies which he had
probably planned; arm in arm with him walked a portly chieftain in black
broadcloth, preposterously adorned on the breast with broad flat disks
of silver in two rows. Behind the bridal couple came the whole village
in pairs, men and women, and children of all ages, even to brown babies
in arms, gay in dress and indescribably serious in demeanor. They were
mated in some sort according to years and size; and the last couple were
young fellows paired in an equal tipsiness. These reeled and wavered
along the pier; and when the other wedding guests crowned the day's
festivity by going aboard the steamer, they followed dizzily down the
gangway. Midway they lurched heavily; the spectators gave a cry; but
they had happily lurched in opposite directions; their grip upon each
other's arms held, and a forward stagger launched them victoriously
aboard in a heap. They had scarcely disappeared from sight, when, having
as it were instantly satisfied their curiosity concerning the boat, the
other guests began to go ashore in due order. Mr. Arbuton waited in a
slight anxiety to see whether the tipsy couple could repeat their
maneuver successfully on an upward incline; and they had just appeared
on the gangway, when he felt a hand passed carelessly and as if
unconsciously through his arm, and at the same moment a voice said,
"Those are a pair of disappointed lovers, I suppose."

He looked round and perceived the young lady of the party he had made up
his mind to have nothing to do with resting one hand on the rail, and
sustaining herself with the other passed through his arm, while she was
altogether intent upon the scene below. The ex-military gentleman, the
head of the party, and apparently her kinsman, had stepped aside without
her knowing, and she had unwittingly taken Mr. Arbuton's arm. So much
was clear to him, but what he was to do was not so plain. It did not
seem quite his place to tell her of her mistake, and yet it seemed a
piece of unfairness not to do so. To leave the matter alone, however,
was the simplest, safest, and pleasantest; for the pressure of the
pretty figure lightly thrown upon his arm had something agreeably
confiding and appealing in it. So he waited till the young lady, turning
to him for some response, discovered her error, and disengaged herself
with a face of mingled horror and amusement. Even then he had no
inspiration. To speak of the mistake in tones of compliment would have
been grossly out of place; an explanation was needless; and to her
murmured excuses, he could only bow silently. She flitted into the
cabin, and he walked away, leaving the Indians to stagger ashore as they
might. His arm seemed still to sustain that elastic weight, and a voice
haunted his ear with the words, "A pair of disappointed lovers, I
suppose"; and still more awkward and stupid he felt his own part in the
affair to be; though at the same time he was not without some obscure
resentment of the young girl's mistake as an intrusion upon him.

It was late twilight when the boat reached Tadoussac, and ran into a
sheltered cove under the shadow of uplands on which a quaint village
perched and dispersed itself on a country road in summer cottages; above
these in turn rose loftier heights of barren sand or rock, with here and
there a rank of sickly pines dying along their sterility. It had been
harsh and cold all day when the boat moved, for it was running full in
the face of the northeast; the river had widened almost to a sea,
growing more and more desolate, with a few lonely islands breaking its
expanse, and the shores sinking lower and lower till, near Tadoussac,
they rose a little in flat-topped bluffs thickly overgrown with stunted
evergreens. Here, into the vast low-walled breadth of the St. Lawrence,
a dark stream, narrowly bordered by rounded heights of rock, steals down
from the north out of regions of gloomy and ever-during solitude. This
is the Saguenay; and in the cold evening light under which the traveller
approaches its mouth, no landscape could look more forlorn than that of
Tadoussac, where early in the sixteenth century the French traders fixed
their first post, and where still the oldest church north of Florida is
standing.

The steamer lies here five hours, and supper was no sooner over than the
passengers went ashore in the gathering dusk. Mr. Arbuton, guarding his
distance as usual, went too, with a feeling of surprise at his own
concession to the popular impulse. He was not without a desire to see
the old church, wondering in a half-compassionate way what such a bit of
American antiquity would look like; and he had perceived since the
little embarrassment at Cacouna that he was a discomfort to the young
lady involved by it. He had caught no glimpse of her till supper, and
then she had briefly supped with an air of such studied unconsciousness
of his presence that it was plain she was thinking of her mistake every
moment. "Well, I'll leave her the freedom of the boat while we stay,"
thought Mr. Arbuton as he went ashore. He had not the least notion
whither the road led, but like the rest he followed it up through the
village, and on among the cottages which seemed for the most part empty,
and so down a gloomy ravine, in the bottom of which, far beneath the
tremulous rustic bridge, he heard the mysterious crash and fall of an
unseen torrent. Before him towered the shadowy hills up into the
starless night; he thrilled with a sense of the loneliness and
remoteness, and he had a formless wish that some one qualified by the
proper associations and traditions were there to share the satisfaction
he felt in the whole effect. At the same instant he was once more aware
of that delicate pressure, that weight so lightly, sweetly borne upon
his arm. It startled him, and again he followed the road, which with a
sudden turn brought him in sight of a hotel and in sound of a
bowling-alley, and therein young ladies' cackle and laughter, and he
wondered a little scornfully who could be spending the summer there. A
bay of the river loftily shut in by rugged hills lay before him, and on
the shore, just above high-tide, stood what a wandering shadow told him
was the ancient church of Tadoussac. The windows were faintly tinged
with red as from a single taper burning within, and but that the
elements were a little too bare and simple for one so used to the rich
effects of the Old World, Mr. Arbuton might have been touched by the
vigil which this poor chapel was still keeping after three hundred years
in the heart of that gloomy place. While he stood at least tolerating
its appeal, he heard voices of people talking in the obscurity near the
church door, which they seemed to have been vainly trying for entrance.

"Pity we can't see the inside, isn't it?"

"Yes; but I am so glad to see any of it. Just think of its having been
built in the seventeenth century!"

"Uncle Jack would enjoy it, wouldn't he?"

"O yes, poor Uncle Jack! I feel somehow as if I were cheating him out of
it. He ought to be here in my place. But I do like it; and, Dick, I
don't know what I can ever say or do to you and Fanny for bringing me."

"Well, Kitty, postpone the subject till you can think of the right
thing. We're in no hurry."

Mr. Arbuton heard a shaking of the door, as of a final attempt upon it,
before retreat, and then the voices faded into inarticulate sounds in
the darkness. They were the voices, he easily recognized, of the young
lady who had taken his arm, and of that kinsman of hers, as she seemed
to be. He blamed himself for having not only overheard them, but for
desiring to hear more of their talk, and he resolved to follow them back
to the boat at a discreet distance. But they loitered so at every point,
or he unwittingly made such haste, that he had overtaken them as they
entered the lane between the outlying cottages, and he could not help
being privy to their talk again.

"Well, it may be old, Kitty, but I don't think it's lively."

"It isn't exactly a whirl of excitement, I must confess."

"It's the deadliest place I ever saw. Is that a swing in front of that
cottage? No, it's a gibbet. Why, they've all got 'em! I suppose they're
for the summer tenants at the close of the season. What a rush there
would be for them if the boat should happen to go off and leave her
passengers!"

Mr. Arbuton thought this rather a coarse kind of drolling, and
strengthened himself anew in his resolution to avoid those people.

They now came in sight of the steamer, where in the cove she lay
illumined with all her lamps, and through every window and door and
crevice was bursting with the ruddy light. Her brilliancy contrasted
vividly with the obscurity and loneliness of the shore where a few
lights glimmered in the village houses, and under the porch of the
village store some desolate idlers--habitans and half-breeds--had
clubbed their miserable leisure. Beyond the steamer yawned the wide
vacancy of the greater river, and out of this gloomed the course of the
Saguenay.

"O, I hate to go on board!" said the young lady. "Do you think he's got
back yet? It's perfect misery to meet him."

"Never mind, Kitty. He probably thinks you didn't mean anything by it.
I don't believe you would have taken his arm if you hadn't supposed it
was mine, any way."

She made no answer to this, as if too much overcome by the true state of
the case to be troubled by its perversion. Mr. Arbuton, following them
on board, felt himself in the unpleasant character of persecutor, some
one to be shunned and escaped by every maneuver possible to
self-respect. He was to be the means, it appeared, of spoiling the
enjoyment of the voyage for one who, he inferred, had not often the
opportunity of such enjoyment. He had a willingness that she should
think well and not ill of him; and then at the bottom of all was a
sentiment of superiority, which, if he had given it shape, would have
been noblesse oblige. Some action was due to himself as a gentleman.

The young lady went to seek the matron of the party, and left her
companion at the door of the saloon, wistfully fingering a cigar in one
hand, and feeling for a match with the other. Presently he gave himself
a clap on the waistcoat which he had found empty, and was turning away,
when Mr. Arbuton said, offering his own lighted cigar, "May I be of use
to you?"

The other took it with a hearty, "O yes, thank you!" and, with many
inarticulate murmurs of satisfaction, lighted his cigar, and returned
Mr. Arbuton's with a brisk, half-military bow.

Mr. Arbuton looked at him narrowly a moment. "I'm afraid," he said
abruptly, "that I've most unluckily been the cause of annoyance to one
of the ladies of your party. It isn't a thing to apologize for, and I
hardly know how to say that I hope, if she's not already forgotten the
matter, she'll do so." Saying this, Mr. Arbuton, by an impulse which he
would have been at a loss to explain, offered his card.

His action had the effect of frankness, and the other took it for
cordiality. He drew near a lamp, and looked at the name and street
address on the card, and then said, "Ah, of Boston! My name is
Ellison; I'm of Milwaukee, Wisconsin." And he laughed a free, trustful
laugh of good companionship. "Why yes, my cousin's been tormenting
herself about her mistake the whole afternoon; but of course it's all
right, you know. Bless my heart! it was the most natural thing in the
world. Have you been ashore? There's a good deal of repose about
Tadoussac, now; but it must be a lively place in winter! Such a cheerful
lookout from these cottages, or that hotel over yonder! We went over to
see if we could get into the little old church; the purser told me there
are some lead tablets there, left by Jacques Cartier's men, you know,
and dug up in the neighborhood. I don't think it's likely, and I'm
bearing up very well under the disappointment of not getting in. I've
done my duty by the antiquities of the place; and now I don't care how
soon we are off."

Colonel Ellison was talking in the kindness of his heart to change the
subject which the younger gentleman had introduced, in the belief, which
would scarcely have pleased the other, that he was much embarrassed. His
good-nature went still further; and when his cousin returned presently,
with Mrs. Ellison, he presented Mr. Arbuton to the ladies, and then
thoughtfully made Mrs. Ellison walk up and down the deck with him for
the exercise she would not take ashore, that the others might be left to
deal with their vexation alone.

"I am very sorry, Miss Ellison," said Mr. Arbuton, "to have been the
means of a mistake to you to-day."

"And I was dreadfully ashamed to make you the victim of my blunder,"
answered Miss Ellison penitently; and a little silence ensued. Then as
if she had suddenly been able to alienate the case, and see it apart
from herself in its unmanageable absurdity, she broke into a confiding
laugh, very like her cousin's, and said, "Why, it's one of the most
hopeless things I ever heard of. I don't see what in the world can be
done about it."

"It is rather a difficult matter, and I'm not prepared to say myself.
Before I make up my mind I should like it to happen again."

Mr. Arbuton had no sooner made this speech, which he thought neat, than
he was vexed with himself for having made it, since nothing was further
from his purpose than a flirtation. But the dark, vicinity, the young
girl's prettiness, the apparent freshness and reliance on his sympathy
from which her frankness came, were too much: he tried to congeal again,
and ended in some feebleness about the scenery, which was indeed very
lonely and wild, after the boat started up the Saguenay, leaving the few
lights of Tadoussac to blink and fail behind her. He had an absurd sense
of being alone in the world there with the young lady; and he suffered
himself to enjoy the situation, which was as perfectly safe as anything
could be. He and Miss Ellison had both come on from Niagara, it seemed,
and they talked of that place, she consciously withholding the fact that
she had noticed Mr. Arbuton there; they had both come down the Rapids of
the St. Lawrence, and they had both stopped a day in Montreal. These
common experiences gave them a surprising interest for each other, which
was enhanced by the discovery that their experiences differed
thereafter, and that whereas she had passed three days at Quebec, he, as
we know, had come on directly from Montreal.

"Did you enjoy Quebec very much, Miss Ellison?"

"O yes, indeed! It's a beautiful old town, with everything in it that I
had always read about and never expected to see. You know it's a walled
city."

"Yes. But I confess I had forgotten it till this morning. Did you find
it all that you expected a walled city to be?"

"More, if possible. There were some Boston people with us there, and
they said it was exactly like Europe. They fairly sighed over it, and it
seemed to remind them of pretty nearly everything they had seen abroad.
They were just married."

"Did that make Quebec look like Europe?"

"No, but I suppose it made them willing to see it in the pleasantest
light. Mrs. March--that was their name--wouldn't allow me to say that
I enjoyed Quebec, because if I hadn't seen Europe, I couldn't
properly enjoy it. 'You may think you enjoy it,' she was always
saying, 'but that's merely fancy.' Still I cling to my delusion. But I
don't know whether I cared more for Quebec, or the beautiful little
villages in the country all about it. The whole landscape looks just
like a dream of 'Evangeline.'"

"Indeed! I must certainly stop at Quebec. I should like to see an
American landscape that put one in mind of anything. What can your
imagination do for the present scenery?"

"I don't think it needs any help from me," replied the young girl, as if
the tone of her companion had patronized and piqued her. She turned as
she spoke and looked up the sad, lonely river. The moon was making its
veiled face seen through the gray heaven, and touching the black stream
with hints of melancholy light. On either hand the uninhabitable shore
rose in desolate grandeur, friendless heights of rock with a thin
covering of pines seen in dim outline along their tops and deepening
into the solid dark of hollows and ravines upon their sides. The cry of
some wild bird struck through the silence of which the noise of the
steamer had grown to be a part, and echoed away to nothing. Then from
the saloon there came on a sudden the notes of a song; and Miss Ellison
led the way within, where most of the other passengers were grouped
about the piano. The English girl with the corn-colored hair sat, in
ravishing picture, at the instrument, and the commonish man and his very
plain wife were singing with heavenly sweetness together.

"Isn't it beautiful!" said Miss Ellison. "How nice it must be to be able
to do such things!"

"Yes? do you think so? It's rather public," answered her companion.

When the English people had ended, a grave, elderly Canadian gentleman
sat down to give what he believed a comic song, and sent everybody
disconsolate to bed.

"Well, Kitty?" cried Mrs. Ellison, shutting herself inside the young
lady's state-room a moment.

"Well, Fanny?"

"Isn't he handsome?"

"He is, indeed."

"Is he nice?"

"I don't know."

"Sweet?"

"Ice-cream," said Kitty, and placidly let herself be kissed an
enthusiastic good-night. Before Mrs. Ellison slept she wished to ask her
husband one question.

"What is it?"

"Should you want Kitty to marry a Bostonian? They say Bostonians are so
cold."

"What Bostonian has been asking Kitty to marry him?"

"O, how spiteful you are! I didn't say any had. But if there should?"

"Then it'll be time to think about it. You've married Kitty right and
left to everybody who's looked at her since we left Niagara, and I've
worried myself to death investigating the character of her husbands. Now
I'm not going to do it any longer,--till she has an offer."

"Very well. You can depreciate your own cousin, if you like. But I
know what I shall do. I shall let her wear all my best things. How
fortunate it is, Richard, that we're exactly of a size! O, I am so glad
we brought Kitty along! If she should marry and settle down in
Boston--no, I hope she could get her husband to live in New York--"

"Go on, go on, my dear!" cried Colonel Ellison, with a groan of despair.
"Kitty has talked twenty-five minutes with this young man about the
hotels and steamboats, and of course he'll be round to-morrow morning
asking my consent to marry her as soon as we can get to a justice of the
peace. My hair is gradually turning gray, and I shall be bald before my
time; but I don't mind that if you find any pleasure in these little
hallucinations of yours. Go on!"




II.

MRS. ELLISON'S LITTLE MANEUVRE.


The next morning our tourists found themselves at rest in Ha-Ha Bay, at
the head of navigation for the larger steamers. The long line of sullen
hills had fallen away, and the morning sun shone warm on what in a
friendlier climate would have been a very lovely landscape. The bay was
an irregular oval, with shores that rose in bold but not lofty heights
on one side, while on the other lay a narrow plain with two villages
clinging about the road that followed the crescent beach, and lifting
each the slender tin-clad spire of its church to sparkle in the sun.

At the head of the bay was a mountainous top, and along its waters were
masses of rocks, gayly painted with lichens and stained with metallic
tints of orange and scarlet. The unchanging growth of stunted pines was
the only forest in sight, though Ha-Ha Bay is a famous lumbering port,
and some schooners now lay there receiving cargoes of odorous pine
plank. The steamboat-wharf was all astir with the liveliest toil and
leisure. The boat was taking on wood, which was brought in wheelbarrows
to the top of the steep, smooth gangway-planking, where the habitant
in charge planted his broad feet for the downward slide, and was hurled
aboard more or less en masse by the fierce velocity of his heavy-laden
wheelbarrow. Amidst the confusion and hazard of this feat a procession
of other habitans marched aboard, each one bearing under his arm a
coffin-shaped wooden box. The rising fear of Colonel Ellison, that these
boxes represented the loss of the whole infant population of Ha-Ha Bay,
was checked by the reflection that the region could not have produced so
many children, and calmed altogether by the purser, who said that they
were full of huckleberries, and that Colonel Ellison could have as many
as he liked for fifteen cents a bushel. This gave him a keen sense of
the poverty of the land, and he bought of the boys who came aboard such
abundance of wild red raspberries, in all manner of birch-bark canoes
and goblets and cornucopias, that he was obliged to make presents of
them to the very dealers whose stock he had exhausted, and he was in
treaty with the local half-wit--very fine, with a hunchback, and a
massive wen on one side of his head--to take charity in the wild fruits
of his native province, when the crowd about him was gently opened by a
person who advanced with a flourishing bow and a sprightly "Good
morning, good morning, sir!" "How do you do?" asked Colonel Ellison; but
the other, intent on business, answered, "I am the only person at Ha-Ha
Bay who speaks English, and I have come to ask if you would not like to
make a promenade in my horse and buggy upon the mountain before
breakfast. You shall be gone as long as you will for one shilling and
sixpence. I will show you all that there is to be seen about the place,
and the beautiful view of the bay from the top of the mountain. But it
is elegant, you know, I can assure you."

The speaker was so fluent of his English, he had such an audacious,
wide-branching mustache, such a twinkle in his left eye,--which wore its
lid in a careless, slouching fashion,--that the heart of man naturally
clove to him; and Colonel Ellison agreed on the spot to make the
proposed promenade, for himself and both his ladies, of whom he went
joyfully in search. He found them at the stern of the boat, admiring the
wild scenery, and looking

    "Fresh as the morn and as the season fair."

He was not a close observer, and of his wife's wardrobe he had the
ignorance of a good husband, who, as soon as the pang of paying for her
dresses is past, forgets whatever she has; but he could not help seeing
that some gayeties of costume which he had dimly associated with his
wife now enhanced the charms of his cousin's nice little face and
figure. A scarf of lively hue carelessly tied about the throat to keep
off the morning chill, a prettier ribbon, a more stylish jacket than
Miss Ellison owned,--what do I know?--an air of preparation for battle,
caught the colonel's eye, and a conscious red stole responsive into
Kitty's cheek.

"Kitty," said he, "don't you let yourself be made a goose of."

"I hope she won't--by you!" retorted his wife, "and I'll thank you,
Colonel Ellison, not to be a Betty, whatever you are. I don't think it's
manly to be always noticing ladies' clothes."

"Who said anything about clothes?" demanded the colonel, taking his
stand upon the letter.

"Well, don't you, at any rate. Yes, I'd like to ride, of all things;
and we've time enough, for breakfast isn't ready till half past eight.
Where's the carriage?"

The only English scholar at Ha-Ha Bay had taken the light wraps of the
ladies and was moving off with them. "This way, this way," he said,
waving his hand towards a larger number of vehicles on the shore than
could have been reasonably attributed to Ha-Ha Bay. "I hope you won't
object to having another passenger with you? There's plenty of room for
all. He seems a very nice, gentlemanly person," said he, with a queer,
patronizing graciousness which he had no doubt caught from his English
patrons.

"The more the merrier," answered Colonel Ellison, and "Not in the
least!" said his wife, not meaning the proverb. Her eye had swept the
whole array of vehicles and had found them all empty, save one, in which
she detected the blamelessly coated back of Mr. Arbuton. But I ought
perhaps to explain Mrs. Ellison's motives better than they can be made
to appear in her conduct. She cared nothing for Mr. Arbuton; and she had
no logical wish to see Kitty in love with him. But here were two young
people thrown somewhat romantically together; Mrs. Ellison was a born
match-maker, and to have refrained from promoting their better
acquaintance in the interest of abstract matrimony was what never could
have entered into her thought or desire. Her whole being closed for the
time about this purpose; her heart, always warm towards Kitty,--whom she
admired with a sort of generous frenzy,--expanded with all kinds of
lovely designs; in a word, every dress she had she would instantly have
bestowed upon that worshipful creature who was capable of adding another
marriage to the world. I hope the reader finds nothing vulgar or
unbecoming in this, for I do not; it was an enthusiasm, pure and simple,
a beautiful and unselfish abandon; and I am sure men ought to be sorry
that they are not worthier to be favored by it. Ladies have often to
lament in the midst of their finesse that, really, no man is deserving
the fate they devote themselves to prepare for him, or, in other words,
that women cannot marry women.

I am not going to be so rash as try to depict Mrs. Ellison's arts, for
then, indeed, I should make her appear the clumsy conspirator she was
not, and should merely convict myself of ignorance of such matters.
Whether Mr. Arbuton was ever aware of them, I am not sure: as a man he
was, of course, obtuse and blind; but then, on the other hand, he had
seen far more of the world than Mrs. Ellison, and she may have been
clear as day to him. Probably, though, he did not detect any design; he
could not have conceived of such a thing in a person with whom he had
been so irregularly made acquainted, and to whom he felt himself so
hopelessly superior. A film of ice such as in autumn you find casing the
still pools early in the frosty mornings had gathered upon his manner
over night; but it thawed under the greetings of the others, and he
jumped actively out of the vehicle to offer the ladies their choice of
seats. When all was arranged he found himself at Mrs. Ellison's side,
for Kitty had somewhat eagerly climbed to the front seat with the
colonel. In these circumstances it was pure zeal that sustained Mrs.
Ellison in the flattering constancy with which she babbled on to Mr.
Arbuton and refrained from openly resenting Kitty's contumacy.

As the wagon began to ascend the hill, the road was so rough that the
springs smote together with pitiless jolts, and the ladies uttered some
irrepressible moans. "Never mind, my dear," said the colonel, turning
about to his wife, "we've got all the English there is at Ha-Ha Bay, any
way." Whereupon the driver gave him a wink of sudden liking and
good-fellowship. At the same time his tongue was loosed, and he began to
talk of himself. "You see my dog, how he leaps at the horse's nose? He
is a moose-dog, and keeps himself in practice of catching the moose by
the nose. You ought to come in the hunting season. I could furnish you
with Indians and everything you need to hunt with. I am a dealer in wild
beasts, you know, and I must keep prepared to take them."

"Wild beasts?"

"Yes, for Barnum and the other showmen. I deal in deer, wolf, bear,
beaver, moose, cariboo, wild-cat, link--"

"What?"

"Link--link! You say deer for deers, and link for lynx, don't you?"

"Certainly," answered the unblushing colonel. "Are there many link about
here?"

"Not many, and they are a very expensive animal. I have been shamefully
treated in a link that I have sold to a Boston showman. It was a
difficult beast to take; bit my Indian awfully; and Mr. Doolittle would
not give the price he promised."

"What an outrage!"

"Yes, but it was not so bad as it might have been. He wanted the money
back afterwards; the link died in about two weeks," said the dealer in
wild animals, with a smile that curled his mustache into his ears, and a
glance at Colonel Ellison. "He may have been bruised, I suppose. He may
have been homesick. Perhaps he was never a very strong link. The link is
a curious animal, miss," he said to Kitty, in conclusion.

They had been slowly climbing the mountain road, from which, on either
hand, the pasturelands fell away in long, irregular knolls and hollows.
The tops were quite barren, but in the little vales, despite the stones,
a short grass grew very thick and tenderly green, and groups of kine
tinkled their soft bells in a sweet, desultory assonance as they cropped
the herbage. Below, the bay filled the oval of the hills with its sunny
expanse, and the white steamer, where she lay beside the busy wharf, and
the black lumber-ships, gave their variety to the pretty scene, which
was completed by the picturesque villages on the shore. It was a very
simple sight, but somehow very touching, as if the soft spectacle were
but a respite from desolation and solitude; as indeed it was.

Mr. Arbuton must have been talking of travel elsewhere, for now he said
to Mrs. Ellison, "This looks like a bit of Norway; the bay yonder might
very well be a fjord of the Northern sea."

Mrs. Ellison murmured her sense of obligation to the bay, the fjord, and
Mr. Arbuton, for their complaisance, and Kitty remembered that he had
somewhat snubbed her the night before for attributing any suggestive
grace to the native scenery. "Then you've really found something in an
American landscape. I suppose we ought to congratulate it," she said, in
smiling enjoyment of her triumph.

The colonel looked at her with eyes of humorous question; Mrs. Ellison
looked blank; and Mr. Arbuton, having quite forgotten what he had said
to provoke this comment now, looked puzzled and answered nothing: for he
had this trait also in common with the sort of Englishman for whom he
was taken, that he never helped out your conversational venture, but if
he failed to respond inwardly, left you with your unaccepted remark upon
your hands, as it were. In his silence, Kitty fell a prey to very evil
thoughts of him, for it made her harmless sally look like a blundering
attack upon him. But just then the driver came to her rescue; he said,
"Gentlemen and ladies, this is the end of the mountain promenade," and,
turning his horse's head, drove rapidly back to the village.

At the foot of the hill they came again to the church, and his
passengers wanted to get out and look into it. "O certainly," said he,
"it isn't finished yet, but you can say as many prayers as you like in
it."

