will be so much to her, and we shall have all our long lives 
afterwards." 
He could not have refused her such a request. So one 
afternoon he took her and Eleanor up to Riverside, and 
Jessie was left with her friend. Every day they heard from 
her, and Mr. Graham made several pilgrimages. The week 
lengthened itself into ten days, and when they met for the 
funeral a fortnight had elapsed. Mrs. Ashburton and El- 
eanor went up, and in spite of Miss Hetty's remonstrances, 
brought Jessie, who was looking rather worn, home with 
them. 
" But I shall always be glad that I went," Jessie said, as 
she lay on the sofa that evening, for once resigning herself 
to all manner of tender petting. " She was so thankful to 
have me, and there were many comforting hours that I 
shall never forget. It was, indeed, the death of a saint. 
Mr. Graham liked her so much, too, and she was pleased at 
meeting him. O, mamma ! what indescribable comfort 
there is in a pure, well-spent life, and the trustful belief of 
going home at last to rest in the strength of Him who is 
all love, who has a tender welcome for each of His chil- 
dren ! " 
" And now you will turn gloomy, Jessie," said Madge, 
half regretfully. " We were none too brilliant before." 
" No, not gloomy. I think sometimes even a joy may 
be rendered sweeter by the sanctifying influences of sor- 
row. I feel more than ever the sacredness of the new 
life I am about to enter upon. Somehow Mrs. Rachel al- 
ways had a way of smoothing the tangles out of one's 
path." 
" Were there any in yours ? " asked her mother, softly, 
taking the little hand. 
"Not exactly;" with a faint smile. " Only sometimes I 
have wondered if it was quite right to go to such great 
happiness and ease, while you would all be left here " 
"Jessie to the farthest verge," interrupted Madge. 
" Little sister, there is something besides the command of 
bearing one another's burdens." 
" I know it; " and a bright smile made the fair face radiant. 
"Some day I may go too far to the other side in happy 
selfishness." 
 
" No, indeed," returned Philip, warmly. " It seems to 
me that if any one ever deserved happiness, you do, Jessie* 
and I am glad the best and purest of all has come to you.' 
Eleanor brushed away a stray tear. How different this 
engagement had been from hers! She hai persuaded 
herself in those days that she was marrying as much for 
her family's good as her own. But would she have given 
np the bright prospect to share poverty and toil with them ? 
Yet Jessie would scarcely have hesitated, had there been 
a plain question of duty. 
Not from any lack of pure affection, either. Understand- 
ing love in its highest sense now, she felt that both Jessie 
and Mr. Graham had found the golden mean a regard 
tempered by the grace swaying their natures so thoroughly 
that it would make the flame burn brighter as the years 
went on with their chances and changes. 
" O ! " Jessie said, presently, " did I mention that Miss 
Hetty is likely to be quite an heiress ? You remember the 
copper speculation that she used to bewail ? It seems a 
new company has taken it in charge, and they are paying 
dividends already. She told me one day, regretting that it 
had not happened long before, for Mrs. Rachel's sake ; but 
she said so sweetly, "All the money in the world could 
have given me no better care than you have taken of me." 
" Why, everybody seems to be coming into a fortune," 
said Madge, gayly. 
Two or three days later they received a note from Miss 
Hetty, summoning Mrs. Ashburton, Jessie, and Mr. Graham 
on Borne particular business. 
"What can it be ?" marvelled Madge, all curiosity. 
School had ended, and though she used to bustle briskly 
about the house, now and then, for a brief while, she soon 
dropped into the old languor. Every day she seemed to 
grow more phantom-like, though she insisted her state of 
indolence was chronic with school teachers. 
There was no solving the puzzle until the trio returned 
Mr. Grahams face was unusually bright and foil of 
amusement. 
" O, it was some quirk of Miss Hetty's," declared Madge 
" Actually you are all smiling over it." 
" What will you give for the news ? " asked Mr. Graham. 
" Half of my fortune." 
"lt is not to be compared with Jessie's." 
" I suppose not," coloring warmly. 
"You would hardly suspect Jessie of being an heiress, 
I fancy ; but it is even so." 
" How mysterious you are ! Mamma, what is it ? " 
Mr. Graham laughed, gayly. 
" * A true fact,' as we used to say when we were little," 
began Jessie. " I have had a legacy left to me." 
" Silver spoons or bed -quilts ?" 
" It is Mrs. Dormer's share of the copper mine," explained 
Mrs. Ashburton. 
"O, you said it had improved in value, Jessie ! " 
Madge was all eager excitement. 
"It seems they were offered twelve thousand apiece for 
their shares, some three months ago," said Mr. Graham. 
" Probably they are worth nearer fifteen." 
" O Jessie, Jessie ! " 
Madge cried and laughed in a breath. 
Mr. Graham staid to supper, and they had a really de- 
lightful time over Jessie's fortune. It was too good to be 
true, they all thought. 
" I shall make some inquiries to-morrow," said Mr. 
Graham. "But the matter that concerns me most is 
whether Jessie will not feel tempted to set up for an inde- 
pendent woman ! " 
Jessie looked very meek and sweet, and not much like 
rebelling at any decree. But, O, the depth of gladness 
in her heart ! 
Mr. Graham teased her a little when they were alone, 
but a sudden gravity overspread her countenance. 
 
"My little darling," he said, "did my jesting sadden 
yo-i?" 
" O, it was not that. I have had a strange, sweet thought 
in my heart all the evening. While I was at Riverside, I 
heard that Mr. Browning's father and insane sister were 
both dead. It is possible that they might be induced to 
part with Home Nook." 
" Well ? " though he knew what brought the radiance to 
the soft eyes. 
" If this fortune could help to buy it back ! " 
" I will endeavor to learn the particulars of the case," he 
returned, gravely. 
She studied his face for several moments. 
M You would not object ? " she questioned, timidly. 
"Object! when the fortune is yours, too? My little 
girl, you hardly understand me yet, if you think that. One 
of my happiest dreams has been to give you everything 
out of my abundance, to make your shady life blossom as 
in the happy days of which I sometimes hear you talk. 
You see I never expected to marry an heiress." 
Jessie smiled tenderly. He would never censure any 
use she might make of the legacy. 
Eleanor and Madge still sat in solemn consultation over 
the matter when she ran up stairs. The tired look had 
vanished from her sweet face. 
" Is it really true? " asked Madge. " Will not some one 
contest the will, or the copper mine fail again? And who 
would think of Mrs. Dormer leaving a fortune to any one ? " 
"I shall always be so thankful that I went! The will 
was made nearly three months before, and with the full 
consent of Miss Hetty. If I had refused, it would have 
appeared most ungrateful." 
"Your sins will always be on the duty side," said Madge, 
laughingly. 
'Jessie has learned the hardest and grandest definition 
of true charity," responded Eleanor '"seeketh not hei 
own.' My darling, we can never tell you how much we 
rejoice in your good fortune." 
And then she recurred to her past, aunt Waltham pro- 
fessing so much love for her, and yet ready to bargain her 
off at the first convenient opportunity. How she would 
have sneered had any one predicted so brilliant a future 
for Jessie ! Yet one of the " old women " she always rid- 
iculed had been nobly generous to Jessie, and even in her 
poverty she had attracted a prince among men. No, aunt 
Waltham's creed and philosophy never could attain to any 
such heights. It was narrow, selfish of the earth, earthy. 
Well for her that she had been saved " as by fire." 
There was a household of thankful hearts that night 
For, after all, poverty and care are not such unmixed bless- 
ings that one need desire their continuance. True, wealth 
baa its evila and temptations ; but is poverty exempt ? 
CHAPTER XX. 
THROUGH PLEASANT WATS. 
JESSIE ASHBUKTON offered her project for discussion 
the next day. If the shares she held could be sold at an 
advantage, and Home Nook repurchased, her wildest dream 
would be more than realized. 
Mr. Ashburton listened in silence, too. deeply touched 
for any word. 
"Only on this condition," said Philip, "that when 
Clement returns you shall be quite willing to receive back 
principal and interest. It must be a loan merely." 
"I am not particular about conditions;" and Jessie 
smiled. "My greatest desire is to have our exile at an 
end." 
They knew then how near to her heart it bad been, 
though few words of longing had passed her lips. She 
had made this small abode a place of happiness, with her 
cheeiiul faith, her steady, sunny endurance ; been braver 
than any of them knew. Ah, how Eleanor had misjudged 
her in the beginning ! 
Mr. Graham found that he could realize about fifteen 
thousand dollars on Jessie's stock. She was in earnest to 
have it sold at once. For the next week he failed to see 
Mr. Browning, ci\ account of that gentleman's absence 
from the city. 
He came in one evening graver than usual. No one 
appeared to remark it save Jessie, and at the first oppor- 
tunity she inquired the cause. 
" My little darling," he said, " you have borne so much 
heroically that it seems wrong to add another shadow, 
when we hoped for brightness. But it is something that 
you will have to know ere long." 
" No misfortune has befallen you ? " and her heart beat 
with quick apprehension. 
"No, and yes. It is a greater trial to me than you 
might imagine at first. Think of the keenest disappoint- 
ment next to any pain of mine, for I fancy that I am 
dearer to you than houses or lands." 
" O, Home Nook ! Mr. Browning does not wish to 
leave it," Jessie said, quickly. 
"On the contrary, he is going abroad. His wife has 
been very much worn by the burdens of these later years. 
But Home Nook has been sold already." 
" Sold ! And he promised to give us the first oppor- 
tunity of repurchasing it. O, how could he ! " and her 
soft eyes filled with tears. 
"There is some mystery about it which I do not quite 
understand. It is possible that he had offered it to 
some other person, thinking you would not be able to buy 
it back. He merely left this message for me ; but after a 
perplexing search, I found him, and he was most uncom- 
municative. All he said might be summed up in thi^ 
that he thought he had acted for the best." 
"But who bought it?" 
"That was what I could not learn." 
"It is some one who wishes to keep it. O, if they only 
knew ! It is so hard to reach the summit of one's desires 
a moment too late ! No one can ever love it as we did." 
" And now, my darling, I will tell you that I sounded 
Mr. Browning on this matter almost a month ago. I 
meant that Home Nook should be your bridal gift from 
me. He said nothing of another purchaser then, but he 
seems to have purposely avoided me since. So my disap- 
pointment is exceedingly bitter, as well." 
She was sobbing softly, touched and melted by hu 
tender thought, as well as her own sorrow. 
"Yes, I wanted it to be yours. Since it would be neces- 
sary for us to have a new home, under the peculiar circum- 
stances of the coming year, I thought it might still be 
pleasant for you all to keep together; and as your heart 
was there " 
"How good you were! O, if it could have been !" 
" And your sorrow is mine, though I did not dream of 
having my marriage shadowed in this fashion." 
" It shall not be;" and she looked up bravely, the tears 
still shining in her eyes. " I will not forget that my first 
duty must always be to you." 
" And your pleasure ? " 
" And my pleasure." 
He bent over and kissed her tenderly. 
There was much regret in the household, and a disposi- 
tion to blame Mr. Browning for his rather unfriendly deal- 
ing. The sense of loss came home to each one keenly 
the more so because they had so nearly attained their 
fondest desire. 
" It was too good and delightful to be true," said 
Madge. " We must be exiles for the rest of our lives. 
And do you know that ' about the first of August ' ia 
nearly here ? " 
Jessie blushed. 
" I really believe, mamma, that she doesn't care a bit 
about being married, and Mr. Graham as splendid as a 
prince royal." 
But the wonder and the mystery reached a speedy solu- 
tion. A few days after, while they were still in a chaos 
of regret, a large official-looking document came for Mr. 
Ashburton. 
" Another fortune," laughingly declared Madge. 
Mrs. Ashburton opened it, and ran her eyes over both 
print and writing without taking in the slightest meaning. 
" Why, it is a deed," exclaimed Eleanor, " a deed for 
Home Nook; a gift to papa from Rose Stanhope." 
 
They all glanced at each other in amazement. A deed 
of conveyance, sure enough ; but if it had come from an 
enemy it could hardly have been less welcome. If possi- 
ble, matters were more complicated than before. 
And now there were endless discussions again. Mr. 
Graham's first effort was to find Miss Stanhope, but she 
had left the city on the very day of signing the deed. 
That she had gone abroad again her lawyer admitted ; but 
he had received strict injunctions to preserve her address 
a secret. Mr. Browning could throw no further light upon 
the matter. 
Miss Stanhope had, indeed, made a slight explanation to 
him, representing it as an actual acknowledgment due the 
Ashburtons. When he found that it was to come into 
their possession, he felt that Mr. Graham's wishes would 
be complied with. 
" And I really could not resist her entreaty," he con- 
fessed, in apology. " She declared that it was the one 
great pleasure and duty of her life. Are you quite sure 
that you understand all her reasons ? " 
" Yes," replied Philip. " It is a morbid fancy that has 
seized her brain. If she could have seen the result ! " 
" What a perplexing affair ! " Madge exclaimed. " If 
she can never be found, what are we to do ? " 
It was a serious question. Mr. Browning had made his 
arrangements to leave on the tenth of the month. Most 
of the furniture had been repurchased with the house, 
and to shut it up tenantless appeared an absolute sin. 
"I wonder if we may not be carrying our pride too 
far," said Eleanor, thoughtfully. "I do believe Miss 
Stanhope ife firmly convinced of some wrong, and desirea 
to make reparation." 
" But I never could have been wronged to that amount," 
replied Mr. Ashburton. "At the utmost limit it could 
not have exceeded ten or twelve thousand dollars." 
" And Home Nook has cost twenty thousand." 
" It was a foolish, girlish act, and I am afraid that she 
has impoverished herself. It leaves us under a heavy 
obligation to her." 
" Which we cannot accept," said Madge, decisively. 
It was most true. To go to Home Nook on such 
terms was like living under false pretences. They had no 
claim upon Miss Stanhope's generosity, and this was much 
too extravagant to be justice. 
Mr. Graham's clear head solved the problem at length. 
" Mr. Thurston, Miss Stanhope's lawyer, will have noth- 
ing to do with it," he said ; " but this sum might be held 
in trust for Miss Stanhope or her heirs. That will clear 
our consciences." 
After much discussion this was decided upon. Philip 
wrote to Clement at once. Mr. Graham insisted upon 
making up the sum for the present. Jessie was brim full 
of happiness again. 
Then they began to look the future in the face. The 
incidents had come with such rapidity during the past 
year that before they had grown familiar with one, an- 
other claimed their attention. And this would bring 
about a decided change. 
That they were to go back to Home Nook seemed the 
dearest joy of all. And yet there was a secret pang in 
two hearts; at least, Madge and Eleanor dreaded old 
associations a little, but neither would have marred Jessie's 
perfect content by breathing the faintest word. 
For Eleanor had a remnant of her olden pride. In her 
girlhood days she had rather plumed herself upon her 
refinement and exclusiveness. Her acquaintance had 
been considered an honor by people in her own social 
standing, Now an adverse fate compelled her in some 
degree to be dependent upon her own exertions. In this 
matter she was succeeding beyond her expectations. It 
would be much pleasanter to keep the tender household 
shelter for herself and little Greta than to seek a home 
among strangers ; but she knew too well the distinction 
the world made between the luxury of indolence and 
compulsory toil. 
" But it is unworthy of any true woman to shrink back 
weakly now," she said to herself. " Since they took me 
in destitute and friendless, shall I not do all in my power 
to repay them, without thinking of the world's foolish 
blame or approval?" 
Madge had quite another cause for dread. Not that 
she was hardly likely to meet the Endicotts in any other 
than a casual way ; but, O, there lay betwesn such bitter 
pangs ! Could she glance at that bright, faithless counte- 
nance whose smiles had once been so much to her, and 
keep the shrinking nerves still tense and untrembling? 
Mr. Ashburton would be under the doctor's care for two 
months, at least. He and Mrs. Ashburton were to board 
at Dr. Conway's for the time. Mr. Graham proposed that 
Madge and Eleanor should take charge of the house, as 
by that means Jessie would have the more freedom. 
"It seems so strange not to think of going back to 
school ! " said Madge. " I do believe I shall feel lost with- 
out those perplexing children. I dare say I shall take 
Greta in hand, and make her wise beyond her years." 
Eleanor smiled. 
They went up to Home Nook one afternoon, Philip 
and Mr. Graham accompanying them. If it had changed, 
it was only to grow more beautiful. The evergreens 
made miniature forests, the old honeysuckles were thickets 
of foliage, and the shrubbery had hardly been altered. 
Beds of flowers in their late summer bloom, shady walks, 
clustering vines, haunts endeared to them by a thousand 
fond recollections. Could it be possible that they were to 
return ? 
There were all the old familiar nooks ; but they had 
been despoiled of pictures and the small, graceful article! 
that add a home-like charm. 
Madge ran from room to room, from window to window 
with the gladness of a child. The years of toil and priva- 
tion, and that still keener pang, were forgotten for the 
moment, as she realized the exquisite pleasure of home- 
feeling once more. 
" It is a very lovely nest," said Mr. Graham. " I do not 
wonder at your fondness for it. But can you ever be 
content to call another place home ? " 
Jessie answered by slipping her hand within his. And 
yet how strange it would be to have a new interest to 
go away from them all, perhaps ! 
Their arrangements were perfected after several days' 
consideration. Jessie was not to be married until the 
first of September. Mr. arid Mrs. Ashburton Were to go 
away at the same time, and the three others were to 
superintend the removal. 
The wedding was a very quiet one, in church. Miss 
Hetty was the only invited guest on Jessie's side, and Mr. 
Graham had asked merely his immediate family. They 
all felt more grave than joyful, but there was no tender 
regard lacking. 
Mr. Graham was the only child by an earlier marriage of 
his father, though he had always fraternized very cordially 
with the second family, a host of younger brothers and 
sisters. Mrs. Graham gave Jessie a warm and motherly 
welcome. 
"I was much pleased with her," she said afterwards to a 
friend. " Ward has such peculiar notions about women 
that I should not have been astonished to see him marry 
the most eccentric one he could find. But his wife is a 
very sweet, pretty girl, and quite an heiress." 
Mr. Ashburton kissed his darling fondly. Would he 
ever be able to see the dear face again ? He was becom- 
ing strangely impatient to know his fate, although Dr. 
Otis had assured him that there could be scarcely a doubt 
They bade Jessie farewell at the railroad depot. Sh 
did look lovely in her soft silk as nun-like as she desired 
and all her small belongings chosen with the most ex- 
quisite taste. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ash burton went at once to Dr. Conway's, 
who had decided to take them in for old friendship's sake. 
Philip came home with Madge and Eleanor, Miss Hetty 
accompanying them, as she had insisted upon " lending a 
hand." 
" We may as well begin at once," declared Madge, "or 
we shall sit down and cry over our household ruins. If it 
was any one but Jessie, I should have some misgiving 
about her happiness." 
"There's nothing like work when one is a bit down- 
hearted," said Miss Hetty. " And the quicker you get up 
to Home Nook the better. I shall not have a moment of 
satisfaction until you are there. It was a great comfort 
to my poor sister, thinking you would come back." 
" Which I am glad to do for her dear sake as well as 
cur own," returned Madge. " You would hardly believe 
that I had lost all hope of its ever being accomplished." 
" I knew it must come to pass some way. There's 
never been a night but I've prayed for it ; and when the 
good news came, poor Rachel sat and thought it over in 
amazement, and, finally, says she, ' I shall never want the 
money, Hetty, and if you're willing, I shall leave it to Miss 
Jessie. Maybe it will help her to buy back Home Nook.' 
But she never dreamed then that Miss Jessie's wedding- 
day was so nigh at hand." 
They laid aside their festive attire and went to work at 
once. The woman who usually did their washing had 
been called in for several days, and was there to assist. 
By night most of the furniture and books were packed, 
ready for a start the next morning. 
Miss Hetty kept them in good spirits by her brisk ways 
and homely bits of philosophy. It was well to have her 
there. Eleanor was not tempted to smile at her shrewd 
 
wisdom and old-fashioned ways, for she was able now to 
understand the true worth of such a hearty, generous soul. 
Madge shed a few tears as the familiar objects were 
gathered from nooks and corners. After all, they had 
been happy here. Jessie's roses were still in bloom, and 
there was her father's rustic chair in the grape arbor. 
Philip and Jessie had made it. Poor Philip ! out of his 
trials had come joy and good fortune ; out of Jessie's 
patient work and waiting, happiness. But what was the 
lesson for her? Life was never without its duties, of 
course, but what special grace was to be evolved from her 
trial ? Would it be easier to bear in the old home ? 
She seldom looked it in the face. It seemed braver to 
her to thrust it out of sight. A little girlish shame at 
having been so easily won, and a woman's sensitive pride 
at being as easily forgotten. But to her it had been more 
than a childish regard. 
By noon the little cottage was dismantled, and shortly 
after they were on their way to Riverside. 
"But it doesn't seem quite right to have so few of us," 
said Madge. "Who would fancy we should miss quiet 
Jessie so much ? " 
And crossing the threshold of dear old Home Nook 
once more as possessors indeed, they remembered the sad 
procession of more than five years ago. With what varied 
feelings they had walked down the shaded avenue that 
spring morning ! Was their exile really at an end ? 
One of Mrs. Browning's servants had remained in charge 
a quiet, tidy woman, who soon rendered herself useful 
to the new comers. Baby Margaret was full of childish 
prattle and wonderment, running from window to window, 
in the vain hope of seeing grandpa. 
It took them some time to settle matters to their liking. 
The carpets and furniture were pretty well worn ; indeed, 
many things needed replacing. 
"If we could just bundle these old articles out and have 
new ones," said Philip. " Everything ought to be bright 
and fresh." 
" But we cannot. We are still poor, and must make the 
best of our poverty," replied Eleanor. 
" It would be so delightful for Jessie's sake," said 
Madge, with a sigh. " But Mr. Graham is noble enough 
to understand it ; so there is no use of being ashamed. We 
will do our very best." 
Miss Hetty came over the next day, and Madge re- 
counted the perplexities. 
"Let us take a fair and square look," said the little 
woman, in her brisk, energetic fashion ; and they started 
through the house. 
"If this carpet was ripped apart and turned round 
there, you see how bright it would be in the middle I 
And why don't you turn this great parlor into a general 
sitting-room ? You'll like it as well again ; and then no 
one will expect the shine of new satin and velvet. The 
furniture might be oiled and rubbed, and the dust beaten 
out of the covers. And when the pretty articles from the 
other house come to be unpacked, why, you will hardly 
know the place ! " 
When they started, Madge found that matters settled 
themselves, with a little overlooking. They turned, and 
altered, and freshened up, taking heart with each article, 
that seemed to slip into the position best suited for it. 
"Jessie must have the two spare rooms," said Eleanor. 
" We shall hardly need them for guests." 
"And we will take our old ones back again. I am 
glad mine opens into yours, Nelly, for now I shall bo 
alone." 
Philip came home every evening, and commented on 
what they had done through the day. Miss Hetty ran 
over to see them frequently. 
Tidings came from their parents, and from Jessie, who 
was well and happy. 
The news was not long in being circulated about River- 
side. Mrs. Dormer's will had soon become public prop- 
erty, then Jessie's marriage surprised everybody, and now 
the return completed the astonishment. Bygone friends 
dropped in some from curiosity, perhaps, but many 
with words of sincerest welcome. 
It was stormy on Sunday, and Greta not being very 
well, neither of the girls went out. But Philip brought a 
report at noon. 
" You notice the changes most of all in church," he said. 
"Yet Mr. Kenneth's place seems to be well supplied, and 
there is no lack among the audience. But, O, the strange 
faces ! I can hardly imagine myself at Riverside." 
"But you are not sorry?" Madge asked, just under her 
breath. 
"Sorry! What put such an idea into your head, little 
sister? I enjoyed it all so much, kneeling in the old 
place, and remembering our childish wishes and vague 
aspirations, until I could not help thinking of Jacob at 
Bethel. If we ever made any vows, how scrupulously 
they ought to be fulfilled ! for God has brought us back 
in safety." 
Mr. Maurice, the clergyman, called the ensuing week, 
and they found him a Christian gentleman. He had met 
Jessie at Miss Hetty's, and heard part of their story; so he 
hardly appeared like a stranger. 
When they came to regular living, Madge was installed 
as housekeeper, as Eleanor's duties called her away three 
or four days in the week. But they could hardly consider 
themselves really settled until they had all the household 
back again. 
It was a month before Jessie returned, taking them 
quite by surprise one evening. How pretty she had 
grown, and how happy she looked ! It seemed as if Mr. 
Graham's smile was less grave, and the tender inflections 
of his voice touched Madge with a peculiar nearness to 
tears. 
" O," exclaimed Jessie, " how lovely it all it ! It gives 
one such a sense of home to walk np the avenue under the 
familiar trees, and have the doors open to you vistas of 
remembered pleasure ! You and Nelly have made a bower 
of this library." 
" It was Nelly's taste " 
" And Madge's labor," said Eleanor. 
Madge had worked indeed. The two large bronze lawn 
vases had been brought in, still rich with summer bloom 
and beauty, and stood at either side of the large bay- 
window, the English and German ivy trailing overhead in 
its shadowy greenness. Some rustic baskets, filled with 
mosses and clusters of scarlet berries amid the ferns, de- 
pended here and there. A little fire was burning in the 
grate, lending a ruddy glow, and through all there was a 
sense of warmth and home-tenderness, the sweet and fra- 
grant scents of woody growths, a quiver of leaves and 
depths of cool greenery, as if the recess opened into the 
hush of a forest at summer noon. 
Jessie could scarcely bear to leave it, but Madge had 
a hospitable desire to display the rest of the house. 
" We thought, Nelly and I, that you might like the 
rooms on this side, and we have kept ours as they were. 
Here is the dear old sitting-room. O, Jessie, you remem- 
ber that night, the last dear time we were all so happy 
together! Somehow I had not the heart to put it in 
order. For we shall never be quite the same again, and 
Nelly fancied that you might like it for some purpose. 
For, after all, the whole house is yours." 
"I do not look at it in that light. I believe Mrs. Rachel 
meant that I should do all the good and give all the pleas- 
ure that I could with her legacy. While papa and mamma 
live, it is to be their home, no matter what changes may 
come to the rest of us. I saw mamma to-day." 
" And she was delighted, I know. You heard the good 
news ? " 
 
" That papa's operation was satisfactory, so far ? Yes. 
O, Madge, my darling, it seems as if my life was one con- 
tinual thanksgiving! I wonder how so much happiness 
