
CHAPTER XXV Energetic Movements at Stone’s Landing--Everything
Booming--A Grand Smash Up

CHAPTER XXVI The Boltons--Ruth at Home--Visitors and Speculations

CHAPTER XXVII Col Sellers Comforts His Wife With His Views on the
Prospects

ILLUSTRATIONS

64.  NOT EASILY REFERRED 65.  ORDER, GENTLEMEN 66.  THE SENATOR’S WALK
67.  RESIDENCE OF SQUIRE MONTAGUE 68.  INSIDE THE MANSION 69.  RUTH
DISSIPATING 70.  TAIL PIECE 71.  ANTICIPATION 72.  REALITY 73.  PHILIP
HEARS HARRY ENTERTAINING RUTH 74.  AN ENTERTAINING FELLOW 75.  HARRY
EXPLAINS BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEE 76.  PHILIP STUDYING 77.  “KEEP OUT
OF HERE, SIR!” 78.  AN OLD ONE 79.  A PROMENADE OUTFIT 80.  REARED BY
A GRATEFUL COUNTRY 81.  BENEFIT OF POLITICAL INFLUENCE 82.  TAIL PIECE
83.  VISIONS OF A HAPPY MAN 84.  EXODUS OF THE NATIVES 85.  HARRY
BRIERLY FLIES FROM THE MOB 86.  ENJOYING THE BONFIRE 87.  BROTHER PLUM
88.  RUTH AT HOME 89.  MAP OF THE SALT LICK BRANCH OF THE PACIFIC R. R.
90.  RESULT OF A STRAIGHT LINE

CHAPTER XIX.

Mr. Harry Brierly drew his pay as an engineer while he was living at the
City Hotel in Hawkeye. Mr. Thompson had been kind enough to say that
it didn’t make any difference whether he was with the corps or not; and
although Harry protested to the Colonel daily and to Washington Hawkins
that he must go back at once to the line and superintend the lay-out
with reference to his contract, yet he did not go, but wrote instead
long letters to Philip, instructing him to keep his eye out, and to let
him know when any difficulty occurred that required his presence.

Meantime Harry blossomed out in the society of Hawkeye, as he did in any
society where fortune cast him and he had the slightest opportunity to
expand. Indeed the talents of a rich and accomplished young fellow
like Harry were not likely to go unappreciated in such a place. A land
operator, engaged in vast speculations, a favorite in the select circles
of New York, in correspondence with brokers and bankers, intimate with
public men at Washington, one who could play the guitar and touch
the banjo lightly, and who had an eye for a pretty girl, and knew the
language of flattery, was welcome everywhere in Hawkeye. Even Miss Laura
Hawkins thought it worth while to use her fascinations upon him, and
to endeavor to entangle the volatile fellow in the meshes of her
attractions.

“Gad,” says Harry to the Colonel, “she’s a superb creature, she’d make a
stir in New York, money or no money. There are men I know would give her
a railroad or an opera house, or whatever she wanted--at least they’d
promise.”

Harry had a way of looking at women as he looked at anything else in the
world he wanted, and he half resolved to appropriate Miss Laura, during
his stay in Hawkeye. Perhaps the Colonel divined his thoughts, or was
offended at Harry’s talk, for he replied,

“No nonsense, Mr. Brierly. Nonsense won’t do in Hawkeye, not with my
friends. The Hawkins’ blood is good blood, all the way from Tennessee.
The Hawkinses are under the weather now, but their Tennessee property is
millions when it comes into market.”

“Of course, Colonel. Not the least offense intended. But you can see she
is a fascinating woman. I was only thinking, as to this appropriation,
now, what such a woman could do in Washington. All correct, too,
all correct. Common thing, I assure you in Washington; the wives of
senators, representatives, cabinet officers, all sorts of wives, and
some who are not wives, use their influence. You want an appointment? Do
you go to Senator X? Not much. You get on the right side of his wife.
Is it an appropriation? You’d go straight to the Committee, or to the
Interior office, I suppose? You’d learn better than that. It takes a
woman to get any thing through the Land Office: I tell you, Miss Laura
would fascinate an appropriation right through the Senate and the House
of Representatives in one session, if she was in Washington, as your
friend, Colonel, of course as your friend.”

“Would you have her sign our petition?” asked the Colonel, innocently.

Harry laughed. “Women don’t get anything by petitioning Congress; nobody
does, that’s for form. Petitions are referred somewhere, and that’s the
last of them; you can’t refer a handsome woman so easily, when she is
present. They prefer ‘em mostly.”

The petition however was elaborately drawn up, with a glowing
description of Napoleon and the adjacent country, and a statement of the
absolute necessity to the prosperity of that region and of one of the
stations on the great through route to the Pacific, of the immediate
improvement of Columbus River; to this was appended a map of the city
and a survey of the river. It was signed by all the people at Stone’s
Landing who could write their names, by Col. Beriah Sellers, and
the Colonel agreed to have the names headed by all the senators and
representatives from the state and by a sprinkling of ex-governors and
ex-members of congress. When completed it was a formidable document. Its
preparation and that of more minute plots of the new city consumed the
valuable time of Sellers and Harry for many weeks, and served to keep
them both in the highest spirits.

In the eyes of Washington Hawkins, Harry was a superior being, a man who
was able to bring things to pass in a way that excited his enthusiasm.
He never tired of listening to his stories of what he had done and of
what he was going to do. As for Washington, Harry thought he was a man
of ability and comprehension, but “too visionary,” he told the Colonel.
The Colonel said he might be right, but he had never noticed anything
visionary about him.

“He’s got his plans, sir. God bless my soul, at his age, I was full of
plans. But experience sobers a man, I never touch any thing now that
hasn’t been weighed in my judgment; and when Beriah Sellers puts his
judgment on a thing, there it is.”

Whatever might have been Harry’s intentions with regard to Laura, he saw
more and more of her every day, until he got to be restless and nervous
when he was not with her.

That consummate artist in passion allowed him to believe that the
fascination was mainly on his side, and so worked upon his vanity,
while inflaming his ardor, that he scarcely knew what he was about. Her
coolness and coyness were even made to appear the simple precautions
of a modest timidity, and attracted him even more than the little
tendernesses into which she was occasionally surprised. He could
never be away from her long, day or evening; and in a short time their
intimacy was the town talk. She played with him so adroitly that Harry
thought she was absorbed in love for him, and yet he was amazed that he
did not get on faster in his conquest.

And when he thought of it, he was piqued as well. A country girl, poor
enough, that was evident; living with her family in a cheap and most
unattractive frame house, such as carpenters build in America, scantily
furnished and unadorned; without the adventitious aids of dress or
jewels or the fine manners of society--Harry couldn’t understand it.
But she fascinated him, and held him just beyond the line of absolute
familiarity at the same time. While he was with her she made him forget
that the Hawkins’ house was nothing but a wooden tenement, with four
small square rooms on the ground floor and a half story; it might have
been a palace for aught he knew.

Perhaps Laura was older than Harry. She was, at any rate, at that ripe
age when beauty in woman seems more solid than in the budding period of
girlhood, and she had come to understand her powers perfectly, and to
know exactly how much of the susceptibility and archness of the girl
it was profitable to retain. She saw that many women, with the best
intentions, make a mistake of carrying too much girlishness into
womanhood. Such a woman would have attracted Harry at any time, but only
a woman with a cool brain and exquisite art could have made him lose
his head in this way; for Harry thought himself a man of the world. The
young fellow never dreamed that he was merely being experimented on; he
was to her a man of another society and another culture, different from
that she had any knowledge of except in books, and she was not unwilling
to try on him the fascinations of her mind and person.

For Laura had her dreams. She detested the narrow limits in which her
lot was cast, she hated poverty. Much of her reading had been of modern
works of fiction, written by her own sex, which had revealed to her
something of her own powers and given her indeed, an exaggerated notion
of the influence, the wealth, the position a woman may attain who has
beauty and talent and ambition and a little culture, and is not too
scrupulous in the use of them. She wanted to be rich, she wanted luxury,
she wanted men at her feet, her slaves, and she had not--thanks to some
of the novels she had read--the nicest discrimination between notoriety
and reputation; perhaps she did not know how fatal notoriety usually is
to the bloom of womanhood.

With the other Hawkins children Laura had been brought up in the belief
that they had inherited a fortune in the Tennessee Lands. She did not
by any means share all the delusion of the family; but her brain was
not seldom busy with schemes about it. Washington seemed to her only to
dream of it and to be willing to wait for its riches to fall upon him
in a golden shower; but she was impatient, and wished she were a man to
take hold of the business.

“You men must enjoy your schemes and your activity and liberty to go
about the world,” she said to Harry one day, when he had been talking of
New York and Washington and his incessant engagements.

“Oh, yes,” replied that martyr to business, “it’s all well enough, if
you don’t have too much of it, but it only has one object.”

“What is that?”

“If a woman doesn’t know, it’s useless to tell her. What do you suppose
I am staying in Hawkeye for, week after week, when I ought to be with my
corps?”

“I suppose it’s your business with Col. Sellers about Napoleon, you’ve
always told me so,” answered Laura, with a look intended to contradict
her words.

“And now I tell you that is all arranged, I suppose you’ll tell me I
ought to go?”

“Harry!” exclaimed Laura, touching his arm and letting her pretty hand
rest there a moment. “Why should I want you to go away? The only person
in Hawkeye who understands me.”

“But you refuse to understand me,” replied Harry, flattered but still
petulant. “You are like an iceberg, when we are alone.”

Laura looked up with wonder in her great eyes, and something like a
blush suffusing her face, followed by a look of langour that penetrated
Harry’s heart as if it had been longing.

“Did I ever show any want of confidence in you, Harry?” And she gave
him her hand, which Harry pressed with effusion--something in her manner
told him that he must be content with that favor.

It was always so. She excited his hopes and denied him, inflamed his
passion and restrained it, and wound him in her toils day by day. To
what purpose? It was keen delight to Laura to prove that she had power
over men.

Laura liked to hear about life at the east, and especially about the
luxurious society in which Mr. Brierly moved when he was at home. It
pleased her imagination to fancy herself a queen in it.

“You should be a winter in Washington,” Harry said.

“But I have no acquaintances there.”

“Don’t know any of the families of the congressmen? They like to have a
pretty woman staying with them.”

“Not one.”

“Suppose Col. Sellers should, have business there; say, about this
Columbus River appropriation?”

“Sellers!” and Laura laughed.

“You needn’t laugh. Queerer things have happened. Sellers knows
everybody from Missouri, and from the West, too, for that matter. He’d
introduce you to Washington life quick enough. It doesn’t need a crowbar
to break your way into society there as it does in Philadelphia. It’s
democratic, Washington is. Money or beauty will open any door. If I were
a handsome woman, I shouldn’t want any better place than the capital to
pick up a prince or a fortune.”

“Thank you,” replied Laura. “But I prefer the quiet of home, and the
love of those I know;” and her face wore a look of sweet contentment and
unworldliness that finished Mr. Harry Brierly for the day.

Nevertheless, the hint that Harry had dropped fell upon good ground, and
bore fruit an hundred fold; it worked in her mind until she had built
up a plan on it, and almost a career for herself. Why not, she said, why
shouldn’t I do as other women have done? She took the first opportunity
to see Col. Sellers, and to sound him about the Washington visit. How
was he getting on with his navigation scheme, would it be likely to take
him from home to Jefferson City; or to Washington, perhaps?

“Well, maybe. If the people of Napoleon want me to go to Washington,
and look after that matter, I might tear myself from my home. It’s been
suggested to me, but--not a word of it to Mrs. Sellers and the children.
Maybe they wouldn’t like to think of their father in Washington. But
Dilworthy, Senator Dilworthy, says to me, ‘Colonel, you are the man, you
could influence more votes than any one else on such a measure, an old
settler, a man of the people, you know the wants of Missouri; you’ve a
respect for religion too, says he, and know how the cause of the gospel
goes with improvements: Which is true enough, Miss Laura, and hasn’t
been enough thought of in connection with Napoleon. He’s an able man,
Dilworthy, and a good man. A man has got to be good to succeed as he
has. He’s only been in Congress a few years, and he must be worth a
million. First thing in the morning when he stayed with me he asked
about family prayers, whether we had ‘em before or after breakfast. I
hated to disappoint the Senator, but I had to out with it, tell him
we didn’t have ‘em, not steady. He said he understood, business
interruptions and all that, some men were well enough without, but as
for him he never neglected the ordinances of religion. He doubted if
the Columbus River appropriation would succeed if we did not invoke the
Divine Blessing on it.”

Perhaps it is unnecessary to say to the reader that Senator Dilworthy
had not stayed with Col. Sellers while he was in Hawkeye; this visit to
his house being only one of the Colonel’s hallucinations--one of those
instant creations of his fertile fancy, which were always flashing into
his brain and out of his mouth in the course of any conversation and
without interrupting the flow of it.

During the summer Philip rode across the country and made a short visit
in Hawkeye, giving Harry an opportunity to show him the progress that
he and the Colonel had made in their operation at Stone’s Landing,
to introduce him also to Laura, and to borrow a little money when he
departed. Harry bragged about his conquest, as was his habit, and took
Philip round to see his western prize.

Laura received Mr. Philip with a courtesy and a slight hauteur that
rather surprised and not a little interested him. He saw at once that
she was older than Harry, and soon made up his mind that she was leading
his friend a country dance to which he was unaccustomed. At least he
thought he saw that, and half hinted as much to Harry, who flared up at
once; but on a second visit Philip was not so sure, the young lady was
certainly kind and friendly and almost confiding with Harry, and treated
Philip with the greatest consideration. She deferred to his opinions,
and listened attentively when he talked, and in time met his frank
manner with an equal frankness, so that he was quite convinced that
whatever she might feel towards Harry, she was sincere with him. Perhaps
his manly way did win her liking. Perhaps in her mind, she compared him
with Harry, and recognized in him a man to whom a woman might give her
whole soul, recklessly and with little care if she lost it. Philip
was not invincible to her beauty nor to the intellectual charm of her
presence.

The week seemed very short that he passed in Hawkeye, and when he bade
Laura good by, he seemed to have known her a year.

“We shall see you again, Mr. Sterling,” she said as she gave him her
hand, with just a shade of sadness in her handsome eyes.

And when he turned away she followed him with a look that might have
disturbed his serenity, if he had not at the moment had a little square
letter in his breast pocket, dated at Philadelphia, and signed “Ruth.”

CHAPTER XX.

The visit of Senator Abner Dilworthy was an event in Hawkeye. When a
Senator, whose place is in Washington moving among the Great and guiding
the destinies of the nation, condescends to mingle among the people and
accept the hospitalities of such a place as Hawkeye, the honor is not
considered a light one. All parties are flattered by it and politics are
forgotten in the presence of one so distinguished among his fellows.

Senator Dilworthy, who was from a neighboring state, had been a Unionist
in the darkest days of his country, and had thriven by it, but was that
any reason why Col. Sellers, who had been a confederate and had not
thriven by it, should give him the cold shoulder?

The Senator was the guest of his old friend Gen. Boswell, but it
almost appeared that he was indebted to Col. Sellers for the unreserved
hospitalities of the town. It was the large hearted Colonel who, in a
manner, gave him the freedom of the city.

“You are known here, sir,” said the Colonel, “and Hawkeye is proud of
you. You will find every door open, and a welcome at every hearthstone.
I should insist upon your going to my house, if you were not claimed by
your older friend Gen. Boswell. But you will mingle with our people, and
you will see here developments that will surprise you.”

The Colonel was so profuse in his hospitality that he must have made the
impression upon himself that he had entertained the Senator at his own
mansion during his stay; at any rate, he afterwards always spoke of him
as his guest, and not seldom referred to the Senator’s relish of certain
viands on his table. He did, in fact, press him to dine upon the morning
of the day the Senator was going away.

Senator Dilworthy was large and portly, though not tall--a pleasant
spoken man, a popular man with the people.

He took a lively interest in the town and all the surrounding country,
and made many inquiries as to the progress of agriculture, of education,
and of religion, and especially as to the condition of the emancipated
race.

“Providence,” he said, “has placed them in our hands, and although you
and I, General, might have chosen a different destiny for them, under
the Constitution, yet Providence knows best.”

“You can’t do much with ‘em,” interrupted Col. Sellers. “They are a
speculating race, sir, disinclined to work for white folks without
security, planning how to live by only working for themselves. Idle,
sir, there’s my garden just a ruin of weeds. Nothing practical in ‘em.”

“There is some truth in your observation, Colonel, but you must educate
them.”

“You educate the niggro and you make him more speculating than he was
before. If he won’t stick to any industry except for himself now, what
will he do then?”

“But, Colonel, the negro when educated will be more able to make his
speculations fruitful.”

“Never, sir, never. He would only have a wider scope to injure himself.
A niggro has no grasp, sir. Now, a white man can conceive great
operations, and carry them out; a niggro can’t.”

“Still,” replied the Senator, “granting that he might injure himself in
a worldly point of view, his elevation through education would multiply
his chances for the hereafter--which is the important thing after all,
Colonel. And no matter what the result is, we must fulfill our duty by
this being.”

“I’d elevate his soul,” promptly responded the Colonel; “that’s just it;
you can’t make his soul too immortal, but I wouldn’t touch him, himself.
Yes, sir! make his soul immortal, but don’t disturb the niggro as he
is.”

Of course one of the entertainments offered the Senator was a public
reception, held in the court house, at which he made a speech to his
fellow citizens. Col. Sellers was master of ceremonies. He escorted the
band from the city hotel to Gen. Boswell’s; he marshalled the procession
of Masons, of Odd Fellows, and of Firemen, the Good Templars, the Sons
of Temperance, the Cadets of Temperance, the Daughters of Rebecca,
the Sunday School children, and citizens generally, which followed the
Senator to the court house; he bustled about the room long after every
one else was seated, and loudly cried “Order!” in the dead silence which
preceded the introduction of the Senator by Gen. Boswell. The occasion
was one to call out his finest powers of personal appearance, and one he
long dwelt on with pleasure.

This not being an edition of the Congressional Globe it is impossible to
give Senator Dilworthy’s speech in full. He began somewhat as follows:

“Fellow citizens: It gives me great pleasure to thus meet and mingle
with you, to lay aside for a moment the heavy duties of an official and
burdensome station, and confer in familiar converse with my friends in
your great state. The good opinion of my fellow citizens of all sections
is the sweetest solace in all my anxieties. I look forward with longing
to the time when I can lay aside the cares of office--” [“dam sight,”
 shouted a tipsy fellow near the door. Cries of “put him out.”]

“My friends, do not remove him. Let the misguided man stay. I see that
he is a victim of that evil which is swallowing up public virtue and
sapping the foundation of society. As I was saying, when I can lay down
the cares of office and retire to the sweets of private life in some
such sweet, peaceful, intelligent, wide-awake and patriotic place as
Hawkeye (applause). I have traveled much, I have seen all parts of our
glorious union, but I have never seen a lovelier village than yours,
or one that has more signs of commercial and industrial and religious
prosperity--(more applause).”

The Senator then launched into a sketch of our great country, and dwelt
for an hour or more upon its prosperity and the dangers which threatened
it.

He then touched reverently upon the institutions of religion, and upon
the necessity of private purity, if we were to have any public morality.
“I trust,” he said, “that there are children within the sound of my
voice,” and after some remarks to them, the Senator closed with an
apostrophe to “the genius of American Liberty, walking with the Sunday
School in one hand and Temperance in the other up the glorified steps of
the National Capitol.”

Col. Sellers did not of course lose the opportunity to impress upon so
influential a person as the Senator the desirability of improving the
navigation of Columbus river. He and Mr. Brierly took the Senator over
to Napoleon and opened to him their plan. It was a plan that the Senator
could understand without a great deal of explanation, for he seemed to
be familiar with the like improvements elsewhere. When, however, they
reached Stone’s Landing the Senator looked about him and inquired,

“Is this Napoleon?”

“This is the nucleus, the nucleus,” said the Colonel, unrolling his map.
“Here is the deepo, the church, the City Hall and so on.”

“Ah, I see. How far from here is Columbus River? Does that stream
empty----”

“That, why, that’s Goose Run. Thar ain’t no Columbus, thout’n it’s over
to Hawkeye,” interrupted one of the citizens, who had come out to stare
at the strangers. “A railroad come here last summer, but it haint been
here no mo’.”

“Yes, sir,” the Colonel hastened to explain, “in the old records
Columbus River is called Goose Run. You see how it sweeps round the
town--forty-nine miles to the Missouri; sloop navigation all the way
pretty much drains this whole country; when it’s improved steamboats
will run right up here. It’s got to be enlarged, deepened. You see by
the map. Columbus River. This country must have water communication!”

“You’ll want a considerable appropriation, Col. Sellers.

“I should say a million; is that your figure Mr. Brierly.”

“According to our surveys,” said Harry, “a million would do it; a
million spent on the river would make Napoleon worth two millions at
least.”

“I see,” nodded the Senator. “But you’d better begin by asking only for
two or three hundred thousand, the usual way. You can begin to sell town
lots on that appropriation you know.”

The Senator, himself, to do him justice, was not very much interested in
the country or the stream, but he favored the appropriation, and he gave
the Colonel and Mr. Brierly to understand that he would endeavor to get
it through. Harry, who thought he was shrewd and understood Washington,
suggested an interest.

But he saw that the Senator was wounded by the suggestion.

“You will offend me by repeating such an observation,” he said.
“Whatever I do will be for the public interest. It will require a
portion of the appropriation for necessary expenses, and I am sorry to
say that there are members who will have to be seen. But you can reckon
upon my humble services.”

This aspect of the subject was not again alluded to. The Senator
possessed himself of the facts, not from his observation of the ground,
but from the lips of Col. Sellers, and laid the appropriation scheme
away among his other plans for benefiting the public.

It was on this visit also that the Senator made the acquaintance of
Mr. Washington Hawkins, and was greatly taken with his innocence, his
guileless manner and perhaps with his ready adaptability to enter upon
any plan proposed.

Col. Sellers was pleased to see this interest that Washington had
awakened, especially since it was likely to further his expectations
with regard to the Tennessee lands; the Senator having remarked to the
Colonel, that he delighted to help any deserving young man, when the
promotion of a private advantage could at the same time be made to
contribute to the general good. And he did not doubt that this was an
opportunity of that kind.

The result of several conferences with Washington was that the Senator
proposed that he should go to Washington with him and become his private
secretary and the secretary of his committee; a proposal which was
eagerly accepted.

The Senator spent Sunday in Hawkeye and attended church. He cheered
the heart of the worthy and zealous minister by an expression of his
sympathy in his labors, and by many inquiries in regard to the religious
state of the region. It was not a very promising state, and the good man
felt how much lighter his task would be, if he had the aid of such a man
as Senator Dilworthy.

“I am glad to see, my dear sir,” said the Senator, “that you give them
the doctrines. It is owing to a neglect of the doctrines, that there is
such a fearful falling away in the country. I wish that we might have
you in Washington--as chaplain, now, in the senate.”

The good man could not but be a little flattered, and if sometimes,
thereafter, in his discouraging work, he allowed the thought that he
might perhaps be called to Washington as chaplain of the Senate, to
cheer him, who can wonder. The Senator’s commendation at least did one
service for him, it elevated him in the opinion of Hawkeye.

Laura was at church alone that day, and Mr. Brierly walked home with
her. A part of their way lay with that of General Boswell and Senator
Dilworthy, and introductions were made. Laura had her own reasons for
wishing to know the Senator, and the Senator was not a man who could
be called indifferent to charms such as hers. That meek young lady
so commended herself to him in the short walk, that he announced his
intentions of paying his respects to her the next day, an intention
which Harry received glumly; and when the Senator was out of hearing he
called him “an old fool.”

“Fie,” said Laura, “I do believe you are jealous, Harry. He is a very
pleasant man. He said you were a young man of great promise.”

The Senator did call next day, and the result of his visit was that he
was confirmed in his impression that there was something about him very
attractive to ladies. He saw Laura again and again during his stay, and
felt more and more the subtle influence of her feminine beauty, which
every man felt who came near her.

Harry was beside himself with rage while the Senator remained in town;
he declared that women were always ready to drop any man for higher
game; and he attributed his own ill-luck to the Senator’s appearance.
The fellow was in fact crazy about her beauty and ready to beat his
brains out in chagrin. Perhaps Laura enjoyed his torment, but she
soothed him with blandishments that increased his ardor, and she smiled
to herself to think that he had, with all his protestations of love,
never spoken of marriage. Probably the vivacious fellow never had
thought of it. At any rate when he at length went away from Hawkeye he
was no nearer it. But there was no telling to what desperate lengths his
passion might not carry him.

Laura bade him good bye with tender regret, which, however, did not
disturb her peace or interfere with her plans. The visit of Senator
Dilworthy had become of more importance to her, and it by and by bore
the fruit she longed for, in an invitation to visit his family in the
National Capital during the winter session of Congress.

CHAPTER XXI.

     O lift your natures up:
     Embrace our aims: work out your freedom. Girls,
     Knowledge is now no more a fountain sealed;
     Drink deep until the habits of the slave,
     The sins of emptiness, gossip and spite
     And slander, die.

                    The Princess.

Whether medicine is a science, or only an empirical method of getting
a living out of the ignorance of the human race, Ruth found before her
first term was over at the medical school that there were other things
she needed to know quite as much as that which is taught in medical
books, and that she could never satisfy her aspirations without more
general culture.

“Does your doctor know any thing--I don’t mean about medicine, but about
things in general, is he a man of information and good sense?” once
asked an old practitioner. “If he doesn’t know anything but medicine the
chance is he doesn’t know that.”

The close application to her special study was beginning to tell
upon Ruth’s delicate health also, and the summer brought with it only
weariness and indisposition for any mental effort.

In this condition of mind and body the quiet of her home and the
unexciting companionship of those about her were more than ever
tiresome.

She followed with more interest Philip’s sparkling account of his life
in the west, and longed for his experiences, and to know some of those
people of a world so different from here, who alternately amused and
displeased him. He at least was learning the world, the good and the bad
of it, as must happen to every one who accomplishes anything in it.

But what, Ruth wrote, could a woman do, tied up by custom, and cast
