"You had very little to be proud of, I should say!" retorted Miss
Sanford, losing command of her tongue and temper entirely, as the
discussion proceeded. "Thank Heaven! I am not dependent upon such
contemptible trifles for my peace of mind! I wouldn't recognize Roy
Fordham on the street, or anywhere else; would cut him dead were he
to enter this room at this very minute. As for Miss Kirke, I care
less than nothing for her, or her opinion. If she chooses to play
the spy upon a confidential conversation between ladies, and carry
tales to gentlemen, she may, and welcome. I never could abide her
from the first instant I ever saw her. I do hate tattlers and
backbiters! But let her do her worst! I flatter myself that I, at
least, am above her reach!"
"I should be very uneasy and unhappy, if I believed that the
substance of our conversation would ever reach Mr. Fordham's ears,"
rejoined Fanny, very gravely. "But Mr. Wyllys is no mischief-maker.
Nor, for that matter, is Jessie Kirke. My principal regret is that
we have wounded her; for I do not think a reputation so nobly earned
as Mr. Fordham's has been, will suffer from our idle chatter. It is
founded upon a rock. As to Jessie's playing the spy, Hester, she had
no reason to believe the communication you made was confidential."
"She never opened her lips while I was talking! just stood off
there, pretending to be busy with the billiard balls, and
listened," said Hester, hotly, "If that wasn't mean and
dishonorable, I don't know what is!"
"I am inclined to think it would have been well had the rest of us
done likewise!" smiled Fanny, willing to give a jocose turn to the
circumstance. "Since we cannot help our blunder, we will try to
forget it."
But Hester had a troublesome bee in her bonnet. She looked more and
more discomposed.
"What makes you all think that this Kirke girl will blab to Mr.
Wyllys? What has she to do with him, more than any of you here?"
"What's he to Hecuba, or Hecuba to him!" quoted Fanny, theatrically,
bent upon covering her cousin's coarseness of speech and manner.
"They are old friends, and he is intimate at Dr. Baxter's, where she
is staying. As I said, however, the least of my apprehensions is
that she will stir up strife between us and Mr. Fordham."
She chalked her cue carefully, as if it were her chief concern at
present.
"Is he addressing her?" demanded Hester, with increasing interest.
"I don't know. Selina! will you play on my side?"
"In a minute!" The volatile Bradley was off at a tangent. "I don't
begin to believe that he means to offer himself to her, whatever
wiseacres may say. It is well known that he is not a marrying man.
He brings out girls that have the making of belles in them. It is a
sort of hobby with him--a mission he has. This done, he stands back
serenely, and lets other men marry them. He is a universal lover of
the sex, and upon occasions like those I have named--a benefactor.
Some of our most elegant matrons and handsomest young ladies were
his protégées. His sanction of their charms made them the fashion.
It is odd, but true."
Hester smiled, laid her head on her left shoulder, and peeped at an
opposite mirror.
"It would be a sin were you Hamilton girls to let him marry this
girl. You don't half appreciate him. I have met so many
distinguished and gallant men, that I call myself a tolerable judge
of true breeding and polished manners. And I can inform you that in
a large, gay city such as that I live in, he would be a star!
might have almost any girl he wanted. The idea of his throwing
himself away upon a poor minister's daughter is just perfectly
nonsensical. I have too good an opinion of his common-sense and his
taste, to believe it for a second. He can't but know that he could
look ever so much higher. What there is about this Miss Kirke that
you all admire, I can't see, for the life of me. She couldn't carry
it, in our place, with such a bold hand, as she does here. She would
be put down at once and forever!"
"Jessie Kirke is my friend, Hester, and was but just now my guest,"
said Fanny, firmly. "Excuse me for saying that I cannot hear her
spoken of unkindly in this house. She is a lady--born and bred. Papa
says her family were people of rank in this country, before ours was
ever heard of. I am not an aristocrat, but if I were I should rather
belong to what Dr. Holmes calls the 'Brahmin caste', in America,
than to any other. Jessie Kirke comes of an educated race, and the
refinement of educated generations shows itself in every motion and
word. I do not affirm that she will--that she would, if he offered
himself, marry Mr. Wyllys. I do say that he would do well to win
her for his wife. And I suspect he does not need to be told this."
The sun was an hour high as Jessie descended the granite steps of
Judge Provost's mansion. The college buildings lay to her right,
upon rising ground, separated by a shallow valley from the hill
crowned by the Provost house and grounds. Instead of taking the
street that would conduct her to Dr. Baxter's door, she turned
sharply to the left, and began another and steeper ascent. There
were few residences in this quarter of the town, and these were
gentlemen's villas, separated by large gardens. She did not look up
at the windows of the scattered dwellings in passing, although more
than one acquaintance watched, from one and another of these, the
straight, slender figure that held on its rapid course without sway
or falter. In the plainest garb, she was conspicuous for her
carriage and peculiar style of beauty. This afternoon she looked
like a young forest princess in her dark green dress, and tunic
trimmed with fur, the black velvet cap and sweeping green feather.
She had thought of Hester Sanford's colorless countenance and
Parisian costumes as she made ready for the call upon Fanny, laughed
to herself at the image that smiled back upon her from the mirror,
knowing how far handsomer, even more "stylish" (Hester's pet word!)
she was in her simple robes. She thought more of such things now
than ever before. Her enjoyment in general company was no longer the
gratification of a young girl's frank vanity--often as guileless and
freely uttered as a child's. The desire to be at her best looks, to
attract and to hold the admiration of those whom she met abroad, had
ceased to be simple and positive. There was in it the baser element
of competition. She would be beautiful and brilliant because
others--Hester Sanford in particular--were homely and silly. The
feeling had grown upon her insidiously--so stealthily she could not
tell when she forbore to laugh, good-naturedly, at the heiress'
absurdities; to declare openly to Mr. Baxter and Orrin that she had
conceived an antipathy to her before she had known her three hours,
or three minutes,--that association with her invariably provoked her
into an indescribable but intolerable state of discomfort, analogous
to that a cat is supposed to feel when her fur is turned the wrong
way. But she disliked the woman intensely now when she hardly ever
named her to others.
There were many reasons for this. As proud in her way as Hester was
vain-glorious in hers, it galled her continually that she must
appear--even for Fanny's and decency's sake--to submit to the
insufferable impertinence of one who was her peer in nothing save
the accident of riches. She would give her no apparent advantage;
would not put it into her power to boast that she had driven her out
of the arena where she--Hester--believed that she reigned queen of
Fashion, if not of Love and Beauty,--or she would have avoided her
whenever she could. It seemed to her that the more dignified course
was to overlook her--her spiteful innuendoes, her pompous
condescensions, and brainless boastings--with the sublime
indifference of one whose thoughts were set upon worthier and more
comely objects; to mete out to the heiress scrupulously such show of
regard as she would vouchsafe a peevish, painted gad-fly hissing
about her ears and eyes.
The gad-fly had stung her out of her seeming of haughty
carelessness, and since she could not crush or even touch it, she
was fleeing before it, as for her life. The figure occurred to her
as she climbed a third hill--one she had never crossed before
without pausing on the summit to look back over the town--a view Roy
had commended to her admiration in one of his letters. She did not
stop now, or turn her head, but almost ran down the other side, her
teeth clinched, and a dry aching in the throat that ought to have
been relieved by tears, yet was not to be. She met no one in her
walk. The day was still, and very cold; the hills beyond the
ice-bound river were strongly defined against a pale orange sky into
which the color seemed to be frozen, so unvarying was it, as the sun
rolled horizonward. She had passed the region of paved sidewalks,
but the ground rang like stone under her tread; her breath was
frosty vapor as soon as it left her lips. She did not think how much
colder it would be in the open country road on the other side of the
bridge. She would not feel it when she got there. Two wood wagons,
each with a team of four horses, were coming across the bridge,
abreast, and she stepped aside to let them pass. The drivers were
walking behind their loads, swinging their arms and stamping to keep
up the circulation of the congealing blood in their limbs. The
roadsters tramped in a cloud of steam from their nostrils, about
which fine icicles clung to their shaggy hair. They had thick
woollen shields over their breasts, fur collars upon their
shoulders.
"Men are tender in their mercies to the brute creation!" thought the
young lady at whom the men looked with respectful but evident
approbation, in going by. "When it comes to women, their pity fails
them!"
She was doing more than escaping the malignant tongue that had
blackened the fair fame of her betrothed. She despised Hester
Sanford's intellect and inventive talents so heartily that she
should have laughed to scorn the tale to which she had hearkened;
dissected the ill-formed mass of contradictions, and boldly refuted
her statements by a comparison of their incongruities. Three months
earlier she would have covered the traducer with confusion, and
rightly punished her gloating audience by standing forth as the
defender of Roy's honor and truth, and proudly announcing the nature
of the bond between them. She was incapable of such an attempt now.
Like a cowed hound, she had crouched in a corner and suffered the
outrage to him who was her other self--the gallant gentleman, whose
name she was to bear some day--lifted neither tongue nor finger to
save that name from obloquy. Not even to amiable Fanny (how much
braver than her craven self!) had she been able to say--"This man is
to be my husband! Who strikes him, wounds and makes an enemy of me!"
Why was this?
She stopped midway across the bridge; leaned over the parapet with
locked hands and rigid features; stared down upon the shining black
ice--still not feeling the cold--and tried to answer the question
thrust upon her.
Why had she made no fight to save the character of him for whom she
had once declared herself willing to die?
"How dared they?" she had muttered between her teeth, in leaving
Judge Provost's portico. On the bridge she spoke again--a hoarse
whisper it hurt her throat to sibillate.
"If this be true!" she said, letting her clasped hands fall upon the
stone wall.
There was a livid bruise on both, when she removed her gloves that
evening, but she had not felt it when it was dealt.
Had then her belief in her lover's integrity succumbed to the weight
of the first doubt cast upon it, in her presence? Were her faith and
her love made of such flimsy stuff as to be torn into wretched rags
by a single gale? If these were ever well-founded, must not the
inroads of distrust have been gradual in order to be effectual? Had
suspicion and forebodings visited her before to-day? been harbored,
but not recognized? If so, what were the grounds for doubts and
fears?
"If it be true--" she repeated, with a desolate moan--"there is no
help for me in earth or in heaven! I can never trust or love again!"
Some one was coming on behind her with quick steps, which echoed
loudly on the icy planks, and she walked on hastily. Her first
unwise impulse was to increase her speed in the hope of getting away
from the intruder, whoever he might be. But finding, on reaching the
opposite shore, that he gained on her, she slackened her pace to let
him pass. She would be the sooner alone and unobserved if she
allowed him to go on. It was only a chance wayfarer, of course, but
she would shun all eyes, idle or searching, while her brain was in
such a whirl, her heart rent and quaking. She detected nothing
familiar in the footfall, but she did remark, with a sense of
irritation, that it was more deliberate in nearing her. Did the
unseen pursuer mean to dog her?
Annoyance was exchanged momentarily for active alarm; the angry
blood welled to her face and head in one mighty throb, as a hand
touched her elbow, before her persecutor had breath to accost her.
It was Orrin Wyllys' voice that said, laughingly, "Is it Atalanta,
or swift Camilla scouring the plain, whom I have chased for the last
ten minutes? What are you running away from?"
"The Furies!"
CHAPTER XII.
Orrin was shocked into sober sincerity by the fierce, curt
utterance.
"My dear Jessie! what has happened?"
"Don't ask me!" walking on, without looking at him.
Orrin kept step with her for several moments, studying the eyes
that, black and disdainful, stared straight before her, and the
mouth set in a close curve of pride, before he spoke again.
"I will ask nothing just now, except that you will take my arm, and
allow me to be your escort. This is a lonely road."
"It suits me the better, then!"
He waited a minute more, and, with gentle force, undid her right
hand from its hold upon its fellow, and drew it within his arm.
"I see that my society is unwelcome, Jessie, but it is not right for
you to be so far from home at this time of day without a protector.
I shall not compel your confidence. When you are ready to give it,
my sympathies or services are at your command, as they have always
been since I became your guardian in the absence and with the
sanction of my cousin."
The hot sparkle was a blaze as she looked up.
"Yes! and you, too, must have known it! You, who pretend to be my
friend! My trust has been blind and foolish throughout. You were
ready enough to counsel and warn me about other things. Why did you
never tell me of Roy Fordham's former engagement? of the love-affair
(save the mark!) that clashed with mine? You have said again and
again that you respected me--that my happiness was of value in your
estimation. Did not respect or humanity urge you to spare me this
bitter humiliation?"
Unaffectedly amazed though he was at the onslaught and the
information she imparted, Orrin yet refrained from explicit denial.
"Who has been talking to you?" he asked, instead.
She dashed through the story in the same impetuous strain, ending it
with--"He ought to have told me this, and so ought you! I can
forgive anything but deliberate deception."
Orrin mused.
"You are excited--" he began, slowly.
She interrupted him--"Who would not be? I am not a stone!"
"Nobody said that you were, or ought to be," smiling a little. "I
was about to say that the displeasure you feel is perfectly
natural--just what any woman with a heart would experience in the
circumstances. But let us investigate before we condemn. What is
your ground of complaint against my friend and your betrothed? Did
he ever tell you that you were his first and only love?"
"I do not know that he asserted it in so many words," she replied,
with a vivid blush. "But I certainly inferred as much from what he
has said."
"Every woman's inference is the same when she listens to a
declaration of affection. Who but a fool would preface such by a
confession of how many times he had rehearsed it to other ears? Few
men reach the age of twenty-five without having had two or three
grandes passions. I do not maintain, as a gentleman did once in my
hearing, when taxed with being engaged in his fortieth love-suit,
that in this, as in most other things, practice makes perfect. But I
hold that you cannot accuse Roy of deceiving you, unless he has
declared expressly that he had never loved or wooed until he met
you. Happy are those who are not visited by the ghosts of
by-gone--and, as they deemed, buried--affections upon their bridal
eves! Ghosts that are hard enough to lay, as many a miserable
married, not mated one can testify."
"None such shall stand between me and him whom I marry!" cried
Jessie, vehemently. "If Roy Fordham once loved--if he still regrets
this girl--has one pang of compunction in the review of her fidelity
and her sorrow; if he repents, never so slightly, his relinquishment
of her upon insufficient cause--he shall go back to her. I will have
a whole heart, or I will quit him, a pauper in love. Divided
allegiance is worse than desertion."
"Be assured of one thing!" returned Orrin, emphatically. "Roy
Fordham 'regrets' no past action of his own. His judgment is as calm
as his measures are decided. If he suffers his heart to go out of
his keeping, he does it in the persuasion that he could not act more
prudently, more in accordance with his best interests, than to
intrust it to her whom he has chosen. But should he, nevertheless,
discover, from subsequent developments, that he was mistaken, he
would recall affections and troth without weak hesitation. If Miss
Sanford's story be true (which, please observe, I am far from
admitting), we may still rest content in the knowledge that he
pursued what he thought was the wisest course--performed what seemed
to him a simple and imperative duty. He is, of all men I know, the
most clear-headed and conscientious. If his ideas upon certain
subjects appear to me to be over-strict, if his conduct, in cases
that would be trying emergencies to me, looks like an exercise of
superhuman resolution or self-denial, I do not, therefore, question
his wisdom or my failings. His standard of right is so elevated, his
views of duty are based upon--"
"Don't make labored excuses for him which you feel, in your soul,
are paltry sophisms!" burst out Jessie, impatiently. "Is it your
belief that he was ever betrothed to this girl? And, if so, did he
cast her off upon the barbarous pretext Hester Sanford named? I have
tried to think it all out," she continued, putting her hand to her
head, like one dazed or stunned, "but nothing is fixed and clear. He
was at the seashore two summers ago, after he visited Dundee. He
did go to B---- the following winter--twice--both times to attend
the weddings of friends, he told me. These things he made no secret
of. That does not look like guilt. And yet--Tell me what to
believe--how to act!"
"If I were in possession of the exact truth, you should have had it
before now. I am as ignorant as yourself of all except the facts you
have stated. He has friends--relatives whom he esteems--in B----. I
recollect that he was with them at the sea shore late in his
vacation, and that he spent Christmas before last in the city which
is their home. This is the extent of my actual knowledge touching
this mystery. He is reticent in the extreme with respect to his
personal affairs. I never heard your name; never suspected that he
was not heart-whole prior to my first visit to Dundee. I can only
judge him in this, as in every case, by what I know of his
principles and past conduct. He is incapable of what he would
consider a dishonorable, much less a base deed! Try and trust him;
forget this tale which may be a fiction, out-and-out, and hope for
the best!"
"Christmas before last!" murmured Jessie, in stifled accents. "He
was corresponding with me then! He had told my father that he
meant--Oh!" stopping short, and stamping her foot with feverish
energy upon the frozen earth--"Is there no way of ending this
horrible suspense? no one who can put me out of this pain? I would
give my right hand if I might stand face to face with Roy Fordham,
for ten minutes! just long enough to bring my accusation, and hear
his defence!"
"I am thankful that this cannot be!" said Orrin, composedly. "I
understand him better than you do in some respects. To doubt is to
insult him. One sentence of 'accusation,' and your power over him is
gone forever. Be guided by me, Jessie! You are not in a fit
condition to decide for yourself upon your safest mode of action at
this critical juncture. It is an oft-repeated maxim of human law
that every man is innocent until proof brings his guilt home to
him. Two things are patent from our present standpoint. When Roy
asked you to marry him, he was free to do so,--the previous
engagement, assuming that such had ever existed, having been
dissolved some months earlier than the date of his proposal to you.
Again--and on this head I can speak confidently--he is thoroughly
satisfied that his choice is a judicious one. This is not the first
time I have wanted to say this to you. He may not be an ardent
suitor, because his is not a passionate nature, nor is he given to
demonstrations of emotion. But he is more than contented. He is
sincerely attached to you--"
"Which means that he will fulfil his part of the contract of
marriage unless my sister should die of consumption before the
wedding-day arrives!" Jessie checked his defence of his kinsman by
saying, with a rasping laugh.
Wyllys looked deeply pained.
"We will defer further conversation about this matter until you are
calmer," he said, with a manifest struggle. "You are not ready for
it just yet, or you would not sneer at my well-meant, if
ineffectual, attempt to set your mind at rest."
"With unfeeling arguments! with special pleadings that freeze the
blood at my heart!" she pursued, unappeased and desperate. "If this
is the ablest defence you can set up for your client, you do well to
defer the further consideration of it. I have prayed you for bread,
and you give me a stone! I have said--'Let me have the plain truth!'
and you tantalize me with fine-drawn theories and exhortations to
patience and faith. I am tempted to believe that you are in the
league to deceive me!"
"Jessie! Jessie! take care! You do not know what you are doing!"
It was entreaty--not reproach. He seemed to crave a personal
boon--deliverance from impending trial of his strength or feelings.
Jessie rushed on headlong, deaf to the significance of the petition.
"Your advocacy is worthy of the cause you have espoused! And while
you expatiate upon your cousin's cool head and colder heart, and
recommend me to make sure of this pattern partner--yes! that is the
way you put it--I am being torn by pride and wounded affection and
incertitude, as by raging wild horses! It is easy for you to talk
sensibly and even eloquently of what appeals only to your reason!"
"Child!" seizing her elbows, and bringing her to a stand-still in
the middle of the road, facing himself, "does it cost me nothing,
do you think, to plead this cause? There are no wild horses for me
then! No 'Might-have-been' dogging my steps and haunting my pillow!
No furies of betrayed confidence and remorse menacing me! I tell
you, your pettish jealousy, your slight heat of resentment that will
be gone before to-morrow morning, is, in comparison with what I
endure, a summer breeze to a tornado,--the flicker of a match to the
fires of Gehenna!"
He released her, and she walked on beside him, bewildered and giddy;
almost oblivious of her individual grievances in the thought of the
passion that had fired his eyes, found vent in his hurried
sentences. The sun was down. They were in a rough country-road;
stone fences on either hand; the naked hedge-rows seeming to shiver
in the still, freezing air. The hard orange dye of the west was
beginning to melt slowly into a gray as cold. It was a heartless,
dreesome afternoon.
Jessie never forgot it, or the interval of awful silence that
succeeded Wyllys' unprecedented outbreak. Not daring to glance at
his face, she had a second surprise, when he, at length, suggested,
in a tone tranquil to coldness, that they should retrace their
steps. Could she be dreaming now? Or were the strange, wild words
echoing confusingly in her brain, dictated by her distempered fancy?
"It will be late before we reach home, as it is," Orrin offered, in
support of his proposition. "And the air grows keener every moment."
Nothing more passed between them until they were again upon the
bridge, where he stayed her, for a moment, that he might rearrange
her furs.
"You are not used to this biting weather! Are you tolerably
comfortable?" he asked, in his usual brotherly way.
"Quite comfortable--if you are not angry with me!" she answered,
enboldened by the little attention and his tone.
"You silly child! I have never had a thought of you that bordered
upon unkindness. We have both been hasty and unreasonable in
judgment and in language, this afternoon. Your warmth was excusable.
Mine was culpable weakness. You will hate me, in time, if I forget
myself in this manner. It was selfish and wicked, besides being
unmanly. Don't contradict me! I know what I am saying now, at any
rate. To exchange an unpleasant for a painful subject--promise me
that you will not allude to Miss Sanford's narrative in your letter
to Roy."
"I shall write to him by to-morrow's mail, and tell him all!" said
Jessie, with a return of stubbornness.
"You will regret it all your life! If he is guilty, he will be
offended at your arraignment of him by letter, which must, of
necessity, be formal and incomplete as to testimony--you having but
one witness, and that by no means a reliable one. Should he be
innocent, you inflict severe and needless pain; put yourself in the
position of a touchy, suspicious, exacting fiancée, whose troth he
will ever thereafter hold by a slight tenure. 'Let sleeping dogs
lie,' is a sage motto, unless they can bark to some purpose. If you
will allow me, I shall make it my business to sift this story
carefully, and apprise you of the result--if I have to cultivate an
intimacy with Miss Sanford in order to get at the truth. Meanwhile,
we will depend upon what we are certain of--Roy's integrity and the
nicety of his honor. At the risk of being again taken to task for
special pleading, let me say that he is, in my estimation, as nearly
faultless as mortals ever grow to be. You cannot act more rationally
than to think as much as possible of him, and as little of his
vaurien cousin as is consistent with common benevolence."
It was silvery-gray twilight out-of-doors when they gained Mrs.
Baxter's door, and they found a rosy twilight of summer within her
firelighted parlors, balmy, moreover, with the spiciness flowing out
in the genial temperature, from the latest bouquet presented by Mr.
Wyllys.
The donor, playfully gallant, and bent, it would seem, upon effacing
the memory of his late excited speech, was chafing Jessie's numb
fingers before the fire, and she laughing in spite of herself at his
sallies, when Mrs. Baxter tripped in.
She always entered a room bouncingly, generally with the added
effect of being pushed in by some unseen hand from behind. She
recoiled, momentarily, at the tableau upon the rug, and Jessie
observed it with a sick, guilty qualm that made her snatch away her
hand from Orrin's hold.
He was not discomfited.
"Here is a frozen wayfarer I picked up on the bridge, my dear madam,
taking an unconstitutional," he said. "Mindful of your known
charity and condescension, I took the liberty of bringing her in to
be treated by you as her needs require. If I may advise you in a
matter in which you are so much wiser than myself, I recommend that
a cup of warm drink--gruel, panada, or posset--and a reasonable
amount of admonition, tempered to suit the exhausted state of the
patient, be administered without delay. As an additional precaution
against rheumatism, pleurisy, or bronchitis, a glass of hot
lemonade, with"--affecting to whisper--"a tablespoonful of Jamaica
rum or old Bourbon, at bedtime, would be eminently judicious. My
impertinence culminates in the petition that you vouchsafe to bestow
upon my unworthy but chilly self a cup of the nectar in common use
upon your table under the name of souchong."
Jessie slipped away to her chamber while her cousin was replying in
suitable terms to this nonsense, and did not reappear until the
tea-bell had rung twice.
She had been crying, Mrs. Baxter saw at once, and she was still very
pale. It had been a violent fit of weeping that had exhausted her
to languor of expression and movement. The doctor spoke cheerily to
her as she seated herself beside him.
"Well, my little girl, how are your spirits, this freezing night? Do
they follow the mercury, or rise as it descends?"
An unfortunate question, but it brought a faint glow to her face.
"I shall be more lively when I have had my supper," she said,
averting her eyes. "I am cold and tired now."
The doctor bent his head and raised his hand to ask a blessing, and
then bade his wife "pour out Jessie's tea, forthwith. She looks as
if she needed it," he subjoined, uneasily, watching her with eyes
that were very keen when he was awake to what was passing in the
everyday and material world.
Jessie sipped the scalding liquid, swallowing each spoonful with a
tremendous effort, when it trickled down the lump that obstructed
larynx and epiglottis, wishing, the while, that the doctor would
subside into one of his fits of learned abstraction and knot his
handkerchief, instead of staring so solemnly at her; expecting,
every second, to hear him demand--"What have you been crying about,
my daughter?"
She was very grateful to Orrin for his persistent and, in the end,
successful attempts to draw the fire of the searching regards; and,
rallying her wits and courage, she, at last, joined in the
conversation. Mrs. Baxter, likewise, was less voluble than was her
wont. Appreciating the fact, recognized by the majority of his
acquaintances, that Mr. Wyllys was not a marrying man, she aroused
herself to ponder, in serious earnest, upon what was likely to be
the result of his fraternal intimacy with her ward. Orrin had made
all straight with her at the outset, even before Jessie entered her
house as a visitor, by representing himself as an old friend of the
family, and speaking of Mr. Kirke's daughter in a grandfatherly
strain, that entitled him to become the platonic cavalier of the
rustic débutante. But platonic grandfathers did not squeeze pretty
girls' hands en tête-à-tête in the twilight--"or they should not,"
reasoned the duenna; and Jessie's red eyes and pallid complexion
increased her misgivings to dreads. She had been asleep all winter
until to-night, she thought, shudderingly, and had awakened upon the
edge of a precipice. If through her neglect or misplaced confidence,
Ginevra's child should come to grief, she would rue, to the latest
day of her life, the invitation that had enticed her from home and
safety, to lose her heart to the designing arts of a man of the
world.
Orrin had small temptation to prolong his stay into the evening.
There was incipient disfavor in the hostess' eye, which was not
neutralized by her stereotyped smile. The doctor betook himself to
his study when he arose from the table, and Jessie shaded her face
from fire and lamp-light by a hand-screen, complaining that she was
stupid after her walk in the wind.
"I promised to go up to Judge Provost's to-night," he said, at the
end of an unsatisfactory half hour. "Won't you join our party for
billiards and music? Miss Fanny charged me not to come without you."
Jessie did not raise her regards from the screen.
"No, thank you! I have had enough billiards for one day. And I am in
an intensely unmusical humor."
"I really ought to 'do' the polite to Miss Sanford," continued he,
lightly to Mrs. Baxter's ears, significantly to Jessie's. "I have
been shamefully remiss since her appearance among us. Miss Fanny
took me to task for it, an evening or two since, and I was obliged
to plead 'Guilty.' I have paid her very little attention except in
public, and that has been confined to a dance or two at each party."
Mrs. Baxter, profoundly indifferent to Miss Sanford, and the degree
of court he offered her, yet strove to look interested.
"That is a little remarkable, Mr. Wyllys, considering your
reputation for gallantry and hospitality, and she is invested with
more substantial charms than any of our Hamilton belles can boast."
"I am afraid my taste for the substantial has not been properly
cultivated," was the reply.
Jessie was silent and gloomy, and Wyllys secretly lost patience with
her.
"I thought her more of a woman!" he said, inly. "She acts like a
fractious child, inconsolable for the loss of a toy. I gave her
credit for more depth of feeling, more power of endurance."
She called up a faint symptom of a smile, in response to his adieux,
and relapsed into taciturnity and the shadow of her screen, when he
had departed. Mrs. Baxter flitted about the rooms like a perturbed
guardian angel; poking the fire that her charge's feet might be
warmer; dropping a curtain to shut out a draught from the back of
her neck; pushing forward a brioche for her use, and giving her
chair a gentle tug nearer the grate, before she essayed verbal
consolation.
Finally, she leaned upon the back of Jessie's seat and made several
mesmeric passes over her brow and scalp, the fringe of the scarlet
scarf it was her pleasure, to-night, to sport twisted around her
right wrist, brushing the chin, and tickling the nose of her young
relative.
"Does your head ache very badly now, my sweet?" breathlessly
solicitous.
"Not at all--thank you, cousin!"
"I am delighted to hear you say so! You don't think you have
really taken cold, my precious--do you?"
"Oh, no! I never take cold!"
"Mr. Wyllys seemed very anxious lest you had," Mrs. Baxter remarked,
quite too earnestly. "I say, 'seemed,' for these ladies' men are not
models of sincerity, always, however charming they may be as parlor
companions. If I had a daughter, my love--and it is the great sorrow
of my life, as it is of the doctor's, that we never had one--if I
had a daughter, just blooming into womanhood, affectionate,
susceptible, and unsuspecting, I should caution her to be on her
guard against a too-ready credence in the flattering tongues and the
more insidious flattery of demeanor and action of gentlemen who are
honorable in all things else. I respect Mr. Wyllys"--she continued,
the passes faster and more agitated, and the silken fringes
bobbing up and down before Jessie's vision. "I honor his many
estimable--admire his many shining qualities. But I am fearful that
in his otherwise commendable desire to please and make happy, he
may excite hopes--or expectations may be the better term--he never
intended to engender. There is in every community, my darling
Jessie, a class of men--pardon me for saying that it is fortunately
a small class--who do not care or intend to marry except for
convenience, or pecuniary gain--perhaps not even then. Yet they are
generally the pets of their respective circles, especial favorites
with ladies. Why, I cannot say, unless it be that they endeavor
to make themselves agreeable to the entire sex, instead of
concentrating their attentions upon one woman. Mr. Wyllys is a
notable example of this order of carpet knights."
Entirely out of breath by this time, she withdrew her hand from her
guest's head, to press it upon her own palpitating bosom, while her
gulp of emotion was as loud as the cluck of a brooding hen.
Jessie lowered her screen with a gesture of haughty amusement.
"If your object is to warn me against attaching undue importance to
Mr. Wyllys' friendly attentions, Cousin, I can disabuse your mind of
fears for my peace of heart, by assuring you that it is not
threatened from that quarter. I ought to have told you, long ago, of
a circumstance that exculpates Mr. Wyllys from the charge of
trifling, and renders the notice he bestows upon me altogether
harmless and proper. I am engaged to be married to his cousin, Mr.
Fordham, and he knows it. This makes all safe for us both--does it
not? I am sorry I did not apprize you of this state of affairs when
I first came to you. It would have been more honorable and kind to
you--and an act of common justice to Mr. Fordham, if not to Mr.
