hold. With his aid the spy was hurried after 
the retreating army, reaching it just in time to 
spring to his feet under the flag-staff where 
floated the Star-Spangled Banner, Red, White, 
and Blue, and exclaim fervently, " Fellow- 
citizens, I am not dead ! Behold me a changed 
man ! From this moment I am a true and loyal 
patriot. Long live the Sword of Bunker Hill! " 
As the resuscitated spy uttered these words, the 
army formed an effective tableau around him, 
and the Classic Muse, still breathless from his 
late exertions, waved his laurel-wreath in the 
foreground, and struck up the " Star-Spangled 
Banner," in which the audience joined with 
enthusiasm. 
The patriotic drama being over, great applause 
ensued, and then the army was invited in to 
lunch in Aunt Faith's cool dining-room ; here ice- 
cream, cakes, and other camp-dishes were pro- 
vided in great abundance, the soldiers stacked 
arms, and seemed to enjoy themselves as easily as 
private citizens. The numerous young sisters 
of the B. B.'s gradually forgot their shyness, arid 
the afternoon was spent in games and merri- 
merit, — t'i -3 Old Stone House being entirely 
given up to the young folks early in the evening, 
when the weary warriors departed. 
" It's been a splendid Fourth ! " said Tom, 
throwing himself into a chair when the last 
guests had taken their departure ; " I wish we 
could have such fun every day ! ) 
" If you had it every day you would soon be 
tired of it," said Aunt Faith smiling. 
About midnight, when all was still, Aunt 
Faith, who had not been asleep, thought she 
heard a slight sound ; she listened, and distin- 
guished faint sobs coming from Gem's room, as 
though the child had her head buried in the 
pillows. Throwing on a wrapper, she hurried 
thither, and found her little niece with flushed 
cheeks and tearful eyes, tossing uneasily on her 
bed. " What is the matter, dear?" asked Aunt 
Faith, anxiously. 
 
" Oh, is it you, Aunt Faith ? I am so glad 
you have come ! " said Gem. " There is nothing 
the matter, only I cannot sleep, and I feel so 
badly." 
" Do you feel ill ? Are you in any pain ? " 
" No ; only hot, and, and — a little fright- 
ened." 
" Frightened ? My dear child, what do you 
mean ? " 
" I don't know, auntie. I woke up, and kept 
thinking of dreadful things," sobbed Gem, bury- 
ing her head in the pillows. Aunt Faith saw 
that the child was trembling violently, and, sit- 
ting down on the edge of the bed, she drew the 
little form into her motherly arms, and soothed 
her as she would have soothed a baby. " Come 
into my room, dear," she said; "you are tired 
and. excited after this busy day. I have not 
slept, either, and I shall be glad to have you go 
with me." 
So the two went back across the hall, Gem 
clinging to her aunt, and glancing fearfully 
 
around, as though she expected to see some 
ghostly object in every well-known corner. 
When she had crept into her bed, however, she 
felt more safe, and nestled down with a deep 
sigh of relief. After some conversation on vari- 
ous subjects, Aunt Faith said: "And now, my 
little girl, you must tell me what frightened you. 
I have always thought you a brave child. What 
was it you fancied ? " 
"Oh, I don't know, auntie ; all kinds of things. 
Ghosts, and everything." 
" Gem, you know very well there are no such 
things as ghosts." 
" Really and truly, Aunt Faith ? " asked Gem, 
in a low tone. 
" Certainly not. I am surprised that you have 
any such ideas. Where did you get them ? " 
" I have heard the girls talking about them, 
sometimes, in the kitchen. They believe in them, 
Aunt Faith." 
" That is because' they are ignorant, my dear. 
Ignorant people believe a great many things that 
 
are false. You koow there are no fairies, Gem ? 
You know there is no such person as Santa Claus, 
don't you?" 
" Of course, aunt. Only very little children 
believe in Santa Claus." 
" Well, my dear, ignorant people are like little 
children ; they will tell and believe stories about 
ghosts just as little children tell and believe sto- 
ries about Santa Claus and his coming down the 
chimney. My dear little girl, never think of 
those silly ghost-stories again. People die, and 
the good Lord takes them into another life ; 
where they go or what they are doing we do 
not know, but we need never fear that they will 
trouble us. It is of far more consequence that 
we should think of ourselves, and whether we 
are prepared to enter into the presence of our 
Creator. Our summons will come and we know 
not how soon it maybe. When I think of our 
family circle, six of us under the roof to-night, I 
know that it is possible, I may "even say probable 
that among so many a parting will come before 
 
very long. And, my little Gem, if it should be 
you, the youngest, I pray that you may be ready. 
I do not want you to think of death as anything 
dreadful, dear. It is not dreadful, although 
those who are left behind feel lonely and sad. I 
look forward with a happy anticipation to meet- 
ing my brothers and sisters, my father and moth- 
er, and my husband ; it will be like going home 
to me. But, although I am old, the summons 
does not always come to the oldest, first. Tell 
me, my child, are you trying to be good, to gov- 
ern your temper, and to do what is right as far 
as you are able ? " 
" I try when I think of it, Aunt Faith," said 
Gem, " but half the time I don't think ; I forget 
all about it." 
" I do not expect you to think of it all the 
time, dear; but when you clo think of it, will 
you promise me to try as hard as you can ? Will 
you try to speak gently to Tom, to forgive him 
when he teases you, to give up your own way 
when your playmates desire something else, and, 
 
above all, to pray night and morning with your 
whole heart?" 
"Yes, Aunt Faith," whispered Gem, "I will 
try as hard as I can." 
" God bless you, my darling," said Aunt Faith, 
kissing her little niece affectionately. " And 
now, go to sleep ; it is very late." 
With the happy facility of youth, Gem was 
soon asleep, but Aunt Faith lay wakeful through 
several hours of the still summer night. Her 
heart was disturbed by thoughts of Sibyl and her 
worldly ambition, of Hugh and his unsettled re- 
ligious views, of Bessie and her lack of serious 
thoughts on any subject. Again the sore feeling 
of trouble came to her, the doubt as to her own 
fitness for the charge of educating and training 
the five little children left in her care. " I fear 
I am not strong enough," she thought ; " I fear 
both my faith and my perseverance have been 
weak. Have I entirely failed ? When I look at 
Sibyl, and Hugh, and Bessie, I fear I have. 
 
Even the younger children are by no means what 
I had hoped they would be." 
A terrible despondency crept into Aunt Faith's 
heart, and the slow tears of age rolled down her 
cheeks ; but with a strong effort of will she con- 
quered the feeling, and kneeling down by the 
bedside, she poured out her sorrows in prayer. 
She laid all her troubles at the feet of her Sa- 
viour, and besought Him to strengthen her and 
give her wisdom for her appointed task. Again 
and again she asked for faith, earnest faith, which 
should never .falter, although the future might 
look dark to her mortal eyes, and again and again 
she gave all her darlings into the Lord's hand. 
" Give me strength to do my best," she prayed, 
"and faith to leave the rest to Thee," — and 
gradually there came to her a peace which pass- 
eth all understanding, a peace which cometh af- 
ter earnest prayer, and which those who pray not 
earnestly, can never know. 
Aunt Faith knelt a while longer, but no words 
 
formed themselves in her mind ; ! she seemed to 
feel a benediction falling around her, and a sweet 
contentment came into her heart. When she 
lay down again, sleep came, and for the rest of 
the night all was quiet in the old stone house. 
CHAPTER VI. 
SUNDAY. 
REAKFAST at the old stone house was 
 later on Sunday morning than on week 
days, by Aunt Faith's especial direction. 
She gave all the family a longer sleep than 
usual to mark the day of rest and give it a pleas- 
ant opening, hut they all understood that when 
the first bell rang there must be no further delay, 
and at the sound of the second bell they all as- 
sembled in the sitting-room in their fresh Sunday 
attire for morning prayers. Aunt Faith's rule 
was gentle, but there were some regulations which 
the cousins had been brought up to obey implicit- 
ly ; this way of beginning the Lord's day was 
one of them, and unless prevented by illness they 
never failed to assemble promptly in the sitting- 
room, carefully dressed, and with pleasant, quiet 
demeanor at the sound of the second bell. This 
bright July Sunday, Aunt Faith received them 
with a smile, and when they were seated, .she 
opened her Bible, and read in her clear voice the 
seventeenth chapter of the Gospel according to 
St. John, the beloved disciple of our Lord. 
Then Sibyl went to the cabinet organ, and all the 
young voices joined in singing a morning Irymn, 
simple and cheerful like the praise of creation at 
the dawn of day, when from the forest ascends 
the song of thousands of God's creatures, prais- 
ing their Maker in the only way they know. 
The hymn ended, Aunt Faith knelt down, and 
they all joined in the Lord's prayer. Then came 
the petition for the day, for a better realization 
of God's goodness, and a reverent spirit in the 
worship of this temple ; for forgiveness of sins 
and aid in forgiving the faults of others ; and 
above all, for a spirit of hearty thankfulness and 
praise to the Maker of the universe, and loving 
 
remembrance of His Son the Saviour of mankind. 
With a final petition for the aid of the Holy 
Spirit, Aunt Faith closed her prayer, and the 
morning worship was concluded by the ancient 
ascription of praise to Jehovah. The conversa- 
tion at the breakfast-table was bright and happy ; 
there was no gloomy or sullen look, no fault- 
finding. When the children were little, their 
tempers often showed themselves on Sunday as 
well as on other mornings, but patience over- 
comes many obstacles, and Aunt Faith's unvary- 
ing effort had been so far crowned with success, 
that as they grew older, they grew to remember 
and even love the brightness of the Sunday 
morning breakfast-table. Habit is a powerful 
agent, and perhaps also the fact that Aunt Faith 
did not severely rebuke every manifestation of ill 
temper on week days, but allowed them to come 
naturally to the surface, helped to produce the 
placid atmosphere of Sunday morning. Her 
children were not afraid of her ; they never 
hurried out of her presence to vent their bad 
feelings ; she saw the worst of it, whatever it 
was, and at some quiet hour she sought the 
offender alone, and reasoned or rebuked as the 
case required. The cousins loved her dearly, 
and as her rule was easy, it was generally 
obeyed ; love is a great aid to authority where 
children are concerned. 
Aunt Faith, on her part, also, never trans- 
gressed her own rules; no matter what her 
cares, feelings, or bodily ailments might be, she 
never allowed them to darken the opening of the 
Lord's day. They were thrown aside as far as 
possible, and, in after years when the old stone 
house was tenantless and its inmates dispersed, 
their thoughts often turned with affectionate 
regret towards the bright Sunday morning break- 
fast table. 
An hour later, the faint sound of the church- 
bells brought the family together again in the 
front hall, and, as every one was dressed for the 
day before breakfast, there was no hurry, no con- 
fusion. Aunt Faith had in early life seen much 
 
of tardiness, haste, and consequent ill temper on 
Sunday morning ; at the last moment somebody 
would be late, something lost, and everybody cross 
in consequence ; little biting speeches would be 
spoken, unnecessary comments made, and the re- 
sult was, that the family almost always arrived at 
the church-door in anything but a peaceful state. 
Indeed, " Sunday headaches," and " Sunday tem- 
per," were by-words in the house, and, as a child 
once expressed it, " everybody's cross on Sun- 
day." 
With this example, (and it is a very common 
one ) before her, Aunt Faith had striven to bring 
about a different order of things in the old stone 
house. She had not confined herself to theory, 
but for years she had made it a rule to examine 
personally on Saturday all the clothes to be worn 
on Sunday, to inspect the strings and buttons 
which are apt to give way under impatient, 
childish fingers, and to see that all was in order 
from the hat to the shoe-strings. She superin- 
tended the Saturday-night bath, for she was 
rigid in her ideas of personal neatness, and the 
five little children always tumbled into their five 
little beds on Saturday night, as fresh and. clean 
as it was possible to make them. Not that this 
was the only cleansing time in the week, for 
they were taught to jump into their bath-tubs 
daily, but on Saturday more time was given to 
the work, and it was made pleasant with nice 
soaps, soft towels, and all the little luxuries that 
children love ; for children are made as happy 
by gentle purification as other little animals, and 
it is a mistake to suppose they dread the water. 
It is the rough hand they dread ; to be caught 
up roughly, smeared with coarse soap, sent into 
a shivering fit with cold water, rubbed the wrong 
way with torturing towels, rasped against the 
grain with stiff hair-brushes, and left to stand on 
an icy oil-cloth, naturally excites their terror. I 
imagine there are few grown persons who could 
endure it with equanimity. But Aunt Faith had 
no such method. She made the bathing-hour a 
happy time, and showed the little children all the 
 
luxuries of personal neatness, so that as they 
grew older, they kept up themselves all the 
habits she had taught them, as matters of 
necessity for their own comfort. 
Thus, trained in these habits, the children 
grew into men and women with physical health 
to help them in their contest with evil. And it 
is a great help. Aunt Faith knew that all "the 
cleanliness in the world could not compensate 
for the lack of godliness, but she reasoned that 
while first attention should be paid to the inside 
of the platter, certainly second attention should 
be given to the outside that both may be clean 
together. A clean heart in a clean body, she 
thought, was better than a clean heart in a dirty 
body ; health and steady nerves help a man to 
be orderly and even-tempered, while nervousness, 
dyspepsia and weakness are so many additional 
temptations besetting him on every side. 
This July Sunday, the cousins started from the 
old stone house with time enough for a leisurely 
walk amid the music of the bells, arriving at the 
church-door before the service commenced, with- 
out hurry, quiet and composed, and ready to 
join in the worship without distracting thoughts. 
The church was full, Aunt Faith had two pews, 
one for herself with Gem and Tom, another 
immediately behind for Sibyl, Bessie, and Hugh. 
As the organ was pealing out the opening volun- 
tary, a young girl came up the aisle and entered 
the first seat ; Aunt Faith looked up. and recog- 
nizing Margaret Brown, she smiled and pressed 
he:- hand cordially. When she visited Margaret, 
she asked her to accept a seat in her pew when- 
ever she desired to come to that church, but the 
invitation had passed from her mind among the 
occupations of her busy life, so "that she was 
surprised as well as pleased when the young girl 
appeared. Aunt Faith had no respect for 
persons ; she thought of them only as so many 
souls sent into the world, all equally dear to the 
Creator, and precious to the Saviour of mankind. 
That there were great differences in their lot on 
earth, that some were more easily tempted than 
others, that some had apparently small chance 
for improvement and religious privileges while 
others found all ready to their hand, that some 
suffered trouble, affliction, sickness and hard labor 
while others seemed to pass through life without 
a cloud, she well knew, but she did not attempt 
to explain it. She left it all in the hands of a 
Higher Wisdom and addressed herself to the 
evident duty that lay before her. Some of her 
friends said that she was narrow minded, that 
she had no interest in the progress of humanity ; 
it is true that she cared more about having the 
children of the Irish laborer, down on the flats, 
washed and comfortably dressed, than about an 
essay on philanthropy, and took more pleasure 
in aiding Margaret Brown than in talking about 
the sufferings of human nature ; but perhaps she 
was none the worse for that. Once when an 
enthusiastic lady called to ask her aid in establish- 
ing an International Society for Reform, Aunt 
Faith listened quietly, and then said, "I will 
join you, Mrs. B , when I have the leisure 
time at my disposal." She never found the time, 
but in her answer, she was not insincere. If she 
had been left unemployed, she might have joined 
some organization for religious work, and esteemed 
it a pleasant privilege, but as it was, her daily 
home duties stood first, and as long as they 
surrounded her, she did not lift her eyes beyond. 
The minister was an old man, who had officia- 
ted in the same church many years of his life, 
and hoped to die, as he expressed it, " in the 
harness." The people loved him, and respected 
his wishes with more unanimity than they might 
have given to a younger man ; there was no dis- 
cord, no restless desire for novelty among the 
congregation, and the various good works con- 
nected with the church moved forward at a 
steady pace, growing with the growth of the 
town, but not running into any violent extremes 
to the right hand or the left. 
Mr. Hays, the venerable minister, was a gen- 
tle, kind-hearted man ; the children in the Sun- 
day school listened to him with attention, and 
 
their parents loved to hear his sermons. He had 
the rare faculty of interesting children, and when 
he addressed them, the teachers had no difficulty 
in keeping their classes in order, because the 
children really wished to hear what he said. 
In church, among older hearers, the effect 
was the same ; his sermons were simple, but all 
liked to hear them. As he grew older, he seemed 
to think more and more of the beautiful words, 
'* God so loved the world that He gave His only 
begotten Son ; " on this text all that he said and 
did was founded, and he never wearied of telling 
his hearers about this great love, and urging 
them to give their reverent affection in return. 
" If we were all like Mr. Hays, the world 
would be a very different place, Aunt Faith," 
said Hugh, as they walked home together ; " I 
suppose he has had nothing but love all his life." 
"You are greatly mistaken, Hugh. He has 
endured severe suffering, and no doubt the want 
of earthly affection has taught him to appreciate 
the dearer worth of heavenly love." 
"I thought he had lived here in Westerton for 
forty years without anything to disturb his quiet," 
said Hugh. 
" Because his troubles came to him long ago, 
they were none the less heavy to bear, Hugh. 
Before he came here, a half-brother to whom he 
had trusted all his little fortune, disappeared, 
canwing the whole with him ; and not only that, 
but upon hearing of his loss, the young girl to 
whom he was engaged, broke her promise and 
married another. Thus he was left doubly be- 
reft ; not only forsaken and injured, but also 
wounded by the discovery of treachery in those 
he trusted with all his heart." 
"I could never recover from such a blow," 
said impulsive Hugh ; " the thought of being 
deceived and betrayed by those we love and trust 
is fearful to me." 
"It was fearful to Mr. Hays also, Hugh ; after 
a short time he came to Westerton, and threw 
his whole strength into his work. It may have 
been a hard struggle at first, but you can your- 
 
self see how he has conquered at last ; love is 
the groundwork of all he says and all he does, 
and his sufferings instead of turning his heart 
into bitterness, seem rather to have given it a 
new sweetness." 
" Yes, that is why I like Mr. Hays. He is not 
censorious. He does not denounce sin so con- 
tinually that he has no time to tell of forgiveness ; 
he does not keep us so constantly trembling over 
the past that we have not the courage to hope 
for better things in the future ; I like him for 
that." 
Aunt Faith did not reply. She knew when to 
be silent, and she had long hoped that the gen- 
tle, fervent words of the good old man would yet 
bring her impulsive nephew into the right path. 
She knew that much harm was sometimes done 
by. too much urging, and when she saw that Mr. 
Hays' words had made an impression upon Hugh, 
she left the impression to sink by its own weight. 
The Sunday-noon meal at the old stone house 
was always a simple lunch, prepared the previous 
clay in order to give the servants full liberty 
to attend church. It was, however, abundant 
and attractive. In the winter, Aunt Faith added 
a hot soUp, prepared by her own hands, but at 
this season of the year, cold dishes were the most 
appetizing. Directly after lunch the family dis- 
persed, Sibyl, Bessie, and Hugh going to their 
rooms, and Aunt Faith remaining in the sittinsf- 
room with Tom and Gem while they looked over 
their Sunday school lessons. At half-past two, 
the children started for the church, and then 
Aunt Faith rested quietly on the sofa until it 
was time to prepare for afternoon service at the 
chapel where Mr. Leslie officiated, a mission in 
whose welfare she was much interested. There 
was never any regularity about attending this 
afternoon service ; sometimes Aunt Faith would 
go alone, sometimes Sibyl would accompany her. 
and sometimes the three cousins would all go. 
This afternoon they all came down, and Aunt 
Faith welcomed them pleasantly; she knew that 
Hugh might have been influenced by the beauty 
of the weather, Bessie by Hugh's companionship, 
and Sibyl by the opportunity of seeing Mr. Les- 
lie ; but she believed that all her children were 
truly reverent at heart, and she had large faith 
in the solemn influence of the house of God, so 
she always encouraged them to go to church 
whenever they would, and on this occasion she 
made the walk pleasant with her cheerful con- 
versation. 
The chapel stood in one of the suburbs of 
Westerton, where the houses of the railroad 
workmen were crowded together in long rows, 
with the smoke from the mills and shops hang- 
ing in a cloud over them all the week. Busy, 
grimy men lived there, careless, tired women, 
and a throng of children, some neglected, some . 
apparently well-tended, but all poor. In the 
midst of this bustle and smoke Mr. Leslie 
lived and worked. When he first came to 
Westerton, this chapel was almost deserted, but 
now it was filled with a congregation of its 
own, a congregation drawn from the neighboring 
houses, the laborers and their families whose 
zeal and liberty according to their means, might 
have put to shame many a church record in the 
rich quarters of the town. 
Aunt Faith and her party entered the door as 
the little bell rang out its last note, and took 
their seats upon the benches, for there were no 
pews, and the sittings were free to all. The 
organ was played by a young workman, a Ger- 
man, with the national taste for music, and when 
the hymn was given out, the congregation as 
with one voice took up the strain, and in a 
powerful burst of melody, carried the woids, as 
it were, high towards heaven. The music was 
inspiring, as true congregational music always is. 
All sang the air, but the harmony was well sup- 
plied by the organ ; all sang, men, women, and 
children, and if there were any discordant voices, 
they were lost in the powerful melody. Hugh 
liked to sing, and he liked the simple hymns 
which Mr. Leslie always selected for his congregation 
; so he found all the places and sang with 
 
real enjoyment, while Bessie, looking over the 
same book, joined in after awhile in her low 
alto, as if borne along by his example. Then 
came the sermon, and, as Mr. Leslie gave out 
his text, Aunt Faith recognized it as one of the 
verses which she had read in the morning, — St. 
John, the seventeenth chapter, and the fifteenth 
verse, " I pray not that thou shouldest take 
them out of the world, but that thou shouldest 
keep them from the evil." " My friends," said 
Mr. Leslie, speaking as usual without notes, 
" we often hear and read of the great desire felt 
by Christians of this and all ages to leave this 
world, this world of sickness and sorrow, of labor 
and poverty, and enter immediately into another 
life. Young persons who have lost clear friends 
wish to go and join them, for life looks dreary 
without love, and the days seem very long when 
they are not broken by the sound of that well- 
known footstep on the walk, and the words of 
love in that well-known voice which they can 
never hear on earth again. ' I cannot stay on 
 
earth alone,' they cry ; " I shall grow wicked in 
my wild grief. Let me go to them, since they 
cannot come back to me.' The middle-aged who 
have outlived the quick feelings of youth, sigh 
over the years still before them, years neither 
dark nor light, neither hard nor easy, the dull, 
monotonous path lengthening out before them, 
with neither great joy to lighten it, or great sor- 
row to darken it, the same commonplace cares 
and duties until the end.  This is doing us no 
good,' they think;  life is slowly withering, 
zeal is gone. A flower cannot bloom in the 
desert ! Let me go to a better country.' 
" The old, who are past all labor, sometimes 
grow weary of waiting. ' I am of no use,' they 
say ; ' I am only a burden to myself and every- 
one else. I have outlived my time, and it would 
be better for the world if I was taken out of it. 
My day is over. Let me go.' Thus they all 
lament, and thus they sometimes pray, forgetting 
that the Lord knoweth best. 
" The feeling is natural, and is founded upon 
 
the innate aspiration of the soul towards immor- 
tality, the consciousness and certainty that better 
things are laid up in store for us in another 
world. This innate consciousness of immortality 
is found in all men, even the most ignorant 
heathen possessing a glimmering of the idea, and 
this fact is an eternal contradiction to the argu- 
ments of the atheist ; he cannot destroy this 
soul hope, for even if he should succeed in 
blighting it in the father, it would be there to 
confront him in the child, and so on from gener- 
ation to generation. That there are persons who 
have wilfully stifled this divinely-given hope, 
that there are persons who have brought them- 
selves to contradict their very being is an idea 
so awful that we shudder to think of it. A 
man may murder his companion and yet repent 
