factories, newspapers, and institutions of learning; she 
has telephones, local telegraphs, an electric alarm, and 
an admirable paid fire department, consisting of six 
hook and ladder companies, four steam fire-engines, 
and thirty churches. Davenport is the official resi- 
dence of two bishops — Episcopal and Catholic. 
Opposite Davenport is the flourishing town of Rock 
Island, which lies at the foot of the Upper Rapids. A 
great railroad bridge connects the two towns — one of 
the thirteen which fret the Mississippi and the pilots 
between St. Louis and St. Paul. 
The charming island of Rock Island, three miles 
long and half a mile wide, belongs to the United 
States, and the Government has turned it into a 
wonderful park, enhancing its natural attractions by 
art, and threading its fine forests with many miles of 
drives. Near the center of the island one catches 
glimpses, through the trees, of ten vast stone four-story 
buildings, each of which covers an acre of ground. 
These are the Government workshops ; for the Rock 
Island establishment is a national armory and arsenal. 
We move up the river — always through enchanting 
scenery, there being no other kind on the Upper Mis- 
sissippi — and pass Moline, a center of vast manufactoring 
industries; and Clinton and Lyons, great 
lumber centers ; and presently reach Dubuque, which 
is situated in a rich mineral region. The lead mines 
are very productive, and of wide extent. Dubuque 
has a great number of manufacturing establishments ; 
among them a plow factory, which has for customers 
all Christendom in general. At least so I was told by 
an agent of the concern who was on the boat. He 
said : 
“You show me any country under the sun where 
they really know how to plow, and if I don’t show you 
our mark on the plow they use, I’ll eat that plow; 
and I won’t ask for any Woostershyre sauce to flavor 
it up with, either.” 
All this part of the river is rich in Indian history and 
traditions. Black Hawk’s was once a puissant name 
hereabouts; as was Keokuk’s, further down. A few 
miles below Dubuque is the Tete de Mort, — Death’s- 
head rock, or bluff, — to the top of which the French 
drove a band of Indians, in early times, and cooped 
them up there, with death for a certainty, and only the 
manner of it matter of choice — to starve, or jump off 
and kill themselves. Black Hawk adopted the ways of 
the white people toward the end of his life ; and when 
he died he was buried, near Des Moines, in Christian 
fashion, modified by Indian custom; that is to say, 
clothed in a Christian military uniform, and with a Chris- 
tian cane in his hand, but deposited in the grave in a 
sitting posture. Formerly, a horse had always been 
buried with a chief. The substitution of the cane 
shows that Black Hawk’s haughty nature was really 
humbled, and he expected to walk when he got over. 
We noticed that above Dubuque the water of the 
Mississippi was olive-green — rich and beautiful and 
semi-transparent, with the sun on it. Of course the 
water was nowhere as clear or of as fine a complexion 
as it is in some other seasons of the year ; for now it 
was at flood stage, and therefore dimmed and blurred 
by the mud manufactured from caving banks. 
The majestic bluffs that overlook the river, along 
through this region, charm one with the grace and 
variety of their forms, and the soft beauty of their 
adornment. The steep, verdant slope, whose base is 
at the water’s edge, is topped by a lofty rampart ci 
broken, turreted rocks, which are exquisitely rich ana 
mellow in color — mainly dark browns and dull greens, 
but splashed with other tints. And then you have the 
shining river, winding here and there and yonder, its 
sweep interrupted at intervals by clusters of wooded 
islands threaded by silver channels; and you have 
glimpses of distant villages, asleep upon capes; and of 
stealthy rafts slipping along in the shade of the forest 
walls ; and of white steamers vanishing around remote 
points. And it is all as tranquil and reposeful as 
dreamland, and has nothing this-worldly about it — 
nothing to hang a fret or a worry upon. 
Until the unholy train comes tearing along — which 
it presently does, ripping the sacred solitude to rags 
and tatters with its devil’s war-whoop and the roar and 
thunder of its rushing wheels — and straightway you 
are back in this world, and with one of its frets ready 
to hand for your entertainment: for you remember 
that this is the very road whose stock always goes 
down after you buy it, and always goes up again as 
soon as you sell it. It makes me shudder to this day, 
to remember that I once came near not getting rid of 
my stock at all. It must be an awful thing to have a 
railroad left on your hands. 
The locomotive is in sight from the deck of the 
steamboat almost the whole way from St. Louis to St. 
Paul — eight hundred miles. These railroads have 
made havoc with the steamboat commerce. The clerk 
of our boat was a steamboat clerk before these roads 
were built. In that day the influx of population was 
so great, and the freight business so heavy, that the 
boats were not able to keep up with the demands made 
upon their carrying capacity; consequently the cap- 
tains were very independent and airy — pretty “ big- 
gity’ as Uncle Remus would say. The clerk nut- 
shelled the contrast between the former time and the 
present, thus: 
“Boat used to land — captain on hurricane roof — 
mighty stiff and straight — iron ramrod for a spine — 
kid gloves, plug tile, hair parted behind — man on 
shore takes off hat and says : 
“ ‘ Got twenty-eight tons of wheat, cap’n — be great 
favor if you can take them 
“ Captain says : 
“‘’ll take two of them’ — and don’t even conde- 
scend to look at him. 
“ But nowadays the captain takes off his old slouch, 
and smiles all the way around to the back of his ears, 
and gets off a bow which he hasn’t got any ramrod to 
interfere with, and says: 
“ ‘ Glad to see you, Smith, glad to see you — you’re 
looking well — haven’t seen you looking so well for 
years — what you got for us?’ 
“ ‘Nuth’n’ says Smith; and keeps his hat on, and 
just turns his back and goes to talking with somebody 
else. 
“ Oh, yes! eight years ago the captain was on top; 
but it’s Smith’s turn now. Eight years ago a boat 
used to go up the river with every stateroom full, and 
people piled five and six deep on the cabin floor; and 
a solid deckload of immigrants and harvesters down 
below, into the bargain. To get a first-class stateroom, 
you’d got to prove sixteen quarterings of nobility and 
four hundred years of descent, or be personally 
acquainted with the nigger that blacked the captain's 
boots. But it's all changed now; plenty staterooms 
above, no harvesters below — there’s a patent self- 
binder now, and they don’t have harvesters any more; 
they’ve gone where the woodbine twineth — and they 
didn’t go by steamboat, either; went by the train.” 
Up in this region we met massed acres of lumber 
rafts coming down — but not floating leisurely along, 
in the old-fashioned way, manned with joyous and 
reckless crews of fiddling, song-singing, whisky-drink- 
ing, breakdown-dancing rapscallions; no, the whole 
thing was shoved swiftly along by a powerful stern- 
wheeler, modern fashion; and the small crews were 
quiet, orderly men, of a sedate business aspect, with not 
a suggestion of romance about them anywhere. 
Along here, somewhere, on a black night, we ran 
some exceedingly narrow and intricate island-chutes by 
aid of the electric light. Behind was solid blackness — 
a crackless bank of it; ahead, a narrow elbow of water, 
curving between dense walls of foliage that almost 
touched our bows on both sides ; and here every indi- 
vidual leaf, and every individual ripple stood out in its 
natural color, and flooded with a glare as of noonday 
intensified. The effect was strange and fine, and very 
striking. 
We passed Prairie du Chien, another of Father 
Marquette’s camping-places; and after some hours of 
progress through varied and beautiful scenery, reached 
La Crosse. Here is a town of twelve or thirteen thousand 
population, with electric-lighted streets, and 
blocks of buildings which are stately enough, and also 
architecturally fine enough to command respect in any 
city. It is a choice town, and we made satisfactory 
use of the hour allowed us, in roaming it over, though 
the weather was rainier than necessary. 
CHAPTER LIX. 
LEGENDS AND SCENERY 
W E added several passengers to our list at La 
Crosse; among others an old gentleman who 
had come to this Northwestern region with the early 
settlers, and was familiar with every part of it. Par- 
donably proud of it, too. He said : 
“ You’ll find scenery between here and St. Paul that 
can give the Hudson points. You’ll have the Queen’s 
Bluff — seven hundred feet high, and just as imposing 
a spectacle as you can find anywheres ; and Trempe- 
leau Island, which isn’t like any other island in 
America, I believe, for it is a gigantic mountain, with 
precipitous sides, and is full of Indian traditions, and 
used to be full of rattlesnakes ; if you catch the sun 
just right there, you will have a picture that will stay 
with you. And above Winona you’ll have lovely 
prairies; and then come the Thousand Islands, too 
beautiful for anything. Green? Why, you never saw 
foliage so green, nor packed so thick; it’s like a 
thousand plush cushions afloat on a looking-glass — 
when the water’s still; and then the monstrous bluffs 
on both sides of the river — ragged, rugged, dark- 
complected — just the frame that’s wanted ; you always 
want a strong frame, you know, to throw up the nice 
points of a delicate picture and make them stand out.” 
The old gentleman also told us a touching Indian 
legend or two — but not very powerful ones. 
After this excursion into history, he came back to 
the scenery, and described it, detail by detail, from 
the Thousand Islands to St. Paul; naming its names 
with such facility, tripping along his theme with such 
nimble and confident ease, slamming in a three-ton 
word, here and there, with such a complacent air 
of ’tisn’t-anythingj-I-can-do-it-any-time-I-want-to, and 
letting off fine surprises of lurid eloquence at such 
judicious intervals, that I presently began to sus- 
pect — 
But no matter what I began to suspect. Hear him : 
“Ten miles above Winona we come to Fountain 
City, nestling sweetly at the feet of cliffs that lift their 
awful fronts, Jove-like, toward the blue depths of 
heaven, bathing them in virgin atmospheres that have 
known no other contact save that of angels' wings. 
“And next we glide through silver waters, amid 
lovely and stupendous aspects of nature that attune 
our hearts to adoring admiration, about twelve miles, 
and strike Mount Vernon, six hundred feet high, with 
romantic ruins of a once first-class hotel perched far 
among the cloud shadows that mottle its dizzy heights 
— sole remnant of once-flourishing Mount Vernon, 
town of early days, now desolate and utterly deserted. 
“And so we move on. Past Chimney Rock we 
fly — noble shaft of six hundred feet; then just before 
landing at Minnieska our attention is attracted by a 
most* striking promontory rising over five hundred 
feet — the ideal mountain pyramid. Its conic shape, 
thickly-wooded surface girding its sides, and its apex 
like that of a cone, cause the spectator to wonder at 
nature’s workings. From its dizzy heights superb 
views of the forests, streams, bluffs, hills, and dales, 
below and beyond for miles, are brought within its 
focus. What grander river scenery can be conceived, 
as we gaze upon this enchanting landscape, from the 
uppermost point of these bluffs upon the valleys 
below? The primeval wildness and awful loneliness 
of these sublime creations of nature and nature's God, 
excite feelings of unbounded admiration, and the 
recollection of which can never be effaced from the memory, 
as we view them in any direction. 
“ Next we have the Lion's Head and the Lioness's 
Head, carved by nature's hand, to adorn and dominate 
the beauteous stream : and then anon the river widens, 
and a most charming and magnificent view of the valley 
before us suddenly bursts upon our vision; rugged 
hills, clad with verdant forests from summit to base, 
level prairie lands, holding in their lap the beautiful 
Wabasha, City of the Healing Waters, puissant foe of 
Bright's disease, and that grandest conception of 
nature's works, incomparable Lake Pepin — these con- 
stitute a picture whereon the tourist's eye may gaze 
uncounted hours, with rapture unappeased and unap- 
peasable. 
“And so we glide along: in due time encountering 
those majestic domes, the mighty Sugar Loaf, and the 
sublime Maiden's Rock — which latter, romantic super- 
stition has invested with a voice ; and ofttimes as the 
birch canoe glides near, at twilight, the dusky paddler 
fancies he hears the soft sweet music of the long- 
departed Winona, darling of Indian song and story. 
“Then Frontenac looms upon our vision, delightful 
resort of jaded summer tourists ; then progressive Red 
Wing; and Diamond Bluff, impressive and preponder- 
ous in its lone sublimity; then Prescott and the St. 
Croix ; and anon we see bursting upon us the domes 
and steeples of St. Paul, giant young chief of the 
North, marching with seven-league stride in the van of 
progress, banner-bearer of the highest and newest 
civilization, carving his beneficent way with the toma- 
hawk of commercial enterprise, sounding the war- 
whoop of Christian culture, tearing off the reeking 
scalp of sloth and superstition to plant there the 
steam-plow and the school-house — ever in his front 
stretch arid lawlessness, ignorance, crime, despair: 
ever in his wake bloom the jail, the gallows, and the 
pulpit; and ever ” 
“ Have you ever traveled with a panorama ?” 
“ I have formerly served in that capacity * 
My suspicion was confirmed. 
“ Do you still travel with it?” 
" No, she is laid up till the fall season opens. J am 
helping now to work up the materials for a Tourist's 
Guide which the St. Louis and St. Paul Packet Com- 
pany are going to issue this summer for the benefit of 
travelers who go by that line.” 
“When you were talking of Maiden’s Rock, you 
spoke of the long-departed Winona, darling of Indian 
song and story. Is she the maiden of the rock? — 
and are the two connected by legend?” 
“Yes, and a very tragic and painful one. Perhaps 
the most celebrated, as well as the most pathetic, of 
all the legends of the Mississippi.” 
We asked him to tell it. He dropped out of his 
conversational vein and back into his lecture gait with- 
out an effort, and rolled on as follows : 
“ A little distance above Lake City is a famous point 
known as Maiden's Rock, which is not only a pic- 
turesque spot, but is full of romantic interest from the 
event which gave it its name. Not many years ago 
this locality was a favorite resort for the Sioux Indians 
on account of the fine fishing and hunting to be had 
there, and large numbers of them were always to be 
found in this locality. Among the families which used 
to resort here was one belonging to the tribe of 
Wabasha. We-no-na (first-born) was the name of a 
maiden who had plighted her troth to a lover belonging 
to the same band. But her stern parents had promised 
her hand to another, a famous warrior, and insisted on 
her wedding him. The day was fixed by her parents, 
to her great grief. She appeared to accede to the 
proposal and accompanied them to the rock, for the 
purpose of gathering flowers for the feast. On reach- 
ing the rock, We-no-na ran to its summit, and, stand- 
ing on its edge, upbraided her parents who were 
below, for their cruelty, and then, singing a death- 
dirge, threw herself from the precipice and dashed 
them in pieces on the rock below  9 '
“ Dashed who in pieces — her parents ?” 
“Yes.” 
“Well, it certainly was a tragic business, as you 
say. And moreover, there is a startling kind of 
dramatic surprise about it which I was not looking 
for. It is a distinct improvement upon the threadbare 
form of Indian legend. There are fifty Lover's Leaps 
along the Mississippi from whose summit disappointed 
Indian girls have jumped, but this is the only jump in 
the lot that turned out in the right and satisfactory 
way. What became of Winona?” 
“ She was a good deal jarred up and jolted: but she 
got herself together and disappeared before the coroner 
reached the fatal spot; and 'tis said she sought and 
married her true love, and wandered with him to some 
distant clime, where she lived happy ever after, her 
gentle spirit mellowed and chastened by the romantic 
incident which had so early deprived her of the sweet 
guidance of a mother's love and a father's protecting 
arm, and thrown her, all unfriended, upon the cold 
charity of a censorious world.” 
I was glad to hear the lecturer’s description of the 
scenery, for it assisted my appreciation of what I saw 
of it, and enabled me to imagine such of it as we lost 
by the intrusion of night. 
As the lecturer remarked, this whole region is 
blanketed with Indian tales and traditions. But I re- 
minded. him that people usually merely mentioned this 
fact — doing it in a way to make a body’s mouth water 
— and judiciously stopped there. Why? Because the 
impression left was that these tales were full of incident 
and imagination — a pleasant impression which would 
be promptly dissipated if the tales were told. I showed 
him a lot of this sort of literature which I had been 
collecting, and he confessed that it was poor stuff, 
exceedingly sorry rubbish ; and I ventured to add that 
the legends which he had himself told us were of this 
character, with the single exception of the admirable 
story of Winona. He granted these facts, but said 
that if I would hunt up Mr. Schoolcraft’s book, pub- 
lished near fifty years ago, and now doubtless out of 
print, I would find some Indian inventions in it that 
were very far from being barren of incident and imagi- 
nation ; that the tales in ‘ ‘ Hiawatha ’ ’ were of this 
sort, and they came from Schoolcraft’s book; and that 
there were others in the same book which Mr. Long- 
fellow could have turned into verse with good effect. 
For instance, there was the legend of “The Undying 
Head.” He could not tell it, for many of the details 
had grown dim in his memory ; but he would recom- 
mend me to find it and enlarge my respect for the 
Indian imagination. He said that this tale, and most 
of the others in the book, were current among the 
Indians along this part of the Mississippi when he first 
came here; and that the contributors to Schoolcraft’s 
book had got them directly from Indian lips, and had 
written them down with strict exactness, and without 
embellishments of their own. 
I have found the book. The lecturer was right. 
There are several legends in it which confirm what he 
said. I will offer two of them — “The Undying 
Head,” and “Peboan and Seegwun, an Allegory of 
the Seasons.” The latter is used in “Hiawatha”; 
but it is worth reading in the original form, if only 
that one may see how effective a genuine poem can be 
without the helps and graces of poetic measure and 
rhythm : 
PEBOAN AND SEEGWUN. 
An old man was sitting alone in his lodge, by the side of a frozen 
stream. It was the close of winter, and his fire was almost out. He 
appeared very old and very desolate. His locks were white with age, and 
he trembled in every joint. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard 
nothing but the sound of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen 
snow. 
One day, as his fire was just dying, a handsome young man approached 
and entered his dwelling. His cheeks were red with the blood of youth, 
his eyes sparkled with animation, and a smile played upon his lips. He 
walked with a light and quick step. His forehead was bound with a 
wreath of sweet grass, in place of a warrior’s frontlet, and he earned a 
bunch of flowers in his hand. 
fi< Ah, my son! ” said the old man, “I am happy to see you. Come 
in ! Come and tell me of your adventures, and what strange lands you have 
been to see. Let us pass the night together. I will tell you of my prowess 
and exploits, and what I can perform. You shall do the same, and we will 
amuse ourselves.* * 
He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and hav- 
ing filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by a mixture of certain leaves, 
handed it to his guest. When this ceremony was concluded they began to 
speak. 
“ I blow my breath,* * said the old man, “ and the stream stands still. 
The water becomes stiff and hard as clear stone.** 
“ I breathe,'' said the young man, “ and flowers spring up over thf 
plain.'' 
“ I shake my locks,** retorted the old man, “ and snow covers the land. 
The leaves fall from the trees at my command, and my breath blows them 
away. The birds get up from the water, and fly to a distant land. The 
animals hide themselves from my breath, and the very ground becomes as 
hard as flint.’' 
“I shake my ringlets,'' rejoined the young man, “and warm showers 
of soft rain fall upon the earth. The plants lift up their heads out of the 
earth, like the eyes of children glistening with delight. My voice recalls 
the birds. The warmth of my breath unlocks the streams. Music fills the 
groves wherever I walk, and all nature rejoices.” 
At length the sun began to rise. A gentle warmth came over the place. 
The tongue of the old man became silent. The robin and bluebird began 
to sing on the top of the lodge. The stream began to murmur by the door, 
and the fragrance of growing herbs and flowers came softly on the vernal 
breeze. 
Daylight fully revealed to the young man the character of his entertainer. 
When he looked upon him, he had the icy visage of PeboanJ* Streams 
began to flow from his eyes. As the sun increased, he grew less and less 
in stature, and anon had melted completely away. Nothing remained on 
the place of his lodge fire but the miskodeed * t a small white flower, with a 
pink border, which is one of the earliest species of northern plants. 
‘The Undying Head 99 is a rather long tale, but it 
makes up in weird conceits, fairy-tale prodigies, variety 
of incident, and energy of movement, for what it lacks 
in brevity.' 
CHAPTER LX. 
SPECULATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS 
WE reached St. Paul, at the head of navigation of 
the Mississippi, and there our voyage of two 
thousand miles from New Orleans ended. It is about 
a ten-day trip by steamer. It can probably be done 
quicker by rail. I judge so because I know that one 
may go by rail from St, Louis to Hannibal — a dis- 
tance of at least a hundred and twenty miles — in 
seven hours. This is better than walking; unless one 
is in a hurry. 
The season being far advanced when we were in New 
Orleans, the roses and magnolia blossoms were falling; 
but here in St. Paul it was the snow. In New Orleans 
we had caught an occasional withering breath from 
over a crater, apparently ; here in St. Paul we caught 
a frequent benumbing one from over a glacier, ap- 
parently. 
I am not trying to astonish by these statistics. No, 
it is only natural that there should be a sharp difference 
between climates which lie upon parallels of latitude 
which are one or two thousand miles apart. I take 
this position, and I will hold it and maintain it in spite 
of the newspapers. The newspaper thinks it isn’t a 
natural thing; and once a year, in February, it re- 
marks, with ill-concealed exclamation points, that 
while we, away up here, are fighting snow and ice* 
folks are having new strawberries and peas down 
South ; callas are blooming out of doors, and the peo- 
ple are complaining of the warm weather. The news- 
paper never gets done being surprised about it. It is 
caught regularly every February. There must be a 
reason for this; and this reason must be change of 
hands at the editorial desk. You cannot surprise an 
individual more than twice with the same marvel — not 
even with the February miracles of the Southern 
climate; but if you keep putting new hands at the 
editorial desk every year or two, and forget to vacci- 
nate them against the annual climatic surprise, that 
same old thing is going to occur right along. Each 
year one new hand will have the disease, and be safe 
from its recurrence ; but this does not save the news- 
paper. No, the newspaper is in as bad case as ever; 
it will forever have its new hand ; and so, it will break 
out with the strawberry surprise every February as 
long as it lives. The new hand is curable ; the news- 
paper itself is incurable. An act of Congress — no, 
Congress could not prohibit the strawberry surprise 
without questionably stretching its powers. An amend- 
ment to the Constitution might fix the thing, and that 
is probably the best and quickest way to get at it. 
Under authority of such an amendment, Congress 
could then pass an act inflicting imprisonment for life 
for the first offence, and some sort of lingering death 
for subsequent ones; and this, no doubt, would pres- 
ently give us a rest. At the same time, the amend- 
ment and the resulting act and penalties might easily 
be made to cover various cognate abuses, such as the 
Annual-Veteran - who - has-Voted-for-Every- President- 
from - Washington - down, - and - Walked - to-the-Polls- 
Yesterday - with - as-Bright-an-Eye-and-as-Firm-a-Step- 
as-Ever, and ten or eleven other weary yearly marvels 
of that sort, and of the Oldest-Freemason, and Oldest- 
Printer, and Oldest-Baptist-Preacher, and Oldest-Alunr 
nus sort, and Three-Children-Born-at-a-Birth sort, and 
so on, and so on. And then England would take it 
up and pass a law prohibiting the further use of Sidney 
Smith's jokes, and appointing a commissioner to con- 
struct some new ones. Then life would be a sweet 
dream of rest and peace, and the nations would cease 
to long for heaven. 
But I wander from my theme. St. Paul is a won- 
derful town. It is put together in solid blocks of 
honest brick and stone, and has the air of intending to 
stay. Its post-office was established thirty-six years 
ago ; and by and by, when the postmaster received a 
letter, he carried it to Washington, horseback, to in- 
quire what was to be done with it. Such is the 
legend. Two frame houses were built that year, and 
several persons were added to the population. A 
recent number of the leading St. Paul paper, the 
Pioneer Press, gives some statistics which furnish a 
vivid contrast to that old state of things, to wit : 
Population, autumn of the present year (1882), 71,000; 
number of letters handled, first half of the year, 
1,209,387; number of houses built during three- 
quarters of the year, 989; their cost, $3,186,000. 
The increase of letters over the corresponding six 
months of last year was fifty per cent. Last year the 
new buildings added to the city cost above $4,500,000. 
St. Paul's strength lies in her commerce — I mean his 
commerce. He is a manufacturing city, of course, — 
all the cities of that region are, — but he is peculiarly 
strong in the matter of commerce. Last year his job- 
bing trade amounted to upward of $52,000,000. 
He has a custom-house, and is building a costly 
capitol to replace the one recently burned — for he is 
the capital of the State. He has churches without 
end ; and not the cheap poor kind, but the kind that 
the rich Protestant puts up, the kind that the poor 
Irish * 4 hired-girl ’ * delights to erect. What a passion 
for building majestic churches the Irish hired-girl has. 
It is a fine thing for our architecture ; but too often we 
enjoy her stately fanes without giving her a grateful 
thought. In fact, instead of reflecting that ‘ 4 every 
brick and every stone in this beautiful edifice repre- 
sents an ache or a pain, and a handful of sweat, and 
hours of heavy fatigue, contributed by the back and 
forehead and bones of poverty,’ ’ it is our habit to for- 
get these things entirely, and merely glorify the mighty 
temple itself, without vouchsafing one praiseful thought 
to its humble builder, whose rich heart and withered 
purse it symbolizes. 
This is a land of libraries and schools. St. Paul has 
three public libraries, and they contain, in the aggre- 
gate, some forty thousand books. He has one hundred 
and sixteen school-houses, and pays out more than 
seventy thousand dollars a year in teachers’ salaries. 
There is an unusually fine railway station ; so large 
is it, in fact, that it seemed somewhat overdone, in the 
matter of size, at first ; but at the end of a few months 
it was perceived that the mistake was distinctly the 
other way. The error is to be corrected. 
The town stands on high ground ; it is about seven 
hundred feet above the sea-level. It is so high that a 
wide view of river and lowland is offered from its 
streets. 
It is a very wonderful town, indeed, and is not 
finished yet. All the streets are obstructed with build- 
ing material, and this is being compacted into houses 
as fast as possible, to make room for more — for other 
people are anxious to build, as soon as they can get 
the use of the streets to pile up their bricks and stuff in. 
How solemn and beautiful is the thought that the 
earliest pioneer of civilization, the van-leader of
civilization, is never the steamboat, never the railroad, 
never the newspaper, never the Sabbath-school, never 
the missionary — but always whisky! Such is the 
case. Look history over; you will see. The mission- 
ary comes after the whisky — I mean he arrives after 
the whisky has arrived; next comes the poor immi- 
grant, with axe and hoe and rifle ; next, the trader ; 
next, the miscellaneous rush; next, the gambler, the 
desperado, the highwayman, and all their kindred in 
sin of both sexes ; and next, the smart chap who has 
bought up an old grant that covers all the land ; this 
brings the lawyer tribe ; the vigilance committee brings 
the undertaker. All these interests bring the news- 
paper; the newspaper starts up politics and a railroad; 
all hands turn to and build a church and a jail — and 
behold ! civilization is established forever in the land. 
But whisky, you see, was the van-leader in this bene- 
ficent work. It always is. It was like a foreigner — 
and excusable in a foreigner — to be ignorant of this 
great truth, and wander off into astronomy to borrow 
a symbol. But if he had been conversant with the 
facts, he would have said: 
Westward the Jug of Empire takes its way. 
This great van-leader arrived upon the ground which 
St. Paul now occupies, in June, 1837. Yes, at that 
date, Pierre Parrant, a Canadian, built the first cabin, 
uncorked his jug, and began to sell whisky to the 
Indians. The result is before us. 
All that I have said of the newness, briskness, swift 
progress, wealth, intelligence, fine and substantial 
architecture, and general slash and go and energy of 
St. Paul, will apply to his near neighbor, Minneapolis — 
with the addition that the latter is the bigger of the 
