talking about so earnestly ? What makes you so 
pale and out of breath ? " 

" I have been wanting to tell you, mother," said 
Florida. She drew her chair in front of the elder 
lady, and sat down. 




XIV. 

DON IPPOLITO did not go directly to the painter s. 
He walked toward his house at first, and then turned 
aside, and wandered out through the noisy and pop 
ulous district of Canaregio to the Campo di Marte. 
A squad of cavalry which had been going through 
some exercises there was moving off the parade 
ground ; a few infantry soldiers were strolling about 
under the trees. Don Ippolito walked across the 
field to the border of the lagoon, where he began to 
pace to and fro, with his head sunk in deep thought. 
He moved rapidly, but sometimes he stopped and 
stood still in the sun, whose heat he did not seem 
to feel, though a perspiration bathed his pale face 
and stood in drops on his forehead under the 
shadow of his nicchio. Some little dirty children of 
the poor, with which this region swarms, looked at 
him from the sloping shore of the Campo di Gius- 
tizia, where the executions used to take place, and 
a small boy began to mock his movements and 
pauses, but was arrested by one of the girls, who 
shook him and gesticulated warningly. 

At this point the long railroad bridge which con 
nects Venice with the mainland is in full sight, and 
now from the reverie in which he continued, whether 
he walked or stood still, Don Tppolito was roused by 



 

the whistle of an outward train. He followed it with 
his eye as it streamed along over the far-stretching 
arches, and struck out into the flat, salt marshes be 
yond. When the distance hid it, he put on his hat, 
which he had unknowingly removed, and turned 
his rapid steps toward the railroad station. Ar 
rived there, he lingered in the vestibule for half an 
hour, watching the people as they bought their 
tickets for departure, and had their baggage ex 
amined by the customs officers, and weighed and 
registered by the railroad porters, who passed it 
through the wicket shutting out the train, while the 
passengers gathered up their smaller parcels and 
took their way to the waiting-rooms. He followed 
a group of English people some paces in this direc 
tion, and then returned to the wicket, through 
which he looked long and wistfully at the train. 
The baggage was all passed through ; the doors of 
the waiting-rooms were thrown open with harsh 
proclamation by the guards, and the passengers 
nocked into the carriages. Whistles and bells 
were sounded, and the train crept out of the sta 
tion. 

A man in the company's uniform approached the 
unconscious priest, and striking his hands softly to 
gether, said with a pleasant smile, " Your servant, 
Don Tppolito. Are you expecting some one ? " 

"Ah, good day ! " answered the priest, with a 
little start. " No," he added, " I was not looking 
for anv one." 



 

" I see," said the other. " Amusing yourself as 
usual with the machinery. Excuse the freedom, 
Don Ippolito ; but you ought to have been of our 
profession, ha, ha ! When you have the leisure, 
I should like to show you the drawing of an Amer 
ican locomotive which a friend of mine has sent me 
from Nuova York. It is very different from ours, 
very curious. But monstrous in size, you know, 
prodigious ! May I come with it to your house, 
some evening ? " 

" You will do me a great pleasure," said Don Ip 
polito. He gazed dreamily in the direction of the 
vanished train. " Was that the train for Milan ? " 
he asked presently. 

"Exactly," said the man. 
" Does it go all the way to Milan ? " 
" Oh, ! it stops at Peschiera, where the pas 
sengers have their passports examined; and then 
another train backs down from Desenzano and 
takes them on to Milan. And after that," contin 
ued the man with animation, " if you are on the 
way to England, for example, another train carries 
you to Susa, and there you get the diligence over 
the mountain to St. Michel, where you take rail 
road again, and so on up through Paris to Boulogne- 
sur-Mer, and then by steamer to Folkestone, and 
then by railroad to London and to Liverpool. It is 
at Liverpool that you go on board the steamer for 
America, and piff ! in ten days you are in Nuova 
York. My friend has written me all about it." 



 

"All yes, your friend. Does he like it there in 
America ? " 

"Passably, passably. The Americans have no 
manners ; but they are good devils. They are 
governed by the Irish. And the wine is dear. But 
he likes America ; yes, he likes it. Nuova York is 
a fine city. But immense, you know ! Eight times 
as large as Venice ! " 

" Is your friend prosperous there ? " 

" Ah heigh ! That is the prettiest part of the 
story. He has made himself rich. He is employed 
by a large house to make designs for maiitlepieces, 
and marble tables, and tombs ; and he has listen ! 
six hundred francs a month ! " 

" Oh per Bacco ! " cried Don Ippolito. 

" Honestly. But you spend a great deal there. 
Still, it is magnificent, is it not? If it were not 
for that blessed war there, now, that would be the 
place for you, Don Ippolito. He tells me the 
Americans are actually mad for inventions. Your 
servant. Excuse the freedom, you know," said the 
man, bowing and moving away. 

" Nothing, dear, nothing," answered the priest. 
He walked out of the station with a light step, and 
went to his own house, where he sought the room 
in which his inventions were stored. He had not 
touched them for weeks. They were all dusty and 
many were cob webbed. He blew the dust from 
some, and bringing them to the light, examined 
them critically, finding them mostly disabled in one 



 

way or other, except the models of the portable fur 
niture which he polished with his handkerchief and 
set apart, surveying them from a distance with a 
look of hope. He took up the breech-loading can 
non and then suddenly put it down again with a 
little shiver, and went to the threshold of the per 
verted oratory and glanced in at his forge. Vener- 
anda had carelessly left the window open, and the 
draught had carried the ashes about the floor. On 
the cinder-heap lay the tools which he had used in 
mending the broken pipe of the fountain at Casa 
Vervain, and had not used since. The place seemed 
chilly even on that summer's day. He stood in the 
doorway with clenched hands. Then he called 
Veneranda, chid her for leaving the window open, 
and bade her close it, and so quitted the house and 
left her muttering. 

Ferris seemed surprised to see him when he ap 
peared at the consulate near the middle of the af 
ternoon, and seated himself in the place where he 
was wont to pose for the painter. 

" Were you going to give me a sitting? " asked 
the latter, hesitating. " The light is horrible, just 
now, with this glare from the canal. Not that I 
manage much better when it's good. I don 't get 
on with you, Don Ippolito. There are too many 
of you. I shouldn 't have known you in the pro 
cession yesterday." 

Don Ippolito did not respond. He rose and went 
toward his portrait on the easel, and examined it 



 

long, with a curious minuteness. Then he returned 
to his chair, and continued to look at it. " I sup 
pose that it resembles me a great deal," he said, 
;t and yet I do not feel like that. I hardly know 
what is the fault. It is as I should be if I were 
like other priests, perhaps ? " 

" I know it's not good," said the painter. " It 
is conventional, in spite of everything. But here's 
that first sketch I made of you." 

He took up a canvas facing the wall, and set it 
on the easel. The character in this charcoal sketch 
was vastly sincerer and sweeter. 

" Ah ! " said Don Ippolito, with a sigh and smile 
of relief, " that is immeasurably better. I wish I 
could speak to you, dear friend, in a mood of yours 
as sympathetic as this picture records, of some mat 
ters that concern me very nearly. I have just come 
from the railroad station." 

" Seeing some friends off ? " asked the painter, 
indifferently, hovering near the sketch with a bit of 
charcoal in his hand, and hesitating whether to give 
it a certain touch. He glanced with half-shut eyes 
at the priest. 

Don Ippolito sighed again. " I hardly know. I 
was seeing off my hopes, my desires, my prayers, 
that followed the train to America ! " 

The painter put down his charcoal, dusted his 
fingers, and looked at the priest without saying 
anything. 

" Do you remember when I first came to you ? " 
asked Don Tppolito. 





" Certainly," said Ferris. " Is it of that matter 
you want to speak to me ? I rn very sorry to hear 
it, for I don 't think it practical." 

" Practical, practical ! " cried the priest hotly. 
" Nothing is practical till it has been tried. And 
why should I not go to America ? " 

" Because you can 't get your passport, for one 
thing," answered the painter dryly. 

" I have thought of that," rejoined Don Ippolito 
more patiently. " I can get a passport for France 
from the Austrian authorities here, and at Milan 
there must be ways in which I could change it for 
one from my own king " - it was by this title that 
patriotic Venetians of those days spoke of Victor 
Emmanuel " that would carry me out of France 
into England." 

Ferris pondered a moment. " That is quite 
true," he said. " Why had n t you thought of that 
when you first came to me ? " 

" I cannot tell. I didn 't know that I could even 
get a passport for France till the other day." 

Both were silent while the painter filled his pipe. 
" Well," he said presently, " I'm very sorry. I'm 
afraid you're dooming yourself to many bitter dis 
appointments in going to America. What do you 
expect to do there ? " 

" Why, with my inventions " 

" I suppose," interrupted the other, putting a 
lighted match to his pipe, " that a painter must be 
a very poor sort of American : his first thought is 



 

of coming to Italy. So I know very little directly 
about the fortunes of my inventive fellow-country 
men, or whether an inventor has any prospect of 
making a living. But once when I was at Wash 
ington I went into the Patent Office, where the 
models of the inventions are deposited ; the build 
ing is about as large as the Ducal Palace, and it is 
full of them. The people there told me nothing 
was commoner than for the same invention to be re 
peated over and over again by different inventors. 
Some few succeed, and then they have lawsuits 
with the infringers of their patents ; some sell out 
their inventions for a trifle to companies that have 
capital, and that grow rich upon them ; the great 
number can never bring their ideas to the public 
notice at all. You can judge for yourself what 
your chances would be. You have asked me why 
you should not go to America. Well, because I 
think you would starve there." 

" I am used to that," said Don Ippolito ; " and 
besides, until some of my inventions became known, 
I could give lessons in Italian." 

" Oh, bravo I " said Ferris, " you prefer instant 
death, then?" 

" But madamigella seemed to believe that my 
success as an inventor would be assured, there." 

Ferris gave a very ironical laugh. " Miss Ver 
vain must have been about twelve years old when 
she left America. Even a lady's knowledge of busi 
ness, at that age, is limited. When did yon talk 



 

with her about it ? You had not spoken of it to 
me, of late, and I thought you were more contented 
than you used to be." 

" It is true," said the priest. u Sometimes within 
the last two months I have almost forgotten it." 

" And what has brought it so forcibly to your 
mind again ? " 

" That is what I so greatly desire to tell you," 
replied Don Ippolito, with an appealing look at the 
painter's face. He moistened his parched lips a 
little, waiting for further question from the painter, 
to whom he seemed a man fevered by some strong 
emotion and at that moment not quite wholesome. 
Ferris did not speak, and Don Ippolito began 
again : " Even though I have not said so in words 
to you, dear friend, has it not appeared to you that 
I have no heart in my vocation ? " 

" Yes, I have sometimes fancied that. I had no 
right to ask you why." 

" Some day I will tell you, when I have the 
courage to go all over it again. It is partly my 
own fault, but it is more my miserable fortune. 
But wherever the wrong lies, it has at last become 
intolerable to me. I cannot endure it any longer 
and live. I must go away, I must fly from it." 

Ferris shrank from him a little, as men instinc 
tively do from one who has set himself upon some 
desperate attempt. " Do you mean, Don Ippolito, 
that you are going to renounce your priesthood ? " 

Don Ippolito opened his hands and let his priest 
hood drop, as it were, to the ground. 



 

" You never spoke of this before, when you talked 
of going to America. Though to be sure " 

" Yes, yes ! " replied Don Ippolito with vehe 
mence, " but now an angel has appeared and shown 
me the blackness of my life ! " 

Ferris began to wonder if he or Don Ippolito 
were not perhaps mad. 

" An angel, yes," the priest went on, rising from 
his chair, " an angel whose immaculate truth has 
mirrored my falsehood in all its vileness and distor 
tion to whom, if it destroys me, I cannot devote 
less than a truthfulness like hers ! " 

" Hers hers ? " cried the painter, with a sudden 
pang. " Whose ? don 't speak in these riddles. 
Whom do you mean ? " 

" Whom can I mean but only one ? madami- 
gella ! " 

" Miss Vervain? Do you mean to say that Miss 
Vervain has advised you to renounce your priest 
hood?" 

" In as many ..words she has bidden rne forsake it 
at any risk, at the cost of kindred, friends, good 
fame, country, everything." 

The painter passed his hand confusedly over his 
face. These were his own words, the words he had 
used in speaking with Florida of the supposed skep 
tical priest. He grew very pale. " May I ask," 
he demanded in a hard, dry voice, u how she came 
to advise such a step ? " 

" I can hardly tell. Something had already 



 

moved her to learn from me the story of my life 
to know that I was a man with neither faith nor 
hope. Her pure heart was torn by the thought of 
my wrong and of my error. I had never seen my 
self in such deformity as she saw me even when she 
used me with that divine compassion. I was al 
most glad to be what I was because of her angelic 
pity for me ! " 

The tears sprang to Don Tppolito's eyes, but 
Ferris asked in the same tone as before, " Was it 
then that she bade you be no longer a priest ? " 

" No, not then," patiently replied the other ; 
" she was too greatly overwhelmed with my calam 
ity to think of any cure for it. To-day it was that 
she uttered those words words which I shall never 
forget, which will support and comfort me, what 
ever happens ! " 

The painter was biting hard upon the stem of his 
pipe. He turned away and began ordering the 
color-tubes and pencils on a table against the wall, 
putting them close together in very neat, straight 
rows. Presently he said : " Perhaps Miss Vervain 
also advised you to go to America ? " 

"Yes," answered the priest reverently. " She 
had thought of everything. She has promised me 
a refuge under her mother's roof there, until I can 
make my inventions known ; and I shall follow 
them at once." 

" Follow them ? " 

" They are going, she told me. Madama does 



 

not grow better. They are homesick. They 
but you must know all this already ? " 

" Oh, not at all, not at all," said the painter with 
a very bitter smile. " You are telling me news. 
Pray go on." 

" There is no more. She made me promise to 
come to you and listen to your advice before I took 
any step. I must not trust to her alone, she said ; 
but if I took this step, then through whatever hap 
pened she would be my friend. Ah, dear friend, 
may I speak to you of the hope that these words 
gave me ? You have seen have you not ? you 
must have seen that " 

The priest faltered, and Ferris stared at him 
helpless. When the next words came he could not 
find any strangeness in the fact which yet gave him 
so great a shock. He found that to his nether con 
sciousness it had been long familiar ever since 
that day when lie had first jestingly proposed Don 
Ippolito as Miss Vervain's teacher. Grotesque, 
tragic, impossible it had still been the under-cur 
rent of all his reveries ; or so now it seemed to have 
been. 

Don Ippolito anxiously drew nearer to him and 
laid an imploring touch upon his arm, "I love 
her ! " 

"What!" gasped the painter. "You? You! 
A priest ? " 

" Priest ! priest ! " cried Don Ippolito, violently. 
" From this day I am no longer a priest ! From 



 

this hour I am a man, and I can offer her the hon 
orable love of a man, the truth of a most sacred" 
marriage, and fidelity to death ! 

Ferris made no answer. He began to look very 
coldly and haughtily at Don Ippolito, whose heat 
died away under his stare, and who at last met it 
with a glance of tremulous perplexity.. His hand 
had dropped from Ferris's arm, and he now moved 
some steps from him. " What is it, dear friend ? " 
he besought him. " Is there something that offends 
you ? I came to you for counsel, and you meet me 
with a repulse little short of enmity. I do not un 
derstand. Do I intend anything wrong without 
knowing it ? Oh, I conjure you to speak plainly ! 

"Wait! Wait a minute," said Ferris, waving 
his hand like a man tormented by a passing pain. 
" I am trying to think. What you say is .... 
I cannot imagine if ! 

" Not imagine it ? Not imagine it ? And why ? 
Is she not beautiful ? " 

Yes." 

" And good ? " 

" Without doubt." 

"And young, and yet wise beyond her years ? 
And true, and yet angelically kind? " 

" It is all as you say, God knows. But .... 
a priest " 

" Oh ! Always that accursed word ! And at 
heart, what is a priest, then, but a man? a 
wretched, masked, imprisoned, banished man ! Has 




he not blood and nerves like you ? Has he not eyes 
to see what is fair, and ears to hear what is sweet ? 
Can he live near so divine a flower and not know 
her grace, not inhale the fragrance of her soul, not 
adore her beauty ? Oh, great God ! And if at 
last he would tear off his stifling mask, escape from 
his prison, return from his exile, would you gainsay 
him ? " 

" No ! " said the painter with a kind of groan. 
Fie sat down in a tall, carven gothic chair, the 
furniture of one of his pictures, and rested his 
head against its high back and looked at the priest 
across the room. " Excuse me," he continued with 
a strong effort. " I am ready to befriend you to 
the utmost of my power. What was it you wanted 
to ask me ? I have told you truly what I thought 
of your scheme of going to America ; but I may 
very well be mistaken. Was it about that Miss 
Vervain desired you to consult me?" His voice 
and manner hardened again in spite of him. " Or 
did she wish me to advise you about the renuncia 
tion of your priesthood ? You must have thought 
that carefully over for yourself." 

" Yes, I do not think you could make me see that 
as a greater difficulty than it has appeared to me." 
He paused with a confused and daunted air, as if 
some important point had slipped his mind. " But 
I must take the step ; the burden of the double 
part I play is unendurable, is it not ? " 

" You know better than T." 



 

" But if you were such a man as I, with neither 
love for your vocation nor faith in it, should you 
not cease to be a priest ? " 

" If you ask me in that way, yes," answered 
the painter. " But I advise you nothing. I could 
not counsel another in such a case." 

" But you think and feel as I do," said the priest, 
" and I am right, then." 

" I do not say you are wrong." 

Ferris was silent while Don Ippolito moved up 
and down the room, with his sliding step, like some 
tall, gaunt, unhappy girl. Neither could put an 
end to this interview, so full of intangible, inconclu 
sive misery. Ferris drew a long breath, and then 
said steadily, " Don Tppolito, I suppose you did not 
speak idly to me of your your feeling for Miss 
Vervain, and that I may speak plainly to you in 
return." 

" Surely," answered the priest, pausing in his 
walk and fixing his eyes upon the painter. " It 
was to you as the friend of both that I spoke of my 
love, and my hope which is oftener my despair." 

" Then you have not much reason to believe that 
