eggs, the salt and flour. If the batter has thickened up too much, thin
with cold milk, before stirring in the soda. The whites should go in
last, and be whipped in lightly.
These are the “cakes trimmed with lace” of which we read in Mrs.
Whitney’s always charming—“We Girls.”
RICE CAKES. +
1 cup raw rice.
1 quart milk.
3 eggs—very light.
¼ cup rice-flour.
1 table-spoonful sugar, and same of butter.
¼ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
½ teaspoonful cream of tartar.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Soak the rice five or six hours (all night is not too long) in warm
water enough to cover it. Then boil slowly in the same until it is very
soft. While still warm—not hot, stir in the butter and sugar, the salt
and milk. When cold, put in the eggs. Sift the cream of tartar into
the rice-flour, and when you have beaten the soda into the batter, add
these.
These cakes should be so tender as almost to melt in the mouth.
SUSIE’S FLANNEL CAKES. (Without eggs.) +
2 cups white Indian meal.
2 quarts milk.
½ cup yeast.
Flour for good batter.
Boiling water.
A little salt.
Scald the meal with a pint or so of boiling water. While still warm
stir in the milk, and strain through a cullender; then, add the flour,
lastly the yeast. Cover and let the batter stand until morning. Salt,
and if at all sour stir in a little soda.
These cakes will make a pleasant variety with “buckwheats,” in the
long winter season. They will be found very good—so good that one will
hardly believe that they contain neither “shortening” nor eggs.
“You can put in an egg or two, if you wish,” says “Susie,” modestly,
“but to my notion they are quite as nice without.”
And we, who have tested the “flannel” of her making, are content to
“let well enough alone.”
FARINA GRIDDLE CAKES. +
4 table-spoonfuls farina.
1 quart milk.
2 eggs, well beaten.
Enough prepared flour for good batter.
Boiling water.
Salt to taste.
1 table-spoonful melted butter.
Scald the farina over night with a pint or more of boiling water, and
let it stand until morning. Thin with the milk, beating it in gradually
to avoid lumping. Next, the beaten eggs, the salt and butter. At last
the flour stirred in with light, swift strokes. Do not get the batter
too thick.
Bake at once.
If you have not prepared flour at hand, use family flour, with a
teaspoonful of soda and two of cream tartar.
GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. +
1 cup Indian meal scalded with a pint of boiling water.
1 quart of milk.
½ cup yeast.
1 cup cold water.
1 cup white flour.
1 cup Graham flour.
1 great spoonful molasses.
1 great spoonful butter or lard.
½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
Salt to taste.
Scald and strain the meal over night; thin with the milk, and make into
a sponge with the Graham flour, molasses and yeast. In the morning, add
salt, white flour, soda and butter, and stir in enough cold water to
make batter of the right consistency.
Graham and Indian cakes are far more wholesome in the spring of the
year than any preparation of buckwheat.
WHAT I KNOW ABOUT EGG-BEATERS.
IN no department of nice cookery are the effects of lax or hasty
manipulation more sadly and frequently apparent than in such dishes
as are dependent for excellence upon the lightness and smoothness of
beaten eggs. Unless yolks are whipped to a thick cream, and whites to a
froth that will stand alone, the texture of cake will be coarse, and if
the loaf be not heavy or streaked, there will be a crude flavor about
it that will betray the fault at once to the initiated. The same is
emphatically true with regard to muffins, waffles, and griddle-cakes.
Mr. Greeley said, and aptly, of two publishers of note: “One will
make a louder rattle with a hundred dollars than the other can with a
thousand.” I have often recalled the remark in contrasting the tender,
puffy products of one housewife’s skill with the dense, clammy cakes
and crumpets of another, who used double the quantity of eggs and
butter, and cream instead of milk.
“I think,” observed a friend, at whose house I was visiting, “there
must be a mistake about the muffin receipt you gave me the other day.
It calls for three eggs. My cook insists that five are none too many,
yet hers, when made, do not look or taste like those I ate at your
table.”
In reply I craved permission to see the batter mixed by the critical
cook. Entering the kitchen in company with the mistress, we found
Chloe in the act of breaking the five eggs directly into the flour,
milk, etc., already mixed in a large bowl. Half a dozen strokes of
the wooden spoon she held would have completed the manufacture of the
raw material. Eggs are inveterate tell-tales, and they had given no
uncertain warning in this case, had the mistress been on the alert.
Some eggs cannot be frothed. The colored “mammys” used to tell me that
they were “bewitched,” when, with every sweep of the wisp they were
depressed and dwindled before my wondering eyes. I have learned since
that, whether this non-inflative state be the result of undue warmth
of the dish into which the eggs are broken, or staleness of the ovates
themselves, it is a hopeless task to attempt rehabilitation. Their
demoralization is complete and fatal. The wise housewife will give up
her cake or dessert for that day, unless she is willing to throw the
obdurate eggs away, cleanse the bowl, wiping it perfectly dry, and let
it cool before attacking another batch.
Nor will whites froth to stiffness if a single drop of the yolk has
found its way into them. Regardless, as a leader of the cod-fish
aristocracy, of the claims of early associations upon memory and
respect, they sullenly assert the impossibility of rising in the world
if they are to be clogged by that which lay so close to them before the
shells were broken. All the beating of the patent egg-whip in impatient
fingers will not suffice to make them see reason. The fact that there
is ten-fold more nourishment and sweetness in one yolk than in a pint
of their snowy nothingness; that it is, in truth, the life, without
which an egg would be a nullity, has no more effect in changing their
exclusive notions than have volumes of argument proving the solidity
and vitality of the middle classes upon the gaseous brains of the bon
ton. Humor their folly—for whites are useful, because ornamental, if
rightly handled—by carefully taking out the offensive plebeian speck.
Our mothers whipped up yolks with a spoon, and the whites with a
broad-bladed knife, or clean switches, peeled and dried. Miss Leslie’s
“Complete Cookery” will tell you all about it. (And, by the way, if you
doubt that fashions change in cookery as in all else, I commend to your
perusal this ancient manual.) Then came a rush of patent egg-beaters,
and a rush of purchasers as well, whose aching wrists and shoulders
pleaded for relief from long hours of incessant “beating,” “whipping,”
and “frothing.” There were wire spoons with wooden handles that broke
off, and tin handles that turned the perspiring hand black; wire
whirligigs that ran up and down upon a central shaft and spattered the
eggs over the face and bust of the operator; cylindrical tin vessels
with whirligigs fastened in the centre, almost as good fun for the
children as a monkey on a stick, but which bound the housewife to place
and circumstance, since her eggs, many or few, yolks and whites, must
all be churned in that vessel—not an easy one to keep clean, on account
of the fixture within it. There was altogether too much machinery for
the end to be accomplished, and the white of a single egg was so hard
to find in the bottom of a quart pail! After a few trials, the cook
tossed the “bothering thing” into a dark corner of the closet, and
improvised a better beater out of two silver forks, held dexterously
together. Then, our enterprising “general furnishing” merchant
overwhelmed us with a double compound back (and forward) action machine
that was “warranted to whip up a stiff méringue in a minute and a
half.”
“I will not quite endorse that, ladies,” said the most important
tradesman in a community of housekeepers and housekept. “But I will
stake my reputation upon its doing this in two minutes.”
We all bought the prize. It looked cumbrous, and it was expensive,
but time is money, and we remembered that a large snow-custard must be
beaten ninety minutes with an ordinary egg-whip, and cake-frosting,
thirty. We paid, each of us, our dollar and a half, and carried home
the time-and-muscle-saver in a box of its own, so big that we chose
back streets in preference to fashionable promenades, on our return.
Trembling with exultation, we rushed into the kitchen to display the
treasure.
“Yes, mem! What might it be, mem?”
“Why, Katey! an egg-beater! and the greatest convenience ever
manufactured!”
“Ah! and what a silly was meself, mem, to be thinking it was a
coffee-mill, when I saw you a-screwin’ it on to the table!”
We screwed it “on to the table,” at a corner, for there was not room
for it to revolve at sides and ends. Katey held a bowl with eggs in
it at just the right elevation below; and by turning a crank we moved
a many-cogged wheel which fitted into another wheel, which turned a
whirligig at the bottom. Katey held the bowl steadily; we worked very
fast at the windlass-handle, and in eight minutes the méringue was
ready.
“Well done!” cried housewives, one and all. “Great is the Grand
duplex back (and forward) action Invention, for the amelioration of
weary-wristed womankind! To be sure, it takes two people to work it,
unless one can hold the bowl firmly between the knees in just the right
place, but it is undeniably a wonderful improvement.”
I, with the rest, cried, “wonderful!” even when the bowl tipped over
on the kitchen-floor, with the yolks of ten eggs in it; when I broke
the screw by giving it one turn too many, and was blandly assured
by the artificer in metals, to whom I took it for repairs, that
“them cast-iron articles can’t never be mended, ma’am, without it
is by buying of a new one;” even when the cogs of the wheels became
rheumatic, and hitched groaningly at every round. But when one day, in
full flight through a seething heap of icing, the steel strips of the
triple whirligig that did the whipping, suddenly caught, the one upon
the other, and came to a dead lock; when, as I would have released them
by an energetic revolution of the wheel, they tore one another out by
the roots,—I arose in deadly calm; undid the screw, set the bowl on the
table, straightened my cramped spine, and sent to the nearest tin-shop
for a shilling whisk.
Four years ago, without prevision that one of the blessings of my life
was coming upon me, I paid a visit to my “house-furnisher.” He had a
new egg-beater for sale.
“Vanitas vanitatum!” said I, theatrically waving it from me, “I am
cured!”
“It comes well recommended,” remarked he, quietly.
“But, as you say, so many of these things are humbugs! Will you oblige
me by accepting this, giving it a fair trial, and letting me know just
what it is? I will send it up with the rest of your articles.”
For three weeks—I blush to write it—THE DOVER hung untouched in my
kitchen-closet, and I did daily penance for my sin of omission with
the shilling whisk. At last I broke the latter, and with a slighting
observation to the effect that “it might be better than none,” I took
down my gift.
I beg you to believe that I am not in league with the patentee of my
favorite. I do not know whether “Dover” stands for his name, that of
the manufacturing company, or the place in which it was made. “Dover
Egg-beater, Patented 1870,” is stamped upon the circumference of the
iron wheel. I know nothing more of its antecedents. But if I could not
get another I would not sell mine for fifty dollars—nor a hundred.
Egg-whipping ceased to be a bugbear to me from the day of which I
speak. Light, portable, rapid, easy, and comparatively noiseless, my
pet implement works like a benevolent brownie. With it I turn out a
méringue in five minutes without staying my song or talk; make the
formidable “snow-custard” in less than half an hour, with no after
tremulousness of nerve or tendon. In its operation it is impartial,
yolks thickening smoothly under it as easily as whites heighten into a
compact snow-drift, that can be cut into blocks with a knife. Winter
and summer, it has served me with invariable fidelity, and it is to
all appearance, stanch as when it first passed into my reluctant hands.
I hope the gentlemanly and benevolent donor will sell one thousand per
annum for the remainder of his natural existence, and if length of days
be a boon to be coveted, that the unknown patentee will live as many
years as he has saved hours of labor to American housewives and cooks.
WHIPPED CREAM.
THIS enters so largely into the composition of many of our most elegant
desserts, that the mode of preparing it deserves more than a passing
mention. The impression in which I confess that I shared, for a long
time, that a “whip” was a tedious, and sometimes well-nigh impossible
performance, will soon be done away with if one becomes the possessor
of a really good syllabub charm. That which I have used with great
satisfaction for a couple of years is a very simple affair—a tin
cylinder with a perforated bottom, and within it a dasher, similar to
that of an ordinary churn, that plays through a hole in the top. It is
best to churn the cream in a jar or pail, there being in these less
waste from splashing. The churn is held about a quarter of an inch from
the bottom, that the cream may pass freely below it. As the stiffened
froth rises to the top of the cream, it should be removed to a wire
sieve set over a dish. If you have no sieve, lay a piece of coarse lace
or tarletane within a cullender, and put the “whip,” a few spoonfuls
at a time, upon it. The cream that drips into the dish below should be
returned to the pail and churned over. I regret that the name of the
patentee appears nowhere upon the modest but excellent little machine
that has supplied me with so many trifles and Charlotte Russes.
The grand desideratum in making a “whip,” is to have real cream. It
should also be perfectly sweet. The confectioner from whom I always
procure mine advised me once to put the merest pinch of soda in the
cream in warm weather, before beating it, a hint that has proved very
useful to me. With this precaution, unless the cream be really on the
verge of souring, you will never churn your “whip” to butter, of which
lame and lamentable conclusion I had experience several times before I
received the friendly suggestion.
Get good cream, then. It is better worth your while to pay half a
dollar a quart for it than half the sum for the thinner, poorer liquid
sold under the same name at the milk-stores. In the country, of course,
the true article should be abundant, and in town, you can generally
purchase small quantities at the confectioners. A pint well worked will
yield enough “whip” for the dessert of a small family. It should be
kept in a cold place until needed, and not kept long anywhere.
Whipped cream is a delightful addition to coffee. John will relish his
after-dinner cup much better if you will mantle it with this snowy
richness. Remember this when preparing your syllabub or trifle, and set
aside a few spoonfuls before seasoning it.
Don’t be afraid of undertaking “fancy dishes.” Sally forth bravely
into the region of delicate and difficult dainties, when you are
considering family bills of fare, and you will not be dismayed when
called to get up a handsome “company” entertainment. “Grandmother’s
way” may suit Mesdames Dull and Bigott, but you, being accustomed to
use your reasoning powers, should remember that our estimable maternal
progenitors knew as little of locomotives and magnetic telegraphs as of
canned fruits and gelatine.
And, entre nous, I for one, and my John for two, are getting so
tired of the inevitable pie! He read aloud to me the other day, with
great gusto, a clever editorial from the Tribune, showing with much
ingenuity and force, that the weakness for pie was a national vice.
I wish I had room here to reprint it. Whenever I have been compelled
since to eat a triangle of “family pie-crust,” my usually excellent
digestion has played me false.
“Pie and soda-water! That is a woman’s idea of a comfortable luncheon
on a hot day in the city,” said a gentleman to me. “At a bit of rare,
tender steak, and a mealy potato they would turn up their fastidious
noses. Such gross food is only fit for a man.”
The school-girl, rising from a barely-tasted breakfast during which
she has been saying over to herself the chronological table, or French
verb, learned the night before,—“doesn’t care to take any luncheon
with her to-day. Certainly, no bread-and-butter—and sandwiches are
hateful! If you insist, mamma, just give me a piece of pie—mince-pie,
if you have it, with a slice of fruitcake and a little cheese. I may
feel hungry enough at noon to nibble at them.”
Papa, running in at eleven o’clock, to announce that he has had a
business telegram which obliges him to take the next train to Boston or
Chicago, “has not time to think of food, unless you can give me a bit
of pie to eat while you are packing my valise.” He jumps from the cars
at five P.M. to snatch another “bit of pie” from a station-restaurant,
and swallows still a third, at midnight, bought from an itinerant
vender of such comestibles, who swings himself on board when the
“through Express” halts for wood and water. If his sick headache is
not overpowering, he is adequate to the consumption of still a fourth
leathery triangle when another stop is made at six A.M.
Pie is the pièce de résistance in rural desserts, at luncheon and at
tea, and the mighty army mustered to meet the attacks of pic-nics and
water-parties in the course of the year is enough to drive a dyspeptic
to suicide, when he reads the sum total of the rough computation.
“I always calculate to bake a dozen of a Saturday,” says the farmer’s
helpmate, resigned to cheerfulness in the narrative. “In haying and
harvesting I make as many as thirty and forty every week. Nothing
pleases our folks so much when they come in hot and tired, as a bit of
pie—it don’t make much difference what kind—apple, berry, squash, or
damson—so long as it is pie!”
This is not exaggeration, and the same mania for the destructive sweet
is as prevalent among the working-classes of the city. It is useless to
preach to artisans and laborers of the indigestible qualities of such
pastry as is made by their wives at home, and bought at cheap bakeries;
to represent that baked apples, and in the season, ripe, fresh fruits
of all kinds are more nutritious, and even cheaper, when the prices of
flour, sugar, and “shortening” are reckoned up, to say nothing of the
time spent in rolling out, basting and baking the tough skinned, and
often sour-hearted favorites.
Jellies are scorned as “having no substance into them;” blanc-mange
is emphatically “flummery,” and whipped cream I have heard described
scornfully as “sweetened nothing.”
Do not understand my strictures upon pie-olatry to mean indiscriminate
condemnation of pastry. A really fine mince-pie is a toothsome
delicacy, and the like quality of pumpkin-pie a luscious treat.
Christmas would hardly be Christmas without the one, and I would have
the other grace every Thanksgiving feast until the end of time. But
surely there is an “out of season,” as well as “in.”
“Your Toxes and your Chickses may draw out my two front double teeth,
Mrs. Richards,” said Susan Nipper, “but that’s no reason why I need
offer ’em the whole set!”
And when I recall the square inches of hard and slack-baked dyspepsia I
have masticated—and swallowed—at the bidding of civility, and a natural
soft-heartedness that would not let me grieve or shame hospitable
entertainers, I can say it almost as snappishly as she.
Give John, then, and above all, the children, a respite from the
traditional, conventional and national pie, and an opportunity to
compare its solid merits with the graces of more fanciful desserts. I
can safely promise that the health of the family will not suffer from
the change.
FANCY DISHES FOR DESSERT.
JELLY ORANGES. +
12 fine deep-colored oranges.
1 package Coxe’s gelatine, dissolved in one cup cold water.
3 cups white sugar.
Juice of the oranges, and grated rind of three.
2 cups boiling water.
¼ teaspoonful cinnamon.
Soak the gelatine three hours in the cup of cold water. Cut from the
top of each orange a round piece, leaving a hole just large enough to
admit the bowl of a small spoon, or the handle of a larger. The smaller
the orifice, the better your dish will look. Clean out every bit of the
pulp very carefully, so as not to tear the edges of the hole. Scrape
the inner skin from the sides with your fore-finger, and when the
oranges are emptied lay them in cold water, while you make the jelly.
Strain the juice and grated peel through coarse, thin muslin over the
sugar, squeezing rather hard to get the coloring matter. Stir this
until it is a thick syrup, and add the spice. Pour the boiling water
upon the soaked gelatine; stir over the fire until well dissolved; add
the juice and sugar, stir all together, and strain through a flannel
bag into a pitcher, not shaking or squeezing it, lest it should be
cloudy. Wipe off the outside of the oranges, set them close together
in a dish, the open ends uppermost, and fill very full with the warm
jelly, as it will shrink in cooling. Set away in a cold place where
there is no dust. Next day, cut each in half with a sharp penknife,
taking care to sever the skin all around before cutting into the jelly.
If neatly divided, the rich amber jelly will be a fair counterfeit of
the orange pulp. Pile in a glass dish, with green leaves around, as you
would the real fruit.
This is a beautiful and delicious dish, and easily made.
GLACÉ ORANGES.
Prepare precisely as in the preceding receipt, and after cutting the
oranges in two, set them where they will freeze. In winter, a few
hours out-of-doors will accomplish this. In summer pile them carefully
within a freezer, and surround with ice and rock salt for six hours;
draining off the water, and replenishing with ice and salt twice during
the time.
These are very refreshing in hot weather.
RIBBON JELLY AND CREAM. +
1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in 2 cups of cold water.
2 cups white sugar.
1 pint boiling water.
Juice and half the grated rind of 1 lemon.
1 cup pale wine.
¼ teaspoonful cinnamon.
Enough prepared cochineal or bright cranberry, or other fruit syrup to
color half the jelly.
1 pint rich sweet cream whipped stiff with two table-spoonfuls powdered
sugar, and a little vanilla.
Soak the jelly four hours. Add to it the sugar and seasoning, including
the lemon; pour in the boiling water, and stir until entirely
dissolved. Strain through a flannel bag, after adding the wine. Do
not touch it while it is dripping. Divide the jelly, and color half
of it pink, as above directed. Wet a mould, with a cylinder through
the centre, in cold water, and put in the jelly, yellow and pink, in
alternate layers, letting each get pretty firm before putting in the
next, until all is used up. When you are ready to use it, wrap a hot
wet cloth about the mould for a moment, and invert upon a dish. Have
the cream whipped before you do this, and fill the open place in the
middle with it, heaping it up well.
You can vary the coloring by making white and yellow blanc-mange out
of one-quarter of the gelatine after it is soaked. Instead of water,
pour a large cup of boiling milk over this. When dissolved, sweeten and
beat into half of it the yolk of an egg. Heat over the fire in a vessel
of boiling water for five minutes to cook the egg, stirring all the
time. A stripe of the white or yellow blanc-mange sets off the wider
“ribbons” of pink and amber very tastefully. Or you may make the base
of chocolate blanc-mange, by stirring a great spoonful of grated sweet
chocolate into the gelatine and boiling milk.
EASTER EGGS. (Very pretty.) +
1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked four hours in one pint cold water.
2 heaping cups sugar.
3 large cups boiling milk.
2 table-spoonfuls grated chocolate—sweet, vanilla-flavored, if you can
get it.
2 eggs, the yolks only.
A little prepared cochineal, or bright-red syrup.
Empty shells of 12 eggs, from which the contents have been drained
through a hole in the small end.
Essence bitter-almond, grated lemon-peel, and rose-water for flavoring.
Put sugar and soaked gelatine into a bowl, and pour the boiling milk
over them. Set over the fire in a farina-kettle, and stir until
dissolved. Strain and divide into four parts. Leave one white; stir
into another the beaten yolks; into a third the chocolate; into
the fourth the pink or scarlet coloring. Season the chocolate with
vanilla; the yellow with lemon; the white with rose-water, the red
with bitter-almond. Heat the yellow over the fire long enough to cook
the egg. Rinse out your egg-shells with cold water, and fill with the
various mixtures, three shells of each. Set upright in a pan of meal or
flour to keep them steady, and leave until next day. Then fill a glass
bowl more than three-quarters full, with nice wine-jelly, broken into
sparkling fragments. Break away the egg-shells, bit by bit, from the
blanc-mange. If the insides of the shells have been properly rinsed and
left wet, there will be no trouble about this. Pile the vari-colored
“eggs” upon the bed of jelly, lay shred preserved orange-peel, or very
finely shred candied citron about them, and surprise the children with
them as an Easter-day dessert.
It is well to make this the day on which you bake cake, as the contents
of the egg-shells will not then be wasted. By emptying them carefully,
you can keep the whites and yolks separate.
This dish, which I invented to please my own little ones on the blessed
Easter-day, is always welcomed by them with such delight, that I cannot
refrain from recommending its manufacture to other mothers. It is by
no means difficult or expensive. If you can get green spinach, you can
have yet another color by using the juice.
TURRET CREAM. +
1 pint sweet, rich cream.
1 quart milk.
1 package Coxe’s gelatine.
1 heaping cup white sugar.
3 eggs, beaten light—whites and yolks separately.
½ pound crystallized fruit—cherries and peaches, or apricots.
Vanilla flavoring.
Juice of one lemon.
Soak the gelatine in a cup of the milk four hours. Scald the remainder
of the milk, add the sugar; when this is dissolved, the soaked
gelatine. Stir over the fire until almost boiling hot; strain and
divide into two equal portions. Return one to the fire, and heat
quickly. When it nears the boiling-point, stir in the beaten yolks. Let
all cook together two minutes, and turn out into a bowl to cool. While
it cools, churn the cream very stiff, and beat the whites of the eggs
until they will stand alone. Divide the latter into two heaps. As the
yellow gelatine begins to “form,” whip one-half of the whites into it,
a little at a time. To the white gelatine add the rest of the whites
in the same manner, alternately with the whipped cream. Season the
yellow with vanilla, the white with the lemon-juice beaten in at the
last. Wet the inside of a tall, fluted mould with water, and arrange in
the bottom, close to the outside of the mould, a row of crystallized
cherries. Then put in a layer of the white mixture; on this the
apricots or peaches cut into strips; a layer of the yellow, another
border of cherries, and so on, until your materials are used up. When
firm, which will be in a few hours, even in summer, if set on the ice,
wrap a cloth wrung out in hot water about the mould, and invert upon a
flat dish.
Eat with sweet cream, or, if you like, with brandied fruit.
This is a beautiful dessert, and a handsome centre-piece for a
supper-table. It is also a safe one, even in the hands of a novice, if
these directions be followed exactly. Bitter-almond may be substituted
for the lemon.
NAPLES SPONGE. +
6 eggs. Use the yolks for custard.
1 quart of milk.
2 large cups sugar, and same quantity boiling water.
1 package gelatine soaked in 2 cups cold water.
Juice of a lemon and half the grated rind.
1 stale sponge-cake cut into smooth slices of uniform size.
2 glasses sherry.
Dissolve the soaked gelatine in the hot water. Add a cup of sugar and
the lemon, and stir until the mixture is clear. Set aside in a shallow
pan to cool. Meanwhile, make a custard of the milk, the yolks, and the
other cup of sugar. Stir until it begins to thicken, when turn into a
pitcher or pail, and put away until the “sponge” is ready for table.
Whip the whites very stiff, and beat into them, a few spoonfuls at a
time, the cooled gelatine. Spread the slices of cake, cut of a shape
and size that will fit your mould, upon a flat dish, and wet them with
the sherry. Rinse out a pudding or jelly mould with cold water, put
a thick layer of the “sponge” in the bottom, pressing and smoothing
it down, then one of cake, fitted in neatly; another of the sponge,
proceeding in this order until all is used. The upper layer—the base
when the sponge is turned out should be of cake.
Serve in a glass dish with some of the custard poured about the base,
and send around more in a sauce-tureen or silver cream-pitcher.
Season the custard with vanilla.
AN ALMOND CHARLOTTE. +
1 quart milk.
1 pint rich cream—whipped stiff.
Whites of 3 eggs.
1 great cup white sugar—powdered.
1 pound sweet almonds, blanched and cold.
Rose-water and essence of bitter almond for flavoring.
1 stale sponge-cake sliced.
Icing for top of cake.
1 package gelatine soaked in a cupful of the milk. Heat the rest of
the milk to boiling; put in the sugar and soaked gelatine. Heat again
before adding the almond paste. This should be ready, before you begin
the Charlotte. Blanch the almonds by putting them into boiling
water, skinning them, and letting them get cold and crisp. Pound in
a mortar, dropping in rose-water, now and then, to prevent oiling.
Stir this paste well into the hot milk; let it simmer with it two
or three minutes; then strain through coarse muslin, squeezing hard
to get out the strength. Flavor and set by until cold and a little
stiff around the edges. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add the
gelatine gradually—beating steadily—alternately with the whipped cream.
Butter your mould, and line with slices of sponge-cake fitted closely
together. Fill with the mixture, pressing it in firmly and evenly. In
eight or ten hours, turn it out upon a dish, and ice as you would a
cake, but on the top only. While the frosting is soft, ornament with
fancy candies, laid on in any shape you may fancy.
Or,
You may simplify matters by reserving one large piece of cake—a slice
cut the full width of the loaf; trimming it to fit the bottom of the
mould, and only lining the sides of the latter. The Charlotte will turn
out as well without the top (or bottom), and you can have it frosted
and ornamented by the time you empty the mould. Lay it carefully on the
top of the gelatine.
NARCISSUS BLANC-MANGE.
1 quart milk.
Less than a pint rich cream, whipped with a little powdered sugar.
1 package Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in 2 cups of cold water.
Yolks of 4 eggs, beaten light.
2 cups white sugar.
Vanilla and rose-water for flavoring.
Heat the milk scalding hot, stir in the gelatine and sugar. When all
are dissolved, beat in the yolks, and heat until they are cooked. Two
minutes, after the custard becomes scalding hot, should suffice. Turn
out into a broad dish to cool. When it stiffens around the edges,
transfer it, a few spoonfuls at a time, to a bowl, and whip vigorously
with your egg-beater. Flavor with rose-water. It should be like a
yellow sponge before you put it into the mould. This should be an open
one, i.e., with a cylinder in the centre. Rinse with cold water, and
fill with the blanc-mange. It is best made the day before it is to be
used. After turning it out upon a dish, fill the hollowed centre with
whipped cream, flavored with vanilla and heaped up as high as it will
stand. Pile more whipped cream about the base.
This dessert is named for the pretty yellow and white flower which
came, with the earliest days of Spring, to the old-fashioned gardens.
TIPSY TRIFLE. +
1 quart milk.
5 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
1 stale sponge-cake.
½ pound macaroons.
1 cup sugar.
Vanilla, or bitter-almond for flavoring.
1 cup sherry wine, and 1 cup jelly or jam.
Make a custard of the milk, sugar and yolks, adding the latter when
the milk almost boils, and stirring constantly until it begins to
thicken. Flavor when cold. Slice your cake, and line the bottom of a
glass dish with it. Wet with the wine, and cover with jam or jelly.
A layer of macaroons over this must also be wet with sherry. Another
layer of cake, moistened with wine and spread with jam; more macaroons,
and so on, until the dish is three-quarters full. Pour the cold custard
over all; beat the whites of the eggs stiff with a few spoonfuls of
bright jelly, and heap smoothly on top. Drop a bit of red jelly here
and there upon it.
STRAWBERRY TRIFLE. +
This is made substantially as above—but the macaroons and wine are
omitted, and the sponge-cake wet with sweet cream. Layers of ripe
strawberries (cut in two, if the fruit is large), sprinkled with
powdered sugar, are substituted for the jam; strawberry-juice, well
sweetened, is whipped into the méringue on top, and this ornamented
with ripe, scarlet berries.
This is very nice.
CRÉME DU THÉ. (Good.)
1 pint rich cream, whipped light.
½ package gelatine, soaked in 1 cup of milk.
1 large cup of strong mixed tea—the best quality.
1 cup white sugar.
Whites of 2 eggs.
Dissolve the soaked gelatine and sugar in the boiling tea, when you
have strained the latter through fine muslin, and let it cool. Whip the
cream and the whites of the eggs in separate vessels. When the gelatine
is perfectly cold, beat it by degrees into the whites until it is a
pretty firm froth. Then whip in the cream. Rinse a mould in cold water,
fill it with the mixture, and set in a very cold place, or on ice, for
eight or ten hours. Send around a pitcher of sweet cream with it.
CRÉME DU CAFÉ.
Is made precisely as is the créme du thé, but substituting a large
cup of strong black coffee for the tea. It is even more popular than
the tea-cream.
It is a good plan to make both at the same time, one package of
gelatine serving for all, and give your guests their choice of tea or
coffee. If set to form in custard-cups and turned out upon a flat dish
