her. I fell upon her neck and kissed her, then and there, she was so
good! She is the best old soul, mother, and I feel proud of having
discovered her worth. I told her how I did hope some time she would
let me do something for her, and we had quite a time, pledging our
friendship to each other in the kitchen.
Well, Dinah brought over the custard, thick and smooth, and I arranged
it in my high cut-glass dish and covered it with foamy billows of
whites of egg tipped off with sparkles of jelly, so that Dinah
declared that it looked as well "as dem perfectioners could do it;"
and she staid to take my turkey out for me at the dinner hour; and I,
remembering my past struggle and burned fingers, was only too glad to
humbly accept her services.
Dinah is not a beauty, by any of the laws of art, but she did look
beautiful to me, when I left her getting up the turkey, and retired to
wash my hot cheeks and burning hands and make my toilette; for I was
to appear serene and smiling in a voluminous robe, and with unsullied
ribbons, like the queen of the interior, whose morning had been passed
in luxurious ease and ignorant of care.
To say the truth, dear mother, I was so tired and worn out with the
little I had done that I would much rather have lain down for a
nap than to have enacted the part of charming hostess. Talk about
women meeting men with a smile, when they come in from the cares of
business! I reflected that, if this sort of thing went on much longer,
Harry would have to meet me with a smile, and a good many smiles, to
keep up my spirits at this end of the lever. However, it was but for
once; I summoned my energies and was on time, nicely dressed, serene
and fresh as if nothing had happened, and we went through our dinner
without a break down, for little Midge was a well-trained waiter and
did heroically.
Only, when I came to pour the coffee after dinner, I was astonished at
its unusual appearance. Our clear, limpid, golden coffee had always
been one of our strong points, and one on which I had often received
special compliments. People had said, "How do you contrive to always
have such coffee?" and I had accepted with a graceful humility,
declaring, as is proper in such cases, that I was not aware of any
particular merit in it, etc.
The fact is, I never had thought about coffee at all. I had seen, as
I supposed, how Mary made it, and never doubted that mine would be
like hers; so that when a black, thick, cloudy liquid poured out of my
coffee pot, I was, I confess, appalled.
Harry, like a good fellow, took no notice, and covered my defect by
beginning an animated conversation on the merits of the last book our
gentleman had published. The good man forgot all about his coffee in
his delight at the obliging things Harry was saying, and took off the
muddy draught with a cheerful zeal, as if it was so much nectar.
But, on our way to the parlor, Harry contrived to whisper,
"What has got into Mary about her coffee to-day?"
"O Harry," I replied, "Mary's gone. I had to get the dinner all
alone."
"You did! You wonderful little puss!" said the good boy. "Never mind
the coffee! Better luck next time."
And, after we were alone that night, Harry praised and admired me, and
I got out the cookery book to see how I ought to have made my coffee.
The directions, however, were not near as much to the point as the
light I got from Dinah, who came across on a gossiping expedition to
our kitchen that evening, and to whom I propounded the inquiry, "Why
wasn't my coffee clear and nice like Mary's?"
"Land sakes, Mis' Henderson, ye didn't put in no fish-skin, nor
nothing to clar it."
"No. I never heard of such a thing."
"Some uses fish-skin, and some takes an egg," continued Dinah. "When
eggs is cheap, I takes an egg. Don't nobody have no clarer coffee 'n
mine."
I made Dinah illustrate her theme by one practical experiment, after
the manner of chemical lecturers, and then I was mistress of the
situation. Coffee was a vanquished realm, a subjugated province, the
power whereof was vested henceforth, not in Mary, but myself.
Since then, we have been anxiously looking for Mary every day; for
Thursday is coming round, and how are we to have "our evening" without
her? Alice and Angie are both staying with me now to help me, and on
the whole we have pretty good times, though there isn't any surplus
of practical knowledge among us. We have all rather plumed ourselves
on being sensible domestic girls. We can all make lovely sponge cake,
and Angie excels in chocolate caramels, and Alice had a great success
in currant jelly. But the thousand little practical points that meet
one in getting the simplest meal, nobody knows till he tries. For
instance, we fried our sausages in butter, the first morning, to the
great scandal of little Midge, who instructed us gravely that they
were made to fry themselves.
Since "our boys" have found out that we are sole mistresses of the
kitchen, they often drop in to lighten our labors and to profess their
own culinary accomplishments. Jim Fellows declares that nobody can
equal him in coffee, and that he can cook a steak with tomato sauce
in a manner unequaled; and Bolton professes a peculiar skill in an
omelette; so we agreed yesterday to let them try their hand, and we
had a great frolic over the getting up of a composition dinner. Each
of us took a particular thing to be responsible for; and so we got up
a pic-nic performance, which we ate with great jollity. Dr. Campbell
came in with a glass coffee-making machine by which coffee was to
be made on table for the amusement of the guests as well as for the
gratification of appetite; and he undertook, for his part, to engineer
it. Altogether we had a capital time, and more fun than if we had got
the dinner under the usual auspices; and, to crown all, I got a letter
from Mary that she is coming back to-morrow,--so all's well that
ends well. Meanwhile, dear mother, though I have burned my hands and
greased the front breadth of my new winter dress, yet I have gained
something quite worth having by the experience of the last few days.
I think I shall have more patience with the faults and short-comings
of the servants after this; and if the custard is a failure, or the
meat is burned, or the coffee doesn't come perfectly clear, I shall
remember that she is a sister woman of like passions with myself, and
perhaps trying to do her very best when she fails, just as I was when
I failed. I am quite sure that I shall be a better mistress for having
served an apprenticeship as a maid.
So good by, dear mother.
     Your loving
          EVA.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
A FOUR-FOOTED PRODIGAL.
There was dismay and confusion in the old Vanderheyden house, this
evening. Mrs. Betsey sat abstracted at her tea, as one refusing to be
comforted. The chair on which Jack generally sat alert and cheerful
at meal times was a vacant chair, and poor soft-hearted Mrs. Betsey's
eyes filled with tears every time she looked that way. Jack had run
away that forenoon and had not been seen about house or premises since.
"Come now, Betsey," said Miss Dorcas, "eat your toast; you really are
silly."
"I can't help it, Dorcas; it's getting dark and he doesn't come. Jack
never did stay out so long before; something must have happened to
him."
"Oh, you go 'way, Miss Betsey!" broke in Dinah, with the irreverent
freedom which she generally asserted to herself in the family
counsels, "never you fear but what Jack'll be back soon enough--too
soon for most folks; he knows which side his bread's buttered, dat
dog does. Bad penny allers sure to come home 'fore you want it."
"And there's no sort of reason, Betsey, why you shouldn't
exercise self-control and eat your supper," pursued Miss Dorcas,
authoritatively. "A well-regulated mind"--
"You needn't talk to me about a well-regulated mind, Dorcas,"
responded Mrs. Betsey, in an exacerbated tone. "I haven't got a
well-regulated mind and never had, and never shall have; and reading
Mrs. Chapone and Dr. Watts on the Mind, and all the rest of them,
never did me any good. I'm one of that sort that when I'm anxious I
am anxious; so it don't do any good to talk that way to me."
"Well, you know, Betsey, if you'll only be reasonable, that Jack
always has come home."
"And good reason," chuckled Dinah. "Don't he know when he's well
off? you jest bet he does. I know jest where he is; he's jest off a
gallivantin' and a prancin' and a dancin' now 'long o' dem low dogs in
Flower Street, and he'll come back bimeby smellin' 'nuff to knock ye
down, and I shall jest hev the washin' on him, that's what I shall;
and if I don't give him sech a soapin' and scrubbin' as he never hed,
I tell you! So you jest eat your toast, Mis' Betsey, and take no
thought for de morrer, Scriptur' says."
This cheerful picture, presented in Dinah's overpoweringly
self-confident way, had some effect on Mrs. Betsey, who wiped her eyes
and finished her slice of toast without further remonstrance.
"Dinah, if you're sure he's down on Flower Street, you might go and
look him up, after tea," she added, after long reflection.
"Oh, well, when my dishes is done up, ef Jack ain't come round, why,
I'll take a look arter him," quoth Dinah. "I don't hanker arter no dog
in a gineral way, but since you've got sot on Jack, why, have him you
must. Dogs is nothin' but a plague; for my part I's glad there won't
be no dogs in heaven."
"What do you know about that?" said Mrs. Betsey, with spirit.
"Know?" said Dinah. "Hain't I heard my Bible read in Rev'lations all
'bout de golden city, and how it says, 'Widout are dogs'? Don't no
dogs walk de golden streets, now I tell you; got Bible on dat ar.
Jack'll hev to take his time in dis world, for he won't get in dere a
promenadin'."
"Well then, Dinah, we must make the most we can of him here," pursued
Miss Dorcas, "and so, after you've done your dishes, I wish you'd go
out and look him up. You know you can find him, if you only set your
mind to it."
"To think of it!" said Mrs. Betsey. "I had just taken such pains with
him; washed him up in nice warm water, with scented soap, and combed
him with a fine-tooth comb till there wasn't a flea on him, and tied a
handsome pink ribbon round his neck, because I was going to take him
over to Mrs. Henderson's to call, this afternoon; and just as I got
him all perfectly arranged out he slipped, and that's the last of him."
"I'll warrant!" said Dinah, "and won't he trail dat ar pink ribbon
through all sorts o' nastiness, and come home smellin' wus 'n a
sink-drain! Dogs hes total depravity, and hes it hard; it's no use
tryin' to make Christians on 'em. But I'll look Jack up, never you
fear. I'll bring him home, see if I don't," and Dinah went out with an
air of decision that carried courage to Mrs. Betsey's heart.
"Come, now," said Miss Dorcas, "we'll wash up the china, and then, you
know, it's Thursday--we'll dress and go across to Mrs. Henderson's and
have a pleasant evening; and by the time we come back Jack'll be here,
I dare say. Never mind looking out the window after him now," she
added, seeing Mrs. Betsey peering wistfully through the blinds up and
down the street.
"People talk as if it were silly to love dogs," said Mrs. Betsey, in
an injured tone. "I don't see why it is. It may be better to have
a baby, but if you haven't got a baby, and have got a dog, I don't
see why you shouldn't love that; and Jack was real loving, too,"
she added, "and such company for me; he seemed like a reasonable
creature; and you were fond of him, Dorcas, you just know you were."
"Of course, I'm very fond of Jack," said Miss Dorcas, cheerfully;
"but I'm not going to make myself miserable about him. I know, of
course, he'll come back in good time. But here's Dinah, bringing the
water. Come now, let's do up the china--here's your towel--and then
you shall put on that new cap Mrs. Henderson arranged for you, and
go over and let her see you in it. It was so very thoughtful in dear
Mrs. Henderson to do that cap for you; and she said the color was very
becoming."
"She is a dear, sweet little woman," said Mrs. Betsey; "and that
sister of hers, Miss Angelique, looks like her, and is so lovely. She
talked with me ever so long, the last time we were there. She isn't
like some young girls, she can see something to like in an old woman."
Poor good Miss Dorcas had, for the most part, a very exalted
superiority to any toilet vanities; but, if the truth were to be
told, she was moved to an unusual degree of indulgence towards Mrs.
Betsey by the suppressed fear that something grave might have befallen
the pet of the household. In a sort of vague picture, there rose up
before her the old days, when it was not a dog, but a little child,
that filled the place in that desolate heart. When there had been a
patter of little steps in those stiff and silent rooms; and questions
of little shoes, and little sashes, and little embroidered robes,
had filled the mother's heart. And then there had been in the house
the racket and willful noise of a school-boy, with his tops, and his
skates, and his books and tasks; and then there had been the gay young
man, with his smoking-caps and cigars, and his rattling talk, and
his coaxing, teasing ways; and then, alas! had come bad courses, and
irregular hours, and watchings, and fears for one who refused to be
guided; night-watchings for one who came late, and brought sorrow in
his coming; till, finally, came a darker hour, and a coffin, and a
funeral, and a grave, and long weariness and broken-heartedness,--a
sickness of the heart that had lasted for years, that had blanched the
hair, and unstrung the nerves, and made the once pretty, sprightly
little woman a wreck. All these pictures rose up silently before
Miss Dorcas's inner eye as she busied herself in wiping the china,
and there was a touch of pathos about her unaccustomed efforts to
awaken her sister's slumbering sensibility to finery, and to produce a
diversion in favor of the new cap.
The love of a pet animal is something for which people somehow seem
called upon to apologize to our own species, as if it were a sort of
mésalliance of the affections to bestow them on anything below the
human race; and yet the Book of books, which reflects most faithfully
and tenderly the nature of man, represents the very height of cruelty
by the killing of a poor man's pet lamb. It says the rich man had
flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing save one little ewe
lamb, which he had brought and nourished up, which grew up together
with him and his children, which ate of his bread, and drank of his
cup, and lay in his bosom, and was to him as a daughter.
And how often on the unintelligent head of some poor loving animal are
shed the tears of some heart-sorrow; and their dumb company, their
unspoken affection, solace some broken heart which hides itself to die
alone.
Dogs are the special comforters of neglected and forgotten people;
and to hurt a poor man's dog, has always seemed to us a crime akin to
sacrilege.
We are not at all sure, either, of the boasted superiority of our
human species. A dog who lives up to the laws of his being is, in
our view, a nobler creature than a man who sinks below his: he is
certainly a much more profitable member of the community. We suggest,
moreover, that a much more judicious use could be made of the city
dog-pound in thinning out human brutes than in smothering poor, honest
curs who always lived up to their light and did just as well as they
knew how.
To say the honest truth about poor Jack, his faults were only those
incident to his having been originally created a dog--a circumstance
for which he was in no way responsible. He was as warm-hearted,
loving, demonstrative a creature as ever wagged a tail, and he was
anxious to please his mistress to the best of his light and knowledge.
But he had that rooted and insuperable objection to soap and water,
and that preference for dirt and liberty, which is witnessed also
in young animals of the human species, and Mrs. Betsey's exquisite
neatness was a sore cross and burden to him. Then his destiny having
made him of the nature of the flesh-eaters, as the canine race are
generally, and Miss Dorcas having some strict dietetic theories
intended to keep him in genteel figure, Jack's allowance of meat
and bones was far below his cravings: and so he was led to explore
neighboring alleys, and to investigate swill-pails; to bring home
and bury bones in the Vanderheyden garden-plot, which formed thus
a sort of refrigerator for the preservation of his marketing. Then
Jack had his own proclivities for society. An old lady in a cap,
however caressing and affectionate, could not supply all the social
wants of a dog's nature; and even the mixed and low company of Flower
Street was a great relief to him from the very select associations
and good behavior to which he was restricted the greater part of his
time. In short, Jack, like the rest of us, had his times when he was
fairly tired out of being good, and acting the part of a cultivated
drawing-room dog; and then he reverted with a bound to his freer
doggish associates. Such an impulse is not confined to four-footed
children of nature. Rachel, when mistress of all the brilliancy and
luxury of the choicest salon in Paris, had fits of longing to return
to the wild freedom of a street girl's life, and said that she felt
within herself a "besoin de s'encanailler." This expresses just what
Jack felt when he went trailing his rose-colored bows into the society
of Flower Street, little thinking, as he lolled his long pink ribbon
of a tongue jauntily out of his mouth, and enjoyed the sensation he
excited among the dogs of the vicinity, of the tears and anxieties his
frolic was creating at home. But, in due time, the china was washed,
and Mrs. Betsey entered with some interest into preparations for the
evening.
Miss Dorcas and Mrs. Betsey were the earliest at the Henderson
fireside, and they found Alice, Angelique and Eva busy arranging the
tea-table in the corner.
"Oh, don't you think, Miss Dorcas, Mary hasn't come back yet, and we
girls are managing all alone," said Angelique; "you can't think what
fun it is!"
"Why didn't you tell me, Mrs. Henderson?" said Miss Dorcas. "I would
have sent Dinah over to make your coffee."
"Oh, dear me, Miss Dorcas, Dinah gave me private lessons day before
yesterday," said Eva, "and from henceforth I am personally adequate to
any amount of coffee, I grow so self-confident. But I tried my hand
in making those little biscuit Mary gets up, and they were a failure.
Mary makes them with sour milk and soda, and I tried to do mine just
like hers. I can't tell why, but they came out of the oven a brilliant
grass-green--quite a preternatural color."
"Showing that they were the work of a green hand," said Angelique.
"It was an evident reflection on me," said Eva. "At any rate, I sent
to the bakery for my biscuit to-night, for I would not advertise my
greenness in public."
"But we are going to introduce a novelty this evening," said
Angelique; "to wit: boiled chestnuts; anybody can cook chestnuts."
"Yes," said Eva; "Harry's mother has just sent us a lovely bag of
chestnuts, and we are going to present them as a sensation. I think it
will start all sorts of poetic and pastoral reminiscences of lovely
fall days, and boys and girls going chestnutting and having good
times; it will make themes for talk."
"By the by," said Angelique, "where's Jack, Mrs. Benthusen?"
"Oh! my dear, you touch a sore spot. We are in distress about Jack. He
ran away this morning, and we haven't seen him all day."
"How terrible!" said Eva. "This is a neighborhood matter. Jack is the
dog of the regiment. We must all put our wits together to have him
looked up. Here comes Jim; let's tell him," continued she, as Jim
Fellows walked up.
"What's up, now?"
"Why, our dog is missing," said Eva. "The pride of our hearts, the
ornament of our neighborhood, is gone."
"Do you think anybody has stolen him?" said Alice.
"I shouldn't wonder," said Mrs. Betsey; "Jack is a dog of a very pure
breed, and very valuable. A boy might get quite a sum for him."
"I'll advertise him in our paper," said Jim.
"Thank you, Mr. Fellows," said Mrs. Betsey, with tears in her eyes.
"I don't doubt he'll get back to you, even if he has been stolen,"
said Harry. "I have known wonderful instances of the contrivance, and
ingenuity, and perseverance of these creatures in getting back home."
"Well," said Jim, "I know a regiment of our press boys and reporters,
who go all up and down the highways and byways, alleys and lanes of
New York, looking into cracks and corners, and I'll furnish them with
a description of Jack, and tell them I want him; and I'll be bound
we'll have him forthcoming. There's some use in newspaper boys, now
and then."
And Jim sat down by Mrs. Betsey, and entered into the topic of Jack's
characteristics, ways, manners and habits, with an interest which went
to the deepest heart of the good little old lady, and excited in her
bosom the brightest hopes.
The evening passed off pleasantly. By this time, the habitual comers
felt enough at home to have the sort of easy enjoyment that a return
to one's own fireside always brings.
Alice, Jim, Eva, Angelique, and Mr. St. John discussed the forthcoming
Christmas-tree for the Sunday-school, and made lists of purchases to
be made of things to be distributed among them.
"Let's give them things that are really useful," said St. John.
"For my part," said Eva, "in giving to such poor children, whose
mothers have no time to entertain them, and no money to buy
pretty things, I feel more disposed to get bright, attractive
playthings--dolls with fine, fancy dresses, and so on; it gives a
touch of poetry to the poor child's life."
"Well, I've dressed four dolls," said Angie; "and I offer my services
to dress a dozen more. My innate love of finery is turned to good
account here."
"I incline more to useful things," said Alice.
"Well," said Eva, "suppose we do both, give each child one useful
thing and one for fancy?"
"Well," said Alice, "the shopping for all this list of eighty children
will be no small item. Jim, we shall have to call in your services."
"I'm your man," said Jim. "I know stores where the fellows would run
their feet off to get a good word from us of the press. I shall turn
my influence in to the service of the church."
"Well," said Alice, "we shall take you with us, when we go on our
shopping tour."
"I know a German firm where you can get the real German candles, and
glass balls, and all the shiners and tinklers to glorify your tree,
and a little angel to stick on the top. A tip-top notice from me in
the paper will make them shell out for us like thunder."
Mr. St. John opened his large, thoughtful, blue eyes on Jim with
an air of innocent wonder. He knew as little of children and their
ways as most men, and was as helpless about all the details of their
affairs as he was desirous of a good result.
"I leave it all in your hands," he said, meekly; "only, wherever I can
be of service, command me."
It was probably from pure accident that Mr. St. John as he spoke
looked at Angie, and that Angie blushed a little, and that Jim Fellows
twinkled a wicked glance across at Alice. Such accidents are all the
while happening, just as flowers are all the while springing up by the
wayside. Wherever man and woman walk hand in hand, the earth is sown
thick with them.
It was a later hour than usual when Miss Dorcas and Mrs. Betsey came
back to their home.
"Is Jack come home?" was the first question.
No, Jack had not come.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
GOING TO THE BAD.
It was the week before Christmas, and all New York was stirring and
rustling with a note of preparation. Every shop and store was being
garnished and furbished to look its best. Christmas-trees for sale
lay at the doors of groceries; wreaths of ground-pine, and sprigs and
branches of holly, were on sale, and selling briskly. Garlands and
anchors and crosses of green began to adorn the windows of houses, and
were a merchantable article in the stores. The toy-shops were flaming
and flaunting with a delirious variety of attractions, and mammas
and papas with puzzled faces were crowding and jostling each other,
and turning anxiously from side to side in the suffocating throng
that crowded to the counters, while the shopmen were too flustered to
answer questions, and so busy that it seemed a miracle when anybody
got any attention. The country-folk were pouring into New York to
do Christmas shopping, and every imaginable kind of shop had in its
window some label or advertisement or suggestion of something that
might answer for a Christmas gift. Even the grim, heavy hardware
trade blossomed out into festal suggestions. Tempting rows of knives
and scissors glittered in the windows; little chests of tools for
little masters, with cards and labels to call the attention of papa
to the usefulness of the present. The confectioners' windows were
a glittering mass of sugar frostwork of every fanciful device, gay
boxes of bonbons, marvelous fabrications of chocolate, and sugar
rainbows in candy of every possible device; and bewildered crowds of
well-dressed purchasers came and saw and bought faster than the two
hands of the shopmen could tie up and present the parcels. The grocery
stores hung out every possible suggestion of festal cheer. Long
strings of turkeys and chickens, green bunches of celery, red masses
of cranberries, boxes of raisins and drums of figs, artistically
arranged, and garnished with Christmas greens, addressed themselves
eloquently to the appetite, and suggested that the season of festivity
was at hand.
The weather was stinging cold--cold enough to nip one's toes and
fingers, as one pressed round, doing Christmas shopping, and to give
cheeks and nose alike a tinge of red. But nobody seemed to mind
the cold. "Cold as Christmas" has become a cheery proverb; and for
prosperous, well-living people, with cellars full of coal, with bright
fires and roaring furnaces and well-tended ranges, a cold Christmas is
merely one of the luxuries. Cold is the condiment of the season; the
stinging, smarting sensation is an appetizing reminder of how warm and
prosperous and comfortable are all within doors.
But did any one ever walk the streets of New York, the week before
Christmas, and try to imagine himself moving in all this crowd of
gaiety, outcast, forsaken and penniless? How dismal a thing is a crowd
in which you look in vain for one face that you know! how depressing
the sense that all this hilarity and abundance and plenty is not for
you! Shakespeare has said, "How miserable it is to look into happiness
through another man's eyes--to see that which you might enjoy and
may not, to move in a world of gaiety and prosperity where there is
nothing for you!"
Such were Maggie's thoughts, the day she went out from the kindly
roof that had sheltered her, and cast herself once more upon the
world. Poor hot-hearted, imprudent child, why did she run from her
only friends? Well, to answer that question, we must think a little.
It is a sad truth, that when people have taken a certain number of
steps in wrong-doing, even the good that is in them seems to turn
against them and become their enemy. It was in fact a residuum of
honor and generosity, united with wounded pride, that drove Maggie
into their street, that morning. She had overheard the conversation
between Aunt Maria and Eva; and certain parts of it brought back to
her mind the severe reproaches which had fallen upon her from her
Uncle Mike. He had told her she was a disgrace to any honest house,
and she had overheard Aunt Maria telling the same thing to Eva,--that
the having and keeping such as she in her home was a disreputable,
disgraceful thing, and one that would expose her to very unpleasant
comments and observations. Then she listened to Aunt Maria's argument,
to show Eva that she had better send her mother away and take another
woman in her place, because she was encumbered with such a daughter.
"Well," she said to herself, "I'll go then. I'm in everybody's way,
and I get everybody into trouble that's good to me. I'll just take
myself off. So there!" and Maggie put on her things and plunged into
the street and walked very fast in a tumult of feeling.
She had a few dollars in her purse that her mother had given her to
buy winter clothing; enough, she thought vaguely, to get her a few
days' lodging somewhere, and she would find something honest to do.
Maggie knew there were places where she would be welcomed with an evil
welcome, where she would have praise and flattery instead of chiding
and rebuke; but she did not intend to go to them just yet.
The gentle words that Eva had spoken to her, the hope and confidence
she had expressed that she might yet retrieve her future, were a
secret cord that held her back from going to the utterly bad.
The idea that somebody thought well of her, that somebody believed
in her, and that a lady pretty, graceful, and admired in the world,
seemed really to care to have her do well, was a redeeming thought.
She would go and get some place, and do something for herself, and
when she had shown that she could do something, she would once
more make herself known to her friends. Maggie had a good gift at
millinery, and, at certain odd times, had worked in a little shop on
Sixteenth Street, where the mistress had thought well of her, and made
her advantageous offers. Thither she went first, and asked to see
Miss Pinhurst. The moment, however, that she found herself in that
lady's presence, she was sorry she had come. Evidently, her story had
preceded her. Miss Pinhurst had heard all the particulars of her ill
conduct, and was ready to the best of her ability to act the part of
the flaming sword that turned every way to keep the fallen Eve out of
paradise.
"I am astonished, Maggie, that you should even think of such a thing
as getting a place here, after all's come and gone that you know of;
I am astonished that you could for one moment think of it. None but
young ladies of good character can be received into our work-rooms.
If I should let such as you come in, my respectable girls would feel
insulted. I don't know but they would leave in a body. I think I
should leave, under the same circumstances. No, I wish you well,
Maggie, and hope that you may be brought to repentance; but, as to the
shop, it isn't to be thought of."
Now, Miss Pinhurst was not a hard-hearted woman; not, in any
sense, a cruel woman; she was only on that picket duty by which
the respectable and well-behaved part of society keeps off the
ill-behaving. Society has its instincts of self-protection and
self-preservation, and seems to order the separation of the sheep and
the goats, even before the time of final judgment. For, as a general
thing, it would not be safe and proper to admit fallen women back into
the ranks of those unfallen, without some certificate of purgation.
Somebody must be responsible for them, that they will not return
again to bad ways, and draw with them the innocent and inexperienced.
Miss Pinhurst was right in requiring an unblemished record of moral
character among her shop-girls. It was her mission to run a shop
and run it well; it was not her call to conduct a Magdalen Asylum:
hence, though we pity poor Maggie, coming out into the cold with the
bitter tears of rejection freezing her cheek, we can hardly blame Miss
Pinhurst. She had on her hands already all that she could manage.
Besides, how could she know that Maggie was really repentant? Such
creatures were so artful; and, for aught she knew, she might be coming
for nothing else than to lure away some of her girls, and get them
into mischief. She spoke the honest truth, when she said she wished
well to Maggie. She did wish her well. She would have been sincerely
glad to know that she had gotten into better ways, but she did not
feel that it was her business to undertake her case. She had neither
time nor skill for the delicate and difficult business of reformation.
Her helpers must come to her ready-made, in good order, and able to
keep step and time: she could not be expected to make them over.
"How hard they all make it to do right!" thought Maggie. But she was
too proud to plead or entreat. "They all act as if I had the plague,
and should give it to them; and yet I don't want to be bad. I'd a
great deal rather be good if they'd let me, but I don't see any
way. Nobody will have me, or let me stay," and Maggie felt a sobbing
pity for herself. Why should she be treated as if she were the very
off-scouring of the earth, when the man who had led her into all this
sin and sorrow was moving in the best society, caressed, admired,
flattered, married to a good, pious, lovely woman, and carrying all
the honors of life?
Why was it such a sin for her, and no sin for him? Why could he
repent and be forgiven, and why must she never be forgiven? There
wasn't any justice in it, Maggie hotly said to herself--and there
wasn't; and then, as she walked those cold streets, pictures without
words were rising in her mind, of days when everybody flattered
and praised her, and he most of all. There is no possession which
brings such gratifying homage as personal beauty; for it is homage
more exclusively belonging to the individual self than any other.
The tribute rendered to wealth, or talent, or genius, is far less
personal. A child or woman gifted with beauty has a constant talisman
that turns all things to gold--though, alas! the gold too often turns
out like fairy gifts; it is gold only in seeming, and becomes dirt and
slate-stone on their hands.
Beauty is a dazzling and dizzying gift. It dazzles first its possessor
and inclines him to foolish action; and it dazzles outsiders, and
makes them say and do foolish things.
From the time that Maggie was a little chit, running in the street,
people had stopped her, to admire her hair and eyes, and talk all
kinds of nonsense to her, for the purpose of making her sparkle and
flush and dimple, just as one plays with a stick in the sparkling
of a brook. Her father, an idle, willful, careless creature, made a
show plaything of her, and spent his earnings for her gratification
and adornment. The mother was only too proud and fond; and it was no
wonder that when Maggie grew up to girlhood her head was a giddy one,
that she was self-willed, self-confident, obstinate. Maggie loved ease
and luxury. Who doesn't? If she had been born on Fifth Avenue, of one
of the magnates of New York, it would have been all right, of course,
for her to love ribbons and laces and flowers and fine clothes, to
be imperious and self-willed, and to set her pretty foot on the neck
of the world. Many a young American princess, gifted with youth and
beauty and with an indulgent papa and mamma, is no wiser than Maggie
was; but nobody thinks the worse of her. People laugh at her little
saucy airs and graces, and predict that she will come all right by and
by. But then, for her, beauty means an advantageous marriage, a home
of luxury and a continuance through life of the petting and indulgence
which every one loves, whether wisely or not.
But Maggie was the daughter of a poor working-woman--an Irishwoman at
that--and what marriage leading to wealth and luxury was in store for
her?
To tell the truth, at seventeen, when her father died and her mother
was left penniless, Maggie was as unfit to encounter the world as you,
Miss Mary, or you, Miss Alice, and she was a girl of precisely the
same flesh and blood as yourself. Maggie cordially hated everything
hard, unpleasant or disagreeable, just as you do. She was as unused to
crosses and self-denials as you are. She longed for fine things and
pretty things, for fine sight-seeing and lively times, just as you
do, and felt just as you do that it was hard fate to be deprived of
them. But, when worse came to worst, she went to work with Mrs. Maria
Wouvermans. Maggie was parlor-girl and waitress, and a good one too.
She was ingenious, neat-handed, quick and bright; and her beauty drew
favorable attention. But Mrs. Wouvermans never commended, but only
found fault. If Maggie carefully dusted every one of the five hundred
knick-knacks of the drawing-room five hundred times, there was nothing
said; but if, on the five hundred and first time, a moulding or a
crevice was found with dust in it, Mrs. Wouvermans would summon Maggie
to her presence with the air of a judge, point out the criminal fact,
and inveigh, in terms of general severity, against her carelessness,
as if carelessness were the rule rather than the exception.
Mrs. Wouvermans took special umbrage at Maggie's dress--her hat, her
feathers, her flowers--not because they were ugly, but because they
were pretty, a great deal too pretty and dressy for her station. Mrs.
Wouvermans's ideal of a maid was a trim creature, content with two
gowns of coarse stuff and a bonnet devoid of adornment; a creature
who, having eyes, saw not anything in the way of ornament or luxury;
whose whole soul was absorbed in work, for work's sake; content with
mean lodgings, mean furniture, poor food, and scanty clothing; and
devoting her whole powers of body and soul to securing to others
elegancies, comforts and luxuries to which she never aspired. This
self-denied sister of charity, who stood as the ideal servant, Mrs.
Wouvermans's maid did not in the least resemble. Quite another thing
was the gay, dressy young lady who, on Sunday mornings, stepped forth
from the back gate of her house with so much the air of a Murray Hill
demoiselle that people sometimes said to Mrs. Wouvermans, "Who is that
