"If you want the matter settled, sharp, I should say 
place it in the hands of a detective this very night. 
You can tell this story, or not." 
Tremaine looted the other fairly in the face for a 
moment. 
"Barton," he began, in a curiously steady voice, 
"whatever happens, admitting this woman to be Mrs. 
Tremaine, I, her husband, declare her to be above 
the slightest suspicion. Whatever step she may have 
taken can be explained satisfactorily to me, the only 
man to whom she is accountable. You will remember ? " 
There was something very grand and manly in this 
simple defence. Barton felt awed by both face and 
voice. 
They were coming in to the city, and the two men 
parted with a friendly bow. 
CHAPTER m. 
A LINK IN THE CHAIN. 
RALPH TKEMAINE wandered about, aimlessly, 
 Barton's suggestion was repugnant to every sentiment of honor and 
delicacy. His own suspense was torture, but his suffer- 
ing for Dora brought a still keener pang. If this were 
she, by this one inadvertent step, she had placed herself 
in a false position, and he felt inclined to know more of 
it,before it was bruited abroad to the world. What he 
had said to Barton concerning her was the simplest 
truth. He felt sure that she could explain the matter 
satisfactorily, in the first five minutes they were together. 
But when and how should he see her. 
It was true that the little discrepancies kept haunting 
him. Had she intended to go to the city, or not? and 
then, who could have sent the note? There was, evi- 
dently, some secret, but that she had taken any wrong 
step, he refused utterly to believe. She might be willful 
and tormenting, she might tease him by refusing to an- 
swer questions, but he had never known her to tell a 
deliberate untruth. In fact, sometimes, he had thought 
her too frank, for honest. And surely if ever a woman 
loved, she had that morning. 
Therewith dismay he remembered her agitation, her 
terror at the possibility of some untoward event. She 
had even vaguely hinted at a separation, but she cer- 
tainly would have been a sufferer in such an event. 
Why, the mystery was maddening ! his brain whirled in 
helpless chaos. He knew not what step to take. 
It ended at last by his going to a hotel, as the city 
clocks told the hour of midnight. He used to do this 
in his bachelor dajs, when he was very busy and com- 
pelled to stay late. He gave a faint, wan smile at the 
remembrance, for it- seemed years ago, and yet it would 
be only two years, in August^since he had married Dora 
Verner. 
A rather peculiar marriage, to be sure. He had known 
Gilbert Verner many years, a sort of crabbed, dog- 
matic old fellow, but learned in many ways, and when 
he chose, a very agreeable companion. Some curious 
tie linked the two men together. He knew a niece came 
to live with him, adopted daughter, really , for he made 
the name of Verner legally her own. "The child of a 
sister who is dead," was all the explanation ever vouch- 
safed. In those days Ralph Tremaine was suffering 
from a hard blow of fate, and all women and girls were 
to him like shadows. 
How he had first come to take an interest in Dora 
Verner, he hardly remembered. Gilbert Verner was ill 
a long while, worse and better by turns, and no one 
could comfort him like Ralph Tremaine. So he had 
fallen into the habit of watching her, and being amused 
by her very indifference. If she had tried to attract 
him, he would have been wary enough, for he professed 
to have lost faith in the sex. 
One night Gilbert Verner thought himself dying. 
He gave Tremaine some instructions, making him 
Dora's guardian, and his executor, and then he bewailed 
the fact of having to leave her friendless. Where 
would she find a home? 
"If you were. only married, Tremaine." 
"Why should I not be? I can amply afTord it. If you 
will give me Dora — if she will many me!" 
He was very much astonished at himself, and not 
quite satisfied, perhaps, to have Mr. Verner accept the 
ofTer so readily. It came about without any trouble- 
some wooing, and a month afterwards, he was really 
glad to marry her. 
She had said — "I will not pretend that I am desper- 
ately in love with you, Mr. Tremaine, for that you 
would not believe of me, unless I were a forward, silly 
girl, but I do admire and esteem you highly. I think 
a woman might be very happ}* with you. And since I 
love no other person, my lesson msky not be a difficult 
one to learn." 
She looked so absolutely bewitching as she uttered 
this, that he fell in love with her, then and there, and 
resolved that, in time, she should love him. He would 
be patient, tender and fond. He would make her' life 
bright and enjoyable. 
Truth to tell, it had not been very charming, hitherto. 
Uncle Gilbert had proved kind, in one way, but he was 
t} T rannical and full of whims. True, the cheerful home 
was a. great improvement on her former life, but when 
she looked her future in the face, and found that it was 
a choice between marrying Ralph Tremaine, or being 
turned adrift, again, friendless and penniless, for Uncle 
Gilbert did not scruple to threaten, she decided upon 
the pleasant, comfortable life. And she did like Mr.' 
Tremaine. If she had not, no earthly consideration 
would have induced her to take such a step. He was 
so good and kind, his patience was unwearying, his 
generosity fine and pure ; a, trusty friend, a loyal lover. 
She had made one condition with her uncle. He 
rallied a little, before her marriage, indeed lived some 
months after, but on his death bed confessed that it 
had not been observed. 
"It is perfect folly, girl, a mad, wild step now. Do 
not take it. What difference can it make ? The past 
is past." 
That look of reproach and pain, was the last thing 
the dying man saw in Dora's eyes. 
He left her all he had — no great sum, about twelve 
thousand dollars. This she insisted upon her husband's 
taking, and utterly refused any separate settlements. — 
Some day, she promised herself that she would confess 
her secret to him, but, thus far, she had not. 
Her life had been very happy. She was just of an 
age, when circumstances tend so much toward the de- 
velopement of character. Her husband's indulgence 
spoiled her a little, but she was so sweet, so winsome 
and radiant, that he liked it all the better. She never 
carried her exactions beyond the point of forbearance, 
and she showed him, in a great many ways, that she did 
study to please him. I think that I said, in the begin- 
ning, that she was a trifle coquettish ; but she never 
dallied with the admiration of other men. She was 
charming to her husband's friends, but seldom familiar, 
and never teased him, before them, or caught up an}' 
little foible. Indeed, this tender grace of reverence 
used to touch him deeply. If she had tried, she could 
have used no more potent ally for fascination. 
He had told her, before marriage, very honorably . 
indeed, that she was not his first love. In his early 
manhood he had dreamed over a beautiful woman, held 
her as his, in everything but name, and lost her just 
when he thought his happiness nearest. Another man's 
gold had bought her. 
I am not sure but it was his manner of telling this 
story that roused Dora's strongest interest. He was 
of no ordinary, pliable clay, taking an impression like 
Wax, and losing in the next flush of heat. There was 
something strong and earnest in the man, not easiJ- 
swayed or governed ; a curious persistence, under the 
tender quiet that hung dreamily about him. He did 
not easily forgive an injur}*, it ranst be confessed. 
Dora's piquancies he found very entertaining. He 
understood her, pretty well too, and felt, with a keen 
little pang, that her admiration and respect were not 
love. But, as the months went on, and they grew insen- 
sibly into each other's ways, the quick smile and tender 
blush that his sudden appearance would call up, the 
petulance if he disappointed her, charming because it 
was only moraentarj T , and the pleasant confidences she 
gave of her own accord, were translated as so many 
signs of love. In that he was right enough. She was 
loving much more deeply than she realized. 
Ralph Tremainc tumbled about his bed, restlessfy, . 
until dawn, and then he began to settle upon some defi- 
nite plan. He would get Barton to identify the hack- 
man and question him closely. The lady might not 
prove to be Mrs. Tremaine at all, and, that point settled, 
it might be best, perhaps, to follow out Barton's sug- 
gestion, for the suspense was terrible. 
He knew he could sec the conductor quite earty, so 
he made ready. It was a relief to do something with a 
purpose, even if it were only washing and dressing. He 
sauntered out in the morning air, with a laggard step, 
contrasting it with the twenty-four hours previous, 
feeling old and worn, and thinking that another day of 
^^ch torture would be insupportable. 
He was much too early, but, presently Barton appeared 
at his post, shocked at the change a few hours had 
wrought in Mr. Tremaine,and understanding at once 
that matters were unchanged. 
" Have you done anything?" he inquired. 
" No. I thought I should like to see that hackman, 
if you could find him for me." 
"I might, at noon," Barton answered, slowly. "Can 
you not get some one in your place? Money is no 
object." 
Ralph Tremainc's eyes wore a sharp, unnatural stare, 
and there was a fervcrish pleading in his voice. 
"I cannot take any step until I know whether that 
was Mrs. Tremaine, you saw. I do not suppose it was." 
" Poor fellow," thought Barton, much moved. Then, 
aloud — "If the thing can be managed, Tremaine, I will do 
it for you, I will let you know shortly, "and, with that, 
he disappeared. 
Tremaine walked up and down the platform, a long 
while. It seemed to him as if he were going crazy with 
suspense. And when Barton returned, which he did 
finally, there was still another weary delay, but now 
the city was fairly astir. There was a continual rushing 
in and out, carts, wagons, and expressmen jostling each 
other, noise and confusion of every kind, but Tremaine 
only heard it dimly. Then the hackmen began to 
gather. Barton rambled slowly around , inspecting each 
one, and at length accosted the latest comer. 
" Were you here about noon, yesterday?" he asked. 
" At noon. Well, no. I just drove up for a minute 
and went right away. 'Bout one ; train time, anyhow." 
' ' You took a lady and gentleman ? " 
The man was silent, and eyed his companion closely. 
"A rather slight woman, dressed in gray, and a tall, 
dark gentleman, fine looking. lie assisted her in, 
while you were on your box." 
" Suppose I did?" the man said gruffly. 
' ' Where did 3011 leave them ? " 
"At the Park, Six Avenue entrance." 
"And what became of them then?" 
"I do not know." 
"Will you describe them minutely for a friend of 
mine?" and Barton summoned Tremaine. 
" I do not know much about the lady. The man was 
a-watching for her. He came to me and engaged the 
hack, before the train was in, told me to stand just here, 
and keep my seat. He was not a common-looking man, 
and he had a short, sharp way, as if it would not be quite 
safe to cfoss him , and he said he would pay me well for any 
trouble he made. Presently he came along with the 
lady." 
" Describe her, as nearly as you can," Tremaine said, 
huskily. 
" She was a very fair height, and wore a gray dress 
and sack, trimmed with something a little darker. I 
remember noticing the stripe around her skirt. She 
had a round hat, with a bit of scarlet in it, and a light 
veil; I did not see her face, but her hair was blight, 
not red, but a curious color, and curled a little." Trc- 
maine groaned inwardly. The hair stamped her as 
Dora, at once. 
" And you do not know where they went?" 
" No. I drove right back." 
"Could you identify the man again?" 
" Oh, yes, easily. He had very black eyes, with a 
curiously look in them, and a full beard, though not very 
thick. Yes. I could tell him again." 
" That will do," said Tremaine, turning very abruptlj'. 
He and Barton went down the length of the platform 
without a word, but he could no longer feel doubtful. 
A horrible thought chilled the blood around his heart. 
The man had been watching for her. Then it was he, 
who sent the note to Dora, and it was madness to sup- 
pose that she would go away with a stranger, so she 
must have known him. Could she have been summon- 
ed to any friend? But no, she would have left a few 
words for him, surely. The whole matter was inexplica- 
ble. " Well," Barton said, presently, to recall the other. 
"I am obliged for the trouble," Tremaine returned. 
"You cannot do anything more ; indeed, there is noth- 
ing to be done, except to call in the aid of. a detective, 
as you suggested. Whether it would be wisest — " and 
his voice died away in a quivering sound. 
"If I cared — " Barton began, hesitatingly. 
"Cared !" Tremaine's face was white with a suddeil 
passion-heat. 
u Not just that, Mr. Tremaine. If I wanted her 
found, in spite of everything. I would have it done, if I 
moved heaven and earth ! " 
Did he want her found? If she could return in a few 
days, and explain her absence satisfactorily to him, lie 
would rather the world at large knew nothing about it. 
For he had a stubborn, abiding faith in her. He knew 
how thoroughly good and noble she was, that she would 
not stoop to a lie, or deception of any kind, at least, in 
his sane moments, he felt certain of this. Yet he under- 
stood the construction the world would put upon her 
sudden flight. Nothing less than an elopement. To 
him the idea was simply preposterous. He was satisfied 
that she did not care enough for any other man to 
do that. He held all the love of her soul. 
But there might be something back of this event, that 
she would rather explain to him alone. He hated, even, 
to have Barton suspect her. 
"I think I will wait a few days," he said, weakly, 
bidding Barton good-morning. "And — Barton — I 
trust jx>u with my honor, as well as hers." 
Tremaine went back to the hackman, for he had 
another question, that he could not have put before a 
third person. The man was jesting with a comrade, 
but he came forward, touching his hat. 
"I want to ask jou if you observed any signs of— 
of friendliness," familiarity, he was about to say, at 
first, but checked himself, " between these two persons, 
you drove away, yesterday? Did she take his arm?" 
"No. And when he offered to help her in, she would 
not touch his hand. Though it is sometimes done for a 
blind." 
Even this wretch dared to impugn Dora's motives. 
He must get away and think it all over,' settling upon 
something, or he should go crazy. He could not face 
Mrs. May bin, just yet, so he chose the store, instead. 
Now and then, of a morning, he was late, so this would 
pass unremarked. 
There was a friend waiting for him, who said, in a 
careless, genial way — 
" Why, Tremaine,what is the matter? You look as 
if you had been sick a month." 
"I had a bad headache last night, and did not sleep 
any," which was true enough. But, after making an 
effort to confine his attention to what the man was say- 
ing, he found his mind growing clearer. 
There followed an hour or two of business, and it 
proved a benefit to Ralph Tremaine. He said to his 
book-keeper, that he should not go out to lunch — so he 
was left alone in the office. Yesterday, there stood a 
single rose-bud in that tiny vase — to-day, a desert 
could not have been more lonely. 
Now he began to take serious counsel with himself. 
Either, Dora had been persuaded away, by some fraud 
or misrepresentation, to further the schemes of some 
designing persons, or, she had gone willingly, knowing 
a reason why it was best so to do. That love was at 
the bottom, he utterly disbelieved, and then, every little 
circumstance rushed over him again, looking almost as 
if there had been some complicity on her part. If so, 
it would be much wiser to let her come back and 
explain. 
How often, ia life, a series of events seem to involve 
one like a web, making guilt, in a greater or less de- 
gree, almost certain, and j'ct, all these incidents might 
have occurred, without the one, crowning deed, and 
passed by quite unnoticed. A lesson for our charity 
and hasty judgment, and the grander love> that has 
learned patience without suspicion. 
And, though he had a great deal of faith in Dora, 
faith of a certain kind, these verj' misgivings made him 
resolve to wait a few days. A woman was not likely 
to be spirited away and detained against her will, when 
there was nothing to be gained ; and, certainly, Dora 
Tremaine was of no paramount importance to any one 
but her husband. Yes, he would wait, two days, at 
least. 
CHAPTER IV. 
AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR. 
SWpgR. TREMAINE announced to Mrs. Maybin 
ntM w that Mrs. Tremaine would not be at home, for 
"**" several days. The house-keeper asked noques- 
lions, but she saw that something had gone wrong, 
lie passed Barton, on the road, with a nod, but neither 
had any desire to exchange words. Of course, Barton 
knew from the grave, pre-occupied face that the matter 
was still in abeyance. 
Thus passed the two days, and now, the fourth had 
begun, since he had said farewell to Dora, at the lawn 
gate. No tidings of any kind. A stern, set resolve 
came into his face. He wished, now, that he had taken 
some decisive step immediately. His first business in 
the city must be that. Poor Dora! 'She might have 
met with a fatal accident, or been murdered. Now he 
began to conjure up a thousand things, and blame him- 
self in a bitter, unreasonable fashion. 
Mrs. Maybin was waiting to receive her orders, as he 
made a rush from the breakfast-room. 
"Never mind," he exclaimed, impatiently. 
"It is a chance whether I am home to dinner, and I 
really do not care what there is. Do not take much 
trouble." 
A ring at the hall-door startled them both. Mrs. 
Maybin opened it, with an air of injured dignity. 
"Was Mr. Tremaine at home ? Could he be seen,on 
some very important business?" 
" Will you give jour name, please ?" she asked, stiffly. 
"That is not necessary," the stranger said, with a 
most provoking air of blandness. 
She ushered him into the library, and went to inform 
her master, who was rather vexed at the interruption. 
"A stranger?" he said, wonderingly. 
"Yes. I should remember, if I had ever seen such 
eyes before." 
"Eyes ! Black and large, and a full, black beard?" 
Mr. Tremaine was strangely agitated. 
"Eyes that could stare you out of countenance. If 
there is much good in that man. I am mistaken," she 
said with a virtuous sniff. 
Mr. Tremaine crossed over to the library, like a man 
in a dream, shutting the door carefully behind him. 
The stranger was standing in front of one of the 
well-filled book cases, and turned at his entrance. 
What was there, in his appearance, to chill Ralph Tre- 
maine so unaccountably ? A man, not far from his own 
age, perhaps, not looking young, when you came to ex- 
amine him, but, with a jaunty air, and a certain andacitj
that was not impertinence, and, so, could not be put 
down* with th£ grave manner of the" othei*. It was not 
a trusty face. You felt, instinctively, that there was 
something furtive and sinister under cvcrj- soft line, 
though an unthinking person would have pronounced 
him handsome, at once. His features were tolerably 
regular, but they had this peculiarity, that, whereas he 
was stout enough for manly contour, and his hands 
so plump, that every joint made a dent, instead of show- 
ing a bone, his features were thin. His nose was 
straight, with thin nostrils; his lips compressed into 
a scarlet line, showing vividty under the fringe of mus- 
tache. His forehead was narrow at the temples, and, 
when his eyelids drooped, you remarked that they were 
thin also. His eyes were quite large, and of a peculiar 
opaque black, with no transparency ; the pupils scarcely 
discernible from the iris. They gave him an unscru- 
pulous look, and were not pleasant to behold. 
Ralph Tremaine felt that here was the man who had 
seen Dora, on the day of her disappearance, and could, 
perhaps, give the latest account of her. Yet he trem- 
bled in every pulse, and could command neither his 
voice nor his thoughts. 
" I did not give my name to your — domestic," as if 
he were hardly, sure so commanding a woman could fill 
a subordinate position ; " and yet, you may have heard 
it — Jasper Cameron." 
He knew, in an instant,that Mr. Tremaine had not, 
for he merely made a negative motion of the head. 
' ' Is Mrs. Tremaine at home ? ° 
" She is not." 
There was a constriction in Mr. Tremaine's throat, 
and a sadden shiver in every pulse. 
' ' She left home, on Tuesday," Mr. Cameron continued. 
" She did. I appeal to you to explain the mystery. 
The last tidings I have of her, are that she left the 
railroad depot in your company." 
A certain exultant shadow, for it could not be called 
a smile, crossed Cameron's face. 
"Then she has not volunteered an explanation?" 
"I can endure this suspense no longer. If she is 
alive, if you have any tidings of her, speak, at once," 
Tremaine said in a tone of passionate pain. 
"You have heard nothing?" The face and tone 
were a trifle incredulous. 
"Nothing. In mercy, speak ! " 
" I do not know as my tidings are of a very agree- 
able nature. How much of Dora Verner's history did 
you know, when you married her? " 
Great drops of perspiration stood on Tremaine's 
forehead, and an ague seemed to seize every limb. 
U I knew nothing of her history, save that her moth- 
er's marriage had been veiy unfortunate. Her uncle, 
Mr. Verner, adopted her." 
u Some months, before her adoption she became my 
wife." 
"Impossible!" Mr. Tremaine believed the fellow 
inventing some specious lie. 
'Not at all, my dear sir. She admitted the fact, on 
Tuesday. It has been a sad mistake, of course, her 
marriage with you, but she supposed me dead, years 
before." 
"But her youth — she is barety past twenty-one, 
now. No, it cannot be ! " 
The story sounded so utterly improbable. Could 
she have been the wife of another man, and kept the 
secret from him? 
' 'She was very young, not yet fifteen. It was a 
girl's ardent, unreasoning love, if you will; and, as a 
long separation stared us in the face, we decided to 
marry, and keep our secret, being thereby sure of one 
another. I was going to China for three years. On 
the passage out, we were wrecked and most of the crew 
reported lost. I drifted to an island, inhabited only 
by savages, and it was months before any chance of 
escape offered." 
" Yet you did not return ? " 
Ralph Tremaine had an eager, frantic hope of prov 
ing the man's story wrong somewhere. 
" No. It was along while before I found an oppoi 
tunity. 
I was young and full of restless curiosity, I must 
confess, loving travel and adventure. The years 
passed rapidly with me. No answer came to my let- 
ters, and I imagined myself quite forgotten." 
' ' Do you suppose — she heard ? " The question came 
with a gasp.
He could not tell Ralph Trcmainc such a deliberate 
lie, knowing that it would not further his cause. 
"There were a good many changes in her life, just 
then. Her uncle adopted her, and so letters missed. 
It has been an unfortunate affair." 
" Oh, why did you come back ? " Tremaine groaned, 
"She thought you dead, and we were happy. And 
now — ?" 
"She is my wife, of course. The law gives her to 
me, I believe, I find the old regard strong upon me." 
There was a little sneering triumph in this. It stung 
Tremaine keenly. 
"I insist that she shall be produced " he said, in a 
deep, decisive tone. "It is as she wills." 
Cameron studied his rival a moment. Men. of this 
stamp were quietly persevering. And, if he could not 
bend Dora Tremaine to his will, it was well that she 
should have no strong ally in this husband, for the 
present, at least. 
"I proposed, on Tuesday*, that we should both seek 
you and have a mutual explanation. I am willing to 
overlook this fatal mistake, and I still love her, as I 
loved the sweet, daring, spirited child. She would not 
agree to this proposal, though since, she has been free 
to write or to come." 
A deathly agony clutched Tremaine's soul. Dora 
stajing away from him to whom she owed the first con- 
fession ! Could she retain any of the old affection for 
this man ? Oh, the story must be some base, hideous 
lie! 
" I have no proof of all this," he said steadily, trying 
to read the unfathomable eyes of tlje other. 
" Except that she still remains away. I told her 
that I felt it my duty to make this explanation to you, 
though she begged me to delay. Of course, she feels 
that my claim is first ; and then, she is not sure that 
you would forgive, pardon the word, the deception she 
unwittingly used. If she had mentioned her marriage 
with me, this event would not have taken jou so by 
surprise. It is possible that the difference in our posi- 
tions may influence her, somewhat. I am still a com- 
paratively poor man." 
That was a keen thrust, as Jasper Cameron meant 
it should be. But Tremaine turned upon him. 
"You do not know her, at all, if you think that," he 
said, almost savagely. "If she chooses me, it will be 
because she loves me." 
"lam not sure that the right of choice is hers," 
was the almost caustic response. " I still wish to keep 
her as mine, my wife. I love her. I am willing to care 
for her to the best of my ability. If a court of law 
must decide, my claiift is still a good one. It is not 
my fault that letters misspd." 
Ralph Tremaine groaned aloud. What did this man 
know of love? 
" If you will bring her here," he said brokenly, " and 
I hear from her lips that she desires — to give me up, I 
will make no further objection. This much I must 
learn positively." 
"If she will come." There was a suggestion of 
doubt in the voice. 
Ralph Tremaine paced the floor in impotent anguish. 
" I may as well say, Mr. Tremaine, that I do not 
mean to relinquish my claim, easily. The law, and this 
woman's free consent, made her my wife, and, although 
you maj' have the most monej r , I think that there is a 
little justice in the land. If she had not felt some 
scruple restraining her, you may imagine that she would 
have flpwn to you, at once." 
Tremaine bowed at this . He could not gainsay its truth . 
"Will you give me her address?" he asked. 
"Excuse me, but in the first place I do not think I 
have any right,without her consent. And since she is 
at liberty to seek you — " 
"Did she know of your coming?" 
" She knew "that I intended to explain — yes. In a 
similar case, I know I should have been wild with sus- 
pense. It was a matter of duty and honor." 
" And she is quite free, you say ? " 
"Entirely so, at present. I should not even attempt 
to influence her." ¥ 
Jasper Cameron ground his white teeth as he said 
this. It was the truth, but it was simply because she 
was no longer in his power. This, his sense of honor 
did not lead him to confess. . 
" Then, nothing can be done at present?" Tremaine 
said, in a weak, wandering wa}\ • 
" Mr. Tremaine, we may as well be honest with one 
another. Nothing can ever be done in the sense you 
mean. If you choose to take her back, she can never 
be jxrnr lawful wife, while I am alive. I am not the 
kind of man to die, easil}-, or heaven knows I should 
have been under ground or under water long ago." * 
" Very well." Tremaine drew himself up haughtily, 
and his voice was as clearly cold as a sound heard in 
frosty air. " I have only a message to send. Will 
you tell her that I wish to see j~ouboth,at any time you 
may appoint? The sooner, the better for me." 
Then he bowed loftily. Jasper Cameron felt that he 
was dismissed, and considered that he had made suffi- 
cient impression. He knew of nothing more that 
would advance his cause, just now, and returned the 
courtesy with that indifferent air of his, bordering on 
impertinence. 
" I will deliver your message, as soon as I see her." 
He walked out of the room iu his jaunty fashion. 
Ralph Tremaine did not stir, until he heard the street 
gate shut ; then he bowed his head in his hands, over- 
whelmed by the sudden tide of anguish. He really 
could not question the truth of the story, much 
as he desired it, for Dora's continued absence was 
proof of the strongest kind. Indeed, it looked rather 
manly in Cameron to come, he thought, since Dora 
was so unwilling. 
How many times daring the last few days had he 
gone over the incidents, not only of the week, but of 
their married life ! Dora rarely spoke of the time be- 
fore her adoption. She and her mother had been poor 
— not reduced to bitter extremes, perhaps, but there 
was something about it from which she instinctively 
shrank. He would have been very glad to take eveiy 
little trouble and hardship into his keeping, but this 
she did not appear to desire. There had always been 
