'What will become of them, Dane?' said Primrose, looking very 
anxious.
'There is no hope for them, except in the mills going on with 
work.'
'And is there any hope of that?' said Mrs. Coles.
'Not unless somebody buys them off Charteris's hands.'
'Perhaps you'll do that.'
'I should hardly think that would be prudent,' said Dr. Maryland. 
'Dane's responsibilities are large as it is.'
'Miss Kennedy, perhaps?' suggested Mrs. Coles. 'Hasn't Dane 
touched your heart for the mill people, Miss Kennedy?'
She turned for a better look into Hazel's face; but Rollo interfered 
again.
'You forget she is under guardians, Prudentia. What would Mr. 
Falkirk say?'
'How comes it Mr. Falkirk is not here?to-night of all nights!' 
said Dr. Arthur suddenly. He was sitting by Wych Hazel, and she 
answered pretty steadily, though certain intuitions were waking up 
concerning his face.
'Mr. Falkirk wrote that he could not come back for Christmas,
nor perhaps until spring.'
'He does not take the same pleasure in it that Prim does,' Rollo 
remarked.
The dinner bugle, and the opened door, cut short all further 
comment upon Mr. Falkirk. Wych Hazel went in upon Dr. 
Maryland's arm, with a strange feeling of its being the last time,
the last of her entertainments, which had been so pretty and 
popular. So she felt when in her place at the head of the table, with 
Dr. Maryland on her right and Dr. Arthur on her left. There were 
flowers enough here, the table was in a glow. Not stiff baskets and 
made-up bouquets, but cut flowers in every sort of dish and 
arrangement for which there was room; from the low narrow 
border of violets and rosebuds which fenced off the plates, to 
parian shells and fairy glasses and a bewildering pyramid in the 
centre. The very candlesticks were wreathed. No gardener's work; 
those who had seen such before knew the touch of Wych Hazel's 
own fingers. She hardly knew it herself; and eyes that watched her 
might catch now and then a dreamy look at the flowers,
wondering if she had arranged them!if she should ever arrange 
any more.
Besides this the table was bountiful of course with the old 
Chickaree silver and china and glass; and by each plate, on the rich 
damask, lay a separate, individual knot of flowers, with a scroll 
around it, naming the guest. These were culled flowers; but Dr. 
Arthur took notice that Wych Hazel did not even handle her own, 
but left it where it lay.
Then, shielded under each napkin, was some pretty token of 
Christmas. A weighty book, for which Dr. Maryland had been 
longing; and for Dr. Arthur a fine field glass. Mrs. Coles rejoiced 
in the prettiest ring she had ever possessed; while by Prim lay a 
heap of little articles,a fruit knife, a gold thimble, a superb 
cutting-out scissors a foot long.
'That must be the very tool employed by Bluebeard!' said Dr. 
Arthur. 'I always marvelled at the clever celerity of his work. Prim, 
when you are married you must give that to me.'
'Looks suspicious for his wife!' said Dane.
'I like thoughts in such things,' said Dr. Arthur, looking towards 
the foot of the table and the bonbonnière that stood by Rollo's 
plate; a good-sized wheelbarrow loaded with cotton-bales of 
French candy. 'Which is it Dane?work in sugar, or sugar in 
work?'
'The two terms are so transposable, I need not trouble myself much 
to find out which.'
So the dinner went merrily on. Of course Mrs. Bywank's part of it 
was unsurpassed; and but one thing was missing to which guests 
there were accustomedWych Hazel's laugh. But her attention to 
the guests never failed, and if she only played with her dinner, and 
if she was all the time living a double life and carrying on two 
trains of thought, few people found it out. Once indeed, apropos to 
some demand for roast beef, she wandered quite off to Morton 
Hollow and the Charteris men; and then of a sudden the lips parted 
in a full smile, and the brown eyes went down the table to Rollo 
for sympathy. A moment of forgetfulness followed by one of great 
confusion, as she remembered that he could not possibly know 
what she was smiling at. Hazel was glad to drop her napkin or do 
anything else to put her face out of sight. As for Dane, his part that 
evening might be described as filling gaps. He did it admirably. 
Perhaps he was not to be greatly credited for that, inasmuch as 
happiness is a great lubricator of the social wheels. He did it, at 
any rate, easily and coolly too, according to his usual wont. He 
talked to Dr. Maryland, was affectionate to Prim, amused Mrs. 
Coles, watched over Wych Hazel and took care of her if ever an 
emergency in the conversation made it desirable.
The evening in the drawing-room sped quite merrily away, and 
only the quick flutter of the lace round Wych Hazel's throat, told of 
something hidden and not at rest. Some European views for the 
stereoscope were brought out of their corner, and Rollo led the talk 
in the direction thus indicated, where he had plenty to say. 
Suddenly passing to Wych Hazel's side he sat down and said half 
softly,
'There is another view we were going to shew thema new one
is it ready to be introduced? or will it come better later?'
He got another quick look then,searching, exploring,a look to 
be remembered.
'Give me a few minutes'
And presently, when no one was looking, the little lady flitted 
away out of the room.
It is fair to say that the gentleman so far lost his presence of mind 
for some minutes thereafter, as to be justly chargeable with what is 
called absence. He scarcely answered the observations addressed 
to him, and made several on his own account without very well 
knowing what he was talking about. And so, for a little, if Time 
"gallopped" up stairs, he went rather slowly, with one or two at 
least, in the drawing-room. Dr. Arthur presently drew off from the 
views and took position again by the mantel-piece,probably to 
hear the Christmas wind, which was very musical just then. And 
probably the doctor's thoughts too wandered off; for after a while 
he took a pair of white gloves from his pocket and began 
abstractedly to fit them on.
'Arthur!' said Mrs. Coles severely, whose eyes were never known 
to be off duty,'what can you be about?'
'That's the way some people do,' said Rollo after a quick glance; 
'they are never ready for an occasion till the occasion is half over.'
'But what is the "occasion"?' said Mrs. Coles.
'Christmas day at Chickareedinnerand, Arthur seems to think, 
ceremony.'
'Look at Arthur, Prim,' said her sister.
'It is a leisure moment,' said Dr. Arthur fastening a button,'and I 
so seldom have leisure in which to try on new gloves. One of the 
minor comforts of life, is having your gloves fit.' And Dr. Arthur 
glanced at Dane from under his brows, and went back to his other 
glove and the Christmas wind again.
'I declare,' said Prudentia, 'I think you are very unceremonious!'
'Extremes meet,here as often elsewhere,' replied Dane.
'But what have you been getting new white gloves for, Arthur?' 
asked his younger sister.
'They look better than old ones, Prim,when they fit.'
'Has Molly Seaton sent you cards for her wedding?'
'I dare say.What about it?'
'She hasn't,nor anybody else,' said Rollo.
'Useless things'said Dr. Arthur. 'I am glad they have not come.'
Another time Dane might have discussed the subject; but not to-
night. He was silent. And as people catch the hidden influences 
abroad in the air, the others grew silent too, not knowing why, 
thinking it was the wind which drew their attention. Dr. Arthur, 
leaning against the mantelpiece with his eyes on the floor, in an 
attitude of keen listening, had plainly forgotten his gloves; and the 
fire snapped softly, and the red coals fell, and still nobody spoke. 
Until, when some little time had passed by, there came a sound of 
steps in the hall,steps slow and rather heavy; and the door 
opened softly, and a vision came in. Not hers the steps they had 
heard; so noiselessly she came in, so vision-like she looked, so 
lovely, so girlish in her loveliness, that a caught breath, a half 
exclamation, greeted her on all hands. The glittering dress was all 
changed. Not for the white clouds in which her mother might have 
arrayed her, nor for anything that should make her conspicuous, or 
could be so. More for seclusion than for show, Wych Hazel had 
chosen her bridal dress. Dark,so dark that the depths of folds 
might have been black, and only the light-touched edges threw off 
a sea-green reflet; with no ornaments but the châtelaine at her side, 
with no adornment but her own silky hair in its own wayward 
arrangement. To all this there was just one addition. Hazel had 
taken the lace veil,exquisite in pattern, cobweb-like in texture,
and laid it across her head like a Spanish mantilla, from whence it 
came down about her on all sides to the floor, leaving only the face 
and the front of the dress clear. One little ungloved hand held the 
lace lightly together; for gloves that there was nobody to take off, 
Hazel could not put on.
Mrs. Bywank and Reo followed close behind her, behind them old 
Gyda. But there is something in a crisis which stills some natures; 
and while the faces of the faithful old retainers, weatherbeaten 
with life's alternating wind and sun, worked and stirred with 
emotion, the girl herself was quiet and composed, with almost the 
grave childish calm of her own little picture. Her step was a little 
quick, but even the colour did not stir, until when after the first 
three steps into the room there came a minute's hesitation, as if she 
did not quite know where to go, now she was there. If any others 
of the household followedas probably they didthose who 
looked saw only the three; and perhaps the glitter of Gyda's 
embroidery just behind.
Just while Wych Hazel made those three steps into the room, there 
was a pause upon all that saw her. A half smothered 'My dear!'
came from Mrs. Coles' astonished lips, and was arrested mid way. 
For so many seconds Dane did not move, losing everything else in 
the direct vision; but then he was at Wych Hazel's side 
immediately and gave her his arm. A great light had come up into 
his face, all the light of a smile, but he was not smiling. He led 
Wych Hazel forward till they stood at the edge of the semicircle 
which had spread out right and left of the table, everybody having 
risen to his feet.
'You see what we want of you, Dr. Maryland,' he said. 'Will you 
do us the greatest favour you ever can do us?'
'My dear boy!Dane!' exclaimed the old doctor in 
bewilderment,'is it possible? Is this little lady ready on such 
short notice?'
'She is ready,'replied Dane, with a hidden ring of strength and 
tenderness in his voice that only one person could fairly 
comprehend. And Dr. Maryland seeing them stand still waiting 
before him was fain to believe his eyes and began to bestir himself 
to make his preparations. Not many were needed.
'There is a Bible on that table yonder, Arthur,' said Rollo, standing 
like a rock. Mrs. Coles by this time found breath.
'But Dane!My dear Miss Kennedy!you don't surely mean to 
do without having a wedding?'
'Hush, Prue!' said her sister.
'But I never heard of such a thing in my life!'
Nobody heeded her.
Dr. Maryland was ready, and Dane leading Wych Hazel to a place 
in front of him, dropped her arm and stood beside her. It was time, 
for a crisis will not bear tampering with; and the girl had grown 
visibly paler under pressure of Mrs. Coles, and hands were 
trembling a little, and lips almost. Then she drew herself up with 
her old quick gesture, and sealed all that, and hid it away. And it 
was but a few minutes. There was no want of sympathy in Dr. 
Maryland's sweet, grave ministration; a little accent of gladness 
was here and there perceptible, and his prayers were exceedingly 
earnest and loving. The words of address he directed to the two 
young people were searching and stirring words, such as Dr. 
Maryland could well speak; but it was all swiftly over, though his 
utterances were the reverse of swift. On the contrary, they were 
tender and deliberate. But even so, it was quickly over, and Hazel 
was receiving the congratulations of her little knot of friends.
Now character came out. The old Doctor's touch of her brow was 
hearty enough but a little formal. Prim's kiss was trembling. 
Prudentia's was the impact of wooden lips, moveless and hard; one 
would have said, sinister, if an expressionless thing could be said 
to have expression. All the notes of the scale were between her 
husband's kiss and that, Dr. Arthur almost making up for the rest 
with his glad, brotherly greeting for Hazel and a brother's wring of 
the hand for Dane. But from them all, Wych Hazel turned and 
threw her arms round Mrs. Bywank. Restraining herself then with 
a great effort, she raised her head and took Reo's hand in both of 
hers; but not a word passed on either side. And Gyda, who had 
meekly waited her turn, drew near and lifted one of Wych Hazel's 
hands to her old lips. She too said nothing audibly, and made way 
for others of the household who were bashfully coming in.
'Now will you tell me, Dane,' began Mrs. Coles, when the pause at 
her end of the room had lasted, as she thought long enough, 'why 
you and Miss Kennedy have done things in this unheard-of sort of 
style?'
Perhaps Dane thought it was not a proper question, for he folded 
his arms and did not answer. Perhaps he did not hear her; for, 
though with no outward token of it, he was somewhat anxiously 
watching Wych Hazel.
'What made you do things in this way, to disappoint all the world?' 
The lady's face wore a smile which was meant to be gracious, 
however the words sounded not so.
'Prue,' said Prim, 'people have a right to be married in their own 
way.'
'But my dear!Don't you think you owe something to society, 
Dane? In your position?'
'I never understood my obligations to society,' said Dane 
carelessly.
'But do you think it is fair, to disappoint all the world?'
'Always fair to disappoint improper curiosity.'
'Well, but why is that improper curiosity?'
'Curiosity about other people's business,' said Dane good-
humouredly.
'And do you call that improper?'
'I suppose not,when custom has made it seem to be your own 
business.'
'That's it; custom has made it not only seem but be so. And I think 
it is perfectly natural and reasonable and proper. When does a lady 
show to more advantage than on her wedding-day? And why 
should not the world have the benefit of it?'
'I do not know why not,' said Dane smiling,'if it suits the parties 
concerned.'
'Why didn't it suit you, you jealous Musulman?'
'When a lady has never been seen to advantage,' remarked Dr. 
Arthur,'that may alter the case. Her Grace is hardly one of 
those.'
Not one word had come from Hazel's lips, that anybody heard, 
since those few which nobody was likely to forget. Indeed she had 
kept herself rather off from the group, among her own dependants, 
one and all of whom had by degrees filled up the background. And 
it was no trifle to give even a touch of the hand to all those eager 
retainers; the touch and the look, which was all she ventured. Now 
the room was clearing again; and whether Hazel had heard all the 
talk or no, her cheeks gave swift token that Dr. Arthur's last 
sentence had reached her ears. "Her Grace"she could not throw 
off the title any more.
But whatever the rights of the public may be in the matter of 
seeing, the right of discussing, with the parties at hand, Hazel 
plainly thought needed a check. So the next thing that attracted
or distractedMrs. Coles, was the soft ringing peal of her little 
whistle; and answering promptly to that, the tea bugle. Then the 
door flew open, and Dingee brought in the tea-service. The tray, 
with the rarest old china cups, which even Rollo had never seen, 
followed by Mrs. Bywank's cakes and other home-like dainties. 
And Wych Hazel glided off to the rather distant table, gathering in 
Mrs. Bywank and Reo and Gyda for her train; and hid herself 
behind the hot water kettle, putting its soft cloud of steam between 
her and all disturbance for the time being. Then Reo was sent to 
build up the fires,he was a rare hand at that; and Dingee was 
despatched for something else; and Hazel demanded little bits of 
help from the other two near her; talking softly to them, it was 
plain, though still with the same grave young face. But the whole 
picture was sweeter than anybody could tell.
Looking at it, from his place in the other group, something drew 
Rollo's steps that way; slow, quiet steps, which however brought 
him to Gyda's side, whom Hazel had seated at the table. While he 
was safe with her, Wych Hazel watched her chance, and the next 
thing Dr. Maryland knew, she had brought and set down by him on 
the table the perfection of a cup of tea. Without a word she was 
away again and back in her place behind the tea urn; where with 
Gyda et her side and the delight of Gyda's eyes standing there near 
the table, Hazel took up the sugar tongs again and tried to 
remember what amount of sweetening commonly sufficed for Mrs. 
Coles.
'Now Dane,' said that lady, with a kind of acid sweetness of 
manner, as Rollo brought her the cup,'do tell me why you have 
conducted things in that way?'
Rollo looked grave and asked what things.
'Why you know! Have you sent out any cards?'
'Have you sent out any cards, Hazel?'
'Things must be sent in before they can be sent out,' said the young 
lady, who having dismissed Dingee had come herself for Dr. 
Maryland's cup.
'Ambiguous'said Dane turning to Mrs. Coles; 'but I take the 
sense of it to be, that no cards were sent. That is not 
unprecedented.'
'For people situated just as you are, my dear, it is. Now tell me
don't you want all these peopleI mean, everybody in generalto 
visit you?'
'Ambiguous again,' said Dane smiling at last a little. 'Suppose, for 
the sake of argument, that we do!'
'Then why not pay them the customary compliment of telling them 
so?'
'But suppose, on the other hand, that we do not?'
'Why you certainly know,' replied Mrs. Coles with some asperity, 
'whether you want them. Do you? or don't you?'
'I think I might say,' answered Dane demurely, 'we do,and we do 
not.'
'But that is nonsense, Dane.'
'Is it?'
'You ought to want them.'
'WellI have told you; we do.'
'Then are you going, when a suitable time comes, are you going to 
invite all these neglected people and give them a good Reception? 
you and Hazel?'
'We will give them a good reception if they come,' said Dane with 
provoking want of enthusiasm.
'O I never can get anything out of you!' said the lady discomfited. 
'I might have known it. Papa, do you think it is well to set all the 
institutions of society at defiance?'
'Why Prue,' said Dr. Maryland somewhat astonished, 'you speak as 
if Society were monarch of the realm. I believe we live in a 
republic.'
'What do you mean by Society?' asked Primrose.
'Why!You know.'
'I do not, indeed.'
'It means,' said Dane, 'in this country, all people in general who 
have incomes above a certain limit; them, and those whom their 
powerful hands lift from a subjacent platform to the freedom of 
their own.'
'All people who are rich enough to invite you as you invite them,' 
said Dr. Arthur.'Prim, where is your comprehension? How can 
you put your feet under a man's mahogany, if he happens to have 
none?'
'Is it different in other countries?' asked Mrs. Coles.
'Yes. Birth counts there, and breeding, and what a man happens to 
have inside his head.'
'And does not birth count for something here?' cried Mrs. Coles.
'I have no doubt it does.'
'But not with you?'
'I speak of things as I find them,' said Dane smiling slightly. 'And 
in generalities.'
'Well, think what you like of society; are you not going to regard it 
at all?'
Dane turned to the Bible which still lay upon the table, and opened 
it. 'What do you say to this, Prudentia?'
' "When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor 
thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest 
they also bid thee again, and a recompense be made thee." '
'Then you will live alone, I suppose, and make Hazel live so.'
'Not at all,' said Rollo coolly; 'that does not follow. The words I 
was reading go on"But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, 
the maimed, the lame, the blind: and thou shalt be blessed; for they 
cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the 
resurrection of the just." '
'But my dear Dane!' said Mrs. Coles breathlessly; 'you don't mean 
to say that you take all that literally?'
'I do not see how it is to be taken figuratively,' said Dane looking 
at it.
'Why it means, of course, that we are to be kind to the poor.'
'But kinder to the rich? That looks like turning the figure topsy 
turvy; and in that case you get a view which can hardly be called 
correct.'
Hazel had left the tea-table now, and come softly up, taking a low 
seat half behind Prim's chair, leaning her head against it. In the 
shadow there she was looking and listening.
'It is a choice of invitations, that is all,' said Dr. Arthur. 'The Lord 
returns all the civilities shewn to poor peopleand rich men return 
their own. That is the only difference.'
'That is the comfort I have when anybody shews me kindness,' said 
Dr. Maryland, with a wonderful, simple, bright smile, rising as he 
spoke. 'I am one of the Lord's poor people; so I am never troubled 
about the returns. Come, my childrenwe have four miles in the 
snow before us.'
CHAPTER XXIV.
ONE AND ONE ARE TWO.
'They will never agree, those two!' said Prudentia Coles, the next 
morning at breakfast.
'They will agree perfectly!' said Primrose.
Good Dr. Maryland lifted his eyebrows in astonishment at both 
utterances.
'Their ways were too different,' said Mrs. Coles.
'Their ways will be alike,' said Prim.
'Of course, their ways will be one,' said the doctor. But he was 
very old-fashioned.
And people do not change their natures because they happen to 
love one another, nor even because they happen to be married. Still 
less!
There happened to be a run of very bad weather for several days 
after the two persons concerned arrived in New York. That did not 
indeed hinder business in Wall street and elsewhere, but it put an 
effective barrier to pleasure seeking out of doors. The best and 
most exclusive appointments of the best hotel, did not quite 
replace Chickaree, during the long days which Hazel perforce had 
to spend by herself. At last there came a morning when the sun 
shone.
'What have you got to do to-day?' Rollo asked her.
'One trunk to fill for other people, and two for myself.'
'Sounds large! Can you do it in a day?'
'I am an adept at filling trunks.'
'Let me see your purse.'
'O that needs no looking after,' said Hazel, flushing up.
'I only want to see it,' said Dane smiling. 'Not to rifle it. I want to 
see what sort of a thing you carry.'
The "things" were two, and very like Hazel; a pocket-book and 
purse of the daintiest possible description. Various coins shewed 
through the gold meshes of the one; the Russia leather of the other 
told no tales. Rollo turned them over, half smiling to himself. 
'Is there enough here for to-day's work?'
'I have Mr. Falkirk's cheque for my last quarter's allowance. I 
generally make that do,' said Hazel.
'Doesn't your stock need supplementing?'
'No, thank you,' she said softly and shyly.
'I will arrange all that presently, Hazel. Meanwhile I am very sorry 
I cannot go along to help you fill those trunks; but I have several 
people to see and less pleasant work to do. We'll get some of this 
business over, and then we'll play. Take a carriage, and Byrom 
shall wait upon you.'
'I do not want Byrom. He is not used to me. And perhaps I may 
walk.'
'Byrom is used to me,' said Dane significantly.
'Proof positive of my two propositions,' said Hazel with a laugh. 
'Waiting on me, is bewildering work to a new hand.'
'If I give it him in charge, he will do it well. Byrom has a head.'
'But I do not want to be given in charge. Have not I a head too?'
Rollo laughed at her, and remarked that it was 'one he was bound 
to take care of.'
'So am I, I should hope,' said Hazel. 'What do you suppose I shall 
do with itor with myself generallythat you call out a special 
detail of police?'
'Did Mr. Falkirk let you go about by yourself?'
'Always! At least, so far as he was concerned,' said Hazel 
correcting herself.
'I warned you what you were to expect,' said Rollo lightly. But 
then they came to the breakfast table, and something else was 
talked of. When the meal was over, and he was about going, 
bending down by her chair, he asked,
'What time will you have the carriage?'
'No time,' said Hazel. 'I have decided to walk.'
'I want you to take a carriage and let Byrom attend youthe 
sidewalks are in a state of glare ice this morning.'
'I am sure-footed.'
'I am glad of it,' said Rollo half laughing. 'What hour shall I say?'
'Why none!' said Hazel emphatically, with a passing thought of 
wonder at his obtuseness, though at the moment she was deep in 
her notebook. 'None, thank you.'
Rollo's eyes sparkled, as he stood behind her, and his lips twitched.
'Is that the way you used to handle Mr. Falkirk, when he expressed 
his wishes about some point of your action?'
'Mr. Falkirk was indulged with a variety of ways.'
'Have you got a variety in store for me?'
'For any deserving objectI am extremely impartial,' said Hazel 
turning a leaf.
'Won't you give me another variety then, this morning?' said he 
softly. 'Because I am not going to let you go out on foot to-day, 
Hazel.'
'Not let me?' Hazel repeated, looking round from her notebook 
now to ask the question. There was no explanation in the face that 
confronted her, nor any consciousness of having said anything that 
needed it. Hazel looked at him for a second, open-eyed.
'What can you possibly mean?' she said.
'If it means interference with your pleasure, I am sorry.'
Probably something in face and figure made this reply more 
definite than the words, for Wych Hazel's face waked up.
'But it does!' she said. 'I told you so at first.'
'It would interfere with mine very much, to have you go as you 
proposed.'
'But that is simply!' Hazel suddenly checked her rapid words, 
and brought her face back over the notebook again; bending down 
to hide the crimson which yet could not be hid.
'What is "simply"?' said Dane, touching his own face to the 
crimson. But Hazel did not speak.
'I must go, Hazel,' said he now looking at his watch. 'I have not 
another minute. I will send Byrom to you for orders.' And with a 
very gentle kiss to the bowed cheek as he spoke, he went off. And 
Hazel sat still where he left her, and thought,with her face in her 
hands now. Thoughts, and feelings too, were in a whirl. In the first 
place,no, there was no possible telling what came first. But was 
he going to direct every little thing of her life? Well, she had given 
him leave last winter, in her mind. That is, if he would do it. But 
would he really? Somehow she had fancied he would not. She had 
fancied thatsomehowhe would find out that she had a little 
sense, and trust to it. She felt so disappointed, and caged, and 
disturbed.And then she had withstood him!a thing he never 
pretended to bear. Maybe he had gone off disappointed, too. And 
one of her old saucy speeches had been on the tip of her tongue!
and next time, as like as not, it would slip out, and what should she 
do then? What should she do now?go out as she was bid, like a 
good child? Hazel almost laughed at herself for the bound her 
mind gave, straight back from this idea,which after all was the 
only one to act out. For the old sweetness of temper had taken to 
itself no edge, and the old dignity which had so often found its 
safety in submission did not fail her now. Nevertheless, Wych 
Hazel rose up and stood before the fire, knotting her fingers into 
various complications. Yes, it was her duty to go. But when 
Byrom knocked at the door, Hazel sprang away to the next room 
and sent her orders by Phoebe. Then, after the old comical fashion, 
she worked out her waywardness in every possible proper way that 
she could. She put on one of her wonderful toilettes, and then went 
slowly down the broad stairs (thinking fast!)and flashed out 
upon Byrom like a young empress in her robes. And a sinecure he 
had of it for the next few hours. To stand at the carriage door and 
receive the most laconic of orders; to see her pass from carriage to 
store and from store to carriage, erect and tall and stately, and with 
no more apparent notice of the icy sidewalks than if they had been 
strewn with cotton wool. If he followed close to pick her up, Wych 
Hazel took no notice and gave him no chance. In like manner she 
did her work with an executive force and gravity which made the 
clerks into quicksilver and drove one or two old admirers whom 
she met nearly frantic. They hailed her by her old name; and Hazel 
got rid of them she hardly knew how, except that it was in a blaze 
of discomfort for herself. And after that she kept furtive watch; 
quitting counters and stores, and rushing upor downin 
elevators, after the most erratic and extraordinary fashion; a vivid 
spot on either cheek, and eyes in a shadow, and a mouth that grew 
graver every hour. O if she could but order the coachman to 
driveanywheretill she said stop!but no such orders could go 
through Byrom; she must work off her mood at home. And so at 
last, in the darkest dress she had, Wych Hazel once more sat down 
before the fire, and put her face in her hands. All through the day, 
under and over everything else, the old shyness had green growing 
up, mixing itself with the new,the old dread of having a man 
speak to her in the way of comment, with a thought of blame. 
Would anybody do it now? So she sat until steps came to the door 
and the door opened; then she rose quickly up.
But the matter which had occasioned her so many thoughts, had 
scarcely given Rollo one; and it was plain he had fully forgotten it 
now in his gladness at seeing her again after the long day. His face 
had nothing but gladness; and as he took her in his arms she felt 
that the gladness was very tender.
'Work all done!' he asked.
'O no.'Hazel was glad too. The day had been long. 
'But I am going to play to-morrow!'
'Well, what about it?'
'Work must wait. We have got a great deal to do. Don't you agree 
with me, that every full cup ought to flow over into some empty 
ones?'
'Instead of into its own saucer?' said Hazel, who was rather 
abstractedly brushing off an imaginary grain of dust from his coat 
stuff. 'Perhaps it would be safe to allow that I do.'
'Well,' said Rollo laughing at her, 'there are plenty of empty cups. 
How many can we fill to-morrow?'
'If you have been at work on that problem, no wonder you want 
play. How many?I do not know. How much too full is your cup 
to-night?'
'It feels like the widow's inexhaustible cruise of oil. And by the 
way, I believe that the store from which anybody may supply 
others, is inexhaustible. Now let us consider.' And he stood silent 
and thoughtful a few minutes, Hazel not interrupting him.
'I can tell you one thing,' he began again. 'Prudentia Coles would 
like a black silk dress; and she cannot afford it.'
'I certainly owe her that,' said Hazel,'and a royal purple to boot.'
'How do you "owe" it?'
'For tipping my cup over, once. I wonder whether she thought I 
was too happy to be let alone?'
'Give her both the dresses, Hazel. She is not a happy woman. It 
will fill her cup for the time being.'
'Then, if you talk of debts,' said Hazel, 'I owe Prim the greatest 
quantity of wholesome animadversion. It never was of the least use 
to me,but she ought to be paid for it, all the same.'
'I suppose you deserved it,' said Rollo coolly.
'Do you?' said Hazel. Had she? Her thoughts flew over the 
confusions of the day,then before she began again, Rollo asked,
'Have you written to Mr. Falkirk, Hazel?'
'I? No. I have nothing to say to him.'
Rollo looked at her, first with a grave consideration, and then his 
lips twitched.
'Nothing to say to him?' he repeated.
'Nothing whatever.'
'Does it fall to me to instruct you in the proprieties? It is due to him 
to inform him that you are his ward up no longer; that you have 
done what he would very much have disapproved, and married me 
at a week's notice; which, you may tell him, was not at all your 
fault, and done principally for the sake of the men in the Charteris 
mills. Don't you see, Hazel, that you ought to tell him all this?'
'No,' said Hazel, with one of her old witch looks flashing out for a 
moment. 'If your right of way does not cover all the disagreeable 
business, I cannot see what use in the world I can make of it.'
'My right of way?' repeated Dane looking at her.
'Yes. The right to do what you please should be extended to take in 
all that I do not please.'
'Across all which of mine, your right of way, I suppose, takes a 
zigzag track!'
'Underground.'
'It will be dangerous there!' said Dane, his eyes flashing. 'For pity's 
