to be ashamed, surely. 

" Between Stephen and Louis, Rose seems a very 
child," said Nelly to the doctor as they were walking 
home from church in the silvery glow of the September 
evening, with the air full of delicious, ripening odors. 
u Why, it seems to me as if Fan and I were ages older ; 







or is it because we are so much taller ? Poor girl ! she 
is the only one that has had a lasting sorrow thus far." 

"I wish she had not taken it to Louis ;" and there 
was a kind of dissatisfaction in her husband's tone. 

" "Why-, it is perfectly natural. He is a clergyman, and 
they always were unusual friends. He thinks she saved 
him once ; and she did. Barton, I won't have you even 
fancj'ing ' ' 

She stopped because she hardly knew what he did 
fane}*, and there was a jealous warmth in her tone. The 
one who thought any harm of Rose must answer to her 
quick and sharp. 

"My darling, I am not imagining anything in the 
absolute ^nse of wrong. Stephen stands and looks at 
her in great awe, and then steps aside ; and she turns to 
his brother, because he is, as jou say, a clergyman. 
But no person or thing has any right to come between 
husband and wife no sympathy, any more than love." 

" I will not have you judging her hardly," and Nelly's 
voice trembled. 

"She is lovely and sweet; and she is an Endicott: 
can I say any thing greater?" with an abrupt but 
tender pressure. " But I have had a wider experience 
than any of you ; and marriage seems to me a kind of 
promised land. It is promised, and you set out for it ; 
but with some there is forty years in the wilderness,- and 
they only behold it afar off, never quite entering in. A 
day or a month doesn't comprise it all ; a kiss and a 
little caressing is not all the manna : it is the giving and 
receiving on both sides ; and what is given has no right 
to be handed over to another ; neither has one any right 
to withhold. It is the empty place out of which the 
little child has gone ; and some day she will come to see 
that only a husband's love can fill it. Yet it is so natural 
for a woman to crave the finest there is in sympathy." 

"But Louis is so good; and if you could know all 

 

there was between them in the past. I think two 
brothers never loved one another as those two Duncans 
do now." 

Dr. Kinnard Was silent for a few moments, and then 
changed the talk to some other subject. It was a subtle 
under-current that he saw with the practised eye of a 
thoughtful physician. Might it not right itself, especially 
if another child should come to draw them together? 
For happiness is not a settled and unchanging truth. 
What satisfied yesterday may be as but crumbs to 
morrow. 

The addition of the Mallorys to the household attracted 
and diverted attention. Mrs. Mallory was as charmingly 
at home as if she had been coming back to some earlier 
haunt. She possessed the fine grace of thorough breed 
ing, that would never lead any one to wonder if things 
were good enough. You forgot what you proffered ; or, 
rather, she so 'glorified it to you, that straightway it be 
came of the best. She flitted in and out ; she was ex 
quisitely motherly to these young men, who paid her the 
purest respect. Even now, had she so willed, she could 
have drawn an enchanted circle around her equal to that 
of some of the famous old Frenchwomen. 

Bessie was in a glow and radiance. The blood rippled 
vividly through her fair skin ; tremulous lights and shad 
ows fluttered in her eyes ; and her voice had a musical 
fulness, as if it came from an overflowing soul. She was 
oddly shy, now, having lost her friend, and hardly daring 
to accept his attentions in the new light of a lover. But 
with his mother there was no timidity. 

She was j'oung, and they would not hurry matters. 

" You see," explained Mrs. Mallory, " I am a believ 
er in pleasant courtships. It is a season in our young 
lives that nothing ever blights. It has no cares like 


marriage, and, in its happy ignorance, sees nothing save 
endless islands of delight all along the sunshiny shore. 



 

It is a great thing to believe in the perfection of bliss 
even for a year or two ; " and her rippling laugh seemed 
to frame in her sentences. 

" And now, ' gude wife,' we must go home," declared 
Dr. Kinnard. " I feel as if I had been on a fresh 
honeymoon, and may do something ridiculous presently, 
since love-making is all the rage." 

" It has been a wedding-journey," returned Nelly 
with tender gravity. " I seem to be having delightful 
holidays here and there, and only a little of the sober 
work." 

"Ah, you think so!" And he remembered jvhat 
would have been a grievous burthen to some women. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

" Blind and hardened they 
Who hope for peace amid the storms of care ; 
Who covet power they know not how to use, 
And sigh for pleasures they refuse tO'give." 

PKOMETHEUS 



THE Kinnards were at home again, though it was 
some time before they dropped into their olden groove ; 
there was so much to see and hear, so many old friends 
dropping in to welcome them back ! 

The church had gone on beautifully. It was to be 
built of gray stone, and they had been very fortunate in 
securing some that had been cut under another contract ; 
so that the walls, they hoped, would all be up before cold 
weather. It was to be Gothic, with a clerestory and a 
tower, a ver} r decided ornament to the town. 

Then Miss Grove and Maud returned home, both im 
mensely consequential. Nelly had witnessed nothing 
like it the whole summer. 

"Dr. Kinnard," Miss Grove said the next morning, 
at the breakfast- table, " I desire to see you privately at 
your earliest convenience." 

" Very well, come in the office presently," was the 
undaunted answer. 

Maud looked consciously elated. " What a haughty, 
disagreeable girl!" thought Nelly. "Will airy one 
blame me for it, I wonder ? ' ' 

The conference was quite lengtlry. Maud meanwhile 
was entertaining her stepmother with a description of 

 





Saratoga, quite as if she had taken pity on her benighted 
seclusion. 

" Come, Maud," exclaimed her aunt, sweeping through 
the hall. 

The doctor beckoned to his wife, who went in, when 
he closed the door carefully. 

"Wonders will never cease," he began, then gave a 
hearty laugh, thrusting both hands into his pockets. 

" Then it is nothing bad? " And Nelly looked amused. 

"Some one has been found brave enough to bell the 
cat : that was our old idea, was it not ? ' ' and his eyes 
twinkled mirthfull}*. 

"What do you mean?" was her surprised question, 
for she could not believe the thought that flashed into her 
mind. 

" That the whole world has gone marriage mad. 
Auut Adelaide has succumbed to the destiny of women- 
kind." 

Nelly's face was one ripple of astonishment. 

" She would never have entertained such an idea, but 
for my misbehavior. She would have been content to 
devote her life to me and the children, and made an hon 
orable and happy home : I believe those were her very 
words. But since this place never can be a home to her 
again ; since she has been continually thwarted in her 
endeavors to do her duty by the children, and estranged 
from them ; since she has been made to feel that she was 
not welcome (and that vexed me, Nelly," interposed 
the doctor with a frown) , " there was no other course 
left. The long and the short of it is, that she has 
accepted one Mr. Garland, and has been in New York 
superintending her wedding outfit. Early in October she 
is to become Mrs. Garland." 

" But who is he? " was Nelly's inquiry. 

" A stock-broker. I do hope Adelaide's vanity and 
self-complacency have not blinded her into making a bad 

 

bargain. She met him at Saratoga. He is about her 
agj, a widower, with two children married (sons at that) , 
and, she thinks, wealthy. I trust it may be so. She has 
a comfortable fortune of her own ; and it would be a 
shame to have it frittered away. What with accruing 
interest, it must be at least twenty thousand. She has 
spent nothing since she came here, except for clothes and 
occasional journeys.*' 

" I hope she will do well," said Nelly in a tone of 
great relief. To be quite free ! Whj*, she could hardly 
realize it. 

" Well I hope so too. It would be folly for either of us 
to deny that her going is any thing but an unalloyed 
pleasure. Still I was glad to have her come during her 
sister's illness ; and I should not have liked to send her 
away while we could get along amicably together. Is 
this another intervention of Providence, Nelly? " And, 
drawing his fair young wife to him, he pressed lovers' 
kisses on her lips. 

" Yes, I am thankful," was her fervent reply. 

"There is one bone of contention looming up. She 
wants to take Maud altogether." 

"O Barton! it does not seem quite right," cried 
Nelly in genuine anxiety. "It is such a fatal influence 
for a young girl. I do believe I would rather have her 
shallow and frivolous than so conceitedly proper, so 
arrogant, and coldl}" selfish. With all her education, she 
is narrow, and ignorant of the real aims of life." 

" I know it ; and it is my grief. Nelly, I wish I could 
have given her into your care two years ago : but it was 
not possible, and it would have been too great a charge 
for you. Then I think Maud is radically ditFerent from 
Bertie. I have a son, at least," he said proudly.* 

"Will yon let her go?" 

" I think not. Advise me, Nelly ; " and, coming near 
her, he leaned both elbows on the table, resting his per- 





plexed face in his hands. " We could not keep her at 
home, you see. She would be dissatisfied, and exagger 
ate every trifle to her aunt. I would not risk having you 
thus misrepresented. So she would have to be sent to 
boarding-school, where she would not be at all content, I 
suspect. I think Aunt Adelaide really loves her ; and, if 
any evil befell her, she would never forgive me. Still, on 
the other hand, I cannot see her ruined without some 
effort to save her. I am her father." 

"She had better go to school," returned Nelly deci 
sively. "She is only a little girl yet, barely fourteen; 
and three years' association with companions of her own 
age may do a great deal for her. Aunt Adelaide would 
make her a woman before her time, without a woman's 
sense or judgment. I never saw any one who had such 
an uncompromising hostility to childhood pure and sim 
ple as Miss Grove." 

" The first agreement was, that she should be a kind of 
governess to the children until they were old enough to go 
to school. But she insists upon keeping Maud ; and I 
daresa}* we shall have some hard talks over it." 

" She might spend part of her vacations with her aunt, 
and part here." 

"It shall be, some way. I only needed your verdict 
about the school to decide me. None of you girls were 
ever away at school ? ' ' 

" No." And Nelly thought of their happy home-life. 

" Well, my dear, I must go out. I have idled away 
half the morning, and shall, no doubt, prescribe matrimony 
for some patient before I am through. So good-by, 
sweetheart." 

Nelly went around in a maze. " Aunt Adelaide 
married ! What could Mr. Garland be like ? Would the 
wedding take place here ? ' ' 

Miss Grove did not deign to inform any person beside 
" my brother-in-law," as she had always resolutely called 





him. There was a week of much flurry, assorting of 
clothes and bedding, driving to the village ; and then she 
went to New York, taking Maud with her, not troubling 
any one about permission. 

Dr. Kinnard felt really vexed. Meanwhile, he con 
sulted two or three friends on the subject of schools, and, 
with Nelly's advice, chose one in a pretty, healthy, and 
somewhat old-fashioned town. Melrose Hall was limited 
to seventy -five pupils, and had three departments, with a 
very lovely woman for matron, and an efficient corps of 
teachers. Two of Mrs. Newbury's grand-daughters were 
there. 

Mr. Dudley had spoken of a church school, one evening 
at supper. 

" No," said the doctor good-humoredly : "that never 
would do. Mrs. Kinnard would be accused of proselyt 
ing. We shall try to keep on the safe side." 

He announced his decision to Maud on her return. 

Maud colored a little. " It was hardly worth while," 
she said, with the severe air of her aunt. " We visited 
several schools in New York ; and I am to be entered at 
Madame Dufresney's establishment. Nothing but French 
and Italian is allowed to be used at the table. Languages 
and music are to be my chief studies." 

Dr. Kinnard looked at her in amazement. 

" My child," he answered gravely, ' ; I am your father, 
and the proper person to decide. When you are older, if 
you should wish to reside with your aunt, I will interpose 
no obstacle ; but at present you are in my charge." 

Maud's lip quivered ; and her  shot out an angry 
light. 

" My little girl, you may feel disappointed for a while ; 
but some time you will see the wisdom of this step. I 
think I have some right to your affection and interest ; 
and I do desire to have your love." 

All these years Aunt Adelaide had been nursing the 





child's jealousy and distrust. Under the placid exterior 
raged fires ready to burst out at a word, temper that used 
to find a ready vent upon Bertie, but now was seldom 
crossed. 

" If you desired it," she said with the passionate vehe 
mence of a woman, " why did you forget my own dear 
dead mother? Why did you put another in her place? 
You care for no one but her ; you ' ' 

" Hush, Maud ! " he interrupted sternly. " You have 
no right to arraign me, or the generous woman I have put 
in j-our mother's place, when you have received only 
kindness at both oar hands. She has alwaj-s been ready 
to love you. If I had wavered before, this exhibition of 
disrespect and anger would have decided me. After your 
aunt's marriage, }*ou will go to Melrose Hall to stay until 
Christmas. No persuasion on any one's part will induce 
me to relent. I shall explain it to Aunt Adelaide imme 
diately." 

Miss Grove expressed much indignation, and stigmatized 
the whole proceeding as cruel. 

"Adelaide," he said, "the child is surely mine. I 
think I hardly need remind you now of the little care 
cither of these children received from their mother. Do 
you suppose, had she been well, and able to go into 
society, she would have attended Bertie through his long 
illness, as his stepmother did? Did she ever care for my 
comfort or pleasure ? Truth is truth. It is ungracious to 
remember the faults of the dead ; but you compel me to. 
And it is doubly ungenerous of you to set Maud up in 
rebellion." 

" Of course, of course ! " she retorted fiercely. " The 
child cannot see a large girl like Maud ! She is capable 
of forming no conclusion whatever." And her tall figure 
dilated with angry passion. 

" The whole world would be welcome to see and judge. 
But recrimination is worse than folly. We have lived on 





friendly terms so far ; and I am obliged for ever} r kindly 
act of j-ours. Do not let us mar the remaining da}*s. 
My mind is firmly made up in every thing." 

He turned and left her without another word. Yet 
never had he felt so profound a pity for the woman tying 
in her grave, that her life should have left so scant a 
record of love and good deeds. 

Maud and her aunt went into town, and did not appear 
at either dinner or supper. The nexUmorning both were 
cold and haughty, Maud's demeanor an absolute and 
almost laughable caricature on her aunt's. 

The invitations were sent out; and then the family 
learned that the ceremony would take place at noon, in the 
church. Mr. Garland would be in town the day before ; 
and, but for the late unpleasant occurrences, she would 
be glad to invite him to call. 

" Humbug ! " ejaculated Dr. Kinnard. "Adelaide, any 
person with ten grains of common sense would admit 
that I had a right to choose a school for my own child. 
Ask j-our Mr. Garland here. I should like to meet him." 

Trunks and boxes were packed, and marked for their 
new destination. Furniture was boxed, and the house in 
a whirl of disorder, that, had any one attempted in Aunt 
Adelaide's reign, would have brought about a dire storm. 
The hall was well-nigh converted into a storage place. 

On Tuesday evening, Mr. Garland made his appear 
ance, a stout, florid man of middle size, ' with rather 
small, keen eyes, and suspiciously -brown hair and beard 
for his fifty j-ears. He was important and self-asserting, 
and might domineer, if occasion offered, thought Nelly. 
His manners had a society-polish ; he was handsomely 
dressed, and wore a profusion of chain, seals, and rings, 
with a prominent diamond shirt-stud. 

" I suppose it is well enough, if Aunt Adelaide likes 
him," was Nelly's comment. 

" But he quite extinguishes plain people like me," said 





the doctor, with the old humorous twinkle shining in his 
eye. "I must confess I would like to know something 
about his standing and general character; but, if Ade 
laide is satisfied, I surely ought to be content to have her 
married." 

And married she was in the richest of brown silk, point 
lace, and diamonds. A fine-looking bride, after all. 
The Kinnards went to church, and wishe'd her joy as she 
started for Washington on her tour. 

Maud had been exceedingly sullen and disagreeable, so 
far as her family behavior went ; but neither father nor 
mother had made any comment. She came home from 
church, locked herself in her room, and would have no 
supper. 

" Maud," her father announced on the following morn 
ing, " I want you to get your trunk packed to-day. To 
morrow I shall take you to Melrose Hall." 

A furtive, angry gleam sparkled in the eyes she did not 
venture to raise. 

There was no softening to her. She did condescend 
to kiss her grandmother. When Bertie went to school, 
she had nodded a cold good-by ; and she barely touched 
her stepmother's hand. 

' ' How much that child is like Aunt Adelaide ! ' ' said 
Grandmother Kinnard. " I declare she fairly gives one 
a chill." 

' ' That child ' ' solaced herself with many lofty reflec 
tions. She had some elegant clothes, and she meant to 
astonish the other girls. She was the happy possessor 
of diamonds. She was an heiress. She was an injured 
and desolate girl, and had a cruel young stepmother, 
whom her father adored. Altogether, she was rather 
anxious to see what impression this would make upon 
"the girls." 

Ten days afterward, Aunt Adelaide's boxes and furni 
ture went away. Mr. Garland owned a house ; and they 





were to go to housekeeping at once. Nelly straightened 
out her own domain, and drew a long glad breath. She 
was full and undisputed mistress. 

Dr. Kinnard was rather grave for a while, thinking 
about his daughter. Had he done his very best? Ah, 
the mistake had commenced farther back. She inherited. 
Aunt Adelaide's self-complacency, and her mother's pas 
sionate, jealous temperament ; and both had been fostered 
by her injudicious training. What else could he do nov,-? 
Would she ever see the bright, joj'ous, wholesome life 
shs was shutting out? 

But he slipped into an easj', delicious existence; and 
gave himself up to it as completely as he had on his bridal 
tour. A happy man he counted himself; for there seemed 
nothing for Nelly to do but enjoy it with him. Rachel 
remained, and had become a competent housekeeper ; 
and grandmother was fond of doing little bits and snatches 
of work. Daisy and Boss came over frequently, Daisy 
rarely for more than a any ; but Bessie was still quite in 
love with her dear old doctor. 

He yielded himself completely to the subtle, developing 
power that was shaping his inner life, the half-hidden, 
half-revealed tenderness of a pure womanly nature. It is 
one thing to lay down laws and principles of existence 
from a narrow, one-sided view ; quite another to be in the 
midst of, nay, to be the object of, a generous regard, that 
neither exacts nor withholds, but is like a free and boun 
tiful sunshine in the spring, calling to life and light the 
hundred tender blossoms in the grass. He had known so. 
little of what it was exalting and delightful to know ; and 
now it came as a development of all the higher facul 
ties, ripening like a late summer. The manifold joys of 
that sweet trust, when there was absolutely nothing to 
come between, the searching into each other's faces for 
meanings that did not need to be thrust out of sight, or 
saved for rare moments of confidence, but dared to shi 





bravely, with a minuteness that was a glimpse of the soul- 
heaven opened, the kingdom within, that must go on 
radiating, that could not be contained in a little space 
any more than the fulness of God's love. 

Dr. Kinnard%ad said to Maud, on parting with her, 
" I shall expect to hear from you as often as once in a 
fortnight : so she wrote. Little, formal notes they were, 
she was well ; the studies were not severe, for she was 
far in advance of her class ; the girls, for the most part, 
were ill bred and ignorant ; the French teacher had an 
execrable accent ; the rooms were poorly furnished : 
and there was a general air of discontent pervading these 
epistles. But she reserved her chief complaints for her 
aunt. 

Mrs. Garland's marriage, it must be confessed, was not 
altogether the success she had expected. True, Mr. 
Garland had a position, and did business; but there 
was more outside show v than actual solidity. His house 
was heavily mortgaged, and part of it rented until the 
ensuing spring ; and it was an intense mortification to set 
up housekeeping in apartments. She found that Mr. 
Garland had counted largely on her fortune. There was 
this and that investment, sure to double it, large divi 
dends of such a stock, heavy interest for some wonder 
ful bonds ; while seven per cont was mere bagatelle. 

But she was not deficient in courage and practical 
ability ; and she saw that she must make a resolute stand 
for herself. Mr. Garland was not Dr. Kinnard. True, 
he never would have been so foolish as to marry a for 
tuneless young girl. Her sharp temper helped her, too, 
to gain an ascendancy in marital affairs, and, perhaps, 
was none the worse for her husband, though it did gall 
and fret him. 

" If you are agreed," she announced rather coldly one 
