a man in it. She had a charrackter, and people would be talking if
she shtopped in a house wid only a man in it.” Of course I was utterly
confounded at this complication of the difficulty, but I told her that
if the “missus” was not able to come by Monday she might go, and I
would pay her wages for an additional week.
“God bless your honor! but is the missus sick?” she asked.
“She is not very well, and does not like to leave her mother yet.”
She appeared to be satisfied, and I was permitted to spend another
miserable night in the loneliness of my new home. I heard nothing from
Lilian. I thought she might, at least, send me a note in reply to mine;
but I knew that she acted upon the advice of “dear ma.” That strong
minded woman evidently intended to bring me to terms. If possible, I
was more resolute than ever.
Before I went to the bank the next morning I decided to write one more
note—one which could not fail to bring the unpleasant matter to an
issue within twenty-four hours. It was in the form of an advertisement,
as follows:—
 “Whereas, my wife, Lilian O. Glasswood, has left my bed and board,
 without justifiable cause, I hereby give notice that I shall pay no
 debts of her contracting, after this date.
  “Boston, Aug.—.    PALEY GLASSWOOD.
 “Shall I insert the above in to-morrow’s papers?
  P. G.”
I sent this epistle to Mr. Oliphant’s by Biddy. Though it was directed
to Lilian, it was intended for her mother.
CHAPTER X.
MY WIFE AND I.
I KNEW very well that this note would produce a tremendous sensation in
the Oliphant family, and, as I walked down to the bank, I considered
whether so violent a demonstration was justifiable. But I soon came to
the conclusion that it was not a mere feint, and that if my wife would
not live with me in Needham Street, she could not live with me anywhere
else. If she did not choose to share my lot in the pretty residence I
had provided for her, I would not pay her board in Tremont Street.
I wanted my wife. I had not married Mrs. Oliphant, and was willing to
dispense with the benefit of her advice. Perhaps it was reckless in
me to do so, but no man had ever made up his mind on any point more
decidedly than I had made up mine on this one. I attended to my duties
as usual, but there was a sort of grimness about everything I did which
astonished me, if it did not any one else.
At my usual hour I rang the bell of my house with a more intense
anxiety than had before agitated me. If the savage measure I had taken
did not bring Lilian and her mother to their senses, nothing would,
and the breach must be regarded as permanent. I hoped and confidently
expected to find my wife in the house, and I braced my nerves for the
scene which must ensue. Biddy opened the door, with a sweet smile on
her face which augured well for my anticipations.
“There’s a bit of a letther on the table for ye’s, sir,” said she, as I
hung up my hat in the hall. “Shtop! and I’ll bring it to ye’s.”
“A bit of a letther!” Was that all? Of course it was from Lilian.
She did not intend to surrender without conditions, Biddy handed
me the missive. It was in my wife’s pretty hand-writing, but I was
disappointed, and more than ever disposed to be morose. I opened the
envelope.
 “Come and see me this afternoon, Paley.
  “LILIAN.”
That was all. The case did not look hopeful. If I went I must fight the
battle with “dear ma.” I promptly decided that it would be worse than
folly for me to heed this request. It was only an ingenious device of
Mrs. Oliphant to carry her point by some new strategy. To go would be
to throw myself into the toils of the enemy.
Biddy stood looking at me while I read the “bit of a letther.” If she
did not suspect the trouble, she was more stupid than I supposed. She
was a good girl, though her manners needed some improvement. If the
wife was ill, the place of the husband was at her side. My gem of the
Green Isle could reason out this proposition without exploding her
brain. She must understand that a family tempest was gathering.
“Av coorse the bit of a letther is from the missus,” said she. “I hope
she is betther.”
“Is dinner ready, Biddy?” I replied, trying to laugh.
“All ready, sir. Sure the missus must be betther, for she brought the
letther herself.”
“She is better, Biddy. There is trouble between us.”
“Faix, I knew it from the firsht!”
“Let me have my dinner now, and we will talk about it another time.”
She seemed to be proud to have even so much of my confidence, and she
flew around with an alacrity which was as creditable to her locomotive
powers as it was to her Irish heart. Even her looks were full of
respectful sympathy. I sat down to the table, and taking her place
behind my chair, she waited upon me with a zeal which would have shamed
the black coats of a fashionable hotel.
“In a word, Biddy, my wife refuses to live in this house with me.
That’s all the trouble we have,” said I, as I began to eat my dinner.
“Bad luck to her for that same!”
It was very undignified for me to say anything to my servant, or to
any one, indeed, about a matter of this kind, but I was absolutely
hungry for a confidant to whom I could pour out my griefs. If the
matter was to go any farther, I intended to send for Tom Flynn, and
talk over the situation with him. It seemed as though my brain would
burst, if I could not relieve it by exhibiting the cause of my sorrows.
If Biddy had not known so much I would not have told her any more. I
had informed her in the beginning about the “pleasant surprise” I was
preparing for my wife. She had seen Lilian when she called, and it
was stupid in me to attempt to conceal anything from her. I explained
to her the difficulty as far as I deemed it necessary. Biddy was my
strongest friend, then. She would not have left me even to save her
“charrackter.”
She rehearsed the whole matter, declared that I was an angel, and the
house a palace. It was not only unreasonable, but cruel and barbarous,
for my wife to refuse to share my lot. Thus spake Biddy, and I endorsed
her sentiments. When I had finished my dinner I wrote a brief note to
Lilian, declining to see her again, until we could meet in “our own
house.” Biddy was a zealous messenger. She was instructed to deliver
it without any words, and without answering any questions, for I was
afraid she would take the matter into her own hands, and complicate the
difficulty by attempting to fight my battle for me.
An hour later came the reply to my note. Lilian wrote that she was
“quite indisposed,” and unable to leave the house that day. She wished
to see me very much, and begged me not to deny her this favor. Perhaps
she was sick. So was I—sick at heart. It would not be strange if the
intense excitement attending this affair had made her ill; it had made
me so. But I knew she was not so ill that she could not leave the
house. She had delivered her own letter in the forenoon when she knew I
was at the bank. Yet, if I did not see her when she was sick, it would
make the story tell with damaging effect upon me. I decided to see
her at once—to see her as my sick wife, and not to make terms in the
quarrel.
In five minutes I rang the bell at the door of Mr. Oliphant’s house. It
was opened as usual by Mrs. Oliphant. A smile of triumph played upon
her face as she stood aside to permit me to pass into the hall.
“I am glad you have concluded to come, Paley,” said she.
This remark indicated that she was already in possession of the
contents of my last note; in fact that she, and not Lilian, was
fighting the battle.
“Is Lilian sick?” I inquired.
“She is not very well.”
“I will go up and see her.”
I went up.
“O, Paley! how can you be so cruel?” exclaimed she, with much nervous
excitement.
“Are you sick, Lilian?” I replied, taking her hand, and kissing her as
though nothing had happened.
“I am sick, Paley.”
“I am sorry, Lilian.”
“Do you think I am made of iron?”
“Shall I go for Dr. Ingoldson?”
“I do not need a doctor so much as I need peace.”
“We both need that.”
“Are you going to drive me into that hateful house?”
“Certainly not, Lilian.”
“Did you write that cruel note which came this morning, Paley? I cannot
believe it.”
“I did write it, Lilian; but if you are sick we will not talk about
that,” I replied, tenderly, but firmly.
“But we must talk about it. Do you mean to say that you will print that
horrid advertisement?”
“Most certainly I shall, if you persist in your present course. It is
not right for me to support a wife who will not live with me. If you
are sick, we will defer all action until you are better.”
“I am not well, but I wanted to see you about this awful business. Have
you ceased to love me, Paley?”
“No, Lilian.”
Perhaps Mrs. Oliphant had tried to stay down stairs, and permit her
daughter to pour out her griefs to me alone; but if she had tried, she
had not succeeded; and at this stage of the interview she entered the
room, without the ceremony of knocking.
“I am glad you have come, Paley, for we want to talk over this
disagreeable business.”
“Lilian’s note informed me that she was sick, and I came to see her,
but not to talk over any matter. If she is ill—”
“She isn’t very ill,” interposed Mrs. Oliphant.
I thought not; at least not too ill to discuss the exciting topic.
“I am glad she is not very ill. If she is, I will stay at her side and
do all that a husband should do for a sick wife.”
“O, we can take care of her! But I wanted to ask you if you really
intended to put that advertisement into the newspapers?”
“You will excuse me, but I have nothing to say on that subject beyond
what I expressed in my note. If Lilian does not need any assistance
from me, I will go. If Lilian is ill, I will defer the insertion of the
advertisement until Monday morning.”
“O, Paley!” gasped Lilian.
“Are you such a monster!” exclaimed Mrs. Oliphant, her lips compressed
and her eyes flashing in such a way as to indicate in what manner poor
Oliphant had been conquered.
“I have nothing more to say, madam,” I replied, with all the dignity I
could command.
I moved towards the door. Mrs. Oliphant was proceeding to rehearse the
enormity of my offence, when I clipped the wings of her rhetoric by
opening the door.
“Good-by, Lilian, if we are to meet no more,” I added. “On Monday it
will be too late.”
I retreated down the stairs, and fled from the house, though Mrs.
Oliphant made a lively pursuit as far as the street door, calling upon
me with all her might to return.
I know that my lady readers are branding me as a barbarian, but I
beg to remind them again that I was not fighting the battle with my
wife, but with her mother. I was striking for my own and for Lilian’s
independence. If I could not have her as my wife, I would not have her
at all. I did not go directly home. I called to see Tom Flynn. He was
not in, but I left a message for him to see me in Needham Street as
soon as he returned.
I was tolerably calm, considering the amount of actual suffering I
endured. Biddy was garrulous, and disposed to say harsh things of the
“missus.” I checked her, declaring that Lilian was an angel herself,
and that Mrs. Oliphant was the fomenter of the strife. Fortunately I
was relieved from her comments by the arrival of Tom Flynn. The noble
fellow looked sad when he entered, and I think he feared I intended
to say I could not pay him the four hundred dollars on Monday, as I
promised. He had not visited my house before, and he was lavish in
his praise of the good taste displayed in the furniture. Perhaps it
suggested him a doubt in regard to the safety of his money.
“Where is Lilian?” he asked. “I have not seen her for a month.”
The question opened the subject nearest to my heart. I began my story,
and related it in the most minute detail up to the interview which
had just taken place between my wife and myself. The noble fellow was
astonished at the recital, and his countenance beamed with generous
sympathy.
“I am very sorry for all this, Paley. It is an awkward and
uncomfortable predicament,” said he.
“What can I do?”
“I don’t know. I think you are right in your main position, though I am
not quite so sure in regard to your method of treatment,” he replied,
musing. “I should not quite like to advertise my wife.”
“I don’t like to do it; but as sure as my name is Paley Glasswood, I
will do it, if she does not come to this house before Monday morning!”
I replied, quite excitedly.
“However, I don’t think you will have occasion to do it,” he added.
“Oliphant has had the reputation of being a hen-pecked husband ever
since I first heard of him. His wife is a strong-minded woman, and I
suppose he found it cheaper to yield than to fight it out. He was a
prosperous man formerly, but they say his spirit was broken by this
domestic tyranny. I can’t advise you to back out, though I wish you had
consulted your wife before you furnished the house.”
“That would only have transferred the battleground to another location.
If I yield, I am lost.”
It was fully settled with the advice of my friend, that I should
not yield. I explained that if Lilian did not like the house or the
furniture after a reasonable trial, I would change either or both. Tom
Flynn stayed with me till midnight, and told me a great many things in
regard to the Oliphants that I was glad to know. It is enough for me to
add that I had not misapprehended the character of “dear ma.”
The next day was Saturday. I went to the bank at the usual hour, and
stayed there till the close of business. I wanted to go to Springhaven
that day to make my assault upon Aunt Rachel’s purse-strings. The last
train left at six o’clock. I was going home, and if my wife did not
appear, I intended to spend Sunday at home with my mother. It was the
last day of grace, both for Lilian and the money I was to pay Tom Flynn
on Monday.
Biddy admitted me, but she had no tidings of my wife. Lilian had not
come to my house, and had sent no message for me. Was it possible
that Mrs. Oliphant meant to let the affair take its course—to make
a “grass-widow” of her daughter rather than allow her to submit? It
looked so, incredible as it seemed. After I had eaten my dinner, I
wrote a note to Lilian, informing her that I intended to spend Sunday
at my mother’s, that I would call at our house in Needham Street on
Monday morning, and that, if I did not find her there, I should insert
the advertisement in all the newspapers. It was then after four
o’clock, and I sent the note by Biddy with the usual instructions.
I went up stairs to take a bath and dress for my visit. It was after
five when I came down. Biddy had returned, and was busy with her work.
I began to tell her where I was going when the door-bell rang.
“Bedad! the missus has come, and brought her mother with her!”
exclaimed she, as she rushed into the dining-room where I was smoking
away the half hour I had to spare before going to the train.
“Where are they?”
“In the parlor.”
It was not a very encouraging fact that Mrs. Oliphant had come with
her. I went into the sitting-room where were seated my guests, for as
such only could I yet regard them.
“I am glad you have come, Lilian,” said I, entering the room.
“But I have not come to stay,” she interposed, promptly.
“Then I am sorry you have come,” I added, as promptly.
“It is terrible, Paley, to think that my husband is prepared to desert
me, and to advertise me in the newspapers,” said she.
“It is just as terrible for me to be deserted as for you, Lilian. I
hope you will think well of it before it is too late.”
“I came over to see about this business, Mr. Glasswood,” interposed
Mrs. Oliphant, stiffly.
“Nothing need be said, madam. I must add that I decline to discuss the
question at all.”
“That’s a pretty way, sir!” continued she. “You married my daughter,
and you promised—”
“I know I did, madam, and she promised, too. If she does not choose to
occupy the house I have provided for her, that is the end of the whole
matter; and also the end of all argument. I am going to Springhaven
now. I have nothing more to say, except to add that when my wife
returns to me I will treat her as tenderly as I know how, bury the
past, and seek only her happiness.”
I moved towards the door. Lilian burst into tears. I saw her glance at
her mother, who sat in dignified stiffness on the sofa.
“Good-by, Lilian,” I said, glancing tenderly at her.
“No, no, Paley! You shall not go!” gasped she, springing into my arms.
“I will stay here!”
“Lilian!” exclaimed her mother, springing to her feet.
She was my wife then.
CHAPTER XI.
OVER THE PRECIPICE.
LILIAN was in my arms again, and all that I had suffered was
compensated for by the bliss of the moment. I think she had been
thoroughly aroused by the peril of her situation, and it was only at
the last possible moment, as she understood the case, that she yielded.
Lilian was human, like the rest of the world, and she was fond of her
own way. I was willing to let her have her own way, but when it came to
giving her mother the control of my affairs, I was rebellious.
My poor wife sobbed in my arms, and I could hardly restrain my own
tears. I would not have repressed them if Mrs. Oliphant had not been
present. Lilian was conquered, but I was sure she had only reached a
point which she had desired to attain before. I am not sure that this
same battle is not fought out by every man and wife, however gentle
and affectionate they may be. Some husbands are brutes, some wives
are head-strong, but each is always jealous of individual power and
influence. I think Lilian was disposed to adopt the tactics of her
mother, and rule her own household; but now she had suddenly become a
gentle and submissive wife, and had thus placed herself in a position
to be potential in regard to her husband.
Mrs. Oliphant was disgusted. She frowned savagely upon both of us. She
realized that her influence was gone forever, if this state of feeling
existed. Her cherished plan fell through and was a wreck beyond the
possibility of redemption. I do not wonder that she was disgusted, for
it was no trivial thing to be suddenly deprived of the handsome income
she derived from me, which I should have been very glad to pay her, if
I could have done so, though not under the egregious cheat of paying
her thirty dollars a week for board which was dear at ten.
“Lilian,” said Mrs. Oliphant, sternly, “I did not think you were so
weak and childish.”
“Weak and childish, mother? Shall I desert my husband?” added my wife,
gently.
“It is not for me to say any thing, for I never interfere between man
and wife,” continued “dear ma,” in the tone of a martyr. “But I can’t
help thinking that your husband is very unreasonable. It isn’t every
child that has so good a home as you have, and parents who are willing
to slave themselves to death for her! And this is all the thanks they
get for it!”
“Why, dear ma, what have I done?” asked Lilian, horrified at the
implied charge of ingratitude.
“Nothing, nothing! It is no matter!” replied Mrs. Oliphant, with a
vigorous effort to appear like a much-abused person. “I suppose it is a
mother’s lot to be deserted by her children.”
“Deserted, mother!” exclaimed my poor wife.
“I would not say any thing, Lilian,” I whispered to her.
“After I had made all my arrangements to board you, suddenly, and
without a word of notice you go off and leave me. What have I done to
merit this treatment?”
Lilian followed my suggestion, and made no reply.
“Well, I suppose I am not wanted here, and I may as well go,” she said,
flouncing up, and aiming for the door.
“On the contrary, Mrs. Oliphant, we shall both be very glad to have you
come here as often and stay as long as you can,” I added.
“Yes, mother, my house shall be your house,” said Lilian, warmly and
with much feeling.
“It is easier to talk than to do,” persisted Mrs. Oliphant, who was
determined to be an abused person. “I’ll go home alone.”
“I will go with you, mother if you desire it.” interposed Lilian.
Mrs. Oliphant did desire it. It is quite possible she expected still to
conquer our united forces.
“Send the wagon for my trunks, Paley, as soon as you please,” whispered
Lilian, as she left the house with her mother.
I need not say that I lost no time in complying with these stealthy
instructions. I hastened for the job wagon, but it was an hour before
I reached Mr. Oliphant’s with it, for I could not readily find a team
at that hour. The clock struck six, and I lost my train to Springhaven;
but I hardly noticed the circumstance, so intent was I upon healing the
breach in my domestic affairs.
When I arrived at the house, I found Lilian in tears, and a little
inclined to yield again; but the appearance of the expressman seemed to
strengthen her again. She permitted the trunks to be carried down, and
the man departed with them.
“I cannot go, Paley,” said she, as she dropped into a chair.
“Why not, Lilian?”
“Mother is terribly incensed against me.”
“She will get over it in a few days. What does your father say?”
“Nothing,” said she, looking up at me, as though she thought I asked a
curious question.
“The sooner we go, Lilian, the better it will be for all of us,” I
suggested.
“I will go, Paley, but I am afraid I shall never be happy again,” said
she, rising.
“Yes, you will, my dear. Your mother will be the same as ever by
to-morrow.”
We went down stairs, and found Mrs. Oliphant in the parlor.
“Good-by, mother. I shall come to see you every day,” said Lilian,
trying to be cheerful.
“Good-by, Lilian,” replied Mrs. Oliphant, in a tone which indicated the
depth of her despair.
Lilian said good-by to her sisters, and hoped both of them would come
to the house in Needham Street every day, Sundays not excepted. Then
we went home. Blessed word! It meant more to me than ever before. I
need hardly add that we talked of nothing during the evening but the
exciting topic of the day, though I tried frequently to change the
subject.
Biddy was the happiest girl outside of Ireland, for though my wife was
very sad, she was still the “missus” in her own house. Lilian confessed
to me that she liked the house very much; that she would not have had
it any different if she had been consulted, but her mother was so
anxious to have us remain at her house that she could not think of such
a thing as leaving her. If her mother could only be satisfied with the
new arrangement, she should be as happy as any mortal in existence.
I hoped for the best. I did not count upon any continued opposition
from Mrs. Oliphant, as it was so obviously for her interest to keep
the peace now that the Rubicon had been passed. If I had not been so
busily occupied in smoothing the path for Lilian, I should have made
myself very miserable over my failure to visit Springhaven. I had four
hundred dollars to pay on Monday, with nothing on hand to meet the
demand. It was an ugly subject, and I avoided it as much as possible
in my meditations, though it would often flash upon me. I could not
disappoint Tom Flynn.
I took an early walk on Sunday morning, and invited Tom to drop in upon
us to dinner that day, which he did. He was delighted to see Lilian in
her new home, and congratulated me privately upon the happy issue of
the difficulty. In the afternoon Mr. Oliphant called. We showed him all
over the house, and the old gentleman appeared to be in raptures. Then
Bertha and Ellen came, and they visited every part of the new mansion,
expressing their entire satisfaction with all the arrangements.
After church, Tom called again, for he never staid away from service
for any reason, forenoon or afternoon. We sang psalm tunes till nine
o’clock in the evening, and truly home was home to me then, as it had
never been before. Bertha was a splendid singer, and I noticed that
Tom, who was very fond of music, appeared to be more interested in her
than I had ever before observed. He went home with her, and I ventured
to hope that my example would not be without its influence upon him.
When I went to the bank the next morning, Tom told me, in the most
careless manner in the world, that Bertha was a very pretty girl, and a
magnificent singer. Of course I agreed with him, but the sight of my
friend thrust upon me, more forcibly than any other consideration, the
ugly fact that I owed him four hundred dollars, due that day. I had not
the courage to ask him for further time. My honor, and more than that,
my pride, were involved. What could I do?
I might run down to Springhaven at night. No, I could not leave, for,
at church and elsewhere, we had invited all our friends to call upon
us, and I expected to see company every evening during the week. I must
be at home. The money must be paid. There was no possible way by which
I could honorably postpone it.
“What time to-day do you want that little matter of money I owe you,
Tom?” I asked of my friend.
“As soon after bank hours as convenient.”
“You shall have it at half-past two. I must go up the street for it,
and can’t leave very well before the bank closes.”
“All right; it will do at three,” added my obliging friend.
What odds would it make to me whether the time was fixed at two or
three? I was just as unable to pay it at one time as the other. A lucky
thought occurred to me. I could call upon my uncle, Captain Halliard,
who would no doubt be glad to redeem his credit with me by lending me
any reasonable sum I wanted. In a week or so I could find time to see
Aunt Rachel, and as I was her favorite, she would put me in funds.
The bank closed. I was in a tremor of anxiety. Before balancing my
cash, I hastened out to find my uncle. He was in the Insurance Office
as usual at this hour. I asked him a great many stupid questions about
indifferent matters, without daring to put the main question. He
actually appeared to have forgotten that he had insulted and offended
me. He was rather patronizing and stiff in his manner, and the result
of the interview was that I did not mention the matter nearest to
my heart. I was sure he would refuse if I did; and I could not be
humiliated for nothing.
I was in despair. My heart was in my throat. My pride revolted at the
thought of telling Tom Flynn that I could not pay him. I went back to
the bank and balanced my cash. I counted over an immense sum of money.
Four hundred dollars would make me happy. Mr. Bristlebach had entire
confidence in me. Why could I not borrow four hundred dollars of the
bank as conveniently as of Captain Halliard.
I trembled at the bare thought of such a thing. Thus far I had kept
myself honest before God and man. But then I did not mean to steal
this sum. I would even put a memorandum in the drawer, to the effect
that I was indebted to the bank for this amount. What harm? Who would
be wronged by it? I intended to pay every penny of it back in a few
days, as soon as I could visit my aunt. It was a little irregular, but
even the cashier had done a similar thing within my knowledge. No one
would ever know anything about it, and certainly no one would ever lose
anything.
Why should I be tortured for the want of four hundred dollars, when
thousands were lying idle in my drawer? Why should I humiliate myself
before Tom Flynn, when, without wronging any body, I could pay my debt,
make him happy, and be happy myself? I was certain that I could return
the four hundred dollars. My aunt would certainly let me have it. My
uncle even would lend it to me. I had property enough in my house to
pay it three times over.
Why should I linger here at the brink of the precipice over which I
had determined to leap? I thought, as hundreds of others have thought,
in the same trying situation. I comforted myself, as they have done,
with fallacious reasoning. I persuaded myself that, as I intended to
pay back what I borrowed, and convinced myself that I had the means to
do so, it was not dishonest for me to take the money. I assured myself
it was only a slight irregularity that I meditated; that, even in the
sight of God, it was only a trivial error of form. The Good Father
judges us more by our intentions than by our acts.
Perhaps I had prepared myself for this step, as every young man
does who permits himself to run in debt, who allows himself to be
continually subjected to a fearful temptation by the pressure of
obligations needlessly incurred. Certainly my experience in furnishing
my house had prepared me for this temptation. It came when I least
expected it. It was but a trivial form that I purposed to break
through; not the law of honesty, of moral rectitude.
I took four one hundred dollar bills from my drawer, and slipped
them into my vest-pocket. Everybody in the bank was minding his own
business. No one took any notice of me. I think I must have been as
pale as death when I did the deed, trivial as I chose to regard it.
I wrote the amount in figures, on a slip of paper, and put it under
the bills in the drawer. I convinced myself that this was a suitable
acknowledgement of what I had done, which fully relieved me of every
intention of doing anything wrong. It is astonishing how weak and silly
we are when we are trying to conceal our own errors from our own eyes.
The contents of my drawer were transferred to the vault, and I prepared
to go home.
“Tom, I haven’t had time to get that money yet, but I will meet you at
three o’clock, at the reading-room,” I remarked to my friend, as easily
as I could.
“O, don’t put yourself out, Paley,” said the generous fellow. “If it is
not convenient, let it go.”
“No, but it shall be paid. The money is all ready, only I have not had
time to go for it.”
“I hope the matter has not given you any trouble, Paley,” he added; and
perhaps I had not been entirely successful in concealing the anxiety
which disturbed me.
“O no, not a bit! You see my affairs at home took up my time, and I
neglected to attend to the matter on Saturday. Be at the reading-room
at three, and I shall have the money for you, without fail.”
“I will be there, Paley. But what makes you look so pale?” he inquired.
“I don’t know. I haven’t been very well, and my difficulty at home
has worn upon me. But I’m all right now,” I replied, assuming a very
cheerful face, as I left the bank.
At the appointed time Tom was at the reading-room, and I gave him
the four hundred dollars. The bills passed out of my hands, and it
was forever too late to undo what I had done. I had leaped over the
precipice beneath which lie dishonor, shame and disgrace. I was sorely
troubled. My irregularity vexed me, and I felt as one tormented by a
legion of devils.
The fact that Tom had noticed my altered appearance put me upon my
guard. I tried to be gay and even jovial. I laughed, cracked jokes,
rallied Tom on being in love with Bertha—any thing to banish from
my mind the corroding feeling that I was a defaulter. I tore up my
note which Tom handed to me. I invited him to come to my house in the
evening. I invited him to come every evening. I know that I must have
talked strangely. There seemed to be a twenty-four pound cannon shot
in the centre of my brain. I wanted something to elevate my spirits.
I went into a bar-room, and drank a glass of whiskey—a thing I had
never before done, though I had taken a glass of wine occasionally.
The liquor inspired me. I drank a second glass, at another bar-room,
and found myself capable of rising above my troubles. I went home.
Buckleton was there, waiting to see me.
CHAPTER XII.
A KEEPER IN THE HOUSE.
LILIAN opened the door, and kissed me as usual when I came home.
“Why, Paley, you have been drinking,” whispered she.
“I had a severe pain, and took a glass of whiskey. I feel fetter now,”
I replied.
“There’s a gentleman waiting for you in the sitting-room,” she added.
“Yes, I saw him. It is Buckleton, an old friend of mine. I may ask him
to dine with us.”
I think Lilian suspected something was wrong with me, though I am sure
she had not the remotest conception of the nature and extent of the
mischief which was gathering around us. Probably the smell of my breath
startled her, with the added fact that I was a little flighty in my
manner, for I believe that nothing can be more justly startling to a
woman than the possibility of her husband becoming a drunkard. She
knew nothing whatever of my financial affairs. I had never made her
my confidant; on the contrary, I had weakly and foolishly assumed to
be “full of money,” and behaved with a liberality and extravagance far
beyond my means.
Buckleton was waiting for me. I owed Buckleton eight hundred dollars,
for which he had no security. What did Buckleton want with me? It had
been his own proposition to give me, under a liberal interpretation of
his own words, unlimited credit as to time, if not amount. Why had he
come to my house? I had been at the bank all the forenoon, and that was
the proper place to meet a man in relation to business. Of course if I
had not owed him eight hundred dollars, I should not have troubled my
head about this particular visit of an old acquaintance.
However, I had drank two glasses of whiskey, and the circumstance of
his coming did not trouble me much. I still felt light-hearted, and was
not disposed to let anything trouble me much or long. I smoothed down
my hair, and after drinking a glass of ice-water in the dining-room,
which my parched tongue required, I entered the room where Buckleton
was waiting for me. He was as cordial as though he had come only as
an old friend. But exhilarated as I was, I could not fail to notice
a certain constraint on his part, as though his cordiality was in a
measure forced.
He was glad to see me. He had business at the South End, and thought
he would call in upon me as he was passing. The messenger at the bank
told me, the next day, he had been there to find me ten minutes after I
left. But his coming at this particular time, he labored to represent,
was purely an accident. He was glad to see me so well situated. He
hoped I should call on him at the West End with Mrs. Glasswood. He
had not had the pleasure of knowing my wife, but he hoped to make her
acquaintance. All these things he said with the utmost suavity, and
then rose from the sofa to take his leave; but he did not take it, and
I knew he did not intend to do so until he had said something about the
little matter of eight hundred dollars that I owed him. He had his hat
in his hand, and moved toward the door.
“Stay and dine with me, Buckleton,” I interposed. “Dinner is all ready,
and I should be delighted to have you.”
“Thank you! Thank you! I should be glad to do so, but I have to meet
a gentleman at the store in half an hour,” he replied, consulting his
watch.
“Let him wait; you needn’t be over half an hour behind time.”
“I can’t do that, for the fact is he owes me some money, and I am
desperately short just now.”
Bah! I had given him the opportunity to say that, and it was now an
easy step for him to dun me.
“Well, come up next Sunday, won’t you? And bring your wife with you. We
shall be delighted to see you,” I continued, hoping to throw him off
the track.
“I will, if possible; but I often find that Mrs. Buckleton has made
engagements for me, and, if I remember rightly, her father and mother
dine with us next Sunday. Besides, I have been so annoyed with business
matters for a week, that I have not felt much like going into company.
I expected a remittance of six thousand dollars from Havana, and
learned the other day that the party had stopped payment. I don’t know
what we shall do to meet our own notes. By the way, Glasswood, would it
be perfectly convenient for you to pay the amount you owe us in a few
days?”
“It would not be perfectly convenient,” I replied, squarely.
“I know very well that I proposed to wait for it, but, you see, this
