for according to an old proverb, Children pick up words as pigeons
pease, To utter them again as God shall please.
“I hope they won’t dance the child to death among them, for each one
seems bound to have his turn, even your sober Mac,” said Mrs. Jessie a
few minutes later as she saw Archie hand Rose over to his cousin, who
carried her off with an air of triumph from several other claimants.
“She’s very good to him, and her influence is excellent, for he is of an
age now when a young woman’s opinion has more weight than an old one’s.
Though he is always good to his mother, and I feel as if I should take
great comfort in him. He’s one of the sort who will not marry till late,
if ever, being fond of books and a quiet life,” responded Mrs. Jane,
remembering how often her son had expressed his belief that philosophers
should not marry and brought up Plato as an example of the serene
wisdom to be attained only by a single man while her husband sided with
Socrates, for whom he felt a profound sympathy, though he didn’t dare to
own it.
“Well, I don’t know about that. Since my Archie surprised me by losing
his heart as he did, I’m prepared for anything, and advise you to do
likewise. I really shouldn’t wonder if Mac did something remarkable in
that line, though he shows no sign of it yet, I confess,” answered Mrs.
Jessie, laughing.
“It won’t be in that direction, you may be sure, for her fate is sealed.
Dear me, how sad it is to see a superior girl like that about to throw
herself away on a handsome scapegrace. I won’t mention names, but you
understand me.” And Mrs. Jane shook her head, as if she could mention
the name of one superior girl who had thrown herself away and now saw
the folly of it.
“I’m very anxious, of course, and so is Alec, but it may be the saving
of one party and the happiness of the other, for some women love to give
more than they receive,” said Mrs. Jessie, privately wondering, for
the thousandth time, why brother Mac ever married the learned Miss
Humphries.
“You’ll see that it won’t prosper, and I shall always maintain that a
wife cannot entirely undo a mother’s work. Rose will have her hands
full if she tries to set all Clara’s mistakes right,” answered Aunt Jane
grimly, then began to fan violently as their hostess approached to have
a dish of chat about “our dear young people.”
Rose was in a merry mood that night, and found Mac quite ready for fun,
which was fortunate, since her first remark set them off on a droll
subject.
“Oh, Mac! Annabel has just confided to me that she is engaged to Fun
See! Think of her going to housekeeping in Canton someday and having to
order rats, puppies, and bird’s-nest soup for dinner,” whispered Rose,
too much amused to keep the news to herself.
“By Confucius! Isn’t that a sweet prospect?” And Mac burst out laughing,
to the great surprise of his neighbors, who wondered what there was
amusing about the Chinese sage. “It is rather alarming, though, to have
these infants going on at this rate. Seems to be catching, a new sort of
scarlet fever, to judge by Annabel’s cheeks and Kitty’s gown,” he added,
regarding the aforesaid ladies with eyes still twinkling with merriment.
“Don’t be ungallant, but go and do likewise, for it is all the fashion.
I heard Mrs. Van tell old Mrs. Joy that it was going to be a marrying
year, so you’ll be sure to catch it,” answered Rose, reefing her skirts,
for, with all his training, Mac still found it difficult to keep his
long legs out of the man-traps.
“It doesn’t look like a painful disease, but I must be careful, for
I’ve no time to be ill now. What are the symptoms?” asked Mac, trying
to combine business with pleasure and improve his mind while doing his
duty.
“If you ever come back I’ll tell you,” laughed Rose as he danced away
into the wrong corner, bumped smartly against another gentleman, and
returned as soberly as if that was the proper figure.
“Well, tell me ‘how not to do it,’” he said, subsiding for a moment’s
talk when Rose had floated to and fro in her turn.
“Oh! You see some young girl who strikes you as particularly charming
whether she really is or not doesn’t matter a bit and you begin to
think about her a great deal, to want to see her, and to get generally
sentimental and absurd,” began Rose, finding it difficult to give a
diagnosis of the most mysterious disease under the sun.
“Don’t think it sounds enticing. Can’t I find an antidote somewhere, for
if it is in the air this year I’m sure to get it, and it may be fatal,”
 said Mac, who felt pretty lively and liked to make Rose merry, for he
suspected that she had a little trouble from a hint Dr. Alec had given
him.
“I hope you will catch it, because you’ll be so funny.”
“Will you take care of me as you did before, or have you got your hands
full?”
“I’ll help, but really with Archie and Steve and Charlie, I shall have
enough to do. You’d better take it lightly the first time, and so won’t
need much care.”
“Very well, how shall I begin? Enlighten my ignorance and start me
right, I beg.”
“Go about and see people, make yourself agreeable, and not sit in
corners observing other people as if they were puppets dancing for your
amusement. I heard Mrs. Van once say that propinquity works wonders, and
she ought to know, having married off two daughters, and just engaged a
third to ‘a most charming young man.’?
“Good lack! The cure sounds worse than the disease. Propinquity, hey?
Why, I may be in danger this identical moment and can’t flee for my
life,” said Mac, gently catching her round the waist for a general
waltz.
“Don’t be alarmed, but mind your steps, for Charlie is looking at us,
and I want you to do your best. That’s perfect take me quite round, for
I love to waltz and seldom get a good turn except with you boys,” said
Rose, smiling up at him approvingly as his strong arm guided her among
the revolving couples and his feet kept time without a fault.
“This certainly is a great improvement on the chair business, to which
I have devoted myself with such energy that I’ve broken the backs of two
partners and dislocated the arm of the old rocker. I took an occasional
turn with that heavy party, thinking it good practice in case I ever
happen to dance with stout ladies.” And Mac nodded toward Annabel,
pounding gaily with Mr. Tokio, whose yellow countenance beamed as his
beady eyes rested on his plump fiancée.
Pausing in the midst of her merriment at the image of Mac and the old
rocking chair, Rose said reprovingly, “Though a heathen Chinee, Fun puts
you to shame, for he did not ask foolish questions but went a-wooing
like a sensible little man, and I’ve no doubt Annabel will be very
happy.”
“Choose me a suitable divinity and I will try to adore. Can I do more
than that to retrieve my character?” answered Mac, safely landing his
partner and plying the fan according to instructions.
“How would Emma do?” inquired Rose, whose sense of the ludicrous was
strong and who could not resist the temptation of horrifying Mac by the
suggestion.
“Never! It sets my teeth on edge to look at her tonight. I suppose that
dress is ‘a sweet thing just out,’ but upon my word she reminds me of
nothing but a Harlequin ice,” and Mac turned his back on her with a
shudder, for he was sensitive to discords of all kinds.
“She certainly does, and that mixture of chocolate, pea green, and pink
is simply detestable, though many people would consider it decidedly
‘chic,’ to use her favorite word. I suppose you will dress your wife
like a Spartan matron of the time of Lycurgus,” added Rose, much tickled
by his new conceit.
“I’ll wait till I get her before I decide. But one thing I’m sure of she
shall not dress like a Greek dancer of the time of Pericles,” answered
Mac, regarding with great disfavor a young lady who, having a statuesque
figure, affected drapery of the scanty and clinging description.
“Then it is of no use to suggest that classic creature, so as you reject
my first attempts, I won’t go on but look about me quietly, and you had
better do the same. Seriously, Mac, more gaiety and less study would do
you good, for you will grow old before your time if you shut yourself up
and pore over books so much.”
“I don’t believe there is a younger or a jollier-feeling fellow in the
room than I am, though I may not conduct myself like a dancing dervish.
But I own you may be right about the books, for there are many sorts of
intemperance, and a library is as irresistible to me as a barroom to a
toper. I shall have to sign a pledge and cork up the only bottle that
tempts me my ink-stand.”
“I’ll tell you how to make it easier to abstain. Stop studying and write
a novel into which you can put all your wise things, and so clear your
brains for a new start by and by. Do I should so like to read it,” cried
Rose, delighted with the project, for she was sure Mac could do anything
he liked in that line.
“First live, then write. How can I go to romancing till I know what
romance means?” he asked soberly, feeling that so far he had had very
little in his life.
“Then you must find out, and nothing will help you more than to love
someone very much. Do as I’ve advised and be a modern Diogenes going
about with spectacles instead of a lantern in search, not of an honest
man, but a perfect woman. I do hope you will be successful.” And Rose
made her curtsey as the dance ended.
“I don’t expect perfection, but I should like one as good as they ever
make them nowadays. If you are looking for the honest man, I wish you
success in return,” said Mac, relinquishing her fan with a glance of
such sympathetic significance that a quick flush of feeling rose to the
girl’s face as she answered very low, “If honesty was all I wanted, I
certainly have found it in you.”
Then she went away with Charlie, who was waiting for his turn, and Mac
roamed about, wondering if anywhere in all that crowd his future wife
was hidden, saying to himself, as he glanced from face to face, quite
unresponsive to the various allurements displayed,
    “What care I how fair she be,
    If she be not fair for me?”
Just before supper several young ladies met in the dressing room to
repair damages and, being friends, they fell into discourse as they
smoothed their locks and had their tattered furbelows sewed or pinned up
by the neat-handed Phillis-in-waiting.
When each had asked the other, “How do I look tonight, dear?” and been
answered with reciprocal enthusiasm, “Perfectly lovely, darling!” Kitty
said to Rose, who was helping her to restore order out of the chaos to
which much exercise had reduced her curls: “By the way, young Randal is
dying to be presented to you. May I after supper?”
“No, thank you,” answered Rose very decidedly.
“Well, I’m sure I don’t see why not,” began Kitty, looking displeased
but not surprised.
“I think you do, else why didn’t you present him when he asked? You
seldom stop to think of etiquette why did you now?”
“I didn’t like to do it till I had you are so particular I thought you’d
say ‘no,’ but I couldn’t tell him so,” stammered Kitty, feeling that she
had better have settled the matter herself, for Rose was very particular
and had especial reason to dislike this person because he was not only a
dissipated young reprobate himself but seemed possessed of Satan to lead
others astray likewise.
“I don’t wish to be rude, dear, but I really must decline, for I cannot
know such people, even though I meet them here,” said Rose, remembering
Charlie’s revelations on New Year’s night and hardening her heart
against the man who had been his undoing on that as well as on other
occasions, she had reason to believe.
“I couldn’t help it! Old Mr. Randal and Papa are friends, and though I
spoke of it, brother Alf wouldn’t hear of passing that bad boy over,”
 explained Kitty eagerly.
“Yet Alf forbade you driving or skating with him, for he knows better
than we how unfit he is to come among us.”
“I’d drop him tomorrow if I could, but I must be civil in my own house.
His mother brought him, and he won’t dare to behave here as he does at
their bachelor parties.”
“She ought not to have brought him till he had shown some desire to
mend his ways. It is none of my business, I know, but I do wish people
wouldn’t be so inconsistent, letting boys go to destruction and then
expecting us girls to receive them like decent people.” Rose spoke in
an energetic whisper, but Annabel heard her and exclaimed, as she turned
round with a powder puff in her hand: “My goodness, Rose! What is all
that about going to destruction?”
“She is being strong-minded, and I don’t very much blame her in this
case. But it leaves me in a dreadful scrape,” said Kitty, supporting her
spirits with a sniff of aromatic vinegar.
“I appeal to you, since you heard me, and there’s no one here but
ourselves do you consider young Randal a nice person to know?” And Rose
turned to Annabel and Emma with an anxious eye, for she did not find it
easy to abide by her principles when so doing annoyed friends.
“No, indeed, he’s perfectly horrid! Papa says he and Gorham are the
wildest young men he knows, and enough to spoil the whole set. I’m so
glad I’ve got no brothers,” responded Annabel, placidly powdering her
pink arms, quite undeterred by the memory of sundry white streaks left
on sundry coat sleeves.
“I think that sort of scrupulousness is very ill-bred, if you’ll excuse
my saying so, Rose. We are not supposed to know anything about fastness,
and wildness, and so on, but to treat every man alike and not be fussy
and prudish,” said Emma, settling her many-colored streamers with the
superior air of a woman of the world, aged twenty.
“Ah! But we do know, and if our silence and civility have no effect, we
ought to try something else and not encourage wickedness of any kind. We
needn’t scold and preach, but we can refuse to know such people and that
will do some good, for they don’t like to be shunned and shut out from
respectable society. Uncle Alec told me not to know that man, and I
won’t.” Rose spoke with unusual warmth, forgetting that she could not
tell the real reason for her strong prejudice against “that man.”
“Well, I know him. I think him very jolly, and I’m engaged to dance
the German with him after supper. He leads quite as well as your cousin
Charlie and is quite as fascinating, some people think,” returned Emma,
tossing her head disdainfully, for Prince Charming did not worship at
her shrine and it piqued her vanity.
In spite of her quandary, Rose could not help smiling as she recalled
Mac’s comparison, for Emma turned so red with spiteful chagrin, she
seemed to have added strawberry ice to the other varieties composing the
Harlequin.
“Each must judge for herself. I shall follow Aunt Jessie’s advice and
try to keep my atmosphere as pure as I can, for she says every woman has
her own little circle and in it can use her influence for good, if she
will. I do will heartily, and I’ll prove that I’m neither proud nor
fussy by receiving, here or at home, any respectable man you like to
present to me, no matter how poor or plain or insignificant he may be.”
With which declaration Rose ended her protest, and the four damsels
streamed downstairs together like a wandering rainbow. But Kitty laid
to heart what she had said; Annabel took credit herself for siding with
her; and Emma owned that she was not trying to keep her atmosphere pure
when she came to dance with the objectionable Randal. So Rose’s “little
circle” was the better for the influence she tried to exert, although
she never knew it.
At suppertime Charlie kept near her, and she was quite content with him,
for he drank only coffee, and she saw him shake his head with a frown
when young Van beckoned him toward an anteroom, from whence the sound of
popping corks had issued with increasing frequency as the evening wore
on.
“Dear fellow, he does try,” thought Rose, longing to show how she
admired his self-denial, but she could only say, as they left the supper
room with the aunts, who were going early: “If I had not promised Uncle
to get home as soon after midnight as possible, I’d stay and dance the
German with you, for you deserve a reward tonight.”
“A thousand thanks, but I am going when you do,” answered Charlie,
understanding both her look and words and very grateful for them.
“Really?” cried Rose, delighted.
“Really. I’ll be in the hall when you come down.” And Charlie thought
the Fra Angelico angel was not half so bright and beautiful as the one
who looked back at him out of a pale blue cloud as Rose went upstairs as
if on wings.
When she came down again Charlie was not in the hall, however, and,
after waiting a few minutes, Mac offered to go and find him, for Aunt
Jane was still hunting a lost rubber above.
“Please say I’m ready, but he needn’t come if he doesn’t want to,” said
Rose, not wishing to demand too much of her promising penitent.
“If he has gone into that barroom, I’ll have him out, no matter who is
there!” growled Mac to himself as he made his way to the small apartment
whither the gentlemen retired for a little private refreshment when the
spirit moved, as it often did.
The door was ajar, and Charlie seemed to have just entered, for Mac
heard a familiar voice call out in a jovial tone: “Come, Prince! You’re
just in time to help us drink Steve’s health with all the honors.”
“Can’t stop, only ran in to say good night, Van. Had a capital time, but
I’m on duty and must go.”
“That’s a new dodge. Take a stirrup cup anyway, and come back in time
for a merry-go-rounder when you’ve disposed of the ladies,” answered the
young host, diving into the wine cooler for another bottle.
“Charlie’s going in for sanctity, and it doesn’t seem to agree with
him,” laughed one of the two other young men who occupied several chairs
apiece, resting their soles in every sense of the word.
“Apron strings are coming into fashion the bluer the better hey,
Prince?” added the other, trying to be witty, with the usual success.
“You’d better go home early yourself, Barrow, or that tongue of yours
will get you into trouble,” retorted Charlie, conscious that he ought
to take his own advice, yet lingering, nervously putting on his gloves
while the glasses were being filled.
“Now, brother-in-law, fire away! Here you are, Prince.” And Steve handed
a glass across the table to his cousin, feeling too much elated with
various pleasurable emotions to think what he was doing, for the boys
all knew Charlie’s weakness and usually tried to defend him from it.
Before the glass could be taken, however, Mac entered in a great hurry,
delivering his message in an abbreviated and rather peremptory form:
“Rose is waiting for you. Hurry up!”
“All right. Good night, old fellows!” And Charlie was off, as if the
name had power to stop him in the very act of breaking the promise made
to himself.
“Come, Solon, take a social drop, and give us an epithalamium in your
best Greek. Here’s to you!” And Steve was lifting the wine to his own
lips when Mac knocked the glass out of his hand with a flash of the
eye that caused his brother to stare at him with his mouth open in
an imbecile sort of way, which seemed to excite Mac still more, for,
turning to his young host, he said, in a low voice, and with a look that
made the gentlemen on the chairs sit up suddenly: “I beg pardon, Van,
for making a mess, but I can’t stand by and see my own brother tempt
another man beyond his strength or make a brute of himself. That’s plain
English, but I can’t help speaking out, for I know not one of you would
willingly hurt Charlie, and you will if you don’t let him alone.”
“What do you pitch into me for? I’ve done nothing. A fellow must be
civil in his own house, mustn’t he?” asked Van good-humoredly as he
faced about, corkscrew in hand.
“Yes, but it is not civil to urge or joke a guest into doing what you
know and he knows is bad for him. That’s only a glass of wine to you,
but it is perdition to Charlie, and if Steve knew what he was about,
he’d cut his right hand off before he’d offer it.”
“Do you mean to say I’m tipsy?” demanded Steve, ruffling up like a
little gamecock, for though he saw now what he had done and was ashamed
of it, he hated to have Mac air his peculiar notions before other
people.
“With excitement, not champagne, I hope, for I wouldn’t own you if you
were,” answered Mac, in whom indignation was effervescing like the wine
in the forgotten bottle, for the men were all young, friends of Steve’s
and admirers of Charlie’s. “Look here, boys,” he went on more quietly,
“I know I ought not to explode in this violent sort of way, but upon my
life I couldn’t help it when I heard what you were saying and saw what
Steve was doing. Since I have begun, I may as well finish and tell you
straight out that Prince can’t stand this sort of thing. He is trying
to flee temptation, and whoever leads him into it does a cowardly
and sinful act, for the loss of one’s own self-respect is bad enough,
without losing the more precious things that make life worth having.
Don’t tell him I’ve said this, but lend a hand if you can, and never
have to reproach yourselves with the knowledge that you helped to ruin a
fellow creature, soul and body.”
It was well for the success of Mac’s first crusade that his hearers
were gentlemen and sober, so his outburst was not received with jeers or
laughter but listened to in silence, while the expression of the faces
changed from one of surprise to regret and respect, for earnestness is
always effective and championship of this sort seldom fails to touch
hearts as yet unspoiled. As he paused with an eloquent little quiver
in his eager voice, Van corked the bottle at a blow, threw down the
corkscrew, and offered Mac his hand, saying heartily, in spite of his
slang: “You are a first-class old brick! I’ll lend a hand for one, and
do my best to back up Charlie, for he’s the finest fellow I know, and
shan’t go to the devil like poor Randal if I can help it.”
Murmurs of applause from the others seemed to express a general assent
to this vigorous statement, and, giving the hand a grateful shake, Mac
retreated to the door, anxious to be off now that he had freed his mind
with such unusual impetuosity.
“Count on me for anything I can do in return for this, Van. I’m sorry
to be such a marplot, but you can take it out in quizzing me after I’m
gone. I’m fair game, and Steve can set you going.”
With that, Mac departed as abruptly as he had come, feeling that he
had “made a mess” of it, but comforting himself with the thought that
perhaps he had secured help for Charlie at his own expense and thinking
with a droll smile as he went back to his mother: “My romance begins by
looking after other girls’ lovers instead of finding a sweetheart for
myself, but I can’t tell Rose, so she won’t laugh at me.”
Chapter 13 BOTH SIDES
Steve’s engagement made a great stir in the family a pleasant one this
time, for nobody objected, everything seemed felicitous, and the course
of true love ran very smoothly for the young couple, who promised to
remove the only obstacle to their union by growing old and wise as soon
as possible. If he had not been so genuinely happy, the little lover’s
airs would have been unbearable, for he patronized all mankind in
general, his brother and elder cousins in particular.
“Now, that is the way to manage matters,” he declared, standing before
the fire in Aunt Clara’s billiard room a day or two after the ball, with
his hands behind his back. “No nonsense, no delay, no domestic rows or
tragic separations. Just choose with taste and judgment, make yourself
agreeable through thick and thin, and when it is perfectly evident that
the dear creature adores the ground you walk on, say the word like a
man, and there you are.”
“All very easy to do that with a girl like Kitty, who has no confounded
notions to spoil her and trip you up every time you don’t exactly toe
the mark,” muttered Charlie, knocking the balls about as if it were
a relief to hit something, for he was in a gloriously bad humor that
evening, because time hung heavy on his hands since he had forsworn the
company he could not keep without danger to himself.
“You should humor those little notions, for all women have them, and it
needs tact to steer clear of them. Kitty’s got dozens, but I treat them
with respect, have my own way when I can, give in without growling when
I can’t, and we get on like a couple of--”
“Spoons,” put in Charlie, who felt that he had not steered clear and so
suffered shipwreck in sight of land.
Steve meant to have said “doves,” but his cousin’s levity caused him to
add with calm dignity, “reasonable beings,” and then revenged himself by
making a good shot which won him the game.
“You always were a lucky little dog, Steve. I don’t begrudge you a
particle of your happiness, but it does seem as if things weren’t quite
fair sometimes,” said Archie, suppressing an envious sigh, for, though
he seldom complained, it was impossible to contrast his own and his
cousin’s prospects with perfect equanimity.
    “His worth shines forth the brightest who in hope
     Always confides: the Abject soul despairs,”
observed Mac, quoting Euripides in a conversational tone as he lay upon
a divan reposing after a hard day’s work.
“Thank you,” said Archie, brightening a little, for a hopeful word from
any source was very comfortable.
“That’s your favorite Rip, isn’t it? He was a wise old boy, but you
could find advice as good as that nearer home,” put in Steve, who just
then felt equal to slapping Plato on the shoulder, so elated was he at
being engaged “first of all the lot,” as he gracefully expressed it.
“Don’t halloo till you are out of the wood, Dandy Mrs. Kit has jilted
two men, and may a third, so you’d better not brag of your wisdom too
soon, for she may make a fool of you yet,” said Charlie, cynically, his
views of life being very gloomy about this time.
“No, she won’t, Steve, if you do your part honestly. There’s the making
of a good little woman in Kitty, and she has proved it by taking you
instead of those other fellows. You are not a Solomon, but you’re not
spoilt yet, and she had the sense to see it,” said Mac encouragingly
from his corner, for he and his brother were better friends than even
since the little scene at the Van Tassels’.
“Hear! Hear!” cried Steve, looking more than ever like a cheerful young
cockerel trying to crow as he stood upon the hearth rug with his hands
under his coat tails, rising and falling alternately upon the toes and
heels of his neat little boots.
“Come, you’ve given them each a pat on the head haven’t you got one for
me? I need it enough, for if ever there was a poor devil born under an
evil star, it is C. C. Campbell,” exclaimed Charlie, leaning his chin on
his cue with a discontented expression of countenance, for trying to be
good is often very hard work till one gets used to it.
“Oh, yes! I can accommodate you.” And, as if his words suggested the
selection, Mac, still lying flat upon his back, repeated one of his
favorite bits from Beaumont and Fletcher, for he had a wonderful memory
and could reel off poetry by the hour together.
    “Man is his own star; and the soul that can
    Render an honest and a perfect man
    Commands all light, all influence, all fate.
    Nothing to him falls early or too late.
    Our acts our angels are; or good or ill,
    Our fatal shadows that walk by us still.”
“Confoundedly bad angels they are too,” muttered Charlie ruefully,
remembering the one that undid him.
His cousins never knew exactly what occurred on New Year’s night, but
suspected that something was amiss, for Charlie had the blues, and Rose,
though as kind as ever, expressed no surprise at his long absences. They
had all observed and wondered at this state of things, yet discreetly
made no remark till Steve, who was as inquisitive as a magpie, seized
this opportunity to say in a friendly tone, which showed that he bore no
malice for the dark prophecy regarding his Kitty’s faithfulness: “What’s
the trouble, Prince? You are so seldom in a bad humor that we don’t know
what to make of it and all feel out of spirits when you have the blues.
Had a tiff with Rose?”
“Never you mind, little boy, but this I will say the better women are,
the more unreasonable they are. They don’t require us to be saints like
themselves, which is lucky, but they do expect us to render an ‘honest
and a perfect man’ sometimes, and that is asking rather too much in a
fallen world like this,” said Charlie, glad to get a little sympathy,
though he had no intention of confessing his transgressions.
“No, it isn’t,” said Mac, decidedly.
“Much you know about it,” began Charlie, ill pleased to be so flatly
contradicted.
“Well, I know this much,” added Mac, suddenly sitting up with his hair
in a highly disheveled condition. “It is very unreasonable in us to ask
women to be saints and then expect them to feel honored when we offer
them our damaged hearts or, at best, one not half as good as theirs. If
they weren’t blinded by love, they’d see what a mean advantage we take
of them and not make such bad bargains.”
“Upon my word, the philosopher is coming out strong upon the subject!
We shall have him preaching ‘Women’s Rights’ directly,” said Steve, much
amazed at this outburst.
“I’ve begun, you see, and much good may it do you,” answered Mac, laying
himself placidly down again.
“Well, but look here, man you are arguing on the wrong side,” put in
Archie, quite agreeing with him, but feeling that he must stand by his
order at all costs.
“Never mind sides, uphold the right wherever you find it. You needn’t
stare, Steve I told you I was going to look into this matter, and I am.
You think I’m wrapped up in books, but I see a great deal more of what
is going on around me than you imagine, and I’m getting on in this new
branch, let me tell you, quite as fast as is good for me, I daresay.”
“Going in for perfection, are you?” asked Charlie, both amused and
interested, for he respected Mac more than he owned even to himself, and
though he had never alluded to the timely warning, neither forgot.
“Yes, I think of it.”
“How will you begin?”
“Do my best all-round keep good company, read good books, love good
things, and cultivate soul and body as faithfully and wisely as I can.”
“And you expect to succeed, do you?”
“Please God, I will.”
The quiet energy of Mac’s last words produced a momentary silence.
Charlie thoughtfully studied the carpet; Archie, who had been absently
poking the fire, looked over at Mac as if he thanked him again, and
Steve, forgetting his self-conceit, began to wonder if it was not
possible to improve himself a little for Kitty’s sake. Only a minute,
for young men do not give much time to thoughts of this kind, even when
love stirs up the noblest impulses within them. To act rather than to
talk is more natural to most of them, as Charlie’s next question showed,
for, having the matter much at heart, he ventured to ask in an offhand
way as he laughed and twirled his cue: “Do you intend to reach the
highest point of perfection before you address one of the fair saints,
or shall you ask her to lend a hand somewhere short of that?”
“As it takes a long lifetime to do what I plan, I think I shall ask some
good woman ‘to lend a hand’ when I’ve got anything worth offering her.
Not a saint, for I never shall be one myself, but a gentle creature who
will help me, as I shall try to help her, so that we can go on together
and finish our work hereafter, if we haven’t time to do it here.”
If Mac had been a lover, he would not have discussed the subject in
this simple and sincere fashion, though he might have felt it far more
deeply, but being quite heart-free, he frankly showed his interest and,
curiously enough, out of his wise young head unconsciously gave the
three lovers before him counsel which they valued, because he practiced
what he preached.
“Well, I hope you’ll find her!” said Charlie heartily as he went back to
his game.
“I think I shall.” And while the others played, Mac lay staring at the
window curtain as contentedly as if, through it, he beheld “a dream of
fair women” from which to choose his future mate.
A few days after this talk in the billiard room, Kitty went to call upon
Rose, for as she was about to enter the family she felt it her duty
to become acquainted with all its branches. This branch, however, she
cultivated more assiduously than any other and was continually running
in to confer with “Cousin Rose,” whom she considered the wisest,
dearest, kindest girl ever created. And Rose, finding that, in spite
of her flighty head, Kitty had a good heart of her own, did her best to
encourage all the new hopes and aspirations springing up in it under the
warmth of the first genuine affection she had ever known.
“My dear, I want to have some serious conversation with you upon a
subject in which I take an interest for the first time in my life,”
 began Miss Kitty, seating herself and pulling off her gloves as if the
subject was one which needed a firm grasp.
“Tell away, and don’t mind if I go on working, as I want to finish this
job today,” answered Rose, with a long-handled paintbrush in her hand
and a great pair of shears at her side.
“You are always so busy! What is it now? Let me help I can talk faster
when I’m doing something,” which seemed hardly possible, for Kitty’s
tongue went like a mill clapper at all hours.
“Making picture books for my sick babies at the hospital. Pretty work,
isn’t it? You cut out, and I’ll paste them on these squares of gay
cambric then we just tie up a few pages with a ribbon and there is a
nice, light, durable book for the poor dears to look at as they lie in
their little beds.”
“A capital idea. Do you go there often? How ever do you find the time
for such things?” asked Kitty, busily cutting from a big sheet the
touching picture of a parent bird with a red head and a blue tail
offering what looked like a small boa constrictor to one of its
nestlings, a fat young squab with a green head, yellow body, and no tail
at all.
“I have plenty of time now I don’t go out so much, for a party uses up
two days generally one to prepare for it and one to get over it, you
know.”
“People think it is so odd of you to give up society all of a sudden.
They say you have ‘turned pious’ and it is owing to your peculiar
bringing-up. I always take your part and say it is a pity other girls
haven’t as sensible an education, for I don’t know one who is as
satisfactory on the whole as you are.”
“Much obliged. You may also tell people I gave up gaiety because I value
health more. But I haven’t forsworn everything of the kind, Kit. I go
to concerts and lectures, and all sorts of early things, and have nice
times at home, as you know. I like fun as well as ever, but I’m getting
on, you see, and must be preparing a little for the serious part of
life. One never knows when it may come,” said Rose, thoughtfully as she
pasted a squirrel upside down on the pink cotton page before her.
“That reminds me of what I wanted to say. If you’ll believe me, my
dear, Steve has got that very idea into his head! Did you or Mac put it
there?” asked Kitty, industriously clashing her shears.
“No, I’ve given up lecturing the boys lately they are so big now they
don’t like it, and I fancy I’d got into a way that was rather tiresome.”
“Well, then, he is ‘turning pious’ too. And what is very singular, I
like it. Now don’t smile I really do and I want to be getting ready
for the ‘serious part of life,’ as you call it. That is, I want to grow
better as fast as I can, for Steve says he isn’t half good enough for
me. Just think of that!”
Kitty looked so surprised and pleased and proud that Rose felt no
desire to laugh at her sudden fancy for sobriety but said in her most
sympathetic tone: “I’m very glad to hear it, for it shows that he loves
you in the right way.”
“Is there more than one way?”
“Yes, I fancy so, because some people improve so much after they fall in
love, and others do not at all. Have you never observed that?”
“I never learned how to observe. Of course I know that some matches turn
out well and some don’t, but I never thought much about it.”
“Well, I have, for I was rather interested in the subject lately and had
a talk with Aunt Jessie and Uncle about it.”
“Gracious! You don’t talk to them about such things, do you?”
“Yes, indeed. I ask any questions I like, and always get a good answer.
It is such a nice way to learn, Kitty, for you don’t have to pore over
books, but as things come along you talk about them and remember, and
when they are spoken of afterward you understand and are interested,
though you don’t say a word,” explained Rose.
“It must be nice, but I haven’t anyone to do so for me. Papa is too
busy, and Mama always says when I ask question, ‘Don’t trouble your head
with such things, child,’ so I don’t. What did you learn about matches
turning out well? I’m interested in that, because I want mine to be
quite perfect in all respects.”
“After thinking it over, I came to the conclusion that Uncle was right,
and it is not always safe to marry a person just because you love him,”
 began Rose, trying to enlighten Kitty without betraying herself.
“Of course not if they haven’t money or are bad. But otherwise I don’t
see what more is needed,” said Kitty wonderingly.
“One should stop and see if it is a wise love, likely to help both
parties and wear well, for you know it ought to last all one’s lifetime,
and it is very sad if it doesn’t.”
“I declare it quite scares me to think of it, for I don’t usually go
beyond my wedding day in making plans. I remember, though, that when I
