'Well? 'Now,' Diana?' 

' I can see through.' 

Perhaps this was not very intelligible, for manifestly it 
was not easy for Diana to explain herself ; but Basil this 
time did not speak, and she presently began again. 

' I mean, there is no prison vault, nor any prison any 
more ; the walls that seemed to shut me in are dissolved, 
and I am free again.' 

' And you can see through ? ' Basil repeated. 

' Yes. Where my eyes were met by something harder 
than fate, it is all broken up, and light, and clear, and I 
can see through.' 

' I never used to think you were a fanciful woman,' said 
the minister, eyeing her intently ; ' but this time I do not 
quite follow you, Di. I am afraid to take your words for 
all they may mean.' 

' But you may.' 

'What may I?' 

' They mean all I say.' 




' I am sure of that,' said he smiling, though he looked 
anxious ; ' but you see, there is the very point of my difficulty.' 

' I mean, Basil, that I am out of my bondage, which I 
thought never could be broken in this world.' 

' Out of what bondage, my love ? ' 

Diana paused. 

' When I went down to Clifton, to Mrs. Sutphen's, do 
you know, I could think of nothing but Evan Knowlton ? ' 

Diana's colour stirred, but she looked her husband 
steadily in the face. 

' I suspected it.' 

' For a long time I could not, Basil. Night and day, I 
could think of nothing else. Wasn't that bondage ? ' 

' Depends on how you take it,' said the minister. 

' But it was wrong, Basil.' 

'I found excuses for you, Diana.' 

' Did you ? ' she said humbly. ' I dare say you did. It 
is like you. But it was wrong, and I knew it was wrong, 
and I could not help it. Is not that bondage, of the worst 
sort? O you don't know, Basil! you never knew such a 
fight between wrong and right ; between your wish and your 
will. But for a long time I did not see that it was wrong ; 
I thought it was of necessity.' 

' How came your view to change ? ' 

' I don't know. All of a sudden. Something Mrs. Sut- 
phen said one morning started my thoughts, and I saw at 
once that I was doing very wrong. Still it seemed as if I 
could not help it.' 

' How did you help it ? ' 

' I didn't, Basil. I fought and fought O what a fight! 
It seemed like death, and worse, to give up Evan ; and to 
stop thinking of him, meant, to give him up. I could not 



 

gain the victory. But don't you remember telling me, often, 
that Christ would do everything for me if I would trust 
him ? ' 

' Yes.' 

' Basil, he did. It wasn't I. At last I got utterly 
desperate, and I threw myself at his feet and claimed the 
promise. I was as helpless as I could be. And then Basil, presently, I cannot tell how, the work was done. 
The battle was fought and the victory was won, and I was 
free. And ever since I have been singing songs in my 
heart.' 

Basil did not flush with pleasure. Diana thought he 
grew pale rather ; but he bowed his head upon the head of 
the little one on his lap with a deep low utterance of 
thanksgiving. She thought he would have shewn his pleasure differently. She did not know how to go on. 

' It was not I, Basil ' she said after a pause. 

' It never is I, or you,' answered the minister without 
looking up. ' It is always Christ, if anything is done.' 

' Since then, you see, I have felt like a freedwoman.' 

' Which you are.' 

' And then you cannot think what it was to me, and 
what it is, to smell the roses again. There were not many 
roses about Clifton at that time, in September ; but it 
was the bay and the shores and the vessels and the sky. I 
seemed to have got new eyes, and everything was so beautiful.' 

Basil repeated his ejaculation of thanksgiving, but he 
said nothing more ; and Diana felt somehow disappointed. 
Did he not understand that she was free ? He bowed his 
head close down upon the head of his little daughter and 
was silent.' 

' I knew you ought to know ' Diana repeated. 



 

' Thank you ' he said. 

' And yet I couldn't tell you though I knew you would 
be so glad for me and with me.' 

' I am unutterably glad for you.' 

And not with me ? she said to herself. Why not ? Isn't 
it enough, if I don't love anybody else ? if I give him all I 
have to give ? even though that be not what he gives to 
me. I wish Basil would be reasonable. 

It was certainly the first time it had ever occurred to 
her to make him the subject of such a wish. But Diana 
did not speak out her thought, and of course her husband 
did not answer it. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

DAIRY AND PARISH WORK. 

ACCORDING to her custom, Diana was up early the 
next morning, and down in her dairy while yet the sun 
was only just getting above the horizon. The dairy window stood open night and day; and the cool dewy freshness 
which was upon the roses and lilies outside was in there 
too among the pans of cream ; the fragrance of those 
mingled with the different but very pure sweetness of these. 
Diana was skimming pan after pan ; the thick yellow 
cream wrinkled up in rich folds under her skimmer ; the 
skimming shelf was just before the window, and outside 
of the window were the roses and honeysuckles. Diana's 
sleeves were rolled up above her elbows ; her hands were 
disposing of their business with quick skill ; yet now and 
then, even with a pan under her hand, she paused, leaned 
on the window sill and looked out into the garden. She 
felt glad about something, and yet an unsatisfied query 
was in her heart ; she was glad that she had at last told 
her husband how the spell was broken that had bound her 
to Evan and kept her apart from himself. ' But he did not 
seem so glad as I expected ! ' Then she recalled the deep 
tone of his thanksgiving for her, and Diana's eyes took a 
yearning look which certainly saw no roses. ' It was all 
for me ; it was not for his own share ; he did not think he 
had any share in it. He has a notion that I hate him ; 




 

and I do not ; I never did.' It occurred to her here dimly 
that she had once felt a horror of him ; and who would not 
rather have hatred than horror ? She went on skimming 
her cream. What should she do ? 'I cannot speak about 
it again,' she said to herself ; ' I cannot say any more to 
him. I cannot say I don't know what I ought to say! 
but I wish he knew that I do not dislike him. He is keen 
enough ; surely he will find it out.' 

Pan after pan was set aside ; the churn was filled ; and 
Diana began to churn. Presently in came Mrs. Starling. 

' Hain't Josh brought the milk yet ? ' 

' Not yet.' 

' It's time he did. That fellow's got a lazy streak in 
him somewhere.' 

' It's only just half-past five, mother.' 

' The butter ought to be come by now, I should think. ' 
Mrs. Starling was passing in and out, setting the table in the 
lean-to kitchen. She would have no ' help ' in her dominions, so it was only in Diana's part of the house that the 
little servant officiated, whom Basil insisted upon keeping 
for his wife's ease and comfort and leisure. Diana herself 
attended as of old to her particular sphere, the dairy. 
' How do you know it's just half-past five ? ' her mother 
went on presently. 

' I looked.' 

' Watches ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Starling with much disgust. 
'Your husband is ridiculous about you.' 

But Diana could bear that. 

' In your dairy, is a queer place to wear a watch.' 

' Why mother, it's for use, not for show.' 

' Make me believe that ! There's a good deal of show 
about it anyhow, with such a chain hanging to it.' 

' My husband gave it to me, you know, chain and all ; 



 

I must wear it,' Diana said with a face as sweet as the 
roses. 

' Oh yes ! your husband ! ' Mrs. Starling answered insultingly. ' That will do to say to other people. Much you 
care what your husband does ! ' 

Diana got up here, left her churn, came up to her mother 
and put a hand upon her arm. The action and air of the 
woman were so commanding, that even Mrs. Starling stood 
still with a certain involuntary deference. Diana's face and 
voice however were as clear and calm as they were commanding. 

' Mother,' she said, ' you are mistaken. I care with 
all there is of me ; heart and soul and life.' 

Mrs. Starling's eye shrank away. ' Since when ? ' she 
asked incredulously. 

' It does not matter since when. Whatever I have ever 
felt for other people, there is only one person in the world 
that I care for now ; and that is, my husband.' 

'You'd better tell him so,' sneered Mrs. Starling. 
' When do you expect your butter is going to come, if you 
stand there ? ' 

'The butter is come,' said Diana gently. She knew the 
sneer was meant to cover uneasy feeling ; and if it had not, 
still she would not have resented it. She never resented 
anything now that was done to herself. In came Josh with 
the foaming pails. Diana's hands were in the butter and 
her mother came to strain the milk. 

' There had ought to be three quarts more, that ain't 
here,' she grumbled. 

' They ain't nowheres else then,' answered her factotum. 

' Josh, you don't strip the cows clean.' 

'Who doos, then ?' said Josh grinning. 'If 'tain't me, 



 

I don' know who 'tis. That 'ere red heifer is losin' on her 
milk, though, Mis' Starlin'. She had ought to be fed sun'- 
thing.' 

' Well, feed her then,' cried the mistress. ' You know 
enough for that. You must keep up the milk this month, 
Josh ; the grass is first-rate.' 

Diana escaped away. 

A while later the family was assembled at breakfast. 

' Where's the child ? ' inquired Mrs. Starling. 

' I believe she is out in the garden, mother.' 

' She oughtn't to be out before she has had her breakfast. 'Tain't good for her.' 

' O she has had her breakfast,' said Diana. This was 
nothing new. Diana as well as her husband was glad to 
keep the little one from Mrs. Starling's table, where unless 
they wanted her to be fed on pork and pickles and the like, 
it was difficult to have a harmonious meal. It was often 
difficult at any rate ! 

' Who's with her ? ' Mrs. Starling went on. 

' Her father was with her. Now Prudence is looking 
after her.' 

' Prudence ! You want to keep a girl about as much as 
I want to keep a boat. You have no use for her.' 

' She is useful just now,' put in the dominie. 

' Why can't Diana take care of her own child, and feed 
her when she takes her own meals ? as I used to do, and 
as everybody else does.' 

' You think that is a convenient arrangement for all 
parties? ' said the minister. 

' I hate to have danglers about ! ' said Mrs. Starling. 
' If there's anything I abominate, it's shiftlessness. I always found my ten fingers was servants enough for me ; 
and what they couldn't do, I could go without. And I 





don't like to see a daughter o' mine sit with her hands be- 
fore her and livin' off other people's strength ! ' 

Diana laughed, a low, sweet laugh, that was enough to 
smooth away the wrinkles out of anybody's mood. 

' She has to do as she's told,' said the minister sententiously. 

' That's because she's a fool.' 

'Do you think so?' Basil answered with unchanged 
good humour. 

' I never took my lessons from anybody.' 

' Perhaps it would have been better if you had.' 

' And you are spoiling her,' Mrs. Starling added inconsistently. 

' I wonder you haven't.' 

Mrs. Starling paused to consider what the minister 
meant. Before she came to speech again, he rose from the 
table. 

' Will you come to my study, Diana, after breakfast ? ' 

' Who's goin' to make my cake then ? ' cried the mistress 
of the house. ' Society's to meet here again this afternoon.' 

' I'll make it mother a Mountain cake, if you like,' 
said Diana, also rising. ' Basil wont want me all the morning.' But she was eager to hear what he had to say to 
her, and hurried after him. He had seemed to her more 
than usually preoccupied. 

' I do think,' she remarked as she reached the study, 
' the Society eat more cake than their work is worth.' 

' Heresy ' said Basil smiling. 

' They don't do much sewing, Basil.' 

' They do something else. Never mind ; let them come 
and have a good time. It won't hurt anybody much.' 

Diana looked at him and smiled, and then waited anxiously. She longed for some words from Basil different 
from those he had spoken last night. Could he not see, 
that if her passion for Evan was broken, there was nothing 
left for him to look grave about ? And ought he not to be 
jubilant over the confession she had just made to her 
mother ? Diana was jubilant over it herself ; she had set 
that matter clear at last. It is true, Basil had not heard 
the confession, but ought he not to divine it, when it was 
the truth ? ' If I do not just love him,' said Diana to herself, ' at least he is the only one I care for in all the world. 
That would have made him glad once. And he don't look 
glad. Does he expect me to speak out and tell him all 
that ? ' 

Basil did not look as if he expected her to do any such 
thing. He was rather graver than usual, and did not at once 
say anything. Through the open window came the air 
still damp with dew, laden with the scent of honeysuckle 
and roses, jocund with the shouts of birds ; and for one 
instant Diana's thoughts swept back away to years ago, 
with a wondering recognition of the change in herself since 
those June days. Then her husband began to speak. 

' I have had a call, Diana.' 

' A call ? You have a good many of them always, Basil. 
What was this ? ' 

' Of a different sort. A call for me not a call upon 
me.' 

' Well, there have always been calls for you too, in 
plenty, ever since I have known you. What do you 
mean ? ' 

' This is a call to me, to leave Pleasant Valley,' said 
Basil, watching her, yet without seeming to do so. Diana 
looked bewildered. 

' Ta leave Pleasant Valley ? Why ? And where would 
you go, Basil ? ' 



 

' I am called, because the people want somebody and 
have pitched upon me. The place is a manufacturing 
town, not very far from Boston.' 

' Are you going ? ' 

' That is the point upon which I desire to have your 
opinion.' 

'But, Basil, the people here want you too.' 

'Grant that.' 

' Then what does it signify, whether other people want 
you ? ' 

'In so much, as the 'other people' are more in numbers and far more needy in condition.' 

' Want you more ' said Diana wistfully. 

' That is the plain English of it.' 

' And will you go ? ' 

' What do you counsel ? ' 

' I do not know the people ' said Diana breathless. 

' Nor I, as yet. The church that calls me, is itself a 
rich little church which has been accustomed, I am afraid, 
for some time, to a dead level in religion.' 

' They must want you then, badly,' said Diana. ' That 
was how Pleasant Valley was, five years ago.' 

' But round the church lies on every hand the mill 
population, for whom hardly any one cares. They need 
not one man, but many. Nothing is done for them. 
They are almost heathen, in the midst of a land called 
Christian.' 

' Then you will go ? ' said Diana, looking, at Mr. Masters and wishing that he would speak to her with a different 
expression of face. It was calm, sweet and high, as always ; but she knew he thought his wife was lost to him for ever. ' And yet, I told him, last night ! ' she said to 
herself. Really, she was thinking more of that than of this 
other subject Basil had unfolded to her. 



 

' I do not know,' he answered. ' How would you like 
to run over there with me and take a look at the place ? 
I have a very friendly invitation to come and bring you, 
for the very purpose.' 

' Run over ? Why it must be more than one day's 
journey? ' 

' One runs by railway,' said Basil simply. ' What do 
you think ? Will you go ? ' 

' O yes, indeed ! if you will let me. And Rosy ? ' 

' We will go nowhere without Rosy.' 

Diana made her cake like one in a dream. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 



THE journey to Mainbridge, the manufacturing town in 
question, took place within a few days. With eager cordiality the minister and his family were welcomed in the house 
of one of the chief men of the church and of the place, and 
made very much at home. It was a phasis of social life which 
Diana had hardly touched ever before. Wealth was abounding and superaboun-ding ; the house was large, the luxury 
of furnishing and fitting, of service and equipage, was on 
a scale she had never seen. Basil was amused to observe 
that she did not seem to see it now ; she took it as a matter of course, and fitted in these new surroundings as 
though her life had been lived in them. The dress of the 
minister's wife was very plain, certainly ; her muslins were 
not costly, and they were simply made ; yet nobody in the 
room looked so much dressed as she. It was the dignity 
of her beauty that so attired her ; it was beauty of mind 
and body both ; and both made the grace of her movements 
and the grace of her quiet so exquisite as it was. Basil 
smiled and sighed. 

But there was no doubt Diana saw the mill people. 
The minister and his wife were taken to see the mills, of 
course, divers and various. Silk mills, cotton mills, iron mills. The machinery, and the work done by it, were fascinating to Diana and delightful ; the mill people, men, 
women and children, were more fascinating by far, though 



 

in a far different way. She watched them in the mills, she 
watched them when she met them in the street, going to or 
from work. 

' Do they go to church ? ' she asked once of Mr. Brandt, 
their entertainer. He shook his head. 

' They are tired with their week's work when Saturday 
night comes, and want to rest. Sunday was given for rest,' 
he said, looking into Diana's face, which was a study to 
him. 

' Don't you think,' she said, ' rest of body is a poor 
thing without rest of mind ? ' 

' My mind cannot rest unless my body does,' he answered 
laughing. 

' Take it the other way don't you know what it is to 
have rest of mind make you forget weariness of body ? ' 

' No nor you either,' said he. 

' Then I am sorry for you ; and I wish I could get at 
the mill people.' 

' Why ? ' 

' To tell them what I know about it.' 

' But you could not get at them. Airs. Masters. They 
are in the mills from seven till seven or eight ; and come 
out tired and dirty ; and Sunday, as I told you, they like 
to stay at home and rest and perhaps clean up.' 

' If there is no help for that,' said Diana, ' there ought 
to be no mills.' 

' And no manufacturers ? ' 

' What are silk and iron, to the bodies and souls of 
men ? Basil, does that passage in the Revelation mean 
that ? ' 

' What passage ? ' said Mr. Brandt. ' Here is a Bible, 
Mrs. Masters ; perhaps you will be so good as to find the 
place. I am afraid from your expression, it is not a flattering passage for us mill-owners. What are the words you 
refer to ? ' 

I think he wanted to draw out Diana much more than 
the meaning of Scripture. She took the Bible a little 
doubtfully and glanced at Basil. He was smiling at her 
in a reassuring way, but did not at all offer to help. Diana's thoughts wandered somewhat and she turned the 
leaves of the Bible unsuccessfully. ' Where is it, Basil ? ' 

' You are thinking of the account of the destruction of 
Babylon. It is in the eighteenth chapter.' 

' But Babylon ! ' said the host. ' We have nothing to 
do with Babylon. That means Rome, doesn't it ? ' 

' Here's the chapter,' said Diana. ' No, it cannot mean 
Rome, Mr. Brandt ; though Dean Stanley seems to assume 
that it does, in spite of the fact which he naively points 
out, that the description don't fit.' 

'What then?' 

' Basil, won't you explain ? ' 

' It is merely an assumption of old Testament imagery,' 
said Basil. 'At a time when lineal Israel stood for the 
church of God upon earth, Babylon represented the head 
and culmination of the world power, the church's deadly 
opponent and foe. Babylon in the Apocalypse but means 
that of which Nebuchadnezzar's old Babylon was the type.' 

' And what is that ? ' 

' The power of this world, of which Satan is said to be 
the prince.' 

' But what do you mean by the world, Mr. Masters ? 
We cannot get out of the world it is a pretty good world 
