neighbourhood of Melzen. These Wends, on the hither side of the Elbe,
reinforced by a strong party of their brethren from beyond the river,
undertook a campaign against Saxony; for they themselves were still
heathen and therefore had a hatred against the Christians. This hatred
was all the stronger because the Saxons under Otto had vanquished them.
In this campaign, so far as they went, they burnt and laid waste
everything, and in especial their aim was directed against the churches
and chapels and Christian priests; the former were burned and levelled
with the ground, the latter were put to death in tortures. So it befell
with that first church which Landolf had built at the Deep Moor; it was
burned down and entirely destroyed. Eight priests, who served this
church and the chapels lying in the neighbourhood, were slain, part of
them at once, part of them were dragged to the Wendish idol altar in
Radegast, not far from the Elbe, and there slaughtered in honour of the
heathen god; those chapels were likewise destroyed. Hermann was just
come to Bremen when this news reached him. He rapidly gathered his
warriors, came suddenly upon the robbing and plundering Wends at the
so-called Hühnenburg, obliged them to flee with great loss, and pursued
them without stay or respite into their own country; whereupon they sued
for peace, and promised they would keep quiet and accept the Christian
religion. He granted them peace, but went on to destroy their idol
temple in Radegast, and then returned in triumph home. He next applied
his whole energy to repair the destruction which had been wrought, to
rebuild the churches and chapels, and establish priests in them. And the
better to secure the land, and especially his own beloved inheritance,
against the like predatory incursions, he built strong fortresses, as,
for instance, the Hermannsburg' (burg means a castle or fortress,
Maggie), 'the Hermannsburg, around which now the people began to build
again, who had fled away before the Wends; the Oerzenburg, the
Wiezenburg, &c.'"

"Then that is how so many names have come to end with 'burg,'" said
Esther.

"Hermann did not build all the castles," said Meredith, "But yes--that
is very much how it has come. In those old Middle Ages, when the right
of the strongest was the only prevailing one, naturally there were a
great many castles built. Indeed all the nobles lived in castles, and
must. Just look at the pictures of the Rhine to see what the Middle Ages
were; see how the people had to perch their fortresses up on almost
inaccessible peaks of rock, where it must have been terribly
inconvenient to live, one would think. I suppose people knew little of
what we call conveniences in these days."

"Then round the principal fortresses, naturally, the villages grew up,"
said Flora. "They would cluster round the castles for protection."

"Well, I never thought before that one could see the Middle Ages through
the stereoscope," said Maggie.

"Pretty fair," said Meredith. "Well, let us go on with Hermann. 'Through
his unintermitting activity all was soon in blooming condition again,
and no enemy dared to show himself any more. Before his end in the year
972, he had the joy of seeing the church, the foundation-stone of which
he had laid at the Bondenhof, consecrated on Peter and Paul's day. That
is this same church which is still standing in Hermannsburg, and in
which we hold divine service.'"

"O Ditto! is that church standing yet that Hermann built?"

"And the very foundation-stone that Hermann laid is there to this day.
I'd like to see it! We have nothing old in this country. Imagine
attending a church that has stood for nine hundred years! He endowed
this church with a tenth, and gave almost the half of the fields and
meadows of the above-named manor to the Hermannsburger pastor.

"'Of his remaining great deeds our chronicle says little; which is
natural, as it is and proposes to be only a Hermannsburg chronicle. In
the year 973, the same year that his great friend and benefactor Otto
died, died also Hermann Billing, the freeman's son who had come to be
Duke of Saxony. About his end the chronicle relates only that he was
sick but a few days; that he wished for and received the Holy Supper
before his death; admonished his son Benno, or Bernhard, who was his
heir: "My son, be true to your God and your kaiser, a protector to the
Church, and a father to your vassals;" laid his hands upon his head and
blessed him; and then extended his hand to all his weeping servants who
were assembled, commended them to the grace of God; and at last
prayed--"Into Thy hands I commend my spirit; Thou hast redeemed me, Lord
God of hosts." Then he softly fell asleep, and the same wonderful
sweetness which in life had given such a charm to his face, in death put
a very glory around his brow.

"'King Otto the second honoured the true man's memory by confirming his
son Bernhard, or Benno, as Duke of Saxony.'"




CHAPTER VII.


"Is that all?" said Maggie.

"All in this place, about Hermann Billing."

"I like him very much!" said Maggie drawing a deep sigh.

"Notwithstanding he was such an incorruptible judge!"

"Notwithstanding he was such a hard, cruel man, you should say," said
Flora. "Ditto, you are ridiculous!"

"It is a great mistake, you must remember, to judge a man of one time by
the lights or laws of another."

"There's a law of nature," said Flora, "in some people, which makes
them dislike to kill their relations."

"There is a higher law than the law of nature. Nature did not prevent
Abraham from making preparations to offer up Isaac. It did not hinder
Moses"----

"I do not know what unnatural thing Moses did," said Flora; "but I
confess to you, I think Abraham acted much more like a heathen than like
a Christian in that event of his life."

"Which only shows, that if you had been in his place you would have
failed to manifest Abraham's faith, and so would have entirely missed
Abraham's blessing. 'Because thou hast done this thing, saith the Lord,
and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son;' then the Lord went on to
heap blessing upon him."

"I don't see how Abraham could do it."

"Because he trusted God. It is not trust, Flo, that will not go any
further than it sees why."

"Ditto, what are you going to read next?" said Maggie.

"We'll see. Next thing, I think, will be the description Pastor Harms
gives of that old church which Hermann Billing built; Hermann the duke,
I mean. Don't you want to hear it?"

"Oh, yes. The description of it as it is now?"

"As it is now. But what a wonderful sort of a church is this we are in!"
said Meredith looking up.

"Here, this bank, do you mean?"

"This bank; and these pillars of tree-stems; and these wonderful Gothic
windows of tree-branches, through which the light comes broken by
transom and mullion. And the incense which fills nature's cathedral. And
the stillness. And the preaching."

"Don't get highfaluten, Meredith," said his sister.

"No; that would be a pity, here."

"I never heard of silent preaching before."

"The strongest of all."

"Is it? Well, go on and read. My work gets on best then."

"It is too lovely to do anything but look and breathe. The air is most
delicious. And nature seems so wide and free. I have an odd feeling that
I am floating with those clouds yonder, and flowing softly with the
river, and hovering about generally, like those eagles. Do you see those
eagles?"

"Highfaluten again, Meredith," said his sister.

"Well, one good poet has been highfaluten then before me. Don't you
remember, Maggie, something your uncle was repeating one day? I have
never forgotten it--

    "'My soul into the boughs does glide.'

"It is an odd feeling--but it makes me very rich for the present. This
is the loveliest place! And now you shall have the Hermannsburg church.
So Pastor Harms writes:

"'It is a great thing indeed, and a beautiful thing, to know somewhat of
the origin and of the history of the church in which one worships and
serves God. When I step into our church, whether it be for holding
divine service or that I may pray there alone, every time, I feel my
whole inmost soul stirred. The very walk to the church through the
churchyard is edifying to me. The church at the beginning was situated
upon a little eminence, so that it was needful to mount several steps to
get to the church doors. Now one must go down several steps from the
churchyard to reach the entrance of the church. How comes that! Since
the year 972 the churchyard has been the place of burial. The dust of
those laid within it has raised the ground-level, till now the church
lies lower than the churchyard. A hill has grown out of the dust of the
dead, and over this hill I go into the church. Does not this walk of
itself preach in the most impressive way: "Put thine house in order, O
man, for thou must die!" Then, when I step inside the church, what a new
sermon I get! Since 972 years after Christ, therefore since 880 years
ago, men have worshipped there the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost;
have sung in his honour the church's songs of praise; have thither
brought their children to be baptized; have heard the preaching of the
Divine Word there, have eaten and drunk the emblems of the Body and
Blood of the Lord there, have bowed their knees there, where now I bow
mine! It always seems to me, then, as if the veil were parted which
divides the church up yonder from the church down below. Where I am,
here have those who are fallen asleep once been and worshipped; and
where they are now, thither shall I go also. So in blessed faith I can
cry out, "A holy Christian church!" Not a place in the world is so dear
to me as the church, my beloved church. I have no paternal mansion; for
I am the son of a pastor, and pastors leave no inheritance for their
children; and yet I have a Father's house, the best there is in the
world, my beloved church; truly that is God's house, and God is my
Father, and so it is justly and truly my home.

"'And how wonderfully God has guarded this house of His. What wars have
raged since this house has been standing, and it has remained uninjured.
Since the Thirty Years' War, Hermannsburg has been four times burned
down; this house has remained standing. Twice lightning has struck the
tower, and so shattered the foundations that only a little turret
stands now upon the riven walls instead of the slender one hundred and
eighty feet high spire which was there before; but the church remained
untouched. The interior has been altered; the many-coloured paintings on
the arched vault of the ceiling are gone; the many-coloured galleries
have disappeared; in the body of the church itself gallery over gallery
mounts up to the vaulted ceiling, to give accommodation for the hearers,
but the church itself has remained unchanged. And when I think of the
blessings that have gone forth from this house, what churches, chapels,
and cloisters have sprung from here, in Bergen, in Wiezendorf, in
Munster, in Müden, and the chronicle mentions many more; yes, when I
remember how from the castles founded by Hermann on the Oerze and Wieze,
the castellans of Oerze and Wiezendorf marched out so early as with Duke
Bernhard, to help bring the heathen people of Lauenburg and Mechlenburg
to Christianity; must not then the zeal of my forefathers kindle my own
zeal to bring the Lord's blessing, His Word and His sacraments, to the
heathen, to the very ends of the earth? And now that seems no longer
strange to me which seems strange to so many, that we from this place
should have undertaken to send out a peasant mission. It has not been
our own doing; it has come from our church and our history. Did the
peasant's son Hermann become Duke of Saxony? Was the blessing of
Christianity carried from here into all the region round about, even
into the countries on the other side of the Elbe? Why should not
Hermann's peasant church preach among the heathen the Saviour who has
been their own so long? May such a primeval blessing only make us right
thankful, right humble, right kind and loving, only zealous and fervent
in spirit. We see well enough that the Lord can use little things;
therefore let nobody despise us because we are small, and let us have
the joy of serving the Lord with our insignificant gifts and strength,
as well as we can. It is written in the Scriptures, "Destroy it not, for
a blessing is in it!"'"

Meredith ceased reading, and there was a silent pause of a few minutes.
Crochet needles worked busily, Maggie sat pondering, Meredith lay back
on his elbow on the moss and looked down at the river. Here and there
the soft-pointed top of a young cedar rose up between, not hindering,
only as it were embellishing the view. In the silence, when the strokes
of the woodcutters halted, little sweet sounds broke in, every one of
them coming like a caress or a murmur of rest; two crows slowly flying
over and calling to each other, some crickets chirruping nearer by, a
little gentle rustle and lapping of the water, then a bugle-call from
the post opposite. Clouds hardly moved, winds were asleep, the air,
fragrant with the breath of the evergreens, scarcely stirred,
luxuriously warm and still. The colouring, too, in which all nature had
dressed herself, gave another touch of delight through every object
which the eye rested on.

"What a sky!" said Meredith. "And what air! It's wonderful."

"Ditto," began Maggie, "have they a mission in Hermannsburg?"

"Yes. They have a mission in Africa."

"Why is it a 'peasant mission,' and what does that mean?"

"Why, you see, Maggie, the whole people of Hermannsburg are just a
parcel of peasants, part in the village, and part, I believe, farming it
here and there on the Lüneburg heath. They are poor people; small
farmers, and the like. They have not much money to give; but when Pastor
Harms had been with them a while and proposed to them to set about
mission work, a dozen men offered themselves to go. They were already so
filled with his own spirit."

"And did they go?"

"They had to be put to school first. They were too ignorant to instruct
the heathen or anybody. So they were set to study under Pastor Harms'
brother for three years. While they were studying Pastor Harms undertook
building a ship which should carry them to Africa. The ship and the men
were ready together about the same time."

"They could not have been a very poor people, I should think," said
Flora.

"They were, though; but you see, they began by giving themselves to the
Lord; and when people do that, I guess they generally find that there is
a good deal else to give. Oh, they were poor enough; but it would cost a
great deal, you know, to pay their passage in a ship belonging to other
people, and the freight on all the goods they must carry, for they were
going out not merely to preach, but to establish a colony and live among
the heathen. And then, whenever new recruits for the mission were sent
out, the expense would have to be incurred over again, so they thought
the cheapest way in the end would be to build their own ship."

"And they did build it?" said Maggie.

"Certainly. The good ship 'Candace.' And everybody helped in some way.
The shoemakers made shoes, and the tailors made clothes, to go out with
the mission; the women knitted and sewed. Do you want to hear what
Pastor Harms says about it?"

"Oh, yes, Ditto, please!"

"Yes, read on--anything," said Flora.

"Two men of the first twelve had died, and two others had proved false.
Eight left, to whom another eight joined themselves, who would go out as
colonists. Now I will read:--

"'So by God's grace, everything was ready. And now one should have seen
the busy industry, the lively expectation, the gleesome bustle, as the
last hand, I may say, was put to everything. In the Mission-house, what
learning and counselling and arranging; in the workshops belonging to
it, what smithwork and cabinetwork and tailoring; how our women and
girls sewed! Our village shoemaker worked with his might at the
foot-gear to be taken along; our village cooper did the same at the
great water casks for the ship; my brother went out with the Mission
pupils in leisure hours and picked berries which were to be taken along.
Here people brought dried apples, pears and plums; there buckwheat and
buckwheat groats; here rye, flour, peas, wheat; there sides of bacon,
hams, and sausages. Then again house-furnishing articles, tools, heather
brooms, trumpets and horns, even live hogs and poultry, and even
potatoes were hauled along--and all was to go. Even a fir-tree with its
roots was planted in a large pot filled with earth, in order that on the
ocean the travellers might light up a Christmas-tree. Then again came
packages of linen made up, and of stuff. And there was a great deal that
never came to Hermannsburg. Whatever was prepared on the other side of
the Elbe, in Hamburg, Lübeck, Haide, &c., was kept in Hamburg, and we
never saw it at all. In Hamburg alone there were handed over from female
friends of the Mission, one hundred and twenty-eight cotton shirts, all
finished and ready; from Haide forty striped shirts for the natives;
from Lübeck and Mechlenburg, besides beautiful under-linen, all sorts of
pictures and little things for the heathen; from some children here came
writing boxes, pens, and writing books for the heathen children. Also
from here, from Osnabrück, Schaumburg, Lüneburg, Bremen, and
neighbourhood, whole rolls of linen cloth. There was a stir and spring
of love that moved people's hearts. Every one of the emigrants was to
take a gun with him, for in East Africa there are a great many wild
beasts, lions, elephants, serpents, &c. Scarcely had this become known,
when guns, rifles, double-barrelled rifles, pistols, and daggers came
in, till we had enough to leave some for a future party that might be
sent out. Then would come our harbourmaster, or our captain, from
Harburg, to arrange this or that; then our pupils journeyed to Harburg
to bring money for the ship. One hardly knew where his head was.'"

"Well, did they go to Africa, Ditto?"

"The colonists and missionaries; yes, sixteen of them."

"Whereabouts in Africa?"

"The east coast, about Natal."

"I haven't the least idea where Natal is."

"You would do well to look it out on the map."

"And are they there yet, Ditto?"

"They went in the year 1853. It is not likely they are all there now.
But others followed them, Maggie, year after year, till now there are, I
believe, between twenty and thirty stations where they are settled."

"All from Hermannsburg! Ditto, it is very curious! So many years ago,
Hermann's castles sent out soldiers to bring heathen Mechlenburg to the
Christian religion; and now Mechlenburg gives shirts and pictures for
Hermannsburg to send to other heathen in Africa."

"What sort of heathen people are those they went to?" Esther asked.

"Quite a good sort. Here is a description of them, written by one of the
brethren who sailed in that first trip of the 'Candace':--

"'I cannot make it out how the heathen can be as they are, although they
are day and night before my eyes. They are powerful, muscular men, with
open faces and sparkling eyes; they all go either quite naked or with a
very slight covering. A late law obliges them, however, to put a shirt
on when they are going into a city. They live in houses which resemble
beehives, into which you must creep. The whole stock of valuables which
you find in these huts is an assaghai (javelin), a club, a mat, a bit of
wood for a pillow, and a great horn for smoking. I have seen nothing
else in them. The people have almost no wants. So many wives as a man
has, so many huts has he also, one for each wife, and then one besides
for himself. The women are bought; paid for with cows and oxen; ten and
twenty oxen for a wife. These become then the man's slaves, and the man,
when he has got a good many wives, hardly does any more work himself.
The women must cultivate the maize and sweet potatoes, which is almost
all the people live upon. Once in a while they kill an ox; and then so
many come together to eat it that it is all disposed of at one meal. Our
German brethren aver that ten Caffres in twenty-four hours will eat up a
whole ox, skin and entrails and all, which they roast at the fire; that
afterwards, however, they can go fasting four days at hard labour. They
are fond of adorning themselves with coral and rings, and snuff-boxes
are to be seen in the hands of both men and women. They cork up the
snuff in their nostrils with a hollowed-out bit of wood, till the tears
run down their cheeks. The women are so hardly used that a mother with a
little five-days-old baby must go out to work in the hot sun with the
baby on her back, and the father does not concern himself at all about
the child. Of twins, one is almost always killed at once. In short, they
are not much above the beasts in their way of life; and the worst of all
is, they are almost inaccessible to the truth, and laugh at everything
sacred.'"




CHAPTER VIII.


"Well," said Maggie, as Meredith paused, "I should think somebody ought
to go to those people!"

"Hopeless work," said Flora, stitching away at her worsted.

"No, it is not hopeless work," answered her brother. "As you would soon
see, if all the Churches had the matter at heart like Pastor Harms and
his Hermannsburg."

"Everybody cannot give himself up to such business," said Flora glancing
at him.

"Everybody ought."

"O Ditto!" cried Maggie, "do you think everybody ought to go to
Africa?"

"Yes," said Flora; "that is just about what he thinks."

"No, Maggie," said Meredith, "neither to Africa nor to other heathen
parts; not everybody. But everybody can give himself up to the work of
the kingdom, even if he stays at home. Most people must stay at home."

"I don't understand," said Maggie with a shrug of her shoulders.

"Don't you remember--'Seek ye first the kingdom of God;'--that's all I
mean."

"'First!'" Flora echoed.

"How 'first,' Ditto?"

"Before everything else. The words mean that, if they mean anything."

"How before everything else?"

"See, Maggie. Suppose you and I have"----

"Now, Ditto, stop!" said his sister. "I do not want to hear any of that
stuff. What is it to Maggie? And Essie and I do not care about it."

"And there comes Fenton," added Esther, springing up to go and meet him.
For Fenton it was, bounding up the bank at their left.

Fenton was grown a good deal since our last sight of him; otherwise not
much changed. A handsome boy, with a good figure and a bright eye, and
also the old, somewhat supercilious upper lip. But he was glad to get
home, and greeted the party cordially enough; then, however, began to
criticise.

"What are you all doing loafing here?" He had sat down on the bank with
the rest, and looked from one to another.

"We do not use your elegant expression," said Flora; "partly perhaps
because we are not wont to indulge ourselves in that particular
amusement."

"What are you doing?"

"You do not see anything to engage our attention in what at present
offers itself to yours," Meredith remarked.

"Nothing offers itself to my attention," replied Fenton. "I don't see
anything except our old cart. Anything to eat in it?"

"There is no pie left," said Esther, "for I gave the last of it to
Fairbairn; and Flora drank up all the cream. There's some sugar in the
sugar-bowl."

Fenton went to get some lumps of sugar, and then stood looking down at
the party.

"Aren't you going home to dinner?" said he. "I tell you, I'm raging."

"Four o'clock," said Meredith, looking at his watch. "Just the pretty
time of day coming now."

"It'll be dinner-time by the time you get the cart home and the girls
get dressed. What did you come out here so far for? I haven't had a
respectable dinner for six months. I am going to have some wine to-day,
if the governor is away."

"Governor!" cried Esther. "What a vulgar expression for Fenton Candlish
to use!"

"Wine!" exclaimed Maggie. "You can't have any wine, Fenton; we don't
drink wine any more in this house."

"What's the matter!"

"The matter is, papa has emptied his wine-cellar," said Esther in a
rather aggrieved tone.

"Drunk it all up?"

"No, no; sent it off and sold it."

"What was the matter with it!"

"Why, I tell you," said Esther, "it is thought improper for good people
to drink wine."

Fenton's face was rather funny to see, there was such a blank dismay in
it.

"And did mamma give in to that?"

"I don't know what mamma thought," said Esther; "but papa sold the wine;
and our dinner-table does not have its pretty coloured glasses any
more."

Fenton uttered a smothered exclamation which I am afraid would have
shocked his sisters.

"I don't see what you want with wine, Fenton," said Maggie; "papa
never let you have it."

"Mamma did though," said Fenton. "That's the good of having two parents.
If one is crochety perhaps the other will be straight. Well, I'm not
going to live if I can't live like a gentleman. I shall send to Forbes
to send me some wine."

His sisters burst out into horrified exclamations and expostulations.

"Papa'll see it in the bill," said Esther, "and he'll be very angry."

"Uncle Eden is coming," said Maggie, "and it will be no use. He'd throw
it into the river."

"Uncle Eden coming?"

The girls nodded.

"If I had known that I wouldn't have come!" said Fenton looking very
dark.

"I'd think better of it if I were you," remarked Meredith quietly.
"There goes more to the making of a gentleman than the drinking of
wine."

"What do you mean?"

"Just that. As for instance--self-control, noble thoughts, care for
others above himself, indifference to low pleasures."

"Low pleasures!" repeated Fenton. "Do you call wine a low pleasure?"

"Well, it brings people into the gutter."

"Pshaw! not gentlemen."

"I grant you they are not gentlemen after they get there."

"What do you know about it?" said the boy not very politely. "Did you
ever drink it yourself?"

"I never will again. A gentleman should be a free man; and wine makes
men slaves. I don't choose to be in bondage. And if it would not enslave
me, it does other people; and I would not give it the help of my
example."

Fenton dropped the subject, but renewed his proposal that they should
return home. So shawls and worsted work were stored in the cart, and the
little book in Meredith's pocket; and the line of march was taken up. It
was indeed coming now to the lovely time of the day. Shadows long,
lights glowing in warm level reflections, all objects getting a sunny
side and a shady side, and standing forth in new beauty in consequence;
the day gathering in its train, as it were, to prepare for a stately
leave-taking by and by. Meredith and Maggie, loath to go, lingered the
last of the party; indeed he had the cart to draw, which was heavy, and
needed careful guiding in places over and between the rocks; and he
could not run on with the heads of the party. And Maggie walked beside
him, and put her little hand upon the handle of the cart which she could
not help to draw. How sweet it was! The light every moment growing
softer, not cooler; the colours more contrasted, as the shadows
lengthened; the bugle notes coming over the water now and then. Meredith
looked, and drew deep breaths of the delicious air; but Maggie walked
along pondering.

"Ditto," she began, "do you think everybody ought to do mission work?"

"The dear Lord did not give the charge to some of His people, did He?"

"But how can they do it? Everybody cannot go to the heathen?"

"He said, 'in all the world'--so that means at home as well as abroad,
doesn't it?"

"Preach the gospel in all the world?"

"Yes."

