vants in the Lord 's work of doing good how 
can we pass by death into heaven ? Death only 
separates the soul from its mortal body ; it makes 
no change in its quality. What we are as to qua 
lity good or evil j selfish or unselfish when we 
depart hence, will we remain to eternity. And 
so, my friend, if you wish to come fully into hea 
ven when you die, press forward through the gate 
by which you have now entered, and the further 
you progress here, the higher will be your posi 
tion when, at the close of this earthly life, it. shall 
be said unto you Come, ye blessed of my Fa 
ther, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from 
the foundation of the world ! " 
XIV. 
UNDER A CLOUD. 
" THAT a joyous creature !" said a friend, 
glancing, as he spoke, towards an attrac 
tive girl, whose laugh rang out at the moment, 
and went musically fluttering through the rooms. 
" It always does me good to meet the outflowing 
life of such a being. She is like a ruddy blossom 
in a bed of sombre-hued plants, catching the 
sunbeams, and throwing them, by reflection, all 
around her." 
"She is a fair, human flower," I answered, 
" with rich stores of perfume in her heart ; only, 
I have thought, sometimes, a little too gay and 
joyous. She seems to live in perpetual sur- 
shine." 
" I see no objection in that. Flowers grow in 
the sunshine. It is their life-imparting element," 
 
was returned. "Give me the radiant natures; 
souls that dwell beneath unclouded skies ; hearts 
that know no shadows." 
" The sky is not always sunny," I remarked. 
My friend looked at me, as one who did not 
clearly see the drift of this sentence. 
" There are intervals, in which clouds obscure 
the heavens intervals of rain." 
He looked at me still ; a slight change passing 
over his face, as if some unpleasant thoughts were 
coming into his mind ; but did not reply. 
" Are not clouded skies, and falling rains, also 
good for the flowers? Would their richest 
beauty their sweetest odors come out, if they 
dwelt only in the sunshine? Nay, more than 
this, would the fruit-germ perfect itself fully in 
the flower-heart, if there were given only hot, un- 
tempered and over stimulating beams of light 
from time opening bud to falling petal ?" 
My friend was yet silent. The illustration 
brought doubts and queries not easily set aside. 
" The soul is not a flower," he said, at length. 
 
"Because plants need the alternations of rain and 
sunshine, does it follow that the same is true of 
our souls ?" 
" There is a perfect correspondence between the 
soul and nature," T returned j " for was not the 
world of nature created for man ? And, if cre 
ated for him, must it not in all things correspond 
to what is in him ? If it were not so, how would 
it be possible for him ever to be at one with na 
ture? Granting this perfect correspondence, then, 
as to objects and their relations in the phenome 
nal world, with the inner world of mind, will not 
growths, processes and developments in the latter, 
advance by corresponding laws to final results? 
So, nature becomes, in a higher degree, our 
teacher." 
The merry laugh rang out again. It was near 
us, the maiden had crossed the room, her arm 
drawn within that of another maiden, and now 
stood the centre of a little group. The laugh 
was musical as before ; and yet, something of its 
sweetness to the ear was gone. We paused to 
 
observe her, and could not help but hear the sen 
tences that dropped from her lips. Flippant tri 
fles first then a thoughtless personality, that 
must have hurt the one at whom it was thrown 
and then a witty sarcasm, at the expense of an 
excellent, but peculiar lady, who made one of the 
company. 
" Too much sunshine," I remarked, leaning to 
my friend, as the group separated, and our merry 
maiden passed beyond the range of our voices. 
" The life blood is too abundant the growth too 
lusty. She needs the tempering of clouds and 
rain." 
" Trouble sorrow or sickness. Is that what 
you mean ?" 
"Whatever God sees best," was my answer. 
" He knoweth the heart, and understandeth what 
discipline is needed. She is with him, and he 
will not suffer the good in her to be lost." 
Again the bird-like, warbling laugh went 
through the rooms. A sigh, almost at the same
moment, parted my friend 's lips. Either my 
suggestions, or the want of harmony between the 
beautiful and glad exterior of the maiden and the 
glimpses she had given of her inner state, had 
changed his feeling towards her. He was disap 
pointed, as we so often are in plucking a beautiful 
but unfamiliar flower, to find the odor unpleasant. 
" Perhaps you are right," he said, in a changed 
voice. " There may be need of clouds and rain." 
" There is always need of them," I remarked ; 
"just as much need of them for the perfection of 
a human soul, as for the perfection of a plant or a 
tree. When the poet said 
Into each life some rain must fall, 
Some days must be dark and dreary, 
he was not playing with figures of speech, but 
uttering a truth of universal application." 
" It may be so," the friend remarked, with in 
creasing sobriety of manner " but, I cannot see 
why the soul, of necessity, must have dark days 
and rainy seasons for the perfection of its life. I 
cannot see why one like Miss Saroni, for instance, 
 
may not grow into a true, loving and perfect wo 
manhood, and yet dwell always in sunshine. I 
know that our higher nature must be developed ; 
that we must rise above the natural into the spi 
ritual, and become heavenly-minded. But, I am 
of those who do not believe in a gloomy, self- 
tormenting religion. Why should doing right, 
and being right, according to God 's precepts, 
shadow a man 's soul ?" 
" It is right living that breaks the clouds which 
darken our sky," was my answer. " Religion is 
life a life in harmony with divine precepts. 
The natural life into which we are born is below 
this, and responsive to the world of nature un 
happily, through inherited evils, always, in its de 
velopment, turning itself away from good. Did 
you not observe that tendency in Miss Saroni? 
Bright, happy, lovely as she is, a contempt for 
others has already found a place in her mind. 
Will not that feeling under the strong stimulant 
of sunshine, grow vigorously ? Depend upon it, 
there must be dark days, winter and rain for her, 
 
as for all. A new ground must be prepared in 
her mind ; new seeds sown even spiritual seeds, 
which are divine truths and these must be shel 
tered from scorching heats, and receive dews and 
rains. So, of necessity, in order that the first 
life, which is by nature evil and selfish, may recede, and permit a new life to be born, states of 
trouble, of sorrow, or affliction, must come. If 
man had not fallen from his first estate, all would 
have been different. His natural life, developed 
in just order, would have been as a garden ready 
for spiritual seed, which being cast into the earth, 
would have germinated and grown into goodly 
plants bearing spiritual fruit. But it is different 
now. The natural mind is filled with evil seeds, 
and the growth of evil plants is rank and rapid. 
It follows, that unless these be removed, hurt or 
hindered in some way, no good seed can find a 
lodgment or grow. The hurting, the hindering 
and the removing, take place for the most part, 
through misfortunes, afflictions, sickness, or trou 
bles, by which natural things recede from the 
affections, and the soul is led to aspire after hea 
venly and eternal things. We must all pass un 
der the cloud ; we must all have gloomy days ; 
we must all suffer, that life from heaven may be 
born within us." 
A few years of sunshine followed, in which our 
young friend did not grow more lovely in spirit, 
though richly endowed both in mind and person. 
Beauty made her vain ; mental superiority caused 
her to think with contempt of those with feebler 
endowments ; wealth, instead of being thankfully 
accepted, created a feeling of superiority. Vanity, 
pride, self-estimation, contempt for inferiors 
such were the evil plants fast attaining to a full 
growth in her mind. It was needful, in the wise 
previsions of a good Providence, that, to save her 
and others from the sad fruitage of these, she 
must pass under a cloud. And so, dark days 
came angry skies and swift-driving tempests. 
I did not see her during these dark days; but 
afterwards, I'm et her frequently. What a beauty 
there was in her life! She had been long under 
the cloud, and the shadows it left still lingered 
about her face; but, as thought and feeling stirred 
in her, responsive to your touch, how sweetly the 
quiet smiles broke through ! There remained in 
her lower tones, a memory of past suffering, that 
touched you at times; but her words were ever 
cheerful. Of others, she spoke with considerate 
kindness ; dwelling on the good in them rarely 
touching the evil. Never a complaint passed her 
lips ; but she often referred to the wise and good 
dealings of God to the children of men. Once 
she said to me, " I am only happy when useful." 
What a volume of meaning the sentence contains! 
Let not its triteness take from its just significance. 
" Was it not best ?" I said, to the friend with 
whom I had talked years before " best for her 
that the sun was hidden and the rain fell ?" 
" Perhaps," he answered, thoughtfully. 
" Do you question it ?" I asked. 
"No, I will not say that. Doubtless it was 
best. One thing is certain, the sphere of her life 
is sweet. You cannot pass an hour in her com- 
 
pany without being more in love with right prin 
ciples without feeling an inspiration to good 
deeds." 
And it was even so. In the winter of hei 
adversity " much wheat had grown ;" in the 
night of sorrow she had been still gathering 
strength ; while under the cloud, holy truths had 
dropped into her mind and germinated, the cloud 
still shadowing her sky, and tempering both light 
and heat, until the springing seeds gathered 
strength at the root, and lifted up green blades 
into the caressing air. She was coming into the 
light and heat again ; but now, the sun whose 
rays poured down upon her life with blessing, 
was^ spiritual and divine. 
 
XV. 
NOW AND TO-DAY. 
to-days how inadequately are the) tj&gt;- 
preciated ? Now in which all the blessings 
of life are alone included with what strange in 
difference do we turn from its rich offerings, to 
feast our eyes on gardens of delight, that spread 
away, temptingly, in a future that forever mocks 
us with the unattained ? There are pearls and 
diamonds scattered all along the paths we are 
treading, but we cannot stop to gather them for 
looking at the mountains of gold that gleam 
against the far horizon. All of our unhappiness 
springs from neglected or misspent nows and to 
days. The present moment is God 's loving gift 
to man. In it we weave the web of our future, 
and make its threads bright with sunshine, or 
dark with evil and suffering:. 
"Come and kiss me, papa," cried a voice full 
of music and love. 
But papa was in the hall below, with coat, hat 
and gloves on, all ready to go forth to the day 's 
business, and little pet Louis was up in his mo 
ther 's chamber, only half-dressed. 
" Haven 't time now, I ll kiss you when I come 
home," papa answers back, and then starts from 
the house in a hurried manner. 
A pearl lay at his feet, and Mr. Edwards had 
failed to lift the precious thing. He would have 
been so much the richer for life. 
" Dear Lu !" he said to himself, as he moved 
along the street, " that kiss would have done us 
both good, and consumed but half a minute of 
time ; and I hardly think that I shall find an 
other half minute so richly freighted with blessing 
to-day." 
At the corner of the next square, Mr. Edwards 
waited four minutes for an omnibus. It was lost 
time. Four minutes spent with dear, pet Louis, 
 
how full of pleasure they would have been ! how 
fragrant their memory through all the day ! 
When Mr. Edwards arrived at his store, nei 
ther his morning newspaper nor his book-keeper 
was there. So, he could neither get at his books, 
which were in the fire-proof, nor glean from his 
Gazette the commercial news, or state of the mar 
kets. No customers were in at so early an hour. 
And so Mr. Edwards passed the next twenty mi 
nutes in comparative idleness, his mind burdened 
just enough to make him feel uncomfortable, 
with the thought of little Louis, grieving over 
the coveted parting kiss. 
At the end of twenty minutes, the book-keeper 
arrived. The honey of Louis parting kiss would 
have sweetened the temper of Mr. Edwards for 
the day. Without it, under slight annoyances, 
his spirit grew sour. He spoke to the book 
keeper with slight impatience, and in words of 
reproof for being late. A sick child was the ex 
cuse; and as he looked into his clerk 's face, he 
saw that it was pale with trouble and watching. 
Mr. Edwards sighed. The pressure on his 
feelings was heavier. Everything, during that 
day, seemed to possess a strange power of annoy 
ance ; and to the failure to lift a pearl from his 
feet in the morning, was added many failures of a 
like character. 
" "Will you please to buy an almanac ?" said a 
childish voice, near him. 
" No, I do not please," was the gruff reply of 
Mr. Edwards. He spoke as he looked up, on the 
moment 's impulse. The timid, half frightened 
face of a tender child, scarcely a year older than 
his darling at home, glanced upon him for an 
instant, and then he saw only the retreating 
form of a little girl. Before his better feelings 
prompted a recall of his repellant words, she was 
in the street, and out of sight. 
This was a little thing in itself, but it told 
sharply on the feelings of Mr. Edwards, who was 
naturally a kind-hearted man. He sat very still 
for a little while, then, sighing again, went on 
with the letter he wa,s writing when the little 
 
almanac-seller disturbed him at his work. An 
other "now" had passed, leaving a shadow, in 
stead of the sunshine it might have bestowed. 
"Can you help me out, to-day? I have a 
large note falling due." 
" I cannot," replied Mr. Edwards. 
The neighbor looked disappointed, and went 
away. 
Now that neighbor had many times obliged 
Mr. Edwards in a similar way. Our merchant 
had no balance over in bank. That may be said 
for him. But he had money out on call, and 
could, without inconvenience, have helped his 
neighbor. He remembered this after it was too 
late. The "now" had passed again, and left 
upon his memory another burden of unquiet 
thought. 
And so the hours of that day passed, each one 
leaving some "now" unimproved some pearl 
lying by the wayside some offered blessing un 
touched ; and when, at a later period than usual, 
Mr. Edwards turned his steps homeward, he felt 
as if he had lost instead of gained a day. 
Dear Louis ! Away, faster than his feet could 
carry him, went the heart of Mr. Edwards, to 
wards his darling boy. Somehow, the father 's 
imagination would present no other image of the 
child but that which showed him in grief for the 
kiss denied that morning. 
" Where is Louis ?" were the first words 
spoken by Mr. Edwards, as he entered the room 
where his wife was sitting. It was at least an 
hour after nightfall. 
" In bed, and asleep," was the answer. 
At another time, this answer would have pro 
duced no unpleasant feelings ; now, it was felt 
almost like a painful shock. 
Mr. Edwards went to the chamber where Louis 
lay, in his little bed. The gas was burning low ; 
he turned it up, so that the light would fall upon 
his face. How beautiful it was, in its childish 
innocence ! How placid ! And yet, the father 's 
eyes saw, looking, as they did, through the mo- 
 
dium of a troubled state, a touch of grief upon 
the lips, and a shade of rebuking sadness on the 
brow of his darling. 
" Precious one !" he said, as he bent to kiss the 
pure forehead. " I wronged both your heart and 
mine." 
It seemed to him, after the kiss and confession, 
that the sleeper 's face took on a more peaceful, 
loving aspect. For many minutes, he stood 
gazing down upon his unconscious boy; then, 
murmuring to himself " It shall not be so 
again, sweet one !" lowered the gas to a taper 
flame, and went with noiseless footsteps, from the 
room. 
For the gain of half a minute to business, in 
the morning, what a loss had there been to love, 
and peace, and comfort, for the space of hours. 
Let us take care of our nows and our to-days; for 
herein lies the true secret of happiness, and the 
true philosophy of life. 
 
XVI. 
A LESSON IN LIFE. 
" T WILL stop now," said Mr. Fanshaw, at 
forty-five, pausing in his life-work, and 
looking back over the broad fields through which 
he had been reaping for years, and then at his 
barns and store-houses, that were filled to over 
flowing. " Having enough and to spare, why 
toil on, eagerly and anxiously, for more? Having 
borne the burden and heat of the day, why not 
accept the rest that a liberal competence oifers? 
Let others work now; my part is done. If I add 
to the wealth already accumulated, can I enter 
more into its enjoyments ? Then why strive on ? 
No ; I will stop now, and take the good life has 
to offer. Only a few years remain to me at best ; 
why waste them in this dull round of simple 
money-making ?" 
 
Mr. Fanshaw was a philosopher, in his own 
estimation. He pondered this view of the case at 
intervals which grew briefer and briefer, seeing 
it in a stronger and stronger light, until the pro 
position was fully accepted, and he calmly ar 
ranged to withdraw from all active participation 
in business. With the very first step in this ar 
rangement came a shadow of misgiving. Then 
he went all over the argument by which he had 
been influenced to retire " r &gt;m active life, but 
could discover no flaw therein. He had ample 
wealth, yielding an income beyond what, even in 
luxurious living, he could spend. Why, then, 
dig and delve ? Why gather in more, and lay it 
up for others to scatter ? Why waste his energies 
for naught ? 
Mr. Fanshaw regarded the argument as conclu 
sive, and notwithstanding the shadow of misgiving 
which, at the very first movement, crept over his 
feelings, he walked steadily to the result in view. 
It took him over a year to get disentangled from 
the many business connections in which he was 
 
involved, during all. of which time that faint sha 
dow kept growing more and more palpable, and 
when,- at last, freed from cares and duties, he sat 
down in the sunshine of his prosperity to simply 
enjoy, he could perceive little or no warmth in 
that sunshine. He looked up, doubting and 
questioning, into the sky that bent over him. It 
was not blue, and bright, and sparkling to the 
eye, but had a kind of leaden dullness that left its 
hue upon his feelings. A strange unrest began 
to disturb his spirit. Wearily the days passed, 
and the nights became more and more sleepless. 
" Go into the country," said a friend, who saw, 
in the face and manner of Mr. Fanshaw, the evi 
dences of a growing life- weariness. " Build your 
self a handsome villa, and surround it with all 
the charms of nature made more beautiful by 
art." 
But Mr. Fanshaw had no taste for rural life or 
landscape gardening. His mind had received no 
cultivation in that direction ; and there were no 
early associations to draw him back to woods and 
 
 
fields. A city boy, he had grown up among city 
scenes, and the city 's hard features were stamped 
upon him. For over twenty-five years all inte 
rest had been absorbed in bales and boxes of 
goods; in stocks and bills; in mortgages, bonds 
and money securities. And now, that he no 
longer cared for these things, what came in to 
take their places and hold his restless thoughts ? 
"Visit Europe," suggested another friend, who 
saw the growing discontent of Mr. Fanshaw. 
This was conned over. A year in London, 
Paris, Florence and Rome looked promising. 
He went, and enjoyed to the degree a man of his 
education and habits of life is capable of enjoy 
ing; but found the annoyances incident to tra 
veling abroad in excess of the pleasure. So he 
came home, to find home drearier than when he 
went away. There was a time when Mr. Fan 
shaw enjoyed the daily newspaper; but then he 
took a lively interest in cotton and grain, and the 
prioi of leading stocks. Political affairs had also 
a certain attraction; for the political world was in 
 
close connection with the business world. He 
moved about, too, among live men, all on the 
alert, like himself, and ambition, as well as inte 
rest, kept him posted in common affairs, so as to 
stand their equals. But now he had ruled him 
self out of the current movements of the day, and 
gradually losing the " run of things," lost the old 
desire for his newspaper no, we err not the old 
desire, but the old enjoyment. The newspaper 
was resorted to as before, with a certain pleasura 
ble anticipation ; but rarely did its columns yield 
the honey he would find. Dry and unprofitable 
all. Daily the sheet was thrown aside in disap 
pointment. 
Out of the live current, Mr. Fanshaw was 
moving in a small, sluggish eddy, round and 
round. Vitality was departing every day. Mind 
was growing weaker through an impotent ex 
haustion of itself; and as it grew weaker he grew 
unhappier. Plainly, Mr. Fanshaw had made a 
mistake in retiring from business. So one ven 
tured to say. 
 
" I know that," was his answer. " I didn 't 
understand myself." 
" Go into business again," was suggested. 
But Mr. Fanshaw shook his head, answering, 
" No ; I am out of the current, and have not the 
boldness to venture in again. Nearly three years 
of idleness have reduced the old vigor of mind. 
I feel that T should be unequal to the require 
ments. A business life, as the M r orld goes now, 
is a different thing from floating with the tide. 
There is no success but for those who strain 
every muscle pulling against the stream." 
And this was the simple truth. Ease, idleness, 
and loss of mental vigor through sluggishness of 
mind, had robbed Mr. Fanshaw of strength to 
such a degree that he dared not venture again out 
upon the waters where he had once held his place 
among the boldest and most vigorous. 
Two years more of a fruitless life, and then, 
without warning, down from a summer sky fell a 
desolating storm, sweeping from hundreds and 
thousands, all over the land, the gathered wealth 
 
of years. While it raged, a bolt struck the fair 
edifice which Mr. Fanshaw had builded, and it 
fell in hopeless ruin to the ground. Of all its 
goodly stones, scarcely one remained unbroken ot 
in its place. 
Stunned at first; then appalled by the disaster; 
and then quickened into a fearful sense of his 
helplessness and hopelessness, Mr. Fanshaw 's first 
state of mind was one of bitter complaints. He 
called this misfortune a hard and cruel dispensa 
tion ; and when a wiser one. than himself drew 
near, and sought to lift his thoughts into a purer 
atmosphere, where he could see stars shining in 
the midnight sky, he rejected his offered words 
of instruction, and called God cruel and unjust. 
"Nay, my friend, say not so," was answered. 
" God is good, and just, and wise. Out of this 
darkness, he will, in his own good time, I trust, 
bring you into marvelous light. His ways are 
not as our ways, but they lead upwards ; he sees 
not as we see; but in his purposes are eternal feli 
city. I think that he has work for you yet in this 
 
world, Mr. Fanshaw ; work that only your hands 
can aright perform." 
But Mr. Fanshaw rejected the proposition. 
Worldly wealth had been the greatest good in his 
eyes. Through long years he had toiled for it 
with an unabating ardor. And now, it was 
swept from his grasp. 
It so happened that, a few days afterwards, 
Mr. Fanshaw was in the house of this wiser 
friend, to whom in remembrance of warm expres 
sion of interest and sympathy, he had come again, 
moved by the bitterness of a state that began 
searching about for relief. While they sat talk 
ing, a child was engaged in building a toy castle. 
He had blocks of all sizes and shapes, adapted to 
his purpose, and steadily rose wall and buttress, 
tower and battlement, growing under his hand in 
symmetry, fitness and beauty, into what seemed 
in his eyes, like a very creation of his will, until 
the goodly edifice was completed. 
The friend called Mr. Fanshaw 's attention to 
the child, and they observed, with interest, the 
entire cheerful absorption of his mind in what lie 
was doing, each well-considered piece going into 
its place to the murmur of a song that issued in a 
continuous flow from his lips. 
" Pie is building as men build," said the 
friend, "happy in his work. The mental ac 
tivity required, gives an exhilarant tone to his 
feelings, and he sings as he toils." 
At last, the castle was completed, and the child 
stood and surveyed it, now looking from one 
point of view, and now from another, and now 
walking round and round. 
" Observe," said the friend ; " he is silent now. 
No music is floating through his lips. The work 
is done, and he is beholding it with satisfaction ; 
but is he as happy in contemplating his work as 
he was in doing it ?" 
After a few minutes, the child ceased inspecting 
his castle from all sides, and going to a sofa, threw 
himself thereon with a sigh that went audibly 
through the room. There he lay, for some time, 
listlessly, but with his eyes upon his finished 
 
work. Then he manifested signs of restlessness, 
got up and walked around his goodly edifice 
again sighed, and went to the farther end of the 
room then came back, and renewed the inspec 
tion. But he did not sing any more. 
" Do you understand the case ?" asked the 
friend. 
Mr. Fanshaw had a dawning perception of its 
meaning; yet answered with the shake of the 
head. 
" The child 's experiences are the man 's in mini 
ature. He is growing restless for a lack of em 
ployment. Most earnestly his thought went into 
the construction of that castle, and he looked to 
the beautiful form he was creating, as something 
in which he would find happiness. But, the 
building is completed, and he is not happy. His 
mind has fallen away from its strain ; the warmth 
of friction is felt no longer ; thought is dull, and 
