“Yes, she is very beautiful,” rejoined the marquis, solemnly. “But that
is not so great a source of satisfaction to other people, naturally, as
to you.”
“Yes, I am satisfied, marquis, I am satisfied,” said Newman, with his
protracted enunciation. “And now tell me,” he added, looking round, “who
some of your friends are.”
M. de Bellegarde looked about him in silence, with his head bent and his
hand raised to his lower lip, which he slowly rubbed. A stream of people
had been pouring into the salon in which Newman stood with his host,
the rooms were filling up and the spectacle had become brilliant. It
borrowed its splendor chiefly from the shining shoulders and profuse
jewels of the women, and from the voluminous elegance of their dresses.
There were no uniforms, as Madame de Bellegarde’s door was inexorably
closed against the myrmidons of the upstart power which then ruled the
fortunes of France, and the great company of smiling and chattering
faces was not graced by any very frequent suggestions of harmonious
beauty. It is a pity, nevertheless, that Newman had not been a
physiognomist, for a great many of the faces were irregularly agreeable,
expressive, and suggestive. If the occasion had been different they
would hardly have pleased him; he would have thought the women not
pretty enough and the men too smirking; but he was now in a humor to
receive none but agreeable impressions, and he looked no more narrowly
than to perceive that everyone was brilliant, and to feel that the sun
of their brilliancy was a part of his credit. “I will present you to
some people,” said M. de Bellegarde after a while. “I will make a point
of it, in fact. You will allow me?”
“Oh, I will shake hands with anyone you want,” said Newman. “Your mother
just introduced me to half a dozen old gentlemen. Take care you don’t
pick up the same parties again.”
“Who are the gentlemen to whom my mother presented you?”
“Upon my word, I forgot them,” said Newman, laughing. “The people here
look very much alike.”
“I suspect they have not forgotten you,” said the marquis. And he began
to walk through the rooms. Newman, to keep near him in the crowd, took
his arm; after which for some time, the marquis walked straight
along, in silence. At last, reaching the farther end of the suite of
reception-rooms, Newman found himself in the presence of a lady of
monstrous proportions, seated in a very capacious armchair, with several
persons standing in a semicircle round her. This little group had
divided as the marquis came up, and M. de Bellegarde stepped forward and
stood for an instant silent and obsequious, with his hat raised to his
lips, as Newman had seen some gentlemen stand in churches as soon as
they entered their pews. The lady, indeed, bore a very fair likeness to
a reverend effigy in some idolatrous shrine. She was monumentally stout
and imperturbably serene. Her aspect was to Newman almost formidable; he
had a troubled consciousness of a triple chin, a small piercing eye, a
vast expanse of uncovered bosom, a nodding and twinkling tiara of plumes
and gems, and an immense circumference of satin petticoat. With her
little circle of beholders this remarkable woman reminded him of the Fat
Lady at a fair. She fixed her small, unwinking eyes at the new-comers.
“Dear duchess,” said the marquis, “let me present you our good friend
Mr. Newman, of whom you have heard us speak. Wishing to make Mr. Newman
known to those who are dear to us, I could not possibly fail to begin
with you.”
“Charmed, dear friend; charmed, monsieur,” said the duchess in a voice
which, though small and shrill, was not disagreeable, while Newman
executed his obeisance. “I came on purpose to see monsieur. I hope he
appreciates the compliment. You have only to look at me to do so, sir,”
 she continued, sweeping her person with a much-encompassing glance.
Newman hardly knew what to say, though it seemed that to a duchess who
joked about her corpulence one might say almost anything. On hearing
that the duchess had come on purpose to see Newman, the gentlemen
who surrounded her turned a little and looked at him with sympathetic
curiosity. The marquis with supernatural gravity mentioned to him the
name of each, while the gentleman who bore it bowed; they were all what
are called in France beaux noms. “I wanted extremely to see you,” the
duchess went on. “C’est positif. In the first place, I am very fond of
the person you are going to marry; she is the most charming creature in
France. Mind you treat her well, or you shall hear some news of me. But
you look as if you were good. I am told you are very remarkable. I have
heard all sorts of extraordinary things about you. Voyons, are they
true?”
“I don’t know what you can have heard,” said Newman.
“Oh, you have your légende. We have heard that you have had a career
the most checkered, the most bizarre. What is that about your having
founded a city some ten years ago in the great West, a city which
contains to-day half a million of inhabitants? Isn’t it half a million,
messieurs? You are exclusive proprietor of this flourishing settlement,
and are consequently fabulously rich, and you would be richer still if
you didn’t grant lands and houses free of rent to all new-comers who
will pledge themselves never to smoke cigars. At this game, in three
years, we are told, you are going to be made president of America.”
The duchess recited this amazing “legend” with a smooth self-possession
which gave the speech to Newman’s mind, the air of being a bit of
amusing dialogue in a play, delivered by a veteran comic actress. Before
she had ceased speaking he had burst into loud, irrepressible laughter.
“Dear duchess, dear duchess,” the marquis began to murmur, soothingly.
Two or three persons came to the door of the room to see who was
laughing at the duchess. But the lady continued with the soft, serene
assurance of a person who, as a duchess, was certain of being listened
to, and, as a garrulous woman, was independent of the pulse of her
auditors. “But I know you are very remarkable. You must be, to have
endeared yourself to this good marquis and to his admirable world. They
are very exacting. I myself am not very sure at this hour of really
possessing it. Eh, Bellegarde? To please you, I see, one must be an
American millionaire. But your real triumph, my dear sir, is pleasing
the countess; she is as difficult as a princess in a fairy tale. Your
success is a miracle. What is your secret? I don’t ask you to reveal it
before all these gentlemen, but come and see me some day and give me a
specimen of your talents.”
“The secret is with Madame de Cintré,” said Newman. “You must ask her
for it. It consists in her having a great deal of charity.”
“Very pretty!” said the duchess. “That’s a very nice specimen, to begin
with. What, Bellegarde, are you already taking monsieur away?”
“I have a duty to perform, dear friend,” said the marquis, pointing to
the other groups.
“Ah, for you I know what that means. Well, I have seen monsieur; that
is what I wanted. He can’t persuade me that he isn’t very clever.
Farewell.”
As Newman passed on with his host, he asked who the duchess was. “The
greatest lady in France,” said the marquis. M. de Bellegarde then
presented his prospective brother-in-law to some twenty other persons of
both sexes, selected apparently for their typically august character.
In some cases this character was written in good round hand upon the
countenance of the wearer; in others Newman was thankful for such help
as his companion’s impressively brief intimation contributed to the
discovery of it. There were large, majestic men, and small demonstrative
men; there were ugly ladies in yellow lace and quaint jewels, and pretty
ladies with white shoulders from which jewels and everything else
were absent. Everyone gave Newman extreme attention, everyone smiled,
everyone was charmed to make his acquaintance, everyone looked at him
with that soft hardness of good society which puts out its hand but
keeps its fingers closed over the coin. If the marquis was going about
as a bear-leader, if the fiction of Beauty and the Beast was supposed
to have found its companion-piece, the general impression appeared to
be that the bear was a very fair imitation of humanity. Newman found his
reception among the marquis’s friends very “pleasant;” he could not have
said more for it. It was pleasant to be treated with so much explicit
politeness; it was pleasant to hear neatly turned civilities, with a
flavor of wit, uttered from beneath carefully-shaped moustaches; it was
pleasant to see clever Frenchwomen--they all seemed clever--turn their
backs to their partners to get a good look at the strange American whom
Claire de Cintré was to marry, and reward the object of the exhibition
with a charming smile. At last, as he turned away from a battery of
smiles and other amenities, Newman caught the eye of the marquis looking
at him heavily; and thereupon, for a single instant, he checked himself.
“Am I behaving like a d--d fool?” he asked himself. “Am I stepping
about like a terrier on his hind legs?” At this moment he perceived
Mrs. Tristram at the other side of the room, and he waved his hand in
farewell to M. de Bellegarde and made his way toward her.
“Am I holding my head too high?” he asked. “Do I look as if I had the
lower end of a pulley fastened to my chin?”
“You look like all happy men, very ridiculous,” said Mrs. Tristram.
“It’s the usual thing, neither better nor worse. I have been watching
you for the last ten minutes, and I have been watching M. de Bellegarde.
He doesn’t like it.”
“The more credit to him for putting it through,” replied Newman. “But I
shall be generous. I shan’t trouble him any more. But I am very happy.
I can’t stand still here. Please to take my arm and we will go for a
walk.”
He led Mrs. Tristram through all the rooms. There were a great many of
them, and, decorated for the occasion and filled with a stately crowd,
their somewhat tarnished nobleness recovered its lustre. Mrs. Tristram,
looking about her, dropped a series of softly-incisive comments upon her
fellow-guests. But Newman made vague answers; he hardly heard her, his
thoughts were elsewhere. They were lost in a cheerful sense of success,
of attainment and victory. His momentary care as to whether he looked
like a fool passed away, leaving him simply with a rich contentment.
He had got what he wanted. The savor of success had always been highly
agreeable to him, and it had been his fortune to know it often. But it
had never before been so sweet, been associated with so much that was
brilliant and suggestive and entertaining. The lights, the flowers, the
music, the crowd, the splendid women, the jewels, the strangeness even
of the universal murmur of a clever foreign tongue were all a vivid
symbol and assurance of his having grasped his purpose and forced along
his groove. If Newman’s smile was larger than usual, it was not tickled
vanity that pulled the strings; he had no wish to be shown with the
finger or to achieve a personal success. If he could have looked down at
the scene, invisible, from a hole in the roof, he would have enjoyed it
quite as much. It would have spoken to him about his own prosperity and
deepened that easy feeling about life to which, sooner or later, he made
all experience contribute. Just now the cup seemed full.
“It is a very pretty party,” said Mrs. Tristram, after they had walked
a while. “I have seen nothing objectionable except my husband leaning
against the wall and talking to an individual whom I suppose he takes
for a duke, but whom I more than suspect to be the functionary who
attends to the lamps. Do you think you could separate them? Knock over a
lamp!”
I doubt whether Newman, who saw no harm in Tristram’s conversing with an
ingenious mechanic, would have complied with this request; but at this
moment Valentin de Bellegarde drew near. Newman, some weeks previously,
had presented Madame de Cintré’s youngest brother to Mrs. Tristram, for
whose merits Valentin professed a discriminating relish and to whom he
had paid several visits.
“Did you ever read Keats’s Belle Dame sans Merci?” asked Mrs. Tristram.
“You remind me of the hero of the ballad:--
     ‘Oh, what can ail thee, knight-at-arms,
     Alone and palely loitering?’”
“If I am alone, it is because I have been deprived of your society,”
 said Valentin. “Besides it is good manners for no man except Newman to
look happy. This is all to his address. It is not for you and me to go
before the curtain.”
“You promised me last spring,” said Newman to Mrs. Tristram, “that six
months from that time I should get into a monstrous rage. It seems to
me the time’s up, and yet the nearest I can come to doing anything rough
now is to offer you a café glacé.”
“I told you we should do things grandly,” said Valentin. “I don’t allude
to the cafés glacés. But everyone is here, and my sister told me just
now that Urbain had been adorable.”
“He’s a good fellow, he’s a good fellow,” said Newman. “I love him as a
brother. That reminds me that I ought to go and say something polite to
your mother.”
“Let it be something very polite indeed,” said Valentin. “It may be the
last time you will feel so much like it!”
Newman walked away, almost disposed to clasp old Madame de Bellegarde
round the waist. He passed through several rooms and at last found
the old marquise in the first saloon, seated on a sofa, with her young
kinsman, Lord Deepmere, beside her. The young man looked somewhat bored;
his hands were thrust into his pockets and his eyes were fixed upon the
toes of his shoes, his feet being thrust out in front of him. Madame de
Bellegarde appeared to have been talking to him with some intensity and
to be waiting for an answer to what she had said, or for some sign of
the effect of her words. Her hands were folded in her lap, and she was
looking at his lordship’s simple physiognomy with an air of politely
suppressed irritation.
Lord Deepmere looked up as Newman approached, met his eyes, and changed
color.
“I am afraid I disturb an interesting interview,” said Newman.
Madame de Bellegarde rose, and her companion rising at the same time,
she put her hand into his arm. She answered nothing for an instant, and
then, as he remained silent, she said with a smile, “It would be polite
for Lord Deepmere to say it was very interesting.”
“Oh, I’m not polite!” cried his lordship. “But it was interesting.”
“Madame de Bellegarde was giving you some good advice, eh?” said Newman;
“toning you down a little?”
“I was giving him some excellent advice,” said the marquise, fixing her
fresh, cold eyes upon our hero. “It’s for him to take it.”
“Take it, sir--take it,” Newman exclaimed. “Any advice the marquise
gives you to-night must be good. For to-night, marquise, you must speak
from a cheerful, comfortable spirit, and that makes good advice. You see
everything going on so brightly and successfully round you. Your party
is magnificent; it was a very happy thought. It is much better than that
thing of mine would have been.”
“If you are pleased I am satisfied,” said Madame de Bellegarde. “My
desire was to please you.”
“Do you want to please me a little more?” said Newman. “Just drop
our lordly friend; I am sure he wants to be off and shake his heels a
little. Then take my arm and walk through the rooms.”
“My desire was to please you,” the old lady repeated. And she liberated
Lord Deepmere, Newman rather wondering at her docility. “If this young
man is wise,” she added, “he will go and find my daughter and ask her to
dance.”
“I have been endorsing your advice,” said Newman, bending over her and
laughing, “I suppose I must swallow that!”
Lord Deepmere wiped his forehead and departed, and Madame de Bellegarde
took Newman’s arm. “Yes, it’s a very pleasant, sociable entertainment,”
 the latter declared, as they proceeded on their circuit. “Everyone seems
to know everyone and to be glad to see everyone. The marquis has made
me acquainted with ever so many people, and I feel quite like one of the
family. It’s an occasion,” Newman continued, wanting to say something
thoroughly kind and comfortable, “that I shall always remember, and
remember very pleasantly.”
“I think it is an occasion that we shall none of us forget,” said the
marquise, with her pure, neat enunciation.
People made way for her as she passed, others turned round and looked at
her, and she received a great many greetings and pressings of the hand,
all of which she accepted with the most delicate dignity. But though she
smiled upon everyone, she said nothing until she reached the last of the
rooms, where she found her elder son. Then, “This is enough, sir,” she
declared with measured softness to Newman, and turned to the marquis. He
put out both his hands and took both hers, drawing her to a seat with an
air of the tenderest veneration. It was a most harmonious family group,
and Newman discreetly retired. He moved through the rooms for some time
longer, circulating freely, overtopping most people by his great
height, renewing acquaintance with some of the groups to which Urbain de
Bellegarde had presented him, and expending generally the surplus of
his equanimity. He continued to find it all extremely agreeable; but
the most agreeable things have an end, and the revelry on this occasion
began to deepen to a close. The music was sounding its ultimate strains
and people were looking for the marquise, to make their farewells. There
seemed to be some difficulty in finding her, and Newman heard a report
that she had left the ball, feeling faint. “She has succumbed to the
emotions of the evening,” he heard a lady say. “Poor, dear marquise;
I can imagine all that they may have been for her!” But he learned
immediately afterwards that she had recovered herself and was seated in
an armchair near the doorway, receiving parting compliments from great
ladies who insisted upon her not rising. He himself set out in quest of
Madame de Cintré. He had seen her move past him many times in the rapid
circles of a waltz, but in accordance with her explicit instructions he
had exchanged no words with her since the beginning of the evening.
The whole house having been thrown open, the apartments of the
rez-de-chaussée were also accessible, though a smaller number of
persons had gathered there. Newman wandered through them, observing
a few scattered couples to whom this comparative seclusion appeared
grateful and reached a small conservatory which opened into the garden.
The end of the conservatory was formed by a clear sheet of glass,
unmasked by plants, and admitting the winter starlight so directly that
a person standing there would seem to have passed into the open air. Two
persons stood there now, a lady and a gentleman; the lady Newman, from
within the room and although she had turned her back to it, immediately
recognized as Madame de Cintré. He hesitated as to whether he would
advance, but as he did so she looked round, feeling apparently that he
was there. She rested her eyes on him a moment and then turned again to
her companion.
“It is almost a pity not to tell Mr. Newman,” she said softly, but in a
tone that Newman could hear.
“Tell him if you like!” the gentleman answered, in the voice of Lord
Deepmere.
“Oh, tell me by all means!” said Newman advancing.
Lord Deepmere, he observed, was very red in the face, and he had twisted
his gloves into a tight cord as if he had been squeezing them dry.
These, presumably, were tokens of violent emotion, and it seemed to
Newman that the traces of corresponding agitation were visible in Madame
de Cintré’s face. The two had been talking with much vivacity. “What
I should tell you is only to my lord’s credit,” said Madame de Cintré,
smiling frankly enough.
“He wouldn’t like it any better for that!” said my lord, with his
awkward laugh.
“Come; what’s the mystery?” Newman demanded. “Clear it up. I don’t like
mysteries.”
“We must have some things we don’t like, and go without some we do,”
 said the ruddy young nobleman, laughing still.
“It’s to Lord Deepmere’s credit, but it is not to everyone’s,” said
Madam de Cintré. “So I shall say nothing about it. You may be sure,”
 she added; and she put out her hand to the Englishman, who took it half
shyly, half impetuously. “And now go and dance!” she said.
“Oh yes, I feel awfully like dancing!” he answered. “I shall go and get
tipsy.” And he walked away with a gloomy guffaw.
“What has happened between you?” Newman asked.
“I can’t tell you--now,” said Madame de Cintré. “Nothing that need make
you unhappy.”
“Has the little Englishman been trying to make love to you?”
She hesitated, and then she uttered a grave “No! he’s a very honest
little fellow.”
“But you are agitated. Something is the matter.”
“Nothing, I repeat, that need make you unhappy. My agitation is over.
Some day I will tell you what it was; not now. I can’t now!”
“Well, I confess,” remarked Newman, “I don’t want to hear anything
unpleasant. I am satisfied with everything--most of all with you. I
have seen all the ladies and talked with a great many of them; but I am
satisfied with you.” Madame de Cintré covered him for a moment with her
large, soft glance, and then turned her eyes away into the starry night.
So they stood silent a moment, side by side. “Say you are satisfied with
me,” said Newman.
He had to wait a moment for the answer; but it came at last, low yet
distinct: “I am very happy.”
It was presently followed by a few words from another source, which made
them both turn round. “I am sadly afraid Madame de Cintré will take a
chill. I have ventured to bring a shawl.” Mrs. Bread stood there softly
solicitous, holding a white drapery in her hand.
“Thank you,” said Madame de Cintré, “the sight of those cold stars gives
one a sense of frost. I won’t take your shawl, but we will go back into
the house.”
She passed back and Newman followed her, Mrs. Bread standing
respectfully aside to make way for them. Newman paused an instant before
the old woman, and she glanced up at him with a silent greeting. “Oh,
yes,” he said, “you must come and live with us.”
“Well then, sir, if you will,” she answered, “you have not seen the last
of me!”
CHAPTER XVII
Newman was fond of music and went often to the opera. A couple of
evenings after Madame de Bellegarde’s ball he sat listening to “Don
Giovanni,” having in honor of this work, which he had never yet seen
represented, come to occupy his orchestra-chair before the rising of
the curtain. Frequently he took a large box and invited a party of
his compatriots; this was a mode of recreation to which he was much
addicted. He liked making up parties of his friends and conducting them
to the theatre, and taking them to drive on high drags or to dine at
remote restaurants. He liked doing things which involved his paying for
people; the vulgar truth is that he enjoyed “treating” them. This was
not because he was what is called purse-proud; handling money in public
was on the contrary positively disagreeable to him; he had a sort of
personal modesty about it, akin to what he would have felt about making
a toilet before spectators. But just as it was a gratification to him to
be handsomely dressed, just so it was a private satisfaction to him (he
enjoyed it very clandestinely) to have interposed, pecuniarily, in
a scheme of pleasure. To set a large group of people in motion and
transport them to a distance, to have special conveyances, to charter
railway-carriages and steamboats, harmonized with his relish for
bold processes, and made hospitality seem more active and more to the
purpose. A few evenings before the occasion of which I speak he had
invited several ladies and gentlemen to the opera to listen to Madame
Alboni--a party which included Miss Dora Finch. It befell, however, that
Miss Dora Finch, sitting near Newman in the box, discoursed brilliantly,
not only during the entr’actes, but during many of the finest portions
of the performance, so that Newman had really come away with an
irritated sense that Madame Alboni had a thin, shrill voice, and that
her musical phrase was much garnished with a laugh of the giggling
order. After this he promised himself to go for a while to the opera
alone.
When the curtain had fallen upon the first act of “Don Giovanni” he
turned round in his place to observe the house. Presently, in one of
the boxes, he perceived Urbain de Bellegarde and his wife. The little
marquise was sweeping the house very busily with a glass, and Newman,
supposing that she saw him, determined to go and bid her good evening.
M. de Bellegarde was leaning against a column, motionless, looking
straight in front of him, with one hand in the breast of his white
waistcoat and the other resting his hat on his thigh. Newman was about
to leave his place when he noticed in that obscure region devoted to the
small boxes which in France are called, not inaptly, “bathing-tubs,”
 a face which even the dim light and the distance could not make wholly
indistinct. It was the face of a young and pretty woman, and it was
surmounted with a coiffure of pink roses and diamonds. This person was
looking round the house, and her fan was moving to and fro with the most
practiced grace; when she lowered it, Newman perceived a pair of plump
white shoulders and the edge of a rose-colored dress. Beside her, very
close to the shoulders and talking, apparently with an earnestness which
it pleased her scantily to heed, sat a young man with a red face and a
very low shirt-collar. A moment’s gazing left Newman with no doubts; the
pretty young woman was Noémie Nioche. He looked hard into the depths of
the box, thinking her father might perhaps be in attendance, but from
what he could see the young man’s eloquence had no other auditor.
Newman at last made his way out, and in doing so he passed beneath the
baignoire of Mademoiselle Noémie. She saw him as he approached and
gave him a nod and smile which seemed meant as an assurance that she was
still a good-natured girl, in spite of her enviable rise in the world.
Newman passed into the foyer and walked through it. Suddenly he paused
in front of a gentleman seated on one of the divans. The gentleman’s
elbows were on his knees; he was leaning forward and staring at the
pavement, lost apparently in meditations of a somewhat gloomy cast. But
in spite of his bent head Newman recognized him, and in a moment
sat down beside him. Then the gentleman looked up and displayed the
expressive countenance of Valentin de Bellegarde.
“What in the world are you thinking of so hard?” asked Newman.
“A subject that requires hard thinking to do it justice,” said Valentin.
“My immeasurable idiocy.”
“What is the matter now?”
“The matter now is that I am a man again, and no more a fool than usual.
But I came within an inch of taking that girl au sérieux.”
“You mean the young lady below stairs, in a baignoire in a pink
dress?” said Newman.
“Did you notice what a brilliant kind of pink it was?” Valentin
inquired, by way of answer. “It makes her look as white as new milk.”
“White or black, as you please. But you have stopped going to see her?”
“Oh, bless you, no. Why should I stop? I have changed, but she hasn’t,”
 said Valentin. “I see she is a vulgar little wretch, after all. But she
is as amusing as ever, and one must be amused.”
“Well, I am glad she strikes you so unpleasantly,” Newman rejoiced. “I
suppose you have swallowed all those fine words you used about her
the other night. You compared her to a sapphire, or a topaz, or an
amethyst--some precious stone; what was it?”
“I don’t remember,” said Valentin, “it may have been to a carbuncle! But
she won’t make a fool of me now. She has no real charm. It’s an awfully
low thing to make a mistake about a person of that sort.”
“I congratulate you,” Newman declared, “upon the scales having fallen
from your eyes. It’s a great triumph; it ought to make you feel better.”
“Yes, it makes me feel better!” said Valentin, gaily. Then, checking
himself, he looked askance at Newman. “I rather think you are laughing
at me. If you were not one of the family I would take it up.”
“Oh, no, I’m not laughing, any more than I am one of the family. You
make me feel badly. You are too clever a fellow, you are made of too
good stuff, to spend your time in ups and downs over that class of
goods. The idea of splitting hairs about Miss Nioche! It seems to me
awfully foolish. You say you have given up taking her seriously; but you
take her seriously so long as you take her at all.”
Valentin turned round in his place and looked a while at Newman,
wrinkling his forehead and rubbing his knees. “Vous parlez d’or. But
she has wonderfully pretty arms. Would you believe I didn’t know it till
this evening?”
“But she is a vulgar little wretch, remember, all the same,” said
Newman.
“Yes; the other day she had the bad taste to begin to abuse her father,
to his face, in my presence. I shouldn’t have expected it of her; it was
a disappointment; heigho!”
“Why, she cares no more for her father than for her door-mat,” said
Newman. “I discovered that the first time I saw her.”
“Oh, that’s another affair; she may think of the poor old beggar what
she pleases. But it was low in her to call him bad names; it quite threw
me off. It was about a frilled petticoat that he was to have fetched
from the washer-woman’s; he appeared to have neglected this graceful
duty. She almost boxed his ears. He stood there staring at her with his
little blank eyes and smoothing his old hat with his coat-tail. At last
he turned round and went out without a word. Then I told her it was
in very bad taste to speak so to one’s papa. She said she should be so
thankful to me if I would mention it to her whenever her taste was at
fault; she had immense confidence in mine. I told her I couldn’t have
the bother of forming her manners; I had had an idea they were already
formed, after the best models. She had disappointed me. But I shall get
over it,” said Valentin, gaily.
“Oh, time’s a great consoler!” Newman answered with humorous sobriety.
He was silent a moment, and then he added, in another tone, “I wish you
would think of what I said to you the other day. Come over to America
with us, and I will put you in the way of doing some business. You have
a very good head, if you will only use it.”
Valentin made a genial grimace. “My head is much obliged to you. Do you
mean the place in a bank?”
“There are several places, but I suppose you would consider the bank the
most aristocratic.”
Valentin burst into a laugh. “My dear fellow, at night all cats are
gray! When one derogates there are no degrees.”
Newman answered nothing for a minute. Then, “I think you will find there
are degrees in success,” he said with a certain dryness.
Valentin had leaned forward again, with his elbows on his knees, and he
was scratching the pavement with his stick. At last he said, looking up,
“Do you really think I ought to do something?”
Newman laid his hand on his companion’s arm and looked at him a moment
through sagaciously-narrowed eyelids. “Try it and see. You are not good
enough for it, but we will stretch a point.”
“Do you really think I can make some money? I should like to see how it
feels to have a little.”
“Do what I tell you, and you shall be rich,” said Newman. “Think of it.”
 And he looked at his watch and prepared to resume his way to Madame de
Bellegarde’s box.
“Upon my word I will think of it,” said Valentin. “I will go and listen
to Mozart another half hour--I can always think better to music--and
profoundly meditate upon it.”
The marquis was with his wife when Newman entered their box; he was
bland, remote, and correct as usual; or, as it seemed to Newman, even
more than usual.
“What do you think of the opera?” asked our hero. “What do you think of
the Don?”
“We all know what Mozart is,” said the marquis; “our impressions
don’t date from this evening. Mozart is youth, freshness, brilliancy,
facility--a little too great facility, perhaps. But the execution is
here and there deplorably rough.”
“I am very curious to see how it ends,” said Newman.
“You speak as if it were a feuilleton in the Figaro,” observed the
marquis. “You have surely seen the opera before?”
“Never,” said Newman. “I am sure I should have remembered it.
Donna Elvira reminds me of Madame de Cintré; I don’t mean in her
circumstances, but in the music she sings.”
“It is a very nice distinction,” laughed the marquis lightly. “There is
no great possibility, I imagine, of Madame de Cintré being forsaken.”
“Not much!” said Newman. “But what becomes of the Don?”
“The devil comes down--or comes up,” said Madame de Bellegarde, “and
carries him off. I suppose Zerlina reminds you of me.”
“I will go to the foyer for a few moments,” said the marquis, “and
give you a chance to say that the commander--the man of stone--resembles
me.” And he passed out of the box.
The little marquise stared an instant at the velvet ledge of the
balcony, and then murmured, “Not a man of stone, a man of wood.” Newman
had taken her husband’s empty chair. She made no protest, and then she
turned suddenly and laid her closed fan upon his arm. “I am very glad
you came in,” she said. “I want to ask you a favor. I wanted to do so on
Thursday, at my mother-in-law’s ball, but you would give me no chance.
You were in such very good spirits that I thought you might grant my
little favor then; not that you look particularly doleful now. It is
something you must promise me; now is the time to take you; after you
are married you will be good for nothing. Come, promise!”
“I never sign a paper without reading it first,” said Newman. “Show me
your document.”
“No, you must sign with your eyes shut; I will hold your hand. Come,
before you put your head into the noose. You ought to be thankful to me
for giving you a chance to do something amusing.”
“If it is so amusing,” said Newman, “it will be in even better season
after I am married.”
“In other words,” cried Madame de Bellegarde, “you will not do it at
all. You will be afraid of your wife.”
“Oh, if the thing is intrinsically improper,” said Newman, “I won’t go
into it. If it is not, I will do it after my marriage.”
“You talk like a treatise on logic, and English logic into the bargain!”
 exclaimed Madame de Bellegarde. “Promise, then, after you are married.
After all, I shall enjoy keeping you to it.”
“Well, then, after I am married,” said Newman serenely.
The little marquise hesitated a moment, looking at him, and he wondered
what was coming. “I suppose you know what my life is,” she presently
said. “I have no pleasure, I see nothing, I do nothing. I live in Paris
as I might live at Poitiers. My mother-in-law calls me--what is the
pretty word?--a gad-about? accuses me of going to unheard-of places, and
thinks it ought to be joy enough for me to sit at home and count over my
ancestors on my fingers. But why should I bother about my ancestors?
I am sure they never bothered about me. I don’t propose to live with
a green shade on my eyes; I hold that things were made to look at. My
husband, you know, has principles, and the first on the list is that
the Tuileries are dreadfully vulgar. If the Tuileries are vulgar, his
principles are tiresome. If I chose I might have principles quite as
well as he. If they grew on one’s family tree I should only have to give
mine a shake to bring down a shower of the finest. At any rate, I prefer
clever Bonapartes to stupid Bourbons.”
“Oh, I see; you want to go to court,” said Newman, vaguely conjecturing
that she might wish him to appeal to the United States legation to
smooth her way to the imperial halls.
The marquise gave a little sharp laugh. “You are a thousand miles away.
I will take care of the Tuileries myself; the day I decide to go they
will be very glad to have me. Sooner or later I shall dance in an
imperial quadrille. I know what you are going to say: ‘How will you
dare?’ But I shall dare. I am afraid of my husband; he is soft,
smooth, irreproachable; everything that you know; but I am afraid of
him--horribly afraid of him. And yet I shall arrive at the Tuileries.
But that will not be this winter, nor perhaps next, and meantime I must
live. For the moment, I want to go somewhere else; it’s my dream. I want
to go to the Bal Bullier.”
“To the Bal Bullier?” repeated Newman, for whom the words at first meant
nothing.
“The ball in the Latin Quarter, where the students dance with their
mistresses. Don’t tell me you have not heard of it.”
“Oh yes,” said Newman; “I have heard of it; I remember now. I have even
been there. And you want to go there?”
“It is silly, it is low, it is anything you please. But I want to go.
Some of my friends have been, and they say it is awfully drôle. My
friends go everywhere; it is only I who sit moping at home.”
“It seems to me you are not at home now,” said Newman, “and I shouldn’t
exactly say you were moping.”
“I am bored to death. I have been to the opera twice a week for the last
eight years. Whenever I ask for anything my mouth is stopped with that:
Pray, madam, haven’t you an opera box? Could a woman of taste want more?
In the first place, my opera box was down in my contrat; they have
to give it to me. To-night, for instance, I should have preferred a
thousand times to go to the Palais Royal. But my husband won’t go to the
Palais Royal because the ladies of the court go there so much. You may
imagine, then, whether he would take me to Bullier’s; he says it is
a mere imitation--and a bad one--of what they do at the Princess
Kleinfuss’s. But as I don’t go to the Princess Kleinfuss’s, the next
best thing is to go to Bullier’s. It is my dream, at any rate, it’s
a fixed idea. All I ask of you is to give me your arm; you are less
compromising than anyone else. I don’t know why, but you are. I can
arrange it. I shall risk something, but that is my own affair. Besides,
fortune favors the bold. Don’t refuse me; it is my dream!”
Newman gave a loud laugh. It seemed to him hardly worth while to be the
wife of the Marquis de Bellegarde, a daughter of the crusaders, heiress
