he answered with the look of one before whose will all obstacles go
down,—
“Done! Now show me the book, and let us see if we cannot win this time.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  II.
Nothing stirred about the vine-clad villa, except the curtains swaying
in the balmy wind, that blew up from a garden where mid-summer warmth
brooded over drowsy flowers and whispering trees. The lake below gleamed
like a mirror garlanded about with water-lilies, opening their white
bosoms to the sun. The balcony above burned with deep-hearted roses
pouring out their passionate perfume, as if in rivalry of the purple
heliotrope, which overflowed great urns on either side of the stone
steps.
Nothing broke the silence but the breezy rustle, the murmurous lapse of
waters upon a quiet shore, and now and then the brief carol of a bird
waking from its noontide sleep. A hammock swung at one end of the
balcony, but it was empty; open doors showed the wide hall tenanted only
by statues gleaming, cool and coy, in shadowy nooks; and the spirit of
repose seemed to haunt the lovely spot.
For an hour the sweet spell lasted; then it was broken by the faint,
far-off warble of a woman’s voice, which seemed to wake the sleeping
palace into life; for, as if drawn by the music, a young man came
through the garden, looking as Ferdinand might, when Ariel led him to
Miranda.
Too beautiful for a man he was, and seemed to protest against it by a
disdainful negligence of all the arts which could enhance the gracious
gift. A picturesque carelessness marked his costume, the luxuriant curls
that covered his head were in riotous confusion; and as he came into the
light he stretched his limbs with the graceful abandon of a young
wood-god rousing from his drowse in some green covert.
Swinging a knot of lilies in his hand, he sauntered up the long path,
listening with a smile, for as the voice drew nearer he recognized both
song and singer.
“Little Gladys must not see me, or she will end her music too soon,” he
whispered to himself; and, stepping behind the great vase, he peered
between the plumy sprays to watch the coming of the voice that made his
verses doubly melodious to their creator’s ear.
Through the shadowy hall there came a slender creature in a quaint white
gown, who looked as if she might have stepped down from the marble
Hebe’s pedestal; for there was something wonderfully virginal and fresh
about the maidenly figure with its deep, soft eyes, pale hair, and
features clearly cut as a fine cameo. Emerging from the gloom into a
flood of sunshine, which touched her head with a glint of gold, and
brought out in strong relief the crimson cover of the book, held
half-closed against her breast, she came down the steps, still singing
softly to herself.
A butterfly was sunning its changeful wings on the carved balustrade,
and she paused to watch it, quite unconscious of the picture she made,
or the hidden observer who enjoyed it with the delight of one whose
senses were keenly alive to all that ministers to pleasure. A childish
act enough, but it contrasted curiously with the words she sung,—fervid
words, that seemed to drop lingeringly from her lips as if in a new
language; lovely, yet half learned.
“Pretty thing! I wish I could sketch her as she stands, and use her as
an illustration to that song. No nightingale ever had a sweeter voice
for a love-lay than this charming girl,” thought the flattered listener,
as, obeying a sudden impulse, he flung up the lilies, stepped out from
his ambush, and half-said, half-sung, as he looked up with a glance of
mirthful meaning,—
                    “Like a high-born maiden
                      In a palace tower,
                    Soothing her love-laden
                      Soul in secret hour,
          With music sweet as love which overflows her bower.”
The flowers dropped at her feet, and, leaning forward with the supple
grace of girlhood, she looked down to meet the dangerous dark eyes,
while her own seemed to wake and deepen with a sudden light as beautiful
as the color which dawned in her innocent face. Not the quick red of
shame, nor the glow of vanity, but a slow, soft flush like the shadow of
a rosy cloud on snow. No otherwise disconcerted, she smiled back at him,
and answered with unexpected aptness, in lines that were a truer
compliment than his had been,—
                      “Like a poet hidden
                        In the light of thought,
                      Singing hymns unbidden,
                        Till the world is wrought
            To sympathy with hopes and fears it heeded not.”
It was this charm of swift and subtle sympathy which made the girl seem
sometimes like the embodied spirit of all that was most high and pure in
his own wayward but aspiring nature. And this the spell that drew him to
her now, glad to sun himself like the butterfly in the light of eyes so
clear and candid, that he could read therein the emotions of a maiden
heart just opening to its first, half-conscious love.
Springing up the steps, he said with the caressing air as native to him
as his grace of manner. “Sit here and weave a pretty garland for your
hair, while I thank you for making my poor verses beautiful. Where did
you find the air that fits those words so well?”
“It came itself; as the song did, I think,” she answered simply, as she
obeyed him, and began to braid the long brown stems, shaping a chaplet
fit for Undine.
“Ah! you will never guess how that came!” he said, sitting at her feet
to watch the small fingers at their pretty work. But though his eyes
rested there, they grew absent; and he seemed to fall into a reverie not
wholly pleasant, for he knit his brows as if the newly won laurel wreath
sat uneasily upon a head which seemed made to wear it.
Gladys watched him in reverential silence till he became conscious of
her presence again, and gave her leave to speak, with a smile which had
in it something of the condescension of an idol towards its devoutest
worshipper.
“Were you making poetry, then?” she asked, with the frank curiosity of a
child.
“No, I was wondering where I should be now if I had never made any;” and
he looked at the summer paradise around him with an involuntary shiver,
as if a chill wind had blown upon him.
“Think rather what you will write next. It is so lovely I want more,
although I do not understand all this,” touching the book upon her knee
with a regretful sigh.
“Neither do I; much of it is poor stuff, Gladys. Do not puzzle your
sweet wits over it.”
“That is because you are so modest. People say true genius is always
humble.”
“Then, I am not a true genius; for I am as proud as Lucifer.”
“You may well be proud of such work as this;” and she carefully brushed
a fallen petal from the silken cover.
“But I am not proud of that. At times I almost hate it!” exclaimed the
capricious poet, impetuously, then checked himself, and added more
composedly, “I mean to do so much better, that this first attempt shall
be forgotten.”
“I think you will never do better; for this came from your heart,
without a thought of what the world would say. Hereafter all you write
may be more perfect in form but less true in spirit, because you will
have the fear of the world, and loss of fame before your eyes.”
“How can you know that?” he asked, wondering that this young girl, so
lately met, should read him so well, and touch a secret doubt that kept
him idle after the first essay, which had been a most flattering
success.
“Nay, I do not know, I only feel as if it must be so. I always sing best
when alone, and the thought of doing it for praise or money spoils the
music to my ear.”
“I feel as if it would be possible to do any thing here, and forget
that there is a world outside.”
“Then it is not dull to you? I am glad, for I thought it would be,
because so many people want you, and you might choose many gayer places
in which to spend your summer holiday.”
“I have no choice in this; yet I was willing enough to come. The first
time is always pleasant, and I am tired of the gayer places,” he said,
with a blasé air that ill concealed how sweet the taste of praise had
been to one who hungered for it.
“Yet it must seem very beautiful to be so sought, admired, and loved,”
the girl said wistfully, for few of fortune’s favors had fallen into her
lap as yet.
“It is, and I was intoxicated with the wine of success for a time. But
after all, I find a bitter drop in it, for there is always a higher step
to take, a brighter prize to win, and one is never satisfied.”
He paused an instant with the craving yet despondent look poets and
painters wear as they labor for perfection in “a divine despair;” then
added, in a tone of kindly satisfaction which rung true on the sensitive
ear that listened,—
“But all that nonsense pleases Helwyze, and he has so few delights, I
would not rob him of one even so small as this, for I owe every thing to
him, you know.”
“I do not know. May I?”
“You may; for I want you to like my friend, and now I think you only
fear him.”
“Mr. Canaris, I do not dislike your friend. He has been most kind to me,
I am grieved if I seem ungrateful,” murmured Gladys, with a vague
trouble in her artless face, for she had no power to explain the
instinctive recoil which had unconsciously betrayed itself.
“Hear what he did for me, and then it may be easier to show as well as
to feel gratitude; since but for him you would have had none of these
foolish rhymes to sing.”
With a look askance, a quick gesture, and a curious laugh, Canaris
tossed the book into the urn below, and the heliotrope gave a fragrant
sigh as it closed above the treasure given to its keeping. Gladys
uttered a little cry, but her companion took no heed, for clasping his
hands about his knee he looked off into the bloomy wilderness below as
if he saw a younger self there, and spoke of him with a pitiful sort of
interest.
“Three years ago an ambitious boy came to seek his fortune in the great
city yonder. He possessed nothing but sundry accomplishments, and a
handful of verses which he tried to sell. Failing in this hope after
various trials, he grew desperate, and thought to end his life like poor
Chatterton. No, not like Chatterton,—for this boy was not an impostor.”
“Had he no friend anywhere?” asked Gladys,—her work neglected while she
listened with intensest interest to the tale so tragically begun.
“He thought not, but chance sent him one at the last hour, and when he
called on death, Helwyze came. It always seemed to me as if,
unwittingly, I conjured from the fire kindled to destroy myself a genie
who had power to change me from the miserable wretch I was, into the
happy man I am. For more than a year I have been with him,—first as
secretary, then protégé, now friend, almost son; for he asks nothing
of me except such services as I love to render, and gives me every aid
towards winning my way. Is not that magnificent generosity? Can I help
regarding him with superstitious gratitude? Am I not rightly named
Felix?”
“Yes, oh yes! Tell me more, please. I have led such a lonely life, that
human beings are like wonder-books to me, and I am never tired of
reading them.” Gladys looked with a rapt expression into the face
upturned to hers, little dreaming how dangerous such lore might be to
her.
“Then you should read Helwyze; he is a romance that will both charm and
make your heart ache, if you dare to try him.”
“I dare, if I may, because I would so gladly lose my fear of him in the
gentler feeling that grows in me as I listen.”
Canaris was irresistibly led on to confidences he had no right to make,
it was so pleasant to feel that he had the power to move the girl by his
words, as the wind sways a leaf upon its delicate stem. A half-fledged
purpose lurked in a dark corner of his mind, and even while denying its
existence to himself, he yielded to its influence, careless of
consequences.
“Then I will go on and let compassion finish what I have begun. Till
thirty, Helwyze led a wonderfully free, rich life, I infer from hints
dropped in unguarded moments,—for confidential moods are rare. Every
good gift was his, and nothing to alloy his happiness, unless it was the
restless nature which kept him wandering like an Arab long after most
men have found some ambition to absorb, or some tie to restrain, them.
From what I have gathered, I know that a great passion was beginning to
tame his unquiet spirit, when a great misfortune came to afflict it, and
in an hour changed a life of entire freedom to one of the bitterest
bondage such a man can know.”
“Oh, what?” cried Gladys, as he artfully paused just there to see her
bend nearer, and her lips part with the tremor of suspense.
“A terrible fall; and for ten years he has never known a day’s rest from
pain of some sort, and never will, till death releases him ten years
hence, perhaps, if his indomitable will keeps him alive so long.”
“Alas, alas! is there no cure?” sighed Gladys, as the violet eyes grew
dim for very pity of so hard a fate.
“None.”
A brief silence followed while the shadow of a great white cloud drifted
across the sky, blotting out the sunshine for a moment.
All the flowers strayed down upon the steps and lay there forgotten, as
the hands that held them were clasped together on the girl’s breast, as
if the mere knowledge of a lot like this lay heavy at her heart.
Satisfied with his effect, the story-teller was tempted to add another
stroke, and went on with the fluency of one who saw all things
dramatically, and could not help coloring them in his own vivid fancy.
“That seems very terrible to you, but in truth the physical affliction
was not so great as the loss that tried his soul; for he loved ardently,
and had just won his suit, when the misfortune came which tied him to a
bed of torment for some years. A fall from heaven to hell could hardly
have seemed worse than to be precipitated from the heights of such a
happiness to the depths of such a double woe; for she, the beautiful,
beloved woman proved disloyal, and left him lying there, like
Prometheus, with the vulture of remembered bliss to rend his heart.”
“Could he not forget her?” and Gladys trembled with indignation at the
perfidy which seemed impossible to a nature born for self-sacrifice.
“He never will forget or forgive, although the man she married well
avenged him while he lived, and bequeathed her a memory which all his
gold could not gild. Her fate is the harder now; for the old love has
revived, and Helwyze is dearer than in his days of unmarred strength. He
knows it, but will not accept the tardy atonement; for contempt has
killed his love, and with him there is no resurrection of the dead. A
very patient and remorseful love is hers: for she has been humiliated in
spirit, as he can never be, by the bodily ills above which he has risen
so heroically that his courage has subdued the haughtiest woman I ever
met.”
“You know her, then?” and Gladys bent to look into his face, with her
own shadowed by an intuition of the truth.
“Yes.”
“I am afraid to listen any more. It is terrible to know that such
bitterness and grief lie hidden in the hearts about me. Why did you tell
me this?” she demanded, shrinking from him, as if some prophetic fear
had stepped between them.
“Why did I? Because I wished to make you pity my friend, and help me put
a little brightness into his hard life. You can do it if you will, for
you soothe and please him, and few possess the power to give him any
comfort. He makes no complaint, asks no pity, and insists on ignoring
the pain which preys upon him, till it grows too great to be concealed;
then shuts himself up alone, to endure it like a Spartan. Forgive me if
in my eagerness I have said too much, and forget whatever troubled you.”
Canaris spoke with genuine regret, and hoped to banish the cloud from a
face which had been as placid as the lake below, till he disturbed it by
reflections that affrighted her.
“It is easy to forgive, but not to forget, words which cannot be unsaid.
I was so happy here; and now it is all spoilt. She was a new-made
friend, and very kind to me when I was desolate. I shall seem a
thankless beggar if I go away before I have paid my debt as best I can.
How shall I tell her that I must?”
“Of whom do you speak? I gave no name. I thought you would not guess.
Why must you go, Gladys?” asked the young man, surprised to see how
quickly she felt the chill of doubt, and tried to escape obligation,
when neither love nor respect brightened it.
“I need give no name, because you know. It is as well, perhaps, that I
have guessed it. I ought not to have been so content, since I am here
through charity. I must take up my life and try to shape it for myself;
but the world seems very large now I am all alone.”
She spoke half to herself, and looked beyond the safe, secluded garden,
to the gray mountains whose rough paths her feet had trod before they
were led here to rest.
Quick to be swayed by the varying impulses which ruled him with
capricious force, Canaris was now full of pity for the trouble he had
wrought, and when she rose, like a bird startled from its nest, he rose
also, and, taking the hand put out as if involuntarily asking help, he
said with regretful gentleness,—
“Do not be afraid, we will befriend you. Helwyze shall counsel and I
will comfort, if we can. I should not have told that dismal story; I
will atone for it by a new song, and you shall grow happy in singing
it.”
She hesitated, withdrew her hand, and looked askance at him, as if one
doubt bred others. An approaching footstep made her start, and stand a
moment with head erect, eye fixed, and ear intent, like a listening
deer, then whispering, “It is she; hide me till I learn to look as if I
did not know!”—Gladys sprung down the steps, and vanished like a wraith,
leaving no token of her presence but the lilies in the dust, for the
young man followed fleetly.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  III.
A woman came into the balcony with a swift step, and paused there, as if
disappointed to find it deserted. A woman in the midsummer of her life,
brilliant, strong, and stately; clad in something dusky and diaphanous,
unrelieved by any color, except the pale gold of the laburnum clusters,
that drooped from deep bosom and darkest hair. Pride sat on the
forehead, with its straight black brows, passion slept in the Southern
eyes, lustrous or languid by turns, and will curved the closely folded
lips of vivid red.
But over all this beauty, energy, and grace an indescribable blight
seemed to have fallen, deeper than the loss of youth’s first freshness,
darker than the trace of any common sorrow. Something felt, rather than
seen, which gave her the air of a dethroned queen; conquered, but
protesting fiercely, even while forced to submit to some inexorable
decree, whose bitterest pang was the knowledge that the wrong was
self-inflicted.
As she stood there, looking down the green vista, two figures crossed
it. A smile curved the sad mouth, and she said aloud, “Faust and
Margaret, playing the old, old game.”
“And Mephistopheles and Martha looking on,” added a melodious voice,
behind her, as Helwyze swept back the half-transparent curtain from the
long window where he sat.
“The part you give me is not a flattering one,” she answered, veiling
mingled pique and pleasure with well-feigned indifference.
“Nor mine; yet I think they suit us both, in a measure. Do you know,
Olivia, that the accidental reading of my favorite tragedy, at a certain
moment, gave me a hint which has afforded amusement for a year.”
“You mean your fancy for playing Mentor to that boy. A dangerous task
for you, Jasper.”
“The danger is the charm. I crave excitement, occupation; and what but
something of this sort is left me? Much saving grace in charity, we are
told; and who needs it more than I? Surely I have been kinder to Felix
than the Providence which left him to die of destitution and despair?”
“Perhaps not. The love of power is strong in men like you, and grows by
what it feeds on. If I am not mistaken, this whim of a moment has
already hardened into a purpose which will mould his life in spite of
him. It is an occupation that suits your taste, for you enjoy his beauty
and his promise; you like to praise and pamper him till vanity and love
of pleasure wax strong, then you check him with an equal satisfaction,
and find excitement in curbing his high spirit, his wayward will. By
what tie you hold him I cannot tell; but I know it must be something
stronger than gratitude, for, though he chafes against the bond, he
dares not break it.”
“Ah, that is my secret! What would you not give if I would teach you the
art of taming men as I once taught you to train a restive horse?”—and
Helwyze looked out at her with eyes full of malicious merriment.
“You have taught me the art of taming a woman; is not that enough?”
murmured Olivia, in a tone that would have touched any man’s heart with
pity, if with no tenderer emotion.
But Helwyze seemed not to hear the reproach, and went on, as if the
other topic suited his mood best.
“I call Canaris my Greek slave, sometimes, and he never knows whether to
feel flattered or insulted. His father was a Greek adventurer, you know
(ended tragically, I suspect), and but for the English mother’s legacy
of a trifle of moral sense, Felix would be as satisfactory a young
heathen as if brought straight from ancient Athens. It was this peculiar
mixture of unscrupulous daring and fitful virtue which attracted me, as
much as his unusual beauty and undoubted talent. Money can buy almost
any thing, you know; so I bought my handsome Alcibiades, and an
excellent bargain I find him.”
“But when you tire of him, what then? You cannot sell him again, nor
throw him away, like a book you weary of. Neither can you leave him
neglected in the lumber-room, with distasteful statues or bad pictures.
Affection, if you have it, will not outlast your admiration, and I have
much curiosity to know what will become of your ‘handsome Alcibiades’
then.”
“Then, my cousin, I will give him to you, for I have fancied of late
that you rather coveted him. You could not manage him now,—the savage in
him is not quite civilized yet,—but wait a little, and I will make a
charming plaything for you. I know you will treat him kindly, since it
is truly said, Those who have served, best know how to rule.”
The sneer stung her deeply, for there was no humiliation this proud
woman had not suffered at the hands of a brutal and unfaithful husband.
Pity was as bitter a draught to her as to the man who thus cruelly
reminded her of the long bondage which had left an ineffaceable blight
upon her life. The wound bled inwardly, but she retaliated, as only such
a woman could.
“Love is the one master who can rule and bind without danger or
disgrace. I shall remember that, and when you give me Felix he will find
me a gentler mistress than I was ten years ago—to you.”
The last words dropped from her lips as softly as if full of tender
reminiscence, but they pricked pride, since they could not touch a
relentless heart. Helwyze betrayed it by the sombre fire of his eye, the
tone in which he answered.
“And I will ask of you the only gift I care to accept,—your new
protégée, Gladys. Tell me where you found her; the child interests me
much.”
“I know it;” and, stifling a pang of jealous pain, Olivia obeyed with
the docility of one in whom will was conquered by a stronger power.
“A freak took me to the hills in March. My winter had been a vain chase
after happiness, and I wanted solitude. I found it where chance led
me,—in this girl’s home. A poor, bleak place enough; but it suited me,
for there were only the father and daughter, and they left me to myself.
The man died suddenly, and no one mourned, for he was a selfish tyrant.
The girl was left quite alone, and nearly penniless, but so happy in her
freedom that she had no fears. I liked the courage of the creature; I
knew how she felt; I saw great capacity for something fine in her. I
said, ‘Come with me for a little, and time will show you the next step.’
She came; time has shown her, and the next step will take her from my
house to yours, unless I much mistake your purpose.”
Leaning in the low, lounging chair, Helwyze had listened motionless,
except that the fingers of one thin hand moved fitfully, as if he played
upon some instrument inaudible to all ears but his own. A frequent
gesture of his, and most significant, to any one who knew that his
favorite pastime was touching human heart-strings with marvellous
success in producing discords by his uncanny skill.
As Olivia paused, he asked in a voice as suave as cold,—
“My purpose? Have I any?”
“You say she interests you, and you watch her in a way that proves it.
Have you not already resolved to win her for your amusement, by some
bribe as cunning as that you gave Canaris for his liberty?”
“I have. You are a shrewd woman, Olivia.”
“Yet she is not beautiful;” and her eye vainly searched the inscrutable
countenance, that showed so passionless and pale against the purple
cushion where it leaned.
“Pardon me, the loveliest woman I have seen for years. A beautiful,
fresh soul is most attractive when one is weary of more material charms.
This girl seems made of spirit, fire, and dew; a mixture rare as it is
exquisite, and the spell is all the greater because of its fine and
elusive quality. I promise myself much satisfaction in observing how
this young creature meets the trials and temptations life and love will
bring her; and to do this she must be near at hand.”
“Happy Gladys!”
Olivia smiled a scornful smile, but folded her arms to curb the
rebellious swelling of her heart at the thought of another woman nearer
than herself. She turned away as she spoke; but Helwyze saw the quiver
of her lips, and read the meaning of the piercing glance she shot into
the garden, as if to find and annihilate that unconscious rival.
Content for the moment with the touch of daily torture which was the
atonement exacted for past disloyalty, he lifted the poor soul from
despair to delight by the utterance of three words, accompanied by a
laugh as mirthless as musical,—
“Happy Felix, rather.”
“Is he to marry her?” and Olivia fronted him, glowing with a sudden
joy which made her lovely as well as brilliant.
“Who else?”
“Yourself.”
“I!” and the word was full of a bitterness which thrilled every nerve
the woman had, for an irrepressible regret wrung it from lips sternly
shut on all complaint, except to her.
“Why not?” she cried, daring to answer with impetuous warmth and candor.
“What woman would not be glad to serve you for the sake of the luxury
with which you would surround her, if not for the love you might win and
give, if you chose?”
“Bah! what have I to do with love? Thank Heaven my passions are all
dead, else life would be a hell, not the purgatory it is,” he said,
glancing at his wasted limbs, with an expression which would have been
pathetic, had it not been defiant; for that long discipline of pain had
failed to conquer the spirit of the man, and it seemed to sit aloof,
viewing with a curious mixture of compassion and contempt the slow ruin
of the body which imprisoned it.
With an impulse womanly as winning, Olivia plucked a wine-dark rose from
the trellis nearest her, and, bending towards him, laid it in his hand,
with a look and gesture of one glad to give all she possessed, if that
were possible.
“Your love of beauty still survives, and is a solace to you. Let me
minister to it when I can; and be assured I offer my little friend as
freely as I do my choicest rose.”
“Thanks; the flower for me, the friend for Felix. Young as he is, he
knows how to woo, and she will listen to his love-tale as willingly as
she did to the highly colored romance he was telling her just now. You
would soon find her a burden, Olivia, and so should I, unless she came
in this way. We need do nothing but leave the young pair to summer and
seclusion; they will make the match better and more quickly than we
could. Then a month for the honeymoon business, and all can be
comfortably settled before October frosts set in.”
“You often say, where women are is discord; yet you are planning to
bring one into your house in the most dangerous way. Have you no fears,
Jasper?”
“Not of Gladys; she is so young, I can mould her as I please, and that
suits me. She will become my house well, this tender, transparent little
creature, with her tranquil eyes, and the sincere voice which makes
truth sweeter than falsehood. You must come and see her there; but never
try to alter her, or the charm will be destroyed.”
“You may be satisfied: but how will it be with Felix? Hitherto your sway
has been undivided, now you must share it; for with all her gentleness
she is strong, and will rule him.”
“And I, Gladys. Felix suits me excellently, and it will only add another
charm to the relation if I control him through the medium of another. My
young lion is discovering his power rapidly, and I must give him a Una
before he breaks loose and chooses for himself. If matters must be
complicated, I choose to do it, and it will occupy my winter pleasantly
to watch the success of this new combination.”
While he talked, Helwyze had been absently stripping leaf after leaf
from the great rose, till nothing but the golden heart remained
trembling on the thorny stem.
Olivia had watched the velvet petals fall one by one, feeling a sad
sympathy with the ill-used gift; yet, as the last leaf fluttered to the
ground, she involuntarily lifted up her hand to break another, glad if
even in the destruction of so frail a thing he could find a moment’s
pleasure.
“No, let them hang; their rich color pleases best among the green; their
cloying perfume is too heavy for the house. A snowdrop, leaning from its
dainty sheath undaunted by March winds, is more to my taste now,” he
said, dropping the relics of the rose, with the slow smile which often
lent such significance to a careless word.
“I cannot give you that: spring flowers are all gone long ago,” began
Olivia, regretfully.
“Nay, you give me one in Gladys; no spring flower could be more delicate
than she, gathered by your own hand from the bleak nook where you found
her. It is the faint, vernal fragrance of natures, coyly hidden from
common eye and touch, which satisfies and soothes senses refined by
suffering.”
“Yet you will destroy it, like the rose, in finding out the secret of
its life. I wondered why this pale, cold innocence was so attractive to
a man like you. There was a time when you would have laughed at such a
fancy, and craved something with more warmth and brilliancy.”
“I am wiser now, and live here, not here,” he answered, touching first
his forehead then his breast, with melancholy meaning. “While my brain
is spared me I can survive the ossification of all the heart I ever had,
since, at best, it is an unruly member. Almost as inconvenient as a
conscience; that, thank fortune, I never had. Yes; to study the
mysterious mechanism of human nature is a most absorbing pastime, when
books weary, and other sources of enjoyment are forbidden. Try it, and
see what an exciting game it becomes, when men and women are the pawns
you learn to move at will. Goethe’s boyish puppet-show was but a symbol
of the skill and power which made the man the magician he became.”
“An impious pastime, a dearly purchased fame, built on the broken hearts
of women!” exclaimed Olivia, walking to and fro with the noiseless step
and restless grace of a leopardess pacing its cage.
Helwyze neither seemed to see nor hear her, for his gloomy eyes stared
at a little bird tilting on a spray that swung in the freshening wind,
and his thoughts followed their own path.
“‘Pale, cold innocence.’ It is curious that it should charm me. A good
sign, perhaps; for poets tell us that fallen angels sigh for the heaven
they have lost, and try to rise again on the wings of spirits stronger
and purer than themselves. Would they not find virtue insipid after a
fiery draught of sin? Did not Paradise seem a little dull to Dante, in
spite of Beatrice? I wish I knew.”
“Is it for this that you want the girl’s help?” asked Olivia, pausing in
her march to look at him. “I shall wait with interest to see if she
lifts you up to sainthood, or you drag her down to your level, where
intellect is God, conscience ignored, and love despised. Unhappy Gladys!
I should have said, because I cannot keep her from you, if I would; and
in your hands she will be as helpless as the dumb creatures surgeons
torture, that they may watch a living nerve, count the throbbing of an
artery, or see how long the poor things will live bereft of some vital
part. Let the child alone, Jasper, or you will repent of it.”
“Upon my word, Olivia, you are in an ominously prophetic mood. I hear a
carriage; and, as I am invisible to all eyes but your gifted ones,
pardon me if I unceremoniously leave the priestess on her tripod.”
And the curtain dropped between them as suddenly as it had been lifted,
depriving the woman of the one troubled joy of her life,—companionship
with him.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  IV.
“Felix, are you asleep?”
“No, sir, only resting.”
“Have you been at work?”
“Decidedly; I rowed across the lake and back.”
“Alone?”
“Gladys went with me, singing like a mermaid all the way.”
“Ah!”
Both men were lounging in the twilight; but there was a striking
difference in their way Of doing it. Canaris lay motionless on a couch,
his head pillowed on his arms, enjoying the luxury of repose, with the
dolce far niente only possible to those in whose veins runs Southern
blood. Helwyze leaned in a great chair, which looked a miracle of
comfort; but its occupant stirred restlessly, as if he found no ease
among its swelling cushions; and there was an alert expression in his
face, betraying that the brain was at work on some thought or purpose
which both absorbed and excited.
A pause followed the brief dialogue, during which Canaris seemed to
relapse into his delicious drowse, while Helwyze sat looking at him with
the critical regard one bestows on a fine work of art. Yet something in
the spectacle of rest he could not share seemed to annoy him; for,
suddenly turning up the shaded lamp upon his table, he dispelled the
soft gloom, and broke the silence.
“I have a request to make. May I trouble you to listen?”
There was a tone of command in the courteously worded speech, which made
Canaris sit erect, with a respectful—
“At your service, sir.”
“I wish you to marry,” continued Helwyze, with such startling abruptness
that the young man gazed at him in mute amazement for a moment. Then,
veiling his surprise by a laugh, he asked lightly,—
“Isn’t it rather soon for that, sir? I am hardly of age.”
“Geniuses are privileged; and I am not aware of any obstacle, if I am
satisfied,” answered Helwyze, with an imperious gesture, which seemed to
put aside all objections.
“Do you seriously mean it, sir?”
“I do.”
“But why such haste?”
“Because it is my pleasure.”
“I will not give up my liberty so soon,” cried the young man, with a
mutinous flash of the eye.
“I thought you had already given it up. If you choose to annul the
agreement, do it, and go. You know the forfeit.”
“I forgot this possibility. Did I agree to obey in all things?”
“It was so set down in the bond. Entire obedience in return for the
success you coveted. Have I failed in my part of the bargain?”
“No, sir; no.”
“Then do yours, or let us cancel the bond, and part.”
“How can we? What can I do without you? Is there no way but this?”
“None.”
Canaris looked dismayed,—and well he might, for it seemed impossible to
put away the cup he had thirsted for, when its first intoxicating
draught was at his lips.
Helwyze had spoken with peculiar emphasis, and his words were full of
ominous suggestion to the listener’s ear; for he alone knew how much
rebellion would cost him, since luxury and fame were still dearer than
liberty or honor. He sprung up, and paced the room, feeling like some
wild creature caught in a snare.
Helwyze, regardless of his chafing, went on calmly, as if to a willing
hearer, eying him vigilantly the while, though now his own manner was as
