It was perhaps an indication of Lizzie's pertness 
that she very soon retired and left the Baroness 
on her brother's hands. Acton talked a great 
deal about his chinoiseries ; he knew a good deal 
about porcelain and bric-a-brac. The Baroness, 
in her progress through the house, made, as it 
were, a great many stations. She sat down every- 
 
where, confessed to being a little tired, and asked 
about the various objects with a curious mixture 
of alertness and inattention. If there had been 
any one to say it to she would have declared that 
she was positively in love with her host ; but she 
could hardly make this declaration even in the 
strictest confidence to Acton himself. It gave 
her, nevertheless, a pleasure that had some of the 
charm of unwontedness to feel, with that admira- 
ble keenness with which she was capable of feeling 
things, that he had a disposition without any 
edges ; that even his humorous irony always ex- 
panded toward the point. One's impression of 
his honesty was almost like carrying a bunch of 
flowers ; the perfume was most agreeable, but 
they were occasionally an inconvenience. One 
could trust him, at any rate, round all the corners 
of the world ; and, withal, he was not absolutely 
simple, which would have been excess ; he was 
only relatively simple, which was quite enough 
for the Baroness. 
Lizzie reappeared to say that her mother would 
now be happy to receive Madame Minister ; and 
the Baroness followed her to Mrs. Acton's apart- 
ment. Eugenia reflected, as she went, that it was 
not the affectation of impertinence that made her 
dislike this young lady, for on that ground she 
could easily have beaten her. It was not an as- 
   
piration on the girl's part to rivalry, but a kind 
of laughing, childishly-mocking indifference to the 
results of comparison. Mrs. Acton was an emaci- 
ated, sweet-faced woman of five and fifty, sitting 
with pillows behind her, and looking out on a 
clump of hemlocks. She was very modest, very 
timid, and very ill ; she made Eugenia feel grate- 
ful that she herself was not like that neither 
so ill, nor, possibly, so modest. On a chair, be- 
side her, lay a volume of Emerson's Essays. It 
was a great occasion for poor Mrs. Acton, in her 
helpless condition, to be confronted with a clever 
foreign lady, who had more manner than any 
lady any dozen ladies that she had ever seen. 
" I have heard a great deal about you," she said, 
softly, to the Baroness. 
" From your son, eh ? " Eugenia asked. " He 
has talked to me immensely of you. Oh, he talks 
of you as you would like," the Baroness de- 
clared ; "as such a son must talk of such a 
mother ! " 
Mrs. Acton sat gazing ; this was part of Mad- 
ame Minister's " manner." But Robert Acton 
was gazing too, in vivid consciousness that he had 
barely mentioned his mother to their brilliant 
guest. He never talked of this still maternal 
presence, a presence refined to such delicacy 
that it had almost resolved itself, with him, 
 
simply into the subjective emotion of gratitude. 
And Acton rarely talked of his emotions. The 
Baroness turned her smile toward him, and she 
instantly felt that she had been observed to be 
fibbing. She had struck a false note. But who 
were these people to whom such fibbing was not 
pleasing ? If they were annoyed, the Baroness 
was equally so ; and after the exchange of a few 
civil inquiries and low-voiced responses she took 
leave of Mrs. Acton. She begged Robert not to 
come home with her ; she would get into the car- 
riage alone ; she preferred that. This was impe- 
rious, and she thought he looked disappointed. 
While she stood before the door with him the 
carriage was turning in the gravel-walk this 
thought restored her serenity. 
When she had given him her hand in farewell 
she looked at him a moment. " I have almost de- 
cided to dispatch that paper," she said. 
He knew that she alluded to the document that 
she had called her renunciation ; and he assisted 
her into the carriage without saying anything. 
But just before the vehicle began to move he said, 
" Well, when you have in fact dispatched it, I 
hope you will let me know ! " 
VII. 
FELIX YOUNG finished Gertrude's portrait, 
and he afterwards transferred to canvas the feat- 
ures of many members of that circle of which it 
may be said that he had become for the time the 
pivot and the centre. I am afraid it must be con- 
fessed that he was a decidedly flattering painter, 
and that he imparted to his models a romantic 
grace which seemed easily and cheaply acquired 
by the payment of a hundred dollars to a young 
man who made " sitting " so entertaining. For 
Felix was paid for his pictures, making, as he did, 
no secret of the fact that in guiding his steps to 
the Western world affectionate curiosity had gone 
hand in hand with a desire to better his condition. 
He took his uncle's portrait quite as if Mr. Went- 
worth had never averted himself from the experi- 
ment ; and as he compassed his end only by the 
exercise of gentle violence, it is but fair to add 
that he allowed the old man to give him nothing 
but his time. He passed his arm into Mr. Went- 
worth's one summer morning very few arms in- 
deed had ever passed into Mr. Wentworth's 
 
and led him across the garden and along the road 
into the studio which he had extemporized in the 
little house among the apple-trees. The grave 
gentleman felt himself more and more fascinated 
by his clever nephew, whose fresh, demonstrative 
youth seemed a compendium of experiences so 
strangely numerous. It appeared to him that 
Felix must know a great deal ; he would like to 
learn what he thought about some of those things 
as regards which his own conversation had always 
been formal, but his knowledge vague. Felix had 
a confident, gayly trenchant way of judging hu- 
man actions which Mr. Wentworth grew little by 
little to envy ; it seemed like criticism made easy. 
Forming an opinion say on a person's conduct 
was, with Mr. Wentworth, a good deal like 
fumbling in a lock with a key chosen at hazard. 
He seemed to himself to go about the world with 
a big bunch of these ineffectual instruments at 
his girdle. His nephew, on the other hand, with 
a single turn of the wrist, opened any door as 
adroitly as a horse-thief. He felt obliged to keep 
up the convention that an uncle is always wiser 
than a nephew, even if he could keep it up no 
otherwise than by listening in serious silence to 
Felix's quick, light, constant discourse. But there 
came a day when he lapsed from consistency and 
almost asked his nephew's advice. 
   
" Have you ever entertained the idea of settling 
in the United States?" he asked one morning, 
while Felix brilliantly plied his brush. 
"My dear uncle," said Felix "excuse me if 
your question makes me smile a little. To begin 
with, I have never entertained an idea. Ideas 
often entertain me ; but I am afraid I have never 
seriously made a plan. I know what you are 
going to say ; or rather, I know what you think, 
for I don't think you will say it that this is 
very frivolous and loose-minded on my part. So 
it is ; but I am made like that ; I take things as 
they come, and somehow there is always some new 
thing to follow the last. In the second place, I 
should never propose to settle. I can't settle, my 
dear uncle ; I 'm not a settler. I know that is 
what strangers are supposed to do here ; they al- 
ways settle. But I haven't to answer your 
question entertained that idea." 
" You intend to return to Europe and resume 
your irregular manner of life?" Mr. Wentworth 
inquired. 
" I can't say I intend. But it 's very likely I 
shall go back to Europe. After all, I am a Eu- 
ropean. I feel that, you know. It will depend a 
good deal upon my sister. She 's even more of a 
European than I ; here, you know, she 's a picture 
out of her setting. And as for ' resuming,' dear 
 
uncle, I really have never given up my irregular 
manner of life. What, for me, could be more ir- 
regular than this ? " 
"Than what?" asked Mr. Wentworth, with 
his pale gravity. 
" Well, than everything ! Living in the midst 
of you, this way ; this charming, quiet, serious 
family life ; fraternizing with Charlotte and Ger- 
trude ; calling upon twenty young ladies and go- 
ing out to walk with them ; sitting with you in the 
evening on the piazza and listening to the crickets, 
and going to bed at ten o'clock." 
" Your description is very animated, " said Mr. 
Wentworth ; " but I see nothing improper in what 
you describe." 
" Neither do I, dear uncle. It is extremely 
delightful ; I should n't like it if it were improper. 
I assure you I don't like improper things ; though 
I dare say you think I do," Felix went on, paint- 
ing away. 
" I have never accused you of that." 
" Pray don't," said Felix, " because, you see, at 
bottom I am a terrible Philistine." 
" A Philistine ? " repeated Mr. Wentworth. 
" I mean, as one may say, a plain, God-fearing 
man." Mr. Wentworth looked at him reservedly, 
like a mystified sage, and Felix continued, "I trust 
I shall enjoy a venerable and venerated old age. 
   
I mean to live long. I can hardly call that a plan, 
perhaps ; but it 's a keen desire a rosy vision. I 
shall be a lively, perhaps even a frivolous old 
man!" 
" It is natural," said his uncle, sententiously, 
" that one should desire to prolong an agreeable 
life. We have perhaps a selfish indisposition to 
bring our pleasure to a close. But I presume," 
he added, " that you expect to marry." 
" That too, dear uncle, is a hope, a desire, a 
vision," said Felix. It occurred to him for an in- 
stant that this was possibly a preface to the offer 
of the hand of one of Mr. Wentworth's admirable 
daughters. But in the name of decent modesty 
and a proper sense of the hard realities of this 
world, Felix banished the thought. His uncle 
was the incarnation of benevolence, certainly ; but 
from that to accepting much more postulating 
the idea of a union between a young lady with 
a dowry presumptively brilliant and a penniless 
artist with no prospect, of fame, there was a very 
long way. Felix had lately become conscious of a 
luxurious preference for the society if possible 
unshared with others of Gertrude Wentworth ; 
but he had relegated this young lady, for the 
moment, to the coldly brilliant category of unat- 
tainable possessions. She was not the first woman 
for whom he had entertained an unpractical ad- 
 
miration. He had been in love with duchesses 
and countesses, and he had made, once or twice, 
a perilously near approach to cynicism in declar- 
ing that the disinterestedness of women had been 
overrated. On the whole, he had tempered audac- 
ity with modesty; and it is but fair to him now 
to say explicitly that he would have been incapa- 
ble of taking advantage of his present large al- 
lowance of familiarity to make love to the younger 
of his handsome cousins. Felix had grown up 
among traditions in the light of which such a pro- 
ceeding looked like a grievous breach of hospital- 
ity. I have said that he was always happy, and 
it may be counted among the present sources of 
his happiness that he had as regards this matter 
of his relations with Gertrude a deliciously good 
conscience. His own deportment seemed to him 
suffused with the beauty of virtue a form of 
beauty that he admired with the same vivacity 
with which he admired all other forms. 
" I think that if you marry," said Mr. Wentworth 
presently, " it will conduce to your happiness." 
" Sicurissimo ! " Felix exclaimed ; and then, ar- 
resting his brush, he looked at his uncle with a 
smile. " There is something I feel tempted to 
say to you. May I risk it ? " 
Mr. Wentworth drew himself up a little. " I 
am very safe ; I don't repeat things." But he 
hoped Felix would not risk too much. 
   
Felix was laughing at his answer. 
" It 's odd to hear you telling me how to be 
happy. I don't think you know yourself, dear 
uncle. Now, does that sound brutal ? " 
The old man was silent a moment, and then, 
with a dry dignity that suddenly touched his 
nephew : " We may sometimes point out a road 
we are unable to follow." 
" Ah, don't tell me you have had any sorrows," 
Felix rejoined. " I did n't suppose it, and I did n't 
mean to allude to them. I simply meant that you 
all don't amuse yourselves." 
" Amuse ourselves ? We are not children." 
" Precisely not ! You have reached the proper 
age. I was saying that the other day to Ger- 
trude," Felix added. "I hope it was not indis- 
creet." 
" If it was," said Mr. Wentworth, with a keener 
irony than Felix would have thought him capable 
of, " it was but your way of amusing yourself. I 
am afraid you have never had a trouble." 
" Oh, yes, I have!" Felix declared, with some 
spirit ; " before I kflew better. But you don't 
catch me at it again." 
Mr. Wentworth maintained for a while a silence 
more expressive than a deep-drawn sigh. " You 
have no children," he said at last. 
" Don't tell me," Felix exclaimed, " that your 
 
charming young people are a source of grief to 
you ! " 
"I don't speak of Charlotte." And then, af- 
ter a pause, Mr. Wentworth continued, " I don't 
speak of Gertrude. But I feel considerable anx- 
iety about Clifford. I will tell you another time." 
The next time he gave Felix a sitting his 
nephew reminded him that he had taken him into 
his confidence. " How is Clifford to-day ? " Felix 
asked. " He has always seemed to me a young 
man of remarkable discretion. Indeed, he is only 
too discreet ; he seems on his guard against me 
as if he thought me rather light company. The 
other day he told his sister Gertrude repeated 
it to me that I was always laughing at him. If 
I laugh it is simply from the impulse to try and 
inspire him with confidence. That is the only way 
I have." 
" Clifford's situation is no laughing matter," 
said Mr. Wentworth. "It is very peculiar, as I 
suppose you have guessed." 
"Ah, you mean his love affair with his cousin ? " 
Mr. Wentworth stared, blushing a little. "I 
mean his absence from college. He has been sus- 
pended. We have decided not to speak of it un- 
less we are asked." 
" Suspended ? " Felix repeated. 
" He has been requested by the Harvard au- 
  
thorities to absent himself for six months. Mean- 
while he is studying with Mr. Brand. We think 
Mr. Brand will help him ; at least we hope so." 
" What befell him at college ? " Felix asked. 
" He was too fond of pleasure ? Mr. Brand cer- 
tainly will not teach him any of those secrets ! " 
" He was too fond of something of which he 
should not haye been fond. I suppose it is con- 
sidered a pleasure." 
Felix gave his light laugh. " My dear uncle, 
is there any doubt about its being a pleasure ? 
(Test de son dge, as they say in France." 
" I should have said rather it was a vice of later 
life of disappointed old age." 
Felix glanced at his uncle, with his lifted eye- 
brows, and then, " Of what are you speaking?" 
he demanded, smiling. 
" Of the situation in which Clifford was found." 
" Ah, he was found he was caught ? " 
" Necessarily, he was caught. He could n't 
walk ; he staggered.'' 
" Oh," said Felix, " he drinks ! I rather sus- 
pected that, from something I observed the first 
day I came here. I quite agree with you that it 
is a low taste. It 's not a vice for a gentleman. 
He ought to give it up." 
" We hope for a good deal from Mr. Brand's 
influence," Mr. Wentworth went on. " He has 
talked to him from the first. And he never 
touches anything himself." 
" I will talk to him I will talk to him ! " 
Felix declared, gayly. 
"What will you say to him?" asked his uncle, 
with some apprehension. 
Felix for some moments answered nothing. " Do 
you mean to marry him to his cousin ? " he asked 
at last. 
" Marry him ? " echoed Mr. Wentworth. " I 
should n't think his cousin would want to marry 
him." 
"You have no understanding, then, with Mrs. 
Acton?" 
Mr. Wentworth stared, almost blankly. " I 
have never discussed such subjects with her." 
" I should think it might be time," said Felix. 
" Lizzie Acton is admirably pretty, and if Clifford 
is dangerous . . . . " 
" They are not engaged," said Mr. Wentworth. 
" I have no reason to suppose they are engaged." 
" Par exemple ! " cried Felix. " A clandestine 
engagement? Trust me, Clifford, as I say, is a 
charming boy. He is incapable of that. Lizzie Ac- 
ton, then, would not be jealous of another woman." 
" I certainly hope not," said the old man, with 
a vague sense of jealousy being an even lower vice 
than a love of liquor. 
 
   
" The best thing for Clifford, then," Felix pro- 
pounded, " is to become interested in some clever, 
charming woman." And he paused in his paint- 
ing, and, with his elbows on his knees, looked 
with bright communicativeness at his uncle. " You 
see, I believe greatly in the influence of women. 
Living with women helps to make a man a gentle- 
man. It is very true Clifford has his sisters, who 
are so charming. But there should be a different 
sentiment in play from the fraternal, you know. 
He has Lizzie Acton ; but she, perhaps, is rather 
immature." 
" I suspect Lizzie has talked to him, reasoned 
with him," said Mr. Wentworth. 
" On the impropriety of getting tipsy on the 
beauty of temperance ? That is dreary work for 
a pretty young girl. No," Felix continued ; " Clif- 
ford ought to frequent some agreeable woman, 
who, without ever mentioning such unsavory sub- 
jects, would give him a sense of its being very ri- 
diculous to be fuddled. If he could fall in love 
with her a little, so much the better. The thing 
would operate as a cure." 
"Well, now, what lady should you suggest?" 
asked Mr. Wentworth. 
" There is a clever woman under your hand. 
My sister." 
"Your sister under my hand?" Mr. Went- 
worth repeated. 
 
" Say a word to Clifford. Tell him to be bold. 
He is well disposed already; he has invited her 
two or three times to drive. But I don't think he 
comes to see her. Give him a hint to come to 
come often. He will sit there of an afternoon, 
and they will talk. It will do him good." 
Mr. Wentworth meditated. " You think she 
will exercise a helpful influence ? " 
" She will exercise a civilizing I may call it a 
sobering influence. A charming, clever, witty 
woman always does especially if she is a little 
of a coquette. My dear uncle, the society of such 
women has been half my education. If Clifford 
is suspended, as you say, from college, let Euge- 
nia be his preceptress." 
Mr. Wentworth continued thoughtful. "You 
think Eugenia is a coquette ? " he asked. 
" What pretty woman is not ? " Felix demanded 
in turn. But this, for Mr. Wentworth, could at 
the best have been no answer, for he did not think 
his niece pretty. " With Clifford," the young 
man pursued, " Eugenia will simply be enough of 
a coquette to be a little ironical. That 's what he 
needs. So you recommend him to be nice with 
her, you know. The suggestion will come best 
from you." 
"Do I understand," asked the old man, "that I 
am to suggest to my son to make a a profession 
of of affection to Madame Miinster?" 
   
"Yes, yes a profession!" cried Felix sym- 
pathetically. 
" But, as I understand it, Madame Miinster is 
a married woman." 
" Ah," said Felix, smiling, " of course she can't 
marry him. But she will do what she can." 
Mr. Went worth sat for some time with his eyes 
on the floor ; at last he got up. " I don't think," 
he said, " that I can undertake to recommend my 
son any such course." And without meeting Fe- 
lix's surprised glance he broke off his sitting, which 
was not resumed for a fortnight. 
Felix was very fond of the little lake which oc- 
cupied so many of Mr. Wentworth's numerous 
acres, and of a remarkable pine grove which lay 
upon the further side of it, planted upon a steep 
embankment and haunted by the summer breeze. 
The murmur of the air in the far off tree-tops 
had a strange distinctness ; it was almost articu- 
late. One afternoon the young man came out of 
his painting-room and passed the open door of 
Eugenia's little salon. Within, in the cool dim- 
ness, he saw his sister, dressed in white, buried 
in her arm-chair, and holding to her face an 
immense bouquet. Opposite to her sat Clifford 
Wentworth, twirling his hat. He had evidently 
just presented the bouquet to the Baroness, whose 
fine eyes, as she glanced at him over the big roses 
 
and geraniums, wore a conversational smile. Fe- 
lix, standing on the threshold of the cottage, hes- 
itated for a moment as to whether he should re- 
trace his steps and enter the parlor. Then he 
went his way and passed into Mr. Wentworth's 
garden. That civilizing process to which he had 
suggested that Clifford should be subjected ap- 
peared to have come on of itself. Felix was 
very sure, at least, that Mr. Wentworth had not 
adopted his ingenious device for stimulating the 
young man's aesthetic consciousness. u Doubtless 
he supposes," he said to himself, after the conver- 
sation that has been narrated, u that I desire, out 
of fraternal benevolence, to procure for Eugenia 
the amusement of a flirtation or, as he probably 
calls it, an intrigue with the too susceptible Clif- 
ford. It must be admitted and I have noticed it 
before that nothing exceeds the license occa- 
sionally taken by the imagination of very rigid 
people." Felix, on his own side, had of course 
said nothing to Clifford ; but he had observed to 
Eugenia that Mr. Wentworth was much mortified 
at his son's low tastes. " We ought to do some- 
thing to help them, after all their kindness to us," 
he had added. " Encourage Clifford to come and 
see you, and inspire him with a taste for conversa- 
tion. That will supplant the other, which only 
comes from his puerility, from his not taking his 
   
position in the world that of a rich young man 
of ancient stock seriously enough. Make him 
a little more serious. Even if he makes love to 
you it is no great matter." 
" I am to offer myself as a superior form of in- 
toxication a substitute for a brandy bottle, eh ? " 
asked the Baroness. " Truly, in this country one 
comes to strange uses." 
But she had not positively declined to under- 
take Clifford's higher education, and Felix, who 
had not thought of the matter again, being haunted 
with visions of more personal profit, now reflected 
that the work of redemption had fairly begun. 
The idea in prospect had seemed of the happiest, 
but in operation it made him a trifle uneasy. 
" What if Eugenia what if Eugenia " he asked 
himself softly ; the question dying away in his 
sense of Eugenia's undetermined capacity. But 
before Felix had time either to accept or to reject 
its admonition, even in this vague form, he saw 
Robert Acton turn out of Mr. Wentworth's in- 
closure, by a distant gate, and come toward the 
cottage in the orchard. Acton had evidently 
walked from his own house along a shady by-way 
and was intending to pay a visit to Madame Mini- 
ster. Felix watched him a moment ; then he 
turned away. Acton could be left to play the part 
of Providence and interrupt if interruption were 
needed Clifford's entanglement with Eugenia. 
 
Felix passed through the garden toward the 
house and toward a postern gate which opened 
upon a path leading across the fields, beside a little 
wood, to the lake. He stopped and looked up at 
the house ; his eyes rested more particularly upon 
a certain open window, on the shady side. Pres- 
ently Gertrude appeared there, looking out into 
the summer light. He took off his hat to her and 
bade her good-day ; he remarked that he was go- 
ing to row across the pond, and begged that she 
would do him the honor to accompany him. She 
looked at him a moment; then, without saying 
anything, she turned away. But she soon reap- 
peared below in one of those quaint and charming 
Leghorn hats, tied with white satin bows, that 
were worn at that period ; she also carried a green 
parasol. She went with him to the edge of the 
lake, where a couple of boats were always moored ; 
they got into one of them, and Felix, with gentle 
strokes, propelled it to the opposite shore. The 
day was the perfection of summer weather; the 
little lake was the color of sunshine ; the plash of 
the oars was the only sound, and they found them- 
selves listening to it. They disembarked, and, by 
a winding path, ascended the pine-crested mound 
which overlooked the water, whose white expanse 
glittered between the trees. The place was de- 
lightfully cool, and had the added charm that in 
   
the softly sounding pine boughs you seemed to 
hear the coolness as well as feel it. Felix and 
Gertrude sat down on the rust-colored carpet of 
pine-needles and talked of many things. Felix 
spoke at last, in the course of talk, of his going 
away; it was the first time he had alluded to it. 
" You are going away ? " said Gertrude, looking 
at him. 
" Some day when the leaves begin to fall. 
You know I can't stay forever." 
Gertrude transferred her eyes to the outer pros- 
pect, and then, after a pause, she said, " I shall 
never see you again." 
" Why not ? " asked Felix. " We shall proba- 
bly both survive my departure." 
But Gertrude only repeated, " I shall never see 
you again. I shall never hear of you," she went 
on. " I shall know nothing about you. I knew 
nothing about you before, and it will be the same 
again." 
" I knew nothing about you then, unfortu- 
nately," said Felix. " But now I shall write to 
you." 
" Don't write to me. I shall not answer you," 
Gertrude declared. 
"I should of course burn your letters," said 
Felix. 
Gertrude looked at him again. " Burn my let- 
ters ? You sometimes say strange things." 
 
" They are not strange in themselves," the young 
man answered. " They are only strange as said 
to you. You will come to Europe." 
" With whom shall I come ? " She asked this 
question simply ; she was very much in earnest. 
Felix was interested in her earnestness ; for some 
moments he hesitated. " You can't tell me that," 
she pursued. "You can't say that I shall go 
with my father and my sister; you don't believe 
that." 
"I shall keep your letters," said Felix, pres- 
ently, for all answer. 
" I never write. I don't know how to write." 
Gertrude, for some time, said nothing more ; and 
her companion, as he looked at her, wished it had 
not been "disloyal " to make love to the daughter 
