Miss Bessie a day of that same week. 
An ingenious mind might, perhaps, trace a connection between the young girl 's allusion to her 
destitution of social privileges and a question she 
asked on the morrow as she sat with her sister at 
lunch. 
  
" Don 't you mean to write to to any one ?" said 
Bessie. 
" I wrote this morning to Captain Littledale," 
Mrs. Westgate replied, 
"But Mr. Woodley said that Captain Littledale 
had gone to India." 
" He said he thought he had heard so ; he knew 
nothing about it," 
For a moment Bessie Alden said nothing more ; 
then, at last, "And don 't you intend to write to 
to Mr. Beaumont ?" she inquired. 
"You mean to Lord Lambeth," said her sis 
ter. 
" I said Mr. Beaumont, because he was so good 
a friend of yours." 
Mrs. Westgate looked at the young girl with sisterly candor. " I don 't care two straws for Mr. 
Beaumont." 
" You were certainly very nice to him." 
" I am nice to every one," said Mrs. Westgate, 
simply' 
" To every one but me," rejoined Bessie, smiling. 
Her sister continued to look at her ; then. at 
last, " Are you in love with Lord Lambeth ?" she 
asked. 
The young girl stared a moment, and the ques 
tion was apparently too humorous even to make 
her blush. " Not that I know of," she answered, 
" Because if you are," Mrs. Westgate went on, 
" I shall certainly not send for him." 
"That proves what I said," declared Bessie, 
smiling " that you are not nice to me." 
"  It would be a poor service, my dear child," 
said her sister. 
"In what sense? There is nothing against 
Lord Lambeth that I know of." 
Mrs. Westgate was silent a moment. "You 
are in love with him then ?" 
Bessie stared again; but this time she blushed 
a little. "Ah! if you won 't be serious," she an 
swered, " we will not mention him again." 
For some moments Lord Lambeth was not men 
tioned again, and it was Mrs. Westgate who, at 
the end of this period, reverted to him. "Of 
course I will let him know we are here, because 
I think he would be hurt justly enough if we 
should go away without seeing him. It is fair to 
give him a chance to come and thank me for the 
kindness we showed him. But I don 't want to 
seem eager." 
"Neither do I," said Bessie, with a little 
laugh. 
"Though I confess," added her sister, "that I
am curious to see how he will behave." 
" He behaved very well at Newport." 
" Newport is not London. At Newport he could 
  
do as he liked ; but here it is another affair. Ho 
has to have an eye to consequences." 
" If he had more freedom, then, at Newport, ' 
argued Bessie, " it is the more to his credit that 
he behaved well ; and if he has to be so careful 
here, it is possible he will behave even better." 
"Better better," repeated her sister. "My 
dear child, what is your point of view?" 
" How do you mean my point of view ?" 
"Don 't you care for Lord Lambeth a lit 
tle?" 
This time Bessie Alden was displeased ; she 
slowly got up from the table, turning her face 
away from her sister. " You will oblige me by 
not talking so," she said. 
Mrs. Westgate sat watching her for some moments as she moved slowly about the room and 
went and stood at the window. " I will write to 
him this^ afternoon," she said at last. 
"Do as you please!" Bessie answered; and 
presently she turned round. " I am not afraid to 
say that I like Lord Lambeth. I like him very 
much." 
" He is not clever," Mrs. Westgate declared. 
"Well, there have been clever people whom 
I have disliked," said Bessie Alden ; " so that I 
suppose I may like a stupid one. Besides, Lord 
Lambeth is not stupid." 
" X T ot so stupid as he looks!" exclaimed her 
sister, smiling. 
" If I were in love with Lord Lambeth, as you 
said just now, it would be bad policy on your part 
to abuse him." 
"My dear child, don 't give me lessons in pol 
icy !" cried Mrs. Westgate, " The policy I mean 
to follow is very deep." 
The young girl began to walk about the room 
again; then she stopped before her sister. "I 
have never heard in the course of five minutes," 
she said, " so many hints and innuendoes. I wish 
you would tell me in plain English what you mean." 
" I mean that you may be much annoyed." 
" That is still only a hint," said Bessie. 
Her sister looked at her, hesitating an instant. 
" It will be said of you that you have come after 
Lord Lambeth that you followed him." 
Bessie Alden threw back her pretty head like a 
startled hind, and a look flashed into her face that 
made Mrs. Westgate rise from her chair. "Who 
says such things as that ?" she demanded. 
" People here." 
"I don 't believe it," said Bessie. 
" You have a very convenient faculty of doubt. 
But my policy will be, as I say, very deep. I shall 
leave you to find out this kind of thing for your 
self." 
  
Bessie fixed her eyes upon her sister, and Mrs. 
Westgate thought for a moment there were tears 
in them. "Do they talk that way here?" she 
asked. 
" You will see. I shall leave you alone." 
"Don 't leave me alone," said Bessie Alden. 
" Take me away," 
"No; I want to see what you make of it," her 
sister continued. 
"I don 't understand." 
"You will understand after Lord Lambeth 
has come," said Mrs. Westgate, with a little 
laugh. 
The two ladies had arranged that on this after 
noon Willie Woodley should go with them to Hyde 
Park, where Bessie Alden expected to derive much 
entertainment from sitting on a little green chair, 
under the great trees, beside Rotten Row. The 
want of a suitable escort had hitherto rendered 
this pleasure inaccessible ; but no escort now, for 
such an expedition, could have been more suitable 
than their devoted young countryman, whose mission in life, it might almost be said, was to find 
chairs for ladies, and who appeared on the stroke 
of half past five with a white camellia in his but 
ton-hole. 
" I have written to Lord Lambeth, my dear," 
said Mrs, Westgate to her sister, on coming into 
the room where Bessie Alden, drawing on her long 
gray gloves, was entertaining their visitor. 
Bessie said nothing, but Willie Woodley exclaimed that his lordship was in town ; he had 
seen his name in the Morning Post, 
"Do you read the Morning Post?" asked Mrs. 
Wcstgate. 
" Oh yes ; it 's great fun," Willie Woodley af 
firmed. 
" I want so to see it," said Bessie ; " there is so 
much about it in Thackeray." 
"I will send it to you every morning," said 
Willie Woodley. 
He found them what Bessie Alden thought ex 
cellent places, under the great trees, beside the 
famous avenue whose humors had been made fa 
miliar to the young girl 's childhood by the pictures 
in Punch. The day was bright and warm, and the 
crowd of riders and spectators, and the great procession of carriages, were proportionately dense 
and brilliant. The scene bore the stamp of the 
London Season at its height, and Bessie Alden 
found more entertainment in it than she was able 
to express to her companions. She sat silent, 
under her parasol, and her imagination, according 
to its wont, let itself loose into the great changing 
assemblage of striking and suggestive figures. 
They stirred up a host of old impressions and preconceptions, and she found herself fitting a history to this person and a theory to that, and making a place for them all in her little private museum of types. But if she said little, her sister on 
one side and Willie Woodley on the other express 
ed themselves in lively alternation. 
" Look at that green dress with blue flounces," 
said Mrs. Westgate. " Quelle toilette ." 
" That 's the Marquis of Blackborough," said 
the young man " the one in the white coat. I 
heard him speak the other night in the House of 
Lords ; it was something about ramrods ; he called them wamwods. He 's an awful swell." 
" Did you ever see any thing like the way they 
are pinned back?" Mrs. Westgate resumed. "They 
never know where to stop." 
" They do nothing but stop," said Willie Woodley. " It prevents them from walking. Here 
comes a great celebrity Lady Beatrice Bellevue. 
She 's awfully fast ; see what little steps she takes." 
" Well, my dear," Mrs. Westgate pursued, " I 
hope you are getting some ideas for your coutu- 
riere ?" 
" I am getting plenty of ideas," said Bessie, 
" but I don 't know that my couturiers would appreciate them." 
Willie Woodley presently perceived a friend on 
horseback, who drove up beside the barrier of the 
Row and beckoned to him. He went forward, and 
the crowd of pedestrians closed about him, so that 
for some ten minutes he was hidden from sight. 
At last he re-appeared, bringing a gentleman with 
him a gentleman whom Bessie at first supposed 
to be his friend dismounted. But at a second- 
glance she found herself looking at Lord Lam 
beth, who was shaking hands with her sister. 
"I found him over there," said Willie Woodley, 
" and I told him you were here." 
And then Lord Lambeth, touching his hat a little, shook hands with Bessie. " Fancy your being 
here !" he said. He was blushing and smiling ; he 
looked very handsome, and he had a kind of splendor that he had not had in America. Bessie Alden 's imagination, as we know, was just then in exercise ; so that the tall young Englishman, as he 
stood there looking down at her, had the benefit 
of it. " He is handsomer and more splendid than 
any thing I have ever seen," she said to herself. 
And then she remembered that he was a Marquis, 
and she thought he looked like a Marquis. 
" I say, you know," he cried, " you ought to have 
let a man know you were here !" 
" I wrote to you an hour ago," said Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Doesn't all the world know it ?" asked Bessie, 
smiling. 
  
" I assure you I didn 't know it !" cried Lord 
Lambeth. a Upon my honor I hadn 't heard of it. 
Ask Woodley now; had I, Woodley?" 
" Well, I think you are rather a humbug," said 
Willie Woodley. 
" You don 't believe that do you, Miss Alden V" 
asked his lordship. " You don 't believe I'm a 
humbug, eh ?" 
"No," said Bessie, "I don 't." 
" You are too tall to stand up, Lord Lambeth," 
Mrs. Westgate observed. " You are only tolerable 
when you sit down. Be so good as to get a chair." 
He found a chair and placed it sidewise, close 
to the two ladies. "If I hadn 't met Woodley I 
should never have found you," he went on. 
"Should I, Woodley?" 
" Well, I guess not," said the young American. 
" Not even with my letter ?" asked Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Ah, well, I haven 't got your letter yet ; I suppose I shall get it this evening. It was awfully 
kind of you to write." 
" So I said to Bessie," observed Mrs. Westgate. 
" Did she say so, Miss Alden ?" Lord Lambeth 
inquired. "I dare say you have been here a 
month." 
" We have been here three," said Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Have you been here three months ?" the young 
man asked again of Bessie. 
" It seems a long time," Bessie answered. 
" I say, after that you had better not call me a 
humbug!" cried Lord Lambeth. "I have only 
been in town three weeks ; but you must have 
been hiding away ; I haven 't seen you any where." 
" Where should you have seen us where should 
we have gone ?" asked Mrs. Westgate. 
"You should have gone to Hurlingham," said 
Willie Woodley. 
" No ; let Lord Lambeth tell us," Mrs. Westgate 
insisted. 
" There are plenty of places to go to," said Lord 
Lambeth ; " each one stupider than the other. I 
mean people 's houses ; they send you cards." 
" No one has sent us cards," said Bessie. 
" We are very quiet," her sister declared. " We 
are here as travellers." 
" We have been to Madame Tussaud s," Bessio 
pursued. 
" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth. 
" We thought we should find your image there," 
said Mrs. Westgate " yours and Mr. Beaumont's." 
" In the Chamber of Horrors ?" laughed tho 
young man. 
" It did duty very well for a party," said Mrs. 
Westgate. " All the women were decolletecs, and 
  
many of the figures looked as if they could speak 
if they tried." 
" Upon my word," Lord Lambeth rejoined, " you 
see people at London parties that look as if they 
couldn 't speak if they tried." 
" Do you think Mr. Woodley could find us Mr. 
Beaumont ?" asked Mrs. Westgate. 
Lord Lambeth stared and looked round him. 
" I dare say he could. Beaumont often comes here. 
Don 't you think you could find him, Woodley ? 
Make a dive into the crowd." 
" Thank you ; I have had enough diving," said 
Willie Woodley. " I will wait till Mr. Beaumont 
comes to the surface." 
" I will bring him to see you," said Lord Lam 
beth ; " where are you staying ?" 
" You will find the address in my letter Jones 's 
Hotel." 
"Oh, one of those places just out of Picca 
dilly ? Beastly hole, isn't it ?" Lord Lambeth in 
quired. 
"I believe it 's the best hotel in London," said 
Mrs. Westgate. 
"But they give you awful rubbish to eat, don 't 
they ?" his lordship went on. 
" Yes," said Mrs. Westgate. 
" I always feel so sorry for the people that come 
up to town and go to live in those places," continned the young man. " They eat nothing but 
filth." 
" Oh, I say !" cried Willie Woodley. 
" Well, how do you like London, Miss Alden ?" 
Lord Lambeth asked, unperturbed by this ejaculation. 
" I think it 's grand," said Bessie Alden. 
"My sister likes it, in spite of the filth ! " Mrs. 
Westgate exclaimed. 
" I hope you are going to stay a long time." 
"As long as I can," said Bessie. 
"And where is Mr. Westgate ?" asked Lord 
Lambeth of this gentleman 's wife. 
" He 's where he always is in that tiresome Xew 
York." 
"He must be tremendously clever," said the 
young man. 
" I suppose he is," said Mrs. Westgate. 
Lord Lambeth sat for nearly an hour with his 
American friends ; but it is not our purpose to relate their conversation in full. He addressed a 
great many remarks to Bessie Alden, and finally 
turned toward her altogether, while Willie Woodley entertained Mrs. Westgate. Bessie herself said - 
very little ; she was on her guard, thinking of what 
her sister had said to her at lunch. Little by little, 
however, she interested herself in Lord Lambeth 
again, as she had done at Newport ; only it seem- 
  
ed to her that here he might become more interesting. He would be an unconscious part of the 
antiquity, the impressiveness, the picturesqueness, 
of England ; and poor Bessie Alden, like many 
a Yankee maiden, was terribly at the mercy of 
picturesqueness. 
" I have often wished I were at Newport again," 
said the young man. "Those days I spent at 
your sister 's were awfully jolly." 
" We enjoyed them very much ; I hope your 
father is better." 
" Oh dear, yes. When I got to England, he 
was out grouse-shooting. It was what you call in 
America a gigantic fraud. My mother had got 
nervous. My three weeks at Newport seemed like 
a happy dream." 
" America certainly is very different from England," said Bessie. 
"I hope you like England better, eh?" Lord 
Lambeth rejoined, almost persuasively. 
"No Englishman can ask that seriously of a 
person of another country." 
Her companion looked at her for a moment. 
" You mean it 's a matter of course ?" 
" If I were English," said Bessie, " it would cer 
tainly seem to me a matter of course that every 
one should be a good patriot." 
" Oh dear, yes, patriotism is every thing," said 
Lord Lambeth, not quite following, but very contented. " Now, what are you going to do here ?" 
" On Thursday I am going to the Tower." 
"The Tower?" 
" The Tower of London. Did you never hear 
of it?" 
" Oh yes, I have been there," said Lord Lam 
beth. "I was taken there by my governess when 
I was six years old. It 's a rum idea, your going 
there." 
" Do give me a few more rum ideas," said Bessie. " I want to see every thing of that sort. I 
am going to Hampton Court, and to Windsor, and 
to the Dulwich Gallery." 
Lord Lambeth seemed greatly amused. "I 
wonder you don 't go to the Rosherville Gardens." 
" Are they interesting ?" asked Bessie. 
" Oh, wonderful." 
"Are they very old? That 's all I care for," 
said Bessie. 
" They are tremendously old ; they are all falling 
to ruins." 
" I think there is nothing so charming as an old 
ruinous garden," said the young girl. " We must 
certainly go there." 
Lord Lambeth broke out into merriment. " I 
say, Woodley," he cried, " here 's Miss Alden wants 
to go to the Rosherville Gardens !" 
  
Willie Woodley looked a little blank ; he was 
caught in the fact of ignorance of an apparently 
conspicuous feature of London life. But in a 
moment he turned it off. " Very well," he said, 
" I'll write for a permit." 
Lord Lambeth 's exhilaration increased. " Gad, 
I believe you Americans would go any where !" ho 
cned. 
" We wish to go to Parliament," said Bessie. 
" That 's one of the first things." 
u Oh, it would bore you to death !" cried the 
young man. 
"We wish to hear you speak." 
"I never speak except to young ladies," said 
Lord Lambeth, smiling. 
Bessie Alden looked at him a while, smiling, too, 
in the shadow of her parasol. "You are very 
strange," she murmured. " I don 't think I ap 
prove of you." 
"Ah, now, don 't be severe, Miss Alden," said 
Lord Lambeth, smiling still more. " Please don 't 
be severe. I want you to like me awfully." 
" To like you awfully ? You must not laugh 
at me, then, when I make mistakes. I consider 
it my right as a free-born American to make 
as many mistakes as I choose." 
 Upon my word, I didn 't laugh at you," said 
Lord Lambeth. 
" And not only that," Bessie went on ; "but I 
hold that all my mistakes shall be set down to my 
credit. You must think the better of me for them." 
"I can 't think better of you than I do," the 
young man declared. 
Bessie Alden looked at him a moment again. 
" You certainly speak very well to young ladies. 
But why don 't you address the House ? isn't that 
what they call it ?" 
"Because I have nothing to say," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Haven't you a great position ?" asked Bessie 
Alden. 
He looked a moment at the back of his glove. 
" I'll set that down," he said, " as one of your mistakes to your credit." And as if he disliked 
talking about his position, he changed the subject. 
" I wish you would let me go with you to the Tower, and to Hampton Court, and to all those other 
places." 
" We shall be most happy," said Bessie. 
" And of course I shall be delighted to show 
you the House of Lords some day that suits you. 
There are a lot of things I want to do for you. I 
want to make you have a good time. And I should 
like very much to present some of my friends to 
you, if it wouldn 't bore you. Then it would be 
awfully kind of you to come down to Branches." 
  
" We are much obliged to you, Lord Lambeth," 
said Bessie. " What is Branches ?" 
" It 's a house in the country. I think you might 
like it." 
Willie Woodley and Mrs. Westgate at this mo 
ment were sitting in silence, and the young man 's 
ear caught these last words of Lord Lambeth's. 
"He 's inviting Miss Bessie to one of his castles," 
he murmured to his companion. 
Mrs. Westgate, foreseeing what she mentally 
called " complications," immediately got up ; and 
the two ladies, taking leave of Lord Lambeth, returned, under Mr. Woodley 's conduct, to Jones 's 
Hotel. 
Lord Lambeth came to see them on the morrow, 
bringing Percy Beaumont with him the latter 
having instantly declared his intention of neglecting none of the usual offices of civility. This declaration, however, when his kinsman informed him 
of the advent of their American friends, had been 
preceded by another remark. 
" Here they are, then, and you are in for it." 
" What am I in for ?" demanded Lord Lambeth. 
" I will let your mother give it a name. With 
all respect to whom," added Percy Beaumont, " I 
must decline on this occasion to do any more police duty. Her Grace must look after you her 
self." 
" I will give her a chance," said her Grace 
a trifle grimly. " I shall make her go and see 
them." 
" She won 't do it, my boy." 
" We'll see if she doesn 't," said Lord Lambeth. 
But if Percy Beaumont took a sombre view of 
the arrival of the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel, he 
was sufficiently a man of the world to offer them 
a smiling countenance. He fell into animated 
conversation conversation, at least, that was an 
imated on her side with Mrs. Westgate, while 
his companion made himself agreeable to the 
younger lady . Mrs. Westgate began confessing 
and protesting, declaring and expounding. 
"I must say London is a great deal brighter 
and prettier just now than it was when I was here 
last in the month of November. There is evidently a great deal going on, and you seem to have 
a good many flowers. I have no doubt it is very 
charming for all you people, and that you amuse 
yourselves immensely. It is very good of you to 
let Bessie and me come and sit and look at you. 
I suppose you will think I am very satirical, but 
I must confess that that 's the feeling I have in 
London." 
" I am afraid I don 't quite understand to what 
feeling you allude," said Percy Beaumont. 
" The feeling that it 's all very well for you English people. Every thing is beautifully arranged 
for you." 
" It seems to me it is very well for some Americans, sometimes," rejoined Beaumont. 
"For some of them, yes if they like to be patronized. But I must say I don 't like to be patronized. I may be very eccentric, and undisci 
plined, and outrageous, but I confess I never was 
fond of patronage. I like to associate with people on the same terms as I do in my own country ; 
that 's a peculiar taste that I have. But here people seem to expect something else Heaven knows 
what ! I am afraid you will think I am very un 
grateful, for I certainly have received a great deal 
of attention. The last time I was here, a lady 
sent me a message that I was at liberty to come 
and see her." 
" Dear me ! I hope you didn 't go," observed Percy Beaumont. 
" You are deliciously naif, I must say that for 
you !" Mrs. Westgate exclaimed. " It must be a 
great advantage to you here in London. I suppose 
that if I myself had a little more naivete, I should 
enjoy it more. I should be content to sit on a 
chair in the park, and see the people pass, and be 
told that this is the Duchess of Suffolk, and that 
is the Lord Chamberlain, and that I must be thankful for the privilege of beholding them. I dare 
say it is very wicked and critical of me to ask for 
any thing else. But I was always critical, and I 
freely confess to the sin of being fastidious. I am 
told there is some remarkably superior second-rate 
society provided here for strangers. Herd! I don 't want any superior second-rate society. I 
want the society that I have been accustomed to." 
" I hope you don 't call Lambeth and me secondrate," Beaumont interposed. 
" Oh, I am accustomed to you," said Mrs. Westgate. " Do you know that you English sometimes 
make the most wonderful speeches? The first 
time I came to London I went out to dine as I 
told you, I have received a great deal of attention. 
After dinner, in the drawing-room, I had some 
conversation with an old lady : I assure you I had. 
I forget what we talked about, but she presently 
said, in allusion to something we were discussing 
Oh, you know, the aristocracy do so-and-so ; but 
in one 's own class of life it is very different. In 
one 's own class of life ! What is a poor unpro 
tected American woman to do in a country where 
she is liable to have that sort of thing said to 
her?" 
" You seem to get hold of some very queer old 
ladies ; I compliment you on your acquaintance !" 
Percy Beaumont exclaimed. " If you are trying 
to bring me to admit that London is an odious 
place, you'll not succeed." 
" Pour vous aidres. I never satirical contrary," 
Mrs. Westgate retorted. I make use of this expression, because both interlocutors had begun to 
raise their voices. Percy Beaumont naturally did 
not like to hear his country abused, and Mrs. Westgate, no less naturally, did not like a stubborn debater. 
" Hallo !" said Lord Lambeth ; lt what are they 
up to now ?" And he came away from the window, 
where he had been standing with Bessie Alden. 
" I quite agree with a very clever country-woman 
of mine," Mrs. Westgate continued, with charming ardor, though with imperfect relevancy. She 
smiled at the two gentlemen for a moment with 
terrible brightness, as if to toss at their feet 
upon their native heath the gauntlet of defiance. 
" For me, there are only two social positions worth 
speaking of that of an American lady, and that 
of the Emperor of Russia." 
"And what do you do with the American gen 
tlemen ?" asked Lord Lambeth. 
" She leaves them in America !" said Percy 
Beaumont. 
On the departure of their visitors, Bessie Alden 
told her sister that Lord Lambeth would come the 
next day, to go with them to the Tower, and that 
he had got; kindly offered to bring bis "trap," and 
 Mrs. Vestgate listened in 
silence to lria pdmmimicafcidn, and for some time 
afterward she said nothing. But at last, " If you 
had not requested me the other day not to mention 
it," she began, " there is something I should venture to ask you." Bessie frowned a little ; her 
dark blue eyes were more dark than blue. But 
her sister went on. " As it is, I will take the risk. 
You are not in love with Lord Lambeth : I believe 
it, perfectly. Very good. But is there, by chance, 
any danger of your becoming so ? It 's a very simple question ; don 't take offense. I have a particular reason," said Mrs. Westgate, " for wanting 
to know." 
Bessie Alden for some moments said nothing ; 
she only looked displeased. " IS T o ; there is no 
danger," she answered at last, curtly. 
"Then I should like to frighten them," declared Mrs. Westgate, clasping her jewelled hands. 
" To frighten whom ?" 
"All these people; Lord Lambeth 's family 
and friends." 
" How should you frighten them ?" asked the 
young girl. 
" It wouldn 't be I it would be you. It would 
frighten them to think that you should absorb 
his lordship 's young affections." 
  
Bessie Alden, with her clear eyes still over 
shadowed by her dark brows, continued to interrogate. " Why should that frighten them ?" 
Mrs. West-gate poised her answer with a smile 
before delivering it. "Because they think you 
are not good enough. You are a charming girl, 
beautiful and amiable, intelligent and clever, and 
as bien-elevee as it is possible to be; but you are 
not a fit match for Lord Lambeth." 
Bessie Alden was decidedly disgusted. " Where 
do you get such extraordinary ideas ?" she asked. 
" You have said some such strange things lately. 
My dear Kitty, where do you collect them ?" 
Kitty was evidently enamored of her idea. 
"Yes, it would put them on pins and needles, 
and it wouldn 't hurt you. Mr. Beaumont is already most uneasy ; I could soon see that." 
The young girl meditated a moment. "Do 
you mean that they spy upon him that they in 
terfere with him ?" 
" I don 't know what power they have to interfere, but I know that a British mamma may worry her son 's life out." 
It has been intimated that, as regards certain 
disagreeable things, Bessie Alden had a fund of 
skepticism. She abstained on the present occasion from expressing disbelief, for she wished 
not to irritate her sister. But she said to herself that Kitty had been misinformed that this 
