"Let me see it."
"Certainly. I should like to know whether that is bad too."
The other twenty proved to be a fac-simile of the first.
"I must know where you got this money," said the merchant. "You may be
in the service of counterfeiters."
"You might know, from my uniform, that I am not," said Frank,
indignantly. "I once lost a place because I would not pass counterfeit
money."
"I have a detective here. You must lead him to the man who supplied you
with the money."
"I am quite willing to do it," said our hero. "He wanted to make a tool
of me. If I can put him into the hands of the law, I will."
"That boy is all right," said a gentleman standing by. "The rogue was
quite ingenious in trying to work off his bad money through a telegraph
messenger."
"What is the appearance of this man?" asked the detective as they walked
along.
"Rather a reddish face, and partly bald."
"What is the color of the hair he has?"
"Red."
"Very good. It ought to be easy to know him by that description."
"I should know him at once," said Frank, promptly.
"If he has not changed his appearance. It is easy to do that, and these
fellows understand it well."
Reaching the house, Frank rang the bell, the detective sauntering along
on the opposite side of the street.
"Is Mr. Stanley at home?" asked Frank.
"I will see."
The girl came down directly, with the information that Mr. Stanley had
gone out.
"That is queer," said Frank. "He told me to come right back. He said he
had a headache, too, and did not want to go out."
As he spoke, his glance rested on a man who was lounging at the corner.
This man had black hair, and a full black beard. By chance, Frank's eye
fell upon his right hand, and with a start he recognized a large ring
with a sparkling diamond, real or imitation. This ring he had last seen
on Mr. Stanley's hand. He crossed the street in a quiet, indifferent
manner, and imparted his suspicions to the detective.
"Good!" said the latter; "you are a smart boy."
He approached the man alluded to, who, confident in his disguise, did
not budge, and, placing his hand on his shoulder, said, "Mr. Stanley, I
believe."
"You are mistaken," said the man, shrugging his shoulders in a
nonchalant way, with a foreign accent, "I am M. Lavalette. I do not know
your M. Stanley."
"I am afraid you are forgetful, monsieur. I beg pardon, but do you wear
a wig?" and with a quick movement he removed the stranger's hat, and,
dislodging his black wig, displayed the rim of red hair.
"This is an outrage!" said the rogue, angrily; "I will have you
arrested, monsieur."
"I will give you a chance, for here is an officer," said the detective.
"I give this man in charge for passing counterfeit money," said the
detective. "The next time, Mr. Stanley, don't select so smart a
telegraph boy. He recognized you, in spite of your disguise, by the ring
upon your finger."
The rogue angrily drew the ring from his finger, and threw it on the
sidewalk.
"Curse the ring!" he said. "It has betrayed me."
It only remains to add that Stanley was convicted through Frank's
testimony. He proved to be an old offender, and the chief of a gang of
counterfeiters.
CHAPTER XVII.
FRANK MEETS AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
Frank was more fortunate than the generality of the telegraph boys in
obtaining fees from those who employed him. He was not allowed to
solicit gifts, but was at liberty to accept them when offered. In one
way or another he found his weekly receipts came to about seven dollars.
Out of this sum he would have been able to save money, even if he had
been obliged to pay all his expenses, that is by the exercise of strict
economy. But, as we know, he was at no expense for room or board, with
the exception of a light lunch in the middle of the day. Making a little
calculation, he found that he could save about four dollars a week. As
it had only been proposed to him to stay at Mrs. Vivian's while Fred was
in the country, it seemed prudent to Frank to "make hay while the sun
shone," and save up a little fund from which he could hereafter draw, in
case it were necessary.
So when he had saved ten dollars he presented himself at the counter of
the Dime Savings-Bank, then located in Canal street, and deposited it,
receiving a bank-book, which he regarded with great pride.
"I begin to feel like a capitalist," he said to himself. "I am rather
better off now than I was when I led round old Mills, the blind man. I
wonder how he is getting along."
As Frank entered Broadway from Canal street, by a strange coincidence he
caught sight of the man of whom he had been thinking. Mills, with the
same querulous, irritable expression he knew well, was making his way up
Broadway, led by a boy younger than Frank.
"Pity a poor blind man!" he muttered from time to time in a whining
voice.
"Look out, you young rascal, or you will have me off the sidewalk,"
Frank heard the blind man say; "I'll have a reckoning with you when I
get home."
The boy, who was pale and slight, looked frightened.
"I couldn't help it, Mr. Mills," he said. "It was the crowd."
"You are getting careless, that's what's the matter," said Mills,
harshly. "You are looking in at the shop windows, and neglect me."
"No, I am not," said the boy, in meek remonstrance.
"Don't you contradict me!" exclaimed the blind man, grasping his stick
significantly. "Pity a poor blind man!"
"What an old brute he is!" thought Frank; "I will speak to him."
"How do you do, Mr. Mills?" he said, halting before the blind man.
"Who are you?" demanded Mills, quickly.
"You ought to know me; I am Frank Kavanagh, who used to go round with
you."
"I have had so many boys--most of them good for nothing--that I don't
remember you."
"I am the boy who wouldn't pass counterfeit money for you."
"Hush!" said the blind man apprehensively, lest some one should hear
Frank. "There was some mistake about that. I remember you now. Do you
want to come back? This boy doesn't attend to his business."
Frank laughed. Situated as he was now, the proposal seemed to him an
excellent joke, and he was disposed to treat it as such.
"Why, the fact is, Mr. Mills, you fed me on such rich food that I
shouldn't dare to go back for fear of dyspepsia."
"Or starvation," he added to himself.
"I live better now," said Mills. "I haven't had any boy since, that
suited me as well as you."
"Thank you; but I am afraid it would be a long time before I got rich on
the wages you would give me."
"I'll give you fifty cents a week," said Mills, "and more if I do well.
You can come to-day, if you like."
"You are very kind, but I am doing better than that," said Frank.
"What are you doing,--selling papers?"
"No; I have given that up. I am a telegraph boy."
"How much do you make?"
"Seven dollars last week."
"Why, you will be rich," said the blind man, enviously. "I don't think I
get as much as that myself, and I have to pay a boy out of it."
His poor guide did not have the appearance of being very liberally paid.
"Then you won't come back?" said Mills, querulously.
"No, I guess not."
"Come along, boy!" said Mills, roughly, to his little guide. "Are you
going to keep me here all day?"
"I thought you wanted to speak to this boy."
"Well, I have got through. He has deserted me. It is the way of the
world. There's nobody to pity the poor, blind man."
"Here's five cents for old acquaintance' sake. Mr. Mills," said Frank,
dropping a nickel into the hand of the boy who was guiding him.
"Thank you! May you never know what it is to be blind!" said Mills, in
his professional tone.
"If I am, I hope I can see as well as you," thought Frank. "What a
precious old humbug he is, and how I pity that poor boy! If I had a
chance I would give him something to save him from starvation."
Frank walked on, quite elated at the change in his circumstances which
allowed him to give money in charity to the person who had once been his
employer. He would have given it more cheerfully if in his estimation
the man had been more worthy.
Frank's errand took him up Broadway. He had two or three stops to make,
which made it inconvenient for him to ride. A little way in front of him
he saw a boy of fourteen, whom he recognized as an errand-boy, and a
former fellow-lodger at the Newsboy's Lodging-House. He was about to
hurry forward and join John Riley,--for this was the boy's name,--when
his attention was attracted, and his suspicions aroused, by a man who
accosted John. He was a man of about thirty, rather showily dressed,
with a gold chain dangling from his vest.
"Johnny," he said, addressing the errand-boy "do you want to earn ten
cents?"
"I should like to," answered the boy, "but I am going on an errand, and
can't spare the time."
"It won't take five minutes," said the young man. "It is only to take
this note up to Mr. Conant's room, on the fourth floor of this
building."
They were standing in front of a high building occupied as offices.
The boy hesitated.
"Is there an answer?" he asked.
"No; you can come right down as soon as the letter is delivered."
"I suppose I could spare the time for that," said John Riley.
"Of course you can. It won't take you two minutes. Here is the ten
cents. I'll hold your bundle for you while you run up."
"All right!" said the errand-boy, and, suspecting nothing, he
surrendered his parcel, and taking the note and the dime, ran upstairs.
No sooner was he out of sight than the young man began to walk off
rapidly with the bundle. It was an old trick, that has been many times
played upon unsuspecting boys, and will continue to be played as long as
there are knavish adventurers who prefer dishonest methods of getting a
living to honest industry.
In this case, however, the rogue was destined to disappointment. It may
be stated that he had been present in the dry-goods store from which the
parcel came, and, knowing that the contents were valuable, had followed
the boy.
No sooner did Frank understand the fellow's purpose than he pursued him,
and seized him by the arm.
"What do you want of me?" demanded the rogue, roughly. "I am in a hurry
and can't be detained."
"I want you to give me that bundle which you are trying to steal from my
friend, John Riley."
The rogue's countenance changed.
"What do you mean?" he demanded, to gain time.
"I mean that I heard your conversation with him, and I know your game.
Come back, or I will call a policeman."
The young man was sharp enough to see that he must give up his purpose.
"There, take the bundle," he said, tossing it into Frank's arms. "I was
only going for a cigar; I should have brought it back."
When John Riley came downstairs, with the letter in his hand,--for he
had been unable to find any man named Conant in the building,--he found
Frank waiting with the parcel.
"Holloa, Frank! Where's that man that sent me upstairs? I can't find Mr.
Conant."
"Of course you can't. There's no such man in the building. That man was
a thief; but for me he would have carried off your bundle."
"What a fool I was!" said the errand-boy. "I won't let myself be fooled
again."
"Don't give up a bundle to a stranger again," said Frank. "I'm only a
country boy, but I don't allow myself to be swindled as easily as you."
"I wish that chap would come here again," said Johnny, indignantly. "But
I've come out best, after all," he added, brightening up. "I've made ten
cents out of him."
CHAPTER XVIII.
A RICH WOMAN'S SORROW.
One day Frank was summoned to a handsome residence on Madison avenue.
"Sit down in the parlor," said the servant "and I will call Mrs.
Graham."
As Frank looked around him, and noted the evidences of wealth in the
elegant furniture and rich ornaments profusely scattered about, he
thought, "How rich Mrs. Graham must be! I suppose she is very happy. I
should be if I could buy everything I wanted."
It was a boy's thought, and betrayed our hero's inexperience. Even
unlimited means are not sure to produce happiness, nor do handsome
surroundings prove wealth.
Five minutes later an elderly lady entered the room. She was richly
dressed, but her face wore a look of care and sorrow.
As she entered, Frank rose with instinctive politeness, and bowed.
"You are the telegraph boy," said the lady, inquiringly.
"Yes, ma'am."
Mrs. Graham looked at him earnestly, as if to read his character.
"I have sent for you," she said, at length, "to help me in a matter of
some delicacy, and shall expect you not to speak of it, even to your
employers."
"They never question me," said Frank, promptly. "You may rely upon my
secrecy."
Frank's statement was correct. The business entrusted to telegraph
messengers is understood to be of a confidential nature, and they are
instructed to guard the secrets of those who make use of their services.
"I find it necessary to raise some money," continued the lady,
apparently satisfied, "and am not at liberty, for special reasons, to
call upon my husband for it. I have a diamond ring of considerable
value, which I should like to have you carry, either to a jeweller or a
pawnbroker, and secure what advance you can upon it."
"And I believed she had plenty of money," thought Frank, wondering.
"I will do the best I can for you, madam," said our hero.
Mrs. Graham drew from her pocket a small box, containing a diamond ring,
which sparkled brilliantly in the sunshine.
"It is beautiful," said Frank, admiringly.
"Yes, it cost originally eight hundred dollars," said the lady.
"Eight hundred dollars!" echoed Frank, in wonder. He had heard of
diamond rings, and knew they were valuable, but had no idea they were so
valuable as that.
"How much do you expect to get on it?" he asked.
"Nothing near its value, of course, nor is that necessary. Two hundred
dollars will be as much as I care to use, and at that rate I shall be
able the sooner to redeem it. I believe I will tell you why I want the
money."
"Not unless you think it best," said Frank.
"It is best, for I shall again require your services in disposing of the
money."
The lady sat down on the sofa beside Frank, and told him the story which
follows:--
"I have two children," she said, "a daughter and a son. The son has
recently graduated from college, and is now travelling in Europe. My
daughter is now twenty-six years of age. She was beautiful, and our
social position was such that my husband, who is a proud man,
confidently anticipated that she would make a brilliant match. But at
the age of nineteen Ellen fell in love with a clerk in my husband's
employ. He was a young man of good appearance and character, and nothing
could be said against him except that he was poor. This, however, was
more than enough in Mr. Graham's eyes. When Lawrence Brent asked for the
hand of our daughter, my husband drove him from the house with insult,
and immediately discharged him from his employ. Ellen was high-spirited,
and resented this treatment of the man she loved. He soon obtained a
place quite as good as the one he had lost, and one day Ellen left the
house and married him. She wrote to us, excusing her action, and I would
gladly have forgiven her; but her father was obdurate. He forbade my
mentioning her name to him, and from that day to this he has never
referred to her.
"I am now coming to the business in which you are to help me. For years
my son-in-law was able to support his wife comfortably, and also the two
children which in time came to them. But, a year since, he became sick,
and his sickness lasted till he had spent all his savings. Now he and
his poor family are living in wretched lodgings, and are in need of the
common necessaries of life. It is for them I intend the money which I
can secure upon this ring."
Frank could not listen without having his sympathies aroused.
"I shall be still more glad to help you," he said, "now that I know how
the money is to be used."
"Thank you," said the lady. "You are a good boy, and I see that I can
trust you implicitly."
She handed Frank the box, enjoining upon him to be careful not to lose
it.
"It is so small that it might easily slip from your pocket," she said.
"I shall take the best care of it," said Frank. "Where would you advise
me to go first?"
"I hardly know. If I wished to sell it I would carry it to Tiffany; but
it was purchased there, and it might in that case come to my husband's
ears. There is a pawnbroker, named Simpson, who, I hear, is one of the
best of his class. You may go there first."
"How much shall I say you want on it?" asked Frank.
"Don't mention my name at all," said the lady, hastily.
"I suppose I shall have to give some name," said Frank, "in order that
the ticket may be made out."
"What is your own name?"
"Frank Kavanagh."
"Have you a mother living?"
"No," said Frank, gravely.
"Then let the ticket be made out in your name."
"If you wish it."
"Shall I bring the money to you, Mrs. Graham?"
"No; my husband might be at home, and it would arouse his suspicions. At
twelve o'clock I will meet you at Madison Park, at the corner opposite
the Union League Club House. You can then report to me your success."
"Very well," said Frank.
He went at once to the pawnbroker mentioned by Mrs. Graham. But for his
uniform he would have been questioned closely as to how he came by the
ring; but telegraph boys are so often employed on similar errands that
the pawnbroker showed no surprise. After a careful examination he agreed
to advance two hundred dollars, and gave Frank the money and the ticket.
When Frank gave his own name, he said, "That is your name, is it not?"
"Yes, sir."
"But the ring does not belong to you?"
"No; it belongs to a lady who does not wish her name known."
"It is all the same to us."
"That was easily done," thought Frank. "Now I must go and meet Mrs.
Graham."
"Have you got the money?" asked Mrs. Graham, anxiously, as Frank made
his appearance.
"Yes," replied Frank.
"How much?"
"The amount you asked for."
"That is well. Now I shall be able to relieve my poor daughter. I cannot
bear to think of her and her poor children suffering for the lack of
bread, while I am living in luxury. I wish Mr. Graham was not so
unforgiving."
"Will you take the money now?" asked Frank.
"I wish you to take fifty dollars to my daughter."
"I will do so with pleasure. What is her address?"
Mrs. Graham drew out a card, on which she had pencilled her daughter's
address. It proved to be a tenement-house on the east side of the city,
not far from Fourteenth street.
"I wish I could go myself," said Mrs. Graham, sadly; "but I do not dare
to do so at present. Give Ellen this money, with my best love; and say
to her that a month hence I will again send her the same sum. Tell her
to keep up good courage. Brighter days may be in store."
"I will be sure to remember," said Frank, in a tone of sympathy.
The errand was to his taste; for he was about to carry help and comfort
to those who needed both.
CHAPTER XIX.
A MESSENGER OF GOOD TIDINGS.
There stands a large tenement-house on East Fourteenth street, five
stories in height, and with several entrances. Scores of barefooted and
scantily attired children play in the halls or on the sidewalk in front,
and the great building is a human hive, holding scores of families. Some
of them, unaccustomed to live better, are tolerably content with their
squalid and contracted accommodations; but a few, reduced by gradual
steps from respectability and comfort, find their positions very hard to
bear.
On the third floor three small rooms were occupied by Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Morgan, and their two children. She was the daughter of Mrs.
Graham, and had been reared in affluence. How she had incurred her
father's displeasure has already been told. He had been taken sick some
months before, his little stock of money had melted away, and now he was
unable even to pay the small expenses of life in a tenement-house.
Just before Frank made his appearance there was sadness in the little
household.
"How much money is there left, Ellen?" asked Robert Morgan.
"Seventy-five cents," she answered, in a tone which she tried to make
cheerful.
"And our week's rent will become due to-morrow."
"I may hear from mother," suggested Mrs. Morgan.
"If you don't, I don't know what will become of us all. We shall be
thrust into the street. Even this squalid home will be taken from us."
"Don't get discouraged, Robert."
"Isn't there enough to make me despondent, Ellen? I can see now that I
did very wrong to marry you."
"Do you regret our marriage, then, Robert?" asked his wife.
"Only because it has brought you poverty and discomfort."
"I have not yet regretted it."
"How different a position you would have occupied if I had not dragged
you down! You would still be living in luxury."
"I should not have you and these dear children."
"And will they compensate you for what has come upon you?"
"Yes," she answered, emphatically.
"You have more philosophy than I have, Ellen."
"More trust, perhaps. Do you know, Robert, I think we are on the eve of
good fortune?"
"I hope so, but I see no prospects of it."
Just then there was a knock at the door.
Thinking that it might be some humble neighbor, on a borrowing
expedition, Mrs. Morgan opened the door. Before her stood our hero in
his uniform.
"Is this Mrs. Robert Morgan?" asked Frank.
"Yes," she answered.
"I come from your mother."
"From my mother? Robert, do you hear that?" said the poor woman, in a
voice of gladness. "Here is a messenger from my mother. Didn't I tell
you there was good luck in store for us?"
Mr. Morgan did not answer. He waited anxiously to hear what Frank had to
communicate.
"Your mother sends you her love, and fifty dollars," continued Frank.
"She hopes to call soon herself."
"Fifty dollars!" exclaimed Ellen Morgan, in delight. "It is a fortune."
"Thank Heaven!" ejaculated her husband, in great relief.
"A month hence you may expect a similar sum," said Frank. "I suppose I
shall bring it. Shall I find you here?"
Ellen Morgan looked at her husband.
"No," said he. "Let us get out of this neighborhood as soon as possible.
Can't you find a respectable place to-day?"
"Yes," said his wife. "I shall be glad to move. I saw some neat rooms on
West Twentieth street on Monday. They will cost us but little more, and
will suit us better."
"I will send my mother my new address," she said to Frank.
"Then you may send it under cover to me, and I will see that she gets it
privately," said Frank, who had received instructions to that effect
from Mrs. Graham.
When Frank had left the room the little household seemed quite
transformed. Hope had entered, and all looked more cheerful.
"We are provided for, for two months, Robert," said his wife. "Is not
that a piece of good luck?"
"Yes, indeed it is," he answered heartily. "Before that time I can get
to work again, and with health and employment I shall not need to ask
favors of any one."
"I wish father were as forgiving as mother," said Ellen Morgan.
"Your father is a hard man. He will never forgive you for marrying a
poor man. He would punish you by starvation."
"He is very proud," said Mrs. Morgan. "I was an only daughter, you know,
and he had set his heart upon my making a brilliant marriage."
"As you might have done."
"As I did not care to do. I preferred to make a happy marriage with the
man of my choice."
"You are a good wife, Ellen."
"I hope you will always find me so, Robert."
"I should have sunk utterly if you had been like some women."
In the afternoon Mrs. Morgan went out, taking one of her children with
her. She went to the rooms on West Twentieth street, and, finding them
still vacant, secured them, paying a month's rent in advance, as her
mother's timely gift enabled her to do. Before the next evening they
were installed in their new home, and Mrs. Morgan sent a note to her
mother, under cover to Frank, apprising her of the removal.
Two days later Frank received a summons to the house on Madison avenue.
He obeyed, thinking he should probably be sent with some message to Mrs.
Morgan.
He found Mrs. Graham in a state of nervous excitement.
"My husband has been stricken with paralysis," she said. "It is terribly
sudden. He went out yesterday, apparently in vigorous health. He was
brought home pale and helpless."
"Can I do anything for him or you?" asked Frank.
"Yes; you can go at once to my daughter, and summon her to her father's
bedside."
Frank was surprised, remembering how obdurate Mrs. Graham had described
her husband to be.
"You look surprised," she said; "but sickness often produces a great
change in us. My husband's pride has given way. His affection has
returned; and it is at his request that I send for Ellen."
Frank had come to feel a personal interest in the family, and he gladly
set out for the modest home in West Twentieth street. He felt that it
was pleasant to be a messenger of reconciliation.
Mrs. Morgan recognized him at once, and received him cordially.
"Do you come from my mother?" she asked.
"Yes. She wishes you to come home at once."
"But--my father."
"Your father is very sick; and he joins in the request."
"It has come at last,--the time I have looked forward to for so long,"
said Ellen Morgan, clasping her hands. "Robert, do you feel equal to
looking after the children while I am gone?"
"Yes, Ellen. Go at once. God grant that your father's heart may be
softened, for your sake. For myself I am content to live in poverty; but
I don't like to see you suffer."
"What is the matter with father? Did my mother tell you?"
Frank explained, and thus gave her fresh cause for anxiety.
On reaching her father's chamber she was shocked by his changed
appearance; but her heart was gladdened by the wan smile that lighted
up his face, assuring her that she was welcome. From the doctor she
received the assurance that her father was in no immediate danger.
Indeed, he expressed a confident hope that Mr. Graham would rally from
his present attack, and be able to go about his business again, though
caution would be required against undue excitement or fatigue.
The doctor's prediction was verified. Mr. Graham recovered; but his old
pride and obduracy did not come back. He became reconciled to his
son-in-law, and provided him a well-paid position in his own mercantile
establishment, and provided rooms in the Madison-avenue mansion for the
little family whom Frank had first visited in the squalid tenement-house
in Fourteenth street, and the glad voices of children made the house no
longer lonely.
"You must call and see us often," said Ellen Morgan to our hero. "I
shall always remember you as the messenger who brought us good tidings
at the darkest hour in our fortunes. We shall always welcome you as a
friend."
CHAPTER XX.
A NEW JOB, AND A LETTER FROM HOME.
One morning an elderly gentleman entered the office in which Frank was
employed, and sought an interview with the superintendent.
"I want a smart boy for detective work," he said. "Have you one you can
recommend?"
The superintendent cast his eyes over the line of boys, and called
Frank. Our hero's recognition of the disguised counterfeiter by his ring
had given him a reputation for shrewdness.
"I think this boy will suit you," he said. "Do you wish him to go with
you now?"
"Yes; I may want him a week."
"Very well."
Frank accompanied the gentleman into the street.
"Have you no other clothes except this uniform?" asked Mr. Hartley.
"Yes, sir."
"Then go and put them on. Then report to me at No. -- Broadway."
"All right, sir."
"It is fortunate I have a good suit," thought Frank.
He was not long in exchanging his uniform for the neat suit given him by
Mr. Bowen. Thus attired, he presented himself in Mr. Hartley's
counting-room. The merchant surveyed him with approval.
"You will enter my service as errand-boy," he said. "You will be sent to
the post-office, the bank, and on similar errands, in order not to
excite suspicion of the real object of your presence. Keep your eyes
open, and I will take an opportunity of explaining to you later what I
wish you to do."
Frank bowed.
"Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, calling a thin, sallow young man, "I
have engaged this boy as an errand-boy. Has any one been to the
post-office this morning?"
"No, sir."
"Then he will go."
Haynes regarded Frank with disfavor.
"I have a nephew who would have liked the position," he said.
"Too late now," said the merchant, curtly.
"What is your name, boy?" asked Haynes, coldly..
"Frank Kavanagh."
"How did Mr. Hartley happen to engage you?" asked the subordinate.
"A gentleman recommended me," Frank answered.
"I had already mentioned my nephew to him. I am surprised he said
nothing to me about engaging a boy."
Frank said nothing, feeling no particular interest in the matter. As he
was only filling temporarily the position of errand boy, it made little
difference to him whether he was acceptable to Mr. Haynes or not.
In the course of the day Mr. Hartley handed Frank a card, containing the
street and number of his residence, with a pencilled invitation to call
that evening.
Of course Frank did so.
Seated alone with the merchant in his back parlor, the latter said, "I
have invited you here because I could not speak with you freely at the
store. How do you like Mr. Haynes?"
Frank was surprised at the abruptness of the question.
"I don't like him," he answered, candidly.
"Why not?"
"There is no good reason that I know of," said Frank; "but I think his
manner is disagreeable."
"Our instincts are often to be trusted," said the merchant,
thoughtfully. "I confess that I myself don't like Haynes, nor do I feel
implicit confidence in him, though he has been eight years in the
service of our house. He is outwardly very circumspect, and apparently
very faithful, but there is something in his eye which I don't like."
Frank had noticed this, but Mr. Hartley's remark called fresh attention
to its furtive, crafty expression.
Frank's curiosity was aroused, naturally enough. He wondered what Mr.
Haynes had to do with his mission. He did not have long to wait for
information.
"I will come to the point," said Mr. Hartley, after a pause. "I am an
importing merchant, and deal, among other articles, in silks. During the
last year I have discovered that some one is systematically robbing me,
and that parts of my stock have been spirited away. The loss I have
sustained is already considerable, and unless the leakage is put a stop
to, I may as well give up business. You can now guess why I have engaged
you. No one will suspect an errand boy of being a detective, while a man
would very probably excite distrust, and put the rogue on his guard."
Frank listened attentively to his employer.
"Do you suspect any one in particular, Mr. Hartley?" he asked.
"It must be some one in my employ," he said. "The man who, more than any
other, has facilities for robbing me is the man of whom I have spoken to
you."
"Mr. Haynes?"
"Yes, Mr. Haynes. He holds an important position, and enjoys special
privileges. On the other hand, so far as I can learn, he lives in a
sober, inexpensive way, quite within his salary, which is liberal. He is
prominently connected with an up-town church, and it seems very
improbable that he would be guilty of robbery, or breach of trust; yet
there have been such cases before. At any rate, I cannot wholly divest
myself of suspicion."
"What do you wish me to do?" asked Frank.
"To watch Mr. Haynes carefully, both in and out of the store, to
ascertain whether he has any unexplained expenses, or any questionable
companions. I want to know how he spends his time out of the office. It
may be that the result of my investigation will be to his credit. It may
be that he is all that he seems,--a reputable member of the church and
of society, with nothing against him but an unpleasant manner. Should
this be the case, I shall be glad to correct my suspicions, and give him
back my confidence. In that case, we must look elsewhere for the rogue
who is robbing me."
"Have you any particular instructions to give me?" asked Frank.
"No, only to follow Haynes, and find out all you can about him. Use
great care in doing it, not to arouse his or any one else's suspicion. I
will find an opportunity for you to make your reports."
"Very well, sir."
       *       *       *       *       *
When Frank got home, he found a letter awaiting him from his country
home. It was in answer to one which he had written to his uncle, Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh, in reference to a trunk which had belonged to his
father.
This is the letter:--
     MY DEAR NEPHEW,--I am glad to learn that you are making a living in
     the city. It is much better that you should earn your own living
     than to be a burden upon me, though of course I would not see you
     suffer. But a man's duty is to his own household, and my income
     from the farm is very small, and Hannah and I agreed that we had
     little to spare for others.
     There is an old trunk, belonging to your deceased father, in the
