classes, because they never have enough to buy advantageously, and
store-keepers so often take the advantage of them. Now, yesterday I was
over to Mrs. Hall's, and the poor thing was trying to make some bread,
and she was not fit to stand up and knead it; so I thought I'd try. The
flour was heavy and sticky and lumpy, and what I should call very
unprofitable. No one could make good bread out of it. She said they
traded at Kilburn's, because he would wait if they did not have the
money. The flour was seven and a half a barrel; the eighth, ninety-five
cents; and I do not believe the bread was fit to eat. So you must
remember, when you blame people for poor cooking, that they may not
always have decent materials to work with."
"Maverick was growling about Kilburn the other evening. It is a shame
that he should sell such poor goods, when prices have come down a good
deal."
"Can you not reform him a little?" and Mrs. Darcy smiled.
"Cousin Jane and Sylvie might go into business, as did the poor weavers
of Toad Lane, with their sack of oatmeal, firkin of butter, a little
sugar and flour," said Jack laughingly. "A fair division of labor. The
men of Yerbury shall provide work, and the women shall train the
inefficient how and where to spend money."
Sylvie glanced up with bright, inquiring eyes.
"Was it some more co-operation?" she asked.
Jack brought out his book, and read the story of the "Equitable Pioneers
of Rochdale" and their wonderful success from a small beginning. The
girl listened with wide-open eyes, and even Jane Morgan laid down her
knitting.
"The queen-bee and the workers again," said she, as Jack closed the
book. "It is not every man for himself, but every man for each other.
And it comes back, always."
CHAPTER XII.
"WHERE is grandmother?" Jack asked one morning late in May, as he came
in from the garden, and found her place at the table vacant.
"She does not feel very well this morning, and I told her there was no
need of rising with the lark," answered cousin Jane; but, though her
voice was cheerful, there was a new gravity in her face.
"It is something unusual"--
"She is getting to be an old lady, Jack. There, sit down to your
breakfast while it is nice and hot. No fear but what I will attend to
grandmother."
She had risen; but in the midst of her dressing her hands had lost their
cunning, her limbs their strength. Jane came to look at her in alarm.
"It's a warning," she said, with her grand old smile. "But I have no
pain, and so you can leave me here for a while. My strength may come
back."
Mrs. Darcy was much frightened.
"Remember that ninety-four is a good old age, and she has hardly had a
sick day in her life. After breakfast Jack might go over for Dr.
Maverick. He is sensible, and will not torment her with experiments."
Jack rather hurried through his meal, and then ran up to grandmother's
room. She put out her wrinkled hand, thin to be sure, but still slender
and smooth, with no knobby joints. A proud sort of beauty illumined the
old face, though the eyes were a little dull.
"Dear boy," and there was a curious quaver in her voice, "I've had to
give in at last. The Lord knows best. He has given me many a happy year
with you; yet I have never forgotten the folks over yonder. I shall be
glad to see them again,--your father, Jack, and the rest. 'Then they
came to the land of Beulah, where the sun shineth day and night, and
betook themselves to rest'--you know. We used to read it together."
A sharp pang went to Jack's heart. He pressed the limp hand to his lips,
and gazed into the face that had changed in some indescribable way. Then
Jane came with a tempting breakfast, and fed her with wonderful
gentleness, it seemed to him.
He went out, and brought Maverick back with him.
"It is a general breaking-up of nature," said the doctor with a tender
gravity. "Nothing can be done, unless she should suffer; but I do not
think she will. It is the way lives ought to end oftener. Give her
whatever she will take; and keep cheerful, all of you. After all, it is
only a little journey."
"Where?" the young eyes asked as they met each other in solemn mood.
Jack scarcely left her. She liked to open her eyes, and find him sitting
there, when she would smile faintly, and murmur a few words. Sylvie and
Miss Barry were the only visitors admitted to her room. They used to
read out of "Pilgrim's Progress," the book she had loved so well, and
occasionally they sang some sweet old hymn.
"Jack," she said once, "you will find everything in my old box there in
the bureau. It was my mother's, and came across the sea with me. You
have been a good lad. You took your father's place with me, and you must
never regret that you staid here to make an old woman happy. You have
been a good lad--a good--little lad"-- And her mind wandered to other
years.
Just growing gradually weaker, and falling asleep peacefully. A long,
well-spent life, and a death to remember and desire.
They buried her in Yerbury churchyard, and the townspeople turned out to
do her honor. Jack thought of another death, and the almost solitary
state of the funeral.
How good it was that they had Jane Morgan now! She carried them right
along.
Jack opened the brass-bound box, still fragrant with its sandal-wood
lining. Some old letters, the trinkets she had saved from her poverty,
and a will bequeathing her all, in government bonds, to Jack.
There was nearly seven thousand dollars. With his own little savings he
felt quite rich.
"Jack," said his mother, "all these years you have waited patiently, and
put by your own dreams. Do not think that I did not notice the struggle.
It was very generous and kindly; and I am glad, for grandmother's sake,
that you staid. But now if you like we will go somewhere else, and make
a new home"--did her voice tremble a little then? "I am still young
enough to take root elsewhere, and cousin Jane is so energetic she helps
one to new life. There may be prettier and more prosperous places, and
you have years before you in which to realize a fortune."
He glanced up at the face bending over him, instinct with the honorable
grace of middle life; the hair with a few threads of silver; the soft,
fine skin showing some wrinkles about the eyes and two or three light
creases across the forehead; the cheeks out of which roundness had
vanished, and the lips the scarlet of girlhood, but though both were
pale the mouth was still tender and sweet. A womanly woman,--that seemed
to him a perfect description of his mother, a woman who had loved three
generations, and held by them. Now for his sake she would give up the
old ties, and try a new world,--this shy, shrinking, loving woman.
What would she leave? She had never known any other home in her married
life, though this had been changed and improved since her wedding-day.
Everywhere some trace of his father. The porch with the roses climbing
over it, the great maples in the street, planted by him; the odorous old
balm of Gilead, that he had hunted up because she had cared for it, and
they had one in her old home; the trailing clematis with its shining
smilax-like green, and its heliotrope fragrance; the white rose that had
been planted on the morning of Jack's birth, and had sent up many
generations from the old root; the latticed summer-house with its wealth
of grapes; and almost like a vision Jack could fancy he saw the tall
figure and deliberate step,--the sweet ghost of memory that could never
walk in any other place. Did his mother have such dreams?
Yes, there were better things to life than mere money-getting.
"I believe those were the wild dreams of boyhood,"--smiling a
little,--"the 'long, long thoughts of youth.' I used to want something
that would occupy my whole soul and every energy, that was stirring,
earnest, absorbing, and held a grand outlook. But I think"--very
deliberately, as if he were weighing every word--"that my work has come
to me, instead of my going out to seek it. At all events, I shall not go
away for the present."
"Well," she returned, but she could not keep the great gladness out of
her voice.
Having thus made his election, Jack Darcy looked sturdily about to see
what was to be done, and the best way to do it. He asked two of the old
over-lookers, Hurd and Bradley, to meet him at Maverick's office; and
there they discussed co-operation until long past midnight. They looked
into the cotton-mill connected with the Rochdale experiment; they read
up the workings of those at Oldham and Lancashire, of the industries in
France, and banking in Germany.
"Here we are," said Jack, "with so much of our lives spent in learning
to manage looms and turn out different kinds of cloth. People must wear
clothes until the millennium, and cloth will be made. It seems to me
that it must be a good thing to identify the workmen, and get their real
interest. We should avoid strikes on the one hand, the continual
disputes about wages, and be much less at the mercy of all outside
influence. The men will understand thoroughly that industry, economy,
thrift, and perseverance is good for each individually; that he is using
these qualities not only for the master, but for himself. There will be
better work, and more of it."
Hurd seemed to be taking the measure of Darcy through this speech. Now
he said,--
"Darcy, any man who knows enough to head such a business as Hope Mills,
knows enough to carve out a fortune for himself; and my opinion is that
he would be a fool to let the chance slip."
"A man may have the knowledge, but not the requisite capital," was the
patient answer. "Then he might think"--
"Well, you've a sight of faith, that's all! Your men will go on with the
tramp of soldiers in good times; and when the pinch comes, then look
out! If they were educated, reasonable, sensible; but you and I both
know the mass are not. It will do better in the old countries, for there
children expect to follow in the footsteps of their parents; but here,
where every boy looks upon himself as a possible president, it cannot be
done. It has been tried, and has failed. It will again."
"Then you will not join?"
"I don't say that, Darcy. I can't very well get away from Yerbury: if I
could, the Lord knows I'd go. But there--it is just as bad everywhere
else. Don't be too sanguine though: you young chaps build air-castles
easily."
Bradley wrung his hand warmly at parting. "I want to look into this
thing a little more closely," he said. "I believe you have struck the
keynote. Whatever raises the workman raises the whole world. If you get
him to be self-supporting, there is one less pauper or tramp for the
State to take in charge, and tax all other workingmen for his support."
"I rather like the scheme of the co-operative store," Hurd began
presently. "There's a sight of money somehow between the producer and
the consumer. Farmers are grumbling all the time. I wrote to my
brother-in-law last spring about trading for a small farm, and going
into poultry-business perhaps; and he sent back a list of prices he had
obtained for his produce. Butter twenty-five cents, and we paid forty
this winter. Milk two and a half cents a quart, while ours is from eight
to ten."
"Transportation to be counted in," suggested Maverick.
"The thing discouraged me, so I thought I'd hold on a bit, since I did
not know the first rule for farming. As Darcy says, we have spent all
these years perfecting ourselves in our business, and it hardly looks
reasonable that we should succeed at once in something altogether
different. If you don't mind, Darcy, I'd like to look over that Rochdale
experiment a little at my leisure."
Jack handed him the book, and the small party dispersed. In a week they
met again, with two more, one a stubborn old Englishman who had been in
the business. They had done very well for a while, then the market
flattened. They could not hold their stock, so the big fish swallowed
them up. That was always the end where you had no credit and no reserve
capital. Truth to tell, Jack began to realize how hard it would be to
convert some of the very men he would like to have.
Meanwhile Hamilton Minor came up with some capitalists, and Hope Mills
was put up at auction. They looked around the town, examined the
building and machinery, which was the best of its kind; but nobody
could tell whether we had reached bottom prices or not, and, though the
place was to be offered at an immense sacrifice, they were wary. Empty
mills and rusting machinery were not profitable investments. Mr. Minor's
eloquence went for nothing. These long-headed dons would rather hold on
to their money, though they expressed a good deal of sympathy for the
Lawrence estate.
"I do believe it will go for the face of the mortgage," said Jack to
Maverick that evening. "Twenty thousand dollars, and a year's interest
and taxes. Twenty-two thousand would cover the whole thing; and three
years ago Mr. Lawrence wouldn't have looked at fifty thousand. Maverick,
I can get together ten thousand of my own, and if there was one other
person"--
"We will hunt him up," returned Maverick hopefully. "There is the
reputation of the cloth already made, which is one great step in your
favor. Yes, it must be done."
Yerbury was looking a little brighter and better at midsummer.
Scarlet-fever had pretty well disappeared; but malaria had come in its
stead, convenient name for want of nourishment, stagnation, and
despondency. The haggard-looking wives and mothers went out to a day's
washing or scrubbing; but the children, better off, roamed over the
fields in search of berries or a stray ownerless fruit-tree, laughing
and happy in their rags and bare feet.
Darcy tried two or three pretty well-to-do men, that he fancied had the
good of the town at heart; but the project looked wild to them. If David
Lawrence couldn't stand up against hard times, no new men could. He,
Darcy, had better put his money in government-bonds, and live on the
interest. Nothing could be made in such times as these.
"It seems as if one half of the world has decided that the other half
should starve," Jack declared in a discouraged tone. "No one is willing
to start the ball again. If it wasn't for mother I would risk every
dollar of my own. And then to think of the land lying idle about
here,--enough to feed half the town! I do not wonder that we are fast
coming to beggary and ruin."
Maverick was pretty sober for several days, then he went off to
Narragansett Pier; "tired of my everlasting badgering," said Jack to
Sylvie, who, poor child, had her hands and heart full of projects that
she talked over with Miss Morgan and her aunt, and did not make much
more progress than Jack.
So it happened one July evening that Jack sat smoking on the porch in a
rather despondent frame of mind. Miss Morgan and his mother had gone to
make some neighborly calls.
A quick step came down the street. "If Maverick wasn't in Rhode Island!"
thought Jack; then it came nearer, with a little halt, and Jack sprang
down the steps in the moonlight.
"Hillo, old fellow!" said the rich, laughing voice. "Have you looked
after my patients, and entertained my office-callers, in my absence?
That would only be fair play, for I have been about your business; and,
by Jove! succeeded too!"
"Maverick!" There was an odd little tremble in Jack's voice.
"Ask me to sit down, and stay me with--well, a pipe, for I have finished
my last cigar. I came in the train just fifteen minutes ago, and
skulked--that's the very word--under the trees and through by-ways, lest
some one, seeing, should lay violent hands on me. Yes, get out your best
armchair, old chap, and treat me like a prince."
The two seated themselves again, and stretched out their legs to the
porch-railing. The soft light fell around, outlining here and there a
bit of vine as if it were held against a silver background. A few early
insects were chirping, and somewhere down the street there was a waft of
distant music.
"Succeeded!" Jack drew a long breath.
"Yes: with a woman too. Nay, you need not look at me so wonderingly. I
have not sold myself for base gold to the Evil One," laughing lightly.
"I have never told you much about myself; for, like the needy
knife-grinder, 'story, God bless you! there was none to tell;' but there
is a chapter now, and you must hear it first. My mother was left an
orphan in her infancy, and her aunt adopted her. She was a canny
Scotswoman, by name Jean McLeod. She was very good to my mother, who
married quite to her liking, although my father was not rich, but we
always lived in a certain style, and my father had a fine reputation as
a lawyer. My mother's death, the result of an accident, so prostrated
him, that he never recovered from the shock. Aunt McLeod came to stay
with us through that weary time. Then she took us both to her heart and
home: it was a large warm heart and a beautiful home. My father left a
little: it was made over to me; and my sister, five years younger than
I, was brought up properly, and married properly, and lives in Chicago
in elegant style. Then Aunt Jean tried her hand on me, chose a suitable
young woman, and insisted that the fates had decided it. The upshot was
a quarrel. Not but what the girl was nice enough, and all that, but I
did not care to marry; and so I walked off to Europe, and was there
three years. Some rather cool letters passed between us at first, but
they grew warmer; and when I returned it was winter, and she was in New
York. I went straight up to her house. She was very glad to see me; and
there in her lovely library, all glow and softness and perfume, by the
side of the grate, with a screen in her hand, sat Anastasia Lothrop. She
is Aunt Jean's pet protégée, though she has home and lands and people
of her own. A handsome woman too, by Jove! However, we have gone our
separate ways. I think she (Aunt Jean) was rather annoyed at my settling
at Yerbury.
"Well, I went to Narragansett, and found her alone this time; and she
has promised to buy Hope Mills. I do believe there's no end to the
woman's money. She talked it over as a mere bagatelle. I am to meet her
in New York, and you are to go down, Jack; and we are to see the holder
of the mortgage, and do no end of business. I think she is rather
interested in the scheme, and I do believe she is delighted to do me a
favor. Now you can keep your money for a kind of reserve fund. The mere
savings of labor will not answer at first, you know."
Maverick drew a long breath then, and puffed lustily at his cigar.
"I don't know how ever to thank you."
"Don't thank me, Darcy. You see, I am interested in this experiment. I
want to see if there is enough faith and honesty and industry and
trustfulness left in the world to make such a general partnership a
success. You know it has been said that since the war our character as a
whole has degenerated fearfully. Politically there is no doubt of it.
Commercially and industrially are still open questions. If we could
succeed in making one hundred people comfortable, instead of one rich,
nine comfortable, and the other ninety next door to pauperism, we shall
have done something. If we can so educate ninety men that they are able
to understand the difficulties and embarrassments of carrying on
business and its numerous fluctuations, we shall have raised them higher
in the social scale. And it is most sadly true of all the large failures
of late, some one has been dishonest, some one or two or three have
taken other people's money to speculate with. It should be called
stealing as much as when a poor man takes it, even if he spends it for
rum. And, Darcy, we will keep our eye single upon one thing: we shall
not move the world, or convert it, but haply one little corner of
Yerbury; while all the wit and wisdom the world has been saving up for
ages will be hurled against us in different shapes, from puffy snowballs
to the grim old fellows soaked in water and frozen hard. And sometimes I
think, with all the energy you are going to bring to bear upon this, you
could carve out a fortune somewhere else."
"I don't know as to that, Maverick," said Darcy in a half-funny,
half-sad tone. "From New York to St. Louis, from thence to New Orleans,
to Florida, and back here again, I never found an opening. Two or three
people did promise to write to me, but they have not. I felt the world
could go on quite as well without me and hundreds of others. So, then,
the only thing is to create a place; and Heaven knows I shall try hard
enough to make a success of this."
"And you will do it too: I'm not afraid. Give us your hand, old chap! I
never swore friendship with but just one fellow: that was in my college
days, and I have his note for one hundred dollars as a memento. I might
have been keener, I dare say; but one of the transcendentally lovely
things of youth is its perfect faith. These preternaturally wise and
prudent young people come into the world mentally gray-headed. But I do
it now with my eyes wide open; and, when you are a rich man, I have
another scheme I want to take through, a sort of home or hospital of my
own planning: so don't fancy I shall let you off easy."
They held each other's hands in a long, lingering clasp. Beside the
warmth and magnetism that was a component part of Dr. Maverick's nature
when he chose to use it, which was not nearly always, there was a
steadfast kindliness, the vigor of a true and pure manhood, that made a
clear atmosphere about him, in which insincerity, weakness, and
selfishness seemed to flicker into pale shadows, and shrink away from
the intense mental light he turned upon them.
And just here the vision of the boy face came back to Jack, the
strangling arms about his neck, the fluttering breath and quivering
lips, and the sound of the rather thin, childish voice,--"You are my
King Arthur, and I shall love you my whole life long."
The sadness in the smile was for the old ideal.
CHAPTER XIII.
"THE telegram!" exclaimed Maverick ten days later, striding down the
garden where Jack was at work in the strawberry-bed.
Jack Darcy flushed like a girl, through the other fine coloring of
labor. He had hardly dared to believe in and hold to Maverick's promise.
Manlike, neither had spoken of it since that night.
"'Thursday, at four, at the Westminster.' That is to-morrow. We must be
on time, or she would never have any faith in us; and, though my credit
may be nil, yours must be"--
"As I hope to keep it through my life," was the grave reply. "You will
take the morning train?"
"Yes. It will give us a trifle of spare time, which won't be bad for a
couple of overworked fellows like us. But I must look after a lot of
people this afternoon, and if I can I will drop in this evening."
Jack went back to his strawberries. He had been making a mental
calculation about an acre, and the profits thereon, moved to it by
something Jane Morgan had said. Twenty miles below them, on Swanston
Bay, which was quite a summer-resort, the hotel-keepers had paid
twenty-five cents per quart for nice large berries. On their little
patch they had raised a hundred and twenty quarts. There was another
side to the labor-question,--diversity of industry. Jane's idea of a
great fruit-garden, or call it a farm, was not bad. You could crowd ten
such patches in an acre of ground. If nothing better came to hand, he
might hire some of the ground lying waste around Yerbury, and set the
idle at work.
Sylvie came through with some flowers in her hand. Jack looked up again,
and laughed, and threw himself on the grass under a tree, chatting
gayly. He felt so light at heart! She wondered a little, and then,
without knowing the cause, rejoiced with him in the depths of her soul.
The two men started the next morning, and at the appointed time were
ushered into Miss McLeod's private parlor. Maverick had said, "She's a
little queer in some ways; but in the main you will like her, I think."
Meanwhile Jack had formed a dozen ideals of her, based mostly on the
personal appearance of Miss Barry and his grandmother.
The door of the adjoining room opened, and Miss McLeod entered. An old
woman, of course, and a fashionable woman, but with a young-old face and
figure. Not the graceful airiness of youth, so often painful in its
desire to impress the beholder with what it is not, but an old age to
which all the good things of life, rightly used, have contributed, and
brought about a delightful result. She was of medium height, and
possibly had not been handsome in her palmy days; but she challenged
one's respect for a true and honorable womanhood, and an old age neither
inane, querulous, nor servile.
A rather plump figure, with deep chest, full shoulders, and erect
carriage. The face was wrinkled; but the skin had a peachy softness, the
lips were still full and finely curved, and, though the mouth was rather
wide, it indicated resolution and decision. The whole contour of the
face was slightly aquiline, the forehead high and broad, but the curling
hair falling over it in the requirements of fashion softened it; shining
silvery white, curling naturally, and very abundant, the coil at the
back partly covered with a diamond-shaped bit of elegant black thread
lace that matched the barb at her throat. Her rich, soft, steel-colored
silk made no rustle as she crossed the floor, but the diamonds in her
ears and on her breast flashed a glitter of sunlight about her.
Maverick greeted her with pleasant but not effusive warmth, and
introduced his friend. They skirmished on the boundary-line of small
talk for a while, Jack feeling that he was being measured and gauged at
every possible indication of the real man, but his honesty of purpose
kept him steadfast.
Presently Maverick plunged into the business part, much to Darcy's
satisfaction.
"I wrote to my lawyer, Mr. Hildreth, about it," Miss McLeod replied. "He
has seen the parties holding the mortgage; and, on account of business
embarrassments, they are extremely anxious to realize upon it. Mr. Minor
is naturally desirous of having it sold at an advantage; but he is on
the bond, and has been making continuous efforts with no success. No one
can tell how low property will sink, business property especially, that
depreciates so rapidly if neglected. The mortgage is considered
one-third of what the property was valued at seven years ago; but we
have all shrunk a trifle since that," with a shrug, and a curious little
bend of the head, as if the decapitation was not altogether a pleasant
process. "This is the 4th of August, and on the 19th it is advertised
for sale. There may be one chance in a thousand of a better purchaser;
though Mr. Hildreth thinks no one but a lunatic, or a woman, would put
money in such an adventure," her lips curving in their bitter-sweet
smile. Indeed, there was nothing she was so much like as a cluster of
bright bitter-sweet berries, on a sharp but sunshiny autumn day, with
the leaves and tendrils brown and faded, but the brilliant life and soul
still shining from the ripe centre. She impressed you with the same
defiant glow of exultation.
"I have money lying idle, it is true," she continued; "but I want to
hear your plans before I decide, Mr. Darcy. Philip," nodding to her
nephew, "has interested me in this scheme; but I must know what it
promises before I take the risk."
Jack was confused a little by the bright, penetrating glance; and he had
not quite overcome his boyish trick of blushing. Often as he had gone
over the plan with Howell, Fawcett, and other political economists at
his tongue's end, all his troupe of fine ideas seemed to desert him. He
laughed at his own embarrassment: she smiled and nodded, and that made
them friends.
"I don't know that I can put it any better," he began earnestly, "than
to say that I want to take up the lever of work, and put the wheels of
labor in motion, to bring the starving workmen and the halting capital
together again. It is all very well for us to rush every dollar into
government-bonds; but if there is no business, what is to augment our
revenue, and where then shall we be finally, with our mills and
workshops shut up, and our people begging? If I had enough of my own to
bridge over the chasm, I would ask no one's help," he went on a little
proudly. "The mills at Yerbury stand in sad silence, with ruin before
them; our men are idle and dispirited, turning into tramps and
vagabonds, because they hate to sit still and starve. And here am I, of
no real use to the world, and the eight years back of me that I have
spent in perfecting myself of no account either, unless I find something
upon which to employ my ability and training. If I purchase the mills,
we must hire capital to work them with, and everybody would be shy of
us. We can get together the capital if we could be sure of the place for
five years, at a moderate rental."
"But would not a joint-stock company answer the purpose better, and
carry more weight?" she asked, listening with a sort of intent wariness.
"I want to enlist the workmen, so that we shall be reasonably sure of
co-operation in other things beside money, industry, thrift,
faithfulness, and a common interest in success. If times are hard, we
shall all make sacrifices: if they improve, we shall benefit by the
earnestness of our endeavors. Maverick and I have made a little draft,
based on the workings of the best French and English societies. If you
will look it over"--and he took it out of his memorandum.
She studied it with a keen, rapid glance.
"It is what I should call an industrial partnership," Darcy continued.
"We should own the mill; but, as we cannot, that must go in the
working expenses. As the men choose, and are able, they can hold shares;
but at present this will be obtained--say from a dozen perhaps. Nothing
now will bring in twenty or even ten per cent, and we must be satisfied
with whatever we can make. We have had our good times, and now we must
take the evil; but if there is any better way than sitting down
resignedly, and folding both hands, I, for one, want to find it."
She was taking in the combinations of emotion and purpose that flitted
over his face. A man who would do something if he could get that hardest
of all things, a foothold to stand upon.
"I think you might make more money," she said with pointed brevity.
"Which would not be co-operation," with his frank, genial laugh that
went to her heart. "I want to try the experiment. Not that I expect to
solve all the difficulties between labor and capital; but I shall try to
make them better friends, so that, when you have weathered a hard gale,
pinching yourselves to keep on the workmen, they will not strike for
higher wages on the first stir of improvement, as they will be certain
of their share."
"You are a philanthropist, Mr. Darcy. Can you depend upon the temper of
your men? They may do very well just now when they are starving; but,
when times improve, are they going to wait one year or five years for
the sum they consider part of their wages? And if there should be no
surplus, but losses, as has often happened in manufacturing? Your
workman will
          'Fork out his penny, and pocket your shilling,'
fast enough; but when the tables are turned, what then?"
"There must be a different feeling when men are banded together in a
mutual business interest. The very spirit of association appeals to what
is best and noblest in human nature. As it has been in Yerbury, for
example, the workmen contributed of their ability and strength to
support one family in princely luxury, pay one extravagant salary, and
several others that were out of all proportion to the wages earned, and
an extensive defalcation. No one is at all the gainer now, unless it be
the thief," his face scarlet with indignation at the remembrance of
Eastman. "The men have been hit the hardest of all. No wonder they feel
bitter and discouraged. We make many an Ishmael by sending him out with
his jug of water, while there are feasting and revelry within."
"But you cannot make all human nature noble or sensible or grateful.
There is the grand co-operation of the forty years in the wilderness,
when food was provided, and clothing lasted miraculously; yet under
these favorable circumstances, and with the sure promise at the end,
there was not a heavenly unity."
Jack laughed heartily.
"We must keep from golden calves and such folly," he said. "We are
likely enough to have our waters of Marah. But it seems to me the best
way to ennoble labor, give it its true dignity, and show the
possibilities for the workmen, is concerted action. As matters stand
now, few poor men can ever acquire sufficient capital to start any
business; and perhaps this is not best when we consider the cost of
machinery, and the ever-appearing new inventions. The small capitalist
could not compete with the large one. Yet capital often takes as its
right the best strength of the workman, the years of maturity and
ability, and throws him off in his old age. I know labor retorts by
carelessness, wastefulness, and utter indifference to the employer's
welfare. One is a machine to grind labor into money; the other, to grind
all he can out of capital. Perhaps my design is Utopian, but it seems as
if something ought to be done before we train a whole generation of men
to be paupers and thieves. Better that we should spend our money in
labor experiments than supporting poorhouses and prisons."
Jack had lost his embarrassment now. There was a glow on his cheek, and
a steady fire in his eye, the lines about the mouth sharply drawn, and
indicating not only masterly strength, but a kind of pitying patience,
that would never degenerate into sentimentality. It was a very manly,
trusty face; and his sterling honesty impressed Miss McLeod, long
trained to reading faces, while his sturdy good sense promised much.
"I should like Mr. Hildreth to see this paper," turning it in her still
supple fingers. "What if some of your men insist upon going out after a
year or two, Mr. Darcy?"
"There will be some kind of forfeiture, of course. The true business
capital must remain intact the whole five years: the direct proceeds of
labor may be subject to some changes, but in any event the business
interests must not be jeopardized."
There was a moment's interruption of a servant; then dinner was brought
in, and arranged for three. The bright-eyed old lady made a charming
hostess. She poured their tea with a quaint dignity, and made them feel
quite as if she were dispensing hospitality in her own house.
She was the kind of woman whom young people, past the lunacies of
sixteen, invariably like. The feminine portion told her their love
troubles, the young wives came to her with tangles and little
jealousies; and, if she could not always straighten them out, she had a
marvellous way of comforting. Young men drifted toward her by some
species of magnetism, though she had none of the fussy motherliness of
some old ladies. With faculties still keen and bright, a great fund of
good-humor that had the sparkle of champagne rather than any insipid
sweetness, she never wearied or palled on any one. She kept herself well
informed of the world's progress, she knew of the principal stars in the
literary, dramatic, and artistic world, and to be asked to her house was
a compliment.
The conversation was more general now; and, though Maverick had told
every thing of note about Yerbury, she was not indisposed to listen to
it again. They discussed the panic and its causes, and ventured upon
guesses as to its duration. They all agreed that there had been too much
haste to be rich, too much greed of speculation, too much personal
greatness, and not enough national greatness. No generous striving
together to build up what the war had pulled down, but every man for
himself and for gold. If women had been frivolous and vain, and dazzled
by the glare of newly acquired wealth, men had not been quite free from
faults. The terrible lowering of morals, the dishonesty and fraud easily
condoned, and laughed over as a kind of shrewdness, were sad examples to
set before the next generation.
In her way Miss McLeod was quite a politician, having been so much in
that circle. Her views of men and measures were keen and discriminating;
and her bits of trenchant wisdom quite dazzled Jack, who at the last,
proposed laughingly, as his panacea, that every man should undertake the
mending of himself, when the world would soon be righted.
Afterward a coupé came, and they drove to the Park. There evening and
the bonny new moon overtook them; but the streets and country roads were
so inviting, they did not return until quite late.
"Consider yourselves my guests for the night," she said as they drove
back to the hotel, and Maverick was too wise to demur.
"I have been thinking this matter over," she said as they were
separating. "My part will be purchasing the mills, and I shall take so
much in the shape of rent. I want you to consider what per cent you can
pay, and not straiten yourselves too much. I frankly confess that I am
greatly interested in you, Mr. Darcy; and as this young man," touching
Maverick's shoulder, "prefers to 'gang his ain gait,' he leaves me quite
free to waste my money as I like. Be fair to yourself. Good-night."
"It's all right with you, Jack," began Maverick after they had been
shown to their room. "Aunt Jean is a trump! I almost forgive her Miss
Lothrop. But I suppose women would be less than women, if they did not
want to dip their fingers into destiny. It is their mental chessboard."
"But you do love her? your aunt, I mean."
"Why, of course. Still, I should never dangle in any woman's train;"
with a curl of the lip.
Miss McLeod was going back to Narragansett the next morning. They
discussed their last item of agreement; and Jack said, with modest
decision, "that such real estate could not possibly pay more than three
per cent to any owner in the course of the next few years. He would
rather offer her that, and a share contingent on the amount of business
done at the end of five years, than assume any greater risk just now."
"Thank you for your honesty and your good sense," she replied. "If you
had offered higher, I should have had some doubts of your financial
clear-headedness. It will be an equitable bargain. And will you be kind
enough to make some arrangements for me in Yerbury? I shall come on the
18th, with a companion and a maid; and Mr. Hildreth will follow the next
morning. Get your plans in shape by that time. I am glad to have met
you, Mr. Darcy, and I wish you success in your undertaking."
