fulfillment. With half a year in Italy before him, 
he decided upon a cattle-range in Colorado. Then, 
" I should like to know," he said, after one of the 
pauses, " how two young men of our form strike 
that girl's fancy. I haven 't any personal curiosity 
about her impressions, but I should like to know, 
as an observer of the human race. If my conject- 
ures are right, she 's never met people of our sort 
before." 
 
" What sort of men has she been associated 
with ? " asked Dunham. 
" Well, I 'm not quite prepared to say. I take it 
that it isn 't exactly the hobbledehoy sort. She has 
probably looked high, — as far up as the clerk in 
the store. He has taken her to drive in a buggy 
Saturday afternoons, when he pat on his ready- 
made suit, — and looked very well in it, too ; and 
they 've been at picnics together. Or may be, as 
she 's in the school-teaching line, she 's taken some 
high-browed, hollow-cheeked high-school principal 
for her ideal. Or it is possible that she has never 
had attention from any one. That is apt to happen 
to self-respectful girls in rural communities, and their 
beauty doesn't save them. Fellows, as they call 
themselves, like girls that have what they call go, 
that make up to them. Lurella doesn 't seem of 
that kind ; and I should not be surprised if you were 
the first gentleman who had ever offered her his 
arm. I wonder what she thought of you. She 's 
acquainted by sight with the ordinary summer 
boarder of North America ; they penetrate every- 
where, now ; but I doubt if she 's talked with them 
much, if at all. She must be ignorant of our world 
beyond anything we can imagine." 
" But how do you account for her being so well 
dressed ? " 
" Oh, that 's instinct. You find it everywhere. 
In every little village there is some girl who knows 
how to out-preen all the others. I wonder," added 
 
Staniford, in a more deeply musing tone, "if she 
kept from laughing at you out of good feeling, or 
if she was merely overawed by your splendor." 
" She didn 't laugh," Dunham answered, " be- 
cause she saw that it would have added to my an- 
noyance. My splendor had nothing to do with it." 
" Oh, don't underrate your splendor, my dear 
fellow ! " cried Staniford, with a caressing ridicule 
that he often used with Dunham. " Of course, I 
know what a simple and humble fellow you are ; 
but you 've no idea how that exterior of yours 
might impose upon the agricultural imagination ; 
it has its effect upon me, in my pastoral moods." 
Dunham made a gesture of protest, and Staniford 
went on : " Country people have queer ideas of us, 
sometimes. Possibly Lurella was afraid of you. 
Think of that, Dunham, — having a woman afraid 
of you, for once in your life ! Well, hurry up your 
acquaintance with her, Dunham, or I shall wear 
myself out in mere speculative analysis. I haven't 
the aplomb for studying the sensibilities of a young 
lady, and catching chickens for her, so as to pro- 
duce a novel play of emotions. I thought this voy- 
age was going to be a season of mental quiet, but 
having a young lady on board seems to forbid that 
kind of repose. I shouldn 't mind a half dozen, 
but one is altogether too many. Poor little thing ! 
I say, Dunham! There's something rather pretty 
about having her with us, after all, isn 't there ? It 
gives a certain distinction to our voyage. We shall 
 
not degenerate. We shall shave every day, wind 
and weather permitting, and wear our best things." 
They talked of other matters, and again Staniford 
recurred to Lydia : " If she has any regrets for her 
mountain home, — though I don't see why she 
should have, — I hope they haven 't kept her awake. 
My far-away cot on the plains is not going to inter- 
fere with my slumbers." 
Staniford stepped to the ship's side, and flung the 
end of his cigarette overboard ; it struck, a red spark 
amidst the lurid phosphorescence of the bubbles that 
swept backward from the vessel's prow. 
IX. 
The weather held fine. The sun shone, and the 
friendly winds blew out of a cloudless heaven ; by- 
night the moon ruled a firmament powdered with 
stars of multitudinous splendor. The conditions 
inspired Dunham with a restless fertility of inven- 
tion in Lydia's behalf. He had heard of the game 
of shuffle-board, that blind and dumb croquet, with 
which the jaded passengers on the steamers appease 
their terrible leisure, and with the help of the ship's 
carpenter he organized this pastime, and played it 
with her hour after hour, while Stamford looked on 
and smoked in grave observance, and Hicks lurked 
at a distance, till Dunham felt it on his kind heart 
and tender conscience to invite him to a share in 
the diversion. As his nerves recovered their tone, 
Hicks showed himself a man of some qualities that 
Staniford would have liked in another man : he was 
amiable, and he was droll, though apt to turn sulky 
if Staniford addressed him, which did not often 
happen. He knew more than Dunham of shuffle- 
board, as well as of tossing rings of rope over a peg 
set up a certain space off in the deck, — a game 
which they eagerly took up in the afternoon, after 
pushing about the flat wooden disks all the morn- 
ing. Most of the talk at the table was of the vary- 
 
ing fortunes of the players; and the yarn of the 
story-teller in the forecastle remained half-spun, 
while the sailors off watch gathered to look on, and 
to bet upon Lydia's skill. It puzzled Staniford to 
make out whether she felt any strangeness in the 
situation, which she accepted with so much appar- 
ent serenity. Sometimes, in his frequently recur- 
ring talks with Dunham, he questioned whether 
their delicate precautions for saving her feelings 
were not perhaps thrown away upon a young per- 
son who played shuffle-board and ring-toss on the 
deck of the Aroostook with as much self-possession 
as she would have played croquet on her native 
turf at South Bradfield. 
" Their ideal of propriety up country is very 
different from ours," he said, beginning one of his 
long comments. " I don't say that it concerns the 
conscience more than ours does ; but they think 
evil of different things. We 're getting European- 
ized, — I don't mean you, Dunham; in spite of 
your endeavors you will always remain one of the 
most hopelessly American of our species, — and we 
have our little borrowed anxieties about the free 
association of young people. They have none 
whatever ; though they are apt to look suspiciously 
upon married people's friendships with other peo- 
ple's wives and husbands. It's quite likely that 
Lurella, with the traditions of her queer world, has 
not imagined anything anomalous in her position. 
She may realize certain inconveniences. But she 
 
must see great advantages in it. Poor girl ! How 
she must be rioting on the united devotion of cabin 
and forecastle, after the scanty gallantries of a hill 
town peopled by elderly unmarried women ! I 'm 
glad of it, for her sake. I wonder which she 
really prizes most : your ornate attentions, or the 
uncouth homage of those sailors, who are always 
running to fetch her rings and blocks when she 
makes a wild shot. I believe I don't care and 
shouldn't disapprove of her preference, whichever 
it was." Staniford frowned before he added: "But 
I object to Hicks and his drolleries. It 's impossi- 
ble for that little wretch to think reverently of a 
young girl ; it 's shocking to see her treating him 
as if he were a gentleman." Hicks's behavior 
really gave no grounds for reproach ; and it was 
only his moral mechanism, as Staniford called the 
character he constructed for him, which he could 
blame ; nevertheless, the thought of him gave an 
oblique cast to Staniford 's reflections, which he cut 
short by saying, " This sort of worship is every 
woman's due in girlhood ; but I suppose a fortnight 
of it will make her a pert and silly coquette. What 
does she say to your literature, Dunham? " 
Dunham had already begun to lend Lydia books, 
— his own and Stamford's, — in which he read 
aloud to her, and chose passages for her admiration ; 
but he was obliged to report that she had rather a 
passive taste in literature. She seemed to like what 
he said was good, but not to like it very much, 
 
or to care greatly for reading; or else she had never 
had the habit of talking books. He suggested this 
to Stamford, who at once philosophized it. 
" Why, I rather like that, you know. We all 
read in such a literary way, now ; we don't read 
simply for the joy or profit of it ; we expect to talk 
about it, and say how it is this and that ; and I 've 
no doubt that we 're sub-consciously harassed, all 
the time, with an automatic process of criticism. 
Now Lurella, I fancy, reads with the sense of the 
days when people read in private, and not in pub- 
lic, as we do. She believes that your serious books 
are all true ; and she knows that my novels are all 
lies — that 's what some excellent Christians would 
call the fiction even of George Eliot or of Haw- 
thorne ; she would be ashamed to discuss the lives 
and loves of heroes and heroines who never existed. 
I think that 's first-rate. She must wonder at your 
distempered interest in them. If one could get at 
it, I suppose the fresh wholesomeness of Lurella's 
mind would be something delicious, — a quality 
like spring water." 
He was one of those men who cannot rest in re- 
gard to people they meet till they have made some 
effort to formulate them. He liked to ticket them 
off ; but when he could not classify them, he re- 
mained content with his mere study of them. His 
habit was one that does not promote sympathy with 
one's fellow creatures. He confessed even that it 
disposed him to wish for their less acquaintance 
 
when once he had got them generalized ; they be- 
came then collected specimens. Yet, for the time 
being, his curiosity in them gave him a specious 
air of sociability. He lamented the insincerity 
which this involved, but he could not help it. The 
next novelty in character was as irresistible as the 
last ; he sat down before it till it yielded its mean- 
ing, or suggested to him some analogy by which he 
could interpret it. 
With this passion for the arrangement and dis- 
tribution of his neighbors, it was not long before he 
had placed most of the people on board in what he 
called the psychology of the ship. He did not care 
that they should fit exactly in their order. He 
rather preferred that they should have idiosyncra- 
sies which differentiated them from their species, 
and he enjoyed Lydia's being a little indifferent 
about books for this and for other reasons. " If 
she were literary, she would be like those vulgar 
little persons of genius in the magazine stories. 
She would have read all sorts of impossible things 
up in her village. She would have been discovered 
by some aesthetic summer boarder, who had hap- 
pened to identify her with the gifted Daisy Dawn, 
and she would be going out on the ^esthetic's money 
for the further expansion of her spirit in Europe. 
Somebody would be obliged to fall in love with her, 
and she would sacrifice her career for a man who 
was her inferior, as we should be subtly given to 
understand at the close. I think it 's going to be 
 
as distinguished by and by not to like books as it 
is not to write them. Lurella is a prophetic soul; 
and if there 's anything comforting about her, it 's 
her being so merely and stupidly pretty." 
" She is not merely and stupidly pretty ! " re- 
torted Dunham. " She never does herself justice 
when you are by. She can talk very well, and on 
some subjects she thinks strongly." 
u Oh, I 'm sorry for that ! " said Staniford. 
" But call me some time when she 's doing herself 
justice." 
"I don't mean that she 's like the women we 
know. She doesn 't say witty things, and she 
hasn 't their responsive quickness ; but her ideas 
are her own, no matter how old they are ; and 
what she says she seems to be saying for the first 
time, and as if it had never been thought out be- 
fore." 
" That is what I have been contending for," said 
Staniford ; " that is what I meant by spring water. 
It is that thrilling freshness which charms me in 
Lurella." He laughed. " Have you converted her 
to your spectacular faith, yet ? " Dunham blushed. 
" You have tried," continued Staniford. " Tell 
me about it ! " 
" I will not talk with you on such matters," said 
Dunham, " till you know how to treat serious 
things seriously." 
" I shall know how when I realize that they 
are serious with you. Well, I don't object to a 
 
woman's thinking strongly on religious subjects : 
it 's the only safe ground for her strong thinking, 
and even there she had better feel strongly. Did 
you succeed in convincing her that Archbishop 
Laud was a saint incompris, and the good King 
Charles a blessed martyr." 
Dunham did not answer till he had choked down 
some natural resentment. He had, several years 
earlier, forsaken the pale Unitarian worship of his 
family, because, Stamford always said, he had such 
a feeling for color, and had adopted an extreme tint 
of ritualism. It was rumored at one time, before 
his engagement to Miss Hibbard, that he was go- 
ing to unite with a celibate brotherhood ; he went 
regularly into retreat at certain seasons, to the 
vast entertainment of his friend ; and, within the 
bounds of good taste, he was a zealous propagan- 
dist of his faith, of which he had the practical vir- 
tues in high degree. " I hope," he said presently, 
" that I know how to respect convictions, even 
of those adhering to the Church in Error." 
Staniford laughed again. " I see you have not 
converted Lurella. Well, I like that in her, too. 
I wish I could have the arguments, pro and con. 
It would have been amusing. I suppose," lie pon- 
dered aloud, " that she is a Calvinist of the leepest 
dye, and would regard me as a lost spirit for being 
outside of her church. She would look down upon 
me from one height, as I look down upon her from 
another. And really, as far as personal satisfac- 
 
tion in superiority goes, she might have the ad- 
vantage of me. That 's very curious, very inter- 
esting." 
As the first week wore away, the wonted inci- 
dents of a sea voyage lent their variety to the life 
on board. One day the ship ran into a school of 
whales, which remained heavily thumping and loll- 
ing about in her course, and blowing jets of water 
into the air, like so many breaks in garden hose, 
Staniford suggested. At another time some flying- 
fish came on board. The sailors caught a dolphin, 
and they promised a shark, by and by. All these 
things were turned to account for the young girl's 
amusement, as if they had happened for her. The 
dolphin died that she might wonder and pity his 
beautiful death ; the cook fried her some of the 
flying-fish ; some one was on the lookout to detect 
even porpoises for her. A sail in the offing won 
the discoverer envy when he pointed it out to her ; 
a steamer, celebrity. The captain ran a point out 
of his course to speak to a vessel, that she might 
be able to tell what speaking a ship at sea was 
like. 
At table the stores which the young men had 
laid in for private use became common luxuries, 
and she fared sumptuously every day upon dainties 
which she supposed were supplied by the ship, — 
delicate jellies and canned meats and syruped fruits ; 
and, if she wondered at anything, she must have 
wondered at the scrupulous abstinence with which 
 
Captain Jenness, seconded by Mr. Watterson, re- 
fused the luxuries which his bounty provided them, 
and at the constancy with which Staniford declined 
some of these dishes, and Hicks declined others. 
Shortly after the latter began more distinctly to be 
tolerated, he appeared one day on deck with a 
steamer-chair in his hand, and offered it to Lyd- 
ia's use, where she sat on a stool by the bulwark. 
After that, as she reclined in this chair, wrapped 
in her red shawl, and provided with a book or 
some sort of becoming handiwork, she was even 
more picturesquely than before the centre about 
which the ship's pride and chivalrous sentiment re- 
volved. They were Americans, and they knew how 
to worship a woman. 
Staniford did not seek occasions to please and 
amuse her, as the others did. When they met, as 
they must, three times a clay, at table, he took his 
part in the talk, and now and then addressed her 
a perfunctory civility. He imagined that she dis- 
liked him, and he interested himself in imagining 
the ignorant grounds of her dislike. " A woman," 
he said, " must always dislike some one in com- 
pany ; it 's usually another woman ; as there 's none 
on board, I accept her enmity with meekness." 
Dunham wished to persuade him that he was mis- 
taken. " Don't try to comfort me, Dunham," he 
replied. " I find a pleasure in being detested which 
is inconceivable to your amiable bosom." 
Dunham turned to go below, from where they 
 
stood at the head of the cabin stairs. Staniford 
looked round, and saw Lydia, whom they had kept 
from coming up; she must have heard him. He 
took his cigar from his mouth, and caught up a 
stool, which he placed near the ship's side, where 
Lydia usually sat, and without waiting for her con- 
currence got a stool for himself, and sat down with 
her. 
"Well, Miss Blood," he said, "it's Saturday 
afternoon at last, and we 're at the end of our first 
week. Has it seemed very long to you ? " 
Lydia's color was bright with consciousness, but 
the glance she gave Staniford showed him looking 
tranquilly and honestly at her. " Yes," she said, 
" it has seemed long." 
" That 's merely the strangeness of everything. 
There 's nothing like local familiarity to make the 
time pass, — except monotony; and one gets both 
at sea. Next week will go faster than this, and 
we shall all be at Trieste before we know it. Of 
course we shall have a storm or two, and that will 
retard us in fact as well as fancy. But you would 
n't feel that you 'd been at sea if you hadn 't had a 
storm." 
He knew that his tone was patronizing, but he 
had theorized the girl so much with a certain slight 
in his mind that he was not able at once to get the 
tone which he usually took towards women. This 
might not, indeed, have pleased some women any 
better than patronage : it mocked while it caressed 
 
all their little pretenses and artificialities ; he ad- 
dressed them as if they must be in the joke of 
themselves, and did not expect to be taken seri- 
ously. At the same time he liked them greatly, 
and would not on any account have had the silliest 
of them different from what she was. He did not 
seek them as Dunham did ; their society was not a 
matter of life or death with him; but he had an 
elder-brotherly kindness for the whole sex. 
Lydia waited awhile for him to say something 
more, but he added nothing, and she observed, with 
a furtive look : " I presume you ? ve seen some very 
severe storms at sea." 
" No," Staniford answered, " I have n't. I 've 
been over several times, but I 've never seen any- 
thing alarming. I 've experienced the ordinary 
seasickening tempestuousness." 
" Have you — have you ever been in Italy?" 
asked Lydia, after another pause. 
" Yes," he said, " twice ; I 'm very fond of Italy." 
He spoke of it in a familiar tone that might well 
have been discouraging to one of her total unac- 
quaintance with it. Presently he added of his own 
motion, looking at her with his interest in her as a 
curious study, " You 're going to Venice, I think 
Mr. Dunham told me." 
" Yes," said Lydia. 
" Well, I think it 's rather a pity that you should 
n't arrive there directly, without the interposition 
of Trieste." He scanned her yet more closely, but 
 
 
with a sort of absence in his look, as if he addressed 
some ideal of her. 
" Why ? " asked Lydia, apparently pushed to 
some self-assertion by this way of being looked and 
talked at. 
"It's the strangest place in the world," said 
Staniford ; and then he mused again. "But I sup- 
pose" — He did not go on, and the word fell again 
to Lydia. 
"I'm going to visit my aunt, who is staying 
there. She was where I live, last summer, and she 
told us about it. But I couldn 't seem to under- 
stand it." 
" No one can understand it, without seeing it." 
" I 've read some descriptions of it," Lydia vent- 
ured. 
" They 're of no use, — the books." 
" Is Trieste a strange place, too ? " 
" It 's strange, as a hundred other places are, — 
and it 's picturesque ; but there 's only one Ven- 
ice." 
" I 'm afraid sometimes," she faltered, as if his 
manner in regard to this peculiar place had been 
hopelessly exclusive, " that it will be almost too 
strange." 
"Oh, that 's another matter," said Staniford. 
"I confess I should be rather curious to know 
whether you liked Venice. I like it, but I can im- 
agine myself sympathizing with people who de- 
tested it, — if they said so. Let me see what will 
 
give you some idea of it. Do you know Boston 
well ? " 
" No ; I 've only been there twice," Lydia ac- 
knowledged. 
" Then you Ve never seen the Back Bay by 
night, from the Long Bridge. Well, let me see" — 
" I 'm afraid," interposed Lydia, " that I 've not 
been about enough for you to give me an idea from 
other places. We always go to Greenfield to do 
our trading ; and I 've been to Keene and Spring- 
field a good many times." 
" I 'm sorry to say I have n't," said Stamford. 
" But I 'll tell you : Venice looks like an inun- 
dated town. If you could imagine those sunset 
clouds yonder turned marble, you would have Ven- 
ice as she is at sunset. You must first think of the 
sea when you try to realize the place. If you don't 
find the sea too strange, you won't find Venice so." 
" I wish it would ever seen half as home-like ! " 
cried the girl. 
" Then you find the ship — I 'm glad you find 
the ship — home-like," said Staniford, tentatively. 
" Oh, yes ; everything is so convenient and pleas- 
ant. It seems sometimes as if I had always lived 
here." 
" Well, that 's very nice," assented Staniford, 
rather blankly. " Some people feel a little queer 
at sea — in the beginning. And you haven 't — 
at all ? " He could not help this leading question, 
yet he knew its meanness, and felt remorse for it. 
 
" Oh, I did, at first," responded the girl, but 
went no farther ; and Staniford was glad of it. 
After all, why should he care to know what was in 
her mind? 
" Captain Jenness," he merely said, " understands 
making people at home." 
" Oh, yes, indeed," assented Lydia. " And Mr. 
Watterson is very agreeable, and Mr. Mason. I 
didn 't suppose sailors were so. What soft, mild 
voices they have ! " 
" That 's the speech of most of the Down East 
coast people." 
"Is it? I like it better than our voices. Our 
voices are so sharp and high, at home." 
" It 's hard to believe that," said Staniford, with 
a smile. 
Lydia looked at him. " Oh, I wasn 't born in 
South Bradfield. I was ten years old when I went 
there to live." 
" Where were you born, Miss Blood ? " he asked. 
u In California. My father had gone out for his 
health, but he died there." 
"Oh!" said Staniford. He had a book in his 
hand, and he began to scribble a little sketch of 
Lydia's pose, on a fly-leaf. She looked round and 
saw it. " You 've detected me," he said ; " I haven 't 
any right to keep your likeness, now. I must make 
you a present of this work of art, Miss Blood." 
He finished the sketch with some ironical flourishes, 
and made as if to tear out the leaf. 
 
" Oil ! " cried Lydia, simply, "you will spoil the 
book ! " 
" Then the book shall go with the picture, if 
you 'll let it," said Stamford. 
" Do you mean to give it to me ? " she asked, 
with surprise. 
" That was my munificent intention. I want to 
write your name in it. What 's the initial of your 
first name, Miss Blood ? " 
" L, thank you," said Lydia. 
Staniford gave a start. " No ! " he exclaimed. 
It seemed a fatality. 
" My name is Lydia," persisted the girl. " What 
letter should it begin with? " 
"Oh — oh, I knew Lydia began with an L," 
stammered Staniford, " but I — I — I thought your 
first name was " — 
" What ? " asked Lydia sharply. 
"I don't know. Lily," he answered guiltily. 
"Lily Blood!" cried the girl. "Lydia is bad 
enough ; but Lily Blood ! They couldn 't have been 
such fools ! " 
" I beg your pardon. Of course not. I don't 
know how I could have got the idea. It was one 
of those impressions — hallucinations " — Staniford 
found himself in an attitude of lying excuse towards 
the simple girl, over whom he had been lording it 
in satirical fancy ever since he had seen her, and 
meekly anxious that she should not be vexed with 
him. He began to laugh at his predicament, and 
 
she smiled at his mistake. " What is the date? " 
he asked. 
" The 15th," she said ; and he wrote under the 
sketch, Lydia Blood. Ship Aroostook, August 15, 
1874, and handed it to her, with a bow surcharged 
with gravity. 
She took it, and regarded the picture without 
comment. 
"Ah!" said Stamford, "I see that you know 
how bad my sketch is. You sketch." 
" No, I don't know how to draw," replied Lydia. 
" You criticise." 
"No." 
" So glad," said Stamford. He began to like this. 
A young man must find pleasure in sitting alone 
near a pretty young girl, and talking with her about 
herself and himself, no matter how plain and dull 
her speech is ; and Staniford, though he found Lydia 
as blankly unresponsive as might be to the flatter- 
ing irony of his habit, amused himself in realizing 
that here suddenly he was almost upon the terms of 
window-seat flirtation with a girl whom lately he 
had treated with perfect indifference, and just now 
with fatherly patronage. The situation had some- 
thing more even than the usual window-seat advan- 
tages ; it had qualities as of a common shipwreck, of 
their being cast away on a desolate island together. 
He felt more than ever that he must protect this 
helpless loveliness, since it had begun to please his 
imagination. " You don't criticise," he said. " Is 
 
that because you are so amiable ? I 'm sure you 
could, if you would." 
"No," returned Lydia; "I don't really know. 
But I 've often wished I did know." 
" Then you didn 't teach drawing, in your 
school ? " 
"How did you know I had a school?" asked 
Lydia quickly. 
He disliked to confess his authority, because he 
disliked the authority, but he said, " Mr. Hicks 
told us." 
" Mr. Hicks ! " Lydia gave a little frown as of 
instinctive displeasure, which gratified Staniford. 
" Yes ; the cabin-boy told him. You see, we are 
dreadful gossips on the Aroostook, — though there 
are so few ladies " — It had slipped from him, but 
it seemed to have no personal slant for Lydia. 
" Oh, yes ; I told Thomas," she said. " No ; 
it 's only a country school. Once I thought I 
should go down to the State Normal School, and 
study drawing there ; but I never did. Are you 
— are you a painter, Mr. Staniford? " 
He could not recollect that she had pronounced 
