against the blue sky. There was a sailor going 
up something like a rope ladder; going up and up; 
how could he ? and how far could he go ? Dolly 
almost grew dizzy gazing at him. 
"What are you looking after, little one?" a voice 
near her asked. An unceremonious address, certainly ; frankly put ; but the voice was not unkindly 
Or uncivil, and Dolly was not sensitive on the point 
of personal dignity. She brought her eyes down 
for a moment far enough to see the shimmer of 
gold lace on a midshipman's cap, and answered, 
" I am looking at that man. He's going up and 
up, to the top of everything ! I should think his 
head would turn." 
"Yours will, if you look after him with your 
head in that position." 
Dolly let her eyes come now to the speaker's 
face. One of the young midshipmen it was, standing near her, with his arms folded and leaning 
upon something which served as a support to 
them, and looking down at Dolly. For standing 
so and leaning over, he was still a good deal taller 
than she. Further, Dolly observed a pair of level 
brows, beneath them a pair of wise-looking, cognisance-taking blue eyes, an expression of steady 
calm, betokening either an even temperament or 
an habitual power of self-control; and just now in 
the eyes and the mouth there was the play almost 
 
of a smile, somewhat merry, wholly kindly. It took 
Dolly's confidence entirely and at once. 
"You don't think you would like to be a sailor?" 
he went on. 
"Is it pleasant?" said Dolly, retorting the question earnestly and doubtfully. 
The smile broke a little more on the other's face. 
" How do you like the ship ? " he asked. 
" I do not know," said Dolly glancing along the 
deck. " I think it is a strange place to live." 
"Why?" 
"And I don't understand the use of it," Dolly 
went on with a really puzzled face. 
" The use of what ? " 
" The use of the whole thing. I know what ships 
are good for, of course; other ships; but what is 
the use of such a ship as this ? " 
" To take care of the other ships." 
"How?" 
" Have you been below ? Did you see the gun 
decks?" 
" I was in a place where there were a great many 
guns but I could not understand, and there was 
nobody to tell me things." 
" Would you like to go down there again ? " 
"0 yes!" said Dolly. "They will be a good 
while at lunch yet. O thank you ! I should like 
so much to go." 
The young midshipman took her hand ; perhaps- 
he had a little sister at home and the action was 
pleasant and familiar; it seemed to be both; and 
 
led her down the way that took them to the upper 
gun deck. 
" How comes it you are not taking lunch too ? " 
he asked by the way. 
"0 there are too many of them," said Dolly 
contentedly. " I don't care. I had a biscuit." 
" You don't care for your lunch ? " 
"Yes, I do, when I'm hungry; but now I would 
rather see things. I never saw a ship before." 
They arrived in the great, gloomy, black gun 
deck. The midshipman let go Dolly's hand, and 
she stood and looked along the avenue between 
the bristling black cannon. 
" Now, what is it that you don't understand ? " 
he asked, watching her. 
" What are these guns here for ? " 
" Don't you know that ? Guns are to fight with." 
"Yes, I know," said Dolly; "but how can you 
fight with them here in a row ? and what would 
you fight with? I mean, who would you fight 
against ? " 
"Some other ship, if Fate willed it so. Look 
here ; this is the way of it." 
He took a letter from the breast of his coat, tore 
off a blank leaf; then resting it on the side of a 
gun carriage, he proceeded to make a sketch. 
Dolly's eyes followed his pencil point, spell-bound 
with interest. Under his quick and ready fingers 
grew, she could not tell how, the figure of a ship, 
hull, masts, sails and rigging, deftly sketched 
in; till it seemed to Dolly she could almost see 
 
how the wind blew that was filling out the sails 
and floating off the streamer. 
"There," said the artist, "that is our enemy." 
" Our enemy ? " repeated Dolly. 
" Our supposed enemy. We will suppose she is 
an enemy." 
" But how could she be ? " 
"We might be at war with England suppose, 
or with France. This might be an English ship 
of war coming to catch up every merchantman she 
could overhaul that carried American colours, and 
make a prize of her; don't you see ? " 
" Do they do that ? " said Dolly. 
"What? catch up merchantmen? of course they 
do; and the more of value is on board, the better 
they are pleased. We lose so much, and they 
gain so much. Now we want to stop this fellow's 
power of doing mischief; you understand." 
" What are those little black spots you are making along her sides." 
" The port holes of her guns." 
" Port holes? " 
"The openings where the mouths of her guns 
look out. See," said he, pointing to the one 
near which they were standing, "that is a port 
hole." 
" That little window ? " 
" It isn't a window; it is a port hole." 
" It is not a black spot." 
" Because you are inside, and looking out towards the light. Look at them when you are leaving the ship ; they will look like black spots then, 
you will find." 
" Well, that's the enemy," said Dolly, drawing a 
short breath of excitement. "What is that ship 
you are making now ? " 
"That's the 'Achilles'; brought to; with her 
main topsails laid aback, and her fore topsails 
full; ready for action." 
"I do not know what are topsails or 'fore top- 
sails," said Dolly. 
The midshipman explained; to illustrate his explanation sketched lightly another figure of a vessel, shewing more distinctly the principal sails. 
"And this is the 'Achilles,'" said Dolly, recurring to the principal design. "You have put her 
a great way off from the enemy, it seems to me." 
" No. Point blank range. Quite near enough." 
" O what is ' point blank range ' ? " cried Dolly 
in despair. Her new friend smiled, but answered 
with good humoured patience. Dolly listened and 
comprehended. 
"Then, if this were an enemy, and that the 
'Achilles,' and within point blank range, you 
would load one of these guns and fire at her ? " 
The midshipman shook his head. " We should 
load up all of them all on that side." 
"And five them one after another?" 
"As fast as we could. We should give her a 
broadside. But we should probably give her one 
broadside after another." 
" Suppose the balls all hit her ? " 
 
" Yes, you may suppose that. I should like to 
suppose it, if I were the officer in command." 
" What would they do to her ? to that enemy 
ship ? " 
" If they all hit ? Hinder her from doing any 
more mischief." 
"How?" 
" Break her masts, tear up her rigging, make a 
wreck of her generally. Perhaps sink her." 
"But suppose while you are fighting that she 
fights too ? " 
" Extremely probable." 
"If a shot came in here could it come in 
here?" 
"Certainly. Cannon balls will go almost anwhere." 
" If it came in here, what would it do ? " 
" Kill three or four of the men at a gun, perhaps ; tear away a bit of the ship's side ; or perhaps 
disable the gun." 
"While you were firing at the enemy on this 
side, the guns of the other side, I suppose, would 
have nothing to do ? " 
" They might be fighting another enemy on 
that side," said the midshipman smiling. 
" I should think," said Dolly, looking down the 
long line of the gun deck, and trying to imagine 
the state of things described, " I should think it 
would be most dreadful ! " 
" I have no doubt you would think so." 
" Don't you think so ? " 
5 
 
" I have never been in action yet." 
" Don't you hope you never will ? " 
The young man laughed a little. " What would 
be the use of ships of war, if there were never 
any fighting ? I should have nothing to do in the 
world." 
"You might do something else," said Dolly, 
gazing at the lines of black guns stretching along 
both sides of the deck, so near to each other, so 
black, so grim. "How many men does it take to 
manage each gun ? You said three or four might 
be killed." 
"According to the size of the gun. Twelve 
men for these guns; larger would take fifteen." 
Again Dolly meditated; in imagination peopled 
the solitary place with the active crowd of men 
which would be there if each gun had twelve gunners, filled the silence with the roar of combined 
discharges, thought of the dead and wounded ; at 
last turned her eyes to the blue ones that were 
watching her. 
" I wonder if God likes it ? " she said. 
" Likes what ? " said the midshipman in wonder. 
" Such work. I don't see how he can" 
"How can you help such work? People can- 
not get along without fighting." 
He did not speak carelessly or mockingly or 
banteringly; rather with a gentle, somewhat deliberate utterance. Yet Dolly was persuaded there 
was no unmanly softness in him ; she never doubted but that he would be ready to do his part in 
 
that dreadful work, if it must be done. Moreover, he was paying to this odd little girl a delicate sort of respect and treating her with great 
consideration. Her confidence, as I said, had 
been entirely given to him before; and now some 
gratitude began to mingle with it, along with 
great freedom to speak her mind. 
" I don't think God can like it," she repeated. 
" What would you do, then ? " he also repeated, 
smiling. ' ' Let wicked people have their own way ? " 
"No." 
"If they are not to have their own way, you 
must stop them." 
" I think this is a dreadful way of stopping them." 
" It's a bad job for the side that goes under," the 
young officer admitted. 
" I don't believe God likes it," Dolly concluded 
for the third time, with great conviction. 
" Is that your rule for everything ? " 
" Yes. Isn't it your rule ? " 
" I have to obey orders," he answered, watching 
her. 
"Don't you obey his orders?" said Dolly wistfully. 
" I do not know what they are." 
"0, but they are in the Bible. You can find 
them in the Bible." 
" Does it say anything about fighting ? " 
Dolly tried to think, and got confused. Certainly it did say a good deal about fighting, but in various ways, it seemed to her. She did not know 
how to answer. She changed the subject. 
 
"How do you get the shot, the balls, I mean, 
into these guns ? I don't see how you get at them. 
The mouths are out of the windows. Port holes, 
I mean." 
For the upper gun deck had been put to a certain extent in order of action, and the guns were 
run out. 
" You are of an inquiring disposition," said the 
midshipman gravely. 
"Ami?" 
"I think you are." 
" But I should like to know, " pursued Dolly, 
looking at the muzzle of the gun by which they 
were standing. 
" The guns would be run in to be loaded." 
Dolly looked at the heavy piece of metal, and at 
him, but did not repeat her question. 
" Now you want to know how," he said smiling. 
"If I were captain, I would have the men here 
and shew you. The gun is run in by means of 
this tackle, see? and when it is charged, it is 
bowsed out again." 
Seeing Dolly's wise grave eyes bent upon the 
subject, he went on to amuse her with a full detail 
of the exercise of the gun; from "casting loose," 
to the finishing "secure your guns"; explaining 
the manner of handling and loading, and the use 
of the principal tackle concerned. Dolly listened, 
intent, fascinated, enchained; and I think the young 
man was a little fascinated too, though his attentions were given to so very young a lady. Dolly's 
brown eyes were so utterly pure and grave and 
unconscious; the brain at work behind them was 
so evidently clear and busy and competent; the 
pleasure she shewed was so unschoolgirl-like, and 
he thought so unchildlike, and at the same time so 
very far from being young-lady-like. What she 
was like, he did not know; she was an odd little 
apparition there in the gun deck of the "Achilles," 
leaning with her elbows upon a gun carriage, and 
surveying with her soft eyes the various paraphernalia of conflict and carnage around her. Contrast 
could hardly be stronger. 
" Suppose," said Dolly at last, " a shot should 
make a hole in the side of the ship, and let in the 
water?" 
" Well ? Suppose it," he answered. 
" Does that ever happen ? " 
" Quite often. Why not ? " 
" What would you do then ? " 
" Pump out the water as fast as it came in, if 
we could." 
" Suppose you couldn't ? " 
" Then we should go down." 
"And all in the ship?" 
"All who could not get out of it." 
" How could any get out of it ? " 
"In the boats." 
"Oh! I forgot the boats. Would they hold 
everybody ? " 
" Probably not. The other ships' boats would 
come to help.' 
 
"The officers would go first, I suppose?" 
" Last. The highest officer of all would be the 
last man on board." 
"Why?" 
" He must do his duty. If he cannot save his 
ship, at least he must save his men; all he can. 
He is there to do his duty." 
" I think it would be better not to be there at 
all," said Dolly very gravely. 
" Who would take care of you then, if an ene- 
my's fleet were coming to attack Philadelphia?" 
said the young officer. 
" I would go home," said Dolly. " I don't know 
what would become of Philadelphia. But I do not 
think God can like it." 
"Shall we go above, where it is more cheerful? 
or have you seen it all ? " 
Dolly gave him her hand again and let him help 
her till they got on deck. There they went roaming towards the fore part of the vessel, looking at 
everything by the way; Dolly asking the names 
and the meaning of things, and receiving explanations, especially regarding the sails and rigging 
and steering of the ship. She was even shewn 
where the sailors made their home in the fore- 
castle. As they were returning aft, Dolly stopped 
by a coil of rope on deck and began pulling at 
an end of it. Her companion inquired what she 
wanted? 
"I would like a little piece," said Dolly; "if I 
could get it." 
 
" A piece of rope ? " 
"Yes; -just a little bit; but it is very strong; it 
won't break." 
She was tugging at a loose strand. 
"How large a bit do you want?" 
"0 just a little piece," said Dolly. "I wanted 
just a little piece to keep but it's no matter. I 
wanted to keep it." 
" A keepsake ? " said the young man. " To remember us by ? They are breaking up," he added immediately, casting his glance aft, where a 
stir and a gathering and a movement on deck in 
front of the captain's cabin could now be seen, 
and the sound of voices came fresh along the 
breeze. " They are going, there is no time now. 
I will send you a piece, if you will tell me where 
I can send it. Where do you live ? " 
"0 will you? thank you!" said Dolly, and 
her face lifted confidingly to the young officer 
grew sunny with pleasure. "I live at Mrs. Delancy's school ; but no, I don't ! I don't live there. 
My home is at Uncle Edward's Mr. Edward 
Eberstein in Walnut St." 
"What number?" said the midshipman, using 
his pencil again on the much scribbled piece of 
paper; and Dolly told him. 
" And whom shall I send the the piece of rope, 
to?" 
"0 yes! Dolly Copley. That is my name. 
Good bye, I must go." 
"Dolly Copley. You shall have it," said he, 
 
giving the little hand she held out to him a right 
sailorly grasp. And Dolly ran away. In the bustle and anxiety of getting lowered into the little 
boat again she forgot him and everything else; 
however, so soon as she was safely seated and just 
as the men were ordered to "give way," she 
looked up at the great ship they were leaving; 
and there, just above her, leaning on the guards 
and looking over and down at her, she saw her 
midshipman friend. Dolly saw nothing else till 
his face was too small in the distance to be any 
longer recognized. 
CHAPTER V. 
THE PIECE OF ROPE. 
IT was Saturday and holiday, and Dolly went 
home to her aunt's. There her aunt and uncle, as was natural, expected a long story of the 
morning's experience. And Dolly one would think 
might have given it ; matter for the detail was not 
wanting ; yet she seemed to have little to tell. On 
the other hand she had a great 'deal to ask. She 
wanted to know why people could not do all their 
fighting on land? why ships of war were necessary? Mr. Eberstein tried to explain that there 
might be great and needful advantages attendant 
upon the use of them. Then Dolly begged for instances. Had we, Americans, ever fought at sea? 
Mr. Eberstein answered that, and gave her details 
of facts, while Mrs. Eberstein sat by silent and 
watched Dolly's serious, meditative face. 
" I should think," said Dolly, " that when there 
is a fight, a ship of war would be a very dreadful 
place." 
" There is no doubt of that, my little girl," said 
Mr. Eberstein. "Take the noise, and the smoke, 
the packed condition of one of those gun decks, 
 
and the every now and then coming in of a round 
shot, crashing through planks and timbers, splintering what comes in its way, and stretching half 
a dozen men at once, more or less, on the floor in 
dead and wounded, I think it must be as good a 
likeness of the infernal regions as earth can give 
in one way at least." 
"In what way ? " Dolly asked immediately. 
"Confusion of pain and horror. Not wicked- 
" Uncle Ned, do you think God can like it ? " 
"No." 
" Then isn't it wicked ? " 
"No, little one; not necessarily. No sort of 
pain or suffering can be pleasing to God ; we know 
it is not; yet sin has made it necessary, and he 
often sends it." 
" Don't he always send it ? " 
"Why no. Some sorts people bring on them- 
selves by their own folly and perverseness ; and 
some sorts people work on others by their own 
wicked self-will. God does not cause that, though 
he will overrule it to do what he wants done." 
"Uncle Ned, do you think we shall ever have 
to use our ships of war again ? " 
" We are using them all the time. We send 
them to this place and that place to protect our 
own people and their merchant vessels and their 
commerce from interference and injury." 
" No, but I mean, in fighting. Do you think we 
shall ever have to send them to fight again ? " 
 
" Probably." 
" To fight whom ? " 
"That I don't know." 
"Then why do you say 'probably'?" 
"Because human nature remains what it was, 
and will no doubt do the same work in the future 
that it has done from the beginning." 
" Why is fighting part of that work, Uncle 
Ned?" 
"Ah, why! Greed, which wants what is the 
right of others; pride, which resents even a fancied interference with its own ; anger, which cries 
for revenge; these are the reasons." 
Dolly looked very deeply serious. 
" Why do you care so much about it, Dolly ? " 
her aunt asked at length, after a meditative pause 
of several minutes. 
" I would be sorry to have the ' Achilles ' go into 
battle," said Dolly; and a perceptible slight shud-der passed over her shoulders. 
" Is the ' Achilles ' so much to you, just because 
you have seen her ? " 
"No" said Dolly thoughtfully; "it isn't the 
ship; it's the people." 
" Oh ! But what do you know of the people ? " 
" I saw a good many of them, Aunt Harry." 
Politic Dolly ! She had really seen only one. 
Yet she had no idea of being politic; and why 
she did not say whom she had seen and what reason she had for being interested in him, I cannot 
tell you. 
 
From that time Dolly's reading took a new turn. 
She sought out in the bookcases everything that 
related to sailors and ships, and especially naval 
warfare, and simply devoured it. The little life of 
Lord Nelson, by Southey, in two small calf-bound 
volumes, became her darling book. Better than 
any novel, for it was true, and equal to any novel 
for its varied, picturesque, passionate, stirring life 
story. Dolly read it, till she could have given you 
at any time an accurate and detailed account of 
any one of Nelson's great battles ; and more than 
that, she studied the geography of the lands and 
waters thereby concerned, and where possible the 
topography also. I suppose the "Achilles" stood 
for a model of all the ships in which successively 
the great commander hoisted his flag ; and if the 
hero himself did not take the form and features of 
a certain American midshipman, it was probably 
because there was a likeness of the subject of the 
Memoir opposite to the title-page ; and the rather 
plain, rather melancholy, rather feeble traits of the 
English naval captain could by no effort of imagination be confounded with the quiet strength and 
gentle manliness which Dolly had found in the 
straight brows and keen blue eyes and kindly smile 
of her midshipman friend. That would not do. 
Nelson was not like him, nor he like Nelson ; but 
Dolly had little doubt but he would do as much, 
if he had occasion. In that faith she read on ; and 
made every action lively with the vision of those 
keen-sighted blue eyes and firm sweet mouth in 
 
the midst of the smoke of battle and the confusion 
of orders given and received. How often the Life 
of Nelson was read, I dare not say ; nor with what 
renewed eagerness the Marine Dictionary and its 
plates of ships and cannon were studied and 
searched. From that, Dolly's attention was extended to other books which told of the sea and 
of life upon it, even though the life were not 
warlike. Captain Cook's voyages came in for a 
large amount of favour; and Cooper's "Afloat and 
Ashore," which happened about this time to fall 
into Dolly's hands, was devoured with a hunger 
which grew on what it fed on. Nobody knew; 
she had ceased to talk on naval subjects; and it 
was so common a thing for Dolly to be swallowed 
up in some book or other whenever she was at 
home, that Mrs. Eberstein's curiosity was not 
excited. 
Meanwhile school days and school work went 
on, and week succeeded week, and everybody but 
Dolly had forgotten all about the " Achilles " ; 
when one day a small package was brought to 
the door and handed in "for Miss Dolly Copley." 
It was a Saturday afternoon. Dolly and her aunt 
were sitting comfortably together in Mrs. Eberstein's work room up stairs, and Mr. Eberstein was 
there too at his secretary. 
"For me?" said Dolly, when the servant brought 
the package in. " It's a box ! Aunt Harry, what 
can it be ? " 
" Open and see, Dolly." 
 
Which Dolly did with an odd mixture of haste 
and deliberation which amused Mrs. Eberstein. 
She tore off nothing, and she cut nothing; patiently knots were untied and papers unfolded, 
though Dolly's fingers trembled with excitement. 
Papers taken off shewed a rather small paste- 
board box; and the box being opened revealed 
coil upon coil, nicely wound up, of a beautifully 
wrought chain. It might be a watch chain ; but 
Dolly possessed no watch. 
"What is it, Aunt Harry?" she said in won- 
dering pleasure as the coils of the pretty woven 
work fell over her hand. 
" It looks like a watch chain, Dolly. What is it 
made of?" 
Mrs. Eberstein inspected the work closely and 
could not determine. 
" But who could send me a watch chain ? " said 
Dolly. 
" Somebody ; for here is your name very plainly 
on the cover, and on the paper." 
"The boy is waiting for an answer, miss." 
"Answer? To what? I don't know whom to 
answer," said Dolly. 
"There's a note, miss." 
"A note? where? here is a note, Aunt 
Harry, in the bottom of the box. I did not 
see it." 
"From whom, Dolly?" 
Dolly did not answer. She had unfolded the 
note, and now her whole face was wrinkling up 
 
with pleasure or fan ; she did not hear or heed her 
aunt's question. Mrs. Eberstein marked how her 
colour rose and her smile grew sparkling ; and she 
watched with not a little curiosity and some impatience till Dolly should speak. The little girl 
looked up at last with a face all dimples. 
" Aunt Harry ! it's my piece of rope." 
" Your piece of rope, my dear ? " 
"Yes; I wanted a piece of rope; and this is it." 
" That is not a piece of rope." 
"Yes, it is; it is made of it. I could not think 
what it was made of; and now I see. Isn't it 
beautifully made ? He has picked a piece of rope 
to pieces, and woven this chain of the threads; 
isn't it beautiful? And how kind! How kind 
he is." 
" Who, Dolly? Who has done it?" 
" 0, the midshipman, Aunt Harry." 
" The midshipman. What one ? You didn't say 
anything about a midshipman." 
" I saw him though, and he said he would send 
me a piece of rope. I wanted a piece, Aunt Harry, 
to remember the ship by; and I could not break 
a bit oiF, though I tried; then he saw me trying, and it was just time to go, and he said he 
would get it and send it to me. I thought he 
had forgotten all about it; but here it is! I am 
so glad." 
" My dear, do you call that a piece of rope ? " 
"Why yes, Aunt Harry; it is woven out of a 
piece of rope. He has picked the rope apart a ad 
 
made this chain of the threads. I think he is very 
clever." 
" Who, my dear ? Who has done it, Dolly ? " 
"The midshipman, Aunt Harry." 
" What midshipman ? " 
" On the ' Achilles.' I saw him that day." 
" Did you see only one midshipman ? " 
"No; I suppose I saw a good many. I didn't 
notice any but this one." 
" And he noticed you, I suppose ? " 
" Yes, a little "said Dolly. 
" Did he notice nobody beside you ? " 
" I don't know, Aunt Harry. Not that time, for 
I was alone." 
" Alone ! Where were all the rest, and Mrs. 
Delancy ? " 
" Eating lunch in the captain's cabin." 
" Did you have no lunch ? " 
" I had a biscuit one of the officers gave me." 
" And have you got a note there from the mid- 
shipman ? " 
" Yes, Aunt Harry." 
"What does he say?" 
Dolly unfolded the note again and looked at it 
with great consideration; then handed it to Mrs. 
Eberstein. Mrs. Eberstein read aloud. 
"' Ship "Achilles ," 
" ' Dec. 5, 18. 
" ' Will Miss Dolly Copley please send a word to 
say that she has received her piece of cable safe ? 
 
I thought she would like it best perhaps in a manufactured form ; and I hope she will keep it to remember the " Achilles " by, and also 
'"A. CROWNINSHIELD.' " 
