noon, and as the music was often good, a great many 
people assembled under the trees, at three o'clock, to 
listen to it. This was not, as a regular thing, an hour 
of re-union for the little group in wliich we are 
especially interested ; Miss Vivian, in particular, un- 
less an excursion of some sort had been agreed upon 
the day before, was usually not to be seen in the 
precincts of the Conversation-house until the evening. 
Bernard, one afternoon, at three o'clock, directed his 
steps to this small world-centre of Baden, and, passing 
along the terrace, soon encountered little Blanche 
Evers strolling there under a pink parasol and accom- 
panied by Captain Lovelock. This young lady was 
always extremely sociable; it was quite in accordance 
with her habitual geniality that she should stop and 
say how d' ye do to our hero. 
"Mr. Longueville is growing very frivolous," she 
said, " coming to the Kursaal at all sorts of hours." 
"There is nothing frivolous in coming here with 
the hope of finding you," the young man answered. 
" That is very serious." 
" It would be more serious to lose Miss Evers than 
to find her,'' remarked Captain Lovelock, with gallant 
jocosity. 
" I wish you would lose me ! " cried the young girl. 
" I thiak I should like to be lost. I might have all 
kinds of adventiires." 
"I 'guess' so!" said Captain Lovelock, hilariously. 
" Oh, I should find my way. I can take care of 
myself ! " Blanche went on. 
" Mrs. Vivian doesn 't think so," said Bernard, who 
had just perceived this lady, seated under a tree with 
a hook, over the top of which she was observing her 
pretty protdge. Blanche looked toward her and gave 
her a little nod and a smile. Then chattering on to 
the young men — 
" She 's awfully careful. I never saw any one so 
careful. But I suppose she is right. She promised 
my mother she would be tremendously particular; 
but I don't know what she thinks I would do." 
" That isn 't flattering to me," said Captain Lovelock. 
" Mrs. Vivian doesn 't approve of me — she wishes me 
in Jamaica. What does she think me capable of ? " 
" And me, now ? " Bernard asked. " She likes me 
least of all, and I, on my side, think she 's so nice." 
" Can't say I 'm very sweet on her," said the Cap- 
tain. " She strikes me as feline." 
Blanche Evers gave a little cry of horror. 
"Stop, sir, this instant! I won't have you talk 
that way about a lady who has been so kind to me."' 
" She isn 't so kind to you. She would like to lock 
you up where I can never see yoii." 
"I 'in. sure I shouldn 't mind that !" cried the young 
girl, with a little laugh and a toss of her head. 
" Mrs. Vivian has the most perfect character — that 's 
why my mother wanted me to come with her. And 
if she promised my mother she would be careful, 
isn 't she right to keep her promise ? She 's a great 
deal more careful than mamma ever was, and that 's 
just what mamma wanted. She would never take 
the trouble herself. And then she was always scold- 
ing nie. Mrs. Viviafl never scolds me. She only 
watches me, but f don't mind that." 
"I wish she would watch you a little less and 
scold you a little more," said Captain Lovelock. 
" I have no doubt you wish a great many horrid 
things," his companion rejoined, with delightful 
asperity. 
"Ah, unfortunately I never have anything I wish!" 
sighed Lovelock. 
" Your wishes must be comprehensive," said Ber- 
nard. " It seems to me you have a good deal." 
The Englishman gave a shrug. 
"It 's less than you might think. She is watching 
us more furiously than ever," he added, in a moment, 
looking at Mrs. Vivian. " Mr. Gordon Wright is the 
only man she HkeS. She is awfully fond of Mr. Gor- 
don Wright." 
" Ah, Mrs. Viviaii shows her wisdom ! " said Bernard. 
"He is certainly very handsome," murmured 
Blanche Evers, glancing several times, with a very 
pretty aggressiveness, at Captain Lovelock. " I must 
say I like Mr. Gordon Wright. Why in the world 
did you come here without him ? " she went on, ad- 
dressing herself to Bernard. "You two are so awfully 
inseparable. I don't think I ever saw you alone 
before." 
" Oh, I have often seen Mr. Gordon Wright alone," 
said Captain Lovelock — "that is, alone with Miss 
Vivian. That's what the old lady likes; she caln't 
have too much of that." 
The yoTing girl, poised for an instant in one of her 
pretty attitudes, looked at him from head to foot. 
" Well, I call that scandalous ! Do you mean that 
she wants to make a match ? " 
" I mean that the young man has six thousand a 
year." 
"It 's no matter what he has — six thousand a year 
isn 't much ! And we don't do things in that M'ay in 
our country. We haven 't those horrid match-making 
arrangements that you have in your dreadful country. 
American mothers are not like English mothers." 
" Oh, any one ca;n see, of course," said Captain 
Lovelock, " that Mr. Gordon Wright is dying of love 
for Miss Vivian." 
" I can't see it ! " cried Blanche; 
" He dies easier than I, eh ? " 
" I wish you would die ! " said Blanche. " At any 
rate, Angela is not dying of love for Mr. Wright." 
" Well, she will marry him all the same," Lovelock 
declared. 
Blanche Evers glanced at Bernard. 
"Why don't you contradict that?" she asked. 
" Why don't you speak up for your friend ? " 
" I am quite ready to speak for my friend," said 
Bernard, "but I am not ready to speak for Miss 
Vivian." 
"Well, I am," Blanche declared. " She won't marry 
him." 
" If she doesn 't, I 'll eat my hat ! " said Captain 
Lovelock. "What do you mean," he went on, "by 
saying that in America a pretty girl's mother doesn 't 
care for a young fellow's property ? " 
"Well, they don't — we consider that dreadful. 
Why don't you say so, Mr. Longueville?" Blanche 
demanded. "I never saw any one take things so 
quietly. Haven 't you got any patriotism ? " 
" My patriotism is modified by an indisposition to 
generalize," said Bernard, laughing. " On this point 
permit me not to generalize. I am interested in the 
particular case — in ascertaining whether Mrs. Vivian 
thinks very often of Gordon Wright's income." 
Miss Evers gave a little toss of disgust. 
" If you are so awfully impartial, you had better 
go and ask her," 
" That 's a good idea — I think I will go and ask 
her," said Bernard. 
Captain Lovelock returned to his argument. 
" Do you mean to say that your mother would be 
indifferent to the fact that I haven 't a shilling in the 
world ? " 
" Indifferent ? " Blanche demanded. " Oh no, she 
would he sorry for you. Slip is very charitable — she 
would give you a shilling ! " 
" She wouldn 't let you marry me," said Lovelock. 
" She wouldn 't have much trouble to prevent it ! " 
cried the young girl. 
Bernard had had enough of this intellectual fenc- 
ing. 
" Yes, I will go and ask Mrs. Vivian," he repeated 
And he left his companions to resume their walk. 
It had seemed to him a good idea to interrogate 
Mrs. Vivian ; but there are a great many good ideas 
that are never put into execution. As he approached 
her with a smile and a salutation, and, with the air 
of asking leave to take a liberty, seated himself in the 
empty chair beside her, he felt a humorous relish of 
her own probable dismay which relaxed the investi- 
gating impulse. His impulsfe was now simply to 
prove to her that he was the most unobjectionable 
fellow in the world — a proposition which resolved 
itself into several ingenious observations upon the 
weather, the music, the charms and the drawbacks of 
Baden, the merits of the volume that she held in her 
lap. If Mrs. Vivian should be annoyed, should be 
fluttered, Bernard would feel very sorry for her; 
there was nothing in the world that he respected 
more than the moral consciousness of a little Boston 
woman whose view of life was serious and whose 
imagination was subject to alarms. He held it to be 
a temple of delicacy, where one should walk on tip- 
toe, and he wished to exhibit to Mrs. Vivian the 
possible lightness of his own step. She herself was 
incapable of being rude or ungracious, and now that 
she was fairly confronted with the plausible object of 
her mistrust, she composed herself to her usual atti- 
tude of refined liberality. Her book was a volume of 
Victor Cousin. 
" You must have an extraordinary power of ab- 
stracting your mind," Bernard said to her, observ- 
ing it. " Studying philosophy at the Baden Kursaal 
strikes me as a real intellectual feat." 
"Don't you think we need a little philosophy 
here ? " 
" By all means — what we bring with us. But I 
shouldn 't attempt the use of the text-book on the 
spot." 
" You shouldn 't speak of yourself as if you were 
not clever," said Mrs. Vivian. " Every one says you 
are so very clever." 
Longueville stared; there was an unexpectedness 
in the speech and an incongruity in Mrs. Vivian's 
beginning to flatter him. He needed to remind him- 
self that if she was a Bostonian, she was a Bostonian 
perverted. 
" Ah, my dear madam, every one is no one," he said, 
laughing. 
" It was Mr. Wright, in particular," she rejoined. 
" He has always told us that." 
" He is blinded by friendship." 
"Ah yes, we know about your friendship," said 
Mrs. Vivian. " He has told us about that." 
" You are making him out a terrible talker ! " 
"We think he talks so well — we are so very 
fond of his conversation." 
" It 's usually excellent," said Bernard. " But it 
depends a good deal on the subject." 
" Oh," rejoined Mrs. Vivian, " we always let him 
choose his subjects." And dropping her eyes as if 
in sudden reflection, she began to smooth down the 
crumpled corner of her volume. 
It occurred to Bernard that — by some mysterious 
impulse — she was suddenly presenting him with a 
chance to ask her the question that Blanche Evers 
had just suggested. Two or three other things as 
well occurred to him. Captain Lovelock had been 
struck with the fact that she favored Gordon Wright's 
addresses to her daughter, and Captain Lovelock had 
a grotesque theory that she had set her heart upon 
seeing this young lady come into six thousand a year. 
Miss Evers's devoted swain had never struck Bernard 
as a brilliant reasoner, but our friend suddenly found 
himself regarding him as one of the inspired. The 
form of depravity into which the New England con- 
science had lapsed on Mrs. Vivian's part was an undue 
appreciation of a possible son-in-law's income! In 
this illuminating discovery everjthing else became 
clear. Mrs. Vivian disliked her humble servant be- 
cause he had not thirty thousand dollars a year, and 
because at a moment when it was Angela's prime 
duty to concentrate her thoughts upon Gordon 
Wright's great advantages, a clever young man of 
paltry fortune was a superfluous diversion. 
" When you say clever, everything is relative," he 
presently observed. " Now, there is Captain Love- 
lock ; he has a certain kind of cleverness ; he is very 
observant." 
Mrs. Vivian glanced up with a preoccupied air. 
" We don't like Captain Lovelock," she said. 
" I have heard him say capital things," Bernard 
answered. 
" We think him brutal," said Mrs. Vivian. " Please 
don't praise Captain Lovelock." 
" Oh, I only want to be just." 
Mrs. Vivian for a moment said nothing. 
" Do you want very much to be just ? " she pres- 
ently asked. 
" It 's my most ardent desire." 
" I 'm glad to hear that — and I can easily believe 
it," said Mrs. Vivian. 
Bernard gave her a grateful smile, but while he 
smiled, he asked himself a serious question. " Why 
the deuce does she go on flattering me ? — You have 
always been very kind to me," he said aloud. 
" It 's on Mr. Wright's account," she answered de- 
murely. 
In speaking the words I have just quoted, Bernard 
Longueville had felt himself, with a certain compunc- 
tion, to be fikirting the edge of clever impudence; 
but Mrs. Vivian's quiet little reply suggested to him 
that her cleverness, if not her impudence, was almost 
equal to his own. He remarked to himself that he 
had not yet done her justice. 
"You bring everything back to Gordon TVright," 
he said, continuing to smile. 
Mrs. Vivian blushed a little. 
" It is because he is really at the foundation of 
everything that is pleasant for us here. When we 
first came we had some very disagreeable rooms, and 
as soon as he arrived he found us some excellent 
ones — that were less expensive. And then, Mr. 
Longueville," she added, with a soft, sweet emphasis 
which should properly have contradicted the idea of 
audacity, but which, to Bernard's awakened sense, 
seemed really to impart a vivid color to it, " he was 
also the cause of your joining our little party." 
" Oh, among his services that should never be for- 
gotten. You should set up a tablet to commemorate 
it, in the wall of the Kursaal ! — The wicked little 
woman ! " Bernard mentally subjoined. 
Mrs. Vivian appeared, quite unruffled by his sportive 
sarcasm, and she continued to enumerate her obliga- 
tions to Gordon Wright. 
" There are so many ways in which a gentleman 
can be of assistance to three poor lonely women, 
especially when he is at the same time so friendly 
and so delicate as Mr. Wright. I don't know what 
we should have done withoiit him, and I feel as 
if every one ought to know it. He seems like 
a very old friend. My daughter and I quite wor- 
ship him. I will not conceal from you that when 
I saw you coming through the grounds a short time 
ago without him I was very much disappointed. I 
hope he is not ill." 
Bernard sat listening, with his eyes on the ground. 
" Oh no, he is simply at home writing letters." 
Mrs. Vivian was silent a moment. 
" I suppose he has a very large correspondence." 
" I really don't know. Just now that I am with 
him he has a smaller one than usual." 
" Ah yes. When you are separated I suppose you 
write volumes to each other. But he must have a 
great many business letters." 
" It is very likely," said Bernard. " And if he has, 
you may be sure he writes them." 
"Order and method!" Mrs. Vivian exclaimed. 
" With his immense property those virtues are neces- 
sary." 
Bernard glanced at her a moment. 
"My dear Lovelock," he said to himself, "you are 
not such fool as you seem. — Gordon's virtues are 
always necessary, doubtless," he went on. "But 
should you say his property was immense ? " 
Mrs. Vivian made a delicate little movement of 
deprecation. "Oh, don't ask me to say! I know 
nothing about it ; I only supposed he was rich." 
"He is rich ; but he is not a CrcESus." 
" Oh, you fashionable young men have a standard 
of luxury ! " said Mrs. Vivian, with a little laugh. 
" To a poverty-stricken widow such a fortune as Mr. 
"Wright's seems magnificent." 
" Don't call me such horrible names ! " exclaimed 
Bernard. " Our friend has certainly money enough 
and to spare." 
" That was all I meant. He once had occasion to 
allude to his property, but he was so modest, so 
reserved in the tone he took about it, that one hardly 
knew what to think." 
" He is ashamed of being rich," said Bernard. " He 
would be sure to represent everything unfavorably." 
" That 's just what I thought ! " This ejaculation 
was more eager than Mrs. Vivian might have intended, 
but even had it been less so, Bernard was in a mood 
to appreciate it. " I felt that we should make allow- 
ances for his modesty. But it was in very good 
taste," Mrs. Vivian added. 
" He 's a fortunate man," said Bernard. " He gets 
credit for his good taste — and he gets credit for the 
full figure of his income as well ! " 
"Ah," murmured Mrs. Vivian, rising lightly, as if 
to make her words appear more casual, "I don't 
know the full figure of his income." 
She was turning away, and Bernard, as he raised 
his hat and separated from her, felt that it was rather 
cruel that he should let her go without enlightening 
her ignorance. But he said to himself that she knew 
quite enough. Indeed, he took a walk along the Lieh- 
tenthal Alley and carried out this line of reflection. 
Whether or no Miss Vivian were in love with Gordon 
Wright, her mother was enamored of Gordon's fortune, 
and it had suddenly occurred to her that instead of 
treating the friend of her daughter's suitor with civil 
mistrust, she would help her case hetter by giving him 
a hint of her state of mind and appealing to his sense 
of propriety. Nothing could be more natural than 
that Mrs. Vivian should suppose that Bernard desired 
his friend's success ; for, as our thoughtful hero said to 
himself, what she had hitherto taken it into her head 
to fear was not that Bernard should fall in love with 
her daughter, but that her daughter should fall in love 
with him. Watering-place life is notoriously con- 
ducive to idleness of mind, and Bernard strolled for 
half an hour along the overarched avenue, glancing 
alternately at these two insupposable cases. 
A few days afterward, late in the evening, Gordon 
Wright came to his room at the hotel. 
" I have just received a letter from my sister," he 
said. " I am afraid I shall have to go away." 
" Ah, I 'm sorry for that," said Bernard, who was so 
well pleased with the actual that he desired no muta- 
tion. 
" I mean only for a short time," Gordon explained. 
" My poor sister writes from England, telling me that 
my brother-in-law is suddenly obliged to go home. 
She has decided not to remain behind, and they are 
to sail a fortnight hence. She wants very much to 
see me before, she goes, and as I don't know when I 
shall see her again, I feel as if I ought to join her 
immediately and spend the interval with her. That 
will take about a fortnight." 
" I appreciate the sanctity of family ties and I pro- 
ject myself into your situation," said Bernard. " On 
the other hand, I don't envy you a breathless journey 
from Baden to Folkestone." 
It 's the coming back that will be breathless," 
exclaimed Gordon, smiling. 
" You will certainly come back, then ? " 
" Most certainly. Mrs, Vivian is to be here another 
month." 
"I understand. Well, we shall miss you very 
much." 
Gordon Wright looked for a moment at his com- 
panion. 
" You will stay here, then ? I am so glad of that." 
" I was taking it for granted ; but on reflection — 
what do you recommend ? " 
" I recommend you to stay." 
" My dear fellow, your word is law," said Bernard 
" I want you to take care of those ladies," his friend 
went on. " I don't like to leave them alone.'' 
" You are joking ! " cried Bernard. " When did you 
ever hear of my 'taking care' of any one? It's as 
much as I can do to take care of myself." 
" This is very easy," said Gordon. " I simply want 
to feel that they have a man about them." 
" They will have a man at any rate — they have 
the devoted Lovelock." 
" That 's just why I want them to have another. 
He has only an eye to Miss Evers, who, by the way, 
is extremely bored with him. You look after the 
others. You have made yourself very agreeable to 
them, and they like you extremely." 
" Ah," said Bernard, laughing, " if you are going to 
be coarse and flattering, I collapse. If you are going 
to titillate my vanity, I succumb." 
"It won't be so disagreeable," Gordon observed, 
with an intention vaguely humorous. 
" Oh no, it won't be disagreeable. I will go to Mrs. 
Vivian every morning, hat in hand, for my orders." 
Gordon Wright, with his hands in his pockets and 
a meditative expression, took several turns about the 
room. 
" It will be a capital chance," he said, at last, stop- 
ping in front of his companion. 
" A chance for what ? " 
"A chance to arrive at a conclusion about my 
young friend." 
Bernard gave a gentle groan. 
" Are you coming back to that ? Didn 't I arrive 
at a conclusion long ago ? Didn 't I tell you she was 
a delightful girl ? " 
" Do you call that a conclusion ? The first comer 
could tell me that at the end of an hour." 
" Do you want me to invent something different ? " 
Bernard asked. " I can't invent anything better." 
"I don't want you to invent anything. I only 
want you to observe her — to study her in complete 
independence. You will have her to yourself — my 
absence will leave you at liberty. Hang it, sir," 
Gordon declared, " I should think you would like it ! " 
" Damn it, sir, you 're delicious ! " Bernard answered; 
and he broke into an irrepressible laugh. "I don't 
suppose it 's for my pleasure that you suggest the 
arrangement." 
Gordon took a turn about the room again. 
" No, it 's for niitie. At least, it 's for my benefit." 
" For your benefit ? '* 
" I have got all sorts of ideas — I told you the other 
day. They are all mixed up together and I want a 
fresh impression." 
" My impressions are never fresh," Bernard replied. 
" They would be if you had a little good-will — if 
you entered a little into my dilemma." The note of 
reproach was so distinct in these words that Bernard 
stood staring. " You never take anything seriously," 
his companion went on. 
Bernard tried to answer as seriously as possible. 
" Your dilemma seems to me of all dilemmas the 
strangest." 
"That may be; but different people take things 
differently. Don't you see," Gordon went on with a 
sudden outbreak of passion — " don't you see that I 
am horribly divided in mind ? I care immensely for 
Angela Vivian — and yet — and yet — I am afraid of 
her." 
" Afraid of her ? " 
" I am afraid she 's cleverer than I — that she would 
be a dif&cult wife ; that she might do strange things." 
" What sort of things ? " 
" Well, that she might flirt, for instance." 
" That 's not a thing for a man to fear." 
" Not when he supposes his wife to be fond of him 
— no. But I don't suppose that — I have given that 
up. If I should induce Angela Vivian to accept me 
she would do it on grounds purely reasonable. She 
would think it best, simply. That would give her a 
chance to repent." 
' Bernard sat for some time looking at his friend. 
" You say she is cleverer than you. It 's impossible 
to be cleverer than you." 
" Oh, come, Longueville ! " said Gordon, angrily. 
" I am speaking very seriously. You have done a 
remarkably clever thing. You have impressed me 
with the reality, and with — what shall I term it ? — 
the estimable character of what you call your dilemma 
Now this fresh impression of mine — what do you pro- 
pose to do with it when you get it ? " 
" Such things are always useful. It will be a good 
thing to have." 
"I am much obliged to you ; but do you propose to 
let anything depend upon it ? Do you propose to take 
or to leave Miss Vivian — that is, to return to the 
charge or to give up trying — in consequence of my 
fresh impression ? " 
Gordon seemed perfectly unembarrassed by this 
question, in spite of the ironical light which it pro- 
jected upon his sentimental perplexity. 
" I propose to do what I choose ! " he said. 
" That 's a relief to me," Bernard rejoined. " This 
idea of yours is, after all, only the play of the scien- 
tific mind." 
"I shall contradict you flat if I choose," Gordon 
went on. 
" Ah, it 's well to warn me of that," said Bernard, 
laughing. " Even the most sincere judgment in the 
world likes to be notified a little of the danger of 
being contradicted." 
" Is yours the most sincere judgment in the world ?" 
Gordon demanded. 
" That 's a very pertinent question. Doesn 't it occur 
to you that you may have reason to be jealous — leav- 
ing me alone, with an open field, with the woman of 
youi choice ? " 
" I wish to heaven I could be jealous ! " Gordon 
exclaimed. "That would simplify the thing — that 
would give me a lift." 
And the next day, after some more talk, it seemed 
really with a hope of this contingency — though, 
indeed, he laughed abou*'- it — that he started for 
England. 
For the three or four days that followed Gordon 
Wright's departure, Bernard saw nothing of the 
ladies who had been committed to his charge. They 
chose to remain in seclusion, and he was at liberty to 
interpret this fact as an expression of regret at the 
loss of Gordon's good offices. He knew other people 
at Baden, and he went to see them and endeavored, 
by cultivating their society, to await in patience the 
re-appearance of Mrs. Vivian and her companions. 
But on the fourth day he became conscious that other 
people were much less interesting than the trio of 
American ladies who had lodgings above the confec- 
tioner's, and he made bold to go and knock at their 
door. He had been asked to take care of them, and 
this function presupposed contact. He had met Cap- 
tain Lovelock the day before, wandering about with 
a rather crest-fallen aspect, and the young English- 
man had questioned him eagerly as to the where- 
abouts of Mrs. Vivian. 
" Gad, I believe they 've left the place — left the 
place without giving a fellow warning ! " cried Love- 
lock. 
" Oh no, I think they are here still," said Bernard 
"My friend Wright has gone away for a week or 
two, but I suspect the ladies are simply staying at 
home." 
" Gad, I was afraid your friend Wright had taken 
them away with him ; he seems to keep them all in 
his pocket. I was afraid he had given them marching 
orders ; they 'd have been sure to go — they 're so 
awfully fond of his pocket ! I went to look them up 
yesterday — upon my word I did. They live at a 
baker's in a little back-street ; people do live in rum 
places when they come abroad ! But I assure you, 
when I got there, I 'm damned if I could make out 
whether they were there or not. I don't speak a 
word of German, and there was no one there but the 
baker's wife. She was a low brute of a woman — 
she couldn 't understand a word I said, though she 
gave me plenty of her own tongue. I had to give it 
up. They were not at home, but whether they had 
left Baden or not — that was beyond my finding out. 
If they are here, why the deuce don't they show ? 
Fancy coming to Baden-Baden to sit moping at a 
pastry-cook's ! " 
Captain Lovelock was evidently irritated, and it 
was Bernard's impression that the t,urn of luck over 
yonder where the gold-pieces were chinking had some- 
thing to do with the state of his temper. But more 
fortunate himself, he ascertained from the baker's 
 wife that though Mrs. Vivian and her daughter had 
gone out, their companion, " the youngest lady — the 
little young lady " — was above in the sitting-room. 
Blanche Evers was sitting at the window with a 
book, but she relinquished the volume with an alacrity 
that showed it had not been absorbing, and began to 
chatter with her customary frankness. 
" Well, I must say I am glad to see some one ! " 
cried the young girl, passing before the mirror and 
giving a touch to her charming tresses. 
" Even if it 's only me," Bernard exclaimed, laugh- 
ing. 
" I didn' t mean that. I am sure I am very glad to 
see you — I should think you would have found out 
that by this time. I mean I 'm glad to see any one 
— especially a man. I suppose it 's improper for me 
to say that — especially to you ! There — you see I 
do think more of you than of some gentlemen. Why 
especially to you ? Well, because you always seem 
to me to want to take advantage. I didn' t say a base 
advantage ; I didn' t accuse you of anything dreadful. 
I 'm sure I want to take advantage, too — I take it 
whenever I can. You see I take advantage of your 
being here — I 've got so many things to say. I 
haven 't spoken a word in three days, and I 'm sure it 
is a pleasant change — a gentleman's visit. All of a 
sudden we have gone into mourning ; I 'm sure I 
don't know who 's dead. Is it Mr. Gordbn Wright ? 
It 's some idea of Mrs. Vivian's — I 'm sure it isn 't 
mine. She thinks we have been often enough to the 
