materials together anyhow, and I have as good luck as most of my
neighbors.”
I regarded my visitor as an impertinent simpleton; but I have been
amazed, in subsequent years, at finding that her creed is that of
hundreds of housewives more or less sensible. “Luck” rules the baking,
and upon the shoulders of this Invisible are laid the deficiencies
of the complacent cook. Cheap flour and laziness are at the bottom
of more mishaps in the bread line than any other combination of
circumstances. From the inferior grades of flour, it is possible to
make tolerable biscuit, crumpets, and muffins, plain pastry, and
very good griddle-cakes. You cannot, by any stretch of art, produce
excellent bread from poor flour. It is no economy to purchase it for
this purpose. It is judicious to lay in two barrels at a time, and to
use the best only for the semi- or tri-weekly baking.
Chiefest then among the conditions to good bread, I place good
“family” flour—dry, elastic, and odorless. Whiteness is a secondary
consideration, although, to American eyes, this is a recommendation.
A little experience will teach you to detect the signs that foretell
satisfactory baking-days, and vice versâ. If in handling the flour
you discern a heaviness like that of ground plaster; if in squeezing
a handful tightly you discover that it retains the imprint of palm
and fingers, and rolls back into the tray a compact ball or roll;
if it is in the least musty, or sour, use it very sparingly in your
trial-baking, for the chances are as ten to one that you will head the
barrel up again and return it to your grocer.
Sometimes new flour can be ripened for use by sifting enough for each
baking into a large tray, and exposing it to the hot sun for some
hours, or by setting it upon the kitchen hearth for the same time.
And it not unfrequently happens that flour improves greatly after
the barrel has been open for several days or weeks. It dries out and
becomes lighter, more elastic. Next in importance to the quality of
the flour is that of the yeast. This should be light in color and
lively, effervescing easily when shaken, and emitting an odor like weak
ammonia. If dull or sour, it is bad. In cities it is easiest, perhaps
cheapest, to buy yeast from a brewery or bakery, exercising your
discrimination as to quality. Unless you can satisfy yourself in this
regard, you had better make your own. I can confidently recommend the
receipts given in this work as easy and safe, having tried them in my
own family.
Novices in bread-making, and many who should have learned better by
long experience, fall into a sad mistake in the consistency of the
dough. It should be mixed as soft as it can be handled. Bread will
rise sooner and higher, be lighter and more digestible, and keep fresh
much longer, if this rule be followed. Stiff bread is close in texture,
often waxy to the teeth, and after a day or so becomes very hard.
Set the dough to rise in a moderately warm place, and keep it in an
even temperature. There is force in the old lament—“My bread took cold,
last night.” Cold arrests the process of fermentation. There is a
chance, should this occur, that a removal to a more genial atmosphere
and careful nursing may cure the congestion, should it be only partial.
Too much heat carries forward the work too rapidly. In this case,
you will find your dough puffy and sour. Correct the latter evil by
dissolving a little soda or saleratus in hot water, and working it well
in.
Knead your bread faithfully and from all sides, until it rebounds like
india-rubber after a smart blow of the fist upon the centre of the mass.
The oven should not be too hot. If you cannot hold your bare arm within
it while you count thirty, it is too quick. Keep the heat steady after
the bread goes in. Too much fire at first, and rapidly cooling, produce
the effect upon the bread which is technically called “slack-baked,”
i. e., the inside of the loaf is never properly done. Practice
and intelligent observation will, in time, make you an adept in the
management of your ovens. If the bread rises rapidly while baking, and
the crust begins to form before the lower part of the loaf is baked,
cover the top with clean paper until you are ready to brown it.
Grate away the burned portions of the crust, should there be such. This
is better than chipping with a knife. One of the best bread-makers I
know bakes in round pans, each loaf by itself, and grates the whole
outer surface, top, bottom, and sides, quickly and lightly, toning down
the brown to a uniform and pleasing tint. Tilt your loaves upon the
edge, the lower part resting upon the table, the upper supported by the
wall or other upright object, and throw a coarse dry cloth over them
until they cool. This position allows the air to get at all sides, and
prevents “sweating.” A tin bread-box is best, with a cloth at bottom
and enwrapping the loaves.
YEAST (Hop.) 
    4 large potatoes, or six small.
    2 quarts cold water.
    Double handful hops, tied in a coarse muslin bag.
    4 tablespoonfuls flour.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Peel the potatoes, and put them with the hop-bag into a saucepan
containing two quarts cold water. Cover and boil until the potatoes
break and fall apart. Take these out with a perforated skimmer, leaving
the water still boiling, mash them fine with a potato-beetle, and work
in the flour and sugar. Moisten this gradually with the boiling
hop tea, stirring it to a smooth paste. When all the tea has been
mixed in, set it aside to cool. While still slightly warm, add four
tablespoonfuls of lively yeast, and turn all into a large open vessel
to “work.” Keep this in a warm place until it ceases to bubble up, or
until next day. In summer it will work well in a few hours. When quite
light, put in earthen jars with small mouths, in which fit corks, or
bottle it, and remove to ice-house or cellar. It will keep good for a
fortnight—longer in winter.
When you wish to use it for baking, send a small vessel to the cellar
for the desired quantity, and re-cork at once. A half-hour in a hot
kitchen may spoil it.
YEAST (Self-working).
    8 potatoes.
    2 ounces hops.
    4 quarts cold water.
    1 lb. flour.
    ½ lb. white sugar.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
Tie the hops in a coarse muslin bag, and boil one hour in four quarts
of water. Let it cool to lukewarmness before removing the bag. Wet
with the tepid liquor—a little at a time—the flour, making to a smooth
paste. Put in the sugar and salt, beat up the batter three minutes
before adding the rest of the tea. Set it away for two days in an open
bowl covered with a thin cloth, in a closet which is moderately and
evenly warm.
On the third day peel, boil, and mash the potatoes, and when entirely
free from lumps and specks, stir in gradually the thickened hop-liquor.
Let it stand twelve hours longer in the bowl, stirring often, and
keeping it in the warm kitchen. Then bottle or put away in corked jars,
which must be perfectly sweet and freshly scalded. This will keep a
month in a cool cellar. It is more troublesome to make it than other
kinds of yeast, but it needs no other “rising” to excite fermentation,
and remains good longer than that made in the usual way.
YEAST (Potato.) 
    6 potatoes.
    2 quarts cold water.
    4 tablespoonfuls flour.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Peel and boil the potatoes until they break. Leaving the water on the
fire, take them out and mash fine with the flour and sugar, wetting
gradually with the hot water until it is all used. When lukewarm, add a
gill of good yeast, and set aside in an open vessel and warm place to
ferment. When it ceases to effervesce, bottle and set in ice-house.
This yeast is very nice and white, and is preferred by many who dislike
the bitter taste of hops. It is also convenient to make when hops
cannot be obtained.
YEAST CAKES. 
    2 quarts water (cold.)
    1 quart pared and sliced potatoes.
    Double-handful hops, tied in coarse muslin bag.
    Flour to make stiff batter.
    1 cup Indian meal.
Boil the potatoes and hop-bag in two quarts of water for three-quarters
of an hour. Remove the hops, and while boiling hot, strain the potatoes
and water through a cullender into a bowl. Stir into the scalding
liquor enough flour to make a stiff batter. Beat all up well; add two
tablespoonfuls lively yeast and set in a warm place to rise. When
light, stir in a cup of Indian meal, roll into a sheet a quarter of an
inch thick, and cut into round cakes. Dry these in the hot sun, or in
a very moderate oven, taking care they do not heat to baking. It is
best to put them in after the fire has gone down for the night, and
leave them in until morning. When entirely dry and cold, hang them up
in a bag in a cool, dry place.
Use one cake three inches in diameter for a loaf of fair size; soak in
tepid water until soft, and add a pinch of soda or saleratus, then mix.
These cakes will remain good a month in summer, two in winter.
BAKING POWDERS.
    1 ounce super-carbonate soda.
    7 drachms tartaric acid—(in powder.)
Roll smoothly and mix thoroughly. Keep in a tight glass jar or bottle.
Use one teaspoonful to a quart of flour.
Or,
    12 teaspoonfuls carb. soda.
    24 teaspoonfuls cream tartar.
Put as above, and use in like proportion.
BREAD SPONGE (Potato.) 
    6 potatoes, boiled and mashed fine while hot.
    6 tablespoonfuls baker’s yeast.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    2 tablespoonfuls lard.
    1 even teaspoonful soda.
    1 quart warm—not hot—water.
    3 cups flour.
Mash the potatoes, and work in the lard and sugar. Stir to a cream,
mixing in gradually a quart of the water in which the potatoes were
boiled, which should have been poured out to cool down to blood warmth.
Beat in the flour, already wet up with a little potato-water to
prevent lumping, then the yeast, lastly the soda. Cover lightly if the
weather is warm, more closely in winter, and set to rise over night in
a warm place.
BREAD SPONGE (Plain.) 
    1 quart warm water.
    6 tablespoonfuls baker’s yeast.
    2 tablespoonfuls lard.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful soda.
    Flour to make a soft batter.
Melt the lard in the warm water, add the sugar, then the flour by
degrees, stirring in smoothly. A quart and a pint of flour will usually
be sufficient if the quality is good. Next comes the yeast, lastly the
soda. Beat up hard for several minutes, and set to rise as above.
Bread mixed with potato-sponge is more nutritious, keeps fresh longer,
and is sweeter than that made with the plainer sponge, But there
are certain seasons of the year when good old potatoes cannot be
procured, and new ones will not do for this purpose.
The potato-sponge is safer, because surer for beginners in the
important art of bread-making. After using it for fifteen years, I
regard it as almost infallible—given the conditions of good flour,
yeast, kneading, and baking.
FAMILY BREAD (White.) 
Having set your sponge over night, or, if you bake late in the
afternoon, early in the morning, sift dry flour into a deep bread-tray,
and strew a few spoonfuls of fine salt over it. The question of the
quantity of flour is a delicate one, requiring judgment and experience.
Various brands of flour are so unequal with respect to the quantity
of gluten they contain, that it is impossible to give any invariable
rule on this subject. It will be safe, however, to sift two quarts and
a pint, if you have set the potato-sponge; two quarts for the plain.
This will make two good-sized loaves. Make a hole in the middle of the
heap, pour in the risen sponge (which should be very light and seamed
in many places on the top), and work down the flour into it with your
hands. If too soft, add more flour. If you can mould it at all, it is
not too soft. If stiff, rinse out the bowl in which the sponge was set
with a little lukewarm water, and work this in. When you have it in
manageable shape, begin to knead. Work the mass into a ball—your hands
having been well floured from the first; detach it from the tray, and
lift it in your left hand, while you sprinkle flour with the right
thickly over the bottom and sides of the tray. Toss back the ball
into this, and knead hard—always toward the centre of the mass, which
should be repeatedly turned over and around, that every portion may be
manipulated. Brisk and long kneading makes the pores fine and regular.
Gaping holes of diverse sizes are an unerring tell-tale of a careless
cook. Spend at least twenty minutes—half an hour is better—in this kind
of useful gymnastics. It is grand exercise for arms and chest. This
done, work the dough into a shapely ball in the centre of the tray,
sprinkle flour over the top; throw a cloth over all and leave it on the
kitchen-table to rise, taking care it is not in a draught of cold air.
In summer, it will rise in four or five hours—in winter, six are often
necessary. It should come up steadily until it at least trebles its
original bulk and the floured surface cracks all over. Knead again for
ten or fifteen minutes. Then, divide it into as many parts as you wish
loaves, and put these in well-greased pans for the final rising. In a
large household baking, it is customary to mould the dough into oblong
rolls, three or four, according to the number of loaves you desire,
and to lay these close together in one large pan. The second kneading
is done upon a floured board, and should be thorough as the first, the
dough being continually shifted and turned. Set the pans in a warm
place for an hour longer, with a cloth thrown over them to keep out the
air and dust. Then bake, heeding the directions set down in the article
upon bread in general. If your ovens are in good condition, one hour
should bake the above quantity of bread. But here again experience must
be your guide. Note carefully for yourself how long a time is required
for your first successful baking, as also how much dry flour you have
worked into your sponge, and let these data regulate future action. I
have known a variation of two quarts in a large baking, over the usual
measure of flour. I need not tell you that you had better shun a brand
that requires such an excessive quantity to bring the dough to the
right consistency. It is neither nutritious nor economical. When you
make out the loaves, prick the top with the fork.
Do not make your first baking too large. Practice is requisite to
the management of an unwieldy mass of dough. Let your trial-loaf be
with say half the quantity of sponge and flour I have set down, and
increase these as skill and occasion require, carefully preserving the
proportions. Seven or eight quarts of flour will be needed for the
semi-weekly baking of a family of moderate size.
If I have seemed needlessly minute in the directions I have laid down,
it is because I wish to be a guide, not a betrayer, and because I am
deeply impressed with the worth of such advice as may tend to diminish
the number of those who know not for themselves the comfort and delight
of eating from day to day, and year to year, good family bread.
FAMILY BREAD (Brown.) 
I wish it were in my power, by much and earnest speaking and writing,
to induce every housekeeper to make brown bread—that is, bread made
of unbolted, usually called Graham flour—a staple article of diet in
her family. I only repeat the declaration of a majority of our best
chemists and physicians when I say that our American fondness for fine
white bread is a serious injury to our health. We bolt and rebolt
our flour until we extract from it three-quarters of its nutritive
qualities, leaving little strength in it except what lies in gluten or
starch, and consign that which makes bone and tissue, which regulates
the digestive organs, and leaves the blood pure, the brain clear, to
the lower animals. Growing children especially should eat brown bread
daily. It supplies the needed phosphate to the tender teeth and bones.
If properly made, it soon commends itself to their taste, and white
becomes insipid in comparison. Dyspeptics have long been familiar
with its dietetic virtues, and, were the use of it more general, we
should have fewer wretches to mourn over the destroyed coats of their
stomachs. It is wholesome, sweet, honest, and should be popular.
Prepare a sponge as for white bread, using potatoes or while flour. My
rule is to take out a certain quantity of the risen sponge on baking
day, and set aside for brown bread. Put into a tray two parts Graham
flour, one-third white, and to every quart of this allow a handful of
Indian meal, with a teaspoonful of salt. Wet this up with the sponge,
and when it is mixed, add, for a loaf of fair size, half a teacupful
of molasses. The dough should be very soft. If there is not enough
of the sponge to reduce it to the desired consistency, add a little
blood-warm water. Knead it diligently and long. It will not rise so
rapidly as the white flour, having more “body” to carry. Let it take
its time; make into round, comfortable loaves, and set down again for
the second rising, when you have again kneaded it. Bake steadily,
taking care it does not burn, and do not cut while hot. The result will
well repay you for your trouble. It will take a longer time to bake
than white bread. Brown flour should not be sifted.
BOSTON BROWN BREAD.
Set a sponge over night, with potatoes or white flour, in the following
proportions:—
    1 cup yeast.
    6 potatoes, mashed fine with three cups of flour.
    1 quart warm water.
    2 tablespoonfuls lard (or, if you leave out the potatoes, one
        quart of warm water to three pints of flour).
    2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar.
Beat up well and let it rise five or six hours.
When light, sift into the bread-tray—
    1 quart rye-flour.
    2 quarts Indian meal.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
    1 teaspoonful soda, or saleratus.
Mix this up very soft with the risen sponge, adding warm water, if
needed, and working in gradually
    Half a teacupful of molasses.
Knead well, and let it rise from six to seven hours. Then work over
again, and divide into loaves, putting these in well-greased, round,
deep pans. The second rising should last an hour, at the end of which
time bake in a moderate oven about four hours. Rapid baking will ruin
it. If put in late in the day, let it stay in the oven all night.
RYE BREAD.
Set a sponge, as above, but with half the quantity of water.
In the morning mix with this:
    1 quart warm milk.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
    1 cup Indian meal.
    And enough rye flour to make it into pliable dough.
Proceed as with wheat bread, baking it a little longer.
It is a mistake to suppose that acidity, greater or less, is the normal
state of rye bread. If you find your dough in the slightest degree
sour, correct by adding a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in warm water.
It is safest to add this always in warm weather.
MILK BREAD.
    1 quart of milk.
    ½ teacupful of yeast.
    ¼ lb. butter, one tablespoonful white sugar.
Stir into the milk, which should be made blood-warm, a pint of flour,
the sugar, lastly the yeast. Beat all together well, and let them rise
five or six hours. Then melt the butter, and add with a little salt.
Work in flour enough to make a stiff dough; let this rise four hours,
and make into small loaves. Set near the fire for half an hour, and
bake.
In warm weather, add a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm water, to
the risen sponge, as all bread mixed with milk is apt to sour.
BUTTERMILK BREAD.
    1 pint buttermilk heated to scalding.
Stir in, while it is hot, enough flour to make a tolerably thick
batter. Add half a gill of yeast, and let it rise five or six hours.
If you make it over night you need not add the yeast, but put in,
instead, a tablespoonful of white sugar. In the morning, stir into
the sponge a tablespoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water, a little
salt, and two tablespoonfuls melted butter. Work in just flour enough
to enable you to handle the dough comfortably; knead well, make into
loaves, and let it rise until light.
This makes very white and wholesome bread.
RICE BREAD.
Make a sponge of—
    1 quart warm water.
    1 teacupful yeast.
    1 tablespoonful white sugar.
    2 tablespoonfuls lard.
    1 quart wheat flour.
Beat well together, and when it has risen, which will be in about five
hours, add three pints of warm milk and three teacupfuls rice-flour wet
to a thin paste with cold milk, and boiled four minutes as you would
starch. This should be a little more than blood-warm when it is stirred
into the batter. If not thick enough to make out into dough, add a
little wheat-flour. Knead thoroughly, and treat as you would wheat
bread in the matter of the two risings and baking.
This is nice and delicate for invalids, and keeps well. If you cannot
procure the rice-flour, boil one cup of whole rice to a thin paste,
mashing and beating it smooth.
FRENCH ROLLS. (No. 1.) 
In kneading dough for the day’s baking, after adding and working in
the risen sponge, set aside enough for a loaf of tea-rolls. Work into
this a heaping tablespoonful of lard or butter, and let it stand in
a tolerably cool place (not a cold or draughty one) for four hours.
Knead it again, and let it alone for three hours longer. Then make into
rolls, by rolling out, very lightly, pieces of the dough into round
cakes, and folding these, not quite in the centre, like turn-overs. The
third rising will be for one hour, then bake steadily half an hour or
less, if the oven is quick.
Having seen these rolls, smoking, light, and delicious, upon my own
table, at least twice a week for ten years, with scarcely a failure in
the mixing or baking, I can confidently recommend the receipt and the
product. You can make out part of your Graham dough in the same manner.
FRENCH ROLLS. (No. 2.)
    1 quart milk; new, warm milk is best.
    1 teacup yeast.
    1 quart and a pint of flour.
When this sponge is light, work in a well-beaten egg and two
tablespoonfuls melted butter, with a teaspoonful of salt, half a
teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one tablespoonful white sugar
and enough white flour to make a soft dough. Let this stand four
or five hours, roll out into round cakes and fold as in No. 1, or
shape with your hands into balls. Set these closely together in the
baking-pan; let them rise one hour, and just before putting them into
the oven, cut deeply across each ball with a sharp knife. This will
make the cleft roll, so familiar to us in French restaurants. Bake half
an hour.
RISEN BISCUIT. 
    1 quart milk.
    ¾ cup lard or butter—half-and-half is a good rule.
    ¾ cup of yeast.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    Flour to make a soft dough.
Mix over night, warming the milk slightly and melting the lard or
butter. In the morning, roll out into a sheet three-quarters of an inch
in thickness; cut into round cakes, set these closely together in a
pan, let them rise for twenty minutes, and bake twenty minutes.
These delightful biscuits are even better if the above ingredients be
set with half as much flour, in the form of a thin sponge, and the rest
of the flour be worked in five hours later. Let this rise five hours
more, and proceed as already directed. This is the best plan if the
biscuits are intended for tea.
SALLY LUNN. (No. 1.) 
    1 quart of flour.
    4 eggs.
    ½ cup melted butter.
    1 cup warm milk.
    1 cup warm water.
    4 tablespoonfuls yeast.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    ½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add the milk, water, butter, soda,
and salt; stir in the flour to a smooth batter, and beat the yeast
in well. Set to rise in a buttered pudding-dish, in which it must be
baked and sent to table. Or, if you wish to turn it out, set to rise
in a well-buttered mould. It will not be light under six hours. Bake
steadily three-quarters of an hour, or until a straw thrust into it
comes up clean. Eat while hot.
This is the genuine old-fashioned Sally Lunn, and will hardly give
place even yet to the newer and faster compounds known under the same
name.
SALLY LUNN. (No. 2.) 
    1 scant quart flour.
    4 eggs.
    1 teacupful milk.
    1 teacupful lard and butter mixed.
    1 teaspoonful cream-tartar.
    ½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
Beat the eggs very light, yolks and whites separately, melt the
shortening, sift the cream-tartar into the flour; add the whites the
last thing.
POTATO BISCUIT.
    8 potatoes of medium size, mashed very fine.
    4 tablespoonfuls butter, melted.
    2 cups milk, blood-warm.
    1 cup yeast.
    Flour to make a thin batter.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Stir all the above ingredients together except the butter, and let the
sponge rise until light—four or five hours will do; then add the melted
butter with a little salt and flour, enough to make soft dough. Set
aside this for four hours longer, roll out in a sheet three-quarters of
an inch thick, cut into cakes; let these rise one hour, and bake.
MRS. E——‘S BISCUIT (Soda.) 
    1 quart flour.
    2 heaping tablespoonfuls of lard.
    2 cups sweet—if you can get it—new milk.
    1 teaspoonful soda.
    2 teaspoonful cream-tartar.
    1 saltspoonful of salt.
Rub the soda and cream-tartar into the flour, and sift all together
before they are wet; then put in the salt; next the lard, rubbed into
the prepared flour quickly and lightly; lastly, pour in the milk.
Work out the dough rapidly, kneading with as few strokes as possible,
since handling injures the biscuit. If properly prepared the dough
will have a rough surface and the biscuit be flaky. The dough should
also be very soft. If the flour stiffen it too much, add more milk.
Roll out lightly, cut into cakes at least half an inch thick, and bake
in a quick oven. The biscuit made by the friend from whom I had this
receipt were marvels of lightness and sweetness. I have often thought
of them since with regretful longing, when set down to so-called
“soda-biscuit,” marbled with greenish-yellow streaks, and emitting,
when split, an odor which was in itself an eloquent dissuasive to an
educated appetite. Few cooks make really good, quick biscuit—why, I am
unable to say, unless upon the principle of “brains will tell.” I have
had more than one in my kitchen, who, admirable in almost every other
respect, were absolutely unfit to be intrusted with this simple yet
delicate manufacture. The common fault is to have too “heavy a hand”
with soda, and to “guess at” the quantities, instead of measuring them.
Eat while warm.
GRAHAM BISCUIT. 
    3 cups Graham flour.
    1 cup white flour.
    3 cups milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls lard.
    1 heaping tablespoonful white sugar.
    1 saltspoonful of salt.
    1 teaspoonful of soda.
    2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar.
Mix and bake as you do the white soda-biscuit (Mrs. E——‘s). They are
good cold as well as hot.
MINUTE BISCUIT.
    1 pint sour, or buttermilk.
    1 teaspoonful soda.
    2 teaspoonfuls melted butter.
Flour to make soft dough—just stiff enough to handle. Mix, roll, and
cut out rapidly, with as little handling as may be, and bake in a quick
oven.
GRAHAM WHEATLETS.
    1 pint Graham flour.
    Nearly a quart of boiling water or milk.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
Scald the flour, when you have salted it, into as soft dough as you
can handle. Roll it nearly an inch thick, cut in round cakes, lay upon
a hot buttered tin or pan, and bake them in the hottest oven you can
get ready. Everything depends upon heat in the manufacture of these.
Some cooks spread them on a hot tin, and set this upon a red-hot stove.
Properly scalded and cooked, they are light as puffs, and very good;
otherwise they are flat and tough. Split and butter while hot.
SWEET RUSK. 
    1 pint warm milk.
    ½ cup of butter.
    1 cup of sugar.
    2 eggs.
    1 teaspoonful of salt.
    2 tablespoonfuls yeast.
Make a sponge with the milk, yeast, and enough flour for a thin batter,
and let it rise over night. In the morning add the butter, eggs, and
sugar, previously beaten up well together, the salt, and flour enough
to make a soft dough. Mould with the hands into balls of uniform size,
set close together in a pan, and let them rise until very light. After
baking, wash the tops with a clean soft cloth dipped in molasses and
water.
DRIED RUSK. 
    1 pint of warm milk.
    2 eggs.
    ½ teacup of butter.
    Half a cup of yeast.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
Set a sponge with these ingredients, leaving out the eggs, and stirring
in flour until you have a thick batter. Early next morning add the
well-beaten eggs, and flour enough to enable you to roll out the dough.
Let this rise in the bread-bowl two hours. Roll into a sheet nearly an
inch thick, cut into round cakes, and arrange in your baking-pan two
deep, laying one upon the other carefully. Let these stand for another
half-hour, and bake.
These are now very nice for eating, and you may, if you like, reserve
a plateful for tea; but the rule for the many, handed down through,
I am afraid to say how many generations, in the family where I first
ate this novel and delightful biscuit, is to divide the twins, thus
leaving one side of each cake soft, and piling them loosely in the
pan, set them in the oven when the fire is declining for the night,
and leave them in until morning. Then, still obeying the traditions of
revered elders, put them in a clean muslin bag, and hang them up in
the kitchen. They will be fit to eat upon the third day. Put as many
as you need in a deep dish, and pour over them iced milk, or water, if
you cannot easily procure the former. Let them soak until soft, take
them out, drain them for a minute in a shallow plate, and eat with
butter. Invalids and children crave them eagerly. Indeed, I have seen
few refuse them who had ever tasted them before. There is a pastoral
flavor about the pleasant dish, eaten with the accompaniment of fresh
berries, on a summer evening, that appeals to the better impulses of
one’s appetite.
Try my soaked rusk—not forgetting to ice the milk—and you will find out
for yourself what I mean, but cannot quite express.
Dried rusk will keep for weeks, and grow better every day. The only
risk is in their being eaten up before they attain maturity.
BUTTER CRACKERS.
    1 quart of flour.
    3 tablespoonfuls butter.
    ½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
    1 saltspoonful salt.
    2 cups sweet milk.
Rub the butter into the flour, or, what is better, cut it up with a
knife or chopper, as you do in pastry; add the salt, milk, and soda,
mixing well. Work into a ball, lay upon a floured board, and beat with
a rolling-pin half an hour, turning and shifting the mass often. Roll
into an even sheet, a quarter of an inch thick, or less, prick deeply
with a fork, and bake hard in a moderate oven. Hang them up in a muslin
bag in the kitchen for two days to dry.
WAFERS. 
    1 pound of flour.
    2 tablespoonfuls butter.
    A little salt.
Mix with sweet milk into a stiff dough, roll out very thin, cut into
round cakes, and again roll these as thin as they can be handled. Lift
them carefully, lay in a pan, and bake very quickly.
These are extremely nice, especially for invalids. They should be
hardly thicker than writing-paper. Flour the baking-pan instead of
greasing.
CRUMPETS (Sweet.)
    1 pint raised dough.
    3 eggs.
    3 tablespoonfuls butter.
    ½ cup white sugar.
When your bread has passed its second rising, work into the above-named
quantity the melted butter, then the eggs and sugar, beaten together
until very light. Bake in muffin-rings about twenty minutes.
CRUMPETS (Plain.) 
    3 cups warm milk.
    ½ cup yeast.
    2 tablespoonfuls melted butter.
    1 saltspoonful salt, and the same of soda, dissolved in hot water.
    Flour to make good batter.
Set these ingredients—leaving out the butter and soda—as a sponge.
When very light, beat in the melted butter, with a very little flour,
to prevent the butter from thinning the batter too much; stir in the
soda hard, fill pattypans or muffin-rings with the mixture, and let
them stand fifteen minutes before baking.
This is an excellent, easy, and economical receipt.
GRAHAM MUFFINS. 
    3 cups Graham flour.
    1 cup white flour.
