once in a while; and he wants to see you." 
"Mother's gone out," said Rotha, her colour fading as quick as it had 
risen. 
"May he come and see you? He's a nice lookin' feller." 
"I don't care," said Rotha. "I don't want to see any missionary." 
"O well! it won't hurt you to see this one, I guess." 
A few minutes after came a tap at the door, and Rotha with a mingling of 
unwillingness and curiosity, opened it. What she saw was not exactly what 
she had expected; curiosity grew and unwillingness abated. She asked the 
stranger in with tolerable civility. He was nice looking, she confessed 
to herself, and very nicely dressed! not at all the rubbishy exterior 
which Rotha somehow associated with her idea of missionaries. He came in 
and sat down, quite like an ordinary man; which was soothing. 
"Mother is out," Rotha announced shortly. 
"It is so much the kinder of you to let me come in." 
"I was not thinking of kindness," said Rotha. 
"No? Of what then? 
"Nothing in particular. You do not want kindness." 
"I beg your pardon. Everybody wants it." 
"Not kindness from everybody then." 
"I do." 
"But some people can do without it." 
"Can they? What sort of people?" 
"Why, a great many people. Those that have all they want already." 
"I never saw any of that sort of people," said the stranger gravely. 
"Pray, did you?" 
"I thought I had." 
"And you thought I was one of them?" 
"I believe so." 
"You were mistaken in me. Probably you were mistaken also in the other 
instances. Perhaps you were thinking of the people who have all that 
money can buy?" 
"Perhaps," Rotha assented. 
"Do you think money can buy all things?" 
"No," said Rotha, beginning to recover her usual composure; "but the 
people who have all that money can buy, can do without the other things." 
"What do you mean by the 'other things'?" 
Rotha did not answer. 
"I suppose kindness is one of them, as we started from that." 
Rotha was still silent. 
"Do you think you could afford to do without kindness?" 
"If I had money enough," Rotha said bluntly. 
"And what would you buy with money, that would be better?" 
"O plenty!" said Rotha. "Yes, indeed! I would stop mother's working; and 
I would buy our old home, and we would go away from this place and never 
come back to it. I would have somebody to do the work that I do, too; and 
I would have a garden, and plenty of flowers, and plenty of everything." 
"And live without friends?" 
"We always did," said Rotha. "We never had friends. O friends!--everybody 
in the village and in the country was a friend; but you know what I mean; 
nobody that we cared for." 
"Then you have no friends here in New York?" 
"No." 
"I should think you would have stayed where, as you say, everybody was a 
friend." 
"Yes, but we couldn't." 
"You said, you would if you could stop your mother's working. Do you 
think she would like that?" 
"O she's tired to death!" said Rotha; and her eyes reddened in a way that 
shewed there were at least two sides to her character. "She is not strong 
at all, and she wants rest. Of course she would like it. Not to have to 
do any more than she likes, I mean." 
"Then perhaps she would not choose to take some work I was thinking to 
offer her. Or perhaps you would not take it?" he added smiling. 
"We must take it," said Rotha, "if we can get it. What is it?" 
"A set of shirts. A dozen." 
"Mother gets seventy five cents a piece, if they are tucked and 
stitched." 
"That is not my price, however. I like my work particularly done, and I 
give two dollars a piece." 
"Two dollars for one shirt?" inquired Rotha. 
"That is my meaning. Do you think your mother will take them?" 
For all answer the girl clapped her two hands together. 
"Then you are not a master tailor?" she asked. 
"No." 
"I thought maybe you were. I don't like them. What are you, please?" 
"If I should propose myself as a friend, would you allow it?" 
Is this a "kindness"? was the suspicion that instantly darted into 
Rotha's mind. The visiter saw it in her face, and could have smiled; took 
care to do no such thing. 
"That is a question for mother to answer," she said coolly. 
"When it is put to her. I put the question to you." 
"Do you mean, that you are talking of being a friend to me?" 
"Is that too bold a proposition?" 
"No--but it cannot be true." 
"Why not?" 
"You cannot want me for a friend. You do not know me a bit." 
"Pardon me. And my proposal was, that I should be a friend to you." 
"I always thought there were two sides to a friendship." 
"True; and in time, perhaps, when you come to know me as well as I know 
you, perhaps you will be my friend as well." 
"How should you know me?" said Rotha quickly. 
"People's thoughts and habits of feeling have a way of writing themselves 
somehow in their faces, and voices, and movements. Did you know that?" 
"No--" Rotha said doubtfully. 
"They do." 
"But you don't know me." 
"Will you put it to the proof? But do you like to hear the truth spoken 
about yourself?" 
"I don't know. I never tried." 
"Shall I try you? I think I see before me a person who likes to have her 
own way--and has it." 
"You are wrong there," said Rotha. "If I had my own way, I should not be 
doing what I am doing; no indeed! I should be going to school." 
"I did not mean that your will could get the better of all circumstances; 
only of the will of other people. How is that?" 
"I suppose everybody likes to have his own way," said Rotha in defence. 
"Probably; but not every one gets it. Then, when upon occasion your will 
is crossed, whether by persons or circumstances, you do not take it very 
patiently." 
"Does anybody?" 
"Some people. But on these occasions you are apt to shew your displeasure 
impatiently--sometimes violently." 
"How do you know?" said Rotha wonderingly. "You cannot see that in my 
face now?" 
And she began curiously to examine the face opposite to her, to see if it 
too had any disclosures to make. He smiled. 
"Another thing,--" he went on. "You have never yet learned to care for 
others more than for yourself." 
"Does anybody?" said Rotha. 
"How is it with your mother?" 
"Mother?-- But then, mother and I are very different" 
"Did I not intimate that?" 
"But I mean I am naturally different from her. It is not only because she 
is a Christian." 
"Why are you not a Christian too?" 
Rotha hesitated. Her interlocutor was certainly a great stranger; and as 
certainly she had not found it possible to read his face; 
notwithstanding, two effects had resulted from the interview thus far; 
she believed in him, and he was somewhat imposing to her. Dress and 
manner might have a little to do with this; poor Rotha had rarely in her 
short life spoken to any one who had the polish of manner that belongs to 
good breeding and the habit of society; but that was not the whole. She 
felt the security and the grace with which every word was said, and she 
trusted his face. At the same time she rebelled against the slight awe he 
inspired, and was a little afraid of some lurking "kindness" under all 
this extraordinary interest and affability. Her answer was delayed and 
then came somewhat defiantly. 
"I never wanted to be a Christian." 
"That answer has the merit of truth," said her visiter calmly. "You have 
mentioned the precise reason that keeps people out of the kingdom of 
heaven. 'Ye will not come unto me, that ye might have life,' the Lord 
said to some of them when he was upon earth. 'When they shall see him, 
there is no beauty that they should desire him.'" 
"Well, I cannot help that," said Rotha. 
"No,--" said her visiter slowly, "you cannot help that; but it does not 
excuse you." 
"Why, how can I be a Christian, when I dont want to?" 
"How can you do anything else that you do not want to do? Duty remains 
duty, does it not?" 
"But religion is not outside work." 
"No." 
"Mother says, it is the love of God. How can I make myself love him?" 
"Poor child!" said her visiter. "When you are in earnest about that 
question it will not be difficult to find the answer." He rose up. "Then 
I may send the shirts I spoke of?" 
"Yes," said Rotha; "but I don't know about the price. Mother does not 
want anything but the proper pay; and she does all her work 
particularly." 
"Are you afraid I shall give her too much?" 
"She does not want too much." 
"I will arrange that with her. Stay,--we have not been introduced to each 
other. You may call me Mr. Digby; what may I call you?" 
"Rotha Carpenter." 
"Good morning, Rotha," said the gentleman, offering his hand. Rotha shyly 
took it, and he went away. 
Half an hour afterwards, Mrs. Carpenter came home. She came slowly up the 
short flight of stairs, and sat down by her fireside as if she was tired. 
She was pale, and she coughed now and then. 
"Mother," began Rotha, full of the new event, "somebody has been here 
since you have been away." 
"A messenger from Mr. Farquharson? I shall have the things done to-
morrow, I hope." 
"No messenger at all, and no tailor, nor any such horrid person. Mother, 
what is a 'gentleman'?" 
"What makes you ask?" 
"Because Mrs. Marble said this man was a gentleman. He's a missionary. Do 
you know what a 'city missionary' means, mother?" 
"Yes, in general." 
"The same as a foreign missionary, only he does not go out of the 
country?" 
"He does his work in the city." 
"But there are no heathen in New York." 
"There are worse." 
"Worse? what can be worse?" 
"It is worse to see the light and refuse it, than never to have had the 
choice." 
"Then I should think it would be better not to send missionaries to the 
heathen." 
"Rotha, take my bonnet and cloak, dear, and put them away; and make me 
some tea, will you?" 
"Why mother, it is not tea-time yet." 
"No matter; I am tired, and cold." 
"But you didn't tell me what a gentleman is?" pursued Rotha, beginning 
now to bustle about and do as she was told. 
"Wait till I have had some tea. How much tea is left, Rotha?" 
"Well, I guess, enough to last almost a week," said the girl, peering 
into the box which did duty for a tea-caddy. 
"I must manage to get some more," said the mother. "I could hardly get 
along without my cup of tea." 
"Mother, here has been somebody who wants you to make shirts for him at 
two dollars a piece." 
"Two dollars a piece!" Mrs. Carpenter echoed. "I could afford to get tea 
then. Who was that, Rotha? and what sort of shirts does he want made for 
such a price?" 
"I don't know! he said he wanted them very particularly made, and I told 
him that was the way you did everything. Now mother dear, the kettle will 
boil in two minutes." 
"Who is this person?" 
"I told you, he is a city missionary. His name is Mr. Digby." 
"Digby,"--said Mrs. Carpenter. "I do not know him." 
"Of course you don't. But you will be glad of the shirts, won't you?" 
"Very glad, and thankful." 
"But is two dollars a proper price?" inquired Rotha a little jealously. 
"It is an uncommon price." 
"What could make him offer an uncommon price?" 
"I don't know. It is not the way of the world, so perhaps he is not one 
of the world." 
"He's a Christian, you mean?" 
"Yes." 
"Do Christians always do the right thing?" 
"Real Christians do, when they know what the right thing is. I am too 
tired to talk, Rotha." 
Rotha bestirred herself and set the little table. Not very much went on 
it, besides the cups and plates; but there was a loaf of bread, and Rotha 
made a slice of toast; and Mrs. Carpenter sipped her tea as if she found 
it refreshing. 
"I wish I had a good tumbler of milk," sighed Rotha; "real milk, not like 
this. And I wish you had some Medwayville cream, mother. I think, if I 
ever get back into the country again, I shall go wild." 
"I sometimes think you are a little of that here," said Mrs. Carpenter. 
"Not wild with joy, mother." 
Mrs. Carpenter sipped her tea, and stretched out her feet towards the 
small stove, and seemed to be taking some comfort. But her face was thin 
and worn, the hands were very thin; a person with more experience than 
her young daughter would have been ill content with her appearance. 
"Mother, now can you tell me my question? What do you mean by a 
'gentleman.'" 
"Perhaps not just what Mrs. Marble means by it." 
"Well, I'll tell you. This person was very well dressed, but clothes do 
not make it, do they, mother?" 
"Certainly not." 
"He has got a nice face, and he seemed to know always just what to do and 
to say; I can't tell you what I mean exactly; but I should think, to look 
at him and hear him, that he knew everything and had seen all the world. 
Of course he hasn't and doesn't; but that is the sort of feeling I have 
when I look at him." 
Mrs. Carpenter smiled. 
"Did you never see anybody before of whom you thought so?" 
"Never. I never did," said Rotha. "The people who come here on business, 
don't know the least bit how to behave; and the people at dear old 
Medwayville did not. O they were kind and good as they could be, some of 
them; but mother, they could not make a bow to save their lives, and they 
would stand and sit all sorts of ways; and they wouldn't know when they 
had done talking, nor how to do anything nicely." 
"Perhaps this man was stiff," said Mrs. Carpenter amused. 
"He was not stiff in the least; but mother, what is a gentleman?" 
"I do not know how to tell you, Rotha. Your description sounds very much 
like one." 
A day or two after, Mr. Digby came again, and had an interview with Mrs. 
Carpenter. This time he paid no attention to Rotha, and I think the 
little girl was somewhat disappointed. The next day he came again and 
brought with him the bundle of shirts. He inquired now very kindly into 
Mrs. Carpenter's state of health, and offered to send his own physician 
to see her. But she refused; and the manner of her refusal persuaded Mr. 
Digby that she was aware of her own condition and believed no medicine 
would be of avail. He was much of the same opinion himself; and indeed 
was inclined to suspect that there was more need of good food than of 
drugs in this case. More difficult at the same time to administer. 
A few days passed, and Mr. Digby again came. 
He found Mrs. Carpenter steady at her work, but looking very worn and 
pale. Rotha was just putting on the small tea kettle. Mr. Digby sat down 
and made kind inquiries. The answers were with the sweet patient 
composure which he saw was habitual with Mrs. Carpenter. 
"How is your appetite?" he asked. 
"I suppose I am not enough in the open air and stirring about, to have it 
very good." 
"Have you much strength for 'stirring about'?" 
"Not much." 
"People cannot have strength without eating. Rotha, what time do you give 
your mother her dinner?" 
"Now," said Rotha. "I put the kettle on just as you came in." 
"I saw you did. But what is the connection, may I ask, between dinner and 
the tea kettle?" 
"Rotha makes me a cup of tea," said Mrs. Carpenter smiling. "I can hardly 
get along without that." 
"Ah!--Mrs. Carpenter, I have had a busy morning and am--which I am sorry 
you are not--hungry. May I take a cup of tea with you?" 
"Certainly!--I should be very glad. Rotha, set a cup for Mr. Digby, dear. 
But tea is not much to a hungry man," she went on; "and I am afraid there 
is little in the house but bread and butter." 
"That will do capitally. If you'll furnish the bread and butter, I will 
see what I can get for my part. If you'll excuse the liberty, Mrs. 
Carpenter?" 
Mrs. Carpenter would excuse, I think, whatever he might take a fancy to 
do. She had seen him now several times, and he had quite won her heart. 
"Mother," said Rotha, as soon as their visiter had gone out, "what is he 
going to do?" 
"I do not know. Get something for dinner, he said." 
"Do you like him to do that?" 
"Do what?" 
"Bring us dinner." 
"Don't be foolish, Rotha." 
"Mother, I think he is doing what he calls a 'kindness.'" 
"Have you any objection?" 
"Not to his doing it for other people; but for you and me-- Mother, we 
have not come to receiving charity yet." 
"Rotha!" exclaimed her mother. "My child, what are you thinking of?"
"Having kindnesses done to us, mother; and I don't like it. It is not Mr. 
Digby's business, what we have for dinner!" 
"I told him we had not much but bread." 
"Why did you tell him?" 
"He would have found it out, Rotha, when he came to sit down to the 
table." 
"He had no business to ask to do that."
"I think you are ungrateful." 
"Mother, I don't want to be grateful. Not to him." 
"Why not to him, or to anybody, my child, that deserves it of you?" 
"He don't!"--said Rotha, as she finished setting the table, rather in 
dudgeon. "What do you suppose he is going to bring?" 
"Rotha, what will ever become of you in this world, with that spirit?" 
"What spirit?" 
"Pride, I should say." 
"Isn't pride a good thing?" 
"Not that ever I heard of, or you either," Mrs. Carpenter said with a 
sigh. 
"Mother, I don't think you have enough pride." 
"A little is too much. It makes people fall into the condemnation of the 
devil. And you are mistaken in thinking there is anything fine in it. 
Don't shew that feeling to Mr. Digby, I beg of you." 
Rotha did not exactly pout, for that was not her way; but she looked 
dissatisfied. Presently she heard a sound below, and opened the door. 
"He's coming up stairs," she said softly, "and a boy with him bringing 
something. Mother!--" 
She had no chance to say more. Mr. Digby came in, followed by a boy with 
a basket. The basket was set down and the boy disappeared. 
"Mrs. Carpenter," said the gentleman, "I could not find anything in this 
neighbourhood better than oysters. Do you like them?" 
"Oysters!" said Mrs. Carpenter. "It is very long since I have seen any. 
Yes, I like them." 
"Then the next question is, how do you like them? Saw? or roasted? We can 
roast them here, cannot we?" 
"I have not seen a roast oyster since I was a girl," said Mrs. Carpenter. 
Her visiter could hear in the tone of her voice that the sight would be 
very welcome. As for Rotha, displeasure was lost in curiosity. The 
oysters were already nicely washed; that Mr. Digby had had done by the 
same boy that brought the basket; it only remained to put them on the 
fire and take them off; and both operations he was quite equal to. Rotha 
looked on in silent astonishment, seeing the oyster shells open, and the 
juice sputter on the hot iron, and perceiving the very acceptable 
fragrance that came from them. Mr. Digby admonished her presently to make 
the tea; and then they had a merry meal. Absolutely merry; for their 
visitor, he could hardly be called their guest, spiced his ministrations 
with so pleasant a manner that nothing but cheerfulness could keep its 
ground before him. At the first taste of the oysters, it is true, some 
associations seemed to come over Mrs. Carpenter which threatened to make 
a sudden stop to her dinner. She sat back in her chair, and perhaps was 
swallowing old troubles and heartburnings over again, or perhaps 
recalling involuntarily a time before troubles began. The oysters seemed 
to choke her; and she said she wanted no more. But Mr. Digby guessed what 
was the matter; and was so tenderly kind and judiciously persuasive, that 
Mrs. Carpenter could not withstand him; and then, Rotha looked on in new 
amazement to see how the oysters went down and how manifestly they were 
enjoyed. She herself declined to touch them; they did not look attractive 
to her. 
"Rotha," said Mr. Digby, as he opened a fine, fat oyster, "the only way 
to know things is, to submit to learn." 
"I needn't learn to like oysters, I suppose, need I?" 
"Yes." 
"Why?" 
"It might be useful some day." 
"I don't see how it should. We never had oysters before, and perhaps we 
never shall again." 
"You might go a missionary to some South Sea island, and be obliged at 
times to live upon oysters." 
"I am not going to be a missionary." 
"That is more than you know." 
"But I know what I like, and what I think." 
"At present. Perhaps you do. You do not know whether you like oysters, 
however, for you have not tried." 
"Your sphere of knowledge will be small, Rotha," said her mother, "if you 
refuse to enlarge it." 
Stung a little, Rotha made up her mind to try an oyster, to which her 
objections were twofold. Nevertheless, she was obliged to confess, she 
liked it; and the meal, as I said, went merrily on; Rotha from that time 
doing her fall share. Mrs. Carpenter was plainly refreshed and comforted, 
by the social as well as the material food she received. 
"How good he is!" she exclaimed when their friend was gone. 
"So are the oysters," said Rotha; "but I don't like him to bring them. I 
do not think I like Mr. Digby much, anyhow." 
"You surprise me. And it is not a little ungrateful." 
"I don't want to be grateful to him. And mother, I don't like him to 
bring oysters here!" 
"Why shouldn't he, if he likes? I am sorry to see such pride in you, 
Rotha. It is very foolish, my child." 
"Mother, it looks as if he knew we were poor." 
"He knows it, of course. Am I not making his shirts?" 
Rotha was silent, clearing away the dishes and oyster shells with a good 
deal of decision and dissatisfaction revealed in her movements. 
"Everybody knows it, my child." 
"I do not mind everybody. I just mind him. He is different. Why is he 
different, mother?" 
"I suppose the difference you mean is, that he is a gentleman." 
"And what are we?" said Rotha, suddenly standing still to put the 
question. 
"We are respectable people," said her mother smiling. 
"Not gentlemen, of course; but what do you call us?" 
"If I could call you a Christian, Rotha, I should not care for anything 
else; at least I should not be concerned about it. Everything else would 
be right." 
"Being a Christian would not make any difference in what I am talking 
about." 
"I think it would; but I cannot talk to you about it, Ask Mr. Digby the 
next time he comes." 
"Ask him!" cried Rotha. "I guess I will! What makes you think he is 
coming again, mother?" 
"It would be like him." 
CHAPTER V. 
PRIVATE TUITION. 
More days passed however, than either of them expected, before Mr. Digby 
came again. They were days of stern cold winter weather, in which it was 
sometimes difficult to keep their little rooms comfortable without 
burning more coal than Mrs. Carpenter thought she could afford. Rotha ran 
along the streets to the corner shop where she bought tea and sugar, not 
quite so well wrapped up but that she found a quick pace useful to 
protect her from the cold; and Mrs. Carpenter wrought at her sewing 
sometimes with stiffened fingers. 
"Mother," said Rotha, one day, "I think it would be better to do without 
tea and have a little more fire." 
"I do not know how to get along without tea," Mrs. Carpenter said with a 
sigh. 
"But you are getting along without almost everything else." 
"We do very well yet," answered the mother patiently. 
"Do we?" said Rotha. "If this is what you call very well-- Mother, you 
cannot live upon tea." 
"I feel as if I could not live without it." 
"Has Mr. Digby given you any money yet?" 
"The shirts are only just finished." 
"And what are you going to do now? But he'll pay you a good many dollars, 
won't he, mother? Twenty four, for twelve shirts. But there is eight to 
be paid for rent, I know, and that leaves only sixteen. And he can afford 
to pay the whole twenty four, just for a dozen shirts! Mother, I don't 
think some people have a right to be so rich, while others are so poor." 
"'The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich,'"--Mrs. Carpenter answered. 
"Why does he?" 
"Sometimes, I think, he wishes to teach his children to depend on him." 
"Couldn't they do it if they were rich?" 
"There is great danger they would not." 
"You would, mother." 
"Perhaps not. But I have always enough, Rotha." 
"Enough!" echoed Rotha. "Enough! when you haven't had a good dinner 
since-- Mother, there he is again, I do believe!" 
And she had hardly time to remove the empty tea cup and, alas! empty 
plates, which testified to their meagre fare, when the knock came and Mr. 
Digby shewed himself. He explained that he had been out of town; made 
careful inquiries as to Mrs. Carpenter's health; paid for the shirts; and 
finally turned to Rotha. 
"How is my friend here doing?" 
"We always go on just the same way," said Rotha. But he could see that 
the girl was thin, and pale; and that just at an age when she was growing 
fast and needing abundant food, she was not getting it. 
"Ask Mr. Digby your question, Rotha," her mother said. 
"I do not want to ask him any questions," the girl answered defiantly. 
But Mrs. Carpenter went on. 
"Rotha wants to know what a gentleman is; and I was not able to discuss 
the point satisfactorily with her. I told her to ask you." 
Rotha did not ask, however, and there was silence. 
"Rotha is fond of asking questions," Mr. Digby observed. 
"What makes you think so?" she retorted. 
He smiled. "It is a very good habit--provided of course that the 
questions are properly put." 
"I like to ask mother questions," Rotha said, drawing in a little. 
"I have no doubt you would like to ask me questions, if you once got into 
the way of it. Habit is everything." 
"Not quite everything, in this," said Rotha. "There must be something 
before the habit." 
"Yes. There must be a beginning." 
"I meant something else." 
"Did you? May I ask, what did you mean?" 
"I mean a good deal," said Rotha. "Before one could get a habit like 
that, one must know that the person could answer the questions; and 
besides, that he would like to have them asked." 
"In my case I will pledge myself for the second qualification; about the 
first you must learn by experience. Suppose you try." 
His manner was so pleasant and well bred, and Rotha felt that she had 
gone so near the edge of politeness, she found it best for this time to 
comply. 
"I asked mother one day what is the meaning of a 'gentleman'; and I 
suppose she was too tired to talk to me, for she said I had better ask 
you." 
"O he did me honour." 
"Well, what is it then, Mr. Digby." 
"I should say, it is the counterpart to a 'lady.'" 
"But isn't everybody that is grown up, a 'lady'?--every woman, I mean?" 
"No more than every grown up man is a gentleman." 
Rotha stood looking at him, and the young man on his part regarded her 
with more attention than usual. He was suddenly touched with compassion 
for the girl. She stood, half doubtful, half proud, dimly conscious of 
her enormous ignorance, and with an inward monition of a whole world of 
knowledge to be acquired, yet beyond her reach; at the same time her look 
shewed capacity enough both to understand and to feel. Rotha was now 
nearly fourteen, with mental powers just opening and personal gifts just 
beginning to dawn. The child's complexion told of poor feeding and want 
of air and exercise; it was sallow, and her features were sharp; but her 
hair was beautiful in its lustrous, dark abundance; the eyes shewed the 
fire of native passion and intelligence; the mouth was finely cut and 
expressed half a dozen things in as many minutes. "Poor child!" thought 
the visiter; "what is to become of her, with all this latent power and 
possibility?" 
"A gentleman, Rotha," he said aloud, "may be defined as a person who in 
all manner of little things keeps the golden rule--does to everybody as 
he would be done by; and knows how." 
"In little things? Not in great things?" 
"One may do it in great things, and not be a gentleman in manner; though 
certainly in heart." 
"Then it is manner?" 
"Very much." 
"And a lady the same way?" 
"Of course." 
"What sort of little things?" said Rotha curiously. 
"A lady in the first place will be always careful and delicate about her 
own person and dress; it does not depend upon what she wears, but how she 
wears it; a lady might wear patches, but never could be untidy. Then, in 
all her moving, speaking, and acting, she will be gentle, quiet, and 
polite. And in her behaviour to others, she will give everybody the 
respect that is due, and never put herself forward. 'In honour preferring 
one another,' is the Bible rule, and it is the law of good breeding. And 
the Bible says, 'Honour all men;' and, 'Be courteous.'--Have I spoken 
according to your mind, Mrs. Carpenter?" 
"Beautifully," said the silent, pale seamstress, never stopping her 
needle. "Better than I could have done it. Now you know, Rotha." 
Rotha stood considering, uneasy. 
"What is the next question?" said Mr. Digby smiling. 
"I was thinking--" said Rotha. "Mustn't one know a good deal, to do all 
that?" 
"To do what, for instance?" 
"To give everybody the respect that is due; it is not the same to 
everybody, is it?" 
"No, certainly." 
"How can one know?" 
"There is a good deal to be learned in this world, before one can hold 
the balance scales to weigh out to each one exactly what belongs to him," 
Mr. Digby admitted. 
"That is one of my troubles," said Mrs. Carpenter looking up. "I cannot 
give my child an education. I do a little at home; it is better than 
nothing; but I feel that my power grows less and less; and Rotha's needs 
are more and more." 
"What do you know, Rotha?" said Mr. Digby. 
"I don't know much of anything!" said the girl, an eloquent flush coming 
into her pale face. It touched him. 
"A little of what, then?" said their visiter kindly. 
"You would not say it was anything." 
"She knows a little history," Mrs. Carpenter put in. 
"Have you any acquaintance with Alexander of Macedon, Rotha?" 
"The Great?  asked Rotha. 
"He is called so." 
"Yes, I know about him." 
"Think he deserved the title?" 
"Yes, I suppose he did." 
"What for?" 
"He was such a clever man." 
"Well, I have no doubt he was," Mr. Digby returned, keeping a perfectly 
grave face with some difficulty; "a clever man; but how did he shew it?" 
Rotha paused, and a faint tinge, of excitement this time, rose again in 
her cheeks, and her eye waked up with the mental stir. "He had such grand 
plans," she answered. 
"Ah? yes. Which do you mean?" 
"For civilizing people; for bringing the different nations to know each 
other and be friends with each other; so that trade could be carried on, 
and knowledge and arts and civilization could spread to all; that his 
empire could be one great whole." 
"On the whole you approve of Alexander. After all, what use was he to the 
world?" 
"Why a good deal," said Rotha. "Don't you think so? His successors 
carried on his plans; at least some of them did; and the Greek language 
was spread through Asia, and the Jews encouraged to settle in Egyptian 
and Greek cities; and so the way was prepared for the spread of the 
gospel when it came." 
"Mrs. Carpenter," said Mr. Digby, "your manner of teaching history is 
very satisfactory!" 
"I have done what I could," said the mother, "but we had very few books 
to work with." 
"We had none," said Rotha, "except Rollin's Ancient History, and 
Plutarch's Lives." 
"One good book, well used, is worth a hundred under other circumstances. 
Then you do not know much of modern history, Rotha?" 
"Nothing at all; except what mother has told me." 
"How about grammar?" 
"I have taught her grammar," said Mrs. Carpenter; "and geography. She 
knows both pretty well. But I found, with my work, I could not teach her 
arithmetic; and I had not a good book for it. Rotha can do nothing with 
numbers." 
Mr. Digby gave the girl a simple question in mental arithmetic; and then 
another, and another. Rotha's brow grew intent; the colour in her cheeks 
brightened; she was grappling, it was plain, with the difficulties 
suggested to her, wrestling with them, conquering them, with the sort of 
zeal which conquers all difficulties not insurmountable. 
"May I give Rotha lessons in Latin?" Mr. Digby asked, turning quietly to 
Rotha's mother. 
"Latin!" Mrs. Carpenter exclaimed, and her cheeks too flushed slightly. 
