like some slender young tree in a bitter blast. She has 
been learning many this this summer ; but if this knowl- 
edge could have been left out ! 
Some time afterward she goes down-stairs to see that all 
is right. Mrs. Stannard is saying a lingering good-night 
in tones that electrify Miss Ormistob, so subtly sweet is 
their cadence. He is grave, troubled, it seems to her, 
she has come to read the changes in his face so readily. 
There is a little talk, an inquiry about Dolly. 
"It does seem as if a sea voyage might be just the 
thing for her," Mrs. Stannard says. " I have been de- 
claring to Leighton that we have imposed ouradves upon 
 
 
 
you quite as if you were a sister, and you may be really 
glad to have your days for your own interests." 
" Treat me as if I were in reality a sister," Miss Ormis- 
ton answers. 
" You are very kind, I am sure." 
The house is silent and nearly dark ; the hall lamp is 
kept burning now, but it seems rather eerie. A little past 
midnight Fanny flies to her with wild, frightened eyes and 
a voice of terror. 
"O Miss Ormiston, come quick ! Miss Allaire is 
dying." 
Christmas hurries thither, and then sends Fanny for 
other help. When St. George hears the alarm, he insists 
upon summoning Dr. Herrick. Grave and anxious they 
all are, not only until dawn, but for many days, and Mrs. 
Stannard hears the fiat. It seems to Christmas that she 
bears it with great composure, though she insists upon a 
professional nurse. 
" For I really know nothing about dangerous illnesses," 
she says, in her lute-like voice that has been mysteriously 
humanized. " And I insist that you shall not be broken 
of your rest, Christmas, nor bear any weight of anxious 
care that can be prevented. It will be heavy enough at 
the best." 
There are several days when life flutters in the balance, 
and the hand of fate quivers about as if undecided where 
to settle, and then decisively points to improvement. Dolly 
surprises even Dr. Herrick, who watches her as if uncertain 
whether she is quite human or not. She begins to sit up, 
she indulges in a marvellous appetite, for her, and she is 
the old, vivacious, inconsequent Dolly. She even speaks 
of her marriage. 
'' As I said, she may live some months under favorable 
circumstances," comments the doctor cautiously. " If her 
lover desires the marriage, there can be no objection." 
Clearly Mrs. Stannard does not. She tries to persuade 
 
 
 
DoUy, and points out to St. Gkorge that all the excitement 
cannot bat shorten her days. But Dolly is insistent, per- 
suasive, pleading, and has some other rare charm that 
Christmas cannot fathom, the occult gift of fascination 
that disarms as well as attracts. She is gentler, more 
affectionate, she rules the staid nurse by some witchery, 
and Fanny is her willing slave. 
" If I covM get my letters," she says to Christmas one 
day; "yet I half believe he has not kept them. If he 
should send them to St. George after we are married — 
such things Jiave happened — I know he will bring them to 
me unread, he is so punctilious. That is the only wish I 
have ungratified, you are all so good to me." 
"Did you ever offer to buy them?" Christmas asks. 
She desires to know if Jeffries is incorruptible. 
" Oh, yes, long ago ! " and a scarlet flush lights up her 
wan face. "I had not money enough. You know most 
of the estate is kept together while manmia lives, and we 
only have a settled income. I suppose that was one rea- 
son why he didn't care about a real marriage. I wasn't 
rich enough for two." And Dolly laughs ironically. 
Christmas Ormiston resolves, and acts upon it immedi- 
ately. The summer is over and the sojourners at Cliff House 
are flitting city-ward, or beginning autumnal tours. Mr. 
Jeffries remains ; she passed him a day or two ago, hand- 
some still in his brave audacity. She must see him, but 
she shrinks from any clandestine appointment. He must 
be asked to the house ; but can she dare Mrs. Stannard's 
penetrating eyes ? 
Fortune favors her. Mrs. Stannard and Mr. St. Gkorge 
go to the city one morning. She despatches trusty Mrs. 
Byrne with a verbal message, for she will not even risk the 
signature of her name in Jeffries's possession. 
At the appointed hour he comes, and is shown into the 
drawing-room. The coolness of the day admits of the 
windows being down, and as she enters she closes the 
 
 
door behind her. Jeffries rises with graeeftd elegance, 
and proffers his hand ; but with an invincible air of reserve 
she simply motions him to a seat, and ends his profuse 
greeting by her clear, incisive tone. 
" I sent for you on a matter of business," she states 
briefly, and then she lays before him her proposal to 
purchase from him all of Dolly Allaire's letters. She will 
give him five hundred dollars for them. 
'' I cannot consider any such offer," he answers loftily, 
and with a gesture meant for contempt. 
"Very well." 
He is disconcerted by her coolness. Truth to tell, for a 
gentleman of luxurious habits, he is running short of 
money. 
"' This, I suppose, is Miss Allake's proposal*" he says 
suggestively. 
''On the contrary, she knows nothing about it. She 
can live but a little longer at the most. / should like to 
have the letters, though when she is gone they will be 
of small moment to you. Candidly, her family, knowing 
nothing of the episode, would deny their authenticity. The 
little circle in which she moved would not even believe it." 
" Will she marry Mr. St. George?" 
" I do not think she will live to marry any one," Miss 
Ormiston answers, gravely and truly. 
" The marriage certificate is worth that." 
"Very well, I will pay that for it, if your friend's name 
is on it. Should there be no such clergyman, you will be 
convicted of fraud." 
"My friend has died since then," he says with down- 
cast eyes. 
" He had some relatives doubtless, or some friends in 
the city who knew him." 
Carew Jeffries realizes that he is not dealing with weak, 
easily alarmed Dolly Allaire. He also knows that Miss 
Allaire has no fortune in her own right. If she cotild be- 
 
 
 
come the wife of a rich man like St. Crearge — but reaUy 
if she is dying, as every one admits, and he has heard 
the verdict of Dr. Herrick, a packet of love-letters signed 
Dolly, or even Dolly Jeffries, would be no great prize, since 
there might be hundreds of Dollies in the world. 
"We do nof believe in the marriage," Miss Ormiston 
says decisively, her lips wreathed in unutterable scorn, 
that cuts him like a knife. What a madman, nay worse, 
what a blind fool not to have managed the thing better 
and made himself master here ; for he flatters himself if 
he had come honestly as Wilfred Carew, he could have won 
her attention. But there are other rich women in the world, 
not as clear eyed as this one. Matrimony is his dernier 
resort, but he hates to feel himself irrevocably chained to 
some siUy vapid woman. Still, when all else fails -*- 
" The authenticity of the marriage," he corrects, with 
insolent grace. " Even Miss Allaire admits going through 
the ceremony before a witness, and that of itself would 
make a legal marriage." 
It is a thorny and difficult path. What if Mr. Jeffries 
should persecute Dolly after her marriage?— only, she will 
live such a very little while. 
" It cannot make much difference either way," sha says, 
rising with haughty dignity. " There is no need of fur- 
ther multiplying words." 
" You will give one thousand — " 
" I will give you five hundred dollars for all, or you can 
keep the certificate. That really does not matter. I wish 
her to die in peace ; after she dies, they will not be of the 
slightest value." 
" You are a sharp bargainer. Miss Ormiston," he says 
with a stinging infiection. 
"Well," she replies wijth ironical graciousness, "you 
can take or leave. I never use much persuasion in my 
bargain making." 
He knows that she despises him thoroughly, but he has 
 
 
one qaiver of arrows he can still fling that will grind her 
proud spirit between the upper and the nether millstone. 
She will hear of it in time, and that must be his revenge. 
He might talk the next hour and he would gain no advan- 
tage, and in truth, he has an uneasy feeling beneath her 
clear eyes; his self-complacency shrinks, his assurance 
is chilled by the oold breath of her utter sincerity. There is 
a cruel sense of mortification in taking this at her hands, 
yet there is seldom a time when he does not need money. 
He can trust her not to bruit the secret abroad. 
She takes two or three steps. "One cannot haggle 
with a woman," he exdaims airily. " Let it be as you 
wish ; take the letters on your own terms." 
" WXL you bring them to me, here, at two o'clock pre- 
cisely?" she returns, as coldly as if she felt no interest in 
it ; but it is rather an overwhelming wave of disgust. 
He rises and she merely bows. Once he gave orders 
here as if Glen Ormiston really belonged to him. After 
all, has the Treverton villany paid? 
 
 
CHAPTER XXV. 
WHEN HOPE HATH WUISPBBBD* 
Miss Oeimiston drives down to the factory. She has 
her own check book, but Mr. Donaldson has always 
made out those for Ormiston Mills as the duly accredited 
agent. He is a little puzzled when she applies to him for 
one of these. There is some purpose in her face that is 
meant to cover a secret, and he respects it. Their friend- 
ship has the fine adjustment of perfect trust. 
Jeffries is a little late and proceeds to business with an 
air of supreme elegance, as if this might be a choice pleas- 
ure to him. The packet is carefully wrapped and sealed, 
and he hands it to her with quiet dignity. She breaks the 
seal and begins to inspect each missive with a business-like 
method that is exasperating, referring to a card on which 
Mhe has written some important dates that she has com- 
pelled Dolly to recall. 
From September to the middle of January the flame of 
love burned most fiercely it would seem, since nearly half 
the letters are included in it. At London they began to 
grow less frequent ; a few were dated at Paris, and a very 
few at later intervals. There is the pretended marriage 
certificate signed by James Smith. A touch of scorn 
crosses her face at that. 
" I suppose they are all here," she says in a slow tone 
as if there might be a doubt. " There is your check," 
He studies that insolently, and gnaws his lip in rage. 
It is not what he hoped ; her name on it would have been 
worth much to him. He feels himself so at her mercy 
that for a moment he is tempted to an outbreak, but her 
 
 
dilling dignity restrains iiim. No, after all, she wonld 
not be a comfortable kind of woman to marry, and he is 
somewhat resigned. Her eyes can look too deeply into 
the truth or falsity of a man's soal. His philosophy comes 
to his aid, he is never worsted for very long by adverse 
fate, and soon solaces himself with some excellent reasons 
why the thing that happens is the safest way out of any 
difficulty. He is done with Miss Ormiston, but if there 
should ever be a Dolly St. George she may chance to hear 
from him. 
Christmas flies upstaurs. 
"Here are your letters, Dolly," she announces with a 
little cry of joy. " You see, I knew how to make terms 
with Mr. Jeffries." 
"Not my old letters I" Dolly fingers them fearfully, 
while varied expressions cross her wan face. Then she 
gives a great cry of joy that goes home to the heart of 
Christmas Ormiston. 
"Oh, you darling! You are the best and noblest! 
How did you manage it? O Christmas, you did not buy 
Ihem of that wretch? And the certificate! You don't 
believe in it, do you? So many foolish young people say 
over the ceremony just for fun. He wrote it himself, I 
have no doubt. Tell me the pricehe set upon this precious 
pack!" 
" I did not ask him to set a price. I convinced him 
they would be of very little value to him." 
" Let us bum them at once ! " cries Dolly in joyful 
impatience. " Then I shall feel so safe. But I don't 
see how you did manage it. Christmas, you never could 
have cared for him, though he is so handsome and fasci- 
nating. You see," she continues with that indescribable 
worldly-wise air, ''you can't judge much of society. 
You *ve always been hidden here in Ormiston, out of harm's 
way, and everything is so different. I believe it is a kind 
of madness that takes possession of one, -—of all. I 'm 
 
 
 
tired of it now ; I shall never care for it again. If anoy 
I shall make St Greorge a real good wife, after all." 
Miss Ormiston smiles a little over tJ;ie assumpticm of 
superior wisdom, since, indeed, there never was the slight- 
est danger of her being won by the manifold charms of 
Mr. Jeffries. 
"Yes, let us bnm them ; get a match,'' continues Dolly, 
with a tremor of impatience. 
" Come into my room," retoms her friend, and taking 
Dolly's arm leads her to the fireplace and draws np an 
ottoman. 
" An auto da fe" begins Miss Allaire laoghingly, as Ae 
piles them on the dean hearth. " What a fool I was !
And yet there was a time when I thought it would kill 
me to give him up to any otiier woman. Well," reflec- 
tively, " I shouldn't be happy in seeing St. George in the 
possession of any other woman, yet I do believe Helen's 
regard is more than sisterly. However, she cannot have 
him while I live, and I think I was almost as ill in 
England. I shall not have anything on my mind now, 
and that will help me to get well. Then I do care a very 
great deal for St. George. It seems odd to me, — some- 
thing as if I was a middle-aged woman and had lived 
through so much." 
While Dolly talks she lights the funereal pyre of the 
dead passion on which she has so nearly wrecked her life. 
The blue and reddish yellow flames creep slowly, as if 
loath to go, and leave behind them a blackened trail that 
presently turns to gray, though it keeps the crisp ship of 
the twists that seem like writhing agony. 
" There," she cries in triumph, " he cannot prove any- 
thing against me, ever. That is all over and ended." 
" Dolly," Miss Ormiston's voice is gravely sweet and 
persuasive, " if I were you, I toouid tell Mr. St George 
that I had been engaged to Mr. Jeffries. Some lime you 
may make an incautious reference to it, and it will be a 
weight on your mind — " 
Do fly throws back her glistening head in its pretty array 
of waves and curls, and laughs with the gayety of child- 
ish innocence. 
" Indeed I shall not, Miss Christmas. I am silly in 
some things, but I can keep my own secrets, and I shall 
dismiss this so completely that I shall never even admit 
to myself that it did occur. Do you suppose I should 
ever have told you, if that wretch had not come to hand 
just as he did? I don't see how you ever found out the 
rest, but I suppose when you recognized him as belong- 
ing to the Treverton regime you made him confess some 
of his misdeeds. I 'm so glad it is settled, and of course, 
I am a thousand times grateful to you. But I should be 
idiotic to confess my past sins and follies." And she 
laughs again. 
Christmas is silent. How is it that she can look at 
nothing except in this frivolous, superficial way ; take the 
sweet out of all things like a dancing humming-bird, and 
dismiss the bitter wlule the very flavor of it is on her lips ? 
Her own sense of justice is staggered, the belief in punish- 
ments and rewards receives a severe blow, and she seems 
drifted out to some strange world, where a mere chance 
rules everything. What is it that gives her the great things 
of life in an earnest, responsible manner, and lifts the bur- 
dens completely from this other soul? Not mere train- 
ing, for in these there has been some similarity. She looks 
at Dolly in a dazed, uncomprehending way, and feels hope- 
less of any solution. 
Later, when she is alone, she wonders if Mr. St. GecHrge 
has any key to Dolly's nature. He is patient, tender, 
sweet, he gives to his betrothed the measure she desires, 
and nothing beyond. She remarks on close observation, 
that he does not strive to rouse her to any of the deeper 
meanings of existence ; he seems to take her just as she 
is, and make the best of her. But he is capable of a 
loftier and more widely comprehensive love ; he is able to 
 
 
 
reach the nobler heights of manly maturity and supreme 
bliss. Will it be Mrs. Stannard, some time hi the distant 
fntore, who will ascend with him? 
Dolly certainly does unprove as the days go on. She 
rides oat, she walks down-stairs and Joins the family at 
meals. It is glorious weather, warm and dry at midday, 
the air full of a thousand ripening odors, from the resin- 
ous pine down to Ihe feathery autumnal balsam, with its 
peculiar dried sweetness. Apple orchards and purpling 
grapes, fields of com exhaling a close, dewy fragrance, 
and the clustered richness of the season. The nights are 
cool enough for a blaze of logs upon the hearth, and 
Dolly basks in the warmth and Ught. There is little com- 
pany now, and they sit together in the evenings, Mrs. 
Byrne and St. Greorge taking turns at reading aloud. 
Mrs. Stannard is always at elegant ease, like a princess. 
Even Christmas is compelled to admit that she grows more 
royally beautif nl. For all outside wear her habiliments 
are of the deepest woe, but these evenings she still clings 
to white, elegant woollen stuffs that fall around her in 
billowy foam, until she seems a new and more regal 
Aphrodite. 
As she unfolds in physical magnificence, Christmas 
grows pale and silent, heavy eyed; as if the two were 
draining her at every pore. The old elasticity and hope, 
the eager interest, are gone. She is never impatient with 
Dolly's most frivolous or unreasonable moods, which Helen 
often proves to be, but the serene, impassible grace seems 
so sad a thing. She does not realize how keenly she is 
watched by the man who is studying this little world as 
he has never studied the great (me ; who seems to be 
crystallizing past bits of experience by a newly revealed 
light, conscious of some fatal thrall that has hedged him 
about, in the which he cannot move either to the right or 
to the left with honor. 
"I am going to New York" announces Dolly one 
 
 
erng. " Helen, I wish yoa would send and make 
arrangements. I am qaite well enough to do some shop- 
ping, if I take it in easy stages. The articles can be sent 
in to me, and I can make nearly all my selections. I think 
I shaU be able to go abroad, in spite of Dr. Herrick. 
Leighton, are you ready to be my nurse and physician?" 
There is a sudden consternation as if one had entered 
a hall of conspirators who fancied their doors locked, and 
themselves perfectly safe. An indescribable expression 
flashes over Mrs. Stannard's face, leaving it marble white 
and cold, and her eyes are steadily set upon the fire, while 
her whole attitude is one of expectation. St. George 
flushes first, then he seems to compel some latent strength ; 
yet with it a sense of annoyance, as if his delicacy had 
been wounded. 
" I am at your service, always,'' he makes answer in a 
tone that strangely moves two of the listeners. 
"Very devoted"; and Dolly gives her bright little 
laugh. " Won't mamma be surprised to see us come 
walking in from a sea voyage a few weeks from this time? 
I shall not need more than a fortnight, and then we will 
go to church quietly and surprise our dear five thousand." 
" Dolly, what can you be thinking of ! " exclaims Helen, 
in a tone that is utterly distraught. 
" I have a right to think of my own marriage," says 
Dolly with a savor of impertinence. "You and Lu had 
mamma to do everything." 
"Do wait until we get to England," implores Mrs. 
Stannard. 
" I certainly shall not," is the decisive rejoinder. "I 
have been engaged long enough, haven't I, Leighton ? And 
it is better to have the fuss over ; then I can devote all my 
energies to recovery. Leighton, now is your time to 
repent. I warn you that I shall live to be an old 
woman." 
He crosses the room. Dolly is in a cushioned recUn- 
 
 
 
ing-ohair with the firelight full in her face, which is rosy 
and seductive in spite of being thin; her eyes, too, 
sparkle with a mischievoas light. He takes her hand, 
bends over and smooths her hair, but the other two feel 
with a kind of electric sense that he does not kiss her as 
he makes a whispered answer. 
" Well," says the fiance " make all yonr plans to- 
morrow, and let us start Thursday morning. I am like 
Benedick, — 
" In brief, since I do purpose to many, 
I will think nothing to any purpose 
That the world can say against it."
No one makes any conmient. 
" How silent you all are ! " exclaims Dolly, to whom the 
approval of her compeers is a kind of inspiriting incense. 
'' We will see what Dr. Herrick says to-morrow morn- 
ing," Helen replies. " And now it is time for you to go 
to bed if you are going to perform wonders," she adds, 
rather sharply. 
" It is still early, and this fire is in the midst of its 
magnificence," St. Greorge says regretfully. 
'' But you can come back to it," answers Dolly. " I 
think I do feel tired." 
St. George lifts her in his arms and carries her up« 
stairs. Christmas and Mrs. Byrne exchange a few words 
and then take the usual nightly survey of the other rooms. 
She is in the study when St. George comes down again, 
and does not even go in to wish him good night. Dolly is 
gay and inconsequent, in a curious elfin mood, the happiest 
of them all. 
The next morning Dr. Herrick studies the faces that 
appeal to him. In Mrs. Stannard's he fancies he reads 
sisterly anxiety and prudence, but Miss Onniston's gives 
him a curious sense of personal responsibility. She has 
been very devoted to her friend, but it is wearing on even 
her splendid phisique, and she needs a rest. 
 
 
" Yon may venture to trust the city if you do not over- 
exert yourself. Tour sister must see to that. Though I 
think you would improve faster here." 
" But I want nice weather for my sea voyage, and No- 
vember is often dull and cold, except at the very first." 
He is holding the thin nerveless hand, and he knows life is 
at a low ebb. Still it will ease the pangs of dying to keep 
interested; indeed, one word of despair would snap the 
frail cord. She may even stand a sea voyage, if it is not 
too rough, and she is not desperately sick. 
" Wdl," he says, in a pleasant, advisory tcme, " take 
everything easy, do not over-exert or get unduly excited. 
You have improved wonderfully." 
" Why, I shall astonish you by getting well," she re- 
turns with her bright lithe laugh. 
Dolly Allaire follows the advice to the letter. Fanny 
packs her trunk, just the most important belongings. 
" The others," she says to Christmas, " you can have for 
your charities." Mrs. Stannard goes about with a curi- 
ously indrawn air ; it seems to Christmas, a kind of dis- 
satisfaction. Does she mean to grudge DoUy the little 
remnant of life? Is it the Jealousy of love? 
"If you don't object, I should like to take Fanny for a 
maid ; I have become so accustomed to her, and she is so 
gentle and thoughtful." 
"If she is willing," replies Miss Qrmiston. 
" Oh ! I have sounded her already. She will even go to 
England with me. Dear old Chris, yon have been so 
good, the best of sisters, better than any friend I ever 
had. I know I am selfish and small, yes, small is the very 
word, but the world isn't made up of large people like 
you ; now and then there is one clear on to the outside rim, 
strayed from some upper world ; and yet I Ve a dim idea 
that you are not going to be happy, tiiat you are too his
up for the common joys of this benighted sphere. I 
don't know any man who would have the courage to love 
 
 
 
you, while hundreds might care for your fortune. I'm 
very grateful for all the kindnesses, and I wish you were 
coming with me now, for I shall miss your strength and 
reliance. You will promise just for the last? " And her 
eyes are resistless. 
" Of course," Christmas replies. But oh, how can she 
look upon these two people taking the most solemn vows 
with their lips, when there is no real sanctity in their love ! 
"I shall not appoint the day until the very last. 
Helen is shocked at my want of propriety, but since the 
marriage will be so very quiet, what does it matter? I'll 
send you word. You will surely come ? " 
" Yes," she promises bravely, but with great shrinking 
of soul. 
Nothing occurs to prevent the journey. The day is 
flawless, quite summer again. They all drive down to the 
station in the large carriage, and there can be no real 
pathos in so public a farewell, for which Christmas is 
thankful. 
She cannot go straight back to the lonely house, so shtf 
stops at the factory. How blithe and brisk everything 
seems ! It mocks her with an interest she cannot feel, 
she is so weary, so beaten down by the small unvarying 
storm that can never rise to the dignity of a tempest. 
Donaldson greets her with a curious sort of interest 
that she sees is not in any way connected with St. Greorge. 
Indeed he dismisses the journey bruskly. 
"Do you remember the amount of the check you filled 
in a fortnight or so ago?" he asks, presently. 
"Yes," she answers, indifferently • "Five hundred 
dollars." 
" Five hundred ! Well, see here ! " 
He lays a note before her. It is the fa4>'8imUe of the 
one she gave Carew Jeffries, but for twenty-five hundred 
dollars instead. 
"That has not been altered," he says firmly. " It is a 
 
 
forgery, and on our paper, too. HaTe yon any idea how 
he could get it?" 
Miss Ormiston is struck dumb. 
"I saw your memorandum with the date of the note, 
and I felt certain. It is very perfect and would deceive 
any one." 
"Yes," she replies, studying it attentively. 
"Miss Ormiston, do you expect, or did yon expect to 
marry that man?" 
"I'll" she says quaveringly, as if soon one had struck 
her a blow, — " I marry Jefifries Carew, Mr. Treverton's 
step-son ! " 
The marble-like face has fine flecks of crimson in it, 
and the eyes are midnight in their shame and indignation. 
"Is that handsome fellow the fag end of that rascally 
crew? Forgive me. Miss Ormiston, for such a thought. 
There were some curious circumstances, but your simple 
word is enough. And now, since nothing stands in the 
way, we will set a detective on his track immediately." 
She raises her hand entreatingly. Though her first 
feeling is that justice must be meted out, she pauses. 
Dolly is not yet safe. If she were St. George's wife and 
on her way to England — 
" Wait," she implores, and there is a curious fiicker of 
contending lines about her moutii. "Take no steps just 
yet. I cannot explain to you, but there are reasons — " 
"And let him escape!" Donaldson cries impatiently. 
" Let him go free to repeat his experiment, for this would 
deceive the very elect. Miss Ormiston, unless you have 
an excellent reason, — and in any event, it is really com- 
pounding a felony, — we are hardly rich enough to stand 
such drafts upon us." Then he pauses in his vehemence, 
for something in her face awes him. It is desperately 
tired, desperately pleading. 
"Wait," she again entreats. "It is — for another 
person. That is all I can tell you. Do not move in 
the matter until — until I hsye thought it over. Ohre me 
time." 
"But he will be off to Europe or somewhere. I never 
had the slightest faith in that man. St. George has 
blundered again, but it hcis been perplexing. How did 
you come to allow him at Glen Ormiston, knowing who he 
was?" 
" I did not know at first. It puzzled and confused me. 
Then I came upon a clew. The reason of the check is 
my secret," she says proudly, <' but it was not done for any 
purpose of my own." 
" I can only say that you are very foolish, and that this 
is the first time any womanly scruples, so called, have in- 
terfered with your business habits. Think again. It is 
weak, — a bad precedent. The man is laughing at your 
credulity, doubtless." 
She is too worn for even this to sting. Rising witb a 
kind of icy dignity, she says, — 
" Tou will wait until I decide when the steps shall be
taken." 
He bows, revolving some other purpose in his mind. 
Miss Ormiston walks slowly out ; the dreary house is the 
best, after all. She is her own mistress there, and con- 
siders the subject ; as if, alas I there was any other step 
to be taken. Having committed herself to this path, she 
must walk on to the bitter end. 
After she has gone, Philip Donaldson lifts a sheet of 
paper, and there is a letter partly written underneath. 
He goes on with it now. She has not bound him by any 
promise not to consult St. George. He takes an immense 
satisfaction in demolishing another theory. "You were 
wild," he says, " or utterly misinformed when you an- 
nounced an engagement or tiie possibility of one between 
Miss Ormiston and that fellow Jeffries. I had the hardi- 
hood to tax her with it, and the horror and disgust in her 
