overpowered and dragged away. The king was 
taken also, and both were bound and led to prison. 



IN PRISON 

The cells were all crowded; so the two friends 
were chained in a large room where persons 
charged with trifling offenses were commonly kept. 
They had company, for there were some twenty 
manacled or fettered prisoners here, of both sexes 
and of varying ages — an obscene and noisy gang. 
The king chafed bitterly over the stupendous 
indignity thus put upon his royalty, but Hendon was 
moody and tadtum. He was pretty thoroughly 
bewildered. He had come home, a jubilant prodigal, 
expecting to find everybody wild with joy over 
his return; and instead had got the cold shoulder 
and a jail. The promise and the fulfilment differed 
so widely, that the effect was sttmning; he could 
not decide whether it was most tragic or most 
grotesque. He felt much as a man might who had 
danced blithely out to enjoy a rainbow, and got 
struck by lightning. 

But gradually his confused and tormenting 
thoughts settled down into some sort of order, and 
then his mind centered itself upon Edith. He turned 
her conduct over, and examined it in all Hghts, but 
he could not make anything satisfactory out of it. 
Did she know him? — or didn’t she know him? It 



 

was a perplexing puzzle, and occupied him a long 
time; but he ended, finally, with the conviction that 
she did know him, and had repudiated him for 
interested reasons. He wanted to load her name 
with curses now; but this name had so long been 
sacred to him that he foimd he could not bring his 
tongue to profane it. 

Wrapped in prison blankets of a soiled and tat- 
tered condition, Hendon and the king passed a 
troubled night. For a bribe the jailer had furnished 
liquor to some of the prisoners; singing of ribald 
songs, fighting, shouting, and carousing, was the 
natural consequence. At last, awhile after midnight, 
a man attacked a woman and nearly killed 
her by beating her over the head with his manacles 
before the jailer could come to the rescue. The 
jailer restored peace by giving the man a sound 
clubbing about the head and shoulders — then the 
carousing ceased; and after that, all had an opportunity 
to sleep who did not mind the annoyance of the 
moanings and groanings of the two wounded people. 

During the ensuing week, the days and nights 
were of a monotonous sameness, as to events; men 
whose faces Hendon remembered more or less distinctly 
came, by day, to gaze at the “impostor” 
and repudiate and insult him; and by night the 
carousing and brawling went on, with S3nnmetrical 
regularity. However, there was a change of incident 
at last. The jailer brought in an old man, and 
said to him: 

“The villain is in this room — cast thy old eyes 
about and see if thou canst say which is he,” 

Hendon glanced up, and experienced a pleasant 
sensation for the first time since he had been in the 
jail. He said to himself, “This is Blake Andrews, 
a servant all his life in my father’s family — a good 
honest soul, with a right heart in his breast. That 
is, formerly. But none are true now; all are liars. 
This man will know me — and will deny me, too, 
like the rest.” 

The old man gazed aroimd the room, glanced at 
each face in turn, and finally said: 

“I see none here but paltiy knaves, scum o’ the 
streets. Which is he?” 

The jailer laughed. 

“Here,” he said; “scan this big animal, and grant 
me an opinion,” 

The old man approached, and looked Hendon 
over,  long and earnestly, then shook his head and 
said, 

“Marry, this is no Hendon — nor ever was!” 

“Right I Thy old eyes are sound yet. An I were 
Sir Hugh, I would take the shabby carle and — ” 

The jailer finished by lifting himself a-tiptoe with 
an imaginary halter, at the same time making a 
gurgling noise in his throat suggestive of suffocation. 
The old man said, vindictively: 

“Let him bless God an he fare no worse. An 
I had the handling o’ the villain, he should roast, 
or I am no true man!” 

The jailer laughed a pleasant hyena laugh, and 
said: 

“Give him a piece of thy mind, old man — they 
all do it. Thou’lt find it good diversion.” 

Then he sauntered toward his anteroom and dis- 
appeared. The old man dropped upon his knees 
and whispered: 

“God be thanked, thou’rt come again, my master! 
I believed thou wert dead these seven years, 
and lo, here thou art alive! I knew thee the moment 
I saw thee; and main hard work it was to 
keep a stony countenance and seem to see none 
here but tuppenny knaves and rubbish o’ the streets. 
I am old and poor. Sir Miles ; but say the word and 
I will go forth and proclaim the truth though I be 
strangled for it.” 

“No,” said Hendon, “thou shalt not. It would 
ruin thee, and yet help but little in my cause. But 
I thank thee; for thou hast given me back somewhat 
of my lost faith in my kind.” 

The old servant became very valuable to Hendon 
and the king; for he dropped in several times a day 
to “abuse” the former, and always smuggled in a 
few delicacies to help out the prison bill of fare; he 
also fiurnished the current news. Hendon reserved 
the dainties for the Mng; without them his majesty 
might not have survived, for he was not able to eat 
the coarse and wretched food provided by the jailer. 
Andrews was obliged to confine himself to brief 
visits, in order to avoid suspicion; but he managed 
to impart a fair degree of information each time — 
information delivered in a low voice, for Hendon’s 
benefit, and interlarded with insulting epithets 
delivered in a louder voice, for the benefit of other 
hearers. 

So, little by little, the story of the family came 

out. Arthur had been dead six years. This loss, 
with the absence of news from Hendon, impaired 
the father’s health; he believed he was going to 
die, and he wished to see Hugh and Edith settled in 
life before he passed away; but Edith begged hard 
for delay, hoping for Miles’s return; then the letter 
came which brought the news of Miles’s death; the 
shock prostrated Sir Richard; he believed his end 
was very near, and he and Hugh insisted upon the 
marriage; Edith begged for and obtained a month’s 
respite; then another, and finally a third; the
marriage then took place, by the death-bed of Sir Rich- 
ard. It had not proved a happy one. It was 
whispered about the country that shortly after 
the nuptials the bride fotmd among her husband’s 
papers several rough and incomplete drafts of the 
fatal letter, and had accused him of precipitating 
the marriage — and Sir Richard’s death, too — by a 
wicked forgery. Tales of cruelty to the Lady Edith 
and the servants were to be heard on all hands; and 
since the father’s death Sir Hugh had thrown off all 
soft disguises and become a pitiless master toward 
all who in any way depended upon him and his 
domains for bread. 

There was a bit of Andrew’s gossip which the 
king listened to with a lively interest: 

“There is rumor that the king is mad. But in 
charity forbear to say I mentioned it, for ’tis death 
to speak of it, they say.” 

His majesty glared at the old man and said : 

“The king is not mad, good man — and thou’lt 
find it to thy advantage to busy thyself with matter 
that nearer concern thee than this seditious 
prattle.” 

“What doth the lad mean?” said Andrews, surprised 
at this brisk assault from such an unexpected 
quarter. Hendon gave him a sign, and he did not 
pursue his question, but v/ent on with his budget : 

“The late king is to be buried at Windsor in a 
day or two — the sixteenth of the month — and the new 
king will be crowned at Westminster the twentieth.” 

“Methinks they must needs find him first,” mut- 
tered his majesty; then added, confidently, “but 
they will look to that — and so also shall L” 

“In the name of — ” 

But the old man got no further — a warning sign 
from Hendon checked his remark. He restimed the 
thread of his gossip. 

‘ ‘ Sir Hugh goeth to the coronation — and with grand 
hopes. He confidently looketh to come back a peer, 
for he is high in favor with the Lord Protector.” 

“What Lord Protector?” asked his majesty. 

“His grace the Duke of Somerset.” 

“What Duke of Somerset?” 

“Marry, there is but one — Seymour, Earl of 
Hertford.” 

The king asked, sharply: 

“Since when is he a duke, and Lord Protector?” 

“Since the last day of January.” 

“And, prithee, who-'made him so?” 

“Himself and the Great Council — with help of 
the king.” 

His majesty started violently. “The king!" he 
cried. “What king, good sir?” 


“What king, indeed! (God-a-mercy, what aileth 
the boy?) Sith we have but one, ’tis not difficult 
to answer — his most sacred majesty King Edward 
the Sixth — whom God preserve! Yea, and a deaf 
and gracious little urchin is he, too; and whethef 
he be mad or no — and they say he mendeth daily 
— his praises are on all men’s lips; and all bless 
him likewise, and offer prayers that he may be 
spared to reign long in England; for he began 
humanely, with saving the old Duke of Norfolk’s 
life, and now is he bent on destroying the cruelest 
of the laws that harry and oppress the people.” 

This news struck his majesty dumb with amaze- 
ment, and plunged him into so deep and dismal a 
reverie that he heard no more of the old man’s 
gossip. He wondered if the “little urchin” was 
the beggar-boy whom he left dressed in his own 
garments in the palace. It did not seem possible 
that this could be, for surely his manners and speech 
would betray him if he pretended to be the Prince 
of Wales — then he would be driven out, and search 
made for the true prince. Could it be that the court 
had set up some sprig of the nobhity in his place? 
No, for his unde would not allow that — he was all- 
powerful and could and would crush such a move- 
ment, of course. The boy’s musings profited him 
nothing; the more he tried to unriddle the mystery 
the more perplexed he became, the more his head 
ached, and the worse he slept. His impatience to 
get to London grew hourly, and his captivity became 
almost unendurable. 

Hendon’s arts all failed with the king — he could 
not be comforted, but a couple of women who were 
chained near him, succeeded better. Under their 
gentle ministrations he found peace and learned a 
degree of patience. He was very grateful, and came 
to love them dearly and to delight in the sweet and 
soothing influence of their presence. He asked 
them why they were in prison, and when they said 
they were Baptists, he smiled, and inquired: 

“Is that a crime to be shut up for in a prison? 
Now I grieve, for I shall lose ye — they will not 
keep ye long for such a little thing.” 

They did not answer; and something in their 
faces made him uneasy. He said, eagerly: 

“You do not speak — be good to me, and tell 
me — there will be no other punishment? Prithee, 
tell me there is no fear of that.” 

They tried to change the topic, but his fears were 
aroused, and he pursued it: 

“Will they scomge thee? No, no, they would 
not be so cruel! Say they would not. Come, they 
will not, win they?” 

The women betrayed confusion and distress, but 
there was no avoiding an answer, so one of them 
said, in a voice choked with emotion: 

“Oh, thou’lt break our hearts, thou gentle spirit! 
God will help us to bear our — ” 

“It is a confession!” the king broke in. “Then 
they will scourge thee, the stony-hearted wretches! 
But oh, thou must not weep, I cannot bear it. 
Keep u thy courage — I shall come to my own in 
time to save thee from this bitter thing, and I will 
do it!” 

When the king awoke in the morning, the women 
were gone. 

“They are saved!” he said, joyfully; then added, 
despondently, “but woe is me! — for they were my 
comforters,” 

Each of them had left a slored of ribbon pinned to 
his clothing, in token of remembrance. He said he 
would keep these things always; and that soon he 
would seek out these dear good friends of his and 
take them under his protection. 

Just then the jailer came in with some subordinates 
and commanded that the prisoners be conducted to 
the jail-yard. The king was overjoyed — it would 
be a blessed thing to see the blue sky and breathe 
the fresh air once more. He fretted and chafed at 
the slowness of the officers, but his turn came at 
last and he was released from his staple and ordered 
to follow the other prisoners, with Hendon. 

The court, or quadrangle, was stone-paved, and 
open to the sky. The prisoners entered it through 
a massive archway of masonry, and were placed in 
file, standing, with their backs against the wall. A 
rope was stretched in front of them, and they were 
also guarded by their officers. It was a chill and 
lowering morning, and a light snow which had fallen 
during the night whitened the great empty space 
and added to the general dismalness of its aspect. 
Now and then a wintry wind shivered through the 
place and sent the snow eddying hither and thither. 

In the center of the court stood two women, 
chained to posts. A glance showed the king that 
these were his good friends. He shuddered, and said 
to himself, “Alack, they are not gone free, as I 
had thought. To think that such as these should 
know the lash! — in England! Ay, there’s the 
shame of it — not in Heathenesse, but Christian 
England! They will be scourged; and I, whom they 
have comforted and kindly entreated, must look 
on and see the great wrong done; it is strange, 
so strange! that I, the very source of power in this 
broad realm, am helpless to protect them. But let 
these miscreants look well to themselves, for there 
is a day coming when I will require of them a heavy 
reckoning for this work. For every blow they strike 
now they shall feel a hundred then.” 

A great gate swung open and a crowd of citizens 
poured in. They flocked around the two women, 
and hid them from the king’s view. A clergyman 
entered and passed through the crowd, and he also 
was hidden. The king now heard talking, back and 
forth, as if questions were being asked and answered, 
but he could not make out what was said. Next 
there was a deal of bustle and preparation, and 
much passing and repassing of officials through that 
part of the crowd that stood on the further side of 
the women; and while this proceeded a deep hush 
gradually fell upon the people. 

Now, by command, the masses parted and fell 
aside, and the king saw a spectacle that froze the 
marrow in his bones. Fagots had been piled about 
the two women, and a kneeling man was lighting 
them! 

The women bowed thdr heads, and covered their 
faces with their hands; the yellow flames began to, 

climb upward among the snapping and crackling 
fagots, and wreaths of blue smoke to stream away 
on the wind; the clergyman lifted his hands and 
began a prayer — just then two young girls came 
flying through the great gate, uttering piercing 
screams, and threw themselves upon the women at 
the stake. Instantly they were tom away by the 
officers, and one of them was kept in a tight grip, 
but the other broke loose, saying she would die with 
her mother; and before she could be stopped she 
had flung her arms about her mother’s neck again. 
She was tom away once more, and with her gown 
on fire. Two or three men held her, and the burn- 
ing portion of her gown was snatched off and thrown 
flaming aside, she struggling all the while to free 
herself, and saying she would be alone in the world 
now, and begging to be allowed to die with her 
mother. Both the girls screamed continually, and 
fought for freedom; but suddenly this tumult was 
drowned under a volley of heart-piercing shrieks of 
mortal agony. The king glanced from the frantic 
girls to the stake, then turned away and leaned his 
ashen face against the wall, and looked no more. 
He said, “That which I have seen, in that one little 
moment, will never go out from my memory, but 
will abide there; and I shall see it all the days, and 
dream of it all the nights, till I die. Would God I 
had been bKnd!” 

Hendon was watching the king. He said to himself, 
with satisfaction, “His disorder mendeth; he 
hath changed, and groweth gentler. If he had 
followed his wont, he would have stormed at these 

Varlets, and said he was king, and commanded that 
the women be turned loose unscathed. Soon his 
delusion will pass away and be forgotten, and his 
poor mind will be whole again. God speed the day !” 

That same day several prisoners were brought in 
to remain overnight, who were being conveyed, 
under guard, to various places in the kingdom, to 
undergo punishment for crimes committed. The 
king conversed with these — he had made it a point, 
from the beginning, to instruct himself for the 
kingly office by questioning prisoners whenever the 
opportunity offered — and the tale of their woes 
wrung his heart. One of them was a poor half- 
witted woman who had stolen a yard or two of 
doth from a weaver — she was to be hanged for it. 
Another was a man who had been accused of stealing 
a horse; he said the proof had failed, and he 
had imagined that he was safe from the halter; but 
no — he was hardly free before he was arraigned for 
killing a deer in the king’s park; this was proved 
against him, and now he was on his way to the 
gallows. There was a tradesman’s apprentice whose 
case particularly distressed the king; this youth said 
he found a hawk one evening that had escaped from 
its owner, and he took it home with him, imagining 
himself entitled to it; but the court convicted him 
of stealing it, and sentenced him to death. 

The king was furious over these inhumanities, and 
wanted Hendon to break jail and fly with him to 
Westminster, so that he could mount his throne and 
hold out his scepter in mercy over these unfortunate 
people and save their lives. “Poor child,” sighed 
Hendon, “these woeful tales have brought his malady 
upon him again — alack, but for this evil hap, he 
would have been well in a little time.” 

Among these prisoners was an old lawyer — a 
man with a strong face and a dauntless mien. Three 
years past, he had written a pamphlet against the 
iord Chancellor, accusing him of injustice, and had 
been punished for it by the loss of his ears in the 
pillory and degradation from the bar, and in addition
had been fined £3,000 and sentenced to im- 
prisonment for life. Lately he had repeated his 
offense; and in consequence was now under sentence 
to lose what remained of his ears, pay a fine 
of £5,000, be branded on both cheeks, and remain 
in prison for life. 

“These be honorable scars,” he said, and turned 
back his gray hair and showed the mutilated stubs 
of what had once been his ears. 

The king’s eye burned with passion. He said: 

“None believe in me — neither wilt thou. But 
no matter — within the compass of a month thou 
shalt be free; and more, the laws that have dishonored 
thee, and shamed the English name, shall 
be swept from the statute-books. The world is 
made wrong, kings should go to school to their own 
laws at times, and so learn mercy.”  

THE SACRIFICE 

Meantime Miles was growing sufficiently tired 
, of confinement and inaction. But now his trial 
came on, to his great gratification, and he thought 
he could welcome any sentence provided a further 
imprisonment should not be a part of it. But he 
was mistaken about that. He was in a fine fury 
when he found himself described as a “sturdy vaga- 
bond” and sentenced to sit two hours in the pillory 
for bearing that character and for assaulting the 
master of Hendon Hall. His pretensions as to 
brothership with his prosecutor, and rightful heirship 
to the Hendon honors and estates, were left 
contemptuously unnoticed, as being not even worth 
examination. 

He raged and threatened on his way to punish- 
ment, but it did no good; he was snatched roughly 
along by the officers, and got an occasional cuff, 
besides, for his unreverent conduct. 

The king could not pierce through the rabble that 
swarmed behind; so he was obliged to follow in the 
rear, remote from his good friend and servant. The 
king had been nearly condemned to the stocks himself, 
for being in such bad company, but had been 
let off with a lecture and a warning, in consideration 

of his youth. When the crowd at last halted, he 
flitted feverishly from point to point around its outer 
rim, hunting a place to get through; and at last, 
after a deal of difficulty and delay, succeeded. 
There sat his poor henchman in the degrading 
stocks, the sport and butt of a dirty mob— he, the 
body servant of the king of England! Edward had 
heard the sentence pronounced, but he had not realized 
the half that it meant. His anger began to rise 
as the sense of this new indignity which had been 
put upon him sank home; it jumped to summer 
heat the next moment, when he saw an egg sail 
through the air and crush itself against Hendon’s 
cheek, and heard the crowd roar its enjoyment of 
the episode. He sprang across the open circle and 
confronted the officer in charge, crying: 

“For shame! This is my servant — set him free! 
I am the — ” 

“Oh, peace!” exclaimed Hendon, in a panic, 
“thou’lt destroy thyself. Mind him not, officer, 
he is mad.” 

“Give thyself no trouble as to the matter of minding 
him, good man, I have small mind to mind him; 
but as to teaching him somewhat, to that I am well 
inclined.” He turned to a subordinate and said, 
“Give the little fool a taste or two of the lash, to 
mend his manners.” 

“Half a dozen will better serve his turn,” suggested 
Sir Hugh, who had ridden up a moment be- 
fore to take a passing glance at the proceedings. 

The king was seized. He did not even struggle, 
SO paralyzed was he with the mere thought of the 

monstrous outrage that was proposed to be inflicted 
upon his sacred person. History was already defiled 
with the record of the scourging of an English 
Tfing with whips — it was an intolerable reflection 
that he must furnish a duplicate of that shameful 
page. He was in the toils, there was no help for 
him; he must either take this punishment or beg 
for its remission. Hard conditions; he would take 
the stripes — a king might do that, but a king could 
not beg. 

But meantime. Miles Hendon was resolving the 
difficulty. “Let the child go,” said he; “ye 
heartless dogs, do ye not see how young and frail he is? 
Let him go — will take his lashes.” 

“Marry, a good thought — and thanks for it,” 
said Sir Hugh, his face lighting with a sardonic 
satisfaction. “Let the little beggar go, and give this 
fdlow a dozen in his place — an honest dozen, well 
laid on.” The king was in the act of entering a 
fierce protest, but Sir Hugh silenced him with the 
potent remark, “Yes, speak up, do, and free thy 
mind — only, mark ye, that for each word you utter 
he shah get sis strokes the more.” 

Hendon was removed from the stocks, and his 
back laid bare; and while the lash was applied the 
poor little king turned away his face and allowed 
unroyal tears to channel his cheeks unchecked. “Ah, 
brave good heart,” he said to himself, “this loyal 
deed shah never perish out of my memory. I will 
not forget it — and neither shah they!" he added, 
with passion. Whhe he mused, his appreciation of 
Hendon’s magnanimous conduct grew to greater 
and still greater dimensions in his mind, and so also 
did his gratefulness for it. Presently he said to 
himself, “Who saves his prince from wounds and 
possible death— and this he did for me— performs 
high service; but it is little — it is nothing! — oh, 
less than nothing!— when ’tis weighed against the 
act of him who saves his prince from shame !” 

Hendon made no outcry under the scourge, but 
bore the heavy blows with soldierly fortitude. This, 
together with his redeeming the boy by taking his 
