the settlement of Plymouth in 1620, which makes an appropriate close to
our review of this period:

“When I first went to the North part of Virginia, where the Westerly
Colony had been planted, it had dissolved itself within a year, and
there was not one Christian in all the land. I was set forth at the sole
charge of four merchants of London; the Country being then reputed by
your westerlings a most rocky, barren, desolate desart; but the good
return I brought from thence, with the maps and relations of the
Country, which I made so manifest, some of them did believe me, and they
were well embraced, both by the Londoners, and Westerlings, for whom I
had promised to undertake it, thinking to have joyned them all together,
but that might well have been a work for Hercules. Betwixt them long
there was much contention: the Londoners indeed went bravely forward:
but in three or four years I and my friends consumed many hundred pounds
amongst the Plimothians, who only fed me but with delays, promises, and
excuses, but no performance of anything to any purpose. In the interim,
many particular ships went thither, and finding my relations true, and
that I had not taken that I brought home from the French men, as had
been reported: yet further for my pains to discredit me, and my calling
it New England, they obscured it, and shadowed it, with the title of
Canada, till at my humble suit, it pleased our most Royal King Charles,
whom God long keep, bless and preserve, then Prince of Wales, to confirm
it with my map and book, by the title of New England; the gain thence
returning did make the fame thereof so increase that thirty, forty or
fifty sail went yearly only to trade and fish; but nothing would be done
for a plantation, till about some hundred of your Brownists of England,
Amsterdam and Leyden went to New Plimouth, whose humorous ignorances,
caused them for more than a year, to endure a wonderful deal of misery,
with an infinite patience; saying my books and maps were much better
cheap to teach them than myself: many others have used the like
good husbandry that have payed soundly in trying their self-willed
conclusions; but those in time doing well, diverse others have in small
handfulls undertaken to go there, to be several Lords and Kings of
themselves, but most vanished to nothing.”





XVII. WRITINGS-LATER YEARS

If Smith had not been an author, his exploits would have occupied
a small space in the literature of his times. But by his unwearied
narrations he impressed his image in gigantic features on our plastic
continent. If he had been silent, he would have had something less
than justice; as it is, he has been permitted to greatly exaggerate his
relations to the New World. It is only by noting the comparative silence
of his contemporaries and by winnowing his own statements that we can
appreciate his true position.

For twenty years he was a voluminous writer, working off his superfluous
energy in setting forth his adventures in new forms. Most of his
writings are repetitions and recastings of the old material, with such
reflections as occur to him from time to time. He seldom writes a book,
or a tract, without beginning it or working into it a resume of his
life. The only exception to this is his “Sea Grammar.” In 1626 he
published “An Accidence or the Pathway to Experience, necessary to all
Young Seamen,” and in 1627 “A Sea Grammar, with the plain Exposition of
Smith’s Accidence for Young Seamen, enlarged.” This is a technical work,
and strictly confined to the building, rigging, and managing of a ship.
He was also engaged at the time of his death upon a “History of the
Sea,” which never saw the light. He was evidently fond of the sea, and
we may say the title of Admiral came naturally to him, since he used
it in the title-page to his “Description of New England,” published in
1616, although it was not till 1617 that the commissioners at Plymouth
agreed to bestow upon him the title of “Admiral of that country.”

In 1630 he published “The True Travels, Adventures and Observations of
Captain John Smith, in Europe, Asia, Affrica and America, from 1593 to
1629. Together with a Continuation of his General History of Virginia,
Summer Isles, New England, and their proceedings since 1624 to this
present 1629: as also of the new Plantations of the great River of the
Amazons, the Isles of St. Christopher, Mevis and Barbadoes in the West
Indies.” In the dedication to William, Earl of Pembroke, and Robert,
Earl of Lindsay, he says it was written at the request of Sir Robert
Cotton, the learned antiquarian, and he the more willingly satisfies
this noble desire because, as he says, “they have acted my fatal
tragedies on the stage, and racked my relations at their pleasure. To
prevent, therefore, all future misprisions, I have compiled this true
discourse. Envy hath taxed me to have writ too much, and done too
little; but that such should know how little, I esteem them, I have
writ this more for the satisfaction of my friends, and all generous
and well-disposed readers: To speak only of myself were intolerable
ingratitude: because, having had many co-partners with me, I cannot
make a Monument for myself, and leave them unburied in the fields, whose
lives begot me the title of Soldier, for as they were companions with me
in my dangers, so shall they be partakers with me in this Tombe.” In the
same dedication he spoke of his “Sea Grammar” caused to be printed by
his worthy friend Sir Samuel Saltonstall.

This volume, like all others Smith published, is accompanied by a great
number of swollen panegyrics in verse, showing that the writers had been
favored with the perusal of the volume before it was published. Valor,
piety, virtue, learning, wit, are by them ascribed to the “great Smith,”
 who is easily the wonder and paragon of his age. All of them are
stuffed with the affected conceits fashionable at the time. One of the
most pedantic of these was addressed to him by Samuel Purchas when the
“General Historie” was written.

The portrait of Smith which occupies a corner in the Map of Virginia
has in the oval the date, “AEta 37, A. 1616,” and round the rim the
inscription: “Portraictuer of Captaine John Smith, Admirall of New
England,” and under it these lines engraved:

   “These are the Lines that show thy face: but those
    That show thy Grace and Glory brighter bee:
    Thy Faire Discoveries and Fowle-Overthrowes
    Of Salvages, much Civilized by thee
    Best shew thy Spirit; and to it Glory Wyn;
    So, thou art Brasse without, but Golde within,
    If so, in Brasse (too soft smiths Acts to beare)
    I fix thy Fame to make Brasse steele outweare.

“Thine as thou art Virtues

“JOHN DAVIES, Heref.”


In this engraving Smith is clad in armor, with a high starched collar,
and full beard and mustache formally cut. His right hand rests on his
hip, and his left grasps the handle of his sword. The face is open and
pleasing and full of decision.

This “true discourse” contains the wild romance with which this volume
opens, and is pieced out with recapitulations of his former writings and
exploits, compilations from others’ relations, and general comments.
We have given from it the story of his early life, because there is
absolutely no other account of that part of his career. We may assume
that up to his going to Virginia he did lead a life of reckless
adventure and hardship, often in want of a decent suit of clothes and
of “regular meals.” That he took some part in the wars in Hungary is
probable, notwithstanding his romancing narrative, and he may have been
captured by the Turks. But his account of the wars there, and of the
political complications, we suspect are cribbed from the old chronicles,
probably from the Italian, while his vague descriptions of the lands and
people in Turkey and “Tartaria” are evidently taken from the narratives
of other travelers. It seems to me that the whole of his story of his
oriental captivity lacks the note of personal experience. If it were
not for the “patent” of Sigismund (which is only produced and certified
twenty years after it is dated), the whole Transylvania legend would
appear entirely apocryphal.

The “True Travels” close with a discourse upon the bad life, qualities,
and conditions of pirates. The most ancient of these was one Collis,
“who most refreshed himself upon the coast of Wales, and Clinton and
Pursser, his companions, who grew famous till Queen Elizabeth of blessed
memory hanged them at Wapping. The misery of a Pirate (although many are
as sufficient seamen as any) yet in regard of his superfluity, you shall
find it such, that any wise man would rather live amongst wild beasts,
than them; therefore let all unadvised persons take heed how they
entertain that quality; and I could wish merchants, gentlemen, and all
setters-forth of ships not to be sparing of a competent pay, nor true
payment; for neither soldiers nor seamen can live without means; but
necessity will force them to steal, and when they are once entered into
that trade they are hardly reclaimed.”

Smith complains that the play-writers had appropriated his adventures,
but does not say that his own character had been put upon the stage. In
Ben Jonson’s “Staple of News,” played in 1625, there is a reference to
Pocahontas in the dialogue that occurs between Pick-lock and Pennyboy
Canter:

Pick.--A tavern’s unfit too for a princess.

P. Cant.--No, I have known a Princess and a great one, Come forth of a
tavern.

Pick.--Not go in Sir, though.

A Cant.--She must go in, if she came forth. The blessed Pocahontas, as
the historian calls her, And great King’s daughter of Virginia, Hath
been in womb of tavern.

The last work of our author was published in 1631, the year of his
death. Its full title very well describes the contents: “Advertisements
for the Unexperienced Planters of New England, or anywhere. Or, the
Pathway to Experience to erect a Plantation. With the yearly proceedings
of this country in fishing and planting since the year 1614 to the
year 1630, and their present estate. Also, how to prevent the greatest
inconvenience by their proceedings in Virginia, and other plantations by
approved examples. With the countries armes, a description of the coast,
harbours, habitations, landmarks, latitude and longitude: with the map
allowed by our Royall King Charles.”

Smith had become a trifle cynical in regard to the newsmongers of the
day, and quaintly remarks in his address to the reader: “Apelles by the
proportion of a foot could make the whole proportion of a man: were
he now living, he might go to school, for now thousands can by opinion
proportion kingdoms, cities and lordships that never durst adventure to
see them. Malignancy I expect from these, have lived 10 or 12 years
in those actions, and return as wise as they went, claiming time and
experience for their tutor that can neither shift Sun nor moon, nor say
their compass, yet will tell you of more than all the world betwixt the
Exchange, Paul’s and Westminster.... and tell as well what all England
is by seeing but Mitford Haven as what Apelles was by the picture of his
great toe.”

This is one of Smith’s most characteristic productions. Its material is
ill-arranged, and much of it is obscurely written; it runs backward
and forward along his life, refers constantly to his former works and
repeats them, complains of the want of appreciation of his services, and
makes himself the centre of all the colonizing exploits of the age. Yet
it is interspersed with strokes of humor and observations full of good
sense.

It opens with the airy remark: “The wars in Europe, Asia and Africa,
taught me how to subdue the wild savages in Virginia and New England.”
 He never did subdue the wild savages in New England, and he never was in
any war in Africa, nor in Asia, unless we call his piratical cruising in
the Mediterranean “wars in Asia.”

As a Church of England man, Smith is not well pleased with the
occupation of New England by the Puritans, Brownists, and such “factious
humorists” as settled at New Plymouth, although he acknowledges the
wonderful patience with which, in their ignorance and willfulness, they
have endured losses and extremities; but he hopes better things of
the gentlemen who went in 1629 to supply Endicott at Salem, and were
followed the next year by Winthrop. All these adventurers have, he says,
made use of his “aged endeavors.” It seems presumptuous in them to try
to get on with his maps and descriptions and without him. They probably
had never heard, except in the title-pages of his works, that he was
“Admiral of New England.”

Even as late as this time many supposed New England to be an island, but
Smith again asserts, what he had always maintained--that it was a part
of the continent. The expedition of Winthrop was scattered by a storm,
and reached Salem with the loss of threescore dead and many sick,
to find as many of the colony dead, and all disconsolate. Of the
discouraged among them who returned to England Smith says: “Some could
not endure the name of a bishop, others not the sight of a cross or
surplice, others by no means the book of common prayer. This absolute
crew, only of the Elect, holding all (but such as themselves) reprobates
and castaways, now made more haste to return to Babel, as they termed
England, than stay to enjoy the land they called Canaan.” Somewhat they
must say to excuse themselves. Therefore, “some say they could see no
timbers of ten foot diameter, some the country is all wood; others they
drained all the springs and ponds dry, yet like to famish for want of
fresh water; some of the danger of the ratell-snake.” To compel all
the Indians to furnish them corn without using them cruelly they say
is impossible. Yet this “impossible,” Smith says, he accomplished in
Virginia, and offers to undertake in New England, with one hundred and
fifty men, to get corn, fortify the country, and “discover them more
land than they all yet know.”

This homily ends--and it is the last published sentence of the “great
Smith”--with this good advice to the New England colonists:

“Lastly, remember as faction, pride, and security produces nothing but
confusion, misery and dissolution; so the contraries well practised will
in short time make you happy, and the most admired people of all our
plantations for your time in the world.

“John Smith writ this with his owne hand.”

The extent to which Smith retouched his narrations, as they grew in his
imagination, in his many reproductions of them, has been referred to,
and illustrated by previous quotations. An amusing instance of his care
and ingenuity is furnished by the interpolation of Pocahontas into his
stories after 1623. In his “General Historie” of 1624 he adopts, for the
account of his career in Virginia, the narratives in the Oxford tract
of 1612, which he had supervised. We have seen how he interpolated the
wonderful story of his rescue by the Indian child. Some of his other
insertions of her name, to bring all the narrative up to that level,
are curious. The following passages from the “Oxford Tract” contain in
italics the words inserted when they were transferred to the “General
Historie”:

“So revived their dead spirits (especially the love of Pocahuntas) as
all anxious fears were abandoned.”

“Part always they brought him as presents from their king, or
Pocahuntas.”

In the account of the “masques” of girls to entertain Smith at
Werowocomoco we read:

“But presently Pocahuntas came, wishing him to kill her if any hurt were
intended, and the beholders, which were women and children, satisfied
the Captain there was no such matter.”

In the account of Wyffin’s bringing the news of Scrivener’s drowning,
when Wyffin was lodged a night with Powhatan, we read:

“He did assure himself some mischief was intended. Pocahontas hid him
for a time, and sent them who pursued him the clean contrary way to seek
him; but by her means and extraordinary bribes and much trouble in three
days’ travel, at length he found us in the middest of these turmoyles.”

The affecting story of the visit and warning from Pocahontas in the
night, when she appeared with “tears running down her cheeks,” is not
in the first narration in the Oxford Tract, but is inserted in the
narrative in the “General Historie.” Indeed, the first account would by
its terms exclude the later one. It is all contained in these few lines:

“But our barge being left by the ebb, caused us to staie till the
midnight tide carried us safe aboord, having spent that half night with
such mirth as though we never had suspected or intended anything, we
left the Dutchmen to build, Brinton to kill foule for Powhatan (as by
his messengers he importunately desired), and left directions with our
men to give Powhatan all the content they could, that we might enjoy his
company on our return from Pamaunke.”

It should be added, however, that there is an allusion to some warning
by Pocahontas in the last chapter of the “Oxford Tract.” But the full
story of the night visit and the streaming tears as we have given it
seems without doubt to have been elaborated from very slight materials.
And the subsequent insertion of the name of Pocahontas--of which we have
given examples above--into old accounts that had no allusion to her,
adds new and strong presumptions to the belief that Smith invented what
is known as the Pocahontas legend.

As a mere literary criticism on Smith’s writings, it would appear that
he had a habit of transferring to his own career notable incidents and
adventures of which he had read, and this is somewhat damaging to an
estimate of his originality. His wonderful system of telegraphy by means
of torches, which he says he put in practice at the siege of Olympack,
and which he describes as if it were his own invention, he had doubtless
read in Polybius, and it seemed a good thing to introduce into his
narrative.

He was (it must also be noted) the second white man whose life was saved
by an Indian princess in America, who subsequently warned her favorite
of a plot to kill him. In 1528 Pamphilo de Narvaes landed at Tampa Bay,
Florida, and made a disastrous expedition into the interior. Among the
Spaniards who were missing as a result of this excursion was a soldier
named Juan Ortiz. When De Soto marched into the same country in 1539 he
encountered this soldier, who had been held in captivity by the Indians
and had learned their language. The story that Ortiz told was this:
He was taken prisoner by the chief Ucita, bound hand and foot, and
stretched upon a scaffold to be roasted, when, just as the flames were
seizing him, a daughter of the chief interposed in his behalf, and
upon her prayers Ucita spared the life of the prisoner. Three years
afterward, when there was danger that Ortiz would be sacrificed to
appease the devil, the princess came to him, warned him of his danger,
and led him secretly and alone in the night to the camp of a chieftain
who protected him.

This narrative was in print before Smith wrote, and as he was fond
of such adventures he may have read it. The incidents are curiously
parallel. And all the comment needed upon it is that Smith seems to have
been peculiarly subject to such coincidences.

Our author’s selection of a coat of arms, the distinguishing feature of
which was “three Turks’ heads,” showed little more originality. It was
a common device before his day: on many coats of arms of the Middle
Ages and later appear “three Saracens’ heads,” or “three Moors’
heads”--probably most of them had their origin in the Crusades. Smith’s
patent to use this charge, which he produced from Sigismund, was dated
1603, but the certificate appended to it by the Garter King at Arms,
certifying that it was recorded in the register and office of the
heralds, is dated 1625. Whether Smith used it before this latter date we
are not told. We do not know why he had not as good right to assume it
as anybody.

[Burke’s “Encyclopedia of Heraldry” gives it as granted to Capt. John
Smith, of the Smiths of Cruffley, Co. Lancaster, in 1629, and describes
it: “Vert, a chev. gu. betw. three Turks’ heads couped ppr. turbaned or.
Crest-an Ostrich or, holding in the mouth a horseshoe or.”]




XVIII. DEATH AND CHARACTER

Hardship and disappointment made our hero prematurely old, but could
not conquer his indomitable spirit. The disastrous voyage of June, 1615,
when he fell into the hands of the French, is spoken of by the Council
for New England in 1622 as “the ruin of that poor gentleman, Captain
Smith, who was detained prisoner by them, and forced to suffer many
extremities before he got free of his troubles;” but he did not know
that he was ruined, and did not for a moment relax his efforts
to promote colonization and obtain a command, nor relinquish his
superintendence of the Western Continent.

His last days were evidently passed in a struggle for existence, which
was not so bitter to him as it might have been to another man, for he
was sustained by ever-elating “great expectations.” That he was pinched
for means of living, there is no doubt. In 1623 he issued a prospectus
of his “General Historie,” in which he said: “These observations are all
I have for the expenses of a thousand pounds and the loss of eighteen
years’ time, besides all the travels, dangers, miseries and incumbrances
for my countries good, I have endured gratis:... this is composed in
less than eighty sheets, besides the three maps, which will stand me
near in a hundred pounds, which sum I cannot disburse: nor shall the
stationers have the copy for nothing. I therefore, humbly entreat your
Honour, either to adventure, or give me what you please towards the
impression, and I will be both accountable and thankful.”

He had come before he was fifty to regard himself as an old man, and
to speak of his “aged endeavors.” Where and how he lived in his later
years, and with what surroundings and under what circumstances he
died, there is no record. That he had no settled home, and was in mean
lodgings at the last, may be reasonably inferred. There is a manuscript
note on the fly-leaf of one of the original editions of “The Map of
Virginia....” (Oxford, 1612), in ancient chirography, but which from its
reference to Fuller could not have been written until more than thirty
years after Smith’s death. It says: “When he was old he lived in London
poor but kept up his spirits with the commemoration of his former
actions and bravery. He was buried in St. Sepulcher’s Church, as Fuller
tells us, who has given us a line of his Ranting Epitaph.”

That seems to have been the tradition of the man, buoyantly supporting
himself in the commemoration of his own achievements. To the end his
industrious and hopeful spirit sustained him, and in the last year of
his life he was toiling on another compilation, and promised his readers
a variety of actions and memorable observations which they shall “find
with admiration in my History of the Sea, if God be pleased I live to
finish it.”

He died on the 21 St of June, 1631, and the same day made his last will,
to which he appended his mark, as he seems to have been too feeble to
write his name. In this he describes himself as “Captain John Smith
of the parish of St. Sepulcher’s London Esquior.” He commends his soul
“into the hands of Almighty God, my maker, hoping through the merits of
Christ Jesus my Redeemer to receive full remission of all my sins and to
inherit a place in the everlasting kingdom”; his body he commits to the
earth whence it came; and “of such worldly goods whereof it hath pleased
God in his mercy to make me an unworthy receiver,” he bequeathes: first,
to Thomas Packer, Esq., one of his Majesty’s clerks of the Privy Seal,
“all my houses, lands, tenantements and hereditaments whatsoever,
situate lying and being in the parishes of Louthe and Great Carleton, in
the county of Lincoln together with my coat of armes”; and charges him
to pay certain legacies not exceeding the sum of eighty pounds, out
of which he reserves to himself twenty pounds to be disposed of as he
chooses in his lifetime. The sum of twenty pounds is to be disbursed
about the funeral. To his most worthy friend, Sir Samuel Saltonstall
Knight, he gives five pounds; to Morris Treadway, five pounds; to his
sister Smith, the widow of his brother, ten pounds; to his cousin Steven
Smith, and his sister, six pounds thirteen shillings and fourpence
between them; to Thomas Packer, Joane, his wife, and Eleanor, his
daughter, ten pounds among them; to “Mr. Reynolds, the lay Mr of the
Goldsmiths Hall, the sum of forty shillings”; to Thomas, the son of
said Thomas Packer, “my trunk standing in my chamber at Sir Samuel
Saltonstall’s house in St. Sepulcher’s parish, together with my best
suit of apparel of a tawny color viz. hose, doublet jirkin and cloak,”
 “also, my trunk bound with iron bars standing in the house of Richard
Hinde in Lambeth, together--with half the books therein”; the other half
of the books to Mr. John Tredeskin and Richard Hinde. His much honored
friend, Sir Samuel Saltonstall, and Thomas Packer, were joint executors,
and the will was acknowledged in the presence “of Willmu Keble Snr
civitas, London, William Packer, Elizabeth Sewster, Marmaduke Walker,
his mark, witness.”

We have no idea that Thomas Packer got rich out of the houses, lands and
tenements in the county of Lincoln. The will is that of a poor man, and
reference to his trunks standing about in the houses of his friends, and
to his chamber in the house of Sir Samuel Saltonstall, may be taken as
proof that he had no independent and permanent abiding-place.

It is supposed that he was buried in St. Sepulcher’s Church. The
negative evidence of this is his residence in the parish at the time of
his death, and the more positive, a record in Stow’s “Survey of London,”
 1633, which we copy in full:

This Table is on the south side of the Quire in Saint Sepulchers, with
this Inscription:

To the living Memory of his deceased Friend, Captaine John Smith, who
departed this mortall life on the 21 day of June, 1631, with his Armes,
and this Motto,

Accordamus, vincere est vivere.

Here lies one conquer’d that hath conquer’d Kings, Subdu’d large
Territories, and done things Which to the World impossible would seeme,
But that the truth is held in more esteeme, Shall I report His former
service done In honour of his God and Christendome: How that he did
divide from Pagans three, Their heads and Lives, types of his chivalry:
For which great service in that Climate done, Brave Sigismundus (King
of Hungarion) Did give him as a Coat of Armes to weare, Those conquer’d
heads got by his Sword and Speare? Or shall I tell of his adventures
since, Done in Firginia, that large Continence: I-low that he subdu’d
Kings unto his yoke, And made those heathen flie, as wind doth smoke:
And made their Land, being of so large a Station, A habitation for our
Christian Nation: Where God is glorifi’d, their wants suppli’d, Which
else for necessaries might have di’d? But what avails his Conquest now
he lyes Inter’d in earth a prey for Wormes & Flies?

O may his soule in sweet Mizium sleepe, Untill the Keeper that all
soules doth keepe, Returne to judgement and that after thence, With
Angels he may have his recompence. Captaine John Smith, sometime
Governour of Firginia, and Admirall of New England.


This remarkable epitaph is such an autobiographical record as Smith
might have written himself. That it was engraved upon a tablet and set
up in this church rests entirely upon the authority of Stow. The present
pilgrim to the old church will find no memorial that Smith was buried
there, and will encounter besides incredulity of the tradition that he
ever rested there.

The old church of St. Sepulcher’s, formerly at the confluence of Snow
Hill and the Old Bailey, now lifts its head far above the pompous
viaduct which spans the valley along which the Fleet Ditch once flowed.
All the registers of burial in the church were destroyed by the great
fire of 1666, which burnt down the edifice from floor to roof, leaving
only the walls and tower standing. Mr. Charles Deane, whose lively
interest in Smith led him recently to pay a visit to St. Sepulcher’s,
speaks of it as the church “under the pavement of which the remains of
our hero were buried; but he was not able to see the stone placed over
those remains, as the floor of the church at that time was covered
with a carpet.... The epitaph to his memory, however, it is understood,
cannot now be deciphered upon the tablet,”--which he supposes to be the
one in Stow.

The existing tablet is a slab of bluish-black marble, which formerly
was in the chancel. That it in no way relates to Captain Smith a near
examination of it shows. This slab has an escutcheon which indicates
three heads, which a lively imagination may conceive to be those of
Moors, on a line in the upper left corner on the husband’s side of a
shield, which is divided by a perpendicular line. As Smith had no wife,
this could not have been his cognizance. Nor are these his arms, which
were three Turks’ heads borne over and beneath a chevron. The cognizance
of “Moors’ heads,” as we have said, was not singular in the Middle Ages,
and there existed recently in this very church another tomb which bore
a Moor’s head as a family badge. The inscription itself is in a style of
lettering unlike that used in the time of James I., and the letters are
believed not to belong to an earlier period than that of the Georges.
This bluish-black stone has been recently gazed at by many pilgrims from
this side of the ocean, with something of the feeling with which the
Moslems regard the Kaaba at Mecca. This veneration is misplaced, for
upon the stone are distinctly visible these words:

     “Departed this life September....
    ....sixty-six....years....
      ....months....”

As John Smith died in June, 1631, in his fifty-second year, this stone
is clearly not in his honor: and if his dust rests in this church, the
fire of 1666 made it probably a labor of wasted love to look hereabouts
for any monument of him.

A few years ago some American antiquarians desired to place some
monument to the “Admiral of New England” in this church, and a memorial
window, commemorating the “Baptism of Pocahontas,” was suggested. We
have been told, however, that a custom of St. Sepulcher’s requires a
handsome bonus to the rector for any memorial set up in the church which
the kindly incumbent had no power to set aside (in his own case) for
a foreign gift and act of international courtesy of this sort; and the
project was abandoned.

Nearly every trace of this insatiable explorer of the earth has
disappeared from it except in his own writings. The only monument to his
memory existing is a shabby little marble shaft erected on the southerly
summit of Star Island, one of the Isles of Shoals. By a kind of irony
of fortune, which Smith would have grimly appreciated, the only stone to
perpetuate his fame stands upon a little heap of rocks in the sea; upon
which it is only an inference that he ever set foot, and we can almost
hear him say again, looking round upon this roomy earth, so much of
which he possessed in his mind, “No lot for me but Smith’s Isles, which
are an array of barren rocks, the most overgrowne with shrubs and sharpe
whins you can hardly passe them: without either grasse or wood but three
or foure short shrubby old cedars.”

Nearly all of Smith’s biographers and the historians of Virginia have,
with great respect, woven his romances about his career into their
narratives, imparting to their paraphrases of his story such
an elevation as his own opinion of himself seemed to demand. Of
contemporary estimate of him there is little to quote except the
panegyrics in verse he has preserved for us, and the inference from his
own writings that he was the object of calumny and detraction. Enemies
he had in plenty, but there are no records left of their opinion of his
character. The nearest biographical notice of him in point of time is
found in the “History of the Worthies of England,” by Thomas Fuller,
D.D., London, 1662.

Old Fuller’s schoolmaster was Master Arthur Smith, a kinsman of John,
who told him that John was born in Lincolnshire, and it is probable that
Fuller received from his teacher some impression about the adventurer.

Of his “strange performances” in Hungary, Fuller says: “The scene
whereof is laid at such a distance that they are cheaper credited than
confuted.”

“From the Turks in Europe he passed to the pagans in America, where
towards the latter end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth [it was in the
reign of James] such his perils, preservations, dangers, deliverances,
they seem to most men above belief, to some beyond truth. Yet have we
two witnesses to attest them, the prose and the pictures, both in his
own book; and it soundeth much to the diminution of his deeds that he
alone is the herald to publish and proclaim them.”

“Surely such reports from strangers carry the greater reputation.
However, moderate men must allow Captain Smith to have been very
instrumental in settling the plantation in Virginia, whereof he was
governor, as also Admiral of New England.”

“He led his old age in London, where his having a prince’s mind
imprisoned in a poor man’s purse, rendered him to the contempt of such
as were not ingenuous. Yet he efforted his spirits with the remembrance
and relation of what formerly he had been, and what he had done.”

Of the “ranting epitaph,” quoted above, Fuller says: “The orthography,
poetry, history and divinity in this epitaph are much alike.”

Without taking Captain John Smith at his own estimate of himself, he
was a peculiar character even for the times in which he lived. He shared
with his contemporaries the restless spirit of roving and adventure
which resulted from the invention of the mariner’s compass and the
