A CREVASSE ON THE MISSISSIPPI.
When Mrs. Shepard came on board, she seemed to be more composed. She
declared that, when the whole country was under water, she felt better
to be in a boat. During the night the water had risen nearly a foot,
and the citizens were not a little alarmed. Hundreds of laborers were
at work on the levees, and several small crevasses had been made a few
miles above the city. We had engaged a pilot, though rather for the
information he could give us than because we needed him in the
navigation of the river.
Captain Cayo had taken leave of us, and Colonel Shepard had paid his
bill for services and expenses. I liked the pilot very well; and I was
sorry to lose him. The white man and the negroes rescued from the
floating building stayed on board as long as we remained at the wharf.
It was not easy for them to return to their homes; and they had no
money to pay for their food and shelter. We made up a liberal purse for
them, and divided it equally among them; and they went ashore very
grateful to us for what we had done. Captain Blastblow said they made
more money by coming with us than they could by staying at home.
At Colonel Shepard's request we "lashed boats" for the sociability of
the thing. We rigged a plank bridge, with a railing to it, so that the
ladies could pass from one steamer to the other without assistance,
though Owen was always ready when the young ladies wished to pass from
one to the other. After this job had been done, I went forward and
found Cornwood at the helm, where I had left the pilot. I was not
exactly pleased to see him at the wheel. After we had left the wharf,
Nick and the Floridian had been permitted to enjoy the liberty of the
deck, for I did not believe they would be likely to attempt to escape
while the country seemed to be covered with water in every direction.
"What are you doing there, Cornwood?" I asked, as I entered the
pilot-house.
"The pilot has gone below for some matches, and I offered to take the
wheel while he was absent," replied Cornwood, in the mildest of tones.
"I will thank the pilot to call a deck-hand when he wants to be
relieved," I replied.
"You think I mean mischief, I dare say," he added, with his silky
smile; "but you can see that I can do no harm if I desired to, which I
do not. Captain Blastblow is at the wheel of the other steamer."
At this moment the pilot came in, with a cigar in his mouth, and took
the wheel.
"Captain Garningham, I should like to have a little talk with you,"
said Cornwood. He led the way to a couple of chairs on the forecastle,
which had just been abandoned by the young ladies.
"Captain Garningham, I have been subjected to such an outrage as I
never before experienced in my life," said the Floridian.
"I think you cannot greatly wonder at it," I replied.
"Should you wonder at it if a party were to come on board of the
Sylvania, take you by force, strip you almost to the skin, and rob you
of your money? That is precisely my case, and you say I need not
greatly wonder at it," continued Cornwood, as mildly as he had begun.
"I think my case would be a little different from what yours was," I
replied.
"As yet I have not even been informed of the cause of such brutal
treatment. If you had stayed a few hours longer in New Orleans, and had
not treated the men you picked up on the house so liberally, I should
have sought a remedy in a writ of habeas corpus."
"I don't think you were quite ready to adopt such a course as that, for
it would have resulted in having you sent to the calaboose to wait for
a requisition from the Governor of Florida," I answered, laughing at
what I considered the absurdity of the proceeding. "The only reason we
did not hand you over to the police was that we were afraid of being
detained as witnesses."
"I understand you; and I prefer to fight this battle in some other
State than Louisiana. I shall not try to escape; and I know that Nick
Boomsby will not. If I am not always honest, I am now; and I assure you
I don't know the reason for the savage treatment I received on board of
the Islander; and I will thank you to tell me. In a word, I entreat you
to do so."
I concluded that Cornwood wanted to prepare for his defence, for I was
satisfied that he understood the charge as well as I did. But he seemed
to be so earnest over the matter that I went over the case for him.
"When you started from St. Augustine to recover the Islander, you were
satisfied that Nick Boomsby had stolen the four thousand dollars," I
proceeded.
"On the contrary I was satisfied that Buckner stole it," interposed
Cornwood.
"I am stating my belief, be it right or wrong. When I told you about
the sailing of the Islander without her owner and his family, you were
satisfied that Nick was on board of her, and that he had the money
stolen from the messenger."
"Nothing could be farther from the truth; but go on," added the
Floridian.
"You would not have gone to Key West to stop the Islander at your own
expense."
"I did go at my own expense," added Cornwood, with a smile.
"But not to stop the Islander," I added.
"I admit that I had another mission there. I had been thinking of going
to Key West on business for a week."
"When you got there you forged a letter to Captain Blastblow, to induce
him to leave before the arrival of the Sylvania," I added.
"That was a little harmless strategy to enable me to carry out the
purpose for which I went to Key West," added Cornwood, with the
smoothest of smiles.
"I never heard forgery called by that name before," I replied, with
becoming severity.
"It was not to obtain money, or any other valuable consideration from
Colonel Shepard that I wrote his name. Why, I could have made two
hundred dollars by detaining the Islander," said the Floridian, with
spirit.
"Instead of doing what he employed you to do, you sold him out, and let
his steamer go off without him. You were satisfied that Nick had the
four thousand dollars with him, and you were bound to have the half, if
not the whole of it. It looks like a plain case."
"You are taking an entirely wrong view of the matter, Captain
Garningham," protested Cornwood. "I shall be able to prove in due time
that you are utterly mistaken."
"Two thousand dollars were found on you, and the same on Nick."
"I grant that this fact has a suspicious look about it; and I can not
greatly blame you for your course, though the brutality exercised upon
me was entirely unnecessary. Now I will explain the whole matter to you
just as it was; and you will see that you were greatly mistaken."
"I am ready to hear anything you have to say," I replied.
"That four thousand dollars is a rather annoying coincidence," he
began.
"I should think it might be," I added.
"You quite mistake my meaning. I am willing to admit that I have told
professional lies in the interest of my clients. I am Buckner's
counsel, though I told you to the contrary. He admitted his guilt to
me."
"Did he, indeed? Did he tell you what he did with the package of bills
after he took it from the counter?"
"He did: he acknowledged that he was guilty, and told me how it was
done," replied Cornwood, with easy assurance, of which I had seen a
great deal on his part. "Buckner's wife was at the door of the saloon,
and he gave the package to her as he rushed out. She had it under her
shawl before Nick got half way to the door. She went home; and my
client considers it a successful affair. He offered me five hundred
dollars to get him out of the scrape, and that is the fee for which I
am working just now, in part."
"And he gave you the money, did he?" I asked, hardly able to keep from
laughing in the face of the guileless Floridian.
"Not he, for his wife started for Kentucky, or some other state, as
soon as she got the money. This is where the unlucky coincidence comes
in. My first business in Key West was to see that Nick did not return
home, as I feared you would compel him to do when you found him on
board of the Islander. My second was to pay four thousand dollars,
which I drew from the First National Bank of Florida Friday morning
before I started for Cedar Keys."
"O, I see! That was where the four thousand dollars came from," I
exclaimed.
"Precisely so. I was to pay it into the Marine Court, pending a suit in
which I was interested, against a salvage company."
"But you did not pay it in."
"How could I when it was Sunday? I intended to do so the next day. When
I found that Nick did not mean to stop in Key West, I directed Captain
Blastblow to get up his anchor and hurry to New Orleans before the
Sylvania came in. I could not get ashore myself when I had induced Nick
to continue the voyage. The four thousand dollars was a burden to me,
and I asked Nick to take part of it from me to keep till we got to our
destination. The loss of it would ruin me, and I thought it would be
safer in the care of two persons than one. That's the substance of it,
and you can see that it explains the whole affair."
"I see it does: it makes it all as clear as Mississippi mud," I
replied, laughing heartily.
"You evidently do not believe the statement I have made," said the
Floridian, looking very much wounded in his feelings.
"Whether I do or not, Cornwood, we will not quarrel about it," I added,
as good-naturedly as I could.
"I will show you some documents I have in my valise which will make it
all as clear as the pure waters of Green Cove Springs."
"I think I will not look at them at present. Has Nick learned this
story by heart?" I inquired. "He used to be a very bungling liar when
we were small boys together; and I don't know whether he has improved
any or not."
"I think it is rather cruel of you, Captain Garningham, to sport with
my feelings when I have been subjected to such inconvenience and
discomfort by you."
"I must be candid with you, Cornwood. If I take your statement for the
truth, I judge that you are liable to the state prison, or whatever you
call it in Florida, for what you have done. You know that Buckner is
guilty, but you are engaged in a conspiracy to keep the principal
witness out of court, which makes you virtually an accomplice to the
crime."
"You forget the duty I owe my client, who has entrusted his sacred
liberty in my keeping."
"Most of the lawyers I ever knew were honest men, and I don't believe
one of them would resort to such a trick to clear his client. What's
all that?" I exclaimed, as I saw a gathering on the levee of the right
bank of the river.
"A crevasse in the levee," said the pilot. "It's a bad one, too."
A steamboat was backing her wheels near the opening, evidently to
prevent being sucked into the breach by the furious current that poured
through it. Quite a number of men were assembled on the levee, but they
seemed to be incapable of doing anything to stop the flow of the water.
When we came abreast of the crevasse, we could see through it to the
country beyond. It was covered with water, which was pouring in through
the breach at a frightful rate.
"That was done by the crawfish that burrow into the levees, for I see
some of their houses on the top, where they go when it is high-water,"
said the pilot.
Just then a row-boat came to the crevasse, and fearlessly headed into
the opening. In an instant it was swamped, and the two men it had
contained were struggling in the mad current. They held on to their
oars, and were swept rapidly inland.
"There will be a hundred lives lost by that break," added the pilot.
"There are several plantations on that knoll, and the water is lifting
the houses on it."
I could see the houses toppling over, half a mile from the levee.
CHAPTER XXV.
SAILING ACROSS THE FIELDS.
I was appalled at the terrible sight. It was an open country, and there
were few trees to be seen, except around the houses at the plantations.
It looked like an inland sea. I saw the two men struggling in the water
at some distance from the levee. They were evidently trying to touch
bottom with their feet, but the water was over their heads.
"How deep is the water on that flat, Mr. Pilot?" I asked, not a little
excited at the idea of witnessing such a loss of life as he had
predicted.
"I should say it was from eight to ten feet deep all the way to those
plantations," he replied.
"Why don't one of the steamers waiting here go over to the assistance
of those poor people?" I inquired.
"They can't get through, and they would be swamped if they should try
it. The breach is not more than thirty feet wide, and these boats would
stick till they were torn to pieces. They are so low in the water that
it would put their fires out when they went through and fill their
holds."
I looked about the decks of both our steamers, and found that all the
passengers were on board of the Islander. I told Ben Bowman, who was on
duty in the engine-room, to put on all the steam she could safely
carry. He assured me he had enough for anything.
"Look out, Captain Blastblow, if you please, for I am going to cast
off," I called to the Islander. "Keep the ladies in a safe place. All
the Sylvanias on board!"
I went into the pilot-house, and rang to back the steamer. I kept her
moving until we were in the middle of the river. I had carefully
examined the crevasse, and I judged that the water was not more than
two feet lower on the flat than it was in the river.
"How deep is the water in the cut, Mr. Pilot?" I asked.
"Not less than eight feet; and it may be ten. You can't tell."
I stopped the Sylvania, and then rang to go ahead at full speed.
"Are you going through the crevasse?" demanded the pilot.
"I see no difficulty in doing so. Mr. Washburn, see that every opening
in the deck and deck-house is closed and securely fastened."
"It will be a ticklish business to go through that breach," said the
pilot, shaking his head.
"Would you let a hundred people drown without doing any thing to save
them?" I asked.
"Not if I could help it. I am willing to do all I can; but I shouldn't
wonder if your boat made a dive into the mud on the other side of the
levee, and stuck there."
"If she does we have two life-boats at the davits," I replied.
The Sylvania soon got up her best speed, and the pilot steered the
steamer for a point just above the crevasse. I closed the windows of
the pilot-house, and directed all hands to go on the hurricane-deck,
except the engineers and firemen.
"I think you ought to stop the engine, for she will go through quick
enough without any help," suggested the pilot.
"We must have steerage-way, or we can do nothing," I replied with quick
tones, for we were within a few fathoms of the whirl of waters that
were dashing through the crevasse. I felt the speed of the steamer
increasing, and I firmly grasped the wheel with the pilot.
"You know this boat better than I do, and this business is a little out
of my line; but I will help you all I can," said the pilot, who seemed
to be fully self-possessed, though he was not used to handling a vessel
like the Sylvania.
Washburn came into the pilot-house, after seeing that all the openings
were closed, and the ship's company disposed in safe places.
"I don't think you will have any trouble going through there, Alick,"
said the mate.
"I don't know as you will, but I wouldn't take a river-boat through
such a place unless she was insured for her full value," added the
pilot.
"No more talking, if you please," I added.
We had entered the rapid current that swept into the crevasse. It was a
thrilling moment, for the next minute would determine whether the
Sylvania was to be swamped or not. But I had a reasonable degree of
confidence in the vessel. She had always done all I expected of her,
and I could hardly conceive of her disappointing me in this instance.
The people assembled on the levee uttered a long and deep shout of
warning to us, but we had gone too far to recede even if we had been
disposed to do so. I saw the two men who had been swamped in the small
boat, still buoying themselves up with the oars; and beyond them the
houses tottering over as they were undermined by the rising waters. The
sight of these was quite enough to keep my courage up, and no thought
of doing anything but trying to save those who must perish without
assistance came to my mind.
The little steamer rushed madly into the opening, with her screw
turning at its most rapid rate. When she had reached the fall she made
a tremendous dive, as it were, burying her bowsprit in the muddy tide.
Tons of the yellow fluid, loaded with sediment, flowed in on the
forecastle and swept aft. I judged by the shock that she struck her
fore-foot into the earth.
The muddy water swashed up, and entirely covered the windows of the
pilot-house, leaving enough of the soil to make the glass as opaque as
the levee itself. We could not see a thing outside after this volume of
mud was discharged upon the windows. But in another instant I felt the
bow of the steamer rising. The screw was still shaking the vessel, and
I felt that no great injury had been done to her.
"Open the windows, if you please, Washburn," I said, trying to keep as
cool as possible.
"We are all right now," added the pilot. "One of our river steamers
would never have come up after that dive."
I rang the speed-bell as soon as I felt that we were fairly through the
cut in the levee. A yell from the people assured us that we were all
right, if we did not find it out before.
"I suppose you are not a pilot in these waters!" I continued, turning
to Mr. Bell, for that was his name.
"Well, hardly, in these waters: at any rate I never took a steamboat
over this ground before. But I reckon I can do it as well as any other
man, for I was raised along here, and I know the lay of the land as
well as the water," replied the pilot.
The escape of steam from the safety-valve showed me that the engineers
had slowed down, though I could not yet perceive it in the motion of
the vessel. We were approaching the two men on the oars, and I rang to
stop and back her. There was no difficulty in steering the steamer
after we were out of the swiftest of the current, and I left the
pilot-house.
The Sylvania looked as though she had been buried in yellow mud for a
year, and had just been dug out. The water had all passed out at the
scupper-holes and swinging-ports; but the deck and a considerable
portion of the deck-house were covered with the mud from the water. All
hands except the chief engineer and one fireman had come out of the
hiding-places, and were ready for duty.
"Clear away the starboard quarter-boat," I called. "Mr. Washburn, you
will pick up those men, and do it as quick as possible, for we are
needed at those plantations."
The crew got into the boat and lowered it into the water. In a moment
more they were pulling with all their might for the two men, who were
some distance apart. They picked them up, one at a time, and came back
to the Sylvania. They hooked on the falls, and with the help of Ben
Bowman and Hop Tossford, hoisted the boat up to the davits. The two men
rescued from the water seemed to be very much exhausted, and we helped
them on deck.
The moment the boat was out of the water, I rang to go ahead. I told
Moses to let her run at half speed, for I was afraid she might strike
against some hummock, or other obstruction, and stick in the mud, which
would cause a delay, if nothing worse. I sent Buck to the top-gallant
forecastle with the hand lead, and he reported eleven feet.
"The ground is low here," said the pilot; "but I think we can carry
eight feet up to the knoll on which the houses stood. They must have
had eight or nine in some parts of it, or the cabins of the niggers
wouldn't have been upset."
"I think we can hurry her a little along here," I replied, ringing the
speed-bell.
"By the mark twain," said Buck.
"He threw the lead into a hole that time," added the pilot.
"And a half-one," continued Buck.
"You will hold that all the way till you get to the knoll," said Mr.
Bell. "We are going at a rattling speed."
"We shall be all right as long as we have eight feet. Our coal bunkers
are pretty well emptied, and I don't know but we could go with seven
and a half. It is plain sailing; but we must feel along when it gets
down to eight and a half," I replied.
The two men who had been taken from the water came to the forecastle at
this moment. They were covered with yellow mud, and of course they were
wet to the skin. But it was a hot day, and the sun was shining
brightly. When I asked them, they told me they had come from one of the
steamers that had stopped at the levee to render assistance.
"Eight feet and a half," shouted Buck.
I rang the speed bell, which soon reduced our rate one-half. Buck still
reported eight and a half. We were within a hundred yards of the
mansion-houses, of which I could see four, the lower parts of which
were under water. We could see the inmates in the second stories. But
the negro cabins were upset and many of them were floating about. It
was evident enough that they had been built on lower ground than the
residences of the planters. The knoll was covered with shade-trees and
shrubs, and the estates were as beautiful as anything I ever looked
upon--that is, what I could see of them above the water.
"Eight feet!" shouted the leadsman, with energy.
I rang to stop her, for I could feel a sort of sensation as though the
keel of the Sylvania was making a furrow in the field under us. The
steamer stopped almost as soon as I rang the bell. But as the water was
rising instead of falling, I did not feel at all concerned about her
situation. I immediately ordered both boats to be lowered. Ben and Hop
went off in one, and Buck and Landy in the other. Not far from the
knoll, which could not have been more than three or four feet above the
flat over which we had been sailing, I saw the boat the two men from
the steamer had been swamped in. I told Buck to tow it to the steamer,
and we had it alongside in a few moments. I sent the quarter-boat back
to the rescue of the people in the houses and cabins. The river
steamer's boat was full of water. We drew her under the davits on the
port side, made fast to her, and hauled her out of the water, hoisting
the bow end first, so that the water would run out of her. When both
ends were abreast of the rail of the vessel, we tipped her over, and
entirely freed her of water. I sent Washburn and Dyer Perkins in her to
assist the other two boats.
Even at this important hour, the abominably dirty condition of the
Sylvania, which had been bathed in mud, actually pained me. Away from
the furious current of the crevasse, the mud settled, and the water was
comparatively clean. Cobbington and the two waiters had been at work
swabbing the quarter-deck, but with no good result. I directed the
engineer to rig the fire-engine, and we soon drowned the decks with
water. This, with the swabs, made clean work. By the time the first
boat came off from the knoll, the Sylvania looked nearly as neat as
when she had left the great river. The hot sun dried the planks about
as soon as they were swabbed.
In the port-boat, under the direction of Ben Bowman, was a family of
four persons whom I took to be the occupants of one of the mansions. A
gentleman and his wife, with a son and daughter, were the first helped
on board: nearly all the others were negroes. I showed the white people
down into the cabin, and directed Cobbington to do all he could for
their comfort.
In the course of half an hour we had seventy-two persons whom we
rescued. We were unable to find any more. The three boats had searched
every house which could contain a human being. They had taken men,
women and children from the trees, as well as the houses. We sounded
the whistle vigorously, and then waited for any call.
There were no more, and I directed the pilot to work back to the levee.
CHAPTER XXVI.
A DESPERATE STRUGGLE WITH THE RUSHING WATERS.
The water had risen so that the Sylvania had swung around and drifted
half-way up to the knoll, or to the houses on the highest part of it.
As soon as we were under way, I had a chance to look over our large
number of passengers. Three-quarters of them were negroes, mostly
house-servants. I was told that the field hands had escaped in another
direction before the water rose high enough to prevent it. The
inundation was only partly due to the crevasse, for the water had
broken in at some unknown point in the rear of the plantations.
We had taken off the four families that occupied the mansion houses.
They were all highly cultivated people, ladies and gentlemen in the
highest sense of the words. I had conducted them all to the main cabin;
but they were not disposed to remain there. They wanted to see how the
Sylvania was to return to the Mississippi River, and expressed many
doubts as to her being able to make her way through the crevasse
against the strong current. I had some painful doubts myself in this
direction. I had told the engineer about them, and hinted that we
should want all the steam he could carry. But it was only a question of
the power of the engine to force the vessel against the current. There
would be no pitching and plunging, such as we had experienced in coming
the other way.
We had not long to deliberate upon the matter of our exit from the
fields over which we had been sailing. As the water had risen about a
foot inside of the levee, I considered our chances good of going
through without much difficulty. I went to the wheel, and took a place
by the pilot. I saw that several steamers had arrived during our
absence, and the pilot said they were attached to the levee force, and
had come to close the breach. I could not see how it was to be done,
but I had no time to think of the matter. I rang the gong one stroke
when we were within a hundred yards of the crevasse, as I had arranged
with the engineer to do.
The Sylvania soon began to shake and quiver as though she were in the
hands of an angry giant, under the pressure of the steam. I had sent
all the passengers to the after part of the vessel, giving the planters
and their families places on the hurricane-deck. I desired to trim her
aft, as we had hardly coal enough in the bunkers to keep the screw
entirely under water. I regarded it as an excellent thing to have so
much "live ballast" on board. I gave Buck and Hop strict orders not to
let a single person come on the forecastle.
I put Cobbington and Ben Bowman on the hurricane-deck, to keep the
passengers there on the after part. If a few went forward, they would
all do so, for it was the best place to see the operation of the
steamer. By these means I hoped to keep the propeller entirely under
water, and thus get the full benefit of its action on the swift
current. It was still a torrent, but by no means so terrible as when we
had gone through before.
Moses Brickland had never shaken the Sylvania as he was shaking her
now. He was a prudent young man, and I never had occasion to criticise
what he did. He understood the present situation as well as I did. The
levee force was waiting to close the gap, and thus save many more lives
miles from the scene of its operations. We must get through at once, or
the gap would be closed. The abrupt fall was not more than a foot now,
and I had strong hopes that we could overcome it.
It seemed to me that the water was rushing through the crevasse at the
rate of twenty miles an hour. The arithmetic of the situation was
therefore all against me. Moses had never run the Sylvania more than
twelve knots an hour, and he was obliged to hurry her to do that. He
had told me he could get fifteen miles an hour out of her on a great
emergency, but he had never been disposed to try it. He had overhauled
the boiler at New Orleans, and reported it in first-rate condition. Yet
I could not, mathematically, see how a vessel going fifteen miles an
hour could stem a current of twenty miles.
But the force of the current was merely guesswork. It might be twenty,
and it might be no more than ten miles. Mr. Bell agreed with me on the
former figure, while Washburn and Ben Bowman insisted that it was not
more than ten at the present time. If I "split" the difference between
the two estimates, it would leave just the result which the engineer
could obtain on an emergency like the present.
The Sylvania went into the rapid current, which we began to feel at
fifty yards from the gap. But it did not stop, or even sensibly detain
us, for the water was scattered as soon as it passed through the
opening. We made our course at a right angle with the levee, and kept
the helm firmly against any tendency to "wabble;" for if the swift tide
had struck her on the side, it would have hurled her around in spite of
us.
At twenty yards from the levee we began to slacken our speed, for here
we got almost the full force of the current. But she still went ahead,
though she quivered as if the struggle would shake her in pieces. Not
one of us said a word in the pilot-house. I directed the helm, for I
was more accustomed to the working of the steamer than any of my
companions.
The bow went up abreast of the inside of the dike. The Sylvania
trembled like a race-horse after his first heat. We held her head
steadily up to the work, but I could not see that she gained a single
inch. The propeller whirled like a circular saw, such as I had often
observed in the lumber-mills at home. I almost fancied that I could
hear it buzz.
I watched the edge of the crevasse, but I could not see that we either
gained or lost. For several minutes we struggled against the savage
tide. It was a desperate situation. The people on the levee, now
swelled into a crowd by the arrival of several steamers, were watching
us with intense interest. No one spoke a word.
"Look out sharp for the helm, Mr. Bell," I shouted, so as to be heard
above the roar of the rushing waters and the clang of the engine.
I thought he did not respond to my movements with the wheel as promptly
as was necessary. I felt that the least turn to the right or the left
would be fatal to us, for by this time I realized that the situation
was vastly more perilous than when we went into the current before. The
least "wabble" might cause the current to strike her on the side, and
send her over on her beam ends in the vortex below us.
"Can't you crowd her a little more, Moses," I called through the
speaking-tube.
"Not much more," he promptly replied.
"We are not losing anything," said the pilot, holding his breath.
"Mind the helm," I replied, for I felt that I could not hold her alone.
"If we get the bow half a degree across the current, it is all up with
us."
"I can hold her alone, but you take the feeling off my hands," he
answered, warmly.
He meant that I began to move the wheel before he felt the pressure on
his hands, for one steers a vessel very much as he drives a horse, and
depends quite as much upon feeling as upon sight. My feeling was much
quicker than his, and I would not give up the helm to him, but told him
he must watch my movements.
"We have gained an inch!" exclaimed the pilot.
"What is an inch going through such a torrent as this?" I replied,
though I felt encouraged by the fact, if it was a fact, for I dared not
look to the right or the left, as he did.
It seemed to me that the steamer would soon go through the crevasse or
shake herself to pieces in the struggle. The jar and the quivering were
so much increased that I was sure Moses was doing something more than
he ordinarily considered his best. In a few minutes more we had worried
up the little fall, which indicated the difference between the height
of the water on either side of the levee. We had gained several yards,
but I don't think we made more than an inch a minute; and those minutes
seemed like hours.
Suddenly the Sylvania began to increase her speed through the water,
and I concluded that we had passed the swiftest part of the current.
Washburn informed me that the stern of the steamer was inside of the
cut, and I felt that the battle was won. Still I kept my eyes fixed on
the flagpole forward, in order to hold the vessel in the middle of the
gap.
"I think we shall fetch it," said Mr. Bell.
"No doubt of it, if we don't lose our chances by talking about them," I
replied.
The pilot said no more. I did not want him to abate his zeal until we
were outside of the levee, for it would have been the easiest thing in
the world to lose all we had gained by the struggle of the last hour.
We kept it up half an hour longer. When the bow was outside of the
levee, I was afraid Bell would think we were safe, while it was still
possible to be carried back. But the steamer increased her speed every
moment now, and we were soon out in the broad river. I kept her on her
course, and as soon as she was clear of the treacherous current, she
darted off at a furious speed.
"All right, Moses!" I shouted through the tube. The next instant I
heard the steam escaping furiously through the safety-valve. I had no
doubt that the chief-engineer felt an intense relief when he heard my
voice the last time, for no money or any consideration short of the
safety of the Sylvania would have permitted him to put on such a press
of steam.
"Excuse me, Mr. Bell, if I spoke sharply to you, or said anything that
hurt your feelings, for I meant nothing of the kind," I said to the
pilot, when we were in the middle of the river.
"Don't mention it, captain," he replied, warmly. "I can say, and I
reckon I know something about steamboats, I never saw a boat better
handled than this one has been from first to last. I thought I had only
a boy for a captain, but I find that you understand your business."
"Thank you, Mr. Bell; you are very kind to say so," I replied, with a
blush. "I think I know the feeling of this vessel's helm rather better
than any one in these parts, and I was a little afraid you might not
see the necessity of keeping her up, without any wabbling."
"You were right every time, captain. I never handled a craft of the
sort before, and it was quite right for you to trust her to no one but
yourself."
As soon as we were fairly out in the river, the people on the levees
set up a volley of cheers, which was taken up by the negroes on board.
I saw the Islander had made fast to a steamer a little below the
breach, and I asked the pilot to lay the Sylvania alongside of her.
"Young man, you are a brave boy," said Colonel Hungerford, the planter
who had first come on board of the steamer. "I was on the point of
telling you before you started back, that you could never get through
that hole; and I was going to tell you of a way by which you could have
got through the lakes and streams into the Bayou la Fourche, and up
that to the Mississippi. But I see you need no advice from me. We are
all very grateful to you."
"I beg you will not feel under any obligation to us, for we are sort of
sea-knights, roaming about in quest of adventures; and we were very
glad of the opportunity to render you and others any assistance. I
believe you and your family were in no particular danger."
"I don't know about that, my young captain," replied the planter,
shaking his head. "My mansion is surrounded with verandahs, and the
water was beginning to lift it off its foundations."
I took my glass and looked at the house. One end of it appeared to be
lifted up.
"I would not have staid in it two hours more for half the state. I have
been through three inundations before, and I know something about
them," replied the planter. "I hope I shall see more of you."
As we came up to the Islander, the passengers of both vessels, on board
of her, began to clap their hands. I was embarrassed by this
demonstration, and after asking Washburn to see that we were made fast
to our consort, I sat down in the pilot-house where they could not see
me.
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE PLANTER AND HIS FAMILY.
I was quite exhausted after my efforts and the strain put upon me, and
I was in no humor even to be praised. Some of the negroes our boats
picked up on planks and on their toppling houses might have been
drowned; but I did not believe the people in the mansion-houses were in
any great danger. However, I had never seen an inundation before, and I
may have been mistaken. My father was one of the first to visit me in
the pilot-house.
