like Marcia s, or blue like Bartley 's ; those long lashes 
had the sweep of hers, but its mop of hair, which 
made it look so odd and old, was more like his in 
color. 
" She will be a dark-eyed blonde," Bartley decided. 
" Is that nice ? " asked Marcia. 
" With the telescope sight, they 're warranted to 
kill at five hundred yards." 
" Oh, for shame, Bartley ! To talk of baby 's ever 
killing!" 
" Why, that 's what they all come to. It 's what 
you came to yourself." 
" Yes, I know. But it 's quite another thing with 
baby." She began to mumble it with her lips, and 
to talk baby-talk to it. In their common interest in 
this puppet they already called each other papa and 
mamma. 
Squire Gaylord came alone, and when Marcia, 
greeted him with " Why, father ! Where 's mother ? " 
he asked, " Did you expect her ? Well, I guess your 
mother 's feeling rather too old for such long winter 
journeys. You know she don 't go out a great deal. 
Iguess she expects your family down there in the 
summer." 
 
The old man was considerably abashed by the baby 
when it was put into his arms, and being required to 
guess its name he naturally failed. 
" Flavia ! " cried Marcia, joyfully. " Bartley named 
it after you." 
This embarrassed the Squire still more. " Is that 
so ? " he asked, rather sheepishly. " Well, it 's quite 
a compliment." 
Marcia repeated this to her husband as evidence 
that her father was all right now. Bartley and the 
Squire were in fact very civil to each other ; and 
Bartley paid the old man many marked attentions. 
He took him to the top of the State House, and 
walked him all about the city, to show him its 
points of interest, and introduced him to such of 
his friends as they met, though the Squire 's dress- 
coat, whether fully revealed by the removal of his 
surtout, or betraying itself below the skirt of the lat 
ter, was a trial to a fellow of Bartley 's style. He went 
with his father-in-law to see Mr. Warren in Jefferson 
Scattering Batkins, and the Squire grimly appreciated 
the burlesque of the member from Cranberry Centre; 
but he was otherwise not a very amusable person, and 
off his own ground he was not conversable, while he 
refused to betray his impressions of many things that 
Bartley expected to astonish him. The Events edito 
rial rooms had no apparent effect upon him, though 
they were as different from most editorial dens as tap 
estry carpets, black-walnut desks, and swivel chairs 
could make them. Mr. Witherby covered him with 
urbanities and praises of Bartley that ought to have 
delighted him as a father-in-law; but apparently the 
great man of the Events was but a strange variety of 
the type with which he was familiar in the despised 
country editors. He got on better with Mr. Atherton, 
who was of a man 's profession. The Squire wore his 
hat throughout their interview, and everywhere ex- 
 
cept at table and in bed ; and as soon as he rose from 
either, he put it on. 
Bartley tried to impress him with such novel traits 
of cosmopolitan life as a table d hote dinner at a 
French restaurant; but the Squire sat through the 
courses, as if his barbarous old appetite had satisfied 
itself in that manner all his life. After that, Bartley 
practically gave him up ; he pleaded his newspaper 
work-, and left the Squire to pass the time as lie could 
in the little house on Clover Street, where he sat half a 
day at a stretch in the parlor, with his hat on, reading 
the newspapers, his legs sprawled out towards the 
grate. In this way he probably reconstructed for 
himself some image of his wonted life in his office 
at home, and was for the time at peace ; but other 
wise he was very restless, except when he was with 
Marcia. He was as fond of her in his way as he 
had ever been, and though he apparently cared noth 
ing for the baby, he enjoyed Marcia 's pride in it ; 
and he bore to have it thrust upon him with the 
surly mildness of an old dog receiving children 's 
caresses. He listened with the same patience to all 
her celebrations of Bartley, which were often tedious 
enough, for she bragged of him constantly, of his 
smartness and goodness, and of the great success 
that had crowned the merit of both in him. 
Mr. Halleck had called upon the Squire the morn 
ing after his arrival, and brought Marcia a note from 
his wife, offering to have her father stay with them 
if she found herself too much crowded at this event 
ful time. " There ! That is just the sort of people 
the Hallecks are ! " she cried, showing the letter to 
her father. "And to think of our not going near them 
for mouths and months after we came to Boston, for 
fear they were stuck up ! But Bartley is always just 
so proud. Now you must go right in, father, and not 
keep Mr. Halleck waiting. Give me your hat, or 
 
you 'll  be sure to wear it in the parlor." She made 
him stoop down to let her brush his coat-collar a 
little. " There ! Now you look something like." 
Squire Gaylord had never received a visit except 
on business in his life, and such a thing as one man 
calling socially upon another, as women did, was un 
known to the civilization of Equity. But, as he 're 
ported to Marcia, he got along with Mr. Halleck ; 
and he got along with the whole family when he 
went with Bartley to tea, upon the invitation Mr. 
Halleck made him that morning. Probably it ap 
peared to him an objectless hospitality ; but he spent 
as pleasant an evening as he could hope to spend 
with his hat off and in a frock-coat, which he wore 
as a more ceremonious garment than the dress-coat 
of his every-day life. He seemed to take a special 
liking to Olive Halleck, whose habit of speaking her 
mind with vigor and directness struck him as com 
mendable. It was Olive who made the time pass for 
him ; and as the occasion was not one for personal 
sarcasm or question of the Christian religion, her 
task in keeping the old pagan out of rather abysmal 
silences must have had its difficulties. 
" What did you talk about ? " asked Marcia, requir 
ing an account of his enjoyment from him the next 
morning, after Bartley had gone down to his work. 
" Mostly about you, I guess," said the Squire, with 
a laugh. "There was a large sandy-haired young 
woman there " 
" Miss Kingsbury," said Marcia, with vindictive 
promptness. Her eyes kindled, and she began to 
grow rigid under the coverlet. " Whom did she talk 
with ? " 
" Well, she talked a little with me ; but she talked 
most of the time to the young man. She engaged to 
him?" 
" No," said Marcia, relaxing. " She 's a great friend 
 
of the whole family. I don 't know what they meant 
by telling yon it was to be just a family party, when 
they were going to have strangers in," she pouted. 
" Perhaps they didn 't count her. " 
"No." But Marcia 's pleasure in the affair was 
tainted, and she began to talk of other things. 
Her father stayed nearly a week, and they all found 
it rather a long week. After showing him her baby, 
and satisfying herself that he and Bartley were on 
good terms again, there was not much left for Marcia. 
Bartley had been banished to the spare room by the 
presence of the nurse ; and he gave up his bed there 
to the Squire, and slept on a cot in the unfurnished 
attic room ; the cook and a small girl got in to help, 
had the other. The house that had once seemed so 
vast was full to bursting. 
" I never knew how little it was till I saw your 
father coming down stairs," said Bartley. " He 's too 
tall for it. When he sits on the sofa, and stretches 
out his legs, his boots touch the mop- board on the 
other side of the room. Fact ! " 
" He won 't stay over Sunday," began Marcia, with 
a rueful smile. 
" Why, Marcia, you don 't think I want him to go ! " 
" No, you 're as good as can be about it. But I 
hope he won 't stay over Sunday." 
"Haven 't you enjoyed his visit ?" asked Bartley. 
" Oh, yes, I 've enjoyed it." The tears came into 
her eyes. " I 've made it all up with father ; and he 
doesn 't feel hard to me. But, Bartley - Sit down, 
dear, here on the bed ! " She took his hand and 
gently pulled him down. " I see more and more that 
father and mother can never be what they used to be 
to me, that you 're all the world to me. Yes, my 
life is broken off from theirs forever. Could any 
thing break it off from yours ? You 'll  always be 
patient with me, won 't you ? and remember that I d 
 
always rather be good when I 'm behaving the 
worst ? " 
He rose, and went over to the crib, and kissed the 
head of their little girl. " Ask Flavia," he said from 
the door. 
" Bartley ! " she cried, in utter fondness, as he van 
ished from her happy eyes. 
The next morning they heard the Squire moving 
about in his room, and he was late in coming down 
to breakfast, at which he was ordinarily so prompt. 
" He 's packing," said Marcia, sadly. " It 's dreadful 
to be willing to have him go ! " 
Bartley went out and met him at his door, bag in 
hand. " Hollo ! " he cried, and made a decent show 
of surprise and regret. 
" M-yes ! " said the old man, as they went down 
stairs. " I 've made out a visit. But I 'm an old 
fellow, and I ain 't easy away from home. I shall tell 
Mis Gay lord how you 're gettin along, and she 'll  be 
pleased to hear it. Yes, she 'll  be pleased to hear it. 
I guess I shall get off on the ten-o clock train." 
The conversation between Bartley and his father- 
in-law was perfunctory. Men who have dealt so 
plainly with each other do not assume the conven 
tional urbanities in their intercourse without effort. 
They had both been growing more impatient of the 
restraint; they could not have kept it up much 
longer. 
" Well, I suppose it 's natural you should want to 
be home again, but I can 't understand how any one 
can want to go back to Equity when he has the priv 
ilege of staying in Boston." 
" Boston will do for a young man," said the Squire, 
"but I 'm too old for it. The city cramps me ; it 's 
too tight a fit ; and yet I can 't seem to find myself 
in it." 
He suffered from the loss of identity which is a 
 
 
common affliction with country people coming to 
town. The feeling that they are of no special inter 
est to any of the thousands they meet bewilders and 
harasses them ; after the searching neighborhood of 
village life, the fact that nobody would meddle in 
their most intimate affairs if they could, is a vague 
distress. The Squire not only experienced this, but, 
after reigning so long as the censor of morals and 
religion in Equity, it was a deprivation for him to 
pass a whole week without saying a bitter tiling 
to any one. He was tired of the civilities that 
smoothed him down on every side. 
" Well, if you must go," said Bartley, " I 'll  order a 
hack." 
" I guess I can walk to the depot," returned the old 
man. 
" Oh, no, you can t." Bartley drove to the station 
with him, and they bade each other adieu with a 
hand-shake. They were no longer enemies, but they 
liked each other less than ever. 
"See you in Equity next summer, I suppose?" 
suggested the Squire. 
" So Marcia says," replied Bartley. " Well, take 
care of yourself. You confounded, tight-fisted old 
woodchuck ! " he added under his breath, for the 
Squire had allowed him to pay the hack fare. 
He walked home, composing variations on his part 
ing malison, to find that the Squire had profited by his 
brief absence while ordering the hack, to leave with 
Marcia a silver cup, knife, fork, and spoon, which 
Olive Halleck had helped him choose, for the baby. 
In the cup was a check for five hundred dollars. The 
Squire was embarrassed in presenting the gifts, and 
when Marcia turned upon him with, " Now, look 
here, father, what do you mean ? " he was at a loss 
how to explain. 
x&lt; Well, it 's what T always meant to do for you." 
" Baby 's tilings are all right," said Marcia. " But 
I 'm not going to let Bartley take any money from 
you, unless you think as well of him as I do, and 
say so, right out." 
The Squire laughed. " You couldn 't quite expect 
me to do that, could you ? " 
" No, of course not. But what I mean is, do you 
think now that I did right to marry him ? " 
" Oh, you 're all right, Marcia. I in glad you 're 
getting along so well." 
" No, no ! Is Bartley all right ? " 
The Squire laughed again, and rubbed his chin in 
enjoyment of her persistence. " You can 't expect me 
to own up to everything all at once." 
"So you see, Bartley," said Marcia, in repeating 
these words to him, u it was quite a concession." 
"Well, I don 't know about the concession, but I 
guess there 's no doubt about the check," replied 
Bartley. 
"Oh, don 't say that, dear!" protested his wife. 
" I think father was pleased with his visit every way. 
I know he 's been anxious about me, all the time ; 
and yet it was a good deal for him to do, after what 
he had said, to come down here and as much as take 
it all back. Can 't you look at it from his side ? " 
" Oh, I dare say it was a dose," Bartley admitted. 
The money had set several things in a better light. 
" If all the people that have abused me would take it 
back as handsomely as your father has," he held 
the check up, " why, I wish there were twice as 
many of them." 
She laughed for pleasure in his joke. " I think 
father was impressed by everything about us, be 
ginning with baby," she said, proudly. 
" Well, he kept his impressions to himself." 
" Oh, that 's nothing but his way. He never was 
demonstrative, like me." 
 
" No, he has his emotions under control, not to 
say under lock and key, not to add, in irons." 
Bartley went on to give some instances of the 
Squire 's fortitude when apparently tempted to ex 
press pleasure or interest in his Boston experiences. 
They botli undeniably felt freer now that he was 
gone. Bartley stayed longer than he ought from his 
work, in tacit celebration of the Squire 's departure, 
and they were very merry together ; but when lie 
left her, Marcia called for her baby, and, gathering it 
close to her heart, sighed over it, " Poor father ! poor 
father!" 
 
XXIII 
WHEN the spring opened, Bartley pushed Flavia 
about the sunny pavements in a baby carriage, while 
Marcia paced alongside, looking in under the calash 
top from time to time, arranging the bright afghan, 
and twitching the little one 's lace hood into place. 
They never noticed that other perambulators were 
pushed by Irish nurse-girls or French bonnes; they 
had paid somewhat more than they ought for theirs, 
and they were proud of it merely as a piece of prop 
erty. It was rather Bartley 's ideal, as it is that of 
most young American fathers, to go out with his wife 
and baby in that way ; he liked to have his friends 
see him ; and he went out every afternoon he could 
spare. When he could not go, Marcia went alone. 
Mrs. Halleck had given her a key to the garden, and 
on pleasant mornings she always found some of the 
family there, when she pushed the perambulator up 
the path, to let the baby sleep in the warmth and 
silence of the sheltered place. She chatted with 
Olive or the elder sisters, while Mrs. Halleck drove 
Cyrus on to the work of tying up the vines and 
trimming the shrubs, with the pitiless rigor of women 
when they get a man about some outdoor labor. 
Sometimes, Ben Halleck was briefly of the party; 
and one morning when Marcia opened the gate, she 
found him there alone with Cyrus, who was busy 
at some belated tasks of horticulture. The young 
man turned at the unlocking of the gate, and saw 
Marcia lifting the front wheels of the perambulator 
 
to get it over the steps of the pavement outside. He 
limped hastily down the walk to help her, but she 
had the carnage in the path before he could reach 
her, and he had nothing to do but to walk back at its 
side, as she propelled it towards the house. "You 
see what a useless creature a cripple is," he said. 
Marcia did not seem to have heard him. " Is your 
mother at home ? " she asked. 
" I think she is," said Halleck. " Cyrus, go in and 
tell mother that Mrs. Hubbard is here, won 't you ? " 
Cyrus went, after a moment of self-respectful de 
lay, and Marcia sat down on a bench under a pear- 
tree beside the walk. Its narrow young leaves and 
blossoms sprinkled her with shade shot with vivid 
sunshine, and in her light dress she looked like a 
bright, fresh figure from some painter 's study of spring. 
She breathed quickly from her exertion, and her 
cheeks had a rich, dewy bloom. She had pulled the 
perambulator round so that she might see her baby 
while she waited, and she looked at the baby now, 
and not at Halleck, as she said, " It is quite hot in 
the sun to-day." She had a way of closing her lips, 
after speaking, in that sweet smile of hers, and then 
of glancing sidelong at the person to whom she spoke. 
" I suppose it is," said Halleck, who remained on 
foot. " But I haven 't been out yet. I gave myself 
a day off from the Law School, and I hadn 't quite 
decided what to do with it." 
Marcia leaned forward, and brushed a tendril of the 
baby 's hair out of its eye. " She 's the greatest little 
sleeper that ever was when she gets into her car 
riage," she half mused, leaning Sack with her hands 
folded in her lap, and setting her head on one side 
for the effect of the baby without the stray ringlet, 
" She 's getting so fat ! " she said, proudly. 
Halleck smiled. " Do you find it makes a differ 
ence in pushing her carriage, from day to day ? " 
 
Marcia took his question in earnest, as she must 
take anything but the most obvious pleasantry con 
cerning her baby. " The carriage runs very easily ; 
we picked out the lightest one we could, and I never 
have any trouble with it, except getting up curb 
stones and crossing Cambridge Street. I don 't like 
to cross Cambridge Street, there are always so many 
horse-cars. But it 's all down-hill coming here ; 
that 's one good thing." 
" That makes it a very bad thing going home, 
though," said Halleck. 
" Oh, I go round by Charles Street, and come up the 
hill from the other side ; it isn 't so steep there." 
There was no more to be said upon this point, and 
in the lapse of their talk Halleck broke off some 
boughs of the blooming pear, and dropped them on 
the baby 's afghan. 
"Your mother won 't like your spoiling her pear- 
tree," said Marcia, seriously. 
" She will when she knows that I did it for Miss 
Hubbard." 
"Miss Hubbard !" repeated the young mother, and 
she laughed in fond derision. " How funny to hear 
you saying that ! I thought you hated babies ! " 
Halleck looked at her with strong self-disgust, and 
he dropped the bough which he had in his hand upon 
the ground. There is something in a young man 's 
ideal of women, at once passionate and ascetic, so 
fine that any words are too gross for it. The event 
which intensified the interest of his mother and sis 
ters in Marcia had abashed Halleck ; when she came 
so proudly to show her baby to them all, it seemed to 
him like a mockery of his pity for her captivity to 
the love that profaned her. He went out of the room 
in angry impatience, which lie could hardly hide, 
when one of his sisters tried to make him take the 
baby. Little by little his compassion adjusted itself 
to the new conditions ; it accepted the child as an 
element of her misery in the future, when she must 
realize the hideous deformity of her marriage. His 
prophetic feeling of this, and of her inaccessibility to 
human help here and hereafter, made him sometimes 
afraid of her ; but all the more severely he exacted of 
his ideal of her that she should not fall beneath the 
tragic dignity of her fate through any levity of her 
own. Now, at her innocent laugh, a subtile irrever 
ence, which he was not able to exorcise, infused itself 
into his sense of her. 
He stood looking at her, after he dropped the pear- 
bough, and seeing her mere beauty as he had never 
seen it before. The bees hummed in the blossoms, 
which gave out a dull, sweet smell ; the sunshine had 
the luxurious, enervating warmth of spring. He 
started suddenly from his reverie : Marcia had said 
something. " I beg your pardon ? " he queried. 
"Oh, nothing. I asked if you knew where I went 
to church yesterday ? " 
Halleck flushed, ashamed of the wrong his thoughts, 
or rather his emotions, had done. " No, I don t," he 
answered. 
" I was at your church." 
" I ought to have been there myself," he returned, 
gravely, " and then I should have known." 
She took his self-reproach literally. " You couldn 't 
have seen me. I was sitting pretty far back, and I 
went out before any of your family saw me. Don 't 
you go there ? " 
" Not always, I 'm sorry to say. Or, rather, I 'm 
sorry not to be sorry. What church do you generally 
go to ? " 
" Oh, I don 't know. Sometimes to one, and some 
times to another. Bartley used to report the ser 
mons, and we went round to all the churches then. 
That is the way I did at home, and it came natural to 
 
me. But I don 't like it very well. I want Flavia 
should belong to some particular church." 
" There are enough to choose from," said Halleck, 
with pensive sarcasm. 
" Yes, that 's the difficulty. But I shall make up 
my mind to one of them, and then I shall always 
keep to it. What I mean is that I should like to find 
out where most of the good people belong, and then 
have her be with them," pursued Marcia. " I. think 
it 's best to belong to some church, don 't you ?" 
There was something so bare, so spiritually poverty- 
stricken, in these confessions and questions, that Hal 
leck found nothing to say to them. He was troubled, 
moreover, as to what the truth was in his own mind. 
He answered, with a sort of mechanical adhesion to 
the teachings of his youth, " I should be a recreant 
not to think so. But I 'm not sure that I know what 
you mean by belonging to some church," he added. 
" I suppose you would want to believe in the creed of 
the church, whichever it was." 
" I don 't know that I should be particular," said 
Marcia, with perfect honesty. 
Halleck laughed sadly. " I 'm afraid they would, 
then, unless you joined the Broad Church." 
"What is that?" He explained as well as he 
could. At the end she repeated, as if she had not 
followed him very closely: "I should like her to 
belong to the church where most of the good people 
w T ent. I think that would be the right one, if you 
could only find which it is." Halleck laughed again. 
" I suppose what I say must sound very queer to you ; 
but I 've been thinking a good deal about this lately." 
" I beg your pardon," said Halleck. " I had no 
reason to laugh, either on your account or my own. 
It 's a serious subject." She did not reply, and he 
asked, as if she had left the subject, " Do you intend 
to pass the summer in Boston ?" 
 
"No; I 'm going down home pretty early, and I 
wanted to ask your mother what is the best way to 
put away my winter tilings.". 
" You 'll  find my mother very good authority on 
such matters," said Halleck. Through an obscure 
association with moths that corrupt, he added, "She 's 
a good authority on church matters, too." 
" I guess I shall talk with her about Flavia," said 
Marcia. 
Cyrus came out of the house. " Mis Halleck will 
be here in a minute. She 's got to get red of a lady 
that 's calling, first," he explained. 
" I will leave you, then," said Halleck, abruptly. 
"Good by," answered Marcia, tranquilly. The 
baby stirred ; she pushed the carriage to and fro, 
without glancing after him as he walked away. 
His mother came down the steps from the house, 
and kissed Marcia for welcome, and looked under the 
carriage-top at the sleeping baby. "How she does 
sleep ! " she whispered. 
" Yes," said Marcia, with the proud humility of a 
mother, who cannot deny the merit of her child, " and 
she sleeps the whole night through. I 'm never up 
with her. Bartley says she 's a perfect Seven-Sleeper. 
It 's a regular joke with him, her sleeping." 
" Ben was a good baby for sleeping, too," said Mrs. 
Halleck, retrospectively emulous. " It 's one of the 
best signs. It shows that the child is strong and 
healthy." They went on to talk of their children, 
and in their community of motherhood they spoke of 
the young man as if he were still an infant. " He 
has never been a moment 's care to me," said Mrs. Hal 
leck. "A well baby will be well even in teething." 
" And I had somehow thought of him as sickly . " 
said Marcia, in self-derision. 
Tears of instant intelligence sprang into his moth 
er 's eyes. "And did you suppose he was always 
 
lame ? " she demanded, with gentle indignation. " He 
was the brightest and strongest boy that ever was, till 
he was twelve years old. That 's what makes it so 
hard to bear ; that 's what makes me wonder at the 
way the child bears it ! Did you never hear how it 
happened ? One of the big boys, as he called him, 
tripped him up at school, and he fell on his hip. It 
kept him in bed for a year, and he 's never been the 
same since ; he will always be a cripple," grieved the 
mother. She wiped her eyes ; she never could think 
of her boy 's infirmity without weeping. " And what 
seemed the worst of all," she continued, " was that 
the boy who did it never expressed any regret for it, 
or acknowledged it by word or deed, though he must 
have known that Ben knew who hurt him. He 's a 
man here, now ; and sometimes Ben meets him. But 
Ben always says that he can stand it, if the other one 
can. He was always just so from the first ! He 
wouldn 't let us blame the boy ; he said that he 
didn 't mean any harm, and that all was fair in play. 
And now he says he knows the man is sorry, and 
would own to what he did, if he didn 't have to own to 
what came of it. Ben says that very few of us have 
the courage to face the consequences of the injuries 
we do, and that 's what makes people seem hard and 
indifferent when they are really not so. There ! " 
cried Mrs. Halleck. " I don 't know as I ought to 
have told you about it ; I know Ben wouldn 't like it. 
But I can 't bear to have any one think he was 
always lame, though I don 't know why I shouldn 't : 
I 'm prouder of him since it happened than ever I 
was before. I thought he was here with you," she 
added, abruptly. 
" He went out just before you came," said Marcia, 
nodding toward the gate. She sat listening to Mrs. 
Halleck 's talk about Ben ; Mrs. Halleck took herself 
to task from time to time, but only to go on talking 
 
about him again. Sometimes Marcia commented on 
his characteristics, and compared them with Bartley s, 
or with Flavia s, according to the period of Ben 's lite 
under consideration. 
At the end Mrs. Halleck said : " I haven 't let you 
get in a word ! Now you must talk about your baby. 
Dear little thing ! I feel that she 's been neglected. 
But I 'm always just so selfish when I get to running 
on about Ben. They all laugh at me." 
" Oh, I like to hear about other children," said 
Marcia, turning the perambulator round. " I don 't 
think any one can know too much that has the care^ 
of children of their own." She added, as if it followed 
from something they had been saying of vaccination, 
" Mrs. Halleck, I want to talk with you about getting 
Flavia christened. You know I never was christened." 
" Weren 't you ? " said Mrs. Halleck, with a dismay 
which she struggled to conceal. 
" No," said Marcia, " father doesn 't believe in any 
of those things, and mother had got to letting them 
go, because he didn 't take any interest in them. 
They did have tl;e first children christened, but I was 
the last." 
" I didn 't speak with your father on the subject," 
faltered Mrs. Halleck. " I didn 't know what his per 
suasion was." 
" Why, father doesn 't belong to any church ! He 
believes in a God, but he doesn 't believe in the 
Bible." Mrs. Halleck sank down on the garden seat 
too much shocked to speak, and Marcia continued. "I 
don 't know whether the Bible is true or not ; but 
I 've often wished that I belonged to church." 
" You couldn 't, unless you believed in the Bible," 
said Mrs. Halleck. 
" Yes, I know that. Perhaps I should, if anybody 
proved it to me. I presume it could be explained. I 
never talked much with any one about it. There 
 
