out-of-the-way place, between which and the surface communi- 
cation was interrupted by a dozen capricious forces. She saw 
the young men who came in large numbers to see her sister ; 
but as a general thing they were afraid of her; they had a 
belief that some special preparation was required for talking 
with her. Her reputation of reading a great deal hung about 
her like the cloudy envelope of a goddess in an epic ; it was 
supposed to engender difficult questions, and to keep the conver- 
sation at a low temperature. The poor girl liked to be thought 
clever, but she hated to be thought bookish ; she used to read in 
secret, and, though her memory was excellent, to abstain from 
quotation. She had a great desire for knowledge, but she really 
preferred almost any source of information to the printed page; 
she had an immense curiosity about life, and was constantly 
staring and wondering. She carried within herself a great fund 
of life, and her deepest enjoyment was to feel the continuity 
between the movements of her own heart and the agitations of 
the world. For this reason she was fond of seeing great crowds 
and large stretches of country, of reading about revolutions and 
wars, of looking at historical pictures a class of efforts to which 
she had often gone so far as to forgive much bad painting for 
the sake of the subject. While the Civil War went on, she was 
still a very young girl ; but she passed months of this long 
period in a state of almost passionate excitement, in which she 
felt herself at times (to her extreme confusion) stirred almost 
indiscriminately by the valour of either army. Of course 
the circumspection of the local youth had never gone the 
length of making her a social proscript; for the proportion of 
those whose hearts, as they approached her, beat only just fast 
enough to make it a sensible pleasure, was sufficient to redeem 
her maidenly career from failure. She had had everything that 
a girl could have : kindness, admiration, flattery, bouquets, the 
sense of exclusion from none of the privileges of the world she 
lived in, abundant opportunity for dancing, the latest publica- 
tions, plenty of new dresses, the London Spectator, and a glimpse 
of contemporary aesthetics. 
These things now, as memory played over them, resolved 
themselves into a multitude of scenes and figures. Forgotten 
things came back to her; many others, which she had lately 
thought of great moment, dropped out of sight. The result was 
kaleidoscopic ; but the movement of the instrument was checked 
 
at last by the servant's coming in with the name of a gentleman. 
The name of the gentleman was Caspar Goodwood ; he was a 
straight young man from Boston, who had known Miss Archer for 
the last twelvemonth, and who, thinking her the most beautiful 
young woman of her time, had pronounced the time, according to 
the rule I have hinted at, a foolish period of history. He sometimes 
wrote to Isabel, and he had lately written to her h"L  New York. 
She had thought it very possible he would come itr had, indeed, 
all the rainy day been vaguely expecting him. Nevertheless, now 
that she learned he was there, she felt no eagerness to receive 
him. He Avas the finest young man she had ever seen, was, 
indeed, quite a magnificent young man; he filled her with a 
certain feeling of respect which she had never entertained for 
any one else. He was supposed by the world in general to wish 
to marry her ; but this of course was between themselves. It 
at least may be affirmed that he had travelled from New York 
to Albany expressly to see her; having learned in the former 
city, where he was spending a few days and where he had hoped 
to find her, that she was still at the capital. Isabel delayed for 
some minutes to go to him ; she moved about the room with a 
certain feeling of embarrassment. But at last she presented 
herself, and found him standing near the lamp. He was tall, 
strong, and somewhat stiff; he was also lean and brown. He 
was not especially good-looking, but his physiognomy had an air 
of requesting your attention, which it rewarded or not, according 
to the charm you found in a blue eye of remarkable fixedness 
and a jaw of the somewhat angular mould, which is supposed 
to bespeak resolution. Isabel said to herself that it bespoke 
resolution to-night ; but, nevertheless, an hour later, Caspar 
Goodwood, who had arrived hopeful as well as resolute, took his 
way back to his lodging with the feeling of a man defeated. 
He was not, however, a man to be discouraged by a defeat. 
V. 
EALPH TOUCHETT was a philosopher, but nevertheless he 
knocked at his mother's door (at a quarter to seven) with a good 
deal of eagerness. Even pnilosophers have their preferences, 
and it must be admitted that of his progenitors his father 
ministered most to his sense of the sweetness of filial depend- 
ence. His father, as he had often said to himself, was the more 
motherly ; his mother, on the other hand, was paternal, and 
 
even, according to the slang of the day, gubernatorial. She 
was nevertheless very fond of her only child, and had always 
insisted on his spending three months of the year with her. 
Ralph rendered perfect justice to her affection, and knew that in 
her thoughts his turn always came after the care of her house 
and her conservatory (she was extremely fond of flowers). He 
found her completely dressed for dinner, but she embraced her 
boy with her gloved hands, and made him sit on the sofa beside 
her. She inquired scrupulously about her husband's health and 
about the young man's own, and receiving no very brilliant 
account of either, she remarked that she was more than ever 
convinced of her wisdom in not exposing herself to the English 
climate. In this case she also might have broken down. Ralph 
smiled at the idea of his mother breaking down, but made no 
point of reminding her that his own enfeebled condition was 
not the result of the English climate, from which he absented 
himself for a considerable part of each year. 
He had been a very small boy when his father, Daniel Tracy 
Touchett, who was a native of Kutland, in the State of Vermont, 
came to England as subordinate partner in a banking-house, in 
which some ten years later he acquired a preponderant interest. 
Daniel Touchett saw before him a life-long residence in his 
adopted country, of which, from the first, he took a simple, 
cheerful, and eminently practical view. But, as he said to him- 
self, he had no intention of turning Englishman, nor had he any 
desire to convert his only son to the same sturdy faith. It .had 
been for himself so very soluble a problem to live in England, 
and yet not be of it, that it seemed to him equally simple that 
after his death his lawful heir should carry on the bank in a 
pure American spirit. He took pains to cultivate this spirit, 
however, by sending the boy home for his education. Ralph 
spent several terms in an American school, and took a degree 
at an American college, after which, as he struck his father on 
his return as even redundantly national, he was placed for 
some three years in residence at Oxford. Oxford swallowed 
up Harvard, and Ralph became at last English enough. His 
outward conformity to the manners that surrounded him was 
none the less the mask, of a mind that greatly enjoyed its 
independence, on which nothing long imposed itself, and which, 
naturally inclined to jocosity arid irony, indulged in a boundless 
liberty of appreciation. He began with being a young man of 
promise ; at Oxford he distinguished himself, to his father's 
ineffable satisfaction, and the people about him said it was a 
thousand pities so clever a fellow should be shut out from a 
career. He might have had a career by returning to his own 
country (though this point is shrouded in uncertainty), and even 
if Mr. Touchett had been willing to part with him (which was 
not the case), it would have gone hard with him to put the ocean 
(which he detested) permanently between himself and the old 
man whom he regarded as his best friend. Ralph was not only 
fond of his father, but headmired him he enjoyed the opportunity 
of observing him. Daniel Touchett to his perception was a man 
of genius, and -though he himself had no great fancy for the 
banking business, he made a point of learning enough of it to 
measure the great figure hi  father had played. It was not this, 
however, he mainly relished, it was the old man's effective 
simplicity. Daniel Touchett had been neither at Harvard nor 
at Oxford, and it was his own fault if he had put into his son's 
bunds the key to modern criticism. Ralph, whose head was 
full of ideas which his father had never guessed, had a high 
esteem for the latter's originality. Americans, rightly or wrongly, 
are commended for the ease with which they adapt themselves 
to foreign conditions ; but Mr. Touchett had given evidence of 
this talent only up to a certain point. He had made himself 
thoroughly comfortable in England, but he had never attempted 
to pitch his thoughts in the English key. He had retained 
many characteristics of Rutland, Vermont ; his tone, as his son 
always noted with pleasure, was that of the more luxuriant parts 
of New England. At the end of his life", especially, he was a 
gentle, refined, fastidious old man, who combined consummate 
shrewdness with a sort of fraternising good-humour, and whose 
feeling about his own position in the world was quite of the 
democratic sort. It was perhaps his want of imagination and of 
what is called the historic consciousness ; but to many of the 
impressions usually made by English life upon the cultivated 
stranger his sense was completely closed. There were certain 
differences he never perceived r certain habits he never formed, 
certain mysteries he never understood. As regards these latter, 
on the day that he had understood them his son would have 
thought less well of him. 
Ralph, on leaving Oxford, spent a couple of years in travelling ; 
after which he found himself mounted on a high stool in has 
father's bank. The responsibility and honour of such positions 
is not, I believe, measured by the height of the stool, which 
depends upon other considerations ; Ralph, indeed, who had 
very long legs, was fond of standing, and even of walking about, 
at his work. To this exercise, however, he was obliged to devote 
but a limited period, for at the end of some eighteen months he 
 
became conscious that he was seriously out of health. He had 
caught a violent cold, which fixed itself upon his lungs and 
threw them into extreme embarrassment. He had to give 
up work and embrace the sorry occupation known as taking 
care of one's self. At first he was greatly disgusted ; it ap- 
peared to him that it was not himself in the least that he was 
taking care of, but an uninteresting and uninterested person with 
whom he had nothing in common. This person, however, 
improved on acquaintance, and Ealph grew at last to have a 
certain grudging tolerance, and even undemonstrative respect, for 
him. Misfortune makes strange bed-fellows, and our young 
man, feeling that he had something at stake in the matter it 
usually seemed to him to be his reputation for common sense 
devoted to his unattractive protege an amount of attention of 
which note was duly taken, and which had at least the effect of 
keeping the poor fellow alive. One of his lungs began to heal, 
the other promised to follow its example, and he was assured 
that he might outweather a dozen winters if he would betake 
himself to one of those climates in which consumptives chiefly 
congregate. He had grown extremely fond of London, and 
cursed this immitigable necessity ; but at the same time that he 
cursed, he conformed, and gradually,, when he found that his 
sensitive organ was really grateful for such grim favours, he 
conferred them with a better grace. He wintered abroad, as 
the phrase is ; basked in the sun, stopped at home when the 
wind blew, went to bed when it rained, and once or twice, when 
it snowed, almost never got up again. A certain fund of indo- 
lence that he possessed came to his aid and helped to reconcile 
him to doing nothing ; for at the best he was too ill for anything 
but a passive life. As he said to himself, there was really nothing 
he had wanted very much to do, so that he had given up 
nothing. At present, however, the perfume of forbidden fruit 
seemed occasionally to float past him, to remind him that the 
finest pleasures of life are to be found in the world of action. 
Living as he now lived was like reading a good book in a poor 
translation a meagre entertainment for a young man who felt 
that he might have been an excellent linguist. He had good 
winters and poor winters, and while the former lasted he was 
sometimes the sport of a vision of virtual recovery. But this 
vision was dispelled some three years before the occurrence of the 
incidents with which this history opens ; he had on this occasion 
remained later than usual in England, and had been overtaken 
by bad weather before reaching Algiers. He reached it more 
dead than alive, and lay there for several weeks between life and 
death. His convalescence was a miracle, but the first use he 
made of it was to assure himself that such miracles happen but 
once. He said to himself that his hour was in sight, and that it 
behoved him to keep his eyes' upon it, but that it was also open 
to him to spend the interval as agreeably as might be consistent 
with such a pre-occupation. With the prospect of losing them, 
the simple use of his faculties became an exquisite pleasure ; it 
seemed to him that the delights of observation had never been 
suspected. He was far from the time when he had found it hard 
that he should be obliged to give up the idea of distinguishing 
himself ; an idea none the less importunate for being vague, and 
none the less delightful for having to struggle with a good deal 
of native indifference. His friends at present found him much 
more cheerful, and attributed it to a theory, over which they 
shook their heads knowingly, that he would recover his health. 
The truth was that he had simply accepted the situation. 
It was very probable this sweet-tasting property of observation 
to whirh I allude (for he found himself in these last-years much 
more inclined to notice the pleasant things of the world than the 
others) that- was mainly concerned in Ralph's quickly-stirred 
interest in the arrival of a young lady who was evidently not 
insipid. If he were observantly disposed, something told him, 
here was occupation enough for a succession of days. It may be 
added, somewhat crudely, that the liberty of falling in love had 
a place in Ralph Touchett's programme. This was of course a 
liberty to be very temperately used ; for though the safest form 
of any sentiment is that which is conditioned upon silence, it is 
not always the most comfortable, and Ralph had forbidden him- 
self the art of demonstration. But conscious observation of a 
lovely woman had struck him as the finest entertainment that 
the world now had to offer him, and if the interest should 
become poignant, he nattered himself that he could carry it off 
quietly, as he had carried other discomforts. He speedily 
acquired a conviction, however, that he was not destined to fall 
in love with his cousin. 
"And now tell me about the young lady," he said to his 
mother. " What do you mean to do with her  ? " 
Mrs. Touchett hesitated a little. " I mean to ask your father 
to invite her to stay three or four weeks at Gardencourt." 
"You needn't stand on any such ceremony. as that," said 
Ralph. " My father will ask her as a matter of course.'' 
" I don't know about that. She is my niece ; she is not his." 
Of Good Lord, dear mother ; what a- sense of property ! That's 
all the more reason for his asking her. But after that I mean 
after three months (for it's absurd asking the poor girl to remain 
but for three or four paltry weeks) what do you mean to do 
with her ? " 
" I mean to take her to Paris, to get her some clothes." 
" Ah yes, that's of course. But independently of that  ? " 
" I shall invite her to spend the autumn with me in 
Florence." 
" You don't rise above detail, dear mother," said Ealph. " I 
should like to know what you mean to do with her in a general 
way." 
" My duty ! " Mrs. Touchett declared. '' I suppose you pity 
her very much," she added. 
"No, I don't think I pity her. She doesn't strike me as a 
girl that suggests compassion. I think I envy her. Before being 
sure, however, give me a hint of what your duty will direct you 
to do." 
" It will direct mo to show her four European countries I 
shall leave her the choice of two of them and to give her the 
opportunity of perfecting herself in French, which she already 
knows very well." 
Ralph frowned a little. " That sounds rather dry even 
giving her the choice of two of the countries." 
"If it's dry," said his mother with a laugh, "you can leave 
Isabel alone to water it ! She is as good as a summer rain, any 
day." 
" Do you mean that she is a gifted being ? " 
" I don't know whether she is a gifted being, but she is a clever 
girl, with a strong will and a high temper. She has no idea of 
being bored." 
"I can imagine that," said Ralph; and then he 'added, 
abruptly, " How do you two get on ? " 
" Do you mean by that that I am a bore " I don't think 
Isabel finds me one. Some girls might, I know ; but this one is 
too clever for that. I think I amuse her a good deal. We get 
on very well, because I understand her ; I know the sort of girl 
she is. She is very frank, and I am very frank ; we know just 
what to expect of each other." 
"Ah, dear mother," Ralph exclaimed, " one always knows 
what to expect of you ! You have never surprised me but once, 
and that is to-day in presenting me with a pretty cousin whose 
existence I had never suspected." 
" Do you think her very pretty ? " 
" Very pretty indeed ; but I don't insist upon that. It's hei 
 
general air of being some one in particular that strikes me. Who 
is this rare creature, and what is she   Where did you find 
her, and how did you make her acquaintance?" 
" I found her in an old house at Albany, sitting in a dreary 
room on a rainy day, reading a heavy book, and boring herself to 
death. She didn't know she was bored, but when I told her, 
she seemed very grateful for the hint. You may say I shouldn't 
have told her I should have let her alone. There is a good 
deal in that ; but I acted conscientiously ; I thought she was 
meant for something better. It occurred to me that it would be 
a kindness to take her about and introduce her to the world. 
She thinks she knows a great deal of it like most American 
girls; but like most American girls she is very much mistaken. 
If you want to know, I thought she would do me credit. I like 
to be well thought of, and for a woman of my age there is no 
more becoming ornament than an attractive niece. You know 
I had seen nothing of my sister's children for years; I disap- 
proved entirely of the father. But I always meant to do some- 
thing for them when he should have gone to his reward. I 
ascertained where they were to be found, and, without any 
preliminaries, went and introduced myself. There are two other 
sisters, both of whom are married; but I saw only the elder, 
who has, by the way, a very uncivil husband. The wife, whose 
name is Lily, jumped at the idea of my taking an interest 
in Isabel; she said it was just what her sister needed that 
sQine one should take an interest in her. She spoke of her as 
you might speak of some young person of genius, in want of 
encouragement and patronage. It may be that Isabel is a genius ; 
but in that case I have not yet learned her special line. Mrs. 
Ludlow was especially keen about my taking her to Europe ; they 
all regard Europe over there as a sort of land of emigration, a 
refuge for their superfluous population. Isabel herself seemed 
very glad to come, and the thing was easily arranged. There 
was a little difficulty about the money-question, as she seemed 
averse to being under pecuniary obligations. But she has a 
small income, and she supposes herself to be travelling at her 
own expense." 
Ralph had listened attentively to this judicious account of his 
pretty cousin, by which his interest in her was not impaired. 
" Ah, if she is a genius," he said, " we must find out her special 
line. Is it, by chance, for flirting? " 
" I don't think so. You may suspect that at first, but you 
will be wrong." 
"Warburton is wrong, then!" Ralph Touchett exilaimed. 
" He flatters himself he has made that discovery." 
His mother shook' her head. " Lord Warburton won't under- 
stand her ; he needn't try." 
" He is very intelligent," said Ealph ; " but it's right he should 
be puzzled once in a while." 
" Isabel will enjoy puzzling a lord," Mrs. Touchett remarked. 
Her son frowned a little. " What does she know about 
lords ? " 
" Nothing at all ; that will puzzle him all the more." 
Ealph greeted these words with a laugh, and looked out of the 
window a little. Then "Are you not going down to see my 
father ? " he asked. 
" At a quarter to eight," said Mrs. Touchett. 
Her son looked at his watch. " You have another quarter of 
an hour, then ; tell me some more about Isabel." 
But Mrs. Touchett declined his invitation, declaring that he 
must find out for himself. 
" Well," said Ralph, " she will certainly do you credit. But 
won't she also give you trouble ? " 
"I hope not ; but if she does, I shall not shrink from it. I 
never do that." 
" She strikes me as very natural," said Ralph. 
" Natural people are not the most trouble." 
" No," said Ralph ; " you yourself are a proof of that. You 
are extremely natural, and I am sure you have never troubled 
any one. But tell me this ; it just occurs to me. Is Isabel 
capable of making herself disagreeable ? " 
" Ah," cried his mother, "you ask too many questions ! Find 
that out for yourself." 
His questions, however, were not exhausted. " All this time," 
he said, " you have not told me what you intend to do with 
her." 
"Do with her ? You talk as if she were a yard of calico. I 
shall do absolutely nothing with her, and she herself will do 
everything that she chooses. She gave me notice of that." 
"What you meant then, in your telegram, was that her 
character was independent." 
" I never know what I mean by my telegrams especially 
those I send from America. Clearness is too expensive. Come 
down to your father." 
" It is not yet a quarter to eight," said Ralph. 
" I must allow for his impatience," Mrs. Touchett answered. 
Ralph knew what to think of his father's impatience ; but 
 
making no rejoinder, he offered his mother his arm. This put 
it into his power, as they descended together, to stop her a 
moment on the middle landing of the staircase the broad, low, 
wide-armed staircase of time-stained oak which was one of the 
most striking ornaments of Gardencourt. 
"You have no plan of marrying her? " he said, smiling. 
" Marry her? I should be sorry to play her such a trick ! 
But apart from that, she is perfectly able to marry herself ; she 
has every facility." 
" Do you mean to say she has a husband picked out? " 
"I don't know about a husband, but there is a young man in 
Boston " 
Ralph went on; he had no desire to hear about the young 
man in Boston. " As my father says," lie exclaimed, " they are 
always engaged ! " 
His mother had told him that he must extract his information 
about his cousin from the girl herself, and it soon became evident 
to him that he should not want for opportunity. He had, for 
instance, a good deal of talk with her that same evening, when 
the two had been left alone together in the drawing-room. Lord 
Warburton, who had ridden over from his own house, some ten 
miles distant, remounted and took his departure before dinner ; 
and an hour after this meal was concluded, Mr. and Mrs. 
Touchett, who appeared to have exhausted each other's convers- 
ation, withdrew, under the valid pretext of fatigue, to their 
respective apartments. The young man spent an hour with his 
cousin ; though she had been travelling half the day she 
appeared to have no sense of weariness. She was really tired; 
she knew it, and knew that she should pay for it on the morrow ; 
but it was her habit at this pe.riod to carry fatigue to the furthest 
point, and confess to it only when dissimulation had become 
impossible. For the present it was perfectly possible ; she was 
interested and excited. She asked Ralph to show her the 
pictures ; there were a great many of them in the house, most of 
them of his own choosing. The best of them were arranged in 
an oaken gallery of charming proportions, which had a sitting- 
room at either end of it, and which in the evening was usually 
lighted. The light was insufficient to show the pictures to 
advantage, and the visit might have been deferred till the 
morrow. This suggestion Ralph had ventured to make ; but 
Isabel looked disappointed smiling still, however and said, 
" If you please, I should like to see them just a little." She 
was eager, she knew that she was eager and that she seemed so ; 
but she could not help it. " She doesn't take suggestions," Ralph 
 
said to himself ; but he said it without irritation ; her eagerness 
amused 'and even pleased him. The lamps were on brackets, at 
intervals, and if the light was imperfect it was genial. It fell 
upon the vague squares of rich colour and on the faded gilding 
of heavy frames ; it made a shining on the polished floor of the 
gallery. Ralph /took a candlestick and moved about, pointing 
out the things he liked ; Isabel, bending toward one picture after 
another, indulged in little exclamations and murmurs. She was 
evidently a judge ; she had a natural taste ; he was struck with 
that. She took a candlestick herself and held it slowly here 
and there ; she lifted it high, and as she did so, he found 
himself pausing in the middle of the gallery and bending his 
eyes much less upon the pictures than on her figure. He lost 
nothing, in truth, by these wandering glances ; for she was better 
worth looking at than most works of art. She was thin, and 
light, and middling tall; when people had wished to distin- 
guish her from the other two Miss Archers, they always called 
her the thin one. Her hair, which was dark even to blackness, 
had been an object of envy to many women ; her light grey eye, 
a little too keen perhaps in her graver moments, had an enchant- 
ing softness when she smiled. They walked slowly up one side 
of the gallery and down the other, and then she said 
" Well, now I know more than I did when I began ! " 
"You apparently have a great passion for knowledge," her 
cousin answered, laughing. 
" I think I have ; most girls seem to me so ignorant," said 
Isabel. 
" You strike me as different from most girls." 
" Ah, some girls are so nice," murmured Isabel, who preferred 
not to talk about heiself. Then, in a moment, to change the 
subject, she went on, " Please tell me isn't there a ghost 'I " 
"A ghost!" 
" A spectre, a phantom ; we call them ghosts in America." 
" So we do here, when we see them." 
" You do see them, then? You ought to, in this romantic 
old house." 
" It's not a romantic house," said Ralph. " You will be 
disappointed if you count on that. It's dismally prosaic ; there 
is no romance here but what you may have brought with you." 
" I have brought a great deal ; but it seems to me I have 
brought it to the right place." 
" To keep it out of harm, certainly ; nothing will ever happen 
to it here, between my father and me." 
Isabel looked at him a moment. 
 
" Is there never any one here but your father and you ? " 
" My mother, of course.'" 
" Oli, I know your mother ; she is not romantic. Haven't 
you other people? " 
" Very few." 
" I am sorry for that ; > like so much to see people." 
" Oh, we will invite all the county to amuse you," said 
Ealph. 
" TsTow you are making fun of me," the girl answered, rather 
gravely. " Who was the gentleman that was on the lawn when 
I arrived? " 
" A county neighbour ; he doesn't come very often." 
" I am sorry for that ; I liked him," said Isabel. 
" Why, it seemed to me that you barely spoke to him," Ealph 
objected. 
" Never mind, I like him all the same. I like your father, 
too, immensely." 
" You can't do better than that ; he is a dear old man." 
" I am so sorry he is ill," said Isabel. 
" You must help me to nurse him; you ought to be a good 
nurse." 
" I don't think I am ; I have been told I am not ; I am said 
to be too theoretic. But you haven't told me about the ghost," 
she added. 
Ealph, however, gave no heed to this observation. 
" You like my father, and you like Lord Warburton. I 
infer also that you like my mother." 
" I like your mother very much, because because " 
And Isabel found herself attempting to assign a reason for her 
affection for Mrs. Touchett. 
u Ah, we never know why ! " said her companion, laughing. 
" I always know why," the girl answered. " It's because she 
doesn't ax ect one to like her ; she doesn't care whether one 
does or not. ' 
" So you adore her, out of perversity? Well, I take greatly 
after my mother," said Ealph. 
" I don't believe you do at all. You wish people to like you, 
and you try to make them do it." 
" Good heavens, how you see through one ! " cried Ealph, 
with a dismay that was not altogether jocular. 
"But I like you all the same," his cousin went on. "The 
way to clinch the matter will be to show me the ghost." 
Ealph shook his head sadly. " I might show it to you, but 
you would never see it. The privilege isn't given to every one ; 
 
it's not enviable. It has never been seen by a young, happy, 
innocent person like you. You must have suffered first, have 
suffered greatly, have gained some miserable knowledge. In 
that way your eyes are opened to it. I saw it long ago," said 
Ralph, smiling. 
" I told you just now I was very fond of knowledge," the 
girl answered. 
" Yes, of happy knowledge of pleasant knowledge. But 
you haven't suffered, and you are not made to suffer. I hope 
you will never see the ghost ! " 
Isabel had listened to him attentively, with a smile on her lips, 
but with a certain gravity in her eyes. Charming as he found 
her, she had struck him as rather presumptuous indeed it was 
a part of her charm ; and he wondered what she would say. 
" I am not afraid," she said ; which seemed quite presumptuous 
enough. 
" You are not afraid of suffering ? " 
" Yes, I am afraid of suffering. But I am not afraid of ghosts. 
And I think people suffer too easily," she added. 
" I don't believe you do," said Ralph, looking at her with his 
hands in his pockets. 
"I don't think that's a fault," she answered. "It is not 
absolutely necessary to suffer ; we were not made for that." 
" You were not, certainly." 
" I am not speaking of myself." And she turned away a 
little. 
" No, it isn't a fault," said her cousin. " It's a merit to be 
strong." 
" Only, if you don't suffer, they call you hard," Isabel re- 
marked. They passed out of the smaller drawing-room, into 
which they had returned from the gallery, and paused in the 
hall, at the foot of the staircase. Here Ralph presented his 
companion with her bed-room candle, which he had taken from 
a niche. " Never mind what they call you," he said. " When 
you do suffer, they call you an idiot. The great point is to be 
as happy as possible." 
She looked at him a little ; she had taken her candle, and placed 
her foot on the oaken stair. "Well," she said, "that's what I 
came to Europe for, to be as happy as possible. Good night." 
" Good night ! I wish you all success, and shall be very glad 
to contribute to it ! " 
She turned away, and he watched her, as she slowly ascended. 
Then, with bis hands always in his pockets, he went back to the 
empty drawing-room. 
 
VI. 
ISABEL ARCHER was a young person of many theories ; her 
imagination was remarkably active. It had been her fortune to 
possess a finer mind than most of the persons among whom her 
lot was cast ; to have a larger perception of surrounding facts, 
and to care for knowledge that was tinged with the unfamiliar. 
It is true that among her contemporaries she passed for a young 
woman of extraordinary profundity ; for these excellent people 
never withheld their admiration from a reach of intellect of 
which they themselves were not conscious, and spoke of Isabel 
as a prodigy of learning, a young lady reputed to have read the 
classic authors in translations. Her paternal aunt, Mrs. Varian, 
once spread the rumour that Isabel was writing a book Mrs. 
Varian having a reverence for books and averred that Isabel 
would distinguish herself in print. Mrs. Varian thought highly 
of literature, for which she entertained that esteem that is con- 
nected with a sense of privation. Her own large house, remark- 
able for its assortment of mosaic tables and decorated ceilings, 
was unfurnished with a library, and in the way of printed 
volumes contained nothing but half-a-dozen novels in paper, on 
a shelf in the aparfcrneut of one of the Miss Varians. Practically, 
Mrs. Varian's acquaintance with literature was confined to the 
New York Interviewer ; as she very justly said, after you had read 
&.Q Interviewer, you had no time for anything else. Her tendency, 
however, was rather to keep the Intefoieicer out of the way of 
her daughters ; she was determined to bring them up seriously, 
and they read nothing at all. Her impression with regard to 
Isabel's labours was quite illusory ; the girl never attempted 
