Presently the dinner-bell rang, and she came 
through the long hall behind him, and out upon 
the piazza. He saw then that she had changed 
her " scarlet-fever dress " for a fresh cambric, be 
fore coming near him. She had a vine, whose name 
 
he did not know, in her hand. She dropped it 
lightly over his shoulder ; it floated down, and fell 
slowly ; it was a delicate thing. She said, 
" Do you know too much about the spontaneous 
movements of plants ? I have some books that 
you may like, when you are strong enough, one 
of Darwin 's especially. It is a subject that inter 
ests me greatly. I found this sensitive thing step 
ping straight over the shrubs and logs for a certain 
birch- tree it fancied, to climb there ; it weht as if 
it were frightened, or starved, like a creature. It 
made me feel as if it had a nervous system, and 
that the lack is in us, not in it ; .we have not the 
eyes fine enough to find its ganglia, that is all." 
" It seems to shrink from my touch, like a 
woman," said Yorke. 
" It was so delicate, I thought you would like it," 
observed the doctor. " But come ! I must send you 
back to bed. I will have your dinner brought in. 
You have been here twenty minutes too long." 
He went, peaceably enough. He felt 
ridiculously, vaguely, pitifully happy. 
VI. 
EAST SHERMAN, as Mrs. Butterwell had not 
untruthfully observed, was a place lacking in " so 
ciety." The people were miserably poor, and pro 
portionally ignorant, foreigners, largely : French 
and Irish lumbermen, and householders of the 
lesser sort, who raised cabbages, aspired to pota- 
toesTlkid supported a theory, if not their families, 
the theory being that they were farmers. 
There are advantages in remoteness, solitude, 
and unlimited opportunity to appreciate nature, 
but advanced sanitary conditions are not, even in 
the State of Maine, necessarily among them. East 
Sherman raged with scarlet fever and diphtheria 
through that long July, and Doctor Zay had her 
expressive hands full. She was busy day and 
night. The exhausting rides of the country 
physician extended themselves through the neighbor 
ing towns, to disheartening lengths. Old Oak 
relieved the gray pony now regularly every day. 
The office bell rang to the verge of confusion. 
Handy, plunged in gloom, rolled out the phaeton 
at midnight, or waited vainly, deep through the 
late summer twilights, for the " blessedest, best 
sound " of low wheels returning down the lonely 
road. Handy had one spot in the back yard, by 
the wood-pile, where he stood to exercise what 
might be called his mind upon the medical and 
moral subjects connected with his calling. He 
dug his foot the right one always, and he took 
off his shoe for the purpose spirally into the 
sawdust, a process not widely understood for its 
tendency to develop thought, and retired deeper 
than usual into his hats. He had two. The felt 
one was the bigger ; he wore it altogethe-gduring 
the prevalence of the epidemic. Handy regarded 
the scarlet fever as a serious infliction, chiefly on 
horses, not to mention indirectly persons by
occupation devoted to equine interests. He made un 
successful attempts to explain this scientific theory 
to the doctor ; but found her the slave of estab 
lished medical prejudices, not predisposing one to 
accept popular discoveries. When Handy was es 
pecially aggrieved, he alluded to his injury as "an 
Ananias n Sapphiry shame." No one had ever 
traced the etymological derivation of this figure. 
One evening, as the clock was striking eight, 
Handy, having reached that depth of spiral action 
on the sawdust heap which expressed resignation, 
not as yet hope, expectation, or disappointment, 
 
and still as far from the pessimistic as it was from 
the optimistic view of life, found himself, like 
many a better and wiser soul that in facing duty 
wrests content from the teeth of despair, suddenly 
plunged into undreamed-of (but plainly deserved) 
delight. 
The doctor was coming home. 
" Some of em 's better," observed Handy, 
wriggling out of the sawdust, and into his shoe, an 
artistic attitude which joggled his hat an inch or 
so lower than usual over his nose. " Or some of 
em 's 4ead. Somebody 's cured. Or somebody 's 
killed, /don't care which. Well, Doctor? " 
" Don't water her for thirty-five minutes," said 
the doctor, throwing the reins ov.er the dasher. 
" She 's too warm." 
" Gointerwanteragin ? " asked Handy, in one 
agonized breath. 
" Not to-night. Put her up. Have you fed 
Old Oak ? Very well. That 's all." 
" Bobailey was after you safternoon. The Bai- 
leybabyswuss. Relse it 's better. I forget. It 's 
one or t other. It always is one or t other," added 
Handy in an aggrieved tone. " Haintgoterseeit- 
aginaveyer ? " 
The doctor did not answer Handy. If she had 
been a man, one would have said she strode by 
 
him into the house. As it was, she had a long 
nervous, absorbed step, that Handy knew very 
well. He and the gray pony looked at each other 
with a confidential air through the twilight of the 
deserted back yard. 
"It 's dead," said Handy, "ain't it?" He 
stroked the pony 's chin. The horse returned the 
boy 's gaze with soft, tired eyes, and seemed to 
nod. 
"I thought so," said Handy. "You needn't  
tell me you ain't glad of it. Got your supper an 
hour sooner. Accommodatinbaby warntit ? " 
He leaned his face against the pony's, and whis 
tled, as he led her to her stall, a polka made pop 
ular in Maine by the Sherman Brass Band. The 
horse and the boy went gayly into the barn to 
gether, cheek to cheek, as if they both belonged 
there. Suddenly Handy appeared in the barn 
door, and made a dive (chiefly over the flower 
beds) after the doctor 's retreating figure. 
"Oh, I say, Doctor! I forgot! Hewantsyer, 
mostpartiklertoo. I 've got too much to do to 
keep rememberin liim" said Handy, with a look 
of disgust. 
" What is the matter, Handy ? " The doctor 
stopped, not without a touch of annoyance. 
" Why, the fellar in the house. He 's wuss, 
 
too. They're all wuss to-day," cried Handy, with 
professional glee. " It 's one of our days. It 's 
pretty much all wussness. We 've got our hands 
full, I tell yer, younmenthehosses." 
" But I went to see Mr. Yorke this morning," 
said Doctor Zay, rather to herself than to Handy- 
She pushed off her hat, and passed her hand over 
her forehead wearily. There was an irritable, 
almost a womanish accent in her voice ; as if she 
would have said, " What shall I do ? " or, possi 
bly, would have cried a little, if she had not been 
ashamed to. But only Handy heard her, and the 
gray pony, neighing through the barn door for her 
supper. Both of them discriminated finely, up to 
a certain point, in the doctor 's tones ; but she had 
passed that point. 
" Can't help that," said Handy ; " yervegoter- 
go. He said so." 
She bathed, and changed her dress, and took 
her supper, before she obeyed Mr. Yorke 's order ; 
but she obeyed it. He was on the lounge in his 
room, in the familiar position, and the lamp was 
in the entry ; she came through the half-light, to 
wards him, against the Rembrandt - like back 
ground. He watched her in silence. 
" Well ? " she said, stopping before him. She 
made no movement to sit down. 
 
" Why, Doctor, you're cross ! " said the young 
man, with an indefinably masculine touch in his 
tone ; half frolic, half tenderness, as if he sported 
with her retreat, and put it aside as something 
not important to the case, or even as a thing which 
it might be in his power to overcome, if he chose. 
" Handy said you were worse, and needed me," 
replied the doctor, gravely. Plainly, she was not 
a woman to be meshed by these little nets. 
" I did not tell Handy I was worse. But I do 
need you." 
" So do many other people. If there are no 
new symptoms, Mr. Yorke " 
" Symptoms ! " breathed the patient, all but 
inaudibly. "There are new symptoms every day." 
She made a nonchalant little gesture with one 
hand. 
" If that is all," there was a very fine empha 
sis, too light to bear italics, too clear to pass un 
noticed, upon the "that," "you will excuse me, 
to-night. I am tired." 
" Bring the light, please," said Yorke, with a 
change of manner. " No, sit down. I can do it 
myself. Take the easy-chair. No, take the lounge. 
I can sit up a few minutes perfectly well. I won't 
keep you more than a few minutes. Please ! Why 
not ? Where 's the harm ? How tired how tired 
you are ! " 
 
He had hobbled over, and brought the lamp : it 
was a little lantern, that he had made to swing 
upon his arm, one of the contrivances of con 
valescence, the offspring of necessity, like all the 
great inventions of history ; it had a Japanese 
paper shade. He stood leaning upon his crutches, 
looking down. She had silently taken the empty 
chair. 
Doctor Zay had borne her epidemic superbly. 
Her bloom had subsided a little, it is true, but 
only enough to increase the delicacy rather than 
detract from the vigor of her strong face. He had 
all along perceived in her a person practically 
supported by what we are accustomed to call, with 
the most imperfect apprehension of the phrase, a 
scientific passion. 
Against the strain of exhausted sympathy she 
had set the muscle of intellectual conquest. It 
could not be denied that in a certain sense the 
doctor enjoyed her terrible work. She gave out 
of herself, as if she possessed the life everlasting 
before her time. She had bread to eat that he 
knew not of. He could not think of her as sink 
ing, dejected, in need, ahungered. Her splendid 
health was like a god to her. She leaned against 
her own physical strength, as another woman 
might lean upon a man 's. She had the repose of 
her full mental activity. She had her dangerous 
and sacred feminine nerve under magnificent train 
ing. It was her servant, not her tyrant ; her 
wealth, not her poverty ; the source of her power, 
not the exponent of her weakness. She moved on 
her straight and narrow way between life and 
death, where one hysteric moment would be fatal, 
with a glorious poise. The young man acknowl 
edged from the bottom of his heart that she was a 
balanced and beautiful creature. He had read of 
such women. He had never seen one. 
It was not without a thrill of reverence, amount 
ing almost to awe, that he perceived, when he 
swung his fantastic little lantern full in her face, 
that she was undergoing some intense emotion, 
which, in almost any woman that he knew, would 
have weakened itself in vehement vocal expres 
sion. 
" I had a letter from my mother," he began, 
" and I thought it was about you I had told 
her at last and it was such a pleasant letter. 
I meant to read it to you. She sends a long 
message to you. I really am not such a brute as 
I seem. I thought perhaps it would amuse you. 
Doctor Zay, I had no more idea you were so over 
worked than I had that you were " He broke 
off. 
 
" I never saw you look so ! " he murmured, with 
rebellious, almost affectionate anxiety. " It 's not 
easy when you 've done so much for him, for a 
man to look on, like a woman, this way. Isn't  
there anything I can do? If you would stay a 
while, I could read to you. We will send for Mrs. 
Butterwell, if you would rather. I could do some 
thing, I know I could ! Just let me try." 
" You cannot help me," she said, gently enough. 
" Nobody can. I have lost a patient." 
Yorke was on the point of crying, "Is that 
all ? " but saved himself in time, and only said, 
" Who is it ? " 
" The little Bailey baby. It was doing so well, 
out of danger. The mother took it over to a 
neighbor 's. You cannot conceive the ignorance and 
recklessness that we have to manage. She took the 
child out, like an express bundle, rolled in her 
shawl. Coming home, it got wet in that shower. 
I had ceased to visit there every day ; they did 
not send at once, I suppose every doctor makes 
these excuses for himself ; what would become of 
us, if we couldn't  ? but when I got there, I 
could not do anything. The little thing died at 
half past seven." 
She sat looking straight before her at the 
Japanese lantern. Yorke felt that the personality of 
 
the red and purple paper men on it came as near 
her at that moment us his. He could not think 
of anything to say which would not present the 
edge of an intrusion upon an experience so far 
without the pale of his own. The young man 's 
imagination was well stocked with comfortable 
material for the lesser sympathies. If she had 
lost a steamer to Liverpool, or a ticket for a 
Christmas oratorio, or a picture bidden for in the 
last great art craze, he could have comforted her. 
She had lost only a miserable child out of a beg 
garly home. What could he say ? 
" I don't believe every baby in Sherman is 
worth your looking like that ! " he cried, with an 
impulse whose only virtue lay in its honesty. He 
really perceived that something more than scien 
tific pride was hurt in Doctor Zay. He felt, with 
a kind of senseless triumph, which he put aside to 
analyze by and by, that he had found the woman 
in the doctor. 
" It was a dear little thing," she said, softly, 
" and fond of me. I had always taken care of it, 
ever since it was born. It was just beginning to 
talk. It wasn't  a big, noisy baby, like the rest of 
the family. It is terrible that a child should die, 
terrible ! It ought never to happen. There is 
no excuse for it. I can never be reconciled to it! " 
 
She rose impetuously, and left him without an 
other word. The patient looked after her. She 
had forgotten him. He and the paper men regarded
each other. It was not for them to help 
her in her trouble. She went across the entry, 
and on into her own rooms, and he heard the door 
shut. Only one patient rang the office bell that 
night. He was glad she was left to herself. Mr. 
and Mrs. Butterwell came in. They too, were 
much moved by the doctor 's grief. They all sat 
together in the sick-room, and mourned about that 
baby as if it had been one of the family. 
" It 's always just so," said Mrs. Butterwell, 
wiping her eyes. " She hasn't  lost but two patients 
since she came to Sherman, except old Father 
Foxy, that nobody counts ; for the Lord himself 
couldn't  have saved him, eighty-seven, and 
drunk since he was seventeen. The Sherman Tem 
perance Lodge used him for a warning in good and 
regular standing, till he got to be about fifty, he 
kept such excellent health ; and sixty, then they 
fought shy of him ; and seventy, but didn't  die ; 
and when he came to be eighty the} 7 gave him up 
as a bad argument. But there ! It kills Doctor 
Zay to lose a patient. I never saw anybody mind 
anything so. She acts as if she 'd murdered em. 
You 'll see ! She 'll be all but down sick over 
 
this. She 'd better take it as a blessin . I would. 
Those Baileys have got seven now, and poor as 
Job 's Monday dinners. I tell you, Providence 
knows what he 's about, if folks don't. He will 
drown the extra kittens, when he can. I say he 
ought to be thanked to mercy for it. But we 
never do. We up and blame him, the more fools 
we ! " 
" Why, Sar-ah I " said Mr. Butterwell, placidly. 
Upon the sill of the open window, during the 
unwonted domestic excitement of that summer 
evening, a felt hat with a boy under it had sympa 
thetically and prudently reposed. Nobody minded 
Handy. He looked in and out unnoticed, with 
wide-apart, dumb eyes, like the pony. Sometimes 
Yorke wondered dimly if anybody had fed and 
watered him ; but even that was an intellectual 
effort disproportionate to the proposition. It was 
a long time since the doctor had lost a patient. 
Handy regarded it as an epoch in human history. 
He felt that the event reflected importance upon 
himself, who might be said to have had a share in 
the glory of the circumstance. He felt above the 
company of the pony and Old Oak that night , and 
though the bosom of the family, as expressed by 
the window-sill, was a little hard, there is a 
compensatory pleasure in finding one 's social level. 
 
Handy remained there, after Mr. and Mrs. Butter- 
well had gone. It seemed to him. that this lame 
gentleman encroached somewhat upon bis (Han 
dy s) rights in exhibiting so much interest in that 
dead baby. That was a professional matter mainly 
between himself and the doctor. 
Mr. Yorke, left alone, after a few moments 
thought, bent his head upon the top of his crutch, 
sitting quite still. The red and purple light of the 
Japanese gentlemen on the little lantern, flashed 
and defined his profile. Handy vaguely resented 
its expression. The old felt hat slipped softly 
from the window-sill, and betook itself confidently 
to the doctor 's side of the house. The office door 
was open to the warm night. Handy peeked. He 
peeked without a qualm. He regarded it as one 
of his privileges to follow the doctor 's private 
career. Who had as good a right ? 
Doctor Zay was sitting by her office table. A 
half-open drawer showed surgical instruments. 
Rows of vials exhibited mysteries of white pellets 
and powders. Medical books lay open underneath 
her hat and gloves, which she had tossed down on 
coming in. But Handy regarded these points 
with the apathy of familiarity. The environment 
did not interest this scientific child. Doctor Zay, 
who drove the fastest horse in Sherman, who 
always knew by an awful omniscience whether you 
missed a pailful or shook the oat-measure ; 
Doctor Zay, who had got old Doctor Adoniram 's 
practice half away from him ; Handy 's Doctor 
Zay, was bent and bowed over her office table, her 
face crushed into her resolute hands, as if she had 
been stricken down by a power that no man could 
see. 
If Handy 's education had progressed a little 
farther he would have called this a phenomenon. 
As it was, he could only say, 
" It 's a thunderin Ananias n Sapphiry shame. 
Nothin but a Bailey baby ! " 
It occurred to Handy, as he walked sadly away, 
over the heavy wet heads of the clover-tops, back 
to the sawdust heap by the wood-pile, that perhaps 
he had peeped as far for that one night as the per 
quisites of his calling allowed. 
" Two of em," reflected Handy. " Heads down, 
like unlucky coppers. One on his crutch. The other 
on her learnin. Bobailey n all his tribe ain't 
wuth it." 
Handy was confusedly jealous of something. 
He imagined it was Bob Bailey. 
The doctor was called out that night to see a 
poor girl, three miles away. Handy accompanied 
her. As they drove through the chilly dawn alone 
 
together, Handy 's emotions waxed mighty within 
him. 
" Doctor ? " he said, in a pleasant confidential 
way. 
" Well, Handy ? " 
"Is Mr. Yorke wuss?" 
" Why, no, Handy." 
" Ain't wrong in his head or nothin, is he ? " 
" Oh, no, Handy." 
"Well. I didn't  know. While you was takin 
on so about the Baileybaby, he flopped over on 
them Bangor crutches, and says he, Poor girl ! 
He says it out loud. I heern him. Now, you 
know, you ain't a girl ; you're a doctor. I thought 
may be he was a mite loony, and we 'd ought to 
look after him. Do you keep any medicine for 
loons, Doctor ? " 
She made her call, as usual, the next morning ; 
a very short one. Yorke had hoped he knew not 
what, he knew not why, from it ; she left him only 
his powders and his disappointment. It was im 
possible to draw her within telescopic sweep of a 
personality. She had seemed near to him in that 
outburst of grief, last night, as if some kindly or 
friendly impulse in her reached out its hands to 
him ; precisely by the width of that impulse was 
she now removed. He had his day 's orders from 
 
his doctor ; nothing more. She looked, as Mrs. 
Butterwell had prophesied, really ill. He thought 
of her ; he thought of her till he was ashamed to 
think how long it was since he had thought of 
anything else. The terrible leisure of invalidism 
gaped, a gulf, and filled itself with her. If he 
could have arisen like a man, and bridged it, or 
like a hero, and leaped into it, she would never, 
he said to himself doggedly, have this exquisite 
advantage over him. He lay there like a woman, 
reduced from activity to endurance, from resolve 
to patience, while she amassed her importance to 
him, how idly ! like gold that she gave her 
self no trouble to count. 
He was surprised that night at receiving a second 
visit ; but his momentary gratification quickly 
spent itself. Pier errand was to inform him that 
she should not come again. 
" I do not understand you, Doctor Lloyd," said 
the young man, with an effort at composure ; his 
breath shortened, and he felt dizzy and faint. 
" Oh, I mean, if you are able, won't you come 
to the office?" she answered wearily. "I am 
preoccupied, and begin wrong end foremost. I do 
not mean to neglect you. But I really think you 
able to get around to my door. The air and exercise 
will be beneficial to you. There is no reason 
 
for ray coming to you so often. You can take the 
morning hour, from eight to nine, or the one at 
noon, as you prefer." 
She gave that slight and fine emphasis of hers 
to the word " reason." 
" This means that I am not to see you here 
any longer? " 
" Not unless it is necessary." 
" Suppose I find it necessary, Doctor Lloyd ?" 
" I must be the judge of that, Mr. Yorke." 
" Very well," said Yorke, after a moment 's 
thought, " I will come to your office to-morrow." 
He went. He stumped around on the Bangor 
crutches over the piazza to the office door, which 
set forth the legend " Z. A. Lloyd, M. D.," in 
modest little letters of gray and gold. The recep 
tion-room was partly full. Five or six women sat 
there, and a child or two ; one man, a lumberman, 
who said Puella said she wanted more powders for 
that crookedness in her mind. Another man came, 
while Yorke waited, with what he called an " or 
der " for an immediate call on his wife. Doctor 
Zay nodded to Yorke pleasantly when she came 
out, but did not speak. He perceived that he was 
to bide his turn, like any other patient. The doctor 
said, " Next ? " as if they had been children at 
school. She was abstracted and pale. She had 
 
that look of application which failed of being 
beautiful. The reception-room was rather pleasant. 
It was clear that the young lady furnished her own 
part of the house. Yorke took in an idle, luxuri 
ous sense of familiar photographs and even a high- 
art carpet. There were flowers all over the room, 
and a table covered with books and periodicals for 
the patients. Some of the women were reading. 
He took up yesterday 's Boston Advertiser, and 
hid his amusement, if not his embarrassment be 
hind it. 
Presently he realized that they had all gone. 
Doctor Zay stood waiting for him, gravely. He 
followed her into the office ; a tiny room, hardly 
more than a generous closet. She shut the door, 
and motioned him to a chair. She took her own 
at the desk where the vials were. Her ledgers 
and note-book, and one or two volumes of Materia 
Medica, were lying about. The office, he saw at 
once, was lined from floor to ceiling with book 
cases, all full. The doctor waited a moment, as if 
for him to begin his daily report. He did not. 
She raised her eyes quickly to his face, and that 
sensitive change he liked so much crossed her own. 
Then, for the first time, he saw signs of embar 
rassment in her. She colored a little, and he 
smiled. 
 
" Really, Doctor," he said, " do you think this 
is an improvement ? " 
She hesitated before she answered : " Really, I 
don't know." 
" Keeping me here among all those ladies, the 
only fellow, except Puella 's. He didn't  stay by 
me long. I think, for my own part, it was much 
better in my room." 
" Perhaps it was," she admitted, " but " 
" But you don't want to come any longer ? " 
" Frankly, Mr. Yorke, no." 
" Then you shan't . I won't be more disagree 
able than I must. I will come to the office, as you 
wish. But why cannot I have a separate hour, 
after the women are gone? It seems to me it 
would be quite as pleasant, and much less " he, 
too, hesitated before adding, " noticeable." 
" I hardly know," said Doctor Zay, knitting her 
brows. " There are no precedents, exactly." He 
had never seen her irresolute before. She looked 
fatigued and annoyed. " There are new questions 
constantly arising," she went on, " for a woman in 
my position. One ceases to be an individual. One 
acts for the whole, for the sex, for a cau|e, for 
a future. We are not quite free, like other people, 
in little perplexities. It is what Paul said 
about no man 's living to himself. We pay a price 
 
for our privilege. I suppose everything in this 
world renders its cost, but nothing so heavily, 
nothing so relentlessly, as an unusual purpose in 
a woman. Nothing is more expensive than sus 
tained usefulness, or what one tries to make 
such. I hate to think of petty things ! " she 
added, with some fire. 
" Then don't ! " urged the young man. " I can 
not see the need of it, in a case like yours. You 
are an antidote to pettiness. You eat it out, like 
a swift and beautiful vitriol. You would make us 
all ashamed of it. It cannot exist where you are. 
I felt that in you the first time I saw you. And 
pretense, I had got so tired of pretense. You 
went on your way so simply. You were so thorough.
I said, There is a trained woman. She 
is honest all through. She has t;ie modesty of 
knowledge. I thought all this while you were 
tying that artery, before I fainted. What a faint 
that was ! " 
." You overestimate me, Mr. Yorke," said the 
doctor, rather distantly. And yet he was sure 
that he had not displeased her. 
" I have sometimes wondered," he went on, with 
an awkward courage, " what you thought of me, 
the first time you saw me. I dare say you could 
n't remember. I don't presume, believe me, that 
it was of so much importance." 
 
" Oh, yes, I remember perfectly," said Doctor 
Zay, laughing. " I thought, Concussion and dis 
location ! Possibly a fine compound fracture. I 
have never had a compound fracture. I 've always 
wanted one." 
" And I have always thought, always maintained, 
that the scientific temperament is the hardest 
among civilized types. He broke himself against 
that flint, I heard said once of a sensitive man, in 
a miserable instance, it happened to be a mar 
riage, but that doesn't  affect the point. One 
comes upon such a nature as against the glacial 
period: it solidifies against you; it never bends 
nor shatters " 
" Nor melts ? " she asked, smiling (he could 
see) out of pure mischief. 
" In the course of ages, I suppose. Too late to 
