to-morrow. We have only just come from Newport."
"What drove you away from Newport? This is the time to be by the sea."
"O, who cares for the sea! or anything else? it's the people; and the
people at Newport didn't suit mother. The Benthams were there, and that
set; and mother don't like the Benthams; and Miss Zagumski, the
daughter of the Russian minister, was there, and all the world was
crazy about her. Nothing was to be seen or heard but Miss Zagumski, and
her dancing, and her playing, and her singing. Mother got tired of it."
"And yet Newport is a large place," remarked Philip.
"Too large," Mrs. Caruthers answered.
"What do you expect to find at Saratoga?"
"Heat," said Mrs. Caruthers; "and another crowd."
"I think you will not be disappointed, if this weather holds."
"It is a great deal more comfortable here!" sighed the elder lady.
"Saratoga's a dreadfully hot place! Home is a great deal more
comfortable."
"Then why not stay at home? Comfort is what you are after."
"O, but one can't! Everybody goes somewhere; and one must do as
everybody does."
"Why?"
"Philip, what makes you ask such a question?"
"I assure you, a very honest ignorance of the answer to it."
"Why, one must do as everybody does?"
"Yes."
The lady's tone and accent had implied that the answer was
self-evident; yet it was not given.
"Really,"--Philip went on. "What should hinder you from staying in this
pleasant house part of the summer, or all of the summer, if you find
yourselves more comfortable here?"
"Being comfortable isn't the only thing," said Julia.
"No. What other consideration governs the decision? that is what I am
asking."
"Why, Philip, there is nobody in town."
"That is better than company you do not like."
"I wish it was the fashion to stay in town," said Mrs. Caruthers.
"There is everything here, in one's own house, to make the heat
endurable, and just what we miss when we go to a hotel. Large rooms,
and cool nights, and clean servants, and gas, and baths--hotel rooms
are so stuffy."
"After all, one does not live in one's rooms," said Julia.
"But," said Philip, returning to the charge, "why should not you, Mrs.
Caruthers, do what you like? Why should you be displeased in Saratoga,
or anywhere, merely because other people are pleased there? Why not do
as you like?"
"You know one can't do as one likes in this world," Julia returned.
"Why not, if one can,--as you can?" said Philip, laughing.
"But that's ridiculous," said Julia, raising herself up with a little
show of energy. "You know perfectly well, Mr. Dillwyn, that people
belonging to the world must do as the rest of the world do. Nobody is
in town. If we stayed here, people would get up some unspeakable story
to account for our doing it; that would be the next thing."
"Dillwyn, where are you going?" said Tom suddenly from the floor, where
he had been more uneasy than his situation accounted for.
"I don't know--perhaps I'll take your train and go to Saratoga too. Not
for fear, though."
"That's capital!" said Tom, half raising himself up and leaning on his
elbow. "I'll turn the care of my family over to you, and I'll seek the
wilderness."
"What wilderness?" asked his sister sharply.
"Some wilderness--some place where I shall not see crinoline, nor be
expected to do the polite thing. I'll go for the sea, I guess."
"What have you in your head, Tom?"
"Refreshment."
"You've just come from the sea."
"I've just come from the sea where it was fashionable. Now I'll find
some place where it is unfashionable. I don't favour Saratoga any more
than you do. It's a jolly stupid; that's what it is."
"But where do you want to go, Tom? you have some place in your head."
"I'd as lief go off for the Isles of Shoals as anywhere," said Tom,
lying down again. "They haven't got fashionable yet. I've a notion to
see 'em first."
"I doubt about that," remarked Philip gravely. "I am not sure but the
Isles of Shoals are about the most distinguished place you could go to."
"Isles of Shoals. Where are they? and what are they?" Julia asked.
"A few little piles of rock out in the Atlantic, on which it spends its
wrath all the year round; but of course the ocean is not always raging;
and when it is not raging, it smiles; and they say the smile is nowhere
more bewitching than at the Isles of Shoals," Philip answered.
"But will nobody be there?"
"Nobody you would care about," returned Tom.
"Then what'll you do?"
"Fish."
"Tom! you're not a fisher. You needn't pretend it."
"Sun myself on the rocks."
"You are brown enough already."
"They say, everything gets bleached there."
"Then I should like to go. But I couldn't stand the sea and solitude,
and I don't believe you can stand it. Tom, this is ridiculous. You're
not serious?"
"Not often," said Tom; "but this time I am. I am going to the Isles of
Shoals. If Philip will take you to Saratoga, I'll start to-morrow;
otherwise I will wait till I get you rooms and see you settled."
"Is there a hotel there?"
"Something that does duty for one, as I understand."
"Tom, this is too ridiculous, and vexatious," remonstrated his sister.
"We want you at Saratoga."
"Well, it is flattering; but you wanted me at St. Augustine a little
while ago, and you had me. You can't always have a fellow. I'm going to
see the Isles of Shoals before they're the rage. I want to get cooled
off, for once, after Florida and Newport, besides."
"Isn't that the place where Mrs. Wishart is gone," said Philip now.
"I don't know--yes, I believe so."
"Mrs. Wishart!" exclaimed Julia in a different tone. "She gone to the
Isles of Shoals?"
"'Mrs. Wishart!" Mrs. Caruthers echoed. "Has she got that girl with
her?"
Silence. Then Philip remarked with a laugh, that Tom's plan of "cooling
off" seemed problematical.
"Tom," said his sister solemnly, "is Miss Lothrop going to be there?"
"Don't know, upon my word," said Tom. "I haven't heard."
"She is, and that's what you're going for. O Tom, Tom!" cried his
sister despairingly. "Mr. Dillwyn, what shall we do with him?"
"Can't easily manage a fellow of his size, Miss Julia. Let him take his
chance."
"Take his chance! Such a chance!"
"Yes, Philip," said Tom's mother; "you ought to stand by us."
"With all my heart, dear Mrs. Caruthers; but I am afraid I should be a
weak support. Really, don't you think Tom might do worse?"
"Worse?" said the elder lady; "what could be worse than for him to
bring such a wife into the house?"
Tom gave an inarticulate kind of snort just here, which was not lacking
in expression. Philip went on calmly.
"Such a wife--" he repeated. "Mrs. Caruthers, here is room for
discussion. Suppose we settle, for example, what Tom, or anybody
situated like Tom, ought to look for and insist upon finding, in a
wife. I wish you and Miss Julia would make out the list of
qualifications."
"Stuff!" muttered Tom. "It would be hard lines, if a fellow must have a
wife of his family's choosing!"
"His family can talk about it," said Philip, "and certainly will. Hold
your tongue, Tom. I want to hear your mother."
"Why, Mr. Dillwyn," said the lady, "you know as well as I do; and you
think just as I do about it, and about this Miss Lothrop."
"Perhaps; but let us reason the matter out. Maybe it will do Tom good.
What ought he to have in a wife, Mrs. Caruthers? and we'll try to show
him he is looking in the wrong quarter."
"I'm not looking anywhere!" growled Tom; but no one believed him.
"Well, Philip," Mrs. Caruthers began, "he ought to marry a girl of good
family."
"Certainly. By 'good family' you mean--?"
"Everybody knows what I mean."
"Possibly Tom does not."
"I mean, a girl that one knows about, and that everybody knows about;
that has good blood in her veins."
"The blood of respectable and respected ancestors," Philip said.
"Yes! that is what I mean. I mean, that have been respectable and
respected for a long time back--for years and years."
"You believe in inheritance."
"I don't know about that," said Mrs. Caruthers. "I believe in family."
"Well, I believe in inheritance. But what proof is there that the
young lady of whom we were speaking has no family?"
Julia raised herself up from her reclining position, and Mrs. Caruthers
sat suddenly forward in her chair.
"Why, she is nobody!" cried the first. "Nobody knows her, nor anything
about her."
"Here--" said Philip.
"Here! Of course. Where else?"
"Yes, just listen to that!" Tom broke in. "I xxow should anybody know
her here, where she has never lived! But that's the way--"
"I suppose a Sandwich Islander's family is known in the Sandwich
Islands," said Mrs. Caruthers. "But what good is that to us?"
"Then you mean, the family must be a New York family?"
"N--o," said Mrs. Caruthers hesitatingly; "I don't mean that exactly.
There are good Southern families--"
"And good Eastern families!" put in Tom.
"But nobody knows anything about this girl's family," said the ladies
both in a breath.
"Mrs. Wishart does," said Philip. "She has even told me. The family
dates back to the beginning of the colony, and boasts of extreme
respectability. I forget how many judges and ministers it can count up;
and at least one governor of the colony; and there is no spot or stain
upon it anywhere."
There was silence.
"Go on, Mrs. Caruthers. What else should Tom look for in a wife?"
"It is not merely what a family has been, but what its associations
have been," said Mrs. Caruthers.
"These have evidently been respectable."
"But it is not that only, Philip. We want the associations of good
society; and we want position. I want Tom to marry a woman of good
position."
"Hm!" said Philip. "This lady has not been accustomed to anything that
you would call 'society,' and 'position'--But your son has position
enough, Mrs. Caruthers. He can stand without much help."
"Now, Philip, don't you go to encourage Tom in this mad fancy. It's
just a fancy. The girl has nothing; and Tom's wife ought to be-- I
shall break my heart if Tom's wife is not of good family and position,
and good manners, and good education. That's the least I can ask for."
"She has as good manners as anybody you know!" said Tom flaring up. "As
good as Julia's, and better."
"I should say, she has no manner whatever," remarked Miss Julia quietly.
"What is 'manner'?" said Tom indignantly. "I hate it. Manner! They all
have 'manner'--except the girls who make believe they have none; and
their 'manner' is to want manner. Stuff!"
"But the girl knows nothing," persisted Mrs. Caruthers.
"She knows absolutely nothing,"--Julia confirmed this statement.
Silence.
"She speaks correct English," said Dillwyn. "That at least."
"English!--but not a word of French or of any other language. And she
has no particular use for the one language she does know; she cannot
talk about anything. How do you know she speaks good grammar, Mr.
Dillwyn? did you ever talk with her?"
"Yes--" said Philip, making slow admission. "And I think you are
mistaken in your other statement; she can talk on some subjects.
Probably you did not hit the right ones."
"Well, she does not know anything," said Miss Julia.
"That is bad. Perhaps it might be mended."
"How? Nonsense! I beg your pardon, Mr. Dillwyn; but you cannot make an
accomplished woman out of a country girl, if you don't begin before she
is twenty. And imagine Tom with such a wife! and me with such a sister!"
"I cannot imagine it. Don't you see, Tom, you must give it up?" Dillwyn
said lightly.
"I'll go to the Isles of Shoals and think about that," said Tom.
Wherewith he got up and went off.
"Mamma," said Julia then, "he's going to that place to meet that girl.
Either she is to be there with Mrs. Wishart, or he is reckoning to see
her by the way; and the Isles of Shoals are just a blind. And the only
thing left for you and me is to go too, and be of the party!"
"Tom don't want us along," said Tom's mother.
"Of course he don't want us along; and I am sure we don't want it
either; but it is the only thing left for us to do. Don't you see?
She'll be there, or he can stop at her place by the way, going and
coming; maybe Mrs. Wishart is asking her on purpose--I shouldn't be at
all surprised--and they'll make up the match between them. It would be
a thing for the girl, to marry Tom Caruthers!"
Mrs. Caruthers groaned, I suppose at the double prospect before her and
before Tom. Philip was silent. Miss Julia went on discussing and
arranging; till her brother returned.
"Tom," said she cheerfully, "we've been talking over matters, and I'll
tell you what we'll do--if you won't go with us, we will go with you!"
"Where?"
"Why, to the Isles of Shoals, of course."
"You and mother!" said Tom.
"Yes. There is no fun in going about alone. We will go along with you."
"What on earth will you do at a place like that?"
"Keep you from being lonely."
"Stuff, Julia! You will wish yourself back before you've been there an
hour; and I tell you, I want to go fishing. What would become of
mother, landed on a bare rock like that, with nobody to speak to, and
nothing but crabs to eat?"
"Crabs!" Julia echoed. Philip burst into a laugh.
"Crabs and mussels," said Tom. "I don't believe you'll get anything
else."
"But is Mrs. Wishart gone there?"
"Philip says so."
"Mrs. Wishart isn't a fool."
And Tom was unable to overthrow this argument.
CHAPTER XII.
APPLEDORE.
It was a very bright, warm August day when Mrs. Wishart and her young
companion steamed over from Portsmouth to the Isles of Shoals. It was
Lois's first sight of the sea, for the journey from New York had been
made by land; and the ocean, however still, was nothing but a most
wonderful novelty to her. She wanted nothing, she could well-nigh
attend to nothing, but the movements and developments of this vast and
mysterious Presence of nature. Mrs. Wishart was amused and yet half
provoked. There was no talk in Lois; nothing to be got out of her;
hardly any attention to be had from her. She sat by the vessel's side
and gazed, with a brow of grave awe and eyes of submissive admiration;
rapt, absorbed, silent, and evidently glad. Mrs. Wishart was provoked
at her, and envied her.
"What do you find in the water, Lois?"
"O, the wonder of it!" said the girl, with a breath of rapture.
"Wonder! what wonder? I suppose everything is wonderful, if you look at
it. What do you see there that seems so very wonderful?"
"I don't know, Mrs. Wishart. It is so great! and it is so beautiful!
and it is so awful!"
"Beautiful?" said Mrs. Wishart. "I confess I do not see it. I suppose
it is your gain, Lois. Yes, it is awful enough in a storm, but not
to-day. The sea is quiet."
Quiet! with those low-rolling, majestic soft billows. The quiet of a
lion asleep with his head upon his paws. Lois did not say what she
thought.
"And you have never seen the sea-shore yet," Mrs. Wishart went on.
"Well, you will have enough of the sea at the Isles. And those are
they, I fancy, yonder. Are those the Isles of Shoals?" she asked a
passing man of the crew; and was answered with a rough voiced, "Yaw,
mum; they be th' oisles."
Lois gazed now at those distant brown spots, as the vessel drew nearer
and nearer. Brown spots they remained, and, to her surprise, small
brown spots. Nearer and nearer views only forced the conviction deeper.
The Isles seemed to be merely some rough rocky projections from old
Ocean's bed, too small to have beauty, too rough to have value. Were
those the desired Isles of Shoals? Lois felt deep disappointment.
Little bits of bare rock in the midst of the sea; nothing more. No
trees, she was sure; as the light fell she could even see no green. Why
would they not be better relegated to Ocean's domain, from which they
were only saved by a few feet of upheaval? why should anybody live
there? and still more, why should anybody make a pleasure visit there?
"I suppose the people are all fishermen?" she said to Mrs. Wishart.
"I suppose so. O, there is a house of entertainment--a sort of hotel."
"How many people live there?"
"My dear, I don't know. A handful, I should think, by the look of the
place. What tempts them, I don't see."
Nor did Lois. She was greatly disappointed. All her fairy visions were
fled. No meadows, no shady banks, no soft green dales; nothing she had
ever imagined in connection with country loveliness. Her expectations
sank down, collapsed, and vanished for ever.
She showed nothing of all this. She helped Mrs. Wishart gather her
small baggage together, and followed her on shore, with her usual quiet
thoughtfulness; saw her established in the hotel, and assisted her to
get things a little in order. But then, when the elder lady lay down to
"catch a nap," as she said, before tea, Lois seized her flat hat and
fled out of the house.
There was grass around it, and sheep and cows to be seen. Alas, no
trees. But there were bushes certainly growing here and there, and Lois
had not gone far before she found a flower. With that in her hand she
sped on, out of the little grassy vale, upon the rocks that surrounded
it, and over them, till she caught sight of the sea. Then she made her
way, as she could, over the roughnesses and hindrances of the rocks,
till she got near the edge of the island at that place; and sat down a
little above where the billows of the Atlantic were rolling in. The
wide sea line was before her, with its mysterious and infinite depth of
colour; at her feet the waves were coming in and breaking, slow and
gently to-day, yet every one seeming to make an invasion of the little
rocky domain which defied it, and to retire unwillingly, foiled,
beaten, and broken, to gather new forces and come on again for a new
attack. Lois watched them, fascinated by their persistence, their
sluggish power, and yet their ever-recurring discomfiture; admired the
changing colours and hues of the water, endlessly varying, cool and
lovely and delicate, contrasting with the wet washed rocks and the dark
line of sea-weed lying where high tide had cast it up. The breeze blew
in her face gently, but filled with freshness, life, and pungency of
the salt air; sea-birds flew past hither and thither, sometimes
uttering a cry; there was no sound in earth or heaven but that of the
water and the wild birds. And by and by the silence, and the broad
freedom of nature, and the sweet freshness of the life-giving breeze,
began to take effect upon the watcher. She drank in the air in deep
breaths; she watched with growing enjoyment the play of light and
colour which offered such an endless variety; she let slip, softly and
insensibly, every thought and consideration which had any sort of care
attached to it; her heart grew light, as her lungs took in the salt
breath, which had upon her somewhat the effect of champagne. Lois was
at no time a very heavy-hearted person; and I lack a similitude which
should fitly image the elastic bound her spirits made now. She never
stirred from her seat, till it suddenly came into her head to remember
that there might be dinner or supper in prospect somewhere. She rose
then and made her way back to the hotel, where she found Mrs. Wishart
just arousing from her sleep.
"Well, Lois" said the lady, with the sleep still in her voice, "where
have you been? and what have you got? and what sort of a place have we
come to?"
"Look at that, Mrs. Wishart!"
"What's that? A white violet! Violets here, on these rocks?"
"Did you ever see such a white violet? Look at the size of it, and
the colour of it. And here's pimpernel. And O, Mrs. Wishart, I am so
glad we came here, that I don't know what to do! It is just delightful.
The air is the best air I ever saw."
"Can you see it, my dear? Well, I am glad you are pleased. What's
that bell for, dinner or supper? I suppose all the meals here are
alike. Let us go down and see."
Lois had an excellent appetite.
"This fish is very good, Mrs. Wishart."
"O my dear, it is just fish! You are in a mood to glorify everything. I
am envious of you, Lois."
"But it is really capital; it is so fresh. I don't believe you can get
such blue fish in New York."
"My dear, it is your good appetite. I wish I was as hungry, for
anything, as you are."
"Is it Mrs. Wishart?" asked a lady who sat opposite them at the table.
She spoke politely, with an accent of hope and expectation. Mrs.
Wishart acknowledged the identity.
"I am very happy to meet you. I was afraid I might find absolutely no
one here that I knew. I was saying only the other day--three days ago;
this is Friday, isn't it? yes; it was last Tuesday. I was saying to my
sister after our early dinner--we always have early dinner at home, and
it comes quite natural here--we were sitting together after dinner, and
talking about my coming. I have been meaning to come ever since three
years ago; wanting to make this trip, and never could get away, until
this summer things opened out to let me. I was saying to Lottie I was
afraid I should find nobody here that I could speak to; and when I saw
you, I said to myself, Can that be Mrs. Wishart?--I am so very glad.
You have just come?"
"To-day,"--Mrs. Wishart assented.
"Came by water?"
"From Portsmouth."
"Yes--ha, ha!" said the affable lady. "Of course. You could not well
help it. But from New York?"
"By railway. I had occasion to come by land."
"I prefer it always. In a steamer you never know what will happen to
you. If it's good weather, you may have a pleasant time; but you never
can tell. I took the steamer once to go to Boston--I mean to
Stonington, you know; and the boat was so loaded with freight of some
sort or other that she was as low down in the water as she could be and
be safe; and I didn't think she was safe. And we went so slowly! and
then we had a storm, a regular thunderstorm and squall, and the rain
poured in torrents, and the Sound was rough, and people were sick, and
I was very glad and thankful when we got to Stonington. I thought it
would never be for pleasure that I would take a boat again."
"The Fall River boats are the best."
"I daresay they are, but I hope to be allowed to keep clear of them
all. You had a pleasant morning for the trip over from Portsmouth."
"Very pleasant."
"It is such a gain to have the sea quiet! It roars and beats here
enough in the best of times. I am sure I hope there will not a storm
come while we are here; for I should think it must be dreadfully
dreary. It's all sea here, you know."
"I should like to see what a storm here is like," Lois remarked.
"O, don't wish that!" cried the lady, "or your wish may bring it. Don't
think me a heathen," she added, laughing; "but I have known such queer
things. I must tell you--"
"You never knew a wish bring fair weather?" said Lois, smiling, as the
lady stopped for a mouthful of omelet.
"O no, not fair weather; I am sure, if it did, we should have fair
weather a great deal more than we do. But I was speaking of a storm,
and I must tell you what I have seen.--These fish are very deliciously
cooked!"
"They understand fish, I suppose, here," said Lois.
"We were going down the bay to escort some friends who were going to
Europe. There was my cousin Llewellyn and his wife, and her sister, and
one or two others in the party; and Lottie and I went to see them off.
I always think it's rather a foolish thing to do, for why shouldn't one
say good-bye at the water's edge, when they go on board, instead of
making a journey of miles out to sea to say it there?--but this time
Lottie wanted to go. She had never seen the ocean, except from the
land; and you know that is very different; so we went. Lottie always
likes to see all she can, and is never satisfied till she has got to
the bottom of everything--"
"She would be satisfied with something less than that in this case?"
said Lois.
"Hey? She was satisfied," said the lady, not apparently catching Lois's
meaning; "she was more delighted with the sea than I was; for though it
was quiet, they said, there was unquietness enough to make a good deal
of motion; the vessel went sailing up and down a succession of small
rolling hills, and I began to think there was nothing steady inside of
me, any more than outside. I never can bear to be rocked, in any
shape or form."
"You must have been a troublesome baby," said Lois.
"I don't know how that was; naturally I have forgotten; but since I
have been old enough to think for myself, I never could bear
rocking-chairs. I like an easy-chair--as easy as you please--but I want
it to stand firm upon its four legs. So I did not enjoy the water quite
as well as my sister did. But she grew enthusiastic; she wished she was
going all the way over, and I told her she would have to drop me at
some wayside station--"
"Where?" said Lois, as the lady stopped to carry her coffee cup to her
lips. The question seemed not to have been heard.
"Lottie wished she could see the ocean in a mood not quite so quiet;
she wished for a storm; she said she wished a little storm would get up
before we got home, that she might see how the waves looked. I begged
and prayed her not to say so, for our wishes often fulfil themselves.
Isn't it extraordinary how they do? Haven't you often observed it, Mrs.
Wishart?"
"In cases where wishes could take effect," returned that lady. "In the
case of the elements, I do not see how they could do that."
"But I don't know how it is," said the other; "I have observed it so
often."
"You call me by name," Mrs. Wishart went on rather hastily; "and I have
been trying in vain to recall yours. If I had met you anywhere else, of
course I should be at no loss; but at the Isles of Shoals one expects
to see nobody, and one is surprised out of one's memory."
"I am never surprised out of my memory," said the other, chuckling. "I
am poor enough in all other ways, I am sure, but my memory is good. I
can tell you where I first saw you. You were at the Catskill House,
with a large party; my brother-in-law Dr. Salisbury was there, and he
had the pleasure of knowing you. It was two years ago."
"I recollect being at the Catskill House very well," said Mrs. Wishart,
"and of course it was there I became acquain'ted with you; but you must
excuse me, at the Isles of Shoals, for forgetting all my connections
with the rest of the world."
"O, I am sure you are very excusable," said Dr. Salisbury's
sister-in-law. "I am delighted to meet you again. I think one is
particularly glad of a friend's face where one had not expected to see
it; and I really expected nothing at the Isles of Shoals--but sea air."
"You came for sea air?"
"Yes, to get it pure. To be sure, Coney Island beach is not far
off--for we live in Brooklyn; but I wanted the sea air wholly sea
air--quite unmixed; and at Coney Island, somehow New York is so near, I
couldn't fancy it would be the same thing. I don't want to smell the
smoke of it. And I was curious about this place too; and I have so
little opportunity for travelling, I thought it was a pity now when I
had the opportunity, not to take the utmost advantage of it. They
laughed at me at home, but I said no, I was going to the Isles of
Shoals or nowhere. And now I am very glad I came."--
"Lois," Mrs. Wishart said when they went back to their own room, "I
don't know that woman from Adam. I have not the least recollection of
ever seeing her. I know Dr. Salisbury--and he might be anybody's
brother-in-law. I wonder if she will keep that seat opposite us?
Because she is worse than a smoky chimney!"
"O no, not that," said Lois. "She amuses me."
"Everything amuses you, you happy creature! You look as if the fairies
that wait upon young girls had made you their special care. Did you
ever read the 'Rape of the Lock'?"
"I have never read anything," Lois answered, a little soberly.
"Never mind; you have so much the more pleasure before you. But the
'Rape of the Lock'--in that story there is a young lady, a famous
beauty, whose dressing-table is attended by sprites or fairies. One of
them colours her lips; another hides in the folds of her gown; another
tucks himself away in a curl of her hair.--You make me think of that
young lady."
CHAPTER XIII.
A SUMMER HOTEL.
Mrs. Wishart was reminded of Belinda again the next morning. Lois was
beaming. She managed to keep their talkative neighbour in order during
breakfast; and then proposed to Mrs. Wishart to take a walk. But Mrs.
Wishart excused herself, and Lois set off alone. After a couple of
hours she came back with her hands full.
"O, Mrs. Wishart!" she burst forth,--"this is the very loveliest place
you ever saw in your life! I can never thank you enough for bringing
me! What can I do to thank you?"
"What makes it so delightful?" said the elder lady, smiling at her.
"There is nothing here but the sea and the rocks. You have found the
philosopher's stone, you happy girl!"
"The philosopher's stone?" said Lois. "That was what Mr. Dillwyn told
me about."
"Philip? I wish he was here."
"It would be nice for you. I don't want anybody. The place is enough."
"What have you found, child?"
"Flowers--and mosses--and shells. O, the flowers are beautiful! But it
isn't the flowers, nor any one thing; it is the place. The air is
wonderful; and the sea, O, the sea is a constant delight to me!"
"The philosopher's stone!" repeated the lady. "What is it, Lois? You
are the happiest creature I ever saw.--You find pleasure in everything."
"Perhaps it is that," said Lois simply. "Because I am happy."
"But what business have you to be so happy?--living in a corner like
Shampuashuh. I beg your pardon, Lois, but it is a corner of the earth.
What makes you happy?"
Lois answered lightly, that perhaps it was easier to be happy in a
corner than in a wide place; and went off again. She would not give
Mrs. Wishart an answer she could by no possibility understand.
Some time later in the day, Mrs. Wishart too, becoming tired of the
monotony of her own room, descended to the piazza; and was sitting
there when the little steamboat arrived with some new guests for the
hotel. She watched one particular party approaching. A young lady in
advance, attended by a gentleman; then another pair following, an older
lady, leaning on the arm of a cavalier whom Mrs. Wishart recognized
first of them all. She smiled to herself.
"Mrs. Wishart!" Julia Caruthers exclaimed, as she came upon the
verandah. "You are here. That is delightful! Mamma, here is Mrs.
Wishart. But whatever did bring you here? I am reminded of Captain
Cook's voyages, that I used to read when I was a child, and I fancy I
have come to one of his savage islands; only I don't see the salvages.
They will appear, perhaps. But I don't see anything else; cocoanut
trees, or palms, or bananas, the tale of which used to make my mouth
water. There are no trees here at all, that I can see, nor anything
else. What brought you here, Mrs. Wishart? May I present Mr.
Lenox?--What brought you here, Mrs. Wishart?"
"What brought you here?" was the smiling retort. The answer was
prompt.
"Tom."
Mrs. Wishart looked at Tom, who came up and paid his respects in marked
form; while his mother, as if exhausted, sank down on one of the chairs.
"Yes, it was Tom," she repeated. "Nothing would do for Tom but the
Isles of Shoals; and so, Julia and I had to follow in his train. In my
grandmother's days that would have been different. What is here, dear
Mrs. Wishart, besides you? You are not alone?"
"Not quite. I have brought my little friend, Lois Lothrop, with me; and
she thinks the Isles of Shoals the most charming place that was ever
discovered, by Captain Cook or anybody else."
"Ah, she is here!" said Mrs. Caruthers dryly; while Julia and Mr. Lenox
exchanged glances. "Much other company?"
"Not much; and what there is comes more from New Hampshire than New
York, I fancy."
"Ah!--And what else is here then, that anybody should come here for?"
"I don't know yet. You must ask Miss Lothrop. Yonder she comes. She has
been exploring ever since five o'clock, I believe."
"I suppose she is accustomed to get up at that hour," remarked the
other, as if the fact involved a good deal of disparagement. And then
they were all silent, and watched Lois, who was slowly and
unconsciously approaching her reviewers. Her hands were again full of
different gleanings from the wonderful wilderness in which she had been
exploring; and she came with a slow step, still busy with them as she
walked. Her hat had fallen back a little; the beautiful hair was a
trifle disordered, showing so only the better its rich abundance and
exquisite colour; the face it framed and crowned was fair and flushed,
intent upon her gains from rock and meadow--for there was a little bit
of meadow ground at Appledore;--and so happy in its sweet absorption,
that an involuntary tribute of homage to its beauty was wrung from the
most critical. Lois walked with a light, steady step; her careless
bearing was free and graceful; her dress was not very fashionable, but
entirely proper for the place; all eyes consented to this, and then all
eyes came back to the face. It was so happy, so pure, so unconscious
and unshadowed; the look was of the sort that one does not see in the
assemblies of the world's pleasure-seekers; nor ever but in the faces
of heaven's pleasure-finders. She was a very lovely vision, and somehow
all the little group on the piazza with one consent kept silence,
watching her as she came. She drew near with busy, pleased thoughts,
and leisurely happy steps, and never looked up till she reached the
foot of the steps leading to the piazza. Nor even then; she had picked
up her skirt and mounted several steps daintily before she heard her
name and raised her eyes. Then her face changed. The glance of
surprise, it is true, was immediately followed by a smile of civil
greeting; but the look of rapt happiness was gone; and somehow nobody
on the piazza felt the change to be flattering. She accepted quietly
Tom's hand, given partly in greeting, partly to assist her up the last
steps, and faced the group who were regarding her.
"How delightful to find you here, Miss Lothrop!" said Julia,--"and how
strange that people should meet on the Isles of Shoals."
"Why is it strange?"
"O, because there is really nothing to come here for, you know. I don't
know how we happen to be here ourselves.--Mr. Lenox, Miss
Lothrop.--What have you found in this desert?"
"You have been spoiling Appledore?" added Tom.
"I don't think I have done any harm," said Lois innocently. "There is
enough more, Mr. Caruthers."
"Enough of what?" Tom inquired, while Julia and her friend exchanged a
swift glance again, of triumph on the lady's part.
"There is a shell," said Lois, putting one into his hand. "I think that
is pretty, and it certainly is odd. And what do you say to those white
violets, Mr. Caruthers? And here is some very beautiful pimpernel--and
here is a flower that I do not know at all,--and the rest is what you
