"Well, p'r'aps you're right, Ben. Our old doctor used to say smokin'
wasn't good for boys, but I've smoked more or less since I was twelve
years old."
"There's something I'd like better than smoking just now," said Ben.
"What's that?"
"Eating supper."
"Just so. I wonder where that heathen Ki Sing is?"
Ki Sing was cook and general servant to the little party, and performed
his duties in a very satisfactory manner--better than either Ben or
Bradley could have done--and left his white employers freer to work at
the more congenial occupation of searching for gold.
"Ki Sing is unusually late," said Richard Dewey. "I wonder what can have
detained him? I am beginning to feel hungry myself."
"The heathen is usually on time," said Bradley, "though he hasn't got a
watch, any more than I have.--Dick, what time is it?"
"Half-past six," answered Richard Dewey, who, though a miner, had not
been willing to dispense with all the appliances of civilization.
"Maybe Ki Sing has found another place," suggested Ben, jocosely.
"He is faithful; I will vouch for that," said Dewey. "I am more afraid
that he has met with some accident--like mine, for instance."
"You won't catch a Chinaman spraining his ankle," said Bradley; "they're
too spry for that. They'll squeeze through where a white man can't, and
I wouldn't wonder if they could turn themselves inside out if they tried
hard."
"It is possible," suggested Dewey, "that Ki Sing may have met with some
of our own race who have treated him roughly. You know the strong
prejudice that is felt against the poor fellows by some who are far
less deserving than they. They think it good sport to torment a
Chinaman."
"I can't say I like 'em much myself," said Bradley; "but I don't mind
saying that Ki Sing is a gentleman. He is the best heathen I know of,
and if I should come across any fellow harmin' him I reckon I'd be ready
to take a hand myself."
"We couldn't get along very well without him, Jake," said Ben.
"That's where you're right, Ben. He's made himself useful to us, and no
mistake."
"I have reason to feel indebted to him," said Dewey. "Injured as I was,
I should have fared badly but for his faithful services. I am not at all
sure that I should have been living at this moment had not the grateful
fellow cared for me and supplied my wants."
It may be explained here that Richard Dewey had at one time rescued Ki
Sing from some rough companions who had made up their minds to cut off
the Chinaman's queue, thereby, in accordance with Chinese custom,
preventing him ever returning to his native country. It was the thought
of this service that had prompted Ki Sing to faithful service when he
found his benefactor in need of it.
Half an hour passed, and still the Chinaman did not appear.
All three became anxious, especially Dewey. "Bradley," said he, "would
you mind going out to look for Ki Sing? I'm sure something has happened
to him."
"Just what I was thinkin' of myself," said Bradley. "I'll go, and I'll
bring him back if he's above ground."
"I'll go with you, Jake," said Ben, rising from the ground on which he
was seated.
"You'd better stay with Dick Dewey," said Bradley; "maybe he'll want
you."
"I forgot that. Yes, I will stay."
"No; I would rather you would go with Bradley," said the invalid. "Two
will stand a better chance of success than one. I sha'n't need anything
while you are away."
"Just as you say, Dick.--Well, Ben, let's start along. I reckon we'll
find Ki Sing before long, and then we'll have some supper."
As the two started on their errand Richard Dewey breathed a sigh of
relief. "I really believe I'm getting attached to Ki Sing," he said to
himself. "He's a good fellow, if he is a Chinaman, and if ever I am
prosperous I will take him into my service and see that he is
comfortably provided for."
The poor Chinaman, though Dewey did not suspect it, was at that moment
in a very uncomfortable position indeed, and he himself was menaced by a
peril already near at hand against which his helpless condition allowed
of no defence. His lonely and monotonous life was destined to be varied
that evening in an unpleasant manner.
CHAPTER III.
TWO GENTLEMEN OF THE ROAD.
Perhaps two hours earlier two horsemen might have been seen riding
slowly over a lower slope of the mountain. The horses they bestrode were
of the Mexican breed, or, in common parlance, mustangs. They were
themselves dressed in Mexican style, and bore a strong resemblance to
bandits as we are apt to picture them.
These gentlemen were Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley, hailing originally from
Missouri, but not reflecting any particular credit on their native
State. They were in fact adventurers, having a strong objection to
honest work and a decided preference for gaining a living by unlawful
means. The very horses they bestrode were stolen, having once belonged
to Jake Bradley and Ben Stanton. The circumstances under which they were
stolen will be remembered by readers of The Young Explorer.
"Beastly place, this, Tom!" said Bill Mosely, with a strong expression
of disgust.
"I should say so," answered Hadley, who was wont by this phrase to echo
the sentiments expressed by his companion and leader.
"I wouldn't have come up here if it had proved safe to stay lower down,"
continued Bill Mosely. "That last man we relieved of his gold-dust might
prove troublesome if we should fall in with him again--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," remarked Mr. Hadley in a tone of sincere conviction.
"I should like to see him when he wakes up and finds his bag of dust
missing," said Mosely, with a laugh.
As he spoke he drew from his pocket a good-sized bag which appeared to
be nearly full of dust. "There must be several hundred dollars' worth
there," he said, complacently.
He expected to hear Hadley answer in his usual style, but was
disappointed.
"When are we going to divide?" asked Hadley, with an expression of
interest not unmingled with anxiety.
"You'd better let me carry it, Tom; it's all the same."
"I should say so. No, I would prefer to take charge of my part," said
Hadley, "or at least to carry the bag part of the time."
Bill Mosely frowned darkly, and he brought his hand near the pocket in
which he carried his pistol. "Hadley," he said, sternly, "do you doubt
my honor?"
"I should say--not," answered Tom Hadley in a dissatisfied tone,
bringing out the last word after a slight pause; "but I don't see why I
shouldn't carry the bag part of the time."
"Had you doubted my honor," continued Mosely with a grand air, "though
you are my friend, I should have been compelled to take your life. I
never take any back talk. I chaw up any one who insults me. I'm a
regular out-and-out desperado, I am, when I'm riled."
"I've heard all that before," said Tom Hadley, rather impatiently.
It was quite true, for this was the style in which Bill Mosely was
accustomed to address new acquaintances. It had not succeeded with Jake
Bradley, who had enough knowledge of human nature to detect the falsity
of Mosely's pretensions and the sham character of his valor.
"You've heard it before," said Mosely, severely, "but ain't it true?
That's what I ask you, Tom Hadley."
"I should say so," slipped out almost unconsciously from the lips of the
habitual echo.
"'Tis well," said Mosely, waving his hand. "You know it and you believe
it. I'm a bad man to insult, I am. I generally chaw up them that stand
in my way."
Tom Hadley was really a braver man than Mosely, and he answered
obstinately, "Give me half that gold-dust, or I'll take it."
Bill Mosely saw his determined face and felt that it was necessary to
back down. "I don't know why I don't shoot you," he said, trying to keep
up his air of domination.
"Because two can play at that game," said Hadley, doggedly.
He produced a pouch, and Bill Mosely, much against his will, was
compelled to divide the contents of the stolen bag, managing, however,
to retain the larger share himself.
"I don't want to quarrel with a friend," said Bill, more mildly, "but
you don't act friendly to-day."
"It's all right now," said Hadley, satisfied.
"Maybe you think I don't want to act fair," continued Mosely in an
injured tone. "Why, the very horse you are riding is a proof to the
contrary. I didn't ask for both horses, did I?"
"You couldn't ride both," answered Tom Hadley, with practical good
sense.
"I wonder where the fellows are we took them from?" said Mosely, with a
change of subject. "The man was a regular fire-eater: I wouldn't like to
meet him again."
"I should say so," chimed in Hadley, emphatically.
Bradley had paid Mosely in his own coin, and boasted of his prowess even
more extravagantly than that braggadocio, claiming to have killed from
seventy to eighty men in the course of his experience. Mosely had been
taken in by his confident tone, and knowing that he was himself a sham
desperado, though a genuine thief and highwayman, had been made to feel
uneasy while in Bradley's company.
"I wonder what became of them?" continued Mosely, thoughtfully.
As Tom Hadley's special phrase could not come in here appropriately, he
forbore to make any remark.
"He thought he would scare me by his fierce talk," said Mosely, who
would hardly have spoken so confidently had he known that Bradley was
only two miles distant from him at that identical moment. "It takes a
good deal to scare a man like me--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," returned Hadley, but it was noticeable that he spoke
rather dubiously, and not with his usual positiveness.
"I'm a hard man to handle," continued Mosely, complacently, relapsing
into the style of talk which he most enjoyed. "I'm as bad as they make
'em."
"I should say so," chimed in Tom Hadley; and there was nothing doubtful
in his tone now.
Bill Mosely looked at him as if he suspected there was something
suspicious under this speech, but Tom Hadley wore his usual look, and
his companion dismissed his momentary doubt. "You never saw me afraid of
any living man--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
There was something equivocal in this speech, and Bill Mosely looked
vexed.
"Can't you say anything but that?" he grumbled. "It looks as if you
doubted my statement. No man doubt my word--and lives."
Tom Hadley merely shrugged his shoulders. He was not a man of brilliant
intellectual ability or of rare penetration, but there were times when
even he was led to suspect that his companion was a humbug. Yet Mosely
had greater force of character, and took uncommon pains to retain his
ascendency over his more simple-minded companion, and had in the main
been successful, though in the matter of the gold-dust he had been
obliged to score a defeat.
As Hadley did not see fit to express any doubt of this last statement,
Bill Mosely was content to let the matter drop, assuming that he had
gained a victory and recovered his ascendency over his echo.
They had met no one for some hours, and did not look for an encounter
with anything wearing the semblance of humanity, when all at once Tom
Hadley uttered an exclamation.
"What is it, Tom?" asked Mosely.
"Look there!" was the only answer, as Hadley, with outstretched finger,
pointed to a Chinaman walking slowly up the hill.
"It's a heathen Chinee!" exclaimed Mosely with animation.
"I should say so," echoed Hadley.
Mosely urged his mustang to greater speed, and soon overtook Ki Sing,
for it was Richard Dewey's attendant whom the two adventurers had fallen
in with.
CHAPTER IV.
KI SING IN THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY.
Ki Sing turned when he heard the sound of horses' feet, for in that
mountain-solitude such a sound was unusual. He was not reassured by the
appearance of the two men, whose intention seemed to be to overtake him,
and he turned aside from the path with the intention of getting out of
the way.
"Stop there, you heathen!" called Bill Mosely in his fiercest tone.
Ki Sing halted, and an expression of uneasiness came over his broad,
flat face.
"What are you doing here, you Chinese loafer?"
Ki Sing did not exactly comprehend this speech, but answered mildly,
"How do, Melican man?"
"How do?" echoed Bill Mosely, laughing rather boisterously.--"Tom, the
heathen wants to know how I do.--Well, heathen, I'm so's to be around,
and wouldn't mind chawing up a dozen Chinamen. Where do you live?"
"Up mountain," answered Ki Sing.
"Which way?"
The Chinaman pointed in the right direction.
"What do you do for a living?"
"Wait on Melican man--cookee, washee."
"So you are a servant to a white man, John?"
"Yes, John."
"Don't you call me John, you yellow mummy! I'm not one of your
countrymen, I reckon.--What do you say to that, Tom? The fellow's
gettin' familiar."
"I should say so," remarked Tom Hadley, with his usual originality.
"What's the name of the Melican man you work for?" continued Mosely,
after a slight pause.
"Dickee Dewee," answered Ki Sing, repeating the familiar name applied by
Bradley to the invalid. The name seemed still more odd as the Chinaman
pronounced it.
"Well, he's got a queer name, that's all I can say," continued Mosely.
"What's your name?"
"Ki Sing."
"Ki Sing? How's Mrs. Ki Sing?" asked Mosely, who was disposed, like the
cat, to play with his victim before turning and rending him.
"Me got no wifee," said the Chinaman, stolidly.
"Then you're in the market. Do you want to marry?"
"Me no want to mally?"
"So much the worse for the ladies. Well, as to this Dickee, as you call
him? What does he do?"
"He sick--lie down on bedee."
"He's sick, is he? What's the matter with him?"
"Fall down and hurt leggee."
"Oh, that was it? What did he do before he hurt himself?"
"Dig gold."
Bill Mosely became more interested. "Did he find much gold?" he asked
eagerly.
"Yes, muchee," answered Ki Sing, unsuspiciously.
"Does he keep it with him?"
Bill Mosely betrayed a little too much interest when he asked this
question, and the Chinaman, hitherto unsuspicious, became on his guard.
"Why you wantee know?" he asked shrewdly.
"Do you dare give me any of your back talk, you yellow heathen?"
exclaimed Mosely, angrily. "Answer my question, or I'll chaw you up in
less'n a minute."
"What you ask?" said Ki Sing, innocently.
"You know well enough. Where does this Dickee keep the gold he found
before he met with an accident?"
"He no tellee me," answered Ki Sing.
This might be true, so that Mosely did not feel sure that the Chinaman's
ignorance was feigned. Still, he resolved to push the inquiry, in the
hope of eliciting some information that might be of value, for already a
plan had come into his mind which was in accordance with his general
character and reputation--that of relieving the invalid of his hoard of
gold-dust.
"Where do you think he keeps the gold, John?" he asked mildly.
Ki Sing looked particularly vacant as he expressed his ignorance on this
subject.
"Has he got a cabin up there?" asked Mosely.
"Yes."
"And how far might it be?"
"Long way," answered Ki Sing, who wished to divert Mosely from the plan
which the faithful servant could see he had in view.
Bill Mosely was keen enough to understand the Chinaman's meaning, and
answered, "Long or not, I will go and see your master. I am a doctor,"
he added, winking to Hadley, "and perhaps I can help him.--Ain't I a
doctor, Tom?"
"I should say so," answered Hadley, whose respect for truth did not
interfere with his corroborating in his usual style anything which his
companion saw fit to assert.
Ki Sing did not express any opinion on the subject of Bill Mosely's
medical pretensions, though he was quite incredulous.
"Lead the way, John," said Mosely.
"Where me go?" asked the Chinaman innocently.
"Go? Go to the cabin where your master lives, and that by the shortest
path. Do you hear?"
"Yes."
Ki Sing, however, still faithful to the man who had befriended him in
the hour of danger, did not direct his course toward Richard Dewey's
cabin, but guided the two adventurers in a different direction. The
course he took was a circuitous one, taking him no farther away from the
cabin, but encircling the summit and drawing no nearer to it. He hoped
that the two men, whose purpose he suspected was not honest nor
friendly, would become tired and would give up the quest.
He did not, however, understand the perseverance of Mosely when he felt
that he was on the scent of gold.
Finally, Mosely spoke. "John," he said, "is the cabin near by?"
Ki Sing shook his head. "Long way," he answered.
"How did you happen to get so far away from it, then, I should like to
know?" and he examined the face of his guide sharply.
But Ki Sing's broad face seemed utterly void of expression as,
neglecting to answer the question, he reiterated his statement, "Housee
long way."
"The man's a fool, Tom," said Mosely, turning to his companion.
"I should say so," was all the help he got from Hadley.
"Do you know what I mean to do, Hadley?--Here, you yellow mummy, go a
little ahead." (The Chinaman did so.)--"There's a bonanza up there in
that cabin, wherever it is. The Chinaman says that this man with the
queer name had got out a good deal of gold before he met with an
accident--broke his leg, likely. Well, it stands to reason he's got the
gold now. There ain't no chance here of sendin' off the dust, and of
course he's got it hid somewhere in his cabin. Do you see the point,
Tom?"
"I should say so."
"And I should say so too. It strikes me as a particularly good chance.
This man is disabled and helpless. He can't prevent us walking off with
his gold, can he?"
"Suppose he won't tell us where it is?" suggested Tom Hadley with
extraordinary mental acuteness.
"Why, we'll knock him on the head or put a bullet in him, Hadley. It's
a pity if two fire-eaters like us can't tackle a man with a broken leg.
What do you say?"
"I should say so."
Fifteen minutes more passed, and they seemed to be getting no nearer
their destination. At any rate, no cabin was in sight. Ki Sing only
answered, when interrogated, "Long way."
"Hadley," said Bill Mosely, "I begin to believe that heathen's
misleading us. What do you say?"
"I should say so."
"Then I'll attend to his case.--Here, you heathen!"
"Whatee want?"
Bill Mosely sprang from his mustang, seized Ki Sing, and, in spite of
howls, with Hadley's assistance tied him to a small tree with a strong
cord he had in his pocket.
"That disposes of you, my friend," he said, mounting his mustang. "I
think we shall find the cabin better without you."
The two men rode off, leaving poor Ki Sing in what appeared, considering
the loneliness of the spot, to be hopeless captivity.
CHAPTER V.
FURTHER ADVENTURES OF BILL MOSELY.
Bill Mosley and his companion pushed on after leaving the poor Chinaman
tied to the tree.
"The yellow heathen may starve, for all I care," said Mosely,
carelessly. "It's all his own fault. Why didn't he speak up like a man
and tell me what I wanted to know?"
"I should say so," chimed in Tom Hadley.
"The question is now, 'Whereabouts is that cabin we are in search of?'"
Hadley appeared to have no idea, and no suggestion to offer.
"It strikes me it must be somewhere near the top of the mountain," said
Mosely. "What do you say?"
"I should say so."
"Then we'll take the shortest way to the summit. I tell you, Tom, we're
on the track of something rich. We'll take all this fellow's gold-dust,
and he can't help himself. It'll be richer than any claim we've worked
yet, if it pans out as well as I expect--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill," answered Hadley, with an expression of
interest.
"I tell you, Tom," said Bill Mosely, complacently, "you were in luck
when you fell in with me. We've done pretty well since we j'ined hosses,
pard."
"I should say so--but," added Hadley, after a pause, "it would go hard
with us if we got caught."
"We don't mean to get caught," said Mosely, promptly. "As for this new
job, there's no danger in it. This man is down with a broken leg, and he
can't help our taking his gold. The Chinaman's out of the way, and we've
got a clear field. Take a good look, Tom, for your eyes are better than
mine, and tell me if you see anything that looks like a cabin anywhere
around?"
This inquiry was made some twenty minutes after they had left Ki Sing.
They had pursued a circuitous course, or in half the time they might
have been as near the cabin as they now were.
Tom Hadley didn't answer in his customary phrase, but instead raised
himself erect on his mustang and looked sharply about him.
"Well?" demanded Mosely, impatiently.
"I don't see anything that looks like a cabin," said Hadley,
deliberately, "but I think I see smoke."
"Where?" asked his companion in an eager tone.
"There," said Tom Hadley, pointing with his whip in a particular
direction.
Mosely strained his eyes, but he was a trifle near-sighted and could see
nothing.
"I can't see anything," he said, "but that proves nothing. If there's
smoke, there's a house. There's no question about that, and there's not
likely to be more than one cabin about here. Steer in the direction of
the smoke, Tom, and I'll follow in your tracks. My horse is getting
tired; he'll be glad to rest for the night."
"Will it be safe?" queried Hadley.
"Safe enough. The Chinaman is disposed of, and as for this broken-legged
Dewey, we'll bind him fast and set him outside of the cabin while we
make ourselves comfortable within. I shall be sorry to inconvenience
him, but when a man has company he must expect to be put out--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
The two worthy gentlemen kept on their way till, making a sudden turn,
the house, which had hitherto been concealed from them by a cliff, stood
plainly revealed.
"There it is, Tom!" cried Mosely, joyfully. "We've found it, in spite of
that lying heathen. It seems good to see a house after wandering about
for weeks without a chance to sleep under a roof--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
It will be observed that Mr. William Mosely was fond of designating Ki
Sing as a heathen, evidently appreciating his own superiority as a
Christian. Yet I am inclined to think that a heathen like the Chinaman
possessed more moral worth than a dozen Christians of the type of
Mosely. From youth he had preyed upon the community, and his aim had
been to get a living in any way that did not involve labor. Honesty was
an obsolete word in his vocabulary, and a successful theft yielded him a
satisfaction such as other men derive from the consciousness of
well-doing. In fact, Mosely's moral nature was warped, and there was
very little chance of his reformation.
Now that the cabin was near at hand, the two men did not quicken their
speed, for the ascent was somewhat steep and their animals were tired.
"Take it easy, Tom. The whole thing's in our hands. Wonder whether
Dewey's expectin' visitors?" he added, chuckling. "I say, Hadley, he'll
be glad to see us--don't you think so?"
"I should say so," returned Hadley, before the joke dawned upon him.
"You see, we are going to relieve him of the care of that gold-dust of
his. We're two bankers from 'Frisco, that's what we are, and we'll take
care of all the gold-dust we can take in."
"I shall want my half," said Tom Hadley, unexpectedly deviating from his
customary formula.
Mosely shrugged his shoulders. He did not quite like this new
disposition of Hadley's to look after his own interests, but at present
did not think it politic to say much about it. Though Tom Hadley had
generally been subservient to him, he knew very well that if any
difficulty should arise between them Tom would be a formidable
antagonist. Fortunately for him, Hadley did not know his own power, or
he would not have remained in subjection to a man whom he could have
overcome had he been so disposed. He did not fully believe Bill Mosely's
ridiculous boasts of his own prowess, but he was nevertheless disposed
to overrate the man who made so many pretensions. All he asked was a
fair share of the booty which the two together managed to secure, and
this he had made up his mind to have.
They reached the cabin at last, and halted their horses before the door.
Both sprang off, and Bill Mosely, with a sign to his companion to remain
in charge of them, entered at the open door.
"Is that you, Ki Sing?" asked Dewey, whose face was turned toward the
wall.
Bill Mosely could not tell from the way he lay on the pallet, covered
with a blanket, whether his leg were broken or not, but believed that
this was the case. "That doesn't happen to be my name, stranger," he
answered.
Richard Dewey turned suddenly on his low bed and fixed his eyes on the
intruder. "Who are you? what do you want?" he demanded suspiciously.
"I thought I'd come round and make you a call, being in the
neighborhood," answered Mosely, with a smile.
"Who are you?"
"Well, I'm not the President of the United States, nor I ain't Queen
Victoria, as I know of," said Mosely.
"You look more like a horse-thief," said Richard Dewey, bluntly.
"Do you mean to insult me?" exclaimed Bill Mosely, fiercely. "Do you
know who I am?"
Dewey was not easily frightened, and he answered coolly, "You haven't
told me yet."
"Well, I'm Bill Mosely from the State of Missouri. I'm a regular tearer,
I am. I don't take no back talk. When a man insults me I kill him."
"Very well. Now I know who you are," said Richard Dewey, calmly. "Now,
what do you want?"
"How much gold-dust have you in this cabin? We may as well come to
business."
"None at all."
"I know better. You can't pull wool over my eyes. Your Chinaman tells a
different story."
"Ha! Have you seen Ki Sing?" asked Dewey, interested at last.
"Yes, I had the pleasure of meeting the heathen you refer to."
"Where is he now? Can you tell me?"
"To the best of my knowledge he is tied to a tree a mile or so from
here. I don't think he will get away very easily."
"Scoundrel! you shall answer for this!" exclaimed Richard Dewey,
springing to his feet, and thereby showing that neither of his legs was
broken.
CHAPTER VI.
AN UNEQUAL CONTEST.
Bill Mosely was decidedly startled when the man whom he thought helpless
sprang up so suddenly and approached him in a menacing manner. He rose
precipitately from the rude seat on which he had settled himself
comfortably, his face wearing an expression of alarm.
Richard Dewey paused and confronted him. A frown was on his face, and he
appeared very much in earnest in the question he next asked. "Have you
dared to ill-treat my servant, you scoundrel?" he demanded.
"Look here, stranger," said Mosely, with a faint attempt at bluster,
"you'd better take care what you say to me. I'm a bad man, I am."
"I don't doubt it," said Dewey, contemptuously.
This was not altogether satisfactory to Bill Mosely, though it
expressed confidence in the truth of his statement.
"You haven't answered my question," continued Dewey. "What have you done
with my servant?"
"Perhaps he wasn't your servant," said Bill Mosely, evasively.
"There is but one Chinaman in this neighborhood," said Richard Dewey
impatiently, "and he is my faithful servant. Did you tie him to a tree?"
"He was impudent to me," answered Bill Mosely, uneasily.
"Ki Sing is never impudent to any one," returned Dewey, his eyes
flashing with anger. "Tell me what you did with him, or I will fell you
to the ground."
"I didn't harm him," said Bill Mosely, hastily. "I wanted to teach him a
lesson; that is all."
"And so you tied him to a tree, did you?"
"Yes."
"Then go back and release him instantly, or it will be the worse for
you. I would go with you, to make sure that you did so, but my ankle is
weak. Where did you leave him?"
"A little way down the hill."
"Then go at once and release him. If you fail to do it, some day I shall
meet you again and I will make you bitterly repent it."
"All right, stranger; make your mind easy."
Bill Mosely turned to leave the cabin, and Richard Dewey threw himself
down on the pallet once more.
But Mosely had no intention of letting the matter rest there. Had he
been alone he would not have ventured on any further conflict with
Dewey, who, invalid as he was, had shown so much spirit; but he felt
considerable confidence in his companion, who was strong and powerful.
He approached Tom Hadley and whispered in his ear. Tom nodded his head,
and the two stealthily approached the entrance again and re-entered the
cabin.
Richard Dewey had laid himself down on the pallet, thinking that Bill
Mosely had gone about his business, when Tom Hadley, who had been
assigned to this duty by his more timid companion, threw himself upon
the invalid and overpowered him.
"Perhaps you'll insult a gentleman again," exclaimed Mosely tauntingly
as he stood by and witnessed the ineffectual struggles of Tom's victim,
who had been taken at disadvantage.--"Here's the cord, Tom, tie his
hands and feet."
"You're contemptible cowards," exclaimed Dewey. "It takes two of you to
overpower a sick man."
"You don't look very sick," said Mosely, tauntingly.
"I have sprained my ankle or I would defy both of you."
"Talk's cheap!" retorted Bill Mosely.
"What is your object in this outrageous assault upon a stranger?"
demanded Dewey.
"We'll tell you presently," answered Mosely.--"Now tie his feet, Tom."
"Be careful of my ankle--it is sore and sensitive," said Dewey,
addressing himself to Tom Hadley. "You need not tie me further. In my
present condition I am no match for you both. Tell me why it is you
have chosen to attack a man who has never harmed you?"
Tom Hadley looked to Mosely to answer.
"I'll tell you what we want, Dewey, if that is your name," said the
superior rascal. "We want that gold-dust you've got hidden about here
somewhere."
"Who told you I had any gold-dust?" inquired the invalid.
"Your servant. He let it out without thinking, but when we wanted him to
guide us here, he wouldn't. That's why we left him tied to a tree--isn't
it, Tom?"
"I should say so."
"Poor fellow! I am glad to hear he was faithful even when he found
himself in the power of two such ruffians as you."
"Look here, Dewey: don't give us any of your back talk. It ain't
safe--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"I intend to express my opinion of you and your villainous conduct,"
said Dewey, undaunted, "whatever you choose to call it. So Ki Sing
wouldn't guide you here?"
"No, he led us round in a circle. When we found it out we settled his
hash pretty quick--"
"Like cowards, as you were."
"Are we going to stand this, Tom?" asked Bill, fiercely.
Tom Hadley shrugged his shoulder. He did not enjoy what Bill Mosely
called "back talk" as well as his partner, and it struck him as so much
waste of time. He wanted to come to business, and said briefly, "Where's
the gold?"
"Yes, Dewey, let us know what you have done with your gold."
"So you are thieves, you two?"
"I should say so," interjected Tom Hadley.
"You're a fool," ejaculated Bill Mosely, frowning. "What makes you give
yourself away?"
"Because," said Hadley, bluntly, "we are thieves, or we wouldn't be
after this man's gold."
"That ain't the way to put it," said Bill Mosely, who shrank from
accepting the title to which his actions entitled him. "We're bankers
from 'Frisco, and we are going to take care of Dewey's gold, as he ain't
in a situation to take care of it himself."
"You are very kind," said Dewey, who, embarrassing as his position was,
rather enjoyed the humor of the situation. "So you are a banker, and
your friend a thief? I believe I have more respect for the thief, who
openly avows his objects.--Tom, if that is your name, I am sorry that
you are not in a better business. That man is wholly bad, but I believe
you could lead an honest life."
Tom Hadley said nothing, but he looked thoughtful. His life had been a
lawless one, but he was not the thorough-going scoundrel that Bill
Mosely was, and would have been glad if circumstances had favored a more
creditable mode of life.
"We're wastin' time, Dewey," said Bill Mosely. "Where's the gold-dust?"
"Sure you know I have it? I leave you to find it for yourself," answered
the sick man, who was never lacking for courage, and did not tremble,
though wholly in the power of these men.
"What shall we do, Tom?" asked Mosely.
"Hunt for the gold," suggested Tom Hadley.
If Mosely had judged it of any use to threaten Dewey, he would have done
so, hoping to force him to reveal the hiding-place of the gold; but the
undaunted spirit thus far displayed by his victim convinced him that the
attempt would be unsuccessful. He therefore proceeded, with the help of
his companion, to search the hut. The floor was of earth, and he
occupied himself in digging down into it, considering that the most
likely place of concealment for the treasure.
Richard Dewey watched the work going on in silence.
"If only Ben and Bradley would come back," he said to himself, "I should
soon be free of these rascals. They won't find the gold where they are
looking, but I needn't tell them that."
CHAPTER VII.
TIED TO A TREE.
When Ben and his friend Bradley left the cabin in search of Ki Sing,
