truth had always been there, but in the heedlessness of 
youth he had leaped quite over it, and now he must retrace 
these steps that he hated, that shamed him, that had cut 
him off from so many things he was beginning to desire. 
They had a delightful time at dinner. Charlie and Fred 
gave him the warmest of welcomes, and unfolded so many 
plans. They sympathized with Bruce as well, and hoped 
all things in the future. Only it seemed to Rob they were 
very young, and he felt old beside them. 
" Uncle Robert," he said, as they were walking home, 
" I have about made up my mind to one of two things, if 
you are willing. I should like to go in the Merediths' bus- 
iness house or some other here in the city." 
" Rob, do you remember what you said about chem- 
istry?" 
" O Uncle ! " Rob's heart gave a great leap of JOY , 
then he sternly brought it under control. "You are so 
good to think of that. You have all been so good to me, 
but I have incurred some expenses that I ought not to 
lay off on any one's shoulders. If I couldn't think when I 
was crazy enough to to marry, I must think now. I 
must earn sufficient to take care of the two whose com- 
fort, to say the least, I became responsible for. I shall 
make that myself, beside my own living. Why, I need not 
work as severely as I have. Then if I have any time, or 
energy, or money left over, I shall feel free to spend 
that on myself. I was talking a little to Mr. Meredith to- 
night j he thinks it can be brought about," 
" Robert," his uncle said gravely, tenderly, "I honor 
your resolve. It is simple right and justice. It will do 
more toward strengthening your character than any assist- 
ance from friends. I think you can be trusted, and I 
shall be glad to have you here." 
" And I must learn to be my mother's son. After all, 
she may have me more years than she ever dreamed." 
And he choked down the sigh for the chain he must wear. 
" And I want to say," a little tremulously, " that for the 
child's sake, for the family's sake, your proposal was best. 
In any event I owed it to you to accept it. It is my bus- 
iness to render my life the better for it." 
He felt the approving pressure on his arm. 
They found Bruce comparatively comfortable. He did 
not need a watcher, so Rob brought in the reclining chair 
for his bed, to be at hand at a word General Macken- 
zie seemed quite worn out, and the promise of a night's 
sleep was extremely refreshing. 
' ' I don't know what we should have done without j r our 
boy," he said, with his good-night to Mrs Alston, " and I 
think very few would have passed through such a terrible 
ordeal as well. Poor lad." 
The mother's eyes filled with tears. 
The house grew quiet presently, and all the lights were 
out save the one turned low in the parlor. The door was 
left open, for Bruce liked the shadowy suggestiveness bet- 
ter. Rob uttered a happy good-night, he was so at peace, 
and in a few moments Bruce heard the regular breathing of 
healthful slumber. He could not sleep, partty for pain, 
bravely borne while the others were looking > partly be- 
cause there was a tumult in his soul. 
He had come into her life again, so differently from any- 
thing he had planned. He was to wait until they were mar- 
ried and in their own home, and she was hedged about with 
pretty wifely and parish duties, the bright, generous, out- 
flowing woman, infusing the spirit of her Master in ever- 
widening circles, taking in the poor in heart, the weary 
and worn, and feeding them with some living bread 
of holiness and redemption. Like a pilgrim journeying 
on to the same far country he might stop and break bread, 
and exchange greetings of cheer. He would have over-lived 
the pain and longing ; the comfort she could have given 
would have been held out by a higher hand. He should 
see her there and rejoice with her in her work, diviner than 
any he could have brought her. 
But it was not so to be. He had met her to-day , rather 
she had come to meet him, with the old friendly fondness 
he once fancied meant love. The same sweet, generous 
graciousness, the pure, upward look. Yes, he had been 
mistaken. Even if he had won that, it would not have 
brought supreme satisfaction ; he would have wanted more, 
a depth and richness, a woman's love, such as Aunt Ruth 
was giving his father daity. Could girls love like that, or 
was it the larger awaiting of full womanhood ? 
And now he must see her daily and keep himself from 
any coveting, from any envying. He turned to God for 
strength ; there had been many times in his young life when 
he would have fainted but for this help. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
IT was a lovely, glowing autumn, full of long, dreamy 
days, with Indian summer skies ; just the time for delicious 
country rambles, and yet the city seemed to hold the most 
interest for Kathie. Mr. Meredith had offered Rob a very 
fair position, and he had gone to work with all his olden 
energy. There was one heavenly precept that would never 
have to be instilled into the young man. Whatever his 
hand found to do he did with all his might. Ned Mere- 
diih often smiled, recalling the Rob of old days at his 
play. 
He was to board through the winter with Aunt Ruth. 
Bruce wanted him ; that was sufficient. 
'' But I have made an arrangement to spend every other 
Sunday with you," Rob said to his mother. " Mr. Mere- 
dith offered to give me off the Monday morning, but I 
shall make it up. Only I shall have the house astir catch- 
ing the early train. Shall I prove a nuisance ? " 
She kissed him to hide her tears, touched by the devo- 
tion. He had begun in the path of duty. If he did not 
understand, if he could not see the certain evidence, still 
he would not abate, but persevere to the end. 
And while she was holding him to her heart another 
thought entered it. The little child alone was an innocent 
outcast from their love and sympathy. Theyhad forgiven 
him ; why should they be so cruelly hard to her ? 
" Rob," she said, with a soft tremble in her voice, 
"your uncle once spoke of the the baby. I am not 
sure but we ought to have it. I was so surprised and 
hurt then, that my heart was steeled against it." 
" Oh, no ! " he cried, with sudden shame and repugnance. 
" Do not bring it here ! " 
 
" Your child, Robert ! " She thought of the warm wel- 
come her own little ones had received on every hand. 
A deep flush suffused his face. 
''It seems so strange," half impatiently. "I have 
never known much about it. I never had Kathie's fond- 
ness for babies." 
" I think it had better come," in a tone of grave reproof. 
" As you like," he answered quietty. 
She discussed the matter with her brother, and they 
decided to go out to Chicago. Perhaps, too, she had a 
half-confessed curiosity to see the woman who had made 
such havoc of her boy's life. 
Kathie was left with Aunt Ruth. She was such a bright, 
useful, and entertaining body. Her very face, full of 
exquisite hope and tenderness, said so much without a 
word. Perhaps it was because she was so free from the 
platitudes often used in a sick-room, well meaning, but 
frequently extremely trying to sensitive nerves. She 
breathed patience and fortitude in her very aspect, she 
brought hope in her quick smile. Then she had so many 
expedients ; the comfort and solace of to-day was a little 
changed to-morrow by some added grace. 
The " boys " came in to see Bruce when he could enjoy 
company. Charlie had some of Kathie's ways, Bruce was 
forced to admit, almost unwillingly. He brought in a 
handful of flowers, not a regular-made bouquet ; or a paper 
that had a fine article Kathie must read aloud ; another 
day it would be some deliciously ripened fruit, or a set of 
fine photographs, borrowed from a friend. Bruce schooled 
himself to watch them together, to think of the time when 
their lives would be irrevocabty blended. 
After two weeks of suffering patiently borne, Dr. 
Markham found that, in spite of all his efforts, an abscess 
was forming. Dr. Gamier did not take the matter so 
seriously ; the patient had youth, a good constitution, and 
excellent habits for the groundwork of hope. And when 
he recovered from the fatigues of the journey he realty 
made some improvement. If he could get through without 
any permanent injury ; to save him from that would be 
their work. 
Dick, and Charlie, and Fred were glad to have Rob back 
in their midst. Ada Gamier welcomed him, too, but he 
was a little shy of her at first. 
" It is as good as a school," declared Dick, " to meet 
the people at her house and hear them talk." 
And but for the child Robert might have almost forgot- 
ten the miserable episode of the past. 
Mrs. Alston went on her journey with a half-sense of 
unwillingness, although she considered it her duty. The 
many changes and the brilliant autumn scenery interested 
her and diverted her mind in some degree from the sad 
aspect of affairs. They would see the child first. She 
was not quite certain she could take this alien to her heart, 
even if she did pity its lonely condition. 
They found Mrs. Fleming bright and tidy, and her little 
charge in riotous health. She stared at the new-comers 
with her large, laughing brown eyes, and then half shyly 
hid her face in her foster-mother's dress. 
" This is Mr. Alston's mother," Mr. Conover an- 
nounced. 
"Bertha, Bertha, you must not be naughty," said the 
gentle voice. " She is not usually afraid," in apology. 
"And she has quite forgotten me," declared Uncle 
Robert. " We became very good friends in the summer. 
Bertha." 
The child peeped out in such a pretty, piquant manner, 
showing a face strangely like, yet mysteriously unlike her 
father. There was a great struggle in Mrs. Alston's soul, 
and perhaps it was more from duty than love that she 
stooped and held out her hands. 
" Little Bertha," she said softly, " will you not come to 
me?" 
The child studied her a moment with grave intent, 
then, breaking into a merry peal of laughter, ran to Uncle 
Robert to be caught and lifted in his arms. Her satisfac- 
tion was but momentary, however ; the next instant she 
struggled to get away. 
" I want my mamma ! " reaching out her dimpled hands ; 
"I want my own, own mamma ! " 
Something in the bright, bird-like tone touched Mrs. 
Alston's heart, brought back the by-gone years. 
" She is a little strange," said Mrs. Fleming, coloring. 
" But she is very good, so merry and cheerful, and I think 
quite forward for her age. She can say nearly everything, 
and has so many cunning ways. As for her health, that is 
perfect. Don't you think she resembles her father? " 
" Yes. You have seen her mother? " 
" She came a few times. She owned that she did not 
care about children. I can't understand why the Lord 
sends them to such people, when there is many a hunger- 
ing soul that would welcome a baby. But young people 
rush into marriage without thinking of the sacred respon- 
sibility." And Mrs. Fleming checked herself suddenly, 
coloring. " Is the poor thing any better?" she asked. 
' ' She can never be restored in mind ; otherwise she is 
well, " Mr. Conover made answer. 
There was a brief pause, and then Mrs. Alston said in 
a low, gentle tone : 
" We have decided, my brother and I, that the proper 
place for the child is with us, since its mother will never 
be competent to care for it. But she is so fond of you, I 
hardly know how we will be able to get her home. Robert, 
it will tux your ingenuity." And she smiled. 
" I should like to keep her always." The tears came in 
Mrs. Fleming's eyes. "If the parents had been very 
poor, I should have proposed it, but I could only bring her 
up plainly." 
Mrs. Alston felt self-condemned. Not that she should 
ever grudge the child anything money could procure, she 
was not selfish in that respect, she was even sympathetic, 
but she could not instantly open her heart to love. In her 
soul she had blamed her son for this hardness, and she 
must struggle to overcome it. Simple duty was not all 
that was required ; there was a higher point. And how 
teach Robert to see it if she evaded it herself? 
" It is right and best that the child should be brought 
up among her relatives," she answered kindly. il I think 
we shall be able to manage. When will you be likely to 
return ? " glancing at Mr. Conover. 
" Oh, you will want to see the city before you leave it ! 
There is no hurry. We can come in and visit the little 
one again." 
He managed to coax a kiss out of her before he went 
away. 
. Then they started on their sad and distasteful errand. 
It was one of the poor creature's quiet days. She sat by 
a sunny window turning the leaves of a child's picture- 
book in gaudy colors. There was a lovely flush on her 
cheek, yet hardly the tint of health, and her vacant face 
had a curious, unearthly beauty. 
Mrs. Alston looked and turned away with a sigh. 
" Poor thing ! " said the nurse. " She gives very little 
trouble. My opinion is that she 's not so long for this 
world as they think, though some of them do live beyond 
everything ; but that 's more likely when they go insane 
naturally, without any accident, I mean. There's some- 
thing wrong with her spine, the doctors say. Mercy 
grant that she may not lie helpless years and years ! " 
They both echoed the prayer. Mrs. Alston turned 
away and her brother followed. 
" I think," she began, after they were in the carriage 
and driving slowly along, "that in some respects we can 
excuse Rob. He has always been hasty and impulsive. I 
can imagine the fascination this girl's beauty exercised 
over him, and no doubt she did lay a trap for him, if she 
fancied him the heir to a fortune. Evidently there was 
some object in marrying him ; it was not merely the love 
of flirtation. Still, it seems to me she might have done 
better, taken some one whose fortune was secure." 
" She had no doubt seen a good deal of the world, and 
on her part, I fancy, there was no very deep sentiment. 
But in the first place Robert should have kept away from 
such people. It serves to lower any young man's respect 
and regard for womanhood. He had been taught better, 
nay, he kmw better. Then, as Mrs. Fleming said, there is 
too much careless taking on of the most solemn vows of 
life. Marriage seems so easy, so delightful, that our 
young people take it up with about as much deliberation 
as going to an opera. They do not ask if it is the thing 
they want for thirty or fifty years, that they are not to 
thrust lightly aside, but endure with patience, realizing 
that it is an obligation of their own choosing, or their own 
haste and unwisdom. Then the ease with which these ties 
are sundered seems to offer a premium on thoughtlessness, 
and does weaken the sense of responsibility." 
" It is a bitter lesson. I fancy Robert will feel it more 
keenly as time goes on. But you thought he accepted it 
bravely," as if she could not bear to have him so 
severely blamed. 
" Yes, I think he displayed a great deal of courage and 
true manliness in his course, even to keeping the secret. 
He might have come to us then with his burden, and I 
shall always respect him that he bore it in silence as long 
as it was possible. The true test now is his living out of 
this, the kind of man he makes under this discipline. He 
has always been thoughtless as to consequences ; the pres- 
ent want has dominated him. He will have time now to 
ponder over the impatience of youth." 
" But, Robert, if she " 
" Hush, Dora, we must not allow ourselves to think of 
that," he answered solemnly. " With God alone belong 
the issues of life and death. It is the now that we are in, 
the present, and our work is to do the duty of the 
present." 
She did not make any immediate answer ; but after a 
considerable silence, said in a low, awed tone, " There 
Is one thing that I shall feel thankful for always, that she 
did not openly disgrace her child. A misfortune can be 
borne with dignity, but a scandal is never entirely over- 
lived." 
Robert Alston had saved his mother this bitter sorrow. 
They spent several pleasant days in going about the 
city that Mrs. Alston had not seen in years. Uncle 
Robert managed to make quite friends with Bertha, but 
at the last they took the little thing away in the evening, 
asleep, to spare the sad scene of a violent parting. Mrs. 
Fleming was deeply moved at separation from the little 
one who had become so like her very own. 
Their first day and evening were exceedingly trying. 
Bertha could be amused for a brief while ; then her sense 
of loss and strangeness would overwhelm her. Uncle 
Robert proved an admirable nurse, and before the jour- 
ney's end Mrs. Alston's heart had gone out to the little 
one, who displayed so many reminders of her father. She 
was large of her age and brimming with vitality, piquant 
rather than beautiful, and so little like her mother that it 
was a positive relief. 
They were watching for the travellers at Aunt Ruth's. 
Kathie saw the coach stop and ran down. 
" Oh ! " she cried with eager delight, l * is it really Rob's 
baby ? How pretty ! O mamma, how wonderfully like 
Rob ! Why, she hardly looks like a girl." 
Bertha was growing accustomed to strange faces. 
Something in Kathie's glad voice attracted her, and she 
stretched out her hands at once. 
" O you sweet little darling ! " 
" Republics are ungrateful," declared Uncle Robert, 
with an air of injured dignity. 
Kathie took her up to Aunt Ruth's room, and stood her 
on the floor while she was unfastening her cap and cloak. 
Bertha glanced around surprised, then startled, and 
stretched out her small hands with unforgotten longing. 
" I want my own mamma ! " in a pitiful, quivering tone 
that went to each heart. 
" O baby, we will all try to be your mamma." And she 
kissed her with tender fervor. 
Bertha leaned her head on Kathie's shoulder and gave a 
few sobs. They were fast friends then. 
It made a great diversion in the house, and baby soon 
settled to two prime favorites, Kathie and Uncle Robert. 
In a few days she recovered her wonted equilibrium, and 
proved herself a bright little mischief. Rob studied her 
with a curious feeling of awe, and secretly confessed to 
Kathie that he could not make her seem his, but he was 
deeply grateful to his mother for the love she gave her. 
In fact, the advent of the baby made Rob more of a hero 
than ever with the boys, He had a pathetic history, an 
unusual misfortune, and even at this early stage he felt his 
uncle's wisdom had proved invaluable. 
Among the baby's many gifts and graces Kathie discov- 
ered one quite charming. Her laugh was like the ripple 
of softly shaken bells, but she had a quick ear and unus- 
ual voice, and could sing the melody of her little cradle 
songs in a remarkable manner. 
Bruce, too, was much interested in the little creature. 
" I find I have a powerful rival," he said to Kathie one 
day, quite in the old tone. 
A quick color came to her cheek. Bruce had accepted 
the state of affairs quietly. He had even congratulated 
Charlie in one of their pleasant talks, but to Kathie he 
made no reference to the tie between them. 
" Mamma thinks she must take her home ; she is getting 
rather spoiled, but to me she grows lovelier every day. I 
shall hate to give her up." 
''Give her up?" 
" Yes. Mamma and Uncle Robert will return the last 
of this week." 
''And you " His heart seemed to throb up in his 
throat, and he felt the flush in his face, but he could not 
quite ask the question. 
" Don't }x>u care to have me stay?" she inquired, with 
girlish frankness and honesty. 
"Oh, you must know, only I may be keeping you 
from some greater pleasure ! " 
" No, it could not be a greater pleasure if it was a com- 
fort to you." 
" It is." Then he tried to think that her staying would 
give her more of Charlie's society. 
" Dr. Markham thought I had better, on Aunt Ruth's 
account. You see he does not consider me of paramount 
importance to you," laughing brightly. " But I shall hate 
to give up Bertie/ 
And Bertie proved almost inconsolable again, going 
back to the longing for her " own mamma." 
"The little thing has a most affectionate memory," said 
Uncle Robert, as he comforted her. 
There was quite a stir at Brookside at the advent of 
Robert Alston's baby, and much sympathy with the unfor- 
tunate marriage. 
" My dear Mrs. Alston," Mrs. Adams said one morning, 
during a call, " I think one has need to feel more anx- 
iously on the subject of sons' marriages than of daughters'. 
The girls can be counselled and restrained, and their own 
desire to do well helps a little. I used to feel so anxious 
about Maurice, and if ever I saw a designing girl laying 
out her charms to entrap him I was in a fever. I can 
never be thankful enough that he found the flower of all in 
our own little place, for Emma does make the loveliest of 
wives. And, though I have no children of my very own, T 
can understand from Maurice and Georgie how anxious 
one mayfeel." 
Mrs. Collamore, too, proffered a delicate sympathy. To 
Mrs. Alston, Fay ; s presence brought a great pang of self- 
condemnation. She had coveted her. She had brought 
her into intimate contact with her son, and showed her in 
many tender ways that she would be welcome to the 
mother's heart, as well as the son's. What if she had 
learned to care, allowed herself to dream ? True, she could 
remember no overt act or attention on Robert's part. 
They had all been young people, having a good time 
together, and oh, how devoutly grateful she felt that Rob's 
sense of honor and manliness had restrained him from 
foolish freedoms he would be ashamed to remember, from 
any dangerous intimacy that would call a blush to this fair 
young cheek. Yet, if it could have been ! Ah, did other 
mothers often covet sweet, lovely girls and find the wrong 
ones in their places ? 
" How very much the baby is like its father? " Fay said 
at length. She. had been studying it; Miss Bertie, by 
some rare condescension, coming to sit on her knee. She 
did not make friends with everybody, or in a hasty man- 
ner, with some notable exceptions, and evinced quite a lit- 
tle discrimination. 
"Yes," Mrs. Alston answered, with a smile; " and I 
find a few traits of disposition, though she has Kathie's 
sunny nature " 
'I suppose she will almost be a second Kathie to Mr. 
Conover." 
Then they talked a little about Louise and her pretty 
home, and Eugene's prospects now that his father had 
taken him into business. 
"You must come over often," Mrs. Alston said, hold- 
ing Fay's hand at parting. She could make no difference 
now, retrace no steps, only guard the future. " I shall miss 
Kathie very much, but I suppose I must learn to do with- 
out her some time." 
" O Mrs. Alston, there is no such happy time as when 
our children are grown into companionship and we have 
them around us ! " exclaimed Mrs. Collamore. " Only," 
with a sigh, " it is so brief." 
Fay Collamore walked home beside her mother, answer- 
ing trifling observations. It was a late October day, and 
the strips of wood over beyond the lake were all aflame 
with autumn splendors : scarlet, brown, gold, and the mas- 
sive green of the firs and spruce. There a long arm of 
Virginia creeper flung out a defiant banner that the sunset 
only would dare match. Barberries were hung with coral 
bells ; sumachs were in the glory of brown and crimson, 
and the deep wine tints ; while golden-rod was turning 
pale and grayish bronze. There were purple asters and 
late cardinal flowers with sentinel spikes, courageous, dar- 
ing. How beautiful it all was ! To-morrow she must get 
Mrs. Langdon and go for a walk. Presently this splendor 
would fade, the trees would be bare and brown, the little 
shrubs shrivelled up, the grass dry, and the wind blowing 
dismally. AVinter always came, everywhere, in every 
life, an echo seemed to add to her thought. 
It was rather chilly in doors, and a cheerful fire was 
burning in the grate. 
" How blue and cold you look, Fay ! " her mother said. 
" Sit down here and get good and warm, while I look after 
the dinner." 
She dropped into a low rocker and shivered with some- 
thing more vital than cold. For a long while she did not 
think at all ; there was only a formless, slow-moving con- 
sciousness, a vague pain that she would not let come to light. 
Some  might have been" had gone out of the world for 
her, something she must grope after or long for, a part of 
herself set aside to be passed by quickly and quietty" as one 
passes a little child one must not take up. lest the small 
hands might be too soon outstretched. They had been so 
happy, she had been so happy since their first coming to 
Brookside, two summers ago. The neighbors proved so 
generous with their friendly living, Mr. Conover among 
the very first. And Robert Alston, with all his new col- 
lege honors and his bright, fascinating ways, his vigor, and 
joy, and gayety; Kathie's return, and the lovely ball, 
and all the rich friendship in which the year had sped 
away, bringing him again, curiously changed, she had 
noted, but with a depth, and tone, and gentleness, a touch 
of some subtle experience. 
This was what it had been. An unfortunate but per- 
haps not altogether an unhappy marriage She had made 
a terrible mistake. She had come so near a thing not in- 
tended for her that its glory, all wrongly translated, had 
illumined her for a brief space, lulled her into a sweet, 
happy content. She must gather it up and put it quite 
out of her life, this half-joy she had watched so tenderly. 
It was not meant for her then, it never had been, never 
would be. She must not even recall any day that had 
been the happier for the something akin to hope, the glad- 
ness to meet him, the remembrance of a graceful little 
turn or a flower, or a walk when he and she fell a little 
behind the others. 
She was thankful as only a pure, right-minded woman 
can be that there were no stings in memory placed there by 
his thoughtless enjoyment. No word, no look but of 
friendliness, j r et she knew if such a thing could have been, 
she of all the girls would have had it for her very own. 
The mother's preference and her own leaning had made a 
sad mistake. If she could go away somewhere, if he were 
to be always absent ; but they must meet all along the 
years to come. The sorrow had given the mother her son 
again, and made between them a wide gulf, over which 
she must walk now and then, sure footed, clear eyed, and 
unflinchingly. She could not stay away without giving 
pain to the mother, without betraying her own mistake ; it 
must all go on just as before, that was the hard side of 
it. Eugene, in his hurt, had wanted to. linger about, to 
watch, to gather some little gleam of hope, but with her it 
was quite different, from nature as well as necessity. How 
strange they four should have come so near, just to miss 
and wound ! She could not understand the tangle. 
Eugene had given up to a stony despair when his loss be- 
came certainty, and yet he was growing out of it, over it, 
coming to a man's fortitude and sense. Some other sweet 
heart would cure his wound in days to come ; and for her ? 
There was a cure, but not that way. She should never 
want that, she said with an indignant protest. She must 
gather up her self-command and go straight onward, living 
out of it in the daily duties, taking earnest hold of the 
" next," the work set her to do by a greater will than her 
own. She must make no confused lines or tangled paths ; 
she must 'not linger near the flame for her garments to 
even have the faint scent of the burning, and yet she must 
stand in the light. 
They talked of the matter a little at the tea-table. 
" It is a shame for a young life like that to be thrown 
away," declared Mr. Collamore. "The girl may live 
years ; insane people often do. And he seems such a fine 
fellow ! Fortunately, he has the best and noblest man in the 
world for his uncle. They are all delightful people." 
" She may live years," Fay Collamore said to herself 
under her breath ; " and in all that time it will be a sin for 
a woman to think of him in any way but that of the 
merest friendship." 
CHAPTER XXII. 
KATHIE missed her " little darling " greatly. The baby 
had been such a source of amusement, and the night after 
it was gone she felt almost homesick for them all. But 
she had to rouse herself and do double duty, as Aunt 
Ruth had a slight touch of fever. 
In spite of the doctor's efforts the abscess had formed. 
There had been days and nights of constant and excruciat- 
ing pain, relieved occasionally by morphine when the 
sleeplessness went beyond bounds. Bruce bore it bravely 
and with very little complaint. The silent heroism touched 
Kathie almost to tears, and was not without its effect upon 
Rob. Sometimes he would start in the night, hearing a 
soft sound, half groan, half sigh, and rising, use his best 
efforts to alleviate it. Or he would read half the night, 
until Bruce bade him close the book. 
" You are such a dear, generous feUow, Rob ; but you 
must not forget the work of to-morrow." 
"Why, you see I thrive on it," Rob would exclaim 
laughingly. " I have actually grown fat under the regi- 
men." 
And so he had. Regular living and duties not very 
onerous, social life and enjoyment, and the horrible 
burden he had borne so long rolled away ; safe without 
any further questioning of duty or harassing secrecy ; his 
old, blithe buoyancy returned. The ringing laugh of the 
boy, toned and mellowed a little, was good to hear. The 
gleam of merry mischief in his eye was so exactly like the 
baby's, that Kathie could not but smile at it. 
She, too, had her hands full ; but they would only let her 
do day duty. And even then Dr. Markham took her out 
for an hour's airing, or she ran around to Jessie's, and had 
a romp with Robin and Marjorie. During the most trying 
hours General Mackenzie remained with his son, who 
bore his suffering with much patience and fortitude, and a 
courage that fascinated Kathie. It did seem at times as 
if he could easily let himself drop out of life. 
Kathie spoke of this one day to the doctor. " Well, 
why should he want to die ? " asked the doctor a little 
gruffly. u Seems to me you young peopl nowadays 
make a great mistake about this dying business. God 
puts you into the world to live, and to make a fight for it. 
It is the survival of the fittest, after all ; but your work is 
to make yourself fit to survive, fit, even, for some other 
life, some other world. It looks cowardly to me to give 
up at the first hard blow, to want to get out of the puin 
and suffering to ease, and call that resignation. What 
does your old apostle say? 'Having done all things, to 
stand.' Not to cry to be taken out of the world when 
you haven't done more than half the things. There 's 
too much weakness, too much irresponsibility, too much 
fear about using one's will. They talk a lot of stuff down 
there at Ada's ; but there is strength and substance in it, 
after all. They go back to the seekers in the dark, igno- 
rant ages, when the little knots of philosophy lighted a few 
