with him on each of these points ; the thing had faults 
enough, but they were not those faults. Rowland, un 
ruffled, concluded by saying that whatever its faults might 
be, he had an idea people in general would like it. 
"I wish to heaven some person in particular would 
buy it, and take it off my hands and out of my sight !" 
Roderick cried. "What am I to do now?" he went 
on. " I haven't an idea. I think of subjects, but they 
remain mere lifeless names. They are mere words they 
are not images. What am I to do?" 
Rowland was a trifle annoyed. " Be a man," he was 
on the point of saying, "and don t, for Heaven 's sake, 
talk in that confoundedly querulous voice ! " But before 
he had uttered the words there rang through the studio 
a loud peremptory ring at the outer door. 
Roderick broke into a laugh. " Talk of the devil and 
you see his horns ! If that 's not a customer, it ought 
to be." 
VIII. 
THE door of the studio was promptly flung open, and a 
lady advanced to the threshold an imposing voluminous 
person who quite filled up the doorway. Rowland im 
mediately felt that he had seen her before, but he recog 
nised her only when she moved forward and disclosed 
an attendant in the person of a little bright-eyed elderly 
gentleman with a bristling white moustache. Then he 
remembered that just a year before he and his companion 
 
had seen in the Ludovisi gardens a wonderfully beautiful 
girl strolling in the train of this conspicuous couple. He 
looked for her now, and in a moment she appeared, fol 
lowing her companions with the same maidenly majesty 
as before, and leading her great snow-white poodle, who 
was decorated as before with motley ribbons. The elder 
lady offered the two young men a sufficiently gracious 
salute ; the little old gentleman bowed and smiled with 
extreme alertness. The young girl, without casting a 
glance either at Roderick or at Rowland, looked about 
for a chair, and, on perceiving one, sank into it listlessly, 
pulled her poodle towards her, and began to re-arrange 
his top-knot. Rowland saw that, even with her eyes 
dropped, her beauty was still dazzling. 
" I trust we are at liberty to enter," said the elder 
lady, with urbanity. " We were told that Mr. Hudson 
had no fixed day, and that we might come at any time. 
Let us not disturb you." 
Roderick, as one of the newer lights of the Roman 
art-world, had not hitherto been subject to incursions 
from inquisitive tourists, and, having no regular recep 
tion day, was not versed in the usual arts of hospitality. 
He said nothing, and Rowland, looking at him, saw that 
he was gazing amazedly at the young girl, and was 
apparently unconscious of everything else. " By Jove !" 
he cried, precipitately, "it 's that goddess of the Villa 
Ludovisi !" Rowland, in some confusion, did the 
honours as he could, but the little old gentleman begged 
him with the most obsequious of smiles to give himself 
no trouble. " I have been in many a studio ! " he said, 
with his finger in the air, and a strong Italian accent. 
We are going about everywhere," said his companion. 
" I am passionately fond of art !" 
Rowland smiled sympathetically, and let them turn 
to Roderick 's statue. He glanced again at the young 
sculptor, to invite him to bestir himself, but Roderick 
was still staring wide-eyed at the beautiful young mistress 
 
of the poodle, who by this time had looked up and was 
gazing straight at him. There was nothing bold in her 
look ; it expressed a kind of languid imperturbable in 
difference. Her beauty was extraordinaiy ; it grew and 
grew as the young man observed her. In such a face 
the maidenly custom of averted eyes and ready blushes 
would have seemed an anomaly ; nature had produced 
it for man 's delight, and meant that it should surrender 
itself freely and coldly to admiration. It was not im 
mediately apparent, however, that the young lady found 
an answering entertainment in the physiognomy of her 
host ; she turned her head after a moment and looked 
idly round the room, and at last let her eyes rest on the 
statue of the w r oman seated. It being left to Rowland 
to stimulate conversation, he began by complimenting 
her on the beauty of her dog. 
"Yes, he is very handsome," she murmured. "He 
is a Florentine. The dogs in Florence are handsomer 
than the people," and on Rowland 's caressing him 
"His name is Stenterello," she added. "Stenterello, 
give your hand to the gentleman." This order was given 
in Italian. " Say bnon giorno a Lei." 
Stenterello thrust out his paw and gave four short 
shrill barks ; upon which the elder lady turned round 
and raised her forefinger. 
"My dear, my dear, remember where you are ! Ex 
cuse my foolish child," she added, turning to Roderick 
with an agreeable smile. " She can think of nothing 
but her poodle." 
" I am teaching him to talk for me," the young girl 
went on, without heeding her mother; "to say little 
things in society. It will save me a great deal of trouble. 
Stenterello, love, give a pretty smile and say tanti com- 
plimenti ! " The poodle wagged his white pate it 
looked like one of those little pads in swan s-down for 
applying powder to the face and repeated the barking 
process. 
 
" He is a wonderful beast," said Rowland. 
" He is not a beast," said the young girl. " A beast 
is something black and dirty something you can't touch." 
" He is a very valuable dog," the elder lady explained. 
" He was presented to my daughter by a Florentine 
nobleman." 
"It is not for that I care about him. It is for him 
self. He is better than the Duke ! " 
" My precious love ! " exclaimed the mother in depre 
cating accents, but with a significant glance at Rowland 
which seemed to bespeak his attention to the glory of 
possessing a daughter who could deal in that light fashion 
with the aristocracy. 
Rowland remembered that when their unknown visitors 
had passed before them, a year previous, in the Villa 
Ludovisi, Roderick and he had exchanged conjectures 
as to their nationality and social quality. Roderick had 
declared that they were old-world people ; but Rowland 
now needed no telling to feel that he might claim the 
elder lady as a fellow-countrywoman. She was a person 
of what is called a great deal of presence, with the faded 
traces, artfully revived here and there, of once brilliant 
beauty. Her daughter had come lawfully by her loveli 
ness, but Rowland mentally made the distinction that 
the mother was silly, and the daughter was not. The 
mother had a fatuous countenance a countenance, 
Rowland suspected, capable of expressing an inordinate 
degree of fatuity. The young girl, in spite of her childish 
satisfaction in her poodle, was not a person of a weak 
understanding. Rowland received an impression that 
for reasons of her own she was playing a part. What 
was the part and what were her reasons? She was 
interesting ; Rowland wondered what were her domestic 
secrets. If her mother were a daughter of the great 
Republic it was to be supposed that the young girl was 
a flower of the American soil ; but her beauty had a 
large firmness that is uncommon in the somewhat relaxed 
robustness of our western maidenhood. She spoke with 
a vague foreign accent, as if she had spent her life in 
strange countries. The little Italian apparently divined 
Rowland 's mute imaginings, for he presently stepped 
forward, with a bow like a master of ceremonies. "I 
have not done my duty," he said, "in not announcing 
these ladies. Mrs. Light, Miss Light ! " 
Rowland was not materially the wiser for this informa 
tion, but Roderick was aroused by it to the exercise of 
some slight civility. He altered the light, pulled forward 
two or three figures, and made an apology for not having 
more to show. "I don't pretend to have anything of an 
exhibition I am only a novice." 
" Indeed? a novice ! For a novice this is very well," 
Mrs. Light declared. "Cavaliere, we have seen nothing 
better than this." 
The Cavaliere smiled rapturously. " It is stupend 
ous !" he murmured. "And we have been to all the 
studios." 
"Not to all Heaven forbid!" cried Mrs. Light. 
"But to a number that I have had pointed out by artistic 
friends. I delight in studios I should have been so 
happy myself to be a little quiet artist ! And if you are 
a novice, Mr. Hudson," she went on, "you have already 
great admirers. Half a dozen people have told us that 
yours were quite among the things to see." This 
gracious speech went unanswered ; Roderick had already 
wandered across to the other side of the studio and was 
revolving about Miss Light. "Ah, he 's gone to look 
at my beautiful daughter ; he is not the first that has 
had his head turned," Mrs. Light resumed, lowering her 
voice to a confidential undertone ; a favour which, con 
sidering the shortness of their acquaintance, Rowland 
was bound to appreciate. " The artists are all crazy 
about her. When she goes into a studio she is fatal to 
the pictures. And when she goes into the ball-room 
what do the other women say ? Eh, Cavaliere ? " 
 
" She is very beautiful," Rowland said, simply. 
Mrs, Light, who through her long gold-cased glasses 
was looking a little at everything and at nothing as if 
she saw it, interrupted her random murmurs and exclama 
tions, and surveyed Rowland from head to foot. She 
looked at him all over ; apparently he had not been 
mentioned to her as a feature of Roderick 's establish 
ment. It was the gaze, Rowland felt, which the vigil 
ant and ambitious mother of a beautiful daughter has 
always at her command for well-appointed young men. 
Her inspection in this case seemed satisfactory. " Are 
you also an artist ? " she inquired with an almost affec 
tionate inflection. It was clear that what she meant was 
something of this kind : Be so good as to assure me 
without delay that you are really the amiable young man 
of fortune that you appear. " 
But Rowland answered simply the formal question 
not the latent one. Dear me, no ; I am only a friend 
of Mr. Hudson. " 
Mrs. Light, with a sigh, returned to the statues, and 
after mistaking the Adam for a gladiator and the Eve for 
a gipsy, declared that she could not judge of such things 
unless she saw them in the marble. Rowland hesitated 
a moment, and then, speaking in the interest of Roderick 's 
renown, said that he was the happy possessor of several 
of his friend 's works, and that she was welcome to come 
and see them at his rooms. She bade the Cavaliere 
make a note of his address. " Ah, you are a patron of 
the arts," she said. "That 's what I should like to be 
if I had a little money. I revel in beauty in every form. 
But all these people ask such monstrous prices. One 
must be a millionaire to think of such things, eh ? 
Twenty years ago my husband had my portrait painted, 
here in Rome, by Papucci, who was the great man in 
those days. I was in a ball-dress, with all my jewels, 
and my shoulders and arms which were not a petite 
affaire. The man got six hundred francs, and thought he 
was very well treated. Those were the days when a family 
could live like princes in Italy for five thousand scudi a 
year. The Cavaliere once upon a time was a great 
dandy don't blush, Cavaliere ; any one can see that, 
just as any one can see what I was ! Get him to tell 
you what he made a figure upon. The railroads have 
brought in the vulgarians. That 's what I call it now 
the invasion of the vulgarians ! What are poor we to 
do ?" 
Rowland had begun to murmur some remedial proposi 
tion when he was interrupted hy the voice of Miss Light 
calling across the room, " Mamma !" 
" My own love?" 
" This gentleman wishes to model my bust. Please 
speak to him." 
The Cavaliere gave a little chuckle. "Already?" he 
cried. 
Rowland looked round, equally surprised at the promp 
titude of the proposal. Roderick stood planted before 
the young girl with his arms folded, looking at her as he 
would have done at the Medicean Venus. He never paid 
compliments, and Rowland, though he had not heard him 
speak, could imagine the startling distinctness with which 
he made his request. 
"He saw me a year ago," the young girl went on, 
" and he has been thinking of me ever since." Her tone 
in speaking was peculiar ; it had a kind of studied inex- 
pressiveness which was yet not the vulgar device of a 
drawl. 
"I must make your daughter 's bust that 's all, madam !" 
cried Roderick, with warmth. 
" I would rather you should make the poodle s," said 
the young girl. "Is it very tiresome? I have spent 
half my life sitting for my photograph, in every conceiv 
able attitude and with eveiy conceivable coiffure. I 
think I have posed enough." 
"My dear child," said Mrs. Light, "it may be one 's 
 
duty to pose ! But as to my daughter 's sitting to you, 
sir to a young artist whom we don't know it is a 
matter that one must look at a little. It is not a favour 
that 's to be had for the mere asking." 
" If I don't make her from life," said Roderick, with 
energy, " I will make her from memory, and if the thing 's 
to be done you had better have it done as well as pos 
sible." 
" Mamma hesitates," said Miss Light, "because she 
doesn't know whether you mean she shall pay you for the 
bust. I can assure you that she will not pay you a sou." 
"My daughter, you forget yourself," said Mrs. Light, 
with an attempt at a high tone. " Of course," she added 
in a moment, with a change of note, " the bust would 
be my own property." 
"Of course !" cried Roderick, impatiently. 
" Dearest mother," interposed the young girl, "how 
can you carry a marble bust about the world with you ? 
Is it not enough to drag the poor original?" 
"My dear, you are nonsensical!" cried Mrs. Light, 
almost angrily. 
"You can always sell it," said the young girl, with the 
same artful artlessness. 
Mrs. Light turned to Rowland, who pitied her, flushed 
and irritated. " She is very wicked to-day !" 
The Cavaliere grinned in silence, and walked away on 
tiptoe, with his hat to his lips, as if to leave the field 
clear for action. Rowland, on the contrary, wished to 
mediate. " You had better not refuse," he said to Miss 
Light, "until you have seen Mr. Hudson 's things in the 
marble. Your mother is to come and look at some that 
I possess." 
"Thank you; I have no doubt you will see us. I 
daresay Mr. Hudson is very clever ; but I don't care for 
modern sculpture. I can't look at it ! " 
"You shall care for my bust, I promise you !" cried 
Roderick, with a laugh. 
 
"To satisfy Miss Light," said the Cavaliere, " one of 
the old Greeks ought to come to life." 
" It would be worth his while," said Roderick, paying, 
to Rowland 's knowledge, his first compliment. 
" I might sit to Phidias, if he would promise to be 
veiy amusing and make me laugh. What do you say, 
Stenterello ? would you sit to Phidias ?" 
"We must talk of this some other time," said Mrs. 
Light. " We are in Rome for the winter. Many thanks. 
Cavaliere, call the carriage." The Cavaliere led the way 
out, backing like a silver-stick, and Miss Light, following 
her mother, nodded without looking at them, to each of 
the young men. 
Immortal powers, what a head!" cried Roderick, 
when they were gone. " There 's my fortune ! " 
" She is certainly very beautiful," said Rowland. 
" But I am sorry you have undertaken her bust." 
" And why, pray ?" 
" I suspect it will bring trouble with it." 
" What kind of trouble ?" 
" I hardly know. They are queer people. The 
mamma, I suspect, is a bit of an adventuress. Heaven 
knows what the daughter is." 
" She 's a goddess !" cried Roderick. 
"Just so. She is all the more dangerous." 
" Dangerous ? What will she do to me ? She doesn't 
bite, I imagine." 
" It remains to be seen. There are two kinds of 
women you ought to know by this time the safe and 
the unsafe. Miss Light, if I am not mistaken, is one of 
the unsafe. A word to the wise !" 
" Much obliged ! " said Roderick, and he began to 
whistle a triumphant air, in honour apparently of the 
advent of his beautiful model. 
In calling this young lady and her mamma queer 
people Rowland but roughly expressed his sentiment. 
They were so marked a variation from the monotonous 
 
troop of his compatriots that he felt much curiosity as to 
the sources of the change, especially since he doubted 
greatly whether on the whole it elevated the type. For 
a week he saw the two ladies driving daily in a well- 
appointed landau, with the Cavaliere and the poodle in 
the front seat. From Mrs. Light he received a gracious 
salute, tempered by her native majesty ; but the young 
girl, looking straight before her, seemed profoundly 
indifferent to observers. Her extraordinary beauty, 
however, had already made observers numerous, and 
given the habitues of the Pincian plenty to talk about. 
The echoes of their commentary reached Rowland 's 
ears ; but he had little taste for unsifted rumour, and he 
desired a veracious informant. He found one in the 
person of Madame Grandoni, for whom Mrs. Light and 
her beautiful daughter were a pair of old friends. 
"I have known the mamma for twenty years," said 
this judicious critic, "and if you ask any of the people 
who have been living here as long as I, you will find 
they remember her well. I have held the beautiful 
Christina on my knee when she was a little wizened 
baby with a very red face and no promise of beauty but 
those magnificent eyes. Ten years ago Mrs. Light dis 
appeared, and has not since been seen in Rome, except 
for a few days last winter, when she passed through on 
her way to Naples. Then it was you met the trio in the 
Ludovisi gardens. When I first knew her she was the 
unmarried but very marriageable daughter of an old 
American painter of very bad landscapes, which people 
used to buy from charity and use for fire-boards. His 
name was Savage ; it used to make every one laugh, he 
was such a mild, melancholy, pitiful old gentleman. 
He had married a horrible wife, an Englishwoman who 
had been on the stage. It was said she used to beat 
poor Savage with his mahl-stick, and, when the domestic 
finances were low, to lock him up in his studio and tell 
him he shouldn't come out until he had painted half a 
 
dozen of his daubs. She had a good deal of showy 
beauty. She would go forth with the key in her pocket, 
and, her beauty helping, she would make certain people 
take the pictures. It helped her at last to make an 
English lord run away with her. At the time I speak 
of she had quite disappeared. Mrs. Light was then a 
very handsome girl, though by no means so handsome 
as her daughter has now become. Mr. Light was an 
American consul, newly appointed at one of the Adriatic 
ports. He was a mild, fair- whiskered young man, with 
some little property, and my impression is that he had 
got into bad company at home, and that his family pro 
cured him his place to keep him out of harm 's way. He 
came up to Rome on a holiday, fell in love with Miss 
Savage, and married her on the spot. He had not been 
married three years when he was drowned in the Adriatic, 
no one ever knew how. The young widow came back 
to Rome, to her father, and here shortly afterwards, in 
the shadow of Saint Peter s, her little girl was born. It 
might have been supposed that Mrs. Light would marry 
again, and I know she had opportunities. But she over 
reached herself. She would take nothing less than a 
title and a fortune, and they were not forthcoming. She 
was admired and very fond of admiration ; very vain, 
very worldly, very silly. She remained a pretty widow 
with a surprising variety of bonnets and a dozen men 
always in her train. Giacosa dates from this period. 
He calls himself a Roman, but I have an impression he 
came up from Ancona with her. He was fami de la 
maison. He used to hold her bouquets, clean her gloves 
and satin shoes, run her errands, get her opera-boxes, 
fight her battles with the shopkeepers. For this he 
needed courage, for she was smothered in debt. She at 
last left Rome to escape her creditors. Many of them 
must remember her still, but she seems now to have 
money to satisfy them. She left her poor old father 
here alone helpless, infirm, and unable to work. A 
 
subscription was shortly afterwards taken up among the 
foreigners, and he was sent back to America, where, as 
I finally heard, he died in some sort of asylum. From 
time to time, for several years, I heard vaguely of Mrs. 
Light as a wandering beauty at French and German 
watering-places. Once came a rumour that she was 
going to make a grand marriage in England : then we 
heard that the gentleman had thought better of it and 
left her to keep afloat as she could. She was a terribly 
scatter-brained creature. She pretends to be a great 
lady, but I consider that old Filomena, my washerwoman, 
is in essentials a greater one. But certainly, after all, she 
has been fortunate. She embarked at last on a lawsuit 
about some property with her husband 's family, and 
went to America to attend to it. She came back 
triumphant, with a long purse. She reappeared in Italy, 
and established herself for a while in Venice. Then she 
came to Florence, where she spent a couple of years, 
and where I saw her. Last year she passed down to 
Naples, which I should have said was just the place for 
her, and this winter she had laid siege to Rome. She 
seems very prosperous. She has taken a floor in the 
Palazzo F , she keeps her carriage, and Christina 
and she, between them, must have a pretty milliner 's 
bill. Giacosa has turned up again, looking as if he had 
been kept in ice at Ancona for her return." 
"What sort of education," Rowland asked, "do you 
imagine the mother 's adventures to have been for the 
daughter?" 
" A strange school ! But Mrs. Light told me 
Florence that she had given her child the education of a 
princess. In other words, I suppose she speaks, three or 
four languages and has read several hundred French 
novels. Christina, I suspect, is very clever. When I saw 
her I was amazed at her beauty, and certainly if there is 
any truth in faces she ought to have the soul of an angel. 
Perhaps she has. I don't judge her ; she 's an extraordinary 
young person. She has been told twenty times 
a day by her mother, since she was five years old, that 
she is a beauty of beauties, that her face is her fortune, 
and that if she plays her cards she may marry a duke. 
If she has not been fatally corrupted she is a very superior 
girl. My own impression is that she is a mixture of 
good and bad, of ambition and indifference. Mrs. Light 
having failed to make her own fortune in matrimony has 
transferred her hopes to her daughter, and nursed them 
till they have become a monomania. She has a hobby, 
which she rides in secret ; but some day she will let you 
see it. I am sure that if you go in some evening unan 
nounced, you will find her scanning the tea-leaves in her 
cup or telling her daughter 's fortune with a greasy pack 
of cards, kept sacredly for the purpose. She promises 
her a prince a reigning prince. But if Mrs. Light is 
a fool she is a practical one, and lest considerations of 
state should deny her prince the luxury of a love-match 
she keeps on hand a few common mortals. At the worst 
she would take a duke, an English lord, or even a young 
American with a proper number of millions. The poor 
woman must be rather uncomfortable. She is always 
building castles and knocking them down again always 
casting her nets and pulling them in. If her daughter 
were less of a beauty her restless ambition would be 
simply grotesque ; but there is something in the girl, as 
one looks at her, that seems to make it very possible 
she is marked out for one of those wonderful romantic 
fortunes that history now and then relates. Who, after 
all, was the Empress of the French? Mrs. Light is for 
ever saying. And beside Christina the Empress is a 
dowdy! " 
"And what does Christina say?" 
" She makes no scruple, as you know, of saying that 
her mother is an idiot ! What she thinks Heaven 
knows. I suspect that practically she does not commit 
herself. She is excessively proud, and thinks herself 
 
good enough to occupy the highest station in the world ; 
but she knows that her mother talks nonsense, and that 
even a beautiful girl may look awkward in making un 
successful advances. So she remains superbly indifferent, 
and lets her mother take the risks. If the Prince is 
secured, so much the better ; if he is not, she need never 
confess to herself that even a prince has slighted her." 
"Your report is as solid," Rowland said to Madame 
Grandoni, thanking her, "as if it had been drawn up 
for the Academy of Sciences;" and he congratulated 
himself on having listened to it when a couple of days 
later Mrs. Light and her daughter, attended by the 
Cavaliere and the poodle, came to his rooms to look at 
Roderick 's statues. It was more comfortable to know 
just with whom he was dealing. 
Mrs. Light was prodigiously gracious, and showered 
down compliments not only on the statues but on all his 
possessions. "Upon my word," she said, "you rich 
young men know how to make yourselves comfortable. 
If one of us poor women had half as many easy-chairs 
and nick-nacks we should be famously abused. It 's 
really selfish to be living all alone in such a place as this. 
Cavaliere, how should you like this suite of rooms and a 
fortune to fill them with pictures and statues ? Christina, 
love, look at that mosaic table. Mr. Mallet, I could 
almost beg it from you ! Yes, that Eve is certainly very 
fine. We needn't be ashamed of such a great-grand 
mother as that. If she was really such a beautiful 
woman, it accounts for the good looks of some of us. 
Where is Mr. What s-his-name, the young sculptor ? 
Why isn't he here to be complimented ?" 
Christina had remained but for a moment in the chair 
which Rowland placed for her, had given but a cursory 
glance at the statues, and then, leaving her seat, had 
begun to wander round the room looking at herself in 
the mirror, touching the ornaments and curiosities, 
glancing at the books and prints. Rowland 's sitting- 
 
room was encumbered with bric-a-brac, and she found 
plenty of occupation. Rowland presently ioined her 
and pointed out some of the objects he most valued. 
"It 's an odd jumble," she said, frankly. "Some 
things are very pretty some are very ugly. But I like 
ugly things when they have a certain look. Prettiness 
is terribly vulgar nowadays, and it is not every one that 
knows just the sort of ugliness that has chic. But chic 
is getting dreadfully common too. There 's a hint of it 
even in Madame Baldi 's bonnets. I like looking at 
people 's things," she added in a moment, turning to 
Rowland and resting her eyes on him. " It helps you 
to find out their characters." 
"Am I to suppose," asked Rowland, smiling, "that 
you have arrived at any conclusions as to mine ?" 
"I am rather intrigue e ; you have too many things ; 
one seems to contradict another. You are very artistic, 
and yet you are very prosaic ; you have what is called a 
catholic taste, and yet you are full of obstinate little 
prejudices and preferences which, if I knew you, I should 
find very tiresome. I don't think I like you." 
" You make a great mistake," laughed Rowland ; "I 
assure you I am very amiable." 
"Yes, I am probably wrong, and if I knew you, I 
should find out I was wrong, and that would irritate me 
and make me dislike you more. So you see we are 
necessarily enemies. " 
"No, I don't dislike you !" 
" Worse and worse ; for you certainly will not like me." 
" You are very discouraging." 
" I am fond of facing the truth, though some day you 
will deny even that. Where is that queer friend of 
yours?" 
"You mean Roderick Hudson? He is represented 
by these beautiful works." 
Miss Light looked for some moments at Roderick 's 
statues. "Yes," she said, " they are not so silly as most 
 
of the things we have seen. They have no chic, and yet 
they are beautiful." 
" You describe them perfectly," said Rowland. " They 
are beautiful, and yet they have no chic. That 's it !" 
" If he will promise to put no chic into my bust, I have 
a mind to let him make it. A request made in those 
terms deserves to be granted." 
"In what terms?" 
" Didn't you hear him? Mademoiselle, you almost 
satisfy my conception of the beautiful. I must model 
your bust. That almost should be rewarded ! He is 
like me, he likes to face the truth. I think we should 
get on together." 
The Cavaliere approached Rowland to express the 
pleasure he had derived from his beautiful " collection." 
His smile was exquisitely bland, his accent appealing, 
flattering, insinuating. But he gave Rowland an odd 
sense of looking at a little waxen image adjusted to per 
form certain gestures and emit certain sounds. It had 
once contained a soul, but the soul had leaked away. 
Nevertheless, Rowland reflected, there are more graceless 
things than mere manner and posture in an old-fashioned 
Italian. And the Cavaliere too had soul enough left to 
desire to speak a few words on his own account, and 
call Rowland 's attention to the fact that he was not, after 
all, a hired cicerone, but an ancient Roman gentleman. 
Rowland felt sorry for him ; he hardly knew why. He 
assured him in a friendly fashion that he must come 
again ; that his house was always at his service. The 
Cavaliere bowed down to the ground. " You do me too 
much honour," he murmured. " If you will allow me 
it is not impossible !" 
Mrs. Light meanwhile had prepared to depart. " If 
you are not afraid to come and see two quiet little 
women, we shall be most happy!" she said. "We 
have no statues nor pictures we have nothing but each 
other. Eh, darling?" 
 
"I beg your pardon," said Christina. 
"Oh, and the Cavaliere," added her mother. 
"The poodle, please !" cried the young girl. 
Rowland glanced at the Cavaliere ; he was smiling 
more blandly than ever. 
