with her knowledge, not thrusting it at you with a shout. You have
given me the greatest of pleasure. If I were not an old tramp, with a
knapsack on my shoulder, I do not know what would happen! I might be
the fly in the flame!"
Floyd laughs amusedly. There is about as much danger of Freilgrath
falling in love with her as there is of himself. Would he have, he
wonders, if other events had not crowded in and almost taken the right
of choice from him? It would not have been a bad match if Cecil had
loved her, and she does love Violet. His heart gives a great throb as
he thinks of the two in each other's arms, sleeping sweetly. All the
passion of his soul is still centred in Cecil.
Yet he feels a trifle curious about himself. Is he stock or stone? He
has known of strong men being swept from their moorings when duty,
honor, and all that was most sacred held them elsewhere; nay, he has
even seen them throw away the world and consider it well lost for a
woman's love. If he should never see madame again he would not grieve
deeply, but being here he will see her often, and there is no danger.
By some curious cross-light of mental retrospect he also knows that if
Violet were the beloved wife of any other man--the large-hearted
professor, for instance--he could see her daily without one covetous
pang. He likes her very, very much, she is dear to him, but he is not
in love, and he rather exults in being so cool-headed. Is it anything
but a wild dream, soon burned out to ashes?
Madame Lepelletier, in the solitude of her room, studies her superb
figure, with its rich and affluent lines. No mere beauty of pink
cheeks, dimples, of seventeen, can compare with it, and she understands
the art of keeping it fresh and perfect for some years to come at
least. Floyd Grandon is just beginning a career that will delight and
satisfy him beyond anything he dreams of to-night. He is not in love
with his wife; he did not want her fortune, there were others already
made at hand. A foolish pity, the remnant of youth, moved him, and some
day he will look back in amazement at his folly. But all the same he
has put a slight upon her preference, shown to him, but not in any wise
confessed. She has no silly sentiment, neither would she cloud her
position for a prince of the blood royal, or what is saying more, for
the man she could love, but society has devious turns and varying
latitudes. One need not run squarely against the small fences it puts
up, to gain satisfaction.
Prof. Freilgrath comes up home with his friend the next morning. There
are some dates to verify, some designs to decide upon, but he will not
remain to luncheon. Grandon steps out to greet Denise, when the
opposite door opens, and two quaint laughing figures appear. Violet is
wrapped in her shepherd's plaid, the corner twisted into a bewitching
hood and surmounted by a cluster of black ribbon bows. She holds Cecil
by the hand, who looks a veritable Red Ridinghood, tempting enough to
ensnare any wolf. Both are bright and vivid, and have a fresh,
blown-about look that walking in the wind invariably imparts. Cecil
springs into his arms, and still holding her he bends to kiss Violet.
"You have not walked up?" he asks, in surprise.
"It was not very far, and it is such a lovely, glowing morning," Violet
says, with a touch of deprecation.
"We ran," cries Cecil, with her exuberant spirits in her tone. "We ran
races, and I beat! And we played a wolf was coming. Mamma has seen real
wolves in Canada. But if we had a pony carriage,--because Aunt Marcia
is stingy sometimes----"
"O Cecil!" interposes Violet, in distress.
"Would you like one, Violet? You could soon learn to drive," and he
glances into her deep, dewy eyes, her face that is a glow of delight.
"Marcia has been very kind, and has let me drive Dolly a little. I
should not be afraid, and it would be so delightful."
"You quite deserve it, I have to leave you so much to entertain
yourselves. Now rest a little and I will walk back with you."
The professor comes out. "They will stay for lunch, good Denise," he
announces, quite peremptorily. "Good morning, Mrs. Grandon; good
morning, little one! We have been sadly dissipated fellows, going
around on what you call 'larks,' and you ought to scold us both."
"I don't know why!" she rejoins, with a bright smile. She is suddenly
very happy; it tingles along every nerve.
"What a pretty--hood, do you call it?" says Grandon, rather awkwardly,
trying to unfasten Violet's wrap.
"And the little one is a picture!" adds the professor, glancing from
one to the other.
"Mamma made mine," cries Cecil. "She had one when she was a little
girl, and her papa brought it from Paris."
Grandon laughs. They go to look at the designs, and Violet makes
business-like little comments that surprise them both. She is so eager
to have the book done, to see it in proper shape with her own eyes. "I
shall really feel famous," she declares, with a pretty air of
consequence, archly assumed.
The lunch is delightful, and Violet confesses that yesterday they all
entered with felonious intent, and did eat and drink, and surreptitiously
waste and destroy.
"You didn't get Gertrude here?" asks Floyd. "What magic did you use?"
"And Denise made such a lovely fire for her," says Cecil. "She wasn't a
bit cold. I wish we could live here, it is so little and nice."
That seems to amuse the professor greatly. He feeds Cecil grapes, and
plans how it shall be. Grandon, too, seems in unusual spirits; and
presently they have an enchanting walk home. The October day is
gorgeous, and they find some chestnuts. The pony carriage is talked
over again, and Floyd promises to look it up immediately.
That evening at dinner Marcia says, suddenly, "Did you and the
professor dine with madame last night? Mother's letter came this
morning, in which she spoke of expecting you. Of course madame looked
like a queen in
    "'The folds of her wine-dark velvet dress.'"
"It was--blue or green or something, only not wine-color," says
Floyd.
"Was any one else there?"
"No, it was just for the professor."
"She might have had the goodness to remember there were more in the
family. Mrs. Grandon and myself," declares Eugene, almost in a tone of
vexation.
"What was the opera? I think you are getting very----"
"'Martha,'" he interrupts, quickly. "An acquaintance of madame's sang
as Plunkett, and did extremely well; a young Italian who only a year
or two ago lost his fortune."
"Brignoli used to be divine as Lionel," says Marcia. "I don't believe
I should like another person in that rôle. Of course madame is making
a great sensation in New York. What a wonderfully handsome woman she
is, and--do you remember, Gertrude, whether any one ever made any great
fuss about her in her youth?"
Gertrude colors at this thrust of ancient memory.
"She is the handsomest woman I ever saw," begins Eugene, and his glance
falls upon Violet. "Of course she was handsome always, and you need not
hint enviously of a lost youth, Marcia. She looks younger than any of
you girls to-day. There wasn't one at Newport who could hold a candle
to her. The men were mowed down 'n swaths. Not one could stand before
her."
"Then I say she is a coquette," is Marcia's decisive reply. "I dare
say there will be no end of dinners and Germans and lovers. It's
fearfully mean in Laura not to take a house for the winter and invite a
body down. It is horrid dull here! Floyd, do you mean to stay up all
winter?"
"Why not? I have not spent a winter here since I was a boy, in the old
farm-house with Aunt Marcia."
"What an awful place it was!" Marcia is quite forgetting her rôle of
severe high art. "I believe she always chose the coldest days in winter
and the warmest days in summer to invite us. I don't see how you
endured it!"
"I not only endured it," says Floyd, meditatively, "but I liked it."
"Well, one might like it with a fortune in the background," Eugene
rejoins, with covert insolence.
The dessert is being brought in, which causes a lull in the family
strictures. Floyd frowns and is silent. When they rise, Cecil runs to
the drawing-room, and the two follow her.
"Play a little," says her husband; and Violet sits down, thinking of
the handsome woman she has never yet seen, but who seems to have
bewitched all the family.
Floyd is down twice again before the day on which he escorts his mother
home. On one of these occasions he buys the pony. Violet and Cecil are
both filled with delight, and Floyd gives his wife a little driving
practice. He is so good to her, she thinks, but she sometimes wishes he
would talk to her about madame.
They are quite enthusiastic at Mrs. Grandon's return, but her distance
and elegance chill Violet to the very soul. She has no part in the
general cordiality, and Floyd finds himself helpless to mend matters.
For the first time since he has come home he regrets that this great
house is his portion, and that half, at least, had not gone to the
rest. He has a desperate desire to take Violet and live in the cottage,
as Cecil has proposed.
CHAPTER XV.
"The branches cross above our eyes,
  The skies are in a net."
The plans have been made without taking Violet into the slightest
account, or Floyd, as master of the house. Laura and madame are to come
up for a week, and there must be a dinner and an evening party. Laura
was compelled to have such a quiet wedding, and it was really shameful
to make so much use of madame and offer her so little in return.
"I really don't know what to do about the rooms," says Mrs. Grandon.
"It was absurd in Floyd to take that elegant spare chamber when he had
two rooms of his own and all the tower; and if one should say a word,
my lady would be in high dudgeon, no doubt."
"Mother," begins Gertrude in a calm tone,--and it seems as if Gertrude
had lost her sickly whine in this bracing autumn weather,--"you do
Violet great injustice. She will give up the room with pleasure the
moment she is asked."
"Oh, I dare say!" with a touch of scorn, meant to wither both speaker
and person spoken of, "if I were to go down on my knees, which I never
have done yet."
"You forget the house is Floyd's."
"No, I do not; I am not allowed to," with stately emphasis. "When
Floyd was down to the city he was the tenderest of sons to me. She is
a sly, treacherous little thing; you can see it in her face. I never
would trust a person with red hair, and she sets him up continually.
He is so different when he is away from her; Laura remarked it. How
he ever could have married her!"
"It would be the simplest act of courtesy to speak about the room; just
mention it to Floyd."
Mrs. Grandon draws a long, despairing sigh, as if she had been put upon
to the uttermost.
"We must invite the Brades and the Van Bergens to the dinner, though I
suppose Laura will choose the guests and divide them to her liking;
only at the dinner we shall have no dancing. Laura is to come up
to-morrow."
"If you would like me to speak about the room----" says Gertrude.
"I believe I am still capable of attending to my own affairs," is the
lofty rejoinder.
Marcia, with her head full of coming events, waylays Floyd on his
return that morning.
"I want some money," she says, with a kind of infantile gayety. "I have
bills and bills; their name is legion."
"How much?" he asks, briefly.
"I think--you may as well give me a thousand dollars," in a rather
slow, considering tone.
He looks at her in surprise.
"Well," and she tosses her head, setting the short curls in a flutter,
"is a thousand dollars so large a sum?"
"You had better think before spending it," he answers, gravely. "You
will then have four thousand left."
"It is my own money."
"I know it is. But, Marcia, you all act as if there was to be no end to
it. If you should get all your part, the ten thousand, it would be only
a small sum and easily spent. What do you want to do with so much just
now?"
"I told you I had bills to pay," she says, pettishly, "and dresses to
get." Then she lights upon what seems to her a withering sarcasm. "I
have no one to take me to Madame Vauban's and pay no end of bills. If I
bought dresses like that when I had no need of them and was not in
society----"
"Hush, Marcia!" he commands, "you shall have your money. Spend it as
you like," and he strides through the hall. He has been sorely tried
with Eugene, who will not interest himself in work, and has been
indulging in numerous extravagances; and business has not improved,
though everything in the factory goes smoothly.
Violet is in Cecil's room, teaching her some dainty bits of French. She
looks up with a bright smile and a blush, the color ripples over her
face so quickly. His is so grave. If she only had the courage to go and
put her arms about his neck and inquire into the trouble. She is so
intensely sympathetic, so generous in all her moods.
He has come home to take her to drive. It is such a soft,
Indian-summery day, with the air full of scents and sounds, but all the
pleasure has gone out of it now for him.
"Papa, listen to me," says Cecil, with her pretty imperiousness. "I can
talk to mamma in real French."
He smiles languidly and listens. If a man should lose his all, this
dainty, dimpled little creature playing at motherhood could set a
table, sweep a house, make her children's clothes and perhaps keep
cheerful through it. Was there ever any such woman, or is he dreaming?
He goes to hunt up Marcia's property, and is tempted to hand it over to
her and never trouble his head about it again. But that will not be the
part of prudence, any more than trusting their all to Eugene. Having
accepted the burthen, he must not lay it down at any chance
resting-place. So he hands it to her quietly at luncheon, and that
evening listens courteously to his mother's plans, offering no
objection.
"But he did not evince the slightest interest," she declares to Marcia.
"And you will see that every possible obstacle will be put in the way."
"And he can spend his money upon pony carriages for her!" retorts
Marcia, spitefully.
The pony carriage is indeed a grievance, and when Floyd teaches his
wife to ride, as her pony is accustomed to the saddle, the cup brims
over. He has announced the visitors to her, and she dreads, yet is most
anxious to see Madame Lepelletier.
"Was not this room hers when she was here in the summer?" asks Violet,
standing by the window.
"Yes," answers her husband, but he makes no further comment. It looks
like crowding Violet out, and he is not sure he wants that. He will
have her treated with the utmost respect during this visit, and it will
prove an opportunity to establish her in her proper standing as his
wife.
It all comes about quite differently. Violet is at the cottage, and has
gone up to take a look at papa's room and put some flowers on the
table. All is so lovely and peaceful. There is no place in the world
like it, for it is not the chamber of death, but rather that of
resurrection.
"Violet," calls her husband.
She turns to run down the stairs. It is a trifle dark, and how it
happens she cannot tell, but she lands on the floor almost at her
husband's feet, and one sharp little cry is all.
He picks her up and carries her to the kitchen, laying her on Denise's
cane-seat settee, where she shudders and opens her eyes, then faints
again.
"I wonder if any bones are broken!" And while Denise is bathing her
forehead, he tries her arms, which are safe. Then as he takes one small
foot in his hand she utters a piercing exclamation of pain. Prof.
Freilgrath is away; there is nothing but for Floyd to go for a
physician. He looks lingeringly, tenderly at the sweet child face, and
kisses the cold lips. Yes, she is very dear to him.
He brings back the doctor speedily. One ankle is badly sprained, and
there seems a wrench of some kind in her back. She must be undressed
and put to bed, and her ankle bandaged. He makes her draw a dozen long
respirations.
"I do not believe it can be anything serious," he says, kindly, "but we
will keep good watch. I will be in again early in the morning. There is
no present cause for anxiety," studying Grandon's perturbed face.
"I hope there is none at all," the husband responds, gravely.
"And--would it be possible to move her in a day or two?"
"She had better lie there on her back for the next week. You see, it is
a great shock to both nerves and muscles: we are not quite birds of the
air," and he laughs cheerily. "We will see how it goes with her
to-morrow."
Floyd returns to the chamber. Violet has a bright spot on either cheek,
and her eyes have a frightened, restless expression.
"It was so careless of me," she begins, in her soft tone that ought to
disarm and conquer any prejudice. "I should have looked, but I have
grown so used to running up and down."
"Accidents happen to the best of people." Then he has to laugh at the
platitude, and she laughs, too. "I mean--" he begins--"well, you are
not to worry or blame yourself, or to take the slightest trouble. I am
sorry it should happen just now, or at any time, for that matter, and
my only desire is that you shall get perfectly well and strong. It
might have been worse, my little darling," and he kisses her tenderly.
Then suddenly he realizes how very much worse it might have been, if
she had been left maimed and helpless; and bending over, folds her in
such an ardent embrace that every pulse quivers, and her first impulse
is to run away from something she cannot understand, yet is vaguely
delicious when the fear has ceased.
"I must go down to the park, but I will be back soon and stay all
night. Denise will bring you up a cup of tea." Then he kisses her again
and leaves her trembling with a strange, secret joy.
Rapidly as he drives home, he finds them all at dinner. "You are late,"
his mother exclaims sharply, but makes no further comment. Eugene
stares a little at the space behind him, and wonders momentarily. But
when he seats himself and is helped, he remarks that Cecil is not
present and inquires the reason.
"She was very naughty," explains Mrs. Grandon, severely. "Floyd, the
best thing you can do is to send that child back to England. She is
completely spoiled, and no one can manage her. If you keep on this way
she will become unendurable."
Floyd Grandon makes no answer. If Marcia and Eugene would not tease her
so continually, and laugh at the quick and sometimes insolent retorts!
"Where is Violet?" inquires Gertrude.
"She is at the cottage. She has met with an accident," he replies,
gravely.
"Oh!" Gertrude is really alarmed. The rest are curious, indifferent.
"What is it, what has happened?"
"She slipped and fell down-stairs, and has sprained her ankle; beside
the shock, we trust there are no more serious hurts."
"Those poky little stairs!" says Marcia. "I wonder some one's neck has
not been broken before this. Why do you not tear them out, Floyd, and
have the place altered. It has some extremely picturesque points and
would make over beautifully."
"It wouldn't be worth the expense," says Eugene, decisively, "on that
bit of cross road with no real street anywhere. I wonder at St. Vincent
putting money in such a cubby as that."
"The situation is exquisite," declares Marcia. "It seems to just hang
on the side of the cliff, and the terraced lawn and gardens would look
lovely in a sketch; on an autumn day it would be at its best, with the
trees in flaming gold and scarlet, and the intense green of the pines.
I really must undertake it before it is too late. Or as 'Desolation' in
midwinter it would be wonderfully effective."
"The most effective, I think."
Eugene is angry with Floyd for being the real master of the situation
and not allowing him to draw on the firm name for debts. He takes a
special delight in showing ill-temper to the elder.
"I am so glad," says Gertrude to Floyd, as soon as there is sufficient
lull to be heard. "Broken limbs are sometimes extremely troublesome.
But she will not be able to walk for some weeks if it is bad."
"It was dreadfully swollen by the time Dr. Hendricks came. I am very
thankful it was no worse, though that will be bad enough just when I
wanted her well," he says, with an energetic ring to his voice that
causes his mother to glance up.
"It is extremely unfortunate," she comments, with sympathy plainly
ironical. "What had we better do? Our dinner invitations are out."
"Everything will go on just the same," he answers, briefly, but he is
sick at heart. His life seems sacrificed to petty dissensions and the
selfish aims of others. The great, beautiful house is his, but he has
no home. The wife that should be a joy and pleasure is turned by them
into a thorn to prick him here and there. Even his little child--
"Jane, what was the trouble?" he asks, a few minutes later, as he
enters Cecil's room, where she is having a cosy dinner with her small
dishes.
"O papa--and I don't mind at all! It's just splendid up here."
"Hush, Cecil," rather peremptorily.
"Mrs. Grandon was--I do think she was cross," says Jane. "Miss Cecil
said she would wait for her mamma, and Mrs. Grandon said----" Jane
hesitates.
"Isn't it your house, papa? Grandmamma shook me because I said so," and
Cecil glances up defiantly.
"What did Mrs. Grandon say?" he asks, quietly, of Jane; for intensely
as he dislikes servants' gossip, he will know what provocation was
given to his child.
"She said that Miss Cecil wasn't mistress here nor any one else, and
that she would not have dinner kept waiting for people who chose to be
continually on the go. She took Miss Cecil's hand, and the child jerked
away, and she scolded, and Miss Cecil said that about the house."
"Very well, I understand all that is necessary." He has not the heart
to scold Cecil, the one being in the house devoted to Violet, and looks
at her with sad eyes as he says,--
"Mamma has had a bad fall, and is ill in bed. You must be a good girl
to-night and not make trouble for Jane."
"Oh, let me go to her!" Cecil is down from her dainty table, clinging
to her father. "Let me go, I will be so good and quiet, and not tease
her for stories, but just smooth her pretty hair as I did when her head
ached. Oh, you will let me go?"
He raises her in his arms and kisses the rosy, beseeching lips, while
the earnest heart beats against his own. "My darling," there is a
little tremble in his voice, "my dear darling, I cannot take you
to-night, but if you will be brave and quiet you shall go to-morrow.
See if you cannot earn the indulgence, and not give papa any trouble,
because you love him."
A long, quivering breath and dropping tears answer him. He is much
moved by her effort and comforts her, puts her back in her chair, and
utters a tender good night. Gertrude waylays him in the hall for a
second assurance that matters are not serious with Violet, and sends
her love. He sees no one else, and goes out in the darkness with a step
that rings on the walk. It seems to him that he has never been so angry
in all his life, and never so helpless.
"She has had her tea and fallen asleep," announces Denise, in a low
tone, as if loud talking was not permissible, even at the kitchen door.
"I think the powder was an anodyne. There is another for her in the
night if she is restless."
He goes up over the winding stairs with a curious sensation. She lies
there asleep, one arm thrown partly over her head, the soft white
sleeve framing in the fair hair that glitters as if powdered with
diamond-dust. The face is so piquant, so brave, daring, seductive, with
its dimples and its smiling mouth, albeit rather pale. His stern, tense
look softens. She is sweet enough for any man to love: she has ten
times the sense of Marcia, the strength and spirit of Gertrude, and
none of the selfishness of Laura. She is pretty, too, the kind of
prettiness that does not awe or stir deeply or command worship. What
is it--and an old couplet half evades him--
    "A creature not too bright and good
    For human nature's daily food."
That just expresses her. What with the writing and the business, he has
had so little time for her, but henceforth she shall be his delight. He
will devote himself to her pleasure. Proper or not, she shall go to the
city and see the gayety, hear concerts and operas and plays, even if
they have to go in disguise. But how to give her her true position at
home puzzles him sorely. He had meant to introduce her at these coming
parties, but of course that is quite out of the question.
Denise comes up presently, the kindly friend, the respectful domestic,
and takes a low seat when Mr. Grandon insists upon her remaining
awhile. Something in her curious Old World reverence always touches
him. He asks about Violet's childhood, whatever she remembers. The
mother she never saw; but she has been with the St. Vincents thirteen
years. They lived in Quebec for more than half that time; then Mr. St.
Vincent was abroad for two years, and Miss Violet went to the convent.
Denise is a faithful Romanist, but she has always honored her master's
faith,--perhaps because he has been so generous to hers.
There is some tea on the kitchen stove keeping warm, she tells him with
her good night, some biscuits and crackers, and a bottle of wine, if he
likes better. Then he is left alone, and presently the great clock in
the hall tells off slowly and reverently the midnight hour.
Violet stirs and opens her eyes. There is a light, and Mr. Grandon is
sitting here. What does it all mean? Her face flushes and she gives a
sudden start, half rising, and then drops back on the pillow, many
shades paler.
"I know now," she cries. "You came back to stay with me?"
There is a thrill of exultant joy in her tone. Does such a simple act
of duty give her pleasure, gratify her to the very soul? He is touched,
flattered, and then almost pained.
"You do not suppose I would leave you alone all night, my little
Violet?"
"It was good of you to come," she insists. "But are you going to sit
up? I am not really ill."
"Your back hurt you, though, when you stirred. I saw it in your face."
"It hurt only a little. I shall have to keep quiet, now," with a bright
smile.
"And your ankle must be bathed. I should have done it before but you
were sleeping so sweetly. Does your head ache, or is there any pain?"
"Only that in my back; but when I am still it goes away. My ankle feels
so tight. If the bandage could be loosened----"
"I think it best not." Then he bathes it with the gentlest handling,
until the thick layers have been penetrated. Will she have anything to
eat or to drink? Had she better take the second powder?
"Not unless I am restless, and I am not--very, am I?" with a soft
little inquiry.
"Not at all, I think," holding her wrist attentively.
"Are you going to sit up all night?" she asks.
"I am going to sit here awhile and put my head on your pillow, so,
unless you send me away."
"Send you away!" she echoes, in a tone that confesses unwittingly how
glad she is to have him.
Her hand is still in his, and he buries it in his soft beard, or bites
the fingers playfully. Her warm cheek is against his on the pillow, and
he can feel the flush come and go, the curious little heat that
bespeaks agitation. It is an odd, new knowledge, pleasing withal, and
though he is in some doubt about the wisdom, he hates even to move.
"You are quite sure you are comfortable?" he asks again.
"Oh, delightful!" There is a lingering cadence in her voice, as if
there might be more to say if she dared.
"You must go to sleep again, like a good child," he counsels, with a
sense of duty uppermost.
She breathes very regularly, but she is awake long after he fancies her
oblivious. She feels the kisses on her cheek and on her prisoned
fingers, and is very, very happy, so happy that the pain in her ankle
is as nothing to bear.
Dr. Hendricks makes a very good report in the morning. The patient's
back has been strained, and the ankle is bad enough, but good care will
soon overcome that. She must lie perfectly still for several days.
"When can she be moved?" Mr. Grandon asks.
"Moved? Why, she can't be moved at all! She is better off here than she
would be with a crowd around her bothering and wanting to wait on her,
as mothers and sisters invariably do," with a half-laughing nod at
Grandon. "Her back must get perfectly strong before she even sits up.
The diseases and accidents of life are not half as bad as the under or
over care, often most injudicious."
"Oh, do let me stay!" pleads Violet, with large, soft, beseeching eyes.
He has been planning how she shall be honored and cared for in her own
home, and does not like to yield. To have her out of the way here will
gratify all the others too much.
"Of course you will stay," the doctor says. "When a woman promises to
obey at the marriage altar, there is always an exception in the case of
that privileged and tyrannical person, the doctor."
Violet smiles, and is glad of the tyranny.
"She may see one or two guests and have a book to read, but she is not
to sit up."
The guest to-day is Cecil, but Denise makes the kitchen so altogether
attractive that Cecil's heart is very much divided. Mr. Grandon spends
part of the afternoon reading aloud, but his mellow, finely modulated
voice is so charming that Violet quite forgets the subject in the
delight of listening to him. Cecil would fain stay and wishes they
could all live with Denise.
Yes, there could be more real happiness in that little nest than in the
great house. Aunt Marcia's gift has not brought him very good luck,
even from the first.
CHAPTER XVI.
What is the use of so much talking? Is not the wild rose sweet without
a comment?--HAZZLIT.
Since there is no real alarm about Mrs. Floyd, arrangements go onward.
Madame Lepelletier and Mr. and Mrs. Delancy come up on the appointed
day, and madame is led to the lovely guest chamber where she reigned
before. This is Monday, and on Tuesday the elite of Grandon Park and
a select few of the crême of Westbrook are invited to dinner. Laura
is the star of the occasion, but madame is its grace, its surprise, its
charm. The few who have seen her are delighted to renew the
acquaintance, others are charmed, fascinated.
There has been no little undercurrent of curiosity concerning Mr. Floyd
Grandon's wife. The feeling has gone abroad that there is something
about it "not quite, you know." Mrs. Grandon has not concealed her
chagrin and disappointment; Marcia's descriptions are wavering and
unreliable, as well as her regard. This is such an excellent
opportunity for everybody to see and to judge according to individual
preference or favor, and behold there is nothing to see. Mrs. Floyd has
sprained her ankle and is a prisoner in that queer, lonely little
cottage, where her father lived like a hermit. The impression gains
ground that Mr. St. Vincent was something of an adventurer, and that
his connection with the business has been an immense misfortune for the
Grandons; that his daughter is a wild, hoydenish creature, who climbs
rocks and scales fences, and is quite unpresentable in society, though
she may know how to sit still in church.
Floyd Grandon would very much like to escape this dinner, but he
cannot. His position as head of the house, his own house, too, his
coming fame, his prestige as a traveller, make him too important an
object to be able to consult his own wishes. Then there are old
neighbors, who hold out a hand of cordial welcome, who are interested
in his success, and whom he has no disposition to slight.
He takes madame in to dinner, who is regal in velvet and lace. There is
a little whisper about the old love, a suspicion if something that
cannot quite be explained had not happened with the St. Vincent girl,
the "old love" would be on again. There is a delicate impression that
madame was persuaded into her French marriage very much against her
will. She is charming, fascinating, perfection. She distances other
women so far that she even extinguishes jealousy.
It certainly is a delightful dinner party, and Mrs. Grandon is in her
glory. She almost forgives Violet her existence for the opportuneness
of the accident. She is just as much mistress as ever, and to be
important is Mrs. Grandon's great delight. She hates secondary
positions. To be a dowager without the duchess is the great cross of
her life. If Mr. Grandon could have left her wealthy, the sting of his
death would not be half so bitter.
It is late when the guests disperse. Violet has insisted that he shall
not give her an anxious thought, but he is a man, and he does some
incipient envying on her account. Of course to have her up-stairs, an
invalid, would not better the position, but to have her here, bright
and well and joyous, full of quaint little charms, and he has never
known how full, how over-brimming she was with all manner of
fascinating devices until the last few days. If his mother could
realize that under this courteous and attentive exterior, the breeding
of the polished man of the world, he is thinking only of Violet in
white wrappers, with a cluster of flowers at her throat, she would be
more than ever amazed at his idiocy.
There is to be a small company at Mrs. Brade's the next evening, a
reception to "dear Laura."
"You must come," declares Mrs. Brade, emphatically. "We ought to
have a chance at our old friend, and you and the boys grew up together.
Do you remember how you used to roast corn and apples at the kitchen
fire, and go over your Latin? Why, it seems only yesterday, and all my
children are married and gone, save Lucia."
"I shall have to be excused," Floyd Grandon says, in a quiet tone, but
with a smile that is fully as decisive. "I shall owe to-morrow evening
to my wife, who cannot yet leave her room."
"How very sad and unfortunate! Are we never to have a sight of her, Mr.
Grandon, except the glimpses in the carriage and at church?"
"Certainly," he answers. "Circumstances have kept us from society, and
I have really had no time for its claims, but I hope to have more
presently for it, as well as for her."
"We shall be glad to see you, never doubt that. Lucia will be so
disappointed to-morrow evening."
Grandon bows. Is there anything more to say proper to the occasion? He
has heard so much during the last three months that he has grown quite
nervous on the subject of society etiquette.
On the morrow Violet is anxious to hear about the dinner. She is young
and full of interest in gay doings, in spite of her early sorrow. He
makes blunders over the dresses, and they both laugh gayly; he
describes the guests and the old friends, and the complimentary
inquiries about her.
"I wish you could be there on Thursday evening," he says, regretfully.
"That is to be a party with dancing, and plenty of young
people,--Laura's companions."
"And I have never been to a real party in all my life!" she cries. "I
suppose I couldn't dance, but I could look on, and there is my lovely
dress!"
"You shall have a party for your own self, and all the dancing you
want," he answers.
"Can you waltz, Mr. Grandon?" she asks, after a moment's thought.
He laughs. The idea of Floyd Grandon, traveller and explorer, whirling
round in a giddy waltz!
"It isn't so ridiculous," she says, her face full of lovely, girlish
resentment. "At school we learned to waltz, but it was with girls,
and--I couldn't ever waltz with any one but you, because--because----"
and her eyes fill up with tears.
"No," he answers, quickly, "I shouldn't ever want you to. I will--I
mean we will both practise up. I did waltz when I was first in India,
but my dancing days came to an end."
She remembers. There was the long sea-voyage and the death of Cecil's
mother.
"My darling," he says, distressed at her grave face and not dreaming of
what is in her thoughts, "when you are well once again, and the right
