asked Dory, who had no idea of enlisting on the wrong side in
anybody’s cause.
“I have done nothing wrong. I will tell you all about the matter, only
don’t let that man get hold of me. Upon my sacred honor, I am guilty
of no crime,” continued Bolingbroke Millweed.
Dory was greatly tempted. He had a reputation on Lake Champlain, won
but a short time before he made his snug harbor at Beech Hill. On two
occasions he had successfully kept out of the way of a steamer. He had
been pursued all one day by the swiftest steam-yacht on the lake, but
by his “tactics” he had kept out of her reach.
If the young man had been guilty of a crime, he would do nothing for
him. His passenger spoke fairly; but, if he had been doing wrong, he
would not scruple to lie about it. Dory decided to keep out of the way
of the steam-launch long enough to hear Bolingbroke’s story. It was an
exciting game to dodge a steamer, and he desired to play it. The water
in the lake had been very low all summer, and no heavy rains had yet
raised it. The low-water soundings on the chart needed no corrections.
The Goldwing was a schooner, and Dory had been sailing under jib and
mainsail only. This was about all the sail she could comfortably
carry. The skipper looked over the situation very carefully. The yacht
was on the wind, headed across the lake. After the sinking of the
sloop, the two men in the steamer had a long talk before they started
her screw again; and she was all of half a mile astern of the
Goldwing.
Coming up into the wind, Dory set the mainsail; and then it was a
staggering wind for the Goldwing. By a little manœuvring the skipper
brought Diamond Island between his own craft and the steam-launch.
The pursuer had gained on him while he was setting the foresail.
Starting his sheets, he stood off to the south-west until the steamer
was abreast of the island. She could not head him off; and then he
came about again, steering her due south.
The skipper was ready for the explanation, and the passenger proceeded
to relate it.
CHAPTER III.
MR. BOLINGBROKE MILLWEED TELLS HIS STORY.
The wind was blowing very fresh; and the Goldwing staggered wildly, as
she went ahead nearly before it. Mr. Bolingbroke Millweed appeared to
be a little nervous, for the schooner carried twice as much sail in
proportion to her size as the sloop in which he had come from
Burlington.
“She acts just as though she was going to tip over,” said he, clinging
to the wash-board.
“Tip over! She don’t do that sort of thing. She has got over all her
bad habits,” replied the skipper. “But I should like to have you spin
your yarn before we get up to Field’s Bay, so that I may know what to
do with you.”
“I have been looking for a place in a store for a year, for I was
graduated at the high-school last summer,” Mr. Millweed began. “I know
a young man by the name of Hackett Tungwood, who is in a store in
Burlington. He wanted a vacation of a week, and he engaged me to take
his place while he was absent.”
“Did his boss agree to it?” asked Dory.
“His employer did agree to it, and treated me very kindly when I went
to the store at seven o’clock this morning. About nine o’clock Mr.
Lingerwell, who is Hack’s brother-in-law, and the head man in the
store, sent me to the safe for the cash-book.”
“I got the book, and gave it to him. Just then Mr. Longbrook, the
proprietor, came in, and asked Mr. Lingerwell for the four hundred and
fifty dollars which had been put in the safe the night before. I saw
the head man go to the safe, and then both he and his employer seemed
to be in great consternation.”
“Short words, or you never will finish,” interposed Dory.
“I did not know what the matter was, but Mr. Lingerwell used a great
many exclamations.”
“What did he do with them?”
“He uttered them, of course: what else could he do with them? If you
continue to interrupt with irrelevant questions, it will take me a
long time to tell the story,” replied Mr. Millweed impatiently. “I was
putting up goods near the desk, or I should not have noticed what was
going on. In a little while I heard enough to satisfy me that the four
hundred and fifty dollars was missing.
“Mr. Longbrook called me to the desk, and asked if I had been to the
safe. I told him I had taken the cash-book from the safe, as I had
been told to do. He looked me sharply in the eye. Mr. Lingerwell said
no one else had been to the safe since he opened it in the morning.
“I was sent back to my work, and the two men kept on talking about the
money. It was clear enough to me that I was suspected of taking it,
and I felt as though I was already in the State prison. I heard Mr.
Lingerwell say he was sure I had taken the money, for it was all right
when he opened the safe. I never was so terrified before in my life.
Hack Tungwell had told me he did not expect to keep his place much
longer: he might not return at all. If I pleased his employer, I might
get the situation.
“What I heard seemed to be the knell of all my hopes. I had done my
best to get a place, for my father sadly needs what little I could
earn. Then the two men talked in low tones for a while. Presently
Mr. Longbrook went out of the store. I was sure he had gone for an
officer to arrest me.
“The idea of being arrested and marched through the streets by a
constable was about as bad to me as being shot through the head. When
Mr. Lingerwell went to the back part of the store, I rushed out at the
front door.”
“You left!” exclaimed Dory with something like indignation in his
tones.
“I did: I was wholly unwilling to be dragged through the streets by an
officer.”
“That was worse than sinking the sloop in two hundred and fifty feet
of water. Do I understand you to say that you did not take the money
from the safe?” demanded Dory.
“Do I look like a thief?” asked Mr. Millweed, rising from his seat in
the standing-room in deep disgust; though he was immediately thrown
back again by the motion of the yacht.
“Never mind how you look: you acted just like a thief,” retorted Dory
warmly. “You don’t say yet that you didn’t take the money when you
went to the safe for the book.”
“I do say now, most emphatically, that I did not take the money when
I went to the safe for the cash-book, or at any other time. I didn’t
even know there was any money in the safe,” protested Mr. Millweed
very earnestly.
“That’s coming to the point; but you have done the best you could to
convince your employer and his head man that you did take it. I advise
you to go straight back to Burlington, and then straight to the store,
and face the music. If anybody says I stole any money, I want to see
the man that says so.”
“That would all be very well under ordinary circumstances,” pleaded
Mr. Millweed.
“It’s all very well under any circumstances.”
“I had a theory of my own.”
“I don’t care any thing about your theory: I say the way is to face
the music. If you had let them search you before you went out of the
store, you would have been all right. They would not have found the
money upon you, and you had had no chance to get rid of it. Now they
will say you buried it somewhere on the shore of the lake.”
“But I tell you I have a theory. I believe Tim Lingerwell took the
money himself. How easy it would have been for him to slip the wallet,
or the package, whatever it was, into my pocket when I was not
looking.”
“That thing has been done in a hundred and fifty novels and stories,
but it isn’t done every day in Burlington. If Tim Lingerwell wanted
the money bad enough to steal it, he wouldn’t put it into your
pocket.”
“He isn’t any too good to do such a thing. He and Hack belong in
Genverres; and people here wouldn’t trust either of them with a pewter
quarter,” argued Mr. Millweed.
“Perhaps you are right: I don’t know. You have given yourself away,
and made it look bad for you. If Tim Lingerwell took the money, what
did he do with it?”
“That’s more than I know. He has the care of the safe, and he and I
were the only persons who had been near it when Mr. Longbrook came in
for the money. I know I did not take it; and if I didn’t, he did.
That’s the whole of it.”
Dory believed his passenger had been a fool to run away; but, without
knowing why, he could not help believing that he was telling the truth.
“Where did you get the sloop in which you came up the lake?” he asked.
“You said she did not belong to you.”
“She belongs to Sim Green, a friend of mine, who lives next door to
me. He was going down to Burlington to stay a few days with his uncle.
Money is a scarce article in our family, and I had none to pay my fare
by railroad. I was going to walk; but, at Sim’s invitation, I went
down in his sloop. When I left the store, I went down to the boat, and
got into it. Then I thought I would go home, and tell my father and
mother what had happened.”
“Then you took the boat without leave?”
“I knew Sim would not care, and he won’t come home before Saturday. I
meant to send it back before that time,” Mr. Millweed explained.
“That may be all right; but Sim won’t thank you for taking it, when he
learns that she has gone down in two hundred and fifty feet of water.
Now, what is to be done?” asked Dory. “Will you go back to Burlington,
and face the music?”
“I don’t know what to do,” replied Mr. Millweed, evidently overwhelmed
with perplexity.
“I have told you what I would do if I were in your place,” added Dory.
“Then I will go back; but I don’t want to be dragged into Burlington
by Tim Lingerwell,” replied Mr. Millweed, as he glanced at the
steam-launch.
“All right, if you will only go back. What makes you think Tim
Lingerwell took the money?” asked Dory.
“The more I think of it, the more certain I feel that he took the
money. Why should he call me from my work to get the cash-book out of
the safe for him, when he was within six feet of it? Why should he
send me to the safe at all, and leave it unlocked, when he knew there
was so much money in it? Why didn’t he search me before Mr. Longbrook
went out? He managed it all to suit himself,” replied the passenger
with energy.
Dory thought his passenger was right. If the head man in the store
believed the substitute clerk had taken the money from the safe, he
could not see why he had been permitted to leave the store.
“Did they chase you in the street after you left the store?” asked
Dory, who was rather inclined to do a little detective business on his
own account, as he had had a taste of it during the summer.
“No one chased me. I did not see any one from the store. I was off
Split Rock when I first saw the launch, but I didn’t know Tim was in
her till just before he ran into the sloop. The moment I heard his
voice, I understood it all; but I did not know enough about a boat to
get out of the way.”
“I don’t believe you did, or you would not have sunk that sloop. The
wonder is, that you got as far as you did without capsizing her.”
“I hoisted the sail, and let her go. The wind was fair, and all I had
to do was to keep her away from the shore. She frightened me out of my
wits two or three times when the waves were high.”
“With this breeze we can run away from that steam-launch. If you like,
I will take you back to Burlington, after I have told my mother where
I am going.”
“I should like that very much,” replied Mr. Millweed.
“But we can’t run away from the steamer beating down the lake, and we
must dodge her in some way,” suggested Dory.
“I will do just as you say, Dory; and I begin to see what an idiot I
was to run away, though I still think Tim Lingerwell had some plan to
trip me up,” added the passenger.
Dory had already decided upon his plan of operations. The steamer was
on the wrong side of him: he wished he was below instead of above her;
for he wanted to run into Beaver River, which he could not do on the
open lake without encountering his pursuer.
His southerly course had by this time brought him near the east shore
of the lake. The steam-launch was all of half a mile distant. From the
mouth of the river a shoal extends a mile out into the lake, and over
a mile to the southward. Dory struck this shallow water at its
southern extremity.
The deepest water is near the shore, and the skipper followed it. The
launch continued on her former course for a while, and then stopped
her screw. Tim Lingerwell at the wheel was perplexed; but Dory found
his way across the shoal, and entered the river. Then the launch went
around the shoal, and continued the chase.
CHAPTER IV.
THE GOLDWING ANCHORS FOR THE NIGHT.
As soon as the Goldwing was fairly in the river, Dory found the wind
was light compared with what it had been on the open lake. But the
skipper had made up his mind that his passenger should not be taken
out of the boat: his plan for another movement was ready.
“She is catching us, and I might as well make up my mind to go back to
Burlington in the Juniper;” for that was the name of the steam-launch.
“I believe Tim Lingerwell has that money in his pocket at this minute;
for he probably has had no chance to get rid of it,” said Mr. Millweed
in utter despondency.
“You can make up your mind any way you please; but, if you don’t want
to go with him, you needn’t. If you will do as I say, I will land you
in Burlington to-night,” replied Dory, as the yacht passed the narrow
neck of land between the river and Porter’s Bay.
“I will do just as you tell me, Dory; for I know you are capable of
doing big things.”
“It won’t be a very big thing, but we can dodge the Juniper a great
deal easier than you can go to bed without your supper. I shall make a
landing at the cross-cut. You will go on shore, and follow the path
until you get to the other side of the woods. Then take the other path
to the river, and strike it half a mile above the landing.”
“What is all that for?” asked Mr. Millweed, perplexed by the
instructions.
“You do just as I tell you, and ask no questions. I will be
responsible for the result.”
“All right: I will do so. But I might as well go home, for I shall be
half-way there when I get to the other side of the woods.”
“If you go home, Tim Lingerwell will find you there. He will think you
have gone home; and that is just what I want him to think,” said Dory,
as he made the landing at the cross-cut, which was a short way to
reach the northern outskirts of the town.
“I will do just what you say, Dory.”
“Very well; but don’t be in a hurry. Wait till the Juniper gets a
little nearer, so that Tim can see you. Then start off as though you
meant business.”
They had not long to wait, for the steam-launch had been gaining
rapidly on the yacht since they entered the river. When she was near
enough to enable those on board of her to see just what was done, Mr.
Millweed leaped ashore, and ran with all his might.
“Stop him! Don’t let him go!” shouted the helmsman of the Juniper. “He
is a thief! He has been stealing a large sum of money!”
“I am not a constable,” answered Dory quietly. “I pulled him out of
deep water, and brought him ashore. If you want him, you can take
him.”
Tim Lingerwell rang his bell, and the engine stopped. He ran her up to
the shore, carrying her bow line to a post, as he leaped upon the
bank.
“What did you let him go for?” demanded Tim, turning to Dory, who had
also landed.
“It’s none of my business where he goes,” replied Dory. “This is a
free country.”
“But I told you he had been stealing. Come, Greeze, we must catch him.
He lives up this way; and we shall find him at home, if we don’t catch
him before he gets there.”
The engineer abandoned his machine, and the two men started off on a
run in the direction taken by the fugitive. But Mr. Millweed had a
good start, and the wood concealed him from his pursuers.
As soon as they were out of sight, Dory took a survey of the Juniper.
He had often seen her before, though he had never been on board of
her; and he improved the present opportunity to do so. He made a more
careful examination of her than a mere inspection seemed to require.
Like Mr. Millweed, he had a theory. He looked into all the lockers,
and even examined the space under the ceiling as far as he could get
at it.
Just as he was beginning to think his theory was entirely at fault, he
drew out a large pocket-book, which seemed to be well filled with
something. He opened it, and found that it contained a large pile of
bank-bills. Mr. Millweed’s theory was correct: Tim Lingerwell had had
no opportunity to dispose of the money, and he had put it where he
supposed no mortal could possibly find it.
Mr. Bolingbroke Millweed’s honesty was demonstrated. Dory had been
right in trusting him. It was a great satisfaction to him to find that
he had judged his passenger correctly. But Tim Lingerwell was quite
as big a fool as Mr. Millweed; and the same might be truly said of any
person who commits a robbery.
Dory took the money from the pocket-book, and put it into his
hip-pocket. He put a portion of a newspaper into the place from which
he had taken the bills, so as to make the pocket-book look as it had
before its valuable contents had been removed. Then he placed it under
the ceiling precisely as he had found it. His business on board of the
Juniper was finished, and he hastened to get the Goldwing under way
again.
Mr. Millweed had faithfully followed his instructions, and was on the
bank of the river above the woods. The passenger leaped on board when
the bow touched the shore.
“Did you see them, Dory?” asked Mr. Millweed, greatly excited.
“Of course I saw them. They landed where you did, and started off at a
dead run after you. Lingerwell said you had gone home; and they expect
to find you there,” replied Dory, as he headed the yacht on her course
up the river again.
“They won’t find me there,” added the passenger, chuckling at the
success of Dory’s plan. “But won’t they find us at Beech Hill if you
go there?”
“It will be two hours before they get back to the Juniper again, and
then they won’t know where to look for you. We are all right.”
Dory did not go into Beech-Hill Creek, which led to the lake in the
rear of the mansion of Captain Gildrock, but continued on his course
till he came to the river-road, on which the estate was located. At
this point he made a landing; and, leaving his charge in the boat, he
hastened to the house.
Dory found his mother and sister in the garden. As briefly as he
could, he told the story of his passenger, and announced his intention
of going to Burlington at once. As he did so, they walked to the
house, where Mrs. Dornwood put up a heavy lunch for her son. The
skipper showed the money he had taken from the Juniper, to prove his
statement; but this was a secret she was not to reveal to any person
at present.
Mrs. Dornwood volunteered to call upon the Millweeds, and inform them
of the true state of the case; for the visit of Tim Lingerwell was
likely to give them much trouble and anxiety before the whole truth
came out.
With the large lunch-basket and his overcoat, Dory hastened back to
the place where he had left the Goldwing. He found his passenger in a
very nervous and troubled frame of mind, fearful that Tim Lingerwell
might pounce upon him while he was waiting for the skipper. He
re-assured him by his confident words, and they embarked without
losing a moment.
“It is a little more than an hour since we left the steamer; and
Lingerwell may see us as we go down the river, though I don’t think he
has got back yet,” said Dory, when the yacht was under way.
“Why not wait here until after the Juniper has started?” suggested Mr.
Millweed.
“We should have to wait all night, I think; for I don’t believe
Lingerwell will go back without you,” replied Dory.
“But you have to sail back to Burlington with the wind against you:
the Juniper will be sure to catch us,” added Mr. Millweed anxiously.
“I am willing to take the chances; and, whatever happens to us, I will
promise that you shall be all right when you have faced the music,”
answered Dory, keeping a sharp lookout ahead for the steam-launch.
“All right: you have carried me through so far, and I will trust you
to the end. You saved my life; and I shall never cease to be grateful
to you, even if you do nothing more for me,” said the passenger with
more feeling than he had before exhibited.
As the yacht approached the place where the fugitive had landed, Dory
saw that the Juniper was still there. As the skipper was obliged to
beat a portion of the distance down the river, he made a tack within
twenty feet of her.
“Hold on, there!” shouted a voice from her; but it was not that of
Lingerwell.
At the same moment a man rose from the bottom of the launch. He proved
to be Greeze, the engineer. The pilot had evidently sent him back to
attend to the boat.
“We will see you in Burlington,” replied Dory, with abundant good
nature, when he was satisfied that Lingerwell was not on board of her.
“We want that thief!” yelled Greeze.
“You will take him down to Burlington with you when you go.”
Doubtless this answer perplexed the engineer; but the yacht passed out
of hailing-distance, and no explanation was practicable. After going
around the bend of the river, the Goldwing could lay her course for
the lake, close-hauled.
“The engineer has left the boat again,” said Mr. Millweed, just before
the yacht reached the bend. “Where do you suppose he is going now?”
“He is going to find Lingerwell, and tell him that you have gone down
the river. But he may not find him for two hours. Of course he is
moving about looking for you. Very likely he will go to my uncle’s
house to inquire for me, though he will not be any the wiser for his
visit. But I feel as though it was about supper-time,” continued Dory,
as he consulted the watch his uncle had given him on his last
birthday. “It is quarter-past six.”
“I have the same sort of a feeling; for I had no dinner to-day, and
took my breakfast at six this morning,” added Mr. Millweed.
“Why didn’t you say so before? You might have been working your jaws
from the time we left the shore-road,” said Dory, as he handed the
lunch-basket to his passenger. “Help yourself, and I will feed as the
helm gives me time.”
Mr. Millweed showed that he had an appetite by the time the Goldwing
reached the lake. As the sun went down, the wind died out, though not
till the schooner had passed Split Rock.
“I am afraid we shall not get to Burlington to-night; for we can’t go
without wind,” said Dory, when the breeze had nearly deserted them.
“Then I am sure to be caught,” added the passenger.
“Not at all: don’t give it up.”
Dory kept the boat moving a mile farther; and then came to anchor
inside of Cedar Island, where the masts of the Goldwing could not be
seen from the lake. At the skipper’s suggestion, the passenger turned
in, and went to sleep.
CHAPTER V.
A QUARREL ON BOARD OF THE JUNIPER.
Dory had put on his overcoat, and gone to sleep on the cushions of the
standing-room. The jib had been lowered, but the fore and main sails
were still set. The skipper had passed the main-sheet around his arm,
so that any motion of the sail would wake him. This signal disturbed
him about eleven by jerking him off the seat upon the floor of the
standing-room.
The wind had begun to come in fresh between Garden Island and
Thompson’s Point, indicating that its direction was from the
south-west. It was fair for Burlington; but, before he got up the
anchor, he listened attentively for any sounds that might come from
the open lake, for he had a suspicion that he heard something.
A moment later he was confident that he heard the puff of steam from
the escape-pipe of a steamer. It was cloudy, and the night was dark.
He looked out between the islands and the mainland, but he could see
nothing. The sounds came nearer for a time: then they ceased for a few
minutes, and were followed by a splash in the water. He was satisfied
that a steamer had anchored at no great distance from Cedar Island.
The skipper’s nap had refreshed him, and he was not inclined to sleep
while there was wind enough to move the schooner. Very likely the
steamer which had anchored was the Juniper. Probably Tim Lingerwell
realized that the Goldwing could not sail without wind; and he was
afraid he might pass her if he continued on his course. Doubtless he
suspected that she had put in behind some island.
Dory got up the anchor, hoisted the jib, and, with the wind on the
beam, stood off to the north-west. He had no doubt the steamer he had
heard was the Juniper. The noise of her screw, and the puff of her
escape-pipe, indicated that she was a very small craft. He concluded
that Tim Lingerwell would keep a sharp lookout for him, and he
expected to be chased as soon as he passed the island.
When he could see between the two islands, he discovered a light,
which marked the position of the Juniper. The Goldwing passed within a
quarter of a mile of her; but the wind was coming quite fresh from the
south-west, and Dory thought that he could take care of himself and
his sleeping passenger.
Though it was very dark, the skipper had not deemed it prudent to
light one of his lanterns; for it would be sure to betray his
presence. As the yacht continued silently on her course, Dory heard
the sound of voices in the direction of Garden Island, behind which he
could see the Juniper’s light.
It was evident that the pursuers were not asleep. Dory listened with
all his might, for he was deeply interested in what was taking place
on board of the steam-launch. It seemed to him that the captain and
engineer were talking a great deal louder than the occasion required.
As they were in the same craft, it was hardly necessary for them to
yell at each other. After he had listened a while, Dory thought the
tones of the speakers were angry and even violent.
The skipper brought the Goldwing up into the wind, for a short
distance farther would carry the yacht out of sight of the Juniper. He
listened again; and the tones of the crew of the steam-launch were
more violent than before. What was the matter? There was clearly a
quarrel in progress between the captain and the engineer. As the
voices became louder and more forcible, the disputants were plainly
approaching a crisis in the quarrel.
“Help! Help! Murder!” yelled one of the angry men; and Dory was
confident it was the voice of the engineer.
The skipper of the Goldwing did not wait to hear any more, or to
speculate upon the cause of the difficulty on board of the Juniper.
Hauling in his sheets, he filled away on the starboard tack. The
schooner could just lay her course for the steamer’s light. It looked
a little like a stormy time ahead, and Dory decided to call his
passenger.
Leaving the helm for a moment, he went to the cabin forward; and a
sharp word roused Mr. Millweed from his slumbers. Hastening back to
the helm, he seized the tiller before the schooner had time to
broach-to. At that moment the cry from the steamer was repeated,
though it was fainter than before.
“What’s the matter, Dory?” asked Mr. Millweed, as he rushed into the
standing-room. “Didn’t I hear a yell just now?”
“If you are not deaf, you did,” replied Dory, still gazing at the
steamer’s light. “There is a row on board of the Juniper. The engineer
is shouting for help.”
“What does it all mean?” inquired the passenger anxiously.
“I don’t know what it means, but I am going up there to find out.”
“Do you think it is safe to go near them?” inquired Mr. Millweed.
“I don’t know whether it is safe or not; but men don’t yell murder in
the middle of the night without some good reason.”
“What can be the meaning of it?” asked the fugitive, evidently
believing that the skipper ought to be able to tell him all about it.
“You can guess as well as I can, Bolly,” answered Dory. “Tim and the
engineer are the only persons on board of the Juniper, and the quarrel
must be between them. That’s all I know about it. But, if we are going
to take a hand in this fight, we had better have some sort of weapons.”
“You don’t mean to take a hand in any fight, do you, Dory?” asked
Bolingbroke, not a little alarmed at the announcement.
“Not if I can help it; but I don’t mean to let Lingerwell kill his
companion, without putting a finger in the pie. Go to the cabin, and
bring out the long tiller. You will find it under the berth you slept
in.”
“But I don’t like the idea of getting into a fight with such a fellow
as Tim Lingerwell,” protested Bolingbroke, without heeding the
request.
“I don’t care whether you like it or not. It is plain enough that we
ought to do something when a man is trying to kill another. Bring out
the tiller!”
Mr. Millweed obeyed the order this time. Dory took the tiller, and
placed it at his side, where it would be ready for use if the occasion
should require.
“There is a round stick by the centre-board casing. You had better
have that in your hand, for you may want to defend yourself before we
get through with this business. I don’t know what the quarrel is
about; but we are likely to find out very soon,” added Dory.
“Help! Help! Murder!”
“There it is again!” exclaimed the skipper, not a little excited by
this time.
“It’s awful, isn’t it, Dory?” added Bolingbroke, his teeth chattering
with terror at the terrible sounds that were borne over the dark
waters.
“Juniper, ahoy!” screamed Dory, forming a speaking-trumpet with his
two hands. “What’s the matter?”
No reply came back in answer to the question. Just then Dory began to
wonder whether or not these cries were not a trick to call the
Goldwing out from her hiding-place. The wind had just breezed up; and
Tim Lingerwell might fear that the fugitive would escape him, after
all his labor and pains to capture him.
He thought enough of the idea to mention it to his passenger.
Bolingbroke was ready to adopt the opinion that it was a trick: he was
ready to adopt any thing rather than go near the Juniper, whether
there was a fight or not on board of her.
“Of course it is a ruse to get you out of your hiding-place,” said he
with energy. “I thought of that myself.”
“If the wind hadn’t just breezed up, I should not have thought of
such a thing,” added Dory, still musing upon the point; for he did not
like the idea of having his passenger taken from the Goldwing by a
trick.
On the other hand, it was possible, perhaps probable, that the two men
had fallen out, and come to blows. Dory knew that Lingerwell was a bad
man, and it is always easy for such men to make trouble. Strange as it
may seem, the skipper did not connect the large sum of money in his
hip-pocket with the quarrel on board of the Juniper. He did not even
think of the bills he had taken from the steam-launch in the absence
of her crew.
“I wouldn’t go near her, Dory,” argued Bolingbroke. “I hope you won’t
step into the trap Tim has set for you to fall into.”
“I am not afraid of Tim Lingerwell, and I am going over there to see
if any thing is the matter. We will be a little cautious about
approaching the steamer.”
“But you can’t run away from her if you find it is only a trick,”
reasoned Bolingbroke.
“We must take our chances,” replied Dory.
By this time the Goldwing was entering the passage between Cedar and
Garden Islands. The Juniper was close to the shore, and the islands
were about the eighth of a mile apart. The wind was freshening every
minute; and Dory decided to run by the steamer, going as near as it
was prudent to go.
He could still hear the voices of the two men, though their tone had
greatly changed. The skipper saw that the steamer was still at anchor,
for she had swung around with her head to the wind. He was satisfied,
by this fact, that the call for help was not a trick: if it had been,
the Juniper would have been under way by this time.
“Juniper, ahoy!” called Dory, as the Goldwing came up with the launch.
“What is the matter on board?”
“Nothing is the matter. Greeze has had the nightmare, and shouted
murder in his sleep,” replied Lingerwell, trying to laugh it off,
though the effort was a very sickly one.
“Help! help!” shouted the engineer from the other end of the boat.
“He don’t seem to have got over his nightmare yet,” added Dory.--“What
is the matter there? What ails you?” demanded the skipper.
“Lingerwell has nearly killed me: he says I stole his money while he
was after the Millweed fellow,” replied Greeze.
“Shut up, you stupid blockhead! Silence! Don’t say another word about
it, and we will fix up the matter,” said Lingerwell in a wheedling
tone, as though he would have given something handsome to have sealed
the lips of the engineer.
“I won’t shut up! I have been insulted and abused; and I will have
satisfaction if it costs me my life. I didn’t take your money. I
didn’t know you had any,” growled Greeze, moving aft.
This explanation on the part of the engineer enabled Dory to
understand the nature of the quarrel between the two men. When the
Juniper had anchored, Lingerwell had evidently taken the pocket-book
from its hiding-place, and found that worthless paper had been put in
the place of the four hundred and fifty dollars. As he was not aware
that Dory, or any other person, had been on board, he naturally
concluded that the engineer must have robbed him of his ill-gotten
money.
Dory had come up into the wind under the lee of the Juniper. The
lantern hung on a stanchion in the after part of the steamer, so that
the skipper of the Goldwing and his passenger could see what took
place on board of her. The engineer had no sooner reached the place
where Lingerwell stood, than he leaped upon him with the fury of a
tiger.
CHAPTER VI.
THE IMPULSIVE ASSAULT OF THE ENGINEER.
The engineer was evidently suffering under the humiliation of his
former defeat; and now he was seeking to satisfy his revengeful
feelings rather than gain any point, for Lingerwell had offered to
“fix up the matter.” His onslaught was so sudden and unexpected that
Lingerwell was borne down beneath him.
Dory was wise enough to see, on the instant, that the impulsive attack
of the engineer was a great mistake; but it was too late to correct
it. In this case his sympathies were not “with the bottom dog;” for
the engineer had the right on his side, in spite of his blunder.
The skipper of the Goldwing felt called upon to take a hand in the
conflict; and, when Lingerwell was about to shake off his opponent, he
went to the assistance of the latter. The engineer had thrown his man
upon his face, and he was in the act of turning over when Dory put his
knees on the back of the fallen one.
“Put your foot on his back, and grab one of his hands!” exclaimed
Dory, as he grasped an arm.
“I can hold him! He tried to kill me, and I will get even with him!”
gasped Greeze.
“Don’t hurt him,” added Dory.
“I will pay him off for what he did to me!” cried the engineer.
“If you strike him, or kick him, I will leave at once!” added Dory
decidedly. “We can hold him, and keep him from harming you again.”
“He abused me, and I will get even with him,” replied Greeze, a little
mollified by the threat of Dory; for he saw that he could not manage
the steamer alone.
“Don’t harm him: the law will punish him,” continued Dory. “Bolly.”
