understand a word of it alone."
"Alone?" inquired the Duke. "Ah! I forgot. Thought he had told you. I
have asked Dr. Claudius to give us the pleasure of his company."
"Oh, indeed!" said Margaret. "That will be very nice." She did not look
as if she thought so, however. Her expression was not such as led the
Duke to believe she was pleased, or Claudius to think she would like his
going. To tell the truth, she was annoyed for more than one reason. She
thought the Duke, although he was such an old friend, should have
consulted her before making up the list of men for the party. She was
annoyed with Claudius because he had not told her he was going, when he
really thought she knew it, and was displeased at it. And most of all,
she was momentarily disconcerted at being thus taken off her guard.
Besides, the Duke must have supposed she liked Claudius very much, and
he had perhaps contrived the whole excursion in order to throw them
together. Her first impulse was to change her mind and not go after all.
Meanwhile Claudius was much astonished at the turn things had taken.
Margaret had known nothing about the invitation to the Doctor after all,
and her coldness this morning must be attributed to some other cause.
But now that she did know she looked less pleased than ever. She did not
want him. The Doctor was a proud man in his quiet way, and he was,
moreover, in love, not indeed hopelessly as yet, for love is never
wholly irrevocable until it has survived the crucial test, attainment of
its object; but Claudius loved, and he knew it. Consequently his pride
revolted at the idea of thrusting himself where he was not wanted, and
his love forbade him to persecute the woman he worshipped. He also said
to himself, "I will not go." He had not yet accepted the invitation.
"I had intended to write to you this afternoon," he said, turning to the
Duke. "But since it is my good fortune to be able to thank you in person
for your kind invitation, let me do so now."
"I hope you are going," said the Duke.
"I fear," answered Claudius, "that I shall be prevented from joining
you, much as I would like to do so. I have by no means decided to
abandon my position in Heidelberg."
Neither Margaret nor the Duke were in the least prepared for this piece
of news. The Duke was taken aback at the idea that any human being could
refuse such an invitation. Following on his astonishment that Margaret
should not be delighted at having the Doctor on board, the intelligence
that the Doctor did not want to go at all threw the poor man into the
greatest perplexity. He had made a mistake somewhere, evidently; but
where or how he could not tell.
"Barker," he said to himself, "is an ass. He has made me muff the whole
thing." However, he did not mean to give up the fight.
"I am extremely sorry to hear you say that, Dr. Claudius," he said
aloud, "and I hope you will change your mind, if I have to send you an
invitation every day until we sail. You know one does not ask people on
one's yacht unless one wants them very much, and we want you. It is just
like asking a man to ride your favourite hunter; you would not ask him
unless you meant it, for fear he would." The Duke seldom made so long a
speech, and Claudius felt that the invitation was really genuine, which
gave his wounded pride a pleasant little respite from its aches. He was
grateful, and he said so. Margaret was silent and plied her needle,
planning how she might escape the party if Claudius changed his mind and
went, and how she could with decency leave herself the option of going
if he remained. She did not intend to give people any farther chance of
pairing her off with Claudius or any one else whom they thought she
fancied, and she blamed herself for having given people even the shadow
of an idea that such officious party-making would please her.
Claudius rose to go. The position was not tenable any longer, and it was
his only course. The Countess bade him good morning with more cordiality
than she had displayed as yet; for, in spite of her annoyance, she
would have been sorry to wound his feelings. The change of tone at
first gave Claudius a thrill of pleasure, which gave way to an increased
sense of mortification as he reflected that she was probably only
showing that she was glad to be rid of him--a clumsy, manlike thought,
which his reason would soon get the better of. So he departed.
There was silence for some minutes after he had gone, for Margaret and
the Englishman were old friends, and there was no immediate necessity
for making conversation. At last he spoke with a certain amount of
embarrassment.
"I ought to have told you before that I had asked those two men."
"Who is the other?" she inquired without looking up.
"Why, Barker, his friend."
"Oh, of course! But it would have been simpler to have told me. It made
it rather awkward, for of course Dr. Claudius thought I knew he was
asked and wondered why I did not speak of it. Don't you see?" she raised
her eyes as she put the question.
"It was idiotic of me, and I am very sorry. Please forgive me."
"As he is not going, it does not make any difference, of course, and so
I forgive you."
Considering that Barker had suggested the party, that it was Barker whom
the Duke especially wanted to amuse him on the trip, that Barker had
proposed Margaret and Claudius, and that, finally, the whole affair was
a horrid mess, the Duke did not see what he could have done. But he knew
it was good form to be penitent whenever it seemed to be expected, and
he liked Margaret well enough to hope that she would go. He did not
care very much for the society of women at any time. He was more or less
married when he was at home, which was never for long together, and when
he was away he preferred the untrammelled conversational delights of a
foreign green-room to the twaddle of the embassies or to the mingled
snobbery and philistinism produced by the modern fusion of the almighty
dollar and the ancienne noblesse.
And so he was in trouble just now, and his one idea was to submit to
everything the Countess might say, and then to go and "give it" to Mr.
Barker for producing so much complication. But Margaret had nothing more
to say about the party, and launched out into a discussion of the
voyage. She introduced a cautious "if" in most of her sentences. "If I
go I would like to see Madeira," and "if we join you, you must take
care of Miss Skeat, and give her the best cabin," etc. etc. The Duke
wisely abstained from pressing his cause, or asking why she qualified
her plans. At last he got away, after promising to do every conceivable
and inconceivable thing which she should now or at any future time
evolve from the depths of her inventive feminine consciousness.
"By the way, Duke," she called after him, as he went over the, lawn,
"may I take old Vladimir if I go?"
"If you go," he answered, moving back a step or two, "you may bring all
the Imperial Guards if you choose, and I will provide transports for
those that the yacht won't hold."
"Thanks; that is all," she said laughing, and the stalwart peer vanished
through the house. The moment he was gone Margaret dropped her work and
lay back in her long chair to think. The heavy lids half closed over
her dark eyes, and the fingers of her right hand slowly turned round and
round the ring she wore upon her left. Miss Skeat was upstairs reading
Lord Byron's Corsair in anticipation of the voyage. Margaret did not
know this, or the thought of the angular and well-bred Scotchwoman
bounding over the glad waters of the dark blue sea would have made her
smile. As it was, she looked serious.
"I am sorry," she thought to herself. "It was nice of him to say he
would not go."
Meanwhile the strong-legged nobleman footed it merrily towards Barker's
hotel. It was a good two miles, and the Duke's ruddy face shone again
under the August sun. But the race characteristic was strong in him, and
he liked to make himself unnecessarily hot; moreover he was really fond
of Barker, and now he was going to pitch into him, as he said to
himself, so it was indispensable to keep the steam up. He found his
friend as usual the picture of dried-up coolness, so to say. Mr. Barker
never seemed to be warm, but he never seemed to feel cold either, and at
this moment, as he sat in a half-lighted room, clad in a variety of
delicate gray tints, with a collar that looked like fresh-baked biscuit
ware, and a pile of New York papers and letters beside him, he was
refreshing to the eye.
"Upon my word, Barker, you always look cool," said the Duke, as he sat
himself down in an arm-chair, and passed his handkerchief round his
wrists. "I would like to know how you do it."
"To begin with, I do not rush madly about in the sun in the middle of
the day. That may have something to do with it."
The Duke sneezed loudly, from the mingled dust and sunshine he had been
inhaling.
"And then I don't come into a cold room and catch cold, like you. Here I
sit in seclusion and fan myself with the pages of my newspapers as I
turn them over."
"You have got us all into the deuce of a mess with your confounded
coolness," said the Duke after a pause, during which he had in vain
searched all his pockets for his cigar-case. Barker had watched him, and
pushed an open box of Havanas across the table. But the Duke was
determined to be sulky, and took no notice of the attention. The
circular wrinkle slowly furrowed its way round Barker's mouth, and his
under jaw pushed forward. It always amused him to see sanguine people
angry. They looked so uncomfortable, and "gave themselves away" so
recklessly.
"If you won't smoke, have some beer," he suggested. But his Grace fumed
the redder.
"I don't understand how a man of your intelligence, Barker, can go and
put people into such awkward positions," he said. "I think it is
perfectly idiotic."
"Write me down an ass, by all means," said Barker calmly; "but please
explain what you mean. I told you not to buy in the Green Swash Mine,
and now I suppose you have gone and done it, because I said it might
possibly be active some day."
"I have been to see the Countess this morning," said the Duke, beating
the dust from his thick walking-boot with his cane.
"Ah!" said Barker, without any show of interest. "Was she at home?"
"I should think so," said the Duke. "Very much at home, and Dr. Claudius
was there too."
"Oh! so you are jealous of Claudius, are you?" The ducal wrath rose.
"Barker, you are insufferably ridiculous."
"Duke, you had much better go to bed," returned his friend.
"Look here, Barker--"
"Do not waste your vitality in that way," said the American. "I wish I
had half of it. It quite pains me to see you. Now I will put the whole
thing clearly before you as I suppose it happened, and you shall tell me
if it is my fault or not, and whether, after all, it is such a very
serious matter. Countess Margaret did not know that Claudius was going,
and did not speak of the trip. Claudius thought she was angry, and when
you arrived and let the cat out of the bag the Countess thought you were
trying to amuse yourself by surprising her, and she was angry too. Then
they both made common cause and would have nothing more to do with you,
and told you to go to the devil, and at this moment they are planning to
remain here for the next forty or fifty years, and are sending off a
joint telegram to Professor Immanuel Spencer, or whatever his name is,
to hurry up and get some more books ready for them to read. I am glad
you have not bought Green Swash, though, really." There was a pause, and
the Duke glared savagely at the cigar-box.
"Is your serene highness satisfied that I know all about it?" asked
Barker at last.
"No, I am not. And I am not serene. She says she will go, and Claudius
says he won't. And it is entirely your fault."
"It is not of any importance what he says, or whether it is my fault or
not. If you had bestirred yourself to go and see her at eleven before
Claudius arrived it would not have happened. But he will go all the
same; never fear. And the Countess will persuade him too, without our
doing anything in the matter."
"You would not have thought so if you had seen the way she received the
news that he was invited," grumbled the Duke.
"If you associated more with women you would understand them better,"
replied the other.
"I dare say." The Englishman was cooler, and at last made up his mind to
take one of Mr. Barker's cigars. When he had lit it, he looked across at
his friend. "How do you expect to manage it?" he inquired.
"If you will write a simple little note to the Countess, and say you are
sorry there should have been any misunderstanding, and if you and I
leave those two to themselves for ten days, even if she invites us to
dinner, they will manage it between them, depend upon it. They are in
love, you know perfectly well."
"I suppose they are," said the Duke, as if he did not understand that
kind of thing. "I think I will have some curaçao and potass;" and he
rang the bell.
"That's not half a bad idea," he said when he was refreshed. "I begin to
think you are not so idiotic as I supposed."
"Waal," said Barker, suddenly affecting the accents of his native shore,
"I ain't much on the drivel this journey anyhow." The Duke
laughed; he always laughed at Americanisms.
"I guess so," said the Duke, trying ineffectually to mimic his friend.
Then he went on in his natural voice, "I have an idea."
"Keep it," said Barker; "they are scarce."
"No; seriously. If we must leave them alone, why--why should we not go
down and look at the yacht?"
"Not bad at all. As you say, we might go round and see how she looks.
Where is she?"
"Nice."
So the one went down and the other went round, but they went together,
and saw the yacht, and ran over to Monte Carlo, and had a good taste of
the dear old green-table, now that they could not have it in Baden any
longer. And they enjoyed the trip, and were temperate and well dressed
and cynical, after their kind. But Claudius stayed where he was.
CHAPTER VII.
The daily reading proceeded as usual after Barker's departure, but
neither Margaret nor Claudius mentioned the subject of the voyage.
Margaret was friendly, and sometimes seemed on the point of relapsing
into her old manner, but she always checked herself. What the precise
change was it would be hard to say. Claudius knew it was very easy to
feel the difference, but impossible to define it. As the days passed, he
knew also that his life had ceased to be his own; and, with the
chivalrous wholeness of purpose that was his nature, he took his soul
and laid it at her feet, for better for worse, to do with as she would.
But he knew the hour was not come yet wherein he should speak; and so he
served her in silence, content to feel the tree of life growing within
him, which should one day overshadow them both with its sheltering
branches. His service was none the less whole and devoted because it had
not yet been accepted.
One evening, nearly a week after they had been left to themselves,
Claudius was sitting over his solitary dinner in the casino restaurant
when a note was brought to him, a large square envelope of rough paper,
and he knew the handwriting. He hesitated to open it, and, glancing
round the brilliantly-lighted restaurant, involuntarily wondered if any
man at all those tables were that moment in such suspense as he. He
thought it was probably an intimation that she was going away, and that
he was wanted no longer. Then, for the first time in many days, he
thought of his money. "And if she does," he said half aloud, "shall I
not follow? Shall not gold command everything save her heart, and can I
not win that for myself?" And he took courage and quietly opened the
note.
     "MY DEAR DR. CLAUDIUS--As the time is approaching, will you not do
     me a favour? I want you to make a list of books to read on the
     voyage--that is, if I may count on your kindness as an expounder.
     If not, please tell me of some good novels.
     "Sincerely yours,"
and her full name signed at the end. The hot blood turned his white
forehead red as Claudius finished reading. He could not believe his
eyes, and the room swam for a moment; for he was very much in love, this
big Swede. Then he grew pale again and quite calm, and read the note
over. Novels indeed! What did he know about novels? He would ask her
plainly if she wanted his company on the yacht or no. He would say,
"Shall I come? or shall I stay behind?" Claudius had much to learn from
Mr. Barker before he was competent to deal with women. But then Claudius
would have scorned the very expression "to deal" with them; theirs to
command, his to obey--there was to be no question of dealing. Only in
his simple heart he would like to know in so many words what the
commands were; and that is sometimes a little hard, for women like to be
half understood before they speak, and the grosser intellect of man
seldom more than half understands them after they have spoken.
A note requires an answer, and Claudius made the usual number of
failures. When one has a great deal more to say than one has any right
to say, and when at the same time one is expected to say particularly
little, it is very hard to write a good note. All sorts of ideas creep
in and express themselves automatically. A misplaced plural for a
singular, a superlative adjective where the vaguer comparative belongs;
the vast and immeasurable waste of weary years that may lie between
"dear" and "dearest," the gulf placed between "sincerely yours, John
Smith," and "yours, J.S.," and "your J.," until the blessed state is
reached wherein the signature is omitted altogether, and every word
bears the sign-manual of the one woman or one man who really exists for
you. What a registering thermometer of intimacy exists in notes, from
the icy zero of first acquaintance to the raging throb of boiling
blood-heat! So Claudius, after many trials, arrived at the requisite
pitch of absolute severity, and began his note, "My dear Countess
Margaret," and signed it, "very obediently yours," which said just what
was literally true; and he stated that he would immediately proceed to
carry out the Countess's commands, and make a list in which nothing
should be wanting that could contribute to her amusement.
When he went to see her on the following day he was a little surprised
at her manner, which inclined more to the severe coldness of that
memorable day of difficulties than to the unbending he had expected from
her note. Of course he had no reason to be disappointed, and he showed
his inexperience. She was compensating her conscience for the concession
she had made in intimating that he might go. It was indeed a concession,
but to what superior power she had yielded it behoves not inquisitive
man to ask. Perhaps she thought Claudius would enjoy the trip very much,
and said to herself she had no right to make him give it up.
They read together for some time, and at last Claudius asked her, in
connection with a point which arose, whether she would like to read a
German book that he thought good.
"Very much," said she. "By the by, I am glad you have been able to
arrange to go with us. I thought your engagements were going to prevent
you."
Claudius looked at her, trying to read her thoughts, in which he failed.
He might have been satisfied, but he was not. There was a short silence,
and then he closed the book over his hand and spoke.
"Countess, do you wish me to go or not?"
Margaret raised her dark eyebrows. He had never seen her do that before.
But then he had never said anything so clumsy before in his whole life,
and he knew it the moment the words were out of his mouth, and his face
was white in sunshine. She looked at him suddenly, a slight smile on her
lips, and her eyes just the least contracted, as if she were going to
say something sarcastic. But his face was so pitifully pale. She saw how
his hand trembled. A great wave of womanly compassion welled up in her
soul, and the smile faded and softened away as she said one word.
"Yes." It came from the heart, and she could not help it if it sounded
kindly.
"Then I will go," said Claudius, hardly knowing what he said, for the
blood came quickly back to his face.
"Of course you will, I could have told you that ever so long ago,"
chirped a little bullfinch in the tree overhead.
A couple of weeks or more after the events last chronicled, the steam
yacht Streak was two days out on the Atlantic, with a goodly party on
board. There were three ladies--the Duke's sister, the Countess, and
Miss Skeat, the latter looking very nautical in blue serge, which sat
tightly over her, like the canvas cover sewn round a bicycle when it is
sent by rail. Of men there were also three--to wit, the owner of the
yacht, Mr. Barker, and Dr. Claudius.
The sea has many kinds of fish. Some swim on their sides, some swim
straight, some come up to take a sniff of air, and some stay below. It
is just the same with people who go to sea. Take half a dozen
individuals who are all more or less used to the water, and they will
behave in half a dozen different ways. One will become encrusted to the
deck like a barnacle, another will sit in the cabin playing cards; a
third will spend his time spinning yarns with the ship's company, and a
fourth will rush madly up and down the deck from morning till night in
the pursuit of an appetite which shall leave no feat of marine digestion
untried or unaccomplished. Are they not all stamped on the memory of
them that go down to the sea in yachts? The little card-box and the
scoring-book of the players, the deck chair and rugs of the inveterate
reader, the hurried tread and irascible eye of the carnivorous
passenger, and the everlasting pipe of the ocean talker, who feels time
before him and the world at his feet wherein to spin yarns--has any one
not seen them?
Now, the elements on board of the Streak were sufficiently diverse to
form a successful party, and by the time they were two days out on the
long swell, with a gentle breeze just filling the trysails, and
everything stowed, they had each fallen into the groove of sea life that
was natural to him or to her. There were Barker and the Duke in the
pretty smoking-room forward with the windows open and a pack of cards
between them. Every now and then they stopped to chat a little, or the
Duke would go out and look at the course, and make his rounds to see
that every one was all right and nobody sea-sick. But Barker rarely
moved, save to turn his chair and cross one leg over the other, whereby
he might the more easily contemplate his little patent leather shoes and
stroke his bony hands over his silk-clad ankles; for Mr. Barker
considered sea-dressing, as he called it, a piece of affectation, and
arrayed himself on board ship precisely as he did on land. The Duke, on
the other hand, like most Englishmen when they get a chance, revelled in
what he considered ease; that is to say, no two of his garments matched
or appeared to have been made in the same century; he wore a flannel
shirt, and was inclined to go about barefoot when the ladies were not on
deck, and he adorned his ducal forehead with a red worsted cap, price
one shilling.
Margaret, as was to be expected, was the deck member, with her
curiously-wrought chair and her furs and her portable bookcase; while
Miss Skeat, who looked tall and finny, and sported a labyrinthine
tartan, was generally to be seen entangled in the weather-shrouds near
by. As for the Duke's sister, Lady Victoria, she was plain, but healthy,
and made regular circuits of the steamer, stopping every now and then to
watch the green swirl of the foam by the side, and to take long draughts
of salt air into her robust lungs. But of all the party there was not
one on whom the change from the dry land to the leaping water produced
more palpable results than on Claudius. He affected nothing nautical in
dress or speech, but when the Duke saw him come on deck the first
morning out, there was something about his appearance that made the
yachtsman say to Barker--
"That man has been to sea, I am positive. I am glad I asked him."
"All those Swedes are amphibious," replied Barker; "they take to the
water like ducks. But I don't believe he has smelled salt water for a
dozen years."
"They are the best sailors, at all events," said the Duke. "I have lots
of them among the men. Captain a Swede too. Let me introduce you." They
were standing on the bridge. "Captain Sturleson, my friend Mr. Barker."
And so in turn the captain was made known to every one on board; for he
was an institution with the Duke, and had sailed his Grace's yachts ever
since there had been any to sail, which meant for about twenty years. To
tell the truth, if it were not for those beastly logarithms, the Duke
was no mean sailing-master himself, and he knew a seaman when he saw
one; hence his remark about Claudius. The Doctor knew every inch of the
yacht and every face in the ship's company by the second day, and it
amused the Countess to hear his occasional snatches of the clean-cut
Northern tongue that sounded like English, but was yet so different.
Obedient to her instructions, he had provided books of all sorts for the
voyage, and they began to read together, foolishly imagining that, with
the whole day at their disposal, they would do as much work as when they
only met for an hour or two daily to accomplish a set purpose. The
result of their unbounded freedom was that conversation took the place
of reading. Hitherto Margaret had confined Claudius closely to the
matter in hand, some instinct warning her that such an intimacy as had
existed during his daily visits could only continue on the footing of
severe industry she had established from the first. But the sight of the
open deck, the other people constantly moving to and fro, the proper
aspect of the lady-companion, just out of earshot, and altogether the
appearance of publicity which the sea-life lent to their tête-à-tête
hours, brought, as a necessary consequence, a certain unbending. It
always seemed such an easy matter to call some third party into the
conversation if it should grow too confidential. And so, insensibly,
Claudius and Margaret wandered into discussions about the feelings,
about love, hate, and friendship, and went deep into those topics which
so often end in practical experiment. Claudius had lived little and
thought much; Margaret had seen a great deal of the world, and being
gifted with fine intuitions and tact, she had reasoned very little about
what she saw, understanding, as she did, the why and wherefore of most
actions by the pure light of feminine genius. The Doctor theorised, and
it interested his companion to find facts she remembered suddenly
brought directly under a neat generalisation; and before long she found
herself trying to remember facts to fit his theories, a mode of going in
double harness which is apt to lead to remarkable but fallacious
results. In the intervals of theorising Claudius indulged in small
experiments. But Barker and the Duke played poker.
Of course the three men saw a good deal of each other--in the early
morning before the ladies came on deck, and late at night when they sat
together in the smoking-room. In these daily meetings the Duke and
Claudius had become better acquainted, and the latter, who was reticent,
but perfectly simple, in speaking of himself, had more than once alluded
to his peculiar position and to the unexpected change of fortune that
had befallen him. One evening they were grouped as usual around the
square table in the brightly-lighted little room that Barker and the
Duke affected most. The fourfold beat of the screw crushed the water
quickly and sent its peculiar vibration through the vessel as she sped
along in the quiet night. The Duke was extended on a transom, and
Claudius on the one opposite, while Barker tipped himself about on his
chair at the end of the table. The Duke was talkative, in a disjointed,
monosyllabic fashion.
"Yes. I know. No end of a queer sensation, lots of money. Same thing
happened to me when I came of age."
"Not exactly the same thing," said Claudius; "you knew you were going to
have it."
"No," put in Barker. "Having money and being likely to have it are about
the same as far as spending it goes. Particularly in England."
"I believe the whole thing is a fraud," said the Duke in a tone of
profound reflection. "Never had a cent before I came of age. Seems to me
I never had any since."
"Spent it all in water-melon and fire-crackers, celebrating your
twenty-first birthday, I suppose," suggested Barker.
"Spent it some way, at all events," replied the Duke. "Now, here," he
continued, addressing Barker, "is a man who actually has it, who never
expected to have it, who has got it in hard cash, and in the only way
in which it is worth having--by somebody else's work. Query--what will
Claudius do with his millions?" Exhausted by this effort of speech, the
Duke puffed his tobacco in silence, waiting for an answer. Claudius
laughed, but said nothing.
"I know of one thing he will do with his money. He will get married,"
said Barker.
"For God's sake, Claudius," said the Duke, looking serious, "don't do
that."
"I don't think I will," said Claudius.
"I know better," retorted Barker, "I am quite sure I shall do it myself
some day, and so will you. Do you think if I am caught, you are going to
escape?"
The Duke thought that if Barker knew the Duchess, he might yet save
himself.
"You are no chicken, Barker, and perhaps you are right. If they catch
you they can catch anybody," he said aloud.
"Well, I used to say the mamma was not born who could secure me. But I
am getting old, and my nerves are shaken, and a secret presentiment
tells me I shall be bagged before long, and delivered over to the
tormentors."
"I pity you if you are," said the Duke. "No more poker, and very little
tobacco then."
"Not as bad as that. You are as much married as most men, but it does
not interfere with the innocent delights of your leisure hours, that I
can see."
"Ah, well--you see--I am pretty lucky. The Duchess is a domestic type of
angel. Likes children and bric-à-brac and poultry, and all those things.
Takes no end of trouble about the place."
"Why should not I marry the angelic domestic--the domestic angel, I
mean?"
"You won't, though. Doesn't grow in America. I know the sort of woman
you will get for your money."
"Give me an idea." Barker leaned back in his chair till it touched the
door of the cabin, and rolled his cigar in his mouth.
"Of course she will be the rage for the time. Eighteen or nineteen
summers of earthly growth, and eighteen or nineteen hundred years of
experience and calculation in a former state."
"Thanks, that sounds promising. Claudius, this is intended for your
instruction."
"You will see her first at a ball, with a cartload of nosegays slung on
her arms, and generally all over her. That will be your first
acquaintance; you will never see the last of her."
"No--I know that," said Barker gloomily.
"She will marry you out of hand after a three months' engagement. She
will be married by Worth, and you will be married by Poole. It will be
very effective, you know. No end of wedding presents, and acres of
flowers. And then you will start away on your tour, and be miserable
ever after."
"I am glad you have done," was Barker's comment.
"As for me," said Claudius, "I am of course not acquainted with the
peculiarities of American life, but I fancy the Duke is rather severe in
his judgment."
It was a mild protest against a wholesale condemnation of American
marriages; but Barker and the Duke only laughed as if they understood
each other, and Claudius had nothing more to say. He mentally compared
the utterances of these men, doubtless grounded on experience, with the
formulas he had made for himself about women, and which were undeniably
the outcome of pure theory. He found himself face to face with the old
difficulty, the apparent discord between the universal law and the
individual fact. But, on the other hand, he could not help comparing
himself with his two companions. It was not in his nature to think
slightingly of other men, but he felt that they were of a totally
different mould, besides belonging to a different race. He knew that
however much he might enjoy their society, they had nothing in common
with him, and that it was only his own strange fortune that had suddenly
transported him into the very midst of a sphere where such characters
were the rule and not the exception.
The conversation languished, and Claudius left the Duke and Barker, and
went towards his quarters. It was a warm night for the Atlantic, and
though there was no moon, the stars shone out brightly, their reflection
moving slowly up and down the slopes of the long ocean swell. Claudius
walked aft, and was going to sit down for a few minutes before turning
in, when he was suddenly aware of a muffled female figure leaning
against the taffrail only a couple of paces from where he was. In spite
of the starlight he could not distinguish the person. She was wrapped
closely in a cloak and veil, as if fearing the cold. As it must be one
of the three ladies who constituted the party, Claudius naturally raised
his cap, but fearing lest he had chanced on the Duke's sister, or still
worse, on Miss Skeat, he did not speak. Before long, however, as he
leaned against the side, watching the wake, the unknown remarked that it
was a delightful night. It was Margaret's voice, and the deep musical
tones trembled on the rise and fall of the waves, as if the sounds
themselves had a distinct life and beating in them. Did the dark woman
know what magic lay in her most trivial words? Claudius did not care a
rush whether the night were beautiful or otherwise, but when she said it
was a fine evening, it sounded as if she had said she loved him.
"I could not stay downstairs," she said, "and so when the others went to
bed I wrapped myself up and came here. Is it not too wonderful?"
Claudius moved nearer to her.
"I have been pent up in the Duke's tabagie for at least two hours," he
said, "and I am perfectly suffocated."
"How can you sit in that atmosphere? Why don't you come and smoke on
deck?"
"Oh! it was not only the tobacco that suffocated me to-night, it was the
ideas."
"What ideas?" asked Margaret.
"You have known the Duke a long time," said he, "and of course you can
judge. Or rather, you know. But to hear those two men talk is enough to
make one think there is neither heaven above nor hell beneath." He was
rather incoherent.
"Have they been attacking your favourite theories," Margaret asked, and
she smiled behind her veil; but he could not see that, and her voice
sounded somewhat indifferent.
"Oh! I don't know," he said, as if not wanting to continue the subject;
and he turned round so as to rest his elbows on the taffrail. So he
stood, bent over and looking away astern at the dancing starlight on the
water. There was a moment's silence.
"Tell me," said Margaret at last.
"What shall I tell you, Countess?" asked Claudius.
"Tell me what it was you did not like about their talk."
"It is hard to say, exactly. They were talking about women, and American
marriages; and I did not like it, that is all." Claudius straightened
himself again and turned towards his companion. The screw below them
rushed round, worming its angry way through the long quiet waves.
"Barker," said Claudius, "was saying that he supposed he would be
married some day--delivered up to torture, as he expressed it--and the
Duke undertook to prophesy and draw a picture of Barker's future spouse.
The picture was not attractive."
"Did Mr. Barker think so too?"
"Yes. He seemed to regard the prospects of matrimony from a resigned and
melancholy point of view. I suppose he might marry any one he chose in
his own country, might he not?"
"In the usual sense, yes," answered Margaret.
"What is the 'usual sense'?" asked the Doctor.
"He might marry beauty, wealth, and position. That is the usual meaning
of marrying whom you please."
"Oh! then it does not mean any individual he pleases?"
"Certainly not. It means that out of half a dozen beautiful, rich, and
accomplished girls it is morally certain that one, at least, would take
him for his money, his manners, and his accomplishments."
"Then he would go from one to the other until he was accepted? A
charming way of doing things, upon my word!" And Claudius sniffed the
night air discontentedly.
"Oh no," said Margaret. "He will be thrown into the society of all six,
and one of them will marry him, that will be the way of it."
"I cannot say I discover great beauty in that social arrangement either,
except that it gives the woman the choice."
"Of course," she answered, "the system does not pretend to the
beautiful, it only aspires to the practical. If the woman is satisfied
with her choice, domestic peace is assured." She laughed.
"Why cannot each satisfy himself or herself of the other? Why cannot the
choice be mutual?"
"It would take too long," said she; and laughed again.
"Very long?" asked Claudius, trying not to let his voice change. But it
changed nevertheless.
"Generally very long," she answered in a matter-of-fact way.
"Why should it?"
"Because neither women nor men are so easily understood as a chapter of
philosophy," said she.
"Is it not the highest pleasure in life, that constant, loving study of
