get nearer to what he aimed at, and there were moments, brief moments,
of genuine happiness, when he believed that there was wrought by his pen
some stroke of worth that should not perish. Ten minutes later he was
dissatisfied with it all, and collected his strength for a new effort,
still hoping, and striving, and labouring on, with his whole soul in his
work.
Strong in body and strong in determination, he was yet very weak in one
respect. He was eternally falling in love, everlastingly throwing
himself at the feet of some woman and making mischief which he
afterwards bitterly regretted. It seemed as though it were impossible
for him to live six months without some affair of a more or less serious
character. It made no difference whether he wandered off into the
recesses of the Italian mountains, or went into hermitage in the Black
Forest, or steamed and sweltered under a tropical sun; there was always
a feminine element at hand to make trouble for him.
It was not only the universal woman calling to him to follow, it was the
universal woman seizing him and carrying him away by main force. For it
was no matter of inclination. He struggled hard enough to deserve
victory, but without any perceptible result.
What gave him most pain was the dreary consciousness of his own
insincerity in his love-making, the consciousness that came to him
after the affair was over. While it lasted he was carried away and
blinded by a sort of madness that took possession of him and allowed him
no time for thought. But when it was over he remembered, bitterly
enough, how untrue it had all been, to himself and to the one woman whom
he had loved, and whom, down in the depths of his turbulent heart, he
loved still. His other loves were like horrible creations of black
magic, bodies with no soul, when he looked back on them. And yet while
they lasted they seemed to him real, and high, and noble.
At first he fought against every new inclination, and cursed his folly
in advance; and sometimes he conquered, but not always. If once the
fatal point were passed there was no salvation, for then he deceived
himself and the deception was complete. It was no wonder people thought
so differently about him. He had been known to do brave and generous
things, and things that showed the utmost delicacy of feeling and
courtesy of temper; and he had been known to act with a sheer, massive,
selfish disregard of other people, that made cynics look grave and
mild-eyed society idiots stare with horror. The fact was that Julius
Batiscombe in love was one person, and Julius Batiscombe out of love,
repentant and trying to make up to the world for the mischief he had
done, was quite another; and he knew it himself. He was perfectly
conscious of his own duality, and liked the one state,--the state of no
love,--and he loathed and detested the other both before and after.
And now he sat over his coffee, and the prophetic warning of his soul
told him that he was in danger, so that he was angry at himself and
feared the future. He had known Miss Carnethy, as has been said, for
some time, and had danced with her and sat beside her at dinner more
than once, without giving her a thought; he therefore had found it
perfectly natural to call when he discovered that she was at Sorrento.
But his impression after his visit was very different. The Marchesa
Carantoni was not Miss Carnethy at all.
She had looked so magnificent as she sat in the evening sunshine, and he
had gazed contentedly at her with a sense of artistic satisfaction,
thinking no evil. But now he could think of nothing else. The sun seemed
to rise again out of the dark sea, turning back on its course till it
was just above the horizon, with a warm golden light; by his side sat
the figure of a woman with glorious red hair, and he was speaking to
her; the whole scene was present to him as he sat there, and he knew
very well what it was that he felt. Why had he not known it at first? He
would surely have had the sense not to propose such a thing as a day
together. "A day together" had so often entailed so much misery.
Nevertheless he would not invent an excuse, nor go away suddenly. It
would be quite possible, he knew, and perhaps also he knew in his heart
that it would be altogether right. But it seemed so uncourteous, he was
really anxious to see the launch of the great ship and--and--he would
not be such a fool as to fancy he could not look at a woman without
falling in love with her on the spot. At his age! Five and thirty--he
seemed so old when he thought of all he had done in that time. No. He
would not only go with them, but he would be as agreeable as he could,
if only to show himself that he was at last above that kind of thing.
Some human hearts are like a great ship that has no anchor, nor any
means of making fast to moorings. The brave vessel sails through the
stormy ocean, straining and struggling fiercely, till she lies at last
within a fair harbour. But she has no anchor, and by and by the soft,
smooth tide washes her out to sea, so gently and cruelly, out among the
crests and the squalls and the rushing currents, and she must fain beat
to windward again or perish on the grim lee shore.
Julius Batiscombe went to bed that night knowing that he was adrift, and
yet denying it to himself; knowing that in a month, a week perhaps, he
should be in trouble--in love--pah! how he hated the idea!
CHAPTER VI.
During the time that elapsed between Mr. Batiscombe's visit and the
expedition to see the launch, Leonora had an access of the religious
humour. The little scene with her husband had made a deep impression on
her mind, and as was usual when she received impressions, she tried to
explain it and understand it and reason about it, until there was little
of it left. That is generally the way with those people who make a study
of themselves; when they have a good thought or a good impulse, they
dissect the life out of it and crow over the empty shell.
It was clear, thought Leonora, that the sudden outburst of affection
which made her tell her husband that she wanted "all of him" was the
result of some sensation of dissatisfaction, of some unfulfilled
necessity for a greater sympathy. But, if at the very beginning she had
not the key to his heart, if he did not wholly love her now, it was
clear that he never would at all. Why was it clear? Oh! never mind the
"why,"--it was quite clear. Moreover, if he could never love her wholly
as she wished and desired, she was manifestly a misunderstood woman, a
most unhappy wife, a condemned existence,--loving and not being loved in
return. And he, the heartless wretch, was anxious about the cook! Good
heavens! the cook--when his wife's happiness was in danger! In this
frame of mind there was evidently nothing more appropriate for her to do
than to take a prayer-book and to hide her face in a veil, and slip away
to the little church on the road, a hundred yards from the house. For a
wrecked existence, thought Leonora, there is no refuge like the Church.
She was not a Catholic, but that made no difference; in great distress
like this, she could very well be comforted by any kind of religion
short of her father's, which latter, to her exalted view, consisted of
four walls and a bucket of whitewash, seasoned with pious discourses and
an occasional psalm-tune.
What she could not see, what was really at the bottom of the small
tempest she rashly whirled up in her over-sensitive soul, was her own
disillusionment. She had deceived herself into believing that she loved
her husband, and the deception had cost her an effort. She was beginning
to realise that the time was at hand when she might strive in vain to
believe in her own sincerity, when her heart would not submit to any
further equivocation, and when she should know in earnest what
hollowness and weariness meant. As yet this was half unconscious, for it
seemed so easy to make herself the injured party.
Poor Marcantonio was not to blame. He was the happiest of mortals, and
went calmly on his way, doubting nothing and thinking that he was of
all mortal men the most supremely fortunate.
Meanwhile Leonora kneeled in the rough little church, solacing herself
with the catalogue of those ills she thought she was suffering. The
stones were hard; there was a wretched little knot of country people,
squalid and ill-savoured, who stared at the great lady for a moment, and
then went on with their rosaries. A dirty little boy with a cane twenty
feet long was poking a taper about and lighting lamps, and he dropped
some of the wax on Leonora's gown. But she never shrank nor looked
annoyed.
"All these things are very delightful," she said to herself, "if you
only consider them as mortifications of the flesh."
She remembered how often just such little annoyances had sent her out of
other churches disgusted and declaring that religion was a vain and
hollow thing; and now, because she could bear with them and was not
angry, she felt quite sure it was genuine.
"Yes," said she piously, as, an hour later, she picked her way home
through the dusty road, "yes, the Church is a great refuge. I will go
there every day."
Indeed, she was so resigned and subdued that evening at dinner, that
Marcantonio asked whether she had a headache.
"Oh no," she answered, "I am perfectly well, thank you."
"Because if you are indisposed, ma bien-aimée," continued her husband
with some anxiety, "we will not go to Castellamare to-morrow."
"I will certainly go," she said. "I would go if I had twenty headaches,"
she might have added, for it would have been true.
"The occasion will be so much the more brilliant, ma très chère,"
remarked Marcantonio gallantly, as they went out into the garden under
the stars.
"It is a hollow sham," said Leonora to herself. "He does not mean it."
But whether it was the effect of the morning, or the magic influence of
Mr. Batiscombe's personality, is not certain; at all events when that
gentleman appeared at the appointed hour to announce that his boat was
in readiness, Leonora looked as though she had never known what care
meant. She doubtless still remembered all she had thought on the
previous afternoon, and she was still quite sure that her existence was
a wreck and a misery,--but then, she argued, why should we poor
misunderstood women not take such innocent pleasures as come in our way?
It would be very wrong not to accept humbly the little crumbs of
happiness,--and so on. So they went to Castellamare.
It is not far, but the wind seldom serves in the morning, and it was an
hour and a half before the six stout men in white clothes and straw hats
pulled the boat round the breakwater of the arsenal. Everything was
ready for the ceremony. Half a dozen Italian ironclads lay in the
harbour, decked from stem to stern with flags; the royal personages had
arrived, and were boring each other to death in a great temporary
balcony, gaudily decorated with red and gold, which had been reared on
the shore within reach of the nose of the new ship. The ship herself, a
huge, ungainly thing, painted red and bearing three enormous national
flags, lay like a stranded monster in the cradle, looking for all the
world like a prehistoric boiled lobster with its claws taken off. The
small water room opposite the arsenal was crowded with every kind of
craft, and little steamers arrived every few minutes from Naples to
swell the throng. The July sun beat fiercely down and there was not a
breath of air. The boatmen were all wrangling in a dozen southern
dialects, and no one seemed to know why the ceremony was delayed any
longer. Nevertheless, as is usual in such cases, there was half an hour
to wait before the thing could be done.
"I am afraid you will find this a dreadful bore," said Batiscombe to
Leonora in English, while Marcantonio was busy trying to make out some
of his friends on shore through a field-glass. Batiscombe had sat in the
stern-sheets to steer during the trip, and having Leonora on one side of
him and her husband on the other, had gone through an endless series of
polite platitudes. If it had not been that Leonora attracted him so much
he must himself have been bored to extinction. But then in that case he
would probably not have put himself in such a position at all.
"Oh, nothing of this kind bores me," said Leonora cheerfully.
"You say that as though there were many kinds of things that did,
though," observed Batiscombe, looking at her. It was a natural remark,
without any intention.
"Dear me, yes!" exclaimed Leonora. "Life is not all roses, you know."
She therewith assumed a thoughtful expression and looked away.
"I should not have supposed there were many thorns in your path,
Marchesa. Would it be indiscreet to inquire of what nature they may be?"
Leonora was silent, and put up her glass to examine the proceedings on
shore.
Batiscombe, who had come out that day with the sworn determination not
to say or do anything to increase the interest he felt in the Marchesa,
found himself wondering whether she were unhappy. The first and most
natural conclusion was that she had been married to Marcantonio by
designing parents, and that she did not care for him. Society said it
had been a love-match, but what will society not say? "Poor thing," he
thought, "I suppose she is miserable!"
"Forgive me," he said, in a low voice. "I did not know you were in
earnest."
Leonora blushed faintly and glanced quickly at him. He had the faculty
of saying little things to women that attracted their attention.
"What lots of poetry one might make about a launch," he said
laughing,--for it was necessary to change the subject,--"ship--dip;
ocean--motion; keel--feel; the rhymes are perfectly endless."
"Yes," said Leonora; "you might make a sonnet on the spot. Besides,
there is a great deal of sentiment about the launching of a great
man-of-war. The voyage of life--and that sort of thing--don't you know?
How hot it is!"
"I will have another awning up in a minute," and he directed the
sailors, helping to do the work himself. He stood upon the gunwale to do
it.
"I am sure you will fall," said Leonora, nervously. "Do sit down!"
"If I had a millstone round my neck there would be some object in
falling," said Batiscombe. "As it is, I should not even have the
satisfaction of drowning."
"What an idea! Should you like to be drowned?" she said, looking up to
him.
"Sometimes," he answered, still busy with the awning. Then he sat down
again.
"You should not say that sort of thing," said Leonora. "Besides, it is
rude to say you should like to be drowned when I am your guest."
"Great truths are not always pretty. But how could any man die better
than at your feet?" He laughed a little, and yet his voice had an
earnest ring to it. He had judged rightly when he foresaw that he must
fall in love with Leonora.
Marcantonio, who did not understand English, was watching the
proceedings on shore.
"Ah! it is magnificent!" he cried, with great enthusiasm. The royal
personage who was to christen the ship had just broken the bottle of
wine, and the little crowd of courtiers, officers, and maids of honour
clapped their hands and grinned. They all looked hot and miserable and
exhausted, but they grinned right nobly, like so many Cheshire cats.
There was a sound of knocking and hammering, a final shout of warning
from the dock officers, a slight trembling of the great hull, and then
the ship began to move, slowly at first, and ever more quickly, till
with a mighty rush and a plunge and a swirl she was out in the water.
The people yelled till they were hoarse, the boatmen cursed each other
by all the maledictions ever invented to meet the exigencies of a lost
humanity, the royal personages stood together on their platform looking
like a troupe of marionettes in a toy theatre, and congratulating each
other furiously as though they had done it all themselves; everything
was noise and sunshine and tepid water; Marcantonio was flourishing his
hat, and Leonora waved a little lace handkerchief, while Batiscombe sat
looking at her and wondering why he had never thought her beautiful
before. Indeed, she was superb in her simple, raw silk gown, with
fresh-cut roses at her waist.
"It seems to me, Marchese, that you are very enthusiastic," said
Batiscombe to Marcantonio.
"Mon Dieu!" exclaimed the other, shrugging his shoulders, "one cheers
these things as one would cheer fireworks, or a race. It signifies
nothing."
"Oh, of course," said Leonora; "and besides, it is so pretty."
"I think it is horrible," said Batiscombe, suddenly.
"Why--what?"
"To see a nation squandering money in this way, when the taxes on land
are at sixty per cent. and more, and the people emigrating by the
shipload because they cannot live in their own homes."
"Oh, for that matter, you are right," said Marcantonio, turning grave in
a moment. "I could tell you a story about taxes."
"What is it?" asked Leonora. "Those things are so interesting."
"Last autumn I was in the Sabines; I have a place up there, altogether
ancient and dilapidated--a mere ruin. I own some of the land, and the
peasants own little vineyards. One day I saw by the roadside a poor old
man, a sort of village crétin, whom every one knew quite well. We used
to call him Cupido; he was half idiotic and quite old. He was weeping
bitterly, poor wretch, and I asked him what was the matter. He pointed
to a little plot of land by the road, inclosed by a stone wall, and said
the tax-gatherer had taken it from him. And then he cried again, and I
could not get anything more out of him."
"Poor creature!" exclaimed Leonora, sympathetically.
"Well," continued Marcantonio, "I made inquiries, and I found that he
had owned the little plot, and that the tax-gatherer had first seized
the wretched crop of maize--perhaps a bushel basket full--to pay the
tax; and then, as that did not cover his demands, he seized the land
itself and sold it or offered it for sale."
"Infamous!" cried Leonora, and the tears were in her eyes.
"A cheerful state of things," remarked Batiscombe, "when the whole crop
does not suffice to pay the taxes on the soil!"
"N'est-ce pas?" said Marcantonio. "Well, I provided for the poor old
man, but he died in the winter. It broke his heart."[1]
[Footnote 1: The author witnessed the facts here described in 1880.]
"I love the Italians," said Batiscombe; "but their ideas of economy are
peculiar. I suppose that without much metaphor or exaggeration one might
say that the poor crétin's bushel of corn is gone into that ridiculous
ironclad over there."
"But of course it is," said Marcantonio. "The whole thing probably paid
for one rivet. You, who write books, Monsieur Batiscombe, put that into
a book and render it very pathetic."
"It needs little rendering to make it that," said Batiscombe, and he
looked at Leonora's eyes that were not yet dry.
By this time the royal marionettes had been bundled off to their boats,
and the crowd of small craft on the water began to disperse.
Batiscombe's six men fell to their oars and the boat shot out from the
breakwater. Presently they hoisted the bright lateen sails to the
breeze. Batiscombe perched himself on the weather rail, and took the
tiller, as the brave little craft heeled over and began to cut the
water. The wind fanned Leonora's cheek, and she said it was delightful.
Batiscombe suggested that they should run into one of the great green
caves that honeycomb the cliffs near Sorrento, and make it their
dining-room. So away they went, rejoicing to be out of the heat and the
noise. It was twelve o'clock, and far up among the orange groves the
little church bells rang out their midday chime, laughing together in
the white belfries for joy of the sunshine and the fair summer's day.
"I should like to be always sailing," said Leonora, who had now quite
forgotten her woes and enjoyed the change.
"Ma chère," said her husband, "there is nothing simpler."
"You always say that," she answered rather reproachfully; "but this is
the very first time I have been on the water since we came."
"My boat and my men are always at your disposal, Marchesa," said
Batiscombe, looking down at her, "and myself, too, if you will
condescend to employ me as your skipper."
"Thanks, you are very good," said she. "But I thought you were only
passing, and were to be off in a few days?" She glanced up at him, as
though she meant to be answered.
"Oh, it is very uncertain," said Batiscombe. "It depends," he added in a
lower voice and in English, "upon whether you will use the boat." It was
rather a bold stroke, but it told, and he was rewarded.
"I should like very much to go out again some day," she said.
Those little words and sentences, what danger signals they ought to be
to people about to fall in love! Batiscombe knew it; he knew well that
every such speech, in her native language and in a half voice, was one
step nearer to the inevitable end. But he was fast getting to the point
when, as far as he himself was concerned, the die would be cast. His
manner changed perceptibly during the day, as the influence gained
strength. His voice grew lower and he laughed less, while his eyes shone
curiously, even in the midday sun.
The boat ran into the cave, which was the largest on the shore, and
would admit the mast and the long yards without difficulty. Within the
light was green, and the water now and again plashed on the rocks. The
men steadied the craft with their oars and the party proceeded to lunch.
Most of "society" has a most excellent appetite, and when one reflects
how very hard society works to amuse itself, it is not surprising that
it should need generous nourishment. The unlucky cook had done his best,
and the result was satisfactory. There were all manner of things, and
some bottles of strong Falerno wine. Batiscombe drank water and very
little of it.
"Somebody has said," remarked Marcantonio with a laugh, "that one must
distrust the man who drinks water when other people drink wine. We shall
have to beware of you, Monsieur Batiscombe." He had learned the name
very well by this time.
"Perhaps there is truth in it," said Batiscombe, "but it is not my habit
I can assure you. The origin of the saying lies in the good old custom
of doctoring other people's draughts. The man who drank water at a feast
two hundred years ago was either afraid of being poisoned himself, or
was engaged in poisoning his neighbours."
"Oh, the dear, good old time!" exclaimed Leonora, eating her salad
daintily.
"Do you wish it were back again?" asked Batiscombe. "Are there many
people you would like to poison?"
"Oh, not that exactly," and she laughed. "But life must have been very
exciting and interesting then."
"Enfin," remarked Marcantonio, "I am very well pleased with it as it is.
There was no opera, no election, no launching of war-ships; and when you
went out you had to wear a patent safe on your head, in case anybody
wanted to break it for you. And then, there was generally some one who
did. Yes, indeed, it must have been charming, altogether ravishing.
Allez! give me the nineteenth century."
"I assure you, Marchesa," said Batiscombe, "life can be exceedingly
exciting and interesting now."
"I dare say," retorted Leonora, "for people who go round the world in
boats in search of adventures, and write books abusing their enemies.
But we--what do we ever do that is interesting or exciting? We stay at
home and pour tea."
"And in those days," answered Batiscombe, "the ladies stayed at home and
knit stockings, or if they were very clever they worked miles and miles
of embroidery and acres of tapestry. About once a month they were
allowed to look out of the window and see their relations beating each
other's brains out with iron clubs, and running each other through the
body with pointed sticks. As the Marchese says, it was absolutely
delightful, that kind of life."
"You are dreadfully prejudiced," said Leonora.
"But I am sure it was very nice."
And so they talked, and the men smoked a little, till they decided that
they had had enough of it, and the oars plashed in the water together,
sending the boat out again into the bright sun. In five minutes they
were at the landing belonging to the Carantoni villa. There was a deep
cleft in the cliffs just there, and the descent wound curiously in and
out of the rock, so that in many places you could only trace it from
below by the windows hewn in the solid stone to give light and air to
the passage. The rocks ran out a little at the base, and there were
steps carved for landing. There are few places so strikingly odd as this
landing to the Carantoni villa. Leonora said it was "eerie."
When it came to parting, the young couple were profuse in their thanks
to Mr. Batiscombe for the enchanting trip.
"I hope," said Marcantonio, "that you will come and dine with us very
soon, and change your mind about the water-drinking, and give us another
opportunity of thanking you."
"I have enjoyed it very, very much," said Leonora, giving Batiscombe her
hand. Their eyes met, and for the first time she noticed the curious
light in his glance. But he bowed very low and very elaborately, so to
say.
"You will keep your promise," he said, "and use the boat again?"
"Thanks so very much. But of course we will have a boat of our own now,
and so I should not think of asking you."
She smiled a little at him. Somehow he understood perfectly that he
could nevertheless induce her to accept his offer. He stood hat in hand
on the rocks as they disappeared into the dark stairway. Then he sprang
into the boat, and the men pulled lustily away.
He leaned back in the stern with his hand on the tiller and his eyes
half closed. In the bottom of the boat were the luncheon baskets, and
one of Leonora's roses had fallen from the stem and lay withering in the
hot July sun. Batiscombe picked it up, looked at it, pulled a leaf or
two, and threw it overboard, with a half sneer of dissatisfaction.
"They have forgotten the baskets, though," he thought to himself. "If
they had asked me to go up with them, as they should have done, I would
have had them carried up. As it is I will--I will wait till they write
for them. I could hardly take them myself." And he lighted a cigarette.
As Leonora mounted the stairway, leaning on her husband's arm, she
turned to get a glimpse of the boat gliding away in the distance. She
could just see it through one of the windows in the rock.
"Why did you not ask him to come up?" she inquired.
"Why did you not ask him, my angel?" returned Marcantonio.
"I thought you might not like it," she answered.
"Comment donc! He is very amiable, I am sure. But I thought you were
tired and had had enough of him,--in short, that you did not want him."
"Ah!" ejaculated Leonora. She felt a little curious sense of pleasure,
that was quite new to her, at the idea that her husband could have
seriously thought she did not want Mr. Batiscombe.
"Naturally," added Marcantonio, "we ought to have asked him."
"I suppose so," said she, indifferently enough.
"I will call on him to-morrow, and we will have him to dinner, if it is
agreeable to you, my dear."
"Oh yes--I do not mind at all," said Leonora. She was thinking about
something, and did not speak again till they reached the house.
It was very frivolous, but she was really thinking about the curious
expression of Mr. Batiscombe's eyes. She did not remember to have ever
seen anything exactly like it. Besides, she had known him, more or less,
for some time, and had never noticed it before. Perhaps it was the
reflection from the water. But she dreamed that night that she saw those
eyes very close to her, and the expression of them frightened her a
little, but was not altogether disagreeable.
CHAPTER VII.
Julius Batiscombe was a restless man by day and night, after the trip to
Castellamare. Marcantonio called upon him, but he was out, and then he
received an invitation to dinner from Leonora, with a postscript about
the unlucky baskets. He accepted the invitation. What else could he do?
But when the day came he regretted it. He wished he had refused and had
gone away. Then he made a fine resolution.
"I will not go to this dinner," he said to himself, savagely, as he
walked quickly up and down his room. "I will not go near her again. It
is not right, and I will not do it. I will sail over to Naples at once,
and send back a telegram of excuse, saying that a matter of the most
urgent importance keeps me there. So it is--I should think so--a matter
of very urgent importance. Oh! Julius Batiscombe, what an ass you are,
to be sure!" With that he crammed some things into a bag, sent for his
man, and descended in hot haste to the shore. There was no time to be
lost, for it was already four o'clock in the afternoon and the
invitation was for eight. He could just reach Naples and send his
telegram in time to prevent the Carantoni from waiting for him.
The lazy breeze was dying away, and he wished he had had the sense to
make up his mind sooner. But his men rowed lustily, and kept time, so
that the boat spun along fairly enough.
"I shall do it," said Julius Batiscombe to himself.
He was happy enough in the sensation that he was cheating his fate and
was about to escape a serious affection. Then he laughed at the comic
side of the case, and lit a cigar and blew great clouds of smoke over
his shoulder. But fate and Batiscombe were old enemies, and fate
generally got the better of it.
It chanced that on this very day Leonora and Marcantonio had determined
to go out in the new boat. For Marcantonio had wanted to give his wife a
surprise, and had got from Naples a beautiful clean-built launch. He had
said nothing about it, and had patiently borne her reproaches at his
indifference to sailing, until on the previous evening he had taken her
down the descent to the rocks and had shown her his purchase, which had
just arrived by the steamer. Of course she was enchanted, and determined
to make the most of it, for she was really fond of the water.
Accordingly, on this very day, she and her husband sallied forth with
six men,--for he had not dared to give her a smaller crew than Mr.
Batiscombe's. She was in such a hurry to go that she said she did not
mind the sun in the least,--oh dear, no! she rather liked it. And so it
came to pass that a few minutes after Julius had given his men the word
to fall to their oars at the little beach of the town of Sorrento, a
long low craft, painted in dark green and gold, and looking exceedingly
trim and "fit" with its long lateen yards and raking masts, shot out
from the cleft beneath Leonora's villa.
Batiscombe looked straight before him, steering by the Naples shore, and
intent on wasting neither time nor distance. He might have been out half
an hour or more when a remark from one of his crew made him look round,
and he was aware of a dark green boat two or three hundred yards astern,
but rapidly pulling up to him. He started, for though he could not see
the faces of the occupants, he recognised a parasol that Leonora had
taken to Castellamare.
"It is the new boat of the Marchese Carantoni," said the sailor who had
first spoken to Batiscombe. The man had seen it arrive by the steamer on
the previous evening, and had helped to put it into the water to be
rowed down to the villa. Batiscombe gave one more look and groaned
inwardly. He would make a fight for it, though, he thought. He
encouraged his men not to allow themselves to be overtaken by a parcel
of Neapolitans, as he derisively called the crew of Carantoni's boat.
His own men were tough fellows from the north of Italy, bearded, and
broad, and bronzed; but his boat, built for rougher weather and rougher
work than pleasure-rowing in the bay of Naples, was twice as heavy as
the slight green craft astern. His sturdy men set their teeth and tugged
hard, but the others gained on them.
Leonora and Marcantonio had recognised the cut of Batiscombe's boat and
crew from a distance; and, in profound ignorance of his amiable
intentions of flight, they imagined nothing more amusing than to race
him.
"If we cannot beat him," said Leonora, breathless with excitement, "I
will never come out in your boat again!"
She strained her eyes to make out if they were gaining way. Marcantonio
spoke to the men:--
    "Corraggio, Corraggio!
    Maccaroni con formaggio!"
The men repeated the rhyme to each other with a grin, and bent hard to
their work. They were not Neapolitans as Batiscombe called them, but
strong-backed, slim fishermen from the southern coast, as dark as Arabs
and as merry as thieves, enjoying a race of all things best in the
world, and well able to row it. Swiftly the dark green boat crept up to
her rival, and soon Batiscombe could hear the remarks of the men. His
own crew did their best, but it was a hopeless case.
"Monsieur Batiscombe, Monsieur Batiscombe," shouted Marcantonio, almost
as much excited as his wife, "we shall conquer you immediately!"
Julius turned and waved his hat, and made a gesture of submission. A
few lengths more and they were beside him. He raised his hand, and his
men hung on their oars.
"Kismet! it is my portion," he said to himself as he gave up the fight.
"But where are you going in such a hurry, Mr. Batiscombe?" asked
Leonora, who was delighted at having won the race. "You see it is no use
running away; we can catch you so easily."
"Yes," said Batiscombe, laughing recklessly at the hidden truth of her
words, "I see it is of no use, but I tried hard. It was a good race."
He turned in his seat and leaned over, looking at his friends. The boats
drifted together, and the men held them side by side, unshipping their
oars. Batiscombe admired the whole turnout, and complimented Leonora
upon it. Marcantonio was pleased with everything and everybody; he was
delighted that his wife should have had the small satisfaction of
victory, and he was proud that his boat had fulfilled his expectations.
So they floated along side by side, saying the pleasantest manner of
things possible to each other. Time flew by, and presently they turned
homewards.
"I wonder how long it will be," thought Batiscombe as he held the tiller
hard over and his boat swung about, "before I tell her where I was going
'in such a hurry'?" And he smiled in a grim sort of irony at himself,
for he knew that he was lost.
"Eight o'clock--don't forget!" cried Leonora. She had a pleasant voice
that carried far over the water. Batiscombe waved his hat, and smiled
and bowed. They were soon separated, and their courses became more and
more divergent as they neared the land.
Batiscombe swore a little over his dressing, quite quietly and to
himself, but he bestowed much care upon his appearance. He knew just how
much always depends on appearance at the outset, and how little it is to
be relied on at a later stage. So he gave an unusual amount of thought
to his tie, and was extremely fastidious about the flower in his coat.
As for Leonora, she was on the point of a change of mood. She had been
very gay and happy all day long, and the adventure with the boat had
still further raised her spirits. But that was all the more reason why
they should sink again before long, for her humours were mostly of short
duration, though of strong impulse. This evening she felt as though
there were something the matter, or as though something were going to
happen, and her gayety seemed to be the least bit fictitious to herself.
She and her husband stood on the terrace in the sunset, awaiting their
guest.
"My dear," said Marcantonio, "I am in despair. I shall be obliged to go
to Rome to-morrow or the next day. My uncle, the cardinal, writes me
that it is very important." Leonora's face fell; she had a sharp little
sense of pain.
"Oh, Marcantoine," she said, "do not go away now!"
"It is only for a day or two, my angel," he said, drawing her arm
through his.
"Must you really go?" she asked, not looking at him.
"Hélas, yes."
"Then I will go with you," said she, in a determined tone.
"Ah, I thank you for the wish, chérie," he answered. "But you will tire
yourself, and be so hot and uncomfortable. See, I will only be away a
day and a half."
"But I do not want to be alone here without you," she pleaded. She could
not for her life have told why she was so distressed at the idea, but it
gave her pain, and she insisted.
"As you wish," said Marcantonio, kissing her hand. "I will make every
arrangement for your comfort, and do what I can to make the journey
pleasant."
He was a little surprised, but, manlike, he was flattered at his wife's
show of affection. There are moments in a woman's life when, whether she
loves her husband or not, she turns to him and holds to him with an
instinctive sense of reliance.
A moment later Julius Batiscombe was announced, and the three went in to
dinner. It was a strange position, though it is by no means an uncommon
one. A man, his wife, and another man, an outsider; the outsider loving
the woman, the husband supremely happy and unconscious, and the woman
feeling the evil influence, not altogether opposing it, and yet clinging
desperately to her husband's love. Three lives, all trembling in the
balance of weal and woe. But no one could have suspected it from their
appearance, for they were apparently the gayest and most thoughtless of
mortals.
The adventure in the afternoon, the expedition to Castellamare, the
baskets and even the cook,--then, the events of the past winter, their
many mutual acquaintances, and the whole unfathomable cyclopædia of
society facts and fictions,--everything was reviewed in turn, and talked
of with witty comments, good-natured or ill-natured as the case might
be. Batiscombe was full of strange stories, generally about people they
all knew, but he was not a gossip by nature, and he avoided saying
disagreeable things. Leonora, on the other hand, would be gay and
brilliant for a few moments, and then would let fall some bitter saying
that sounded oddly to Batiscombe, though it made her husband laugh.
