"I have heard foreigners talk. The old man is a 
foreigner, but she she is Roman," he repeated with 
certainty. 
"Eh," said I, "for my part she maybe Chinese. 
The stars will not fall on that account." 
You see, I thought he had seen her before, and I 
wanted to exasperate him by my indifference so that 
he should tell me ; but he would not, and indeed I 
found out afterwards that he had really never seen 
her before. 
Presently the lady and gentleman went away, and 
we called De Pretis, for he could not see us in the 
gloom. Nino became very confidential, and linked 
an arm in his as we went away. 
 
"Who are they, caro maestro, these enchanting 
people? " inquired the boy when they had gone a few 
steps, and I was walking by Nino's side, and we 
were all three nearing the door. 
"Foreigners, ^my foreigners," returned the sing 
er, proudly, as he took a colossal pinch of snuff. He 
seemed to say that he in his profession was con 
stantly thrown with people like that, whereas I 
oh, I, of course, was always occupied with students 
and poor devils who had no voice, nothing but 
brains. 
"But she," objected Nino, "she is Roman, I am 
sure of it." 
"Eh," said Ercole, "you know how it is. These 
foreigners marry and come here and live, and their 
children are born here ; and they grow up and call 
themselves Romans, as proudly as you please. But 
they are not really Italians, any more than the Shah 
of Persia." 
The maestro smiled a pitying smile. He is a 
Roman of Rome, and his great nose scorns pretenders. In his view Piedmontese, Tuscans, and Neopolitans are as much foreigners as the Germans or 
the English. More so, for he likes the Germans and 
tolerates the English, but he can call an enemy by 
no worse name than "Napoletano " or "Piemontese." 
" Then they live here ? " cried Nino in delight. 
"Surely." 
" In fine, maestro mio, who are they ? " 
" What a diavolo of a boy ! Dio mio ! " and Ercole 
laughed under his big moustache, which is black still. 
But he is bald, all the same, and wears a skull-cap. 
" Diavolo as much as you please, but I will know,"
said Nino sullenly. 
"Oh bene! Now do not disquiet yourself, Nino 
I will tell you all about them. She is a pupil of 
mine, and I go to their house in the Corso and give 
her lessons. * 
" And then ? " asked Nino impatiently. 
" Who goes slowly goes surely," said the maestro 
sententiously; and he stopped to light a cigar as 
black and twisted as his moustache. Then he continued, standing still in the middle of the piazza to 
talk at his ease, for it had stopped raining and the 
air was moist and sultry, " They are Prussians, you 
must know. The old man is a colonel, retired, pensioned, everything you like, wounded at Koniggratz 
by the Austrians. His wife was delicate, and he 
brought her to live here long before he left the service, and the signorina was born here. He has told 
me about it, and he taught me to pronounce the name 
Koniggratz, so Conigherazzo," said the maestro 
proudly, "and that is how I know." 
" Capperi ! What a mouthful ! " said I. 
" You may well say that, Sor Conte, but singing 
teaches us all languages. You would have found it 
of great use in your studies." I pictured to myself 
a quarter of an hour of Schopenhauer, with a piano 
accompaniment and some one beating time. 
"But their name, their name I want to know," 
objected Nino, as he stepped aside and flattened himself against the pillar to let a carriage pass. As luck 
would have it, the old officer and his daughter were 
in that very cab, and Nino could just make them out 
 
by the evening twilight. He took off his hat, of 
course, but I am quite sure they did not see him. 
"Well, their name is prettier than Conigherazzo," 
said Ercole. "It is Lira Erre Gheraffe fonne 
Lira." Herr Graf von Lira, I suppose he meant. 
And he has the impudence to assert that singing has 
taught him to pronounce German. "And that 
means," he continued, "II Conte di Lira, as we 
should say." 
"Ah! what a divine appellation! " exclaimed Nino 
enthusiastically, pulling his hat over his eyes to 
meditate upon the name at his leisure. 
"And her name is Edvigia," volunteered the 
maestro. That is the Italian for Hedwig, or Hadwig, you know. But we should shorten it and call 
her Gigia, just as though she were Luisa. Nino 
does not think it so pretty. Nino was silent. Perhaps he was already shy of repeating the familiar 
name of the first woman he had ever loved. Imagine! At twenty he had never been in love! It is 
incredible to me, and one of our own people, too, 
born at Serveti. 
Meanwhile the maestro's cigar had gone out, and 
he lit it with a blazing sulphur match, before he con 
tinued; and we all walked on again. I remember it 
all very distinctly, because it was the beginning of 
Nino's madness. Especially I call to mind his expression of indifference when Ercole began to descant upon the worldly possessions of the Lira 
household. It seemed to me that if Nino so seriously cast his eyes on the Contessina Edvigia he 
might at least have looked pleased to hear she was 
 
so rich ; or he might have looked disappointed, if he 
thought that her position was an obstacle in his way. 
But he did not care about it at all, and walked 
straight on, humming a little tune through his nose 
with his mouth shut, for he does everything to a 
tune. 
"They are certainly gran signori," Ercole said. 
"They live on the first floor of the Palazzo Carmandola, you know, in the Corso, and they have 
a carriage, and keep two men in livery, just like a 
Roman prince. Besides, the count once sent me a 
bottle of wine at Christmas. It was as weak as 
water, and tasted like the solfatara of Tivoli, but it 
came from his own vineyard in Germany, and was at 
least fifty years old. If he has a vineyard, he has a 
castello, of course. And if he has a castello, he is a 
gran signore, eh? what do you think, Sor Conte? 
You know about such things." 
"I did once, maestro mio. It is very likely." 
" And as for the wine being sour, it was because it 
was so old. I am sure the Germans cannot make 
wine well. They are not used to drinking it good, 
or they would not drink so much when they come 
here." We were crossing the bridge, and nearing 
Ercole's house. 
"Maestro," said Nino, suddenly. He had not 
spoken for some time, and he had finished his tune. 
"Well?" 
"Is not to-morrow our day for studying?" 
"Diavolo! I gave you two hours to-day. Have 
you forgotten ? " 
"Ah, it is true. But give me a lesson to-morrow, like a good maestro as you are. I will sing like 
an angel, if you will give me a lesson to-morrow." 
" Well, if you like to come at seven in the morn 
ing, and if you promise to sing nothing but solfeggi 
of Bordogni for an hour, and not to strain your 
voice, nor put too much vinegar in your salad at 
supper, I will think about it. Does that please you ? 
Conte, do not let him eat too much vinegar." 
"I will do all that, if I may come," said Nino, 
readily, though he would rather not sing at all, at 
most times, than sing Bordogni, De Pretis tells me. 
" Meglio cosl, so much the better. Good-night, 
Sor Conte. Good-night, Nino." And so he turned 
down the Via Paola, and Nino and I went our way. 
I stopped to buy a cigar at the little tobacco shop 
just opposite the Tordinona Theatre. They used to 
be only a baiocco apiece, and I could get one at a 
time. But now they are two for three baiocchi; and 
so I have to get two always, because there are no 
half baiocchi any more nothing but centimes. 
That is one of the sources of my extravagance. 
Mariuccia says I am miserly ; she was born poor, and 
never had to learn the principles of economy. 
"Nino mio," I said, as we went along, "you 
really make me laugh." 
" Which is to say " He was humming a tune 
again, and was cross because I interrupted him. 
"You are in love. Do not deny it. You are 
already planning how you can make the acquaintance 
of the foreign contessa. You are a fool. Go home, 
and get Mariuccia to give you some syrup of tamarind to cool your blood." 
 
"Well? Now tell me, were you never in Jove 
with any one yourself?" he asked, by way of an 
swer; and I could see the fierce look come into his 
eyes in the dark, as he said it. 
" Altro, that is why I laugh at you. When I 
was your age I had been in love twenty times. 
But I never fell in love at first sight and with a 
doll ; really a wax doll, you know, like the Madonna 
in the presepio that they set up at the Ara Coeli, at 
Epiphany." 
"A doll!" he cried. "Who is a doll, if you 
please ? " We stopped at the corner of the street to 
argue it out. 
"Do you think she is really alive?" I asked, 
laughing. Nino disdained to answer me, but he 
looked savagely from under the brim of his hat. 
"Look here," I continued, "women like that are 
only made to be looked at. They never love, for 
they have no hearts. It is lucky if they have souls, 
like Christians." 
"I will tell you what I think," said he stoutly; 
"she is an angel." 
" Oh ! is that all ? Did you ever hear of an angel 
being married?" 
"You shall hear of it, Sor Cornelio, and before 
long. I swear to you, here, that I will marry the 
Contessina di Lira if that is her name before 
two years are out. Ah, you do not believe me. 
Very well. I have nothing more to say." 
"My dear son," said I, for he is a son to me, 
"you are talking nonsense. How can anybody in 
your position hope to marry a great lady, who is an 
 
heiress ? Is it not true that it is all stuff and non 
sense?" 
"No, it is not true," cried Nino, setting his square 
jaw like a bit and speaking through his teeth. " I 
am ugly, you say ; I am dark, and I have no position, 
or wealth, or anything of the kind. I am the son of 
a peasant and of a peasant's wife. I am anything 
you please, but I will marry her if I say I will. Do 
you think it is for nothing that you have taught me 
the language of Dante, of Petrarca, of Silvio Pellico? 
Do you think it is for nothing that Heaven has given 
me my voice ? Do not the angels love music, and 
cannot I make as good songs as they ? Or do you 
think that because I am bred a singer my hand is not 
as strong as a fine gentleman's contadino as I am? 
I will I will and I will. Basta ! " 
I never saw him look like that before. He had 
folded his arms, and he nodded his head a little at 
each repetition of the word, looking at me so hard, 
as we stood under the gas lamp in the street, that I 
was obliged to turn my eyes away. He stared me 
out of countenance he, a peasant boy I Then we 
walked on. 
" And as for her being a wax doll, as you call her, " 
he continued, after a little time, " that is nonsense, 
if you wish the word to be used. Truly, a doll! 
And the next minute you compare her to the Madonna! I am sure she has a heart as big as this," 
and he stretched out his hands into the air. " I can 
see it in her eyes. Ah, what eyes ! " 
I saw it was of no use to argue on that tack, and 
I felt quite sure that he would forget all about it, 
 
though he looked so determined, and talked so 
grandly about his will. 
"Nino," I said, "I am older than you." I said 
this to impress him, of course, for I am not really so 
very old. 
" Diamini ! " he cried impertinently, " I believe it! " 
"Well, well, do not be impatient. I have seen 
something in my time, and I tell you those foreign 
women are not like ours, a whit. I fell in love, 
once, with a northern fairy, she was not German, 
but she came from Lombardy, you see, and that is 
the reason why I lost Serveti and all the rest." 
"But I have no Serveti to lose," objected Nino. 
" You have a career as a musician to lose. It is 
not much of a career, to be stamping about with 
a lot of figuranti and scene-shifters, and screaming 
yourself hoarse every night." I was angry, because 
he laughed at my age. "But it is a career, after 
all, which you have chosen for yourself. If you get 
mixed up in an intrigue now, you may ruin yourself. 
I hope you will." 
"Grazie! And then?" 
" Eh, it might not be such a bad thing, after all. 
For if you could be induced to give up the stage " 
"I I, give up singing?" he cried, indignantly. 
" Oh, such things happen, you know. If you were 
to give it up, as I was saying, you might then possibly use your mind. A mind is a much better thing 
than a throat, after all." 
"Ebbene! talk as much as you please, for, of 
course, you have the right, since you have brought 
me up, and you have certainly opposed my singing 
 
enough to quiet your conscience. But, dear professore, I will do all that I say, and if you will give me 
a little help in this matter you shall not repent it.' 
"Help? Dio mio! What do you take me for? 
As if I could help you, or would ! I suppose you 
want money to make yourself a dandy, a pamo, to 
go and stand at the corner of the Piazza Colonna and 
ogle her as she goes by! In truth! You have fine 
projects." 
"No," said Nino, quietly, "I do not want any 
money, nor anything else, at present, thank you. 
And do not be angry, but come into the caff and 
drink some lemonade; and I will invite you to it, 
for I have been paid for my last copying, which I 
sent in yesterday." 
He put his arm in mine, and we went in. There 
is no resisting Nino, when he is affectionate. But 
I would not let him pay for the lemonade. I paid 
for it myself. What extravagance ! 
 
CHAPTER III. 
Now I ought to tell you that many things in this 
story were only told me quite lately ; for at first I 
would not help Nino at all, thinking it was but a 
foolish fancy of his boy's heart and would soon pass. 
I have tried to gather and to order all the different 
incidents into one harmonious whole, so that you can 
follow the story ; and you must not wonder that I can 
describe some things which I did not see, and that I 
know how some of the people felt; for Nino and I 
have talked over the whole matter very often, and 
the baroness came here and told me her share, though 
I wonder how she could talk so plainly of what must 
have given her so much pain. But it was very kind 
of her to come; and she sat over there in the old 
green arm-chair, by the glass case which has the artificial flowers under it, and the sugar lamb the padre 
curato gave Nino when he made his first communion 
at Easter. However, it is not time to speak of the 
baroness yet, but I cannot forget her. 
Nino was very amusing when he began to love the 
young countess, and the very first morning the day 
after we had been to St. Peter's he went out at 
half past six, though it was only just sunrise, for we 
were in October. I knew very well that he was 
going for his extra lesson with De Pretis, but I had 
 
nothing to say about it, and I only recommended him 
to cover himself well, for the scirocco had passed and 
it was a bright morning, with a clear tramontana 
wind blowing fresh from the north. I can always 
tell when it is a tramontana wind, before I open my 
window, for Mariuccia makes such a clattering with 
the coffee-pot in the kitchen, and the goldfinch in 
the sitting-room sings very loud; which he never 
does if it is cloudy. Nino, then, went off to Maestro 
Ercole's house for his singing, and this is what happened there. 
De Pretis knew perfectly well that Nino had only 
asked for the extra lesson in order to get a chance 
of talking about the Contessina di Lira, and so, to 
tease him, as soon as he appeared, the maestro made 
a great bustle about singing scales, and insisted upon 
beginning at once. Moreover, he pretended to be in 
a bad humour ; and that is always pretense with him. 
"Ah, my little tenor," he began; "you want a lesson at seven in the morning, do you ? That is the 
time when all the washerwomen sing at the fountain I Well, you shall have a lesson, and by the 
body of Bacchus it shall be a real lesson! Now, 
then ! Andiamo Do-o-o ! " and he roared out a 
great note that made the room shake, and a man who 
was selling cabbage in the street stopped his hand 
cart and mimicked him for five minutes. 
" But I am out of breath, maestro," protested Nino, 
who wanted to talk. 
" Out of breath ? A singer is never out of breath. 
Absurd! What would you do if you got out of 
breath, say, in the last act of Lucia, so Bell alma 
 
ado Then your breath ends, eh ? Will you stay 
with the * adored soul between your teeth? A fine 
singer you will make ! Andiamo ! Do-o-o ! " 
Nino saw he must begin, and he set up a shout, 
much against his will, so that the cabbage-vender 
chimed in, making so much noise that the old woman 
who lives opposite opened her window and emptied 
a great dustpan full of potato peelings and refuse 
leaves of lettuce right on his head. And then there 
was a great noise. But the maestro paid no atten 
tion, and went on with the scale, hardly giving Nino 
time to breathe. Nino, who stood behind De Pretis 
while he sang, saw the copy of Bordogni's solfeggi 
lying on a chair, and managed to slip it under a pile 
of music near by, singing so lustily all the while 
that the maestro never looked round. 
When he got to the end of the scale, Ercole began 
hunting for the music, and as he could not find it 
Nino asked him questions. 
" Can she sing, this contessina of yours, maestro ? " De Pretis was overturning everything in his 
search. 
" An apoplexy on those solfeggi and on the man 
who made them!" he cried. "Sing, did you say? 
Yes, a great deal better than you ever will. Why 
can you not look for your music, instead of chattering?" Nino began to look where he knew it was 
not. 
"By the bye, do you give her lessons every day?" 
asked the boy. 
"Every day? Am I crazy, to ruin people's voices 
like that?" 
 
" Caro maestro, what is the matter with you, this 
morning ? You have forgotten to say your prayers ! " 
" You are a donkey, Nino ; here he is, this blessed 
Bordogni, now, come." 
"Sor Ercole mio," said Nino in despair, "I must 
really know something about this angel, before I sing 
at all." 
Ercole sat down on the piano stool, and puffed up 
his cheeks, and heaved a tremendous sigh, to show 
how utterly bored he was by his pupil. Then he 
took a large pinch of snuff, and sighed again. 
"What demon have you got into your head?" he 
asked, at length. 
"What angel, you mean," answered Nino, de 
lighted at having forced the maestro to a parley. " I 
am in love with her crazy about her," he cried, 
running his fingers through his curly hair, " and you 
must help me to see her. You can easily take me to 
her house to sing duets, as part of her lesson. I tell 
you I have not slept a wink all night for thinking of 
her, and unless I see her I shall never sleep again as 
long as I live. Ah ! " he cried, putting his hands 
on Ercole's shoulders, "you do not know what it is 
to be in love ! How everything one touches is fire, 
and the sky is like lead, and one minute you are cold 
and one minute you are hot, and you may turn and 
turn on your pillow all night, and never sleep, and 
you want to curse everybody you see, or to embrace 
them, it makes no difference anything to express 
the" 
"Devil, and may he carry you off!" interrupted 
Ercole, laughing. But his manner changed. "Poor 
 
fellow," he said presently, "it appears to me you are 
in love." 
" It appears to you, does it ? Appears a beau 
tiful word, in faith. I can tell you it appears to 
me so, too. Ah ! it appears to you very good 
indeed! " and Nino waxed wroth. 
"I will give you some advice, Ninetto mio. Do 
not fall in love with any one. It always ends 
badly." 
"You come late with your counsel, Sor Ercole. 
In truth, a very good piece of advice, when a man is 
fifty, and married, and wears a skull-cap. When I 
wear a skull-cap and take snuff, I will follow your 
instructions." He walked up and down the room, 
grinding his teeth and clapping his hands together. 
Ercole rose and stopped him. 
"Let us talk seriously," he said. 
"With all my heart; as seriously as you please." 
"You have only seen this signorina once." 
" Once ! " cried Nino, " as if once were not " 
"Diavolo! let me speak. You have only seen her 
once. She is noble, an heiress, a great lady worse 
than all, a foreigner; as beautiful as a statue, if you 
please, but twice as cold. She has a father who 
knows the proprieties, a piece of iron, I tell you, 
who would kill you just as he would drink a glass 
of wine, with the greatest indifference, if he suspected you lifted your eyes to his daughter." 
"I do not believe your calumnies," said Nino, 
still hotly. "She is not cold, and if I can see her 
she will listen to me. I am sure of it." 
" We will speak of that by and by. You what 
 
are you ? Nothing but a singer, who has not even 
appeared before the public, without a baiocco in the 
world, nor anything else but your voice. You are 
not even handsome." 
"What difference does that make to a woman of 
heart? " retorted Nino angrily. "Let me only speak 
to her" 
" A thousand devils ! " exclaimed De Pretis, impatiently ; " what good can you do by speaking to her ? 
Are you Dante, or Petrarca, or a preacher what 
are you ? Do you think you can have a great lady's 
hand for the asking? Do you flatter yourself you 
are so eloquent that nobody can withstand you ? " 
"Yes," said Nino boldly. "If I could only speak 
to her " 
"Then, in Heaven's name, go and speak to her. 
Get a new hat and a pair of lavender gloves, and 
walk about the Villa Borghese until you meet her, 
and then throw yourself on your knees and kiss her 
feet, and the dust from her shoes ; and say you are 
dying for her, and will she be good enough to walk 
so far as Santa Maria del Popolo and be married to 
you ! That is all ; you see it is nothing you ask a 
mere politeness on her part oh, nothing, nothing." 
And De Pretis rubbed his hands and smiled, and see 
ing that Nino did not answer, he blew his nose with 
his great blue cotton handkerchief. 
"You have no heart at all, maestro," said Nino at 
last. "Let us sing." 
They worked hard at Bordogni for half an hour, 
and Nino did not open his mouth except to produce 
the notes. But as his blood was up from the preceding interview he took great pains, and Ercole, 
who makes him sing all the solfeggi he can from a 
sense of duty, himself wearied of the ridiculous old- 
fashioned runs and intervals. 
"Bene," he said; "let us sing a piece now, and 
then you will have done enough." He put an opera 
on the piano, and Nino lifted up his voice and sang, 
only too glad to give his heart passage to his lips. 
Ercole screwed up his eyes with a queer smile he 
has when he is pleased. 
"Capperi! " he ejaculated, when Nino had done. 
"What has happened?" asked the latter. 
"I cannot tell you what has happened," said 
Ercole, "but I will tell you that you had better 
always sing like that, and you will be applauded. 
Why have you never sung that piece in that way 
before?" 
" I do not know. Perhaps it is because I am un 
happy." 
" Very well, never dare to be happy again, if you 
mean to succeed. You can make a statue shed tears 
if you please." 
Ercole took a pinch of snuff, and turned round to 
look out of the window. Nino leaned on the piano, 
drumming with his fingers and looking at the back 
of the maestro's head. The first rays of the sun 
just fell into the room and gilded the red brick 
floor. 
"Then instead of buying lavender kid gloves," 
said Nino at last, his face relaxing a little, "and 
going to the Villa Borghese, you advise me to bor 
row a guitar and sing to my statue ? Is that it? " 
 
" Che Diana ! I did not say that ! " said Ercole, 
still facing the window and finishing his pinch of 
snuff with a certain satisfaction. "But if you want 
the guitar, take it, there it lies. I will not answer for what you do with it. " 
His voice sounded kindly, for he was so much 
pleased. Then he made Nino sing again, a little 
love song of Tosti, who writes for the heart and sings 
so much better without a voice than all your stage 
tenors put together. And the maestro looked long 
at Nino when he had done, but he did not say anything. Nino put on his hat, gloomily enough, and 
prepared to go. 
"I will take the guitar, if you will lend it to me," 
he said. 
" Yes, if you like, and I will give you a handkerchief to wrap it up with," said De Pretis, absently, 
but he did not get up from his seat. He was watch 
ing Nino, and he seemed to be thinking. Just as 
the boy was going with the instrument under his 
arm, he called him back. 
"Ebbene?" said Nino, with his hand on the lock 
of the door. 
"I will make you a song to sing to your guitar," 
said Ercole. 
"You?" 
"Yes but without music. Look here, Nino 
sit down. What a hurry you are in! I was young 
myself, once upon a time." 
" Once upon a time ! Fairy stories once upon a 
time there was a king, and so on." Nino was not 
to be easily pacified. 
 
" Well, perhaps it is a fairy tale, but it is in the 
future. I have an idea." 
" Oh, is that all ? But it is perhaps the first time
I understand." 
" Listen. Have you read Dante ? " 
" I know the Vita Nuova by heart, and some of the 
Commedia. But how the diavolo does Dante enter 
into this question?" 
" And Silvio Pellico, and a little literature ? " con 
tinued Ercole, not heeding the comment. 
"Yes, after a fashion. And you? Do you know 
them?" 
" Che c entro io ? " cried Ercole impatiently ; " what 
do I want to know such things for? But I have 
heard of them." 
"I congratulate you," replied Nino ironically. 
"Have patience. You are no longer an artist. 
You are a professor of literature." 
"I a professor of literature ? What nonsense are 
you talking?" 
" You are a great stupid donkey, Nino. Suppos 
ing I obtain for you an engagement to read literature 
with the Contessina di Lira, will you not be a professor? If you prefer singing"- But Nino comprehended in a flash the whole scope of the proposal, 
and threw his arms round Ercole's neck and embraced 
him. 
" What a mind ! Oh, maestro mio, I will die for 
you ! Command me, and I will do anything for you ; 
I will run errands for you, black your boots, any 
thing " he cried in the ecstasy of delight that over 
mastered him. 
 
"Piano, piano," objected the maestro, disengaging 
himself from his pupil's embrace. " It is not done 
yet. There is much, much to think of first." 
Nino retreated, a little disconcerted at not finding 
his enthusiasm returned, but radiant still. 
"Calm yourself," said Ercole, smiling. "If you 
do this thing, you must act a part. You must man 
age to conceal your occupation entirely. You must 
look as solemn as an undertaker and be a real profes 
sor. They will ultimately find you out, and throw 
you out of the window, and dismiss me for recommending you. But that is nothing." 
"No," said Nino, "that is of no importance." 
And he ran his fingers through his hair, and looked 
delighted. 
"You shall know all about it this evening, or 
to-morrow " 
"This evening, Sor Ercole, this evening, or I 
shall die. Stay, let me go to the house with you, 
when you give your lesson, and wait for you at the 
door." 
" Pumpkin-head ! I will have nothing to do with 
you," said De Pretis. 
" Ah, I will be as quiet as you please. I will be 
like a lamb, and wait until this evening." 
" If you will really be quiet, I will do what you 
wish. Come to me this evening, about the Ave 
Maria or a little earlier. Yes, come at twenty- 
three hours." In October that is about five o clock, 
by French time. 
"And I may take the guitar?" said Nino, as he 
rose to go. 
 
" With all my heart. But do not spoil everything 
by singing to her, and betraying yourself." 
So Nino thanked the maestro enthusiastically and 
went away, humming a tune, as he now and again 
struck the strings of the guitar he carried under his 
arm, to be sure it was there. 
Do not think, because De Pretis suddenly changed 
his mind, and even proposed to Nino a plan for mak 
ing the acquaintance of the young countess, that he 
is a man to veer about like a weather-cock, nor yet a 
bad man, willing to help a boy to do mischief. That 
is not at all like Ercole de Pretis. He has since told 
me he was much astonished at the way Nino sang the 
