as may be needed to prevent cold, a wrapper and the kitchen apron.
Cover your hair entirely with a handkerchief or sweeping cap. Before
beginning operations down-stairs eat a half-slice of dry bread or a
biscuit. You will not relish it, but take it all the same to appease
the empty, discontented stomach. Having made out your rolls and tucked
them up snugly for the final rise, return to your chamber for a
comfortable bath and toilet. When habited for the day in all except the
outer gown, collar, etc., slip on the wrapper again and run down to
put the biscuits in the oven. Unless it is too hot, they will get no
harm while you finish dressing in ten minutes, just in season to turn
the pan.
From the beginning of your apprenticeship in housewifery, learn how to
“dovetail” your duties neatly into one another. A wise accommodation of
parts and angles, and compactness in the adjustment of “must-be-dones”
are better than mere personal strength in the accomplishment of such
tasks as fall to women to perform. Master these, and do not let them
master you. Weave the little duties in and under and among what seem
to be the greater. While your bread is taking a three hours’ rise, you
are free in body and mind for other things. The grand secret of keeping
house well and without worry, lies in the art of packing and fitting
different kinds of work and in picking up the minutes. Other things
besides rising dough get on quite as well without your standing by to
watch them.
3
BREAKFAST BREADS.
UNDER this head may be classed muffins, griddle-cakes, crumpets, corn
bread, Sally Lunn, quick biscuits, and a dozen other varieties of warm
bread suitable for breakfast and tea. They furnish a very pleasant
variety in the daily bill of fare, and are extremely popular.
Nor are they unwholesome if properly made and cooked, and eaten by well
people. To weak and impaired digestive organs all kinds of warm bread
are hurtful.
English Muffins.
    One quart of sifted flour.
    Two cups of lukewarm water.
    Half a cup of yeast.
    One tablespoonful of butter melted, but not hot. One
      teaspoonful of salt sifted with the flour.
Sift the flour and salt into a bowl, make a hole in the middle and pour
in yeast and warm water. Stir down the flour gradually into the liquid,
and when all is in, beat hard with a wooden spoon. Should the mixture
be too stiff for this, add a little more water. It should be about half
as thick as bread-dough. Beat for five minutes and set aside to rise,
with a cloth thrown over the bowl, in a moderately warm corner.
Early in the morning stir the melted butter into the dough, beat hard
for two minutes, and leave for half an hour in the covered bowl in a
warm place—such as on a stool near the fire—turning it several times.
Grease muffin-rings well with sweet lard, arrange them upon a greased
griddle set over the fire and already warmed (not really hot), fill
about half-way to the top with batter, and bake quickly. When the dough
fills the rings and begins to look firm on the top, slip a knife under
one and peep at the under side. If it is delicately browned, turn the
rings over with a spatula or cake-turner. This must be done quickly and
dexterously, so as not to spill the batter.
When quite done, wrap a thick cloth about your fingers, take up the
muffin-rings one by one; pass a sharp knife around the inside of each,
to loosen the muffin, and shake it out upon a hot plate. Pile them up
neatly and cover with a clean napkin. These muffins must be broken, not
cut open, and buttered while hot.
The English split, toast and butter cold muffins.
Crumpets.
    Two cups of lukewarm milk.
    Two thirds of a cup of lukewarm water.
    One quart of sifted flour.
    One tablespoonful of white sugar.
    Half a teaspoonful of salt.
    Two tablespoonfuls of melted butter.
    Half a cupful of yeast.
    Soda the size of a pea, dissolved in a teaspoonful of
      boiling water.
Mix milk, yeast, water, sugar and salted flour as directed in former
receipt. Beat hard, and set to rise over night. In the morning work in
the butter and soda, beat up for one whole minute until the mixture is
light throughout, and half-fill greased patty-pans with it. Set these
in a baking-pan, cover with a cloth, and let them stand in a warm place
fifteen minutes before putting them into a steady oven. They should be
done in from twelve to fifteen minutes if the oven is right. If they
brown too fast, cover them with paper.
Quick Muffins.
    One quart of sifted flour.
    One tablespoonful of salt.
    Three cups lukewarm milk.
    Two eggs.
    One tablespoonful of melted butter.
    Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder.
Sift flour, baking-powder and salt twice through the sieve, to make
sure these are well mixed together. Beat the eggs very light. (By
all means have a Dover Egg-Beater for this purpose. It whips eggs to
a lovely froth with less labor and in less time than any other yet
invented.)
Stir melted butter, eggs and milk together in a large bowl, and to this
add the flour, a cupful at a time, stirring very quickly and lightly
down toward the middle of the bowl. Beat hard up one minute at the
last, to break flour-lumps; half-fill greased patty-pans with the
batter, and then bake in a quick oven.
Turn out and eat while puffy and hot.
Sally Lunn. (The “Genuine Article.”)
    One quart of sifted flour.
    One cup of warm milk.
    One of warm water.
    Four large tablespoonfuls of yeast.
    Two tablespoonfuls of melted butter.
    Four eggs.
    One tablespoonful of salt sifted with the flour.
    Soda the size of a pea, dissolved in a teaspoonful of
      boiling water.
Beat the eggs steadily four minutes. Have ready in a bowl the warmed
milk, water, melted butter and soda. Into this stir the salted flour,
cupful by cupful, until all is in. Beat smooth from lumps and add the
yeast. The eggs should now be whipped three minutes with the “Dover,”
in a cool bowl. They will not froth in a hot or warm one. When light,
beat well into the batter, and then beat up hard for a full minute.
A wooden spoon is best for this purpose. Butter a tin cake-mould well
in every part, and put in the batter. If there is more than enough
to half-fill the mould have two prepared, that the contents may not
overflow in rising.
Set in a moderately warm place for six hours at least, and then bake in
the mould for three quarters of an hour if there is but one loaf, half
an hour if there are two.
The oven must be steady and not very hot at first. Turn the mould twice
in this time keeping the oven door open as short a time as possible.
When you think the loaf is done, thrust a clean straw down into the
thickest part.
If it comes up as clean as when it went in, take out the bread. Slip a
knife around the edge to loosen it, and turn out upside down on a warm
plate.
Cut in triangular slices at table, holding the knife upright to avoid
crushing and making it heavy.
Quick Biscuits.
    One quart of sifted flour.
    Two heaping tablespoonfuls of sweet, firm lard.
    Two cups of new milk (warm from the cow if you can get
      it.)
    Two tablespoonfuls of baking powder.
    One teaspoonful of salt.
Sift salt, flour, and baking-powder twice into a bowl or tray. With
a clean sharp chopping-knife work the lard into this, turning and
chopping until no lumps are left. Into a hollow in the middle pour
the milk, working the flour downward until you have a soft, wet mass,
using the chopper for this purpose. Flour your pastry-board and your
hands, make the dough into a ball, handling it as little as possible,
and lay on the board. Roll out with a floured rolling-pin into a sheet
half an inch in thickness, and with very few strokes. Cut into round
cakes, sift flour lightly over the bottom of a baking-pan, and set your
biscuits—just not touching one another—in even rows within it.
Bake about twelve minutes in a quick oven. The dough should have a
rough appearance before it is baked, like what is known as “pebbled
morocco.” Too much handling will make it sleek without and tough within.
You can make excellent quick biscuits by the above receipt, by
substituting Hecker’s Prepared Flour for the barreled family flour,
and omitting the baking-powder. You will, however, probably be obliged
to add a little more milk, as prepared flour “thickens up” rather more
than other brands.
4
OTHER BREAKFAST BREADS.
Griddle Cakes.
IN making these, let quickness be the first, second and third rules.
Beat briskly and thoroughly; mix just as you are ready to send the
cakes to the table (except when yeast is used), bake, turn, and serve
promptly. Have all your materials on the table, measured and ready to
your hand. The griddle must be perfectly clean and wiped off with a dry
cloth just before you lay it on the stove. Heat it gradually at one
side of the stove or range, and when it is warm grease with a bit of
fat salt pork stuck firmly on a fork. The fat should be hissing hot,
but not scorching, when the batter is poured on. Before putting the
cakes on to fry, slip the griddle to the hottest part of the stove.
Drop the batter in great, even spoonfuls, and be careful not to spill
or spatter it.
M. H. PHILLIPS AND CO., of Troy, N. Y., manufacture a griddle with
three shallow cups sunken in an iron plate which moves on a hinge. When
the cakes are done on the lower side the turn of a handle reverses
the plate upon a heated surface. This makes the cakes of equal size
and thickness and saves the trouble of watching, spatula in hand, to
turn each one. It greatly simplifies the process of baking cakes, and,
lessens the heating labor of attending to them.
Be sure that each cake is done before you turn it. A twice-turned
“griddle” is spoiled.
Sour-milk Cakes.
    One quart of “loppered,” or of buttermilk.
    Three cups of sifted flour.
    One cup of Indian meal.
    One “rounded” teaspoonful of soda free from lumps.
    One teaspoonful of salt.
    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.
Sift flour, salt and meal into a bowl. In another mix the milk,
molasses and soda. Stir these last to a foam, and pour into the hollow
in the middle of the flour. Work down the flour into the liquid with
a wooden spoon until you have a batter, and beat hard with upward
strokes, two minutes. Bake at once. These are cheap, easy and good
cakes.
Hominy Cakes.
    Two cups of fine hominy boiled and cold. (Take the
      tough skin from the top before mixing in the batter.)
    One heaping cup of sifted flour.
    One quart of milk.
    Three eggs beaten very light.
    One tablespoonful of molasses.
    One teaspoonful of salt.
Rub the hominy with the back of a wooden spoon until all the lumps are
broken up. Wet it little by little with the milk and molasses, working
it smooth as you go on. Sift flour and salt together, and put in next.
Beat for a whole minute before adding the whipped eggs, and another
minute very hard, before baking. Stir up well from the bottom before
putting each fresh batch of cakes on the griddle.
These cakes if properly made, are tender, wholesome and delightful.
Graham Cakes.
    Two cups of Graham flour.
    One of sifted white.
    One heaping tablespoonful of Indian meal.
    Three cups of buttermilk, or loppered milk.
    One rounded teaspoonful of soda.
    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.
    One teaspoonful of salt sifted with the flour.
    Two eggs whipped very light.
    One tablespoonful melted butter.
Put Graham and salted white flour into a bowl with the Indian meal.
Stir up in another milk, molasses, soda and melted butter, and while
foaming pour into the hollowed flour. Work to a good batter and beat in
the eggs already whipped to a froth.
Beat one minute and bake at once.
This is a good standard breakfast hot bread.
5
EGGS.
MANY people do not know a well-boiled egg by sight or taste, yet
a fresh egg, boiled to a nicety, is one of the simplest, most
nutritious of breakfast dishes.
Boiled Eggs.
Select the cleanest eggs, wash them well, and lay them in lukewarm
water for five minutes. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of water on a
fast boil, and in quantity sufficient to cover the eggs entirely. Into
this put one egg at a time with a spoon, depositing each gently on the
bottom, and quickly.
Four minutes boils an egg thoroughly, if one likes the white set and
the yolk heated to the centre. Five minutes makes the white firm and
sets the yolk. Ten minutes boils both hard.
Take up the eggs with a split spoon or wire whisk. If you have no
regular egg dish, lay a heated napkin in a deep dish or bowl (also
warmed), put in the eggs as in a nest, cover up with the corners of the
napkin, and send directly to the table. They harden in the shells if
left long without being broken.
The best way to manage a boiled egg at the table is the English way of
setting it upright in the small end of the egg-cup, making a hole in
the top large enough to admit the egg-spoon, and eating it from the
shell, seasoning as you go on. Heat and taste are undoubtedly better
preserved by this method than by any other. Those who cannot afford
gold-washed spoons, can procure pretty ivory ones at a trifling cost,
or small teaspoons will serve the purpose.
Spoons smeared with eggs should be laid to soak in cold water
directly you have finished using them.
Custard Eggs.
Put the washed eggs in a saucepan of cold water and let them just come
to a boil, then take them up.
Or, lay them in a hot tin pail, cover them with boiling water, put the
top on the pail and leave them on the kitchen table for five minutes.
Drain off the water, pour on more boiling hot and replace the top.
Wrap a hot towel about the pail, and leave it four minutes before
dishing the eggs. They will be like a soft custard throughout, and more
digestible than if cooked in any other way.
Poached, or Dropped Eggs.
Into a clean frying-pan, pour plenty of boiling water, and a
teaspoonful of salt. Let it boil steadily, not violently. Wipe a cup
dry, break an egg into it, and pour, very cautiously and quickly, on
the surface of the water. Avoid spreading or breaking it. It will sink
to the bottom for an instant, but if the water is boiling hot, will
rise soon and be cooked in about three and a half minutes. Do not put
more than three into the pan at one time, or they will run into one
another.
Take them up with a perforated skimmer and lay on a hot, flat dish
in which a teaspoonful of butter has been melted. If the whites have
ragged edges, trim neatly with a sharp knife. When all are done, pepper
and salt lightly, put a bit of butter on each egg and send up very
hot.
Eggs on Toast.
Cut out with a sharp-edged tumbler or a cake cutter as many round
slices of stale bread as there are eggs to be cooked. Toast these
nicely, butter thinly; cover the bottom of a heated dish with them, and
pour on each a tablespoonful of boiling water. Set in the plate-warmer
or an open oven while you poach eggs as directed in the last receipt.
Lay each when done on a round of toast, pepper, salt and butter, and
serve.
Eggs on Savory Toast.
Toast rounds of stale bread as directed in preceding receipt, but
instead of moistening them with hot water, pour upon them, as they
lie in the dish, two tablespoonfuls of boiling gravy to each slice.
A half-cupful of gravy left over from yesterday’s roast or stew
skimmed free of fat, heated, thinned with a very little boiling water,
well-seasoned, then strained and boiled up quickly, makes this a
tempting dish.
Poach as many eggs as you have rounds of toast, and lay on these, with
pepper, salt and bits of butter.
Scrambled or Stirred Eggs.
    Nine eggs.
    One tablespoonful of butter.
    Half a teaspoonful of salt.
    A little pepper.
    Half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley very fine.
Break the eggs altogether in a bowl. Put the butter in a clean
frying-pan and set it on the range. As it melts, add pepper, salt and
parsley. When it hisses, pour in the eggs, and begin at once to stir
them, scraping the bottom of the pan from the sides toward the centre,
until you have a soft, moist mass just firm enough not to run over the
bottom of the heated dish on which you turn it out. Make it into a neat
mound. Some people prefer it without the parsley.
In serving everything, be careful that the rims of the dishes are
perfectly clean. The effect of the most delicious viand is spoiled by
drops or smears of food on the vessel containing it.
If you heap your scrambled eggs on a platter and lay parsley-sprigs
around, making a green fringe or border for the yellow hillock, you
have an elegant dish. Study to make plain things pretty when you can.
Bacon and Eggs.
Fry as many slices of ham, or what is known as breakfast-bacon, as
there are eggs to be cooked. Have the clean frying-pan warm, but not
hot, when the meat goes in. Turn the slices as they brown. When done,
take the pan over to the sink or table, remove the meat to a hot dish
and set where it will keep warm.
Strain the grease left in the pan through a bit of tarlatan or coarse
muslin into a cup. Wipe the frying-pan clean, pour in the strained fat
and return to the fire. If there is not enough to cover the bottom a
quarter of an inch deep, add a tablespoonful of butter. Break the eggs
one at a time in a cup, and when the fat hisses put them in carefully.
Few people like “turned” fried eggs. Slip a cake-turner or spatula
under each as it cooks to keep it from sticking. They should be done in
about three minutes. Do not put in more at once than can swim in the
fat without interfering with one another.
Take up as fast as they cook, trim off ragged and rusty edges and lay
on a hot platter. Drain each to get rid of the fat, as you take it out
of the pan.
When all are dished, lay the ham or bacon neatly about the eggs like
a garnish. Pepper all lightly. Ham for this purpose should be cut in
small narrow slices.
Drop sprays of parsley on the rim of the dish.
Baked Eggs.
Put a tablespoonful of butter in a pie-plate, and set in the oven until
it melts and begins to smoke. Take it to the table and break six eggs
one by one into a cup, pouring each in turn into the melted butter
carefully. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, put a tiny bit of butter
on each and set in the oven to bake until the eggs are “set”—that is,
when the whites are firm and the yolks skimmed over, but not hard. Four
minutes in a quick oven should do this. Send to table at once.
If you have a few spoonfuls of nice chicken gravy, you can strain and
use it instead of butter.
Scalloped Eggs.
    Six eggs.
    Half a cupful of nice gravy skimmed and strained.
      Chicken, turkey, game and veal gravy are especially
      good for this purpose. Clear soup may also be used.
    Half a cupful of pounded cracker or fine dry
      bread-crumbs.
    Pepper and salt.
Pour the gravy into a pie-plate and let it get warm before putting in
the eggs as in last receipt. Pepper, salt and strew cracker crumbs
evenly over them. Bake five minutes. Serve in the pie-plate.
Dropped Eggs with White Sauce.
Drop or poach the eggs; put them on a hot, flat dish and pour over them
this sauce boiling hot.
    In a saucepan put half a cupful of boiling water.
    Two or three large spoonfuls of nice strained gravy.
    A little pepper.
    A quarter teaspoonful of salt.
When this boils stir in a heaping teaspoonful of flour wet up smoothly
with a little cold water to keep it from lumping. Stir and boil one
minute and add a tablespoonful of butter. Stir steadily two minutes
longer, add, if you like, a little minced parsley, and pour the sauce
which should be like thick cream, over the dished eggs.
Omelette.
    Six eggs.
    Four teaspoonfuls of cream.
    Half a teaspoonful salt.
    A little pepper.
    Two tablespoonfuls of butter.
Whip whites and yolks together for four minutes in a bowl with the
“Dover” egg beater. They should be thick and smooth before you beat in
cream, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a clean frying-pan, set on
one side of the stove where it will keep warm but not scorch. Pour the
beaten mixture into it and remove to a place where the fire is hotter.
As it “sets,” slip a broad knife carefully around the edges and under
it, that the butter may find its way freely to all parts of the pan.
When the middle is just set, pass a cake-turner carefully under one
half of the omelette and fold it over the other. Lay a hot platter
upside down above the doubled mass and holding frying-pan and dish
firmly, turn the latter quickly over, reversing the positions of the
two, and depositing the omelette in the dish.
Do not be mortified should you break your trial omelette. Join the bits
neatly; lay sprays of parsley over the cracks and try another soon. Be
sure it is loosened from the pan before you try to turn it out; hold
pan and dish fast in place; do not be nervous or flurried, and you will
soon catch the knack of dishing the omelette dexterously and handsomely.
I have given you ten receipts for cooking eggs. It would be easy to
furnish as many more without exhausting the list of ways of preparing
this invaluable article of food for our tables. I have selected the
methods that are at once easy and excellent, and adapted to the ability
of a class of beginners.
6
BROILED MEATS.
IT has been said that the frying-pan has ruined more American
digestions than all the other hurtful agencies combined. It
is certainly true that while the process of frying properly
performed upon certain substances does not of necessity, make them
unwholesome—the useful utensil does play altogether too important a
part in our National cookery. Broiled meats are more wholesome, more
palatable, and far more elegant. Certain things should never be fried.
That beefsteak should never make the acquaintance of the frying-pan
is a rule without an exception.
The best gridirons for private families are the light, double
“broilers,” made of tinned wire and linked together at the back with
loops of the same material. They are easily handled, turned and
cleansed, and when not in use may be hung on the wall out of the way.
It is well to have two sizes, one for large steaks, the smaller for
birds, oysters, and when there is occasion to broil a single chop or
chicken-leg for an invalid.
Beefsteak.
Never wash a steak unless it has fallen in the dirt or met with other
accident. In this case cleanse quickly in cold water and wipe perfectly
dry before cooking.
Have a clear hot fire and do not uncover that part of the stove above
it until you have adjusted the steak on the broiler. If you use the
ordinary iron gridiron, lay the meat on it the instant it goes over the
fire, but have it already warm and rub the bars with a bit of fresh
suet.
When the meat has lain over the coals two minutes and begins to
“sizzle,” turn it and let the other side cook as long. Watch it
continually and turn whenever it begins to drip. Do this quickly to
keep in the juices. If these should fall in the fire in spite of your
care, lift it for an instant and hold over a plate or dish until the
smoke is gone. Broiled meats flavored with creosote are not uncommon,
but always detestable. The knack of broiling a steak well is to turn it
so often and dexterously that it will neither be smoked nor scorched.
Ten minutes should cook it rare, if the fire is right and the steak
not very thick. Cut with a keen blade into the thickest part when the
time is up. If the heart is of a rich red-brown—not the livid purple of
uncooked flesh, carry broiler and meat to a table where stands a hot
dish. Lay the steak on this. In a saucer have a liberal tablespoonful
of butter cut into bits, and with these rub both sides of the smoking
steak, leaving unmelted pieces on the top. Sprinkle it also on both
sides with pepper and salt—about half a teaspoonful of salt and a third
as much pepper for a large steak. All this must be done quickly.
Before you begin to cook the steak, prepare the butter and measure the
salt and pepper. Cover the dish closely. If you have not a block-tin
dish-cover, lay over the steak another dish, made very hot in the oven,
and set both with the meat between them in the plate-warmer, or in an
open oven, or somewhere where it will keep hot for three minutes.
Serve—i. e. put on the table—as hot as possible and on warm plates.
Unless you have a hot water dish, do not send the steak into the
dining-room until all have taken their places.
Sometimes steak is tough. You shake your head over it as it comes from
the butcher’s basket. I know of an enterprising meat merchant who
objected to a wealthy customer because he would have choice cuts. He
was willing to pay double for them, but as the worthy seller observed:
“We must sell second-best cuts, and he’d ought to take his turn.”
Like sin, tough steak ought not to be, but it is! If your turn to
take it has come, lay it on a clean board, some hours before cooking
it, and hack it on both sides, criss-cross, with a tolerably sharp
knife, taking care not to cut too deeply. Rub both sides very well
with the strained juice of a lemon, and set the meat in a cold place
until you are ready to cook it. Do this over night, if you want it for
breakfast. Very tough, fibrous meat is sometimes made eatable by this
process.
Mutton or Lamb Chops.
Cut off most of the fat and all the skin. A clean bone an inch in
length will project from the smaller end when you have pared away the
tallow and skin which would have cooked into rankness and leather.
Put as many chops on the broiler as it will conveniently hold, and
broil as you would beefsteak. Cut into the largest to see if it is
done. If it is, lay the chops on a heated dish set over a pot of
boiling water; butter, pepper and salt them, and cover them up while
you cook the rest.
Serve as soon as the last is cooked, as they lose flavor with standing.
Lay sprigs of parsley around the edges of the dish and scatter a few
over the chops which must be arranged in neat rows, a small end next to
a large.
Broiled Ham.
Cut even slices from a cold boiled Ferris & Co.’s “Trade Mark” ham.
Divide these into oblong pieces about an inch and a half in width,
and broil quickly over clear coals until a delicate brown touches the
slices here and there. Lay in order on a hot dish. Broiled ham is
appetizing, and should be accompanied by dry toast, lightly buttered.
7
FRIED MEATS.
Larded Liver.
THE butcher will slice the liver, or show you how to do it. When it is
cut up, lay it in cold water in which has been stirred a teaspoonful of
salt. This will draw out the blood.
Cut fat, raw salt pork into strips a finger long and a quarter of an
inch thick and wide.
In half an hour’s time take the liver from the water, spread it out on
a clean dry cloth, lay another cloth over the slices and pat gently
to dry them thoroughly. Make holes an inch apart in the liver with a
pen-knife or sharp skewer, and stick in the pork strips. They should
protrude an equal distance on both sides.
As fast as they are ready, lay them in a clean, warm (not hot)
frying-pan. When all are in, set it over the fire, and let it fry
rather slowly in the fat that will run out from the pork “lardoons.”
In five minutes turn the slices, and again ten minutes later. Let the
liver heat quite slowly for the first ten minutes. If cooked fast it is
hard and indigestible. Allow about twenty-five minutes for frying it.
Take it up with a fork, draining off every drop of grease against the
side of the pan as you remove each piece, and dish on a hot platter.
Put a half a teaspoonful of tomato sauce on each slice. Serve without
gravy and very hot.
Veal Cutlets (Breaded).
Whip two eggs light and pour them into a pie-plate. Turn the cutlets,
one by one, over in this until every part is coated. In another dish
spread evenly a cupful of rolled or pounded cracker, very fine and dry.
Turn the “egged” cutlets over in this to encrust them well.
Meanwhile four large spoonfuls of sweet lard or nice beef-dripping
must be melting in a clean frying-pan at one side of the range. When
the cutlets are all breaded, move the pan directly over the fire. As
the fat begins a lively hiss, put in as many cutlets as can lie in it
without crowding. In five minutes turn them with care, not to loosen
the crumb-coating. After another five minutes of rapid frying, pull the
pan to a spot where the cooking will go on slowly, but regularly. In
ten minutes turn the cutlets a second time. In another ten minutes they
should be done.
Understand! The first fast cooking sears the surface of the meat and
forms the breading into a firm crust that keeps in the juices. The
slower work that follows cooks the veal thoroughly without hardening
the fibres.
Lift the cutlets carefully from the pan, draining all the grease from
each, and keep hot in a covered dish set over a pot of boiling water
until all are done.
Always put tomato catsup or tomato sauce, in some form, on the table
with veal cutlets.
Sausage Cakes.
Break off bits of sausage meat of equal size, roll them in the palms of
clean hands into balls and pat them into flat cakes. Arrange them in a
frying-pan and cook (not too fast) in their own fat, turning them twice
until they are nicely and evenly browned. The time allowed for frying
them depends on the size of the cakes. If they are not large, fifteen
minutes should be enough.
Serve on a hot dish, without gravy.
Smothered Sausages.
Prick “link” sausages—that is, those done up in skins, in fifteen or
twenty places, with a large needle; put them in a clean frying-pan in
which is a half a teacup full of hot water. Roll the sausages over in
this several times and cover closely. If you have not the lid of a
pot or of a tin-pail that fits the frying-pan, use a pie-dish turned
upside down. Set the pan where the water will bubble slowly, for ten
minutes. Lift the cover then, and roll the sausages over again two or
three times, to wet them thoroughly, leaving them with the sides up
that were down. Cover again and cook ten minutes longer. Turn them
twice more, at intervals of five minutes, cover, and let them steam
four minutes before taking them up. They will be plump, whole, tender
and well-done, and the bottom of the pan be almost dry. Lay in neat
rows on a hot dish.
Fish Balls.
Soak a pound of cod-fish all night in cold water. Change it in the
morning, and cover with lukewarm water for three hours more. Wash it,
scraping off the salt and fat; put it into a sauce-pan, cover it well
with water just blood-warm, and let it simmer—that is, not quite
boil, two hours. Take it up, pick out the bones and remove the skin,
and set the fish aside to cool.
When perfectly cold chop it fine in a wooden tray. Have ready, for a
cupful of minced fish, nearly two cupfuls of potato boiled and mashed
very smooth.
    A tablespoonful of butter.
    Half a teaspoonful of salt.
    Two tablespoonfuls of milk worked into the fish while
      hot.
    Add also, when the potato has been rubbed until free
      from lumps, the beaten yolk of an egg. Work this in
      well with a wooden or silver spoon.
    Now stir in the chopped fish, a little at a time,
      mixing all together until you have a soft mass which
      you can handle easily.
Drop a tablespoonful of the mixture on a floured pastry board, or a
floured dish. Flour your hands, roll the fish and potato into a ball,
and pat it into a cake, or make it as round as a marble. Lay these as
you form them on a dish dusted with flour, and when all are made out,
set in a cool place until morning.
Half an hour before breakfast, have five or six great spoonfuls of
sweet lard hissing hot in a frying-pan or doughnut-kettle. Put in the
balls a few at a time; turn as they color; take them out when they are
of a tanny brown, lay them in a hot colander set in a plate, and keep
warm in the open oven until all are fried.
A Breakfast Stew (very nice).
    Two pounds of lean beef. (The “second best cuts” may be
      used here.)
    A quarter of a medium-sized onion.
    A tablespoonful of browned flour.
    Half a teaspoonful each of minced parsley, summer
      savory, and sweet marjoram.
    As much allspice as will lie on a silver dime.
    One teaspoonful of Halford sauce.
    One saltspoonful of made mustard.
    One saltspoonful of pepper.
    Strained juice of half a lemon.
Cut the meat into pieces an inch square. Put it with the chopped onion
into a saucepan with a pint of lukewarm water; cover closely and cook
slowly, at least two hours and a half. The meat should not be allowed
to boil hard at any time, and when done, be so tender that it is ready
to fall to pieces.
Pour the stew into a bowl, add the salt and pepper, cover it and set in
a cool place until next morning.
Then put it back into the sauce-pan, set it over a quick fire, and
when it begins to boil, stir in the spice and herbs. (The latter may
be bought dried and powdered at the druggist’s if you cannot get them
fresh.)
Boil up sharply five minutes.
The flour should be browned the day before, by spreading it on a tin
plate and setting this on the stove, stirring constantly to keep it
