" I know it," said Miss Dewey. " If I could get 
rid of Hen, I could manage well enough with mother. 
Mr. Wemmel would marry me if I could get the 
divorce. "He 's said so over and over again." 
" I don't know as I like that very well," said 
Lapham, frowning. " I don't know as I want you 
should get married in any hurry again. I don't 
know as I like your going with anybody else just 
yet" 
" Oh, you needn't be afraid but what it 'll be all 
right. It 'll be the best thing all round, if I can 
marry him." 
"Well!" said Lapham impatiently; "I can't 
 
think about it now. I suppose they've cleaned 
everything out again ? " 
" Yes, they have," said Zerrilla ; " there isn't a 
cent left." 
"You're a pretty expensive lot," said Lapham. 
" Well, here ! " He took out his pocket-book and 
gave her a note. " I 'll be round to-night and see 
what can be done." 
He shut himself into his room again, and Zerrilla 
dried her tears, put the note into her bosom, and 
went her way. 
Lapham kept the porter nearly an hour later. It 
was then six o'clock, the hour at which the Laphams 
usually had tea ; but all custom had been broken up 
with him during the past months, and he did not go 
home now. He determined, perhaps in the extremity 
in which a man finds relief in combating one care 
with another, to keep his promise to Miss Dewey, 
and at the moment when he might otherwise have 
been sitting down at his own table he was climbing 
the stairs to her lodging in the old-fashioned dwelling 
which had been portioned off into flats. It was in 
a region of depots, and of the cheap hotels, and 
" ladies' and gents' " dining-rooms, and restaurants 
with bars, which abound near depots ; and Lapham 
followed to Miss Dewey's door a waiter from one of 
these, who bore on a salver before him a supper 
covered with a napkin. Zerrilla had admitted them, 
and at her greeting a young fellow in the shabby 
shore-suit of a sailor, buttoning imperfectly over the 
nautical blue flannel of his shirt, got up from where 
 
he had been sitting, on one side of the stove, and 
stood infirmly on his feet, in token of receiving the 
visitor. The woman who sat on the other side did 
not rise, but began a shrill, defiant apology. 
"Well, I don't suppose but what you'll think 
we're livin' on the fat o' the land, right straight 
along, all the while. But it 's just like this. When 
that child came in from her work, she didn't seem to 
have the spirit to go to cookin' anything, and I had 
such a bad night last night I was feelin' all broke 
up, and s'd I, what's the use, anyway? By the 
time the butcher 's heaved in a lot o' bone, and made 
you pay for the suet he cuts away, it comes to the 
same thing, and why not git it from the rest'rant 
first off, and save the cost o' your fire ? s'd I." 
" What have you got there under your apron ? A 
bottle ? " demanded Lapham, who stood with his hat 
on and his hands in his pockets, indifferent alike to 
the ineffective reception of the sailor and the chair 
Zerrilla had set him. 
"Well, yes, it's a bottle," said the woman, with 
an assumption of virtuous frankness. " It 's whisky ; 
I got to have something to rub my rheumatism with." 
" Humph ! " grumbled Lapham. " You 've been 
rubbing his rheumatism too, I see." 
He twisted his head in the direction of the sailor, 
now softly and rhythmically waving to and fro on 
his feet. 
" He hain't had a drop to-day in this house ! " cried 
the woman. 
" What are you doing around here ? " said Lap- 
ham, turning fiercely upon him. "You've got no 
 
business ashore. Where 's your ship ? Do you think 
I 'm going to let you come here and eat your wife 
out of house and home, and then give money to keep 
the concern going ? " 
" Just the very words I said when he first showed 
his face here, yist'day. Didn't I, Z'rilla ? " said the 
woman, eagerly joining in the rebuke of her late 
boon companion. " You got no business here, Hen, 
s'd I. You can't come here to live on me and Z'rilla, 
s'd I. You want to go back to your ship, s'd I. 
That 's what I said." 
The sailor mumbled, with a smile of tipsy amia 
bility for Lapham, something about the crew being 
discharged. 
" Yes," the woman broke in, "that's always the 
way with these coasters. Why don't you go off on 
some them long v'y'ges ? s'd I. It 's pretty hard 
when Mr. Wemmel stands ready to marry Z'rilla and 
provide a comfortable home for us both I hain't got 
a great many years more to live, and I should like to 
get some satisfaction out of 'em, and not be beholden 
and dependent all my days, to have Hen, here, 
blockin' the way. I tell him there 'd be more money 
for him in the end ; but he can't seem to make up 
his mind to it." 
" Well, now, look here," said Lapham. " I don't 
care anything about all that. It 's your own business, 
and I 'm not going to meddle with it. But it 's my 
business who lives off me ; and so I tell you all three, 
I 'm willing to take care of Zerrilla, and I 'm willing 
to take care of her mother " 
" I guess if it hadn't been for that child's father," 
the mother interpolated, "you wouldn't been here 
to tell the tale, Colonel Lapham." 
"I know all about that," said Lapham. "But 
I 'll tell you what, Mr. Dewey, I 'm not going to 
support you" 
" I don't see what Hen's done," said the old woman 
impartially. 
" He hasn't done anything, and I 'm going to stop 
it He 's got to get a ship, and he 's got to get out 
of this. And Zerrilla needn't come back to work 
till he does. I 'm done with you all." 
" Well, I vow," said the mother, " if I ever heard 
anything like it ! Didn't that child's father lay down 
his life for you ? Hain't you said it yourself a hun 
dred times ? And don't she work for her money, and 
slave for it mornin', noon, and night ? You talk as 
if we was beholden to you for the very bread in 
our mouths. I guess if it hadn't been for Jim, you 
wouldn't been here crowin' over us." 
"You mind what I say. I mean business this 
time," said Lapham, turning to the door. 
The woman rose and followed him, with her bottle 
in her hand. " Say, Colonel ! what should you 
advise Z'rilla to do about Mr. Wemmel ? I tell her 
there ain't any use goin' to the trouble to git a divorce 
without she 's sure about him. Don't you think we'd 
ought to git him to sign a paper, or something, that 
he 'll marry her if she gits it ? I don't like to have 
things going at loose ends the way they are. It ain't 
sense. It ain't right." 
 
Lapham made no answer to the mother anxious 
for her child's future, and concerned for the moral 
questions involved. He went out and down the 
stairs, and on the pavement at the lower door he 
almost struck against Rogers, who had a bag in his 
hand, and seemed to be hurrying towards one of the 
depots. He halted a little, as if to speak to Lapham ; 
but Lapham turned his back abruptly upon him, and 
took the other direction. 
The days were going by in a monotony of adver 
sity to him, from which he could no longer escape, 
even at home. He attempted once or twice to talk 
of his troubles to his wife, but she repulsed him 
sharply ; she seemed to despise and hate him ; but he 
set himself doggedly to make a confession to her, and 
he stopped her one night, as she came into the room 
where he sat hastily upon some errand that was to 
take her directly away again. 
" Persis, there 's something I Ve got to tell you." 
She stood still, as if fixed against her will, to 
listen. 
" I guess you know something about it already, 
and I guess it set you against me." 
" Oh, I guess not, Colonel Lapham. You go your 
way, and I go mine. That's all." 
She waited for him to speak, listening with a cold, 
hard smile on her face. 
" I don't say it to make favour with you, because 
I don't want you to spare me, and I don't ask you ; 
but I got into it through Milton K. Eogers." 
" Oh ! " said Mrs. Lapham contemptuously. 
 
" I always felt the way I said about it that it 
wan't any better than gambling, and I say so now. 
It 's like betting on the turn of a card ; and I give 
you my word of honour, Persis, that I never was in 
it at all till that scoundrel began to load me up with 
those wild-cat securities of his. Then it seemed to 
me as if I ought to try to do something to get some 
where even. I know it 's no excuse ; but watching 
the market to see what the infernal things were 
worth from day to day, and seeing it go up, and 
seeing it go down, was too much for me; and, to 
make a long story short, I began to buy and sell on 
a margin just what I told you I never would do. 
I seemed to make something I did make something ; 
and I 'd have stopped, I do believe, if I could have 
reached the figure I 'd set in my own mind to start 
with ; but I couldn't fetch it. I began to lose, and 
then I began to throw good money after bad, just as 
I always did with everything that Kogers ever came 
within a mile of. Well, what 's the use ? I lost the 
money that would have carried me out of this, and I 
shouldn't have had to shut down the Works, or sell 
the house, or " 
Lapham stopped. His wife, who at first had 
listened with mystification, and then dawning in 
credulity, changing into a look of relief that was 
almost triumph, lapsed again into severity. " Silas 
Lapham, if you was to die the next minute, is this 
what you started to tell me ? " 
" Why, of course it is. What did you suppose I 
started to tell you ? " 
" And look me in the eyes ! you haven't got 
anything else on your mind now ? " 
" No ! There 's trouble enough, the Lord knows ; 
but there 's nothing else to tell you. I suppose Pen 
gave you a hint about it. I dropped something to 
her. I 've been feeling bad about it, Persis, a good 
while, but I hain't had the heart to speak of it. I 
can't expect you to say you like it. I 've been a fool, 
I 'll allow, and I 've been something worse, if you 
choose to say so ; but that 's all. I haven't hurt 
anybody but myself and you and the children." 
Mrs. Lapham rose and said, with her face from 
him, as she turned towards the door, " It 's all right, 
Silas. I shan't ever bring it up against you." 
She fled out of the room, but all that evening she 
was very sweet with him, and seemed to wish in all 
tacit ways to atone for her past unkindness. 
She made him talk of his business, and he told her 
of Corey's offer, and what he had done about it. She 
did not seem to care for his part in it, however ; at 
which Lapham was silently disappointed a little, for 
he would have liked her to praise him. 
" He did it on account of Pen ! " 
"Well, he didn't insist upon it, anyway," said 
Lapham, who must have obscurely expected that 
Corey would recognise his own magnanimity by 
repeating his offer. If the doubt that follows a self- 
devoted action the question whether it was not 
after all a needless folly is mixed, as it was in 
Lapham's case, with the vague belief that we might 
have done ourselves a good turn without great risk 
 SILAS LAPHAM. 
of hurting any one else by being a little less unselfish, 
it becomes a regret that is hard to bear. Since Corey 
spoke to him, some things had happened that gave 
Lapham hope again. 
" I 'm going to tell her about it," said his wife, and 
she showed herself impatient to make up for the 
time she had lost. " Why didn't you tell me before, 
Silas ? " 
" I didn't know we were on speaking terms before," 
said Lapham sadly. 
"Yes, that's true," she admitted, with a conscious 
flush. " I hope he won't think Pen 's known about 
it all this while." 
XXIV. 
THAT evening James Bellingham came to see 
Corey after dinner, and went to find him in his own 
room. 
" I 've come at the instance of Colonel Lapham," 
said the uncle. "He was at my office to-day, and I 
had a long talk with him. Did you know that he 
was in difficulties ? " 
" I fancied that he was in some sort of trouble. 
And I had the book-keeper's conjectures he doesn't 
really know much about it." 
"Well, he thinks it time on all accounts that 
you should know how he stands, and why he de 
clined that proposition of yours. I must say he has 
behaved very well like a gentleman." 
" I 'm not surprised." 
" I am. It 's hard to behave like a gentleman 
where your interest is vitally concerned. And Lap- 
ham doesn't strike me as a man who 's in the habit 
of acting from the best in him always." 
" Do any of us ? " asked Corey. 
"Not all of us, at any rate," said Bellingham. 
"It must have cost him something to say no to 
you, for he 's just in that state when he believes 
that this or that chance, however small, would save 
him." 
Corey was silent. "Is he really in such a bad 
way ? " 
" It 's hard to tell just where he stands. I suspect 
that a hopeful temperament and fondness for round 
numbers have always caused him to set his figures 
beyond his actual worth. I don't say that he 's been 
dishonest about it, but he 's had a loose way of 
estimating his assets ; he 's reckoned his wealth on 
the basis of his capital, and some of his capital is 
borrowed. He 's lost heavily by some of the recent 
failures, and there 's been a terrible shrinkage in his 
values. I don't mean merely in the stock of paint 
on hand, but in a kind of competition which has be 
come very threatening. You know about that West 
Virginian paint ? " 
Corey nodded. 
" Well, he tells me that they Ve struck a vein of 
natural gas out there which will enable them to 
make as good a paint as his own at a cost of manu 
facturing so low that they can undersell him every 
where. If this proves to be the case, it will not only 
drive his paint out of the market, but will reduce 
the value of his Works the whole plant at Lap- 
ham to a merely nominal figure." 
" I see," said Corey dejectedly. " I 've understood 
that he had put a great deal of money into his 
Works." 
" Yes, and he estimated his mine there at a high 
 
figure. Of course it will be worth little or nothing 
if the West Virginia paint drives his out. Then, be 
sides, Lapham has been into several things outside 
of -his own business, and, like a good many other 
men who try outside things, he 's kept account of 
them himself ; and he 's all mixed up about them. 
He 's asked me to look into his affairs with him, and 
I 've promised to do so. Whether he can be tided 
over his difficulties remains to be seen. I 'm afraid 
it will take a good deal of money to do it a great 
deal more than he thinks, at least. He believes com 
paratively little would do it. I think differently. I 
think that anything less than a great deal would be 
thrown away on him. If it were merely a question 
of a certain sum even a large sum to keep him 
going, it might be managed ; but it 's much more 
complicated. And, as I say, it must have been a 
trial to him to refuse your offer." 
This did not seem to be the way in which Belling- 
ham had meant to conclude. But he said no more ; 
and Corey made him no response. 
He remained pondering the case, now hopefully, 
now doubtfully, and wondering, whatever his mood 
was, whether Penelope knew anything of the fact 
with which her mother went nearly at the same 
moment to acquaint her. 
" Of course, he 's done it on your account," Mrs. 
Lapham could not help saying. 
" Then he was very silly. Does he think I would 
let him give father money ? And if father lost it for 
him, does he suppose it would make it any easier for 
 
me ? I think father acted twice as well. It was 
very silly." 
In repeating the censure, her look was not so 
severe as her tone ; she even smiled a little, and her 
mother reported to her father that she acted more 
like herself than she had yet since Corey's offer. 
" I think, if he was to repeat his offer, she would 
have him now," said Mrs. Lapham. 
"Well, I'll let her know if he does," said the 
Colonel. 
" I guess he won't do it to you ! " she cried. 
" Who else will he do it to ? " he demanded. 
They perceived that they had each been talking 
of a different offer. 
After Lapham went to his business in the morning 
the postman brought another letter from Irene, 
which was full of pleasant things that were happen 
ing to her ; there was a great deal about her cousin 
Will, as she called him. At the end she had written, 
" Tell Pen I don't want she should be foolish." 
" There ! " said Mrs. Lapham. " I guess it 's going 
to come out right, all round ; " and it seemed as if 
even the Colonel's difficulties were past. "When 
your father gets through this, Pen," she asked im 
pulsively, " what shall you do ? " 
" What have you been telling Irene about me ? " 
" Nothing much. What should you do ? " 
" It would be a good deal easier to say what I 
should do if father didn't," said the girl. 
" I know you think it was nice in him to make 
your father that offer," urged the mother. 
 
" It was nice, yes ; but it was silly," said the 
girl. " Most nice things are silly, I suppose," she 
added. 
She went to her room and wrote a letter. It was 
very long, and very -carefully written ; and when she 
read it over, she tore it into small pieces. She 
wrote another one, short and hurried, and tore that 
up too. Then she went back to her mother, in the 
family room, and asked to see Irene's letter, and read 
it over to herself. " Yes, she seems to be having a 
good time," she sighed. " Mother, do you think I 
ought to let Mr. Corey know that I know about 
it?" 
" "Well, I should think it would be a pleasure to 
him," said Mrs. Lapham judicially. 
" I 'm not so sure of that the way I should have 
to tell him. I should begin by giving him a scolding. 
Of course, he meant well by it, but can't you see that 
it wasn't very flattering ? How did he expect it 
would change me ? " 
" I don't believe he ever thought of that." 
" Don't you ? Why ? " 
"Because you can see that he isn't one of that 
kind. He might want to please you without want 
ing to change you by what he did." 
" Yes. He must have known that nothing would 
change me, at least, nothing that he could do. I 
thought of that. I shouldn't like him to feel that I 
couldn't appreciate it, even if I did think it was silly. 
Should you write to him ? " 
" I don't see why not." 
 
"It would be too pointed. No, I shall just let it 
go. I wish he hadn't done it." 
" Well, he has done it." 
"And I've tried to write to him about it two 
letters : one so humble and grateful that it couldn't 
stand up on its edge, and the other so pert and flip 
pant. Mother, I wish you could have seen those 
two letters ! I wish I had kept them to look at if I 
ever got to thinking I had any sense again. They 
would take the conceit out of me." 
" What 's the reason he don't come here any morel " 
"Doesn't he come ?" asked Penelope in turn, as 
if it were something she had not noticed particularly. 
" You 'd ought to know." 
"Yes." She sat silent a while. "If he doesn't 
come, I suppose it 's because he 's offended at some 
thing I did." 
" What did you do ? " 
" Nothing. I wrote to him a little while ago. 
I suppose it was very blunt, but I didn't believe he 
would be angry at it. But this this that he 's done 
shows he was angry, and that he wasn't just seizing 
the first chance to get out of it." 
" What have you done, Pen ? " demanded her 
mother sharply. 
" Oh, I don't know. All the mischief in the world, 
I suppose. I 'll tell you. When you first told me 
that father was in trouble with his business, I wrote 
to him not to come any more till I let him. I said 
I couldn't tell him why, and he hasn't been here 
since. I 'm sure I don't know what it means." 
 
Her mother looked at her with angry severity. 
" Well, Penelope Lapham ! For a sensible child, 
you are the greatest goose I ever saw. Did you 
think he would come here and see if you wouldn't 
let him come ? " 
" He might have written," urged the girl. 
"Her mother made that despairing " Tchk ! " with 
her tongue, and fell back in her chair. " I should 
have despised him if he had written. He 's acted 
just exactly right, and you you've acted I don't 
know how you 've acted. I 'm ashamed of you. A 
girl that could be so sensible for her sister, and 
always say and do just the right thing, and then 
when it comes to herself to be such a disgusting 
simpleton ! " 
" I- thought I ought to break with him at once, 
and not let him suppose that there was any hope for 
him or me if father was poor. It was my one 
chance, in this whole business, to do anything 
heroic, and I jumped at it. You mustn't think, be 
cause I can laugh at it now, that I wasn't in earnest, 
mother ! I was dead ! But the Colonel has gone 
to ruin so gradually, that he 's spoilt everj^thing. I 
expected that he would be bankrupt the next day, 
and that then he would understand what I meant. 
But to have it drag along for a fortnight seems 
to take all the heroism out of it, and leave it as 
flat ! " She looked at her mother with a smile that 
shone through her tears, and a pathos that quivered 
round her jesting lips. " It 's easy enough to be 
sensible for other people. But when it comes to 
 
myself, there I am ! Especially, when I want to do 
what I oughtn't so much that it seems as if doing 
what I didn't want to do must be doing what I ought ! 
But it 's been a great success one way, mother. It 's 
helped me to keep up before the Colonel. If it 
hadn't been for Mr. Corey 's staying away, and my 
feeling so indignant with him for having been badly 
treated by me, I shouldn't have been worth anything 
at all" 
The tears started down her cheeks, but her mother 
said, " Well, now, go along, and write to him. It 
don't matter what you say, much ; and don't be so 
very particular." 
Her third attempt at a letter pleased her scarcely 
better than the rest, but she sent it, though it seemed 
so blunt and awkward. She wrote : 
DEAR FRIEND, I expected when I sent you that note, 
that you would understand, almost the next day, why I 
could not see you any more. You must know now, and 
you must not think that if anything happened to my 
father, I should wish you to help him. But that is no 
reason why I should not thank you, and I do thank you, 
for offering. It was like you, I will say that. 
Yours sincerely, PENELOPE LAPHAM. 
She posted her letter, and he sent his reply in the 
evening, by hand : 
DEAREST, What I did was nothing, till you praised it. 
Everything I have and am is yours. Won't you send a line 
by the bearer, to say that I may come to see you ? I know 
how you feel ; but I am sure that I caii make you think 
differently. You must consider that I loved you without 
a thought of your father's circumstances, and always shall. 
T. C. 
The generous words were blurred to her eyes by 
the tears that sprang into them. But she could only 
write in answer : 
" Please do not come ; I have made up my mind. As 
long as this trouble is hanging over us, I cannot see you. 
And if father is unfortunate, all is over between us." 
She brought his letter to her mother, and told her 
what she had written in reply. Her mother was 
thoughtful a while before she said, with a sigh, "Well, 
I hope you Ve begun as you can carry out, Pen." 
" Oh, I shall not have to carry out at all. I shall 
not have to do anything. That 's one comfort the 
only comfort." She went away to her own room, 
and when Mrs. Lapham told her husband of the 
affair, he was silent at first, as she had been. Then 
he said, " I don't know as I should have wanted her 
to done differently ; I don't know as she could. If 
I ever come right again, she won't have anything to 
feel meeching about ; and if I don't, I don't want 
she should be beholden to anybody. And I guess 
that 's the way she feels." 
The Coreys in their turn sat in judgment on the 
fact which their son felt bound to bring to their 
knowledge. 
" She has behaved very well," said Mrs. Corey, to 
whom her son had spoken. 
"My dear," said her husband, with his laugh, 
 
" she has behaved too well. If she had studied the 
whole situation with the most artful eye to its 
mastery, she could not possibly have behaved 
better." 
The process of Lapham's financial disintegration 
was like the course of some chronic disorder, which 
has fastened itself upon the constitution, but advances 
with continual reliefs, with apparent amelioration, 
and at times seems not to advance at all, when it 
gives hope of final recovery not only to the sufferer, 
but to the eye of science itself. There were moments 
when James Bellingham, seeing Lapham pass this 
crisis and that, began to fancy that he might pull 
through altogether ; and at these moments, when his 
adviser could not oppose anything but experience 
and probability to the evidence of the fact, Lapham. 
was buoyant with courage, and imparted his hopeful 
ness to his household. Our theory of disaster, of 
sorrow, of affliction, borrowed from the poets and 
novelists, is that it is incessant ; but every passage in 
our own lives and in the lives of others, so far as we 
have witnessed them, teaches us that this is false. 
The house of mourning is decorously darkened to the 
world, but within itself it is also the house of laugh 
ing. Bursts of gaiety, as heartfelt as its grief, re 
lieve the gloom, and the stricken survivors have 
their jests together, in which the thought of the 
dead is tenderly involved, and a fond sense, not 
crazier than many others, of sympathy and enjoy 
ment beyond the silence, justifies the sunnier mood 
before sorrow rushes back, deploring and de- 
 
spairing, and making it all up again with the 
conventional fitness of things. Lapham's adver 
sity had this quality in common with bereave 
ment. It was not always like the adversity we 
figure in allegory; it had its moments of being 
like prosperity, and if upon the whole it was 
continual, it was not incessant. Sometimes there 
was a week of repeated reverses, when he had to 
keep his teeth set and to hold on hard to all his 
hopefulness ; and then days came of negative result 
or slight success, when he was full of his jokes at 
the tea-table, and wanted to go to the theatre, or to 
do something to cheer Penelope up. In some mira 
culous way, by some enormous stroke of success 
which should eclipse the brightest of his past pro 
sperity, he expected to do what would reconcile all 
difficulties, not only in his own affairs, but in hers 
too. " You 'll see," he said to his wife ; " it 's going 
to come out all right, Irene 'll fix it up with Bill's 
boy, and then she 'll be off Pen's mind ; and if things 
go on as they 've been going for the last two days, 
I 'm going to be in a position to do the favours my 
self, and Pen can feel that she 's makin' a sacrifice, 
and then I guess may be she 'll do it. If things turn 
out as I expect now, and times ever do get any better 
generally, I can show Corey that I appreciate his 
offer. I can offer him the partnership myself then." 
Even in the other moods, which came when every 
thing had been going wrong, and there seemed no 
way out of the net, there were points of consolation 
to Lapham and his wife. They rejoiced that Irene 
 
was safe beyond the range of their anxieties, and 
they had a proud satisfaction that there had been no 
engagement between Corey and Penelope, and that it 
was she who had forbidden it. In the closeness of 
interest and sympathy in which their troubles had 
reunited them, they confessed to each other that 
nothing would have been more galling to their pride 
than the idea that Lapham should not have been able 
to do everything for his daughter that the Coreys 
might have expected. Whatever happened now, 
