"They never had many letters, you know, sir; 
and the colonel had given up his English paper. 
I think I know all the people that take the London Times in New York; and he is not one of 
them." 
" He is gone home," said Mr. Dallas comfortably. 
" I can find that out when I go back to England ; 
and I will." 
Miss Betty said nothing and asked never a word, 
but she lost none of all this. Pitt was becoming 
a problem to her. All this eagerness and pains 
taking would seem to look towards some very close 
relations between the young man and these missing 
people; yet Pitt shewed no annoyance nor signs 
of trouble at missing them. Was it that he did 
not really care ? was it that he had not accepted 
failure and did not mean to fail ? In either case, 
he must be a peculiar character, and in either case 
there was brought to light an uncommon strength 
of determination. There is hardly anything which 
women like better in the other sex than force of 
character. Not because it is a quality in which 
their own sex is apt to be lacking; on the contrary; 
but because it gives a woman what she wants in 
a man, something to lean upon and somebody to 
look up to. Miss Betty found herself getting more 
and more interested in Pitt and in her charge concerning him; how it was to be executed, she did 
not yet see; she must leave that to chance. Nothing could be forced here. Where liking begins to 
grow, there also begins fear. 
She retreated to the verandah after dinner with 
her embroidery. By and by Mrs. Dallas came 
there too. It was a pleasant place in the after 
noon, for the sun was on the other side of the 
house, and the sea breeze swept this way, giving 
its saltness to the odours of rose and honeysuckle 
 
and mignonette. Mrs. Dallas sat down and took 
her knitting; then, before a word could be exchanged, they were joined by Pitt. That is, he 
came on the verandah; but for some time there 
was no talking. The ladies would not begin, and 
Pitt did not. His attention, wherever it might be, 
was not given to his companions; he sat thought 
ful, and determinately silent. Mrs. Dallas's knitting needles clicked, Miss Betty's embroidering 
thread went noiselessly in and out. Bees hummed 
and flitted about the honeysuckle vines; there was 
a soft, sweet, luxurious atmosphere, to the senses 
and to the mind. This went on for awhile. 
"Mr. Pitt," said Miss Betty, "you are giving me 
no help at all." 
He brought himself and his attention round to 
her at once, and asked how he could be of service. 
"Your mother," began Miss Betty, stitching 
away, " has given me a commission concerning 
you. She desires me to see to it that ennui does not 
creep upon you, during your vacation in this unexciting place. How do I know but it is creeping 
upon you already ? and you give me no chance to 
drive it away." 
Pitt laughed a little. " I was never attacked by 
ennui in my life," he said. 
" So you do not want my services ! " 
" Not to fight an enemy that is nowhere in sight. 
Perhaps he is your enemy, and I might be helpful 
in another way." 
It occurred to him that he had been charged to 
make Miss Frere's sojourn in Seaforth pleasant; 
and some vague sense of what this mutual charge 
might mean dawned upon him, with a rising light 
of amusement. 
" I  don't know ! " said the young lady. " You 
did once propose a drive. If you would propose it 
again, perhaps I would go. We cannot help its 
being hot ? " 
So they went for a drive. The roads were capital, the evening was lovely, the horses went well, 
and the phaeton was comfortable ; if that were not 
enough, it was all. Miss Frere bore it for awhile 
patiently. 
" Do you dislike talking ? " she asked at length 
meekly, when a soft bit of road and the slow 
movement of the horses gave her a good opportunity. 
"I? Not at all!" said Pitt, rousing himself as 
out of a muse. 
" Then I wish you would talk. Mrs. Dallas de 
sires that I should entertain you; and how am I to 
do that unless I know you better ? " 
" So you think people's characters come out in 
talking ? " 
"If not their characters, at least something of 
what is in their heads; what they know and don't 
know; what they can talk about, in short." 
" I do not know anything to talk about." 
" fie, Mr. Dallas ! you who have been to Oxford 
and London. Tell me, what is London like ? An 
overgrown New York, I suppose." 
 
"No, neither. Overgrown means, grown be 
yond strength or usefulness. London is large, but 
not overgrown, in any sense." 
" Well, like New York, only larger ? " 
"No more than a mushroom is like. a great old 
oak. London is like that; an old oak, gnarled and 
twisted and weather-worn, with plenty of hale life 
and young vigour springing out of its rugged old 
roots." 
" That sounds poetical." 
" If you mean, not true, you are under a mistake." 
" Then it seems you know London ? " 
" I suppose I do; better than many of those who 
live in it. When I am there, Miss Frere, I am with 
an old uncle who is an antiquary and an enthusiast 
on the subject of his native city. From the first it 
has been his pleasure to go with me all over London, 
and tell me the secrets of its old streets, and shew 
me what was worth looking at. London was my 
picture book, my theatre, where I saw tragedy 
and comedy together, my museum of antiquities. 
I never tire of it, and my uncle Strahan is never 
tired of shewing it to me." 
" Why, what is it to see ? " asked Miss Frere 
with some real curiosity. 
" For one thing, it is an epitome of English history, strikingly illustrated." 
" you mean Westminster Abbey ! Yes, I have 
heard of that, of course. But I should think that 
was not interminable." 
" I do not mean Westminster Abbey." 
" What then, please ? " 
" I cannot tell you here," said Pitt smiling, as 
the horses, having found firm ground, set off again 
at a gay trot. " Wait till we get home, and I will 
shew you a map of London." 
The young lady, satisfied with having gained 
her object, waited very patiently; and told Mrs. 
Dallas on reaching home that the drive had been 
delightful. 
Next day Pitt was as good as his word. He 
brought his map of London into the cool matted 
room where the ladies were sitting, rolled up a 
table, and spread the map out before Miss Frere. 
The young lady dropped her embroidery and gave 
her attention. 
"What have you there, Pitt?" his mother in 
quired. 
" London, mamma." 
" London ! " Mrs. Dallas drew up her chair too, 
where she could look on ; while Pitt briefly gave 
an explanation of the map ; shewed where was the 
"city" and where the fashionable quarter. 
" I suppose," said Miss Frere, studying the map, 
"the parts of London that delight you are over 
here ? " indicating the West End. 
* No," returned Pitt, " by no means. The City 
and the Strand are infinitely more interesting." 
4&lt; My dear ! " said his mother, " I do not see 
how that can be." 
" It is true though, mother. All this," (drawing 
his finger round a certain portion of the map) " is 
 
crowded with the witnesses of human life and his 
tory; full of remains that tell of the men of the 
past, and their doings, and their sufferings." 
Miss Frere's fine eyes were lifted to him in inquiry; meeting them he smiled, and went on. 
" I must explain. Where shall I begin ? Sup 
pose, for instance, we take our stand here at Whitehall. We are looking at the Banqueting House 
of the Palace, built by Inigo Jones for James the 
First. The other buildings of the palace, wide 
and splendid as they were, have mostly perished. 
This stands yet. I need not tell you the thoughts 
that come up as we look at it." 
" Charles the First was executed there, I know. 
What else?" 
"There is a whole swarm of memories, and a 
whole crowd of images, belonging to the palace of 
which this was a part. Before the time you speak 
of, there was Cardinal Wolsey " 
" Wolsey ! I remember." 
" His outrageous luxury and pomp of living, and 
his disgrace. Then comes Henry VIII., and Anne 
Boleyn, and their marriage; Henry's splendours, 
and his death. All that was here. In those days 
the buildings of Whitehall were very extensive, 
and they were further enlarged afterwards. Here 
Elizabeth held her court, and here she lay in state 
after death. James the First comes next; he built 
the Banqueting House. And in his son's time, the 
royal magnificence displayed at Whitehall was in 
comparable. All the gayeties and splendours and 
luxury of living that then were possible, were 
known here. And here was the scaffold where he 
died. The next figure is Cromwell's." 
" Leave him out ! " said Mrs. Dallas, with a sort 
of groan of impatience. 
" What shall I do with the next following, mam 
ma? That is Charles the Second." 
" He had a right there at least." 
" He abused it." 
"At least he was a King, and a gentleman." 
" If I could shew you Whitehall as it was in his 
day, mother, I think you would not want to look 
long. But I shall not try. We will go on to Charing Cross. The old palace extended once nearly 
so far. Here is the place." He pointed to a certain spot on the map. 
" What is there now ? " asked Betty. 
" Not the old Cross. That is gone; but of course, 
I cannot stand there without in thought going back 
to Edward I. and his queen. In its place is a bra 
zen statue of Charles I. And in fact when I stand 
there the winds seem to sweep down upon me from 
many a mountain peak of history. Edward and 
his rugged greatness, and Charles and his weak 
folly; and the Protectorate, and the Restoration. 
For here, where the statue stands, stood once the 
gallows where Harrison and his companions were 
executed, when the king had his own again. 
Sometimes I can hardly see the present, when I am 
there, for looking at the past." 
" You are enthusiastic," said Miss Frere. " But 
 
I understand it. Yes, that is not like New York; 
not much ! " 
" What became of the Cross, Pitt? " 
" Pulled down, mother like everything else in 
its day." 
" Who pulled it down ? " 
"The Republicans." 
"The Republicans ! Yes, it was like them ! " said 
Mrs. Dallas. "Rebellion, Dissent, and a want of 
feeling for whatever is noble and refined, all go 
together. That was the Puritans ! " 
"Pretty strong!" said Pitt. "And not quite 
fair, either, is it? How much feeling for what is 
noble and refined was there in the court of the 
second Charles ? and how much of either, if you 
look below the surface, was in the policy or the 
character of the first Charles ? " 
" He did not destroy pictures and pull down 
statues," said Mrs. Dallas. u He was at least a 
gentleman. But the Puritans were a low set, always. I cannot forgive them for the work they 
did in England." 
" You may thank heaven for some of the work 
they did. But for them, you would not be here 
to-day, in a land of freedom." 
"Too much freedom," said Mrs. Dallas. "I be 
lieve it is good to have a king over a country." 
" Well, go on from Charing Cross, won't you," 
said Miss Frere. " I am interested. I never studied 
a map of London before. I am not sure I ever saw 
" I do not know which way to go," said Pitt. 
"Every step brings us to new associations; every 
street opens up a chapter of history. Here is 
Northumberland House ; a grand old building, full 
of its records. Howards and Percys and Seymours 
have owned it and built it; and there General 
Monk planned the bringing back of the Stuarts. 
Going along the Strand, every step is full of interest. Just here used to be the palace of Sir Nicholas 
Baron and his son ; then James the First's favourite, 
the Duke of Buckingham, lived in it; and the beautiful water gate is yet standing which Inigo Jones 
built for him. All the Strand was full of palaces 
which have passed away, leaving behind the names 
of their owners in the streets which remain or have 
been built since. Here Sir Walter Ealeigh lived; 
here the Dudleys had their abode, and Lady Jane 
Grey was married; here was the house of Lord 
Burleigh. But let us go on to the church of St. 
Mary-le-Strarid. Here once stood a great Maypole, 
round which there used to be merry doings. The 
Puritans took that down too, mother." 
"What for?" 
"They held it to be in some sort a relic of 
heathen manners. Then under Charles II. it was 
set up again. And here, once, four thousand childred were gathered and sang a hymn, on some 
public occasion of triumph in Queen Anne's reign." 
" It is not there now? " 
" O no ! It was given to Sir Isaac Newton, and 
made to subserve the uses of a telescope." 
 
" How do you know all these things, Mr. Pitt." 
" Every London antiquary knows them, I sup 
pose. And I told you, I have an old uncle who is 
a great antiquary; London is his particular hobby." 
" He must have had an apt scholar, though." 
" Much liking makes good learning, I suppose," 
said the young man. 4t A little further on is the 
church of St. Clement Danes, where Dr. John 
son used to attend divine service. About here 
stands Temple Bar." 
" Temple Bar ! " said Miss Frere. " I have heard 
of Temple Bar all my life, and never connected 
any clear idea with the name. What is Temple 
Bar?" 
" It is not very much of a building. It is the 
barrier which marks the bound of the city of 
London." 
" Isn't it London on both sides of Temple Bar?" 
" London, but not the City. The City proper 
begins here. On the west of this limit is, West 
minster." 
" There are ugly associations with Temple Bar, 
I know," said Miss Frere. 
"There are ugly associations with everything. 
Down here stood Essex House, where Essex defended himself, and from which he was carried off 
to the Tower. There, in Lincoln's Inn fields, Thomas 
Babington and his party died for high treason, and 
there Russell died. And just up here is Smithfield. 
It is all over, the record of violence, intolerance, 
and brutality. It meets you at every turn." 
" It is only what would be in any other place as 
old as London," said Mrs. Dallas. " In old times 
people were rough, of course, but they were rough 
everywhere." 
" I was thinking, " said Miss Frere. " Mr. Dal 
las gives a somewhat singular justification of his 
liking for London." 
"Is it?" said Pitt. "It would be singular, if 
the violence were there now; but to read the record 
and look on the scene is interesting, and for me 
fascinating. The record is of other things too. 
See, in this place Milton lived and wrote; here, 
Franklin abode; here Charles Lamb; from an inn 
in this street Bishop Hooper went away to die. 
And so I might go on and on. At every step 
there is the memorial of some great man's life, or 
some noted man's death. And with all that, there 
are also the most exquisite bits of material antiquity. Old picturesque houses ; old crypts of former 
churches, over which stands now a modern representative of the name; old monuments, many; old 
doorways, and courts, and corners, and gateways. 
Come over to London, and I will take you down 
into the crypt of St. Paul's, and shew you how his 
tory is presented to you there." 
" The crypt ? " said Miss Frere, doubting some 
what of this invitation. 
" Yes, the old monuments are in the crypt." 
" My dear," said Mrs. Dallas, " I do not under 
stand how all these things you have been talking 
about should have so much charm for you. I 
 
should think the newer and handsomer parts of 
the city, the parks and the gardens, and the fine 
squares, would be a great deal more agreeable." 
"To live in, mother." 
"And don't you go to the British Museum, and 
to the Tower, and to Hyde Park ? " 
" I have been there hundreds of times." 
" And like these old corners still ? " 
" I am very fond of the Museum." 
" There is nothing like that is this country," said 
Mrs. Dallas with an accent of satisfaction. 
CHAPTER XXXVI. 
INTEKPKETATIONS. 
MISS BETTY hereupon begged to be told more 
distinctly what was in the British Museum, 
that anybody should go there u hundreds of times." 
Pitt presently got warm in his subject, and talked 
long and well; as many people will do when they 
are full of their theme, even when they can talk 
upon nothing else. Pitt was not one of those people; he could talk well upon anything; and now 
he made himself certainly very entertaining. His 
mother thought so, who cared nothing for the 
British Museum except in so far, that it was a 
great institution of an old country, which a young 
country could not rival. She listened, to Pitt. Miss 
Betty gave him even more profound interest and 
unflagging attention; whether she too were not 
studying the speaker full as much as the things 
spoken, I will not say. They had a very pleasant morning of it; conversation diverging some 
times to Assyria and Egypt, and ancient civilizations and arts, and civilization in general. Mrs. 
Dallas gradually drew back from mingling in the 
 
talk, and watched, well pleased, to see how eager 
the two other speakers became and how they were 
lost in their subject and in each other. 
In the afternoon there was another drive, to 
which Pitt did not need to be stimulated; and all 
the evening the two young people were busy with 
something which engaged them both. Mrs. Dallas 
breathed freer. 
** I think he is smitten," she said privately to her 
husband. "How could he help it? He has seen 
nobody else to be smitten with." 
But Betty Frere was not sure of any such thing ; 
and the very fact of Pitt's disengagedness made 
him more ensnaring to her. There was nobody 
else in the village to divert his attention, and the 
two young people were thrown very much together. 
They went driving, they rode, and they talked, 
continually. The map of London was often out, 
and Mrs. Dallas saw the two heads bent over it, 
and interested faces looking into each other; and 
she thought things were going on very fairly. If 
only the vacation were not so short ! For only a little 
time more, and Pitt must be back at his chambers 
in London. The mother sighed to herself. She 
was paying rather a heavy price to keep her son 
from Dissenters ! 
Betty Frere too remembered that the vacation 
was coming to an end, and drew her breath rather 
short. She was depending on Pitt too much for 
her amusement, she told herself, and to be sure 
there were other young men in the world that 
could talk; but she felt a sort of disgust at the 
thought of them all. They were not near so interesting. They all flattered her; and some of them 
were supposed to be brilliant ; but Betty turned from 
the thought of them to the one whose lips never 
condescended to say pretty things, nor made any 
effort to say witty things. They behaved towards 
her with a sort of obsequious reverence, which was 
the fashion of that day much more than of this; 
and Betty liked far better a manner which never 
made pretence of anything, was thoroughly natural 
and perfectly well-bred, but which frankly paid 
more honour to his mother than to herself. She 
admired Pitt's behaviour to his mother. Even 
to his mother it had less formality than was the 
custom of the day; while it gave her every delicate 
little attention and every possible graceful observance. The young beauty had sense enough to 
see that this promised more for Pitt's future wife 
than any amount of civil subserviency to herself. 
Perhaps there is not a quality which women value 
more in a man, or miss more sorely, than what we 
express by the term manliness. And she saw that 
Pitt, while he was enthusiastic and eager, and what 
she called fanciful, always was true, honest, and 
firm in what he thought right. From that no 
fancy carried him away. 
And Miss Betty found the days pass with almost 
as much charm as fleetness. How fleet they were 
she did not bear to think. She found herself 
recognizing Pitt's step, distinguishing his voice in 
 
the distance, and watching for the one and the 
other. Why not ? He was so pleasant as a companion. But she found herself also starting when 
he appeared suddenly, thrilled at the unexpected 
sound of his voice, and conscious of quickened 
pulses when he came into the room. Betty did 
not like these signs in herself; at the same time 
that which had wrought the spell continued to 
work, and the spell was not broken. In justice to 
the young lady I must say that there was not the 
slightest outward token of it. Betty was as utterly 
calm and careless in her manner as Pitt himself; 
so that even Mrs. Dallas, and a woman in those 
matters sees far, could not tell whether either or 
bqth of the young people had a liking for the 
other more than the social good-fellowship which 
was frank and apparent. It might be; and she 
confessed also to herself that it might not be. 
" You must give that fellow time" said her husband. Which Mrs. Dallas knew, if she had not 
been so much in a hurry. 
" If he met those Gainsboroughs by chance, I 
would not answer for anything," she said. 
" How should he meet them ? They are probably as poor as rats, and have drawn into some 
corner; out of the way. He will never see them." 
" Pitt is so persistent ! " said Mrs. Dallas uneasily. 
" He'll be back in England in a few weeks." 
" But when he comes again ! " 
" He shall not come again. We will go over to 
see him ourselves next year." 
" That is a very good thought," said Mrs. Dallas. 
And comforted by this thought and the plans she 
presently began to weave in with it, she looked 
now with much more equanimity than Betty her 
self towards the end of Pitt's visit. Mrs. Dallas 
however was not to get off without another shock 
to her nerves. 
It was early in September, and the weather of 
that sultry, hot and moist character which we 
have learned to look for in connection with the 
first Jualf of that month. Miss Frere's embroidery 
went languidly; possibly there might have been 
more reasons than one for the slow and spiritless 
movement of her fingers, which was quite contrary 
to their normal habit. Mrs. Dallas, sitting at a 
little distance on the verandah, was near enough 
to hear and observe what went on when Pitt came 
upon the scene, and far enough to be separated 
from the conversation unless she chose to mix in 
it. By and by he came, looking thoughtful, as 
Betty saw, though she hardly seemed to notice his 
approach. There was no token in her quiet manner of the quickened pulses of which she was 
immediately conscious. Something like a tremulous thrill ran through her nerves ; it vexed her 
to be so little mistress of them; yet the pleasure of 
the thrill at the moment was more than the pain. 
Pitt threw himself into a chair near her, and for 
a few moments watched the play of her needle. 
Betty's eyelashes never stirred. But the silence 
lasted too long. Nerves would not bear it. 
 
" What can you find to do in this weather, Mr. 
Pitt ? " she asked languidly. 
" It is good weather," he answered absently. 
" Do you ever read the Bible ? " 
Miss Betty's fine eyes were lifted now with an 
expression of some amusement. They were very 
fine eyes; Mrs. Dallas thought they could not fail 
of their effect. 
" The Bible ? " she repeated. " I read the lessons 
in the Prayer-book; that is the same." 
" Is it the same ? Is the whole Bible contained 
in the Lessons ? " 
" I don't know, I am sure," she answered doubt 
fully. " I think so. There is a great deal of it." 
" But you read it piecemeal so." 
" You must read it piecemeal any way," returned 
the young lady. " You can read only a little each 
day; a portion." 
" You could read consecutively, though ; or you 
could choose for yourself." 
"I like to have the choice made for me. It 
saves time ; and then one is sure one has got hold 
of the right portion, you know. I like the 
lessons." 
" And then," remarked Mrs. Dallas, " you know 
other people and your friends are reading that 
same portion at the same time ; and the feeling is 
very sacred and sweet." 
"But if the Bible was intended to be read in 
such a way, how comes it that we have no instruction to that end ? " 
"Instruction was given," said Mrs. Dallas. "The 
Church has ordered it." 
" The Church" said Pitt thoughtfully. " Who 
is the Church ? " 
"Why my dear," said Mrs. Dallas, "don't ask 
such questions. You know as well as I do." 
"As I understand it, mother, what you mean is simply a body of Christians who lived some time ago." 
" Yes. Well, what then ? " 
" I do not comprehend how they should know 
what you and I want to read to-day. I am not 
talking of Church services. I am talking of private reading." 
" But it is pleasant, and convenient," said Betty. 
" May be very inappropriate." 
"Pitt," said his mother, "I wish you would not 
talk so ! It is really very wrong. This comes of 
your way of questioning and reasoning about 
everything. What we have to do with the Church 
is to obey. " 
" And that is what we have to do with the Bible, 
isn't it ? " he said gravely. 
"Undoubtedly." 
" Well, mother, I am not talking to you ; I am 
attacking Miss Frere. I can talk to her on even 
terms. Miss Frere, I want to know what you understand by obeying, when we are speaking of the 
demands of the Bible ? " 
"Obeying? I  understand just what I mean by 
it anywhere." 
" Obeying what ? " 
 
" Why ! Obeying God, of course." 
" Of course ! But how do we know what his 
commands are ? " 
" By the words how else ? " she asked, looking 
at him. He was in earnest, for some reason, she 
saw, and she forbore from the light words with 
which at another time she would have given a turn 
to the subject. 
" Then you think, distinctly, that we ought to 
obey the words of the Bible ? " 
"Yes," she said, wondering what was coming. 
" All the words?" 
" Ye's, I suppose so. All the words, according 
to their real meaning." 
" How are we to know what that is ? " 
" I suppose the Church tells us." 
"Where?" 
" I do not know in books, I suppose." 
" What books ? But we are going a little wild. 
May I bring you an instance or two ? I am talking in earnest, and mean it earnestly." 
" Do you ever do anything in any other way ? " 
asked the young lady, with a charming air of fine 
raillery and recognition blended. "Certainly; I 
am in earnest too." 
Pitt went away and returned with a book in his 
hand. 
" What have you there? the Prayer-book?" his 
mother asked with a doubtful expression. 
"No, mamma; I like to go to the Fountain head 
of authority as well as of learning." 
"The Fountain head!" exclaimed Mrs. Dallas, 
in indignant protest; and then she remembered 
her wisdom and said no more. It cost her an if 
fort; however she knew that for her to set up a 
defence of either Church or Prayer-book just then 
would not be wise, and that she had better leave 
the matter in Betty's hands. She looked at Betty 
anxiously. The young lady's face shewed her 
cool and collected, not likely to be carried away 
by any stream of enthusiasm or overborne by in 
fluence, it was in fact more cool than she felt. 
She liked to get into a good talk with Pitt upon 
any subject, and so far was content; at the same 
time she would rather have chosen any other than 
this, and was a little afraid whereto it might lead. 
Eeligion had not been precisely her principal study. 
True, it had not been his principal study either; 
but Betty discerned a difference in their modes 
of approaching it. She attributed that to the 
Puritan or Dissenting influences which had at 
gome time got hold of him. To thwart those would 
at any rate be a good work, and she prepared 
herself accordingly. 
Pitt opened his book and turned over a few 
leaves. 
"To begin with," he said, "you admit that what 
ever this book commands we are bound to obey ? " 
" Provided we understand it, " his opponent 
