"I will be surprised if she is not here by supper-time," was the answer
he received.
At sunset he went down to the shore and strolled to and fro. But though
he thus kept watch, he did not see the boat that stole up in the fog,
floated off-shore for a moment, and then disappeared.
That night, at three o'clock Middleton Moore woke with the feeling that
he had been attacked by asthma, and that Penelope was trying to relieve
him with long smoking wisps of thick brown paper, her accustomed remedy.
Then consciousness became clearer, and he perceived that there was no
Penelope and no candle; but that there was smoke. He sprang up and
opened the door, there was smoke in the hall also. "The house is on
fire," was his thought; "how fortunate that there is no one here!" He
threw on his clothes, drew on his boots, and seizing his coat and hat,
ran down the hall. His room was on the ground-floor, he looked into the
other rooms as he passed; there was smoke, but no flame; yet he could
distinctly perceive the odor of burning wood. "It must be up-stairs," he
said to himself. He unlocked the house door, and ran across the lawn in
order to see the upper story.
Yes, there were the flames. At present only little tongues, small and
blue, creeping along under the cornice; they told him that the fire had
a strong hold within, since it had made its way outward through the main
wall. It would be useless for him to attempt to fight it, with the water
at a distance and no one to assist. The old mansion was three stories
high. "It will go like tinder," he thought.
His next idea was to save for Margaret all he could; jamming his
clerical hat tightly down on his forehead, he began to carry out
articles from the lower rooms, and pile them together at the end of the
lawn. He worked hard; he ran, he carried, he piled up; then he ran
again. He lifted and dragged ponderous weights, the perspiration stood
in drops on his face. But even then he made a mental list of the
articles he was saving: "Six parlor chairs. One centre table of
mahogany. A work-table with fringe. A secretary with inlaid top. A
sofa." In the lower rooms the smoke was blinding now. Outside, the
tongues of flame had grown into a broad yellow band.
Presently the fire burst through the roof in half a dozen places, and,
freed, rose with a leap high in the air; heretofore there had been but
little noise, now there was the sound of crackling and burning, and the
roar of flames under headway; the sky was tinged with the red glow, the
garden took on a festal air, with all its vines and flowers lighted up.
Mr. Moore did not stop to look at this, nor to call the flames "grand."
In the first place, he did not think them grand, eating up as they were
a good house and a large quantity of most excellent furniture. In the
second, he had not time for adjectives, he was bent upon saving a
certain low bookcase he remembered, which stood in the upper hall. He
had always admired that bookcase, he had never seen one before that was
unconnected with associations of step-ladders, or an equally insecure
stepping upon chairs.
He jammed his hat hard down upon his forehead again (he should certainly
be obliged to have a new one), and ran back into the house. But the
flames had now reached the lower hall, they had burned down as well as
up; he was obliged to content himself with a hat-stand near the door. As
he was dragging this out he heard shouts, and recognized the voices as
those of negro women; when he had reached the lawn, there they were,
Dinah and Rose and four other women; they had seen the light, and had
come running from their cabins, half a mile down the shore. They were
greatly excited; one young girl, black as coal, jumped up and down,
bounding high like a ball each time; she was unconscious of what she was
doing, her eyes were on the roaring flames, every now and then she gave
a tremendous yell. Old Rose and Dinah wept and bewailed aloud.
"Dar goes de settin'-room winders--ow!"
"Dar goes de up-steers chimbly--ow!"
Another of the women, a thin old creature, clapped her hands
incessantly on her legs, and shouted, "De glory's a-comin', de glory's
a-comin', a-comin'!"
Mr. Moore deposited his hat-stand under a tree, and standing still for a
moment, wiped his hot forehead. He did not attempt to stop their
shouting, he knew that it would be useless; he thought with regret of
that bookcase.
And now there came a shout louder, or at least more agonized, than any
of the others, and round the corner of the house appeared the boy
Primus; he ran towards them, shouting still, with each step he almost
fell--"She's dar--Mis' Horrel!"
He too had seen the light, and, approaching the place from the south, he
had passed, in running towards the front, the narrow high south wing;
here at a window he had seen a face--the face of Margaret Harold.
Mr. Moore was gone at the boy's first cry. The others followed.
The south wing was not visible from the front. Its third story was in
flames, and the back and sides of the ground-floor had caught, but at a
second-story window (which she had opened) they all saw a face--that of
Margaret Harold; the glare of the main building showed her features
perfectly. They could not have heard her, even if she had been able to
call to them, the roar of the fire was now so loud.
"She cannot throw herself out, it's too high; and we have no blanket.
There's a door below, isn't there? And stairs?" It was Mr. Moore's voice
that asked.
"Yes, passon, yes. But it's all a-bu'nin'!"
Mr. Moore clasped his hands and bowed his head, it did not take longer
than a breath. Then he started towards the wing.
"Oh, passon, yer dassent!"
"Oh, passon, yer can't help her now, de sweet lady, it's too late. Pray
for her yere, passon; she'll go right straight up, she's wunner der
Lawd's own chillun, de dove!"
"Oh, passon! de Lawd ain't willin' fer two ter die."
The negro women clung about him, but he shook them off; going hastily
forward, he broke in the door and disappeared. His moment's prayer had
been for his wife, in the case--which he knew was probable--that he
should not come from that door alive.
The gap he had made revealed the red fire within; behind the stairs the
back of the wing was a glowing furnace.
The negroes now all knelt down, they had no hope; they began to sing
their funeral hymn.
The fire had reached the second story; Margaret's face had disappeared.
A bravery which does not reason will sometimes conquer in the teeth of
reason. One chance existed, it was one amid a dozen probabilities of a
horrible death; it lay in swiftness, and in the courage to walk, without
heeding burned feet, directly across floors already in a glow.
Middleton Moore crossed such floors; he went unshrinkingly up the
scorching stairs. He found Margaret by sense of touch in the
smoke-filled room above, and tearing off his coat, he lifted her as she
lay unconscious, wrapped her head and shoulders in it, and bore her
swiftly down the burning steps, and through the fiery hall, and so out
to the open air. His eyebrows, eyelashes, and hair were singed, his face
was blistered; brands and sparks had fallen like hail upon his shoulders
and arms, and scorched through to the skin; his boots were burned off,
the curled leather was dropping from his burned feet; his breath was
almost gone.
He gave Margaret to the women, and sank down himself upon the grass; he
could not see, he felt very weak; something was tightening in his
throat. The boy Primus, with great sobs, ran like a deer to the well for
water, and bringing it back, held a cupful to the lips of the blinded
man.
Margaret, though still unconscious, appeared to be unhurt. The skirt of
her dress was burned in several places. The women chafed her hands, and
bathed her face with the fresh water; once she opened her eyes, but
unconsciousness came over her again.
With a crash the northern wing fell in.
"De front'll go nex'," said Primus. "We mus' git 'em 'way from dish
yer."
The women lifted Margaret tenderly, and bore her to the end of the lawn.
Mr. Moore rose on his burned feet, and, leaning on the boy's shoulder,
slowly made his way thither also; their forlorn little group, assembled
near the piled-up furniture, was brightly illuminated by the flame.
Presently the front fell in. And now, as the roar was less fierce, they
could hear the gallop of a horse, in another minute Evert Winthrop was
among them. He saw only Margaret, he knelt by her side and called her
name.
"De passon done it," said Primus,--"de passon! He jess walk right
straight inter de bu'nin', roarin' flameses! En brung her out."
Mr. Moore had not seen Winthrop, he could see nothing now. He seemed
besides, a little bewildered, confused. As Winthrop took his hand and
spoke to him, he lifted his face with its scorched cheeks and closed
eyes, and answered: "There was some furniture saved, I think. I think I
saved a little. Six parlor chairs--if I am not mistaken; and a centre
table--I was sorry about that bookcase."
"Hear de lamb!" said one of the negro women, bursting into fresh tears.
CHAPTER XXXI.
Margaret Harold was sitting on a bench at the East Angels landing. She
was in walking dress; her large hat, with its drooping plumes, made her
face look like that of a Gainsborough portrait. A bunch of ferns which
she had gathered had slipped from her lap to her feet. Carlos Mateo,
very stiff, stood near. It was sunset; a mocking-bird was pouring forth
a flood of notes, rioting in melody, it was marvellous to realize that
such a little creature could produce from his tiny throat matchless
music like this.
Coming down the live-oak avenue appeared the figure of Celestine.
"If you please, Miss Margaret, Mrs. Rutherford has sent me to look for
you."
"Yes, I know; I am late to-night, I will come in now."
"There's no occasion for haste," Celestine answered, bestowing a short
glance of general inspection upon the lagoon, the tinted sky, and the
stiff figure of the crane. "What a pagan bird that crane is!"
"You hear, Carlos?" said Margaret.
But Carlos was never conscious of the existence of Celestine, he kept
his attentions exclusively for his southern friends; the only exception
was Margaret, whose presence he was now beginning to tolerate.
"You don't call that mocking-bird a pagan, do you?" Margaret asked.
"I don't care much for mocking-birds myself," Celestine responded.
"Give me a bobolink, Miss Margaret! As for them leaves you've got
there--all the sweet-smelling things in Florida--I'd trade the whole for
one sniff of the laylocks that used to grow in our backyard when I was a
girl."
"Why, Minerva, you're homesick."
"No, Miss Margaret, no; I've got my work to attend to here; no, I ain't
homesick: you get home knocked out of you when you've traipsed about to
such places as Nice, Rome, Egypt, and the dear knows where. But if
anybody was really going to live somewheres (I don't mean just
staying, as we're doing now), talk about choosing between this and New
England--my!"
Margaret rose.
"There's no occasion for haste if you don't want to go in just yet,"
said Celestine; "she isn't alone, I saw Dr. Kirby ride up just as I
came away. Well--she's got on that maroon silk wrapper."
"Nobody has such taste as you have, Celestine," said Margaret, kindly.
"My aunt is always becomingly dressed."
There was a little movement of the New England woman's mouth, which was
almost a grimace. In reality it expressed her pride and pleasure--though
no one would have suspected it. It was the only acknowledgment she made.
Dr. Kirby was sitting with his esteemed friend when Margaret entered.
His esteemed friend's feeling for Margaret now seemed to be always a
tender compassion.
"My dear child, I fear you have been out too long, you look pale," was
the present manifestation of it.
"I have often thought what a variation it would make in the topics of my
friends," said Margaret, as she drew off her gloves, "if I should take
to painting my cheeks a little; think of it--a touch of rouge, now, and
the whole conversation would be altered."
"I am sure that, for artistic purposes at least," said Dr. Kirby,
gallantly, "rouge would be totally misapplied. We all know that Mrs.
Harold's complexion has always the purest, the most natural, the most
salubrious tint; it is the whiteness of Diana."
"Pray give those--those green things to Looth," Aunt Katrina went on,
languidly; "I hope they are not poison-ivy?" (Aunt Katrina lived under
the impression that everything that came from the woods was poison-ivy.)
"And do go to my room, dear child, and sit down there a while before the
fire--there's a little fire--and let Looth change your shoes, and make
you a nice cup of tea. Later--later," Aunt Katrina went on, more
animatedly, "we'll have some whist." She spoke as though she were
holding out something which Margaret would be sure to enjoy.
There were very few evenings now when Aunt Katrina did not expect her
niece to make one at the whist-table drawn up at her couch's side, the
other players being Dr. Kirby, Betty, or occasionally Madam Ruiz or
Madam Giron. The game had come to be her greatest pleasure, she had
therefore established and set going in her circle of friends the idea
that it was an especial pleasure to Margaret also; Aunt Katrina was an
adept in such tyrannies.
"How is Mr. Moore to-day?" Margaret inquired, not replying to the change
of shoes.
"He improves every hour, it's wonderful! He is getting well in half the
time that any one else would have taken. He will walk as lightly as ever
before long--or almost as lightly. He is rather uncomfortably
comfortable just now, however," the Doctor went on, laughing, "he
doesn't know how to adapt himself to all his new luxuries; he took up an
ivory-handled brush this morning almost as though it were an infernal
machine."
"I should hardly think Mrs. Moore would approve of useless luxuries,"
said Aunt Katrina, not with a sniff--Aunt Katrina never sniffed--but
with a slight movement of the tip of her very well shaped nose; she
followed the movement with a light stroke upon that tip with her
embroidered handkerchief.
"Penelope nowadays approves of everything for her Middleton," said Dr.
Kirby, laughing again. "I believe she'll deck him out with pink silk
curtains round his bed before she gets through."
"Yes--but ivory-handled brushes," said Aunt Katrina, confining
herself, as usual, to the facts. "And his hair is so thin, too!"
"I must confess I roared--if you will permit the rather free expression.
But the brushes came with the other things that nephew of yours sent
down; I believe he's trying to corrupt the dominie."
"I am glad, and very thankful to hear that Mr. Moore is going on so
well," said Margaret, "there is nothing I care so much about." Carrying
her plumed hat in her hand, she left the room.
"He is an excellent man, Mr. Moore--most excellent," observed Aunt
Katrina, a little stiffly; "of course we can never forget our
obligations to him."
"I should think not, indeed," answered Reginald Kirby, for the first
time losing some of his gallantry of tone.
"I am sure we have shown that we do not forget them," Aunt Katrina went
on, with dignity. "Margaret has shown it, and Evert; between them they
have made Mr. Moore comfortable for life."
"There wouldn't have been much life left in any of you without him,"
said Kirby, still fierily.
"I beg your pardon, I am not so dependent upon my niece, dear as she is
to me, as that; I think such dependence wrong. You must remember,
too, that I have already been through great sorrows--the greatest; my
life has not been an easy one." The gemmed hand was gently raised
here; then dropped with resignation upon the maroon silk lap. "I esteem
Mr. Moore highly--haven't I mentioned to you that I do? surely I have.
But I cannot be deeply interested in him; Mr. Moore is not an
interesting man, he is not an exciting man. I am afraid that when I
care for a friend," said Aunt Katrina, frankly, "when I find a friend
delightful, I am afraid I am apt, yes, very apt, to make
comparisons." And she glanced at the Doctor with a gracious smile.
"Pardon my ill temper," murmured the Doctor, completely won again.
"After all," he said to himself, with conviction, "she's a deucedly fine
woman still."
Three months had elapsed since the burning of the house on the river.
Mr. Moore had remained for four weeks in the neighboring hotel, his wife
and Dr. Kirby constantly with him. They had then decided to take him on
a litter to Gracias; they crossed the St. John's in safety, and came
slowly over the pine barrens.
As they approached the town, Dr. Kirby, who, with Winthrop, was
accompanying the litter on horseback, a little in advance, saw a number
of people in the road.
"They have come out to meet him," said the Doctor, angrily. "How
senseless! how wicked! In his present state the excitement will kill
him; I shall ride forward and tell them to go back."
"No, don't," said Winthrop; "I think you're mistaken, I think it will do
him good. He has never in the least understood how much they care for
him; he has been kept both mentally and physically too low. What he
needs now is a richer diet."
"Are you turning into a doctor yourself?" inquired Kirby, with
impatience, yet struck, too, by the suggestion. "It is true that I have
always said he'd be twice the man he was if he had a glass of port with
his dinner."
"This will be the glass of port."
Mr. Moore's litter had curtains, which were down, he had not yet seen
the assemblage. His improvised couch was swung carefully across a large
wagon, which was drawn by Winthrop's horses on a walk, a man leading
them; Penelope followed in another carriage, which Winthrop had also
provided.
"I declare--it's all Gracias!" exclaimed the Doctor, as they came near
the assembled groups. "Not only our own people, but Our Lady of the
Angels' people have come too--there's Father Florencio at the head."
Penelope had now discovered the assemblage, and had bidden her coachman
hasten forward. Descending with her weak step, she herself fastened back
the curtains of the litter; "Dear," she said, tenderly, "they have come
out to meet you--the Gracias people. I know you will be glad."
She kissed him, and rearranged his pillows; then she let Winthrop help
her back into her carriage, which fell behind again. Penelope agreed
with him, evidently, in thinking that excitement would do the injured
man good.
Winthrop, who had dismounted, gave his horse to Tom, and walked himself
beside the litter; the Doctor rode on the other side, and thus they went
on their way again towards the waiting people.
These people were showing more sense than the Doctor had given them
credit for; they had drawn themselves up in two lines, one on each side
of the narrow pine barren road, on the right the congregation of St.
Philip and St. James, with their senior warden at the end of the line;
and, opposite, the flock of Our Lady of the Angels, led by their benign,
handsome old priest, Father Florencio. Then, farther on, at a little
distance, came the negroes, drawn up also in two lines.
The whites were very still; they did not cheer, they bowed and waved
their hands. Mr. Moore looked from one side to the other, turning his
head a little, and peering from his half-closed eyes, as his litter
passed on between the ranks of friends. It had been agreed that nothing
should be said--he was too weak to bear it; but all the people smiled,
though many of them felt their tears starting at the same moment, as
they saw his helpless form; they smiled determinedly, and winked back
the moisture, he should see none but cheerful faces as he passed. At the
end of the line the senior warden, in their name, stepped forward and
pressed the rector's hand. And then from the other side came Father
Florencio, who heartily did the same.
Penelope, looking from the open carriage behind, was crying. But Mr.
Moore himself was not excited. He thought it very beautiful that they
should all have come out in this way to meet him, it was the sign of a
great kindness.
It did not occur to him that it was the sign of a great admiration as
well.
When the litter came abreast of the two long lines of blacks, they could
not keep back their demonstrations of welcome quite so completely as the
whites had done; the Baptist minister of their own race, who was the
pastor of most of them, stood, in his Sunday clothes, with his hand up
warningly, in order to check their exuberance. One broad gleam of white
teeth extended down the entire line, and, "He's come back fum de gold'n
gate!" "Bless de passon!" were murmured in undertones as the litter
passed. And then, behind it, there were noiseless leaps, and hats (most
of them battered) in the air; next, they all ran forward over the barren
in a body, in order to precede the procession into Gracias.
"Don't shout--do you hear me?--no shouting," said Dr. Kirby,
imperatively. He had been obliged to leave his place beside the litter,
there was no room for his horse between the close-pressing ranks; now he
rode forward in order to keep a control, if possible, over the joyous
throng. "If you shout, it will be very bad for him," he went on,
threateningly. He had stopped his horse and was addressing them from the
saddle; the litter was some distance behind.
"But we gotter do sumpen, marse," said one of the men, protestingly.
"Dance, then! But make no noise about it; when he's safely in his own
house again, then go down to the pier, if you like, and shout as much
as you please."
This was done. The negroes preceded the litter through the streets of
Gracias, and waited in sympathetic silence until Mr. Moore had been
carried into the rectory, and the door was closed behind him; then they
adjourned to the pier, and danced and shouted there as if, old Mrs.
Kirby declared, with her hand over her little ears--"as if they meant to
raise the dead."
"No, ma, no; they mean to raise the living if they can," said her son,
when he came in.
He had been more affected than he would confess by that welcome out on
the barren. He had not known himself how much attached he was to the
mild-voiced clergyman until it had become probable that soon they should
hear that voice no more. The danger of death was now averted, he hoped,
though the illness might be a long one; in his own mind he registered a
vow never to call any one "limp" again;--he had called Mr. Moore that
about once a week for years. "There's a kind of limpness that's
strength"--thus he lectured himself. "And you, Reginald Kirby, for all
your talk, might not, in an emergency, be able even to approach it.
And turning out your toes, and sticking out your chest won't save you,
my boy; not a whit!"
Fond as Aunt Katrina was of the position of patroness, she was not
altogether pleased with some steps that were taken, later. "A proper
acknowledgment, of course, is all very well," she said. "But you and
Margaret, between you, have really given Mr. Moore a comfortable little
fortune. And you have put it in his own hands, too--to do what he likes
with!"
"Whose hands would you have put it into?" Winthrop asked.
"A lawyer's, of course," Aunt Katrina answered.
"I am afraid Margaret and I are not always as judicious as you are, Aunt
Kate."
Aunt Kate was not quick (it was one of the explanations of the
preservation of her beauty). "No, you're not; but I wish you were," she
responded.
Mr. Moore knew nothing of the increase of his income; it was Penelope
who had been won over by Winthrop's earnest logic--earnest in regard to
the comfort of the poor sufferer lying blinded, voiceless, helpless, in
the next room. What Winthrop was urging was simply that money should not
be considered in providing for him every possible alleviation and
luxury. His illness might be a long one (at that stage--it was while Mr.
Moore was still in the river hotel--no one spoke of death, though all
knew that it was very near); everything, therefore, should be done to
lighten it. If the rectory was gloomy, another house in Gracias should
be taken--one with a large garden; two good nurses should be sent for
immediately; and, later, there must be a horse, and some sort of a low,
easy vehicle, made on purpose to carry a person in a recumbent posture.
Many other things would be required, these he mentioned now were but a
beginning; Mrs. Moore must see that neither his aunt, Mrs. Harold, nor
himself could take a moment's rest until everything was done that could
be done, they should all feel extremely unhappy, miserable--if she
should refuse them. If she would but stop to think of it, she must
realize that.
Penelope agreed to this.
She had cried so much that she was the picture of living despair, she
was thinking of nothing but her husband and his pain; but she forced a
momentary attention towards Winthrop, who was talking so earnestly to
her, trying to make some impression.
He could see that he did not make much.
"Your husband gave his life--it amounted to that--to save Margaret's;
she was nothing to him--that is, no relative, not even a near friend,
yet he faced for her the most horrible of deaths. If it had not been for
him, that would have been her death, and think, then, Mrs. Moore,
think what we should be feeling now." He had meant to say this
steadily, but he could not. His voice became choked, he got up quickly
and went to the window.
Penelope, who, tired as she was, and with one hand pressed constantly
against her weak back, was yet sitting on the edge of a hard wooden
chair, ready to jump up and run into the next room at an instant's
notice, tried again to detach her mind from her husband long enough to
think of what it was this man was saying to her; she liked Margaret, and
therefore she succeeded sufficiently well to answer, "It would have been
terrible." Then her thoughts went back to Middleton again.
"Don't you see, then," said Winthrop, returning, "that, standing as we
do almost beside her grave, your husband has become the most precious
person in the world to us? How can you hesitate?" he said, breaking
off, "how can you deny us the pleasure of doing everything possible--so
little at best--to help him in his great suffering?"
"Oh yes--his suffering! his suffering!" moaned the wife, the tears
dropping down her white cheeks without any distortion of feature. Her
eyes looked large; singularly enough, though she was so exhausted, her
countenance appeared younger than he had ever seen it; under the
all-absorbing influence of her grief its usual expressions had gone and
one could trace again the outlines of youth; her girlhood face--almost
her little-girl face--had come strangely back, as it does sometimes
after death, when grandchildren see, with startled, loving surprise,
what "grandma" was when she too was only sixteen.
Winthrop took her thin worn hand and carried it to his lips; her sorrow
was very sacred to him. "For you too," he urged--"you who are so tired
and ill--let us help you all we can. Do not refuse us, Mrs. Moore; do
not."
The door into the next room now opened softly, and Dr. Kirby entered,
closing it behind him. "No--sit still," he said, as Mrs. Moore started
up. "There's nothing to be done for him just now; he's asleep." He
called it "sleep," to pacify her. "I came in to say," he went on--"I
knew you were here, Mr. Winthrop--that there must not be so much noise
on this floor; I have no doubt the people of the house are as careful as
they can be, in fact, I know they are; but there are others here."
Winthrop turned to Penelope. "Now will you consent?" he said.
(She looked at him; she was thinking only of the blessed fact that
Middleton was asleep.)
"You hear what Dr. Kirby says?--the house must be kept more quiet. I can
clear it immediately of every person in it. The noise is bad for your
husband--don't you understand? It will make a difference in his--in his
recovery."
"Oh! do anything, anything!" said the wife, wringing her hands.
He pursued his advantage. "You are willing, then, that I should do
everything possible--for his sake, you know? You consent."
"Yes, yes," she answered.
"By--all--means," said Dr. Kirby, impressively. "Consent? Of course you
consent, Penelope." He had never called her Penelope before in his life.
After that he never called her by any other name.
It seemed to Reginald Kirby a natural thing (and a small one too) that
these northerners should wish to do everything they could for the dying
hero in there; at that time the Doctor thought that the clergyman must
die.
Twelve hours later, with the exception of the proprietors and their
servants, there was no one save Mr. Moore and his friends in the river
hotel. And the house was held empty as long as he remained there. Aunt
Katrina never could find out how much those weeks cost her nephew.
But she did find out that her nephew and Margaret together had given
the Moores that "comfortable little fortune," though it was not in Mr.
Moore's hands, as she supposed; it was in Penelope's.
Penelope herself knew but little about it even now, save the fact (a
great one) that where she had once had a dollar to spend in a certain
time, she now had ten; they had lived on six hundred a year, they now
had six thousand.
Mr. Moore noticed his new luxuries; he knew that Evert Winthrop had sent
many of them down from New York, and he felt very grateful; he asked
Penelope if she had sufficiently thanked him.
"Why, Middleton dear, he's grateful to you," Penelope answered.
She never confessed that it was she herself who had asked for the ivory
brushes. Once let loose on that track, her imagination had become wildly
lawless; she had not considered the rectory gloomy, as Winthrop had
suggested, but there was no doubt but that she would have suspended pink
silk curtains round Middleton's bed if the idea had once occurred to
her. She had always had a secret admiration for velvet coats--which she
associated in some way with King Charles the Martyr--and she now
cherished a plan for attiring Middleton in one (when he should be able
to be attired), and had even selected the color--a dark wood brown; it
would not do for church work, of course; but while he was still an
invalid, now--And she lost herself in dreams of satin linings.
On the day after the fire Margaret had left the river.
It was now thought that she had caused the fire herself; she had
wakened, feeling somewhat chilled, and had gone across to a store-room
in the main building to see if she could get a blanket; having no
candle, she had taken a box of matches from her travelling-bag, and had
used them to light her way, and probably some spark or burning end had
fallen among the stored woollens, and the fire had smouldered there for
some time before making its way out.
She was suffering from nervous shock, she knew that she should be of no
use as a nurse, at least for the present; Dr. Kirby and Mrs. Moore had
reached the hotel, and Winthrop was to remain with them. She could not
travel far, but she could cross over to East Angels; she decided to do
that.
When she reached the house, Aunt Katrina's voice greeted her: "Oh,
Margaret! Margaret! what a horrible fright you have given me!"
Celestine, however (there were certain emergencies when Celestine did
not scruple to interrupt Aunt Katrina), appeared promptly upon the scene
from somewhere, took Margaret up in her arms as though she had been a
child, and carried her off to her bedroom.
"Oh, Miss Margaret!" she said, weeping over her one or two big tears as
she laid her down on the bed--"oh, Miss Margaret!"
"There's nothing the matter with me, Minerva, except that I am tired,"
Margaret answered.
And she did look tired; she was so exhausted that she had not laughed
over Celestine's idea of taking her up and carrying her, she was glad to
be carried.
But having shed her tears, Celestine was now the nurse again. "Don't
speak another word!" she said, peremptorily. And then, with careful
hands, she undressed Margaret and put her to bed.
At the end of the third day Margaret was able to present herself again
in Aunt Katrina's sitting-room.
"I suppose you've got to get it over some time," was Celestine's
reluctant assent.
"But how in the world, Margaret, did you ever come to go back to that
house all alone, late at night, and without letting a soul know?"
demanded Aunt Katrina, in the course of her cross-examination. "I've
tried to conceal what I thought of such a freak!"
"It was not late," Margaret answered, "it was early. I changed my mind
about sleeping at the hotel, I thought I should rather sleep in my own
house, after all; so I went back. Then when I found that Mr. Moore had
already gone to bed, early though it was, I decided not to disturb him."
"What a piece of craziness!--and to think, too, that at your age you
should have gone wandering about with matches! Well, I am glad that I
at least have no such tastes; when I say I am going to sleep in a place,
I sleep there, and you have no idea what sacrifices I have made
sometimes, when travelling, to keep my word--keep it merely to myself;
it is so much better to do what you say you're going to, and not keep
changing your mind. I can never be thankful enough that Lanse was not
there; he could never have escaped so easily as you did, poor fellow;
it really seems almost providential--his having gone off on that journey
just at that time. And as to the wandering about with matches, Margaret
(for it all comes back to that), it's an excellent rule for people who
have those manias never to allow themselves to get out of bed (until the
next morning, of course) after once they're in; now do promise me that
you will make it yours, at least as long as you are staying here;
otherwise I shall be so nervous."
"I wasn't in bed at all," said Margaret.
"A lounge is the same thing; don't quibble," said Aunt Katrina,
severely.
Here Betty, hurrying in, fell on Margaret's neck and kissed her, holding
her closely in her affectionate arms. "Oh, my dearest child! restored to
us from that dreadful danger, thank God! To think how near you
came--Oh, my dear, dear girl!" She kissed her again, and got out her
handkerchief to dry her brimming eyes. "We're going to have prayers in
the church, my dear--thanksgiving."
"What a pity it is, Betty, that you are so demonstrative! Can't you be
glad to see Margaret without boohooing? And when my head is in such a
state, too."
"I am very sorry, Kate, I'm sure," Betty answered. She sat down on the
sofa beside Margaret; as there was a table in front of her which
concealed the movement, she put out her hand furtively and took
Margaret's in hers, holding it with tenderness, and giving it every now
and then a motherly pressure. In the mean while, she talked as usual to
her dear Kate. This was not duplicity on Betty's part; on principle she
never opposed Kate now, she was such an invalid, poor thing! In her
heart lurked the conviction that if Kate would only "let her figure go,"
and be just "natural," as she (Betty) was, her health would immediately
improve. People's figures altered as they grew older, it was useless to
say they didn't; no one could retain a slim waist after forty-five; dear
Kate was over sixty,--really it was not seemly to be so girted in.
If dear Kate could have suspected these opinions, there is no doubt but
that she would have risen from her couch, figure and all, and turned her
uncinctured Elizabeth from the room.
On the fourth day Winthrop came over from the river.
Learning from Celestine that his aunt was in a fairly comfortable
condition, he had fifteen minutes of serious conversation with her; he
told the truth about Lansing Harold's relations with his wife, as well
as his relations with another person.
Aunt Katrina was greatly overcome. She cared more for Lanse than for any
one; much as she cared for him, she had always admired him even more.
She cried--really cried; her handsome face became reddened and
disfigured, and she did not think of it. "He was such a dear little
boy," she said, sobbing. Then she rallied. "If he had had another sort
of wife, he would have been different."
"That's what is always said about such men. In any case, there's nothing
gained by going back to that now."
"I think something is gained; justice is gained--justice for Lanse.
And, mark my words, Evert, Margaret Cruger has not suffered."
"Whether she has or not, she is going to leave us."
"What?" said Aunt Katrina, quickly, turning towards him her altered
countenance. He scarcely knew it, with its reddened eyes and spotted
look.
"You thought, I believe, that she was only going to be absent a short
time," he went on; "that it was merely that she wished a change. But it
was more than that; she has a plan for opening that old house of hers
near Cherry Valley, and living there."
"And me?" said Aunt Katrina, in angry amazement. "Does she cut herself
free from me in that way? In my state of health?"
"It appears so."
Aunt Katrina remained speechless. Pure dismay was now conquering every
other feeling.
"The truth is, Aunt Katrina, you have not been kind enough to Margaret,
ever."
