hands of such a villainous crew as the Topovers.
Of course there was nothing to be done at Beech Hill until the barges
were recovered. The wind was northwest and blowing fresh, as on the day
before, and it was dangerous for an unskilful crew to venture out on the
lake. The lives of the reckless party would be in peril as well as the
boats.
Dory had but a few moments to consider the matter. Matt Randolph and
Oscar Chester were near him, out of breath after the run they had made.
Tom Topover had retreated to the shore of the pond; and the coxswain of
the Winooski, not wishing to engage in a fight, had neglected to follow
him. Nim Splugger had taken command of the Gildrock, and Kidd Digfield
of the Winooski. They had made sure to put a couple of lengths between
the barges and the wharf, and in this position they were as safe from
any interference of the boys on shore as though they had been in the
middle of the lake.
There was no boat at the grove, and no means of pursuing the captors of
the barges. In fact, nothing at all could be done, and for the moment
the situation looked hopeless to the coxswains. Kidd proceeded to give
directions to his crew as soon as the immediate danger of capture was
passed. Taking the tiller-lines himself, he brought something like order
out of the confusion in his crew. After a great deal of sharp talk, he
succeeded in getting his fellows so that they could pull a stroke
together, and the Winooski slowly moved towards the lower end of the
lake.
Kidd could not help seeing the chief Topover on the shore, and as soon
as his crew were in working order, he headed to the point where he
stood. Dory immediately observed the change in the course of the
Winooski, and understood the purpose of her present coxswain, which was
to take Tom on board. By this time Matt and Oscar were as near the spot
where Tom was waiting for the boat as Dory was.
"Head them off!" shouted Dory, as he started at the top of his speed.
"Pull lively, fellers!" yelled Kidd Digfield, when he saw the three
students running towards his leader.
They did pull with all their might, and as the Winooski was bound to go
ahead when the oars crossed her gunwale, she was too much for the
runners on the shore. Dory hoped one of the clumsy oarsmen would "catch
a crab" at that important moment, but not one of them gratified his
desire. He was within a couple of rods of Tom, and was all ready to
pitch into him, when Kidd ordered his crew to stop rowing, and then to
back water.
The inexperienced coxswain had not calculated well, and the boat lost
her headway when her sharp bow was within ten feet of the shore. Dory's
hopes swelled when he saw the boat come to a stand, and he increased his
speed.
"Pull again!" shouted Kidd, almost crazy with excitement, when he
realized that he was losing the game.
But his undisciplined crew were in confusion, and only half of them
could bring their oars to bear. The barge went ahead again just as Dory
was about to pounce on Tom Topover. The leader of the ruffians saw his
peril, and he did not seem to be "spoiling for a fight" at just that
moment, perhaps because his late victim had been reinforced by a couple
of his companions. He had not another instant to spare, and Tom made a
vigorous leap for the bow of the Winooski.
The stem of the barge was not more than three or four feet distant when
the Topover made his leap, but the pointed bow was an ugly foundation to
strike upon. He could not throw his body into the fore sheets, but he
succeeded in grasping the gunwale with both hands, while the lower half
of his body went into the water. Unfortunately the force of his blow had
been imparted to the forward part of the barge, and it had been shoved
farther away from the shore.
Tom Topover dragged himself into the Winooski. Seizing a boathook, he
stood up in the bow of the boat, evidently intending to use it in case
of need in defending himself from an attack of his pursuers. The two
coxswains reached the shore with their wind about gone, to find that ten
feet of deep water lay between them and the nearest part of the
Winooski. They could leap into the water and swim to her, and Oscar
Chester proposed to do so; but this would have been folly, for the
ruffians could easily beat them off with their oars and the boathooks.
Nim Splugger, who had assumed the command of the Gildrock, did not claim
to be a sailor, though he had often pulled an oar. He lacked confidence
in his own ability, and was therefore not so imperative in his orders
as Kidd. The boat was clear of the wharf, and he took time to arrange
his crew at the oars. Before he could get them into working order, their
attention was attracted to Tom and the movements of the Winooski. They
rested on their oars, watching the issue of the affair near the shore.
"Now, back her, fellers!" yelled Kidd Digfield, as soon as he saw that
Tom was in the boat.
"No, you don't back her, Kidd!" roared Tom Topover. "That ain't no way
to do it! Pull on this side," and the leader pointed to the starboard
side; "back on t'other!"
Tom was right, if he did not claim to be a sailor, and Kidd was wrong,
for backing her would only have sent the barge along parallel with the
shore, with the chances of a deviation which would have thrown the stern
within reach of the students on shore. Tom called his disciples by name,
and told each one what to do. Kidd took in his captain's idea, and
helped him with his words. Under their united directions, the head of
the Winooski was thrown around, and she was forced out into the lake.
"I hain't done with you yet, Dory," yelled Tom, shaking his fist at the
proper coxswain of the barge. "Afore you are a week older I'll give you
the biggest lickin' you ever got in your life. I'll crack half the bones
in your body! I'll mash your head till you won't know it from a last
year's punkin!"
"You had better bring those boats back before you get into hot water,"
replied Dory, more in grief than in anger. "Let me tell you that you are
stealing them, and Captain Gildrock will haul you up before the court
for it."
"Shut up, you monkey milksop! When we've done with the boats we'll set
'em a-fire!" returned Tom.
"I can't stand this! I shall boil over!" exclaimed Oscar Chester. "I
should like to get near enough to that scallawag to pitch into him."
"Keep cool, Oscar," said Dory. "We can't do anything just now, and it's
no use to boil over."
"What makes that fellow so down on you, Dory?" asked Matt Randolph. "He
didn't say anything to Oscar and me."
"Perhaps I gave him reason to be down upon me, though I only defended
myself. I knocked him over when he tried to stop me from reaching the
wharf," answered the coxswain of the Winooski. "If I had only got among
those ruffians half a minute sooner, I might have saved the boats,
though I should have had to stand up against the whole of them."
Matt wanted to know more about the affair, and Dory told all that had
happened since he first saw the Topovers. By the time his fellow
coxswain had heard the story, the rest of the two crews began to arrive.
They could see for themselves why they had been summoned so soon. Tom
had taken possession of the stern-sheets of the Winooski, and sent Kidd
to one of the vacant thwarts to row. The ruffians were struggling with
the oars, for, though they had the strength, they were utterly lacking
in discipline and knowledge. But they pulled with some degree of
unanimity, and the Winooski went ahead at a very moderate rate. The
Gildrock was doing better than her consort, for Nim Splugger did not
confuse his crew with too many orders, and each one got the hang of the
oar in his own way.
Both boats were moving, and were headed towards the outlet of the lake.
Their regular crews at the grove could only look on, for they were
powerless to raise a finger to recover the boats at present. One after
another suggested various experiments for demolishing the Topovers, but
their schemes were either foolish or impracticable. Oscar Chester wanted
to run down to the narrowest place on the outlet, and make an attack on
the marauders; but both Matt and Dory were not in favor of such a plan.
"If we get desperate, and try to break things, those villains will smash
the boats rather than let us get them. That Tom Topover is as mad as a
March hare at the rap Dory gave him," said Matt.
"I think we had better report to Captain Gildrock, for I don't see that
we can do anything here," suggested Dory, as he gazed sadly at the
retreating barges.
"We can't even get over to Beech Hill," added Luke Bennington, as he
glanced across the lake at the school grounds.
"We must go around by the road, and it is over a mile," added Pemberton
Millweed.
"It seems to me that somebody on the other side must have seen what was
going on," said Matt.
"I don't think anyone has seen what was going on," replied Dory. "Bates
is on duty in the dormitory, the teachers are attending to their own
affairs, and probably Captain Gildrock is in the house. If any of them
saw the boats going down the lake, they were too far off to know who
were in them. If my uncle knew anything about this business, he would
have sent a boat over before this time."
"If we had been in any mischief, half a dozen of them would have seen
us," said Thad Glovering, with a laugh.
"It's no use to stay here, and we may as well walk around by the road
and report to Captain Gildrock," added Dory.
This was considered the best thing to do, and in half an hour they
arrived at the school grounds on the other side of the lake. No one knew
anything of what had happened on the other side of the water. They could
not find the principal about the place; and at last one of the stablemen
said he had gone to the village with Mrs. Dornwood in the buggy.
Mr. Jepson, the master machinist, was the only instructor they could
find about the premises, and he agreed with Dory and Matt that something
should be done at once.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE PURSUIT IN THE GOLDWING.
It was easier to decide that something should be done than it was to
determine what to do. Mr. Jepson suggested the Sylph, but it would take
some time to get up steam, and Dory thought she would not be the most
convenient craft in a conflict with the barges. He was decidedly in
favor of pursuing the marauders in the Goldwing.
In the smashing breeze on the lake she would sail nearly as fast as the
steamer, and he could have her under way in five minutes. The schooner
could follow the boats into shoal water, while the Sylph must have eight
or nine feet, and if Tom Topover was smart, she might not be able to go
within a mile of the barges.
"I am more afraid the rascals will smash the boats than that we shall
not get them again," said Matt Randolph. "They are reckless fellows, and
will run them on the rocks or shoals."
"We must look out for that," replied Dory. "If they go out on the lake
they are more likely to swamp them than they are to smash them. But we
are losing time, and I should like to catch the villains before they are
out of the river, for I think they won't hurry after they get out of
sight of Beech Hill."
"Goldwing it is!" exclaimed Luke Bennington.
"So say we all of us!" shouted the others, beginning to be somewhat
excited at the prospect of a lively time with the Topovers.
"Dory shall command the expedition," added Thad Glovering.
"Matt is a better skipper than I am," modestly added Dory.
"No, I am not," protested Matt. "And Dory is better acquainted with the
Goldwing than I am, and he shall conduct the affair."
"But you can't all go in the Goldwing," interposed Mr. Jepson. "There
are eighteen of you, and you will be so crowded that you will knock one
another overboard."
"Although the schooner will carry eighteen well enough, we can do
nothing on board with so many, and nine or ten are all we need," added
Dory.
"But there are fourteen of the ruffians," suggested Thad Glovering.
"They are used to fighting, and we want as many fellows as they have."
"I don't believe there will be much fighting," replied Dory, laughing;
"but if there should be, we can do better with ten than we can with
twice that number. With eighteen we should be in one another's way."
"Ten only will go," said Mr. Jepson decidedly.
"But who shall they be?" demanded Luke Bennington. "Every fellow wants
to go and have a hand in the fun."
"There is where the difficulty comes in," added Matt. "I think Dory had
better select his own crew; and for one, if I am elected to stay at
home, I won't complain."
"You know very well that you will be elected to go, Matt," said Will
Orwell.
"I don't like to select a crew; I wish all could go, and I shall be
satisfied with any nine," interposed Dory.
"Under these circumstances the best thing a fellow can do is to
volunteer to stay behind; and I volunteer not to go," said Oscar
Chester. "I should like to go as well as the next one, and I don't want
any fellow to think I am chickenish."
"We know you are not, Oscar," added Dave Windsor; and all the students
began to clap their hands at the self-sacrifice of the first volunteer.
Bolingbroke Millweed followed Oscar's example; then came Matt Randolph
and Luke Bennington. It was the unselfish and brave thing to volunteer
to stay at home, and no one was willing to stay behind in doing a good
deed. In a moment more the whole seventeen had volunteered to remain at
Beech Hill.
"I don't like to be alone, and I will join the crowd," exclaimed Dory,
greatly amused at the situation. "We are just as badly off as we were in
the beginning, and the Topovers are pulling down the river all the time.
I will tell you how to settle the matter so that it shall be fair for
all."
"All right, Dory: propel!" exclaimed Dave Winslow.
"Matt Randolph is the coxswain of the Gildrock, and he must go anyhow.
For the other eight you must draw lots. Mr. Jepson will attend to the
matter, and Matt and I will get the Goldwing ready," said Dory,
beginning to be impatient at the delay.
All of them clapped their hands in token of their approval of the plan.
The master machinist took out his pencil and wrote the numbers from one
to sixteen on the back of a letter. Around eight of them, taken at
random, he drew a square. Calling Miss Millweed from the schoolroom, he
gave the paper to her.
"Now, Luke, select a number less than seventeen," continued Mr. Jepson.
"Forty-two," said Luke, laughing.
"I shall have to turn you over to Mr. Darlingby for further instruction
in arithmetic," replied Mr. Jepson.
"Twelve," shouted Luke.
"Is that number enclosed in a square, Miss Millweed?" asked the
machinist.
"It is not," replied the lady clerk.
"Then you are blackballed, Luke," added Mr. Jepson.
"Of course I am; I knew I should be."
"But with the eight who are elected not to go we will go down the river
in the two four-oar boats; and we may be able to assist in the capture
of the barges," said the machinist.
All hands applauded this announcement, and the lot proceeded. Oscar
Chester, the first to volunteer to remain behind, was one of the first
who selected a squared number. This result was heartily applauded. From
being the worst bully in the crowd he had come to be a very gentlemanly
and unselfish fellow. The discipline of Captain Gildrock had done
wonders for him.
By the time the last of Dory's crew had been drawn, the schooner was
under way, and standing in towards the wharf. The eight who had been
"blackballed," as the machinist called it, were directed to man the two
four-oar boats, and put the others on board of the yacht.
"Now we are all right, and under way at last," said Matt Randolph.
"But the Topovers have a start of all of an hour ahead of us, and if
they have been using their oars they must be well out in the lake by
this time," added Dory.
"I don't believe they will go a great way out into the lake," replied
Matt. "There must be a smart sea at the mouth of the river, for the wind
is a good deal heavier than it was yesterday."
"The rest of the fellows are coming down the river in the four-oar
boats," said Oscar. "I suppose they are going to help us, and we ought
to make short work of this affair."
"Are you going to lay them aboard, Dory?" asked Matt, who was rather
inclined to quiz his fellow coxswain.
"I haven't the least idea how we shall manage the business," replied
the skipper of the Goldwing.
"But you ought to have a plan," suggested the New York boatman.
"How can you make a plan before you know what the Topovers intend to do,
and before you ascertain the situation of the boats?" asked the skipper.
"It's no use to try to cross the river before you get to it."
"Of course not; but do you mean to board the barges and fight it out, or
to manoeuvre them out of the game as you did the Chesterfields?"
continued Matt, rather disappointed to find that Dory did not lean upon
him as much as he desired and expected.
"I am ready to do either or both, as the circumstances happen to favor,"
replied the skipper. "If you will take the tiller, Matt, I will go
forward and 'clear ship for action.'"
The schooner was going at great speed, with the wind on the beam, and
the outlet was very narrow. Dory went forward, and proceeded to arrange
certain rigging on the forward deck. He did not explain what he was
doing, but he worked as though he had some idea of his possible action
in the encounter with the Topovers.
While he was busy with the lines, the centreboard of the Goldwing
suddenly flew up, and a moment later the bottom of the yacht was
scraping on the sand. Dory suspended his work, and looked up.
"Here we are!" he exclaimed, as he looked around him, and then at the
helmsman.
"I thought there was water enough here for her," said Matt, greatly
chagrined to find that he had run the schooner aground when they were in
such a hurry.
"So there is if you only keep in it," replied Dory laughing, for he did
not wish to hurt the feelings of his fellow coxswain. "I have done that
same thing myself, Matt, and I did it as handsomely as you have done
it."
"We have to haul her up into the wind here, and I was afraid she would
go ashore on the other side," pleaded Matt. "But here we are with the
centreboard up in the air, and the planks rasping the sand on the
bottom."
The disaster occurred at the bend in the outlet, which Dory called the
"V point." The current, which was quite strong at high water, deposited
a great deal of sand at the apex of the point, while its force made a
clear channel near the shore on the other side. When the wind was
northwest it was necessary to hug the point as closely as possible.
The two oars and the boathook were at once brought into use, but it was
impossible to move the hull in this way. Dory sent a couple of the crew
ashore in the tender with a line, which they made fast to a tree near
the deep water. The anchor was taken on deck, and the other end of the
line passed through the block on the bowsprit. All on board manned this
line, and the bow was hauled off almost in the twinkling of an eye. Matt
insisted that Dory should take the helm, when the tender had returned
with the line.
It was not an easy thing to get under way again in that bad place and
Matt was very much mortified at the mishap. The skipper said all he
could to comfort him, and gave him the helm again as soon as the
schooner was in Beaver River. He arranged his lines as he had before,
and by the time he had done this the Goldwing was approaching the mouth
of the river. But a bend prevented them from seeing out into the lake.
"There they are!" shouted Dory at the heel of the bowsprit, where he
could get the first view of the white-capped waves. "They are doing the
very thing I was afraid they would do."
"What's that, Dory?" asked Matt, starting the sheets as the course of
the yacht was changed.
"They are standing across the lake, and in a short time, if they make
any headway, they will be in smooth water," replied the skipper.
Matt did not ask any questions, and possibly he suspected that Dory was
his superior in the management of a boat. If he did, it was only because
he was mortified at the accident at V Point. The Goldwing went out into
the lake, and began to dance on the billows. The two barges appeared to
be doing very well, in spite of the inefficient crew at the oars. Both
of them were pitching smartly, and were not taking in water except in
the form of spray.
In a few minutes the Goldwing was within hailing distance of the barges.
Dory declined to take the helm when Matt suggested, and was again busy
with his lines on the forward deck.
CHAPTER XV.
THE SKIPPER USES A NAUTICAL LASSO.
"What's that?" called George Duane, while Dory was still busy on the
forward deck.
This question was called forth by what sounded like a volley of cheers
from the New York side of the lake; but nothing could be seen to
indicate the source from which the noise came.
"There it is again," added John Brattle, as three distinct cheers came
over the waves. "There is some sort of a party up that little cove."
There was an inlet just to the south of the barges, from which it was
now evident that the sounds came. But parties from the surrounding
country frequently had frolics on the shores of the lake, and the
students concluded that the cheers came from one of these gatherings.
The Topovers continued on their course, and seemed to be laboring to
increase their speed, which was certainly moderate enough. They pulled
but six oars in each barge, and against the wind and the heavy sea they
could make but little progress. The Goldwing was making three miles to
their one, and the moment for action was near.
Though the Goldwing was close-hauled, she leaped over the waves like a
bird, and Matt was running directly for the barges, one of which was
following the other, the Winooski being ahead. The skipper finished
arranging the lines on the forward deck. Getting on his feet he made a
careful survey of the situation.
"Matt, can you go to windward of the barges?" he called to the helmsman.
"I might, possibly, but it would be a close squeeze," replied Matt.
"Then we must work more to windward: tack, if you please," added Dory;
and it was evident that he had prepared his plan of attack.
Matt came about and headed the Goldwing to the north. Dory kept his eye
on the barges, but he gave no hint of his method of operations. Probably
Matt thought he was entitled to be informed in regard to the plan, but
the accident in the river for which he was responsible had humbled him,
and he asked no questions.
When the schooner had made about a quarter of a mile of northing, the
skipper gave the order to tack again. Matt was directed to steer for a
certain point on the shore, which would carry the yacht a little
distance to windward of the barges, allowing for the headway they would
make before she could reach them. In that lively breeze even the width
of the lake at Beaver River was only a run of a few minutes for the
Goldwing, and she was very soon abreast of the Gildrock. The Winooski
was about a hundred fathoms ahead of her.
"Now, Matt, we have some sharp work to do, and every thing must be done
on the instant," said Dory, when the Goldwing had passed the Gildrock
and was up with the Winooski.
"Perhaps you had better take the helm, then?" suggested the coxswain of
the Gildrock.
"I can't, for I have a job to do here on the forward deck. We shall go
about, and run for the Gildrock in a moment," replied Dory. "I want you
to make for her stem just as though you meant to run her down."
"All right, Dory; I will obey orders to the letter," returned the
helmsman.
"I would rather you would obey them in spirit; so if I make a blunder,
and get knocked out, I want you to correct it," added Dory lightly.
"I don't know what you are going to do, and I can only obey orders to
the letter," said Matt.
"I could not settle on any plan until I had seen how the barges lay; and
it is too late to explain now. Ready about!"
Matt promptly obeyed the orders given him, and the schooner came
entirely around. It would have been a shorter way to jibe her, but the
skipper never ventured upon this manoeuvre when the wind was at all
fresh; for he was not one of those venturesome boatmen who think they
are not smart unless they incur needless risks.
Dory saw that Matt was carrying out his orders to the letter, and it was
clear that Nim Splugger, the acting coxswain of the Gildrock, was
getting nervous as he saw the Goldwing dashing down upon his craft.
"What are you about? You will run over us!" yelled Nim, when he saw the
schooner within twenty feet of him.
The oarsmen were inclined to desert their posts, and kept looking behind
them at the Goldwing. But both barges had been in the trough of the sea,
and those in charge of them had found by actual trial that the only way
they could go was directly across the lake, against the wind. This was
the reason why the barges were nearly over to the New York shore, and
not because they were following a plan of their own.
"Keep to your oars, fellers!" shouted Nim Splugger, when he saw several
of his crew cease rowing. "Never mind that boat! She won't run into us."
But Nim had his doubts on this point, for the Goldwing did not budge an
inch from her course. Dory had looked over his lines, and was watching
the course of the schooner and the position of the Gildrock. When the
schooner was within ten feet of the barge, Nim gave a frantic yell, and
all the rowers gave up in despair.
"Keep her away a little, Matt!" called Dory, who was now on his feet
with a line in each hand.
The Topovers in the Gildrock gave a desperate yell, satisfied that they
should be floundering in the angry waters the next instant. The Goldwing
fell off a trifle at this moment, in obedience to the helm. Dory had
fixed the line in his left hand on the spur of the light boathook, which
he extended as far as he could reach. As he did so, one of the covers
from the cook-stove, which he had secured to the bight between his
hands, dropped into the water.
Thus arranged, the line formed a snare in the shape of a triangle, the
stove-cover sinking the lower angle a couple of feet under water. As the
skipper held the snare, the Gildrock ran her bow directly into it. The
bight of the line was a slip-noose, and as the schooner drove ahead, it
tightened up.
As the Goldwing went ahead, Dory paid out the line rapidly, for a single
jerk would have upset the barge. The Topovers in the boat were so
terrified that they did not comprehend what Dory was about.
"Hard down your helm, Matt!" shouted Dory, with tremendous energy, when
half his line had run out, and the bow of the schooner was abreast of
the stern of the Gildrock.
Oscar Chester had been stationed at the mainsheet, and the instant Matt
put the helm down he hauled in the sheet with all his might. The effect
of these orders, as they were sharply executed, was to cause the
Goldwing to circle around the stern of the barge, and come up
close-hauled on her starboard side.
"Now we are all right! It's a success!" cried Dory, with all the
enthusiasm of a person who has won a great victory.
But even his own crew did not understand what he was about, and had not
the least idea of the working of his plan. All that had been done had
been accomplished in a few seconds, and the rapid working of the
schooner absorbed all their attention.
When the Goldwing came about under the stern of the barge, Dory rushed
aft with the end of his line in his hand, and made it fast to a cleat.
The rope had sunk in the water, and passed under the keel of the
Gildrock.
"Touch her up, Matt! Lively, if you please!" said Dory, as he secured
the line in his hand.
But the schooner had not yet got under full speed since she came about,
and when the mainsail shook she had lost about all her headway. But she
was not permitted to come to. Dory took the helm now, which Matt was
very willing to have him do.
"Go aft, every one of you!" shouted Dory to the Topovers in the barge.
"If you don't you will be overboard in a moment!"
The six oarsmen had been stationed in the middle of the boat, leaving
the vacant places forward and aft. Without waiting for orders from Nim
Splugger, the rowers all hurried aft as fast as the uneasy motion of the
craft would permit. This change in her burden caused the bow of the
Gildrock to be lifted out of the water, which was precisely what Dory
desired. Putting the helm of Goldwing up he allowed the yacht to gather
headway by slow degrees. He had lassoed the barge, but he was not
certain of the effect when he should attempt to tow her. The slip-noose
had come home so that the knot was nearly in line with the stem.
"I see now what you are about," said Matt, while Dory was experimenting
with the process of towing the barge. "But those fellows will cut the
line as soon as they get a little used to the movement of the boat and
understand what you are doing."
"If any one of them attempts to go forward, we can pitch him into the
lake as quick as we can shift the helm of the Goldwing," replied Dory
confidently.
"I see!" exclaimed Matt, laughing. "A pull sideways would heel the barge
over so that the water would go over her gunwale."
"The two four-oar boats are coming!" shouted Dick Short, "Mr. Jepson is
in one of them."
"Good! We may want some of those fellows before we get through with
this business," replied the skipper.
"But what are you going to do with your game now that you have snared
it, Dory?" asked Matt.
"I am going to put the Topovers ashore over here, and send the Gildrock
home at once," answered Dory. "I should have told you about my plan,
Matt, but I didn't believe in it myself until the last minute. I was
sure you would laugh at it; and if I did not succeed in carrying it out
I did not want you to have to bear any of the responsibility of its
failure."
"I think I should have laughed at it; and I can't help doing so now,"
added Matt, suiting the action to the words.
With the whole length of the line out, the Gildrock towed better than
Dory had expected she would. But the barge both pitched and rolled as it
was dragged at an angle over the waves, and the Topovers in her had to
hold on with both hands. With only half her usual crew, and these all in
the stern sheets, the tow-line did not force her bow under, and she kept
very nearly in her proper trim.
Finding that she went along very well, Dory headed the Goldwing for the
little cove from which the cheers had come. By this time the Winooski
had got into the smooth water, comparatively, under the lee of the
shore. If Commodore Tom Topover wanted to do anything to assist his
companions in the other boat, he was as fearful of coming about as he
had been in the middle of the lake. As soon as he was under the shelter
of the shore, he headed his craft to the south. But he might as well
have chased the lightning as the Goldwing.
As the schooner approached the mouth of the cove she was saluted by a
volley of noisy cheers. At the same time the bows of two boats came in
sight.
"The Chesterfields! We are in for it now!" shouted Ben Ludlow.
CHAPTER XVI.
COMMODORE TOM TOPOVER VISITS THE GOLDWING.
The cheers the Beech Hill students had heard before had evidently been
given by the Chesterfields, and not by a picnic party. Dory was not
pleased to see them after the experience of the day before; and their
last words had been threats of vengeance. The fresh paint could be seen
on the bow of the Dasher where the injury done by the Winooski had been
repaired.
The Dasher appeared to be the leading boat, and Mad Twinker had changed
from the other barge, and became her coxswain. Wash Barker was not in
either craft, and his place in the Racer was filled by Jeff Monroe, who
had been active in the affair of the day before.
As soon as the Goldwing appeared off the point, dragging the Gildrock
after her, the Chesterfields set up a yell, and it was plain that they
identified the Beech Hill students who had so thoroughly humiliated them
on the day before. Their lusty cheers indicated that they were ready to
take the vengeance they had promised to obtain. Mad Twinker headed the
Dasher for the Goldwing, and the Racer followed.
It seemed to be a holiday at the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, and
the boats' crews had evidently been practising in the cove all the
morning. There was a marked improvement in their rowing; they had
observed the excellent discipline that prevailed on board of the
Winooski, and they had doubtless learned a lesson from what they had
seen. After the Chesterfields had given the three cheers, which did not
appear to mean anything, unless they were cheering their enemy, there
was no whooping or yelling as at the former meeting of the boats.
"Those fellows promised to get even with us when we parted last night,"
said Dory, after they had observed the movements of the Chesterfields
for a few minutes. "I suppose they are ready to begin now."
"If they do begin now they will have a nice time of it," added Matt.
"They will never forgive us for compelling them to give up our clothes
before they were ready to do so," continued the skipper. "They are in
better discipline, and behave better this morning than they did
yesterday. But they don't seem to know anything at all about a boat, and
they think they can overhaul the Goldwing without any difficulty."
"If we run up this cove they will have us on the hips," replied Matt.
"There are twenty-six of them, while we are only nine, and if they catch
us they can have it all their own way."
"You are right, Matt, and we will not go up the cove. We will go up to
Rock Harbor, and we can land the Topovers long before they can pull that
distance."
The skipper let off the sheets, and headed the schooner to the south.
She was almost before the wind, and the yacht flew like a locomotive on
her course. In a few minutes the barges were a mile astern of her. At
the mouth of Rock Harbor the wind had a fair sweep, and the sea was
almost as rough as it had been in the middle of the lake.
As the Goldwing approached the south side of the inlet, Dory rounded to
very carefully, so as not to swamp the Gildrock, though the terrified
Topovers were well shaken up in the manoeuvre. Running into the cove
just far enough to escape the heaviest of the waves, Dory directed his
crew to haul on the tow-line, and bring the Gildrock within talking
distance. Spilling the sail, he allowed the yacht to drift towards the
shore.
"We intend to put you on shore here," shouted Dory to the occupants of
the Gildrock.
"We can never get home from here," yelled Nim Splugger.
"That's your look out. You must go ashore, or we will spill you all out
into the water by the beach," replied the skipper.
Nim made no reply, for he saw that his captors were in earnest. Dory
directed Matt and Oscar to land them three or four at a time in the
tender. He explained what he meant to do to the prisoners, and
threatened them with a ducking if they resisted. They did not resist,
for they felt that the skipper could have his own way with them. Matt
landed them in two trips; but Nim Splugger showed fight when they were
all on the beach. He attempted to hold on to the tender, but Oscar
pitched him out of the boat into the water. The moment he was out of it,
Matt shoved it from the shore, and they pulled back to the Goldwing.
It had taken some time to land the Topovers, and by the time the
Gildrock had been properly rigged for towing, the two barges of the
Chesterfields, which had followed the schooner, were within a quarter
of a mile of the point where the marauders had been put on shore. They
made a sweep into the harbor, so as to avoid the rough water.
"Help! help!" yelled the Topovers on the land, when they saw the barges
approaching them.
It was not probable that the Chesterfields knew anything about the
Topovers; but they could not help seeing that they had been at war with
the Beach Hill students, and had been defeated. For this reason,
doubtless they sympathized with the ruffians; at any rate they were the
enemies of the Beech Hillers, and this fact made them allies.
Dory headed the Goldwing out into the lake. The skipper and the crew
watched the movements of the Chesterfields with interest. Possibly the
curiosity of the latter was excited by the scene they had witnessed, and
they wished to inquire into its meaning. At any rate they pulled for the
point where the Topovers had been landed, and the heavy sea prevented
them from following the schooner out into the lake.
The Chesterfield barges made a landing farther up the harbor, and three
of the marauders were taken into one boat, and four into the other.
They did not remain at the shore a moment after they had picked up their
passengers, but followed the yacht by the inside route. The crews of the
Dasher and Racer had not seen the capture of the Gildrock with the
lasso, and could not have known that the Winooski was making for the New
