nor any enterprise, so nothing is done. Mr. Sims says 
all the houses are so poor that nobody would have any 
courage to come and build, because it looks like such a 
God-forsaken place that they would be afraid it wouldn't 
pay. Do you think it looks like a God-forsaken place ?" 
he asked, suddenly. 
Oswald laughed, resting on his oars a minute and 
looking at the sky. " What a queer little chap you 
are ! Well, yes, if you want the truth, it is, rather ; but 
then I have noticed that almost all towns at this dis- 
tance in the country have a sort of dead-and-buried 
look. Now I should think we were out far enough ; 
we'll drift for a while." 
He drew in the oars and sat waiting, scanning the 
sky. Philip would not shiver, but he wished he had 
worn the comforter. 
" Well ! " said Craig, at last, " this proves it. To- 
morrow morning we'll go out where the natives do, and 
take care to be there early. Did you have any break- 
fast ? I meant to go round to the hotel for some, but 
it would have been too early to get any thing." 
" No, and I'm hungry," said Philip. "Oh ! " with a 
 
sudden thought, " Elizabeth gave me some lunch ; let 
me see if I have lost it out of my pocket." 
No, there it was ; a square little package that prov- 
ed to consist of slices of bread and butter, gingerbread, 
and cheese. Philip spread it on the seat before 
him. 
"This is a find," said Oswald, helping himself to 
bread. " How did she happen to think of it ?" 
" Oh, I don't know ; she thinks of every thing for 
me," remarked the boy, with a well satisfied sense of 
possessing a sister who had done the proper thing, un- 
der the circumstances. ' She understands things you 
tell her, too ; most girls don't, you know." 
Oswald was looking at him for almost the first time 
that morning ; his attention before had been given un- 
dividedly to the birds. 
"What kind of things ? " he asked. 
" Oh, every thing ! Never laughs when you tell her 
what you mean to do, or Will you tell me something 
about theaters ? " he asked, suddenly, looking very 
soberly over his bread and butter. 
" Why do you care for them ? " 
" I never saw one, but I want to know all about them. 
I got a paper at the Sea View the other day, and saw 
they were playing Hamlet; is it very beautifully done ? " 
" The critics say no/' said Oswald ; he was ready 
to indulge the boy, perhaps in payment for the amuse- 
ment Philip was innocently affording. Beyond that, 
the slightness of a new experience did not detract from 
the warmth with which he met it. 
" Bellingham takes the part, and Bellingham is made 
up of a stage stride and pompous mannerisms. Besides, 
he's too fat ; you can't imagine Hamlet's 
porcelain soul in that kind of envelope." 
" And how does the theater look ? " asked Philip, 
having met, for the first time in his life, some one who 
could answer his questions without being shocked at 
them. " Is it a great building with the stage at one 
end?" 
" Have you never been inside one ? " said Oswald. 
; You must go, if you care for the stage so much. 
Yes, it is a very large building with two balconies, in a 
semi-circle, so, like my hands. The stage is here, 
where I put this piece of wood." 
"And it has a curtain ? " said the boy, eager to urge 
him on. 
" Yes, the one I am thinking of has a great crimson 
curtain that goes down quite near the foot-lights, and 
behind it is the drop-curtain that falls between the 
acts." 
" And Hamlet, tell me about him ; what does he 
wear ? And how does the ghost look ? Can they make 
him very terrible ? " 
" The poor ghost ! no," laughed Oswald ; ' he is 
made up of a big voice, some armor, and is illuminated 
by a spectral sort of light ; nobody looks at him, except 
perhaps the servant-girls and coachmen in the gallery. 
Every eye is on Hamlet." 
" And is he pale and frightened ? Please go on." 
"That depends on your actor," said Oswald, enter- 
ing into the boy's interest and seeing that he need not 
bring the subject down to a tale for his amusement ; 
"he may be all bravado ; a solid, beef-eating Hamlet, 
who would track a ghost to earth as quickly and with 
as much relish as he would a fox. He may be only 
an actor who has learned to mouth the part, but is 
not student enough to spend years in dissecting it, 
and he will fall into an abject terror. But once in 
two or three life-times, you may find a man who has 
such power of sympathy as to put himself into Hamlet's 
frame of mind ; and if his own mind is fine enough, 
his emotions sensitive in response, his conscience 
abnormally developed, and his will unequal to any 
steady strain upon it, that man may come near to an 
understanding of Hamlet. Then, if he have a res- 
pectable figure, and a nose that is not a snub, a severe 
theatrical training, and a vivid talent, perhaps he may 
venture to play the part." 
Half of this was over the head of Philip, but he did 
not like it the less for that ; more than most of us ob- 
ject to scientific nomenclature which possibly leaves 
no very clear impression on the mind. 
' Is it very hard to get a play accepted ? " asked 
Philip in a voice that sounded unnatural to himself ; 
it seemed to him it must publish to the world the fact 
of his dear ambition. 
" Oh yes," said Oswald, so carelessly that the lad 
felt a real surprise that he evidently had not seen the 
personal drift of the question ; ' unless one has in- 
fluence at court, or enough talent to write a sensational 
play that would take with the multitude and run for 
the season. He might understand stage management 
well enough to get up scenic effects and produce one 
of those brilliant plays that have enough noise and 
thunder for the ear, and blue and green lights for the 
eye, to be popular. But who wants popularity? All 
this is clap-trap, you know ; if you come to real play- 
writing, that is another thing." 
" Another thing because it would be so hard to do ?" 
asked Philip, with almost hurt emphasis. ' But if one 
wanted it more than any thing else ; so much that he 
would be willing to wait a long while to be known ?" 
" Well, he might have all that without any brains," 
said Oswald carelessly, taking up the oars ; ' brains 
do count, after all, you know. I believe I'll row in 
shore. How good that gingerbread was ! Your mother 
or was it the sister ? was very thoughtful." 
Philip sat silent all the way in ; like many conscious, 
sensitive people, he was easily wounded on the score 
of his personal wishes and plans. Elizabeth was the 
only one to whom he had ever spoken of them, and 
she always believed in him. This was the first doubt 
that had ever entered his world of visions. Oswald 
noticed the change in him. 
" If you are willing, I'll leave you at the Point and 
take the boat round," said Philip ; he had his own 
reasons for wishing it. 
" Just as you like. Shall I give you the money to 
pay the man, or will he let us take it again and pay for 
it all together ? ' 
" That would be the best way," said Philip ; he had 
no intention of braving the probably irate Si, so far as 
to offer him money to pay for the trick. Oswald 
could do that for himself, if he chose. 
" I shall see you again," said the young man. ''Come 
in and sit by my fire with me. I've had roaring ones 
made in two or three rooms of that old house. Come 
in and keep me company." 
 
" I should like to," Philip said, forgetting his de- 
pression of the past minutes in the prospect of longer 
talks with the stranger. ' I will if I can." 
Oswald left him at the Point, and he, looking back 
as he rowed away, saw the well-knit figure fast disap- 
pearing over the rocks, the gun over the shoulder 
picturesquely outlined against the sky. 
Fortunately, no one was down by the shore when 
Philip drew up the boat. He was rather glad, not 
because he shrank from confession, but he was cold 
and tired, and the joke did not seem quite as funny as 
it had done. By the time he reached home he was 
quite chilled, and thought of the kitchen fire with 
more interest than of any thing else. 
No one was there when he went in, but as things 
were all in order in the room and the clock ticking 
soberly, sole watch .over the scene, he knew that, the 
work being done till dinner-time, the three women 
were busy in the next room. 
It makes one tired, both mentally and physically, to 
think of the hours they spent sewing or knitting, day 
after day and month after month, in an unbroken 
silence. It is to be questioned whether the mind 
does not lull itself to sleep in such monotonous 
pricking of the needle, as the bodily eyes close in 
weariness after fastening themselves on one uninter- 
esting object after another. 
CHAPTER IV. 
OSWALD spent his day at the Sea View where, after 
eating a dinner especially adapted to the place, con- 
sisting chiefly of fish-chowder, he took his seat by the 
fire and talked with one after another of the men who 
dropped in to smoke. They interested him warmly, and 
he was so talkative and conciliatory in hope of drawing 
out their own originality, that after he was gone there 
were strong beliefs expressed that he was a politician, 
who had an ax to grind. 
' Why," said a bent and grizzled figure in a blue 
jacket, Charlie .Reeves, an old man who seemed to 
have retained the boyish diminutive of his name chief- 
ly on account of its inappropriateness, " you remem- 
ber when Josh Rowe was murdered in his cider-house ? 
Twenty year ago it was, but there ain't a man in 
Stra'ford that hain't had the particulars of the story 
told him. There warn't a clue to the murderer, you 
know, and jest at that time there come down to this 
very tavern, boys," bringing his brawny hand down on 
a chair to emphasize the reality of its being the identi- 
cal furniture that was there twenty years ago, " to this 
very tavern, a slim, slick young chap ; butter wouldn't 
melt in his mouth. The fust Sunday he was here, he 
went to meetin' and set in Elder Fry's Bible-class. 
Talked with every body, he did ; talked with me ! 
 
Said he was interested in murders ; wanted to know 
all about it; and if you'd believe it, when I told him all 
I knew, he'd set and shiver ! Wai, he staid round 
here ten days, talkin' to one and another, and most of 
all with Bill Holmes ; and then, one day, we was set- 
tin' here, right here in this keepin'-room, boys, and 
Bill Holmes come in and sez, kinder reckless, as if he 
thought best for folks "re hear him, ' Give me a glass 
o' whisky, old man, I'm goin' up to Boston on the ten 
o'clock train,' and before any one could ask a question, 
' So you are ! ' sez a voice like the snap of a whip. We 
all jumped an' turned round, an' there, where we 
thought he was settin', stewin' over the fire an' askin' 
questions in that low voice of his, was the stranger ; 
he was standin' straight as a gun-barrel, and you'd a 
thought he'd grown six inches. ' Yes, you shall,' sez 
he, ez cool ez you be now, ' and I'll go with you.' An' 
with that he walked up an' slipped a pair o' hand-cuffs 
on Bill's wrists. Bill cow'd down an' never said a 
-irvord ; an' in the spring he was convicted of murder 
in the fust degree. You see, boys, the feller was a 
detective, and he had come down here o' purpose to 
ketch him. Now this one goes on talkin' jest ez he 
did, and don't seem to have no more business on his 
hands." 
Here Charlie paused and looked with cool triumph 
into the fire, as if he had proved his case conclusively 
but was too modest to look up for applause. The 
circle of men had gone on smoking gravely, giving 
confirmatory nods at certain points of the story. They 
had heard it more times than it would be well to esti- 
mate, though not as illustrative of this particular per- 
 
son, but no one gave a sign of impatience at the last 
recital. 
Next spoke Jim Bolton, a good-natured young fel- 
low, who managed to be very happy with his wife and 
six children in a house of two rooms, and bore with 
the most beaming good-humor the epithet ' shiftless," 
applied in no very severe rey >\ach, but as the result 
of criticism by the town in general. 
" Must ha' been a politician after office," he said, 
knocking the ashes of his pipe into the saw-dust bed 
in which the stove was set ; " never had a stranger 
make me talk about myself as he did, except Emmitt, 
when he wanted to be senator. Kept holt o' my hand 
ten minutes, Emmitt did, askin' how my family was, 
before I got a chance to answer him." 
" What did you tell him, Jim ?'' asked a youth of 
nineteen, who felt highly honored at being admitted to 
this conclave, and who knew, as did all the rest, the 
coming answer. 
" Told him I was much obliged for his int'rest, and 
that my wife and child'en was all down with the^small- 
pox. Lord ! how quick he dropped my hand and 
skulked off," and Jim's voice broke into a ripple of 
laughter. 
A smile passed round the circle ; an old story was 
as good as a new one in fact, rather better ; it was 
more in harmony with the current of Stratford life ; a 
new and startling recital would have been like a 
heavy stone thrown into the calm waters, making waves 
instead of ripples. 
But one man had an interest in making Oswald's 
acquaintance." Si had intended to use his boat him- 
 
self, that morning, and had gone to the shore only to 
look for it in vain. Great was his astonishment when 
Jim, who he supposed had borrowed it, came down for 
that very purpose, and it was not until some gunner 
solved the mystery by saying he had seen the stranger 
out in it, that the wonder ceased. Si waited to see it 
brought in and give the stranger a decided expression 
of his opinion. He was of that easy nature which 
could forgive almost any dereliction for weeks, and 
then when it happened to impress itself on his mind, 
would suddenly pounce upon the offender. 
He watched for the boat's coming in, but a 
friend with a bunch of brant and teal over his 
shoulder, big enough to make any sportsman's eyes 
water, passed through his back yard and stopped 
to talk ; and Si, forgetting his resolve in the excite- 
ment of telling his grievance, was deeply absorbed 
at the very moment when Philip was drawing up the 
boat and running home across the rocks. When Si, 
taking his foot down from the saw-horse and his hand 
from his knee, had finished his narrative, he found, to 
his surprise, the boat in its place. But the sturdy sea- 
man had a strict sense of justice and was not to be balk- 
ed of his purpose ; so, learning that Oswald was at the 
farm, he took his way there, saying nothing to the men 
who inquired about the loss of his boat. The house 
was quite dark, as he approached, save for a glow of 
ruddy fire-light playing across the small window-panes. 
Si knocked, and after waiting a suitable time for an 
answer, walked into one of the large, square rooms 
opening from the hall. 
' Come in," said the voice of the young stranger, 
lazily. " I don't know who you are, but you're wel- 
come.' 
After the moment necessary to accustom his eyes to 
the gloom, Si could see the young man's figure, stretch- 
ed on a buffalo-robe before the roaring fire. The old 
house, left untenanted for so many years, had not 
known a fire for so long that it must have been quite 
shaken on its foundations with enthusiasm, at the roar up 
the wide chimney and the tongues of ambitious flame. 
Si seated himself gravely on a straight-backed chair 
near the door. " I come to ask you about usin' my 
boat this mornin'," he said, every word pointed and 
emphasized to the young man's ears by the broadness 
of the vowels and the rolling of the " r " s. Oswald 
was instantly conscious of a pleasant interest and a 
wish to detain him, there was such a delicious newness 
in his speech. 
''About paying for it? I knew I should want it 
again and so I thought perhaps we had better settle 
for it all together ; was that all right ? " 
' Not the pay for it," said Si, still keeping up his un- 
discouraged pursuit of justice. : The amount of the 
matter is, my boat's my own ; I don't allow no man to 
take it away 'thout my leave. It don't make no dif- 
ference 'bout this mornin', but if you are goin' to stay 
in these parts you might as well know it." 
Oswald began to wonder what canon of social usage 
his innocent and unsuccessful excursion of the morn- 
ing had violated. 
' Was it because I sent the boy what's his name ? 
Philip, to ask for it ? But you see it was a good deal 
more convenient than to go myself, and to tell you 
STRA TFORD-B Y- THE-SEA, 
the truth, I didn't know whose boat he got. I told 
him you wanted to use yours to-day and he asked me 
to let him find one. I didn't even notice it was the 
one we had yesterday." 
Light dawned on Si and he began to smile broadly. 
You must remember that in the exceedingly primitive 
and remote town of Stratford, slight events were often 
obliged to magnify themselves in order to create a 
proper interest in life. 
" Wai, that's the master ! " said Si, with a deep drawn 
breath ; ' the master ! If it had been one o' the other 
boys I shouldn't ha' been surprised ; but Phil, he passes 
for a young deacon." 
' Do you mean that he took it v/ithout permission ? " 
asked Oswald, laughing. This little affair interested 
him, too ; the very atmosphere of the place seemed to 
inoculate him with its floating germs, breeding interest. 
Any corner of life made him a home. 
' He didn't look like a scamp, but I suppose all boys 
are, more or less ; I know I was." 
Si was still smiling, " I don't know ez I care, now he 
done it ; an' Jim didn't want much to go out, this morn- 
m', either. Any body likes to accommodate a neigh- 
bor fust, you know." 
|| Yes, I suppose so. What is Jim ; a fisherman ? " 
'^Wal, no ; ' said Si, argumentatively, thoughtfully 
inclining his head on one side and stroking his leg where 
the fire scorched it. " Jim ketches a few fish in the 
summer, for the Sea View, and shoots a few birds and 
pots lobsters. He's one of them fellers that jest keeps 
body and soul together, and wouldn't work more'n that 
to save you. But Jim's a good neighbor, and a fust- 
fate hand if anybody's sick ; he lays out everybody in 
town." 
" Married ? " 
"Yes, and six child'en, too. It's well for him that 
his wife is jest like him, for a capable woman'dmakeit 
hot fur Jim. Lord ! I've been there in the mornin' 
when there warn't nothin' in the house to eat but a 
couple o' lobsters, and they was all as chipper as you 
please ; one child arter another tumblin' out o' bed ; 
and Tishy settin' on the door-step with the baby, as 
cheerful as if there warn't nothin' in the world to 
do!" 
"Well, it's a comfortable way to take life," said 
Oswald, putting his hands under his head and settling 
into an easier attitude. ' A good many of you people 
here in Stratford seem to get along without much worry, 
as far as I've seen you." 
' I've thought o' that, myself," Si said, with an air of 
having heard for the first time from another, a thorough- 
ly original proposition which had long been revolving 
in his own mind. ' I've wondered sometimes,- if 'twas 
as easy to get a livin' in other places, not to be rich, 
you know, but to get a livin', as it is here. What 
would be the use of a pile o' money here ? there ain't 
no stores but Jerry's, and a man can't spend much on 
dried apples and molasses. I s'pose it's different in 
thicker settled places." 
< Yes," said Oswald, gravely, with a keen relish of 
such homely reflections, " most of us are not satisfied 
unless we either have a fortune or have spent two or 
three. But tell me more about the people here ; this 
Philip's family, for instance, what are they ? ' 
"Wai, there's Mis' Nye an' 'Lizabeth an' the son, 
-the boy that lets boats ! " with renewed apprecia- 
tion of the morning's occurrence, " an'.th' old Ma'am. 
She's the devil an' all ! " 
" The grandmother ! yes, I've seen her. Does she 
rule the family ?" 
You'd think so if you'd lived in the town ez long 
ez I have, and knew all the inns an' outs of the 
neighbors' business. You see it happened in this way. 
Old Mis' Nye was always used tohavin'her own way ; 
she was the youngest to home, an' they always hu- 
mored her more than the others. The old minister 
was one of the real old brimstun sort and didn't give 
his family no rest from week's end to week's end ; 
they had to set up straight and never speak o' noth- 
in' more like folks than praisin' the Lord. But Jane, 
this last darter, was a good deal like him an' had the 
same iron temper, and so he begun to let her have her 
own way over the other child'en, an' when she was 
growed up she kep' it ! Her husband was a sort o' 
quiet man, an' she had the money, too, so things 
come into her hands agin ; an' then her child'en 
walked in the path the old lady marked out for 'em. 
Jeremiah didn't live long to do it ; he died when he 
was studyin' for the ministry. Abner stood it ez long 
ez he could an' then he died, too." 
' I should think the grandchildren might prove to 
have minds of their own," said Oswald. 
' But ye see, she allers had the whip-hand," said 
Si, proving his case by means of finger and thumb, 
dimly seen in the fire-light. "She allers had the 
money. Abner went into speculations an' lost all but 
the house-lot an' the timber land that belonged to old 
Mis' Nye ; lost all he had, ye see. So th' old Ma'am 
has had to take her money to support 'em all ; they've 
had to feel it, too ! " 
'' Is the old lady very rich ? " 
' Yes, I suppose she's a rich woman. The Nyes 
have always been well on't, money an' bank-stock 
an' railroad shares. Lawyer Sims, over to Stowe, gets 
her dividends out ; he's close-mouthed ; never can get 
him to tell how much the old woman owns, but I guess 
it's a good deal. She's done a good many things for 
'em all ; sent 'Lizabeth to school over to Weston, and 
I s'pose she'll do the same for the boy. He'll have to 
be a minister to keep up the family, or th' old Ma'am'll 
worry him into consumption ; all the Nyes are given 
that way." 
It had been some time since Si had found an in- 
terested listener who was not perfectly familiar with 
the facts he was relating ; it inspired him to loquacity. 
He would have been greatly surprised, at the end of 
the evening, to know how much time his speech oc- 
cupied ; but like most people who are garrulous, the 
only impression left on his mind was that Oswald was 
' a sociable fellow." 
The two smoked a pipe together ; the young man 
only half hearing some of the old sea-dog's reminiscen- 
ces, but wrapped in an agreeable atmosphere of smoke, 
warmth, and indolence. Si took his leave at ten, prof- 
fering the use of his boat, with great cordiality, for the 
next morning, because Jim was going to Stowe to see 
about getting some shoes to make. 
" Lord ! he'd never finish a set, if he got 'em," parenthetically, 
"but it does him good to try to do suthin', 
once in a while ; makes him feel like other folks." 
Oswald accepted the offer of the boat ; but the next 
morning found him also on his way to Stowe, in the 
only wagon belonging to the Sea View. 
His mood had changed ; and, no longer caring for 
sea-dreams or fowl, he was on his way to Boston by 
the early train. 
CHAPTER V. 
most apparent effect of Philip's day with Os- 
wald was a bad cold ; a less visible result, a pleas- 
ant excitement in remembering that he had gained a 
fragment of real information about the theater. This 
was the first person he had ever met who bore the air 
of having an intimate knowledge of the life of which the 
boy dreamed. The last few years had been filled with 
dreams, assuming the more gigantic proportions as 
they depended so entirely on imagination for their 
growth. At first he had brought them within the 
scope of known facts ; dramatic life existed and men 
had written plays, but as a younger child he went no 
further than imagining himself listening to Shakespeare 
(which he knew better than any school-book), on a real 
stage. But once give the rein to imagination, especial- 
ly if the mind has been starved of experience of life, 
and where will one stop ? Philip had, at least, that 
tiny germ of genius which will grow fit to cope with 
deeds if circumstances favor it a passionate desire to 
create. The capacity for work might not be there, 
nor the power of mastering technicalities, but the 
longing was strong. 
He had been hemmed in from all intercourse with life 
outside Stratford by circumstances which he was too 
young, if not too irresolute, to overcome. There were 
 
few books at home, and all but his dear Shakespeare 
were calculated to fit a religious bent of mind What 
could have been expected ? Healthy mental growth 
was impossible for want of good food ; was it any won- 
der that the rootlets of fancy should suck the juices 
the unknown and find their way luxuriantly into 
untrodden soil ? Since he must color his thought in- 
ependently of outward suggestions, there was every 
eason that his intense nature should make the hues as 
rich and varied as possible. 
Elizabeth was never shut out from his gorgeous and 
:loud-topping palaces. Because she listened not only 
with patience to his visions, but with interest only 
second to his own, he invited her in and made her 
with himself, actor in his brilliant pageants He was 
to do, while she was to share the fruits of his work 
Sometime, as he told her, there would be a play full 
of power and pathos, to take great cities by storm, and 
lizabeth would sit beside him while he should receive 
the praises of crowded theaters. He was glad he was 
young. It could not be many y ears before the 
play would be written ; and there was a childish 
triumph m the thought that people would speak 
his youth while they wondered the more at his 
genius. 
_ Oswald's coming was something tangible as float- 
ing sea-weed from that unknown land. That some 
one spoke of theaters as places, actors as living exist- 
ces, was almost like having a dream begin to come 
To Elizabeth, the advent of the young man 
was something beyond the ordinary, though no roman- 
fancies were connected with it. But the days 
were unusually lacking of interest, that fall ; she had 
seen no faces but those with which she had been 
familiar all her life. And this was a handsome face 
that broke the monotony, at last ; one with warm brown 
hair and eyes, and a soft, youthful outline of feature. 
Whatever disagreeable characteristics he might possess, 
which no one could be expected to guess from an 
evening's acquaintance, Oswald had the exterior and 
carried the air of a fine creature ; and as such he might 
easily inspire with active pleasure a nature open to 
beautiful influences. Elizabeth, therefore, felt a 
momentary pang of disappointment when Philip 
brought the news that he was gone ; a feeling quite 
overbalanced by the boy's passionate regret. 
" I wanted to see him again, I thought he would 
stay ! " he cried. 
" I suppose he only came down for a few days' gun- 
ning," said Elizabeth. " It wouldn't be very comforta- 
ble to stay long in that bare house, you know ! ' 
" But he had just begun to talk to me about the 
things I wanted to know," mourned Philip, the pathos 
of his tone in no wise lessened by the hoarseness which 
was a reminder of his morning on the water. "I 
couldn't ask him all the questions I wanted to, then, 
but I meant to go on ; he liked to talk, I know he 
did." 
Grandmother had not deigned to notice that Philip 
had a cold ; whenever he took one in a legitimate way, 
by carrying water or wood, or sitting in the chill and 
draughty church, she harassed him with remedies ; 
but the present case was quite outside her sympathies. 
On the subject of his absence that morning she main- 
tained a silence which betrayed the state of her mind 
only too plainly. 
Philip was nursing a secret project more daring 
than he had ever seriously entertained. Oswald's few- 
words had clung to him and fixed their impression; 
he was convinced that there ought to be a founda- 
tion of reality for his dreams, and he set about the 
only practicable, as well as the hardest, method of 
obtaining it. 
Grandmother could make his vision real. It had 
grown to be a habit of thought in the house that if she 
chose to do a certain thing she would not need to be 
reminded of it, and, if she had no intention of doing it, 
a reminder would only involve unpleasant consequen- 
But now Philip would take his fate in his hand, 
and ask her to help him. 
Sunday afternoon, when the greatness of the under- 
taking had so grown upon him that his heart beat to 
suffocation whenever he thought of it, he resolved to 
speak. His mother and sister were at church, and, 
having excused himself from going out on account of 
his cold, he was, as usual, by the fire. Madam Nye 
finished her chapter and sat with her hands, those 
strong, square hands, folded in her lap as they never 
were except at the command of her creed. Her face 
was a little harder than usual, this morning. Philip 
imagined it always was, on Sunday, and wondered if it 
were because she chose to read the sternest parts of 
the Bible then, or because observance of the day was 
more effective and strictly religious if the face were a 
fit index of the heart. Perhaps if one could have 
traced her reverie, he would have found a, page of 
history in which there was one chief actor, the pale 
" Jeremiah, aged nineteen." Philip thought nothing 
of this ; he did remember Jeremiah, but only in connec- 
tion with his own cause. Here was a son who had 
