enters freely at the nine gates. The Tour de Con 
stance is of extraordinary girth and solidity, divided 
into three superposed circular chambers, with very fine 
vaults, which are lighted by embrasures of prodigious 
depth, converging to windows little larger than loop 
holes. The place served for years as a prison to many 
of the Protestants of the south whom the revocation 
of the Edict of Nantes had exposed to atrocious 
penalties, and the annals of these dreadful chambers 
during the first half of the last century were written 
in tears and blood. Some of the recorded cases of 
long confinement there make one marvel afresh at 
what man has inflicted and endured. In a country in 
which a policy of extermination was to be put into 
practice this horrible tower was an obvious resource. 
From the battlements at the top, which is surmounted 
by an old disused light-house, you see the little com 
pact rectangular town, which looks hardly bigger than 
a garden-patch, mapped out beneath you, and follow 
the plain configuration of its defences. You take 
possession of it, and you feel that you will remember 
it always. 
XXVIII. 
AFTER this I was free to look about me at Nimes, 
and I did so with such attention as the place appeared 
to require. At the risk of seeming too easily and too 
frequently disappointed, I will say that it required 
rather less than I had been prepared to give. It is a 
town of three or four fine features, rather than a town 
with, as I may say, a general figure. In general, 
Nimes is poor; its only treasures are its Roman re 
mains, which are of the first order. The new French 
fashions prevail in many of its streets; the old houses 
are paltry, and the good houses are new; while beside 
my hotel rose a big spick-and-span church, which 
had the oddest air of having been intended for 
Brooklyn or Cleveland. It is true that this church 
looked out on a square completely French, a square 
of a fine modern disposition, flanked on one side by a 
classical palais de justice embellished with trees and 
parapets, and occupied in the centre with a group of 
allegorical statues, such as one encounters only in the 
cities of France, the chief of these being a colossal 
figure by Pradier, representing Nimes. An English, 
an American, town which should have such a monu 
ment, such a square, as this, would be a place of 
great pretensions; but like so many little villes de 
province in the country of which I write, Nimes is 
easily ornamental. What nobler ornament can there 
be than the Roman baths at the foot of Mont Cavalier, 
and the delightful old garden that surrounds them? 
All that quarter of Nimes has every reason to be 
proud of itself; it has been revealed to the world at 
large by copious photography. A clear, abundant 
stream gushes from the foot of a high hill (covered 
with trees and laid out in paths), and is distributed 
into basins which sufficiently refer themselves to the 
period that gave them birth, the period that has 
left its stamp on that pompous Peyrou which we ad 
mired at Montpellier. Here are the same terraces and 
steps and balustrades, and a system of water-works 
less impressive, perhaps, but very ingenious and charm 
ing. The whole place is a mixture of old Rome and 
of the French eighteenth century; for the remains of 
the antique baths are in a measure incorporated in 
the modern fountains. In a corner of this umbrageous 
precinct stands a small Roman ruin, which is known 
as a temple of Diana, but was more apparently a 
nymphceum, and appears to have had a graceful con 
nection with the adjacent baths. I learn from Murray 
that this little temple, of the period of Augustus, 
"was reduced to its present state of ruin in 1577;" 
the moment at which the townspeople, threatened 
with a siege by the troops of the crown, partly 
demolished it, lest it should serve as a cover to the 
enemy. The remains are very fragmentary, but they 
serve to show that the place was lovely. I spent half 
an hour in it on a perfect Sunday morning (it is en 
closed by a high grille, carefully tended, and has a 
warden of its own), and with the help of my imagina- 
tion tried to reconstruct a little the aspect of things 
in the Gallo-Roman days. I do wrong, perhaps, to 
say that I tried; from a flight so deliberate I should 
have shrunk. But there was a certain contagion of 
antiquity in the air; and among the ruins of baths 
and temples, in the very spot where the aqueduct that 
crosses the Gardon in the wondrous manner I had 
seen discharged itself, the picture of a splendid 
paganism seemed vaguely to glow. Roman baths, 
Roman baths; those words alone were a scene. Every 
thing was changed: I was strolling in & jardin fran ais ; 
the bosky slope of the Mont Cavalier (a very modest 
mountain), hanging over the place, is crowned with a 
shapeless tower, which is as likely to be of mediaeval 
as of antique origin; and yet, as I leaned on the 
parapet of one of the fountains, where a flight of 
curved steps (a hemicycle, as the French say) descended 
into a basin full of dark, cool recesses, where the slabs 
of the Roman foundations gleam through the clear 
green water, as in this attitude I surrendered myself 
to contemplation and reverie, it seemed to me that I 
touched for a moment the ancient world. Such mo 
ments are illuminating, and the light of this one mingles, 
in my memory, with the dusky greenness of the Jardin 
de la Fontaine. 
The fountain proper the source of all these dis 
tributed waters is the prettiest thing in the world, a 
reduced copy of Vaucluse. It gushes up at the foot 
of the Mont Cavalier, at a point where that eminence 
rises with a certain cliff-like effect, and, like other 
  IQQ 
springs in the same circumstances, appears to issue 
from the rock with a sort of quivering stillness. I 
trudged up the Mont Cavalier, it is a matter of five 
minutes, and having committed this cockneyism en 
hanced it presently by another. I ascended the stupid 
Tour Magne, the mysterious structure I mentioned a 
moment ago. The only feature of this dateless tube, 
except the inevitable collection of photographs to 
which you are introduced by the door-keeper, is the 
view you enjoy from its summit. This view is, of 
course, remarkably fine, but I am ashamed to say I 
have not the smallest recollection of it; for while I 
looked into the brilliant spaces of the air I seemed 
still to see only what I saw in the depths of the Roman 
baths, the image, disastrously confused and vague, of 
a vanished world. This world, however, has left at 
Nimes a far more considerable memento than a few 
old stones covered with water-moss. The Roman arena 
is the rival of those of Verona and of Aries; at a 
respectful distance it emulates the Colosseum. It is a 
small Colosseum, if I may be allowed the expression, 
and is in a much better preservation than the great 
circus at Rome. This is especially true of the external 
walls, with their arches, pillars, cornices. I must add 
that one should not speak of preservation, in regard 
to the arena at Nimes, without speaking also of repair. 
After the great ruin ceased to be despoiled, it began 
to be protected, and most of its wounds have been 
dressed with new material. These matters concern 
the archaeologist; and I felt here, as I felt afterwards 
at Aries, that one of the profane, in the presence of 
such a monument, can only admire and hold his 
tongue. The great impression, on the whole, is an 
impression of wonder that so much should have sur 
vived. What remains at Nimes, after all dilapidation 
is estimated, is astounding. I spent an hour in the 
Arenes on that same sweet Sunday morning, as I 
came back from the Roman baths, and saw that the 
corridors, the vaults, the staircases, the external casing, 
are still virtually there. Many of these parts are 
wanting in the Colosseum, whose sublimity of size, 
however, can afford to dispense with detail. The seats 
at Nimes, like those at Verona, have been largely 
renewed; not that this mattered much, as I lounged 
on the cool surface of one of them, and admired the 
mighty concavity of the place and the elliptical sky 
line, broken by uneven blocks and forming the rim of 
the monstrous cup, a cup that had been filled with 
horrors. And yet I made my reflections; I said to 
myself that though a Roman arena is one of the most 
impressive of the works of man, it has a touch- of that 
same stupidity which I ventured to discover in the 
Pont du Card. It is brutal; it is monotonous; it is 
not at all exquisite. The Arenes at Nimes were ar 
ranged for a bull-fight, a form of recreation that, as 
I was informed, is much dans les habitudes Ntmoises, 
and very common throughout Provence, where (still 
according to my information) it is the usual pastime 
of a Sunday afternoon. At Aries and Nimes it has a 
characteristic setting, but in the villages the patrons 
  
of the game make a circle of carts and barrels, on 
which the spectators perch themselves. I was sur 
prised at the prevalence, in mild Provence, of the 
Iberian vice, and hardly know whether it makes the 
custom more respectable that at Nimes and Aries the 
thing is shabbily and imperfectly done. The bulls 
are rarely killed, and indeed often are bulls only in 
the Irish sense of the term, being domestic and 
motherly cows. Such an entertainment of course does 
not supply to the arena that element of the exquisite 
which I spoke of as wanting. The exquisite at Nimes 
is mainly represented by the famous Maison Carree. 
The first impression you receive from this delicate 
little building, as you stand before it, is that you have 
already seen it many times. Photographs, engravings, 
models, medals, have placed it definitely in your eye, 
so that from the sentiment with which you regard it 
curiosity and surprise are almost completely, and per 
haps deplorably, absent. Admiration remains, how 
ever, admiration of a familiar and even slightly 
patronizing kind. The Maison Carree does not over 
whelm you; you can conceive it. It is not one of the 
great sensations of the antique art; but it is perfectly 
felicitous, and, in spite of having been put to all sorts 
of incongruous uses, marvellously preserved. Its slender 
columns, its delicate proportions, its charming com 
pactness, seemed to bring one nearer to the century 
that built it than the great superpositions of arenas 
and bridges, and give it the interest that vibrates from 
one age to another when the note of taste is struck. 
If anything were needed to make this little toy-temple 
a happy production, the service would be rendered by 
the second-rate boulevard that conducts to it, adorned 
with inferior cafes and tobacco-shops. Here, in a 
respectable recess, surrounded by vulgar habitations, 
and with the theatre, of a classic pretension, opposite, 
stands the small "square house," so called because it 
is much longer than it is broad. I saw it first in the 
evening, in the vague moonlight, which made it look 
as if it were cast in bronze. Stendhal says, justly, 
that it has the shape of a playing-card, and he ex 
presses his admiration for it by the singular wish 
that an "exact copy" of it should be erected in Paris. 
He even goes so far as to say that in the year 1880 
this tribute will have been rendered to its charms; 
nothing would be more simple, to his mind, than to 
"have" in that city "le Pantheon de Rome, quelques 
temples de Grece." Stendhal found it amusing to 
write in the character of a commis-voyageur, and some 
times it occurs to his reader that he really was one. 
XXIX. 
ON my way from Nimes to Aries, I spent three 
hours at Tarascon; chiefly for the love of Alphonse 
Daudet, who has written nothing more genial than 
"Les Aventures Prodigieuses de Tartarin," and the 
story of the "siege" of the bright, dead little town 
(a mythic siege by the Prussians) in the "Contes du 
  
Lundi." In the introduction which, for the new 
edition of his works, he has lately supplied to "Tar- 
tarin," the author of this extravagant but kindly 
satire gives some account of the displeasure with 
which he has been visited by the ticklish Tarascon- 
nais. Daudet relates that in his attempt to shed a 
humorous light upon some of the more erratic phases 
of the Provencal character, he selected Tarascon at a 
venture; not because the temperament of its natives 
is more vainglorious than that of their neighbors, or 
their rebellion against the "despotism of fact" more 
marked, but simply because he had to name a par 
ticular Provencal city. Tartarin is a hunter of lions 
and charmer of women, a true "produit du midi  as 
Daudet says, who has the most fantastic and fabulous 
adventures. He is a minimized Don Quixote, with 
much less dignity, but with equal good faith; and the 
story of his exploits is a little masterpiece of the 
light comical. The Tarasconnais, however, declined to 
take the joke, and opened the vials of their wrath 
upon the mocking child of Nimes, who would have 
been better employed, they doubtless thought, in show 
ing up the infirmities of his own family. I am bound 
to add that when I passed through Tarascon they did 
not appear to be in the least out of humor. Nothing 
could have been brighter, softer, more suggestive of 
amiable indifference, than the picture it presented to 
my mind. It lies quietly beside the Rhone, looking 
across at Beaucaire, which seems very distant and in 
dependent, and tacitly consenting to let the castle of 
the good King Rene of Anjou, which projects very 
boldly into the river, pass for its most interesting feature. 
The other features are, primarily, a sort of vivid sleepi 
ness in the aspect of the place, as if the September 
noon (it had lingered on into October) lasted longer 
there than elsewhere; certain low arcades, which make 
the streets look gray and exhibit empty vistas; and a 
very curious and beautiful walk beside the Rhone, 
denominated the Chaussee, a long and narrow cause 
way, densely shaded by two rows of magnificent old 
trees, planted in its embankment, and rendered doubly 
effective, at the moment I passed over it, by a little 
train of collegians, who had been taken out for mild 
exercise by a pair of young priests. Lastly, one may 
say that a striking element of Tarascon, as of any town 
that lies on the Rhone, is simply the Rhone itself: the 
big brown flood, of uncertain temper, which has never 
taken time to forget that it is a child of the mountain 
and the glacier, and that such an origin carries with it 
great privileges. Later, at Avignon, I observed it in 
the exercise of these privileges, chief among which was 
that of frightening the good people of the old papal 
city half out of their wits. 
The chateau of King Rene serves to-day as the 
prison of a district, and the traveller who wishes to 
look into it must obtain his permission at the Mairie 
of Tarascon. If he have had a certain experience of 
French manners, his application will be accompanied 
with the forms of a considerable obsequiosity, and in 
this case his request will be granted as civilly as it 
  
has been made. The castle has more of the air of a 
severely feudal fortress than I should suppose the 
period of its construction (the first half of the fifteenth 
century) would have warranted; being tremendously 
bare and perpendicular, and constructed for comfort 
only in the sense that it was arranged for defence. It 
is a square and simple mass, composed of small yellow 
stones, and perched on a pedestal of rock which easily 
commands the river. The building has the usual cir 
cular towers at the corners, and a heavy cornice at 
the top, and immense stretches of sun-scorched wall, 
relieved at wide intervals by small windows, heavily 
cross-ban ed. It has, above all, an extreme steepness 
of aspect; I cannot express it otherwise. The walls 
are as sheer and inhospitable as precipices. The castle 
has kept its large moat, which is now a hollow filled 
with wild plants. To this tall fortress the good Rene 
retired in the middle of the fifteenth century, finding 
it apparently the most substantial thing left him in a 
dominion which had included Naples and Sicily, 
Lorraine and Anjou. He had been a much-tried 
monarch and the sport of a various fortune, fighting 
half his life for thrones he didn 't care for, and exalted 
only to be quickly cast down. Provence was the 
country of his affection, and the memory of his troubles 
did not prevent him from holding a joyous court at 
Tarascon and at Aix. He finished the castle at 
Tarascon, which had been begun earlier in the century, 
finished it, I suppose, for consistency 's sake, in the 
manner in which it had originally been designed rather 
than in accordance with the artistic tastes that formed 
the consolation of his old age. He was a painter, a 
writer, a dramatist, a modern dilettante, addicted to 
private theatricals. There is something very attractive 
in the image that he has imprinted on the page of 
history. He was both clever and kind, and many 
reverses and much suffering had not imbittered him 
nor quenched his faculty of enjoyment. He was fond 
of his sweet Provence, and his sweet Provence has 
been grateful; it has woven a light tissue of legend 
around the memory of the good King Rene. 
I strolled over his dusky habitation it must have 
taken all his good-humor to light it up at the heels 
of the custodian, who showed me the usual number of 
castle-properties: a deep, well-like court; a collection of 
winding staircases and vaulted chambers, the embra 
sures of whose windows and the recesses of whose 
doorways reveal a tremendous thickness of wall. These 
things constitute the general identity of old castles; 
and when one has wandered through a good many, 
with due discretion of step and protrusion -of head, 
one ceases very much to distinguish and remember, 
and contents one 's self with consigning them to the 
honorable limbo of the romantic. I must add that this 
reflection did not the least deter me from crossing the 
bridge which connects Tarascon with Beaucaire, in 
order to examine the old fortress whose ruins adorn 
the latter city. It stands on a foundation of rock much 
higher than that of Tarascon, and looks over with a 
melancholy expression at its better-conditioned brother. 
  
Its position is magnificent, and its outline very gallant. 
I was well rewarded for my pilgrimage; for if the castle 
of Beaucaire is only a fragment, the whole place, with 
its position and its views, is an ineffaceable picture. It 
was the stronghold of the Montmorencys, and its last 
tenant was that rash Duke Franois, whom Richelieu, 
seizing every occasion to trample on a great noble, 
caused to be beheaded at Toulouse, where we saw, in 
the Capitol, the butcher 's knife with which the cardinal 
pruned the crown of France of its thorns. The castle, 
after the death of this victim, was virtually demolished. 
Its site, which Nature to-day has taken again to herself, 
has an extraordinary charm. The mass of rock that it 
formerly covered rises high above the town, and is as 
precipitous as the side of the Rhone. A tall rusty iron 
gate admits you from a quiet corner of Beaucaire to a 
wild tangled garden, covering the side of the hill, 
for the whole place forms the public promenade of the 
townsfolk, a garden without flowers, with little steep, 
rough paths that wind under a plantation of small, 
scrubby stone-pines. Above this is the grassy platform 
of the castle, enclosed on one side only (toward the 
river) by a large fragment of wall and a very massive 
dungeon. There are benches placed in the lee of the 
wall, and others on the edge of the platform, where 
one may enjoy a view, beyond the river, of certain 
peeled and scorched undulations. A sweet desolation, 
an everlasting peace, seemed to hang in the air. A 
very old man (a fragment, like the castle itself) emerged 
from some crumbling corner to do me the honors, a 
veiy gentle, obsequious, tottering, toothless, grateful old 
man. He beguiled me into an ascent of the solitary 
tower, from which you may look down on the big 
sallow river and glance at diminished Tarascon, and 
the barefaced, bald-headed hills behind it. It may 
appear that I insist too much upon the nudity of the 
Provencal horizon, too much, considering that I have 
spoken of the prospect from the heights of Beaucaire as 
lovely. But it is an exquisite bareness; it seems to 
exist for the purpose of allowing one to follow the de 
licate lines of the hills, and touch with the eyes, as it 
were, the smallest inflections of the landscape. It 
makes the whole thing seem wonderfully bright and 
pure. 
Beaucaire used to be the scene of a famous fair, 
the great fair of the south of France. It has gone the 
way of most fairs, even in France, where these delight 
ful exhibitions hold their own much better than might 
be supposed. It is still held in the month of July; 
but the bourgeoises of Tarascon send to the Magasin 
du Louvre for their smart dresses, and the principal 
glory of the scene is its long tradition. Even now, 
however, it ought to be the prettiest of all fairs, for it 
takes place in a charming wood which lies just beneath 
the castle, beside the Rhone. The booths, the barracks, 
the platforms of the mountebanks, the bright-colored 
crowd, diffused through this midsummer shade, and 
spotted here and there with the rich Provencal sun 
shine must be of the most pictorial effect. It is highly 
probable, too, that it offers a large collection of pretty 
  
faces; for even in the few hours that I spent at 
Tarascon I discovered symptoms of the purity of 
feature for which the women of the pays d* Aries are 
renowned. The Arlesian head-dress was visible in the 
streets; and this delightful coiffure is so associated with 
a charming facial oval, a dark mild eye, a straight 
Greek nose, and a mouth worthy of all the rest, that 
it conveys a presumption of beauty which gives the 
wearer time either to escape or to please you. I have 
read somewhere, however, that Tarascon is supposed 
to produce handsome men, as Aries is known to deal 
in handsome women. It may be that I should have 
found the Tarasconnais very fine fellows, if I had en 
countered enough specimens to justify an induction. 
But there were very few males in the streets, and the 
place presented no appearance of activity. Here and 
there the black coif of an old woman or of a young 
girl was framed by a low doorway; but for the rest, as 
I have said, Tarascon was mostly involved in a siesta. 
There was not a creature in the little church of Saint 
Martha, which I made a point of visiting before I re 
turned to the station, and which, with its fine Romanesque 
sideportal and its pointed and crocketed Gothic spire, 
is as curious as it need be, in view of its tradition. It 
stands in a quiet corner where the grass grows between 
the small cobble-stones, and you pass beneath a deep 
archway to reach it. The tradition relates that Saint 
Martha tamed with her own hands, and attached to 
her girdle, a dreadful dragon, who was known as the 
Tarasque, and is reported to have given his name to 
 
the city on whose site (amid the rocks which form the 
base of the chateau) he had his cavern. The dragon, 
perhaps, is the symbol of a ravening paganism, dis 
pelled by the eloquence of a sweet evangelist. The 
bones of the interesting saint, at all events, were found, 
in the eleventh century, in a cave beneath the spot on 
which her altar now stands. I know not what had be 
come of the bones of the dragon. 
XXX. 
THERE are two shabby old inns at Aries, which 
compete closely for your custom. I mean by this that 
if you elect to go to the Hotel du Forum, the Hotel 
du Nord, which is placed exactly beside it (at a right 
angle) watches your arrival with ill -concealed dis 
approval; and if you take the chances of its neighbor, 
the Hotel du Forum seems to glare at you invidiously 
from all its windows and doors. I forget which of 
these establishments I selected; whichever it was, I 
wished very much that it had been the other. The 
two stand together on the Place des Hommes, a little 
public square of Aries, which somehow quite misses 
its effect. As a city, indeed, Aries quite misses its 
effect in every way; and if it is a charming place, as 
I think it is, I can hardly tell the reason why. The 
straight-nosed Arlesiennes account for it in some degree; 
and the remainder may be charged to the ruins of the 
arena and the theatre. Beyond this, I remember with 
affection the ill-proportioned little Place des Hommes; 
not at all monumental, and given over to puddles and 
to shabby cafes. I recall with tenderness the tortuous 
and featureless streets, which looked like the streets of 
a village, and were paved with villanous little sharp 
stones, making all exercise penitential. Consecrated 
by association is even a tiresome walk that I took the 
evening I arrived, with the purpose of obtaining a 
view of the Rhone. I had been to Aries before, years 
ago, and it seemed to me that I remembered finding 
on the banks of the stream some sort of picture. I 
think that on the evening of which I speak there was 
a watery moon, which it seemed to me would light up 
the past as well as the present. But I found no pic 
ture, and I scarcely found the Rhone at all. I lost 
my way, and there was not a creature in the streets to 
whom I could appeal. Nothing could be more pro 
vincial - than the situation of Aries at ten o clock at 
night. At last I arrived at a kind of embankment, 
where I could see the great mud-colored stream slip 
ping along in the soundless darkness. It had come 
on to rain, I know not what had happened to the 
moon, and the whole place was anything but gay. It 
was not what I had looked for; what I had looked for 
was in the irrecoverable past. I groped my way back 
to the inn over the infernal cailloux, feeling like a dis 
comfited Dogberry. I remember now that this hotel 
was the one (whichever that may be) which has the 
fragment of a Gallo-Roman portico inserted into one 
of its angles. I had chosen it for the sake of this ex- 
ceptional ornament. It was damp and dark, and the 
floors felt gritty to the feet; it was an establishment at 
which the dreadful gras-doulle might have appeared 
at the table d hote, as it had done at Narbonne. Never 
theless, I was glad to get back to it; and nevertheless, 
too, and this is the moral of my simple anecdote, 
my pointless little walk (I don't speak of the pave 
ment) suffuses itself, as I look back upon it, with a 
romantic tone. And in relation to the inn, I suppose 
I had better mention that I am well aware of the in 
consistency of a person who dislikes the modern cara 
vansary, and yet grumbles when he finds a hotel of 
the superannuated sort. One ought to choose, it w r ould 
seem, and make the best of either alternative. The 
two old taverns at Aries are quite unimproved; such 
as they must have been in the infancy of the modern 
world, when Stendhal passed that way, and the lum 
bering diligence deposited him in the Place des 
Hommes, such in every detail they are to-day. Vieilles 
auberges de France, one ought to enjoy their gritty 
floors and greasy w T indow-panes. Let it be put on re 
cord, therefore, that I have been, I won't say less com 
fortable, but at least less happy, at better inns. 
To be really historic, I should have mentioned that 
before going to look for the Rhone I had spent part 
of the evening on the opposite side of the little place, 
and that I indulged in this recreation for two definite 
reasons. One of these was that I had an opportunity 
of conversing at a cafe with an attractive young Eng 
lishman, whom I had met in the afternoon at Tarascon, 
  
and more remotely, in other years, in London; the 
other was that there sat enthroned behind the counter 
a splendid mature Arlesienne, whom my companion 
and I agreed that it was a rare privilege to contem 
plate. There is no rule of good manners or morals 
which makes it improper, at a cafe, to fix one 's eyes 
upon the dame de comptoir ; the lady is, in the nature 
of things, a part of your consommation. We were there 
fore free to admire without restriction the handsomest 
person I had ever seen give change for a five-franc 
piece. She was a large quiet woman, who would never 
see forty again; of an intensely feminine type, yet 
wonderfully rich and robust, and full of a certain phy 
sical nobleness. Though she was not really old, she 
was antique, and she was very grave, even a little sad. 
She had the dignity of a Roman empress, and she 
handled coppers as if they had been stamped with 
the head of Caesar. I have seen washerwomen in the 
Trastevere who were perhaps as handsome as she; but 
even the head-dress of the Reman contadina con 
tributes less to the dignity of the person born to wear 
it than the sweet and stately Arlesian cap, which sits 
at once aloft and on the back of the head; which is 
accompanied with a wide black bow covering a con 
siderable part of the crown; and which, finally, accom 
modates itself indescribably well to the manner in 
which the tresses of the front are pushed behind the 
ears. 
This admirable dispenser of lumps of sugar has 
distracted me a little; for I am still not sufficiently 
historical. Before going to the cafe I had dined, and 
before dining I had found time to go and look at the 
arena. Then it was that I discovered that Aries has 
no general physiognomy, and, except the delightful 
little church of Saint Trophimus, no architecture, and 
that the rugosities of its dirty lanes affect the feet like 
knife-blades. It was not then, on the other hand, that 
I saw the arena best. The second day of my stay at 
Aries I devoted to a pilgrimage to the strange old hill 
town of Les Baux, the mediceval Pompeii, of which I 
shall give myself the pleasure of speaking. The even 
ing of that day, however (my friend and I returned in 
time for a late dinner), I wandered among the Roman 
remains of the place by the light of a magnificent 
moon, and gathered an impression which has lost little 
of its silvery glow. The moon of the evening before 
had been aqueous and erratic; but if on the present 
occasion it was guilty of any irregularity, the worst it 
did was only to linger beyond its time in the heavens, 
in order to let us look at things comfortably. The 
effect was admirable; it brought back the impression 
of the way, in Rome itself, on evenings like that, the 
moonshine rests upon broken shafts and slabs of an 
tique pavement. As we sat in the theatre, looking at 
the two lone columns that survive part of the decora 
tion of the back of the stage and at the fragments 
of ruin around them, we might have been in the 
Roman forum. The arena at Aries, with its great 
magnitude, is less complete than that of Nimes; it has 
suffered even more the assaults of time and of the 
children of time, and it has been less repaired. The 
seats are almost wholly wanting; but the external walls 
minus the topmost tier of arches, are massively, rug 
gedly, complete; and the vaulted corridors seem as 
solid as the day they were built. The whole thing is 
superbly vast, and as monumental, for place of light 
amusement what is called in America a "variety- 
show" as it entered only into the Roman mind to 
