Christian conception of life should, as Hartmann says, indignantly
repulse any and every suggestion of this description. For such ideas to
be accepted, a long and worldly civilizing preparation is needed.
A period of this nature is found in his analysis of the third and last
great illusion, which holds that happiness will be realizable in the
progressing evolution of the world. The chapter in which this subject
is treated is one of the most masterly in his entire work, and as such
is well deserving of careful examination.
First, it may be explained that to the student of modern science the
history of the world is that of a continuous and immense development.
The union of photometry and spectral analysis enables him to follow the
evolution of other planets, while chemistry and mineralogy teach him
something of the earth's own story before it cooled its outer crust.
Biology discloses the evolution of the vegetable and animal kingdom;
archæology, with some assistance from other sources, throws an
intelligible light over the prehistoric development of man, while
history brings with it the reverberation of the ordered march of
civilization, and points at the same time to larger and grander
perspectives. It is not hard, then, to be convinced of the reality of
progress; the difficulty lies in the inability to present it to one's
self in a thoroughly unselfish manner. From an egoist point of view,
man--and by man is meant he who has succeeded in divesting himself of
the two illusions just considered--would condemn life not only as a
useless possession, but as an affliction. He has, however, Hartmann
tells him, a rôle to fill under the providential direction of the
Unconscious, which, in conformity with the plan of absolute wisdom,
draws the world on to a beneficent end, and this rôle exacts that he
shall take interest in, and joyously sacrifice himself to life. If he
does otherwise, his loss prevents no suffering to society, on the
contrary, it augments the general discomfort by the length of time
which is needed to replace a useful member. Man may not, then, as
Schopenhauer recommended, assist as a passive spectator of life; on the
contrary, he must ceaselessly act, work, and produce, and associate
himself without regret in the economic and intellectual development of
society; or, in other words, he must lend his aid to the attainment of
the supreme goal of the evolution of the universe, for that there is a
goal it is as impossible to doubt as it is unreasonable to suppose that
the world's one end and aim is to turn on its orbit and enjoy the
varied spectacle of pain. And yet, what is this goal to which all
nature tends? According to a theory which nowadays is very frequently
expressed, it is the attainment of universal happiness through gradual
advancement and progress.
But, whatever progress humanity may realize, it will never be able,
Hartmann affirms, to do away with, nor yet diminish those most painful
of evils, illness, old age, poverty, and discontent. So, no matter to
how great an extent remedies may be multiplied, disorders, and
especially those which are light but chronic, will spread with a
progression far more rapid than the knowledge of therapeutics. The
gayety of youth, moreover, will never be but the privilege of a
fraction of mankind, while the greater part will continue to be
devoured by the melancholy of old age. The poverty of the masses, too,
as the world advances, becomes more and more formidable, for all the
while the masses are gaining a clearer perception of their misery. The
happiest races, it has been said over and over again, are those which
live nearest to nature, as do the savage tribes; and after them come
necessarily the civilized nations, which are the least cultivated.
Historically speaking, therefore, the progress of civilization
corresponds with the spread of general nausea.
May it not be, then, as Kant maintained, that the practice of universal
morality is the great aim of evolution? Hartmann considers the question
at great length, and decides in the negative; for, were it such, it
would necessarily expand with time, gain ground, so to speak, and take
a firm hold on the different classes of society. These feats, of
course, it has not performed, for immorality in descending the
centuries has changed only in form. Indeed, putting aside the
fluctuations of the character of every race, it will be found that
everywhere the same connection is maintained between egotism and
sympathy. If one is shocked at the cruelty and brutality of former
days, it should nevertheless be remembered that uprightness, sincerity,
and justice were the characteristics of earlier nations. Who shall say,
however, that to-day we do not live in a reign of falsehood, perfidy,
and the coarsest crimes; and that were it not for the assured execution
of the repressive enactments of the state and society, we should see
the naked brutality of the barbarians surge up again among us? For
that matter, it may be noted that at times it does reappear in all its
human bestiality, and invariably so the moment that law and order are
in any way weakened or destroyed. What happened in the draft riots in
New York, and in Paris under the Commune?
Since morality cannot be the great aim of evolution, perhaps it may be
art and science; but the further back one looks, the more does
scientific progress appear to be the exclusive work of certain rare and
gifted minds, while the nearer one approaches the present epoch, the
more collective does the work become. Hartmann points out that the
first thinkers were not unlike the magicians who made a monument rise
out of nothing, whereas the laborers who work at the intellectual
edifice of the present day are but corporations of intelligent builders
who each, according to their strength, aid in the construction of a
gigantic tower. "The work of science hereafter will," he says, "be
broader and less profound; it will become exclusively inductive, and
hence the demand for genius will grow gradually less. Similarity of
dress has already blended the different ranks of society; meanwhile we
are advancing to an analogous leveling of the intelligence, which will
result in a common but solid mediocrity. The delight in scientific
production will gradually wane, and the world will end in knowing only
the pleasures of passive understanding. But the pleasure of knowledge
is tasteless when truth is presented like a cake already prepared: to
be enjoyed it must cost an effort and a struggle."
Art will be handicapped in much the same manner. It is no longer now
what it was for the youth of humanity, a god august dispensing
happiness with open hands; it is simply a matter of amusement, a remedy
for ennui, and a distraction from the fatigues of the day. Hence the
increase of dilettantism and the neglect of serious study. The future
of art is to Hartmann self-evident. "Age has no ideal, or rather, it
has lost what it had, and art is condemned in the increasing years of
humanity to hold the same position as the nightly ballets and farces
now do to the bankers and brokers of large cities."
This consistent treatment of the subject Hartmann cleverly founds on
the analogy of the different ages of the life of the individual with
the development of humanity. It is, of course, merely a series of
affirmations, but not for that reason necessarily untrue. The great
thinkers have disappeared, as have also the great artists; and they
have done so, Hartmann would say, because we no longer need them.
Indeed, there can be little doubt that could the Greeks come back, they
would tell us our art was barbarous; even to the casual observer it has
retrograded, nor is it alone in painting and sculpture that symptoms of
decadence are noticeable; if we look at the tendencies in literature,
nothing very commendable is to be found, save in isolated instances,
where the technicalities of style have been raised very near to
perfection; but, apart from a few purists who can in no sense be called
popular, the majority of the manufacturers of fiction have nothing to
offer but froth and rubbish.
The modern stage, too, brings evidence that a palpitant tableau is more
appreciated than a polished comedy, and the concert-hall tells a story
which is not dissimilar. Music, which with Mozart changed its sex, has
been turned into a harlot by Offenbach and his successors; and there
are but few nowadays who would hesitate between Don Juan and the last
inanity of Strauss. One composer, however, of incontestable genius, has
been slowly fighting his way into the hearts of cultivated people, and,
curiously enough, has sought to translate with an orchestra some part
of the philosophy of pessimism. Schopenhauer, it is said, shook his
head at Wagner, and would have none of him; yet if Schopenhauer was
ever wrong, he was certainly wrong in that; for Wagner has expressed,
as no one will do again, the flooding rush of Will, and the unspiritual
but harmonious voice of Nature.
But whatever may become of art, science is not to be dismissed so
abruptly. Practically considered, the political, social, and industrial
advance of the world depends entirely on its progress; and yet, from
Hartmann's standpoint, all that has been accomplished hitherto, by the
aid of manufactories, steamships, railways and telegraphs, has merely
served to lessen the embarrassments which compressed the activity of
man; and the sole advantage which society has reaped by their aid is
that the force heretofore expended in actual labor is now free for the
play of the intellect, and serves to hasten the evolution of the world.
This result, Hartmann remarks, while of importance to general progress,
in no wise affects the happiness of the individual.
This last statement of his will perhaps be better understood if it be
taken into consideration that the increased production of food which
will necessarily follow on a more intelligent culture of the soil will
greatly augment the population. An increase of population will multiply
the number of those who are always on the verge of starvation, of which
there are already millions. But an advance of this kind, while a step
backward one way, must yet be a step forward in another; for the wealth
which it will bring in its train will necessarily aid in diminishing
suffering.
Politically considered, the outlook does not seem to be much more
assured. An ideal government can do nothing more than permit man to
live without fear of unjust aggressions, and enable him to prepare the
ground on which he may construct, if he can, the edifice of his own
happiness. Socially, the result will be about the same: through
solidarity, association, and other means, men will learn how to make
the struggle of the individual with want less severe; yet, in all this,
his burdens will be merely lightened, and positive happiness will
remain unobtained.
Such are the outlines of Hartmann's conception of what future progress
will amount to. If the ideal is realized, man will be gradually raised
out of the misery in which he is plunged, and little by little approach
a state of indifference in every sphere of his activity. But it should
be remembered that the ideal is ever intangible; man may approach, but
he can never reach it, and consequently will remain always in a state
of suffering.
In this manner, but with a profusion of argument, which, if not always
convincing, is yet highly instructive, Hartmann has shown in brief that
the people that dwell nearest to nature are happier than the civilized
nations, that the poor are more contented than the rich, the poor in
spirit more blessed than the intelligent, and that in general that man
is the happiest whose sensibilities are the most obtuse, because
pleasure is then less dominated by pain, and illusions are more
steadfast and complete; moreover, that the progress of humanity
develops not only wealth and its needs, and consequently discontent,
but also the aptitudes and culture of the intellect, which in turn
awaken man to the consciousness of the misery of life, and in so doing
heighten the sentiment of general misfortune.
The dream that another golden age is to visit the earth is, therefore,
puerile in the extreme. As the wayfarer's burden grows heavier with the
miles, so do humanity's suffering and the consciousness of its misery
continually increase. The child lives in the moment, the adolescent
dreams of a transcendent ideal; man aspires to glory, then to wealth or
practical wisdom; lastly, old age, recognizing the vanity of all
things, holds but to peace, and bends a tired head to rest. "And so it
is with civilization,--nations rise, strengthen, and disappear.
Humanity, by unmistakable signs, shows that it is on the wane, and that
having employed its strength in maturity, age is now overtaking it. In
time it will be content to live on the accumulated wisdom of the
centuries, and, inured to thought, it will review the collective
agitations of its past life, and recognize the vanity of the goal
hitherto pursued.... Humanity, in its decline, will leave no heir to
profit by its accumulated wealth. It will have neither children nor
grandchildren to trouble the rigor of its judgment through the
illusions of parental love. It will sink finally into that melancholy
which is the appanage of great minds; it will in a measure float above
its own body like a spirit freed from matter; or, as Œdipus at
Colonna, it will in anticipation taste the calm of chaos, and assist
with compassionate self-pity at the spectacle of its own suffering.
Passions that have vanished into the depths of reason will be resolved
into ideas by the white light of thought. Illusions will have faded and
hope be done with, for what is there left to hope? Its highest aim can
be but the absence of pain, for it can no longer dream of happiness;
still weak and fragile, working to live, and yet not knowing why it
does so, it will ask but one gift, the rest of an endless sleep that
shall calm its weariness and immense ennui. It is then that humanity
will have passed through the three periods of illusion, and in
recognizing the nothingness of its former hopes will aspire only to
absolute insensibility and the chaos of Nirvâna."
It remains but to inquire what is to become of disillusionized
humanity, and to what goal evolution is tending. The foregoing account
of Hartmann's theory should have shown that this goal cannot be
happiness, for at no period has it ever been reached, and, moreover,
that with the progress of the world man is gaining a clearer perception
of his misery. On the other hand, it would be illogical to suppose that
evolution is to continue with no other aim than that of the discharge
of the successive moments that compose it; for if each of these moments
is valueless, evolution itself would be meaningless; but Hartmann, it
may be remembered, has recognized in the Unconscious a principle of
absolute wisdom, and the answer must be looked for elsewhere, but
preferably in that direction which most noticeably points to some
determined and progressive perfection. No such sign, however, is to be
met with anywhere save in the development of consciousness; here
progress has been clearly and uninterruptedly at work, from the
appearance of the first globule to contemporaneous humanity, and in all
probability will continue to advance so long as the world subsists.
All things aid in its production and development, while to its
assistance there come not only the perfecting of the nervous system,
but also such personal incentives as the desire for wealth, which in
increasing general welfare disfranchises the intellect; then, too,
there are the stimulants to intellectual activity, vanity and ambition,
and also sexual love, which heightens its aptitudes; in short, every
instinct which is valuable to the species, and which costs the
individual more pain than pleasure, is converted into an unalloyed and
increasing gain for consciousness.
In spite of all this, however, the development of consciousness is but
the means to an end, and cannot therefore be considered as an absolute
goal; "for consciousness," Hartmann says, "is born of pain, and exists
and expands with suffering, and yet what manner of consolation does it
offer? Merely a vain self-mirroring. Of course, if the world were good
and beautiful, this would not be without its advantage; but a world
which is absolutely miserable, a world which must curse its own
existence the moment it is able to judge it, can never regard its
apparent and purely ideal reflection as a reasonable goal and
termination of its existence. Is there not suffering enough in reality?
Is it necessary to reproduce it in a magic lantern? No; consciousness
cannot be the supreme goal of a world whose evolution is directed by
supreme wisdom.... Some other end must be sought for, then, to which
the development of consciousness shall be but the means."
But, however the question is regarded, from whatever standpoint the
matter is viewed, there seems to be but one possible goal, and that is
happiness. Everything that exists tends thereto, and it is the
principle on which rests each of the diverse forms of practical
philosophy; moreover, the pursuit of happiness is the essence of Will
seeking its own pacification. But happiness has been shown to be an
illusion; still there must be some key to the riddle. The solution is
at once simple and unexpected. There can be no positive happiness, and
yet happiness of some kind is necessary; the supreme aim of universal
progress, of which consciousness is but the instrument, is then the
realization of the highest possible felicity, which is nothing else
than the freedom from all pain, and, in consequence, the cessation of
all life; or, in other words, total annihilation.
This climax is the only one which Hartmann will consent to consider;
from any other point of view evolution would be a tireless progressus
which some day might be blindly arrested by chance, while life in the
mean time would remain in the utter desolation of an issueless
purgatory.
The path, however, through which the great deliverance is to be
effected is as tortuously perplexing as the irrational duality of the
Unconscious. Many generations of pessimists are needed before the world
will be fully ripe for its great leap into the night of time; even
then, though Hartmann does not appear to suspect it, there will
probably be quite a number of pantheists who, drunk on Nature, will
stupidly refuse the great bare bodkin, which will have thus been
carefully prepared for their viaticum.
It should not be supposed that in all this there is any question of the
suicide of the individual: Hartmann is far too dramatic to suggest a
final tableau so tame and humdrum as that; besides, it has been seen
that the death of the individual does not drag with it the
disappearance of the species, and in no wise disturbs the heedless calm
of Nature. It is not the momentary and ephemeral existence that is to
be destroyed, for, after its destruction, the repairing and reproducing
force would still survive; it is the principle of existence itself
which must be extinguished; the suicide, to be effectual, must be that
of the cosmos. This proceeding, which will shortly be explained, "will
be the act of the last moment, after which there will be neither will
nor activity; after which, to quote Saint John, 'time will have ceased
to be.'"
But here it may be pertinently asked whether humanity, such as it now
is, will be capable of this grandiose development of consciousness
which is to prepare the absolute renunciation of the will to live, or
whether some superior race is to appear on earth which will continue
the work and attain the goal. May it not be that the globe will be but
the theatre of an abortive effort of this description, and long after
it has gone to increase the number of frozen spheres, some other
planet, which is to us invisible, may, under more favorable
circumstances, realize the self-same aim and end? To this the answer is
made that if humanity is ever destined to conduct the world's evolution
to its coronation, it will assuredly not complete its task until the
culminating point of its progress has been reached, nor yet until it
has united the most favorable conditions of existence. We need not,
however, bother about the perspective which science has disclosed, and
which points to a future period of congelation and complete inertia;
long before that time, Hartmann says, evolution will have ended, and
this world of ours, with its continents and archipelagoes, will have
vanished.
The manner in which this great and final annihilation is to be
accomplished is of a threefold nature; the first condition necessary to
success is that humanity at some future time shall concentrate such a
mass of Will that the balance, spread about elsewhere over the world,
will be insignificant in proportion. This, Hartmann explains, is in no
wise impossible, "for the manifestation of Will in atomic forces is
greatly inferior to that which is exercised in the vegetable and animal
kingdom, and hence much less than that which irrupts in man. The
supposition, therefore, that the greater part may be capitalized in man
is not necessarily an idle dream. When that day arrives, it will
suffice for humanity to no longer will to live to annihilate the entire
fabric; for humanity will at that time represent more Will than all
the rest of Nature collectively considered."
The second condition necessary to success is that mankind shall be so
thoroughly alive to the folly of life, so imperiously in need of peace,
and shall have so completely disentangled every effort from its
aimlessness, that the yearning for an end to existence will be the
prime motive of every act. A condition such as this, Hartmann thinks,
will probably be realized in the old age of humanity. The theory that
life is an evil is already admitted by thinkers; the supposition,
therefore, that it may some day triumph over the prejudices of the
multitude is neither absurd nor preposterous. As is shown in the
history of other creeds, an idea may penetrate so deeply into the minds
of its adherents as to breed an entire race of fanatics; and it is the
opinion, not of Hartmann alone, but of many serious and cultivated
scholars, that if ever an idea was destined to triumph without recourse
to either passion or violence, and to exercise at the same time an
action purely pacific, yet so profound and durable as to assure its
success beforehand, that idea, or rather that sentiment, is the
compassion which the pessimist feels not only for himself, but for
everything that is. Its gradual adoption these gentlemen consider not
as problematical, but merely as a question of time. Indeed, the
difficulty is not so great as might be supposed; every day the will of
the individual suffices to triumph over the instinctive love of life,
and, Hartmann logically argues, may not the mass of humanity do the
same thing? The denial of the will to live on the part of the
individual is, it is true, barren of any benefit to the species, but,
on the other hand, a universal denial would result in complete
deliverance.
Mankind, however, has yet a long journey before it, and many
generations are needed to overcome, and to dissipate little by little,
through the influence of heredity, those passions which are opposed to
the desire for eternal peace. In time, Hartmann thinks, all this will
be brought about; and he holds, moreover, that the development of
consciousness will correspond with the weakening of passion, which is
to be one of the characteristics of the decline of humanity, as it is
now one of the signs of the day.
The third condition necessary for the perfect consummation of this
gigantic suicide is that communication between the inhabitants of the
world be so facilitated that they may simultaneously execute a common
resolution. Full play is allowed the imagination in picturing the
manner in which all this is to be accomplished. Hartmann has a contempt
for details, and contents himself with asserting that it is necessary
and possible, and that in the abdication of humanity every form of
existence will cease.
Such, in brief, is this vehement conception of the ordering of the
world, and the plan for its precipitate destruction. With a soldierly
disregard of objection, but with a prodigality of argument and
digression which, if not always substantial, is unusually vivid,
Hartmann explains the Unconscious and its reacting dualism of Will and
Idea. One principle is, as has been seen, constantly irrupting into
life, and it is through the revolt of the second that the first is to
be thwarted and extinguished. Nothing, indeed, could be more simple;
and it would be a graceless and pedantic task to laboriously clamber to
the same vague altitudes to which Hartmann has so lightly soared, and
there contradict his description of the perspective.
To any one who has cared to follow the writer thus far, the outlines
given of Hartmann's conspiracy against pain must have seemed
aggressively novel. Schopenhauer's ideas on the same subject were
seemingly more practical, if less lurid, but then Schopenhauer hugged a
fact and flouted chimeras. It may be that Schopenhauer was a little
behind the age, for Hartmann has criticised him very much as a
collegian on a holiday might jeer at the old-world manners of his
grandfather. As they cannot both be right, each may be wrong; and it
may be that the key to the whole great puzzle is contained in that one
word, resignation, which the poet-philosopher pronounced so long ago.
As a remedy this certainly has the advantage of being a more immediate
and serviceable palliative to the sufferer than either of those
suggested in the foregoing systems. It is admitted that--
     "Man cannot feed and be fed on the faith of to-morrow's baked meat;"
and it is in the same manner difficult for any one to hypnotize himself
and his suffering with the assurance that in the decline of humanity
all pain will cease; on the other hand, whether we have in regard to
future generations an after-me-the-deluge feeling, and practically care
very little whether or no they annihilate themselves and pain too,
still the more intelligent will readily recognize the ubiquity of
sorrow, and consider resignation at present as its most available
salve.
But in spite of its vagaries, pessimism, as expounded by Schopenhauer
and Hartmann, possesses a real and enduring value which it is difficult
to talk away; it is naturally most easy to laugh, in the heyday of
youth and health, at its fantastic misanthropy; indeed, it is in no
sense perfect; it has halted and tripped many times; it has points that
even to the haphazard and indifferent spectator are weak and faulty,
and yet what creed is logically perfect, and what creed is impregnable
to criticism? That there is none such can be truly admitted. The
reader, then, may well afford to be a little patient with pessimism;
theoretically, it is still in its infancy, but with increasing years
its blunders will give way to strength; and though many of the theories
that it now holds may alter, the cardinal, uncontrovertible tenet that
life is a burden will remain firm and changeless to the end of time.
CHAPTER VI.
IS LIFE AN AFFLICTION?
In very stately words, that were typical of him who uttered them,
Emerson said, "I do not wish to be amused;" and turned therewith a
figurative back on the enticements of the commonplace.
Broadly speaking, the sentiment that prompted this expression is common
to all individual men. The so-called allurements and charms of the
world are attractive to the vulgar, but not to the thinker, and whether
the thinker be a Trappist or a comedian, he will, if called to account,
express himself in a manner equally frank.
For sentiments of this description neither orthodoxy nor pessimism is
to blame. They are merely the resultants of the obvious and the true;
they leap into being in every intelligent mind. The holiday crowd on
its way to the Derby, to Coney Island, the Lido, or to any one of the
other thousand places of popular resort, causes even the ordinary
observer to wonder why it is that he cannot go too, and enjoy himself
with the same boisterous good humor which palpitates all about him; he
thinks at first that he has some fibre lacking, some incapacity for
that enjoyment which has in so large a measure been given to others;
but little by little the conviction breaks upon him that he has a fibre
more, and that it is the others who lack the finer perceptions with
which he is burdened.
That the others are to be envied, and he to be pitied, there can be no
manner of doubt, but all the same the fact that he is unable to take
part in popular amusements steadfastly remains; and while the matter of
the extra fibre is more or less reassuring, it is not always perfectly
satisfactory, and he then begins to look about for the reason. If to
his power of observation there be added also a receptive mind and an
introspective eye, it will be unnecessary for him to have ever heard of
M. Renan to become gradually aware that he is the victim of a gigantic
swindle. In common with many others, he has somehow imagined that the
world was a broad and fertile plain, with here and there a barren
tract. It is impossible for him to give any reason for this fancy; "In
the world ye shall have tribulation," is the explicit warning of the
Founder of Christianity, and to this warning all creeds, save that of
the early Hellenists, concur. It did not, therefore, come from any
religious teaching, nor, for that matter, from any philosophy. Still
the impression, however vague it may seem when analyzed, has none the
less been with him, as with all others, the reason being simply that he
grew up with it as he may have grown up with fairy tales, and it is not
until his aspirations stumble over facts that he begins to see that
life, instead of being the pleasant land flowing with milk and honey,
which he had imagined, is in reality something entirely different.
These deductions, of course, need not follow because a man finds that
he is more or less indifferent to every form of entertainment, from a
king's revel to a walking-match; but they may follow of any man who has
begun to dislike the propinquity of the average, and to feel that where
the crowd find amusement there will be nothing but weariness and
vexation of spirit for him. Under such circumstances he is an
instinctive pessimist, and one who needs but little theoretic
instruction to learn that he, as all others, has been made use of, and
cheated to boot. The others, it is true, are, generally speaking,
unaware of the deception that has been practiced on them; they have, it
may be, a few faint suspicions that something has gone wrong somewhere,
but even in uttermost depression the untutored look upon their
misfortunes as purely individual, and unshared by the world at large.
Of the universality of suffering, of the fact, as John Stuart Mill has
put it, that there is no happiness for nineteen twentieths of the
world's inhabitants, few have any conception or idea. They look, it may
be, over their garden wall, and, hearing their neighbor grumble, they
think that, being cross-grained and ill-tempered, his life is not one
of unalloyed delight. But their vision extends no further. They do not
see the sorrow that has no words, nor do they hear the silent knell of
irrecoverable though unuttered hopes, "the toil of heart, and knees,
and hands." Of all these things they know nothing; household worries,
and those of their neighbor and his wife, circle their existence. If
they are not contented themselves, then happiness is but a question of
distance. Another street, or another town, or another country holds it,
and if the change is made, the old story remains to be repeated.
There are those, too, who from dyspepsia, torpidity of the liver, or
general crankiness of disposition, are inclined to take a gloomy view
of all things; then there is a temperamental pessimism which displays
itself in outbursts of indignation against the sorrows of life, and in
frantic struggles with destiny and the meshes of personal existence;
there is also the sullen pessimism of despair noticeable in the quiet
folding of hands, and which with tearless eyes awaits death without
complaint; then there are those who complain and sulk, who torment
themselves and others, and who have neither the spunk to struggle nor
the grace to be resigned,--this is the "forme miserable;" there is
also a haphazard pessimism which comes of an unevenness of disposition,
and which asserts itself on a rainy day, or when stocks are down;
another is the accidental type, the man who, with loss of wife, child,
or mistress, settles himself in a dreary misanthropy; finally, there is
hypochondria, which belongs solely to pathology.
In none of these categories do the victims have any suspicion that a
philosophical significance is attached to their suffering. Curiously
enough, however, it is from one or from all of these different classes
that the ordinary acceptation of pessimism is derived; it is these
forms that are met with in every-day life and literature, and yet it is
precisely with these types, that spring from the disposition and
temperament of the individual who exhibits them, that scientific
pessimism has nothing to do. It ignores them entirely.
Broadly stated, scientific pessimism in its most advanced form rests on
a denial that happiness in any form ever has been or ever will be
obtained, either by the individual as a unit or by the world as a
whole; and this for the reason that life is not considered as a
pleasant gift made to us for our pleasure; on the contrary, it is a
duty which must be performed by sheer force of labor,--a task which in
greater matters, as in small, brings in its train a misery which is
general, an effort which is ceaseless, and a tension of mind and body
which is extreme, and often unbearable. Work, torment, pain, and misery
are held to be the unavoidable lot of nearly every one, and the work,
torment, pain, and misery of life are considered as necessary to
mankind as the keel to the ship. Indeed, were it otherwise, were
wishes, when formed, fulfilled, in what manner would the time be
employed? Imagine the earth to be a fairyland where all grows of
itself, where birds fly roasted to the spit, and where each would find
his heart's best love wreathed with orange flowers to greet his coming;
what would the result be? Some would bore themselves to death, some
would cut their throats, while others would quarrel, assassinate, and
cause generally more suffering than is in the present state of affairs
actually imposed upon them. Pain is not the accident, but the necessary
and inevitable concomitant of life; and the attractiveness of the
promise "that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy God
giveth thee," is, in consequence, somewhat impaired.
Nor, according to scientific pessimism, is there any possibility that
happiness will be obtained in a future life. In this there is no
atheism, though the arguments that follow may seem to savor of the
agnostic.
As has been seen, pleasures are, as a rule, indirect, being cessations
or alleviations of pain. If it be taken for granted that in a future
life there will be no pain, the difficulty is not overcome, but rather
increased by the fact of the rapid exhaustion of nervous susceptibility
to pleasure. Furthermore, as without brain there is no consciousness,
it will not be illogical to suppose that every spirit must be provided
with such an apparatus; in which case the psychological laws in the
other life must be strictly analogous to those of early experience. The
deduction follows of itself,--there, too, must be pain and sorrow.
To this it may be objected that in a future life there need be no
question either of pain or pleasure, and that the ransomed soul will,
in contemplation, or love, or the practice of morality, be too refined
to be susceptible to any sensations of a grosser nature.
To all this advanced pessimism has a ready answer: first, there can be
no morality, for where there is no body and no property it is
impossible to injure another; second, there can be no love, for every
form of love, from the highest to the lowest, rests on the basis of
sensibility; when, therefore, after the abstraction of shape, voice,
features, and all bodily actions that are manifested through the medium
of the brain, nothing but an unsubstantial shadow remains, what is
there left to love? third, there can be no contemplation, for in a
state of clairvoyance contemplation is certainly useless.
In these arguments pessimism, it may be noted, does not deny the
possibility of future existence; it denies merely the possibility of
future happiness; and its logic, of course, can in no wise affect the
position of those who hold that man is unable to conceive or imagine
anything of that which is, or is not to be.
From a religious standpoint advanced pessimism teaches that the misery
of life is immedicable, and strips away every illusion with which it
has been hitherto enveloped; it offers, it is true, no hope that a
future felicity will be the recompense of present suffering, and if in
this way it ignores any question of reward and punishment, it does not
for that reason necessarily open a gate to license and immorality; on
the contrary, pessimism stands firmly to the first principle of the
best ethics, and holds that men shall do good without the wish to be
rewarded, and abstain from evil without the fear of being punished.
In regard to what follows death, it recognizes in the individual but
the aspiration to be liberated from the task of coöperating in
evolution, the desire to be replunged in the Universal Spirit, and the
wish to disappear therein as the raindrop disappears in the ocean, or
as the flame of the lamp is extinguished in the wind. In other words,
it does not aim at mere happiness, but at peace and at rest; and
meanwhile, until the hour of deliverance is at hand, it does not acquit
the individual of any of the obligations that he owes to society, nor
of one that is due to himself. In short, the creed as it stands is one
of charity and good-will to all men; and, apart from its denial of
future happiness, it does not in its ethics differ in any respect from
the sublime teachings of the Christian faith.
It seems trite to say that we are passing through a transition period,
for all things seem to point to a coming change; still, whatever
alterations time may bring in its train, it is difficult to affirm that
the belief here set forth is to be the religion of the future, n'est
pas prophète qui veut; in any event, it is easy to prove that
pessimism is not a religion of the past. Its very youth militates most
against it; and while it may outgrow this defect, yet it has other
objectionable features which to the average mind are equally
unassuring: to begin with it is essentially iconoclastic; wherever it
rears its head, it does so amid a swirl of vanishing illusions and a
totter and crash of superstition. There are few, however, that part
placidly with these possessions; illusions are relinquished grudgingly,
and as for superstitions,--a wise man has said, Are they not hopes? It
would seem, then, that in showing the futility of any quest of
happiness here or hereafter, this doctrine, if received at all, will
have performed a very thankless task. Indeed, it is this reason, if no
other, that will cause it for some time to come to be regarded with
distrust and dislike. The masses are conservative, and their
conservatism usually holds them one or two centuries in arrears of
advancing thought; and even putting the masses out of the question, one
has to be very hospitable to receive truth at all times as a welcome
guest, for truth is certainly very naked and uncompromising; we love to
