" Oh yes. I felt that my experience was incom- 
plete without some knowledge of how the Carnival 
ended at such a place.'' 
" Oh ! And do you still feel that Savonarola was 
mistaken ? " 
"There seemed to be rather more boisterousness 
toward the close, and, if I might judge, the excite- 
 
ment grew a little unwholesome. But I really don't 
feel myself very well qualified to decide. My own 
life has been passed in circumstances so widely dif- 
ferent that I am at a certain disadvantage." 
" Yes," said Colville, with a smile ; " I dare say 
the Carnival at Haddam East Village was quite 
another thing." 
The old man smiled responsively. " I suppose 
that some of my former parishioners might have been 
scandalised at my presence at a Carnival ball, had 
they known the fact merely in the abstract ; but in 
my letters home I shall try to set it before them in 
an instructive light. I should say that the worst 
thing about such a scene of revelry would be that 
it took us too much out of our inner quiet. But I 
suppose the same remark might apply to almost any 
form of social entertainment." 
"Yes." 
" But human nature is so constituted that some\ 
means of expansion must be provided, or a violent i 
explosion takes place. The only question is what 
means are most innocent. I have been looking 
about," added the old man quietly, " at the theatres 
lately." 
" Have you ? " asked Colville, opening his eyes, 
in suppressed surprise. 
" Yes ; with a view to determining the degree of 
harmless amusement that may be derived from 
them. It's rather a difl&cult question. I should 
be inclined to say, however, that I don't think the 
ballet can ever be instrumental for good." 
Colville could not deny himself the pleasure of 
saying, " Well, not the highest, I suppose." 
" No," said Mr. Waters, in apparent unconscious- 
ness of the irony. "But I think the Church has 
made a mistake in condemning the theatre in Mo. 
It appears to me that it might always have coun- 
tenanced a certain order of comedy, in which the 
motive and plot are unobjectionable. Though I don't 
deny that there are moods "when all laughter seems 
low and unworthy and incompatible with the most 
advanced state of being. And I confess," he went 
on, with a dreamy thoughtfulness, " that I have 
very great misgivings in regard to tragedy. The 
glare that it throws upon the play of the passions — 
jealousy in its anguish, revenge glutting itself, envy 
eating its heart, hopeless love — their nakedness is 
terrible. The terror may be salutary ; it may be 
very mischievous. I am afraid that I have left some 
of my inquiries till it is too late. I seem to have no 
longer the materials of judgment left in me. If I 
were still a young man like you " 
" Am I still a young man ? " interrupted Colville 
sadly. 
"You are young enough to respond to the appeals 
that sometimes find me silent. If I were of your 
age I should certainly investigate some of these 
interesting problems." 
"Ah, but if you become personally interested in 
the problems, it 's as bad as if you hadn't the mate- 
rials of judgment left ; you 're prejudiced. Besides, 
I doubt my youthfulness very much." 
" You are fifty, I presume ? " suggested Mr. 
Waters, in a leading way. 
" Not very near — only too near," laughed Colville. 
" I 'm forty-one." 
" You are younger than I supposed. But I re- 
member now that at your age I had the same feeling 
which you intimate. It seemed to me then that I 
had really passed the bound which separates us from 
the further possibility of youth. But I 've lived long 
enough since to know that I was mistaken. At 
forty, one has still a great part of youth before him 
— perhaps the ric hest and sweetest part. By that 
time the turmoil of ideas and sensa tionsis over ; we 
see clearly and feel c onsciously. We are in a sort of 
quiet in which w e peacefully enj o y: Wg have en- 
larged our perspective sufficiently to perceive things 
i n their true proportio n ami relaLioii ; we are no 
l onger tormented with the lurking ~lea r of death, 
which darkens and embitters our earlier years ; we 
have got into the habit oTlite ; we have often been 
ailing and we have not died. Then we have time 
enoug h beh ind us to supi)ly us with the materials of 
. reverie and reminisc ence ; the terrible "iblitude of 
inexpe rience is broken; we have learned to smile at 
many things besides the fear of death._ We ought 
also to have learned pity and patience. Yes," the 
old man concluded, in cheerful self- corroboration, 
" it is a jeautiful age." 
" But it doesn't look so beautiful as it is," Colville 
protested. " People in that rosy prime don 't pro- 
duce the effect of garlanded striplings upon the 
world at large. The women laugh at us; they 
think we are fat old fellows ; they don't recognise 
the slender and elegant youth that resides in our 
unwieldy bulk." 
" You take my meaning a little awry. Besides, I 
doubt if even the ground you assume is tenable. If 
a woman has lived long enough to be truly young 
herself, she won't find a man at forty either decrepit 
or grotesque. He can even make himself youthful 
to a girl of thought and imagination." 
" Yes," Colville assented, with a certain discomfort. 
" But to be truly young at forty," resumed Mr. 
Waters, "a man should be already married." 
"Yes?" 
" I sometimes feel," continued the old man, " that 
I made a mistake in yielding to a disappointment 
that I met with early in life, and in not permitting 
myself the chance of retrieval. I have missed a 
beautiful and consoling experience in my devotion 
to a barren regret." 
Colville said nothing, but he experienced a mixed 
feeling of amusement, of repulsion, and of curiosity 
at this. 
" We are put into the world to be of it. I am 
more and more convinced of that. We have scarcely 
a right to separate ourselves from the common lot in 
any way. I justify myself for having lived alone 
only as a widower might. I — lost her. It was a 
great while ago." 
" Yes," said Colville, after the pause which 
ensued ; " I agre e with you that one has no right to 
ii?( ?ate liimap.lf, tn rp.fnsp. his p nrh'nn of the common 
lot; but t he effects of even a r ebuff may last so long 
that one has no heart to put out his hand a second 
time — for a second rap over the knuckles. Oh, I 
know how trivial it is in the retrospect, and how 
what is called a disappointment is something to be 
humbly grateful for in most cases ; but for a while 
it certainly makes you doubtful whether you were 
ever really intended to share the common lot." He 
was aware of an insincerity in his words ; he hoped 
that it might not be perceptible, but he did not 
greatly care. 
Mr. Waters took no notice of what he had been 
saying. He resumed from another point. " But I 
should say that it would be unwise for a man of 
mature life to seek his happiness with one much 
younger than himself. I don't deny that there are 
cases in which the disparity of years counts for little 
or nothing, but generally speaking, people ought to 
be as equally mated in age as possible. They ought 
to start with the same advantages of ignorance. A 
young girl can only live her life through a com- 
munity of feeling, an equality of inexperience in the 
man she gives her heart to. If he is tired of things 
that still delight her, the chances of unhappiness are 
increased." 
"Yes, that's true," answered Colville gravely. 
" It 's apt to be a mistake and a wrong." 
" Oh, not always — not always," said the old 
minister. "We mustn't look at it in that way 
quite. Wrongs are of the will." He seemed to 
 
lapse into a greater iutimacy of feeling with Colville. 
" Have you seen Mrs. Bowen to-day ? Or — ah ! 
true ! I think you told me." 
" No," said Colville. " Have we spoken of her ? 
But I have seen her." 
" And was the little one well ?" 
" Very much better." 
" Pretty creatures, both of them," said the minis- 
ter, with as fresh a pleasure in his recognition of 
the fact as if he had not said nearly the same thing 
once before. " You 've noticed the very remark- 
able resemblance between mother and daughter?" 
" Oh yes." 
" There is a gentleness in Mrs. Bowen which 
seems to me the last refinement of a gracious spirit," 
suggested Mr. Waters. " I have never met any lady 
who reconciled more exquisitely what is charming in 
society with what is lovely in nature." 
" Yes," said Colville. " Mrs. Bowen always had 
that gentle manner. I used to know her here as a 
girl a great while ago." 
" Did you ? I wonder you allowed her to become 
Mrs. Bowen." 
This sprightliness of Mr. Waters amused Colville 
greatly. " At that time I was preoccupied with my 
great mistake, and I had no eyes for Mrs. Bowen." 
"It isn't too late yet," said Mr. Waters, with open 
insinuation. 
A bachelor of forty is always flattered by any sug- 
gestion of marriage ; the suggestion that a beautiful 
and charming woman would marry him is too much 
 
for whatever reserves of modesty and wisdom he 
may have stored up. Colville took leave of the old 
minister in better humour with himself than he had 
been for forty-eight hours, or than he had any very 
good reason for being now. 
Mr. Waters came with him to the head of the 
stairs and held up the lamp for him to see. The 
light fell upon the white locks thinly straggling 
from beneath his velvet skull-cap, and he looked 
like some mediaeval scholar of those who lived and 
died for learning in Florence when letters were a 
passion there almost as strong as love. 
The next day Colville would have liked to go at 
once and ask about Efiie, but upon the whole he 
thought he would not go till after he had been at 
the reception where he was going in the afternoon. 
It was an artist who was giving the reception ; he 
had a number of pictures to show, and there was to 
be tea. There are artists and artists. This painter 
was one who had a distinct social importance. It 
was felt to be rather a nice thing to be asked to his 
reception ; one was sure at least to meet the nicest 
people. 
This reason prevailed with Colville so far as it 
related to Mrs. Bowen, whom he felt that he would 
like to tell he had been there. He would speak 
to her of this person and tiiat — very respected and 
recognised social figures, — so that she might see he 
was not the outlaw, the Bohemian, he must some- 
times have appeared to her. It would not be going 
too far to say that something like an obscure inten- 
 
tion to show himself the next Sunday at the English 
chapel, where Mrs. Bowen went, was not forming 
itself in his mind. As he went along it began to 
seem not impossible that she would be at the recep- 
tion. If EflBe's indisposition was no more serious 
than it appeared yesterday, very probably Mrs. 
Bowen would be there. He even believed that he 
recognised her carriage among those which were 
drawn up in front of the old palace, under the 
painter's studio windows. 
There were a great number of people of the four 
nationalities that mostly consort in Italy. There 
were English and Americans and Russians and the 
sort of Italians resulting from the native inter- 
marriages with them ; here and there were Italians 
of pure blood, borderers upon the foreign life through 
a literary interest, or an artistic relation, or a matri- 
monial intention ; here and there, also, the large 
stomach of a German advanced the bounds of the 
new empire and the new ideal of duty. There were 
no Frenchmen ; one may meet them in more strictly 
Italian assemblages, but it is as if the sorrows and 
uncertainties of France in these times discouraged 
them from the international society in which they 
were always an infrequent element. It is not, of 
course, imaginable that as Frenchmen they have 
doubts of their merits, but that they have their 
misgivings as to the intelligence of others. The 
language that prevailed was English — in fact, one 
heard no other, — and the tea which our civilisation 
carries everywhere with it steamed from the cups 
 
in all hands. TJiis beverage, in fact, becomes a for- 
midable factor in the life of a Florentine winter. 
One finds it at all houses, and more or less mechani- 
cally drinks it. 
" I am turning out a terrible tea toper,'' said Col- 
ville, stirring his cup in front of the old lady whom 
his relations to the ladies at Palazzo Pinti had 
interested so much. " I don't think I drink less 
than ten cups a day ; seventy cups a week is a low 
average for me. I 'm really beginning to look down 
at my boots a little anxiously." 
Mrs. Amsden laughed. She had not been in 
America for forty years, but she liked the American 
way of talking better than any other. " Oh, didn't 
you hear about Inglehart when he was here ? He 
was so good-natured that he used to drink all the 
tea people offered him, and then the young ladies 
made tea for him in his studio when they went to 
look at his pictures. It almost killed him. By the 
time spring came he trembled so that the brush flew 
out of his hands when he took it up. He had to 
hurry off to Venice to save his life. It 's just as 
bad at the Italian houses; they've learned to like 
tea." 
"When I was  here before, they never offered 
you anything but coffee," said Colville. "They 
took tea for medicine, and there was an old joke 
that I thought I should die of, I heard it so often 
about the Italian that said to the English woman 
when she offered him tea, ' Grazie ; sto bene.' " 
" Oh, that 's all changed now." 
 
" Yes ; I 've seen the tea, and I haven't heard the 
joke." 
The flavour of Colville's talk apparently encouraged 
his companion to believe that he would like to make 
fun of their host's paintings with her ; but whether 
he liked them, or whether he was principled against 
that sort of return for hospitality, he chose to reply 
seriously to some ironical lures she threw out. 
" Oh, if you 're going to be good," she exclaimed, 
" I shall have nothing more to say to you. Here 
comes Mr. Thurston ; I can make him abuse the 
pictures. There ! You had better go away to a 
young lady I see alone over yonder, though I don't 
know what you will do with one alone." She 
laughed and shook her head in a way that had once 
been arch and lively, but that was now puckery and 
infirm — it is affecting to sec these things in women — 
and welcomed the old gentleman who came up and 
superseded Colville. 
The latter turned, with his cup still in his hand, 
and wandered about through the company, hoping 
he might see Mrs. Bowen among the groups peering 
at the pictures or solidly blocking the view in front 
of them. He did not find her, but he found 
Imogene Graham standing somewhat apart near a 
window. He saw her face light up at sight of him, 
and then darken again as he approached. 
" Isn't this rather an unnatural state of things ? " 
he asked when he had come up. "I ought to be 
obliged to fight my way to you through successive 
phalanxes of young men crowding round with cups of 
 
tea outstretched in their imploring hands. Have 
you had some tea ? " 
"Thank you, no; I don't wish any," said the 
young girl, so coldly that he could not help noticing, 
though commonly he was man enough to notice 
very few things. 
" How is Effie to-day ? " he asked quickly. 
" Oh, quite well," said Imogene. 
"I don't see Mrs. Bowen," he ventured further. 
" No," answered the girl, still very lifelessly ; " I 
came with Mrs. Fleming." She looked about the 
room as if not to look at him. 
He now perceived a distinct intention to snub him. 
He smiled. " Have you seen the pictures ? There 
are two or three really lovely ones." 
" Mrs. Fleming will be here in a moment, I sup- 
pose," said Imogene evasively, but not with all her 
first coldness. 
" Let us steal a march on her," said Colville 
briskly. " When she comes you can tell her that I 
showed you the pictures. " 
"I don't know," faltered the girl. 
" Perhaps it isn't necessary you should," he sug- 
gested. 
She glanced at him with questioning trepidation. 
" The respective duties of chaperone and protigie 
are rather undefined. Where the chaperone isn't 
there to command, the piviige isn't there to obey. 
I suppose you 'd know if you were at home ?" 
"Oh yes!" 
" Let me imagine myself at a loan exhibition in 
 
Buffalo. Ah ! that appeal is irresistible. You 'll 
come, I see." 
She hesitated ; she looked at the nearest picture, 
then followed him to another. He now did what 
he had refused to do for the old lady who tempted 
him to it ; he made fun of the pictures a little, but 
so amiably and with so much justice to their good 
points that the painter himself would not have 
minded his jesting. From time to time he made 
Imogene smile, but in her eyes lurked a look of 
uneasiness, and her manner expressed a struggle 
against his will which might have had its pathos for 
him in different circumstances, but now it only in- 
cited him to make her forget herself more and more ; 
he treated her as one does a child that is out of sorts 
— coaxingly, ironically. 
When they had made the round of the rooms Mrs. 
Fleming was not at the window where she had left 
Imogene ; the girl detected the top of her bonnet 
still in the next room. 
" The chaperone is never there when you come 
back with the 'proUgie,'' said Colville. " It seems 
to be the nature of the chaperone.'' 
Imogene turned very grave. " I think I ought to 
go to her," she murmured. 
" Oh no ; she ought to come to you ; I stand out 
for proUgie's rights." 
" I suppose she will come directly." 
" She sees me with you ; she knows you are safe." 
" Oh, of course," said the girl. After a constraint 
which she marked by rather a long silence, she 
 
added, " How strange a roomful of talking sounds, 
doesn't it ? Just like a great caldron boiling up 
and bubbling over. Wouldn't you like to know 
what they 're all saying ]" 
" Oh, it 's quite bad enough to see them," replied 
Colville frivolously. 
" I think a company of gentlemen with their hats 
off look very queer, don't you ?" she asked, after 
another interval. 
" Well, really," said Colville, laughing, " I don't 
know that the spectacle ever suggested any meta- 
physical speculations to me. I rather think they 
look queerer with their hats on." 
"Oh yes." 
" Though there is not very much to choose. 
We 'I'e a queer-looking set, anyway." 
He got himself another cup of tea, and coming 
back to her, allowed her to make the efforts to keep 
up the conversation, and was not without a malicious 
pleasure in her struggles. They interested him as 
social exercises which, however abrupt and undex- 
terous now, were destined, with time and practice, 
to become the finesse of a woman of society, and to 
be accepted, even vihile they were still abrupt and 
undexterous, as touches of character. He had 
broken up that coldness with which she had met him 
at first, and now he let her adjust the fragments 
as she could to the new situation. He wore that air 
of a gentleman who has been talking a long time to 
a lady, and who will not dispute her possession with 
a new-comer. 
 
But no one came, though, as he cast his eyes care- 
lessly over the company, he found that it had been 
increased by the accession of eight or ten young 
fellows, with a refreshing light of originality in their 
faces, and little touches of difference from the other 
men in their dress. 
" Oh, there are the Inglehart boys !" cried the 
girl, with a flash of excitement. 
There was a sensation of interest and fiiendliness 
in the company as these young fellows, after their 
moment of social intimidation, began to gather 
round the pictures, and to fling their praise and 
blame about, and talk the delightful shop of the 
_studio. 
The sight of their fresh young faces, the sound of 
their voices, struck a pang of regret that was almost 
envy to Colville's heart. 
Imogene followed them with eager eyes. " Oh," 
she sighed, " shouldn't you like to be an artist ? " 
" I should, very much." 
" Oh, I beg your pardon ; I forgot. I knew you 
were an architect." 
"I should say I used to be, if you hadn't objected 
to my perfects and preterits." 
— What came next seemed almost an accident. 
" I didn't suppose you cared for my objections, so 
long as I amused you." She suddenly glanced at 
. him, as if terrified at her own words. 
"Have you been trying to amuse me ]" he asked. 
" Oh no. I thought " 
" Oh, then," said Colville sharply, " you meant 
 
that I was amusing myself with you ? " She glanced 
at liim in terror of his divination, but could not pro- 
test. "Has any one told you that?" he pursued,' 
with sudden angry suspicion. 
" No, no one," began Imogene. She glanced about 
her, frightened. They stood quite alone where they 
were ; the people had mostly wandered off into the 
other rooms. " Oh, don't — I didn't mean — I didn't 
intend to say anything " 
"But you have said something — something that 
surprises me from you, and hurts me. I wish to 
know whether you say it from yourself." 
" I don't know — yes. That is, not Oh, I 
wish Mrs. Fleming " 
She looked as if another word of pursuit would 
put it beyond her power to control herself. 
" Let me take you to Mrs. Fleming," said Colville, 
with freezing hauteur; and led the way where the 
top of Mrs. Fleming's bonnet still showed itself. 
He took leave at once, and hastily parting with his-i 
host, found himself in the street, whirled in many 
emotions. The girl had not said that from herself, 
but it was from some woman ; he knew that by the 
directness of the phrase and its excess, for he had 
noticed that women who liked to beat about the 
bush in small matters have a prodigious straightfor- 
wardness in more vital affairs, and will even call 
grey black in order clearly to establish the presence 
of the black in that colour. He could hardly keep 
himself from going to Palazzo Pmti. 
But he contrived to go to his hotel instead, where 
he ate a moody dinner, and then, after an hour's 
solitary bitterness in his room, went out and passed 
the evening at the theatre. The play was one of 
those fleering comedies which render contemptible 
for the time all honest and earnest intention, and 
which surely are a whiff from the bottomless pit 
itself. It made him laugh at the serious strain of 
self-question that had mingled with his resentment ; 
it made him laugh even at his resentment, and with 
its humour in his thoughts, sent him off to sleep in 
a sottish acceptance of whatever was trivial in him- 
self as the only thing that was real and lasting. 
He slept late, and when Paolo brought up his 
breakfast, he brought with it a letter which he said 
had been left with the porter an hour before. A 
faint appealing perfume of violet exhaled from the 
note, and mingled with the steaming odoTirs of the 
coffee and boiled milk, when Colville, after a glance 
at the unfamiliar handwriting of the superscription, 
broke the seal. 
" Dear Mr. Colville, — I don't know what you will 
think of my writing to you, but perhaps you can't think 
worse of me than you do already, and anything will be 
better than the misery that I am in. I have not been 
asleep all night. I hate myself for telling you, but I do 
want you to understand how I have felt. I would give 
worlds if I could take back the words that you say wounded 
you. I didn't mean to wound you. Kobody is to blame 
for them but me ; nobody ever breathed a word about you 
that was meant in unkindness. 
" I am not ashamed of writing this, whatever you think, 
and I will sign my name in full. Imogene Graham." 
 
Colville had commonly a good appetite for his 
breakfast, but now he let his coffee stand long untasted. There were several things about this note 
that touched him — the childlike simplicity and 
directness, the generous courage, even the imperfection and crudity of the literature. However he saw 
it afterward, he saw it then in it's true intention. 
He respected that intention ; through all the sophistications in which life had wrapped him, it awed 
him a little. He realised that if Ke had been 
younger he would have gone to Imogene herself 
with her letter. He felt for the Tnn ment a rush of 
the emotion which he would once not have stopped 
to examine, which he would not ha ve been capable 
of examining. But now his duty was clear ; he 
must-to to Mrs. "Rwpn, Jyi tin ft TinV. pat-, humau 
purpose there is always some admixture, however 
slight, of less noble motive, and Colville was not 
without the willingness to see whatever embarrass- 
ment she might feel when he showed' her the letter," 
and to invoke her finest tact to aid him in re-assuring the child. 
She was alone in her drawing-room, and she told 
him in response to his inquiry for their health that 
Imogene and Effie had gone out to drive. She 
looked so pretty in the quiet house dress in which 
she rose from. the sofa and stood, letting him come 
the whole way to greet her, that he did not think of 
any other look in her, but afterward he remembered 
an evidence of inner tumult in her brightened eyes. 
He said, smiling, " I 'm so glad to see you alone, ' 
and this brought still another look into her face, 
which also he afterward remembered. She. did not 
reply, but made a sound in her throat like a bird 
when it stirs itself for flight or song. It was a 
strange, indefinite little note, in which Colville 
thought he detected trepidation at the time, and 
recalled for the sort of expectation suggested in it. 
She stood waiting for him to go on. 
" I have come to get you to help me out of trouble." 
" Yes ? " said Mrs. Bowen, with a vague smile. 
" I always supposed you would be able to help yourself out of trouble. Or perhaps wouldn't mind it if 
you were in it." 
" Oh yes, I mind it very much,'' returned Colville, 
refusing her banter, if it were banter. "Especially 
this sort of trouble, which involves some one else in 
the discomfort." He went on abruptly : " I have 
been held up to a young lady as a person who was 
amusing himself with her, and I was so absurd as to 
be angry when she told me, and demanded the name 
of my friend, whoever it was. My behaviour seems 
to have given the young lady a bad night, and this 
morning she writes to tell me so, and to take all the 
blame on herself, and to assure me that no harm was 
meant me by any one. Of course I don't want her 
to be distressed about it. Perhaps you can guess 
who has been writing to me.'' 
Colville said all this looking down, in a fashion 
he had. When he looked up he saw a severity in 
Mrs. Bowen's pretty face, such as he had not seen 
there before. 
 
" I didn't know she had been writing to you, but 
I know that you are talking of Imogene. She told 
me what she had said to you yesterday, and I blamed 
her for it, but I 'm not sure that it wasn't best." 
" Oh, indeed ! " said Colville. " Perhaps you can 
tell me who put the idea into her head ? " 
« Yes ; I did." 
A dead silence ensued, in which the fragments of 
the situation broken by these words, revolved before 
Colville's thought with kaleidoscopic variety, and he 
passed through all the phases of anger, resentment, 
woimded self-love, and accusing shame. 
At last, " I suppose you had your reasons," he 
said simply. 
" I am in her mother's place here,'' she replied, 
tightening the grip of one little hand upon another, 
where she held them laid against the side of her 
waist. 
" Yes, I know that," said Colville ; " but what 
reason had you to warn her against me as a person 
who was amusing himself with her ? I don't like 
the phrase ; but she seems to have got it from you ; 
I use it at third hand." 
" I don't like the phrase either ; I didn't invent 
it." 
" You used it." 
