she could gain comfort? But she felt and knew 
that, before she died, she must see Zoroaster once 
 
more, and tell him that she knew all the truth — that 
she knew he had not deceived her, and that she im- 
plored his forgiveness for the wrong she had done 
him. He would let her rest her head upon his breast 
and weep out her heartful of piteous sorrow once 
before she died. And then — the quiet stream of the 
Araxes flowed softly, cold and clear, among the rose- 
gardens below the palace. The kindly water would 
take her to its bosom, beneath the summer's moon, 
and the nightingales she loved would sing her a gentle 
good-night — good-night for ever, while the cool wave 
flowed over her weary breast and aching head. 
 
CHAPTER XVII. 
On the next day, in the cool of the evening, Nehushta walked again in the garden. But Zoroaster 
was not there. And for several days Nehushta came 
at that hour, and at other hours in the day, but found 
him not. She saw him indeed from time to time in 
public, but she had no opportunity of speaking with 
him as she desired. At last, she determined to send 
for him, and to see whether he would come, or not. 
She went out, attended only by two slaves ; the 
one bearing a fan and the other a small carpet and a 
cushion — black women from the southern parts of 
Syria, towards Egypt, who would not understand the 
high Persian she would be likely to speak with 
Zoroaster, though her own Hebrew tongue was intelligible to them. When she reached a quiet spot, 
where one of the walks ended suddenly in a little 
circle among the rose-trees, far down from the palace, 
she had her carpet spread, and her cushion was placed 
upon it, and she wearily sat down. The fan-girl 
began to ply her palm-leaf, as much to cool the heated 
summer air as to drive away the swarms of tiny gnats 
which abounded in the garden. Nehushta rested upon 
one elbow, her feet drawn together upon the carpet 
of dark soft colours and waited a few minutes as 
though in thought. At last she seemed to have 
decided, and turned to the slave who had brought her 
 
cushion, as she stood at a little distance, motionless, 
her hands folded and hidden under the thickness of 
the broad sash that girded her tunic at the waist. 
" Go thou," said the queen, " and seek out the high 
priest Zoroaster, and bring him hither quickly." 
The black woman turned and ran like a deer down 
the narrow path, disappearing in a moment amongst 
the shrubbery. 
The breeze of the swinging fan blew softly on 
Nehushta's pale face and stirred the locks of heavy 
hair that fell from her tiara about her shoulders. 
Her eyes were half closed as she leaned back, and 
her lips were parted in a weary look of weakness that 
was new to her. Nearly an hour passed and the sun 
sank low, but Nehushta hardly stirred from her 
position. 
It seemed very long before she heard steps upon 
the walk — the quick soft step of the slave-woman 
running before, barefooted and fleet, and presently 
the heavier tread of a man's leather shoe. The slave 
stopped at the entrance to the little circle of rose- 
trees, and a moment later, Zoroaster strode forward, 
and stood still and made a deep obeisance, a few 
steps from Nehushta. 
" Forgive me that I sent for thee, Zoroaster," said 
the queen in quiet tones. But, as she spoke, a slight 
blush overspread her face, and relieved her deadly 
pallor. " Forgive me — I have somewhat to say 
which thou must hear." 
Zoroaster remained standing before her as she 
spoke, and his luminous eyes rested upon her quietly. 
" I wronged thee three years ago, Zoroaster," said 
 
the queen in a low voice, but looking up at him. "1 
pray thee, forgive me — I knew not what I did." 
"I forgave thee long ago," answered the high 
priest. 
" I did thee a bitter wrong — but the wrong I did 
myself was even greater. I never knew till I went 
and asked — her ! " At the thought of Atossa, the 
Hebrew woman's eyes flashed fire, and her small 
fingers clenched upon her palm. But, in an instant, 
her sad, weary look returned. 
" That is all — if you forgive me," she said, and 
turned her head away. It seemed to her that there 
was nothing more to be said. He did not love her 
— he was far beyond love. 
" Now, by Ahura Mazda, I have indeed forgiven 
thee. The blessing of the All-Wise be upon thee ! " 
Zoroaster bent again, as though to take his leave, and 
he would have gone from her. 
But when she heard his first footsteps, Nehushta 
raised herself a little and turned quickly towards 
him. It seemed as though the only light she knew 
were departing from her day. 
" You loved me once," she said, and stopped, with 
an appealing look on her pale face. It was very weak 
of her ; but oh ! she was far spent with sorrow and 
grief. Zoroaster paused, and looked back upon her, 
very calmly, very gently. 
" Ay — I loved you once — but not now. There 
is no more love in the earth for me. But I bless you 
for the love you gave me." 
"I loved you so well," said Nehushta. "I love 
you still," she added, suddenly raising herself and 
 
gazing on him with a Avild look in her eyes. " Oh, 
I love you still ! " she cried passionately. "I thought 
I had put you away — forgotten you — trodden out 
your memory that I so hated I could not bear to hear 
your name ! Ah ! why did I do it, miserable woman 
that I am ! I love you now — T love you — I love 
you with my whole heart — and it is too late ! " She 
fell back upon her cushion, and covered her face with 
her hands, and her breast heaved with passionate, 
tearless sobbing. 
Zoroaster stood still, and a deep melancholy came 
over his beautiful, ethereal face. No regret stirred 
his breast, no touch of the love that had been waked 
his heart that slept for ever in the peace of the 
higher life. He would not have changed from him- 
self to the young lover of three years ago, if he had 
been able. But he stood calm and sorrowful, as an 
angel from heaven gazing on the grief of the world 
— his thoughts full of sympathy for the pains of 
men, his soul still breathing the painless peace of 
the outer firmament whence he had come and whither 
he would return. 
"Nehushta," he said at last, seeing that her sobbing 
did not cease, " it is not meet that you should thus 
weep for anything that is past. Be comforted ; the 
years of life are few, and you are one of the great ones 
of the earth. It is needful that all should suffer. 
Forget not that although your heart be heavy, you 
are a queen, and must bear yourself as a queen. 
Take your life strongly in your hands and live it 
The end is not far and your peace is at hand." 
Nehushta looked up suddenly and grew very grave 
 
as he spoke. Her heavy eyes rested on his, and she 
sighed — but the sigh was still broken by the trem- 
bling of her past sobs. 
'' You, who are a priest and a prophet," she said, —  
" you, who read the heaven as it were a book — tell 
me, Zoroaster, is it not far ? Shall we meet beyond 
the stars, as you used to tell me — so long ago ? " 
" It is not far," he answered, and a gentle smile 
illuminated his pale face. "Take courage — for truly 
it is not far." 
He gazed into her eyes for a moment, and it 
seemed as though some of that steadfast light pene- 
trated into her soul, for as he turned and went his 
way among the roses, a look of peace descended on 
her tired face, and she fell back upon her cushion 
and closed her eyes, and let the breeze of the palm- 
fan play over her wan cheeks and through her heavy 
hair. 
But Zoroaster returned into the palace, and he was 
very thoughtful. He had many duties to perform, 
besides the daily evening sacrifice in the temple, for 
Darius consulted him constantly upon many matters 
connected with the state ; and on every occasion 
Zoroaster's keen foresight and knowledge of men 
found constant exercise in the development of the 
laws and statutes Darius was forming for his consoli-dated kingdom. First of all, the question of religion 
seemed to him of paramount importance ; and here 
Zoroaster displayed all his great powers of organisation, as well as the true and just ideas he held upon 
the subject. Himself an ascetic mystic, he foresaw 
the danger to others of attempting to pursue the 
 
same course, or even of founding a system of mystical 
study. The object of mankind must be the welfare 
of mankind, and a set of priests who should shut 
themselves off from their fellow-men to pursue esoteric studies and to acquire knowledge beyond the 
reach of common humanity, must necessarily forget 
humanity itself in their effort to escape from it. The 
only possible scheme upon which a religion for the 
world could be based — especially for such a world as 
the empire of Darius — -must be one where the broad 
principle of common good living stood foremost, and 
where the good of all humanity should be the good 
of each man's soul. 
The vast influence of Zoroaster's name grew day 
by day, as from the palace of Stakhar he sent forth 
priests to the variois provinces, full of his own ideas, 
bearing with them a simple form of worship and a 
rigid rule of life, which the iron laws of Darius began 
at once to enforce to the letter. The vast body of 
existing hymns, of which many were by no means 
distinctly Mazdayashnian, were reduced to a limited 
number containing the best and purest; and the 
multifarious mass of conflicting caste practices, partly 
imported from India, and partly inherited by the 
pure Persians from the Aryan home in Sogdiana, was 
simplified and reduced to a plain rule. The endless 
rules of purification were cut down to simple meas- 
ures of health ; the varying practices in regard to the 
disposal of the dead were all done away with by a 
great royal edict commanding the building of Dakh- 
mas, or towers of death, all over the kingdom ; within 
which the dead were laid by persons appointed for 
 
the purpose, and which were cleansed by them, at 
stated intervals. Severe measures were taken to pre- 
vent the destruction of cattle, for there were evident 
signs of the decrease of the beasts of the field in con- 
sequence of the many internal wars that had waged 
of late ; and special laws were provided for the safety 
of dogs, which were regarded, for all reasons, as the 
most valuable companions of men in those times, as a 
means of protection to the flocks in the wilderness, 
and as the scavengers and cleansers of the great 
cities. Human life was protected by the most rigorous laws, and the utmost attention was given to providing for the treatment of women of all classes. It 
would have been impossible to conceive a system better fitted to develop the resources of a semi-pastoral 
country, to preserve peace and to provide for the increasing wants and the public health of a multiplying 
people. 
As for the religious rites, they assumed a form and 
a character which made them seem like simplicity 
itself by the side of the former systems ; and which, 
although somewhat complicated by the additions and 
alterations of a later and more superstitious generation, have still maintained the noble and honourable 
characteristics imparted to them by the great reformer 
and compiler of the Mazdayashnian religion. 
The days flew quickly by, and Zoroaster's power 
grew apace. It was as though the whole court and 
kingdom had been but waiting for him to come and 
be the representative of wisdom and justice beside 
the conquering king, who had in so short a time 
reduced so many revolutions and fought so many 
 
fields in the consolidation of his empire. Zoroaster 
laid hold of all the existing difficulties with a master- 
hand. His years of retirement seemed to have given 
him the accumulated force of many men, and the 
effect of his wise measures was quickly felt in every 
quarter of the provinces ; while his words went forth 
like fire in the mouths of the priests he sent from 
Stakhar. He had that strange and rare gift, whereby 
a man inspires in his followers the profoundest confidence and the greatest energy to the performance 
of his will. He would have overthrown a world had 
he found himself resisted and oppressed, but every 
one of his statutes and utterances was backed by the 
royal arms and enforced by decrees against which 
there was no appeal. In a few months his name was 
spoken wherever the Persian rule was felt, and spoken 
everywhere with a high reverence ; in which there 
was no fear mixed, such as people felt when they 
mentioned the Great King, and added quickly: 
" May he live for ever ! " 
In a few months the reform was complete, and the 
half-clad ascetic had risen by his own wisdom and by 
the power of circumstances into the chiefest position 
in all Persia. Loaded with dignities, treated as the 
next to the Great King in all things, wearing the 
royal chain of office over his white priest's robes, and 
sitting at the right hand of Darius at the feast, Zoro- 
aster nevertheless excited no envy among the cour- 
tiers, nor encroached in any way upon their privileges. 
The few men whom Darius trusted were indeed rarely 
at Stakhar, — the princes who had conspired against 
Smerdis, and Hydarnes and a few of the chief officers 
 
of the army, — they were mostly in the various provinces, in command of troops and fortresses, actively 
employed in enforcing the measures the king was 
framing with Zoroaster, and which Avere to work such 
great changes in the destinies of the empire. But 
when any of the princes or generals were summoned 
to the court by the king and learned to know what 
manner of man this Zoroaster was, they began to 
love him and to honour him also, as all those did 
who were near him. And they went away, saying 
that never king had so wise and just a counsellor as 
he was, nor one so worthy of trust in the smallest as 
in the greatest things. 
But the two queens watched him, and watched his 
growing power, with different feelings. Nehushta 
scarcely ever spoke to him, but gazed at him from 
her sad eyes when none saw her; pondering over his 
prophecy that foretold the end so near at hand. She 
had a pride in seeing her old lover the strongest in 
the whole land, holding the destinies of the kingdom 
as in a balance ; and it was a secret consolation to 
her to know that he had been faithful to her after 
all, and that it was for her sake that he had with- 
drawn into the desert and given himself to those 
meditations from which he had only issued to enjoy 
the highest power. And as she looked at him, she 
saw how he was much changed, and it hardly seemed 
as though in his body he were the same man she had 
so loved. Only when he spoke, and she heard the 
even, musical tones of his commanding voice, she 
Si^metimes felt the blood rise to her cheeks with the 
"^ouging to hear once more some word of tender love, 
 
such as lie had been used to speak to her. But 
though he often looked at her and greeted her ever 
kmdly, his quiet, luminous eyes changed not when 
they gazed on her, nor was there any warmer touch 
of colour in the waxen whiteness of his face. His 
youth was utterly gone, as the golden light had 
faded from his hair. He was not like an old man — 
he was hardly like a man at all; but rather like 
some beautiful, strange angel from another world, 
who moved among men and spoke with them, but 
was not of them. She seemed to look upon a mem- 
ory, to love the shadow cast on earth by a being that 
was gone. But she loved the memory and the 
shadow well, and month by month, as she gazed, she 
grew more wan and weary. 
It would not have been like Darius to take any 
notice of a trouble that did not present itself palpa- 
bly before him and demand his attention. Nehushta 
scarcely ever spoke of Zoroaster, and w^hen the king 
mentioned him to her, it was always in connection 
with affairs of state. She seemed cold and indiffer- 
ent, and the hot-blooded soldier monarch no longer 
looked on Zoroaster as a possible rival. He had 
white hair — he was therefore an old man, out of all 
questions of love. But Darius was glad that the 
Hebrew queen never referred to former times, nor 
ever seemed to regret her old lover. Had he known 
of that night meeting in Atossa's toilet chamber, and 
of what Atossa had said then, his fury would prob- 
ably have had no bounds. But he never knew. 
Nehushta was too utterly broken-hearted by the blow 
she had received to desire vengeance, and though she 
 
quietly scorned all intercourse with the woman who 
had injured her, she cared not to tell the king of the 
injury. It was too late. Had she known of the 
cruel deception that had been practised on her, one 
hour before she had married Darius, Atossa would 
have been in her grave these three years, and 
Nehushta would not have been queen. But the king 
knew none of these things, and rejoiced daily in the 
wisdom of his chief counsellor and in the favour 
Auramazda had shown in sending him such a man in 
his need. 
Meanwhile, Atossa's hatred grew apace. She saw 
with anger that her power of tormenting Nehushta 
was gone from her, that the spirit she had loved to 
torture was broken beyond all sensibility, and that 
the man who had scorned her love was grown greater 
than she. Against his wisdom and the king's 
activity, she could do little, and her strength seemed 
to spend itself in vain. Darius laughed mercilessly 
at her cunning objections to Zoroaster's reforms ; and 
Zoroaster himself eyed her coldly, and passed her by 
in silence when they met. 
She bethought herself of some scheme whereby to 
destroy Zoroaster's power by a sudden and violent 
shock; and for a time, she affected a more than 
usual serenity of manner, and her smile was sweeter 
than ever. If it were possible, she thought, to 
attract the king's attention and forces to some distant point, it would not be a difficult matter to pro- 
duce a sudden rising or disturbance in Stakhar, situated as the place was upon the very extreme border 
of the kingdom, within a few hours' march across the 
 
hills from the uncivilised desert country, which was 
infested at that time with hostile and turbulent 
tribes. She had a certain number of faithful re- 
tainers at her command still, whom she could employ 
as emissaries in both directions, and in spite of the 
scene that had taken place at Shushan when Phraor- 
tes was brought to her by the king, she knew she 
could still command his services for a revolution. 
He was a Magian at heart, and hated the existing 
monarchy. He was rich and powerful, and un- 
boundedly vain — he could easily be prevailed upon 
to accept the principality of Media as a reward for 
helping to destroy the Persian kingdom ; and indeed 
the matter had been discussed between him and the 
queen long ago. 
Atossa revolved her scheme in her mind most care- 
fully for two whole months, and at last she resolved 
to act. Eluding all vigilance of the king, and laugh- 
ing to herself at the folly of Darius and Zoroaster in 
allowing her such liberty, she succeeded without much 
trouble in despatching a letter to Phraortes, inquiring 
whether her affairs were now in such a prosperous 
condition as to admit of their being extended. 
On the other hand, she sent a black slave she 
owned, with gifts, into the country of the barbarian 
tribes beyond the hills, to discover whether they 
could be easily tempted. This man she bribed with 
the promise of freedom and rich possessions, to un- 
dertake the dangerous mission. She knew him to be 
faithful, and able to perform the part he was to play. 
In less than two months Phraortes sent a reply, 
wherein he stated that the queen's affairs were so 
 
prosperous that they might with safety be extended 
as she desired, and that he was ready to undertake 
any improvements provided she sent him the neces- 
sary directions and instructions. 
The slave returned from the land of the dwellers 
in tents, with the information that they were numerous as the sands of the sea, riding like the whirlwinds 
across the desert, keen as a race of eagles for prey, 
devouring as locusts spreading over a field of corn, 
and greedy as jackals upon the track of a wounded 
antelope. Nothing but the terror of the Great King's 
name restrained them within their boundaries ; which 
they would leave at a moment's notice, as allies of 
any one who would pay them. They dwelt mostly 
beyond the desert to eastward in the low hill country; and they shaved their beards and slept with 
their horses in their tents. They were more horrible 
to look upon than the devils of the mountains, and 
fiercer than wolves upon the mountain paths. 
Allowing for the imagery of her slave's account, 
Atossa comprehended that the people described could 
be easily excited to make a hostile descent upon the 
southern part of the kingdom, and notably upon the 
unprotected region about Stakhar, where the fortress 
could afford shelter to a handful of troops and fugi- 
tives, but could in no wise defend the whole of the 
fertile district from a hostile incursion. 
Atossa spent much time in calculating the distance 
from the palace to the fortress, and she came to the 
conclusion that a body of persons moving with some 
encumbrance might easily reach the stronghold in 
half a day. Her plan was a simple one, and easy of 
 
execution ; though there was no limit to the evil results its success might have upon the kingdom. 
She intended that a revolution should break out in 
Media, not under the leadership of Phraortes, lest she 
herself should perish, having been already suspected 
of complicity with him. But a man could be found 
— some tool of her powerful agent, who could be 
readily induced to set himself up as a pretender to 
the principality of the province, and he could easily 
be crushed at a later period by Phraortes, who would 
naturally furnish the money and supplies for the 
insurrection. 
As soon as the news reached Stakhar, Darius would, 
in all probability, set out for Media in haste to arrive 
at the scene of the disturbance. He would probably 
leave Zoroaster behind to manage the affairs of state, 
which had centred in Stakhar during the last year 
and more. If, however, he took him with him, and 
left the court to follow on as far as Shushan, Atossa 
could easily cause an incursion of the barbarous tribes 
from the desert. The people of the south would find 
themselves abandoned by the king, and would rise 
against him, and Atossa could easily seize the power. 
If Zoroaster remained behind, the best plan would be 
to let the barbarians take their own course and 
destroy him. Separated from any armed force of 
magnitude sufficient to cope with a sudden invasion, 
he would surely fall in the struggle, or take refuge 
in an ignominious flight. With the boldness of her 
nature, Atossa trusted to circumstances to provide 
her with an easy escape for herself ; and in the last 
instance, she trusted, as she had ever done, to her 
 
marvellous beauty to save her from harm. To hei 
beauty alone she owed her escape from many a fit of 
murderous anger in the time of Cambyses, and to her 
beauty she owed her salvation when Darius found 
her at Shushan, the wife and accomplice of the 
impostor Smerdis. She might again save herself by 
that means, if by no other, should she, by any mis- 
chance, fall into the hands of the barbarians. But 
she was determined to overthrow Zoroaster, even if 
she had to destroy her husband's kingdom in the 
effort. It was a bold and simple plan, and she 
doubted not of being successful. 
During the months wliile she was planning these 
things, she was very calm and placid ; her eyes met 
Zoroaster's with a frank and friendly glance that 
would have disarmed one less completely convinced 
of her badness ; and her smile never failed the king 
when he looked for it. She bore his jests with un- 
failing equanimity and gentleness, for she felt that 
she should not have to bear them long. Even to 
Nehushta she gave an occasional glance as though of 
hurt sympathy — a look that seemed to say to the 
world that she regretted the Hebrew queen's sullen 
temper and moody ways, so different from her own, 
but regarded them all the while as the outward mani- 
festation of some sickness, for which she was to be 
pitied rather than blamed. 
But, as the time sped, her heart grew more and 
more glad, for the end was at hand, and there was a 
smell of death in the air of the sweet rose-valley. 
 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
Once more the spring months had come, and the 
fields grew green and the trees put forth their leaves. 
Four years had passed since Daniel had died in 
Ecbatana, leaving his legacy of wisdom to Zoroaster ; 
and almost a year had gone by since Zoroaster had 
returned to the court at Stakhar. The time had 
sped very swiftly, except for Nehushta, whose life 
was heavy with a great weariness and her eyes hol- 
low with suffering sleeplessness. She was not always 
the same, saving that she was always unhappy. There 
were days when she was resigned to her lot and 
merely hoped that it would soon be over; and she 
wondered how it was that she did not slip out of the 
gardens at evening, and go and sink her care and her 
great sorrow in the cool waves of the Araxes, far down 
below. But then the thought came over her that she 
must see his face once more ; and it was always once 
more, so that the last time never came. And again, 
there were days when she hoped all things, madly, 
indiscriminately, without sequence — the king might 
die, Zoroaster might again love her, all might be well. 
But the mood of a hope that is senseless is very fleet, 
and despair follows close in its footsteps. Nehushta 
grew each time more sad, as she grew more certain 
that for her there was no hope. 
At least it seemed as though Atossa had given up 
 
loving Zoroaster and thought no more of him than of 
another. Indeed Atossa seemed more anxious to please 
the king than formerly, in proportion as Darius seemed 
less easily pleased by her. But over all, Zoroaster's 
supremacy was felt in the palace, and though he was 
never known to be angry with any one, he was more 
feared than the fierce king himself, for his calm clear 
eyes were hard to meet and the words that fell from 
his lips had in them the ring of fate. Moreover, he 
was known and his power was dreaded from one end 
of the kingdom to the other, and his name was like the 
king's signet, which sealed all things, and there was no 
appeal. 
Upon a fair morning in the spring-time, when the 
sun was shining outside upon the roses still wet with 
dew, the king sat in an inner hall, half lying upon a 
broad couch, on which the warm rays of the sun fell 
through an upper window. He was watching with 
absorbed attention the tricks of an Indian juggler who 
had lately arrived at the court, and whom he had 
summoned that morning to amuse a leisure hour, for 
when the king was not actively engaged in business, 
or fighting, he loved some amusement, being of a 
restless temper and mind that needed constant occupation. 
Atossa sat near him, upon a carved chair, turning 
over and over in her fingers a string of pearls as she 
gazed at the performances of the juggler. Two spear- 
men, clad in blue and scarlet and gold, stood motion- 
less by the door, and Darius and Atossa watched the 
sleight-handed Indian alone. 
The man tossed a knife into the air and caught it, 
 
then two, then three, increasing the number in rapid 
succession till a score of bright blades made a shining 
circle in the air as he quickly tossed them up and 
passed them from hand to hand and tossed them again. 
Darius laughed at the man's skill, and looked up at 
the queen. 
" You remind me of that fellow," said Darius. 
" The king is very gracious to his handmaiden," 
answered Atossa, smiling, " I think I am less skilful, 
but more fair." 
"You are fairer, it is true," returned the king; 
" but as for your skill, I know not. You seem always 
to be playing with knives, but you never wound yourself any more than he does." 
The queen looked keenly at Darius, but her lips 
smiled gently. The thought crossed her mind that 
the king perhaps knew something of what had passed 
between her and Nehushta nearly a year before, with 
regard to a certain Indian dagger. The knives the 
juggler tossed in the air reminded her of it by their 
shape. But the king laughed gaily and she answered 
without hesitation : 
" I would it were true, for then I could be not only 
the king's wife, but the king's juggler ! " 
"I meant not so," laughed Darius. "The two 
would hardly suit one another." 
" And yet, I need more skill than this Indian fellow- to be the king's wife," answered the queen 
slowly. 
"Said I not so?" 
u;^a^y — ]3ut you meant not so," replied Atossa, 
looking down. 
 
" What I say, I mean," he returned. " You need 
all the fairness of your face to conceal the evil in 
your heart, as this man needs all his skill in hand- 
ling those sharp knives, that would cut off his fin- 
gers if, unawares, he touched the wrong edge of 
them." 
" I conceal nothing," said the queen, with a light 
laugh. " The king has a thousand eyes — how should 
I conceal anything from him ? " 
" That is a question which I constantly ask myself," answered Darius. " And yet, I often think I 
know your thoughts less well than those of the black 
girl who fans you when you are hot, and whose atten- 
tion is honestly concentrated upon keeping the flies 
from your face — or of yonder stolid spearmen at 
the door, who watch us, and honestly wish they were 
kings and queens, to lie all day upon a silken couch, 
and watch the tricks of a paid conjurer." 
As Darius spoke, the guards he glanced at turned 
suddenly and faced each other, standing on each side 
of the doorway, and brought their heavy spears to 
the ground with a ringing noise. In a moment the 
tall, thin figure of Zoroaster, in his white robes, 
