When he arrived, he beheld a cloud of dust, a pile of bricks among the
lilies, and the feet of his child sticking out of a large hole in the
wall, while her head and shoulders were on the other side.  Much amused,
yet fearful that the stone coping might come down on her, he pulled her
back with the assurance that he would listen and help her now
immediately, if there was such need of haste.

But he grew sober when he saw Fay’s face; for it was bathed in tears,
her hands were bleeding, and dust covered her from head to foot.

"My darling, what afflicts you?  Tell papa, and he will do anything you
wish."

"No, you will forget, you will say ’Wait;’ and now that I have seen it
all, I cannot stop till I get him out of that dreadful place.  Look,
look, and see if it is not sad to live there all in pain and darkness,
and so poor."

As she spoke, Fay urged her father toward the hole; and to please her he
looked, seeing the dull court, the noisy street beyond, and close by the
low room, where Johnny’s mother worked all day, while the poor boy’s
pale face was dimly seen as he lay on his bed waiting for deliverance.

"Well, well, it is a pitiful case; and easily mended, since Fay is so
eager about it.  Hope the lad is all she says, and nothing catching
about his illness.  Nanna can tell me."

Then he drew back his head, and leading Fay to the seat, took her on his
knee, all flushed, dirty, and tearful as she was, soothing her by saying
tenderly,--

"Now let me hear all about it, and be sure I ’ll not forget.  What shall
I do to please you, dear, before you pull down the house about my ears?"

Then Fay told her tale all over again; and being no longer busy, her
father found it very touching, with the dear, grimy little face looking
into his, and the wounded hands clasped beseechingly as she pleaded for
poor Johnny.

"God bless your tender heart, child; you shall have him in here
to-morrow, and we will see what can be done for those pathetic legs of
his.  But listen, Fay, I have an easier way to do it than yours, and a
grand surprise for the boy.  Time is short, but it can be done; and to
show you that I am in earnest, I will go this instant and begin the
work.  Come and wash your face while I get on my boots, and then we will
go together."

At these words Fay threw her arms about papa’s neck and gave him many
grateful kisses, stopping in the midst to ask,--

"Truly, now?"

"See if it is not so."  And putting her down, papa went off with great
strides, while she ran laughing after him, all her doubts set at rest by
this agreeable energy on his part.

If Johnny had not been asleep in the back room, he would have seen
strange and pleasant sights that afternoon and evening; for something
went on in the court that delighted his mother, amused the artist, and
made Fay the happiest child in Boston.  No one was to tell till the next
day, that Johnny’s surprise might be quite perfect, and Mrs. Morris sat
up till eleven to get his old clothes in order; for Fay’s papa had been
to see her, and became interested in the boy, as no one could help being
when they saw his patient little face.

So hammers rang, trowels scraped, shovels dug, and wonderful changes
were made, while Fay danced about in the moonlight, like Puck intent
upon some pretty prank, and papa quoted Snout,[#] the tinker’s parting
words, as appropriate to the hour,--

    "Thus have I, wall, my part discharged so;
    And, being done, thus wall away doth go."


[#] A character in Shakspeare’s "Midsummer Night’s Dream."



                               PART III.


A lovely Sunday morning dawned without a cloud; and even in the dingy
court the May sunshine shone warmly, and the spring breezes blew freshly
from green fields far away.  Johnny begged to go out; and being much
better, his mother consented, helping him to dress with such a bright
face and eager hands that the boy said innocently,--

"How glad you are when I get over a bad turn!  I don’t know what you ’d
do if I ever got well."

"My poor dear, I begin to think you will pick up, now the good weather
has come and you have got a little friend to play with.  God bless her!"

Why his mother should suddenly hug him tight, and then brush his hair so
carefully, with tears in her eyes, he did not understand; but was in
such a hurry to get out, he could only give her a good kiss, and hobble
away to see how his gallery fared after the rain, and to take a joyful
"peek" at the enchanted garden.

Mrs. Morris kept close behind him, and it was well she did; for he
nearly tumbled down, so great was his surprise when he beheld the old
familiar wall after the good fairies Love and Pity had worked their
pretty miracle in the moonlight.

The ragged hole had changed to a little arched door, painted red.  On
either side stood a green tub, with a tall oleander in full bloom; from
the arch above hung a great bunch of gay flowers; and before the
threshold lay a letter directed to "Signor Giovanni Morris," in a
childish hand.

As soon as he recovered from the agreeable shock of this splendid
transformation scene, Johnny sank into his chair, where a soft cushion
had been placed, and read his note, with little sighs of rapture at the
charming prospect opening before him.


DEAR GIOVANNI,--Papa has made this nice gate, so you can come in when
you like and not be tired. We are to have two keys, and no one else can
open it. A little bell is to ring when we pull the cord, and we can run
and see what we want.  The paint is wet. Papa did it, and the men put up
the door last night. I helped them, and did not go in my bed till ten.
It was very nice to do it so.  I hope you will like it. Come in as soon
as you can; I am all ready.

Your friend,
       FAY.


"Mother, she must be a real fairy to do all that, mustn’t she?" said
Johnny, leaning back to look at the dear door behind which lay such
happiness for him.

"Yes, my sonny, she is the right sort of good fairy, and I just wish I
could do her washing for love the rest of her blessed little life,"
answered Mrs. Morris, in a burst of grateful ardor.

"You shall! you shall!  Do come in!  I cannot wait another minute!"
cried an eager little voice as the red door flew open; and there stood
Fay, looking very like a happy elf in her fresh white frock, a wreath of
spring flowers on her pretty hair, and a tall green wand in her hand,
while the brilliant bird sat on her shoulder, and the little white dog
danced about her feet.

    "So she bids you to come in,
    With a dimple in your chin,
      Billy boy, Billy boy,"

sung the child, remembering how Johnny liked that song; and waving her
wand, she went slowly backward as the boy, with a shining face, passed
under the blooming arch into a new world, full of sunshine, liberty, and
sweet companionship.

Neither Johnny nor his mother ever forgot that happy day, for it was the
beginning of help and hope to both just when life seemed hardest and the
future looked darkest.

Papa kept out of sight, but enjoyed peeps at the little party as they
sat under the chestnuts, Nanna and Fay doing the honors of the garden to
their guests with Italian grace and skill, while the poor mother folded
her tired hands with unutterable content, and the boy looked like a
happy soul in heaven.

Sabbath silence, broken only by the chime of bells and the feet of
church-goers, brooded over the city; sunshine made golden shadows on the
grass; the sweet wind brought spring odors from the woods; and every
flower seemed to nod and beckon, as if welcoming the new playmate to
their lovely home.

While the women talked together, Fay led Johnny up and down her little
world, showing all her favorite nooks, making him rest often on the
seats that stood all about, and amusing him immensely by relating the
various fanciful plays with which she beguiled her loneliness.

"Now we can have much nicer ones; for you will tell me yours, and we can
do great things," she said, when she had displayed her big
rocking-horse, her grotto full of ferns, her mimic sea, where a fleet of
toy boats lay at anchor in the basin of an old fountain, her fairy-land
under the lilacs, with paper elves sitting among the leaves, her swing,
that tossed one high up among the green boughs, and the basket of white
kittens, where Topaz, the yellow-eyed cat, now purred with maternal
pride.  Books were piled on the rustic table, and all the pictures Fay
thought worthy to be seen.

Here also appeared a nice lunch, before the visitors could remember it
was noon and tear themselves away.  Such enchanted grapes and oranges
Johnny never ate before; such delightful little tarts and Italian messes
of various sorts; even the bread and butter seemed glorified because
served in a plate trimmed with leaves and cut in dainty bits.  Coffee
that perfumed the air put heart into poor Mrs. Morris, who half starved
herself that the boy might be fed; and he drank milk till Nanna said,
laughing, as she refilled the pitcher,--

"He takes more than both the blessed lambs we used to feed for Saint
Agnes in the convent at home.  And he is truly welcome, the dear child,
to the best we have; for he is as innocent and helpless as they."

"What does she mean?" whispered Johnny to Fay, rather abashed at having
forgotten his manners in the satisfaction which three mugfuls of good
milk had given him.

So, sitting in the big rustic chair beside him, Fay told the pretty
story of the lambs who are dedicated to Saint Agnes, with ribbons tied
to their snowy wool, and then raised with care till their fleeces are
shorn to make garments for the Pope.  A fit tale for the day, the child
thought, and went on to tell about the wonders of Rome till Johnny’s
head was filled with a splendid confusion of new ideas, in which Saint
Peter’s and apple-tarts, holy lambs and red doors, ancient images and
dear little girls, were delightfully mixed.  It all seemed like a fairy
tale, and nothing was too wonderful or lovely to happen on that
memorable day.

So when Fay’s papa at last appeared, finding it impossible to keep away
from the happy little party any longer, Johnny decided at once that the
handsome man in the velvet coat was the king of the enchanted land, and
gazed at him with reverence and awe.  A most gracious king he proved to
be; for after talking pleasantly to Mrs. Morris, and joking Fay on
storming the walls, he proposed to carry Johnny off, and catching him
up, strode away with the astonished boy on his shoulder, while the
little girl danced before to open doors and clear the way.

Johnny thought he could n’t be surprised any more; but when he had
mounted many stairs and found himself in a great room with a glass roof,
full of rich curtains, strange armor, pretty things, and pictures
everywhere, he just sat in the big chair where he was placed, and stared
in silent delight.

"This is papa’s studio, and that the famous picture, and here is where I
work; and is n’t it pleasant? and aren’t you glad to see it?" said Fay,
skipping about to do the honors of the place.

"I don’t believe heaven is beautifuller," answered Johnny, in a low
tone, as his eyes went from the green tree-tops peeping in at the
windows to the great sunny picture of a Roman garden, with pretty
children at play among the crumbling statues and fountains.

"I ’m glad you like it, for we mean to have you come here a great deal.
I sit to papa very often, and get so tired; and you can talk to me,
and then you can see me draw and model in clay, and then we ’ll go in
the garden, and Nanna will show you how to make baskets, and then we
’ll play."

Johnny nodded and beamed at this charming prospect, and for an hour
explored the mysteries of the studio, with Fay for a guide and papa for
an amused spectator.  He liked the boy more and more, and was glad Fay
had so harmless a playmate to expend her energies and compassion upon.
He assented to every plan proposed, and really hoped to be able to help
these poor neighbors; for he had a kind heart, and loved his little
daughter even more than his art.

When at last Mrs. Morris found courage to call Johnny away, he went
without a word, and lay down in the dingy room, his face still shining
with the happy thoughts that filled his mind, hungry for just such
pleasures, and never fed before.

After that day everything went smoothly, and both children blossomed
like the flowers in that pleasant garden, where the magic of love and
pity, fresh air and sunshine, soon worked miracles.  Fay learned
patience and gentleness from Johnny; he grew daily stronger on the
better food Nanna gave him, and the exercise he was tempted to take; and
both spent very happy days working and playing, sometimes under the
trees, where the pretty baskets were made, or in the studio, where both
pairs of small hands modelled graceful things in clay, or daubed amazing
pictures with the artist’s old brushes and discarded canvases.

Mrs. Morris washed everything washable in the house, and did up Fay’s
frocks so daintily that she looked more like an elf than ever when her
head shone out from the fluted frills, like the yellow middle of a daisy
with its white petals all spread.

As he watched the children playing together, the artist, having no great
work in hand, made several pretty sketches of them, and then had a fine
idea of painting the garden scene where Fay first talked to Johnny.  It
pleased his fancy, and the little people sat for him nicely; so he made
a charming thing of it, putting in the cat, dog, bird, and toad as the
various characters in Shakspeare’s lovely play, while the flowers were
the elves, peeping and listening in all manner of merry, pretty ways.

He called it "Little Pyramus and Thisbe," and it so pleased a certain
rich lady that she paid a large price for it; and then, discovering that
it told a true story, she generously added enough to send Johnny and his
mother to the country, when Fay and her father were ready to go.

But it was to a lovelier land than the boy had ever read of in his fairy
books, and to a happier life than mending shoes in the dingy court.  In
the autumn they all sailed gayly away together, to live for years in
sunny Italy, where Johnny grew tall and strong, and learned to paint
with a kind master and a faithful young friend, who always rejoiced that
she found and delivered him, thanks to the wonderful hole in the wall.




[Illustration: She got too lazy to care for anything but sleeping and
eating.  PAGE 219.]



                                   X.

                            THE PIGGY GIRL.


"I won’t be washed!  I won’t be washed!" screamed little Betty, kicking
and slapping the maid who undressed her one night.

"You ’d better go and live with the pigs, dirty child," said Maria,
scrubbing away at two very grubby hands.

"I wish I could!  I love to be dirty,--I will be dirty!" roared Betty,
throwing the sponge out of the window and the soap under the table.

Maria could do nothing with her; so she bundled her into bed half wiped,
telling her to go to sleep right away.

"I won’t!  I ’ll go and live with Mrs. Gleason’s pigs, and have nothing
to do but eat and sleep, and roll in the dirt, and never, never be
washed any more," said Betty to herself.

She lay thinking about it and blinking at the moon for a while; then she
got up very softly, and crept down the back stairs, through the garden,
to the sty where two nice little pigs were fast asleep among the straw
in their small house. They only grunted when Betty crept into a corner,
laughing at the fun it would be to play piggy and live here with no
Maria to wash her and no careful mamma to keep saying,--

"Put on a clean apron, dear!"

Next morning she was waked up by hearing Mrs. Gleason pour milk into the
trough.  She lay very still till the woman was gone; then she crept out
and drank all she wanted, and took the best bits of cold potato and
bread for her breakfast, and the lazy pigs did not get up till she was
done.  While they ate and rooted in the dirt, Betty slept as long as she
liked, with no school, no errands, no patchwork to do.  She liked it,
and kept hidden till night; then she went home, and opened the little
window in the store closet, and got in and took as many good things to
eat and carry away as she liked.  She had a fine walk in her nightgown,
and saw the flowers asleep, heard the little birds chirp in the nest,
and watched the fireflies and moths at their pretty play.  No one saw
her but the cats; and they played with her, and hopped at her toes, in
the moonlight, and had great fun.

When she was tired she went to sleep with the pigs, and dozed all the
next day, only coming out to eat and drink when the milk was brought and
the cold bits; for Mrs. Gleason took good care of her pigs, and gave
them clean straw often, and kept them as nice as she could.

Betty lived in this queer way a long time, and soon looked more like a
pig than a little girl; for her nightgown got dirty, her hair was never
combed, her face was never washed, and she loved to dig in the mud till
her hands looked like paws.  She never talked, but began to grunt as the
pigs did, and burrowed into the straw to sleep, and squealed when they
crowded her, and quarrelled over the food, eating with her nose in the
trough like a real pig.  At first she used to play about at night, and
steal things to eat; and people set traps to catch the thief in their
gardens, and the cook in her own house scolded about the rats that
carried off the cake and pies out of her pantry.  But by and by she got
too lazy and fat to care for anything but sleeping and eating, and never
left the sty.  She went on her hands and knees now, and began to wonder
if a little tail would n’t grow and her nose change to a snout.

All summer she played be a pig, and thought it good fun; but when the
autumn came it was cold, and she longed for her nice warm flannel
nightgown, and got tired of cold victuals, and began to wish she had a
fire to sit by and good buckwheat cakes to eat.  She was ashamed to go
home, and wondered what she should do after this silly frolic.  She
asked the pigs how they managed in winter; but they only grunted, and
she could not remember what became of them, for the sty was always empty
in cold weather.

One dreadful night she found out.  She was smuggled down between the
great fat piggies to keep warm; but her toes were cold, and she was
trying to pull the straw over them when she heard Mr. Gleason say to his
boy,--

"We must kill those pigs to-morrow.  They are fat enough; so come and
help me sharpen the big knife."

"Oh, dear, what will become of me?" thought Betty, as she heard the
grindstone go round and round as the knife got sharper and sharper.  "I
look so like a pig they will kill me too, and make me into sausages if I
don’t run away.  I ’m tired of playing piggy, and I ’d rather be washed
a hundred times a day than be put in a pork barrel."

So she lay trembling till morning; then she ran through the garden and
found the back door open.  It was very early, and no one saw her, for
the cook was in the shed getting wood to make her fire; so Betty slipped
upstairs to the nursery and was going to whisk into bed, when she saw in
the glass an ugly black creature, all rags and dirt, with rumpled hair,
and a little round nose covered with mud.

"Can it be me?" she said.  "How horrid I am!"  And she could not spoil
her nice white bed, but hopped into the bathtub and had a good
scrubbing.  Next she got a clean nightgown, and brushed her hair, and
cut her long nails, and looked like a tidy little girl again.

Then she lay down in her cosey crib with the pink cover and the lace
curtains, and fell fast asleep, glad to have clean sheets, soft
blankets, and her own little pillow once more.


"Come, darling, wake up and see the new frock I have got for you, and
the nice ruffled apron.  It’s Thanksgiving day, and all the cousins are
coming to dinner," said her mamma, with a soft kiss on the rosy cheek.

Betty started up, screaming,--

"Don’t kill me!  Oh, please don’t!  I ’m not a truly pig, I ’m a little
girl; and if you’ll let me run home, I ’ll never fret when I ’m washed
again."

"What is the dear child afraid of?" said mamma, cuddling her close, and
laughing to see Betty stare wildly about for the fat pigs and the stuffy
sty.

She told her mother all about the queer time she had had, and was much
surprised to hear mamma say,--

"It was all a dream, dear; you have been safely asleep in your little
bed ever since you slapped poor Maria last night."

"Well, I ’m glad I dreamed it, for it has made me love to be clean.
Come, Maria, soap and scrub as much as you like, I won’t kick and scream
ever any more," cried Betty, skipping about, glad to be safe in her
pleasant home and no longer a dirty, lazy piggy girl.








                                     XI.
                            THE THREE FROGS.


Hop, Croak, and Splash were three little frogs who lived in a pleasant
river, and had merry times swimming about or hopping on the green grass.
At night they sat on the bank and sung together, very sweetly they
thought; and if boats came by they skipped into the water, heels over
head, with a great splashing and noise.

Hop was not contented with this quiet life; he wanted to see the world,
and kept asking his brother Croak to go and travel with him.

"I ’m tired of poking about in this stupid river, with no fun but
leap-frog and singing.  I want to know what is over that hill, and I ’m
going to find out.  You can stay and doze in the mud if you please.  I
’ve got more spirit than that, and I ’m off."

So away went Hop, singing gayly,--

    "A frog he would a-wooing go,
    Whether his mammy would let him or no,
    With a roly-poly, gammon and spinach,
    Heigh-ho, said Anthony Rowley."


His good little sister Splash begged him to stay, for the world was full
of danger and he was too young to go alone.  But Hop told her not to
worry.  Girls ought to keep at home, for they could n’t take care of
themselves; but fine young fellows should see something of life before
they settled down.  His friend Turtle had invited him to go; and if such
a slow chap as Creeper could start on a journey, of course the best
jumper in the river would get on all right.

While he was saying good-by, the turtle had crept up the bank and was
well on his way to the road beyond.  Hop skipped after him; and when
they had got to the hill-top they stopped to rest,--Creeper in the road
on the warm sand, and Hop among some daisies close by.

"How big the world is!" he said, staring with his great eyes; for he had
never seen houses before, and the village looked as grand to him as
London would to us.  "I like it, and I know I shall have a splendid
time.  Come on, slow coach!  I see fountains over there, and want a good
drink."

Just as he spoke a cart came by; and before poor Creeper could get out
of the way, a wheel crushed him to death.

"Mercy on us! what horrid monsters those are!" cried Hop, leaping as
fast as his legs could take him into a garden near by, where he lay
trembling and scared half out of his wits.  He thought the cart was a
creature; and every time he heard the rumble of wheels his heart beat
and he clasped his hands in fear as he sat under the burdock leaves.  At
last it seemed so quiet he ventured out, and had a lovely time in the
nasturtium-bed, catching flies and playing bo-peep with a little bird.
Then he hopped to the grass-plot, where the sprinkler was whizzing
round, and took a refreshing bath.  He was just puffing his skin out and
winking with pleasure when a fat toad, who lived under the piazza, told
him very crossly to "clear out."

"You are a very rude old person, and I shall do as I like.  This is not
your garden; so you need n’t goggle at me," answered saucy Hop, opening
his wide mouth to laugh at the toad, who was so fat he could n’t take
long leaps like the lively frog.

"Very well, dandiprat, I shall call the cat; and she will make you skip,
unless you want that fine green jacket torn off your back by her sharp
claws," said the toad, hopping slowly away to the sunny corner where a
gray cat lay dozing.

"Pooh’!  I ’m not afraid," said Hop; for he had never seen a cat, and
thought the toad made it all up.

So he took a leisurely stroll down the walk, looking about him as if he
owned the whole garden.  Presently he saw a pretty little creature
playing with leaves, and hurried on to speak to it, being eager to find
friends in this pleasant place.  You see, when the toad told the cat
about the stranger, pussy only gaped and went to sleep again, not caring
to play with any one.  But the kitten who lay beside her was curious to
see a frog, and ran off at once to find him.  Hop did not know that this
was the cat’s daughter, till kitty pounced on him as if he had been a
mouse, and instead of playing some nice game and telling all about the
new world, as Hop expected, she clawed and bit him, tossed him up, and
let him bump down again on the hard ground.  He tried to get away, but
she let him hop a little and then pounced again, cuffing him with her
paws, and dragging him about till he was half dead.

He believed the old toad now, and thought the end of the world had come.
It would have been the end of the world for him, if a dog had not
bounced into the garden and made kitty fly up a tree, spitting and
glaring like a little dragon. Poor Hop crept under a gooseberry bush,
and lay there longing for gentle Splash to tie up his wounds and comfort
his pain with spearmint from the river side and a cool lily-pad for a
wet sheet to pack him in.

"It is an awful world, and I wish I was safe at home," he sighed, as the
sun grew hot, the water was turned off, and the wind stopped blowing.

But he was too feeble to hop away, and lay there panting till night,
when a shower saved his life; and early in the morning he started to
find the river before he got into any more troubles.

He went very slowly, being lame and sore; but got out of the garden and
was just planning to give one tremendous leap over the road, for fear he
should get crushed as Creeper did, when he heard a soft rustling behind
him, and saw a long, slender gray thing, with very bright eyes and a
little tongue that darted out and in like a flash.

"I see no cruel claws; so it can’t be a cat," thought Hop, feeling timid
now about making new friends.

"Pretty fellow, come here and talk to me," hissed the snake, longing to
eat the nice little froggie.

Hop felt rather nervous, but wished to be polite; so he let the stranger
coil lovingly round him and look right into his face while listening to
the tale of woe he gladly told.  Presently he found he could not stir at
all, nor move his eyes from the fiery eyes before him, and the darting
tongue seemed ready to sting.  Then he was frightened, and tried to
escape; but he only gave one leap, for the snake caught him by the hind
legs and held him fast, while swallowing him slowly down.

"Help, help!" cried Hop, in despair.  "Croak! Splash! oh, come and save
me, save me!"

But there was no help; and in a few moments there was no frog, for the
last leg had vanished down the snake’s throat.  Poor little Hop!


Croak was a noisy fellow, and kept up a great racket trying to sing
louder than any of the other frogs; for he was very proud of his voice,
and sat on a log at night saying, "Ker honk! ker honk!" till every one
was tired of hearing him.

The old ones told him not to wear his throat out till his voice was
stronger; but he thought they envied him its power and sweetness, and
croaked away louder than ever.

The boys who came to the river to bathe used to mock him, and try to see
which frog sung so loud.  This pleased him; and instead of keeping still
and staying among his friends, silly Croak went and sat on a rock alone,
that all might see and hear the great singer.

"Now," said the boys, "we can catch him and keep him in a tub; and when
we are tired of his noise we can rap him on the head and make him be
still."

So while the vain frog sat croaking at the top of his voice, two of the
boys swam up to the rock and threw a net over him.  He kicked and
struggled; but they had him fast, and tied him up in a bundle till they
got to the tub, and there they left him with a little grass, saying,--

"Now sing away, old fellow, and make yourself comfortable."

But Croak could not sing, he was so frightened and unhappy; for he was
hungry and tired, and they did n’t give him the right things to eat, nor
any mossy log to rest on.  They poked him with sticks, took him up to
look at his funny toes, opened his big mouth, and held him by one leg to
see him kick.  He tried to climb out; but the sides of the tub were
slippery, and he had to give it up.  He kept swimming and floating till
he was tired out, and ate bread-crumbs and grass to keep from starving;
but he was very miserable, though children came to hear him sing, and he
had nothing else to do.

"This is n’t what I meant," sighed Croak, "and if ever I get out of this
old tub, I ’ll keep very still and never try to make a noise in the
world again."

