casual way and put the case before her. It would be just 
as she might be disposed to view it. She was to think it 
over a day or two, but not long, because the woman was 
so ill, and then write to Mrs. Bowerbank, at the prison. If 
she should consent, Mrs. Bowerbank would tell the chaplain, 
and the chaplain would obtain the order from the governor 
and send it to Lomax Place ; after which Amanda would 
immediately set out with her unconscious victim. But 
should she must she consent? That was the terrible, 
the heart-shaking question, with which Miss Pynsent's 
unaided wisdom had been unable to grapple. 
' After all, he isn't hers any more he's mine, mine only, 
and mine always. I should like to know if all I have done 
for him doesn't make him so ! ' It was in this manner that 
Amanda Pynsent delivered herself, while she plied her 
needle, faster than ever, in a piece of stuff that was pinned 
to her knee. 
Mr. Vetch watched her awhile, blowing silently at his 
 
pipe, with his head thrown back on the high, stiff, old- 
fashioned sofa, and his little legs crossed under him like a 
Turk's. 'It's true you have done a good deal for him. 
You are a good little woman, my dear Finnic, after all.' 
He said ' after all,' because that was a part of his tone. 
In reality he had never had a moment's doubt that she was 
the best little woman in the north of London. 
' I have done what I could, and I don't want no fuss 
made about it. Only it does make a difference when you 
come to look at it about taking him off to see another 
woman. And such another woman and in such a place ! 
I think it's hardly right to take an innocent child.' 
' I don't know about that ; there are people that would 
tell you it would do him good. If he didn't like the place 
as a child, he would take more care to keep out of it 
later.' 
' Lord, Mr. Vetch, how can you think ? And him such 
a perfect little gentleman ! ' Miss Pynsent cried. 
' Is it you that have made him one ? ' the fiddler asked. 
' It doesn't run in the family, you'd say.' 
' Family ? what do you know about that ? ' she replied, 
quickly, catching at her dearest, her only hobby. 
' Yes, indeed, what does any one know ? what did she 
know herself?' And then Miss Pynsent's visitor added, 
irrelevantly, ' Why should you have taken him on your back ? 
Why did you want to be so good ? No one else thinks it 
necessary.' 
' I didn't want to be good. That is, I do want to, of 
course, in a general way : but that wasn't the reason then. 
But I had nothing of my own I had nothing in the world 
but my thimble.' 
' That would have seemed to most people a reason for 
not adopting a prostitute's bastard.' 
' Well, I went to see him at the place where he was (just 
where she had left him, with the woman of the house), and 
I saw what kind of a shop that was, and felt it was a shame 
an innocent child should grow up in such a place.' Miss 
Pynsent defended herself as earnestly as if her inconsistency 
had been of a criminal cast. 'And he wouldn't have 
grown up, neither. They wouldn't have troubled them- 
selves long with a helpless baby. They'd have played some 
trick on him, if it was only to send him to the workhouse. 
Besides, I always was fond of tiny creatures, and I have 
been fond of this one,' she went on, speaking as if with a 
consciousness, on her own part, of almost heroic proportions. 
' He was in my way the first two or three years, and it was 
a good deal of a pull to look after the business and him 
together. But now he's like the business he seems to 
go of himself.' 
' Oh, if he flourishes as the business flourishes, 
you can just enjoy your peace of mind,' said the fiddler, 
still with his manner of making a small dry joke of every- 
thing. 
' That's all very well, but it doesn't close my eyes to that 
poor woman lying there and moaning just for the touch of 
his little 'and before she passes away. Mrs. Bowerbank 
says she believes I will bring him.' 
' Who believes ? Mrs. Bowerbank ? ' 
' I wonder if there's anything in life holy enough for you 
to take it seriously,' Miss Pynsent rejoined, snapping off a 
thread, with temper. ' The day you stop laughing I should 
like to be there.' 
 
' So long as you are there, I shall never stop. What is 
it you want me to advise you ? to take the child, or to leave 
the mother to groan herself out?' 
' I want you to tell me whether he'll curse me when he 
grows older.' 
' That depends upon what you do. However, he will 
probably do it in either case.' 
' You don't believe that, because you like him,' said 
Amanda, with acuteness. 
' Precisely ; and he'll curse me too. He'll curse every 
one. He won't be happy.' 
' I don't know how you think I bring him up,' the little 
dressmaker remarked, with dignity. 
' You don't bring him up ; he brings you up.' 
' That's what you have always said ; but you don't know. 
If you mean that he does as he likes, then he ought to be 
happy. It ain't kind of you to say he won't be,' Miss Pynsent 
added, reproachfully. 
' I would say anything you like, if what I say would 
help the matter. He's a thin-skinned, morbid, mooning 
little beggar, with a good deal of imagination and not 
much perseverance, who will expect a good deal more 
of life than he will find in it. That's why he won't be 
happy.' 
Miss Pynsent listened to this description of her protege 
with an appearance of criticising it mentally ; but in reality 
she didn't know what ' morbid ' meant, and didn't like to 
ask. ' He's the cleverest person I know, except yourself,' 
she said in a moment ; for Mr. Vetch's words had been in 
the key of what she thought most remarkable in him. What 
that was she would have been unable to say. 
' Thank you very much for putting me first,' the fiddler 
rejoined, after a series of puffs. ' The youngster is interest- 
ing, one sees that he has a mind, and in that respect he is 
I won't say unique, but peculiar. I shall watch him with 
curiosity, to see what he grows into. But I shall always be 
glad that I am a selfish brute of a bachelor, that I never 
invested in that class of goods.' 
' Well, you are comforting. You would spoil him more 
than I do,' said Amanda. 
'Possibly, but it would be in a different way. I 
wouldn't tell him every three minutes that his father was 
a duke.' 
' A duke I never mentioned ! ' the little dressmaker cried, 
with eagerness. ' I never specified any rank, nor said a 
word about any one in particular. I never so much as 
insinuated the name of his lordship. But I may have said 
that if the truth was to be found out, he might be proved 
to be connected in the way of cousinship, or something of 
the kind with the highest in the land. I should have 
thought myself wanting if I hadn't given him a glimpse of 
that. But there is one thing I have always added that 
the truth never is found out.' 
' You are still more comforting than I ! ' Mr. Vetch 
exclaimed. He continued to watch her, with his charitable, 
round-faced smile, and then he said, ' You won't do what I 
say ; so what is the use of my telling you ?' 
' I assure you I will, if you say you believe it's the only 
right.' 
' Do I often say anything so asinine ? Right right ? 
what have you to do with that ? If you want the only right, 
you are very particular,' 
 
' Please, then, what am I to go by ?' the dressmaker asked, 
bewildered. 
' You are to go by this, by what will take the youngster 
down.' 
'Take him down, my poor little pet?' 
' Your poor little pet thinks himself the flower of creation. 
I don't say there is any harm in that : a fine, blooming, 
odoriferous conceit is a natural appendage of youth and 
cleverness. I don't say there is any great harm in it, but 
if you want a guide as to how you are to treat the boy, that's 
as good a guide as any other.' 
'You want me to arrange the interview, then?' 
' I don't want you to do anything but give me another 
sip of brandy. I just say this : that I think it's a great gain, 
early in life, to know the worst ; then we don't live in a fool's 
paradise. I did that till I was nearly forty ; then I woke 
up and found I was in Lomax Place.' Whenever Mr. Vetch 
said anything that could be construed as a reference to a 
former position which had had elements of distinction, Miss 
Pynsent observed a respectful, a tasteful, silence, and that is 
why she did not challenge him now, though she wanted 
very much to say that Hyacinth was no more ' presumptious ' 
(that was the term she should have used) than he had 
reason to be, with his genteel figure and his wonderful 
intelligence; and that as for thinking himself a 'flower' of 
any kind, he knew but too well that he lived in a small 
black-faced house, miles away from the West End, rented 
by a poor little woman who took lodgers, and who, as they 
were of such a class that they were not always to be depended 
upon to settle her weekly account, had a strain to make 
two ends meet, in spite of the sign between her windows 
MISS AMANDA PYNSENT. 
Modes et Robes. 
DRESSMAKING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. COURT-DRESSES, 
MANTLES AND FASHIONABLE BONNETS. 
Singularly enough, her companion, before she had per- 
mitted herself to interpose, took up her own thought (in one 
of its parts), and remarked that perhaps she would say of 
the child that he was, so far as his actual circumstances 
were concerned, low enough down in the world, without 
one's wanting him to be any lower. ' But by the time he's 
twenty, he'll persuade himself .that Lomax Place was a bad 
dream, that your lodgers and your dressmaking were as 
imaginary as they are vulgar, and that when an old friend 
came to see you late at night it was not your amiable 
practice to make him a glass of brandy and water. He'll 
teach himself to forget all this : he'll have a way.' 
'Do you mean he'll forget me, he'll deny me?' cried 
Miss Pynsent, stopping the movement of her needle, short 
off, for the first time. 
' As the person designated in that attractive blazonry on 
the outside of your house, ' decidedly he will ; and me, 
equally, as a bald-headed, pot-bellied fiddler, who regarded 
you as the most graceful and refined of his acquaintance. 
I don't mean he'll disown you and pretend he never knew 
you : I don't think he will ever be such an odious little 
cad as that ; he probably won't be a sneak, and he strikes 
me as having some love, and possibly even some gratitude, 
in him. But he will, in his imagination (and that will always 
persuade him), subject you to some extraordinary meta- 
morphosis ; he will dress you up.' 
' He'll dress me up ! ' Amanda ejaculated, quite ceasing 
 
to follow the train of Mr. Vetch's demonstration. ' Do you 
mean that he'll have the property that his relations will 
take him up ? ' 
' My dear, delightful, idiotic Pinnie, I am speaking in a 
figurative manner. I don't pretend to say what his precise 
position will be when we are relegated ; but I affirm that 
relegation will be our fate. Therefore don't stuff him with 
any more illusions than are necessary to keep him alive ; he 
will be sure to pick up enough on the way. On the con- 
trary, give him a good stiff dose of the truth at the start.' 
' Dear me, dear me, of course you see much further into 
it than I could ever do,' Pinnie murmured, as she threaded 
a needle. 
Mr. Vetch paused a minute, but apparently not out of 
deference to this amiable interruption. He went on suddenly, 
with a ring of feeling in his voice. ' Let him know, because 
it will be useful to him later, the state of the account 
between society and himself; he can then conduct himself 
accordingly. If he is the illegitimate child of a French 
good-for-naught who murdered one of her numerous lovers, 
don't shuffle out of sight so important a fact. I regard that 
as a most valuable origin.' 
'Lord, Mr. Vetch, how you talk!' cried Miss Pynsent, 
staring. ' I don't know what one would think, to hear 
you.' 
' Surely, my dear lady, and for this reason : that those 
are the people with whom society has to count. It hasn't 
with you and me.' Miss Pynsent gave a sigh which might 
have meant either that she was well aware of that, or that 
Mr. Vetch had a terrible way of enlarging a subject, especially 
when it was already too big for her ; and her philosophic . 
visitor went on : ' Poor little devil, let him see her, let him 
see her.' 
' And if later, when he's twenty, he says to me that if I 
hadn't meddled in it he need never have known, he need 
never have had that shame, pray what am I to say to him 
then ? That's what I can't get out of my head.' 
' You can say to him that a young man who is sorry for 
having gone to his mother when, in her last hours, she lay 
groaning for him on a pallet in a penitentiary, deserves more 
than the sharpest pang he can possibly feel.' And the little 
fiddler, getting up, went over to the fireplace and shook out 
the ashes of his pipe. 
'Well, I am sure it's natural he should feel badly,' said 
Miss Pynsent, folding up her work with the same desperate 
quickness that had animated her throughout the evening. 
' I haven't the least objection to his feeling badly ; that's 
not the worst thing in the world ! If a few more people 
felt badly, in this sodden, stolid, stupid race of ours, the 
world would wake up to an idea or two, and we should see 
the beginning of the dance. It's the dull acceptance, the 
absence of reflection, the impenetrable density.' Here Mr. 
Vetch stoppecl short; his hostess stood before him with 
eyes of entreaty, with clasped hands. 
' Now, Anastasius Vetch, don't go off into them dreadful 
wild theories ! ' she cried, always ungrammatical when she 
was strongly moved. ' You always fly away over the house- 
tops. I thought you liked him better the dear little un- 
fortunate.' 
Anastasius Vetch had pocketed his pipe ; he put on his 
hat with the freedom of old acquaintance and of Lomax 
Place, and took up his small coffin-like fiddle-case. ' My 
 
good Finnic, I don't think you understand a word I say. 
It's no use talking do as you like ! ' 
' Well, I must say I don't think it was worth your coming 
in at midnight only to tell me that. I don't like anything 
I hate the whole dreadful business ! ' 
He bent over, in his short plumpness, to kiss her hand, 
as he had seen people do on the stage. ' My dear friend, 
we have different ideas, and I never shall succeed in driving 
mine into your head. It's because I am fond of him, poor 
little devil ; but you will never understand that. I want 
him to know everything, and especially the worst the 
worst, as I have said. If I were in his position, I shouldn't 
thank you for trying to make a fool of me ! ' 
' A fool of you ? as if I thought of anything but his 'appi- 
ness !' Amanda Pynsent exclaimed. She stood looking at 
him, but following her own reflections ; she had given up 
the attempt to enter into his whims. She remembered, 
what she had noticed before, in other occurrences, that his 
reasons were always more extraordinary than his behaviour 
itself; if you only considered his life you wouldn't have 
thought him so fanciful. ' Very likely I think too much of 
that,' she added. ' She wants him and cries for him ; that's 
what keeps coming back to me.' She took up her lamp to 
light Mr. Vetch to the door (for the dim luminary in the 
passage had long since been extinguished), and before he 
left the house he turned, suddenly, stopping short, and said, 
his composed face taking a strange expression from the 
quizzical glimmer of his little round eyes 
' What does it matter after all, and why do you worry ? 
What difference can it make what happens on either side 
to such low people ? ' 
Ill 
MRS. BOWERBANK had let her know she would meet her, 
almost at the threshold of the dreadful place; and this 
thought had sustained Miss Pynsent in her long and devious 
journey, performed partly on foot, partly in a succession of 
omnibuses. She had had ideas about a cab, but she de- 
cided to reserve the cab for the return, as then, very likely, 
she should be so shaken with emotion, so overpoweringly 
affected, that it would be a comfort to escape from observa- 
tion. She had no confidence that if once she passed the 
door of the prison she should ever be restored to liberty 
and her customers ; it seemed to her an adventure as 
dangerous as it was dismal, and she was immensely touched 
by the clear-faced eagerness of the child at her side, who 
strained forward as brightly as he had done on another 
occasion, still celebrated in Miss Pynsent's industrious 
annals, a certain sultry Saturday in August, when she had 
taken him to the Tower. It had been a terrible question 
with her, when once she made up her mind, what she 
should tell him about the nature of their errand. She deter- 
mined to tell him as little as possible, to say only that she 
was going to see a poor woman who was in prison on 
account of a crime she had committed years before, and 
who had sent for her, and caused her to be told at the same 
 
time that if there was any child she could see as children 
(if they were good) were bright and cheering it would 
make her very happy that such a little visitor should come 
as well. It was very difficult, with Hyacinth, to make 
reservations or mysteries ; he wanted to know everything 
about everything, and he projected the light of a hundred 
questions upon Miss Pynsent's incarcerated friend. She 
had to admit that she had been her friend (for where else 
was the obligation to go to see her ?) ; but she spoke of the 
acquaintance as if it were of the slightest (it had survived 
in the memory of the prisoner only because every one else 
the world was so very hard ! had turned away from her), 
and she congratulated herself on a happy inspiration when 
she represented the crime for which such a penalty had 
been exacted as the theft of a gold watch, in a moment of 
irresistible temptation. The woman had had a wicked 
husband, who maltreated and deserted her, and she was 
very poor, almost starving, dreadfully pressed. Hyacinth 
listened to her history with absorbed attention, and then he 
said : 
' And hadn't she any children hadn't she a little boy ?' 
This inquiry seemed to Miss Pynsent a portent of future 
embarrassments, but she met it as bravely as she could, and 
replied that she believed the wretched victim of the law 
had had (once upon a time) a very small baby, but she was 
afraid she had completely lost sight of it. He must know 
they didn't allow babies in prisons. To this Hyacinth 
rejoined that of course they would allow him, because he 
was really big. Miss Pynsent fortified herself with the 
memory of her other pilgrimage, to Newgate, upwards of ten 
years before ; she had escaped from that ordeal, and had 
even had the comfort of knowing that in its fruits the inter- 
view had been beneficent. The responsibility, however, 
was much greater now, and, after all, it was not on her own 
account she was in a nervous tremor, but on that of the 
urchin over whom the shadow of the house of shame might 
cast itself. 
They made the last part of their approach on foot, hav- 
ing got themselves deposited as near as possible to the 
river and keeping beside it (according to advice elicited by 
Miss Pynsent, on the way, in a dozen confidential inter- 
views with policemen, conductors of omnibuses, and small 
shopkeepers), till they came to a big, dark building with 
towers, which they would know as soon as they looked at 
it. They knew it, in fact, soon enough, when they saw it 
lift its dusky mass from the bank of the Thames, lying 
there and sprawling over the whole, neighbourhood, with 
brown, bare, windowless walls, ugly, truncated pinnacles, 
and a character unspeakably sad and stern. It looked very 
sinister and wicked, to Miss Pynsent's eyes, and she won- 
dered why a prison should have such an evil face if it was 
erected in the, interest of justice and order an expression 
of the righteous forces of society. This particular peniten- 
tiary struck her as about as bad and wrong as those who 
were in it ; it threw a blight over the whole place and made 
the river look foul and poisonous, and the opposite bank, 
with its protrusion of long-necked chimneys, unsightly gaso- 
meters and deposits of rubbish, wear the aspect of a region 
at whose expense the jail had been populated. She looked 
up at the dull, closed gates, tightening her grasp of Hya- 
cinth's small hand ; and if it was hard to believe anything 
so blind and deaf and closely fastened would relax itself to 
let her in, there was a dreadful premonitory sinking of the 
heart attached to the idea of its taking the same trouble to 
let her out. As she hung back, murmuring vague ejacula- 
tions, at the very goal of her journey, an incident occurred 
which fanned all her scruples and reluctances into life again. 
The child suddenly jerked his hand out of her own, and 
placing it behind him, in the clutch of the other, said to 
her respectfully but resolutely, while he planted himself at 
a considerable distance 
' I don't like this place.' 
' Neither do I like it, my darling,' cried the dressmaker, 
pitifully. ' Oh, if you knew how little ! ' 
' Then we will go away. I won't go in.' 
She would have embraced this proposition with alacrity 
if it had not become very vivid to her while she stood there, 
in the midst of her shrinking, that behind those sullen walls 
the mother who bore him was even then counting the 
minutes. She was alive, in that huge, dark tomb, and it 
seemed to Miss Pynsent that they had already entered into 
relation with her. They were near her, and she knew it ; 
in a few minutes she would taste the cup of the only mercy 
(except the reprieve from hanging !) she had known since 
her fall. A few, a very few minutes would do it, and it 
seemed to Miss Pynsent that if she should fail of her charity 
now the watches of the night, in Lomax Place, would be 
haunted with remorse perhaps even with something worse. 
There was something inside that waited and listened, some- 
thing that would burst, with an awful sound, a shriek, or a 
curse, if she were to lead the boy away. She looked into 
his pale face for a moment, perfectly conscious that it 
would be vain for her to take the tone of command ; be- 
sides, that would have seemed to her shocking. She had 
another inspiration, and she said to him in a manner in 
which she had had occasion to speak before 
' The reason why we have come is only to be kind. If 
we are kind we shan't mind its being disagreeable.' 
'Why should we be kind, if she's a bad woman?' 
Hyacinth inquired. ' She must be very low ; I don't want 
to know her.' 
' Hush, hush,' groaned poor Amanda, edging toward him 
with clasped hands. ' She is not bad now ; it has all been 
washed away it has been expiated.' 
'What's expiated?' asked the child, while she almost 
kneeled down in the dust, catching him to her bosom. 
' It's when you have suffered terribly suffered so much 
that it has made you good again.' 
' Has she suffered very much ?' 
' For years and years. And now she is dying. It 
proves she is very good now, that she should want to 
see us.' 
'Do you mean because we are good?' Hyacinth went 
on, probing the f matter in a way that made his companion 
quiver, and gazing away from her, very seriously, across the 
river, at the dreary waste of Battersea. 
'We shall be good if we are pitiful, if we make an 
effort,' said the dressmaker, seeming to look up at him 
rather than down. 
'But if she is dying? I don't want to see any one 
die.' 
Miss Pynsent was bewildered, but she rejoined, desper- 
ately, ' If we go to her, perhaps she won't. Maybe we 
shall save her.' 
 
He transferred his remarkable little eyes eyes which 
always appeared to her to belong to a person older than 
herself, to her face ; and then he inquired, ' Why should I 
save her, if I don't like her?' 
' If she likes you, that will be enough.' 
At this Miss Pynsent began to see that he was moved. 
' Will she like me very much?' 
' More, much more than any one.' 
' More than you, now ?' 
' Oh,' said Amanda quickly, ' I mean more than she 
likes any one.' 
Hyacinth had slipped his hands into the pockets of his 
scanty knickerbockers, and, with his legs slightly apart, he 
looked from his companion back to the immense dreary 
jail. A great deal, to Miss Pynsent's sense, depended on 
that moment. ' Oh, well,' he said, at last, ' I'll just step in.' 
' Deary, deary ! ' the dressmaker murmured to herself, 
as they crossed the bare semicircle which separated the 
gateway from the unfrequented street. She exerted her- 
self to pull the bell, which seemed to her terribly big and 
stiff, and while she waited, again, for the consequences of 
this effort, the boy broke out, abruptly : 
' How can she like me so much if she doesn't know 
me?' 
Miss Pynsent wished the gate would open before an 
answer to this question should become imperative, but the 
people within were a long time arriving, and their delay 
gave Hyacinth an opportunity to repeat it. So the dress- 
maker rejoined, seizing the first pretext that came into her 
head, ' It's because the little baby she had, of old, was 
also named Hyacinth.' 
' That's a queer reason,' the boy murmured, staring 
across again at the Battersea shore. 
A moment afterwards they found themselves in a vast 
interior dimness, with a grinding of keys and bolts going 
on behind them. Hereupon Miss Pynsent gave herself up 
to an overruling providence, and she remembered, later, 
no circumstance of what happened to her until the great 
person of Mrs. Bowerbank loomed before her in the 
narrowness of a strange, dark corridor. She only had a 
confused impression of being surrounded with high black 
walls, whose inner face was more dreadful than the other, 
the one that overlooked the river ; of passing through gray, 
stony courts, in some of which dreadful figures, scarcely 
female, in hideous brown, misfitting uniforms and perfect 
frights of hoods, were marching round in a circle; of 
squeezing up steep, unlighted staircases at the heels of a 
woman who had taken possession of her at the first stage, 
and who made incomprehensible remarks to other women, 
of lumpish aspect, as she saw them erect themselves, 
suddenly and spectrally, with dowdy untied bonnets, in 
uncanny corners and recesses of the draughty labyrinth. 
If the place had seemed cruel to the poor little dressmaker 
outside, it may be believed that it did not strike her as an 
abode of mercy while she pursued her tortuous way into 
the circular shafts of cells, where she had an opportunity of 
looking at captives through grated peepholes and of edging 
past others who had temporarily been turned into the 
corridors silent women, with fixed eyes, who flattened 
themselves against the stone walls at the brush of the 
visitor's dress and whom Miss Pynsent was afraid to glance 
at. She never had felt so immured, so made sure of; 
 
there were walls within walls and galleries on top of 
galleries ; even the daylight lost its colour, and you couldn't 
imagine what o'clock it was. Mrs. Bowerbank appeared to 
have failed her, and that made her feel worse: a panic 
seized her, as she went, in regard to the child. On him, 
too, the horror of the place would have fallen, and she had 
a sickening prevision that he would have convulsions after 
they got home. It was a most improper place to have 
brought him, no matter who had sent for him and no 
matter who was dying. The stillness would terrify him, 
she was sure the penitential dumbness of the clustered or 
isolated women. She clasped his hand more tightly, and 
she felt him keep close to her, without speaking a word. 
At last, in an open doorway, darkened by her ample person, 
Mrs. Bowerbank revealed herself, and Miss Pynsent thought 
it (afterwards) a sign of her place and power that she should 
not condescend to apologise for not having appeared till 
that moment, or to explain why she had not met the be- 
wildered pilgrims near the principal entrance, according to 
her promise. Miss Pynsent could not embrace the state 
of mind of people who didn't apologise, though she vaguely 
envied and admired it, she herself spending much of her 
time in making excuses for obnoxious acts she had not 
committed. Mrs. Bowerbank, however, was not arrogant, 
she was only massive and muscular; and after she had 
taken her timorous friends in tow the dressmaker was able 
to comfort herself with the reflection that even so master- 
ful a woman couldn't inflict anything gratuitously disagree- 
able on a person who had made her visit in Lomax Place 
pass off so pleasantly. 
It was on the outskirts of the infirmary that she had 
been hovering, and it was into certain dismal chambers 
dedicated to sick criminals, that she presently ushered her 
companions. These chambers were naked and grated, 
like all the rest of the place, and caused Miss Pynsent to 
say to herself that it must be a blessing to be ill in such a 
hole, because you couldn't possibly pick up again, and 
then your case was simple. Such simplification, however, 
had for the moment been offered to very few of Florentine's 
fellow-sufferers, for only three of the small, stiff beds were 
occupied occupied by white-faced women in tight, sordid 
caps, on whom, in the stale, ugly room, the sallow light it- 
self seemed to rest without pity. Mrs. Bowerbank dis- 
creetly paid no attention whatever to Hyacinth ; she only 
said to Miss Pynsent, with her hoarse distinctness, ' You'll 
find her very low ; she wouldn't have waited another day.' 
And she guided them, through a still further door, to the 
smallest room of all, where there were but three beds, 
placed in a row. Miss Pynsent's frightened eyes rather 
faltered than inquired, but she became aware that a woman 
was lying on the middle bed, and that her face was turned 
toward the door. Mrs. Bowerbank led the way straight up 
to her, and, giving a business-like pat to her pillow, looked 
invitation and encouragement to the visitors, who clung 
together not far within the threshold. Their conductress 
reminded them that very few minutes were allowed them, 
and that they had better not dawdle them away ; where- 
upon, as the boy still hung back, the little dressmaker 
advanced alone, looking at the sick woman with what 
courage she could muster. It seemed to her that she was 
approaching a perfect stranger, so ' completely had nine 
years of prison transformed Florentine. She felt, immedi- 
 
ately, that it was a mercy she hadn't told Hyacinth she 
was pretty (as she used to be), for there was no beauty left 
in the hollow, bloodless mask that presented itself without 
a movement. She had told him that the poor woman was 
good, but she didn't look so, nor, evidently, was he struck 
with it as he stared back at her across the interval he 
declined to traverse, kept (at the same time) from re- 
treating by her strange, fixed eyes, the only portion of all 
her wasted person in which there was still any appearance 
of life. She looked unnatural to Amanda Pynsent, and 
terribly old ; a speechless, motionless creature, dazed and 
stupid, whereas Florentine Vivier, in the obliterated past, 
had been her idea of personal, as distinguished from social, 
brilliancy. Above all she seemed disfigured and ugly, 
cruelly misrepresented by her coarse cap and short, rough 
hair. Amanda, as she stood beside her, thought with a 
sort of scared elation that Hyacinth would never guess that 
a person in whom there was so little trace of smartness 
or of cleverness of any kind was his mother. At the 
very most it might occur to him, as Mrs. Bowerbank had 
suggested, that she was his grandmother. Mrs. Bowerbank 
seated herself on the further bed, with folded hands, like a 
