tions. 
'' Graham," she says decisively one evening, when he 
has followed her about in a most exasperating manner, 
'' you must cease this persecution, or I shall be compelled 
to appeal to your brother." 
"That is excellent!" and Graham laughs insolently. 
" My dear little rosebud, do you know that in the terrible 
family feud that met you on your threshhold, Basil was, 
of us all, most implacable and resentful. Basil and Olive 
were fiends, — the one grand, gloomy, and stalking about 
in spectral hate ; the other like a whirlwind. One would 
have rent you to shreds and atoms ; the other would have 
ground you to powder under his feet." 
 
 
 
" Oh, hush ! '' she pleads. She cannot endure the 
thought. 
'' Olive has been converted. She has some one else to 
take the place where she used sacredly to enshrine Lloyd. 
Basil has softened, but I still warn you. If 3'ou scratch 
your Cossack, you may yet find a yellow-eyed Tartar." 
" For shame ! " Doris cries, and her intensity subdues 
him a trifle. " I forbid you ever to speak to me of mar- 
riage again I " And her words ring out clear and forcible. 
" If we cannot be friends, we must be utter strangers." 
" How cruel you can be ! " he remarks, plaintively. 
She walks away, flies rather, and ensconces herself 
under Mr. Stirling's friendly protection. 
'' By the gods ! " exclaims the elegant young man, 
"I wonder if anybody could stir up the stately Agatha 
to a tempest. It would be worth considerable. Per- 
haps, Mrs. Doris, you are not so secure as you believe. 
Even a worm will turn at last, I have heard." And he 
laughs with a kind of contemplative insolence. 
"What have you and Doris been disputing about?" 
And Mrs. Basil emerges from the gloom of a clump of 
evergreens. " I have taken her under my protection, and 
you shall not tease her, or annoy her, or — " 
" Or make love to her. Does your jurisdiction extend 
as far as that ? " 
"Yes. You shall not make love to her. Heaven 
knows there are enough women to whom you can talk 
nonsense." 
She slips her hand within his arm, and glances up to 
his half -moody, wholly handsome face. 
" But if I wanted to talk sense, and in earnest." 
" Let Doris alone ! " she exclaims, with a vague im- 
pression of annoyance. She has been leading this young 
courtier in her chains, and she is not ready to have him 
talk in earnest to any one. She has still a taste for con- 
quests and triumphs, a desire to reign over men's hearts. 
 
 
 
Her winter's gayeties have stirred up a hungry demon in 
her heart. She is full of a curious, jealous vitality, yet it 
is never quite satisfied, and of late it has been horribly 
dissatisfied. 
There is a moon high up in heaven silvering all the 
walks, the edges of the trees, softening, bewildering, 
dancing in the spray of the fountains, and the mysterious 
voices of the night mingle with the strains of music. 
'' I am beginning to envy you," she says, when he has 
kept silence some seconds. '' I wish it had been Basil's 
good fortune to get an appointment abroad." 
'' Perhaps he could if he had urged it sharp. I do not 
believe he cares." 
"What does he care for?" she flings out contemp- 
tuously. 
" Money and — you." At which Graham laughs. 
" Me 1 If he cared enough for me to send me abroad, 
there would be some sense in it " ; and she laughs shortly, 
a poor, mirthless sound. " What a humbug life is unless 
one has a fortune, and people are making them constantly ! 
Look at Mrs. Ruthven." 
Mrs. Ruthven is three or four and twenty, medium in 
everything except her beautiful lace dress, and the glow 
of the diamonds in which she stands. 
"Do you remember," Mrs. Basil says, "when Jack 
Ruthven was awfully sweet on me ? He was the bete noir 
of my life. And old Mr. Ruthven had never done any- 
thing much in the way of coining gold in his foundry until 
he managed to get some railroad contracts, and look at 
them now ! Miss Day didn't disdain Jack, and his father 
has bought the old Bradley place for him, and they are in 
with the very creme. What a pity / didn't take him ! 
Bradley House is nearly as grand as the Elms. And then 
think of that little Doris trailing up and down in her 
simple gowns, as if it were a cottage." 
 
 
 
"I've always wondered why you married Basil. But 
- — Jack — " And the Wentworth gorge rises a little. 
"Jack wasn't very presentable in those days, but some- 
how good fortune has shaped him up." 
Her tone is sharp, acrid, resentful. To see Mrs. Ruth- 
ven's diamonds exasperates her beyond endurance. 
' ' The new people come in so rapidly and crowd us so, 
set us in the background with their blaze of light and 
elegance of attire, th^rt pretty soon we shall be nobody, 
sad revenges of time." 
"Let us dance and be merry," he says, suddenly. He 
likes her better when she is bright and satirical ; the 
moodiness and cavilling do not suit him at all. 
The band is discoursing the beguiling Strauss waltzes, 
and they go up to the house. Couples are languidly float- 
ing on the wide verandas, in the drawing-room, and out 
on the lawn, for the night is dewless. They pause and 
join the dancers here. Frances Wentworth has a passion 
for dancing. She lights up now under the inspiration. 
There comes a halo of exquisite grace, there is a soft se- 
ductiveness that stirs Graham's blood. When he waltzes 
with her, he thinks he could dance forever ; the charm is 
intense, transcendent. What curious, magnetic moods 
she possesses ! Doris is a pale little candle to her electric 
light. 
If there were revels always, and endless processions of 
new gowns, and no one to outshine her very far ! To-night 
Agatha Stirling's magnificent ease and grandeur madden 
her. And to-morrow and all of the to-morrows ! Oh, why 
did she marry Basil Wentworth ? 
For that matter, she might almost as well be at the 
antipodes. She never sees him at breakfast, — he is up 
and away to business, — and there is no chance of meeting 
him until the dinner hour. Afternoon teas and lawn 
parties interfere not infrequently with this. He does not 
care for the delights of society that so engross her. She 
 
 
 
complains that he gives her so little of his attention, but 
in her secret soul she admits that she fares much better 
without him. The evenings at Agatha's and at her 
father's always bore her. And now she will make the 
most of her handsome brother-in-law. Oh I what will she 
do for a cavalier next winter ? 
The child is quite ill for several days. Basil comes 
home rather early one evening, having finished up the last 
of some troublesome business, and finds Rose trying to 
soothe and comfort the feverish little being, whose heavy 
eyes and parched lips are pitiful to behold. 
It seems to Basil that bright, healthy, attractive childhood 
would charm him, but he has seen so little of his daugh- 
ter, and that has not been under favoring circumstances. 
Now he is moved to sympathy when he beholds the tired 
face of the nurse and her drooping figure. 
"Let me take her," he says. "What does the doctor 
think? When will she recover?" 
He knows so little about childish ailments that he in- 
clines to measuring them off by some allotted period. 
" She was better yesterday," replies Rose. "The doc' 
tor thought it would be well to take her away for sea 
air." 
"Well — we could all go." He has had no holiday, 
unless rapid business travelling, often done at night, can 
be so considered. As he takes the small being in his 
arms, and gets her head settled on his broad shoulder by 
Rose, his awkwardness is plainly perceptible. Yet to 
Lloyd and to Olive he has been the most patient and 
tender nurse. 
Pacing up and down the fioor, he considers the feasi- 
bility of a fortnight at some quiet seaside place, where 
there are few dissipations of society. He would like the 
rest. They might take in Doris and Mrs. Gilbert and 
Lloyd. He would really like to get familiar with his ward, 
for presently be will wish to show to the world that he 
 
 
does take an interest in his cousin's child. A few long, 
idle, luxurious days would be such a treat I 
" Poor baby ! " he murmurs gently, — "poor little baby ! " 
and he presses his cool cheek against the fevered one. 
Then he thinks of its mother, of his marriage, which, 
disguise it as he may, has been a mistake. Yet the two 
sisters of his wife are admirable household women as well 
as attractive in society. She has been carefully trained, 
she has been tenderly loved by her father, yet the years 
with him seem to bring out a kind of rasping discontent. 
Perhaps, as she once said, she was not born for poverty. 
He smiles a little sadly, too, over the word. Does she 
call this pretty house and three servants poverty ? For 
years his mother lived here, and was one of the chief 
ladies in Westwater. Still, he remembers with a pang 
they did all hate to come back. 
The clock strikes eleven. The baby has been still so 
long that Rose proposes to lay it back in its crib. But 
as she takes it, it wakes and utters its feeble wail. 
"Never mind,'' Wentworth says, cheerfully, taking her 
back. "I shall remain up until Mrs. Wentworth comes 
home. You had better lie down and get some rest." 
He hushes the child back to a fragmentary slumber. 
Presently midnight sounds from silver bells on the air 
that is growing cool and fragrant. Basil goes on with 
his thinking. He so seldom has time to meet himself 
squarely and with perfect truth. There have been hours 
at Lloyd's grave, but those were rather agonizing confes- 
sions wrung from the depth of his soul, with some pointed 
pang of conviction. But to the man who has walked un- 
shrinkingly in a path in the belief that the highest feeling 
of honor, the purest and most unselfish pride and thorough 
self-abnegation have ruled him, to be brought slowly back 
and see his honor a delusion, his fair dealing the hardest 
and coldest injustice, his abnegation the extreme of a 
selfish and adamantine will, to believe the trial has been 
 
 
 
nobly lived through, and find the victory a mere illusion, 
the consciousness is indeed crushing. If he had waited 
a little longer, if he had seen Lloyd's will and known his 
fervent desire to have them all go on together, to have 
Doris taken in among them like a little sister ! 
But there were the Gilberts. He winces even now at 
the swaggering importance and vulgar, indecent haste with 
which Anson Gilbert claimed everything for " my niece, 
Mrs. Wentworth." If she had resembled him ! If she had 
been less than time has proved her ! If he had not shown 
himself so anxious to be swayed by that trivial gossip ! 
He admits all his sins, for Basil Wentworth is at heart 
a man of the purest integrity. That he has lapsed sadly 
is most true ; he will not gloss over the admission. That 
he married in haste and unreason is most true, but he 
cannot even now imagine any woman like Frances Mintum 
marrying a comparatively poor man, unless she admired 
him or regarded him in some tender light. Indeed, he 
had hardly dared to believe she would accept him. 
One, two. The baby is charmed to sounder slumbers 
and lies passively in the crib, the pitiful little face vaguely 
upbraiding him. He goes to his room. There is a roll of 
carriage wheels through the silent street, gay voices, and 
Frances and his brother come trooping up the stairs with 
confident carelessness. 
" Hillo ! " says Graham, softly. " Deep in a brief?'' 
"Not this time of night," Basil replies, with a rather 
caustic coldness. 
"Well, here is your lady fair, safe and sound. By 
Jove ! Westwater grows quite magnificent. Shall I not 
perish in Russian wilds ? " and his intonation is humorously 
tragic. "Goodnight." 
He goes up to the next floor, and in ten minutes is 
soundly asleep. 
Basil Wentworth studies his wife. Her dress is a soft 
silken material with drapings of foamy lace, creamy in 
 
 
 
tint, and she wears emeralds that always give her a weird, 
Oriental appearance. Her dusky hair still has in it a few 
straggling, faded flowers, but her corsage cluster has been 
gathered not more than an hour ago. She is not hand- 
some, but brilliant, spirited, at least when pleasure excites 
her. 
She tosses off her bracelets carelessly; she pulls the 
flowers from her heir and dVops them in the pretty much- 
ribboned waste-basket, but the others she places in a water 
jar. Graham gathered them for her with a sweet, senti- 
mental speech, and she had scouted his reflection. She 
will wear them in her dress to-morrow morning to c6nvince 
him. They have been half playing at love, neither believ- 
ing the other at all in earnest. 
"Do you not think the baby quite ill?" Basil asks, as 
he watches this by-play. 
She folds her cobweb fichu with choicest care, and lays 
it away in a perfumed, satin-lined box. Then she answers 
with a kind of contemplative indifference, — 
" Babies seldom are well at this season of the year, I 
believe. I have put her in the doctor's care." 
" And the doctor advises that she had better be taken 
to the seaside. Suppose we all go, Frances? I feel the 
need of a rest myself. We might ask some friends to 
join us." 
"Who?" she inquires, with a quickness that savors of 
insolence. 
"Who?" he bethinks himself, and answers, "Your 
sister perhaps, and the girls. And if we could go to-mor- 
row, or the day after — " 
"To-morrow!" Frances Wentworth is aghast. Who 
is at the bottom of this scheme, — her sister? But no. 
" Why, Alice is to be bridesmaid at the Collard wed- 
ding next Tuesday, and we are all invited. Marion must 
have been out of her senses ! " she declares, with em- 
phatic contempt. 
 
 
 
"It was not MarioD's plan/' he answers. "I only 
thought of her. But — must you go to the wedding?" 
Slie revolves various matters in her mind. To-morrow 
— that is Friday — there is to be an equestrienne party 
up the river, to a romantic spot called Holly's Glen, and 
(Jraham has their horses engaged ; Saturday morning, an 
elegant matinee with some professionals ; Monday night, 
the archery ball ; Tuesday, the wedding, and so on. To 
go to some stupid place and be shut up in one room with 
a whining baby ! She almost laughs at the idea. 
" I have at least a fortnight of steady engagements," 
she replies, gravely. '' It would be quite impossible for 
me to go. But that need not interfere with you. Gra- 
ham can look after the house and see that I do not come 
to grief. Still, I would advise you not to burden yourself 
with a baby, if you want to rest." 
The heartlessness is quite apparent. 
" Frances," he begins, with a positive feeling of curi- 
osity, " do you never tire of pleasure ? " 
'' No ; why should I? One may grow weary or languid 
in body, but how can one tire of enjoyment ? " she asks, 
in a tone of inquiry as well as surprise. 
lie sighs and is silent. 
"I suppose you would not be content without the ex- 
citement of business," she says, after a silence. 
'' But — I should have nothing else to do ! " He never 
longed for business when at the Elms, he remembers. 
'' And I have nothing else to do." She laughs rather 
constrainedly. " But I am satisfied," with a complacent 
nod. " And it rather amused me to find you thinking of 
a holiday when one can scarcely get you away from the 
oflSce before midnight." 
" I rarely stay as late as that. I was home to-night by 
nine." 
" Then you might have come to the Westbrooks'." 
" I certainly was too tired to stand around and talk 
 
 
 
wearisome inanities," he answers, rather impatiently. 
" Can you go after the wedding?" recurring to the pro- 
posed journey. 
"I do not want to go at all," frankly. "And when 
Graham is to leave us so soon ! I have been wondering 
how I should get along in Washington next winter without 
him." 
"You may not be in Washington," Basil says, dryly. 
He is growing impatient with this utter frivolity. 
" I — what do you propose to do? Am I to play the 
role of a deserted wife? Not quite so soon, thank you." 
" I shall not remain so steadily through the session. I 
was new to everything last year, and I did desire to do my 
best, to acquire all the knowledge that was possible. It 
is too costly to repeat. I am not a rich man." 
"Unfortunately for me," she says with impertinent 
sarcasm. 
That rouses htm. " No," he replies, in a hard, cold 
tone, " I am not rich, but then you knew that. We have 
been spending more the past year than my circumstances 
will warrant, and we must retrench a little. When this 
season of gayety is over — " 
" liwas a horrible blunder," she says, her face pale and 
her eyes like points of flame ; " I should have married a 
man who was neither mercenary nor poor. I hate econ- 
omy. I hate the humdrum domestic virtues. Neither of 
your sisters are compelled to practise them, and so far as 
I can see, they are respected. And you could make a 
fortune. Other men do. There are ways and occa- 
sions." 
"Well, why did you marry me?" he asks, in a tone 
deep and husky with suppressed passion. 
" Because I supposed you the coming man " ; and she 
laughs insolently. " You were a kind of hero, unjustly 
deprived of his own, and my girlish romance was aroused. 
How could I tell that the fates would continue their 
 
 
 
ankindness ? that the heroic Tirtaes would go unrewarded ? 
Aod I suppose vou, more sensible than I, toc^ me for 
the connection. It should, of coarse, have helped yon to 
a speedy fortune. We are like the Lammles in Dickens's 
story, equally disappointed.'' 
Basil Wentworth coold strike her where she stands. 
For a moment a whirlwind of anger rends his sool. Then 
he commands himself, but his face is deadly pale. 
" We will have no recriminations," he forces himself to 
say, quietly. " I am sorry if I have disappointed you. 
And I must confess the strife for wealth does not appear 
tLS attractive to me as it did at first. I am w«uy, sick of 
it all. But you shall have all in my power ttmt will con- 
duce to your happiness." 
'' Devotion can go no furtiier," she answered. '' Still, I 
could wish there were more in your power.'' 
He does not reply to her flippancy. He has heard of 
marital infelicities like this ; he has kaown in a business 
way of divorce cases whose first stnr« fcas arisen in sheer 
incompatibility. He is not afraid of any such ending, 
for after all she is Judge MintvJL'n daughter, and has 
been trained to respect the projrferfes. For her to com- 
mit any overt act would be slieur impossibility ; but he 
recognizes the fact that there rxver can be any real, true 
happiness between them ; tbi.t fJieir tastes and desires are 
not even harmonious. Th2ri he thinks of his sisters; 
they are fashionable wcmcOr always in society. That 
Louise is happy he cannot yuestion. She and her sur- 
roundings are exquisitely ii'ilapted and harmonize to the 
finest degree. Perhaps fbfii is what Frances would have 
liked. But Louise 13 #?doringly fond of her child, and 
considers her husbaai perfection. Would Frances, if 
her husband could ror/Ound her with as much luxury? 
He sighs to himseK. Are women always thinking of 
material comforts? li there some one whose life has 
been like a poem tbu one finds in the comer of an out-of- 
 
 
 
the-way country newspaper, and yet once read can never 
quite vanish from one's mind or the soul's sight ? 
Basil Wentworth takes up life with a manful humility 
the next morning. He has made this part of it himself, 
and he will do his best to mend instead of marring it any 
further. He is courteous to his wife and affable to his 
brother. He goes to his business, promising himself an 
early return. The journey that looked so tempting must 
be given up. It is hardly likely that Doris and Mrs. Gil- 
bert would care to spend a fortnight anywhere for the 
sake of an ailing child, even if — and he is not sure that 
it would be best to ask them. 
When he returns, he finds an empty house. Rose has 
taken the baby, who is much better, around to the Elms. 
Frances and Graham started at two, and will not be back 
before seven. Basil wanders forlornly from room to 
room, picks up a book and lays it down again, drums a 
little on the open piano, and then saunters out with no 
specially definite purpose, feeling as if he was wasting 
precious time ; but presently he finds himself at the Elms, 
and goes slowly up the winding avenue, his heart heavy 
with memories. 
They are all on the veranda. The baby is in Doris's 
lap, and is actually smiling. Lloyd is swinging in the 
hammock, and Rose is repeating a nursery medley. Mrs. 
Gilbert has some bright embroidery in her hands, and 
altogether it is a pretty picture. He puts it beside that 
of Doris singing to her landlady at the little inn. 
She colors, and her eyes droop exquisitely. It seems 
so strange to have Ids child in her arms, though it was 
natural enough a moment before. There is a little con- 
straint all around ; he feels it perceptibly. 
But they do settle to a degree of cordiality. He will 
not walk in, but prefers sitting on the step, — one of his 
old places. After a little he persuades Lloyd to come to 
him, and talks business with Doris in the intervals of 
 
 
 
amusement. How clear and well-disciplined Doris's mind 
seems ! Yet it certainly is 7iot unfeminine or narrow. He 
bethiuks himself of Mr. Stirling's admiration of her that 
he has sometimes listened to with a sneer, — heaven for- 
give him ! How harsh and maleficent he has been in bis 
judgments! Can anything ever make amends? It is 
like his marriage : even if the wrong is forgiven, the 
consequences reach out like the roots of some deadly 
plant and blight more than one life. His fate is hopeless. 
Let him accept it with what courage he may, and do his 
best in the future ; but, ah ! he recognizes the hard fact 
that the works of the past throw limitations around the 
deeds of the future. 
He goes back to his solitary dinner. It is eight when 
the truants return. Frances hurries through with her 
meal, attires herself elegantly, and a dozen or so guests 
come in. There is music, card-playing, a dainty supper, 
but Basil is bored. He is not the person for this light, 
trivial entertainment. 
Mrs. Basil is somewhat amused when she hears of his early 
return. Can it be that he is cultivating a spirit of rather 
watchful jealousy? Surely, if one cannot be familiar with 
one's own brother, — for, after all, Graham is that, — what 
privilege will there be left to life ? His, Basil's, devotion 
has always been rather formal and cumbersome, and she 
likes light, airy, superficial people, who are not going to 
the depths of theories and principles and high efforts for 
improvement. The world is well enough for her as it is. 
And if he does try to circumscribe her enjoyments, there 
will come open war. She will carry matters with a high 
hand, and he has such a horror of any diflSculty between 
man and wife. 
 
 
, CHAPTER XXV. 
A SUMMER MADNESS. 
Basil Wentworth confines himself as resolutely as be- 
fore to business. Indeed, Judge Minturn is rather ailing, 
and he relieves him of all that is possible, like the true 
and devoted son he has proved. Nothing pleases the 
elder man more than to see him softening toward his 
cousin's widow, making friends with the bright, attractive 
boy, and planning for his future. 
" This is quite as it should be," he says, one day. 
Basil's face is a flood of crimson. Then he suddenly 
stretches out his hand and takes that of his friend. 
"Let me at least make some reparation to you," he 
cries, in a tone of deep distress and humility. "I have 
been brutal, full of acerbity and uncharitableness. I shut 
my eyes resolutely and would not see or hear. I did not 
want to be convinced of the slightest error of judgment, 
but I have been, against my will. Your forgiveness and 
that of the dead I dare ask ; hers I never can. That 
will be my punishment for my haste and hatred. All 
that I can do for her or the child in the future will be 
done earnestly, faithfully." 
"My dear, dear Basil !" Then there is a long silence, 
for both men are deeply moved. "I have prayed that 
you might see your duty here, that you might overcome 
the one great blemish on your otherwise pm-e manhood. 
It is hardly likely that I shall live to see Lloyd's boy grown 
up, but I am satisfied that you will give him a father's 
care. God bless you in this work ! " he adds, tremulously. 
Basil feels the better for having made this confession. 
 
 
 
He is laying aside some of his bitterness ; he has learned 
that— 
'' Scruples too rigid are a cloak for pride," 
and he means to exorcise this demon. He looks upon 
duty in a new light. She is no longer a severe, implac- 
able, unswerving spirit, but wisdom and tenderness are 
in her soul as well ; are indeed her divine and beneficent 
attributes. 
He is gentler even to Frances. He evinces an interest 
in her pleasures, though he cannot approve, and suggests 
others in their stead, to which she listens with inward scorn. 
''Were you in earnest," she says, one of the rare 
evenings when the guests go early, — she is quite sure his 
presence has dispersed them, — "when you said to Mrs. 
Westbrook that we were not likely to live in Washington 
this winter? You mentioned it one night when you were 
angry—" 
"For the anger I desire to apologize," he replies, with 
the utmost courtesy. " Yes. I shall not remain steadily 
myself. I can always return home the last of the week, 
and from present indications I shall need some of my 
time and interest here. Your father is breaking sadly, 
I find." 
"Suppose 7 insist upon spending the winter there?" 
she demands, haughtily. 
"But you will not, when I tell you that our last year's 
dissipation made too great an inroad in our income. You 
might spend a month when it grows dull here." 
"Dull!" she echoes, scornfully. "Why, the winters 
here are like being exiled to Siberia. I never have been 
in the habit of staying here ; at least, not until I was 
married. You had better shut me in a dungeon at once." 
"This is childish," he answers, with the severe dignity 
that is so much a part of him. " We will not discuss the 
subject further" ; and rising, he leaves the room. 
 
 
 
She clinches her hands in a passion of anger. What is 
the meaning of this change coming over him? Does he 
intend to assert his power and become master of her? 
Hardly. Her eyes flash out a dangerous light. Why, she 
asks no more than other women. Who, of all the society 
people she knows, devotes her whole time to husband and 
babies ? Ages ago it might have been the grand climax 
of devotion, but it is not so to-day. There is a wider 
sphere ; there is a power in attractiveness that sways the 
world, and she likes the power, the triumph. 
To make poverty the excuse is simply silly. They can 
shut up their house, send Rose and the baby to her father's. 
No, there must be some deeper, hidden cause. Is he 
envious of her charm to society? Has he the mean, 
grudging desire to keep a woman hidden from all eyes 
but his own, and he, like a grand bashaw, to come 
and smile on his slave as he will? Oh! how could she 
have been so blind as to marry him? She looks back 
at herself with an incredulous wonder, a supreme con- 
tempt. 
Graham's relations to Doris and his sister-in-law puzzle 
himself immeasurably. He still keeps on friendly terms 
with Doris, aided and abetted not a little by Mrs. Gilbert, 
who has a great interest in the handsome young fellow, 
and cannot understand why Doris will not love him. But 
then she always was peculiar, unlike society girls. Left 
to herself, she would never have given Lloyd Wentworth 
sufficient encouragement to marry her. But Graham does 
not need that. His half -melancholy and sentimental ten- 
dernesses render him extremely fascinating to the elder 
woman, but day by day he grows more in disfavor with 
Doris. She is not jealous, but it does seem as if his rela- 
tions with Frances lowered his moral tone. She dislikes 
his flings at Basil, his dainty epicurean philosophies, his 
placing pleasure as the chief good. Surely there was a 
time when his manhood had a nobler promise. 
 
 
 
As for Graham, he rather enjoys dallying on the brink 
of a mild danger. The imperious moods of Frances and 
her evident dissatisfactions amuse him as an evening at a 
theatre. It is playing at love and sympathy to comfort 
lier, and at times she rises to heights that really do fasci- 
nate him. She is so spirited, so amhitious, she would 
carry along a husband of the same tastes and desires with 
herself. She seems born to be the wife of a stirring poli- 
tician, she is so fertile in plans and expedients, and Basil 
is really no politician, has none of the traits of leadership 
demanded at the present day. 
But since danger grows rapidly under prospering cir- 
cumstances, and the time flies, the week of departure 
