
This little board has been welcomed as a "toy" or a "game" into
thousands of families, without suspicion of its having the remotest
connection with so-called "Spiritualism." The cry has been raised,

    "Quidquid id est, timeo Danaos et dona ferentes,"

but too late! The Trojan walls are everywhere down; the wooden horse is
already dragged into the city with all the armed heroes concealed in its
bowels; the battle has commenced, and must be fought out to the bitter
end, as best it may be; and in the numerous magazine and newspaper
articles that have lately appeared on the subject, we have probably
only the beginning of a clash of arms which must terminate one way or
another.

Should our grave and learned philosophers find themselves overcome by
this little three-legged spider, it will be mortifying; but in order to
avoid that result, we fear they will have to do better than they have
done yet.

On the other hand, before the Spiritualists can be allowed to claim the
final victory in this contest, they should, it seems to me, be required
to answer the following questions in a manner satisfactory to the
highest intelligence and the better moral and religious sense of the
community:

Why is it that "spirits" communicating through your mediums, by
Planchette or otherwise, can not relate, plainly and circumstantially,
any required incident of their lives, as a man would relate his
history to a friend, instead of dealing so much in vague and ambiguous
generalities, as they almost always do, and that, too, often in the bad
grammar or bad spelling of the medium? Or, as a question allied to this,
why is it that what purports to be the same spirit, generally, if not
always, fails, when trial is made, to identify himself in the same
manner through any two different mediums? Or, as another question still
allied to the above, why is it that your Websters, Clays, Calhouns, and
others, speaking through mediums, so universally give the idea that they
have deteriorated in intellect since they passed into the spirit-world?
And why is it that so little discourse or writing that possesses real
merit, and so much that is mere drivel, has come through your mediums,
if spirits are the authors? And why does it so often happen that the
spirits--if they are spirits--can not communicate anything except what
is already in the mind of the medium, or at least of some other person
present? It does not quite answer these questions to say that the
medium is "undeveloped" unless you explain to us precisely on what
principle the undevelopment affects the case. A speaking-trumpet may
be "undeveloped"--cracked or wanting in some of its parts, so as to
deteriorate the sound made through it; but we should at least expect
that a man speaking through it would speak his own thoughts, and not the
thoughts of the trumpet.

And then, looking at this subject in its moral and social aspects,
the question should be answered: Why, on the supposition that these
communications really come from immortal spirits, have they made so
little progress, during the twenty years that they have been with
us, in elevating the moral and social standard of human nature, in
making better husbands and wives, parents and children, citizens and
philanthropists, in drawing mankind together in harmony and charity, and
founding and endowing great institutions for the elevation of the race?
Rather may we not ask, in all kindness, why is it that the Spiritualist
community has been little more than a Babel from the beginning to the
present moment?

Or, ascending to the class of themes that come under the head of
Religion: Why is it that prayer is so generally ignored, and the worship
of God regarded as an unworthy superstition? Why is it that in the
diatribes, dissertations, and speeches of those who profess to act under
the sanction of the "spirits," we have a reproduction of so much of
the slang and ribaldry of the infidels of the last century, and of the
German Rationalism of the present, which is now being rejected by the
Germans themselves? And why is it that in their references to the great
lights of the world, we so often have Confucius, Jesus Christ, and
William Shakspeare jumbled up into indistinguishability?

I do not say that all these questions may not be answered consistently
with the claims of the spiritual hypothesis, but I do say that before
our Spiritualist friends can have a right to expect the better portion
of mankind to drink down this draft of philosophy which they have mixed,
they must at least satisfy them that there is no poison in it.

Having thus exhibited these several theories, and, to an extent,
discussed them pro et contra, it is but fair that we should now ask
Planchette--using that name in a liberal sense--what is her theory of
the whole matter? Perhaps it may be said that after raising this world
of curiosity and doubt in the public mind as to its own origin and
true nature, we have some semblance of a right to hold this mysterious
intelligence responsible for a solution of the difficulty it has
created; and perhaps if we are a little skillful in putting our
questions, and occasionally call in the aid of Planchette's brothers and
sisters, and other members of this mysterious family, we may obtain some
satisfactory results.


PLANCHETTE'S OWN THEORY.

Planchette is intelligent; she can answer questions, and often answer
them correctly, too. On what class of subjects, then, might she be
expected to give answers more generally correct than those which relate
to herself, especially if the questions be asked in a proper spirit,
and under such conditions as are claimed to be requisite for correct
responses? Following the suggestion of this thought, the original plan
of this essay has been somewhat modified, and a careful consultation
instituted, of which I here submit the results:

Inquirer. Planchette, excuse me if I now treat you as one on whom a
little responsibility is supposed to rest. An exciter of curiosity, if
as intelligent as you appear to be, should be able to satisfy curiosity;
and a creator of doubts may be presumed to have some ability to solve
doubts. May I not, then, expect from you a solution of the mysteries
which have thus far enveloped you?

Planchette. That will depend much upon the spirit in which you may
interrogate me, the pertinence of your questions, and your capacity to
interpret the answers. If you propose a serious and careful consultation
for really useful purposes, there is another thing which you should
understand in the commencement. It is that, owing to conditions and laws
which may yet be explained to you, I shall be compelled to use your own
mind as a scaffolding, so to speak, on which to stand to pass you down
the truths you may seek, and which are above the reach of your own mind
alone. Keep your mind unperturbed, then, as well as intent upon your
object, or I can do but little for you.

I. The question which stands as basic to all others which I wish to
ask is, What is the nature of this power, intelligence, and will that
communicates with us in this mysterious manner?

P. It is the reduplication of your own mental state; it is a spirit;
it is the whole spiritual world; it is God--one or all, according to
your condition and the form and aspect in which you are able to receive
the communication.

I. That is covering rather too much ground for a beginning. For
definiteness, suppose we take one of those points at a time. In
saying, "It is a spirit," do you mean that you yourself, the immediate
communicating agent, are an intelligence outside of, and separate from,
myself, and that that intelligence is the spirit or soul of a man who
once occupied a physical body, as I now do?

P. That is what I assert--only in reaffirmation of what the world, in
explanation of similar phenomena, has been told a thousand times before.

I. Excuse me if I should question you a little closely on this point.
There are grave difficulties in the way of an acceptance of this theory.
The first of these is the prima facie absurdity of the idea.

P. Absurdity! How so?

I. It is so contrary to our ordinary course of thought; contrary, I
may say, to our instincts; contrary to what the human faculties would
naturally expect; contrary to the general experience of the world up to
this time. In fact, the more highly educated minds of the world have
long agreed in classing the idea as among the grossest of superstitions.

P. If you would, in place of each one of these assertions, affirm
directly the contrary, you would come much nearer the truth. It is
certain that the highest minds, as well as the lowest, of all ages and
nations, with only such exceptions as prove rather than disprove the
rule, have confidently believed in the occasional interposition of
spirits in mundane affairs. True, there are in this age many of the
class which you call the "more highly educated minds," who, spoiled by
reasonings merely sensual, and hence necessarily sophistical, do not
admit such an idea; but do not even these generally admit that there is
an invisible world of spirits?

I. Most of them do; all professing Christians do. I do, certainly.

P. Let me test their consistency, and yours, then, by asking, Do they
and you hold that one and the same God made all worlds, both natural and
spiritual, and all things in them?

I. Of course they do; how otherwise?

P. Then, seeing that you acknowledge the unity of the Cause of all
worlds and all things in them, you must acknowledge a certain union of
all these in one universal system as the offspring of that one Cause,
must you not?

I. Yes; I suppose the totality of things, natural and spiritual, must
be acknowledged as forming, in some sense, one united system, of diverse
but mutually correlated parts.

P. Please tell me, then, how there can be any united system in which
the component parts, divisions, and subdivisions, down even to the most
minute, are not each, necessarily and always, in communication with all
the others, either immediately or mediately?

I. I see the point, and acknowledge it is ingeniously made; but do you
not see that the argument fails to meet the whole difficulty?

P. What I do see is, that in admitting a connection of any kind,
whether mediate or immediate, between the natural and spiritual worlds,
you admit that a communication between the two worlds--hence between all
things of one and all things of the other; hence between the intelligent
inhabitants of one and those of the other--is logically not only
possible but probable, not to say certain; and in this admission you
yield the point under immediate discussion, and virtually concede that
the idea of spirit-communication is not only not absurd, but is,
indeed, among the most reasonable of things, to which ignorance and
materialistic prejudice alone have given the aspect of absurdity.

I. Well, there is something in that which looks like argument, I must
admit.

P. Can you not go a little farther and admit for established fact,
proved by the testimony of the Book from which you derive your religious
faith, that communications between spirits and mortals have sometimes
taken place?

I. True, but the Bible calls the spirits thus communicating, "familiar
spirits," and those who have dealings with them, "witches" and
"wizards," and forbids the practice under severe penalties. How does
that sound to you, my ingenious friend?

P. The way you put it, it sounds as though you did not quite
understand the full scope of my question; but no matter, since it is
at once a proof and an acknowledgment on your part that spirits have
communicated with mortals--the essential point in dispute, which when
once admitted will render further reasonings more plain. Let me ask you,
however, was not the practice of consulting familiar spirits that is
forbidden in the Bible, a practice that was common among the heathen
nations of those times?

I. It was, and is spoken of as such in several passages.

P. Did not the heathens consult familiar spirits as petty divinities,
or gods, and as such, follow their sayings and commands implicitly? and
would not the Israelites to whom the Old Testament was addressed have
violated the first command in the decalogue by adopting this practice?
and was not that the reason, and the only reason, why the practice was
forbidden?

I. To each of those questions I answer, Yes, certainly.

P. Do the Old or New Testament writings anywhere command us to abstain
from all intercourse with spirits?--or from any intercourse which would
not be a violation of the command, "Thou shalt have no other Gods before
me?"

I. Really I do not know that the Bible contains any such command.

P. Do you not know, on the contrary, that spirits other than those
called "familiar spirits," often did communicate, and with apparently
good and legitimate purposes, too, with men whose names are mentioned in
the Bible?

I. Well, I must in candor say that there were some cases of that kind.

P. May you not, then, from all this learn a rule which will always
be a safe guide to you in respect to the matters under discussion? I
submit for your consideration, that that rule is, "Be not forgetful to
entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares."
But even if the "strangers" that may come to you, either of your own
world or the spirit-world, should prove to be "angels," do not follow
them implicitly, or in an unreasoning manner, nor worship them as gods,
for in so doing you would render yourself amenable to the law against
having dealings with "familiar spirits."

I. I must admit that your remarks throw a somewhat new light on the
subject, and I do not know that I can dispute what you say. But even
admitting all your strong points thus far, the spirit-theory of
Planchettism and other and kindred modern wonders remains encumbered
with a mass of difficulties which it seems to me must be removed before
it can be considered as having much claim to the credence of good and
rational minds. On some of these points I propose now to question you
somewhat closely, and shall hope that you will bear with me in the same
patience and candor which you have thus far manifested.

P. Ask your questions, and I shall answer them to the best of my
ability.


THE RATIONAL DIFFICULTY.

I. The difficulties, as they appear to me, are of a threefold
character--Rational, Moral, and Religious. I begin with the first,
the Rational Difficulty. And for a point to start from, let me ask,
Is it true, as generally held, that when a man becomes disencumbered
of the clogs and hinderances of the flesh, and passes into the
spirit-world--especially into the realms of the just--his intellect
becomes more clear and comprehensive?

P. That is true, as a general rule.

I. How is it, then, that in returning to communicate with us mortals,
the alleged spirits of men who were great and wise while living on the
earth, almost uniformly appear to have degenerated as to their mental
faculties, being seldom, if ever, able to produce anything above
mediocrity? And why is it that the speaking and writing purporting to
come from spirits, are so generally in the bad grammar, bad spelling,
and other distinctive peculiarities of the style of the medium, and so
often express precisely what the medium knows, imagines, or surmises,
and nothing more?

P. That your questions have a certain degree of pertinence, I must
admit; but in making this estimate of the intelligence purporting to
come from the spiritual world, have you not ignored some things which
candor should have compelled you to take into the account? Think for a
moment.

I. Well, perhaps I ought to have made an exception in your own
favor. Your communication with me thus far has, I must admit, been
characterized by a remarkable breadth and depth of intelligence, as well
as ingenuity of argument.

P. And what, too, of the style and merits of the communications
purporting to come from spirits to other persons and through other
channels--are they not, as an almost universal rule, decidedly superior
to anything the medium could produce, unaided by the influence, whatever
it may be, which acts upon him?

I. Perhaps they are; indeed, I must admit I have known many instances
of alleged spirit-communications which, though evidently stamped with
some of the characteristics of the medium, were quite above the normal
capacity of the latter; yet in themselves considered, they were
generally beneath the capacity of the living man from whose
disembodied spirit they purported to come.

P. By just so much, then, as the production given through a medium is
elevated above the medium's normal capacity, is the influence which acts
upon him to be credited with the character of that production. Please
make a note of this point gained. And now for the question why these
communications should be tinctured with the characteristics of the
medium at all; and why spirits can not, as a general rule, communicate
to mortals their own normal intelligence, freely and without
obstruction, as man communicates with man, or spirit with spirit. But
that we may be enabled to make this mystery more clear, we had better
attend first to another question which I see you have in your mind--the
question as to the potential agent used by spirits in making
communications.


THE MEDIUM--THE DOCTRINE OF SPHERES.

I. That is what we are anxious to understand; electricity, magnetism,
odylic force, or whatever you may know or believe it to be--give us all
the light you can on the subject.

P. Properly speaking, neither of these, or neither without important
qualifications. Preparatory to the true explanation, I will lay the
foundation of a new thought in your mind by asking, Do you know of any
body or organism in nature--unless, indeed, it be a dead body--which
has not something answering to an atmosphere?

I. It has been said by some astronomers that the moon has no
atmosphere; though others, again, have expressed the opinion that she
has, indeed, an atmosphere, but a very rare one.

P. Precisely so; and as might have been expected from the rarity
of her atmosphere, she has the smallest amount of cosmic life of
any planetary body in the solar system--only enough to admit of the
smallest development of vegetable and animal forms. Still, every sun,
planet, or other cosmic body in space is generally, and every regularly
constituted form connected with that body is specifically, surrounded,
and also pervaded, by its own peculiar and characteristic atmosphere;
and to this universal rule, minerals, plants, animals, man, and in their
own degree even the disembodied men whom you call "spirits," form no
exception.

I. Do you mean to say that man and spirits, and also the lower living
forms, are surrounded by a sphere of air or wind like the atmosphere of
the earth, but yet no part of that atmosphere?

P. The atmospheres of other bodies than planets are not air or wind,
but in their substances are so different from what you know as the
atmospheres of planets as not to have anything specifically in common
with them. The specific atmospheres of flowers, and when excited by
friction, those also of some metals, and even of stone crystals,
are often perceptible to the sense of smell, and are in that way
distinguishable not only from the atmosphere of the earth, but also from
the atmospheres of each other. But properly speaking, the psychic aura
surrounding man and spirits should no longer be called an atmosphere,
that is, an atom-sphere or sphere of atoms, but simply a "sphere;"
for it is not atomic, that is, material, in its constitution, but is
a spiritual substance, and as such extends indefinitely into space,
or rather has only an indirect relation to space at all. Nor is the
atmosphere, as popularly understood, the only enveloping sphere of the
earth, for beyond and pervading it, and pervading also even all solid
bodies, is a sublime interplanetary substance called "ether," the
vehicle of light, and next approach to spiritual substance; while all
bodies, solid, liquid, and gaseous, are also pervaded by electricity.

I. All that is interesting, but the subject is new to me, and I would
like to have some farther illustration. Can you cite me some familiar
fact to prove that man is actually surrounded and pervaded by a sphere
such as you describe?

P. I can only say that you are at times conscious of the fact
yourself, as all persons are who are possessed of an ordinary degree
of psychic sensitiveness. Does not even the silent presence of certain
persons, though entire strangers, affect you with an uncomfortable sense
of repulsion, perhaps embarrassing your thoughts and speech, while in
the presence of others you at once feel perfectly free, easy, at home,
and experience even a marked and mysterious sense of congeniality?

I. That is so; I have often noticed it, but never could account for
it.

P. Farther than this, have you not at times when free from external
disturbances, with the mind in a revery of loose thoughts, noticed the
abrupt intrusion of the thought of a person altogether out of the line
of your previous meditations, and then observed that the same person
would come bodily into your presence very shortly afterward?

I. I have, frequently; the same phenomenon appears to have been
noticed by others, and is so common an occurrence as to have given rise
to the well-known slang proverb, "Speak of the devil and he will always
appear."

P. Just so; but still further: Have you not personally known of
instances, or been credibly informed of them, in which mutually
sympathizing friends of highly sensitive organizations were mysteriously
and correctly impressed with each other's general conditions, even when
long distances apart, and without any external communication?

I. I have heard and read of many such cases, but could have scarcely
believed them had I not had some experience of the kind myself.

P. There must, then, be here some medium of communication; that medium
is evidently not anything cognizable to either of the five outer senses.
What, then, can it be but the co-related spheres of the two persons,
which I have already told you are not atomic--not material but
spiritual, and as such have little relation to space?

I. That idea, if true, looks to me to be of some importance, and I
would like you, if you can, to show me clearly what relation these
"spheres," as you call them, have to the spiritual nature of man.

P. Consider, then, the primal meaning of the word "spirit:" It is
derived from the Latin spiritus, the basic meaning of which is
breath, wind, air--nearly the same idea that you attach to the word
"atmosphere." So the Greek word pneuma, also translated "spirit,"
means precisely the same thing. The same meaning is likewise attached
to the Hebrew word ruach, also sometimes translated "spirit." Now,
carrying out this use of terms, the wind, air, or atmosphere of the
earth (including the ether, electricity, and other imponderable
elements) is the spirit of the earth;[2] the atmosphere of any other
body, great or small, is the spirit of that body; the atmosphere, or
rather sphere, being now without atoms, of a man, considered as an
intellectual and moral being, is the spirit of that man; the sphere of
a disembodied man or soul is the spirit of that man or soul; and so the
Infinite and Eternal Sphere of the Deity which pervades and controls all
creations both in the spiritual and natural universe, is the Spirit of
the Deity, which in the Bible is called the Holy Spirit.

      [2] Query: Have we here the spiritus mundi of the old
      philosophers?

I. Well, those ideas seem singularly consistent with themselves, to
say the least, however novel they may appear. But now another point: You
have said that atmospheres or spheres surround and pervade all bodies,
unless, indeed, they be dead bodies--attributing, as I understand you,
a kind of cosmic life to plants, and a mineral life to minerals, as
well as a vegetable and animal life respectively to vegetables and
animals; do you mean by that to intimate that the sphere is the effect
or the cause of the living body?

P. Of each living material form, the sphere, or at least some
sphere, was the cause. Matter, considered simply by itself, is dead, and
can only live by the influx of a surrounding sphere or spirit. It may
be said at the last synthesis, that the general sphere even of each
microscopic monad that is in process of becoming vitalized, as well as
of the great nebulous mass that is to form a universe, is the Spirit
of the Infinite Deity, which is present with atoms in the degree of
atoms, as well as with worlds in the degree of worlds. This Spirit,
as it embodies itself in matter, becomes segregated, finited, and
individualized, and forms a specific soul, spirit, or sphere by itself,
now no longer deific, but always of a nature necessarily corresponding
to the peculiar form and condition of the matter in which it becomes
embodied. Life, therefore, is not the result of organization, but
organization is the result of life, which latter is eternal, never
having had a beginning, and never to have an end. Some of your
scientific men have recently discovered what they have been pleased to
term "the physical basis of life," in a microscopic and faintly vital
substance called protoplasm, which forms the material foundation of
all organic structures, both in the vegetable and animal kingdoms. They
have not yet, however, discovered the source from which the life found
in this substance comes--which would be plain to them if they understood
the doctrine of spheres and influx as I have here given it.

I. I thank you for this profoundly suggestive thought, even should it
prove to be no more than a thought. But please now show us what bearing
all this has upon the question more particularly before us--the question
as to the medium and process through which this little board is moved,
the tables are tipped, people are entranced and made to speak and write,
and all these modern wonders are produced--also how and why it is that
the alleged spirit-communications are commonly tinctured, more or less,
with the peculiar characteristics of the human agents through whom they
are given?

P. You now have some idea of the doctrine of spheres; you will,
however, understand that the spheres of created beings, owing to a unity
of origin, are universally co-related, and, under proper conditions, can
act and react upon each other. You have before had some true notion of
the laws of rapport, which means relation or correspondence. You will
understand, further, that there can be no action between any two things
or beings in any department of creation except as they are in rapport
or correspondence with each other, and that the action can go no farther
than the rapport or correspondence extends. Now, two spirits can
always, when it is in divine order, readily communicate with each other,
because they can always bring themselves into direct rapport at some
one or more points. Though matter is widely discreted from spirit, in
that the one is dead and the other is alive, yet there is a certain
correspondence between the two, and between the degrees of one and the
degrees of the other; and according to this correspondence, relation,
or rapport, spirit may act upon matter. Thus your spirit, in all its
degrees and faculties, is in the closest rapport with all the degrees
of matter composing your body, and for this reason alone it is able to
move it as it does, which it will no longer be able to do when that
rapport is destroyed by what you call death. Through your body it is
en rapport with, and is able to act upon, surrounding matter. If,
then, you are in a susceptible condition, a spirit can not only get into
rapport with your spirit, and through it with your body, and control
its motions, or even suspend your own proper action and external
consciousness by entrancement, but if you are at the same time en
rapport with this little board, it can, through contact of your hands,
get into rapport with that, and move it without any conscious or
volitional agency on your part. Furthermore, under certain favorable
conditions, a spirit may, through your sphere and body combined, come
into rapport even with the spheres of the ultimate particles of
material bodies near you, and thence with the particles and the whole
bodies themselves, and may thus, even without contact of your hands,
move them or make sounds upon them, as has often been witnessed. Its
action, however, as before said, ceases where the rapport ceases; and
if communications from really intelligent spirits have sometimes been
defective as to the quality of the intelligence manifested, it is
because there has been found nothing in the medium which could be
brought into rapport or correspondence with the more elevated ideas of
the spirit. The spirit, too, in frequent instances, is unable to prevent
its energizing influences from being diverted by the reactive power of
the medium, into the channels of the imperfect types of thought and
expression that are established in his mind, and it is for this simple
reason that the communication is, as you say, often tinctured with the
peculiarities of the medium, and even sometimes is nothing more than
a reproduction of the mental states of the latter, perhaps greatly
intensified.

I. If this theory, so far seemingly very plausible, is really the
correct one, it ought to go one step farther, and explain the many
disorderly unintelligible rappings, thumpings, throwing of stones,
hurling of furniture, etc., which often have occurred in the presence
of particular persons, or at particular places.[3]

      [3] See an article entitled "A Remarkable Case of Physical
      Phenomena," in the Atlantic Monthly for August, 1868.

P. Those are manifestations which, when not the designed work of evil
spirits, have their proximate source in the dream-region which lies
between the natural and spiritual worlds.

I. Pray tell us what you mean by the dream-region that lies between
the two worlds?

P. There are sometimes conditions in which the body is profoundly
asleep, with no perturbations of the nervous system caused by previous
mental and physical exercise. In this state the mind may still be
perfectly awake, and independently, consciously, and even intensely
active. When thus conditioned, it may be, and often is, among spirits
in the spiritual world, though from the nature of the case it is seldom
able to bring back into the bodily state any reminiscences of the scenes
of that world. The dream state, properly speaking, is not this, but
a state intermediate between this and the normal, wakeful state of
the bodily senses, and is a state of broken, confused, irrational,
inconsistent, and irresponsible thoughts, emotions, and apparent
actions--the whole arising from confusedly intermixed bodily and
spiritual states and influences. The potential spheres of spirits who
desire to make manifestations to the natural world sometimes become
commingled, designedly or otherwise, with the spheres of persons in the
body who, in consequence of certain nervous or psychic disorders, are
more or less in this dream-region even when the body is so far awake as
to be en rapport with external things; and in such cases, whatever
manifestations may arise from the spiritual potencies with which such
persons are surcharged, will of necessity be beyond the control, or
possibly even beyond the cognizance, of any governing spirit, and will
be irrational, inconsistent, and sometimes very annoying, or even
destructive, according to the types of the dreamy mentality of the
medium. If you will think for a moment, you will remember that the kind
of manifestations referred to are never known to occur except in the
presence of persons in a semi-somnambulic or highly hysterical state,
or laboring under some analogous nervous disorders; and the persons are
often of a low organization, and very ignorant.


THE MORAL AND RELIGIOUS DIFFICULTY.

I. I am constrained to say, my mysterious friend, that the novelty and
ingenuity of your ideas surprise me greatly, and I do, in all candor,
acknowledge that you have skillfully disposed of my objections to the
spiritual theory of these phenomena on rational grounds, and explained
the philosophy of this thing, in a manner which I am at present unable
to gainsay. I must still hesitate, however, to enroll myself among the
converts to the spiritual theory unless you can remove another serious
objection, which rests on moral and religious grounds. From so
important and startling a development as general open communications
from spirits, it seems to me that we would have a right to expect some
conspicuous good to mankind; yet, although this thing has been before
the world now over twenty years, I am unable to see the evidence that
it has wrought any improvement in the moral and social condition of
the converts to its claims. Pray, how do you account for that fact?

P. My friend, that question should be addressed to the Spiritualists,
