ought to have remembered before), that he had never taken 
her in the least into his confidence about his affairs. That 
was not the Southern way, and he was at least as proud as 
he was poor. In this surmise she was just ; Basil Ransom 
would have despised himself if he had been capable of 
confessing to a woman that he couldn't make a living. 
Such questions were none of their business (their business 
was simply to be provided for, practise the domestic virtues, 
 
and be charmingly grateful), and there was, to his sense, 
something almost indecent in talking about them. Mrs. 
Luna felt doubly sorry for him as she perceived that he 
denied himself the luxury of sympathy (that is, of hers), 
and the vague but comprehensive sigh that passed her lips 
as she took up her crochet again was unusually expressive 
of helplessness. She said that of course she knew how 
great his talents were he could do anything he wanted ; 
and Basil Ransom wondered for a moment whether, if she 
were to ask him point-blank to marry her, it would be con- 
sistent with the high courtesy of a Southern gentleman to 
refuse. After she should be his wife he might of course 
confess to her that he was too poor to marry, for in that 
relation even a Southern gentleman of the highest tone 
must sometimes unbend. But he didn't in the least long 
for this arrangement, and was conscious that the most 
pertinent sequel to her conjecture would be for him to take 
up his hat and walk away. 
Within five minutes, however, he had come to desire to 
do this almost as little as to marry Mrs. Luna. He wanted 
to hear more about the girl who lived with Olive Chancel- 
lor. Something had revived in him an old curiosity, an 
image half effaced when he learned that she had come 
back to America. He had taken a wrong impression from 
what Mrs. Luna said, nearly a year before, about her 
sister's visit to Europe ; he had supposed it was to be a 
long absence, that Miss Chancellor wanted perhaps to get 
the little prophetess away from her parents, possibly even 
away from some amorous entanglement. Then, no doubt, 
they wanted to study up the woman-question with the facili- 
ties that Europe would offer ; he didn't know much about 
Europe, but he had an idea that it was a great place for 
facilities. His knowledge of Miss Chancellor's departure, 
accompanied by her young companion, had checked at the 
time, on Ransom's part, a certain habit of idle but none the 
less entertaining retrospect. His life, on the whole, had 
not been rich in episode, and that little chapter of his visit 
to his queer, clever, capricious cousin, with his evening at 
Miss Birdseye's, and his glimpse, repeated on the morrow, 
of the strange, beautiful, ridiculous, red-haired young 
 
improvisatrice, unrolled itself in his memory like a page of 
interesting fiction. The page seemed to fade, however, 
when he heard that the two girls had gone, for an indefinite 
time, to unknown lands ; this carried them out of his range, 
spoiled the perspective, diminished their actuality ; so that 
for several months past, with his increase of anxiety about 
his own affairs, and the low pitch of his spirits, he had not 
thought at all about Verena Tarrant. The fact that she 
was once more in Boston, with a certain contiguity that it 
seemed to imply between Boston and New York, presented 
itself now as important and agreeable. He was conscious 
that this was rather an anomaly, and his consciousness 
made him, had already made him, dissimulate slightly. He 
did not pick up his hat to go ; he sat in his chair taking 
his chance of the tax which Mrs. Luna might lay upon his 
urbanity. He remembered that he had not made, as yet, 
any very eager inquiry about Newton, who at this late hour 
had succumbed to the only influence that tames the un- 
tamable and was sleeping the sleep of childhood, if not of 
innocence. Ransom repaired his neglect in a manner which 
elicited the most copious response from his hostess. The 
boy had had a good many tutors since Ransom gave him 
up, and it could not be said that his education languished. 
Mrs. Luna spoke with pride of the manner in which he 
went through them ; if he did not master his lessons, he 
mastered his teachers, and she had the happy conviction 
that she gave him every advantage. Ransom's delay was 
diplomatic, but at the end of ten minutes he returned to 
the young ladies in Boston; he asked why, with their 
aggressive programme, one hadn't begun to feel their onset, 
why the echoes of Miss Tarrant's eloquence hadn't reached 
his ears. Hadn't she come out yet in public ? was she not 
coming to stir them up in New York? He hoped she 
hadn't broken down. 
'She didn't seem to break down last summer, at the 
Female Convention,' Mrs. Luna replied. ' Have you for- 
gotten that too? Didn't I tell you of the sensation she 
produced there, and of what I heard from Boston about 
it? Do you mean to say I didn't give you that 'Transcript,' 
with the report of her great speech ? It was just before 
 
they sailed for Europe ; she went off with flying colours, in 
a blaze of fireworks.' Ransom protested that he had not 
heard this affair mentioned till that moment, and then, 
when they compared dates, they found it had taken place 
just after his last visit to Mrs. Luna. This, of course, gave 
her a chance to say that he had treated her even worse 
than she supposed ; it had been her impression, at any rate, 
that they had talked together about Verena's sudden bound 
into fame. Apparently she confounded him with some one 
else, that was very possible ; he was not to suppose that he 
occupied such a distinct place in her mind, especially when 
she might die twenty deaths before he came near her. 
Ransom demurred to the implication that Miss Tarrant was 
famous ; if she were famous, wouldn't she be in the New 
York papers ? He hadn't seen her there, and he had no 
recollection of having encountered any mention at the time 
(last June, was it ?) of her exploits at the Female Conven- 
tion. A local reputation doubtless she had, but that had 
been the case a year and a half before, and what was 
expected of her then was to become a first-class national 
glory. He was willing to believe that she had created some 
excitement in Boston, but he shouldn't attach much im- 
portance to that till one began to see her photograph in the 
stores. Of course, one must give her time, but he had 
supposed Miss Chancellor was going to put her through 
faster. 
If he had taken a contradictious tone on purpose to 
draw Mrs. Luna out, he could not have elicited more of the 
information he desired. It was perfectly true that he had 
seen no reference to Verena's performances in the preceding 
June ; there were periods when the newspapers seemed to 
him so idiotic that for weeks he never looked at one. He 
learned from Mrs. Luna that it was not Olive who had sent 
her the ' Transcript ' and in letters had added some private 
account of the doings at the convention to the testimony of 
that amiable sheet ; she had been indebted for this service 
to a 'gentleman -friend,' who wrote her everything that 
happened in Boston, and what every one had every day for 
dinner. Not that it was necessary for her happiness to 
know ; but the gentleman she spoke of didn't know what 
 
to invent to please her. A Bostonian couldn't imagine 
that one didn't want to know, and that was their idea of 
ingratiating themselves, or, at any rate, it was his, poor 
man. Olive would never have gone into particulars about 
Verena ; she regarded her sister as quite too much one of 
the profane, and knew Adeline couldn't understand why, 
when she took to herself a bosom-friend, she should have 
been at such pains to select her in just the most dreadful 
class in the community. Verena was a perfect little 
adventuress, and quite third-rate into the bargain ; but, of 
course, she was a pretty girl enough, if one cared for hair 
of the colour of cochineal. As for her people, they were 
too absolutely awful ; it was exactly as if she, Mrs. Luna, 
had struck up an intimacy with the daughter of her chiro- 
podist. It took Olive to invent such monstrosities, and to 
think she was doing something great for humanity when she 
did so ; though, in spite of her wanting to turn everything 
over, and put the lowest highest, she could be just as con- 
temptuous and invidious, when it came to really mixing, as 
if she were some grand old duchess. She must do her the 
justice to say that she hated the Tarrants, the father and 
mother ; but, all the same, she let Verena run to and fro 
between Charles Street and the horrible hole they lived in, 
and Adeline knew from that gentleman who wrote so 
copiously that the girl now and then spent a week at a 
time at Cambridge. Her mother, who had been ill for 
some weeks, wanted her to sleep there. Mrs. Luna knew 
further, by her correspondent, that Verena had or had had 
the winter before a great deal of attention from gentlemen. 
She didn't know how she worked that into the idea that 
the female sex was sufficient to itself; but she had grounds 
for saying that this was one reason why Olive had taken 
her abroad. She was afraid Verena would give in to some 
man, and she wanted to make a break. Of course, any 
such giving in would be very awkward for a young woman 
who shrieked out on platforms that old maids were the 
highest type. Adeline guessed Olive had perfect control of 
her now, unless indeed she used the expeditions to Cam- 
bridge as a cover for meeting gentlemen. She was an artful 
little minx, and cared as much for the rights of women as 
 
she did for the Panama Canal j the only right of a woman 
she wanted was to climb up on top of something, where 
the men could look at her. She would stay with Olive as 
long as it served her purpose, because Olive, with her great 
respectability, could push her, and counteract the effect of 
her low relations, to say nothing of paying all her expenses 
and taking her the tour of Europe. ' But, mark my words,' 
said Mrs. Luna, 'she will give Olive the greatest cut she 
has ever had in her life. She will run off with some lion- 
tamer; she will marry a circus-man!' And Mrs. Luna 
added that it would serve Olive Chancellor right. But she 
would take it hard ; look out for tantrums then ! 
Basil Ransom's emotions were peculiar while his hostess 
delivered herself, in a manner at once casual and emphatic, 
of these rather insidious remarks. He took them all in, 
for they represented to him certain very interesting facts ; 
but he perceived at the same time that Mrs. Luna didn't 
know what she was talking about. He had seen Verena 
Tarrant only twice in his life, but it was no use telling him 
that she was an adventuress though, certainly, it was 
very likely she would end by giving Miss Chancellor a cut. 
He chuckled, with a certain grimness, as this image passed 
before him ; it was not unpleasing, the idea that he should 
be avenged (for it would avenge him to know it), upon the 
wanton young woman who had invited him to come and 
see her in order simply to slap his face. But he had an 
odd sense of having lost something in not knowing of the 
other girl's appearance at the Women's Convention a 
vague feeling that he had been cheated and trifled with. 
The complaint was idle, inasmuch as it was not probable 
he could have gone to Boston to listen to her ; but it 
represented to him that he had not shared, even dimly and 
remotely, in an event which concerned her very closely. 
Why should he share, and what was more natural than that 
the things which concerned her closely should not concern 
him at all ? This question came to him only as he walked 
home that evening ; for the moment it remained quite in 
abeyance : therefore he was free to feel also that his 
imagination had been rather starved by his ignorance of 
the fact that she was near him again (comparatively), that 
 
she was in the dimness of the horizon (no longer beyond 
the curve of the globe), and yet he had not perceived it. 
This sense of personal loss, as I have called it, made him 
feel, further, that he had something to make up, to recover. 
He could scarcely have told you how he would go about 
it; but the idea, formless though it was, led him in a 
direction very different from the one he had been following 
a quarter of an hour before. As he watched it dance before 
him he fell into another silence, in the midst of which 
Mrs. Luna gave him another mystic smile. The effect of 
it was to make him rise to his feet ; the whole landscape 
of his mind had suddenly been illuminated. Decidedly, 
it was not his duty to marry Mrs. Luna, in order to have 
means to pursue his studies ; he jerked himself back, as if 
he had been on the point of it. 
'You don't mean to say you are going already? I 
haven't said half I wanted to ! ' she exclaimed. 
He glanced at the clock, saw it was not yet late, took 
a turn about the room, then sat down again in a different 
place, while she followed him with her eyes, wondering 
what was the matter with him. Ransom took good care 
not to ask her what it was she had still to say, and perhaps 
it was to prevent her telling him that he now began to 
talk, freely, quickly, in quite a new tone. He stayed half 
an hour longer, and made himself very agreeable. It 
seemed to Mrs. Luna now that he had every distinction 
(she had known he had most), that he was really a charming 
man. He abounded in conversation, till at last he took 
up his hat in earnest; he talked about the state of the 
South, its social peculiarities, the ruin wrought by the war, 
the dilapidated gentry, the queer types of superannuated 
fire-eaters, ragged and unreconciled, all the pathos and all 
the comedy of it, making her laugh at one moment, almost 
cry at another, and say to herself throughout that when he 
took it into his head there was no one who could make a 
lady's evening pass so pleasantly. It was only afterwards that 
she asked herself why he had not taken it into his head 
till the last, so quickly. She delighted in the dilapidated 
gentry ; her taste was completely different from her sister's, 
who took an interest only in the lower class, as it struggled 
 
to rise ; what Adeline cared for was the fallen aristocracy 
(it seemed to be falling everywhere very much; was not 
Basil Ransom an example of it ? was he not like a French 
gentilhomme de province after the Revolution ? or an old 
monarchical emigre from the Languedoc?), the despoiled 
patriciate, I say, whose attitude was noble and touching, 
and toward whom one might exercise a charity as discreet 
as their pride was sensitive. In all Mrs. Luna's visions 
of herself, her discretion was the leading feature. ' Are 
you going to let ten years elapse again before you come ? ' 
she asked, as Basil Ransom bade her good-night. ' You 
must let me know, because between this and your next visit 
I shall have time to go to Europe and come back. I shall 
take care to arrive the day before.' 
Instead of answering this sally, Ransom said, ' Are you 
not going one of these days to Boston? Are you not 
going to pay your sister another visit ?' 
Mrs. Luna stared. ' What good will that do you ? 
Excuse my stupidity,' she added ; ' of course, it gets me 
away. Thank you very much !' 
'  I don't want you to go away ; but I want to hear more 
about Miss Olive.' 
' Why in the world ? You know you loathe her ! ' 
Here, before Ransom could reply, Mrs. Luna again over- 
took herself. ' I verily believe that by Miss Olive you 
mean Miss Verena!' Her eyes charged him a moment 
with this perverse intention; then she exclaimed, 'Basil 
Ransom, are you in love with that creature?' 
He gave a perfectly natural laugh, not pleading guilty, 
in order to practise on Mrs. Luna, but expressing the 
simple state of the case. 'How should I be? I have 
seen her but twice in my life.' 
' If you had seen her more, I shouldn't be afraid ! 
Fancy your wanting to pack me off to Boston ! ' his hostess 
went on. ' I am in no hurry to stay with Olive again ; 
besides, that girl takes up the whole house. You had 
better go there yourself.' 
' I should like nothing better,' said Ransom. 
' Perhaps you would like me to ask Verena to spend a 
month with me it might be a way of attracting you 
 
to the house,' Adeline went on, in the tone of exuberant 
provocation. 
Ransom was on the point of replying that it would be a 
better way than any other, but he checked himself in time ; 
he had never yet, even in joke, made so crude, so rude a 
speech to a lady. You only knew when he was joking 
with women by his superadded civility. 'I beg you to 
believe there is nothing I would do for any woman in the 
world that I wouldn't do for you,' he said, bending, for the 
last time, over Mrs. Luna's plump hand. 
'I shall remember that and keep you up to it!' she 
cried after him, as he went. But even with this rather 
lively exchange of vows he felt that he had got off rather 
easily. He walked slowly up Fifth Avenue, into which, 
out of Adeline's cross-street, he had turned, by the light of 
a fine winter moon; and at every corner he stopped a 
minute, lingered in meditation, while he exhaled a soft, 
vague sigh. This was an unconscious, involuntary expres- 
sion of relief, such as a man might utter who had seen 
himself on the point of being run over and yet felt that he 
was whole. He didn't trouble himself much to ask what 
had saved him ; whatever it was it had produced a reaction, 
so that he felt rather ashamed of having found his look-out 
of late so blank. By the time he reached his lodgings, his 
ambition, his resolution, had rekindled; he had remembered 
that he formerly supposed he was a man of ability, that 
nothing particular had occurred to make him doubt it (the 
evidence was only negative, not positive), and that at any 
rate he was young enough to have another try. He 
whistled that night as he went to bed. 
XXIII. 
THREE weeks afterward he stood in front of Olive 
Chancellor's house, looking up and down the street and 
hesitating. He had told Mrs. Luna that he should like 
nothing better than to make another journey to Boston ; 
and it was not simply because he liked it that he had come. 
I was on the point of saying that a happy chance had 
favoured him, but it occurs to me that one is under no 
obligation to call chances by flattering epithets when they 
have been waited for so long. At any rate, the darkest 
hour is before the dawn ; and a few days after that melan- 
choly evening I have described, which Ransom spent in 
his German beer-cellar, before a single glass, soon emptied, 
staring at his future with an unremunerated eye, he found 
that the world appeared to have need of him yet. The 
 party as he would have said (I cannot pretend that his 
speech was too heroic for that), for whom he had transacted 
business in Boston so many months before, and who had 
expressed at the time but a limited appreciation of his 
services (there had been between the lawyer and his client 
a divergence of judgment), observing, apparently, that they 
proved more fruitful than he expected, had reopened the 
affair and presently requested Ransom to transport himself 
again to the sister city. His errand demanded more time 
than before, and for three days he gave it his constant 
attention. On the fourth he found he was still detained >, 
he should have to wait till the evening some important 
papers were to be prepared. He determined to treat the 
interval as a holiday, and he wondered what one could do in 
Boston to give one's morning a festive complexion. The 
weather was brilliant enough to minister to any illusion, 
and he strolled along the streets, taking it in. In front of 
the Music Hall and of Tremont Temple he stopped, look- 
ing at the posters in the doorway ; for was it not possible 
that Miss Chancellor's little friend might be just then 
addressing her fellow-citizens? Her name was absent, 
however, and this resource seemed to mock him. He 
knew no one in the place but Olive Chancellor, so there 
was no question of a visit to pay. He was perfectly re- 
solved that he would never go near her again ; she was 
doubtless a very superior being, but she had been too 
rough with him to tempt him further. Politeness, even a 
largely-interpreted 'chivalry,' required nothing more than 
he had already done ; he had quitted her, the other year, 
without telling her that she was a vixen, and that reticence 
was chivalrous enough. There was also Verena Tarrant, 
of course ; he saw no reason to dissemble when he spoke 
of her to himself, and he allowed himself the entertainment 
of feeling that he should like very much to see her again. 
Very likely she wouldn't seem to him the same; the 
impression she had made upon him was due to some acci- 
dent of mood or circumstance ; and, at any rate, any charm 
she might have exhibited then had probably been obliter- 
ated by the coarsening effect of publicity and the tonic 
influence of his kinswoman. It will be observed that in 
this reasoning of Basil Ransom's the impression was freely 
recognised, and recognised as a phenomenon still present. 
The attraction might have vanished, as he said to himself, 
but the mental picture of it was yet vivid. The greater 
the pity that he couldn't call upon Verena (he called her 
by her name in his thoughts, it was so pretty), without calling 
upon Olive, and that Olive was so disagreeable as to place 
that effort beyond his strength. There was another consider- 
ation, with Ransom, which eminently belonged to the man; 
he believed that Miss Chancellor had conceived, in the 
course of those few hours, and in a manner that formed so 
absurd a sequel to her having gone out of her way to make 
his acquaintance, such a dislike to him that it would be 
odious to her to see him again within her doors ; and he 
would have felt indelicate in taking warrant from her original 
invitation (before she had seen him), to inflict on her a 
presence which he had no reason to suppose the lapse of 
 
time had made less offensive. She had given him no 
sign of pardon or penitence in any of the little ways that 
are familiar to women by sending him a message through 
her sister, or even a book, a photograph, a Christmas card, 
or a newspaper, by the post. He felt, in a word, not at 
liberty to ring at her door ; he didn't know what kind of a 
fit the sight of his long Mississippian person would give 
her, and it was characteristic of him that he should wish so 
to spare the sensibilities of a young lady whom he had not 
found tender ; being ever as willing to let women off easily 
in the particular case as he was fixed in the belief that the 
sex in general requires watching. 
Nevertheless, he found himself, at the end of half an 
hour, standing on the only spot in Charles Street which had 
any significance for him. It had occurred to him that if he 
couldn't call upon Verena without calling upon Olive, he 
should be exempt from that condition if he called upon 
Mrs. Tarrant. It was not her mother, truly, who had asked 
him, it was the girl herself; and he was conscious, as a 
candid young American, that a mother is always less ac- 
cessible, more guarded by social prejudice, than a daughter. 
But he was at a pass in which it was permissible to strain 
a point, and he took his way in the direction in which he 
knew that Cambridge lay, remembering that Miss Tarrant's 
invitation had reference to that quarter and that Mrs. Luna 
had given him further evidence. Had she not said that 
Verena often went back there for visits of several days 
that her mother had been ill and she gave her much care ? 
There was nothing inconceivable in her being engaged at 
that hour (it was getting to be one o'clock), in one of those 
expeditions nothing impossible in the chance that he 
might find her in Cambridge. The chance, at any rate, 
was worth taking ; Cambridge, moreover, was worth seeing, 
and it was as good a way as another of keeping his holiday. 
It occurred to him, indeed, that Cambridge was a big place, 
and that he had no particular address. This reflection 
overtook him just as he reached Olive's house, which, oddly 
enough, he was obliged to pass on his way to the mysterious 
suburb. That is partly why he paused there; he asked 
himself for a moment why he shouldn't ring the bell and 
 
obtain his needed information from the servant, who would 
be sure to be able to give it to him. He had just dismissed 
this method, as of questionable taste, when he heard the 
door of the house open, within the deep embrasure in which, 
in Charles Street, the main portals are set, and which are 
partly occupied by a flight of steps protected at the bottom 
by a second door, whose upper half, in either wing, consists 
of a sheet of glass. It was a minute before he could see 
who had come out, and in that minute he had time to turn 
away and then to turn back again, and to wonder which of 
the two inmates would appear to him, or whether he should 
behold neither or both. 
The person who had issued from the house descended 
the steps very slowly, as if on purpose to give him time to 
escape ; and when at last the glass doors were divided they 
disclosed a little old lady. Ransom was disappointed; 
such an apparition was so scantily to his purpose. But the 
next minute his spirits rose again, for he was sure that he 
had seen the little old lady before. She stopped on the 
side-walk, and looked vaguely about her, in the manner of 
a person waiting for an omnibus or a street-car ; she had a 
dingy, loosely-habited air, as if she had worn her clothes 
for many years and yet was even now imperfectly acquainted 
with them ; a large, benignant face, caged in by the glass 
of her spectacles, which seemed to cover it almost equally 
everywhere, and a fat, rusty satchel, which hung low at her 
side, as if it wearied her to carry it. This gave Ransom 
time to recognise her ; he knew in Boston no such figure 
as that save Miss Birdseye. Her party, her person, the 
exalted account Miss Chancellor gave of her, had kept a 
very distinct place in his mind ; and while she stood there 
in dim circumspection she came back to him as a friend of 
yesterday. His necessity gave a point to the reminiscences 
she evoked ; it took him only a moment to reflect that she 
would be able to tell him where Verena Tarrant was at that 
particular time, and where, if need be, her parents lived. 
Her eyes rested on him, and as she saw that he was looking 
at her she didn't go through the ceremony (she had broken 
so completely with all conventions), of removing them ; he 
evidently represented nothing to her but a sentient fellow- 
 
citizen in the enjoyment of his rights, which included that 
of staring. Miss Birdseye's modesty had never pretended 
that it was not to be publicly challenged ; there were so 
many bright new motives and ideas in the world that there 
might even be reasons for looking at her. When Ransom 
approached her and, raising his hat with a smile, said, 
'Shall I stop this car for you, Miss Birdseye?' she only 
looked at him more vaguely, in her complete failure to 
seize the idea that this might be simply Fame. She had 
trudged about the streets of Boston for fifty years, and at 
no period had she received that amount of attention from 
dark-eyed young men. She glanced, in an unprejudiced 
way, at the big parti-coloured human van which now jingled 
toward them from out of the Cambridge road. ' Well, I 
should like to get into it, if it will take me home,' she 
answered. '  Is this a South End car?' 
The vehicle had been stopped by the conductor, on his 
perceiving Miss Birdseye ; he evidently recognised her as a 
frequent passenger. He went, however, through none of 
the forms of reassurance beyond remarking, '  You want to 
get right in here quick,' but stood with his hand raised, in 
a threatening way, to the cord of his signal-bell. 
' You must allow me the honour of taking you home, 
madam ; I will tell you who I am,' Basil Ransom said, in 
obedience to a rapid reflection. He helped her into the 
car, the conductor pressed a fraternal hand upon her back, 
and in a moment the young man was seated beside her, 
and the jingling had recommenced. At that hour of the 
day the car was almost empty, and they had it virtually 
to themselves. 
'  Well, I know you are some one ; I don't think you 
belong round here/ Miss Birdseye declared, as they pro- 
ceeded. 
' I  was once at your house on a very interesting 
occasion. Do you remember a party you gave, a year ago 
last October, to which Miss Chancellor came, and another 
young lady, who made a wonderful speech ?' 
' Oh yes ! when Verena Tarrant moved us all so ! 
There were a good many there ; I don't remember all.' 
' I was one of them,' Basil Ransom said ; ' I came with 
 
Miss Chancellor, who is a kind of relation of mine, and you 
were very good to me.' 
'What did I do?' asked Miss Birdseye, candidly. 
Then, before he could answer her, she recognised him. ' I 
remember you now, and Olive bringing you ! You're a 
Southern gentleman she told me about you afterwards. 
You don't approve of our great struggle you want us to be 
kept down.' The old lady spoke with perfect mildness, as 
if she had long ago done with passion and resentment. 
Then she added, 'Well, I presume we can't have the 
sympathy of all. 
' Doesn't it look as if you had my sympathy, when I 
get into a car on purpose to see you home one of the 
principal agitators?' Ransom inquired, laughing. 
'Did you get in on purpose?' 
' Quite on purpose. I am not so bad as Miss Chancellor 
thinks me.' 
' Oh, I presume you have your ideas,' said Miss Birds- 
eye. ' Of course, Southerners have peculiar views. I 
suppose they retain more than one might think. I hope 
you won't ride too far I know my way round Boston.' 
' Don't object to me, or think me officious,' Ransom 
replied. ' I want to ask you something.' 
Miss Birdseye looked at him again. ' Oh yes, I place 
you now ; you conversed some with Doctor Prance.' 
'To my great edification!' Ransom exclaimed. 'And 
I hope Doctor Prance is well.' 
'She looks after every one's health but her own,' said 
Miss Birdseye, smiling. ' When I tell her that, she says she 
hasn't got any to look after. She says she's the only 
woman in Boston that hasn't got a doctor. She was 
determined she wouldn't be a patient, and it seemed as if 
the only way not to be one was to be a doctor. She is 
trying to make me sleep ; that's her principal occupation.' 
' Is it possible you don't sleep yet ? ' Ransom asked, 
almost tenderly. 
' Well, just a little. But by the time I get to sleep I 
have to get up. I can't sleep when I want to live.' 
'You ought to come down South,' the young man 
suggested. ' In that languid air you would doze deliriously !> 
 
'Well, I don't want to be languid,' said Miss Birdseye. 
' Besides, I have been down South, in the old times, and I
can't say they let me sleep very much ; they were always 
round after me !' 
' Do you mean on account of the negroes ?' 
' Yes, I couldn't think of anything else then. I carried 
them the Bible.' 
Ransom was silent a moment ; then he said, in a tone 
which evidently was carefully considerate, ' I should like to 
hear all about that !' 
' Well, fortunately, we are not required now j we are 
required for something else.' And Miss Birdseye looked 
at him with a wandering, tentative humour, as if he would 
know what she meant. 
'You mean for the other slaves !' he exclaimed, with a 
laugh. ' You can carry them all the Bibles you want.' 
' I want to carry them the Statute-book that must be 
our Bible now.' 
Ransom found himself liking Miss Birdseye very much, 
and it was quite without hypocrisy or a tinge too much of 
the local quality in his speech that he said : ' Wherever you 
go, madam, it will matter little what you carry. You will 
always carry your goodness.' 
For a minute she made no response. Then she 
murmured : ' That's the way Olive Chancellor told me you 
talked.' 
' I am afraid she has told you little good of me.' 
' Well, I am sure she thinks she is right.' 
' Thinks it ?' said Ransom. ' Why, she knows it, with 
supreme certainty ! By the way, I hope she is well.' 
Miss Birdseye stared again. ' Haven't you seen her ? 
Are you not visiting ? ' 
' Oh no, I am not visiting ! I was literally passing her 
house when I met you.' 
' Perhaps you live here now,' said Miss Birdseye. And 
when he had corrected this impression, she added, in a 
tone which showed with what positive confidence he had 
