answered hardily. 
" Oh, you must do what you think best," she said, 
lightly refusing the responsibility. 
"Whatever you say will be best," he said, with a 
sudden, passionate fervour that surprised himself. 
She tried to escape from it. " Am I so infallible 
as that ? " 
" You are for me ! " he retorted. 
A silence followed, which she endeavoured to 
break, but she sat still across the little table from 
him where the shaded lamp spread its glow, leaving 
the rest of the room, with its red curtains and 
its sketches pinned about, in a warm, luxurious 
shadow. Her eyes fell, and she did not speak. 
" It must sound very strange to you, I know," he 
went on ; " and it J 's strange to me, too ; but it seems 
to me that there isn't anything I've  done without 
my thinking whether you would like me to do it," 
She rose involuntarily. " You make me ashamed 
to think that you're  so much mistaken about me ! 
I know how we all influence each other I know I 
always try to be what I think people expect me to 
be I can't be myself I know what you mean ; but 
you you must be yourself, and not let " She 
stopped in her wandering speech, in strange agitation, 
and he rose too. 
" I hope you're  not offended with me ! " 
" Offended &lt;!, Why ? Why do you go so soon ? " 
" I thought you were going," he answered stupidly. 
"Why, I' m athomef" 
They looked at each other, and then they broke 
into a happy laugh. 
" Sit down again ! I don't know what I got up 
for. It must have been to make some tea. Did 
you know Madeline had bequeathed me her tea 
kettle the one we had at the St. Albans ? " She 
bustled about, and lit the spirit-lamp under the 
kettle. 
"Blow out that match!" he cried. "You'll set 
your dress on fire ! " He caught her hand, which 
she was holding with the lighted match in it at her 
side, after the manner of women with lighted matches, 
and blew it out himself. 
" Oh, thank you ! " she said indifferently. " Can 
you take it without milk ? " 
 
" Yes, I like it so." 
She got out two of the cups he remembered, and 
he said, " How much like last winter that seems ! " 
And "Yes, doesn't it ? " she sighed. 
The lamp purred and fretted under the kettle, and 
in the silence in which they waited, the elm tree 
that rose from the pavement outside seemed to look 
in consciously upon them. 
When the kettle began to sing, she poured out 
the two cups of tea, and in handing him his their 
fingers touched, and she gave a little outcry. " Oh ! 
Madeline 's precious cup ! I thought it was going to 
drop ! " 
The soft night-wind blew in through the elm leaves, 
and their rustling seemed the expression of a pro 
found repose, an endless content. 
XXXI. 
THE next night Lemuel went to see Statira, with 
out promising himself what he should say or do, 
but if he were to tell her everything, he felt that 
she would forgive him more easily than Manda 
Grier. He was aware that Manda always lay in 
wait for him, to pierce him at every undefended 
point of conscience. Since the first break with her, 
there had never been peace between them, and per 
haps not kindness for long before that. Whether or 
not she felt responsible for having promoted Statira 's 
affair with him, and therefore bound to guard her to 
the utmost from suffering by it, she seemed always to 
be on the alert to seize any advantage against him. 
Sometimes Statira accused her of trying to act so 
hatefully to him that he would never come any more ; 
she wildly blamed her ; but the faithful creature 
was none the less constant and vigilant on that 
account. She took patiently the unjust reproaches 
which Statira heaped upon her like a wayward child, 
and remitted nothing of her suspicion or enmity 
towards Lemuel. Once, when she had been very 
bitter with him, so bitter that it had ended in an 
 
open quarrel between them, Statira sided with him 
against her, and when Manda Grier flounced out of 
the room she offered him, if he wished, to break with 
her, and never to speak to her again, or have any 
thing more to do with such a person. But at this 
his anger somehow fell; and he said no, she must 
not think of such a thing ; that Manda Grier had 
been her friend long before he was, and that, what 
ever she said to him, she was always good and true 
to her. Then Statira fell upon his neck and cried, 
and praised him, and said he was a million times 
more to her than Manda Grier, but she would 
do whatever he said ; and he went away sick at 
heart. 
When he came now, with his thoughts clinging to 
Jessie, Manda Grier hardly gave him time for the 
decencies of greeting. She was in a high nervous 
exaltation, and Statira looked as if she had been 
crying. 
" What 's become o them art-students you used to 
have t the St. Albans ? " she began, her whopper- 
jaw twitching with excitement, and her eyes glaring 
vindictively upon Lemuel. 
He had sat down near Statira on the lounge, but 
she drew a little away from him in a provisional 
fashion, as if she would first see what came of 
Manda Grier 's inquisition. 
" Art-students ?" he repeated aimlessly while he 
felt his colour go. 
" Yes ! " she snapped. " Them girls t used to be t 
the St. Albans, t you thought so wonderful ! " 
" I didn't know I thought they were very 
wonderful ! " 
"Can't you answer a civil question?" she 
demanded, raising her voice. 
" I haven't heard any," said Lemuel, with sullen 
scorn. 
" Oh ! Well ! " she sneered. " I forgot that 
you've  b en used to goin with such fine folks that 
you can't bear to be spoken to in plain English." 
" Manda ! " began Statira, with an incipient 
whimper. 
" You be still, S tira Dudley ! Mr. Barker," said 
the poor foolish thing in the mincing falsetto which 
she thought so cutting, "have you any idea what 's 
become of your young lady artist friends, them that 
took your portrait as a Roman youth, you know ? " 
Lemuel made no answer whatever for a time. 
Then, whether he judged it best to do so, or was 
goaded to the defiance by Manda Grier 's manner, he 
replied, " Miss Swan and Miss Carver ? Miss Swan is 
married, and lives inWyomingTerritorynow." Before 
he had reached the close of the sentence he had con 
trolled himself sufficiently to be speaking quite calmly. 
" Oh indeed, Mr. Barker ! And may I ask where 
Miss Carver is  ? She merried and living in Wy 
oming Territory too ] " 
"No," said Lemuel quietly. " She 's not married. 
She 's in Boston," 
" Indeed ! Then it was her I see in the Garden 
to-day, S tira ! She b en back long, Mr. Barker ? " 
"About a month, I think," said Lemuel. 
 
" Quite a spell ! You seen her, Mr. Barker ? " 
"Yes, quite often." 
" I want to know ! She still paintin Roman boys, 
Mr. Barker ? Didn't seem to make any great out at 
it last winter ! But practice makes perfect, they 
say. I 's pose you seen her in the Garden, too ? " 
" I usually see her at home," said Lemuel. " You 
probably receive your friends on the benches in 
the Garden, but young ladies prefer to have them 
call at their residences." He astonished himself by 
this brutality, he who was all gentleness with Miss 
Carver. 
"Very well, Mr. Barker! That 's all right. 
That 's all I wanted to know. Never mind about 
where I' meet my friends. Wherever it is, they're  
gentlemen ; and they ain't generally goin with three 
or four girls t the same time." 
"No, one like you would be enough," retorted 
Lemuel. 
Statira sat cowering away from the quarrel, and 
making little ineffectual starts as if to stay it. 
Heretofore their enmity had been covert, if not tacit, 
in her presence. 
Lemuel saw ner wavering, and the wish to show 
Manda his superior power triumphed over every 
other interest and impulse in him. He got upon 
his feet. "There is no use in this sort of thing 
going on any longer. I came here because I thought 
I was wanted. If it 's a mistake, it 's easy enough to 
mend it, and it 's easy not to make it again. I wish 
you good evening." 
 
Statira sprang from the lounge, and flung her 
arms around his neck. " No, no ! You sha n't 
go ! You mustn't go, Lem ! I know your all right, 
and I won't have you talked to so ! I ain't a bit 
jealous/ Lem ; indeed I ain t. I know you wouldn't 
fool with me, any more than I would with you ; and 
that 's what I tell Man da Grier, I'll leave it to her 
if I don t. I don't care who you go with, and I 
hain t, never since that first time. I know you ain't 
goin to do anything underhanded. Don't go, Lem ; 
oh, don't go ! " 
He was pulling towards the door ; her trust, her 
fond generosity drove him more than Manda Grier 's 
cutting tongue : that hurt his pride, his vanity, but 
this pierced his soul ; he had only a blind, stupid 
will to escape from it. 
Statira was crying ; she began to cough ; she 
released his neck from her clasp, and reeled back 
ward to the lounge, where she would have fallen, if 
Manda Grier had not caught her. The paroxysm 
grew more violent ; a bright stream of blood sprang 
from her lips. 
" Run ! Run for the doctor ! Quick, Lemuel ! 
Oh, quick ! " implored Manda Grier, forgetting all 
enmity in her terror. 
Statira 's arms wavered towards him, as if to keep 
him, but he turned and ran from the house, cowed 
and conscience-stricken by the sight of that blood, 
as if he had shed it. 
He did not expect to see Statira alive when he 
came back with the doctor whom he found at the 
 
next apothecary 's. She was lying on the lounge, 
white as death, but breathing quietly, and her eyes 
sought him with an eagerness that turned to a look 
of tender gratitude at the look they found in his. 
The doctor bent over her for her pulse and her 
respiration ; then when he turned to examine the 
crimson handkerchief which Manda Grier showed 
him, Lemuel dropped on his knees beside her and 
put his face down to hers. 
With her lips against his cheek she made, " Don't 
go!" 
And he whispered, " No, I'll not leave you now !" 
The doctor looked round with the handkerchief 
still in his hand, as if doubting whether to order 
him away from her. Then he mutely questioned 
Manda Grier with a glance which her glance 
answered. He shrugged his shoulders, with a 
puzzled sigh. An expression of pity crossed his 
face which he hardened into one of purely pro 
fessional interest, and he went on questioning 
Manda Grier in a low tone. 
Statira had slipped her hand into Lemuel s, and 
she held it fast, as if in that clasp she were holding 
on to her chance of life. 
XXXII. 
SEWELL returned to town for the last time in the 
third week of September, bringing his family with 
him. 
This was before the greater part of his oddly 
assorted congregation had thought of leaving the 
country, either the rich cottagers whose family 
tradition or liberal opinions kept them in his church, 
or the boarding and camping elements who were 
uniting a love of cheapness with a love of nature in 
their prolonged sojourn among the woods and fields. 
Certain families, perhaps half of his parish in all, 
were returning because the schools were opening, 
and they must put their children into them ; and it 
was both to minister to the spiritual needs of these 
and to get his own children back to their studies 
that the minister was at home so early. 
It was, as I have hinted already, a difficult and 
laborious season with him ; he himself was always 
a little rusty in his vocation after his summer 's out 
ing, and felt weakened rather than strengthened by 
his rest. The domestic machine started reluctantly ; 
there was a new cook to be got in, and Mrs. Sewell 
 
had to fight a battle with herself, in which she 
invited him to share, before she could settle clown 
for the winter to the cares of housekeeping. The 
wide skies, the dim mountain slopes, the long, 
delicious drives, the fresh mornings, the sweet, 
silvery afternoons of their idle country life, haunted 
their nerves and enfeebled their wills. 
One evening in the first days of this moral 
disability, while Sewell sat at his desk trying to get 
himself together for a sermon, Barker 's name was 
brought up to him. 
"Really," said his wife, who had transmitted it 
from the maid, " I think it 's time you protected 
yourself, David. You can't let this go on for ever. 
He has been in Boston nearly two years noAv ; he 
has regular employment, where if there 's anything 
in him at all, he ought to prosper and improve with 
out coming to you every other night. What can he 
want now ? " 
"I' m sure I don't know," said the minister, 
leaning back in his chair, and passing his hand 
wearily over his forehead. 
"Then send down and excuse yourself. Tell 
him you're  busy, and ask him to come another 
time ! " 
" Ah, you know I can't do that, my dear." 
"Very well, then; I will go down and see him. 
You shan't be interrupted." 
" Would you, my dear ? That would be very 
kind of you ! Do get me off some way ; tell him 
I' m coming to see him very soon." He went 
 
stupidly back to his writing, without looking to see 
whether his wife had meant all she said ; and after 
a moment 's hesitation she descended in fulfilment 
of her promise ; or, perhaps rather it was a 
threat. 
She met Lemuel not unkindly, for she was a kind- 
hearted woman ; but she placed duty before charity 
even, and she could not help making him feel that 
she was there in the discharge of a duty. She 
explained that Mr. Sewell was very unusually busy 
that evening, and had sent her in his place, and 
hoped soon to see him. She bade Lemuel sit down, 
and he obeyed, answering all the questions as to 
the summer and his occupations and health, and his 
mother 's health, which she put to him in proof of 
her interest in him ; in further evidence of it, she 
gave him an account of the Sewell family 's doings 
since they last met. He did not stay long, and she 
returned slowly and pensively to her husband. 
" Well ? " he asked, without looking round. 
" Well ; it 's all right," she answered, with rather 
a deep breath. " He didn't seem to have come 
for anything in particular; I told him that if he 
wished specially to speak with you, you would 
come down." 
Sewell went on with his writing, and after a 
moment his wife said, " But you must go and see 
him very soon, David ; you must go to-morrow." 
"Why?" 
"He looks wretchedly, though he says he 's very 
well It made my heart ache. He looks perfectly 
 
wan and haggard. I wish," she burst out, " I wish 
I had let you go down and see him ! " 
" Why why, what was the matter ? " asked 
Sewell, turning about now. "Did you think he 
had something on his mind ? " 
" No, but he looked fairly sick. Oh, I wish he 
had never come into our lives ! " 
"I' m afraid he hasn't got much good from us," 
sighed the minister. "But I'll go round and look 
him up in the morning. His trouble will keep over 
night, if it 's a real trouble. There 's that comfort, 
at least. And now, do go away, my dear, and leave 
me to my writing." 
Mrs. Sewell looked at him, but turned and left 
him, apparently reserving whatever sermon she 
might have in her mind till he should have finished 
his. 
The next morning he went to inquire for Lemuel 
at Mr. Corey 's. The man was sending him away 
from the door with the fact merely that Lemuel was 
not then in the house, when the voice of Mr. Corey 
descending the stairs called from within : " Is that 
you, Sewell ? Don't go away ! Come in ! " 
The old gentleman took him into the library and 
confessed in a bit of new slang, which he said was 
delightful, that he was all balled up by Lemuel 's 
leaving him, and asked Sewell what he supposed it 
meant. 
" Left you "? Meant ? " echoed Sewell. 
When they got at each other it was understood 
that Lemuel, the day before, had given up his 
 
employment with Mr. Corey, expressing a fit 
sense of all his kindness and a fit regret at leaving 
him, but alleging no reasons for his course ; and 
that this was the first that Sewell knew of the 
affair. 
" It must have been that which he came to see me 
about last night," he said, with a sort of anticipative 
remorse. " Mrs. Sewell saw him I was busy." 
" Well ! Get him to come back, Sewell," said 
Mr. Corey, with his whimsical imperiousness ; " I 
can't get on without him. All my moral and 
intellectual being has stopped like a watch." 
Sewell went to the boarding-house where Lemuel 
took his meals, but found that he no longer came 
there, and had left no other address. He knew 
nowhere else to ask, and he went home to a day of 
latent trouble of mind, which whenever it came to 
the light defined itself as helpless question and self- 
reproach in regard to Barker. 
That evening as he sat at tea, the maid came with 
the announcement that there was a person in the 
reception-room who would not send in any name, 
but wished to see Mr. Sewell, and would wait. 
Sewell threw down his napkin, and said, I'll 
bring him in to tea." 
Mrs. Sewell did not resist ; she bade the girl lay 
another plate. 
Sewell was so sure of finding Lemuel in the 
reception-room, that he recoiled in dismay from the 
girlish figure that turned timidly from the window 
to meet him with a face thickly veiled. He was 
vexed, too ; here, he knew from the mystery put on, 
was one of those cases of feminine trouble, real or 
unreal, which he most disliked to meddle with. 
" Will you sit down ? " he said, as kindly as he 
could, and the girl obeyed. 
"I thought they would let me wait. I didn't 
mean to interrupt you," she began, in a voice 
singularly gentle and unaffected. 
" Oh, no matter ! " cried Sewell. " I' m very glad 
to see you." 
" I thought you could help me. I' m in great 
trouble doubt " 
The voice was almost childlike in its appealing 
innocence. 
Sewell sat down opposite the girl and bent 
sympathetically forward. " Well ? " 
She waited a moment. Then, "I don't know 
how to begin," she said hoarsely, and stopped 
again. 
Sewell was touched. He forgot Lemuel ; he for 
got everything but the heartache which he divined 
before him, and his Christ-derived office, his holy 
privilege, of helping any in want of comfort or 
guidance. " Perhaps," he said, in his loveliest way, 
the way that had won his wife 's heart, and that 
still provoked her severest criticism for its insincer 
ity; it was so purely impersonal, "perhaps that 
isn't necessary, if you mean beginning at the begin 
ning. If you've any trouble that you think I cnn 
advise you in, perhaps it 's better for both of us that 
I shouldn't know very much of it." 
 
"Yes ?" murmured the girl questioningly. 
" I' mean that if you tell me much, you will go 
away feeling that you have somehow parted with 
yourself, that you're  no longer in your own keeping, 
but in mine ; and you know that in everything our 
help must really come from within our own free 
consciences." 
" Yes," said the girl again, from behind the veil 
which completely hid her face. She now hesitated 
a long time. She put her handkerchief under her 
veil ; and at last she said : "I know what you 
mean." Her voice quivered pathetically ; she tried 
to control it. " Perhaps," she whispered huskily, 
after another interval, " I can put it in the form of 
a question." 
" That would be best," said Sewell. 
She hesitated ; the tears fell down upon her hands 
behind her veil ; she no longer wiped them. " It 's 
because I've often heard you ; because I know you 
will tell me what J 's true and right " 
"Your own heart must do that," said the minis 
ter, " but I will gladly help you all I can." 
She did not heed him now, but continued as if 
rapt quite away from him. 
"If there was some one something if there was 
something that it would be right for you to do to 
have, if there was no one else; but if there were 
some else that had a right first " She broke off 
and asked abruptly, " Don't you think it is always 
right to prefer another the interest of another to 
your own ? " 
 
Sewell could not help smiling. "There is only 
one thing for us to do when we are in any doubt or 
perplexity," he said cheerily, " and that is the un 
selfish thing." 
" Yes," she gasped ; she seemed to be speaking to 
herself. " I saw it, I knew it ! Even if it kills us, 
AVC must do it ! Nothing ought to weigh against it! 
Oh, I thank you ! " 
Sewell was puzzled. He felt dimly that she was 
thanking him for anguish and despair. " I' m afraid 
that I don't quite understand you." 
" I thought I told you," she answered, with a 
certain reproach, and a fall of courage in view of the 
fresh effort she must make. It was some moments 
before she could say, " If you knew that some one 
some one who was everything to you and that 
you knew believed 
At fifty it is hard to be serious about these things, 
and it was well for the girl that she was no longer 
conscious of Sewell 's mood. 
" Cared for you ; and if you knew that before 
he had cared for you there had been some else 
some else that he was as much to as he was to you, 
and that couldn't give him up, what should 
you " 
Sewell fetched a long sigh of relief ; he had been 
afraid of a much darker problem than this. He 
almost smiled. 
" My dear child," she seemed but a child there 
before the mature man with her poor little love- 
trouble, so intricate and hopeless to her, so simple 
 
and easy to him "that depends upon a great many 
circumstances." 
He could feel through her veil the surprise with 
which she turned to him : " You said, whenever we 
are in doubt, we must act unselfishly." 
"Yes, I said that. But you must first be sure 
what is really selfish " 
" I know what is selfish in this case," said the girl 
with a sublimity which, if foolish, was still sublimity. 
" She is sick it will kill her to lose him You 
have said what I expected, and I thank you, thank 
you, thank you ! And I will do it ! Oh, don't fear 
now but I shall ; I have done it ! No matter," she 
went on in her exaltation, "no matter how much we 
care for each other, now ! " 
"No," said Sewell decidedly. "That doesn't 
follow. I have thought of such things ; there was 
such a case within my experience once," he could 
not help alleging this case, in which he had long 
triumphed, " and I have always felt that I did 
right in advising against a romantic notion of self- 
sacrifice in such matters. You may commit a 
greater wrong in that than in an act of apparent 
self-interest. You have not put the case fully 
before me, and it isn't necessary that you should, 
but if you contemplate any rash sacrifice, I warn 
you against it." 
" You said that we ought to act unselfishly." 
" Yes, but you must beware of the refined selfish 
ness which shrinks from righteous self-assertion 
because it is painful. You must make sure of your 
 
real motive ; you must consider whether your 
sacrifice is not going to do more harm than good. 
But why do you come to me with your trouble ? 
Why don't you go to your father your mother ? " 
"I have none." 
"Ah " 
She had risen and pushed by him to the outer 
door, though he tried to keep her. "Don't be 
rash," he urged. " I advise you to take time to 
think of this " 
She did not answer ; she seemed now only to wish 
to escape, as if in terror of him. 
She pulled open the door, and was gone. 
Sewell went back to his tea, bewildered, con 
founded. 
" What 's the matter ? Why didn't he come in to 
tea with you ? " asked his wife. 
" Who ? " 
" Barker." 
" What Barker ? " 
" David, what is the matter ? " 
Sewell started from his daze, and glanced at his 
children : " I'll tell you by and by, Lucy." 
XXXIII. 
A MONTH passed, and Sewell heard nothing of 
Lemuel. His charge, always elusive and evanescent, 
had now completely vanished, and he could find no 
trace of him. Mr. Corey suggested advertising. 
Bellingham said, why not put it in the hands of a 
detective ? He said he had never helped work any 
thing up with a detective ; he rather thought he 
should like to do it. Sewell thought of writing 
to Barker 's mother at Willoughby Pastures, but he 
postponed it ; perhaps it would alarm her if Barker 
were not there ; Sewell had many other cares and 
duties ; Lemuel became more and more a good in 
tention of the indefinite future. After all, he had 
always shown the ability to take care of himself, and 
except that he had mysteriously disappeared there 
was no reason for anxiety about him. 
One night his name came up at a moment when 
Sewell was least prepared by interest or expectation 
to see him. He smiled to himself in running down 
stairs, at the reflection that he never seemed quite 
ready for Barker. But it was a relief to have him 
turn up again ; there was no question of that, and 
Sewell showed him a face of welcome that dropped 
at sight of him. He scarcely new the gaunt, care 
worn face or the shabby figure before him, in place 
of the handsome, well-dressed young fellow whom he 
had come to greet. There seemed a sort of rever 
sion in Barker 's whole presence to the time when 
Sewell first found him in that room; and in whatever 
trouble he now was, the effect was that of his 
original rustic constraint. 
Trouble there was of some kind, Sewell could see 
at a glance, and his kind heart prompted him to take 
Lemuel 's hand between both of his. "Why, my 
dear boy ! " he began ; but he stopped and made 
Lemuel sit down, waited for him to speak, without 
further question or comment. 
" Mr. Sewell," the young man said abruptly, " you 
told me once you that you sometimes had money 
put into your hands that you could lend." 
" Yes," replied Sewell, with eager cordiality. 
" Could I borrow about seventy-five dollars of 
you ? " 
" Why, certainly, Barker ! " Sewell had not so 
much of what he called his flying-charity fund 
by him, but he instantly resolved to advance the 
difference out of his own pocket. 
" It 's to get me an outfit for horse-car conductor," 
said Lemuel. " I can have the place if I can get the 
outfit." 
" Horse-car conductor ! " reverberated Sewell. 
" What in the world for ? " 
" It 's work I can do," answered Lemuel briefly, 
but not resentfully. 
"But there are so many other things better 
fitter more profitable ! Why did you leave Mr. 
Corey ? I assure you that you have been a great 
loss to him in every way. You don't know how 
much he valued you, personally. He will be only 
too glad to have you come back." 
