the way the papers here were after it. That thing 
will go the round you 'll see ! What brought me 
was learning from him that they have got their 
backs up." 
" What on earth are you talking about ? " cried 
Delia. 
Mr. Flack turned his eyes on hers in the same 
way as a moment before; Francie sat there 
serious, looking hard at the carpet. " What game 
are you trying, Miss Delia? It ain 't true you 
care what I wrote, is it ? " he pursued, addressing 
himself again to Francie. 
She raised her eyes. "Did you write it 
yourself ? " 
"Wliat do you care what he wrote or what 
does any one care ? " Delia broke in. 
" It has done the paper more good than any 
thing every one is so interested," said Mr. Flack, 
in the tone of reasonable explanation. " And you 
don 't feel that you have anything to complain of, 
do you ? " he added, to Francie, kindly. 
"Do you mean because I told you ? " 
" Why, certainly. Didn 't it all spring out of 
that lovely drive and that walk in the Bois that 
we had, when you took me to see your portrait ? 
Didn 't you understand that I wanted you to know 
that the public would appreciate a column or 
two about Mr. Waterlow s new picture, and about 
you as the subject of it, and about your being 
engaged to a member of the grand mcnde, and 
about what was going on in the grand monde, 
which would naturally attract attention through 
that ? Why, Miss Francie, you talked as if you 
did." 
" Did I talk a great deal ? " asked Francie. 
" Why, most freely it was too lovely. Don 't 
you remember when we sat there in the Bois ? " 
"Oh, rubbish !" Delia ejaculated. 
" Yes, and Mine, de Cliche passed." 
"And you told me she was scandalised. And 
we laughed it struck us as idiotic. I said it 
was affected and pretentious. Your father tells 
me she is scandalised now she and all the rest 
of them at their names appearing in the Rever 
berator. I don 't hesitate to declare that that s 
affected and pretentious too. It ain 't genuine 
and if it is it doesn 't count. They pretend to be 
shocked because it looks exclusive, but in point 
of fact they like it first-rate." 
" Are you talking about that old piece in 
the paper? Mercy, wasn 't that dead and buried 
days and days ago?" Delia ejaculated. She 
hovered there in a fever of irritation, fidgeted 
by the revelation that her father had summoned 
Mr. Flack to Paris, which struck her almost like 
a treachery because it seemed to denote a plan. 
A plan, and an uncommunicated plan, on Mr. 
Dosson s part was unnatural and alarming ; and 
there was further provocation in his appearing 
to shirk the responsibility of it by not having 
come up, at such a moment, with Mr. Flack. 
Delia was impatient to know what he wanted 
anyway. Did he want to slide back to a common, 
though active, young man ? Did he want to put 
Mr. Flack forward with a shallow extemporised 
optimism as a substitute for the alienated Gaston ? 
If she had not been afraid that something still more 
complicating than anything that had happened yet 
might come to pass between her two companions 
in case of her leaving them together she would 
have jdarted down to the court to appease her con 
jectures, to challenge her father, and tell him she 
should be very much obliged to him if he wouldn 't 
meddle. She felt liberated however, the next 
moment, for something occurred that struck 
her as a quick indication of her sister s present 
emotion. 
" Do you know the view I take of the matter, 
according to what your father has told me ? " Mr. 
Flack inquired. " I don 't mean that he suggested 
the interpretation, but my own knowledge of 
the world (as the world is constituted over here !) 
forces it upon my mind. They are scandalised, 
they are horrified. They never heard anything so 
dreadful. Miss Francie, that ain 't good enough ! 
They know what s in the papers every day of 
their lives and they know how it got there. They 
are simply making the thing a pretext to break 
because they don 't think you're fashionable 
enough. They're delighted to strike a pretext they 
can work, and they're all as merry together round 
there as a lot of boys when school don 't keep. 
That s my view of the business." 
" Oh how can you say such a thing ? " drawled 
Francie, with a tremor in her voice that struck her 
sister. Her eyes met Delia s at the same moment, 
and this young woman s heart bounded with the 
sense that she was safe. Mr. Flack s indelicacy 
attempted to prove too much (though Miss Dosson 
had crude notions about the license of the press 
she felt, even as an untutored woman, what a 
false step he was now taking), and it seemed to 
her that Francie, who was revolted (the way she 
looked at her, in horror, showed that), could be 
trusted to check his advance. 
" What does it matter what he says, my dear ? " 
she cried. " Do make him drop the subject he s 
talking very wild. I'm going down to see what 
father means I never heard of anything so flat ! " 
At the door she paused a moment to add mutely, 
with a pressing glance, " Now just wipe him out 
mind ! " It was the same injunction she had 
launched at her from afar that day, a year before, 
they all dined at Saint-Germain, and she could 
remember how effective it had been then. The 
next moment she flirted out. 
As soon as she had gone Mr. Flack moved 
nearer to Francie. " Now look here, you are not 
going back on me, are you ? " 
" Going back on you what do you mean ? " 
" Ain 't we together in this thing ? Surely we 
are." 
" Together together ? " Francie repeated, look 
ing at him. 
" Don 't you remember what I said to you in 
the clearest terms before we went to Waterlow s, 
before our drive ? I notified you that I should 
make use of the whole thing." 
" Oh, yes, I understood it was all for that. I 
told them so. I never denied it." 
&lt;: You told them so?" 
" When they were crying and going on. I told 
them I knew it I told them I gave you the 
tip, as they say." 
She felt Mr. Flack s eyes on her, strangely, as 
she spoke these words ; then he was still nearer 
to her he had taken her hand. " Ah, you're too 
sweet ! " She disengaged her hand and in the 
effort she sprang up ; but he, rising too, seemed to 
press always nearer she had a sense (it was dis 
agreeable) that he was demonstrative so that she 
retreated a little before him. " They were all 
there roaring and raging, trying to make you 
believe you have outraged them ? " 
"All but young Mr. Probert. Certainly they 
don 't like it." 
"The cowards!" said George Flack. "And 
where was young Mr. Probert ? " 
" He was away I've  told you in America." 
" Ah, yes, your father told me. But now he has 
come back doesn 't he like it either ? " 
" I don 't know, Mr. Flack," Francie replied, 
impatiently. 
" Well, I do, then. He s a coward too he 'll do 
what his papa tells him and the countess and 
the duchess and all the rest : he 'll just back down 
he 'll give you up." 
" I can 't talk to you about that," said Francie. 
"Why not? why is he such a sacred subject, 
when we are together ? You can 't alter that. It 
was too lovely, your standing up for me your 
not denying me ! " 
" You put in things I never said. It seems to 
me it was very different," the girl remarked. 
" Everything is different when it s printed. 
What else would be the good of papers ? Besides, 
it wasn 't I ; it was a lady who helps me here 
you've  heard me speak of her : Miss Topping. She 
wants so much to know you she wants to talk 
with you." 
" And will she publish that ? " Francie asked, 
gravely. 
Mr. Flack stared a moment. " Lord, how they 
have worked on you ! And do you think it s 
bad ? " 
" Do I think what s bad ? " 
" Why, the letter we are talking about." 
" Well I don 't like it." 
" Do you think I was dishonourable ? " 
The girl made no answer to this, but after a 
moment she said, " Why do you come here this 
wa y why do you ask me such questions ? 
He hesitated ; then he broke out : " Because I 
love you don 't you know that ? " 
" Oh, please don 't ! " she almost moaned, turning 
away. 
" Why won 't you understand it why won 't you 
understand the rest? Don 't you see how it has 
worked round the heartless brutes they've  turned 
into, and the way our life yours and mine is 
bound to be the same ? Don 't you see the base 
way they treat you and that I only want to do 
anything in the world for you ? " 
Francie made no immediate response to this 
appeal, but after a moment she began : " Why did 
you ask me so many questions that day ? " 
" Because I always ask questions it s my 
business to ask them. Haven 't you always seen 
me ask you and ask every one all I could ? Don 't 
you know they are the very foundation of my 
work ? I thought you sympathised with my work 
so much you used to tell me you did." 
" Well, I did," said Francie. 
" You put it in the past, I see. You don 't then 
any more.
If this .remark was on her visitor s part the sign 
of a rare assurance the girl s gentleness was still 
unruffled by it. She hesitated, she even smiled ; 
then she replied, " Oh yea, I do only not so 
much." 
" They have worked on you ; but I should have 
thought they would have disgusted you. I don 't 
care even a little sympathy will do whatever 
you've  got left." He paused, looking at her, but 
she remained silent ; so he went on : " There was 
no obligation for you to answer my questions 
you might have shut me up, that day, with a 
word." 
" Really ? " Francie asked, with all her sweet 
good faith in her face. "I thought I had to for 
fear I should appear ungrateful." 
"Ungrateful?" 
" Why to you after what you had done. Don 't 
you remember that it was you that introduced us 
? " And she paused, with a kind of weary 
delicacy. 
"Not to those snobs that are screaming like 
frightened peacocks. I beg your pardon I haven 't 
that on my conscience !" 
" Well, you introduced us to Mr. Waterlow and 
he introduced us to to his friends," Francie 
explained, blushing, as if it were a fault, for the 
inexactness engendered by her magnanimity. 
" That s why I thought I ought to tell you what 
you'd like." 
" Why, do you suppose if I'd known where that 
first visit of ours to Waterlow was going to bring 
you out I'd have taken you within fifty miles " 
He stopped suddenly; then in another tone, 
" Lord, there s no one like you ! And you told 
them it was all you?" 
" Never mind what I told them." 
" Miss Francie," said George Flack, " if you 'll 
marry me I 'll never ask a question again. I 'll go 
into some other business." 
" Then you didn 't do it on purpose ? " Francie 
asked. 
" On purpose ? " 
" To get me into a quarrel with them so that 
I might be free again 
"Well, of all the ideas !" the young man 
exclaimed, staring. " Your mind never produced 
that it was your sister s." 
" Wasn 't it natural it should occur to me, since 
if, as you say, you would never consciously have 
been the means " 
" Ah, but I was the means ! " Mr. Flack 
interrupted. "We must go, after all, by what 
did happen." 
" Well, I thanked you when I drove with you 
and let you draw me out. So we're square, aren 't 
we ? " The term Francie used was a colloquialism 
generally associated with levity, but her face, as 
she spoke, was none the less deeply serious 
serious even to pain. 
" We're square ? " Mr. Flack repeated. 
" I don 't think you ought to ask for anything 
more. Good-bye." 
" Good-bye ? Never ! " cried the young man. 
He had an air of flushing with disappointment 
which really showed that he had come with a 
certain confidence of success. 
Something in the way Francie repeated her 
" Good-bye ! " indicated that she perceived this 
and that in the vision of such a confidence 
there was little to please her. " Do go away ! " 
she broke out. 
" Well, I 'll come back very soon," said Mr. 
Flack, taking his hat. 
" Please don 't I don 't like it." She had now 
contrived to pat a wide space between them. 
" Oh, you tormentress ! " he groaned. He went 
toward the door, but before he reached it he 
turned round. " Will you tell me this, anyway ? 
Are you going to marry Mr. Probert after 
this ? " 
" Do you want to put that in the paper ? " 
" Of course I do and say you said it !" Mr. 
Flack held up his head. 
They stood looking at each other across the 
large room. " Well then I ain t. There ! " 
" That s all right," said Mr. Flack, going out. 
XIV. 
WHEN Gaston Probert came in that evening he 
was received by Mr. Dosson and Delia, and when 
he asked where Franoie was he was told by Delia 
that she would show herself half an hour later. 
Francie had instructed her sister that as Gaston 
would have, first of all, information to give their 
father about the business he had transacted in 
America he wouldn 't care for a lot of women in 
the room. When Delia made this speech before 
Mr. Dosson the old man protested that he was not 
in any hurry for the business ; what he wanted to 
find out most was whether he had a good time 
whether he liked it over there. Gaston might 
have liked it, but he did not look as if he had had 
a very good time. His face told of reverses, of 
suffering ; and Delia declared to him that if she 
had not received his assurance to the contrary she 
would have believed he was right down sick. He 
confessed that he had been very sick at sea and 
was still feeling the effect of it, but insisted that 
there was nothing the matter with him now. He 
sat for some time with Mr. Dosson and Delia, and 
never once alluded to the cloud that hung over 
their relations. The girl had schooled her father 
to reticence on this point, and the manner in 
which she had descended upon him in the morning, 
after Mr, Flack had come up stairs, was a lesson 
he was not likely soon to forget. It had been 
impressed upon him that she was indeed wiser 
than he could pretend to be, and he was now 
mindful that he must not speak of the "piece in 
the paper " unless young Probert should speak of 
it first. When Delia rushed down to him in the 
court she began by asking him categorically whom 
he had wished to do good to by sending Mr. Flack 
up to their parlour. To Francie or to her ? Why } 
the way they felt then, they detested his very 
name. To Mr. Flack himself? Why, he had 
simply exposed him to the biggest snub he had 
ever got in his life. 
" Well, hanged if I understand ! " poor Mr. 
Dosson had said. " I thought you liked the piece 
you think it s so queer they don 't like it." 
" They," in the parlance of the Dossons, now never 
meant anything but the Proberts in congress 
assembled. 
" I don 't think anything is queer but you ! " 
Delia had retorted ; and she had let her father 
know that she had left Francie in the very act of 
"handling "Mr. Flack. 
"Is that so?" the old gentleman had asked, 
helplessly. 
Francie s visitor came down a few minutes later 
and passed through the court and out of the hotel 
without looking at them. Mr. Dosson had been 
going to call after him, but Delia checked him 
with a violent pinch. The unsociable manner of 
the young journalist s departure added to Mr. 
Dosson s sense of the mystery of things. I think 
this may be said to have been the only incident in 
the whole business that gave him a personal pang. 
He remembered how many of his cigars he had 
smoked with Mr. Flack and how universal a parti 
cipant he had made him. This struck him as the 
failure of friendship, and not the publication of 
details about the Proberts. Deep in Mr. Dosson s 
spirit was a sense that if these people had done 
bad things they ought to be ashamed of themselves 
and he couldn 't pity them, and if they hadn 't 
done them there was no need of making such a 
rumpus about other people knowing. It was there 
fore, in spite of the young man s rough exit, still 
in the tone of American condonation that he had 
observed to Delia : " He says that s what they like 
over there and that it stands to reason that if you 
start a paper you've  got to give them what they 
like. If you want the people with you, you've  
got to be with the people." 
"Well, there are a good many people in the 
world. I don 't think the Proberts are with us much." 
" Oh, he doesn 't mean them," said Mr. Dosson. 
"Well, I do!" cried Delia. 
At one of the ormolu tables, near a lamp with a 
pink shade, Gaston insisted on making at least 
a partial statement. He did not say that he might 
never have another chance, but Delia felt with 
despair that this idea was in his mind. He was 
very gentle, very polite, but distinctly cold, she 
thought ; he was intensely depressed and for half 
an hour uttered not the least little pleasantry. 
There was no particular occasion for that when he 
talked about " preferred bonds " with her father. 
This was a language Delia could not translate, 
though she had heard it from childhood. He had 
a great many papers to show Mr. Dosson, records 
of the mission of which he had acquitted himself, 
but Mr. Dosson pushed them into the drawer of 
the ormolu table with the remark that he guessed 
they were all right. Now, after the fact, he ap 
peared to attach but little importance to Gaston s 
achievements an attitude which Delia perceived 
to be slightly disconcerting to the young man. 
Delia understood it : she had an instinctive sense 
that her father knew a great deal more than Gaston 
could tell him even about the work he had com 
mitted to him, and also that there was in such 
punctual settlements an eagerness, a literalism 
totally foreign to Mr. Dosson s domestic habits. 
If Gaston had cooled off he wanted at least to be 
able to say that he had rendered them services in 
America ; but now her father, for the moment at 
least, scarcely appeared to think his services worth 
speaking of: a circumstance that left him with 
more of the responsibility for his cooling. What 
Mr. Dosson wanted to know was how everything 
had struck him over there, especially the Pickett 
Building and the parlour-cars and Niagara and 
the hotels he had instructed him to go to, giving 
him an introduction in two or three cases to the 
gentleman in charge of the office. It was in relation 
to these themes that Gaston was guilty of a want of 
spring, as the girl phrased it to herself; that he 
evinced no superficial joy. He declared however, 
repeatedly, that it was a most extraordinary country 
most extraordinary and far beyond anything he 
had had any conception of. " Of course I didn 't 
like everything" he said, u any more than I like 
everything anywhere." 
"Well, what didn 't you like?" Mr. Dosson 
genially inquired. 
Gaston Probert hesitated. "Well, the light 
for instance." 
"The light the electric?" 
" No, the solar ! I thought it rather hard, 
too much like the scratching of a slate-pencil." 
As Mr. Dosson looked vague at this, as if the 
reference were to some enterprise (a great lamp- 
company) of which he had not heard conveying 
a suggestion that he was perhaps staying away 
too long, Gaston immediately added : " I really 
think Francie might come in. I wrote to her 
that I wanted particularly to see her." 
"I will go and call her I 'll make her come," 
said Delia, going out. She left her companions 
together and Gaston returned to the subject of Mr. 
Munster, Mr. Dosson s former partner, to whom he 
had taken a letter and who had shown him every 
sort of civility. Mr. Dosson was pleased at this ; 
nevertheless he broke out, suddenly 
" Look here, you know ; if you've  got anything 
to say that you don 't think very acceptable you 
had better say it to me" Gaston coloured, but 
his reply was checked by Delia s quick return. 
She announced that her sister would be obliged 
if he would go into the little dining-room he 
would find her there. She had something to 
communicate to him that she could mention 
only in private. It was very comfortable ; there 
was a lamp and a fire. "Well, I guess she can 
take care of herself!" Mr. Dosson, at this, com 
mented, laughing. "What does she want to say 
to him ? " he demanded, when Gaston had passed 
out. 
" Gracious knows ! She won 't tell me. But it s 
too flat, at his age, to live in such terror." 
" In such terror ? " 
" Why, of your father. You've  got to choose." 
" How, to choose ? " 
"Why, if there s a person you like and he 
doesn 't like." 
" You mean you can 't choose your father," said 
Mr. Dosson, thoughtfully. 
" Of course you can t." 
" Well then, please don 't like any one. But 
perhaps  should like him," added Mr. Dosson, 
faithful to his cheerful tradition. 
" I guess you'd have to ! " said Delia. 
In the small salle-d-manycr, when Gaston went 
in, Francie was standing by the empty table, and 
as soon as she saw him she said " You can 't say 
I didn 't tell you that I should do something. I 
did nothing else, from the first. So you were 
warned again and again; you knew what to 
expect." 
"Ah, don 't say that again; if you knew how 
it acts on my nerves!" the young man groaned. 
"You speak as if you had done it on purpose 
to carry out your absurd threat." 
" Well, what does it matter, when it s all over ? " 
" It s not all over. Would to God it were ! " 
The girl stared. " Don 't you know what I 
sent for you to come in here for? To bid you 
good-bye." 
" Francie, what has got into you ? " he said. 
" What deviltry, what poison ? " It would have 
been a singular sight to an observer, the opposi 
tion of these young figures, so fresh, so candid, so 
meant for confidence, but now standing apart and 
looking at each other in a wan defiance which 
hardened their faces. 
" Don 't they despise me don 't they hate me ? 
You do yourself ! Certainly you 'll be glad for me 
to break off and spare you such a difficulty, such 
a responsibility." 
" I don 't understand ; it s like some hideous 
dream ! " Gaston Probert cried. " You act as if 
you were doing something for a wager, and you talk 
so. I don 't believe it I don 't believe a word of it." 
" What don 't you believe ? " 
" That you told him that you told him know 
ingly. If you 'll take that back (it s too monstrous !) 
if you 'll deny it and declare you were practised upon 
and surprised, everything can still be arranged." 
" Do you want me to lie ? " asked Francie Dosson. 
" I thought you would like it." 
" Oh, Francie, Francie ! " moaned the wretched 
youth, with tears in his eyes. 
" What can be arranged ? What do you mean 
by everything ? " she went on. 
" Why, they 'll accept it ; they 'll ask for 
nothing more. It s your participation they can 't 
forgive." 
" They can 't ? Why do you talk to me about 
them ? I'm not engaged to them." 
" Oh, Francie,  am ! And it s they who are 
buried beneath that filthy rubbish ! " 
She flushed at this characterisation of Mr. Flack s 
epistle ; then she said, in a softer voice : " I'm 
very sorry very sorry indeed. But evidently I'm 
not delicate." 
He looked at her, helpless and bitter. " It s 
not the newspapers, in your country, that would 
have made you so. Lord, they're too incredible ! 
And the ladies have them on their tables." 
" You told me we couldn 't here that the Paris 
ones are too bad," said Fiancie. 
" Bad they are, God knows ; but they have never 
published anything like that poured forth such a 
flood of impudence on decent, quiet people who 
only want to be left alone." 
Francie sank into a chair by the table, as if she 
were too tired to stand longer, and with her arms 
spread out on the lamp-lit plush she looked up at 
him. " Was it there you saw it ? " 
" Yes, a few days before I sailed. I hated them 
from the moment I got there 1 looked at them 
very little. But that was a chance. I opened 
the paper in the hall of an hotel (there was a big 
marble floor and spittoons !) and my eyes fell upon 
that horror. It made me ill." 
" Did you think it was me ? " 
" About as soon as I supposed it was my father. 
But I was too mystified, too tormented." 
" Then why didn 't you write to me, if you 
didn 't think it was me ? " 
" Write to you ? I wrote to you every three days." 
"Not after that." 
" Well, I may have omitted a post at the last. 
I thought it might be Delia," Gaston added 
in a moment. 
" Oh, she didn 't want me to do it the day I 
went with him, the day I told him. She tried 
to prevent me." 
"Would to God then she had !" 
" Haven 't you told them she s delicate too ? " 
Francie asked, in her strange tone. 
Gaston made no answer to this; but he broke 
out " What power, in heaven s name, has he got 
over you ? What spell has he worked ? " 
"He s an old friend he helped us ever so 
much when we were first in Paris." 
"But, my dearest child, what friends what a 
man to know ! " 
" If we hadn 't known him we shouldn 't have 
known you. Remember that it was Mr. Flack who 
brought us that day to Mr. Waterlow s." 
" Oh, you would have come some other way," 
said Gaston. 
"Not in the least. We knew nothing about 
any other way. He helped us in everything he 
showed us everything. That was why I told him 
when he asked me. I liked him for what he 
had done." 
Gaston, who had now also seated himself, 
listened to this attentively. " I see. It was a 
kind of delicacy." 
"Oh, a kind!" She smiled. 
He remained a little with his eyes on her face. 
" W T as it for me ? " 
" Of course it was for vou." 
" Ah, how strange you are ! " he exclaimed, 
tenderly. " Such contradictions on sy perd. I 
wish you would say that to them, that way. 
Everything would be right." 
" Never, never ! " said the girl. " I have wronged 
them, and nothing will ever be the same again. 
It was fatal. If I felt as they do I too would 
loathe the person who should have done such a 
thing. It doesn 't seem to me so bad the thing 
in the paper; but you know best. You must go 
back to them. You know best," she repeated. 
" They were the last, the last people in France, 
to do it to. The sense of excruciation of pollu 
tion," Gaston rejoined, making his reflections 
audibly. 
"Oh, you needn 't tell me I saw them all 
there!" Francie exclaimed. 
