"Whisky. Get some boiling water, and I'll make you some punch. We'll
make a night of it."
His wife brightened up. Evidently she did not belong to the Temperance
Society, any more than her husband. She moved about the room with
alacrity, and, assisted by her husband, brewed a punch which was of
considerable strength. Then they put it on the table, and set about
enjoying themselves.
"Here's your health, ol' woman!" said Joe, and he tried to sing a stave
of an old drinking-song.
Together they caroused till a late hour, and then fell into a drunken
sleep, which lasted till a late hour in the morning.
About seven o'clock the little girl woke up, and, as is usual with
children, wished to be dressed at once.
"Aunt," Bob heard her say, "I want to be dressed."
But no one came at her call.
After a little waiting, she got out of bed and went downstairs, but
returned in a minute or two, crying.
Bob called through the partition.
"What's the matter, little girl?"
"There's nobody to dress me. Are you the boy that came yesterday?"
"Yes. Where is the woman that put you to bed?"
"She's downstairs--she and the man. They're lying on the floor. I can't
wake them up."
An idea came to Bob.
"Come to our door, little girl, and see if you can draw back the bolt.
We are fastened in."
"Will you take me to my papa?"
"Yes; I will try to."
The child came to the door, and, following Bob's directions, with some
difficulty slipped back the bolt.
"Clip," said Bob, in a tone of triumph, "We're free. Now do as I tell
you, and we'll get away, and reach St. Louis ahead of the boat."
CHAPTER XXXIII.
A LUCKY ESCAPE.
"Now," said Bob to the little girl, as they descended the steep and
narrow staircase, "will you do as I tell you?"
"Yes," answered the child, placing her hand confidingly in his.
"Then make as little noise as possible. We don't want them to wake up.
If they do they will prevent your going away."
"Will you take me back to my papa, certain sure?"
"Yes."
"Oh, I am so glad."
"Clip," said Bob, warningly, "mind you remain perfectly quiet. We must
go through the room where the man and woman are sleeping. Any little
noise might wake them up."
"Don't be afeared for me, Massa Bob," said Clip.
The staircase led into the main room below, so that, as Bob said, it
was necessary to pass through it.
Entering the room on tip-toe, they witnessed a reassuring, but
disgusting spectacle. Joe Springer was stretched out on the floor on his
back, breathing heavily; while his wife, seated in a chair, rested her
head on the kitchen table. She, too, seemed to be in a drunken stupor.
The little girl regarded the woman nervously, remembering the harsh
treatment she had received from her.
There was one more ordeal, and one more danger to run. The outer door
was locked, but the key was in the lock. There was a creaking sound as
Bob turned it. But he opened the door successfully, and once more they
breathed freely in the clear air of morning. As the door opened they
heard a muttered sound from Joe Springer. It sounded like "more whisky!"
He was probably dreaming of his potations of the previous night.
Bob hurried along his two companions till they had reached a point some
half a mile distant from the place of their imprisonment. Then he
thought it best to question the little girl.
"What is your name?" he asked, gently.
"Don't you know my name?" asked the child, in surprise. "My name is
Maud."
"What is your other name?"
"Pearson--my name is Maud Lilian Pearson."
"Just as I thought, Clip," said Bob, triumphantly. "This is the little
girl that was stolen from her parents in St. Louis."
"Yes; my papa lives in St. Louis. Will you take me to him?"
"Yes, Maud. Only be a good little girl, and do as I tell you."
"And you won't let that ugly woman take me away?"
"No; we will hide you away from her. Did she treat you badly?"
"Yes; she shook me, and said she would whip me. She said she was my
aunt; but it isn't true."
"Who brought you to her?"
Maud thereupon described the man whom we know as Brown, the abler one
of the confederates who had stolen the ferry-boat.
"I wonder whether our boat is gone?" said Bob.
"Mebbe we can see from the hill," suggested Clip.
There was a small elevation near by. Bob ascended it, and looked towards
the point where his boat had been tied up. There was no sign of it. It
had disappeared. Though still early, Brown and Minton, fearing
interference, had cut loose about four o'clock, and were, by this time,
several miles on their way to the great city.
"It's gone, Clip," said Bob, sadly.
"Never mind, Massa Bob, we'll catch 'em," answered Clip, energetically.
"Yes, if there is any boat starts down the river to-day."
This, however, was something which he was not sure of. Moreover, he felt
that the sooner he got away from Joe Springer and his estimable wife,
the better. But where could he take refuge? Not at the hotel, for
Springer would find him out and reclaim the little girl. While he was
considering, in his perplexity, what course to pursue, he fell in with
two boys, who appeared to be about fifteen years of age. They regarded
Bob and his party with curiosity.
Bob eyed the boys closely, and decided that they could be depended upon.
They seemed to be just the friends he was in search of. He introduced
himself, and learned that their names were John Sheehan and Edward
Bovee.
"Can you tell me, boys, when the next steamer will start for St. Louis?"
"Yes," answered John; "there is one at seven o'clock to-morrow morning."
"That is the earliest?"
"Yes," said John.
"Do you know of any private house where we can stay till that time? I am
willing to pay a fair price."
"You can come to our house," said Edward Bovee. "I am sure my mother
will take you in. But you won't get as good meals as at the hotel."
"I don't mind that. I shall be glad to stay at your house. Could we go
there to breakfast?"
"Yes; follow me, and I will lead the way."
Edward Bovee led the way to a neat cottage, where his mother, a
pleasant-looking lady, welcomed them, and readily undertook to keep them
till the boat started for St. Louis. Bob, feeling the necessity of
concealment, took Mrs. Bovee into his confidence, and readily secured
the co-operation of the good lady, who took a motherly interest in
little Maud.
Now that the children have found a safe retreat, we will return to Joe
Springer and his interesting wife.
About half an hour after their young prisoners had escaped, Mrs.
Springer raised her head from the table, and looked about her in a
bewildered way. The bright sunshine entering at the window revealed to
her that she had spent the night in a drunken stupor, even if Joe's
prostrate form had not been a visible reminder. She went to her husband,
and shook him roughly.
"Get up, Joe!" she said. "It's morning."
He opened his eyes, and looked around him with stupefaction.
"What's up, old woman?" he asked.
"I am, and you ought to be," she answered, sharply.
"Where's the whisky?"
"You've had enough. Now get up and hustle round, if you want some
breakfast. I'll go up and dress the little girl."
Mrs. Springer went upstairs, but came down again two steps at a time, in
a state of high excitement.
"Joe," said she, quickly, "the little gal's gone!"
"What?"
"The little gal's gone! Run out and see if you can't catch her. If we
lose her, we lose fifty dollars!"
"Are the boys all right?"
"Yes; the door is bolted. They couldn't get out."
This was true. Bob had taken the precaution to lock the door, after
leaving the room. For this reason, it was half an hour later before Joe
discovered that all his prisoners had escaped. Then, as might have been
expected, there was a wild scene of recrimination, ending in a fight, in
which Mrs. Springer did her part, for she was by no means a weak or
delicate lady, but a woman without fear, who believed in the right of
self-defense. The worthy pair instituted a search throughout the
village, but failed to discover any trace of the lost children. The next
morning, however, Joe Springer got up unusually early, for him, and
strolled to the steamboat-landing. The boat was already out in the
stream, when on the deck he discovered Maud and the two boys.
"Stop the boat!" screamed Joe, in excitement.
"What's the matter?" asked the man beside him.
"Those three children. They have run away!"
"From you?"
"Yes; from my house."
"Why, man, you must be drunk. You have no children."
"I had charge of 'em, particularly the little gal! Stop the boat, I
say!"
"Has that man any claim on you?" asked the captain, who chanced to be
standing near Bob.
"Not the slightest," answered Bob.
"Or the little girl?"
"No; her father lives in St. Louis, and I am taking her to him."
"Stop the boat!" screamed Joe, frantically.
"He's drunk!" said Joe's neighbor. "He doesn't know what he's talking
about."
This settled the matter so far as the captain was concerned. Bob paid
the full passage-money for the party, and they were enrolled as regular
passengers.
Towards the middle of the afternoon a surprise awaited them. They saw,
not far ahead, their own boat, which was drifting down the river, with
Brown at the helm.
"Do you see that, Clip?" asked Bob.
"Yes, Massa Bob."
"Quick, hide! Don't let them see us. I have no objection to their
working their passage down to the city. When they get there, we will be
on hand to take possession."
"Dat's a good joke! Won't they be s'prised, dough?" said Clip, showing
his white teeth.
So the steamboat swept by, carrying the three children past the two
conspirators, who fancied them safely housed in Joe Springer's house up
the river.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
MR. WOLVERTON'S LETTER.
While the boys are meeting with adventures, on their way down the river,
we will return to the town of Carver, in which, as it will be
remembered, the Burton ranch was located.
There was no one more interested in the progress of the expedition than
Aaron Wolverton. It was against his wishes and his interest that Bob
should succeed in carrying out his plans. He wanted to get possession of
the Burton ranch, and force Mrs. Burton to take him for her second
husband. Most of all, perhaps, he wanted to humble the pride of "the
Burton boy," as he styled Bob, for he cordially hated him, and was well
aware that Bob disliked and despised him. If he could only bring about
the failure of Bob's trip, and the loss of his cargo, he would have
both Bob and his mother in his power.
Wolverton had been anxiously awaiting intelligence from his agents, and
the postmaster was somewhat surprised at his numerous visits to the
office for letters.
At length, one morning, Aaron Wolverton's patience was rewarded.
A letter was handed him, directed in an almost illegible scrawl to
MR. A. WOLVERTON, ESQ.
It was written by Brown, who was by no means an accomplished scholar.
Wolverton opened it eagerly, and read the following lines:
     MR. WOLVERTON: I write you these few lines from Rocky Creek. I am
     pleased to say we have got the bote, and are jest starting for St.
     Louis with the cargo onbord. If you want to know about the boys,
     bob burton and the little nigger are locked up in a house in the
     village belonging to one of my friends, and they won't be let out
     till it is perfecly saif. We got hold of them by a nise trick. I
     haven't time to tell you about it now, but when we meat, you shall
     kno all.
     Send that fifty dollars to Mr. J. Brown, St. Louis Post Office.
     Don't forget! This is important.
     Yours to command,
     J. BROWN.
This letter, ill-spelled as it was, seemed to give Aaron Wolverton
unbounded satisfaction. A gratified smile overspread his face, and he
said to himself: "That will bring down the Burton pride. That young
whipper-snapper will come home with a few less airs than when he set
out. The chances are that he'll have to walk home or buy a passage."
Wolverton chuckled at this agreeable thought. He would be revenged upon
poor Bob for all the mortifications to which the boy had subjected him:
and, to a man of Wolverton's temperament, revenge was sweet.
"You have received good news, Mr. Wolverton," said the postmaster,
observing the land agent's evident glee.
"What makes you think so?" asked Wolverton, cautiously.
"I judged from your smiling face."
"It wasn't the letter. I was thinking of something."
"That is only a blind," thought the postmaster. "I saw his face light up
when he read the letter. Let me see; it was mailed from Rocky Creek. I
will bear that in mind, and some day I may discover the secret."
As Wolverton picked his way through the mud from the post-office to his
office, he fell in with Mrs. Burton, who had come to the village on
business. He smiled to himself, and prepared to accost her.
"I hope I see you well, Mrs. Burton," he said, with gravity.
"Very well, thank you, Mr. Wolverton," answered the widow, coldly.
"What do you hear from your son?"
"I received a letter yesterday. All was going well with him."
"I am really glad to hear it," said Wolverton, with a queer smile.
"Still you must remember that 'there's many a slip 'twixt the cup and
the lip.'"
"What do you mean, Mr. Wolverton?" asked Mrs. Burton, quickly.
"What should I mean?" said Wolverton, in apparent surprise.
"Have you heard any bad news of Robert?"
"Oh, dear, no! I am sorry to say that your son is prejudiced against me,
and would hardly favor me with any letter."
Mrs. Burton looked relieved.
"I was only warning you on general principles. 'Let him that thinketh he
standeth take heed lest he fall,' as the Scriptures have it."
"Thank you for the caution," said Mrs. Burton, dryly. "By the way, have
you heard anything of your nephew, Sam?"
Wolverton's face darkened.
"No," he answered. "I did think, I confess, that he might have run away
with Bob, but I don't think so now."
"If he did, I know nothing of it."
This was true. For obvious reasons, Bob had not taken his mother into
his confidence on this subject.
"The boy has shown base ingratitude to me," continued Wolverton,
bitterly. "I cared for him and kept him from starving, and how has he
rewarded me?"
"If his home was so agreeable as you represent, it is certainly
surprising that he should have left you. Good-morning, Mr. Wolverton."
"What did she mean?" Wolverton asked himself. "Some of her sarcasm, I
suppose. When she becomes Mrs. Wolverton, I will get even with her."
As nothing had been said of Sam in the letter of his confidential agent,
Wolverton no longer suspected that he had gone down the river with Bob
Burton. On the whole, as he had Sam's property in his possession, he did
not care whether the boy ever returned, except that he would have liked
to give him a good flogging.
CHAPTER XXXV.
BOB'S ARRIVAL IN ST. LOUIS.
Meanwhile Bob and Clip were steaming rapidly down the river. Now that he
was pretty sure of recovering his boat and cargo, Bob gave himself up to
the enjoyment of the trip, and was fain to confess that he enjoyed it
better than working his passage on the ferry-boat. As for Maud, she
seemed to feel as much confidence in our hero as if she had known him
all her life. She seemed also to appreciate Clip, but in a different
way.
"You're a funny boy!" she said.
"Yah, yah, little missy!" laughed Clip.
"Where's your mother?"
"Dunno, missy! I expect she dead."
"My mamma's dead, too. She's in heaven. Is your mamma there too?"
"S'pect so, little missy."
Bob questioned the little girl as to the manner of her abduction. He
learned that she had been carried off from the street in which she lived
by Brown, who secured her consent by a promise of candy. Then she was
put into a carriage, and given something to drink. When she woke up she
was on a river steamer, being landed at length at the place where Bob
found her.
"Did my papa send you for me?" she asked.
"No, Maud," answered Bob, "but I heard you had been stolen, and I
determined to carry you back, if I could."
"On what street does your father live?" asked Bob, later.
"On Laclede Avenue."
"Can you tell me the number?"
This also Maud was able to tell. At the first stopping-place, after he
had obtained this information, Bob, appreciating the anxiety of Maud's
friends, telegraphed her father as follows:
     I have discovered your little daughter, and am on my way to the
     city with her. She was taken to Rocky Creek, and confined there.
     Our steamer--the Gazelle--will probably arrive at her wharf
     to-morrow morning.
     ROBERT BURTON.
When this telegram was received, Mr. Pearson was suffering deep grief
and anxiety; but the message comforted him not a little.
When the steamer reached the pier, a middle-aged man of medium size and
dark complexion was waiting on the wharf.
"That's my papa!" exclaimed Maud, clapping her hands; and the little
girl danced on the deck in her joy.
In a moment she was in the arms of her father.
"My darling Maud?" he exclaimed, caressing her fondly. "Thank Heaven I
have you back again! Where is Mr. Burton?"
"My name is Robert Burton," said Bob, modestly.
"What, a boy!" exclaimed Mr. Pearson, in amazement. "I supposed the
person who telegraphed me was a man."
"He's a nice boy," said Maud, putting her hand confidingly in Bob's.
"I am sure of it," said Mr. Pearson, cordially, grasping the hand of our
hero.
"And he's a funny boy," continued Maud, pointing out Clip.
"Yah, yah!" laughed Clip, with a broad grin on his shining face.
"Clip is a companion of mine," explained Bob, "and we came down the
river together."
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Clip," said Mr. Pearson,
smiling, and taking Clip by the hand.
"Yah, yah!" laughed the delighted Clip.
"Now, boys," said Mr. Pearson, as they passed over the gang-plank and
set foot upon the wharf, "I shall take you both home with me. I have not
yet had an opportunity of asking questions about how you came to find my
dear child, and rescue her from her terrible captivity. There stands my
carriage. Get in, both of you, and we will go to my home at once."
It was a strange sensation to Clip to find himself riding in a hansom
carriage, the favored guest of the wealthy proprietor. He was not sure
whether he were awake or dreaming.
They drove rapidly for perhaps a couple of miles, and then stopped in
front of an elegant mansion in the upper part of Laclede Avenue. The two
boys never expected to enter St. Louis in such grand style.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
A THOUSAND DOLLARS REWARD.
A little awed by the splendid appointments of the merchant's house, Bob
and Clip entered, following Mr. Pearson.
A stout, pleasant-looking woman of middle age--the housekeeper--appeared
at the door of a side room. She darted forward, and clasped Maud in a
fond embrace.
"My darling Maud, how glad I am to see you back!" she said. "I thought
we had lost you."
"This is the young man who rescued Maud, Margaret," said Mr. Pearson,
pointing to Bob.
"And he so young! I must kiss him, too!" said Margaret; and,
considerably to our hero's embarrassment, Margaret gave him a resounding
kiss.
"This boy also assisted," said Mr. Pearson, indicating Clip, with a
smile.
Margaret hesitated a moment--she was not quite prepared to kiss a
colored boy--but compromised by shaking his hand cordially.
"You look like a nice boy, Clip," she said.
"So I is, missus; yah, yah!" responded Clip, laughing.
"Now, Margaret, can you give us something to eat?" said Mr. Pearson.
"It's all ready, sir. I thought you and Miss Maud would be hungry."
"I suspect we are all hungry," said Mr. Pearson, leading the way into a
handsome dining-room.
"Now, boys, take your seats," he said.
Clip felt a little awkward, for he was not used to being a guest at a
rich man's table, but he did not allow his bashfulness to interfere with
the gratification of an excellent appetite.
When the meal was over, Mr. Pearson invited the boys into his library,
and seated himself at a desk.
He drew a check-book from a drawer and wrote for a minute. Then he tore
off a check, and handed it to Bob.
"This is the reward I offered for the return of my dear daughter," he
said. "I have made the check payable to your order."
Bob took it and read as follows:
     "FIRST NATIONAL BANK,
     "Pay to the order of Robert Burton, One Thousand Dollars.
     "$1000.      JOHN PEARSON."
"I don't like to take this large sum, Mr. Pearson," said Bob. "I did not
rescue your daughter for money."
"I am quite aware of that, my dear boy, but it is a pleasure for me to
give you this proof of my gratitude. I am sure you will spend it
creditably."
"I shall find it very useful, sir; and I thank you sincerely. May I ask
if you do not deal in wheat?"
"That is a part of my business."
"I shall have about fourteen hundred bushels to dispose of if I recover
my boat."
"I will give you two dollars and a quarter a bushel, if it is in good
condition."
"I accept, sir," answered Bob, promptly. "Now, may I ask your advice as
to how to proceed to regain possession of the boat?"
"When do you expect it to arrive?" asked the merchant.
"Probably not till to-morrow, but I can't guess at what part of the day.
It depends on how well the thieves succeed in managing the boat."
"I will order my carriage and drive round with you to the Central Police
Office. The police will take proper measures to recover the boat and
arrest the rascals who robbed you of it."
"Won't it be too much trouble, sir?"
"I shall not count it a trouble, for I shall at the same time be
punishing the men who abducted my dear Maud. They will be tried for both
offenses, and will probably get a long term of imprisonment."
In an hour information had been lodged at the Central Police Office, and
orders had been given to watch the river, and to keep a good lookout for
the boat, of which Bob furnished a description.
That night Bob and Clip slept at Mr. Pearson's house, being treated as
honored guests.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
BROWN AND MINTON WALK INTO A TRAP.
Little suspecting the reception awaiting them in St. Louis, Minton and
Brown were laboriously guiding their stolen craft down the river. Not
being accustomed to labor of any sort, they found the confinement
irksome, but the prize for which they were striving was so large that
they took it very good-humoredly. They whiled away the time by indulging
in visions of future ease and prosperity, and in exchanging witticisms
at the expense of Bob, the youthful owner of the boat.
"I wonder how the young captain is enjoying himself," said Minton, as he
lay back, with one of the bins for a support, while puffing at a choice
cigar.
"He is ready to tear his hair out, I presume," said Brown. "He's a
conceited young popinjay, and deserves to have his pride taken down."
"You're right there, Brown. We shall make a tidy sum out of our
venture."
"Yes; we can afford to retire for a time. Of course I shall want more
than half."
"I don't see that," said Minton, quickly.
"Why, man, I've done all the headwork. What have you done to compare
with me?"
"We are equal partners," said Minton, doggedly.
"That is where you are mistaken. I don't mind, though, giving you half
of what we get for the girl."
"How shall we arrange to get anything? It is rather a ticklish
business--"
"That's where the headwork comes in. I shall wait upon old Pearson, and
tell him that I have a clew, and suspect I know who abducted the child.
Then I'll work him up to a point where he'll shell out liberally."
"Won't there be risk?"
"How can there be? Leave the thing to me and I'll arrange it. The fact
is, Minton, you are a man of no ideas. If I depended on you, you
wouldn't make a cent out of one of the neatest jobs I've ever been
concerned in."
Minton was conscious that there was some truth in this, and it helped to
reconcile him to the evident determination of his companion to
appropriate the lion's share of the fruits of their questionable
enterprises.
"I suppose Joe's all right?" he said, after a pause.
"Of course he is. What would he make by proving false to us?"
"Nothing, that I can see. Still, if he should do so, it might upset our
plans. The boy could afford to pay him well for releasing him."
"That is true," returned Brown, thoughtfully. "On all accounts it will
be necessary for us to expedite matters. I sha'n't waste any time once
we are in St. Louis."
"You mean in disposing of the cargo?"
"Precisely. I am in no position to haggle about prices. I'll offer it at
a bargain to some large dealer. He will naturally think I'm a country
gentleman, and clinch the bargain at once. Do you see?"
"Yes, Brown. You've got the right idea."
"Of course I have," said Brown, complacently. "It takes a long head to
outwit me. Got another cigar, Minton?"
Minton drew out one and handed to his confederate, and presently took
his turn at the rudder.
So time passed, the boat making good progress, and about three o'clock
in the afternoon the boat reached an obscure pier in the lower part of
St. Louis.
There were some interested persons watching its arrival. Among them were
Bob and his friend Clip, and a small squad of policemen. Not suspecting
anything, Brown and Minton busied themselves in bringing the boat to
anchor. Meanwhile Bob, without being observed, stepped aboard.
"Good afternoon, Mr. Brown! I hope you had a pleasant trip," he said,
quietly.
Brown felt as if he had been struck by lightning. Wheeling around
suddenly, he saw Bob's eyes fixed upon him. He was absolutely speechless
with amazement and consternation.
"Who are you?" he finally ejaculated, quickly resolving to brazen it
out, and deny Bob's claim to ownership.
"I think you know me, Mr. Brown!" replied Bob. "I have only to thank you
for taking charge of my boat and bringing it safe to St. Louis."
"Look here, young feller!" said Brown, roughly, "you must be crazy. I
never saw you before in my life, and here you come on board my boat and
claim it as your own. If you don't clear out I'll have you arrested."
"There will be no difficulty about that, Mr. Brown. Here are policemen
close at hand."
Mr. Brown's face grew pale as he saw three stalwart policemen marching
on board the boat.
"I guess it's all up, Minton!" he said, and made a dash for liberty; but
he was not quick enough. He and Minton were quickly secured and marched
off, with handcuffs on their wrists. As we are now to bid these
gentlemen farewell, it may be said briefly that they pleaded guilty in
hopes of a lighter sentence, and were sent to prison for seven years.
Thus far the community has been able to spare them without
inconvenience.
Bob and Clip resumed charge of the boat, and during the next day
disposed of the cargo to Mr. Pearson at the price agreed upon.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
WHAT BOB BROUGHT HOME.
After disposing of his cargo, Bob was puzzled to know what to do with
the ferry-boat. Finally he had an offer of one hundred dollars, from a
speculative Yankee who had drifted out to St. Louis, and gladly accepted
it. This sum paid all expenses, including his and Clip's return fare,
and left him with a handsome sum to his credit, viz.:
     1,400 bushels wheat, at $2.25,      $3,150
     Reward,                              1,000
                                         ------
                                         $4,150
This sum, with the exception of one hundred and fifty dollars, by advice
of Mr. Pearson, he deposited in a St. Louis bank, and then started for
home.
He could not make the whole passage by steamer, but went part way by
railroad, and then engaged a carriage to a point four miles from home.
Thence he and Clip walked. He wanted to surprise not only his mother,
but Wolverton. He knew now that Brown and Minton had only been agents of
his more crafty enemy, Brown having made a written confession, not so
much out of friendship to Bob as out of spite against Wolverton, whom he
held responsible for getting him into this scrape.
With soiled shoes and clothes covered with dust, Bob and Clip entered
the village, and purposely walked by Wolverton's office.
The latter, spying them through the window, smiled maliciously, and
hurried out to meet them.
"Aha, my young friends," he said, with a pleased glance at their soiled
clothes, "so you have returned?"
"Yes, sir," answered Bob, soberly.
"And what luck did you have, may I ask?"
"We had good luck at first, but at Rocky Creek two rascals entrapped us,
and stole our boat and cargo."
Wolverton laughed outright. So it was true, after all.
"Excuse my smiling," he said; "but you seem to have come out at the
little end of the horn."
"It does seem so, sir."
"You remember what I told you before you started?"
"What was that?"
"That you were too young for such an expedition. It would have been much
better for you to accept my offer."
"It seems so," answered Bob again.
"Seems so! Of course it would have been. But the trouble was, you were
so puffed up by your own self-conceit that you thought you knew best."
"I plead guilty to that, sir; I did think so," answered Bob, candidly.
"I am glad you admit it. So you had to walk back?"
"You can judge for yourself, Mr. Wolverton."
"Well, you certainly do look like two tramps. The next time you may feel
like following my advice."
"I may," answered Bob.
It did occur to Mr. Wolverton that Bob's answers were rather unusual,
and his manner rather queer; quite unlike his usual tone and manner. But
this he readily accounted for. The boy's pride had been humbled. He knew
now that he was in Wolverton's power, and he had the sense to be humble,
in the hope of making better terms.
"But it won't do," said the agent to himself. "He will find that I will
have what is mine, and he cannot soften my heart by any appeal to my
pity."
"It appears to me you are in rather a scrape," he said, after a pause.
"How is that."
"Why, a part of your mortgage comes due in a short time. I hope you
don't expect me to wait."
"No doubt you will be considerate, Mr. Wolverton, remembering what luck
we have had."
"No, I won't!" snarled Wolverton. "Don't flatter yourself so far. I am
not responsible for your misfortune, or folly, as I call it."
"Still, Mr. Wolverton--"
"Oh, it's no use to talk!" continued the agent, raising his hand
impatiently. "You have been a fool, and you must suffer the penalty of
your folly."
"Has Sam got back, Mr. Wolverton?" asked Bob, changing the subject,
rather to Mr. Wolverton's surprise.
"No; have you seen him?" asked the agent, eagerly.
"Yes, sir."
"Where?" asked Wolverton, quickly.
"The fact is, we discovered him on our boat soon after we started."
"You did!" ejaculated the agent, his eyes almost starting out of his
head. "Why didn't you send him back?"
"Because he said you didn't treat him well, and begged to stay."
"Young man, do you know I could have you arrested for abducting my
nephew?" demanded Wolverton, angrily.
"Was it my fault that he hid himself on my boat?"
"Where is he now?" asked Wolverton, abruptly.
"He left the boat at a point on the way."
"Where was it?"
"You must excuse my answering that question. Sam wouldn't like it."
"What difference does that make?"
"Sam is my friend. I think, however, you will soon know, as he means to
come back."
Wolverton smiled triumphantly.
"I shall be glad to see him," he said, significantly. Bob knew what that
meant.
"You must excuse me now, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob. "I must hurry home,
as mother will be anxious to see me."
"Tell her I shall call very soon--on business."
"I will."
When they were out of hearing the boys laughed in amusement. They had a
surprise in store for Wolverton.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
CONCLUSION.
There was another arrival at Burton's Ranch the next day. Sam Wolverton
came in charge of his new-found relative, Robert Granger. They took a
carriage, and reached the ranch without attracting the attention of
Aaron Wolverton.
Mrs. Burton welcomed her visitors, and expressed great pleasure at the
discovery that Sam's fortunes were likely to be improved. Mr. Granger
proposed to make a call upon the faithless guardian, but was saved the
necessity, as Mr. Wolverton called early in the afternoon of the same
day. He was in a hurry to show his power, and foreclose the mortgage. It
was arranged that Sam and Mr. Granger should remain out of sight at
