crystallize them, and set them to that wonderful 
music, the world — the world would rise at last 
and call me great! Her eyes — her hair — oh, my 
God, what is it?" He threw down his pen and 
staggered to his feet. His face was blanched 
and drawn, and his eyes had lost their steady 
light. He grasped the chair to save himself 
from falling; he had lost over himself both phys- 
ical and mental control. It seemed to him that 
two beings, two distinct entities, were at war 
within his brain — that new, glorious consciousness, 
and a tangible power above, which forced it down 
with an iron hand — down — down — into the depths 
of his mind, where its cries for speech came up 
in faint, inarticulate murmurs. And it tried and 
tried, that strange new thing, to struggle from 
its dungeon and reach the wide, free halls of his 
thought, but it could not; it beat against that 
unrelaxing iron hand only to fall back again and 
again. And it sang and sang and sang, in spite 
of its struggles and captivity. The faint, sweet 
echo came up — if he could but catch the words! 
If he could but dash aside that iron hand, and 
let his brain absorb them ! Surely a word or two 
must force their way — yes! yes! they had come ! 
"Her face! her form!" — He tore open his waist- 
coat; his lungs felt as if they had been ex- 
hausted. Then, how he never knew, he man- 
aged to reach his sofa, and fell face downward 
upon it; and the next morning, when his valet 
came in and drew aside the curtains and let in 
the light of mid-day, he found him there as he 
had fallen. 
III. 
Harold Dartmouth came of a family cele- 
brated throughout its history for producing men 
of marked literary and political ability. Few 
generations had passed without a Dartmouth
distinguishing himself, and those members of the 
family less gifted were not in the habit of having 
their fine intellectual qualities called to account. 
The consequence was that their young descendant, 
who inherited all the family cleverness, although 
as yet he had betrayed the possession of none of 
its higher gifts, paid the penalty of his mental 
patrimony. His brain was abnormally active, 
both through conditions of heredity and personal 
incitement; and the cerebral excitation neces- 
sarily produced^ resulted not infrequently in 
violent reaction, which took the form of protracted 
periods of melancholy. These attacks of 
melancholy had begun during his early school-days, 
when, a remarkably bright but extremely wild boy, 
he had been invariably fired with ambition as
examinations approached, and obliged to cram to 
make up for lost time. As years went by they 
grew with his growth, and few months passed 
without an attack of the blues more or less 
violent, no matter how brief. They came after 
hours of brooding over his desire to distinguish 
himself, and his fatal want of ability; they came 
during his intervals of purely intellectual disgust 
with himself and with life; but more frequently 
still they came upon him from no apparent cause 
whatever. They were a part of his personality, 
just as humor, or light, unthinking gaiety, or a 
constantly bubbling wit may form the predominating 
characteristic of another man. 
For a week after the night of his futile impulse 
to put into shape the nebulous verse which had 
tormented his brain, no one saw Harold Dart- 
mouth. The violent shock and strain had
induced an attack of mental and spiritual depression 
which amounted to prostration, and he lay 
on his sofa taking no notice of the days as they 
slipped by, eating little and speaking to no one. 
At first Jones, his man-servant, was not
particularly disturbed. He had brought Dartmouth up, 
and had come to look upon his moods as a matter 
of course. He therefore confined himself to 
forcing his master to take his food and to parrying 
the curiosity of the French servants; he knew 
Dartmouth's temper too well to venture to call a 
doctor, and he hoped that in a few days the 
mood would wear itself out. But at the end of a 
week he became seriously alarmed. He had 
spent the last day but one in a desperate and 
fruitless attempt to rouse Dartmouth, and had 
 
used every expedient his ingenuity could suggest. 
Finally, at his wits' end, he determined to 
call in the help of Lord Bective Hollington, who 
was Dartmouth's most intimate friend, and had 
lived with him and his moods for months to- 
gether. He came to this decision late on the 
night of the seventh day, and at eleven the next 
morning he presented himself at Hollington's 
apartments in the Rue Lincoln. Hollington was 
still in bed and reading the morning paper, but 
he put it down at once. 
" Send him in," he said. " Something is the 
matter with Harold," he continued to himself. 
" Something unusual has been the matter with 
him all the week, when he wouldn't even see me. 
Well, Jones, what is it ? " as that perturbed 
worthy entered. " You are an early visitor." 
" Oh ! my Lord !" exclaimed Jones, tearfully; 
" something dreadful hails Master 'Arold." 
" What is it ? " demanded Hollington, quickly. 
"Is he ill?" 
Jones shook his head. " No, my Lord; I 
wish 'ee was. 'Ee's worse than hill. 'Ee's got 
one of 'is moods." 
" Poor Harold ! I thought he had got over 
all that since he had given himself over to the 
distractions of wine, woman, and song. I haven't 
seen him in one of his moods for three or four 
years." 
" Ah, sir, I 'ave, then. 'Ee don't 'ave them so 
 
frequent like before he begun to travel, but 
hevery wunst in a while 'ee will be terrible for 
two hor three days; but I never see hany thing 
like this before, heven at Crumford 'All. 'Ee 'as 
never spoke for a week; not since the night of 
the ball hat the Russian Legation." 
" By Jove ! you don't mean it. I thought he 
was on a 'private tear,' as the Americans say; but 
I don't like this at all. Just clear out, and I'll 
be dressed and over in his rooms in less than half 
an hour." And he sprang out of bed before 
Jones had closed the door. 
He was but a few moments dressing, as he had 
promised, and was at Dartmouth's apartment 
before Jones had time to become impatient, 
nervous as he was. He pulled aside the portiere 
of the salon and looked in. The curtains 
were drawn and the room was dark, but on a 
sofa near the window he saw his friend lying. 
He picked his way over through the studiously 
disordered furniture and touched Dartmouth on 
the shoulder. 
"Hal!" he said, "Hal!" 
Dartmouth opened his eyes and looked up. 
" Is it you, Becky ? " he said, languidly. " Go 
away and let me alone." But his words and 
manner indicated that the attack was at last 
" wearing itself out." 
" I will do nothing of the sort," replied Hol- 
lington. " Get up off that sofa this moment. 
A week ! I am ashamed of you. What would 
the old lady say ? " 
" She would understand," murmured Dart- 
mouth. " She always understood. I wish she 
were here now." 
" I wish she were. She would soon have you 
out of this. Get up. Don't be a fool." 
"I am not a fool. I have got one of the 
worst of the old attacks, and I can't shake it off; 
that is all. Go away, and let me fight it out by 
myself." ^ 
" I will not move from this room, if I stay 
here for six months, until you go with me. So 
make up your mind to it." And he threw him- 
self into an easy-chair, and lighting a cigar, 
proceeded leisurely to smoke it. 
Dartmouth turned uneasily once or twice. 
"You know I can't bear anyone near me," he 
said; " I want to be alone." 
"You have been alone long enough. I will 
do as I have said.'' 
There was silence for a few moments, and 
Dartmouth's restlessness increased. Hollington 
watched him closely, and after a time handed 
him a cigar and offered him a light. Dartmouth 
accepted both mechanically, and for a time the 
two men smoked in silence. When Dartmouth 
finished he rose to his feet. 
" Very well," he said, " have your own way. 
Wait until I dress and I will go out with you." 
 
He went into his dressing-room and returned 
about an hour later, during which time 
Hollington had thrown back the curtains and written a 
couple of letters. Dartmouth was still haggard 
and very pale, but his face had been shaved and 
he looked something like himself once more. 
Hollington rose and threw down his pen at 
once. 
" I will drop in on our way back and finish this 
letter," he said. " You must get out of the 
house as quickly as possible. By Jove ! how 
bad you look ! " He put his hand on his friend's 
shoulder and looked at him a moment. He was 
the average Englishman in most of his details, 
tall, well-built, with a good profile, and a 
ruddy Saxon face. His individual characteristics
were an eternal twinkle in his eye, a 
forehead with remarkably well-developed reflectives, 
and a very square chin and jaw. Just now the 
twinkle was less aggressive and his face had 
softened noticeably. " There is no help for it, 
I suppose, Hal, is there ? " he said. " 
Dartmouth looked back at him with a smile, 
and a good deal of affection in his eyes. " No, 
old fellow," he replied; " I am afraid there is 
not. But they are rarely as bad as this last. 
And — thank you for coming." 
They went out together and walked to the 
Cafe Anglais on the Boulevard des Italiens. 
The air was keen and cold, the walk a long one, 
and Dartmouth felt like another man by the time 
he sat down to breakfast. One or two other men 
joined them. Hollington was unusually witty, 
the conversation was general and animated, and 
when Dartmouth left the caf6 the past week 
seemed an ugly dream. In the afternoon he 
met the wife of the American Consul-General, 
Mrs. Raleigh, in the Bois, and learned from her 
that Margaret Talbot had left Paris. This 
left him free to remain; and when Mrs. Raleigh 
reminded him that her doors were open that 
evening, he asked permission at once to present 
himself. Mrs. Raleigh not only had a distinguished 
and interesting salon, but she casually 
remarked that she expected Miss Penrhyn, and 
Dartmouth felt a strong desire to see the girl 
again. 
IV. 
When, a few hours later, Dartmouth entered 
Mrs. Raleigh's salon, he saw Miss Penrhyn 
surrounded by some half-dozen men, and talking 
with the abandon of a pleased child, her eyes 
sparkling, her cheeks flushed. As he went over 
to her the flush faded slightly, but she held out 
her hand and smiled up into his eyes. 
"You have been ill," she murmured, sympathetically. 
"You look so still." 
"Yes," he said, "I have been ill; otherwise I 
should have made an effort to see you before. I 
 
suppose I cannot get a word with you to-night. 
May I call on you to-morrow morning ? " 
"Yes, you may come." 
" Thank you. And there will not be a dozen 
other men there ? " 
She smiled. " I do not think there will be 
anyone else. I rarely receive in the morning." 
" But are you sure ? " 
He had a long sweep of black lash, through 
which the clear blue of his eyes had a way of 
shining with a pleading, softening lustre,
immensely effective. It was an accepted fact that 
when Mr. Dartmouth turned on this battery of 
eyes and lash, resistance was a forgotten art 
and protest a waste of time. Miss Penrhyn did 
not prove an exception to the rule. She hesitated, 
then answered, with a little laugh, as if 
amused at herself: " Well, yes, I am sure." 
" Very well, then; remember, I look upon that 
as a promise. And I will try to get a word with 
you later, but there is no hope now." 
He moved off and, leaning against the opposite
wall, covertly watched her, while ostensibly 
listening with due sympathy to the hopes and 
fears of an old friend and embryo author. In a 
moment he made a discovery — of his friend's 
confidence I regret to say he heard not one 
word — she did not treat bim as she treated other 
men. Well-bred as she was, there was a perceptible 
embarrassment in her manner whenever he 
 
addressed her; but with these other men she was 
talking and smihng without a trace of effort or 
restraint. He knew what it meant. He was 
thoroughly aware that he was a man of extraordinary
magnetism, and he had seen his power 
over a great many women. Ordinarily, to a man 
so sated with easy success as Harold Dartmouth, 
the certainty of conquest would have strangled 
the fancy, but there was something about this 
girl which awakened in him an interest he did 
not pretend to define, except that he found her 
more beautiful, and believed her to be more 
original, than other women. He was anxious to 
have a longer conversation with her, and ascertain 
whether or not he was correct in his latter 
supposition. He did not want to marry, and she 
was too good to flirt with; but platonics were 
left. And platonics with Miss Penrhyn sug- 
gested variety. 
He also made another discovery. Someone 
played an interminable piece of classic music. 
During its recital it was not possible for Miss 
Penrhyn to talk with the men about her, and 
as the animation faded from her face, he noticed 
the same preoccupied look overspread it which 
had characterized it the night she had entered 
the ball-room at the Legation. Something 
troubled her, but to Dartmouth's quick eye it 
was not an active trouble; it was more like a 
shadow which took possession of her face in its 
moments of repose with the quiet assurance of a 
dweller of long standing. Possibly she herself 
was habitually forgetful of its cause; but the 
cause had struck deep into the roots of her 
nature, and its shadow had become a part of her 
beauty. Dartmouth speculated much and widely, 
but rejected the hypothesis of a lover. She had 
never loved for a moment; and in spite of his 
platonic predilections, this last of his conclusions 
held a very perceptible flavor of satisfaction. 
When the classic young lady had gracefully 
acknowledged the raptures she had evoked, and 
tripped back to her seat. Miss Penrhyn was 
asked to sing, and then Dartmouth saw his 
opportunity; he captured her when she had 
finished, and bore her off to the conservatory 
before anyone could interfere. 
"You sing charmingly," he said. "Will you 
sing for me to-morrow ? " 
" If you can stretch flattery to that extent, 
with Patti at the Grand Opera House." 
" I have been listening to Patti for fifteen 
years, and man loves variety. I wish I could tell 
where I have seen you before," he continued, 
abruptly. "Do you look like your mother? I 
may have seen her in my youth." 
Her face flushed a sudden, painful red, and 
then turned very pale. " I do not remember my 
mother," she stammered. " She died when I was 
quite young." 
 
"Poor thing!" thought Dartmouth. "How 
girls do grieve for an unknown mother! " " But 
you have seen her picture ? " he said, aloud. 
" Yes, I have seen her pictures. They are 
dark, like myself. But that is all." 
"You must have had a lonely childhood, 
brought up all by yourself in that gloomy old 
castle I have heard described." 
She colored again and crushed a fern-leaf ner- 
vously between her fingers. " Yes, it was lone- 
some. Yes — those old castles always are." 
" By the way — I remember — my mother spent a 
summer down there once, some twelve or thirteen 
years ago, and — it comes back to me now — 
I remember having heard her speak of Rhyd- 
Alwyn as the most picturesque castle in Wales. 
She must have known your mother, of course. 
And you must have known the children. Why 
was I not theire ? " 
" I do not remember," she said, rising suddenly 
to her feet, and turning so pale that Dart- 
mouth started to his in alarm. "Come; let us 
go back to the salon." 
"There is some mystery," thought Dartmouth. 
" Have I stumbled upon a family skeleton ? 
Poor child! " But aloud he said, "No, do not 
go yet; I want to talk to you." And when he 
had persuaded her to sit down once more, he 
exerted himself to amuse her, and before long 
had the satisfaction of seeing that she had 
forgotten her agitation. It did not take him long 
to discover that she had read a great deal and 
that her favorite reading had been travels, and 
he entertained her with graphic recitals of such 
of his own varied experience as he thought most 
likely to interest her. She listened with 
flattering attention and a natural and keen sense 
of humor, and he was stimulated to a good 
deal more effort than habit prompted. " You 
will enjoy travelling," he said, finally; "and 
you will not travel like other women. You will 
see something besides picture-galleries, and 
churches, and Bons marche's. I believe that you 
would realize what it is to be an atom of to-day 
in the presence of twenty centuries." 
She smiled up at him with quick sympathy. 
" Yes," she said, " I believe one must more
frequently be awed than pleased, or even enrap- 
tured. And I can imagine how even the most 
self-content of men, if he absorb the meaning of 
Europe, must feel his insignificance. If he has 
wit enough to reflect that all these represented 
ages, with their extraordinary results, abstract 
and concrete, have come and gone with no aid 
of his; that no prophet ever whispered his 
name among the thousands of great in every 
conceivable destiny; that he is, mentally and 
physically, simply a result of evoltition and 
civilization, not, in any way worth mentioning, a 
cause, he will be apt to reflect as well upon how 
many men, all told, have ever heard of his existence, 
or who besides his grandchildren will remember 
him a generation hence. He will probably 
wish that arithmetic had never been in- 
vented. Or if he be one of the great of earth, 
he is only one after all, and, if he be in danger 
of bursting from inflation, he can be grateful for 
a timely reminder that there are several millions 
on the globe who have never heard of him, and a 
few millions more who do not and never will take 
the faintest interest in him or his career. But it 
needs the presence of twenty centuries to bring 
the fact of man's individual insignificance home 
to most of us." 
" She is clever," thought Dartmouth, as he 
dismissed his brougham a little later and walked 
home alone. " Very un-moder,n and most reprehensibly
unconventional, in so much as she 
thinks, and develops her mental muscles; but 
very charming, notwithstanding. There is an 
incongruity about her, however, which is almost 
absurd. She has been brought up in such seclusion 
— and under the sole tuition of a man not 
only a pedant, but who has never stepped 
through the gates of the last generation — that 
she reminds one of those fair English dames who 
used to prowl about their parks with the Phsedo 
under their arm and long for a block on which 
to float down to prosperity; Plato had quite 
enough to do to sail for himself. And upon this 
epitomized abstraction of the sixteenth century, 
this mingling of old-time stateliness, of womanly- 
charm, of tougher mental fibre, are superimposed 
the shallow and purely objective attributes of the 
nineteenth-century belle and woman of fashion. 
It is almost a shock to hear her use our modern 
vernacular, and when she relapses into the some- 
what stilted language in which she is still accus- 
torned to think, it is a positive relief. She is 
conscious that she is apt to be a little high-flown, 
and when she forgets herself and is natural, she 
quickly pulls herself in with a round turn, which 
is an apology in itself. Upon such occasions a 
man wants to get his fingers about the throat of 
the world. She has acquired all the little arts 
and mannerisms of the London drawing-room 
girl, and although they do not sit ungracefully 
upon her, because she is innately graceful, and 
too clever to assume a virtue which she cannot 
assimilate, still it is like a foreigner -who speaks 
your language to perfection in all but accent, and 
whom you long to hear in his own tongue. Put 
her back in her Welsh castle, and the scales 
would fall from her as from a mermaid who 
loves. If she returns to her father at the end of 
the season, I think I will call upon her six months 
later. She should go now, though; scales are 
apt to corrode. But what is the mystery about 
the mother? Did she elope with the coachman ? 
But, no; that is strictly a modern freak of fashion. 
Perhaps she died in a mad-house. Not 
improbable, if she had an)^thing of the nature of 
this girl in her, and Sir Iltyd sowed the way with 
thorns too sharp. Poor girl! she is too young 
for mysteries, whatever it is. I shall like to 
know her better, but she is so intense that she 
makes me feel frivolous. I am never intense 
except when I have the blues, and intensity, with 
my peculiar mental anatomy, is a thing to be 
avoided. In what is invariably the last chapter 
of those attacks of morbid dissatisfaction I shall 
some day feel an intense desire to blow out my 
brains, and shall probably sucgumb. I wonder 
if she will induce another rhyming attack to- 
night. Was that night a dream or a reality ? 
Could I have had a short but sharp attack of 
brain fever ? Perhaps the less I think about it 
the better; but it is decidedly hard to be gifted 
with the instincts of a poet and denied the 
verbal formulation. And it was the most pain- 
fully realistic, aggressively material thing, that 
conflict in my brain, that mortal ever experi- 
enced. That, however, may have been a mere 
figment of my excited imagination. But what 
excited my imagination ? That is the question. 
If I remember aright, I was mentally discoursing 
with some enthusiasm upon Miss Penrhyn's 
charms, but in strict impartiality it cannot be 
said that I was excited. The excitement was 
like that produced by an onslaught from behind. 
It is the more surprising, as I think it may be 
conceded that I have myself pretty well in hand 
by this time, and that my nerves, unruly as 
nature saw fit to make them, are now my very 
abject slaves. Occasionally one of our fiction 
carpenters flies off at a tangent and treats us to a 
series of intellectual gymnastics, the significance 
of which — so we are called upon to digest — is that 
the soul of one dead, finding its present clime 
too warm — or too cold — or having left something 
undone on earth, takes temporary and summary 
possession of an unfortunate still in the flesh, 
and through this unhappy medium endeavors to 
work his will. Perhaps that is what is the matter 
with me. Pollok, perchance, who died in his 
flower, thinking that he had not given the world 
a big enough pill to swallow, wants to concoct 
another dose in my presumably vacant brain. I 
appreciate the compliment, but I disdain to be 
Pollok's mouthpiece: I will be original or nothing. 
Besides, it is deuced uncomfortable. And 
I should like to know if there is anything in life 
more bitter than the sense, even momentary, of 
loss of self-mastery. Well, as I remarked a few 
moments since, the less I think about it the bet- 
ter, considering my unfortunate peculiarities. I 
will go and see Miss Penrhyn to-morrow; that 
will be sufficiently distracting for the present. 
V. 
He found her the next day in a pretty nwrning- 
room, dressed in a long white gown, with a single 
great yellow rose at her throat. She had a piece 
of tapestry in her hand, and as she rose to greet 
him, the plain, heavy folds of her gown clinging 
about her, and her dark hair bound closely around 
her head with asimplicity that was almost severe, 
Dartmouth again felt a humorous sense of hav- 
ing suddenly stepped into a page of a past 
century. 
" What are you doing ? " he said, as he took a 
chair opposite her. " Women never make tap- 
estry — real tapestry — in these days. You remind 
me of Lady Jane Grey. Shall I get a volume of 
Greek and read it to you ? " 
She laughed. " I fear it would literally be 
Greek to me. Latin and I had a fierce and 
desperate war, but I conquered in the end. With 
the Greek, however, the war was extremely 
brief, and he marched off with colors flying, and 
never condescended to renew the engagement." 
" For all mercies make us duly thankful. A 
woman who knows Greek is like a hot-house 
grape; a mathematically perfect thing, but 
scentless and flavorless." 
" You are consoling; and, indeed, I cannot see 
that it would have done me much good; it cer- 
tainly would not have increased my popularity 
among your exacting sex. You are the first man 
to whom I have dared acknowledge I know 
Latin. Lady Langdon was kind enough to give 
me elaborate warnings and instructions before 
she launched me into society. Among other 
things, she constantly reiterated, ' Never let a 
man suspect that you know anything, my dear. 
He will fly from you as a hare to cover. I want 
you to be a belle, and you must help me.' I
naturally asked her what I was to talk about, and she 
promptly replied: 'Nothing. Study the Ameri- 
can girl; they have the most brilliant way of jabbering 
meaningless recitatives of any tribe on 
the face of the earth. Every sentence is an epi- 
gram with the point left out. They are like the 
effervescent part of a bottle of soda-water.' 
This was while we were still in Wales; and she 
sent for six books by two of those American 
novelists who are supposed to be the expound- 
ers-in-chief of the American girl at home and 
abroad, and made me read them. It nearly 
killed me, but I did it; and I learned a valuable 
lesson. I hated the American girl, but I felt as 
if I had been boiled in soda-water and every 
pore of my body had absorbed it. I felt ecstatically
frivolous, and commonplace, and flashing, 
and sizzling. And — I assure you this is a fact, 
although you may not give me credit for such 
grim determination and concentration of purpose 
— but I never eat my breakfast before I have 
read an entire chapter from one of those two 
authors; it adjusts my mental tone for the day 
and keeps me in proper condition." 
Dartmouth threw back his head and gave vent 
to the heartiest burst of laughter he had indulged
in for years. " Upon my word, you are 
original," he exclaimed, delightedly; " and for 
heaven's sake, don't try to be anything else. 
You could not be an American girl if you tried 
for a century, for the reason that you have too 
many centuries behind you. The American girl 
is charming, exquisite, a perfect flower — but 
thin. She is like the first fruit of a new tree 
planted in new soil. Her flavor is as subtle and 
vanishing as pistachio, but there is no richness, 
no depth, no mellowness, no suggestion of generations
of grafting, or of orchards whose very sites 
are forgotten. The soda-water simile is good, 
but the American girl, in her actual existence — 
not in her verbal photographs, I grant you — is 
worthy of a better. She is more like one glass 
of champagne-/ra///, momentarily stimulating, 
but quickly forgotten. When I was in America, 
I met the most charming women in New York — 
I did not spend two weeks, all told, in Washington
— and New York is the concentrated essence, 
the pinnacle of American civilization and achievment. 
But although I frequently talked to one 
or another of those women for five hours at a 
time without a suggestion of fatigue, I always 
