all fall in love with him. There is nothing as fetching as that. And
there is nothing, at least to my thinking, that compares with that charm
which a woman in love exhales to her lover. It is small matter whether
the woman is the daughter of an earl or whether she is a cocotte. There
are, I know, people who like their claret in decanters, but so long as
the wine is good, what does the bottle matter?
    "'Aimer est le grand point, qu' importe la maitresse?
    Qu' importe le flacon, pourvu qu'on ait l'ivresse?'"
"De Musset was drunk when he wrote that," said Tristrem. "But whether he
was drunk or sober, I don't agree with him. I don't agree with him at
all. It is the speech of a man who can think himself in love over and
over again, and who discovers in the end that through all his affairs he
has loved no one but himself."
All of which Mr. Yorke pooh-poohed in the civilest manner, and when
Tristrem had finished his little speech, expounded the principles of
love as they are formulated in the works of a German metaphysician,
supporting them as he did so with such clarity and force of argument
that Tristrem, vanquished but unconvinced, left him in disgust.
The next day they were at Liverpool. In the confusion that is incidental
to every debarcation Tristrem had had no opportunity of exchanging a
word with his vis-à-vis. But in the custom-house he caught sight of
her, and went forward to bid her good-bye.
"Good-bye," she answered, when he had done so, and putting out her hand,
she looked at him with mischievous eyes. "Good-bye," she repeated,
lightly, and then, between her teeth, she added, "Imbecile that you
are!"
Though what she may have meant by that, Tristrem never understood.
XIII.
It was under cover of a fog of leprous brown striated with ochre and
acrid with smoke that Tristrem entered London. In allusion to that most
delightful of cities, someone has said somewhere that hell must be just
such another place. If the epigrammatist be right, then indeed is it
time that the rehabilitation of the lower regions began. London is
subtle and cruel, perhaps, and to the meditative traveller it not
infrequently appears like an invocation to suicide writ in stone. But
whoso has once accustomed himself to its breath may live ever after in
flowerful Arcadias and yet dream of its exhalations with regret. In
Venice one may coquette with phantoms; Rome has ghosts and memories of
her own; in Paris there is a sparkle that is headier than absinthe;
Berlin resounds so well to the beat of drums that even the pusillanimous
are brave; but London is the great enchantress. It is London alone that
holds the secret of inspiring love and hatred as well.
Tristrem sniffed the fog with a sensation of that morbid pleasure which
girls in their teens and women in travail experience when they crave and
obtain repulsive food. Had he not hungered for it himself? and did she
not breathe it too?
The journey from Euston Square to the hotel in Jermyn Street at which he
proposed to put up, was to him a confusion of impatience and
anticipation. He was sure of finding a cablegram from Mrs. Raritan's
attorney, and was it not possible that he might see Viola that very
night? In Jermyn Street, however, no message awaited him. Under the
diligent supervision of a waiter who had the look and presence of a
bishop he managed later to eat some dinner. But the evening was a blank:
he passed it twirling his thumbs, dumbly irritated, incapable of action,
and perplexed as he had never been before.
The next morning his Odyssey began. He cabled to Mr. Meggs, and saw the
clerk put beneath the message the cabalistic letters A. P. And then,
in an attempt to frighten Time, he had his measure taken in Saville Row
and his hair cut in Bond Street. But in vain--the day dragged as though
its wheels were clogged. By noon he had exhausted every possible
resource. Another, perhaps, might have beguiled the tedium with drink,
or cultivated what Balzac has called the gastronomy of the eye, and
which consists in idling in the streets. But unfortunately for Tristrem,
he was none other than himself. The mere smell of liquor was distasteful
to him, and he was too nervous to be actively inactive. Moreover, as in
September there are never more than four million people in London, his
chance of encountering an acquaintance was slight. Those that he
possessed were among the absent ten thousand. They were in the country,
among the mountains, at the seaside, on the Continent--anywhere, in
fact, except in the neighborhood of Pall Mall. And even had it been
otherwise, Tristrem was not in a mood to suffer entertainment. He had
not the slightest wish to be amused. Wagner might have come to Covent
Garden from the grave to conduct Parsifal in person and Tristrem would
not have so much as bought a stall. He wanted Miss Raritan's address,
and until he got it a comet that bridged the horizon would have left him
incurious as the dead.
On the morrow, with his coffee, there came to him a yellow envelope. The
message was brief, though not precisely to the point "Uninformed of
Mrs. Raritan's address," it ran, and the signature was Meggs.
For the first time it occurred to Tristrem that Fate was conspiring
against him. It had been idiocy on his part to leave New York before he
had obtained the address; and now that he was in London, it would be
irrational to write to any of her friends--the Wainwarings, for
instance--and hope to get it. He knew the Wainwarings just well enough
to attend a reception if they gave one, and a slighter acquaintance than
that it were idle to describe.
Other friends the girl had in plenty, but to Tristrem they were little
more than shadows. There seemed to be no one to whom he could turn.
Indeed he was sorely perplexed. Since the hour in which he learned that
his father and Viola's were not the same he had been possessed of but
one thought--to see her and kneel at her feet; and in the haste he had
not shown the slightest forethought--he had been too feverishly
energetic to so much as wait till he got her address; and now in the
helter-skelter he had run into a cul-de-sac where he could absolutely
do nothing except sit and bite his thumb. The enforced inactivity was
torturesome as suspense. In his restlessness he determined to retrace
his steps; he would return to New York, he told himself, learn of her
whereabouts, and start afresh. Already he began to calculate the number
of days which that course of action would necessitate, and then
suddenly, as he saw himself once more on Fifth Avenue, he bethought him
of Alphabet Jones. What man was there that commanded larger sources of
social information than he? He would cable to him at once, and on the
morrow he would have the address.
The morrow dawned, and succeeding morrows--a week went by, and still no
word from Jones. A second week passed, and when a third was drawing to a
close and Tristrem, outwearied and enervated, had secured a berth on a
returning steamer, at last the answer came--an answer in four
words--"Brown Shipley, Founders' Court." That was all, but to
Tristrem, in his over-wrought condition, they were as barbs of flame.
"My own bankers!" he cried; "oh, thrice triple fool! why did I not think
of them before?" He was so annoyed at his stupidity that on his way to
the city his irritation counterbalanced the satisfaction which the
message brought. "Three whole weeks have I waited," he kept telling
himself--"three whole weeks! H'm! Jones might better have written. No, I
might better have shown some common-sense. Three whole weeks!"
He was out of the cab before it had fairly stopped, and breathless when
he reached the desk of the clerk whose duty it was to receive and
forward the letters of those who banked with the house.
"I want Mrs. Raritan's address," he said--"Mrs. R. F. Raritan, please."
The clerk fumbled a moment over some papers. "Care of Munroe, Rue
Scribe," he answered.
"Thank God!" Tristrem exclaimed; "and thank you. Send my letters there
also."
That evening he started for Paris, and the next morning he was asking in
the Rue Scribe the same question which he had asked the previous
afternoon in Founders' Court. There he learned that Mrs. Raritan had
sent word, the day before, that all letters should be held for her until
further notice. She had been stopping with her daughter at the Hôtel du
Rhin, but whether or not she was still there the clerk did not know. The
Rue Scribe is not far from the Place Vendôme, in which the Hôtel du Rhin
is situated, and it took Tristrem a little less than five minutes to get
there. The concierge was lounging in her cubby-hole.
"Madame Raritan?" Tristrem began.
"Partie, m'sieu, partie d'puis hier--"
And then from Tristrem new questions came thick and fast. The concierge,
encouraged by what is known as a white piece, and of which the value is
five francs in current coin, became very communicative. Disentangled
from layers of voluble digression, the kernel of her information
amounted to this: Mrs. Raritan and her daughter had taken the Orient
Express the day before. On the subject of their destination she declared
herself ignorant. Suppositions she had in plenty, but actual knowledge
none, and she took evident pleasure in losing herself in extravagant
conjectures. "Bien le bonjour," she said when Tristrem, passably
disheartened, turned to leave--"Bien le bonjour, m'sieu; si j'ose
m'exprimer ainsi."
The Orient Express, as Tristrem knew, goes through Southern Germany into
Austria, thence down to Buda-Pest and on to Constantinople. That Viola
and her mother had any intention of going farther than Vienna was a
thing which he declined to consider. On the way to Vienna was Stuttgart
and Munich. In Munich there was Wagner every other night. In Stuttgart
there was a conservatory of music, and at Vienna was not the Opera
world-renowned? "They have gone to one of those three cities," he told
himself. "Viola must have determined to relinquish the Italian school
for the German. H'm," he mused, "I'll soon put a stop to that. As to
finding her, all I have to do is go to the police. They keep an eye on
strangers to some purpose. Let me see--I can get to Stuttgart by
to-morrow noon. If she is not there I will go to Munich. I rather like
the idea of a stroll on the Maximilien Strasse. It would be odd if I met
her in the street. Well, if she isn't in Munich she is sure to be in
Vienna." And as he entered the Grand Hôtel he smiled anew in dreams
forecast.
Tristrem carried out his programme to the end. But not in Stuttgart, not
in Munich, nor in Vienna either, could he obtain the slightest
intelligence of her. In the latter city he was overtaken by a low fever,
which detained him for a month, and from which he arose enfeebled but
with clearer mind. He wrote to Viola two letters, and two also to her
mother. One of each he sent to the Rue Scribe, the others to Founders'
Court. When ten days went by, and no answer came, he understood for the
first time what the fable of Tantalus might mean, and that of Sisyphus
too. He wrote at length to his grandfather, describing his Odyssey, his
perplexities, and asking advice. He even wrote to Jones--though much
more guardedly, of course--thanking him for his cable, and inquiring in
a post-scriptum whether he had heard anything further on the subject of
the Raritans' whereabouts. These letters were barely despatched when he
was visited by a luminous thought. The idea that Viola intended to
relinquish Italian music for that of Wagner had never seemed to him
other than an incongruity. "Idiot that I am!" he exclaimed; "she came
abroad to study at Milan, and there is where she is. She must have left
the Orient Express at Munich and gone straight down through the Tyrol."
And in the visitation of this comforting thought Tantalus and Sisyphus
went back into the night from which they had come; in their place came
again the blue-eyed divinity whose name is Hope.
It is not an easy journey, nor a comfortable one, from Vienna to Milan,
but Hope aiding, it can be accomplished without loss of life or reason.
And Hope aided Tristrem to his destination, and there disappeared. In
all Milan no intelligence of Viola could be obtained. He wrote again to
her. The result was the same. "I am as one accursed," he thought, and
that night he saw himself in dream stopping passers in the street,
asking them with lifted hat had they seen a girl wonderfully fair, with
amber eyes. He asked the question in French, in German, in Italian,
according to the nationality of those he encountered, and once, to a
little old woman, he spoke in a jargon of his own invention. But she
laughed, and seemed to understand, and gave him the address of a
lupanar.
He idled awhile in Milan, and then went to Florence, and to Rome, and to
Naples, crossing over, even, to Palermo; and then retracing his steps,
he visited the smaller cities and outlying, unfrequented towns.
Something there was which kept telling him that she was near at hand,
waiting, like the enchanted princess, for his coming. And he hunted and
searched, outwearied at times, and refreshed again by resuscitations of
hope, and intussusceptions of her presence. But in the search his nights
were white. It was rare for him to get any sleep before the dawn had
come.
Early in spring he reached Milan again. He had written from Bergamo to
the Rue Scribe, asking that his letters should be forwarded to that
place, and among the communications that were given him on his arrival
was a cablegram from New York. Come back, it ran; she is here. It
was from his grandfather, Dirck Van Norden, and as Tristrem read it he
trembled from head to foot. It was on a Tuesday that this occurred, and
he reflected that he would just about be able to get to Havre in time
for the Saturday steamer. An hour later he was in the train bound for
Desenzano, from which place he proposed to go by boat to Riva, and
thence up to Munich, where he could catch the Orient Express on its
returning trip to France.
XIV.
When the boat entered the harbor it was already night. Tristrem was
tired, but his fatigue was pleasant to him. His Odyssey was done. New
York, it is true, was many days away, but he was no longer to wander
feverishly from town to town. If he was weary, at least his mind was at
rest. Riva is on the Austrian frontier, and while the luggage was being
examined Tristrem hummed contentedly to himself. He would get some
dinner at the hotel, for he was hungry as he had not been in months. At
last he would have a good night's rest; there would be no insomnia now.
In the magic of a cablegram that succube had been exorcised forever. On
the morrow he would start afresh, and neither stop nor stay till the
goal was reached. It was no longer vague and intangible--it was full in
sight. And so, while the officers were busy with his traps, he hummed
the unforgotten air, O Magali, ma bien aimée.
The hotel to which he presently had himself conveyed stands in a large
garden that leans to the lake. It is a roomy structure, built
quadrangularwise. On one side is a little châlet. Above, to the right
and left, precipitous cliffs and trellised mountains loom like
battlements of Titan homes. The air is very sweet, and at that season of
the year almost overweighted with the scent of flowers. In spite of the
night, the sky was visibly blue, and high up in the heavens the moon
glittered with the glint of sulphur.
As the carriage drew up at the door there was a clang of bells; an
individual in a costume that was brilliant as the uniform of a
field-officer hastened to greet the guest; at the threshold was the
Oberkellner; a few steps behind him the manager stood bowing
persuasively; and as Tristrem entered, the waiters, hastily marshalled,
ranged themselves on either side of the hall.
"Vorrei," Tristrem began, and then remembering that he was no longer in
Italy, continued in German.
The answer came in the promptest English.
"Yes, my lord; will your lordship dine at table d'hôte? Du, Konrad,
schnell, die Speise-karte."
Tristrem examined the bill of fare which was then brought him, and while
he studied the contents he heard himself called by name. He looked up,
and recognized Ledyard Yorke, his companion of months before on the
outward-bound Cunarder, who welcomed him with much warmth and
cordiality.
"And whatever became of Miss Tippity-fitchet? You don't mean to say you
did not see her again? Fancy that! It was through no fault of hers,
then. But there, in spite of your promise, you didn't so much as look
me up. I am just in from a tramp to Mori; suppose we brush up a bit
and have dinner together?" He turned to the waiter. "Konrad, wir speisen
draussen; verschaffen Sie 'was Monkenkloster."
"Zu Befehl, Herr Baron."
Half an hour later, when the brushing up was done and the Monkenkloster
was uncorked, Tristrem and Yorke seated themselves in an arbor that
overhung the lake.
"It's ever so much better here than at table d'hôte," Yorke began. "I
hate that sort of business--don't you? I have been here over two months,
but after a week or so of it I gave up promiscuous feeding. Since then,
whenever I have been able, I have dined out here. I don't care to have
every dish I eat seasoned with the twaddle of cheap-trippers. To be
sure, few of them get here. Riva is well out of the beaten track. But
one table d'hôte is just like another, and they are all of them
wearying to the spirit and fatiguing to digestion. Look at that water,
will you. It's almost Venice, isn't it? I can tell you, I have done some
good work in this place. But what have you been doing yourself?"
"Nothing to speak of," Tristrem answered. "I have been roaming from
pillar to post. It's the second time I have been over the Continent, and
now I am on my way home. I am tired of it; I shall be glad to be back."
"Yes you were the last person I expected to meet. If I remember rightly,
you said on the steamer that you were to be on this side but a short
time. It's always the unexpected that occurs, isn't it? By the way, I
have got my sphinx."
"What sphinx?"
"I thought I told you. I have been looking for years for a certain face.
I wanted one that I could give to a sphinx. The accessories were
nothing. I put them on canvas long ago, but the face I never could
grasp. Not one of all that I tried suited me. I had almost given it up;
but I got it--I got it at last. I'll show it to you to-morrow."
"I am afraid----You see, I leave very early."
"I'll show it to you to-night, then; you must see it. If I had had it
made to order it could not suit me better. It came about in such an odd
way. All winter I have been at work in Munich. I intended to remain
until June, but the spring there is bleaker than your own New England.
One morning I said to myself, Why not take a run down to Italy? Two days
later, I was on my way. But at Mori, instead of pushing straight on to
Verona, I drove over here, thinking it would be pleasanter to take the
boat. I arrived here at midnight. The next morning I looked out of the
window, and there, right in front of me, in that châlet, was my sphinx.
Well, the upshot of it was, I have been here ever since. I repainted the
entire picture--the old one wasn't good enough."
"I should like to see it very much," said Tristrem, less from interest
than civility.
"I wish you had come in time to see the original. She never suspected
that she had posed as a model, and though her window was just opposite
mine, I believe she did not so much as pay me the compliment of being
aware of my existence. There were days when she sat hour after hour
looking out at the lake, almost motionless, in the very attitude that I
wanted. It was just as though she were repeating the phrase that
Flaubert puts in the Sphinx's mouth, 'I am guarding my secret--I
calculate and I dream.' Wasn't it odd, after all, that I should have
found her in that hap-hazard way?"
"It was odd," Tristrem answered; "who was she?"
"I don't know. French, I fancy. Her name was Dupont, or
Duflot--something utterly bourgeois. There was an old lady with her,
her mother, I suppose. I remember, at table d'hôte one evening, a
Russian woman, with an 'itch' in her name, said she did not think she
was comme il faut. 'She is comme il m'en faut,' I answered, and
mentally I added, 'which is a deuced sight more than I can say of you,
who are comme il n'en faut pas.' The Russian woman was indignant at her,
I presume, because she did not come to the public table. You know that
feeling, 'If it's good enough for me, it's good enough for you.' But my
sphinx not only did not appear at table d'hôte, she did not put her
foot outside of the châlet. One bright morning she disappeared from the
window, and a few days later I heard that she had been confined. Shortly
after she went away. It did not matter, though, I had her face. Let me
give you another glass of Monkenkloster."
"She was married, then?"
"Yes, her husband was probably some brute that did not know how to
appreciate her. I don't mean, though, that she looked unhappy. She
looked impassible, she looked exactly the way I wanted to have her look.
If you have finished your coffee, come up to my little atelier. I wish
you could see the picture by daylight, but you may be able to get an
idea of it from the candles." And as Mr. Yorke led the way, he added,
confidentially, "I should really like to have your opinion."
The atelier to which Yorke had alluded as "little" was, so well as
Tristrem could discern in the darkness, rather spacious than otherwise.
He loitered in the door-way until his companion had lighted and arranged
the candles, and then, under his guidance, went forward to admire. The
picture, which stood on an easel, was really excellent; so good, in
fact, that Tristrem no sooner saw the face of the sphinx than to his
ears came the hum of insects, the murmur of distant waters. It was Viola
Raritan to the life.
"She guarded her secret, indeed," he muttered, huskily. And when Yorke,
surprised at such a criticism, turned to him for an explanation, he had
just time to break his fall. Tristrem had fallen like a log.
As he groped back through a roar and turmoil to consciousness again, he
thought that he was dead and that this was the tomb. "That Monkenkloster
must have been too much for him," he heard Yorke say, in German, and
then some answer came to him in sympathetic gutturals. He opened his
eyes ever so little, and then let the lids close down. Had he been in a
nightmare, he wondered, or was it Viola? "He's coming too," he heard
Yorke say. "Yes, I am quite right now," he answered, and he raised
himself on his elbow. "I think," he continued, "that I had better get to
my room."
"Nonsense. You must lie still awhile."
For the moment Tristrem was too weak to rebel, and he fell back again on
the lounge on which he had been placed, and from which he had half
arisen. Was it a dream, or was it the real? "There, I am better now," he
said at last; "I wonder, I----Would you mind ordering me a glass of
brandy?"
"Why, there's a carafon of it here. I thought you had had too much of
that wine."
Some drink was then brought him, which he swallowed at a gulp. Under its
influence his strength returned.
"I am sorry to have put you to so much trouble," he said collectedly to
Yorke and to a waiter who had been summoned to his assistance; "I am
quite myself now." He stood up again and the waiter, seeing that he was
fully restored, withdrew. When the door closed behind him, Tristrem went
boldly back to the picture.
It was as Yorke had described it. In the background was a sunset made of
cymbal strokes of vermilion, splattered with gold, and seamed with
fantasies of red. In the foreground fluttered a chimera, so artfully
done that one almost heard the whir of its wings. And beneath it
crouched the Sphinx. From the eyrie of the years the ages had passed
unmarked, unnoticed. The sphinx brooded, motionless and dumb.
With patient, scrutinizing attention Tristrem looked in her eyes and at
her face. There was no mistake, it was Viola. Was there ever another
girl in the world such as she? And this was her secret! Or was there a
secret, after all, and might he not have misunderstood?
"Tell me," he said--"I will not praise your picture; in many respects it
is above praise--but tell me, is what you said true?"
"Is what true?"
"What you said of the model."
"About her being in the châlet? Of course it is. Why do you ask?"
"No, not that, tell me--Mr. Yorke, I do not mean to be tragic; if I seem
so, forgive me and overlook it. But as you love honor, tell me, is it
true that she had a child in this place?"
"Yes, so I heard."
"And you say her name was----"
"Madame Dubois--Dupont--I have forgotten; they can tell you at the
bureau. But it seems to me----"
"Thank you," Tristrem answered. "Thank you," he repeated. He hesitated a
second and then, with an abrupt good-night, he hurried from the atelier
and down the corridor till he reached his room.
Through the open window, the sulphur moon poured in. He looked out in
the garden. Beyond, half concealed in the shadows, he could see the
outline of the châlet. And it was there she had hid! He pressed his
hands to his forehead; he could not understand. For the moment he felt
that if he could lose his reason it would be a grateful release. If only
some light would come! He drew a handkerchief from his pocket and mopped
his face. And then suddenly, as he did so, he caught a spark of that for
which he groped. The room turned round, and he sank into a chair.
Yes, he remembered, it was at Bergamo, no, at Bologna. Yes, it was at
Bergamo, he remembered perfectly well. He had taken from one of his
trunks a coat that he had not worn since he went into mourning. It had
been warm that day, and he wanted some thinner clothing. He remembered
at the time congratulating himself that he had had the forethought to
bring it. And later in the day he had taken from the pocket a
handkerchief of a smaller size than that which he habitually used. He
had looked at it, and in the corner he had found the Weldon crest. As to
how it had come in his possession, he had at the time given no thought.
Weldon, in one of his visits, might have left it at Waverley Place, or
he himself might have borrowed it when dining at Weldon's house. He was
absent-minded, he knew, and apt to be forgetful, and so at the time he
had given the matter no further thought. After all, what incident could
be more trivial? But now the handkerchief, like a magician's rug,
carried him back to Narragansett. As well as he could remember, the last
occasion on which he wore that coat was the day on which the butler's
telegram had summoned him to town. Then, on learning of his father's
death, he had put on other things, of sombrer hue. Harris, without
rummaging in the pockets, had folded the coat and put it away. And it
had remained folded ever since till the other day at Bologna--no, at
Bergamo.
That morning at Narragansett, when he was hurrying into the cottage, the
man who had aided Viola home the preceding evening drove up with her
hat, with this very handkerchief, and the story of a dream. Aye, and his
own dream. So this was Truth. She had pursued him, indeed. He could feel
her knees on his arms, her fetid breath in his face. But this time it
was not a nightmare. It was the real.
Yes, it was that. One by one he recalled the incidents of the
past--incidents on which his mind loathed to dwell, rebelling against
its own testimony until he coerced the shuddering memories to his will.
There were the numberless times in which he had encountered Weldon
coming in or leaving her house, almost haunting it with his presence.
There was that wanton lie, and the unexplained and interrupted scene
between them. It was then, perhaps, that he had first shown the demon
that was in him. And then, afterward, was that meeting on the cars--he
with a bruise on his cheek and a gash on his neck. Why was Viola's whip
broken, if it were not that she had broken it on his face? Why did the
nails of her ungloved hand look as though they had been stained with the
juice of berries? Why, indeed, if it were not that she had sunk them in
his flesh. Why had he heard her calling "Coward" to the night? It was
for this, then, that the engagement had been broken; it was for this
that she had hidden herself abroad.
For the first time since his boyhood, he threw himself on the bed and
sobbed aloud. To stifle his grief he buried his face in the pillow, and
bit it with his teeth. It was more than grief, it was anguish, and it
refused to be choked. But presently it did leave him. It left him
quivering from head to foot, and in its place came another visitor. An
obsession, from which he shrank, surged suddenly, and claimed him for
its own. In a combat, of which his heart was the one dumb witness, he
battled with it. He struggled with it in a conflict that out-lasted
hours; but presumably he coped in vain. The next morning his face was
set as a captive's. In a fortnight he was in New York.
XV.
The return journey was unmarked by incident or adventure. Nothing less
than a smash-up on the railway or the wrecking of the ship would have
had the power to distract his thoughts. It may even be that his mind was
unoccupied, empty as is a vacant bier, and yet haunted by an
overmastering obsession. The ordinary functions of the traveller he
performed mechanically, with the air and manner of a subject acting
under hypnotic suggestion. One who crossed the ocean with him has since
said that the better part of the time the expression of his face was
that of utter vacuity. He would remain crouched for hours, in the same
position, a finger just separating the lips, and then he would start
with the tremor of one awakening from a debauch.
Mrs. Manhattan, who was returning with spoils from the Rue de la Paix,
asked him one afternoon, as he happened to descend the cabin-stair in
her company, where he had passed the winter.
"Yes, indeed," Tristrem answered, and went his way unconcernedly.
Mrs. Manhattan complained of this conduct to Nicholas, her husband,
alleging that the young man was fatuous in his impertinence.
"My dear," returned that wise habitué of the Athenæum, "when a man gives
away seven million, it is because he has forgotten how to be
conventional."
It was on a Sunday that the ship reached New York, and it was late in
the afternoon before the passengers were able to disembark. Tristrem had
his luggage passed, and expressed to his grandfather's house, and then,
despite the aggressive solicitations of a crew of bandits, started
up-town on foot. In the breast-pocket of his coat he carried a purchase
which he had made in Naples, a fantastic article which he had bought,
not because he wanted it, but because the peddler who pestered him with
wares and offers happened to be the best-looking and most unrebuffably
good-natured scoundrel that he had ever encountered. And now, at
intervals, as he walked along, he put his hand to the pocket to assure
himself that it was still in place. Presently he reached Broadway. That
thoroughfare, which on earlier Sundays was wont to be one of the
sedatest avenues of the city, was starred with globes of azure light,
and its quiet was broken by the passing of orange-colored cars. On the
corner he stopped and looked at his watch. It was after seven. Then,
instead of continuing his way up-town, he turned down in the direction
of the Battery. His head was slightly bent, and as he walked he had the
appearance of one perplexed. It was a delightful evening. The sky was as
blue as the eyes of a girl beloved. The air was warm, and had the street
been less noisy, less garish, and a trifle cleaner it might have been an
agreeable promenade. But to Tristrem the noise, the dirt, the glare, the
sky itself were part and parcel of the non-existent. He neither saw nor
heeded, and, though the air was warm, now and then he shivered.
It seemed to him impossible that he should do this thing. And yet, since
that night at Riva, his mind had been as a stage in which it was in
uninterrupted rehearsal. If it were unsuccessful, then come what sorrow
could. But even though its success were assured, might not the success
be worse than failure, and viler to him than the most ignoble defeat?
Meditatively he looked at his hand; it was slight as a girl's.
"I cannot," he said, and even as he said it he knew that he would. Had
he not said it ten thousand times of times before? It was not what he
willed, it was what he must. He was in the lap of a necessity from
which, struggle as he might, he could not set himself free. He might
make what resolutions he chose, but the force which acted on him and in
him snuffed them out like candles. And yet, what had he done to fate
that it should impel him to this? Why had he been used as he had? What
wrong had he committed? For the past twelvemonth his life had been a
continuous torture. Truly, he could have said, "no one save myself, in
all the world, has learned the acuity of pain. I alone am its
depository."
"And yet," he mused, "perhaps it is right. Long ago, when I was
comparing my nothingness to her beauty, did I not know that to win her I
must show myself worthy of the prize? She will think that I am when I
tell her. Yes, she must think so when it is done. But will it be done? O
God, I cannot."
For the instant he felt as though he must turn to the passers and claim
their protection from himself. He had stopped again, and was standing
under a great pole that supported an electric light. In the globe was a
dim, round ball of red, and suddenly it flared up into a flame of the
palest lemon, edged with blue. "It is my courage," he said, "I have done
with hesitation now." He hailed and boarded a passing car. "Hesitation,
indeed!" he repeated. "As if I had not known all through that when the
time came there would be none!" He put his hand again to his
breast-pocket; it was there.
He had taken the seat nearest to the door, absently, as he would have
taken any other, and the conductor found it necessary to touch him on
the shoulder before he could extract the fare. He had no American money,
he discovered, and would have left the car had not the conductor finally
agreed to take his chances with a small piece of foreign gold, though
not, however, until he had bit it tentatively with his teeth. It was
evident that he viewed Tristrem with suspicion.
At Twentieth Street Tristrem swung himself from the moving vehicle, and
turned into Gramercy Park. He declined to think; the rehearsals were
over, he did not even try to recall the rôle. He had had a set speech,
but it was gone from him as the indecision had gone before. Now he was
to act.
He hurried up the stoop of Weldon's house and rang the bell, and as
there seemed to him some unnecessary delay, he rang again, not
violently, but with the assurance of a creditor who has come to be paid.
But when at last the door was opened, he learned that Weldon was not at
home.
As he went down the steps again there came to him a great gust and rush
of joy. He would go now, he had been fully prepared, he had tried his
best. If Weldon had been visible, he would not have hesitated. But he
had not been; that one chance had been left them both, and now, with a
certitude that had never visited his former indecisions, he felt it was
written that that deed should never be done. He gasped as one gasps who
has been nearly stifled. The obsession was gone. He was free.
In the street he raised his arms to testify to his liberty reconquered.
Yet, even as they fell again, he knew that he was tricking himself. A
tremor beset him, and to steady himself he clutched at an area-rail.
Whether he stood there one minute or one hour he could not afterward
recall. He remembered only that while he loitered Weldon had rounded the
corner, and that as he saw him approach, jauntily, in evening dress, a
light coat on his arm, his strength returned.
"Royal," he exclaimed, for the man was passing him without recognition.
"Royal," he repeated, and Weldon stopped. "I have come to have a word
with you."
The voice in which he spoke was so unlike his own, so rasping and
defiant, that Weldon, with the dread which every respectable householder
has of a scene at his own front door, motioned him up the steps. "Come
in," he said, mellifluously, "I am glad to see you."
"I will," Tristrem answered, in a tone as arrogant as before.
"I am sorry," Weldon continued, "Nanny----"
"I did not come to see your wife; you know it."
Weldon had unlatched the door, and the two men passed into the
sitting-room. There Weldon, with his hat unremoved, dropped in a chair,
and eyed his visitor with affected curiosity.
"I say, Trissy, you're drunk."
"I am come," Tristrem continued, and this time as he spoke his voice
seemed to recover something of its former gentleness, "I am come to ask
whether, in the purlieus of your heart, there is nothing to tell you how
base you are."
Weldon stretched himself languidly, took off his hat, stood up, and lit
a cigarette. "Have an Egyptian?" he asked.
"Do you remember," Tristrem went on, "the last time I saw you?"
Weldon tossed the match into an ash-receiver, and, with the cigarette
between his teeth, sprawled himself out on a sofa. "Well, what of it?"
"When I saw you, you had just contracted a debt. And now you can
liquidate that debt either by throwing yourself in the river or----"
"Charming, Triss, charming! You have made a bon mot. I will get that
off. Liquidate a debt with water is really good. There's the advantage
of foreign travel for you."
"Do you know what became of your victim? Do you know? She went abroad
and hid herself. Shall I give you details?"
For the first time Weldon scowled.
"Would you like the details?" Tristrem repeated.
Weldon mastered his scowl. "No," he answered, negligently. "I am not a
midwife. Obstetrics do not interest me. On the contra----"
That word he never finished. Something exploded in his brain, he saw one
fleeting flash, and he was dead. Even as he spoke, Tristrem had whipped
an instrument from his pocket, and before Weldon was aware of his
purpose, a knife, thin as a darning-needle and long as a pencil--a knife
which it had taken the splendid wickedness of mediæval Rome to
devise--had sunk into his heart, and was out again, leaving behind it a
pin's puncture through the linen, one infinitesimal bluish-gray spot on
the skin, and death.
Tristrem looked at him. The shirt was not even rumpled. If he had so
