"I have been thinking about you," Eden announced, when he found a seat.
"I am glad you came, I want you to tell me more of yourself."
"I reproached myself for having exhausted your patience last evening,"
he answered.
"Then you deserve to be punished. You go with us to the opera to-morrow,
do you not? Very good, you must dine with us first. There is a friend of
mine whom you will meet there. I want you to like her."
"If she resembles you in any way that will not be difficult."
"He begins well," mused Eden, and a layer of cordiality dropped from
her. But presently she recovered it. Arnswald had been looking in her
face, and the change in its expression had not passed unobserved.
"I mean," he continued, "that there are people that make you like them
at first sight and you, Mrs. Usselex, are one of those people. When I
left you last evening I told myself that you exhaled a sympathy which is
as rare as it is delightful. I have met few such as you. As a rule the
people I have been brought in contact with have been hard and
self-engrossed. You are among the exceptions, and it is the
exception----"
Eden interrupted him. "Now that is nonsense," she said severely. "The
people whom we can like are not as infrequent as all that. Do you mean
to tell me that there is no one for whom you really care?"
Arnswald shook his head and smiled. "No, Mrs. Usselex," he answered, "I
don't mean to say that. There are some for whom I care very much. There
is even one for whom were it necessary I would lay down life itself."
At this Eden experienced a mental start. The possibility of mating him
to some charming girl whom she was herself to discover had suddenly
become remote. But she nodded encouragingly to the confidence.
"Yes," he continued, and into his polar-eyes came a sudden flicker.
"Yes, there is one whom I have recently come to know and who is to me as
a prayer fulfilled. Were I called upon to make a sacrifice for her, no
matter what the nature of that sacrifice might be, the mere doing of it
would constitute a well-spring of delight."
Eden smiled at the dithyramb as were she listening to some fay she did
not see. Arnswald had been looking at her, but now, as though ashamed of
the outburst, he affected a little laugh and dropped back into the
conventional. Presently he rose and took his polar-eyes away. When he
had gone Eden smiled again. "He may have the genius of finance," she
mused, "but he has the genius of love as well."
III.
Eden had but recently returned to town and the claims of mantua-makers
and milliners were oppressive. They took her time, they came to her in
the morning, and she, with the courtesy of kings, returned the visit in
the afternoon. But to little purpose. They were vexatious people, she
discovered. They deceived her wantonly. They promised and did not
fulfill. The live-long day they had irritated her, they had obtained her
confidence by false pretences, and now, after a round of interviews each
more profitless than the last, on reaching her house the dust of shops
was on her mantle, and she could have gone in a corner and sworn.
Moreover it was late, dinner would presently be served. Arnswald, she
learned, had already arrived, he was in the parlor with her husband, and
as she hurried to her room she told herself that she would have to dress
in haste, an operation which to her was always fertile in annoyance. An
entire hour was never too much. But her maid was agile, dexterous of
hand, and before the clock marked seven she was fully equipped, arrayed
for dinner and the opera as well.
On leaving the room, Eden left her vexation behind her. It had been
fleeting and inoffensive as the anger of a canary. And now, on
descending the stairs, she was in great good spirits again, the crimes
of mantua-makers and milliners were forgotten, and she prepared to meet
her husband and her guest. Half-way on her journey to the drawing-room,
however, she discovered that she was empty-handed; she had omitted to
take a fan and she called to her maid to bring her one. And as she
called the front door-bell rang. She hesitated a second, and called
again. But presumably the maid did not hear. Thereupon Eden re-ascended
the stairs and went back to her room.
The maid was busying herself in a closet and the fan was on the table;
Eden picked it up, and as she did so she noticed that one of the sticks
was broken. It took several minutes to find another which suited her
gown, and when she again descended the stair some little time had
intervened.
On reaching the parlor she drew the portière aside and peered into the
room. At the furthermost end stood Arnswald, his back turned to her, and
near him in a low arm-chair was her husband. He seemed to be reading
something, and it was evident that her entrance had been unobserved
either by him or by his guest.
For a second's space Eden stood very still. There was much of the child
in her nature, and during that second she meditated on the feasibility
of giving them both some little surprise. Then at once, as though
impelled by invisible springs, she crossed the room very swiftly, very
noiselessly, her fan and the fold of her dress in one hand, the other
free for mischief, and just when she reached the chair in which her
husband sat, she bent over him, from his unwarned fingers she snatched a
note, and with a rippling laugh that was like the shiver of sound on the
strings of a guitar, she waved it exultingly in the air.
Mr. Usselex looked up at once, but he had looked too late; the note had
gone from him. He started, he made a movement to repossess himself of
it, but Eden, with the ripple still in her voice, stepped back, laughed
again, and nodded to Arnswald, who had turned and bowed. "What is it?"
she cried; "what have you two been concocting? No, you don't," she
continued. Her voice was unsteady with merriment, her eyes wickedly
jubilant. Usselex had made another attempt to recapture the letter, and
flaunting it, Tantalus-fashion, above her head, she defied and eluded
him, gliding backwards, her head held like a swan's, a trifle to one
side. "No, you don't," she repeated, and still the laughter rippled from
her.
"Eden!" her husband expostulated, "Eden--"
"You shall not have it, sir; you shall not." And with a pirouette she
fluttered yet further away, the bit of paper held daintily and aloft
between forefinger and thumb. "Tell me this instant what you have been
doing all day. There, you needn't look at Mr. Arnswald. He won't help
you. Will you, Mr. Arnswald? Of course you won't."
Usselex, conscious of the futility of pursuit, made no further effort.
In his face was an anxiety which his fair tormentor did not see. Once he
turned to Arnswald, and Arnswald gave him an answering glance, and once
his lips moved, but whatever he may have intended to say the words must
have stuck in his throat. And Eden, woman-like, seeing that she was no
longer pursued, advanced to a spot just beyond his reach, where she
hovered tauntingly, yet wary of his slightest movement and prepared at
the first suspicion of reprisal to spread her wings in flight.
"And who do you suppose was here at lunch to-day? You must guess or you
shan't have your letter back. I'll give you just one minute. Oh! I saw
Laura Manhattan at Fantasia's. Don't forget that we are to dine with her
to-morrow. She came in to row about a dress. I was rowing, too. You have
no idea what a day I have had. You will have to give Fantasia a talking
to. Look at the frippery I have on. And she promised that I should have
something for to-night. There ought to be some punishment for such
people. Don't you think so, Mr. Arnswald? When people in Wall Street
don't keep their promises, they are put in jail, aren't they? Well, jail
is too good for that horrid old French-woman of a dressmaker, she ought
to have the thumb-screws, the rack, and the hot side of the fagot. I
will never believe her again, no, not even when I know she is telling
the truth. She is the most ornamental liar I ever encountered. It is my
opinion she would rather lie than not. Laura told me--but here, the
minute's up--you must guess, you must guess rightly, and you can only
guess once."
And Eden waved the letter again and laughed in her husband's beard.
The gown which she wore, and which she had characterized as frippery,
was an artful combination of tulle and of silk; it was colorless, yet
silvery, and in it Eden, bare of arm and of neck, looked a water nymph
garmented in sheen and foam. From her hair came an odor of distant
oases. In her eyes were evocations of summer, and beneath them, on her
cheeks and on the lobes of her ears, health had placed its token in
pink. The corners of her mouth were upraised like the ends of the Greek
bow, and now that she was laughing her lips suggested a red fruit cut
in twain. She was the personification of caprice, adorably constructed,
and constructed to be adored. Arnswald evidently found her appearance
alluring, for his eyes followed her every movement.
"Hurry up," she continued, as merrily as before; "the minute's gone."
Usselex may have been annoyed, but he affected to enter into the jest.
"Your father--" he hazarded, and stretched his hand for the note.
But Eden again retreated. "You have lost," she cried; "no one was here."
And finding herself at a safe distance, "I am a better guesser than
you," she added, "I can tell what is in this letter without reading it.
Now answer me, what will you give me if I do? What ought he to give me,
Mr. Arnswald? Prompt him, can't you? I have never seen anyone so
stupid."
"Give it to me, Eden; you shall make your own terms----"
"Ah! you capitulate, do you? It's too late! It's too late!" she repeated
in ringing crescendo. "You ought to have guessed;" and for greater
safety she held the letter behind her. "It's about stocks, Kansas-back
bonds, seven sights offered and nothing bid--I have guessed right, have
I not?"
"Eden--"
"Answer me; I have guessed right, I know I have." And laughing still,
she whisked the letter from behind her and held it to her eyes. "Why,
it's from a woman," she cried. "What is this? 'You have filled my life
with living springs.' Whose life have you filled?"
The merriment had deserted her lips, the color had gone from her cheeks.
The hand which held the letter fell with it to her side. In her face was
the contraction of pain. She looked at her husband. "Whose life is it
that you have filled?" she asked, and her voice, that had rippled with
laughter a moment before, became suddenly chill and subdued.
In the doorway before her the butler appeared in silent announcement
that dinner was served.
Arnswald made a step forward. "The letter is mine, Mrs. Usselex," he
said, "I--"
"Oh," she murmured, with a sigh that might have been accounted one of
relief. "Oh, it is yours, is it?" And eying him inquisitorially for a
second's space, she placed the letter in his hand.
"We may as well go in to dinner," she added at once, and with a glance
at her husband she led the way.
IV.
In Dogian days there was a Libro d'Oro in which the First Families of
Venice were inscribed in illuminated script. In New York there is also a
Golden Book, unwritten, yet voiced, and whoso's name appears thereon has
earned the cataloguing not from the idlesse of imbecile forefathers, but
from shrewdness in coping with the public, forethought in the Stock
Exchange, and prescience in the values of land and grain.
At the opera that night the aristocrats of the New World were in full
force. Among them were men who could not alone have wedded the Adriatic
but have dowered her as well. Venice in her greatest splendor had never
dreamed such wealth as theirs. There was Jabez Robinson, his wife and
children, familiarly known as the Swiss Family Robinson, the founder of
their dynasty having emigrated from some Helvetian vale. A lightning
calculator might have passed a week in the summing up of their
possessions. There was old Jerolomon, who through the manipulation of
monopolies exhaled an odor of Sing-Sing, the which had been so
attractive to the nostrils of an English peer that he had taken his
daughter as wife. There was Madden, who controlled an entire state.
There was Bucholz, who declared himself Above the Law, and who had
erupted in New York three decades before with the seven sins for sole
capital. There was Bleecker Bleecker, who each year gave away a pope's
ransom to charity and pursued his debtors to the grave. There was
Dunwoodie, whose coat smelled of benzine and whose signature was potent
as a king's. There was Forbush, who lunched furtively on an apple and
had given a private establishment to each one of his twelve children.
There was Gwathmeys, who had twice ruined himself for his enemies and
made a fortune from his friends. There was Attersol, who could have
bought the White House and whose sole pleasures were window-gardening
and the accord of violins.
On the grand-tier was Mrs. Besalul, on whom society had shut its door
because she had omitted to close her own. In an adjoining box was Mrs.
Smithwick, the bride of a month, fairer than that queen whose face was
worth the world to kiss, and who the previous winter had written a novel
of such impropriety that when it was published her mother forbade her to
read it. There was Miss Pickett, a débutante, who possessed the
disquieting ugliness of a monkey and who had announced that there was
nothing so immoral as ennui. There was Mrs. Bouvery, who claimed
connection with every one whose name began with Van. Mrs. Hackensack,
one of the few surviving Knickerbockers. The Coenties twins, known as
Dry and Extra Mumm. And there were others less interesting. Mrs.
Ponder, for instance, famous for her musicales, which no one could be
bribed to attend. Mrs. Skolfield, who was so icy in her manner that a
poet who had once ventured her way, had caught a cold in his head which
lasted a week. Mrs. Nevers, mailed in diamonds; Mrs. Goodloe, mailed in
pearls; and a senator's wife in a bonnet.
The only empty box in the house was owned by Mr. Incoul, then abroad on
his honeymoon.
And in and out through these boxes sauntered a contingent of men,
well-groomed, white of glove, and flowered as to their button-holes.
Among them was Harry Tandem, who had inaugurated silver studs. Brewster,
who had invented a new figure for the cotillion, and with him Harrison
Felton, the maëstro of that decadent dance. There was George Rerick, who
stuttered to the débutantes as he had stuttered to their mothers before
them. Furman Fellowes, who told fairy tales to impressionable young
girls, and who would presently get drunk in Sixth Avenue. Jack Rodney,
M. F. H., and Alphabet Jones, the novelist, in search of points.
As Eden entered the vestibule of her box the curtain had parted on the
second act. A Miss Bolten and her mother whom she had invited had
already arrived, and Arnswald, she noticed, went immediately forward to
salute them; then returning, he assisted her with her wrap. In a moment
the vestibule was invaded by Jones; and Eden, after a word or two to her
guests, settled herself in the front of the box and promenaded her
opera-glass about the house. The promenade completed, she lowered it to
the stalls. Near the orchestra a woman sat gazing fixedly at her. There
was nothing remarkable about the woman. She was as well dressed, as
young, and as pretty as were the majority of those present; it was the
singularity of her attitude that arrested Eden's attention. But that
attention she was not permitted to prolong. The adjoining box, the
occupants of which she had not yet noticed, was tenanted by Mrs.
Manhattan, who now claimed her recognition with some little feminine
word of greeting. On one side of Mrs. Manhattan was an elderly man whom
Eden did not remember to have seen before, and behind her stood Dugald
Maule.
"Eden," whispered Mrs. Manhattan, "I want you to know Mr. Maule's uncle;
he has been minister abroad you know;" and so saying, with a motion of
her head, she designated the elderly man at her side. "He says," she
added, "that you are the most appetizing thing he has seen."
At the brusqueness of the remark Eden started as from a sting. The old
gentleman leaned forward.
"Don't be annoyed, my dear," he mumbled; "I was in love with your
mother."
Then with an amiable commonplace the old beau bowed and moved back.
Maule bowed also, and presently, taking advantage of a recitative, he
left Mrs. Manhattan and entered Eden's box. He seemed at home at once.
He shook Mr. Usselex by the hand, saluted Miss Bolten and her mother,
ignored Jones, and dislodging Arnswald, took his seat.
"The season promises well," he whispered confidentially to Eden.
Jones, who had not accorded the slightest attention to Maule, was
discoursing in an animated fashion with Miss Bolten. On the stage in a
canvas forest a man stood, open-mouthed, raising and lowering his right
arm at regular intervals; and next to her Eden caught the motion of Mrs.
Manhattan's fan.
"No," she heard Jones say, "I have every reason to doubt that Shakspere
was the author of Hamlet. In the first place--"
"Ah!" murmured Miss Bolten. She did not appear particularly interested
in Jones or in the man on the stage. She was occupied in scrutinizing
the occupants of the different boxes. "And whom do you suspect?" she
asked, her eyes foraging an opposite baignoire.
"Another man with the same name," Jones answered, and laughed a little
to himself.
Eden tapped him on the sleeve. "Mr. Jones."
"Yes, Mrs. Usselex."
"Look in the orchestra, in the third row, the aisle seat on the left."
"Yes, Mrs. Usselex."
"There is a woman looking up here. She has just turned her head. Do you
see her?"
"That woman with the blonde hair?"
"Yes; do you know her?"
"No, I can't say I know her. But I know who she is--"
"Who is she?"
"She has an apartment at the Ranleigh. Her name is Mrs. Feverill. She is
a grass widow; rather fly, I fancy----"
"H'm;" said Eden, "I am sure I don't know what you mean by 'fly.' There,
it isn't necessary to explain----" She turned her head--"Mr. Arnswald,
would you mind getting me my cloak, there seems to be a draught."
Arnswald, who had been loitering in the rear of the box, went back into
the vestibule in search of the garment.
On the stage the tenor in green and gold was still gesticulating,
open-mouthed as before, and presently there came a blare of trumpets, a
shudder of brass, dominated by the cry of violins, and abruptly the
curtain fell.
Arnswald advanced with the cloak, and Jones stood up. The latter said
some parting word to Miss Bolten and to her mother, bent over Eden's
hand and left the box. Arnswald dropped in the seat which he had
vacated. It was evident at once that he and Miss Bolten had met before.
He had leaned forward, and was whispering in her ear.
"Eden," Maule began, "do you remember that ring you gave me?"
"Mr. Maule, you forget many things----"
"Why do you call me Mr. Maule? there was a time----"
"Yes, there was a time, as you say; but that time is no longer."
"You have something against me."
"I? Nothing in the world."
"Ah, but Eden, you have, though; that is evident: when I last saw
you----"
"The next day I learned your reputation. It is deplorable."
"When I last saw you you gave me a ring. A serpent with its tail in its
mouth. You said it meant eternity."
"Yes, I know I did; but----"
"Did it mean nothing as well?"
"A circle represents zero, does it not?"
"Eden, Eden, how cruel you can be! Will you not let me see you?"
"Certainly, I am at home on Saturdays."
"Yes, I know--Saturday is Fifth Avenue day. Eden, tell me, do you
remember Second Avenue?"
From the orchestra came a murmur, a consonance of harps and of flutes.
The curtain had parted again.
"No," she answered; "I have forgotten."
"Surely----"
"Yes, I have forgotten. It is good to forget. This is the last act, is
it not?"
"No, it is the prologue."
The speech was as significant as her own. For a second he was silent,
and bit his under lip. Then, as Jones had done before, he stood up.
"I will come," he muttered in her ear, "but not on Saturday."
"Good-night, Mr. Maule."
"Good-night, Mrs. Usselex."
With a circular salute to the other occupants, Maule left the box.
Presently it was invaded by other visitors of whom no particular
mention is necessary. At last there was a wail and final crash in the
orchestra. The opera was done.
On the way home Usselex questioned his wife. "Who is that man Maule?" he
asked.
"Miss Bolten is interested in him, I believe."
"I hope not," Usselex returned; "he has a bad face."
V.
The next morning Eden awoke in her great room that overlooked Fifth
Avenue. The night had been constellated with dreams, and now as they
faded from her there was one that lingered behind. Through a rift of
consciousness she had seen herself talking with feverish animation to
Arnswald, on some subject of vital importance, the which, however, she
was unable to recall; it had gone with the night, leaving on the camera
of memory only the tableau behind. For a little space she groped after
it unavailingly, and then dismissed it from her. But still the tableau
lingered until it became obscured by her own vexation. She felt annoyed
as at an impertinence. What right had Arnswald to trespass in her
dreams?
She rang the bell, and when in answer to the summons her maid appeared,
she gave herself up to the woman's ministrations. The annoyance faded as
the dream had done, and she fell to thinking of the day and of her
husband. At one there was a luncheon at which she was expected, and in
the evening there was a dinner at Mrs. Manhattan's. Her husband, she
knew, had gone to his office hours ago and would not return until late.
It had occurred to her before that he worked harder than his clerks;
even Arnswald seemed to have more leisure than he. But on this
particular forenoon, when her equipment was completed, but one idea
channeled her ruminations, and that was that if her husband worked
harder than his clerks, it was because of her.
She smiled a little at the thought, and then at herself in the mirror.
Truly the guests at the luncheon might have been recruited from the four
quarters of the globe, and few could be fairer than she. She was
contented with her appearance, not in any sense because it might
eclipse that of other women, but because he was proud of it, and because
his pride and laborious days were all in all for her. She gave to her
gown and to the arrangement of her hair that coup de maître which no
maid, however expert, is able to administer, and presently had herself
driven up the avenue to the house at which she was to be entertained.
The luncheon, as the phrase is, went off very well. Made up of fresh
gossip and new dishes, it was stupid yet agreeable, as women's luncheons
are apt to be. But on leaving it Eden felt depressed. It was the first
of the kind which in her quality of married woman she had attended, and
as her carriage rolled down the avenue again, she wondered were it
possible that such things as she heard could be true, the story that had
been told about Viola Raritan, for instance, and the general agreement
following it that married men were the worst[1]. Surely, she told
herself, they might be, all of them indeed save one, who was above
reproach. As for her recent companions, they discredited virtue in
seeming to possess it. At the memory of things they had implied, the
color mounted to her cheeks.
[Footnote 1: The reader is referred to The truth about Tristrem
Varick.]
On the opposite sidewalk a girl was loitering. For a second, Eden,
through the open window, eyed her gown. She raised some flowers to her
face, and when she put them down again her face was white. Through the
window she had seen a cab pass, and in the cab her husband and a woman.
In a conflict of emotions such as visit those who learn the dishonor and
the death of one they cherished most, Eden reached her door. She left
the carriage before the groom had descended from the box, and hurried
into the house. There she entered the drawing-room and sought for a
moment to collect her thoughts. It was impossible, she kept telling
herself, that such a thing could be. She had been mistaken; it was not
her husband that she had seen, and if it were her husband then was he on
some errand as innocent as her own. But it was her husband. The effort
she was making to deceive herself was useless as broken glass. And as
for the woman with whom he was driving, what had he to do with her or
she with him? She was certain she had seen her face before.
In her nervousness she rose from her seat and paced the room, tearing
her gloves off and tossing them from her as she walked.
In the lives of most of us there are hours of such distress that in
search of a palliative we strive as best we may to cheat ourselves into
thinking that the distress is but a phase of our own individual
imagination, close-locked therein, barred out of real existence, and
unimportant and delusive as the creations of dream. And as Eden paced
the room she tried to feel that her distress was but a figment of fancy,
an illusory representation evoked out of nothing. She had been enervated
by the gossip of the lunch-table; a child startled by the possible
horrors of a dark closet was never more absurd than she. It was nonsense
to suppose that a man such as her husband could be capable of a vulgar
intrigue.
On the mantel a clock ticked dolently, as though in sympathy with her
woe, and presently to her inattentive ears, it rang out four times. In
an hour, she reflected, in two hours at most, he would return. She would
ask him where he had been, and everything would be explained. It was
nonsense for her to torment herself. Of course it would be explained,
and meanwhile----
And as she determined that meanwhile she would give the matter no
further thought the butler entered the room, bearing a note on a salver,
which he gave to her and withdrew. The superscription was in her
husband's handwriting and she pulled the envelope apart, confident that
the explanation for which she sought was contained therein. But in it no
explanation was visible. It was dated from Wall Street. "Dearest Eden,"
it ran, "I am detained on business. Send excuses to Mrs. Manhattan. In
haste, as ever, J. U."
"Detained on business," she repeated aloud very firmly and pressed her
hand to her head. She was calm, less agitated than she had been before.
It behooved her to determine what she should do. Seemingly, but one
course was open to her, and suddenly she perceived that she had stopped
thinking. Night had seized and surrounded her; it was of this, perhaps,
that she had spoken to Arnswald in her dream.
In the morning her faith had been unobscured, confident as a flower at
dawn. Then doubt had come, and now, as the afternoon departed, so did
all belief as well. It was no more hers to recall than the promise of an
earlier day. She had done her best to detain it, she had clutched it;
but she had questioned, and faith is impatient of coercion and restless
if examined. Save its own fair face it brings no letter of introduction;
welcome it for that, and it is at once at home; but look askance, and it
dissolves into a memory and a reproach. Eden had startled it,
unwittingly perhaps; but she had startled it none the less. It had
watched its opportunity as a guest illy treated may watch for his; and
when suspicion, like the lackey that it is, had held the door ajar, it
had eluded her and gone.
Automatically, as though others than herself guided her movement, Eden
touched a bell. "Harris," she said, when the man appeared, "go to Mrs.
Manhattan's and say that Mr. Usselex and myself are unavoidably
prevented from dining with her to-night. That will do." And this order
delivered, she resumed her former seat. Down the street she marked
advancing dusk. The sun had sunk in cataracts of champagne. Westward the
sky was like the apotheosis in Faust, green-barred and crimson, with
background of oscillant yellow. The east was already grey. Overhead was
a shade of salmon which presently disappeared. Then dusk came, and with
it a colorless vapor through which Night, cautious at first as misers
are, displayed one sequin, then another, till taking heart it unbarred
all its treasury to the world.
For some time after the man had gone Eden remained in the drawing-room.
She found her gloves and drew one on again, but the other she tormented
abstractedly in her hand. In her enforced inaction she fell to consoling
herself as children do, arguing with discomfiture as though its shadow
was ineffectual, as though trouble and she were face to face, and yet
too far removed one from another to ever really meet. An hour passed,
and still she sat unassured, restless of thought and conscious only that
an encroaching darkness had obscured a vista on which her eyes had loved
to dwell.
Truly the heart has logic that logic does not know, and as Eden let the
incidents of the afternoon and of the previous evening parade in dumb
show before her, something there was that kept whispering that she was
taking appearances for facts. She strove to listen to the whisper, but
the fantoches were froward and insistent; the sturdier her effort to
dispel them the closer they swarmed. Sometimes of their own accord they
would leave her, she would think herself done with them, her eyes filled
in testimony to her deliverance, and abruptly back they came. But still
the whisper persisted, it was growing potent, and its voice was clear.
It kept exhorting to patience, it exorcised appearances, and advanced
little pleas of its own.
Eden was only too willing to be guided. "I am impatient," she mused,
"but I will wait."
Another hour limped away, and though an hour limps it may leave a balm
behind. The lamps in the drawing-room had been lighted, but the servant
had come and gone unobserved. Eden was still closeted in herself.
"Surely, by eleven at the latest he will return," she reflected, "and
then all will be explained. It is a thankless task this of building
imaginary dungeons. There are hours in which I let fancies resolve
themselves into facts and the facts fossilize into skeletons." An
episode of her girlhood came back to her and she smiled. "Perhaps father
was right; I may have hemiopia, after all."
She stood up from her seat and was about to leave the room when she
heard the front door open, and in a second her husband's step.
Eden drew the portiére aside and looked out in the hall. Usselex had his
back to her. He was taking off his overcoat. She spoke to him and he
turned at once, one arm still unreleased. At last he freed himself and
came to her.
"You got my note, did you not?" he began. "I am sorry about this
evening. Could you not go to Mrs. Manhattan's without me? Something
always seems to turn up at the last moment."
"I hardly expected you so early," Eden answered. "I sent word to Laura."
She was looking at her husband, but her husband was not looking at her.
He seemed preoccupied and nodded his head abstractedly.
"Yes, yes," he muttered, with singular inappositeness. "Yes, of course.
But there," he added and turned again to the door, "I must hurry."
"Whom were you with this afternoon?" Eden asked.
It was as though she had checked him with a rein. He stopped at once and
glanced at her.
"Did you see me?" he inquired; and accepting her silence for answer he
continued at once: "It's a long story; I have hardly time to tell it
now."
Eden put her hand on his sleeve. "Tell it me," she pleaded.
For the moment he stood irresolute. "Tell me," she repeated, and moved
back, motioning him to a chair.
Usselex took out his watch. "I must hurry," he said again. "But there,"
he added tenderly, "since you wish it, a moment lost is small matter,
after all."
Again he glanced at her and hesitated as though expectant of a respite.
Eden had her everyday air; outwardly she was calm, but something in her
appearance, the twitch of an eyelid, the quiver of a nostril perhaps,
revealed her impatience.
Usselex shrugged his shoulders, and for a second, with a gesture that
was habitual to him, he plucked at his beard. "No," he repeated, "a
moment is small matter, after all. H'm. Eden, some years ago I went
abroad. During my absence a cashier whom I trusted, and whom I would
trust again, speculated with money that passed through his hands. It was
not until my return that I learned of the affair. But meanwhile, as is
usual in such cases, he was on the wrong side of the market. The money
which he had taken had to be accounted for. I had a partner then, and
the cashier confessed the defalcation to him; it was the only thing he
could do, and he promised, I believe, that if time were given him he
would make good the loss. The amount after all was not large--fifteen
thousand perhaps, or twenty at the outside. But my partner was not
lenient. He came of a line of New England divines, and had, if I
remember rightly, at one time contemplated studying for the ministry. In
any event he was then an elder in some up-town Presbyterian church. But
virtue is not amiable. Without so much as communicating with me he put
the matter in the hands of the authorities, and when I returned the
cashier was in Sing-Sing. Eden, you will hardly understand how sorry I
was. He had a wife dependent on him--he had children. He had been with
me longer than my partner had, and I liked him. Of the two I liked him
the better. What he took I have never been able to view as a theft. It
was what might be called a forced loan. Had I been here it would have
been different; but my partner was obdurate. You see, the fault, if
fault there were, was mine. The salary I gave him was small, and each
day I allowed temptation to pass between his hands. People say that we
should resist temptation. I agree with them; temptation should be
resisted; but when a rich man preaches that sermon to the poor, he
forgets that where temptation is vague to him it may be potent to his
hearer. Oh, I don't mean to uphold derelictions, but to my thinking
Charity is the New Testament told in a word. I think that forgiveness is
the essence of the teaching of every founder of an enduring creed.
However, that is not to the point. The fact remained, the cashier was
sent to Sing-Sing, and since then I have done what I could to get him
out. It was his wife that I was with to-day. Poor girl! I have been
sorry for her; she is but little older than you, and she has had trials
to bear such as might have sent another to worse than the grave." He
paused, and plucking again at his beard, he looked down at the rug. Eden
needed no assurance to feel that his words were heart-whole and sincere.
She moved to where he stood and touched him on the arm.
"Don't tell me any more," she said, and as she spoke there came to her
voice a tremulousness that was as unusual as it was sweet. "You must let
me help her, too."
"Yes, Eden, that I will. It is good of you to speak that way. It is not
only good, it is Edenesque. But let me tell you the rest. Governor
Blanchford is in town. I went yesterday to the Buckingham, where he is
stopping. He could only see me for a moment then, and this afternoon I
went again with her. I am to dine with him this evening. When he returns
to Albany I think the pardon will be signed." Again he paused and looked
at his watch. "I must dress," he added; "will you forgive me--?"
"Forgive you!" she cried, "it is your turn, now: forgive me."
Usselex moved from her, her hand still in his, and when their arms were
fully outstretched, he turned and holding her to him he kissed her on
either cheek.
As he left the room Eden could have danced with delight. She ran to the
piano and with one hand still gloved she struck out clear notes of joy.
Presently, she too left the room, and prepared for dinner. When the meal
was served she ate it in solitude, but the solitude was not irksome to
her; it was populous with recovered dreams. Among the dishes that were
brought her was one of terrapin, which she partook of with an art of her
own; and subsequently, in a manner which it must have been a pleasure to
behold, she nibbled at a peach--peaches and terrapin representing, as
everyone knows, the two articles of food which are the most difficult to
eat with grace.
Later, when the meal was done, Eden returned to the drawing-room. Mrs.
Manhattan was unregretted. The summer had been fertile enough in
entertainments to satiate her for a twelve-month. She had come and gone,
eaten and fasted, danced and driven, with no other result than the
discovery that the companionship of her husband was better than anything
else. To her thinking he needed only an incentive to conquer the
ballot. There was no reason why he should not leave Wall Street for
broader spheres. She had met senators by the dozen, and he was wiser
than them all. He might be Treasurer of State if he so willed, or
failing that, minister to the Court of St. James. Even an inferior
mission such as that to the Hague or to Brussels would be better than
the Street. It was inane, she told herself, to pass one's life in going
down town and coming up again merely that another million might be put
aside. An existence such as that might be alluring to Jerolomon or
Bleecker Bleecker, but for her husband there were other summits to be
scaled.
And as Eden, prettily flushed by the possibilities which her imagination
disclosed spectacular-wise for her own delight, sat companioned by
fancies, determining, if incentive were necessary, that incentive should
come from her, the portiére was drawn aside and the butler announced Mr.
Arnswald.
"I ventured to come in," he said, apologetically, "although I knew Mr.
Usselex was not at home. I wanted----"
