the light from the carriage-lamp fell upon his face. He was 
quite insensible, and there was blood upon his pale forehead 
and white cheeks. One of the gendarmes came forward. 
' We will take care of him, Signore,' he said, touching his 
three-cornered hat. ' But I must beg to know your revered 
name,' he added, in the stock Italian phrase. ' Capira 
I am very sorry but they say your horses ' 
' Put him into my carriage,' answered the elderly gentle 
man shortly. ' I am the Principe Monte varchi.' 
'But, Excellency the Signorina ' protested the 
coachman. The prince paid no attention to the objection 
and helped the gendarme to deposit Anastase in the interior 
of the vehicle. Then he gave the man a silver scudo. 
' Send some one to the Serristori barracks to say that a 
Zouave has been hurt and is at my house,' he said. There 
with he entered the carriage and ordered the coachman to 
drive home. 
  
' In heaven's name, what has happened, papa  ' asked a 
young voice in the darkness, tremulous with excitement. 
' My dear child, there has been an accident in the street, 
and this young man has heen wounded, or killed ' 
' Killed ! A dead man in the carriage !' cried the young 
girl in some terror, and shrinking away into the corner. 
' You should really control your nerves, Faustina,' replied 
her father in austere tones. ' If the young man is dead, it is 
the will of Heaven. If he is alive we shall soon find it out. 
Meanwhile I must beg you to be calm to be calm, do you 
understand ? ' 
Donna Faustina Montevarchi made no answer to this 
parental injunction, but withdrew as far as she could into the 
corner of the back seat, while her father supported the 
inanimate body of the Zouave as the carriage swung over the 
uneven pavement. In a few minutes they rolled beneath a 
deep arch and stopped at the foot of a broad marble stair 
case. 
' Bring him upstairs carefully, and send for a surgeon,' 
said the prince to the men who came forward. Then he 
offered his arm to his daughter to ascend the steps, as though 
nothing had happened, and without bestowing another look 
on the injured soldier. 
Donna Faustina was just eighteen years old, and had only 
quitted the convent of the Sacro Cuore a month earlier. It 
might have been said that she was too young to be beautiful, 
for she evidently belonged to that class of women who do 
not attain their full development until a later period. Her 
figure was almost too slender, her face almost too delicate 
and ethereal. There was about her a girlish look, an atmos 
phere of half -saintly maidenhood, which was not so much 
the expression of her real nature as the effect produced by 
her being at once very thin and very fresh. There was 
indeed nothing particularly angelic about her warm brown 
eyes, shaded by unusually long black lashes ; and little way 
ward locks of chestnut hair, curling from beneath the small 
round hat of the period, just before the small pink ears, 
softened as with a breath of worldliness the grave outlines 
of the serious face. A keen student of women might have 
  
seen that the dim religious halo of convent life which still 
clung to the young girl would soon fade and give way to the 
brilliancy of the woman of the world. She was not tall, 
though of fully average height, and although the dress of 
that time was ill-adapted to show to advantage either the 
figure or the movements, it was evident, as she stepped 
lightly from the carriage, that she had a full share of ease 
and grace. She possessed that unconscious certainty in 
motion which proceeds naturally from the perfect proportion 
of all the parts, and which exercises a far greater influence 
over men than a faultless profile or a dazzling skin. 
Instead of taking her father's arm, Donna Faustina 
turned and looked at the face of the wounded Zouave, whom 
three men had carefully taken from the carriage and were 
preparing to carry upstairs. Poor Gouache was hardly 
recognisable for the smart soldier who had crossed the bridge 
of Sant' Angelo half an hour earlier. His uniform was 
all stained with mud, there was blood upon his pale face, 
and his limbs hung down, powerless and limp. But as the 
young girl looked at him, consciousness returned, and with 
it came the sense of acute suffering. He opened his eyes 
suddenly, as men often do when they revive after being 
stunned, and a short groan escaped from his lips. Then, as 
he realised that he was in the presence of a lady, he made 
an effort as though to release himself from the hands of those 
who carried him, and to stand upon his feet. 
'Pardon me, Madame,' he began to say, but Faustina 
checked him by a gesture. 
Meanwhile old Montevarchi had carefully scrutinised the 
young man's face, and had recognised him, for they had often 
met in society. 
' Monsieur Gouache !' he exclaimed in surprise. At the 
same time he made the men move on with their burden. 
' You know him, papa ? ' whispered Donna Faustina as 
they followed together. 'He is a gentleman? I was 
right!' 
' Of course, of course,' answered her father. ' But really. 
Faustina, had you nothing better to do than to go and look 
into his face? Imagine, if he had known you! Dear 
me ! If you begin like this, as soon as you are out of the 
convent ' 
Montevarchi left the rest of the sentence to his daughter's 
imagination, merely turning up his eyes a little as though 
deprecating the just vengeance of heaven upon his daughter's 
misconduct. 
' Really, papa ' protested Faustina. 
' Yes really, my daughter I am much surprised,' 
returned her incensed parent, still speaking in an undertone 
lest the injured man should overhear what was said. 
They reached the head of the stairs and the men carried 
Gouache rapidly away ; not so quickly, however, as to 
prevent Faustina from getting another glimpse of his face. 
His eyes were open and met hers with an expression of 
mingled interest and gratitude which she did not forget. 
Then he was carried away and she did not see him again. 
The Montevarchi household was conducted upon the 
patriarchal principle, once general in Koine, and not quite 
abandoned even now, twenty years later than the date of 
Gouache's accident. The palace was a huge square building 
facing upon two streets, in front and behind, and opening 
inwards upon two courtyards. Upon the lower floor were 
stables, coach-houses, kitchens, and offices innumerable. 
Above these there was built a half story, called a mezzanine 
in French, entresol, containing the quarters of the un 
married sons of the house, of the household chaplain, and of 
two or three tutors employed in the education of the Monte 
varchi grandchildren. Next above, came the ' piano nobile,' 
or state apartments, comprising the rooms of the prince and 
princess, the dining-room, and a vast suite of reception- 
rooms, each of which opened into the next in such a manner 
that only the last was not necessarily a passage. In the 
huge hall was the dais and canopy with the family arms 
embroidered in colours once gaudy but now agreeably faded 
to a softer tone. Above this floor was another, occupied by 
the married sons, their wives and children ; and high over all, 
above the cornice of the palace, were the endless servants' 
quarters and the roomy garrets. At a rough estimate the 
establishment comprised over a hundred persons, all living 
under the absolute and despotic authority of the head of the 
house, Don Lotario Montevarchi, Principe Montevarchi, and 
sole possessor of forty or fifty other titles. From his will 
and upon his pleasure depended every act of every member 
of his household, from his eldest son and heir, the Duca di 
Bellegra, to that of Pietro Paolo, the under-cook's scullion's 
boy. There were three sons and four daughters. Two of 
the sons were married, to wit, Don Ascanio, to whom his 
father had given his second title, and Don Onorato, who was 
allowed to call himself Principe di Cantalupo, but who would 
have no legal claim to that distinction after his father's death. 
Last of the three came Don Carlo, a young fellow of twenty 
years, but not yet emancipated from the supervision of his 
tutor. Of the daughters, the two eldest, Bianca and Laura 
were married and no longer lived in Rome, the one having 
been matched with a Neapolitan and the other with a 
Florentine. There remained still at home, therefore, the 
third, Donna Flavia, and the youngest of all the family, 
Donna Faustina. Though Flavia was not yet two and twenty 
years of age, her father and mother were already beginning 
to despair of marrying her, and dropped frequent hints about 
the advisability of making her enter religion, as they called 
it ; that is to say, they thought she had better take the veil 
and retire from the world 
The old princess Montevarchi was English by birth and 
education, but thirty-three years of life in Rome had almost 
obliterated all traces of her nationality. That all-pervading 
influence, which so soon makes Romans of foreigners who 
marry into Roman families, had done its work effectually. 
The Roman nobility, by intermarriage with the principal 
families of the rest of Europe, has lost many Italian 
characteristics ; but its members are more essentially Romans 
than the full-blooded Italians of the other classes who dwell 
side by side with the aristocracy in Rome. 
When Lady Gwendoline Fontenoy married Don Lotario 
Montevarchi in the year 1834, she, no doubt, believed that 
her children would grow up as English as she herself, and 
that her husband's house would not differ materially from an 
establishment of the same kind in England. She laughed 
merrily at the provisions of the marriage contract, which even 
went so far as to stipulate that she was to have at least two 
dishes of meat at dinner, and an equivalent on fast-days, a 
drive every day the traditional trottata two new gowns 
every year, and a woman to wait upon her. After these and 
similar provisions had been agreed upon, her dowry, which 
was a large one for those days, was handed over to the keep 
ing of her father-in-law and she was duly married to Don 
Lotario, who at once assumed the title of Duca di Bellegra. 
The wedding journey consisted of a fortnight's retirement in 
the Villa Montevarchi at Frascati, and at the end of that 
time the young couple were installed under the paternal roof 
in Rome. Before she had been in her new abode a month 
the young Duchessa realised the utter hopelessness of 
attempting to change the existing system of patriarchal 
government under which she found herself living. She 
discovered, in the first place, that she would never have five 
scudi of her own in her pocket, and that if she needed a 
handkerchief or a pair of stockings it was necessary to obtain 
from the head of the house not only the permission to buy 
such necessaries, but the money with which to pay for them. 
She discovered, furthermore, that if she wanted a cup of 
coffee or some bread and butter out of hours, those things 
were charged to her daily account in the steward's office, as 
though she had been in an inn, and were paid for at the end 
of the year out of the income arising from her dowry. Her 
husband's younger brother, who had no money of his own, 
could not even get a lemonade in his father's house without 
his father's consent. 
Moreover, the family life was of such a nature as almost 
to preclude all privacy. The young Duchessa and her 
husband had their bedroom in the upper story, but Don 
Lotario's request that his wife might have a sitting-room of 
her own was looked upon as an attempt at a domestic 
revolution, and the privilege was only obtained at last 
through the formidable intervention of the Duke of Agin- 
court, the Duchessa's own father. All the family meals, too, 
were eaten together in the solemn old dining-hall, hung with 
tapestries and dingy with the dust of ages. The order of 
precedence was always strictly observed, and though the 
cooking was of a strange kind, no plate or dish was ever 
used which was not of solid silver, battered indeed, and 
scratched, and cleaned only after Italian ideas, but heavy and 
massive withal. The Duchessa soon learned that the old 
Roman houses all used silver plates from motives of economy, 
for the simple reason that metal did not break. But the 
sensible English woman saw also that although the most 
rigid economy was practised in many things, there was lavish 
expenditure in many departments of the establishment. 
There were magnificent horses in the stables, gorgeously gilt 
carriages in the coach-houses, scores of domestics in bright 
liveries at every door. The pay of the servants did not, 
indeed, exceed the average earnings of a shoeblack in 
London, but the coats they wore were exceeding glorious 
with gold lace. 
It was clear from the first that nothing was expected of 
Don Lotario's wife but to live peaceably under the patriarchal 
rule, making no observations and offering no suggestions. 
Her husband told her that he was powerless to introduce 
any changes, and added, that since his father and all his ancestors had always lived in the same way, that way was .quite good 
enough for him. Indeed, he rather looked forward to the 
time when he should be master of the house, having children 
under him whom he might rule as absolutely and despotically 
as he was ruled himself. 
In the course of years the Duchessa absorbed the traditions of her new home, so that they became part of her, 
and as everything went on unchanged from year to year she 
acquired unchanging habits which corresponded with her 
surroundings. Then, when at last the old prince and princess were laid side by side in the vault of the family chapel 
and she was princess in her turn, she changed nothing, but 
let everything go on in the same groove, educating her 
children and managing them, as her husband had been 
educated and as she herself had been managed by the old 
couple. Her husband grew more and more like his father, 
punctilious, rigid ; a strict observant in religious matters, a 
pedant in little things, prejudiced against all change ; too 
satisfied to desire improvement, too scrupulously conscientious 
to permit any retrogression from established rule, a model of 
the immutability of an ancient aristocracy, a living paradigm 
of what always had been and a stubborn barrier against all 
that might be. 
Such was the home to which Donna Faustina Monte- 
varchi returned to live after spending eight years in the 
convent of the Sacro Cuore. During that time she had 
acquired the French language, a slight knowledge of music, 
a very limited acquaintance with the history of her own 
country, a ready memory for prayers and litanies and 
her manners. Manners among the Italians are called 
education. What we mean by the latter word, namely, the 
learning acquired, is called, more precisely, instruction. An 
educated person means a person who has acquired the art of 
politeness. An instructed person means some one who has 
learnt rather more than the average of what is generally 
learnt by the class of people to whom he belongs. Donna 
Faustina was extremely well educated, according to Eoman 
ideas, but her instruction was not, and was not intended to 
be, any better than that imparted to the young girls with 
whom she was to associate in the world. 
As far as her character was concerned, she herself knew 
very little of it, and would probably have found herself very 
much embarrassed if called upon to explain what character 
meant. She was new and the world was very old. The 
nuns had told her that she must never care for the world, 
which was a very sinful place, full of thorns, ditches, pitfalls 
and sinners, besides the devil and his angels. Her sister 
Flavia, on the contrary, assured her that the world was very 
agreeable, when mamma happened to go to sleep in a corner 
during a ball ; that all men were deceivers, but that when a 
man danced well it made no difference whether he were a 
deceiver or not, since he danced with his legs and not with 
his conscience ; that there was no happiness equal to a good 
cotillon, and that there were a number of these in every season 
and, finally, that provided one did not spoil one's complexion 
one might do anything, so long as mamma was not looking. 
To Donna Faustina, these views, held by the nuns on the 
one hand and by Flavia on the other, seemed very conflict 
ing. She would not, indeed, have hesitated in choosing, 
even if she had been permitted any choice ; for it was clear 
that, since she had seen the convent side of the question, it 
would be very interesting to see the other. But, having 
been told so much about sinners, she was on the look-out for 
them, and looked forward to making the acquaintance of one 
of them with a pardonable excitement. Doubtless she would 
hate a sinner if she saw one, as the nuns had taught her, 
although the sinner of her imagination was not a very repul 
sive personage. Flavia probably knew a great many, and 
Flavia said that society was very amusing. Faustina wished 
that the autumn months would pass a little more quickly, so 
that the carnival season might begin. 
Prince Montevarchi, for his part, intended his youngest 
daughter to be a model of prim propriety. He attributed to 
Flavia's frivolity of behaviour the difficulty he experienced 
in finding her a husband, and he had no intention of exposing 
himself to a second failure in the case of Faustina. She 
should marry in her first season, and if she chose to be gay 
after that, the responsibility thereof might fall upon her 
husband, or her father-in-law, or upon whomsoever it should 
most concern ; he himself would have fulfilled his duty so 
soon as the nuptial benediction was pronounced. He knew 
the fortune and reputation of every marriageable young man 
in society, and was therefore eminently fitted for the task he 
undertook. To tell the truth, Faustina herself expected to be 
married before Easter, for it was eminently fitting that a 
young girl should lose no time in such matters. But she 
meant to choose a man after her own heart, if she found one ; 
at all events, she would not submit too readily to the paternal 
choice nor appear satisfied with the first tolerable suitor who 
should be presented to her. 
Under these circumstances it seemed probable that Donna 
Faustina's first season, which had begun with the unexpected 
adventure at the corner of the old Orso, would not come to a 
close without some passage of arms between herself and her 
father, even though the ultimate conclusion should lead to 
the steps of the altar. 
The men carried the wounded Zouave away to a distant 
room, and Faustina entered the main apartments by the side 
of the old prince. She sighed a little as she went 
' I hope the poor man will get well ! ' she exclaimed. 
'Do not disturb your mind about the young man,"
answered her father. ' He will be attended by the proper 
persons, and the doctor will bleed him and the will of 
Heaven will be done. It is not the duty of a well-con 
ducted young woman to be thinking of such things, and you 
may dismiss the subject at once, 
' Yes, papa,' said Faustina submissively. But in spite of 
the dutiful tone of voice in which she spoke, the dim light 
of the tall lamps in the antechambers showed a strange 
expression of mingled amusement and contrariety in the girl's 
ethereal face. 
CHAPTER II 
' You know Gouache ? ' asked old Prince Saracinesca, in a
tone which implied that he had news to tell. He looked 
from his daughter-in-law to his son as he put the question, 
and then went on with his breakfast. 
' Very well,' answered Giovanni. ' What about him ? ' 
"Ffle was knocked down by a carriage last night. The 
carriage belonged to Montevarchi, and Gouache is at his 
house, in danger of his life.' 
'Poor fellow ! ' exclaimed Corona in ready sympathy. 
' I am so sorry ! I am very fond of Gouache.' 
Giovanni Saracinesca, known to the world since his 
marriage as Prince of Sant' Ilario, glanced quickly at his 
wife, so quickly that neither she nor the old gentleman 
Qoticed the fact. 
The three persons sat at their midday breakfast in 
the dining-room of the Palazzo Saracinesca. After much 
planning and many discussions the young couple had 
determined to take up their abode with Giovanni's 
father. There were several reasons which had led them 
to this decision, but the two chief ones were that 
they were both devotedly attached to the old man; and 
secondly, that such a proceeding was strictly fitting and in 
accordance with the customs of Romans. It was true that 
Corona, while her old husband, the Duca d'Astrardente, was 
alive, had grown used to having an establishment exclusively 
her own, and both the Saracinesca had at first feared that 
she would be unwilling to live in her father-in-law's house. 
Then, too, there was the Astrardente palace, which could not 
be shut up and allowed to go to ruin ; but this matter was 
compromised advantageously by Corona's letting it to an 
American millionaire who wished to spend the winter in 
Rome. The rent paid was large, and Corona never could have 
too much money for her improvements out at Astrardente. 
Old Saracinesca wished that the tenant might have been at 
least a diplomatist, and cursed the American by his gods, 
but Giovanni said that his wife had shown good sense in 
getting as much as she could for the palace. 
'We shall not need it till Orsino grows up unless you 
marry again,' said Sant' Ilario to his father, with a laugh. 
Now, Orsino was Giovanni's son and heir, aged, at the 
time of this tale, six months and a few days. In spite of 
his extreme youth, however, Orsino played a great and 
important part in the doings of the Saracinesca household. 
In the first place, he was the heir, and the old prince had 
been found sitting by his cradle with an expression never 
seen in his face since Giovanni had been a baby. Secondly, 
Orsino was a very fine child, swarthy of skin, and hard as a 
tiger cub, yet having already his mother's eyes, large, coal- 
black and bright, but deep and soft withal. Thirdly, Orsino 
had a will of his own, admirably seconded by an enormous 
lung power. Not that he cried, when he wanted anything. 
His baby eyes had not yet been seen to shed tears. He 
merely shouted, loud and long, and thumped the sides of bis 
cradle with his little clenched fists, or struck out straight 
at anybody who chanced to be within reach. Corona re 
joiced in the child, and used to say that he was like his 
grandfather his father and his mother all put together. 
The old prince thought that if this were true the boy would 
do very well ; Corona was the most beautiful dark woman 
of her time; he himself was a sturdy, tough old man, though 
his hair and beard were white as snow, and Giovanni was 
his father's ideal of what a man of his race should be. The 
arrival of the baby Orsino had been an additional argument 
in favour of living together, for the child's grandfather could 
not have been separated from him even by the quarter of a 
mile which lay between the two palaces. 
And so it came to pass that they all dwelt under the same 
roof, and were sitting together at breakfast on the morning 
of the 24th of September, when the old prince told them of 
the accident which had happened to Gouache. 
' How did you hear the news V asked Giovanni. 
' Montevarchi told me this morning. He was very much 
disturbed at the idea of having an interesting young man in 
his house, with Flavia and Faustina at home.' Old Sara- 
cinesca smiled grimly. 
' Why should that trouble him V inquired Corona. 
' He has the ancient ideas,' replied her father-in- 
law. 
'After all Flavia ' 
' Yes. Flavia, after all ' 
' I shall be curious to see how the other one turns out,' 
remarked Giovanni. ' There seems to be a certain unanimity 
in our opinion of Flavia. However, I daresay it is mere 
gossip, and Casa Montevarchi is not a gay place for a girl of 
her age.' 
'Not gay  ? How do you know?' asked the old prince. 
' Does the girl wand Carnival to last till All Souls' ? Did 
you ever dine there, Giovannino V 
' No nor any one else who is not a member of the most 
Excellent Casa Montevarchi.' 
' Then how do you know whether it is gay or not ?' 
' You should hear Ascanio Bellegra describe their life,' 
retorted Giovanni. 
'And I suppose you describe your life to him, in ex 
change V Prince Saracinesca was beginning to lose his 
temper, as he invariably did whenever he could induce his 
son to argue any question with him, ' I suppose you deplore 
each other's miserable condition. I tell you what I think, 
Giovanni. You had better go and live in Corona's house if 
you are not happy here.' 
'It is let,' replied Giovanni with imperturbable calm, 
but his wife bit her lip to control her rising laughter. 
' You might travel,' growled the old gentleman. 
' But I am very happy here.' 
' Then what do you mean by talking like that about Casa 
Montevarchi ? ' 
'I fail to see the connection between the two ideas,' 
observed Giovanni. 
' You live in precisely the same circumstances as Ascairio 
Bellegra. I think the connection is clear enough. If his 
life is sad, so is yours.' 
' For downright good logic commend me to my beloved 
father ! ' cried Giovanni, breaking into a laugh at last. 
' A laughing-stock for my children ! I have come to 
this !' exclaimed his father gruffly. But his features relaxed 
into a good-humoured smile, that was pleasant to see upon 
his strong dark face. 
' But, really, I am very sorry to hear this of poor Gouache,' 
said Corona at last, returning to the original subject of their 
conversation. ' I hope it is nothing really dangerous.' 
' It is always dangerous to be run over by a carriage,' 
answered Giovanni. ' I will go and see him, if they will let 
me in.' 
At this juncture Orsino was brought in by his nurse, a 
splendid creature from Saracinesca, with bright blue eyes and 
hair as fair as any Goth's, a contrast to the swarthy child 
she carried in her arms. Immediately the daily ovation 
began, and each of the three persens began to worship the 
baby in an especial way. There was no more conversation, 
after that, for some time. The youngest of the Saracinesca 
absorbed the attention pf the family. Whether he clenched 
his little fists, -or opened his small fat fingers, whether he 
laughed and crowed at his grandfather's attempts to amuse 
him, or struck his nurse's rosy cheeks with his chubby 
hands, the result was always applause and merriment from 
those who looked on. The scene recalled Joseph's dream, in 
which the sheaves of his brethren bowed down to his sheat 
After a while, however, Orsino grew sleepy and had to 
be taken away. Then the little party broke up and sepa 
rated. The old prince went to his rooms to read and doze 
for an hour. Corona was called away to see one of the 
numberless dressmakers whose shadows darken the begin- 
ning of a season in town, and Giovanni took his hat and 
went out. 
In those days young men of society had very little to do. 
The other day a German diplomatist was heard to say that 
Italian gentlemen seemed to do nothing but smoke, spit, and 
criticise. Twenty years ago their manners might have been 
described less coarsely, but there was even more truth in the 
gist of the saying. Not only they did nothing. There was 
nothing for them to do. They floated about in a peaceful 
millpool, whose placid surface reflected nothing but their own 
idle selves, little guessing that the dam whereby their mimic 
sea was confined, would shortly break with a thundering crash 
and empty them all into the stream of real life that flowed 
below. For the few who disliked idleness there was no 
occupation but literature, and literature, to the Roman mind 
of 1867, and in the Roman meaning of the word, was 
scholarship. The introduction to a literary career was sup 
posed to be obtained only by a profound study of the 
classics, with a view to avoiding everything classical, both 
in language and ideas, except Cicero, the apostle of the 
aiicient Roman Philistines ; and the tendency to clothe stale 
truisms and feeble sentiments in high-sounding language is 
still found in Italian prose and is indirectly traceable to the 
same source. As for the literature of the country since the 
Latins, it consisted, and still consists, in the works of the 
four poets, Dante, Tasso, Ariosto, and Petrarch. Leopardi 
is more read now than then, but is too unhealthily melan 
choly to be read long by any one. There used to be Roman 
princes who spent years in committing to memory the verses 
of those four poets, just as the young Brahman of to-day 
learns to recite the Rig Veda. That was called the pursuit 
of literature. 
The Saracinesca were thought very original and different 
from other men, because they gave some attention to their 
estates. It seemed very like business to try and improve 
the possessions one had inherited or acquired by marriage, 
and business was degradation. Nevertheless, the Saracinesca 
were strong enough to laugh at other people's scruples, and 
did what seemed best in their own eyes without troubling 
themselves to ask what the world thought. But the care of 
such matters was not enough to occupy Giovanni all day. 
He had much time on his hands, for he was an active man, 
who slept little and rarely needed rest. Formerly he had 
been used to disappear from Rome periodically, making long 
journeys, generally ending in shooting expeditions in some 
half-explored country. That was in the days before his mar 
riage, and his wanderings had assuredly done him no harm. 
He had seen much of the world not usually seen by men of 
his class and prejudices, and the acquaintance he had thus 
got with things and people was a source of great satisfaction 
to him. But the time had come to give up all this. He 
was now not only married and settled in his own home, but 
moreover he loved his wife with his whole heart, and these 
facts were serious obstacles against roughing it in Norway, 
Canada, or Transylvania. To travel with Corona and little 
Orsino seemed a very different matter .from travelling with 
Corona alone. Then there was his father's growing affection 
for the child, which had to be taken into account in all 
things. The four had become inseparable, old Saracinesca, 
Giovanni, Corona, and the baby. 
Now Giovanni did not regret his old liberty. He knew 
that he was far happier than he had ever been in his life 
before. But there were days when the time hung heavily 
on his hands and his restless nature craved some kind of 
action which should bring with it a generous excitement. 
This was precisely what he could not find during the months 
spent in Rome, and so it fell out that he did very much 
what most young men of his birth found quite sufficient as 
an employment ; he spent a deal of time in strolling where 
others strolled, in lounging at the club, and in making visits 
which filled the hours between sunset and dinner. To him 
this life was new, and not altogether tasteful ; but his friends 
did not fail to say that Giovanni had been civilised by his 
marriage with the Astrardente, and was much less reserved 
than he had formerly been. 
When Corona went to see the dressmaker, Giovanni 
very naturally took his hat and went out of the house. The 
September day was warm and bright, and in such weather 
it was a satisfaction merely to pace the old Roman streets 
in the autumn sun. It was too early to meet any of his 
acquaintance, and too soon in the season for any regular 
visiting. He did not know what to do, but allowed himself 
to enjoy the sunshine and the sweet air. Presently, the 
sight of a couple of Zouaves, talking together at the corner 
of a street, recalled to his mind the accident which had 
happened to Gouache. It would be kind to go and see the 
poor fellow, or, at least, to ask after him. He had known 
him for some time and had gradually learned to like him, 
as most people did who met the gifted artist day after day 
throughout the gaiety of the winter. 
At the Palazzo Montevarchi Giovanni learned that the 
princess had just finished breakfast. He could hardly ask 
for Gouache without making a short visit in the drawing- 
room, and he accordingly submitted, regretting after all that 
he had come. The old princess bored him, he did not know 
Faustina, who was just out of the convent, and Flavia, who 
amused many people, did not amuse him in the least. He 
inwardly rejoiced that he was married, and that his visit 
could not be interpreted as a preliminary step towards asking 
for Flavia's hand. 
The princess looked up with an expression of inquiry in 
her prominent bine eyes, as Sant' Ilario entered. She was 
stout, florid, and not well dressed. Her yellow hair, already 
half gray, for she was more than fifty years old, was of the 
unruly kind, and had never looked neat even in her best 
days. Her bright, clear complexion saved her, however, as 
it saves hundreds of middle-aged Englishwomen, from that 
look of peculiar untidiness which belongs to dark-skinned 
persons who take no trouble about their appearance or 
personal adornment In spite of thirty -three years of 
residence in Rome, she spoke Italian with a foreign accent, 
though otherwise correctly enough. But she was neverthe- 
less a great lady, and no one would have thought of doubting 
the fact. Fat, awkwardly dressed, of no imposing stature, 
