

 

of railroad wicckcrs and stock gamblers and mine- 
slave drivers and mill-serf owners ? No ; I gave it 
to the slave ; the slave — ha ! ha ! ha ! — whom I 
helped to unshackle to the common liberty of 
hunger and cold. And you think I would be the 
beneficiary of such a state of things ? " 

"I'm sorry to hear you talk so, Lindau," said 
March ; " very sorry." He stopped with a look of 
pain, and rose to go. Lindau suddenly broke into 
a laugh and into English. 

" Oh, well, it is only dalk, Passil, and it toes me 
goodt. My parg is worse than my pidte, I cuess. 
I pring these things roundt bretty soon. Good-bye, 
Passil, my tear poy. wf iviedersehen ! " 



XIII. 

March went away thinking of what Lindau had 
said, but not for the impersonal significance of his 
words so much as for the light they cast upon 
Lindau himself. He thought the words violent 
enough, but in connection with what he remembered 
of the cheery, poetic, hopeful idealist, they were 
even more curious than lamentable. In his own life 
of comfortable reverie he had never heard any one 
talk so before, but he had read something of the 
kind now and then in blatant labour newspapers 
which he had accidentally fallen in with, and once at 
a strikers' meeting he had heard rich people de- 
nounced with the same frenzy. He had made his 
own reflections upon the tastelessness of the rhetoric, 
and the obvious buncombe of the motive, and ho 
had not taken the matter seriously. 

He could not doubt Lindau's sincerity, and he 
wondered how he came to that way of thinking. 
From his experience of himself he accounted for a 
prevailing literary quality in it ; he decided it to be 
from Lindau's reading and feeling rather than his 
reflection. That was the notion he formed of some 



 

things he had met with in Euskin to much the same 
eftect ; he regarded them with amusement as the 
chimeras of a rhetorician run away with by his 
phrases. 

But as to Lindau, the chief thing in liis mind was 
a conception of the droll irony of a situation in 
which so fervid a hater of millionaires should be 
working, indirectly at least, for the prosperity of a 
man like Dryfoos, who, as IMarch understood, had 
got his money together out of every gambler's 
chance in speculation, and all a schemer's thrift 
from the error and need of others. The situation 
was not more incongruous, however, than all the 
rest of the Every Other Week affair. It seemed to 
him that there were no crazy fortuities that had not 
tended to its existence, and as time went on, and 
the day drew near for the issue of the first number, 
the sense of this intensified till the whole lost at 
moments the quality of a waking fact, and came to 
be rather a fantastic fiction of sleep. 

Yet the heterogeneous forces did co-operate to 
a reality which March could not deny, at least in 
their presence, and the first number was representa- 
tive of all their nebulous intentions in a tangible 
form. As a result, it was so respectable that 
March began to respect these intentions, began 
to respect himself for combining and embodying 
them in the volume which appealed to him with 
a novel fascination, when the first advance copy 
was laid upon his desk. Every detail of it was 
tiresomely familiar already, but the whole had a 



 

fresh interest now. Ho now saw how extremely 
fit and effective Miss Leighton's decorative design 
for the cover was, printed in black and brick-red on 
the delicate grey tone of the paper. It was at once 
attractive and refined, and he credited Beaton with 
quite all he merited in working it over to the actual 
shape. The touch and the taste of the art editor 
were present throughout the number. As Fulker- 
son said, Beaton had caught on with the delicacy of 
a humming-bird and the tenacity of a bull-dog to 
the virtues of their illustrative process, and had 
worked it for all it was worth. There were seven 
papers in the number, and a poem on the last page 
of the cover, and he had found some graphic com- 
ment for each. It was a larger proportion than 
would afterward be allowed, but for once in a way 
it was allowed. Fulkerson said they could not expect 
to get their money back on that first number anyway. 
Seven of the illustrations were Beaton's ; two or three 
he got from practised hands ; the rest were the 
work of unknown people which he had suggested, 
and then related and adapted with unfailing in- 
genuity to the different papers. He handled the 
illustrations with such sympathy as not to destroy 
their individual quality, and that indefinable 
charm which comes from good amateur work in 
whatever art. He rescued them from their weak- 
nesses and errors, while he left in them the evi- 
dence of the pleasure with which a clever young 
man, or a sensitive girl, or a refined woman had 
done them. Inevitably from his manipulation, 




however, the art of the number acquired homo- 
geneity, and there was nothing casual in its ap- 
pearance. The result, March eagerly owned, was 
better than the literary result, and lie foresaw that 
the number would be sold and praised chiefly for 
its pictures. Yet he was not ashamed of the litera- 
ture, and he indulged his admiration of it the more 
freely because he had not only not written it, but 
in a way had not edited it. To be sure, he had 
chosen all the material, but he had not voluntarily 
put it all together for that number ; it had largely 
put itself together, as every number of every 
magazine does, and as it seems more and more to 
do, in the experience of every editor. There had to 
be, of course, a story, and then a sketch of travel. 
There was a literary essay and a social essay ; there 
was a dramatic trifle, very gay, very light ; there 
was a dashing criticism on the new pictures, the new 
plays, the new books, the new fashions ; and then 
there was the translation of a bit of vivid Russian 
realism, which the editor owed to Lindau's explora- 
tion of the foreign periodicals left with him ; Lindau 
was himself a romanticist of the Victor Hugo sort, 
but he said this fragment of Dostoyevski was good 
of its kind. The poem was a bit of society verse, 
with a backward look into simpler and wholesomer 
experiences. 

Fulkerson was extremely proud of the number; 
but he said it was too good — too good from every 
point of view. The cover was too good, and the 
paper was too good, and that device of rough edges, 



 

which got over the objection to uncut leaves -while it 
secured their a?sthetic effect, was a thing that he 
trembled for, though he rejoiced in it as a stroke of 
the highest genius. It had come from Beaton at 
the last moment, as a compromise, when the problem 
of the vulgar croppiness of cut leaves and the 
unpopularity of uncut leaves seemed to have no 
solution but suicide. Fulkerson was still morally 
crawling round on his hands and knees, as he said, 
in abject gratitude at Beaton's feet, though he had 
his qualms, his questions ; and he declared that 
Beaton was the most inspired ass since Balaam's. 
"We're all asses, of course," he admitted, in semi- 
apology to March ; " but we 're no such asses as 
Beaton." He said that if the tasteful decorativeness 
of the thing did not kill it with the public outright, 
its literary excellence would give it the finishing 
stroke. Perhaps that might be overlooked in the 
impression of novelty which a first number would 
give, but it must never happen again. He implored 
March to promise that it should never happen again ; 
he said their only hope was in the immediate 
cheapening of the whole affair. It was bad enough 
to give the public too much quantity for their 
money, but to throw in such quality as that was 
simply ruinous ; it must be stopped. These were 
the expressions of his intimate moods ; every front 
that he presented to the public wore a glow of lofty, 
of devout exultation. His pride in the number 
gushed out in fresh bursts of rhetoric to every one 
whom he could cet to talk with him about it. He 



worked the personal kindliness of the i)rcss to the 
utmost. He did not mind making himself ridiculous 
or becoming a joke in the good cause, as he called it. 
He joined in the applause when a humorist at the 
club feigned to drop dead from his chair at Fulker- 
son's introduction of the topic, and he went on talk- 
ing that first number into the surviving spectators. 
He stood treat upon all occasions, and he lunched 
attaches of the press at all hours. He especially 
befriended the correspondents of the newspapers of 
other cities, for, as he explained to March, those 
fellows could give him any amount of advertising 
simply as literary gossip. Many of the fellows 
were ladies who could not be so summarily asked 
out to lunch, but Fulkerson's ingenuity was equal to 
every exigency, and he contiived somehow to 
make each of these feel that she had been possessed 
of exclusive information. There was a moment 
\vlien March conjectured a willingness in Fulker- 
son to work Mrs. March into the advertising depart- 
ment, by means of a tea to these ladies and their 
friends which she should administer in his apart- 
ment, but he did not encourage Fulkerson to be 
explicit, and the moment passed. Afterward, when 
he told his wife about it, he was astonished to find 
that she would not have minded doing it for Ful- 
kerson, and he experienced another proof of the 
bluntness of the feminine instincts in some direc- 
tions, and of the personal favour which Fulkerson 
seemed to enjoy with the whole sex. This alone 
was enoutch to account for the willingness of these 



 

correspondents to write about the first number, but 
March accused him of sending it to their addresses 
with boxes of Jacqueminot roses and Huyler candy. 

Fulkerson let him enjoy his joke. He said that 
he would do that or anything else for the good 
cause, short of marrying the whole circle of female 
correspondents. 

March was inclined to hope that if the first 
number had been made too good for the country at 
large, the more enlightened taste of metropolitan 
journalism would invite a compensating favour for 
it in New York. But first Fulkerson and then the 
event proved him wrong. In spite of the quality of 
the magazine, and in spite of the kindness which so 
many newspaper men felt for Fulkerson, the notices 
in the New York papers seemed grudging and pro- 
visional to the ardour of the editor. A meiit in the 
work was acknowledged, and certain defects in it 
for which March had trembled were ignored ; but 
the critics astonished him by selecting for censure 
points which he was either proud of or had never 
noticed ; which being now brought to his notice 
he still could not feel were faults. He owned to 
Fulkerson that if they had said so and so against it, 
he could have agreed with them, but that to say 
thus and so was preposterous ; and that if the 
advertising had not been adjusted with such generous 
recognition of the claims of the different papers, 
he should have known the counting-room was 
at the bottom of it. As it was, he could only- 
attribute it to perversity or stupidity. It was 



 

certainly stupid to condemn a magazine novelty 
like Every Other Week for being novel ; and to 
augur that if it failed, it would fail through its 
departure from the lines on which all the other 
prosperous magazines had been built, was in the 
last degree perverse, and it looked malicious. The 
fact that it was neither exactly a book nor a 
magazine ought to be for it and not against it, since 
it would invade no other field ; it would prosper on 
no ground but its own. 



XIV. 

The more March thought of the injustice of 
the New York press (which had not, however, 
attacked the literary quahty of the number) the 
more bitterly he resented it ; and his wife's indigna- 
tion superheated his own. Every Other JFeeJc had 
become a very personal affair with the whole family ; 
the children shared their parents' disgust; Bella 
was outspoken in her denunciations of a venal press. 
Mrs. March saw nothing but ruin ahead, and began 
tacitly to plan a retreat to Boston, and an establish- 
ment retrenched to the basis of two thousand a 
year. She shed some secret tears in anticipation 
of the privations which this must involve ; but 
when Fulkerson came to see March rather late the 
night of the publication day, she nobly told him 
that if the worst came to the worst she could only 
have the kindliest feeling toward him, and should 
not regard him as in the slightest degree responsible. 

"Oh, hold on, hold on!" he protested. "You 
don't think we 've made a failure, do you ? " 

"Why, of course," she faltered, while March re- 
mained gloomily silent. 

" Well, I guess we 'll wait for the official count, 


first. Even New York hasn't gone against us, and 
I guess there 's a majority coming down to Harlem 
Eiver that could sweep everything before it, anyway." 

" What do you moan, Fulkerson ? " March de- 
manded sternly. 

" Oh, nutln'ng ! Only, the News Company has 
ordered ten thousand now ; and you know we had 
to give them the first twenty on commission." 

" What do you mean ? " March repeated ; his \vife 
held her breath. 

" I mean that the first number is a booming 
success already, and that it 's going to a hundred 
thousand before it stops. That unanimity and 
variety of censure in the morning papers, combined 
with the attractiveness of the thing itself, has 
cleared every stand in the city, and now if the favour 
of the country press doesn't turn the tide against us, 
our fortune's made." The Marches remained dumb. 
" Why, look here ! Didn't I tell you those criticisms 
would be the making of us, when they first began to 
turn you blue tliis morning, JNIarch ? " 

"He came home to lunch perfectly sick," said Mrs. 
March ; " and I wouldn't let him go back again." 

" Didn't I tell you so ? " Fulkerson persisted. 

March could not remember that he had, or that 
he had been anything but incoherently and hysteric- 
ally jocose over the papers, but he said, " Yes, yes — 
I think so." 

" I knew it from the start," said Fulkerson. " The 
only other person who took those criticisms in the 
right spirit was Mother Dryfoos — I 've just been 



 

bolstering up the Dryfoos family. She had them 
read to her by Mrs. Mandel, and she understood 
them to be all the most flattering prophecies of 
success. Well, I didn't read between the lines to 
that extent, quite ; but I saw that they were going 
to help us, if there was anything in us, more than 
anything that could have been done. And there 
was something in us ! I tell you, March, that seven- 
shooting self-cocking donkey of a Beaton has given 
us the greatest start ! He 's caught on like a mice. 
He 's made the thing awfully chic ; it 's jimmy ; 
there 's lots of dog about it. He 's managed that 
process so that the illustrations look as expensive as 
first-class wood-cuts, and they're cheaper than 
chromos. He 's put style into the whole thing." 

" Oh yes," said March with eager meekness, " it 's 
Beaton that's done it." 

Fulkerson read jealousy of Beaton in Mrs. March's 
face. " Beaton has given us the start because his 
work appeals to the eye. There 's no denying that 
the pictures have sold this first number; but I 
expect the literature of this first number to sell the 
pictures of the second. I 've been reading it all over, 
nearly, since I found how the cat was jumping ; I 
was anxious about it, and I tell you, old man, it's 
good. Yes, sir ! I was afraid may be you had got it 
too good, with that Boston refinement of yours; but 
I reckon you haven't. I 'll risk it. I don't see how 
you got so much variety into so few things, and all 
of them palpitant, all of 'em on the keen jump with 
actuality." ' 



 

The mixture of American slang with tho jargon 
of Europc;ui criticism in Fulkcrson's talk made March 
smile, but his wife did not seem to notice it in her 
exultation. " That is just what I say," she broke in. 
"It's perfectly wonderful. I never was anxious 
about it a moment, except, as you say, Mr. Fulker- 
son, I was afraid it might be too good.'' 

They went on in an antiphony of praise till March 
said, " Really, I don't see what 's left me but to 
strike for higher wages. I })erceive that I 'm 
indispensable." 

" Why, old man, you 're coming in on the divvy, 
you know," said Fulkcrson. 

They both laughed, and when Fulkcrson was 
gone, Mrs. March asked her husband what a divvy 
was. 

" It 's a chicken before it 's hatched." 

" No ! Truly ? " 

He explained, and she began to spend the divvy. 

At Mrs. Leighton's Fulkcrson gave Alma all the 
honour of the success ; he told her mother that the 
girl's design for the cover had sold every number, 
and Mrs. Leighton believed him. 

"Well, Ah think Ah maght have some of the 
glory," Miss Woodburn pouted. "Where am Ah 
comin' in ? " 

" You 're coming in on the cover of the next 
number," said Fulkcrson. "We're going to have 
your face there ; Miss Leighton's going to sketch it 
in." He said this reckless of the fact that he had 
already shown them the design of the second 



 

number which was Beaton's weird bit of gas-country 
landscape. 

"Ah don't sec why you don't wrahte the fiction 
for your magazine, Mr. Fulkerson," said the girl. 

This served to remind Fulkerson of something. 
He turned to her father. "I'll tell you what, 
Colonel Woodburn, I want Mr. March to see some 
chapters of that book of yours. I 've been talking 
to him about it." 

" I do not think it would add to the popularity 
of your periodical, sir," said the Colonel, with a 
stately pleasure in being asked. "My views of a 
civilisation based upon responsible slavery would 
hardly be acceptable to your commercialised society." 

" Well, not as a practical thing, of course," 
Fulkerson admitted. "But as something retro- 
spective, speculative, I believe it would make a hit. 
There's so much going on now about social ques- 
tions ; I guess people would like to read it." 

" I do not know that my work is intended to 
amuse people," said the Colonel, with some state. 

"Mah goodness! Ah only wish it was, then," 
said his daughter; and she added: "Yes, Mr. 
Fulkerson, the Colonel will be very glad to submit 
po'tions of his woak to yo' edito'. We want to have 
some of the honaw. Perhaps we can say we helped 
to stop yo' magazine, if we didn't help to stawt it." 

They all laughed at her boldness, and Fulkerson 
said, " It 'll take a good deal more than that to stop 
Every Otiier JFeek. The Colonel's whole book 
couldn't do it." Then he looked unhappy, for 



 

Colonel Woodburn did not seem to enjoy his re- 
assuring words ; but Miss Woodburn came to liis 
rescue. "You maglit illustrate it with the po'ti'ait of 
the awthor's daughtaw, if it 's too late for the covali." 

"Going to have that in every number, Miss 
Woodburn," he cried, 

" Oh, mah goodness ! " she said, with mock 
humility. 

Alma sat looking at her piquant head, black, 
unconsciously outlined against the lamp, as she sat 
working by the table. " Just keep still a moment!" 

She got her sketch-block and pencils, and began 
to draw ; Fulkerson tilted himself forward and 
looked over her shoulder ; he smiled outwardly ; 
inwardly he was divided between admiration of 
Miss Woodburn's arch beauty and appreciation of 
the skill which reproduced it ; at the same time 
he was trying to remember whether March had 
authorised him to go so far as to ask for a sight 
of Colonel Woodburn's manuscript. He felt that 
he had trenched upon March's province, and he 
framed one apology to the editor for bringing him 
the manuscript, and another to the author for 
bringing it back 

"Most Ah hold raght still like it was a photo- 
graph ? " asked Miss Woodburn. " Can Ah toak ? " 

"Talk all you want," said Alma, squinting her 
eyes. " And you needn't be either adamantine, nor 
yet — wooden." 

"Oh, ho' very good of you! Well, if Ah can 
toak — go on, Mr. Fulkerson ! " 



 

" Me talk ? I can't breathe till this thing is 
done ! " sighed Fulkerson ; at that point of his 
mental drama the Colonel was behaving rustily 
about the return of his manuscript, and he felt that 
he was looking his last on Miss woodburn's profile. 

"Is she getting it raghtl " asked the girl, 

" I don't know which is which," said Fulkerson. 

" Oh, Ah hope Ah shall ! I don't want to go 
round feelin' like a sheet of papah half the time." 

" You could rattle on, just the same," suggested 
Alma. 

"Oh, now! Jost listen to that, Mr. Fialkerson. 
Do you call that any way to toak to people ] " 

" You might know which you were by the 
colour," Fulkerson began, and then he broke off 
from the personal consideration with a business 
inspiration, and smacked himself on the knee: ""Wo 
could p-'tnt it in colour ! " 

Mrs. Leighton gathered up her sewing and held 
it with both hands in her lap, while she came round, 
and looked critically at the sketch and the model 
over her glasses. " It 's very good, Alma," she said. 

Colonel Woodburn remained restively on his side 
of the table. " Of course, Mr. Fulkerson, you were 
jesting, sir, when you spoke of printing a sketch of 
my daughter." 

" Why, I don't know If you object " 

" I do, sir — decidedly," said the Colonel. 

" Then that settles it, of course," said Fulkerson. 
" I only meant " 

" Indeed it doesn't ! " cried the girl. " Who 's to 



 

know who it's from? Ah'm josfc set on liavin' it 
printed ! Ah 'm going to appear as the licad of 
Slavery — in opposition to the head of Liberty." 

" There 'll be a revolution inside of forty-eight 
hours, and we 'll have the Colonel's system going 
wherever a copy of Eixry Other Week circulates," 
said Fulkerson. 

"This sketch belongs to me," Alma interposed. 
"I'm not going to let it be printed." 

" Oh, mail goodness ! " said Miss Woodburn, 
laughing good-humouredly. " That 's bccose you 
were brought up to hate slavery." 

" I should like Mr. Beaton to see it," said Mrs. 
Leighton in a sort of absent tone. She added, to 
Fulkerson : '  I rather expected he might be in to- 
night." 

" Well, if he comes we 'll leave it to Beaton," 
Fulkerson said, with relief in the solution, and aii 
anxious glance at the Colonel, across the table, to 
see how he took that form of the joke. Miss 
