penetrated for a moment's glimpse of the huge 
rotunda, where the emigrants first set foot on our 
continent. It warmed their hearts, so easily moved 
to any cheap sympathy, to see the friendly care the 
nation took of these humble guests ; they found it 
even pathetic to hear the proper authority calling 
  
out the names of such as had kin or acquaintance 
waiting there to meet them. No one appeared 
troubled or anxious ; the oflicials had a conscien- 
tious civility ; the government seemed to manage 
their welcome as well as a private company or cor- 
poration could have done. In fact, it was after the 
simple strangers had left the government care that 
March feared their woes miglit begin ; and he would 
have liked the government to follow each of them 
to his home, wherevcr he meant to fix it within our 
borders. He made note of the looks of the licensed 
runners and touters waiting for the immigrants out- 
side the government premises ; he intended to work 
them up into a dramatic effect in some sketch, but 
they remained mere material in his memorandum- 
book, together with some quaint old houses on the 
Sixth wenue road, which he had noticed on the way 
down. On the way up, these were superseded in 
his regard by some hip-roof structures on the 
Ninth wenue, which he thought more Dutch- 
looking. The perspectives of the cross-streets to- 
ward the river were very lively, with their turmoil 
of trucks and cars and carts and hacks and foot- 
passengers, ending in the chimneys and masts of 
shipping, and final gleams of dancing water. At a 
very noisy corner, clangorous with some sort of iron- 
working, he made his wife enjoy with him the quiet 
sarcasm of an inn that called itself the Homelike 
Hotel, and he speculated at fantastic length on the 
gentle associations of one avIio shoidd haA'e passed 
his youth under its roof. 
III. 
First and last, the Marches did a good deal of 
travel on the Elevated roads, which, he said, gave 
you such glimpses of material aspects in the city as 
some violent invasion of others' lives might afford 
in human nature. Once, when the impulse of 
adventure was very strong in them, they went quite 
the length of the "West side lines, and saw the city 
pushing its way by irregular advances into the 
country. Some spaces, probably held by the owners 
for that rise in value which the industry of others 
providentially gives to the land of the wise and 
good, it left vacant comparatively far down the road, 
and built up others at remoter points. It was a 
world of lofty apartment-houses beyond the Park, 
springing up in isolated blocks, with stretches of 
invaded rusticity between, and here and there an 
old country-seat standing dusty in its budding vines 
with the ground before it in rocky upheaval for city 
foundations. But wherever it went or wherever it 
paused. New York gave its peculiar stamp ; and the 
adventurers were amused to find One Hundred and 
Twenty-fifth Street inchoately like Twenty-third 
Street and Fourteenth Street in its shops and 
  
shoppers. The butcliers' shops and milliners' shops 
on the avenue might as well have been at Tenth as 
at One Hundredth Street. 
The adventurers were not often so adventurous. 
They recognised that in their •willingness to let 
their fancy range for them, and to let sijeculation do 
the work of inquiry, they were no longer young. 
Their point of view was singularly unchanged, and 
their impressions of New York remained the same 
that they had been fifteen years before : huge, noisy, 
ugly, kindly, it seemed to them now as it seemed 
then. The main difference was that they saw it 
more now as a life, and then they only regarded it 
as a spectacle ; and March could not release himself 
from a sense of complicity with it, no matter what 
whimsical, or alien, or critical attitude he took. A 
sense of the striving and the suffering deeply 
possessed him ; and this grew the more intense as 
he gained some knowledge of the forces at work — 
forces of pity, of destruction, of perdition, of sal- 
A'ation. He wandered about on Sunday not only 
through the streets, but into this tabernacle and 
that, as the spirit moved him, and listened to those 
who dealt with Christianity as a system of economics 
as well as a religion. He could not get his wife to 
go with him ; she listened to his report of what he 
heard, and trembled ; it all seemed fantastic and 
menacing. She lamented the literary peace, the 
intellectual refinement of the life they had left 
Ijchind them ; and he owned it was very pretty, but 
he said it was not life — it was death-in-life. She 
  
liked to hear him talk in that strain of virtuous self- 
denunciation, but she asked him, "AYhich of your 
prophets are jou going to follow ? " and he answered, 
"All — all! And a fresh one every Sunday," And 
so they got their laugh out of it at last, but with 
some sadness at heart, and with a dim consciousness 
that they had got their laugh out of too many things 
in life. 
"What really occupied and compassed his activities, 
in spite of his strenuous reveries of work beyond it, 
was his editorship. On its social si'c it had not 
fulfilled all the expectations which Fulkerson's 
radiant sketch of its duties and relations had caused 
him to form of it. Most of the contributions came 
from a distance ; even the articles written in New 
York reached him through the post, and so far from 
having his valuable time, as they called it, consumed 
in interviews with his collaborators, he rarely saw 
any of them. The boy on the stairs, who was to 
fence him from importunate visitors, led a life of 
luxurious disoccupation, and whistled almost unin- 
terruptedly. When any one came, March found 
himself embarrassed and a little anxious. The 
visitors were usually young men, terribly respectful, 
but cherishing, as he imagined, ideals and opinions 
chasmally different from his ; and he felt in their 
presence something like an anachronism, something 
like a fraud. lie tried to freshen up his sympathies 
on them, to get at what they wei'e really thinking and 
feeling, and it was some time before he could under- 
stand that they were not really thinking and feeling 
anything of their own concerning their art, l)iit were 
necessarily, in their quality of young, inexperienced 
men, mere acceptants of older men's thoughts and 
feelings, whether they werc tremendously conserva- 
tive, as some were, or tremendously progressive, as 
others were. Certain of them called themselves 
realists, certain romanticists ; but none of them 
seemed to know what realism was, or what romanti- 
cism ; they apparently supposed the difference a 
difference of material. March had imagined himself 
taking home to lunch or dinner the aspirants for 
editorial favour whom he liked, whether he liked 
their work or not ; hut this was not an easy matter. 
Those who were at all interesting seemed to have 
engagements and preoccupations ; after two or three 
experiments with the bashfuller sort — those who 
had come up to the metropolis with manuscripts in 
their hands, in the good old literary tradition — ho 
wondered whether he was otherwise like them when 
he was young like them. He could not flatter himself 
that he was not ; and yet he had a hope that the 
world had grown worse since his time, which his 
wife encouraged. 
Mrs. March was not eager to pursue the hospitali- 
ties which she had at first imagined essential to the 
literary prosperity of Evcrij Other week ; her family 
sufficed her ; she would willingly have seen no one 
out of it but the strangers at the weekly tahle-dliote 
dinner, or the audiences at the theatres. March's 
devotion to his work made him reluctant to delegate 
it to any one ; and as the summer adA'anced, and 
 
the question of where to go grew more vexed, he 
showed a man's base willingness to shirk it for him- 
self by not going anywhere. He asked his wife why 
she did not go somewhere with the children, and he 
joined her in a search for non-malarial regions on 
the map when she consented to entertain this notion. 
But when it came to the point she would not go ; 
he offered to go with her then, and then she would 
not let him. She said she knew he would be 
anxious about his work ; he protested that he could 
take it with him to any distance within a few hours, 
but she would not be persuaded. She would rather 
he stayed ; the effect would be better with Mr. 
Fulkerson; they could make excursions, and they 
could all get off a week or two to the sea-shore near 
Boston — the only real sea-shore — in August. The 
excursions were practically confined to a single day 
at Coney Island ; and once they got as far as Boston 
on the way to the sea-shore near Boston ; that is, 
Mrs. March and the children went ; an editorial exi- 
gency kept March at the last moment. The Boston 
streets seemed very queer and clean and empty to 
the children, and the buildings little ; in the horse- 
cars the Boston faces seemed to arraign their mother 
with a down-drawn severity that made her feel very 
guilty. She knew that this was merely the Puri- 
tan mask, the cast of a dead civilisation, which 
people of very amiable and tolerant minds were 
doomed to wear, and she sighed to think that less 
than a year of the heterogeneous gaiety of New 
York should have made her afraid of it. The sky 
  
seemed cold and gny; the east wind, "which she had 
always thought so delicious in summer, cut her to 
the heart. She took her children up to the South End, 
and in the pretty square where they used to live 
they stood before their alienated home, and looked 
up at its close-shuttered windows. The tenants 
must have been away, but Mrs. March had not the 
courage to ring and make sure, though she had 
always promised herself that she would go all over 
the house when she came back, and see how they 
had used it ; she could pretend a desire for some- 
thing she wished to take away. She knew she 
could not bear it now ; and the children did not 
seem eager. She did not push on to the seaside ; 
it would be forlorn there without their father ; she 
was glad to go back to him in the immense, friendly 
homelcssness of New York, and hold him answer- 
able for the change, in her heart or her mind, which 
made its shapeless tumult a refuge and a consola- 
tion. 
She found that he had been giving the cook a 
lioliday, and dining about hither and thither with 
Fulkerson. Once he liad dined with him at the 
widow's (as they always called Mrs. Leighton), and 
then had spent the evening there, and smoked with 
Fulkerson and Colonel Woodburn on the gallery 
overlooking the back yard. They were all spending 
the summer in New York. The widow had got so 
good an offer for her house at St. Barnaby for the 
summer that she could not refuse it ; and the 
Woodburns found New York a watering-place of 
exemplary coolness after the burning Augusts and 
Septembers of Charlottesburg. 
"You can stand it well enough in our climate, sir," 
the colonel explained, " till you come to the 
September heat, that sometimes runs well into 
October ; and then you begin to lose your temper, 
sir. It 's never quite so hot as it is in Ncav York 
at times, but it 's hot longer, sir." He alleged, as 
if something of the sort were necessary, the example 
of a famous South-western editor who spent all his 
summers in a New York hotel as the most luxurious 
retreat on the continent, consulting the weather 
forecasts, and running off on torrid days to the 
mountains or the sea, and then hurrying back at the 
promise of cooler weather. The colonel had not 
found it necessary to do this yet ; and he had been 
reluctant to leave town, where he was working up 
a branch of the inquiry which had so long occupied 
him, in the libraries, and studying the great problem 
of labour and poverty as it continually presented 
itself to him in the streets. He said that he talked 
with all sorts of people, whom he found monstrously 
civil, if you took them in the right way; and he 
went everywhere in the city without fear and 
apparently without danger. March could not find 
out that he had ridden his hobby into the homes of 
want which he visited, or had proposed their enslave- 
ment to the inmates as a short and simple solution 
of the great question of their lives ; he appeared to 
have contented himself with the collection of facts 
for the persuasion of the cultivated classes. It 
  
seemed to March a confirmation of tliis impression 
that the colonel should address his deductions from 
these facts so unsparingly to him ; he listened with 
a respectful patience, for which Fulkerson after- 
ward personally thanked him. Fulkerson said it was 
not often the colonel found such a good listener; 
generall}' nobody listened but Mrs. Leighton, who 
thought his ideas were shocking, but honoured him 
for holding them so conscientiously. Fulkerson was 
glad that March, as the literary department, had 
treated the old gentleman so well, because there was 
an open feud between him and the art department. 
Beaton was outrageously rude, Fulkerson must say ; 
though as for that, the old colonel seemed quite able 
to take care of himself, and gave Beaton an un- 
qualified contempt in return for his unmannerliness. 
The worst of it was, it distressed the old lady so ; 
she admired Beaton as much as she respected the 
colonel, and she admired Beaton, Fulkerson thought, 
rather more than Miss Leighton did ; he asked 
March if he had noticed them together. March had 
noticed them, but without any very definite im- 
pression except that Beaton seemed to give the 
whole evening to the girl. Afterward he recollected 
that he had fancied her rather harassed by his 
devotion, and it was this point that he wished to 
present for his wife's opinion. 
" Girls often put on that air, she said. "It's one 
of their ways of teasing. But then, if the man was 
really very much in love, and she was only enough in 
love to be uncertain of herself, she might very well 
  
seem troubled. It -would be a very serious question. 
Girls often don't know what to do in such a case." 
"Yes," said March, "I've often been glad that I
was not a girl, on that account. But I guess that 
on general principles Beaton is not more in love 
than she is. I couldn't imagine that young man 
being more in love with anybody, unless it was 
himself. He might be more in love with himself 
than any one else was." 
"Well, he doesn't interest me a great deal, and I 
can't say Miss Leighton does either. I think she 
can take care of herself. She has herself very well 
in hand." 
"Why so censorious?" pleaded March. "I 
don't defend her for having herself in hand ; but 
is it a fault ? " 
Mrs. March did not say. She asked, " And how 
does Mr. Fulkerson's aflair get on ] " 
"His affair] You really think it is one? Well, 
I 've fancied so myself, and I 've had an idea of 
some time asking him ; Fulkerson strikes one as 
truly domesticable, conjugablc at heart; but I've 
waited for him to speak." 
"I should think so." 
" Yes. He 's never opened on the subject yet. 
Do you know, I think Fulkerson has his moments 
of delicacy." 
" Moments ! He 's all delicacy in regard to 
women." 
" Well, perhaps so. There is nothing in them to 
rouse his advertising instincts." 
IV. 
The Dryfoos family stayed in town till August. 
Then the father went "West again to look after his 
interests ; and Mrs. Mandel took the two girls to 
one of the great hotels in Saratoga. Fulkerson said 
that he had never seen anything like Saratoga for 
fashion, and Mrs. Mandel remembered that in her 
own young ladyhood this was so for at least some 
weeks of the year. She had been too far withdrawn 
from fashion since her marriage to know whether it 
was still so or not. In this, as in so many other 
matters, the Dryfoos family helplessly relied upon 
Fulkerson, in spite of Dryfoos's angry determination 
that he should not run the family, and in spite of 
Christine's doubt of his omniscience ; if he did not 
know everything, she was aware that he knew more 
than herself. She thought that they had a right to 
have him go with them to Saratoga, or at least go 
up and engage their rooms beforehand ; but Fulker 
son did not offer to do either, and she did not quite 
see her way to commanding his services. The 
young ladies took what !Mela called splendid dresses 
with them ; they sat in the park of tall, slim trees 
which the hotel's quadrangle enclosed, and listened 
  
to the music in the morning, or on the long piazza 
in the afternoon and looked, at the driving in the 
street, or in the vast parlours by night, where all 
the other ladies were, and they felt? that they were 
of the best there. But they knew nobody, and Mrs. 
Mandel was so particular that Mela was prevented 
from continuing the acquaintance even of the few 
young men who danced with her at the Saturday- 
night hops. They drove about, but they went to 
places without knowing why, except that the carriage 
man took them, and they had all the privileges of a 
proud exclusivism without desiring them. Once a 
motherly matron seemed to perceive their isolation, 
and made overtures to them, but then desisted, as 
if repelled by Christine's suspicion, or by Mela's too 
instant and hilarious good-fellowship, which ex- 
pressed itself in hoarse laughter and in a flow of talk 
full of topical and syntactical freedom. From time 
to time she offered to bet Christine that if Mr. 
Fulkerson was only there they would have a good 
time ; she wondered what they were all doing in 
New York, where she wished herself; she rallied 
her sister about Beaton, and asked her why she did 
not write and tell him to come up there. 
Mela knew that Christine had expected Beaton to 
follow them. Some banter had passed between 
them to this effect ; he said he should take them in 
on his way home to Syracuse. Christine would not 
have hesitated to write to him and remind him of 
his promise; but she had learned to distrust her 
literature with Beaton since he had laughed at the 
  
spelling ill a scrap of writing which dropped out of 
her music-book one night. She believed that ho 
would not have laughed if he had known it was 
hers ; but she felt that she could hide better the 
deficiencies which were not committed to paper; 
she could manage with him in talking ; she was too 
ignorant of her ignorance to recognise the mistakes 
she made then. Through her own passion she 
perceived that she had some kind of fascination for 
him ; she was graceful, and she thought it must be 
that ; she did not understand that there was a kind 
of beauty in her small, irregular features that 
piqued and haunted his artistic sense, and a look in 
her black eyes beyond her intelligence and inten- 
tion. Once he sketched her as they sat together, 
and flattered the portrait without getting what ho 
wanted in it ; he said he must try her some time in 
colour ; and he said things which, when she made 
Mela repeat them, could only mean that he admired 
her more than anybody else. He came fitfully, but 
he came often, and she rested content in a girl's in- 
definiteness concerning the affair; if her thought 
went beyond love-making to marriage, she believed 
that she could have him if she wanted him. Her 
father's money counted in this ; she divined that 
Beaton was poor ; but that made no difference ; she 
would have enough for both ; the money would 
have counted as an irresistible attraction if there 
had been no other. 
The affair had gone on in spite of the sidelong 
looks of restless dislike with which Dryfoos regarded 
  
it ; but now when Beaton did not come to Saratoga 
it necessarily dropped, and Christine's content with 
it. She bore the trial as long as she could ; she 
used pride and resentment against it; but at last 
she could not bear it, and with Mela's help she 
wrote a letter, bantering Beaton on his stay in 
New York, and playfully boasting of Saratoga. It 
seemed to them both that it was a very bright 
letter, and would be sure to bring him ; they would 
have had no scruple about sending it but for the 
doubt they had whether they had got some of the 
words right. Mela offered to bet Christine anything 
she dared that they were right, and she said. Send 
it anyway ; it was no difference if they icere wrong. 
But Christine could not endure to think of that 
laugh of Beaton's, and there remained only Mrs. 
Mandel as authority on the spelling. Christine 
dreaded her authority on other points, but Mela 
said she knew she would not interfere, and she 
undertook to get round her. Mrs. Mandel pro- 
nounced the spelling bad, and the taste worse ; 
she forbade them to send the letter; and Mela 
failed to get round her, though she threatened, if 
Mrs. Mandel would not tell her how to spell the 
wrong words, that she would send the letter as it 
was ; then Mrs. Mandel said that if Mr. Beaton 
appeared in Saratoga she would instantly take 
them both home. When Mela reported this re- 
sult, Christine accused her of having mismanaged 
the whole business; she quarrelled with her, and 
they called each other names. Christine declared 
  
that she would not stay in Saratoga, and that if 
Mrs. Mandel did not go back to New York with her 
she should go alone. They returned the first week 
in September ; but by that time Beaton had gone to 
see his people in Syracuse. 
Conrad Dryfoos remained at home with his 
mother after his father went West, He had already 
taken such a vacation as he had been willing to 
allow himself, and had spent it on a charity farm 
near the city, whcre the fathers with whom he 
worked among the poor on the East side in the 
winter had sent some of their wards for the 
summer. It was not possible to keep his recrea- 
tion a secret at the oflSce, and Fulkerson found a 
pleasure in figuring the jolly time Brother Conrad 
must have teaching farm work among those paupers 
and potential reprobates. He invented details of 
his experience among them, and March could not 
always help joining in the laugh at Conrad's 
humourless helplessness under Fulkersou's bur- 
lesque denunciation of a summer outing spent in 
such dissipation. 
They had time for a great deal of joking at the 
ofiice during the season of leisure which penetrates 
in August to the very heart of business, and they 
all got on terms of greater intimacy if not greater 
friendliness than before. Fulkerson had not had so 
long to do with the advertising side of human nature 
without developing a vein of cynicism, of no great 
depth, perhaps, but broad, and underlying his whole 
point of view; he made light of Beaton's solemnity, 
  
as he made light of Conrad's humanity. The art 
editor, with abundant sarcasm, had no more humour 
than the pubHsher, and was an easy prey in the 
manager's hands ; but when he had been led on by 
Fulkerson's flatteries to make some betrayal of ego- 
tism, he brooded over it till he had thought how to 
revenge himself in elaborate insult. For Beaton's 
talent Fulkerson never lost his admiration ; but his 
joke was to encourage him to give himself airs of 
being the sole source of the magazine's prosperity. 
No bait of this sort was too obvious for Beaton to 
swallow ; he could be caught with it as often as Ful- 
kerson chose; though he was ordinarily suspicious 
as to the motives of people in saying things. With 
March he got on no better than at first. He seemed 
to be lying in wait for some encroachment of the 
literary department on the art department, and he 
met it now and then with anticipative reprisal. 
After these rebuffs, the editor delivered him over 
to the manager, who could turn Beaton's contrary- 
mindedness to account by asking the reverse of 
what he really wanted done. This was what 
Fulkerson said ; the fact was that he did get 
on with Beaton; and March contented himself 
with musing upon the contradictions of a charac- 
ter at once so vain and so offensive, so fickle and 
so sullen, so conscious and so simple. 
After the first jarring contact with Dryfoos, the 
editor ceased to feel the disagreeable fact of the old 
man's mastery of the financial situation. None 
of the chances which might have made it painful 
  
occurred ; the control of the whole affair remained 
in Fulkerson's hands ; before he went "West again, 
Dryfoos had ceased to come about the office, as if, 
having once worn off the novelty of the sense of 
owning a literary periodical, he was no longer in- 
terested in it. 
Yet it was a relief, somehow, when he left town, 
which he did not do without coming to take a 
formal leave of the editor at his office. He seemed 
willing to leave March with a better impression 
than he had hitherto troubled himself to make ; he 
even said some civil things about the magazine, as 
if its success pleased him ; and he spoke openly to 
March of his hope that his son would finally become 
interested in it to the exclusion of the hopes and 
purposes which divided them. It seemed to March 
that in the old man's warped and toughened heart 
he perceived a disappointed love for his son greater 
than for his other children ; but this might have 
been fancy. Lindau came in with some copy while 
Dryfoos was there, and March introduced them. 
when Lindau went out, March explained to Dryfoos 
that he had lost his hand in the war ; and he told 
him something of Lindau's career as he had known 
it. Dryfoos appeared greatly pleased that Every 
Other JFccIc was giving Lindau work. He said that 
he had helped to enlist a good many fellows for the 
war, and had paid money to fill up the Mofiitt 
County quota under the later calls for troops. He 
had never been an Abolitionist, but he had joined 
the Anti-Nebraska party in '55, and he had voted 
  
for Fremont and for every Eepublican President 
since then. 
At his own house March saw more of Lindau 
than of any other contributor, but the old man 
seemed to think that he must transact all his busi- 
ness with March at his place of business. The 
transaction had some peculiarities which perhaps 
made this necessary. Lindau always expected to 
receive his money when he brought his copy, as an 
acknowledgment of the immediate right of the 
labourer to his hire ; and he would not take it in a 
cheque because he did not approve of banks, and 
regarded the whole system of b;ii:l:ing as the capi- 
talistic manipulation of the people's money. He 
would receive his pay only from March's hand, 
because he wished to be understood as working for 
him, and honestly earning money honestly earned ; 
and sometimes March inwardly winced a little at 
letting the old man share the increase of capital won 
by such speculation as Dryfoos's, but he shook off 
the feeling. As the summer advanced, and the 
artists and classes that employed Lindau as a model 
left town one after another, he gave largely of his 
increasing leisure to the people in the office of Every 
Other JFeeh It was pleasant for March to see the 
respect with which Conrad Dryfoos always used 
him, for the sake of his wound and his grey beard. 
There was something delicate and fine in it, and 
there was nothing unkindly on Fulkerson's part in 
the hostilities which usually passed between him 
and Lindau. Fulkerson bore himself reverently at 
  
times too, but it was not in him to keep that up, 
especially "when Lindau ajipeared with more beer 
aboard than, as Fulkerson said, ho could manage 
ship-shape. On these occasions Fulkerson always 
tried to start him on the theme of the unduly rich ; 
he made himself the champion of monopolies, and 
enjoyed the invectives which Lindau heaped upon 
him as a slave of capital ; he said that it did him 
good. 
One day, with the usual show of writhing under 
Lindau's scorn, he said, " Well, I understand that 
although you despise me now, Lindau " 
" I ton't desbise you," the old man broke in, his 
nostrils Swelling and his eyes flaming with excite- 
ment, "I bity you." 
" "Well, it seems to come to the same thing in the 
end," said Fulkerson. " What I understand is that 
you pity me now as the slave of capital, but you 
would pity me a great deal more if I was the master 
of it." 
" How you mean ? " 
"If I was rich." 
" That would tebcndt," said Lindau, trying to 
control himself. " If you hat inheritedt your 
money, you might pe innocent ; but if you hat mate 
it, efery man that resbectedt himself would haf to 
ask lioio you mate it, and if you hat mate moch, 
he would know " 
" Hold on ; hold on, now, Lindau ! Ain't that 
rather un-American doctrine? We're all brought 
up, ain't we, to honour the man that made his 
  
money, and look down — or try to look down ; some- 
times it 's difl&cult — on the fellow that his father left 
it to ? " 
