the side.
"Port a little," said Christy to the quartermasters at the wheel. "Keep
her well over to the west shore. Steady."
A moment later the steamer had her course for passing the Vampire, and
Christy left the pilot-house to obtain a better view of the situation
and movements of the enemy. It was not so dark as to prevent him from
seeing all that was going on upon her deck, for the Bellevite had to
pass within pistol-shot of her to avoid getting aground on the edge of
the channel.
Sampson and the rest of the old ship's company gathered near him, where
they could see over the rail. The oiler, as Paul Vapoor had instructed
him to do, had armed all these men with a cutlass and a revolver, and
very likely some or all of them would have been glad to make use of
them.
"They are loading into a boat on the port side of the Vampire, sir, and
it looks as though they intended to do something without delay," said
Sampson; and, as the steamer had come about since she was disabled, this
was the side nearest to the shore.
"I see that they are hurrying some movement with all their might,"
replied the midshipman, watching with the most intense interest the
operations of the enemy. "Sampson, get out half a dozen sixty-pound,
solid shot, and put them on the plankshear, twenty feet apart. Take all
hands with you, and hurry up."
The oiler asked no questions, though he might have been excused for
wondering what the young commander intended to do with shot without
powder. In a few minutes the shot were in place, as Christy had
directed. The midshipman was watching with all his eyes the movement of
the enemy, and, as the Bellevite approached the position of the wreck,
the boat darted out from the other side of her. It began to be exciting
for the middy, loaded with the responsibility of the safety of the
steamer, though he seemed to be as cool as Boxie himself, who had seen
some sea fights in his day.
Christy leaped on the rail of the ship, where he could obtain a full
view of the situation. The boat was approaching with all the speed the
oarsmen could command, and they seemed to be experienced hands. There
could be no doubt of the intentions of the enemy, and the midshipman
drew his heavy naval revolver from his pocket.
"Stand by to repel boarders!" he called to the seamen. "Pass up one of
those shot, Sampson. Have a hand mount the rail, each with a shot, at
the points where you have placed them."
"The ladies wish to know what is going on, Christy," said Paul, coming
from the engine-room.
"I have no time to talk now," replied Christy impatiently, as he saw the
approaching boat within ten feet of the side of the steamer. "Tell them
to stay where they are, and not come on deck!"
The boat was not a large one, and it did not contain more than a dozen
men; but the fine form of Captain Carboneer could be seen, as he stood
up in the stern sheets. Those who were not pulling the oars began to
discharge revolvers at the men now mounted on the rail; but the motion
of the boat and the ship seemed to defeat their aim, and no one was hit
so far as was known.
"When the boat comes alongside, let the man who is in the right place
for it drop his shot into it. Be careful of it, and don't waste the
iron," shouted Christy, when the decisive moment came.
"All ready, sir," responded the men along the rail.
"You are the man, Boxie! You are in the right place for the first shot,"
added the midshipman.
Boxie was next to him, and it would be Christy's turn next if the old
man failed to do good work with his shot. The boat came alongside, and
a bowman fastened his boathook at the side of the ship, and held it in
place. At the same moment Boxie let drive his sixty-pound shot; but he
ought to have waited an instant longer, for the missile dropped
harmlessly into the river.
The bowman had not obtained a good hold, and he lost it, so that the
boat began to drift astern. Captain Carboneer shouted his orders, and
the man got a new hold, and this time it was at the painter of the boat
in which Sampson had brought off Mr. Watts and the ladies. It had been
forgotten in the excitement of the moment, but the rope afforded a good
hold to several men who had grasped it.
At this thrilling moment, a man wearing a frock-coat discharged a
revolver at Christy, who was standing on the rail above him, and then,
seizing the painter in the hands of the men, he climbed briskly to the
accommodation steps, which had been hoisted up, but not taken on board.
Christy was in the most dangerous position on board, for he seemed to
be the target for all who could use their revolvers. But the young
commander was not asleep, though he had given no order for the last
minute or two. The boat was directly under him, and he had put his
pistol in his hip-pocket, in order to take up the solid shot at his
feet. It was heavy, but he lifted it over his head without any
difficulty, and launched it into the boat with all the force he could
give to it.
"On deck, there! Let go that painter!" shouted Christy, as he pitched
his missile from his hands.
He was in a position so favorable for the operation that he could not
well miss his aim, and the shot crashed through the bottom of the boat,
carrying down one of the enemy with it. It did not make a round hole in
the bottom of the boat, it was afterwards ascertained, as it might if
it had been fired from one of the broadside guns, but it tore off the
planking, and made a hole as big as the head of a flour-barrel.
"Lay hold of that man on the accommodation ladder!" shouted Christy,
without waiting to observe the effect of his shot, for the man who had
succeeded in mounting the side was armed with a dangerous weapon, which
he was likely to use as soon as he found the opportunity.
The men forward of the point where the boat had come alongside had been
ordered aft, and a couple of them dragged the venturesome officer, as
his frock-coat indicated that he was, to the deck. Christy was almost
sure this man was Haslett, who had certainly set a bold example to his
companions in the boat. He was quickly secured, and by no gentle hands.
His hands were tied behind him, and he was made fast to the rail, where
he was likely to be harmless during the rest of the trip.
It was no easy matter for a boat to make fast to a steamer going ten
knots an hour at least, and if the painter of the boat had not been
carelessly left where it could be of service to the assailants, the
affair would have ended with Boxie's unsuccessful cast of the shot. But
as soon as the painter was let go, an order which Sampson hastened to
execute, the enemy's hold upon the ship was lost, though they were using
boathooks and other implements to make sure of their grasp. The boat was
left behind by the ship, though not till the hole had been stove in her
bottom.
"Beg pardon, Mr. Passford, for missing my heave with the shot," said
Boxie, on the deck; and the veteran's heart seemed to be almost broken
by his failure.
"You are very excusable, Boxie; one can't expect to hit every time,
and you did very well," replied Christy, who had suddenly passed from
painful doubt and uncertainty to exultation and exaltation at the
victory achieved. "We are all right now."
"But the enemy are not," added Sampson, who had mounted the rail after
he had secured the prisoner. "They are all afloat."
"They will get ashore in some way, or back to the Vampire," replied
Christy, and he descended to the deck, and hastened to the engine-room.
CHAPTER XII
THE PRISONER OF WAR
"What in the world have you been doing, Christy?" asked Mrs. Passford,
as her son entered the engine-room; and her anxiety was visible in her
tones and looks as she spoke.
"We have been repelling boarders, mother," replied the middy, his face
wreathed in smiles.
"What do you mean by that, my son?" inquired his mother.
"Well, mother, you are the daughter of a distinguished naval officer,
and it seems to me you must understand what repelling boarders means,"
answered the young commander, laughing merrily; and no one in the
engine-room could fail to see that he was in the highest state of
exhilaration, now that the safety of the ship had been assured.
"Of course, I know what it means," added the lady.
"And I don't mean boarders at the hotel, who are repelled by strong
butter and tough steaks," chuckled Christy.
"I wish you would explain yourself, my son."
"I will, mother mine. The fellows we fired at when we were at anchor
have just attempted to board the Bellevite, and thus obtain possession
of her, as they failed to do in Mobile Bay, as well as at our anchorage
in the Hudson." And he proceeded to explain in detail all that had
occurred on board and alongside.
"My dear boy, I had no idea that you had been engaged in a battle!"
exclaimed the fond mother.
"It wasn't much of a battle, though a good many pistol-shots were fired
at us; but a sixty-pound shot did the business on our side, and we left
the enemy, or a portion of them, paddling in the river, and trying to
keep their heads above water. But I must not stay here, for I have to
look out for the steering of the ship," continued Christy, as he moved
towards the door.
"You whipped them out, did you, midshipman?" added the engineer.
"We did; and there isn't any doubt of it. I shouldn't wonder if some of
them had lost the number of their mess. But I think it is settled for
the present that Captain Carboneer don't go to sea in the Bellevite. By
the way, I had forgotten that we took a prisoner, and perhaps he will be
willing to tell us something more about his enterprise."
"Who is the prisoner?" asked Mrs. Passford.
"He is an officer, I judge, for he wore a frock-coat."
"The party could not have had a great many officers. It was not the
captain, was it?"
"No; I am sure it is not he. I think it must be the naval officer whom
Captain Carboneer called Haslett; but I have not seen him except as he
was shinning up the painter of the boat. You can go on deck if you like,
mother and Florry, or you may come with me into the pilot-house," added
Christy.
The engineer had to remain on duty, and Miss Florry mildly objected to
leaving her present comfortable position on the sofa of the engine-room;
but as her mother wished to go with her brother, she felt obliged to go
with her.
Christy gave his mother and sister places on the sofa abaft of the
wheel, and then looked into the position of the steamer. But the two
quartermasters had so often steered the steamer up and down the river
that they had done very well, and there was no especial need of the
midshipman as a pilot. The Bellevite was not going at anything like her
best speed, or at her usual rate at sea. As she was going, it was about
a four-hours' run to New York, and Christy was not in a hurry to get to
his destination.
"Beeks, we have a prisoner, and I should like to take his measure," said
Christy to the senior quartermaster. "You may go aft and ask Sampson to
bring him into the pilot-house."
"Bring him into the pilot-house," repeated the man, as he left the
apartment.
"What are you going to do with your prisoner, Christy?" asked Mrs.
Passford.
"I shall hand him over to the proper officers, and they can do what they
please with him," replied the middy. "I don't want him: do you, mother?"
"What should I want of him?"
"Perhaps you want him, Florry?" asked Christy of his sister.
"I am sure I don't," she replied, pouting.
"Perhaps you will want him when you have seen him," added the middy
roguishly.
At this moment Sampson appeared at the door of the pilot-house,
conducting his prisoner, whose hands were still tied behind him. Christy
did not see him at first, for he was looking at his sister; but her
pretty face suddenly turned crimson, and her brother heard the sound of
footsteps in the apartment.
As soon as he saw the prisoner, he started back in astonishment, though
perhaps there was no particular reason to be surprised. It was not Mr.
Haslett, as he had supposed, and it certainly was not Captain Carboneer.
But it was Major Lindley Pierson, late commandant of Fort Gaines.
Christy had not expected to meet him, and that was the only reason why
he was astonished.
"Major Pierson!" exclaimed the midshipman, as soon as he had in some
degree recovered from his astonishment. "I believe we have met before
somewhere."
"Without a doubt we have, Captain Passford," replied the major, who no
longer belonged to the Mulgate family.
"Not a captain, if you please; but I am none the less glad to see you on
that account. This is really a very unexpected pleasure."
"And quite as unexpected to me, I assure you, especially to meet the
ladies," added the prisoner as he bowed low to Mrs. Passford and her
daughter. "I had hoped I might meet Mrs. and Miss Passford before I
returned to the South."
"And you had even hoped to take one of them back with you as a passenger
in the Bellevite," Christy interpolated, with great good nature.
Major Pierson looked at him with a start, and it was his turn to be
astonished. He was a prisoner, but he had the privilege of wondering how
Christy knew so much about his affairs.
"Captain Carboneer is a very obstinate man, and did not take kindly to
the carrying of lady passengers in a man-of-war; but I think he was
right, though my view may be of no consequence to you," added the young
officer. "I have the highest opinion of Captain Carboneer, for he is a
solid, substantial man. By the way. Major Pierson, who is he?"
"He is Captain Carboneer," replied the major discreetly.
"Perhaps he is Captain Carboneer; I don't know: things are not always
what they seem, and I find that persons are not, either. Hasn't that
been your experience, Mr. Mulgate--I beg your pardon, Major Pierson?"
The prisoner frowned, and gave a fierce glance at the midshipman, as
though he felt like annihilating him with a look. But he evidently
considered just then that he was in the presence of the ladies, and
perhaps that the flash of his eagle eye would not kill his tormentor,
as the young man seemed to have become.
"I am your prisoner, or somebody's prisoner, Captain Passford, and the
tables are turned against me. Of course, you don't expect me to give
information that will be of use to the enemies of my country."
"Of course not."
"When you were my prisoner, I think I treated you like a gentleman,"
added Major Pierson.
"I think you did, sir; and that reminds me that your hands are tied
behind you. You were so kind as to release me from my bonds when I was
in your power"--
"And it was the stupidest thing I ever did in my life," interposed the
prisoner, with some bitterness.
"I am not familiar with the events of your life, and I cannot gainsay
your remark."
"You did not scruple to turn our own guns against us."
"As you would have done if you had succeeded in capturing the
Bellevite," added Christy, smartly. "This time makes twice that you did
not capture her."
"The third time may not fail."
"It may not; but I must be as magnanimous as you were. Sampson, release
the gentleman."
"Thank you, Captain Passford; that is no more than I did for you when
you were in the same situation."
"But I suppose you will not undertake to capture this ship after I
have done as well by you as you did by me. I intend to treat you like a
gentleman, though the fortunes of war are against you. Now, perhaps you
will not object to answering a question or two, in which there can be no
treason."
"I must be my own judge of the questions," replied the major, rather
haughtily.
"Certainly, sir; and I shall not insist upon your answering any
question. Was any one on board of the Vampire killed in this affair?"
"No one was killed."
"Were any wounded?"
"I am sorry to say that three were injured by the falling of the pieces
of the walking-beam."
"Seriously?"
"Two slightly, and one severely."
"Thank you, major."
"Of course, I am not informed of the fate of those in the boat when it
was sunk," added the prisoner.
"I think no one was badly hurt in that part of the affair," said
Christy.
"Perhaps it will be of interest to you to know that Private Passford,
formerly of my command, was the one who was severely wounded on board of
the Vampire."
"Corny!" exclaimed Mrs. Passford.
"I am sorry to say that he was struck on the shoulder by a fragment of
the machinery," replied the major, very politely, as he bowed low to the
lady.
"Poor Corny!" ejaculated Miss Florry. "Is he very badly wounded, Major
Pierson?"
"I do not know how seriously, but I am afraid he cannot use that
shoulder for a long time." replied the prisoner, fixing a look of
admiration upon her, as if he were glad to have the privilege of looking
at her without causing any remark.
"I am so sorry for him. Corny was always real good to me when I have
been at Glenfield," added the fair girl, and she actually shed some
sympathetic tears as she thought of his wounded shoulder. "Can we not
do something for him, mother?"
"I shall be very glad to have him removed to the house, and I will take
care of him till he gets well. I don't know whether this can be done or
not. Perhaps Major Pierson can inform me."
"If your kind hearts prompt you to do this for one who is in arms
against the government, I have no doubt it can be managed. He can
give his parole, and that will make it all right."
"He is my nephew, and I would do as much for him as I would for my own
son," replied Mrs. Passford heartily.
"And I as much as I would for my brother," added Miss Florry.
Everything was pleasant so far, though all the Passfords were worried
about poor Corny, who had been with the ladies only the evening before.
CHAPTER XIII
AFTER THE BATTLE
It was six o'clock in the morning when the Bellevite let go her anchor
off Twentieth Street, as the young commander decided to do after some
consultation with Paul Vapoor, who was his senior in years if not in
wisdom. He did not suppose the steamer would be allowed to anchor at the
Navy Yard without orders to that effect. His father had not returned
from the city. Though he held no office, Captain Passford was as busy
with public affairs as though he had been the collector of the port.
No one but the ladies had slept any during the trip; but they had been
on deck some time when the steamer anchored. Christy had been very much
in doubt as to what he should do with the Bellevite when he reached his
destination, and he was glad to see his mother when she came out of the
cabin. Though he was still hardly more than a boy, he believed in his
mother, and it had not yet occurred to him that he knew more than she
did. He stated his difficulty to her, for Paul had been as much in doubt
as the midshipman.
"I think it is a very easy question to answer, Christy," replied Mrs.
Passford, with a smile. "Where have you anchored?"
"Off Union Square, or very near it, I should think," replied Christy.
"You know that your father stays at the St. James Hotel when he is in
the city," she added. "The only thing you can do is to find him, and let
him decide what is to be done with the Bellevite."
"I did not think of that," added the midshipman. "I will get out a boat
at once, and go on shore."
"Florry and I will go with you," continued Mrs. Passford. "We have
nothing to do here, and I should like to return to Bonnydale as soon as
possible. But what will you do with your prisoner, Christy?"
"I shall do nothing with him. Sampson is in charge of him, and I am sure
he will not take his eye off the major while he remains on board."
The port-quarter boat was lowered into the water, and a couple of the
old sailors took their places in her. The ladies were assisted to their
seats, and Christy, after he had informed the engineer that he was in
command during his absence, leaped into the boat, and it was pulled to
the nearest pier. A carriage was called, and the party were driven to
the hotel. It was half-past six, and Christy was informed that his
father had not yet come down. Word was sent up to him, and the son went
to his room, where he found him only half dressed.
"I did not expect to see you at this time in the morning, my son," said
the owner of the Bellevite. "How did you come down so early?"
"I came in the Bellevite; and she is at anchor in the stream off
Twentieth Street, father," replied Christy.
"In the Bellevite!" exclaimed Captain Passford, with the nearest thing
to a frown that ever appeared on his brow in the presence of any member
of his family. "I don't quite understand how"--
"An attempt was made to capture her last night, father, and I thought it
best to make sure of her," interposed the midshipman.
"To capture her!" ejaculated Captain Passford, suspending his toilet,
and gazing into the face of his son. "I think you must have dreamed
that, Christy."
"Perhaps I did, father; but we captured one prisoner of rank in my
dream, and he is on board now, closely guarded by Sampson," replied
Christy, laughing in his excitement. "Mother and Florry were on board,
and they are down in the parlor waiting to see you."
"Do you mean that an attempt was really made to capture the Bellevite
last night?" asked the captain, as if unable to credit the astounding
intelligence.
"Of course I can prove all I say by many witnesses. Mr. Watts is on
board, and he has been dreaming too if I have. Paul Vapoor is another
dreamer, to say nothing of eight or ten more on board," added Christy.
Captain Passford completed dressing himself about as quick as he had
probably ever done since he became a millionnaire, and attended Christy
down to the parlor, where he gave his wife and daughter an affectionate
reception.
"But our boy tells me that some one has been trying to obtain possession
of the Bellevite, Julia; and it seems to me hardly possible that such an
attempt should be made so far up the river," said Captain Passford, as
soon as he was able to allude to the subject.
"But it is quite true, Horatio; and our boy has behaved like a hero, if
he is our son," replied the lady, bestowing a glance of pride upon the
midshipman.
"He says he has a prisoner on board," added the captain.
"And who do you think that prisoner is, Horatio?" asked Mrs. Passford.
"Is it Jeff Davis?" he inquired, with a smile.
"Not exactly; but it is Major Lindley Pierson."
"Indeed? Then I begin to see through the matter," replied Captain
Passford. "He failed to obtain the steamer in Mobile Bay, and he came
up here after her. But I should like to hear the particulars of this
affair."
"And poor Corny Passford was wounded in the shoulder," said Florry, who
had hardly spoken before.
"You don't mean that you had a fight, Christy?" demanded the captain,
looking quite serious.
"Not much of a fight, father; we fired the long gun once, and disabled
an old steamer, and we sunk a boat that was trying to lay us aboard."
"Then it was a more serious affair than I had supposed."
"But, father, I think we had better be going on board; and I can tell
you the story on the way just as well as here," suggested Christy.
"But you must have your breakfast before you go, for there is nothing to
eat on board of the steamer," replied Captain Passford, as he led the
way down into the restaurant.
While they were waiting for the meal to be served, the captain went to
the house of a military officer, with whom he was intimately acquainted,
and requested him to take the prisoner off his hands. After the meagre
details of the affair he gave, the officer offered to put a company on
board of the steamer for her protection; but the captain thought this
was unnecessary.
After the breakfast, the party took a carriage for the pier. On the way
the captain ordered a supply of cooked provisions to be sent down to the
boat for the use of the men on board of the Bellevite. With this supply
the party went on board. On the way Christy had told his story, and by
the time they went on board Captain Passford had learned all about the
affair.
He had received the order to deliver the steamer at the Navy Yard on the
following Monday, and he decided to return to Bonnydale in her. Enough
of the former members of the ship's company could be obtained in a few
hours to hold the vessel against any enemy that was likely to appear
in the river. As the owner was now on board, the engineer put on full
steam, and she reached her anchorage, as indicated by the buoy of the
cable which had been slipped. It was hauled in, and the Bellevite was
replaced in her former position.
The tremendous report of the great gun in the small hours of the morning
had startled all the people in the vicinity, though it was not till they
left their beds that the news was conveyed to them. A party in the town
just below the scene of the disaster to the Vampire had been collected,
and they had taken a steamer to explore the river in search of the bold
actors in the affair, as soon as the facts were known in the vicinity.
The steamer had been running up and down the river since six in the
morning.
When the Bellevite passed up the river, she was promptly recognized
by the investigating party on board of the Alert, which followed the
steamer up to her anchorage. She came alongside some time after the crew
had fished up the cable; but Captain Passford warned her to keep off as
soon as he discovered her intention to come alongside. She was a small
steamer, and had at least twenty men on her deck, so that the captain
thought it necessary to learn her object before she came any nearer.
A boat with two men was sent from the Alert, and one of them was
permitted to come on board. This one proved to be Captain Mainhill, with
whom the owner of the Bellevite was well acquainted. He was a wealthy
and patriotic man, though rather too old to be engaged in active service
for his country.
"I thought you might be representatives of the Southern Confederacy, and
I was rather shy of you," said Captain Passford, as he took the hand of
his neighbor. "I should not have been so cautious if I had met you last
evening."
"We have been looking for the gentlemen who were engaged in this attempt
to capture the Bellevite," added Captain Mainhill.
"I hope you have found them, or some of them," replied the owner.
"Only a single one of them; and he is badly wounded. We have scoured
the river for miles without finding any trace of the enemy. I think they
landed on the east shore, and went over to the railroad, where they
probably took the first train that came along," replied Captain
Mainhill.
"Of course, they saw the Bellevite going down the river, and perhaps
they have gone down to New York to finish the job they begun here,"
suggested Captain Passford. "Do you know if the enemy lost any of their
number when the boat was smashed?"
But Captain Mainhill knew nothing about the affair on the river beyond
the fact that an attempt had been made to capture the Bellevite, and he
had not ascertained that more than one was injured.
"We found the Vampire aground half a mile below where the shot disabled
her," continued the leader of the expedition. "Her machinery was badly
smashed. She never was good for much, and she is good for nothing now."
"Did the enemy carry off the one who was wounded?" asked Captain
Passford, prompted by his wife.
"No; he seems to have been too badly damaged for that; they left him
at the house of a workingman near the river, and I suppose he is there
now," replied Captain Mainhill. "I don't know that there is anything
more that we can do, and we may as well go home to breakfast."
"Do you know where the wounded person is to be found?" asked Captain
Passford.
"I do; and I have seen him. He is suffering a good deal of pain; but he
is as plucky as a mad snake, and he would not say a word in answer to my
questions."
"I shall be greatly obliged to you, Captain Mainhill, if you will land
me as near as you can to the house where this wounded man is, and show
me where it is. Mrs. Passford will go with me," said the owner.
"Very glad indeed to do it," replied the leader of the searching party.
Captain Passford instructed some of the men on board to summon all the
former ship's company of the Bellevite on board at once that could be
found, and then went on board of the Alert with his wife. They were
landed in a boat just below the bend, and Captain Mainhill conducted
them to the house where Corny was said to be.
They found him there, and the poor fellow was glad enough to see them.
No doctor had been called, and nothing had been done to alleviate his
pain; but he was immediately removed to the mansion at Bonnydale, with
his own consent, and Dr. Linscott was sent for.
CHAPTER XIV
THE BEGINNING OF A CHASE
Major Pierson still remained on board of the Bellevite, for no officer
had been sent on board for him, as expected; and he was under the
efficient care of Sampson. He was subjected to no restraint, and he took
his breakfast with the engineer. But he was not a welcome visitor on
board, and Captain Passford would have been very glad to get rid of him.
The owner sought him the next time he came on board, when he was not so
busy as he had been before. But he said nothing to him about his mission
at the North, and treated him as a guest rather than a prisoner. For
reasons of his own, though not difficult to conjecture, he was very
anxious to make a good appearance before the father of Miss Florry,
and he was a gentleman in his manners.
"Major Pierson, I am sorry to do anything that may be unpleasant to
you, but I have not the means of holding you as a prisoner," said the
captain, after they had been talking of indifferent subjects for a time.
"I realize that I am a prisoner of war, subject to such restraint as my
captors impose upon me," replied the major.
"If you will allow yourself to be paroled, it will settle your status
for the present," added Captain Passford.
"As a guest at your house?" asked the major, his face suddenly
brightening up. "I shall be very happy to give my parole."
"Not at my house, if you please, Major Pierson; it would not be
convenient at the present time," replied the owner, astonished at the
suggestion,
"Then you will excuse me if I decline to accept a parole," replied the
prisoner, biting his lip as though he was not pleased with the reply.
"As a guest in your house, I should not wish you to have any solicitude
in regard to me."
"Very well, major; I cannot object to your decision," added the captain,
as he touched his hat and left the prisoner to the attentions of
Sampson.
He was kept on board of the Bellevite, now re-enforced by the return of
about twenty of her former crew, so that regular watches were kept, and
there was no chance for the prisoner to escape, and none for Captain
Carboneer to capture the steamer. Dr. Linscott soon relieved Corny of
his pain, but it was many weeks before he was fit to leave the house,
and then he was paroled. Captain Passford could never ascertain what had
become of the crew intended for the Bellevite, though it was supposed,
as they separated, that they found their way to some port where they
could ship for their chosen service.
On the Monday following the attempt to capture her, the Bellevite
was taken to the Navy Yard, and she was prepared for service. It was
understood that her former officers and crew would be appointed to her,
for they were accustomed to the vessel, and could do better with her
than any other. Paul Vapoor and Christy Passford had already received
their commissions and orders. Captain Breaker had been restored to his
former rank, and was to be the commander of the Bellevite.
It was two months before the ship was ready to go into commission.
Important alterations had been made below, and the armament had been
taken from her deck, substituting for it a Parrot midship piece, of
eight-inch bore, and carrying a one hundred and fifty pound shot, two
sixty-pounders, and two thirty-pounders. This was a heavy armament, but
the ship was strong enough to bear it.
Joel Dashington and Ethan Blowitt were appointed as masters, and were
to be the first and second lieutenants, while Christy Passford was the
third. Leon Bolter was made a first assistant engineer, and Fred Faggs
the second. Sampson obtained his place as a first-class fireman, with
the expectation of soon becoming an assistant engineer, for he was well
qualified for the position.
Captain Passford, though he had offered his services in any capacity in
which he might be needed, had been induced to withdraw his application
for the reason that he could be of more service to the cause at home
than he could in the field or at sea. He was a man of influence, and he
was needed in civil life. He was even able to do more as an adviser and
counsellor than in any public office, though he filled several of the
latter in the earlier part of the war. He furnished no inconsiderable
part of the money needed at particular times, and he was only less
valuable on account of his money than he was for his patriotism and
good judgment.
"Now, Christy, remember that you are an officer of the United States,
and make yourself worthy of the place you occupy," said his father to
Christy, on the evening of his last day at home. "Study your duty, and
then perform it faithfully. Perhaps I can tell you something of more
value than good advice is generally considered to be."
"I shall try to follow your good advice, father; and I mean to do my
duty; and it will not be for the want of trying if I fail," replied
Christy.
"You have sailed with Captain Breaker a great deal when you were in
a different relation to him. Now I must warn you that he has his duty
to do, and I hope you will not expect to be favored, or ask him for
privileges not granted to other officers," continued the late owner
of the Bellevite.
"I am sure I expect him to be impartial with his officers."
"I meant to have seen Breaker this afternoon before I came home; but I
had not time to go to the ship. For some of my own affairs I have had
three agents in England. I wrote them some time ago to obtain all the
information they could in regard to vessels, especially steamers, that
cleared for any ports of the British Possessions near the United
States," continued Captain Passford, taking a letter from his pocket.
"Two weeks ago an iron steamer sailed from a port in Ireland for the
Bermudas. This letter will tell you all about it, and you will hand it
to Captain Breaker, and give him my explanation."
The midshipman put the letter into his pocket without reading it. In his
chamber he looked it over, and found that it meant business, and he was
delighted with the idea of having something to do before he reached the
port for which the ship was bound, for the inactivity of the blockade
was not wholly to his mind. He slept as soundly as usual, for already he
had come to regard war as the business in which he was engaged, and he
had but little sickly sentiment over it.
It was a tearful parting with his mother and sister before he took the
train with his father, and it was a sad one with his father when he went
off to the Bellevite in the boat. But neither of them shed any tears,
for both felt that they were called upon to discharge their duty to
their country.
Captain Breaker had always trained his officers and seamen to perform
their duty in conformity with the discipline of the navy so far as it
was practicable to do so, and consequently his ship's company were very
nearly at home from the beginning of the voyage. He had received his
sealed orders, and at noon the Bellevite went down the bay on her
mission to the South, though no one on board knew where the ship was
bound. The crew had been re-enforced by as many men as she had usually
carried, and the first day was a very busy one in putting everything in
order. Christy had handed the letter his father had given him to the
captain, and after dinner he spoke of it.
"Did you read this letter, Mr. Passford?" asked the captain.
"I did, sir; my father told me to read it," replied Christy.
"It appears that a very fast steamer loaded with a valuable cargo sailed
from Belfast eleven days ago, clearing for the Bermudas. We shall all be
very happy to pay our respects to her; but I can say nothing till I have
opened my orders to-morrow," said Captain Breaker.
