every suggestion of happiness or unhappiness to themselves, every- 
day speeches do not raise in their minds quick trains of association, 
linked and running on like an ascending scale in music, to culminate 
in a little moment of emotion, in a little flutter of the heart, half 
pleasant, half painful. Their strong pulses beat quietly, in an 
unvarying rhythm, the full and even flow of blood maintains a soft 
colour in their fresh faces ; when they are tired they sleep, when 
they are awake they are rarely tired ; what they could do yester- 
day, they can do as well to-day, and they feel that they will be 
able to do the same to-morrow. They never feel those sharp 
thrusts close to the heart that tell us how quickly one thrust a 
little sharper than the others would end all. They do not lie 
awake in the hours of the night counting the blows of the cruel 
little hammer that beats its prison to pieces at last and is broken 
 
in the ruin of the breast that confined it. And the world 
counts it all to them for dulness and lack of delicate feeling, 
with little discernment and less justice, until the day when 
it sees them roused by such passions as alone can rouse them, 
or suffering such deadly pain as only the strongest can live to 
suffer. 
The baroness came back in a few minutes and stood beside 
Hilda, laying her hand upon her daughter's forehead, and bending 
down. 
' What did he say to you, child ? ' she asked. 
' He said that he would not marry me because it would be a 
shame that I should be called Greifenstein after what has hap- 
pened.' 
' That was what he told me,' replied her mother, leaving her 
and taking up a piece of needlework that lay on the table. She 
could not be idle. 'That was what he told me,' she repeated 
thoughtfully. 'And I answered that he was mistaken.' 
' He said you had done your best to persuade him,' said Hilda, 
and then relapsed into silence. 
' Do you know what I did ? ' she asked presently. 
' I suppose you told him that you did not care for such things 
as names.' 
' Yes I said that. But I took his hands, and I told him that 
I would not let him go. I think I was very angry at something, 
but not at him.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron laid her work upon her knees and 
looked at the young girl attentively for some seconds. 
'Was I wrong?' Hilda asked, turning round as she felt her 
mother's gaze upon her. 
' No. I do not see that it was wrong, but I think I should 
have acted differently. I think I would have tried to make 
him see well, I never was like you.' 
'I am sorry I would do anything to be like you, mother 
dear.' 
' You need not be sorry, child. You are like some one I loved 
better than myself you remind me of your father. And what 
did Greifsay to thatr 
' He refused to the very last then he had that pain in his 
head and I thought he was going to die. You know the rest. 
mother, what will become of him, and when shall we see him 
' I do not know when we shall see him, dear, but I do not 
think he will be very ill. When a man has the strength to do 
 
what he has just done, and go away on foot, as he went, he is not 
in a dangerous state.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron resumed her needlework and did not 
speak again for a long time. She had found time to think, and 
Greif 's conduct was strange in her eyes. 
CHAPTER XX 
KARL overtook Greif before the latter had walked half a mile. 
The rapid decision, the brisk walk and the biting air had con- 
tributed to alleviate the intolerable pain to which he had 
momentarily succumbed, and as he lay back among the furs he 
began to fancy that he should not be ill after all, and to regret 
the scarcely decent haste he had employed in making his escape. 
But when he tried to think over what had happened he found that 
his brain was confused and his memories indistinct. Of one thing 
only he was quite sure, that he had accomplished his intention and 
had renounced Hilda for ever. With the emotion caused by the 
thought the pain seized him again and he lay almost unconscious 
in his seat while Karl guided the horses carefully along the steep 
road. Before many miles were passed, Greif was aware of nothing 
but the indistinct shapes of trees and rocks that slipped in and out 
through the field of his aching vision. Everything else was a 
blank, and the least attempt at thought became agonising. At 
one time he could not remember whether he was going towards 
his home or away from it ; at another, he was convinced that some 
one was in the carriage with him, either his father or Frau von 
Sigmundskron, and he tried vaguely to reconcile the fact of their 
presence with his inability to see their shapes. 
At last he knew that he was being lifted from the carriage, and 
he made an effort to straighten himself and to walk upright. But 
strong arms were round him and bore him through bright halls 
where the low sun shot in level rays through stained windows, and 
along broad dim corridors that seemed as though they would 
never end, until at last he was laid upon a bed in a warm room. 
There, all at once, as in a dream, he recognised Rex, who was 
standing beside him and holding his hand. 
' I must be ill, after all,' he said faintly. 
 
' Very,' answered Rex. ' Do you know me ? Can you tell me 
what has happened to you ? ' 
Greif stared at him for a few seconds and then answered with an 
effort. 
' I have done it,' he said, and closed his eyes. 
After that, he was conscious of nothing more, neither of daylight 
nor of darkness, neither of solitude nor of the presence of Rex and 
of those who helped him in his incessant care. A day passed, and 
another, one physician came, then two, and then a great authority 
was summoned and installed himself in the castle, and visited the 
sick man six times during the day, and feasted royally in the 
meanwhile, after the manner of great authorities, who have an 
amazing discernment in regard to the good things of this life, as 
well as an astonishing capacity for enjoying them. 
All manner of things were done to Greif of which he never 
knew anything. He had ice upon his head and burning leaves 
of mustard on his feet, he was fed with strange mixtures of wine 
and soup, of raw meat and preserves, all of which he swallowed 
unconsciously without getting any better. Still he tossed and 
raved, and moaned and laughed, and cried like a child and howled 
like a madman. 
The great authority shook his head and pensively drank the 
old burgundy that was set before him, partaking of a delicate slice 
of game between one sip and another, and thoughtfully cropping 
the heads of the forced asparagus when he was tired of the venison. 
For a long time he and Rex said little to each other at their meals, 
and the physician was inclined to suppose that his companion was 
a man of merely ordinary intelligence. One day, however, as 
Greif grew no better, Rex determined to startle the good man, by 
ascertaining what he knew. In order to lead the conversation he 
threw out a careless remark about an unsettled question which he 
knew to be agitating the scientific world, and concerning which it 
was certain that the great doctor would have a firm opinion of his 
own. To the astonishment of the latter, Rex disputed the point, 
at first as though he cared little, but gradually and with matchless 
skill disclosing to his adversary a completeness of information and 
a keenness of judgment which fairly took away his breath. 
' You almost convince me,' said the physician, who had quite 
forgotten to help himself a second time to green peas, though they 
were the first he had seen that year. ' Upon my word, Herr Rex, 
you almost convince me. And yet you are a very young man.' 
' How old do you think I am ? ' inquired Rex with a faint smile. 
The doctor examined his face attentively and then looked long 
 
at his hands. He became so much interested that he rose from 
his seat and came and scrutinised Rex's features as though he were 
studying the points of an animal. 
' I am amazed,' he said, as he sat down again and adjusted his 
napkin upon his knees. 'I do not see anything to prove that 
you are more than two or three and thirty.' 
' I was forty years old on my last birthday and I was still a 
student at Schwarzburg,' replied Rex quietly. 
' You have a very fine action of the heart,' observed the doctor, 
c I would not have thought it, but your age heals the wound in my 
vanity.' 
Now it is a very singular fact that from that hour the great 
physician should have paid more attention to Greif and less to the 
venison and asparagus, but it is certainly true that his manner 
changed, as well as his conversation, and that he bestowed more 
care upon his patient than he had ever given to any sick man since 
he had become celebrated. Ever afterwards, he told his learned 
acquaintances that the only man he had ever met who gave 
promise of greatness was a quiet person who lived in the Black 
Forest. 
Rex had satisfied himself, however, that the doctor knew a 
great deal, though he had not a high opinion of medical science in 
general, and almost said so. Greif, nevertheless, continued to be 
very ill indeed, and his state seemed to go from bad to worse. 
Rex was anxious, and watched him and nursed him with unfailing 
care. He knew well enough what Grief had meant by the few 
words he had spoken after he was brought home, and he knew 
all that his cousin's action involved. His reflexions were not 
pleasant. 
It seemed to him as though fate were about to solve the 
difficulty by cutting all the knots at once. If this terrible fever 
made an end of Greif, there would be an end also of the house of 
Greifenstein by the extinction of the last male descendant. Greif, 
the penniless and nameless orphan, would lie beside his father as 
Greif von Greifenstein, and the fortune would go in the ordinary 
course of the law to the Sigmundskrons, to whom it really belonged. 
But if Greif recovered and persisted in refusing to marry Hilda, 
the greatest injustice would be done to the widow and her daughter. 
Rex's views of right would not be satisfied if the Sigmundskrons 
received only a part of the fortune which was legitimately theirs, 
and Rex thought with horror of the moment when he might be 
obliged to go to Greif and disclose the truth. He was a man of 
very strong principles, which were detached from any sort of moral 
 
belief, but it seemed as though his intelligence were conscious of 
its failing, in spite of all his reasoning, and were always trying to 
supply the lacuna by binding itself to its own rules, to which its 
faith had been transferred. He knew perfectly well that if Greif 
could not be persuaded that he was acting foolishly it would be 
necessary to reveal the secret. Kather than that Greif himself 
should be made to suffer what such a revelation implied, it would 
be almost better that he should die in his unconscious delirium. 
Human life, in Rex's opinion, was not worth much, unless it 
afforded a fair share of happiness, and he knew well enough that 
Greif could never recover from such a blow. The loss of fortune 
would be nothing in comparison with the loss of name, and with 
the dishonour to his dead mother's memory. Rex knew what that 
meant, though even he had not been made to bear all that was in 
store for Greif in such a case. 
In the dim room he looked at his brother's face. He had 
grown so much accustomed to the droning sound of his ceaseless 
ravings, as hardly to notice it when he was in the room, though it 
pursued him whenever he was alone. He watched Greif s pale 
features, and wondered what the result would be. If Greif died, 
the lonely man had nothing left to live for. Greif had come into 
his life, just when he was beginning to feel with advancing years 
that neither fortune nor science can fill the place of the 
human affections. As for the love of woman, Rex had never 
understood what it meant. He had entangled himself in more 
than one affair of little importance, partly from curiosity, partly 
out of vanity, but in his experience he had never found a companion 
in any woman, nor had he ever known one whom he would not 
have left at a moment's notice for the sake of any one out of half 
a dozen occupations and amusements which pleased him better 
than lovemaking. To this singular absence of emotions he perhaps 
owed his youthful looks, at an age when many men are growing 
grey and most show signs of stress of weather. He had never 
cared for his father's society, first, because he had lacked all the 
early associations of childhood on which alone such affection is 
often based, and, secondly, because he had differed from him in all 
his ideas and tastes as soon as he had been able to think for him- 
self. Their relations had always been amicable, for Rex was not 
a man, even when young, to quarrel easily over small matters, and 
old Rieseneck had sent him at an early age to Germany, supplying 
him very bountifully with money, in the belief that he ought to 
atone in every way for the injury done to his son by his own dis- 
grace. Beyond a regular correspondence, which had never savoured 
 
much of ardent affection, there had been nothing to unite the two 
during many years past. Then Rex had taken the trouble to find 
out his cousin, had liked him more and more, and had at last 
learned that he was not his cousin but his brother. Now, as he 
saw him lying there between life and death, he admitted to himself 
that he loved him, and that he took the trouble to remain alive 
merely for his sake. But for Greif, that fatal letter would have 
been enough to make him give it up. 
In truth, the life which Rex had condescended to leave in him- 
self did not promise well. The physician did his best, which was 
as good as any man's when he chose that it should be, but Greif 
was daily losing strength, and the inflammation of the brain showed 
no signs of disappearing. It is probable that if he had been thrown 
with any other companion than Rex, the great doctor would have 
shaken 'his head and would have announced that there was very 
little hope. But Rex acted upon him as a stimulant, and his im- 
penetrable, stony eyes made the physician feel as though his whole 
reputation were at stake. The latter even went to the length of 
sitting up all night when the patient was at his worst, a thing he 
had not done for many a long year, and probably never did again 
during his comfortable existence. 
Greif was going to die. The doctor had very little doubt of it. 
In all his experience he had never known such an obstinate case of 
meningitis in a man so young and so strong. The grey morning 
dawned and found him and Rex standing upon each side of the 
bed that looked unnaturally white in the gloom. Still, Greif was 
alive, though his moaning had grown very faint, and his strength 
was almost gone. Rex held his breath every now and then, as 
the sound ceased, fearing lest every moment should be the last. 
The doctor tried to make out the time without carrying his watch 
to the night-light, failed and returned it to his pocket with a half- 
suppressed sigh. He had done all that he could, and yet Rex's 
stony eyes were fixed on him in the early twilight, and his 
reputation was at stake. He knew that the thread might 
break at any moment, but he believed that if Greif lived until 
sunrise he would live until noon, and die about three o'clock in the 
day. 
' Herr Rex,' he said quietly, ' I think you had better send for 
Frau von Sigmundskron, if she would wish to see him. You told 
me he had no other relation near.' 
Rex's head fell forward upon his breast as though he had 
received a blow, though he had known all through the night that 
this morning might be the last, and the doctor had told him 
 
nothing unexpected. A moment later he left the room quietly. 
He was met by a servant before he had gone far. 
'Tell Karl to put in the Trachener stallions and drive to 
Sigmundskron as fast as they can go. He must bring back the 
baroness before noon. Your master is dying.' 
He would have turned away, but the man detained him with a 
question he did not hear at first. 
' What did you say ? ' he asked. 
' A messenger has just come from Sigmundskron to inquire,' 
the servant said. 
' I will see him. Give the order to Karl quickly,' said Rex. 
In the hall a queer-looking man was brought to him. He was 
one of those thin, wiry, dark and straight-haired men of the Forest 
who seem to belong to a race not German, whatever it may be. He 
wore patched leather breeches, from the side pocket of which protruded 
the horn handle of his long knife. His legs were bare, his shirt 
open at the neck, his waistcoat with silver buttons was flung care- 
lessly over one shoulder, and a small fur cap was thrust back from 
his forehead, upon which a few drops of perspiration were visible. 
His small and piercing eyes met Rex's boldly. 
' The baroness sent me to know how the young gentleman was,' 
he said, speaking in the Swabian dialect. 
' Herr von Greifenstein is dying,' answered Rex gravely. 
' Then I had better go and tell her so,' said the man, calmly, 
though his face fell at the bad news. He was already turning 
away when Rex stopped him. 
' Have you come on foot ? ' he asked, looking curiously at a 
fellow who could run over from Sigmundskron and go back almost 
without taking breath. 
' Of course,' was the answer. 
' Then you can go home in the carriage. I have just ordered 
it. Give him something to eat quickly,' he added, turning to the 
servant, ' before Karl is ready.' 
' I shall be there before your carriage,' observed the man care- 
lessly. ' Especially if you will give me a drink of cherry spirits.' 
' Before the carriage ? ' 
' Not if I stay here,' said the other. ' But I can beat your 
horses by half an hour at least.' 
' What is your name ? ' asked Rex while the servant was gone 
for the drink. 
'Waste!.' 
' Sebastian, I suppose ? ' 
The man shrugged his shoulders, as though to say that he did not 
 
care for such a civilised appellation. Rex took out his purse and 
gave him a gold piece, a generosity elicited by his admiration for 
the fellow's powers. 
' Take that, Wastei, and here is your liquor.' 
Wastei nodded carelessly, slipped the money into his waistcoat 
pocket, drank a quarter of the bottle of cherry spirits at a draught, 
and touching his cap was out of the door before Rex could speak 
again. 
'Did you ever see that fellow before?' Rex asked of the 
servant. 
' No, sir,' the man answered rather stiffly. ' I am not from 
these parts.' 
Rex returned to G-reif's room with a heavy heart, and found 
the physician standing where he had left him, waiting for the sun- 
rise. They both sat down in silence, watching the face of the 
dying man, and listening to his breathing. There was nothing to 
be done, save to try and make him swallow some nourishment 
once in a quarter of an hour. 
The dawn brightened slowly, until a soft pink light was 
reflected from the snow outside upon the ceiling of the room. It 
was mid-winter still and the nights were long and the days short, 
the sun rising almost as late as possible and setting suddenly again 
when the day seemed only half over. When at last the level 
eastern rays shot into the chamber, Rex and the doctor rose and 
looked at their patient. He was breathing still, very faintly, and 
apparently without pain. 
' There is a possibility still,' said Rex in a low voice. 
The physician glanced at him, and suppressed a professional 
shrug of the shoulders. 
'We shall see what happens at noon,' he answered, but the 
tone of his voice was sceptical. 
To tell the truth he believed that there was no longer any hope 
whatever, and so far as any such chance was concerned he would 
almost have risked going home at once. Nevertheless he 
determined to stay to the very last, partly because his reputation 
was at stake, partly out of curiosity to watch Rex at the supreme 
moment. He suspected that the latter was in some way pro- 
foundly interested in the question of Greif s life, though he found 
it quite impossible to make sure whether his anxiety proceeded 
from affection or from some more selfish motive. For the present, 
however, he left Rex to himself and went to his own room to rest 
an hour or two. 
The time passed very slowly. Rex's nerves were as firm as the 
rest of his singularly well-knit constitution, and he was never 
weary of fulfilling the mechanical duties of a nurse, which he had 
refused to relinquish, during twelve hours at least of each day, 
though he was obliged to give his place to an assistant during the 
remainder of the time. 
In order not to be idle as he sat beside the bed, Rex drew 
figures and made calculations in his pocket-book. He seemed to 
derive considerable satisfaction from his occupation, for he looked 
more hopefully at Greif each time he raised his head, though the 
latter's condition showed no apparent change. His consolation 
was in reality only transitory, for when the clock at last struck 
twelve and he laid his work definitely aside, it seemed to him that 
he had been dreaming and that the case was more desperate than 
ever. The physician returned and stood beside him, but he looked 
at Rex more often than at Greif. At last he laid his hand upon 
the younger man's arm and led him away from the bedside, towards 
the open window. 
' Herr Rex, I would say a word to you. I firmly believe that 
your cousin will die in a few minutes.' He spoke in a whisper, 
and Rex bent his head, for he thought his companion was right. 
' I have a theory,' continued the doctor, ' that people who are 
dying are far more conscious of what passes around them than is 
commonly supposed. It may be true or it may not. Let us at 
all events be careful of what we say to each other.' 
Rex nodded gravely, and they returned to the side of the dying 
man. It was just mid-day, and Greif was lying on his back, with 
his eyes open. The physician bent down and laid his ear to the 
heart. When he raised his head again, he looked about the room, 
somewhat nervously avoiding Rex's eyes. All at once his atten- 
tion was arrested by the sound of running feet outside, and he 
glanced quickly at his companion, who had also heard the noise. 
It was the supreme moment, for Greif's consciousness had 
returned. As often happens at the moment of death a violent 
physical struggle began. The light returned to his eyes, and the 
strength to his limbs. He raised himself upon his hands, and sat 
up, while the doctor supported him with one arm, and with a quick 
movement put brandy to his lips. It was the work of an instant, 
and it all happened while Rex was crossing the room. Suddenly, 
as the doctor watched him, his eyes fixed themselves. In the 
next instant, he thought, their light would break ; and the body 
he supported would collapse and fall back for ever. It was the 
last gasp. Then a ringing voice broke the silence, just as Rex had 
his hand upon the latch. 
 
' I will, I tell you he is mine ! ' 
The door was flung wide open, and a woman entered the room. 
Rex had a strange impression of golden hair and gleaming eyes 
passing him like a flash, like the leap of a lioness springing to 
defend her young. 
The doctor looked up in astonishment. Before he could help 
himself he was thrust ruthlessly aside, and Greif was in other arms 
than his. Hilda bent down as she held him. The fixed stare 
changed, while the doctor was craning his neck to see what would 
happen, but the light did not go out, nor did the pupils turn white 
and dead. 
' Hilda ! Hilda ! Hilda ! ' His voice was faint but clear. One 
moment longer he gazed into her face and then sank quietly back 
upon her arm, with a smile upon his parted lips, his fingers seeking 
her hand until they lay quite still in hers. He was so quiet that 
Hilda was terrified. With a low and piteous moan she sank upon 
her knees beside the bed. It was a cry like nothing those present 
had ever heard. The physician understood, and bent down to 
her. 
' I think we had better be very quiet,' he said. * You will 
frighten him.' 
Hilda stared wildly into his face, and saw there an expression 
that transfixed her with astonishment. Slowly, as though not 
daring to face the sight, she turned her eyes towards Greif. There 
was a faint colour in his sunken cheeks, and he was breathing 
regularly. Hilda pressed her hands to her breast with all her 
might to smother the cry of joy that almost broke her heart. 
The baroness was standing at the foot of the bed with Rex, 
unconscious of the tears that streamed from her eyes, her hands 
clasped before her as though in prayer. She looked like the figure of 
a sainted woman of old. As for Rex himself, he was trembling a 
little and was conscious that if he had attempted to speak he would 
not have heard his own voice. But otherwise his outward 
demeanour betrayed nothing of what was passing within him. He 
knew as well as the physician that Greif had survived the most 
dangerous moment and that he would in all probability recover, 
and he knew that if Hilda's sudden entrance had not given a new 
impulse to the ebbing life, all would have been over by that time. 
For a few seconds he was scarcely conscious, though he looked 
calmer and colder than the doctor himself. He saw nothing but 
Greif, and his impression of Hilda's appearance was no clearer than 
it had been when she had rushed past him at the door with a 
gleam like a meteor. 
Half an hour later, Greif was asleep. If all went well he 
might remain in this state for any length of time from twelve to 
twenty-four hours. Hilda had been prevailed upon to leave the 
room with her mother. The assistant took his place by the bed- 
side, and Rex was with the doctor in the adjoining apartment. 
' Science is a very pretty plaything,' said the great authority, 
stroking his grey beard thoughtfully, * You know so much, Herr 
Rex, that you and I can afford to look at each other like the augurs 
and laugh, for we certainly know nothing at all. I would have 
wagered my reputation against a hospital assistant's pay, that 
our friend had not sixty seconds of life in him, when that young 
lady appeared, like a fiery whirlwind, and caught him back to earth 
in the nick of time.' 
' Science unfortunately does not dispose of such young ladies,' 
answered Rex with a smile. * They are not in the pharmacopoeia.' 
' She is the most extraordinary one I ever saw,' observed the 
doctor. ' There is a vitality in her presence that affected me like 
electricity in a water bath. She has eyes like Sigmund the 
Volsung perhaps he was her ancestor, since her name is Sig- 
mundskron.' 
' He is said to have been,' laughed Rex. 
' I can quite believe it. Now I assure you that I thought it 
was all over. His heart has been very badly strained, and recently, 
and such a case of meningitis I have rarely seen. Of course he 
had the advantage of careful treatment ; but you may treat and 
treat as you like, if the heart is weak and nervous and strained, it 
may stop while the rest of the body has strength enough left to go 
on for weeks. I suppose they are engaged to be married ? ' 
' Of course.' 
' Did you hear her cry out that she would come in ? Her 
mother's excellent propriety would have kept her out. But the 
young lady knew better than any of us how to save his life.' 
Rex did not answer at once, and when he did, he turned the 
subject. Soon afterwards he went away, for he felt that he must 
be alone in order to think over what had happened and to regain 
his natural equanimity. 
He had not the slightest doubt but that Greif would now 
recover quickly, and it seemed very probable that in that case he 
would no longer hesitate to marry Hilda. At the thought of her, 
Rex experienced a disagreeable sensation which even he could not 
understand at first. Hitherto, his chief preoccupation had been 
the marriage, and scarcely an hour had passed, so long as he had 
hoped that Greif would live, in which he had not contrasted the 
 
happiness in store for his brother, if he took Hilda, with the 
misery he would have to encounter if he persisted in his quixotic 
determination. 
And now that Rex had seen this girl, of whom be had heard 
and thought so much during the last ten days, he wished it were 
possible that Greif might remain Greif without her love. The 
thought was so selfish and seemed so unworthy in his own eyes 
that Rex concentrated his mind in an attempt to explain it. 
In the first place, he felt a curious disappointment in the midst 
of his rejoicing over Greif 's improvement. He himself had been 
untiring, faithful, by day and night, in watching over and taking 
care of the only human being he loved in the world. He wanted 
no man's gratitude, but he had longed earnestly for the satisfaction 
of saving Greif himself, of feeling that his first attempt at living 
for another, instead of for his own individual advantage, had been 
crowned with success. He had spared no fatigue, and he had 
suffered every varying torture of anxiety and doubtful hope to the 
end. And yet, when the end was reached, Greif was dying. 
Neither Rex's care nor Rex's devotion could have kept him from 
slipping over the boundary. Then the door had opened, a woman 
had entered, and Greif had revived at the very moment of extinction. 
A bright-haired girl, with gleaming eyes, had done in one second 
what neither the physician's science nor Rex's loving watchful- 
ness could have hoped to do. To a man who has cared little for 
women and has thought much of himself, it is humiliating to see 
a girl accomplish by her mere presence what all his intelligence 
and energy and forethought have failed to bring about. 
Then again, Rex saw that in the future there was nothing for 
Greif but Hilda. Rex might be swept out of existence, but so 
long as Hilda remained, Greif would merely feel a passing regret 
for the man he believed to be his cousin, a regret which Hilda's 
love would help him to outlive in a few weeks, or months, at the 
most. He hated himself for his selfishness, and realised that a 
new phase of his life had begun that day. 
The impulses and impressions that beset him were only 
transitory and not likely to affect his conduct. His fondness for 
Greif was such that he would certainly rejoice honestly over his 
marriage and feel the most genuine hopes for his happiness. The 
only trace the passing hour would leave with him would be an 
unexpressed antipathy for Hilda. He knew, or he thought that 
he knew, how easily his systematic habits of thought could conquer 
such a tendency and reason it away into emptiness, and he went 
downstairs to make the acquaintance of his brother's future wife 
with the fullest determination to like her for Greifs sake, and 
never again to submit to a frame of mind which was contemptible 
if it was not utterly base. Could anything be more inconsistent 
than to let his joy at the prospect of his brother's recovery be 
clouded, because the result was not wholly due to himself ? Could 
anything be more absurdly foolish than to conceive a dislike for 
a woman whom Greif must marry to be saved from ruin and 
shame? 
CHAPTER XXI 
GREIF recovered quickly. In due time the celebrated physician 
departed in great peace, hoping that chance might soon send such 
another case into his way. Greif and Rex lived together in Greifen- 
stein, and Hilda and her mother were at Sigmundskron. But the 
distance between the two places had grown very short of late, and 
scarcely a day passed on which Hilda and Greif did not meet. 
He was not quite as strong yet as he had been before his illness, 
but the time was not far distant when he would be able again to 
get into the saddle and make short work of the twenty miles that 
separated him from Hilda. There had never been so many horses 
in the Greifenstein stables as now, for the work was hard and con- 
tinuous and the roads bad. To make matters easier, Greif had sent 
a strong pair to Sigmundskron, so that the two ladies might drive 
over whenever they were inclined to do so. 
On a sunny day in April the two men were walking together in 
the garden, backwards and forwards from the parapet that followed 
the edge of the precipice to the porch of the house. Greif rested 
his hand on Rex's arm, more out of habit now than because he 
needed support, and as they paced the smooth path the two talked 
in a desultory way upon whatever was uppermost in their thoughts. 
' It seems as though my illness had lasted a year,' Greif said. ' I 
have even got so far that I do not care to leave this place, after 
all.' 
' Why should you ? ' Rex asked. 
' It would be natural,' answered Greif rather gravely. ' I should 
have expected to prefer any spot of the world to this.' 
' Man is the world, and all that therein is, and the earth he 
stands on, is no more to him than the clothes he wears. If a 
thought is in your heart, can you get rid of it by changing your 
coat ? And besides, in the long run a man prefers his own coat 
and liis own patch of earth both are sure to fit him better than 
those of other people.' 
' I think you are right. Rex, did I act like a madman before I 
was taken ill ? ' He asked the question rather suddenly. Hitherto 
Rex had avoided mentioning what was past as well as he could. 
' Yes you were quite mad/ he answered. ' You fought wind- 
mills. That is always a bad sign.' 
' It is fortunate that I broke down just then. Suppose that I 
had held out long enough to go away and that I had fallen ill in 
some distant place, and that Hilda had not come I should not have 
had much chance.' 
' No. I was very jealous of her, I remember.' 
'Why?' 
'Because she saved you, and I could not,' answered Rex. 
' Because it is disagreeable for a selfish man to feel that a woman's 
eyes are better than his skill or strength.' 
Greif looked at his companion as though he did not quite under- 
stand, but the smile upon the latter's face made matters somewhat 
clearer. He would not have liked to think that Rex was quite in 
earnest. 
' But for you,' he answered, * I should have died long before 
Hilda came.' 
 If you had shown signs of giving up the ghost 
earlier, I would have sent sooner. But it was a narrow escape. 
Another minute would have done it, as I have often told you.' 
' Do you know that I have not yet spoken to them about the 
marriage ? ' 
' Then there is no need of saying anything. They understand 
as well as you. You need only fix the wedding-day.' 
