as one's work is fine ? " 
Peter gave him no satisfaction on this curious point he 
only continued to look at the picture ; after which, in a 
moment, he said : " I'll give you your price for it on the spot." 
" Dear boy, you're so magnanimous that you shall have it 
for nothing ! " Nick exclaimed, passing his arm into his 
companion's. 
Peter was silent at first. " "Why do you call me magnani- 
mous ? " 
" Oh, bless my soul, it's hers I forget ! " laughed Nick, 
failing in his turn to answer the other's inquiry. " But you 
shall have another." 
"Another? Are you going to do another? " 
" This very morning. That is I shall begin it. I've heard 
from her ; she's coming to sit a short time hence." 
Peter turned away a little at this, releasing himself, and, as 
if the movement had been an effect of Nick's words, looked at 
his watch earnestly, to dissipate that appearance. He fell 
back, to consider the picture from further off. "The more 
you do her the better ; she has all the qualities of a great 
model. From that point of view it's a pity she has another 
trade : she might make so good a thing of this one. But how 
shall you do her again ? " Sherringham continued, ingenuously. 
"Oh, I can scarcely say; we'll arrange something; we'll 
talk it over. It's extraordinary how well she enters into 
what one wants : she knows more than one does one's self. 
She isn't the first comer. However, you know all about that, 
since you invented her, didn't you ? That's what she says ; 
she's awfully sweet on you," Nick pursued. " What I ought 
to do is to try something as different as possible from that 
thing ; not the sibyl, the muse, the tremendous creature, but 
the charming woman, the person one knows, in different gear, 
as she appears en ville, as she calls it. I'll do something really 
serious and send it to you out there with my respects. It will 
remind you of home, and perhaps a little even of me. If she 
knows it's for you she'll throw herself into it in the right 
spirit. Leave it to us, my dear fellow ; we'll turn out 
something good." 
" It's jolly to hear you ; but I shall send you a cheque," said 
Peter, 
" I suppose it's all right in your position, but you're too 
proud," his kinsman answered. 
" What do you mean by my position ? " 
" Your exaltation, your high connection with the country, 
your treating with sovereign powers as the representative 
of a sovereign power. Isn't that what they call 'em ? " 
Sherringham, who had turned again toward his companion, 
listened to this with his eyes fixed on Nick's face, while at the 
same time he once more drew forth his watch. " Brute ! " he 
exclaimed familiarly, at the same time dropping his eyes on 
the watch. " At what time did you say you expected your 
sitter ? " 
" Oh, we've plenty of time ; don't be afraid of letting me 
see you agitated by her presence." 
" Brute ! " Sherringham again ejaculated. 
This friendly personal note cleared the air, made the com- 
munication between the two men closer. " Stay with me and 
talk to me," said Nick ; " I dare say it's good for me. 
Heaven knows when I shall see you so independently again." 
"Have you got something more to show me, then some 
other work ? " Sherringham asked. 
" Must I bribe you by setting my signboards in a row ? 
You know what I've done ; by which I mean of course you 
know what I haven't done. My work, as you are so good 
as to call it, has hitherto been horrible rot. I've had no time, 
no opportunity, no continuity. I must go and sit down in a 
corner and learn my alphabet. That thing isn't good; what 
I shall do for you won't be good. Don't protest, my dear 
fellow ; nothing will be fit to look at for a long time. And 
think of my ridiculous age. As the populace say (or don't 
they say it?) it's a rum go. It won't be amusing." 
" Oh, you're so clever you'll get on fast," Sherringham 
replied, trying to think how he could most directly disobey 
his companion's injunction not to protest. 
"I mean it won't be amusing for others," said Nick, unper- 
turbed by this violation. "They want results, and small 
blame to them." 
" Well, whatever you do, don't talk like Mr. Gabriel Nash," 
Peter went on. " Sometimes I think you're just going to." 
Nick stared a moment. " Why, he never would have said 
that. ' They want results, the damned fools ' that would 
have been more in his key." 
" It's the difference of a nuance. And are you extraor- 
dinarily happy ? " Peter added, as Nick now obliged him by 
arranging half a dozen canvases so that he could look at 
them. 
" Not so much so, doubtless, as the artistic life ought to 
make one ; because all one's people are not so infatuated as 
one's electors. But little by little I'm learning the beauty of 
obstinacy." 
" Your mother's very bad ; I lunched with her the day 
before yesterday." 
" Yes, I know I know," said Nick hastily ; " but it's too 
late it's too late. I must just peg away here and not mind. 
I've after all a great advantage in my life." 
Sherringham hesitated. " And that would be ] " 
" Oh, I mean knowing what I want to do : that's everything, 
you know." 
" It's an advantage however that you've only just come in 
for, isn't it ? " 
" Yes, but having waited only makes me prize it the more. 
I've got it now ; and it makes up, for the present, for the 
absence of some other things." 
Again Sherringham was silent awhile. " That sounds a 
little flat," he remarked at last. 
" It depends upon what you compare it with. It's rather 
more pointed than the House of Commons." 
" Oh, I never thought I should like that." 
There was another pause, during which Nick moved about 
the room, turning up old sketches to see if he had anything 
more to show his visitor, while Sherringham continued to look 
at the unfinished and in some cases, as it seemed to him, 
unpromising productions already submitted to his attention. 
They were much less interesting than the portrait of Miriam 
Rooth and, it would have appeared, much less significant of 
ability. For that particular effort Nick's talent had taken 
an unprecedented spring. This was the reflection that Peter 
made, as he had made it intensely before ; but the words he 
presently uttered had no visible connection with it. They 
only consisted of the abrupt inquiry : " Have you heard 
anything from Julia  ?" 
" Not a syllable. Have you ? " 
" Dear, no ; she never writes to me." 
" But won't she on the occasion of your promotion ? " 
" I dare say not," said Peter : and this was the only 
reference to Mrs. Dallow that passed between her brother and 
her late intended. It left a slight agitation of the atmosphere, 
which Sherringham proceeded to allay by an allusion com- 
paratively speaking more relevant. He expressed disappoint- 
ment that Biddy should not have come in ; having had an 
idea that she was always in Rosedale Road of a morning. 
That was the other moiety of his present errand the wish 
to see her and give her a message for Lady Agnes, upon 
whom at so early an hour he had not presumed to intrude in 
Calcutta Gardens. Nick replied that Biddy did in point of 
fact almost always turn up, and for the most part early ; she 
came to wish him good morning and start him for the day. 
She was a devoted Electra, laying a cool, healing hand on a 
distracted Orestes. He reminded Peter however that he 
would have a chance of seeing her that evening, and of seeing 
Lady Agnes ; for wasn't he to do them the honour of dining 
in Calcutta Gardens ] Biddy, the day before, had arrived full 
of that excitement. Peter explained that this was exactly the 
sad subject of his actual demarche : the project of the dinner 
in Calcutta Gardens had, to his exceeding regret, fallen to 
pieees. The fact was (didn't Nick know it ?) the night had 
been suddenly and perversely fixed for Miriam's premiere, and 
he was under a definite engagement with her not to stay 
away from it. To add to the bore of the thing he was obliged 
to return to Paris the very next morning. He was quite 
awfully sorry, for he had promised Lady Agnes : he didn't 
understand then about Miriam's affair, in regard to which he 
had given a previous pledge. He was more sorry than he 
could say, but he could never fail Miss Booth : he had pro- 
fessed from the first an interest in her which he must live up 
to a little more. This was his last chance he hadn't been 
near her at the trying time she first produced herself. And 
the second night of the play wouldn't do it must be the first 
or nothing. Besides, he couldn't wait over till Monday. 
While Peter enumerated these complications his companion 
was occupied in polishing with a cloth a palette that he had 
just been scraping. "I see what you mean I'm very sorry 
too," said Nick. "I'm sorry you can't give my mother this 
joy I give her so little." 
" My dear fellow, you might give her a little more. It's 
rather too much to expect me to make up for your omissions!" 
Nick looked at Peter with a moment's fixedness while he 
rubbed his palette ; and for that moment he felt the temptation 
to reply : "There's a way you could do that, to a considerable 
extent I think you guess it ! which wouldn't be intrinsically 
disagreeable." But the impulse passed, without expressing 
itself in speech, and he simply answered : " You can make this 
all clear to Biddy when she comes, and she'll make it clear to 
my mother." 
"Poor little Biddy!" Sherringham mentally exclaimed, 
thinking of the girl with that job before her ; but what he 
articulated was that this was exactly why he had come to the 
studio. He had inflicted his company on Lady Agnes on 
Thursday and had partaken of a meal with her, but he had 
not seen Biddy, though he had waited for her, hoping she 
would come in. Now he would wait for her again she was 
thoroughly worth it. 
" Patience, patience, you've always me," said Nick ; to 
which he subjoined : " If it's a question of going to the play 
I scarcely see why you shouldn't dine at my mother's all the 
same. People go to the play after dinner." 
" Yes, but it wouldn't be fair, it wouldn't be decent : it's a 
case when I must be in my seat from the rise of the curtain. 
I should force your mother to dine an hour earlier than usual, 
and then, in return for this courtesy, go off to my entertain- 
ment at eight o'clock, leaving her and Grace and Biddy 
languishing there. I wish I had proposed in time that they 
should go with me," Peter continued, not very ingenuously. 
" You might do that still," Nick suggested. 
" Oh, at this time of day it would be impossible to get a 
box." 
"I'll speak to Miss Eooth about it, if you like, when she 
comes," smiled Nick. 
" No, it wouldn't do," said Peter, turning away and looking 
once more at his watch. He made tacitly the addition that 
still less than asking Lady Agnes, for his convenience, to dine 
early, would this be decent, would it be fair. His taking 
Biddy the night he dined with her and with Miss Tressilian 
had been something very like a violation of those proprieties. 
He couldn't say this to Nick, who remarked in a moment 
that it was all right, for Peter's action left him his own 
freedom. 
" Your own freedom ? " Peter echoed interrogatively, turning 
round. 
" Why, you see now I can go to the theatre myself." 
" Certainly ; I hadn't thought of that. You would have 
been going." 
"I gave it up for the prospect of your company." 
" Upon my word, you're too good I don't deserve such 
sacrifices," said Sherringham, who saw from Nick's face that 
this was not a figure of speech but the absolute truth. " Didn't 
it however occur to you that, as it would turn out, I might 
that I even naturally would myself be going ? " he added. 
Nick broke into a laugh. "It would have occurred to 
me if I understood a little better " And he paused, still 
laughing. 
" If you understood a little better what ? " Peter demanded. 
" Your situation, simply." 
Peter looked at him a moment. " Dine with me to-night 
independently ; we'll go to the theatre together, and then 
you'll understand it." 
" With pleasure, with pleasure : we'll have a jolly evening," 
said Nick. 
" Call it jolly if you like. When did you say she was 
coming?" Peter asked. 
" Biddy? Oh, probably, as I tell you, at any moment." 
" I mean the great Miriam," Peter replied. 
" The great Miriam, if she's punctual, will be here in about 
forty minutes." 
" And will she be likely to find your sister? " 
" My dear fellow, that will depend on whether my sister 
i-emains to see her." 
" Exactly ; but the point is whether you'll allow her to 
remain, isn't it?" 
Nick looked slightly mystified. " Why shouldn't she do as 
she likes?" 
" In that case she'll probably go." 
" Yes, unless she stays." 
" Don't let her," Peter dropped ; " send her away." And 
to explain this he added : " It doesn't seem exactly the right 
sort of thing, young girls meeting actresses." His explanation 
in turn struck him as requiring another clause ; so he went 
on : " At least it isn't thought the right sort of thing abroad, 
and even in England my foreign ideas stick to me." 
Even with this amplification however his proposition 
evidently still appeared to his companion to have a flaw 
which, after he had considered it a moment, Nick exposed in 
the simple words : " Why, you originally introduced them, in 
Paris Biddy and Miss Rooth. Didn't they meet at your 
rooms and fraternize, and wasn't that much more abroad than 
this?" 
" So they did, but she didn't like it," Peter answered, sus- 
pecting that for a diplomatist he looked foolish. 
" Miss Rooth didn't like it? " Nick persisted. 
" That I confess I've forgotten. Besides, she was not an
actress then. What I remember is that Biddy wasn't particu- 
larly pleased with her." 
"Why, she thought her wonderful praised her to the 
skies. I remember too." 
"She didn't like her as a woman ; she praised her as an 
actress." 
" I thought you said she wasn't an actress then," Nick 
rejoined. 
Peter hesitated. " Oh, Biddy thought so. She has seen 
her since, moreover. I took her the other night, and her 
curiosity's satisfied." 
" It's not of any consequence, and if there's a reason for it 
I'll bundle her off directly. But the great Miriam seems such 
a kind, good woman." 
" So she is, charming charming," said Peter, looking hard 
at Nick. 
" Here comes Biddy now," this young man went on. " I 
hear her at the door ; you can warn her yourself." 
"It isn't a question of 'warning' that's not in the least 
my idea. But I'll take Biddy away," said Peter. 
" That will be still more energetic." 
" Oh, it's simply selfish I like her company." Peter had 
turned as if to go to the door to meet the girl ; but he quickly 
checked himself, lingering in the middle of the room, and the 
next instant Biddy had come in. When she saw him there 
she also stopped. 
XLIII. 
" ARRIVE, arrive, my child," said Nick. " Peter's weary of 
waiting for you." 
" Ah, he's come to say he won't dine with us to-night ! " 
Biddy stood with her hand on the latch. 
" I leave town to-morrow ; I've everything to do ; I'm 
broken-hearted ; it's impossible," Peter pleaded. " Please 
make my peace with your mother ; I'm ashamed of not having 
written to her last night." 
Biddy closed the door and came in, while her brother said 
to her : " How in the world did you guess it ? " 
" I saw it in the Morning Post," Biddy answered, looking 
at Peter. 
' In the Morning Post ? " her cousin repeated. 
" I saw there's to be a first night at that theatre, the one 
you took us to. So I said : ' Oh, he'll go there.' " 
" Yes, I've got to do that too," Peter admitted. 
" She's going to sit to me again this morning, the wonderful 
actress of that theatre she has made an appointment : so you 
see I'm getting on," Nick announced to Biddy. 
"Oh, I'm so glad she's so splendid!" The girl looked 
away from Peter now, but not, though it seemed to fill the 
place, at the triumphant portrait of Miriam Rooth. 
" I'm delighted you've come in. I have waited for you," 
Peter hastened to declare to Biddy, though he was conscious 
that this was under the circumstances meagre. 
"Aren't you coming to see us again?" 
" I'm in despair, but I shall really not have time. Therefore 
it's a blessing not to have missed you here." 
"I'm very glad," said Biddy. Then she added: "And 
you're going to America to stay a long time ? " 
" Till I'm sent to some better place." 
" And will that better place be as far away ? " 
" Oh Biddy, it wouldn't be better then," said Peter. 
" Do you mean they'll give you something to do at home?" 
" Hardly that. But I've got a tremendous lot to do at 
home to-day." For the twentieth time Peter referred to his. 
watch. 
Biddy turned to her brother, who murmured to her : " You 
might bid me good morning." She kissed him, and he asked 
what the news might be in Calcutta Gardens ; to which she 
replied : 
" The only news is, of course, that, poor dears ! they're 
making great preparations for Peter. Mamma thinks you 
must have had such a nasty dinner the other day," the girl 
continued, to the guest of that romantic occasion. 
"Faithless Peter ! " said Nick, beginning to whistle and to 
arrange a canvas in anticipation of Miriam's arrival. 
" Dear Biddy, thank your stars you are not in my horrid 
profession," protested the personage thus designated. " One 
is bowled about like a cricket-ball, unable to answer for one's 
freedom or one's comfort from one moment to another." 
" Oh, ours is the true profession Biddy's and mine," Nick 
broke out, setting up his canvas ; " the career of liberty and 
peace, of charming long mornings, spent in a still north light, 
in the contemplation, and I may even say in the company, of 
the amiable and the beautiful." 
" That certainly is the case when Biddy comes to see you," 
Peter returned. 
Biddy smiled at him. " I come every day. Anch' io soil 
pittore ! I encourage Nick awfully." 
"It's a pity I'm not a martyr ; she would bravely perish 
with me," Nick said. 
" You are you are a martyr when people say such odious 
things ! " the girl cried. " They do say them. I've heard 
many more than I've repeated to you." 
" It's you yourself then, indignant and sympathetic, who 
are the martyr," observed Peter, who wanted greatly to be 
kind to her. 
" Oh, I don't care ! " she answered, colouring in response to 
this ; and she continued, to Peter : " Don't you think one can 
do as much good by painting great works of art as by as by 
what papa used to do ? Don't you think art is necessary to 
the happiness, to the greatness of a people ? Don't you think 
it's manly and honourable ? Do you think a passion for it is 
a thing to be ashamed of ? Don't you think the artist the 
conscientious, the serious one is as distinguished a member 
of society as any one else ?" 
Peter and Nick looked at each other and laughed at the 
way she had got up her subject, and Nick asked his visitor if 
she didn't express it all in perfection. " I delight in general 
in artists, but I delight still more in their defenders," Peter 
jested, to Biddy. 
" Ah, don't attack me, if you are wise," Nick said. 
" One is tempted to, when it makes Biddy so fine." 
" Well, that's the way she encourages me ; it's meat and 
drink to me," Nick went on. " At the same time I'm bound 
to say there is a little whistling in the dark in it." 
" In the dark ? " his sister demanded. 
" The obscurity, my dear child, of your own aspirations, 
your mysterious ambitions and plastic visions. Aren't there 
some heavyish shadows there?" 
" Why, I never cared for politics." 
" No, but you cared for life, you cared for society, and you 
have chosen the path of solitude and concentration." 
" You horrid boy ! " said Biddy. 
" Give it up, that arduous steep give it up and come out 
with me," Peter interposed. 
" Come out with you  ? " 
" Let us walk a little, or even drive a little. Let us at any 
rate talk a little." 
" I thought you had so much to do," Biddy candidly 
objected. 
" So I have, but why shouldn't you do a part of it with 
me? Would there be any harm? I'm going to some tire- 
some shops you'll cheer the economical hour." 
The girl hesitated ; then she turned to Nick. " "Would 
there be any harm ? " 
"Oh, it's none of his business ! " Peter protested. 
" He had better take you home to your mother." 
" I'm going home I sha'n't stay here to-day," said Biddy. 
Then to Peter : "I came in a hansom, but I shall walk back. 
Come that way with me." 
" With singular pleasure... But I shall not be able to go in," 
Sherringham added. 
" Oh, that's no matter," said Biddy. " Good-bye, Nick." 
" You understand then that we dine together at seven 
sharp. Wouldn't a club be best?" Peter, before going, in- 
quired of Nick. He suggested further which club it should 
be ; and his words led Biddy, who had directed her steps 
toward the door, to turn a moment, as if she were on the 
point of asking reproachfully whether it was for this Peter 
had given up Calcutta Gardens. But this impulse, if impulse 
it was, had no sequel except so far as it was a sequel that 
Peter spontaneously explained to her, after Nick had assented 
to his conditions, that her brother too had a desire to go to 
Miss Booth's first night and had already promised to accom- 
pany him. 
" Oh, that's perfect ; it will be so good for him won't it 
if he's going to paint her again," Biddy responded. 
" I think there's nothing so good for him as that he happens 
to have such a sister as you," Peter observed as they went 
out. As he spoke he heard outside the sound of a carriage 
stopping ; and before Biddy, who was in front of him, opened 
the door of the house he had time to say to himself : " What a 
bore there's Miriam ! " The opened door showed him that 
he was right this young lady was in the act of alighting 
from the brougham provided by Basil Dashwood's thrifty 
zeal. Her mother followed her, and both the new visitors 
exclaimed and rejoiced, in their demonstrative way, as their 
eyes fell upon their valued friend. The door had closed behind 
Peter, but he instantly and violently rang, so that they should 
be admitted with as little delay as possible, while he remained 
slightly disconcerted by the prompt occurrence of an encounter 
he had sought to avert. It ministered moreover a little to 
this particular sensation that Miriam appeared to have como 
somewhat before her time. The incident promised however 
to pass off in the happiest way. Before he knew it both the 
ladies had taken possession of Biddy, who looked at them with 
comparative coldness, tempered indeed by a faint glow of 
apprehension, and Miriam had broken out : 
" We know you, we know you ; we saw you in Paris, and 
you came to my theatre a short time ago with Mr. Sherringham." 
" We know your mother, Lady Agnes Dormer. I hope her 
ladyship is very well," said Mrs. Rooth, who had never struck 
Sherringham as a more objectionable old woman. 
" You offered to do a head of me, or something or other : 
didn't you tell me you work in clay ? I dare say you've for- 
gotten all about it, but I should be delighted," Miriam pursued, 
with the richest urbanity. 
Peter was not concerned with her mother's pervasiveness, 
though he didn't like Biddy to see even that ; but he hoped 
his companion would take the overcharged benevolence of the 
young actress in the spirit in which, rather to his surprise, it 
evidently was offered. 
" I've sat to your clever brother many times," said Miriam ; 
" I'm going to sit again. I dare say you've seen what we've 
done he's too delighful. Si voius saviez comme cela me repose ! " 
she added, turning for a moment to Sherringham. Then she 
continued, smiling, to Biddy : " Only he oughtn't to have 
thrown up such prospects, you know. I have an idea I wasn't 
nice to you that day in Paris I was nervous and scared and 
perverse. I remember perfectly ; I was odious. But I'm 
better now you'd see if you were to know me. I'm not a 
bad girl really I'm not. But you must have your own 
friends. Happy they you look so charming ! Immensely 
like Mr. Dormer, especially about the eyes ; isn't she, mammal" 
" She comes of a beautiful Norman #ace the finest, purest 
strain," the old woman simpered. " Mr. Dormer is some- 
times so good as to come and see us we are always at 
home on Sunday ; and if some day you were so venturesome 
as to come with him you might perhaps find it pleasant, 
though very different of course from the circle in which 
you habitually move." 
Biddy murmured a vague recognition of these wonderful 
civilities, and Miriam commented : " Different, yes ; but we're 
all right, you know. Do come," she added. Then turning to 
Sherringham : " Remember what I told you I don't expect 
you to-night." 
" Oh, I understand ; I shall come," Peter answered, growing 
red. 
" It will be idiotic. Keep him, keep him away don't let 
him," Miriam went on, to Biddy; with which, as Nick's 
portals now were gaping, she drew her mother away. 
Peter at this walked off briskly with Biddy, dropping as 
he did so : " She's too fantastic ! " 
" Yes, but so tremendously good-looking. I shall ask Nick 
to take me there," the girl continued after a moment. 
"Well, she'll do you no harm. They're all right, as she 
says. It's the world of art you were standing up so for art 
just now." 
" Oh, I wasn't thinking so much of that kind," said 
Biddy. 
" There's only one kind it's all the same thing. If one 
sort's good the other is." 
Biddy walked along a moment. "Is she serious ! Is she 
conscientious ! " 
" Oh, she has the makings of a great artist," said Peter. 
" I'm glad to hear you think a woman can be one." 
" In that line there has never been any doubt about it." 
" And only in that line ? " 
" I mean on the stage in general, dramatic or lyric. It's 
as the actress that the woman produces the most complete and 
satisfactory artistic results." 
" And only as the actress ? " 
" Yes, there's another art in which she's not bad." 
" Which one do you mean ] " asked Biddy. 
"That of being charming and good and indispensable to 
man." 
" Oh, that isn't an art." 
" Then you leave her only the stage. Take it if you like 
in the widest sense." 
Biddy appeared to reflect a moment, as if to see what 
sense this might be. But she found none that was wide 
enough, for she cried the next minute : " Do you mean to say 
there's nothing for a woman but to be an actress ? " 
" Never in my life. I only say that that's the best thing 
for a woman to be who finds herself irresistibly carried into 
the practice of the arts ; for there her capacity for them has 
most application and her incapacity for them least. But at 
the same time I strongly recommend her not to be an artist 
if she can possibly help it. It's a devil of a life." 
" Oh, I know ; men want women not to be anything." 
" It's a poor little refuge they try to take from the over- 
whelming consciousness that you are in fact everything." 
" Everything ? That's the kind of thing you say to keep 
us quiet." 
" Dear Biddy, you see how well we succeed ! " laughed 
Sherrtngham ; to which the girl responded by inquiring 
irrelevantly : 
" Why is it so necessary for you to go to the theatre to-night, 
if Miss Rooth doesn't want you to?" 
" My dear child, she does. But that has nothing to do 
with it." 
"Why then did she say that she doesn't?" 
" Oh, because she meant just the contrary." 
" Is she so false then is she so vulgar ? " 
" She speaks a special language ; practically it isn't false, 
because it renders her thought, and those who know her 
understand it." 
" But she doesn't use it only to those who know her, since 
she asked me, who have so little the honour of her acquaint- 
ance, to keep you away to-night. How am I to know that she 
meant by that that I'm to urge you on to go? " i 
Sherringham was on the point of replying : " Because you 
have my word for it ;" but he shrank in fact from giving his 
word he had some fine scruples and endeavoured to get out 
of his embarrassment by a general tribute. " Dear Biddy, 
you're delightfully acute : you're quite as clever as Miss 
Kooth." He felt however that this was scarcely adequate, 
and he continued : " The truth is, its being important for me 
to go is a matter quite independent of that young lady's 
wishing it or not wishing it. There happens to be a definite, 
intrinsic propriety in it which determines the matter and 
which it would take me long to explain." 
" I see. But fancy your ' explaining ' to me : you make me 
feel so indiscreet ! " the girl cried quickly an exclamation 
which touched him because he was not aware that, quick as it 
had been, Biddy had still had time to be struck first (though 
she wouldn't for the world have expressed it) with the oddity 
of such a duty at such a time. In fact that oddity, during a 
silence of some minutes, came back to Peter himself : the note 
had been forced it sounded almost ignobly frivolous for a 
man on the eve of proceeding to a high diplomatic post. The 
effect of this however was not to make him break out with : 
" Hang it, I will keep my engagement to your mother ! " but 
to fill him with the wish that he could shorten his actual 
excursion by taking Biddy the rest of the way in a cab. He 
was uncomfortable, and there were hansoms about which he 
looked at wistfully. While he was so occupied his companion 
took up the talk by an abrupt interrogation. 
" Why did she say that Nick oughtn't to have resigned his 
seat ? " 
" Oh, I don't know ; it struck her so. It doesn't matter 
much." 
" If she's an artist herself why doesn't she like people to go 
in for art, especially when Nick has given his time to painting 
her so beautifully ? Why does she come there so often if she 
disapproves of what he has done ? " 
" Oh, Miriam's disapproval it doesn't count ; it's a manner 
of speaking." 
" Of speaking untruths, do you mean ? Does she think just 
the reverse is that the way she talks about everything  ?" 
" We always admire most what we can do least," Peter 
replied ; " and Miriam of course isn't political. She ranks 
painters more or less with her own profession, about which 
already, new as she is to it, she has no illusions. They're all 
artists ; it's the same general sort of thing. She prefers men 
of the world men of action." 
" Is that the reason she likes you ? " Biddy mocked. 
"Ah, she doesn't like me couldn't you see it?" 
Biddy said nothing for a moment ; then she asked : " Is that 
why she lets you call her ' Miriam ' i " 
" Oh, I don't, to her face." 
" Ah, only to mine ! " laughed Biddy. 
" One says that as one says ' Rachel ' of her great 
predecessor." 
" Except that she isn't so great quite yet, is she? " 
"Far from it; she's the freshest of novices she has scarcely 
been four months on the stage. But no novice has ever been 
such an adept. She'll go very fast, and I dare say that before 
long she'll be magnificent." 
" What a pity you'll not see that ! " Biddy remarked, after 
a short interval. 
