hole together, sewing it firmly with the furrier's cross stitch, and so
neatly that the seam looked like a single straight line on the side of the
leather, while it was quite invisible in the fur on the other.
"What is the other thing you have brought?" he inquired without looking up
from his work. The light was bad, and he had to bend his eyes close to the
sewing.
"It is something I may be able to sell," said Vjera in a rather unsteady
voice.
"Silver?" asked Schmidt, cheerfully.
"Oh no--not silver--something dearer," she said, almost under her breath.
"I am afraid it is very hard for you to see," she added quickly,
attempting to avoid his questions. "Do you not think that I could hold a
match for you, to make a little more light? You always have some with
you."
"Wait a moment--yes--I have almost finished the seam--here is the box.
Now, if you can hold the match just there, just over the needle, and keep
it from going out, I can finish the end off neatly."
Vjera knelt down beside him and held the flickering bit of wood as well as
she was able. They made a strange picture, out in the unfrequented street,
the dim glare of the gaslight above them, and the redder flame of the
match making odd tints and shadows in their faces. Vjera's shawl had
slipped back from her head and her thick tress of red-brown hair had found
its way over her shoulder. An artist, strolling supperwards from his
studio, came down their side of the way. He stopped and looked at them.
"Has anything happened?" he asked kindly. "Can I be of any use?"
Vjera looked up with a frightened glance. The Cossack paid no attention to
the stranger.
"Oh no, thank you--thank you, sir, it is nothing--only a little piece of
work to finish."
The artist gave one more look and passed on, wishing that he could have
had pencil and paper and light at his command for five minutes.
"There," said Schmidt triumphantly. "It is done, and very well done. And
now for the pawn-shop, Vjera!"
Vjera took the skin over her arm and her companion picked up the samovar
with its tray, and they moved on again. Vjera's face was pale and sad, but
she seemed more confident of success than ever, and her step was elastic
and hopeful. Johann Schmidt's curiosity was very great, as has been seen
on previous occasions. He did his best to control it, for some time, only
trying to guess from the general appearance of the limp parcel what it
might contain. But his ingenuity failed to solve the problem. At last he
could bear it no longer. They were entering the street where the
pawnbroker's shop was situated when his resolution broke down.
"Is it a piece of lace?" he asked at a venture. "If it is, you know, and
if it is good, it may be worth all the other things together."
"No. It is not a piece of lace," answered the girl. "I will tell you what
it is, if we do not get enough without it."
"I only thought," explained the Cossack, "that if we were going to try and
pawn it, I had better know--"
"We cannot pawn it," said Vjera decisively. "It will have to be sold. Let
us go in together." She spoke the last words as they reached the door of
the pawn-shop.
"I could save you the trouble," Schmidt suggested, offering to take the
wolf's skin. But Vjera would not give it up. She felt that she must see
everything done herself, if only to distract her thoughts from more
painful matters.
The place was half full of people, most of them with anxious faces, and
all having some object or other in their hands. The pawn-shops do their
best business in the evening. A man and a woman, both advanced in middle
age, well fed, parsimoniously washed and possessing profiles of an outline
disquieting to Christian prejudices, leaned over the counter, handled the
articles offered them, consulted each other in incomprehensible
monosyllables, talked volubly to the customers in oily undertones and from
time to time counted out small doses of change which they gave to the
eager recipients, accompanied by little slips of paper on which there were
both printed and written words. The room was warm and redolent of poverty.
A broad flame of gas burned, without a shade, over the middle of the
counter.
In spite of their unctuous tones the Hebrew and his wife did their
business rapidly, with sharpness and decision. Either one of them would
have undertaken to name the precise pawning value of anything on earth
and, possibly, of most things in heaven, provided that the universe were
brought piecemeal to their counter. Both Vjera and Schmidt had been made
acquainted by previous necessities with the establishment. Vjera held her
paper parcel in her hand. The other things were laid together upon the
counter. The Hebrew woman glanced at the samovar, felt the weight of it
and turned it once round.
"Leaky," she observed in her smooth voice. "Old brass. One mark and a
half." Her husband put out his hand, touched the machine, lifted it, and
nodded.
"Only a mark and a half!" exclaimed Vjera. "And the skin, how much for
that?"
"It is a genuine Russian wolf," Schmidt put in. "And it is very large."
"Moth-eaten," said the Jewess. "And there is a hole in the side. Five
marks."
Schmidt held the fur up to the light and blew into it with a professional
air, as furriers do.
"Look at that!" he cried, persuasively. "Why, it is worth twenty!"
The Hebrew lady, instead of answering extended a fat thumb and a plump,
pointed forefinger, and pinching a score of hairs between the two, pulled
them out without effort, and then held them close to the Cossack's eyes.
"Five marks," she repeated, getting the money out and preparing to fill in
a couple of pawn-tickets.
"Make it ten, with the samovar!" entreated Vjera. The Jewess smiled.
"Do you think the samovar is of gold?" she inquired. "Six and a half for
the two. Take it or leave it."
Vjera looked at Schmidt anxiously as though to ask his opinion.
"They will not give more," he said, in Russian.
The girl took the money and the flimsy tickets and they went out into the
street. Vjera hesitated as to the direction she should take, and Schmidt
looked to her as though awaiting her orders.
"Twenty-eight and a half and six and a half are thirty-five," she said,
thoughtfully. "And we have nothing more to give, but this. I must sell it,
Herr Schmidt."
"Well, what is it?" he asked, glad to know the secret at last.
"It is my mother's hair. She cut it off herself when she knew she was
dying and she told me to sell it if ever I needed a little money."
The girl's voice trembled violently, and she turned her head away. Schmidt
was silent and very grave. Then Vjera began to move on again, clutching
the precious thing to her bosom and drawing her shawl over it.
"The best man for this lives in the Maffei Strasse," said Schmidt after a
few minutes.
"Show me the way." Vjera turned as he directed. At that moment she would
have lost herself in the familiar streets, had he not been there to guide
her.
The hairdresser's shop was brilliantly lighted, and as good fortune would
have it, there were no customers within. With an entreating glance which
he obeyed, Vjera made Schmidt wait outside.
"Please do not look!" she whispered. "I can bear it better alone." The
good fellow nodded and began to walk up and down.
As Vjera entered the shop, the chief barber in command waltzed forward, as
hairdressers always seem to waltz. At the sight of the poor girl, however,
he assumed a stern appearance which, to tell the truth, was out of
character with his style of beauty. His rich brown locks were curled and
anointed in a way that might have aroused envy in the heart of an Assyrian
dandy in the palmy days of Sardanapalus.
"Do you buy hair?" asked Vjera, timidly offering her limp parcel.
"Oh, certainly, sometimes," answered the barber. The youth in
attendance--the barber tadpole of the hairdresser frog--abandoned the
cleansing of a comb and came forward with a leer, in the hope that Vjera
might turn out to be pretty on a closer inspection. In this he was
disappointed.
The man took the parcel and laid it on one of the narrow marble tables
placed before a mirror in a richly gilt frame. He pushed aside the blue
glass powder-box, the vial of brilliantine and the brushes. Vjera untied
the bit of faded ribband herself and opened the package. The contents
exhaled a faint, sickly odour.
A tress of beautiful hair, of unusual length and thickness, lay in the
paper. The colour was that which is now so much sought after, and which
great ladies endeavour to produce upon their own hair, when they have any,
by washing it with extra-dry champagne, while little ladies imitate them
with a humble solution of soda. The colour in question is a reddish-brown
with rich golden lights in it, and it is very rare in nature.
The barber eyed the thick plait with a businesslike expression.
"The colour is not so bad," he remarked, as though suggesting that it
might have been very much better.
"Surely, it is very beautiful hair!" said Vjera, her heart almost breaking
at the sight of the tenderly treasured heirloom.
Suddenly the man snuffed the odour, lifted the tress to his nose, and
smelt it. Then he laid it down again and took the thicker end, which was
tied tightly with a ribband, in his hands, pulling at the short lengths of
hair which projected beyond the knot. They broke very easily, with an odd,
soft snap.
"It is worth nothing at all," said the barber decisively. "It is a pity,
for it is a very pretty colour."
Vjera started, and steadied herself against the back of the professional
chair which stood by the table.
"Nothing?" she repeated, half stupid with the pain of her disappointment.
"Nothing? not even fifteen marks?"
"Nothing. It is rotten, and could not be worked. The hairs break like
glass."
Vjera pressed her left hand to her side as though something hurt her. The
tadpole youth grinned idiotically and the barber seemed anxious to end the
interview.
With a look of broken-hearted despair the girl turned to the table and
began to do up her parcel again. Her shawl fell to the ground as she
moved. Then the tadpole nudged his employer and pointed at Vjera's long,
red-brown braid, and grinned again from ear to ear.
"Is it fifteen marks that you want?" asked the man.
"Fifteen--yes--I must have fifteen," repeated Vjera in dull tones.
"I will give it to you for your own hair," said the barber with a short
laugh.
"For my own?" cried Vjera, suddenly turning round. It had never occurred
to her that her own tress could be worth anything. "For my own?" she
repeated as though not believing her ears.
"Yes--let me see," said the man. "Turn your head again, please. Let me
see. Yes, yes, it is good hair of the kind, though it has not the gold
lights in it that the other had. But, to oblige you, I will give you
fifteen for it."
"But I must have the money now," said Vjera, suspiciously. "You must give
me the money now, to take with me. I cannot wait."
The barber smiled, and produced a gold piece and five silver ones.
"You may hold the money in your hand," he said, offering it to her, "while
you sit down and I do the work."
Vjera clutched the coins fiercely and placed herself in the big chair
before the mirror. She could see in the glass that her eyes were on fire.
The barber loosened a screw in the back of the seat and removed the block
with the cushion, handing it to his assistant.
"The scissors, and a comb, Anton," he said briskly, lifting at the same
time the heavy tress and judging its weight. The reflection of the steel
flashed in the mirror, as the artist quickly opened and shut the scissors,
with that peculiar shuffling jingle which only barbers can produce.
"Wait a minute!" cried Vjera, with sudden anxiety, and turning her head as
though to draw away her hair from his grasp. "One minute--please--fifteen
and thirty-five are really fifty, are they not?"
The tadpole began to count on his fingers, whispering audibly.
"Yes," answered the barber. "Fifteen and thirty-five are fifty."
The tadpole desisted, having already got into mathematical difficulties in
counting from one hand over to the other.
"Then cut it off quickly, please!" said poor Vjera, settling herself in
the chair again, and giving her head to the shears.
In the silence that followed, only the soft jingle of the scissors was
heard.
"There!" exclaimed the hairdresser, holding up a hand-mirror behind her.
"I have been generous, you see. I have not cut it very short. See for
yourself."
"Thank you," said Vjera. "You are very kind." She saw nothing, indeed, but
she was satisfied, and rose quickly.
She tied up the limp parcel with the same old piece of faded ribband, and
a little colour suddenly came into her face as she pressed it to her
bosom. All at once, she lost control of herself, and with a sharp sob the
tears gushed out. She stooped a little and drew her shawl over her head to
hide her face. The tears wet her hands and the brown paper, and fell down
to the greasy marble floor of the shop.
"It will grow again very soon," said the barber, not unkindly. He
supposed, naturally enough, that she was weeping over her sacrifice.
"Oh no! It is not that!" she cried. "I am so--so happy to have kept this!"
Then, without another word, she slipped noiselessly out into the street,
clasping the precious relic to her breast.
CHAPTER XI.
"I have got it--I have got it all!" cried Vjera, as she came up with
Schmidt on the pavement. His quick eye caught sight of the parcel, only
half hidden by her shawl.
"But you have brought the hair away with you," he said, in some anxiety,
and fearing a mistake or some new trouble.
"Yes," she answered. "That is the best of it." Her tears had disappeared
as suddenly as they had come, and she could now hardly restrain the
nervous laughter that rose to her lips.
"But how is that?" asked Schmidt, stopping.
"I gave them my own," she laughed, hysterically. "I gave them my
own--instead. Quick, quick--there is no time to lose. Is it an hour yet,
since I left him?" She ran along, and Schmidt found it hard to keep beside
her without running, too. At last he broke into a sort of jog-trot. In
five minutes they were at the door of the café.
The Count was sitting at a small table near the door, an empty coffee-cup
before him, staring with a fixed look at the opposite wall. There were few
people in the place, as the performances at the theatres had already
begun. Vjera entered alone.
"I have brought you the money," she said, joyfully, as she stood beside
him and laid a hand upon his arm to attract his attention, for he had not
noticed her coming.
"The money?" he said, excitedly. "The fifty marks? You have got it?"
She sat down at the table, and began to count the gold and silver,
producing it from her pocket in instalments of four or five coins, and
making little heaps of them before him.
"It is all there--every penny of it," she said, counting the piles again.
The poor man's eyes seemed starting from his head, as he leaned eagerly
forward over the money.
"Is it real? Is it true?" he asked in a low voice. "Oh, Vjera, do not
laugh at me--is it really true, child?"
"Really true--fifty marks." Her pale face beamed with pleasure. "And now
you can go and pay Fischelowitz at once," she added.
But he leaned back a moment in his chair, looking at her intently. Then
his eyes grew moist, and, when he spoke, his voice quivered.
"May God forgive me for taking it of you," he said. "You have saved me,
Vjera--saved my honour, my life--all. God bless you, dear, God bless you!
I am very, very thankful."
He put the coins carefully together and wrapped them in his silk
handkerchief, and rose from his seat. He had already paid for his cup of
coffee. They went out together. The Cossack had disappeared.
"You have saved my life and my honour--my honour and my life," repeated
the Count, softly and dwelling on the words in a dreamy way.
"I will wait outside," said Vjera as they reached the tobacconist's shop,
a few seconds later.
The Count turned to her and laid both hands upon her shoulders, looking
into her face.
"You cannot understand what you have done for me," he said earnestly.
He stooped, for he was much taller than she, and closing his tired eyes
for a moment, he pressed his lips upon her waxen forehead. Before he had
seen the bright blush that glowed in her cheeks, he had entered the shop.
Akulina was seated in one corner, apparently in a bad humour, for her dark
face was flushed, and her small eyes looked up savagely at the Count. Her
husband was leaning over the counter, smoking and making a series of
impressions in violet ink upon the back of an old letter, with an
india-rubber stamp in which the word "Celebrated Manufactory" held a
prominent place. He nodded familiarly.
"Herr Fischelowitz," said the Count, regaining suddenly his dignity of
manner and bearing, "in the course of the conversation last evening, I
said that I would to-day refund the fifty marks which you once lent to
that atrocious young man who wore green glasses. I daresay you remember
the circumstance?"
"I had quite forgotten it," said Fischelowitz. "Please do not allow it to
trouble you, my dear Count. I never considered you responsible for it, and
of course you cannot--"
"It is a shame!" Akulina broke in, angrily. "You ought to make him pay it
out of what he earns, since he took the Gigerl!"
"Madam," said the Count, addressing her with great civility, "if it is
agreeable to you, we will not discuss the matter. I only reminded Herr
Fischelowitz of what took place because--"
"Because you have no money--of course!" interrupted Akulina.
"On the contrary, because I have brought the money, and shall be obliged
to you if you will count it."
Akulina's jaw dropped, and Fischelowitz looked up in amazement. The Count
produced his knotted handkerchief and laid it on the table.
"I only wish you to understand," he said, speaking to Akulina, "that when
a gentleman gives his word he keeps it. Will you do me the favour to count
the money?"
"Of course, it is no business of ours to find out how he got it," observed
Akulina, rising and coming forward.
"None whatever, madam," answered the Count, spreading out the coins which
had been collected by loving hands from so many sources. "The only
question is, to ascertain whether there are fifty marks here or not."
Fischelowitz stood looking on. He had not yet recovered from his surprise,
and was half afraid that there might be something wrong. But the practical
Akulina lost no time in assuring herself that the sum was complete. As she
realised this fact, her features relaxed into a pleasant smile.
"Well, Count," she said, "we are very much obliged to you for this. It is
very honest of you, for of course, you were not exactly called upon--"
"I understood you to say that I was," replied the Count, gravely.
"Oh, that was yesterday, and I am very sorry if I annoyed you. But let
bygones be bygones! I hope there is no ill-will between us?"
"Oh, none at all," returned the other indifferently. "I have the honour to
wish you a very good evening." Without waiting for more, the Count bowed
and left the shop.
"Akulina," said Fischelowitz, thoughtfully, as the door closed, "that man
is a gentleman, say what you please."
"A pretty gentleman," laughed Akulina, putting the money into the till. "A
gentleman indeed--why, look at his coat!"
"And you are a fool, Akulina," added Fischelowitz, handling his
india-rubber stamp.
"Thank you; but for my foolery you would be fifty marks poorer to-night,
Christian Gregorovitch. A gentleman, pah!"
The Count had drawn Vjera's willing arm through his, and they were walking
slowly away together.
"I must be going home," she said, reluctantly. "The little sister will be
crying for me. I cannot leave her any longer."
"Not till I have thanked you, dear," he answered, pressing her arm to his
side. "But I will go with you to your door, and thank you all the
way--though the way is far too short for all I have to say."
"I have done nothing--it has really cost me nothing." Vjera squeezed her
limp parcel under her shawl, and felt that she was speaking the truth.
"I cannot believe that, Vjera," said the Count. "You could not have found
so much money so quickly, without making some great sacrifice. But I will
give it back to you--"
"Oh no--no," she cried, earnestly. "Make no promises to me. Think what
this promise has cost you. When you have the money, you may give it back
if you choose--but it would make me so unhappy if you promised."
"Would it, child? And yet, my friends are waiting for me, and they have
money for me, too. Then, I will only say that I will give it back to you
as soon as possible. Is that right?"
"Yes--and nothing more than that. And as for thanking me--what have I done
that needs thanks? Would you not have done as much for me if--if, for
instance, I had been ill, and could not pay the rent of the room? And
then--think of the happiness I have had!"
The words were spoken so simply and it was so clear that they were true,
that the Count found it hard to answer. Not because he had nothing to
express, but because the words for the expression could not be found.
Again he pressed her arm.
"Vjera," he said, when they had walked some distance farther, "it is of no
use to speak of this. There is that between you and me which makes speech
contemptible and words ridiculous. There is only one thing that I can do,
Vjera dearest. I can love you, dear, with all my heart. Will you take my
love for thanks--and my devotion for gratitude? Will you, dear? Will you
remember what you promised and what I promised last night? As soon as all
is right, to-morrow, will you be my wife?"
"If it could ever be!" sighed the poor girl, recalled suddenly to the
remembrance of his pitiful infirmity.
"It can be, it shall be and it will be," he answered in tones of
conviction. "They are waiting for me now, Vjera, in my little room--but
they may wait, for I will not lose a moment of your dear company for them
all. They are waiting for me with the money and the papers and the orders.
I have waited long for them, they can afford to have a little patience
now. And to-morrow, at this time, we shall be together, Vjera, in the
train--I will have a special carriage for you and me, and then, a night
and a day and another night and we shall be at home--for ever. How happy
we shall be! Will you not be happy with me, darling? Why do you sigh?"
"Did I sigh?" asked Vjera, trying to laugh a little.
He hardly noticed the question, but began to talk again, as he had talked
on the previous evening, describing all that he meant to do, and all that
they would do together. Vjera heard and tried not to listen. Her joy was
all gone. The great, overwhelming pleasure she had felt in dispelling his
anxiety and in averting what had seemed a near and terrible catastrophe,
gave place to the old, heartrending pity for him, as he rambled on in his
delusion. She had hoped that, as it was late on Wednesday evening, the
time of it was passed and that, for another week, he would talk no more of
his friends and his money and his return to fortune. But the fixed idea
was there still, as dominant as ever. Her light tread grew weary and her
head sank forward as she walked. For one short hour she had felt the glory
of sacrificing all she had to give, to her love. Are there many who have
felt as much, with as good reason, in a whole lifetime?
But the hour was gone, taking with it the reality and leaving in its place
a memory, fair, brilliant, and dear as the tress of golden hair Vjera was
carrying home in her parcel, but as useless perhaps and as valueless in
the world of realities as that had proved to be.
They reached her door and stopped in their walk. She looked up sadly into
his eyes, as she held out her hand. He hesitated a moment, and then threw
both his arms round her and drew her to his heart and kissed her
passionately again and again. She tried to draw back.
"Oh no, no!" she cried. "It cannot be so to-morrow--why should you kiss me
to-day?" But he would not let her go. She loved him, though she knew he
was mad, and she let her head fall upon his shoulder, and allowed herself
to believe in love for a moment.
Suddenly she felt that he was startled by something.
"Vjera!" he cried. "Have you cut off your beautiful hair? What have you
done, child? How could you do it?"
"It was so heavy," she said, looking up with a bright smile. "It made my
head ache--it is best so."
But he was not satisfied, for he guessed something of the truth, and the
pain and horror that thrilled him told him that he had guessed rightly.
"You have cut it off--and you have sold it--you have sold your hair for
me--" he stammered in a broken voice.
She hung her head a little.
"I always meant to cut it off. I did not care for it, you know. And
besides," she added, suddenly looking up again, "you will not love me
less, will you? They said it would grow again--you will not love me less?"
"Love you less? Ah, Vjera, that promise I may make at least--never--to the
end of ends!"
"And yet," she answered, "if it should all be true--if it only should--you
could not--oh, I should not be worthy of you--you could never marry me."
The Count drew back a step and held out his right hand, with a strangely
earnest look in his weary eyes. She laid her fingers in his almost
unconsciously. Then, as though he were in a holy place, he took off his
hat, and stood bareheaded before her.
"If I forsake you, Vjera," he said very solemnly, "if I forsake you ever,
in riches or in poverty, in honour or in disrepute, may the God of heaven
forsake me in the hour of my death."
He swore the great oath deliberately, in a strong, clear voice, and then
was silent for a moment, his eyes turned upwards, his attitude unchanged.
Then he raised the poor girl's thin hand to his lips and kissed it, three
times, reverently, as devout persons kiss the relics of departed saints.
"Good-night, Vjera," he said, quietly. "We shall meet to-morrow."
Vjera was awed by his solemn earnestness, and strongly moved by his
action.
"Good-night," she answered, lovingly. "Heaven bless you and keep you
safe." She looked for a last time into his face, as though trying to
impress upon her mind the memories of that fateful evening, and then she
withdrew into the house, shutting the street door behind her.
The Count stood still for several minutes, unconsciously holding his hat
in his hand. At last he covered his head and walked slowly away in the
direction of his home. By degrees his mind fell into its old groove and he
hastened his steps. From time to time, he fancied that some one was
following him at no great distance, but though he glanced quickly over his
shoulder he saw no one in the dimly-lighted street. The door of the house
in which he lived was open, and he ran up the stairs at a great pace, sure
that by this time his friends must be waiting for him in his room. When he
reached it, all was dark and quiet. The echo of his own footsteps seemed
still to resound in the staircase as he closed his door and struck a
match. He found his small lamp in a corner, lighted it with some
difficulty, set it on the table and sat down. There, beside him, propped
up against two books, was the piece of paper on which he had written the
few words for his friends, in case they came while he was out. He took it
up, looked over it absently and began to fold it upon itself again and
again.
"Dear Vjera!" he exclaimed, in a low caressing tone, as he smoothed the
folded strip between his fingers.
He was thinking, and thinking connectedly, of all that had just taken
place, and wondering how it was that he had been able to accept such a
sacrifice from one so little able to sacrifice anything. It seemed as
though it should have been impossible for him to let the poor little
shell-maker take upon herself his burden, and free him of it and set him
right again in his own eyes.
"I know that I love her now," he said to himself.
And he was right. There are secret humiliations to which no man would
submit, as such, but from which love, when it is real, can take away the
sting and the poison. The man of heart, who does not love but is loved in
spite of himself, fears to accept a sacrifice, lest in so doing he should
seem to declare his readiness to do as he is done by, from like motives.
But when love is on both sides there is no such drawing back from love's
responsibilities. The sacrifice is accepted not only with gratitude, but
with joy, as a debt of which the repayment by sacrifice again constitutes
in itself a happiness. And thus, perhaps, it is that they love best who
love in sorrow and in want, in worldly poverty and in distress of soul,
for they alone can know what joy it is to receive, and what yet infinitely
greater joy lies in giving all when all is sorely needed.
But as the Count dwelt on the circumstances he saw also what it was that
Vjera had done, and he wondered how she could have found the strength to
do it. He did not, indeed, say to himself that for his sake she had parted
with her only beauty, for he had never considered whether she were
good-looking or not. The bond between them was of a different nature, and
would not have been less strong had Vjera been absolutely ugly instead of
being merely, what is called, plain. He would have loved her as well, had
she been a cripple, or deformed, just as she loved him in spite of his
madness. But he knew well enough how women, even the most wretched, value
their hair when it is beautiful, what care they bestow upon it and what
consolation they derive from the rich, silken coil denied to fairer women
than themselves. There is something in the thought of cutting off the
heavy tress and selling it which appeals to the pity of most people, and
which, to women themselves, is full of horror. A man might have felt the
same in those days when long locks were the distinctive outward sign of
nobility in man, and perhaps the respect of that obsolete custom has left
in the minds of most people a sort of unconscious tradition. However that
may be, we all feel that in one direction, at least, a woman's sacrifice
can go no further than in giving her head to the shears.
The longer the Count thought of this, the more his gratitude increased,
and the more fully he realised at what great cost poor Vjera had saved him
from what he considered the greatest conceivable dishonour, from the shame
of breaking his word, no matter under what conditions it had been given.
He could, of course, repay her the money, so soon as his friends arrived,
but by no miracle whatever could he restore to her head the only beauty it
had ever possessed. He had scarcely understood this at first, for he had
been confused and shaken by the many emotions which had in succession
played upon his nervous mind and body during the past twenty-four hours.
But now he saw it all very clearly. He had taken only money, which he
would be able to restore; she had given a part of herself, irrevocably.
So deeply absorbed was he in his thoughts that the clocks struck many
successive quarters without rousing him from his reverie, or suggesting
again to him the fixed idea by which his life was governed on that day of
the week. But as midnight drew near, the prolonged striking of the bells
at every quarter at last attracted his attention. He started suddenly and
rose from his seat, trying to count the strokes, but he had not heard the
first ones and was astray in his reckoning. It was very late, that was
certain, and not many minutes could elapse before the door would open and
his friends would enter. He hastily smoothed his hair, looked to the flame
of his bright little lamp and made a trip of inspection round the room.
Everything was in order. He was almost glad that they were to come at
night, for the lamplight seemed to lend a more cheerful look to the room.
The Turkey-red cotton counterpane on the bed looked particularly well, the
Count thought. During the next fifteen minutes he walked about, rubbing
his hands softly together. At the first stroke of the following quarter he
stood still and listened intently.
Four quarters struck, and then the big bell began to toll the hour. It
must be eleven, he thought, as he counted the strokes. Eleven--twelve--he
started, and turned very white, but listened still, for he knew that he
should hear another clock striking in a few seconds. As the strokes
followed each other, his heart beat like a fulling-hammer, giving a
succession of quick blows, and pausing to repeat the rhythmic tattoo more
loudly and painfully than before. Ten--eleven--twelve--there was no
mistake. The day was over. It was midnight, and no one had come. The room
swam with him.
Then, as in a vision of horror, he saw himself standing there, as he had
stood many times before, listening for the last stroke, and suddenly
awaking from the dream to the crushing disappointment of the reality. For
one brief and terrible moment his whole memory was restored to him and he
knew that his madness was only madness, and nothing more, and that it
seized him in the same way, week by week, through the months and the
years, leaving him thus on the stroke of twelve each Wednesday night, a
broken, miserable, self-deceived man. As in certain dreams, we dream that
we have dreamed the same things before, so with him an endless calendar of
Wednesdays was unrolled before his inner sight, all alike, all ending in
the same terror of conscious madness.
He had dreamed it all, there was no one to come to him in his distress, no
one would ever enter that lonely room to bring back to him the treasures
of a glorious past, for there was no one to come. It had all been a dream
from beginning to end and there was no reality in it.
He staggered to his chair and sat down, pressing his lean hands to his
aching temples and rocking himself to and fro, his breath hissing through
his convulsively closed teeth. Still the fearful memory remained, and it
grew into a prophetic vision of the future, reflecting what had been upon
the distant scenery of what was yet to be. With that one deadly stroke of
the great church bell, all was gone--fortune, friends, wealth, dignity.
The majestic front of the palace of his hopes was but a flimsy, painted
tissue. The fire that ran through his tortured brain consumed the gaudy,
artificial thing in the flash and rush of a single flame, and left behind
only the charred skeleton framework, which had supported the vast canvas.
And then, he saw it again and again looming suddenly out of the darkness,
brightening into beauty and the semblance of strength, to be as suddenly
destroyed once more. With each frantic beat of his heart the awful
transformation was renewed. For dreams need not time to spin out their
intolerable length. With each burning throb of his raging blood, every
nerve in his body, every aching recess of his brain, was pierced and
twisted, and pierced again with unceasing agony.
Then a new horror was added to the rest. He saw before him the poor Polish
girl, her only beauty shorn away for his sake, he saw all that he had
promised in return, and he knew that he had nothing to give her, nothing,
absolutely, save the crazy love of a wretched madman. He could not even
repay her the miserable money which had cost her so dear. Out of his
dreams of fortune there was not so much as a handful of coin left to give
the girl who had given all she had, who had sold her hair to save his
honour. With frightful vividness the truth came over him. That honour of
his, he had pledged it in the recklessness of his madness. She had saved
it out of love, and he had not even--but no--there was a new memory
there--love he had for her, passionate, tender, true, a love that had not
its place among the terrors of the past. But--was not this a new dream, a
new delusion of his shaken brain? And if he loved her, was it not yet more
terrible to have deceived the loved one, more monstrous, more infamous,
more utterly damnable? The figure of her rose before him, pitiful, thin,
weak, with outstretched hands and trusting eyes--and he had taken of her
all she had. Neither heart, nor body, nor brain could bear more.
"Vjera! God! Forgive me!" With the cry of a breaking heart the poor Count
fell forward from his seat and lay in a heap, motionless upon the floor.
Only his stiffening fingers, crooked and contorted, worked nervously for a
few minutes, scratching at the rough boards. Then all was quite still in
the little room.
There was a noise outside, and some one opened the door. The Cossack stood
upon the threshold, holding his hand up against the lamp, for he was
dazzled as he entered from the outer darkness of the stairs. He looked
about, and at first saw nothing, for the Count had fallen in the shadow of
the table.
Then, seeing where he lay, Johann Schmidt came forward and knelt down, and
with some difficulty turned his friend upon his back.
"Dead--poor Count!" he exclaimed in a low voice, bending down over the
ghastly face.
The pale eyes were turned upward and inward, and the forehead was damp.
Schmidt unbuttoned the threadbare coat from the breast. There was no
waistcoat under it--nothing but a patched flannel shirt. A quantity of
papers were folded neatly in a flat package in the inner pocket. Schmidt
put down his head and listened for the beatings of the heart.
"So it is over!" he said mournfully, as he straightened himself upon his
knees. Then he took one of the extended hands in his, and pressed it, and
looked into the poor man's face, and felt the tears coming into his eyes.
"You were a good man," he said in sorrowful tones, "and a brave man in
your way, and a true gentleman--and--I suppose it was not your fault if
you were mad. Heaven give you peace and rest!"
He rose to his feet, debating what he should do.
"Poor Vjera!" he sighed. "Poor Vjera--she will go next!"
Once more, he looked down, and his eye caught sight of the papers
projecting from the inner pocket of the coat, which was still open and
thrown back upon the floor. It has been noticed more than once that Johann
Schmidt was a man subject to attacks of quite irresistible curiosity. He
hesitated a moment, and then came to the conclusion that he was as much
entitled as any one else to be the Count's executor.
