"No, I won't."
Fred was convinced that the passenger had secreted the package, and was
scheming to cheat him out of the dime. He was a boy of spirit, and he
did not propose to be swindled.
"Sir," he said in a louder tone, "I am a poor boy trying to earn an
honest living. If you don't pay for this package I shall have to."
"That is none of my business. I shall not pay for what I haven't got.
Boy, you are very impertinent. I shall report you to the president of
the road."
"You may do so if you want to. I can't afford to give away my stock in
trade."
"Boy," interposed a pompous gentleman sitting opposite, "I quite agree
with this gentleman. You are not employed to insult passengers."
"Or to be cheated by them," said Fred hotly.
"If you treated me in this way, I would make it my business to have you
discharged."
"Even if I was right?"
"Of course you are not right. This gentleman's word outweighs yours."
"Why should it?"
"He is a respectable gentleman, and you are only a poor train boy."
"That may be, sir, but I always tell the truth."
"Like George Washington," sneered the stout gentleman.
Fred felt that he was losing his case, and the mean passenger smiled
with satisfaction. But his triumph was short-lived. The train boy found
an unexpected defender.
"The boy is right," said a young lady sitting directly behind the
passenger with whom Fred had his difficulty. "I saw this man take the
package and put it in his pocket. I have waited with some curiosity to
see whether he would persist in his attempt to cheat the boy out of his
money."
There was an instant revulsion of feeling. The attempted swindler
looked as if a bombshell had exploded at his feet.
"There is some error," he stammered. "The young lady is mistaken."
"I am not mistaken," said the young lady positively "If this man will
allow his pockets to be examined, the package will be found."
The man rose from his seat and prepared to leave the car.
"I ain't used to being insulted," he said.
"Gentlemen," said the young lady, "you have only to look at this man's
side-pocket to see that it contains the package."
The passenger wore a sack coat, and it was plain to all that the young
lady was right.
"I will pay for the package if the passenger is not honest enough to do
it himself."
"No, miss," said a rough-looking man who looked like a western miner.
"This man must pay, or I'll pitch him out of the car myself."
"I think you had better pay, sir," said the pompous looking man with an
air of disgust. "I took your part, because I supposed you were a
gentleman."
The other, without a word, drew out a dime from his pocket and handed
it to Fred. Then, looking very ill at ease, he left the car hurriedly,
and went as far forward as possible.
"Do you have many experiences like this?" asked the young lady, with a
smile.
"Yes, miss, quite frequently," aid Fred, "and it isn't the poor
passengers that try to cheat me. Sometimes I travel on emigrant trains,
but I never lost a cent by an emigrant. It is those who are able to
pay, like this man, who try to take advantage of me."
"Do you make good pay?"
"I average about a dollar a day."
"I suppose that is fair pay for a boy of your age."
"Yes, it is; but I need it all. I have a mother and brother to
support."
"Have you, indeed?" said the young lady sympathetically. "You can't all
three live on six dollars a week."
"Mother earns a little by sewing, but that isn't paid very well."
"Very true. So you sometimes get into difficulties?"
"We are in difficulties now. The rent is due, and we lack three dollars
to make it up."
"That is easily remedied," said the young lady. "It is my birthday
to-day, and I shall allow myself the luxury of doing good. Here are five
dollars which you will use to pay the landlord."
"Thank you, miss," said Fred gladly. "You have lifted a weight from my
mind. Our landlord is a strict man, and I was afraid we would be turned
out on the street."
"Miss, will you let me shake hands with you? You're a trump!"
It was the western miner who spoke, and he had come forward impulsively
from his seat, and was extending a rough, sunburned hand to the young
lady.
She did not hesitate a moment, but with a pleasant smile placed her
hand in his.
"I wish all high-toned gals was like you, miss," said the miner, as he
shook her hand heartily.
"I am sure you would do the same, sir," said Isabel Archer.
"Yes, I would, and I meant to if you hadn't got the start of me. You'll
excuse the liberty I took," said the miner.
"Oh, yes, certainly."
"I'm a rough miner, but----"
"You are a kind-hearted man. You may hereafter have it in your power to
help the boy."
"So I can," and the miner retreated to his seat.
Arrived at the Erie depot, Fred found his little brother waiting for
him.
"Oh, Fred," he said, "I hope you've got money for the rent. The
landlord said he would turn us out at seven o'clock if we didn't pay."
"And I am a little late," said Fred, anxiously.
"Let me go with you!" said the miner, "I want to see what sort of a
critter your landlord is. The mean scoundrel! It would do me good to
shake him out of his boots."
Zebulon Mack and his assistant had just succeeded in placing the bureau
on the sidewalk when Fred and his mining friend turned the corner of
the street.
"There's mother's bureau!" exclaimed Fred in excitement. "He's begun to
move us out."
"He has, hey?" said Sloan the miner. "We'll soon stop that."
"What are you doing here?" demanded Fred, hurrying up.
Zebulon Mack turned round, and eyed the boy with an ugly frown.
"I told your mother I'd move her out, and I've done it."
"Why didn't you wait for me? I've got the money."
"You have?"
"Yes, I have."
"Pay it over, then."
Fred was about to do so when the miner interposed.
"Don't pay him till he carries back the bureau!" said Sloan.
"You and your friend can do that!" said the landlord.
"If you don't catch hold of that bureau and take it back I'll wring
your neck, you mean scoundrel!" said the miner sternly.
Zebulon Mack looked into the miner's face and thought it wisest to
obey.
"Here, Finnegan!" he said sullenly. "Take hold, and don't be all night
about it."
When the bureau was in place, Fred, who had changed the five-dollar
bill, handed Mr. Mack the three dollars.
"Now, my friend," said the miner, "you can reckon up how much you made
by your meanness. You and that understrapper of yours must enjoy moving
bureaus. I only wish you'd got down the rest of the furniture, so that
I might have the satisfaction of seeing you carry it back."
The landlord glared at Tom Sloan as if he would like to tear him to
pieces. But he took it out in looks.
"Good night, sir," said the miner, "we don't care to have the pleasure
of your company any longer."
"I'll be even with you for all this," growled Mack.
"Don't feel bad, squire. You've got your money."
"Mother," said Fred, "this is my friend, Mr. Sloan."
"I am glad to see any friend of my boy," said Mrs. Fenton. "Won't you
stay and take supper with Fred?"
"I'd like to, ma'am, if it won't be intruding."
"Not at all," said Fred cordially. "I've had luck to-day, mother. A
beautiful young lady gave me five dollars."
"God bless her!" said Mrs. Fenton. "She couldn't have given it at a
better time."
CHAPTER VI.
MR. BASCOM'S PERIL.
Tom Sloan made himself very much at home with the Fentons. The widow
sent out for a steak, and this, with a cup of tea and some fresh rolls,
furnished a plain but excellent repast.
"I haven't eaten so good a supper for a long time," said the miner. "It
seems just like the suppers I used to get at home in Vermont."
"It was very plain," said Mrs. Fenton, "but probably you had a good
appetite."
"You are right there, ma'am."
Mr. Sloan remained chatting for a couple of hours. He told his new
friends that he had been away two years, spending the time in Nevada
and California.
"I hope you have had good luck, Mr. Sloan," said Fred.
"Yes, I've made a few thousand dollars, but I'm going back again next
month."
"To California?"
"No, to Colorado."
Fred and his mother exchanged looks.
"My father left us some land in Colorado," said the train boy--"a
hundred and twenty-five acres--but we can't find out whether it has any
value or not."
"Let me know where it is," said the miner, "and I'll find out and send
you word."
"Thank you! It will be a great favor," said Mrs. Fenton warmly. "A
cousin of my husband went out there three months since, and visited the
land. He reports that it is of no value, but offers to buy it for
twenty-five dollars. Fred thinks he wouldn't make the offer if it was
not worth a good deal more."
"That's where Fred's head is level. Depend upon it your cousin is foxy
and wants to take you in. I'll tell you just how the matter stands."
Mrs. Fenton produced her husband's papers, and Mr. Sloan made an entry
of the location in a small note-book which he carried.
"Don't worry about it any more, ma'am,'" he said. "I'll do all I can
for you, and I hope for your sake there's a gold mine on the land."
Mrs. Fenton smiled.
"I shall be satisfied with less than that," she answered.
"How long are you going to stay in New York?" asked Fred.
"I am going to Vermont to-morrow, and, likely as not I shan't come back
this way, but go West from Boston. Anyway you'll hear from me
occasionally. I ain't much of a writer, but I guess you can make out my
pot-hooks."
"I'll take the risk, Mr. Sloan," said Fred, "I am no writing master
myself, but my little brother Albert can draw nicely, and writes a
handsome hand. Bertie, bring your last writing-book."
The little boy did so, and exhibited it to the miner.
"Why, the kid beats my old teacher all hollow," said Sloan. "I've a
great mind to take him with me to Vermont, and have him start a writing
school."
"I'm afraid Albert couldn't keep order among the big boys."
"Well, there might be some trouble that way. How much do you weigh,
kid?"
"Ninety pounds," answered Albert.
"Well, that isn't exactly a heavy weight. But, Fred, I must be going
out and finding a room somewhere. Do you know of any good place?"
"There's a hotel close by. I'll go with you."
"Good evening, ma'am," said the miner, as he rose to go. "I may not see
you again just at present, but I'll look after that business of yourn.
Come here, kid, you ought to get a prize for your writing. Here's
something for you," and he handed the delighted boy a five-dollar gold
piece.
"Oh, ma, now may I have a new suit?" asked Albert.
"If you want a new suit," said the miner, "I haven't given you enough.
Here's another five to help along."
"You are very kind, sir," said Mrs. Fenton. "Albert is really in need
of clothes, and this will buy him something more than a suit."
"All the better, ma'am. I'm glad to have the chance of doing a little
good with my money."
"I wish all who have money were like you. I wish you health and good
fortune, and a safe return to your friends."
"Those are three good things, ma'am. If I get there I won't kick."
"Do you ever kick?" asked Albert, puzzled.
"I see you don't understand me, kid. It's a slang term we miners use. I
won't complain. That's a little better English, isn't it?"
Fred conducted Mr. Sloan to the hotel nearby and saw him secure a good
room. Then he was about to retire.
"Hold on a minute!" said the miner. "Come up to my room. I want to talk
a little to you on business."
"Certainly, Mr. Sloan."
Reaching the chamber, the miner unbuckled a belt that spanned his
waist, and drew therefrom a large sum in gold pieces. He counted out
five double eagles--a hundred dollars--and turning to Fred, said: "I
want you to keep that money for me till I come back."
"But, Mr. Sloan," said Fred surprised, "why not leave it with your
other money? I might lose it."
"I want you to put it in some savings bank in your own name, and, if
you need it, to draw out any part of it. I don't want that mean scamp,
the landlord, to get a chance to turn you out into the street."
"But I might not be able to pay it back, Mr. Sloan."
"I'll take the risk. I lend it to you without interest for a year, and
if you have to use any of it I won't sue you."
"You are very kind! It will make me feel much more easy in mind. I
wouldn't mind being turned into the street on my own account, but
mother couldn't stand it."
"Just so, Fred. You've got a good mother, and you must look out for
her."
"I don't often meet a good friend like you, Mr. Sloan."
"Oh, pshaw! you mustn't make too much of a little thing," said the
miner modestly. "I'm only giving you the interest on a hundred
dollars."
Fred walked slowly homeward, feeling very cheerful. He hoped he should
not need to use any of Mr. Sloan's kind loan, but it gave him a feeling
of relief to know that he had a fund to draw from in case of need.
On his way home, in passing a drinking saloon, Fred's attention was
drawn to two men who came out, arm in arm, both of whom appeared to be
under the influence of liquor. Something in the dress and figure of one
looked familiar. Coming closer Fred recognized his country friend,
Joshua Bascom.
"What, Mr. Bascom! Is this you?"
"Why, it's Fred!" said Bascom stopping short and trying to stand erect.
"Oh, come along!" said his companion impatiently.
"No, I want to see the train boy. Good night, old fellow!"
The other angrily protested against being shaken off, but Joshua
dropped his arm, and took Fred's instead.
"How came you with that man?" asked Fred.
"He's a jolly, sociable chap. Wanted to take me to a little card party,
but I guess it's too late."
"Did he meet you in the saloon?"
"No; he took me in there, and treated me to three glasses of milk
punch. I guess it's got into my head. Do you think I am--intoxicated,
Fred?"
"It looks very much like it, Mr. Bascom."
"I hope they won't hear of it at home. Dad would get the minister to
come and give me a talkin' to."
"I hope this stranger didn't get any of your money?"
"No; he wouldn't let me pay for a thing."
"He meant to get the money back. He was carrying you to some gambling
house, where he would have won all your money."
"You don't say!" exclaimed Joshua, panic-stricken. "I thought he was a
nice fellow."
"Be careful how you trust strangers, and don't go to any more drinking
saloons!"
"I won't," said Mr. Bascom, fervently.
"I will take you to your room, and you had better take a good long
sleep. If you want to go round, I'll call to-morrow evening, and go to
some place of amusement with you."
"I think Mr. Bascom had better go back to his farm soon," thought Fred,
as he returned from piloting Joshua home. "If he doesn't he is likely
to get into trouble."
CHAPTER VII.
FERDINAND MORRIS.
When Ferdinand Morris left the train after robbing Joshua Bascom, as
described in the first chapter, he was in excellent spirits. He had
effected his purpose, and got off scot free. He walked briskly away
from the station at which he got out, and didn't stop to examine the
wallet till he had got half a mile away.
When he discovered that it contained only ten dollars, he was filled
with disgust.
"What could the fellow mean by coming to the city with only ten dollars
in his pocketbook?" he muttered. "It's a regular imposition. It wasn't
worth taking. Here I am, stranded in the country, and my ticket of no
value, for only ten dollars! I should like to see my rural friend's
wo-begone look when he discovers the loss of his wallet, though."
This thought helped to reconcile Morris to the situation. The picture
which he had conjured up tickled his fancy, and he laughed heartily.
But his merriment was short-lived. Incidentally he noticed the loss of
the ring, and his countenance changed.
"My ring gone!" he exclaimed. "What can have become of it? It was worth
fifty dollars at least. I must have dropped it into that fellow's
pocket when I took his wallet. That's a pretty bad exchange. What an
unlucky chap I am! I am about forty dollars out of pocket."
The satisfaction of Mr. Morris was quite destroyed. There seemed little
hope of his recovering the ring, for he could not make known its loss
without betraying himself.
"I may as well be going back to New York," he said moodily. "If I meet
that fellow again, I must get up some scheme for recovering the ring
from him. He is a countryman and I can frighten him into giving it to
me. The worst of it is, the ring is not mine, and the owner will make a
fuss about it. She is inclined to be suspicious, and I shall find it
hard work to explain."
In a house on Lexington Avenue lived a maiden lady, close upon forty
years of age, though she called herself thirty-one. Miss Josephine
Harden had been left independent through the will of an aunt who had
left her the sum of thirty-five thousand dollars. She had been for
eight years an humble attendant, subject to the numerous whims and
caprices of her relative, but two years since had been repaid by a
legacy. Ever since Miss Marden had been looking about for a suitable
matrimonial partner. There were some difficulties in the way, for she
was thin, long-nosed, and with a yellow complexion. Three impecunious
bachelors, lured by her money, had paid her some attentions, but their
courage failed at last, and they silently slunk away. At length,
however, Ferdinand Morris met Miss Harden, and conceived the idea of
marrying her for her money. When he had once got possession of her
fortune, he proposed to leave her in the lurch.
Morris was a stylish-looking man, and the spinster received his
attentions very favorably. She knew very little about him except that
he was in some mysterious business about which he did not speak
definitely, except that it required him to travel constantly. Matters
progressed until they became engaged. At this point, rather reversing
the usual order of things, Miss Marden gave her suitor the ring which
he had now lost.
"If we don't marry," she said cautiously, "I shall expect you to give
it back."
"Certainly, my dear Josephine," said Morris, "but I shall hold you to
your promise."
"You might see some girl younger and fair," said Hiss Marden coyly.
"How could that be?" said Morris with mock ardor, as he bent over her
hand and kissed it with secret facial contortions. "Do you doubt my
love?"
"I try not to, Ferdinand, but I am no longer in my first youth. I
shudder to say it I am twenty nine."
"You were two years older last week," thought Morris.
"I--I don't feel so old," said the spinster, "but I am afraid it is a
fact."
"I don't believe you will ever be forty again," thought Morris. "By the
way, Josephine, have you thought of that investment I spoke to you
about? I can get a hundred shares of mining stock for you, at five
dollars a share--the inside price--while to the general public it is
only sold at ten."
"It may be as you say, Ferdinand, but my aunt lost money in mining
stocks, and I shall hardly dare to venture."
"Confound your aunt!" said Morris to himself. "I assure you, Josephine,
this is a chance to double your money in three months."
"Have you invested in it yourself, Ferdinand?"
"Oh, yes," answered Morris, glibly, "I have a hundred and fifty
shares."
Suspicious as she was, Miss Morris believed her suitor to be a man of
means, and did not doubt his statement.
"Then I hope for your sake it will prove a good investment."
"Confound her!" thought Morris, "there seems no chance to make her open
her purse strings. She has got to come down liberally, or I won't marry
her."
It was at Miss Marden's door that Ferdinand Morris rang on the evening
after the loss of the ring. He would have kept away, but he had
promised to call, and Miss Morris was very strict in requiring him to
keep his engagements.
He had hardly entered the room when she discovered the loss of the
ring.
"What has become of the ring, Ferdinand?" she asked quickly.
"I thought you would miss it," he replied in some confusion.
"Where is it?" I asked Miss Harden peremptorily.
"Plague take the old cat," thought Morris. "I suppose I may as well
tell the truth."
"The fact is," he stammered, "it was stolen from me on an Erie train
to-day by a pickpocket."
"And you let him do it? What could you be thinking of, Ferdinand?"
"You have no idea how expert these fellows are, Josephine," said
Morris, who certainly ought to know.
"I think a man must be inexcusably careless or simple," returned the
spinster, "to allow a man to steal a ring from his finger. Do you
suspect anybody?"
"Yes; I sat beside a young man dressed up as a countryman. He was such
a good imitation, that I was positively taken in. He looked as if he
had been driving the plow all his life."
"And he stole the ring?"
"He must have done it. There was no one else near who had the chance."
"But how could he slip it off your finger without your knowing it?"
"The fact is, I fell into a doze, and when I was half asleep the ring
was taken. After he had got it he got out at some station, and I am
afraid I never shall see him again."
"I am not satisfied with your explanation, Ferdinand."
"You don't mean to say you doubt my word, Josephine?"
"I paid fifty dollars for that ring at a jeweler's on Sixth Avenue, and
I don't feel like losing so much money."
"But it is my loss, as you gave it to me."
"You forget that in case our engagement was broken, it was to be
returned."
"But you really don't think of breaking the engagement? You don't want
to drive me to despair?"
"Do you really love me so much, Ferdinand?" said the spinster, smiling
complacently.
"Can you doubt it? It makes me very unhappy to have you find fault with
me."
"But you must admit that you were very careless."
"I confess it, but the man looked so innocent."
"Do you think you shall ever meet him again?"
"I think so. He may be in another disguise."
"I will give you four weeks to do so, Ferdinand. If you don't succeed I
shall require you to buy another in its place."
"I will do my best," said Morris.
"I really thought you were sharper, Ferdinand. No pickpocket could rob
me."
"I may try it some time," thought Morris. "It would be rather a
satisfaction to do it too."
"I wonder if I shall meet that country fellow again," thought Morris as
he left the house. "If I do I'll see if I can't frighten him into
returning my ring."
The very next evening, in passing the Standard Theater, near the corner
of Thirty-Third Street Morris saw and instantly recognized the tall,
rustic figure and slouching walk of Joshua Bascom. He paused a moment
in indecision, then summoning up all his native bravado, he stepped
forward, and laid his hand on Joshua's shoulder.
"Look here, my friend," he said in tone of authority, "I have some
business with you."
CHAPTER VIII.
MR. BASCOM'S SAD PLIGHT.
Joshua turned in alarm, fearing that he was in the hands of a
policeman.
"What have I done?" he began. Then recognizing Morris, he said, "Why,
it's the man who stole my wallet."
"You must be crazy," rejoined Morris. "I charge you with theft."
"Well, that beats all!" ejaculated Joshua. "Just give me back my ten
dollars."
"I admire your cheek, my friend," said Morris, "but it won't go down.
Where is that ring you stole from my finger?"
"You left it in my pocket when you put in your hand and stole my
wallet."
"Ha, you confess that you have got it. Where is it?"
"Give me back my wallet and I may tell you."
"My rural friend, you are in great danger. Do you see that policeman
coming up the street? Well, I propose to give you in charge unless you
give me back my ring."
"I haven't got it," said Joshua, beginning to feel uneasy.
"Then give me fifty dollars, the sum I paid for it."
"Gosh all hemlock!" exclaimed Joshua impatiently. "You talk as if I was
a thief instead of you."
"So you are."
"It's a lie."
"Of course you say so. If you haven't fifty dollars, give me all you
have, and I'll let you off."
"I won't do it."
"Then you must take the consequences. Here, policeman, I give this man
in charge for stealing a valuable ring from me."
"When did he do it--just now?"
"Yes," answered Morris, with unexpected audacity. "He looks like a
countryman but he is a crook in disguise."
"Come along, my man!" said the policeman, taking Joshua in tow. "You
must come with me."
"I hain't done nothing," said Joshua. "Please let me go, Mr.
Policeman."
"That's what they all say," remarked Morris, shrugging his shoulders.
"I see, he's an old offender," said the intelligent policeman, who had
only been on the force three months.
"He's one of the most artful crooks I ever met," said Morris. "You'd
swear he was a countryman."
"So I be," insisted Joshua. "I came from Barton, up Elmira way, and
I've never been in the city before."
"Hear him!" said Morris, laughing heartily. "Ask him his name."
"My name's Joshua Bascom, and I go to the Baptist church reg'lar--just
write and ask Parson Peabody, and he'll tell you I'm perfectly
respectable."
"My friend," said Morris, "you can't fool an experienced officer by any
such rigmarole. He can read you like a book."
"Of course I can," said the policeman, who felt the more flattered by
this tribute because he was really a novice. "As this gentleman says, I
knew you to be a crook the moment I set eyes on you."
They turned the corner of Thirtieth Street on their way to the station
house. Poor Joshua felt keenly the humiliation and disgrace of his
position. It would be in all the papers, he had no doubt, for all such
items got into the home papers, and he would not dare show his face in
Barton again.
"Am I going to jail?" he asked with keen anguish.
"You'll land there shortly," said Morris.
"But I hain't done a thing."
"Is it necessary for me to go in?" asked Ferdinand Morris, with
considerable uneasiness, for he feared to be recognized by some older
member of the force.
"Certainly." replied the policeman, "you must enter a complaint against
this man."
Morris peered into the station house, but saw no officer likely to
remember him, so he summoned up all his audacity and followed the
policeman and his prisoner inside. There happened to be no other case
ahead, so Joshua was brought forward.
"What has this man done?" asked the sergeant.
"Stolen a ring from this gentleman here," answered the policeman.
"Was the ring found on his person?"
"No, sergeant. He has not been searched."
"Search me if you want to. You won't find anything," said Joshua.
"He has probably thrown it away," said Ferdinand Morris, sotto voce.
"No, I hain't."
"What is your name, sir?" asked the sergeant, addressing Morris.
"My name is Clarence Hale," answered Morris, boldly, taking the name of
a young man of respectable family whom he had met casually.
"Where do you live?"
"On Fourth Avenue, sir, near Eleventh Street."
"Do you swear that this man stole your ring?"
"Yes, sir."
"Where?"
"In front of the Standard Theater."
"How could he do it?" continued the sergeant. "He could not take it
from your hand?"
"It was in my pocket. I found him with his hand in my pocket," answered
Morris, glibly.
"By gracious!" ejaculated Joshua, his eyes distended with amazement, "I
never heard a fellow lie so slick before, in all my life."
"Silence!" said the sergeant. "Mr. Hale, will you appear to-morrow
morning at Jefferson Market, and testify against this man?"
"Yes, sir."
"Officer, have you ever arrested this man before?" went on the
sergeant.
"I'm not quite sure, sir. You see he's in disguise now. I think he's
wan of the gang."
Things began to look bad for poor Joshua, who was in a fair way to be
railroaded to the penitentiary, as no doubt more than one innocent man
has been before now, through an unfortunate complication.
"I wish I had some friend to speak up for me," he said, almost sobbing.
"This is awful!"
"So you have!" said an unexpected voice.
Joshua turned, and to his inexpressible relief saw Fred standing on the
threshold.
"It's the train boy!" he exclaimed joyfully.
Fred had set out to call upon Joshua that evening, and had chanced to
see him going into the station house with the confidence man. He had
followed to find out what it meant.
There was one who was not so well pleased to see him. Ferdinand Morris
turned pale, and tried to make his escape.
"Excuse me," he said. "I am faint, and must get out into the air."
But Fred stood in his way.
"Not so fast, Mr. Ferdinand Morris," he said. "What trick are you up to
now?"
"Do you know this man, Fred?" asked the sergeant, who had known the
train boy for three years, for he lived only one block away on the same
street.
"Yes, sir, he stole the wallet of this young man on my train on the
Erie less than a week since."
"But he said the prisoner stole his ring."
"He left the ring in Mr. Bascom's pocket, when he was feeling for the
wallet."
"This is a great mistake," said Morris, hurriedly. "I never saw this
train boy before, and haven't traveled on the Erie road for a year."
"This man is telling a falsehood," said Fred.
"Will you swear that he was on your train and robbed this countryman?"
asked the sergeant.
"Yes, sir."
"Is there any officer who recognizes him?" the sergeant inquired,
looking round the room.
"I do," answered a stout policeman, who just then entered the station
house. "I arrested him six months since, but he managed to slip away."
"The prisoner is discharged," said the sergeant. "Hold the complainant
instead."
To his great joy Joshua was set free, and Mr. Morris, alias Hale, was
collared by a policeman, though he made a desperate struggle to escape.
"I'll get even with you, boy!" said Morris savagely, addressing Fred.
"Come along, Mr. Bascom," said Fred. "I presume you don't care to stay
here any longer."
"Not if I know it," said Joshua, fervently. "If I live till to-morrow
morning, I'll start back to Barton. I've seen all I want to of York. I
won't feel safe till I get home, in sight of the old meetin' house. I
wouldn't have dad know I'd been arrested for a load of pumpkins."
CHAPTER IX.
A LONG TRIP.
Fred appeared at the depot the next morning the superintendent said to
him, "I shall have to change your train to-day. You will wait for the
nine o'clock train for Suspension Bridge."
"When shall I get there?"
The superintendent, referring to his schedule of trains, answered, "At
11.44 to-night. The boy who usually goes on this train is sick."
"When shall I return?"
"Let me see, it is Saturday. If you would like to stay over a day and
see Niagara Falls, you can do so, and start on your return Monday
morning at 8.35. How do you like the arrangement?"
"Very much. I was only thinking how I could get word to my mother. She
will feel anxious if I am not back at the usual time."
"You might send her a note by a telegraph messenger."
At this moment Fred espied a boy of his acquaintance in the street
outside.
"Here, Charlie Schaeffer," he called, "do you want to earn a quarter?"
"Yes," answered the boy quickly. "What do you want me to do?"
"Take a note to my mother."
"It'll cost me almost a quarter for expenses."
"I will pay that besides."
"All right! Give me the letter."
Fred scribbled these few lines:
DEAR MOTHER,
I am sent to Suspension Bridge and shall not probably be back till late
Monday evening, or perhaps Tuesday morning. Don't worry.
                                            FRED.
Charlie Schaeffer, a stout German boy, who was temporarily out of work,
was glad of the chance of earning a quarter for himself, and started at
once on his errand. Fred, quite elated at the prospect of seeing
