really liked. Some of the mothers have begun to confide 
their troubles to her, and they all run in the same strain. 
The husband is good enough until he gets an over-bit of 
drink in him. The son was such a fine lad, and never gave 
her a hard word until he took to the saloons. She doesn't 
wonder Ai-mitage is so bitter against it ; but Winterburne 
is never bitter. All kindly and generous thoughts have 
sui;h an authority over his soul. 
It is dusk as she walks ui> the street, past the park where 
the leafless, long-armed trees shiver in the blast ; and the 
evergreens huddle together with a sense of warmth in 
numbers alone, as they stand in darkening groups. Here 
is the cosey cottage — she shudders as she gives a thought 
to the lonely ruins of Bradley House. And where will 
Perdita keep her Christmas ? 
Mrs. Halford is delighted to see her ; these Friday even- 
ings are little festivals of entertaining gossip, and cheer 
her up immeasurably. She is not really ill, indeed she 
has improved a little of late; but she has dropped down, 
as people sometimes do at middle life, and needs that some 
one should poke the embers of interest into a continual 
blaze. 
The Disbrowes' carriage is to be sent for Eegina at seven, 
sharp. She is to wear her black-lace dress, and to have 
pink roses. But she doesn't need to dress just yet, so they 
inspect the Christmas gifts, from Miss Hilliard of course. 
Two exquisite volumes of poems for Regina and a lovely 
handkerchief, fine as a cobweb. To Mrs.' Halford a hand- 
some set of tabie-napery, and a pair of gloves, not too costly 
for the giver or the recipient. 
" You can carry your handkerchief to-night, and christen 
it," laughs Cynthia. "We shall not have many gifts, I 
suppose." 
Still, a few have been sent in, among them some elegant 
flowers. And they are to take their Christmas dinner with 
Mr. and Mrs. Sayre. 
'• How delightful ! I was wondering if we wouldn't be 
awfully stupid. Mr. Winterburne and Alice start for 
Philadelphia at nine to-morrow morning. He goes on 
some important business farther away, and they invited 
me" — Cynthia colors with conscious pleasure. 
" Cynthia ! And you cotdd have gone " — Regina 
glances at her with upbraiding eyes. 
 
"No — I couldn't. I must fix up my clothes, and get 
rested for a new campaign. And it. would have been just 
hon-id to leave you and mother aloue ; and for various 
reasons. Wait until summer, and we'll all go off together." 
Regina stoops and kisses her, as she sits on the stool on 
which her mother's feet are resting, her arms folded in her 
mother's lap. 
" Oh ! " she cries suddenly, " I forgot to mention mij 
Christmas. It is a very pretty desk, — cherry and brass, 
and handsomely appointed. But I couldn't well bring that 
home. I'll write you some notes on the paper," and she 
laughs pleasantly. 
Regina looks extremely handsome as she comes down- 
stairs, gloves in hand, and a fleecy white wrap on her arm. 
If Winterburne could see her now ! Has she not changed 
mysteriously ? That he should have this peculiar adora- 
tion for her does not in the least affect Cynthia. Hers is 
not a jealous nature ; it has more breadth than intensity. 
She would have all the world happy ; but she has learned 
in this brief while, that all are'Viot to be made happy in one 
way, and that there is a great deal of yet undiscovered joy 
in the world in spite of all the sorrow. 
Either she has grown more tolerant of Regina's sweeping 
beliefs and theories, or the elder has toned them to softer 
vibrations. She finds a new charm in Beverly. The little 
restrictions and formalism that used to bore her so have a 
new meaning. She is doing the same work on a lower 
scale, — training the ignorant and uncouth to the usages of 
beauty and harmony. There must be a certain order. She 
could not devote her whole life to the pursuit of personal 
pleasure and advancement ; but these exclusive souls serve 
to keep up a kind of beacon light, like vestals with their 
sacred lamps. ' It is better than to utter the old cry that 
all is vanity. 
The only trouble is that the days go too fast. Mrs. Half ord 
would fain keep Cynthia, with her uplifting brightness. 
"It seems to me that we have never done Cynthia quite 
justice in all things," she says softly to Regina. 
CHAPTER XXIII 
WITH EARNEST HANDS 
The web of our life is of mingled yarn, good and ill together. 
— All's Well That Ends Well. 
. The small current of improvement at Warwick is not 
allowed to flow serenely through flowering meads. When 
there is so much room for all kinds of work, it puzzles 
Cynthia that any one should, instead of taking hold in 
earnest, try to turn the poor little stream aside, to double 
it back and forth, place obstructions in the way, and pre- 
vent it from making any real advance. 
For Warwick gets in a strange ferment. The solid, slow- 
going element, the people who have lived through genera- 
tions of slothful iiiditferemie, look askance at new ideas. 
They are untried ; they may be worse. It is all on account 
of the foreign population coming in ; and why should any 
one do so much for these factory and mill hands and rough 
iron-workers ? It was not done for us, they cry. 
Even obstinately good people can block reformations. 
If you have improvements, taxes must be higher. If you 
have streets cleaned up and repaired, some one must pay 
for it. That there will be a gain in health to quite offset 
the other expense does not penetrate their slow-moving 
brains. If all this rabble had not come in, if things could 
be as they were thirty or forty years ago ! 
The question of liquor-drinking comes to be largely dis- 
cussed. There is a certain arbitrariness in taking away 
from a man the power to do what he likes. The sturdy old 
men who have lived through an era of moderate drinking, 
on certain home-brewed compounds, blame it not so much 
to the material as the innate determination of the hands to 
get drunk at all hazards, the vice they have brought from 
 
the old country. Because they have vices, let them go on 
iu their evil ways. 
Armitage teaches and preaches in his high, resolute 
fashion, and believes devoutly in "Acts of Congress." 
" We must be our own Congress," says Winterburne. 
Old Dr. Farrand, the patriarchal clergyman of the town, 
is roused by his young brother's earnestness. The reading- 
room gains a little ; there is talk now of a gymnasium. 
Armitage preaches on certain subjects given out before- 
hand, sensational say the sober-going people. 
" We must have a revival of religion," declares Dr. 
Parrand, and forthwith a house to house visitation, and 
unusual efforts are put forth. All these new beliefs have 
a dangerous look to him, and he exhorts people to turn to 
the good old ways. 
" One would almost think T was an infidel or a socialist, 
and held the most reprehensible ideas,' says Armitage to 
Cynthia one mild afternoon, as they are Walking out to- 
gether. " If people will come to hear me I shall not beg 
them to stay away." 
His fair face is flushed and his brows knit in indignant 
fervor. 
She smiles. " I begin to think people do not go back 
far enough," she says in her bright, inspiriting tone. " It 
is so simple when you do get to the foundation. 'Inas- 
much as ye have done it to the least of these,' and they go 
away and forget what is to be done. It is not splitting an 
argument as to in what manner the work shall be carried 
on, it is feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting 
the sick and in prison, the improvident, the wicked, the 
people who protest against care and cleanliness. There 
must have been a great many of them then, do you not 
think ? " smiling up in his face as the wind blows her bright 
hair about her broad temples. " It must liave taken a great 
deal of patience and love to go around even then — I sup- 
pose it didn't ever get quite around." 
For it seems to Cynthia, as much as she likes Armitage, 
and they are all very close friends, he too wants to pull the 
Stream of goodness iu the chanuol he lias walled up. "Seek 
first the kingdom of heaven," and the rest will, be added, 
but must not the seekers really know what the kingdom 
of heaven may be to them ? 
" But it is love, all of it, divine love." He looks at her 
in perplexity. 
" Then ought not love really to be made lovely ? " 
"I — I don't understand you." 
" I'm afraid heaven is too far off for most people. They 
live and suffer here, their wants are all so intensely per- 
sonal, and they come after a while to have a vague trust iu 
God because he is pitiful, and a desire for heaven because 
it is rest ; but they keep it a long way off. They are not 
going to die until the far end of life — it always looks so 
far off when one is well and strong. And I've remarked 
too," with a curious inward smile that just softens her face, 
" that the sick are always anxious to get well, and the old 
people are in no hurry to die." 
"Well — and then?" 
" I suppose they want a good deal of living grace. That 
would bring the other when the time of dying came. I 
think sometimes if people put the best and sweetest side of 
religion out — if every one who really believed lived up to 
the wisest and truest that they do know, and to the ' inas- 
much ' " — 
" But they won't let you do for them oftentimes," he 
cries irritably. " They will have none of your wisdom." 
" It was so a long while ago, you remember. It requires 
a great deal of hopeful patience. And people must come 
to see for themselves. They look too much through other 
eves. They go away and forget. Oh," she cries with an 
abrupt laugh that is in no sense amusement, — "I can't 
preach a bit ! I can only teach some of the plain little 
things. But it seems to me that everybody is trying to do 
too much." 
The revival is a kind of old-fashioned factor after all. 
The women as usual do most of the church-going. A few 
of the braver ones go down in town and try to rouse up the 
tiverl, anxious women and the stolid men who cannot at the 
first talk be convinced that smoking a pipe of tobacco is a 
deadly sin. Old Dr. Farraud denounces his enemies — all 
new ways and methods are comprehended in this  quite 
as vigorously and picturesquely as the Psalmist. The work 
that is not directly of God cannot prosper. 
Jason Prall is a subject of interest to the opposite side 
of the house. He goes to church and listens attentively. 
But he still waits for his call. 
" Fer I don't see how a man kin git religion athout a 
call," he persists. " He must feel some sort o' drawrin'. 
An' I've jest prayed for that thair call fer nigh onto thirty 
year." 
" And you really don't expect to be saved ? " questions 
Lois Strong with an amused contempt. 
"Well — I can't say that nuther. 'Tain't fer a poor 
human creetur to hurry God's ways. An' one don't want 
to make any mistake an' be self-deceived." 
Still, there are some gathered in. There is a deeper 
feeling of responsibility. 
Yet out of it all, outside of Winterburne's manly, honest 
work, when the election comes around, since the party in 
ascendency desires no restriction upon the liquor traffic, no 
one is brave enough to go beyond party lines. True, the 
saloons have been making strenuous efforts. They have 
left no stone unturned. Personal liberty has been one of 
their watchwords, — the right of a man to eat and drink 
what he liked. " Of course, it would be just as reasonable 
to pass a law that a workingman should not be allowed 
roast-beef. If you can do one you can do the other," 
says the apostle of liberty. The religious impression is 
sneered at. 
One evening this kind of amusement receives a sudden 
and unlooked-for check. 
"See 'ere," says the brawny miner Braxton, "tha' can't 
laff at tha young pairson afore me ! Happen he may be 
getten idees o' meat an' drink, what wi' ee pairson's fastin' 
ower much, an' liken' to be bossen common folk, but he 
be a rare good nn ! When my lad an' tha two little lasses 
were down wi' tha fever he coum in tha day an' staid a' 
tha night. An' tha missus at tha school fetched 'em 
kittles o' things my missus never seed afore, rare good too. 
An' them gells has I'arnt wisdom eno' to set up schools 
theirsen, an' can darn tha feyther's hosen ekil to tha ould 
missus ! Happen pairson may b'lieve tha's pison in tha 
beer and rum — he ha' neever drink it eno' to know, but he 
wonna be faulted whilst I be here ! " and Braxton brings his 
fist down upon the table like a sledge-hammer. " Happen 
a man can eat and drink as he loikes, he may think as he 
loikes as weel ! " 
" Well," says Dale to his young partner a few mornings 
after the election, " I hope now you're satisfied to leave the 
ritf-raff alone ! You see, there's no use trying to make 
them over ! " 
" I don't feel so awfully discouraged as you may think," 
confesses Winterburne cheerily. "The fact remains that 
it has opened a way for discussion. So many of the men 
have preserved an obstinate, dogged silence on the subject, 
and now they are quite willing to talk, in the exultation of 
their victory. One can slip in an argument as one some- 
times drives a nail in a weak place, and it holds. No, I'm 
not going to give up. We must work the harder." 
" You must love to throw away good labor." 
" I do not believe any earnest endeavor for the right is 
ever thrown away." 
"If I had my way," says Graniss, coming forward, "I'd 
put an end to it in this fashion. I wouldn't keep a mau 
wlio drank to the neglect of his business. I'd excuse him 
for the first offence, maybe the second. Then I'd discharge 
him. If all the employers would join in some such meas- 
ure " — 
" It would shut up the saloons ; " and Winterburne 
smiles cordially over at his partner. "They're ready 
enough to trust a man when he has work, or is likely to get 
it. If everybody else had as much confidence in him ! " 
" They could take their choice. They'd still be free 
 
agents ; " and he nods his head satirically. " There'd be 
no compulsion." 
" Meanwhile, what would the family do ? The wife and 
children would have to support him, or he must turn tramp 
or criminal. Have you a right to let him loose that way ? " 
" Oh ! " remarks Dale, " some one else might hire him." 
" Not if the employers banded together. And in posi- 
tions of responsibility or high trust, or where lives may be 
at stake, I think no one has any right to put a man who 
drinks occasionally. When the infrequent ' larks,' and 
' tears,' and ' good times ' are made quite as disreputable as 
the every-day drinking, there will be a change all around. 
When the man who sells rum is not esteemed as highlj' as 
the man who sells bread, when the brewer and distiller are 
not put on a par with all other manufacturers, even the 
poor muddled drunkard may come to see that sobriety is 
really a virtue, one of the economic virtues. But the poor 
fellow bids fair to be crushed by the nether millstone 
before he is rescued." 
" All those folks down there," Dale nods his head with 
an irritated fling, "have coddled up Braxton and two or 
three of the others that had sickness this winter. And 
you see what a little effect it has had upon them." 
" There was a wise man once who recommended that the 
Christian virtues should be used toward the indifferent and 
the ungrateful. The Gentiles, he told his followers, knew 
enough to be kindly to those who treated them well." 
Dale flushes angrily. He has been one of the steady 
attendants at the revival, since it was in his church. He 
has, to be sure, had no great faith in it. And he has sim- 
ply refrained from joining his party on this question, he 
has made no stand against it. He, too, fancies he believes 
in impartial rights for all men. 
The next step Winterburne takes is to purchase a strip 
of land that has been lying waste for a long while. Since 
there seems no possibility of iron in it, the sale passes un- 
questioned. There is space for twenty houses. A building 
association has been discussed, and a meeting is called to 
consider the feasibility of forming one. Or Winterburne 
will build the houses and sell them on very moderate in- 
stalments. 
On the whole, it is rather amusing. Winterburne looks 
upon a property owner as a sort of ballast to the j)lace. 
But there is the other side — in dull times a man cannot 
take his house on his back and seek fresh fields of labor. 
Neither can he sell. 
"How many of you," asks Winterburne, "have been in 
this town five years ? " 
It would seem mostly all of them had. 
" Then you ought to feel some pride in its improvement. 
Dull times may come, to be sure, but they seldom last very 
long. And if you have your house you can certainly 
weather it better. You can leave your -families in security 
while you tramp for work. You save up something where, 
on the other hand, you would be likely to spend it all." 
" It looks very fair," says a small, sharp-faced man, tak- 
ing the. floor; "but when you're fast this way, and the 
bosses want to give a cut at wages, you daren't stand out, 
for fear you'd lose your house. They get the upper hand 
of you everywhere. And if your house isn't paid for and 
you're out of work, there's a sharp foreclosure, and you lose 
what you've put in it." 
"If any man chooses to build one of these houses or buy 
it after it is built, and any misfortune happens to him, the 
association will pay him exactly what it cost. The interest 
will have gone for rent. So he can be sure of a purchaser. 
And if he can sell it for more than that, he has the oppor- 
tunity,'' announces Winterburne. 
He well knows he will be back of everything, although 
one of the proprietors of the lumber-mill has signified his 
willingness to take a share in the experiment. Everything 
is here on the spot, which is an advantage. 
In a fortnight several who have taken options will hand 
in their decision. Meanwhile, as it is coming pleasant 
weather and there will be little frost to interfere, Winter- 
burne and Mr. Cresson start at once at ten of the cottages. 
Two are to be built together, with separate gardens on the 
outside of each. Cressoii considers it rather foolisli to 
waste the land. 
" It seems to me a bit of garden strip is a wonderfiil in- 
terest to womenkind, if it cannot attract a man's attention. 
Flowers and shrubbery add so much cheer," subjoins Win- 
terburne. 
There is to be nothing pretentious about them. Six nice, 
cheerful rooms with plenty of windows, built so as to keep 
out the bleak winds of winter, and a pretty porch across 
the front, divided by a railing, so that neither family can 
interfere. The other lots are to be partitioned in the- same 
manner. The curious throng linger to inspect the founda- 
tions, — women with babies in their arms, and little chil- 
dren clinging to their skirts. 
Dale meanwhile is putting his energies and what money 
he can spare on the home of his old age at Cedar Grove. 
This is straight up the river, where the bank has washed 
away by slow degrees and left a little cove. The outlook 
is really beautiful. The river and the unequal shore over 
opposite, here a mass of frowning rocks, there a long ascent 
of wooded hills, and a vista of half-hidden villages breaking 
the solitude. 
If they cannot reach their point in one way, the two 
men most interested decide that all methods shall be tried 
before they are vanquished. Armitage persuades some 
young fellows to try the gymnasium. There is to be a 
boat-club also. And Winterburne with much shrewd man- 
agement gathers the musical talent of the little town 
together, and they come once a week for a practise. Davis, 
the cornet player, is persuaded to join them. Winter- 
burne holds to his idea of putting wholesome pleasures in 
the place of those that can only degrade the soul and body. 
There are not the variety of temptations that a large city 
offers, but for that reason the one has much greater influ- 
ence. 
Armitage has been studying himself, his friend, and 
Miss Halford as well. To him "being all things to all 
men " has looked heretofore a rather sophistical problem, 
from which he has shrunk with a sense of vague Jesuitism. 
But he comes to read the Apostle's reason — "if haply he 
may save some." It is not lowering his soul to weak sub- 
terfuges, not putting a possible evil in the place of a grander 
virtue, it is only passing by in self-denial some cherished 
ideals. It is learning that more generous conformity to 
the Divine Will, that courage taking in the irritating and 
unthankful, not only living close to the Eternal goodness, 
but reaching out for others, gathering the fragmentary 
truths that could best penetrate here and there, and mould- 
ing them into a braver completeness, realizing the awful 
poverty of weaker souls and their few poor resources, and 
coming to have a tenderer patience with God's creatures. 
The sudden " boom," it seems so, but it has been a 
twelvemonth in preparation, stirs Warwick as with the 
forces of electricity. Some of the men who have drifted 
along in the old rut for years awake to possibilities that 
overthrow their old modes of reasoning. They have hith- 
erto refused to move with the world, now they can hardly 
stride fast enough. 
"I don't know but you have evoked one of the old 
demons the Germans used to let out of a bottle," says 
Armitage one day. "How will you get him back when 
you want to restrain him ? Everybody is going wild 
about buying land. They seem to think all the ground left 
in the world is in this little town of Warwick, and they 
must secure it at once." 
Dale has accused him in a less mild way of sending 
everybody into a fever of speculation. 
The club — it is a club now and meets in the upper 
hall; some of the smokers keep their pipes out of their 
mouths for an hour's talk — discusses a few of the ques- 
tions of material prosperity, of work and wages, of the 
poverty of the poor, mentally, physically in their ailing 
children and less rugged physique; and at other times 
some of the great moral questions. During one of these, 
when the welfare of the multitudes of workers is under 
 
consideration, the old argument of the luxury of the few 
comes up. The fine houses, the costly living, the expen- 
sive pleasures, of those who grind their wealth out of the 
laborer, leaving him but a mere pittance. 
Two or three look askance at Winterburne. He rises 
with a good-humored interest, and his smile seems to be 
the oil upon the seething waters of passion. 
"There is one class you have omitted," he begins in a 
clear, unperturbed voice. " I think we agree about the 
speculator, and I am willing to admit that the manufacturer 
is too often grasping and selfish. But of your own free 
will you help to euriohen another class, and find no fault 
when the liquor dealer lives iu elegance on your money. 
He has his yachts, his summer houses, his journeys, his 
horses, his men and maids, and all his expensive pleasures, 
to which you contribute cheerfully, even to sacrificing the 
welfare of your own family, your health, and your pros- 
pects in life. He influences your votes — you are not even 
free agents in that. He speculates as well. He sells you 
all manner of frightfully adulterated stuff, and you make 
no complaint. Now, when you are so generous to him, do 
you not think it is only fair to show us a little of this 
large charity once in a while ? If I save my money and 
buy an iron mine or start a mill or a furnace, I am dealing 
it out again. Why, I even think sometimes that / am 
helping the rumseller along because I am willing to pay 
enough wages for you to hand over a part to him." 
A laugh goes round the room. He stands thete so com- 
pact, so spirited, so utterly fearless, his hair tumbled about 
his white forehead, his eyes shining in the splendid light 
of health and energy, his clear-cut face with its winning 
smile, and not a soul can controvert him. 
He has driven his nail, and they can hammer it down at 
their leisure. It cannot be pulled out. He prefers that 
they shall discuss it among themselves, so he bows gra- 
ciously and withdraws. 
" It is a pity you couldn't have made that speech before 
the election," says Armitage. 
" It might have fallen flat, then. I wasn't so much in 
the active movement, though I did a good deal of very, 
earnest work. I told Dale I wasn't discouraged. Five 
years from this time you will find a different sentiment , in 
this tovjn. No one has really desired its welfare. I'm not 
sure but people in general fight harder for their theories 
than the beneficent application of them. The people must 
come to them. A truth cannot change or be altered. Yet 
some of us to-day wouldn't fight for the things for which 
our forefathers shed their blood heroically. They believed 
them high and solemn truths ; doubtless they were to 
them. But they do not look so to us. Is it because we 
have a wider knowledge, have come to that ' better way ' 
shown eighteen hundred years ago ? Yet we don't crowd 
into it, do we ? " and he laughs out of the large and gener- 
ous impulses of his soul, the patient awaiting. 
" No, we do not jostle each other much," returns 
Armitage. " If we only were as earnest for the benefit of 
our fellow-creatures as we think we are ! " and he sighs., 
" Yet there must be systems " — 
"No fear of our running short. of them. Very few are 
altogether perfect. But those that contribute most to the, 
moral force and the happiness of others seem to me better 
worth following. Perhaps our age is not as grandly, heroic 
as some that have preceded us, but / like living now,. And 
I like the work of to-day, Still, it cannot all be finished 
in my time ; that is one of the limitations I recognized at 
the outset. 
" It is odd," he says a moment later, as his friend makes 
no reply, is indeed revolving many ideas in his mind, "that 
Miss Halford goes so quick to the very best there is in 
systems, and has that large adaptiveness without confusion. 
Most teachers would he hopelessly muddled, doing as she 
does. It puzzles me sometimes that she can so quickly dis- 
cern the capabilities of a child, and the grand secret of her 
success is that she never sets a child about doing that for 
which it has not the slightest capacity. There is so much 
wasted force in the world, so many people doing the wrong 
thing ; " and now he sighs, a little. " And the industrial 
problem swings between making men mere machines, or 
giving them the wider self-interest in all employments ; 
wider interest in the true life of manhood and womanhood. 
Cynthia amused us one evening by saying there were two 
or three girls who actually couldn't learn to darn stockings. 
One of these is her best monitor, a girl who can easily be 
trained for a teacher. It would be a manifest injustice to 
insist that she should spend half her time over the stock- 
ings, but I suppose most of the mothers would. Miss; 
Halford can fill a big space somewhere, when the right 
master comes to hand." 
Winterburne finds the two girls enjoying- themselves in 
the cosey workroom. Alice has IjEiid by her tasks and is 
lounging in the reclining chair. Perhaps it is txie crimson 
pillow back of her, but it seems to him she is paler, longer, 
and slimmer than her usual wont. She has not been out 
so much of late. There is so little to' explore around this,, 
town, even in the magnificent springtime. 
Cynthia, is in the midst of a bit of experience at once 
amusing and pathetic. 
"Go on," exclaims Winterburne, deliberately picking 
out the softest and largest rocking-chair in the room. He 
has a tremendous love of comfort. To him the continual 
petty denials of self, with no ultimate purpose, seem alike 
useless and reprehensible, like a wasp buzzing around a 
room when there is a wide out-of-doors. 
Cynthia proceeds. Her long eyeSj that look so indolent 
and see so much, are brimming- with amusement. Her 
cheeks are like the heart of a rose, her complexion has a 
peachy bloom, her lips express every emotion, ar* riant 
with a, marvellous capacity of adding just the right force 
or drollery to her words. She is not handsome, but there 
are times when she is, oddly pretty and always attractiye. 
Her voice has such a rapid ripple, changes so quickly, is 
soft, passionate, tender, and pathetic as her subject requires. 
She could hold an audience, he thinks. 
" Cynthia," he says, when she has ended, " it would make 
one of those dramatic little stories of common life that 
appeal so to most hearts. Why don't you write it ? " 
" I wonder if I could ! I wish," she says in a kind of 
vague fashion, that shows how far her thoughts have trav- 
elled, "I wish Regina was a — had a genius." 
" Regina is too intense. Her world would be made of 
the exceptional natures. She cannot easily understand 
what the great majority of the world needs, cannot accept 
the every-day standard. Her attempts would be a battle 
and a defeat, for she would be too thoroughly, bitterly 
true to add the glow of romance." 
Cynthia glances at him. His eyes have wandered past 
her into a mysterious world ; it is the mood she has Sur- 
prised occasionally, and has a subtile reference to Regina. 
Something a little more might makeit love. Regina will 
never hold out that animating, vivifying, leaping touch of 
flame to kindle his soul, any soul. Is there some fatal 
restraining influence holding her in its chilly grasp. 
" Yes," subjoins Alice, rousing herself a little, and softly 
thrilliiig to the consciousness on which she is founding a 
tender romance, that he must be sure Regina will disregard 
if proffered; "yes, Cynthia. Why haven't we thought of 
that before? You can put pictures into words, if you 
cannot make them with a pencil." 
"I don't know." Cynthia gives k slow, doubtful laiigh. 
It is through Armitage that Cynthia hears of Winter- 
burne's successful sally. Indeed, it is through him that 
she has come to understand so much of the real man. 
" Some of them didn't take it kindly ; it's odd what 
sensitive feelings they have for a rumseller. But Forbes, 
the father of those dreadful twin boys, you know, seemed 
tremendously struck by the- fact. His weekly bill at the 
saloon often runs up to three dollars of his twelve, and 
he's a pretty sober fellow, too. One doesn't often hear of 
his going on a tear, as the men call it. So he's promised 
his wife two dollars of it to put by toward her house and 
carriage and all that; and he laughed a little over it. 
'I've come to the conclusion,' said he, 'that I ean"t afford 
to help so many men to fortunes, and as this one doesn't 
do anything for my advancement or my home comfort, I'll 
lop him off first. To think there's double the money 
spent for beer and such stuff that there is for bread, and 
people starving ! ' He pointed it rather more forcibly than 
I approve of ; " and Armitage gives a humorous half-smile. 
All these bits of interest go up to Beverly tinted and 
textured by Cynthia's bright modes of speech. Regina 
considers them afterward. Is it possible that her gen- 
eralizations have come so wide of the mark, that when she 
considered herself wise in the lore of discrimination, she had 
merely followed out a few dogmatic principles arbitrarily 
laid down by those who had only taken one side of human 
nature into account, who were fallible, who might be igno- 
rant as well ? For her system has allowed of no generous 
growth and development ; it has had the rigidity of caste. 
That when people appear content with some walk of lifei 
they can have aspirations for no other; that the brevet 
rank belongs only to the favored few whose noble dissatis- 
factions enable them to contend for it. Is it this incessant 
weighing and battling that brings forth exalted impulses 
and magnanimous deeds that correspond with them ? For 
if there are no deeds, if it is but barren speculation and 
the soul grows no larger, then is the work in vain. Above 
all must be that greater law of love to one's neighbor, of 
appreciation, of justice, of kindly consideration. 
And as she has been brought more intimately within the 
