will and good nature. All the young men and the women called her Aunt
Rachael, which was another sign. Tracy’s wandering and interested
eye presently fell upon one boarder who had been overlooked in the
distribution of the stew. He was very pale and looked as if he had but
lately come out of a sick bed, and also as if he ought to get back into
it again as soon as possible. His face was very melancholy. The waves
of laughter and conversation broke upon it without affecting it any more
than if it had been a rock in the sea and the words and the laughter
veritable waters. He held his head down and looked ashamed. Some of the
women cast glances of pity toward him from time to time in a furtive
and half afraid way, and some of the youngest of the men plainly had
compassion on the young fellow--a compassion exhibited in their faces
but not in any more active or compromising way. But the great majority
of the people present showed entire indifference to the youth and his
sorrows. Marsh sat with his head down, but one could catch the malicious
gleam of his eyes through his shaggy brows. He was watching that
young fellow with evident relish. He had not neglected him through
carelessness, and apparently the table understood that fact. The
spectacle was making Mrs. Marsh very uncomfortable. She had the look of
one who hopes against hope that the impossible may happen. But as the
impossible did not happen, she finally ventured to speak up and remind
her husband that Nat Brady hadn’t been helped to the Irish stew.
Marsh lifted his head and gasped out with mock courtliness, “Oh, he
hasn’t, hasn’t he? What a pity that is. I don’t know how I came
to overlook him. Ah, he must pardon me. You must indeed
Mr--er--Baxter--Barker, you must pardon me. I--er--my attention was
directed to some other matter, I don’t know what. The thing that grieves
me mainly is, that it happens every meal now. But you must try to
overlook these little things, Mr. Bunker, these little neglects on my
part. They’re always likely to happen with me in any case, and they are
especially likely to happen where a person has--er--well, where a
person is, say, about three weeks in arrears for his board. You get my
meaning?--you get my idea? Here is your Irish stew, and--er--it gives me
the greatest pleasure to send it to you, and I hope that you will enjoy
the charity as much as I enjoy conferring it.”
A blush rose in Brady’s white cheeks and flowed slowly backward to his
ears and upward toward his forehead, but he said nothing and began to
eat his food under the embarrassment of a general silence and the sense
that all eyes were fastened upon him. Barrow whispered to Tracy:
“The old man’s been waiting for that. He wouldn’t have missed that
chance for anything.”
“It’s a brutal business,” said Tracy. Then he said to himself, purposing
to set the thought down in his diary later:
“Well, here in this very house is a republic where all are free and
equal, if men are free and equal anywhere in the earth, therefore I have
arrived at the place I started to find, and I am a man among men, and
on the strictest equality possible to men, no doubt. Yet here on the
threshold I find an inequality. There are people at this table who are
looked up to for some reason or another, and here is a poor devil of a
boy who is looked down upon, treated with indifference, and shamed by
humiliations, when he has committed no crime but that common one of
being poor. Equality ought to make men noble-minded. In fact I had
supposed it did do that.”
After supper, Barrow proposed a walk, and they started. Barrow had a
purpose. He wanted Tracy to get rid of that cowboy hat. He didn’t see
his way to finding mechanical or manual employment for a person rigged
in that fashion. Barrow presently said:
“As I understand it, you’re not a cowboy.”
“No, I’m not.”
“Well, now if you will not think me too curious, how did you come to
mount that hat? Where’d you get it?”
Tracy didn’t know quite how to reply to this, but presently said,
“Well, without going into particulars, I exchanged clothes with a
stranger under stress of weather, and I would like to find him and
re-exchange.”
“Well, why don’t you find him? Where is he?”
“I don’t know. I supposed the best way to find him would be to continue
to wear his clothes, which are conspicuous enough to attract his
attention if I should meet him on the street.”
“Oh, very well,” said Barrow, “the rest of the outfit, is well enough,
and while it’s not too conspicuous, it isn’t quite like the clothes
that anybody else wears. Suppress the hat. When you meet your man he’ll
recognize the rest of his suit. That’s a mighty embarrassing hat, you
know, in a centre of civilization like this. I don’t believe an angel
could get employment in Washington in a halo like that.”
Tracy agreed to replace the hat with something of a modester form, and
they stepped aboard a crowded car and stood with others on the rear
platform. Presently, as the car moved swiftly along the rails, two men
crossing the street caught sight of the backs of Barrow and Tracy, and
both exclaimed at once, “There he is!” It was Sellers and Hawkins.
Both were so paralyzed with joy that before they could pull themselves
together and make an effort to stop the car, it was gone too far, and
they decided to wait for the next one. They waited a while; then
it occurred to Washington that there could be no use in chasing one
horse-car with another, and he wanted to hunt up a hack. But the Colonel
said:
“When you come to think of it, there’s no occasion for that at all. Now
that I’ve got him materialized, I can command his motions. I’ll have him
at the house by the time we get there.”
Then they hurried off home in a state of great and joyful excitement.
The hat exchange accomplished, the two new friends started to walk back
leisurely to the boarding house. Barrow’s mind was full of curiosity
about this young fellow. He said,
“You’ve never been to the Rocky Mountains?”
“No.”
“You’ve never been out on the plains?”
“No.”
“How long have you been in this country?”
“Only a few days.”
“You’ve never been in America before?”
“No.”
Then Barrow communed with himself. “Now what odd shapes the notions of
romantic people take. Here’s a young fellow who’s read in England about
cowboys and adventures on the plains. He comes here and buys a
cowboy’s suit. Thinks he can play himself on folks for a cowboy, all
inexperienced as he is. Now the minute he’s caught in this poor little
game, he’s ashamed of it and ready to retire from it. It is that
exchange that he has put up as an explanation. It’s rather thin, too
thin altogether. Well, he’s young, never been anywhere, knows nothing
about the world, sentimental, no doubt. Perhaps it was the natural
thing for him to do, but it was a most singular choice, curious freak,
altogether.”
Both men were busy with their thoughts for a time, then Tracy heaved a
sigh and said,
“Mr. Barrow, the case of that young fellow troubles me.”
“You mean Nat Brady?”
“Yes, Brady, or Baxter, or whatever it was. The old landlord called him
by several different names.”
“Oh, yes, he has been very liberal with names for Brady, since Brady
fell into arrears for his board. Well, that’s one of his sarcasms--the
old man thinks he’s great on sarcasm.”
“Well, what is Brady’s difficulty? What is Brady--who is he?”
“Brady is a tinner. He’s a young journeyman tinner who was getting along
all right till he fell sick and lost his job. He was very popular before
he lost his job; everybody in the house liked Brady. The old man was
rather especially fond of him, but you know that when a man loses his
job and loses his ability to support himself and to pay his way as he
goes, it makes a great difference in the way people look at him and feel
about him.”
“Is that so! Is it so?”
Barrow looked at Tracy in a puzzled way. “Why of course it’s so.
Wouldn’t you know that, naturally. Don’t you know that the wounded deer
is always attacked and killed by its companions and friends?”
Tracy said to himself, while a chilly and boding discomfort spread
itself through his system, “In a republic of deer and men where all
are free and equal, misfortune is a crime, and the prosperous gore the
unfortunate to death.” Then he said aloud, “Here in the boarding house,
if one would have friends and be popular instead of having the cold
shoulder turned upon him, he must be prosperous.”
“Yes,” Barrow said, “that is so. It’s their human nature. They do turn
against Brady, now that he’s unfortunate, and they don’t like him as
well as they did before; but it isn’t because of any lack in Brady--he’s
just as he was before, has the same nature and the same impulses, but
they--well, Brady is a thorn in their consciences, you see. They know
they ought to help him and they’re too stingy to do it, and they’re
ashamed of themselves for that, and they ought also to hate themselves
on that account, but instead of that they hate Brady because he makes
them ashamed of themselves. I say that’s human nature; that occurs
everywhere; this boarding house is merely the world in little, it’s
the case all over--they’re all alike. In prosperity we are popular;
popularity comes easy in that case, but when the other thing comes our
friends are pretty likely to turn against us.”
Tracy’s noble theories and high purposes were beginning to feel pretty
damp and clammy. He wondered if by any possibility he had made a mistake
in throwing his own prosperity to the winds and taking up the cross
of other people’s unprosperity. But he wouldn’t listen to that sort of
thing; he cast it out of his mind and resolved to go ahead resolutely
along the course he had mapped out for himself.
Extracts from his diary:
Have now spent several days in this singular hive. I don’t know quite
what to make out of these people. They have merits and virtues, but they
have some other qualities, and some ways that are hard to get along
with. I can’t enjoy them. The moment I appeared in a hat of the period,
I noticed a change. The respect which had been paid me before, passed
suddenly away, and the people became friendly--more than that--they
became familiar, and I’m not used to familiarity, and can’t take to it
right off; I find that out. These people’s familiarity amounts to
impudence, sometimes. I suppose it’s all right; no doubt I can get used
to it, but it’s not a satisfactory process at all. I have accomplished
my dearest wish, I am a man among men, on an equal footing with Tom,
Dick and Harry, and yet it isn’t just exactly what I thought it was
going to be. I--I miss home. Am obliged to say I am homesick. Another
thing--and this is a confession--a reluctant one, but I will make it:
The thing I miss most and most severely, is the respect, the deference,
with which I was treated all my life in England, and which seems to be
somehow necessary to me. I get along very well without the luxury and
the wealth and the sort of society I’ve been accustomed to, but I do
miss the respect and can’t seem to get reconciled to the absence of it.
There is respect, there is deference here, but it doesn’t fall to my
share. It is lavished on two men. One of them is a portly man of middle
age who is a retired plumber. Everybody is pleased to have that man’s
notice. He’s full of pomp and circumstance and self complacency and bad
grammar, and at table he is Sir Oracle and when he opens his mouth not
any dog in the kennel barks. The other person is a policeman at the
capitol-building. He represents the government. The deference paid to
these two men is not so very far short of that paid to an earl in
England, though the method of it differs. Not so much courtliness, but
the deference is all there.
Yes, and there is obsequiousness, too.
It does rather look as if in a republic where all are free and equal,
prosperity and position constitute rank.
CHAPTER XIII.
The days drifted by, and they grew ever more dreary. For Barrow’s
efforts to find work for Tracy were unavailing. Always the first
question asked was, “What Union do you belong to?”
Tracy was obliged to reply that he didn’t belong to any trade-union.
“Very well, then, it’s impossible to employ you. My men wouldn’t stay
with me if I should employ a ‘scab,’ or ‘rat,’” or whatever the phrase
was.
Finally, Tracy had a happy thought. He said, “Why the thing for me to
do, of course, is to join a trade-union.”
“Yes,” Barrow said, “that is the thing for you to do--if you can.”
“If I can? Is it difficult?”
“Well, Yes,” Barrow said, “it’s sometimes difficult--in fact, very
difficult. But you can try, and of course it will be best to try.”
Therefore Tracy tried; but he did not succeed. He was refused admission
with a good deal of promptness, and was advised to go back home, where
he belonged, not come here taking honest men’s bread out of their
mouths. Tracy began to realize that the situation was desperate, and the
thought made him cold to the marrow. He said to himself, “So there is
an aristocracy of position here, and an aristocracy of prosperity, and
apparently there is also an aristocracy of the ins as opposed to the
outs, and I am with the outs. So the ranks grow daily, here. Plainly
there are all kinds of castes here and only one that I belong to, the
outcasts.” But he couldn’t even smile at his small joke, although he
was obliged to confess that he had a rather good opinion of it. He was
feeling so defeated and miserable by this time that he could no longer
look with philosophical complacency on the horseplay of the young
fellows in the upper rooms at night. At first it had been pleasant to
see them unbend and have a good time after having so well earned it by
the labors of the day, but now it all rasped upon his feelings and his
dignity. He lost patience with the spectacle. When they were feeling
good, they shouted, they scuffled, they sang songs, they romped about
the place like cattle, and they generally wound up with a pillow fight,
in which they banged each other over the head, and threw the pillows in
all directions, and every now and then he got a buffet himself; and they
were always inviting him to join in. They called him “Johnny Bull,” and
invited him with excessive familiarity to take a hand. At first he had
endured all this with good nature, but latterly he had shown by his
manner that it was distinctly distasteful to him, and very soon he saw a
change in the manner of these young people toward him. They were souring
on him as they would have expressed it in their language. He had never
been what might be called popular. That was hardly the phrase for it; he
had merely been liked, but now dislike for him was growing. His case
was not helped by the fact that he was out of luck, couldn’t get work,
didn’t belong to a union, and couldn’t gain admission to one. He got a
good many slights of that small ill-defined sort that you can’t quite
put your finger on, and it was manifest that there was only one thing
which protected him from open insult, and that was his muscle. These
young people had seen him exercising, mornings, after his cold sponge
bath, and they had perceived by his performance and the build of his
body, that he was athletic, and also versed in boxing. He felt pretty
naked now, recognizing that he was shorn of all respect except respect
for his fists. One night when he entered his room he found about a
dozen of the young fellows there carrying on a very lively conversation
punctuated with horse-laughter. The talking ceased instantly, and the
frank affront of a dead silence followed. He said,
“Good evening gentlemen,” and sat down.
There was no response. He flushed to the temples but forced himself
to maintain silence. He sat there in this uncomfortable stillness some
time, then got up and went out.
The moment he had disappeared he heard a prodigious shout of laughter
break forth. He saw that their plain purpose had been to insult him.
He ascended to the flat roof, hoping to be able to cool down his spirit
there and get back his tranquility. He found the young tinner up there,
alone and brooding, and entered into conversation with him. They were
pretty fairly matched, now, in unpopularity and general ill-luck and
misery, and they had no trouble in meeting upon this common ground with
advantage and something of comfort to both. But Tracy’s movements had
been watched, and in a few minutes the tormentors came straggling one
after another to the roof, where they began to stroll up and down in an
apparently purposeless way. But presently they fell to dropping remarks
that were evidently aimed at Tracy, and some of them at the tinner.
The ringleader of this little mob was a short-haired bully and amateur
prize-fighter named Allen, who was accustomed to lording it over the
upper floor, and had more than once shown a disposition to make trouble
with Tracy. Now there was an occasional cat-call, and hootings, and
whistlings, and finally the diversion of an exchange of connected
remarks was introduced:
“How many does it take to make a pair?”
“Well, two generally makes a pair, but sometimes there ain’t stuff
enough in them to make a whole pair.” General laugh.
“What were you saying about the English a while ago?”
“Oh, nothing, the English are all right, only--I--”
“What was it you said about them?”
“Oh, I only said they swallow well.”
“Swallow better than other people?”
“Oh, yes, the English swallow a good deal better than other people.”
“What is it they swallow best?”
“Oh, insults.” Another general laugh.
“Pretty hard to make ‘em fight, ain’t it?”
“No, taint hard to make ‘em fight.”
“Ain’t it, really?”
“No, taint hard. It’s impossible.” Another laugh.
“This one’s kind of spiritless, that’s certain.”
“Couldn’t be the other way--in his case.”
“Why?”
“Don’t you know the secret of his birth?”
“No! has he got a secret of his birth?”
“You bet he has.”
“What is it?”
“His father was a wax-figger.”
Allen came strolling by where the pair were sitting; stopped, and said
to the tinner;
“How are you off for friends, these days?”
“Well enough off.”
“Got a good many?”
“Well, as many as I need.”
“A friend is valuable, sometimes--as a protector, you know. What do you
reckon would happen if I was to snatch your cap off and slap you in the
face with it?”
“Please don’t trouble me, Mr. Allen, I ain’t doing anything to you.”
“You answer me! What do you reckon would happen?”
“Well, I don’t know.”
Tracy spoke up with a good deal of deliberation and said:
“Don’t trouble the young fellow, I can tell you what would happen.”
“Oh, you can, can you? Boys, Johnny Bull can tell us what would happen
if I was to snatch this chump’s cap off and slap him in the face with
it. Now you’ll see.”
He snatched the cap and struck the youth in the face, and before he
could inquire what was going to happen, it had already happened, and he
was warming the tin with the broad of his back. Instantly there was a
rush, and shouts of:
“A ring, a ring, make a ring! Fair play all round! Johnny’s grit; give
him a chance.”
The ring was quickly chalked on the tin, and Tracy found himself as
eager to begin as he could have been if his antagonist had been a prince
instead of a mechanic. At bottom he was a little surprised at this,
because although his theories had been all in that direction for some
time, he was not prepared to find himself actually eager to measure
strength with quite so common a man as this ruffian. In a moment all the
windows in the neighborhood were filled with people, and the roofs also.
The men squared off, and the fight began. But Allen stood no chance
whatever, against the young Englishman. Neither in muscle nor in science
was he his equal. He measured his length on the tin time and again; in
fact, as fast as he could get up he went down again, and the applause
was kept up in liberal fashion from all the neighborhood around.
Finally, Allen had to be helped up. Then Tracy declined to punish him
further and the fight was at an end. Allen was carried off by some of
his friends in a very much humbled condition, his face black and blue
and bleeding, and Tracy was at once surrounded by the young fellows,
who congratulated him, and told him that he had done the whole house
a service, and that from this out Mr. Allen would be a little more
particular about how he handled slights and insults and maltreatment
around amongst the boarders.
Tracy was a hero now, and exceedingly popular. Perhaps nobody had
ever been quite so popular on that upper floor before. But if being
discountenanced by these young fellows had been hard to bear, their
lavish commendations and approval and hero-worship were harder still to
endure. He felt degraded, but he did not allow himself to analyze the
reasons why, too closely. He was content to satisfy himself with
the suggestion that he looked upon himself as degraded by the public
spectacle which he had made of himself, fighting on a tin roof, for the
delectation of everybody a block or two around. But he wasn’t entirely
satisfied with that explanation of it. Once he went a little too far
and wrote in his diary that his case was worse than that of the prodigal
son. He said the prodigal son merely fed swine, he didn’t have to chum
with them. But he struck that out, and said “All men are equal. I will
not disown my principles. These men are as good as I am.”
Tracy was become popular on the lower floors also. Everybody was
grateful for Allen’s reduction to the ranks, and for his transformation
from a doer of outrages to a mere threatener of them. The young girls,
of whom there were half a dozen, showed many attentions to Tracy,
particularly that boarding house pet Hattie, the landlady’s daughter.
She said to him, very sweetly,
“I think you’re ever so nice.”
And when he said, “I’m glad you think so, Miss Hattie,” she said, still
more sweetly,
“Don’t call me Miss Hattie--call me Puss.”
Ah, here was promotion! He had struck the summit. There were no higher
heights to climb in that boarding house. His popularity was complete.
In the presence of people, Tracy showed a tranquil outside, but his
heart was being eaten out of him by distress and despair.
In a little while he should be out of money, and then what should he do?
He wished, now, that he had borrowed a little more liberally from that
stranger’s store. He found it impossible to sleep. A single torturing,
terrifying thought went racking round and round in his head, wearing a
groove in his brain: What should he do--What was to become of him? And
along with it began to intrude a something presently which was very like
a wish that he had not joined the great and noble ranks of martyrdom,
but had stayed at home and been content to be merely an earl and nothing
better, with nothing more to do in this world of a useful sort than an
earl finds to do. But he smothered that part of his thought as well as
he could; he made every effort to drive it away, and with fair success,
but he couldn’t keep it from intruding a little now and then, and when
it intruded it came suddenly and nipped him like a bite, a sting, a
burn. He recognized that thought by the peculiar sharpness of its pang.
The others were painful enough, but that one cut to the quick when
it came. Night after night he lay tossing to the music of the hideous
snoring of the honest bread-winners until two and three o’clock in the
morning, then got up and took refuge on the roof, where he sometimes got
a nap and sometimes failed entirely. His appetite was leaving him and
the zest of life was going along with it. Finally, one day, being near
the imminent verge of total discouragement, he said to himself--and took
occasion to blush privately when he said it, “If my father knew what my
American name is,--he--well, my duty to my father rather requires that
I furnish him my name. I have no right to make his days and nights
unhappy, I can do enough unhappiness for the family all by myself.
Really he ought to know what my American name is.” He thought over it a
while and framed a cablegram in his mind to this effect:
“My American name is Howard Tracy.”
That wouldn’t be suggesting anything. His father could understand that
as he chose, and doubtless he would understand it as it was meant, as
a dutiful and affectionate desire on the part of a son to make his old
father happy for a moment. Continuing his train of thought, Tracy said
to himself, “Ah, but if he should cable me to come home! I--I--couldn’t
do that--I mustn’t do that. I’ve started out on a mission, and I
mustn’t turn my back on it in cowardice. No, no, I couldn’t go home,
at--at--least I shouldn’t want to go home.” After a reflective pause:
“Well, maybe--perhaps--it would be my duty to go in the circumstances;
he’s very old and he does need me by him to stay his footsteps down the
long hill that inclines westward toward the sunset of his life. Well,
I’ll think about that. Yes, of course it wouldn’t be right to stay here.
If I--well, perhaps I could just drop him a line and put it off a little
while and satisfy him in that way. It would be--well, it would mar
everything to have him require me to come instantly.” Another reflective
pause--then: “And yet if he should do that I don’t know but--oh, dear
me--home! how good it sounds! and a body is excusable for wanting to see
his home again, now and then, anyway.”
He went to one of the telegraph offices in the avenue and got the first
end of what Barrow called the “usual Washington courtesy,” where “they
treat you as a tramp until they find out you’re a congressman, and then
they slobber all over you.” There was a boy of seventeen on duty there,
tying his shoe. He had his foot on a chair and his back turned toward
the wicket. He glanced over his shoulder, took Tracy’s measure, turned
back, and went on tying his shoe. Tracy finished writing his telegram
and waited, still waited, and still waited, for that performance to
finish, but there didn’t seem to be any finish to it; so finally Tracy
said:
“Can’t you take my telegram?”
The youth looked over his shoulder and said, by his manner, not his
words:
“Don’t you think you could wait a minute, if you tried?”
However, he got the shoe tied at last, and came and took the telegram,
glanced over it, then looked up surprised, at Tracy. There was something
in his look that bordered upon respect, almost reverence, it seemed to
Tracy, although he had been so long without anything of this kind he was
not sure that he knew the signs of it.
The boy read the address aloud, with pleased expression in face and
voice.
“The Earl of Rossmore! Cracky! Do you know him?”
“Yes.”
“Is that so! Does he know you?”
“Well--yes.”
“Well, I swear! Will he answer you?”
“I think he will.”
“Will he though? Where’ll you have it sent?”
“Oh, nowhere. I’ll call here and get it. When shall I call?”
“Oh, I don’t know--I’ll send it to you. Where shall I send it? Give me
your address; I’ll send it to you soon’s it comes.”
But Tracy didn’t propose to do this. He had acquired the boy’s
admiration and deferential respect, and he wasn’t willing to throw these
precious things away, a result sure to follow if he should give the
address of that boarding house. So he said again that he would call and
get the telegram, and went his way.
He idled along, reflecting. He said to himself, “There is something
pleasant about being respected. I have acquired the respect of Mr. Allen
and some of those others, and almost the deference of some of them on
pure merit, for having thrashed Allen. While their respect and their
deference--if it is deference--is pleasant, a deference based upon a
sham, a shadow, does really seem pleasanter still. It’s no real merit to
be in correspondence with an earl, and yet after all, that boy makes me
feel as if there was.”
The cablegram was actually gone home! the thought of it gave him an
immense uplift. He walked with a lighter tread. His heart was full of
happiness. He threw aside all hesitances and confessed to himself
that he was glad through and through that he was going to give up this
experiment and go back to his home again. His eagerness to get his
father’s answer began to grow, now, and it grew with marvelous celerity,
after it began. He waited an hour, walking about, putting in his time as
well as he could, but interested in nothing that came under his eye, and
at last he presented himself at the office again and asked if any answer
had come yet. The boy said,
“No, no answer yet,” then glanced at the clock and added, “I don’t think
it’s likely you’ll get one to-day.”
“Why not?”
“Well, you see it’s getting pretty late. You can’t always tell where
‘bouts a man is when he’s on the other side, and you can’t always find
him just the minute you want him, and you see it’s getting about six
o’clock now, and over there it’s pretty late at night.”
“Why yes,” said Tracy, “I hadn’t thought of that.”
“Yes, pretty late, now, half past ten or eleven. Oh yes, you probably
won’t get any answer to-night.”
CHAPTER XIV.
So Tracy went home to supper. The odors in that supper room seemed more
strenuous and more horrible than ever before, and he was happy in the
thought that he was so soon to be free from them again. When the supper
was over he hardly knew whether he had eaten any of it or not, and
he certainly hadn’t heard any of the conversation. His heart had been
dancing all the time, his thoughts had been faraway from these things,
and in the visions of his mind the sumptuous appointments of his
father’s castle had risen before him without rebuke. Even the plushed
flunkey, that walking symbol of a sham inequality, had not been
unpleasant to his dreaming view. After the meal Barrow said,
“Come with me. I’ll give you a jolly evening.”
“Very good. Where are you going?”
“To my club.”
“What club is that?”
“Mechanics’ Debating Club.”
Tracy shuddered, slightly. He didn’t say anything about having visited
that place himself. Somehow he didn’t quite relish the memory of that
time. The sentiments which had made his former visit there so enjoyable,
and filled him with such enthusiasm, had undergone a gradual change,
and they had rotted away to such a degree that he couldn’t contemplate
another visit there with anything strongly resembling delight. In fact
he was a little ashamed to go; he didn’t want to go there and find out
by the rude impact of the thought of those people upon his reorganized
condition of mind, how sharp the change had been. He would have
preferred to stay away. He expected that now he should hear nothing
except sentiments which would be a reproach to him in his changed mental
attitude, and he rather wished he might be excused. And yet he didn’t
quite want to say that, he didn’t want to show how he did feel, or show
any disinclination to go, and so he forced himself to go along with
Barrow, privately purposing to take an early opportunity to get away.
After the essayist of the evening had read his paper, the chairman
announced that the debate would now be upon the subject of the previous
meeting, “The American Press.” It saddened the backsliding disciple to
hear this announcement. It brought up too many reminiscences. He wished
he had happened upon some other subject. But the debate began, and he
sat still and listened.
In the course of the discussion one of the speakers--a blacksmith named
Tompkins arraigned all monarchs and all lords in the earth for their
cold selfishness in retaining their unearned dignities. He said that no
monarch and no son of a monarch, no lord and no son of a lord ought
to be able to look his fellow man in the face without shame. Shame for
consenting to keep his unearned titles, property, and privileges--at the
expense of other people; shame for consenting to remain, on any terms,
in dishonourable possession of these things, which represented bygone
robberies and wrongs inflicted upon the general people of the nation. He
said, “if there were a lord or the son of a lord here, I would like
to reason with him, and try to show him how unfair and how selfish his
position is. I would try to persuade him to relinquish it, take his
place among men on equal terms, earn the bread he eats, and hold of
slight value all deference paid him because of artificial position, all
reverence not the just due of his own personal merits.”
Tracy seemed to be listening to utterances of his own made in talks
with his radical friends in England. It was as if some eavesdropping
phonograph had treasured up his words and brought them across the
Atlantic to accuse him with them in the hour of his defection and
retreat. Every word spoken by this stranger seemed to leave a blister on
Tracy’s conscience, and by the time the speech was finished he felt that
he was all conscience and one blister. This man’s deep compassion for
the enslaved and oppressed millions in Europe who had to bear with the
contempt of that small class above them, throned upon shining heights
whose paths were shut against them, was the very thing he had often
uttered himself. The pity in this man’s voice and words was the very
twin of the pity that used to reside in his own heart and come from his
own lips when he thought of these oppressed peoples.
The homeward tramp was accomplished in brooding silence. It was a
silence most grateful to Tracy’s feelings. He wouldn’t have broken it
for anything; for he was ashamed of himself all the way through to his
spine. He kept saying to himself:
“How unanswerable it all is--how absolutely unanswerable! It is basely,
degradingly selfish to keep those unearned honors, and--and--oh, hang
it, nobody but a cur--”
“What an idiotic damned speech that Tompkins made!”
This outburst was from Barrow. It flooded Tracy’s demoralized soul
with waters of refreshment. These were the darlingest words the poor
vacillating young apostate had ever heard--for they whitewashed his
shame for him, and that is a good service to have when you can’t get the
best of all verdicts, self-acquittal.
“Come up to my room and smoke a pipe, Tracy.”
Tracy had been expecting this invitation, and had had his declination
all ready: but he was glad enough to accept, now. Was it possible that a
reasonable argument could be made against that man’s desolating speech?
He was burning to hear Barrow try it. He knew how to start him, and keep
him going: it was to seem to combat his positions--a process effective
with most people.
“What is it you object to in Tompkins’s speech, Barrow?”
“Oh, the leaving out of the factor of human nature; requiring another
man to do what you wouldn’t do yourself.”
“Do you mean--”
“Why here’s what I mean; it’s very simple. Tompkins is a blacksmith; has
a family; works for wages; and hard, too--fooling around won’t furnish
the bread. Suppose it should turn out that by the death of somebody in
England he is suddenly an earl--income, half a million dollars a year.
What would he do?”
“Well, I--I suppose he would have to decline to--”
“Man, he would grab it in a second!”
“Do you really think he would?”
“Think?--I don’t think anything about it, I know it.”
“Why?”
“Why? Because he’s not a fool.”
“So you think that if he were a fool, he--”
“No, I don’t. Fool or no fool, he would grab it. Anybody would. Anybody
that’s alive. And I’ve seen dead people that would get up and go for it.
I would myself.”
This was balm, this was healing, this was rest and peace and comfort.
“But I thought you were opposed to nobilities.”
“Transmissible ones, yes. But that’s nothing. I’m opposed to
millionaires, but it would be dangerous to offer me the position.”
“You’d take it?”
“I would leave the funeral of my dearest enemy to go and assume its
burdens and responsibilities.”
Tracy thought a while, then said:
“I don’t know that I quite get the bearings of your position. You say
you are opposed to hereditary nobilities, and yet if you had the chance
you would--”
“Take one? In a minute I would. And there isn’t a mechanic in that
entire club that wouldn’t. There isn’t a lawyer, doctor, editor, author,
tinker, loafer, railroad president, saint--land, there isn’t a human
being in the United States that wouldn’t jump at the chance!”
“Except me,” said Tracy softly.
“Except you!” Barrow could hardly get the words out, his scorn so choked
him. And he couldn’t get any further than that form of words; it seemed
to dam his flow, utterly. He got up and came and glared upon Tracy in a
kind of outraged and unappeasable way, and said again, “Except you!”
 He walked around him--inspecting him from one point of view and then
another, and relieving his soul now and then by exploding that formula
at him; “Except you!” Finally he slumped down into his chair with the
