

XXI.


Mrs. Hilary was a large woman, of portly frame, the prophecy in
amplitude of what her son might come to be if he did not carry the
activities of youth into his later life. She, for her part, was long
past such activities; and yet she was not a woman to let the grass grow
upon any path she had taken. She appointed the afternoon of the day
following her talk with Matt for leaving the farm and going to the
shore; Louise was to go with her, and upon the whole she judged it best
to tell her why, when the girl came to say good-night, and to announce
that her packing was finished.

"But what in the world are we in such a hurry for, mamma, all of a
sudden?"

"We are in a hurry because--don't you really know, Louise?--because in
the crazy atmosphere of this house, one loses the sense of--of
proportion--of differences."

"Aren't you rather--Emersonian, mamma?"

"Do you think so, my dear? Matt's queer notions infect everybody; I
don't blame you, particularly; and the simple life he makes people
lead--by leading it himself, more than anything else--makes you think
that you could keep on living just as simply if you wished, everywhere."

"It's very sweet--it's so restful," sighed the girl. "It makes you sick
of dinners and ashamed of dances."

"But you must go back to them; you must go back to the world you belong
to; and you'd better not carry any queer habits back with you."

"You are rather sphinx-like, mamma! Such habits, for instance, as?"

"As Mr. Maxwell." The girl's face changed; her mother had touched the
quick. She went on, looking steadily at her daughter, "You know he
wouldn't do, there."

"No; he wouldn't," said Louise, promptly; so mournfully, though, that
her mother's heart relented.

"I've seen that you've become interested in him, Louise; that your fancy
is excited; he stimulates your curiosity. I don't wonder at it! He is
very interesting. He makes you feel his power more than any other young
man I've met. He charms your imagination even when he shocks your
taste."

"Yes; all that," said Louise, desolately.

"But he does shock your taste?"

"Sometimes--not always."

"Often enough, though, to make the difference that I'm afraid you'll
lose the sense of. Louise, I should be very sorry if I thought you were
at all--in love with that young man!"

It seemed a question; Louise let her head droop, and answered with
another. "How should I know? He hasn't asked me."

This vexed her mother. "Don't be trivial, don't be childish, my dear.
You don't need to be asked, though I'm exceedingly glad he hasn't
asked you, for now you can get away with a good conscience."

"I'm not sure yet that I want to get away," said the girl, dreamily.

"Yes, you are, my dear!" her mother retorted. "You know it wouldn't do
at all. It isn't a question of his poverty; your father has money
enough: it's a question of his social quality, and of all those little
nothings that make up the whole of happiness in marriage. He would be
different enough, being merely a man; but being a man born and reared in
as different a world from yours as if it were another planet--I want you
to think over all the girls you know--all the people you know--and see
how many of them have married out of their own set, their own circle--we
might almost say, their own family. There isn't one!"

"I've not said I wished to marry him, mamma."

"No. But I wish you to realize just what it would be."

"It would be something rather distinguished, if his dreams came true,"
Louise suggested.

"Well, of course," Mrs. Hilary admitted. She wished to be very, very
reasonable; very, very just; it was the only thing with a girl like
Louise; perhaps with any girl. "It would be distinguished, in a way. But
it wouldn't be distinguished in the society way; the only way you've
professed to care for. I know that we've always been an intellectual
community, and New-Yorkers, and that kind of people, think, or profess
to think, that we make a great deal of literary men. We do invite them
somewhat, but I pass whole seasons without meeting them; and I don't
know that you could say that they are of society, even when they are
in it. If such a man has society connections, he's in society; but
he's there on account of his connections, not on account of his
achievements. This young man may become very distinguished, but he'll
always be rather queer; and he would put a society girl at odds with
society. His distinction would be public; it wouldn't be social."

"Matt doesn't think society is worth minding," Louise said, casually.

"But you do," returned her mother. "And Matt says that a man of this
young man's traditions might mortify you before society people."

"Did Matt say that?" Louise demanded, angrily. "I will speak to Matt
about that! I should like to know what he means by it. I should like to
hear what he would say."

"Very likely he would say that the society people were not worth
minding. You know his nonsense. If you agree with Matt, I've nothing
more to say, Louise; not a word. You can marry a mechanic or a
day-laborer, in that case, without loss of self-respect. I've only been
talking to you on the plane where I've always understood you wished to
be taken. But if you don't, then I can't help it. You must understand,
though, and understand distinctly, that you can't live on two levels;
the world won't let you. Either you must be in the world and of it
entirely; or you must discard its criterions, and form your own, and
hover about in a sort of Bohemian limbo on its outskirts; or you must
give it up altogether." Mrs. Hilary rose from the lounge where she had
been sitting, and said, "Now I'm going to bed. And I want you to think
this all carefully over, Louise. I don't blame you for it: and I wish
nothing but your good and happiness--yours and Matt's, both. But I must
say you've been pretty difficult children to provide for. Do you know
what Matt has been doing?" Mrs. Hilary had not meant to speak of it, but
she felt an invincible necessity of doing so, at last.

"Something new about the Northwicks?"

"Very decidedly--or about one of them. He's offered himself to Suzette."

"How grand! How perfectly magnificent! Then she can give up her property
at once, and Matt can take care of her and Adeline both."

"Or, your father can, for him. Matt has not the crime of being a
capitalist on his conscience. His idea seems to be to get Suzette to
live here on the farm with him."

"I don't believe she'd be satisfied with that," said Louise. "But could
she bear to face the world? Wouldn't she always be thinking what people
thought?"

"I felt that I ought to suggest that to Matt; though, really, when it
comes to the practical side of the matter, people wouldn't care much
what her father had been--that is, society people wouldn't, as society
people. She would have the education and the traditions of a lady, and
she would have Matt's name. It's nonsense to suppose there wouldn't be
talk; but I don't believe there would be anything that couldn't be lived
down. The fact is," said Mrs. Hilary, giving her daughter the advantage
of a species of soliloquy, "I think we ought to be glad Matt has let us
off so easily. I've been afraid that he would end by marrying some
farmer's daughter, and bringing somebody into the family who would say
'Want to know,' and 'How?' and 'What-say?' through her nose. Suzette is
indefinitely better than that, no matter what her father is. But I must
confess that it was a shock when Matt told me they were engaged."

"Why, were you surprised, mamma?" said Louise. "I thought all along
that it would come to that. I knew in the first place, Matt's sympathy
would be roused, and you know that's the strongest thing in him. And
then, Suzette is a beautiful girl. She's perfectly regal; and she's
just Matt's opposite, every way; and, of course he would be taken with
her. I'm not a bit surprised. Why it's the most natural thing in the
world."

"It might be very much worse," sighed Mrs. Hilary. "As soon as he has
seen your father, we must announce it, and face it out with people.
Fortunately, it's summer; and a great many have gone abroad this year."

Louise began to laugh. "Even Mr. Northwick is abroad."

"Yes, and I hope he'll stay there," said Mrs. Hilary, wincing.

"It would be quite like Matt, wouldn't it, to have him brought home in
chains, long enough to give away the bride?"

"Louise!" said her mother.

Louise began to cry. "Oh, you think it's nothing," she said stormily,
"for Matt to marry a girl whose father ran away with other people's
money; but a man who has fought his way honestly is disgraceful, no
matter how gifted he is, because he hasn't the traditions of a society
man--"

"I won't condescend to answer your unjust nonsense, my dear," said Mrs.
Hilary. "I will merely ask you if you wish to marry Mr. Maxwell--"

"I will take care of myself!" cried the girl, in open, if not definite
rebellion. She flung from the room, and ran upstairs to her chamber,
which looked across at the chamber where Maxwell's light was burning.
She dropped on her knees beside the window, and bowed herself to the
light, that swam on her tears, a golden mist, and pitied and entreated
it, and remained there, till the lamp was suddenly quenched, and the
moon possessed itself of the night in unbroken splendor.

After breakfast, which she made late the next morning, she found Maxwell
waiting for her on the piazza.

"Are you going over to the camp?" she asked.

"I was, after I had said good-by," he answered.

"Oh, we're not going for several hours yet. We shall take the noon
train, mamma's decided." She possessed herself of the cushion, stuffed
with spruce sprays, that lay on the piazza-steps, and added, "I will go
over with you." They had hitherto made some pretence, one to the other,
for being together at the camp; but this morning neither feigned any
reason for it. Louise stopped, when she found he was not keeping up with
her, and turned to him, and waited for him to reach her. "I wanted to
speak with you, Mr. Maxwell, and I expect you to be very patient and
tractable." She said this very authoritatively; she ended by asking,
"Will you?"

"It depends upon what it is. I am always docile if I like a thing."

"Well, you ought to like this."

"Oh, that's different. That's often infuriating."

They went on, and then paused at the low stone wall between the pasture
and the pines.

"Before I say it, you must promise to take it in the right way," she
said.

He asked, teasingly, "Why do you think I won't?"

"Because--because I wish you to so much!"

"And am I such a contrary-minded person that you can't trust me to
behave myself, under ordinary provocation?"

"You may think the provocation is extraordinary."

"Well, let's see." He got himself over the wall, and allowed her to
scramble after him.

She asked herself whether, if he had the traditions of a society man, he
would have done that; but somehow, when she looked at his dreamy face,
rapt in remote thought that beautified it from afar, she did not care
for his neglect of small attentions. She said to herself that if a woman
could be the companion of his thoughts that would be enough; she did not
go into the details of arranging association with thoughts so far off as
Maxwell's; she did not ask herself whether it would be easy or possible.
She put the cushion into the hammock for a pillow, but he chose to sit
beside her on the bench between the pine-tree boles, and the hammock
swayed empty in the light breeze that woke the sea-song of the boughs
over them.

"I don't know exactly how to begin," she said, after a little silence.

"If you'll tell me what you want to say," he suggested, "I'll begin for
you."

"No, thank you, I'll begin myself. Do you remember, the other day, when
we were here, and were talking of the difference in peoples' pride?"

"Purse pride and poverty pride? Yes, I remember that."

"I didn't like what you said, then; or, rather, what you were."

"Have you begun now? Why didn't you?"

"Because--because you seemed very worldly."

"And do you object to the world? I didn't make it," said Maxwell, with
his scornful smile. "But I've no criticisms of the Creator to offer. I
take the world as I find it, and as soon as I get a little stronger, I'm
going back to it. But I thought you were rather worldly yourself, Miss
Hilary."

"I don't know. I don't believe I am, very. Don't you think the kind of
life Matt's trying to live is better?"

"Your brother is the best man I ever knew--"

"Oh, isn't he? Magnificent!"

"But life means business. Even literary life, as I understand it, means
business."

"And can't you think--can't you wish--for anything better than the life
that means business?" she asked, she almost entreated. "Why should you
ever wish to go back to the world? If you could live in the country away
from society, and all its vanity and vexation of spirit, why wouldn't
you rather lead a literary life that didn't mean business?"

"But how? Are you proposing a public subscription, or a fairy
godmother?" asked Maxwell.

"No; merely the golden age. I'm just supposing the case," said Louise.
"You were born in Arcady, you know," she added, with a wistful smile.

"Arcady is a good place to emigrate from," said Maxwell, with a smile
that was not wistful. "It's like Vermont, where I was born, too. And if
I owned the whole of Arcady, I should have no use for it till I had seen
what the world had to offer. Then I might like it for a few months in
the summer."

"Yes," she sighed faintly, and suddenly she rose, and said, "I must go
and put the finishing touches. Good-by, Mr. Maxwell"--she mechanically
gave him her hand. "I hope you will soon be well enough to get back to
the world again."

"Thank you," he said, in surprise. "But the great trial you were going
to make of my patience, my docility--"

She caught away her hand. "Oh, that wasn't anything. I've decided not.
Good-by! Don't go through the empty form of coming back to the house
with me. I'll take your adieus to mamma." She put the cushion into the
hammock. "You had better stay and try to get a nap, and gather strength
for the battle of life as fast as you can."

She spoke so gayly and lightly, that Maxwell, with all his subtlety,
felt no other mood in her. He did not even notice, till afterwards, that
she had said nothing about their meeting again. He got into the hammock,
and after a while he drowsed, with a delicious, poetic sense of her
capricious charm, as she drifted back to the farmhouse, over the sloping
meadow. He visioned a future in which fame had given him courage to tell
her his love.

Mrs. Hilary knew from her daughter's face that something had happened;
but she knew also that it was not what she dreaded.




PART THIRD.




I.


Matt Hilary saw Pinney, and easily got at the truth of his hopes and
possibilities concerning Northwick. He found that the reporter really
expected to do little more than to find his man, and make a newspaper
sensation out of his discovery. He was willing to forego this in the
interest of Northwick's family, if it could be made worth his while; he
said he had always sympathized with his family, and Mrs. Pinney had, and
he would be glad to be of use to them. He was so far from conceiving
that his account of the defalcation in the Events could have been
displeasing to them, that he bore them none of an offender's malice. He
referred to his masterpiece in proof of his interest, and he promptly
agreed with Matt as to the terms of his visit to Canada, and its object.

It was, in fact, the more practicable, because, since he had written to
Maxwell, there had been a change in his plans and expectations. Pinney
was disappointed in the Events' people; they had not seen his proposed
excursion as he had; the failure of Northwick's letter, as an
enterprise, had dashed their interest in him; and they did not care to
invest in Pinney's scheme, even so far as to guarantee his expenses.
This disgusted Pinney, and turned his thoughts strongly toward another
calling. It was not altogether strange to him; he had already done some
minor pieces of amateur detective work, and acquitted himself with
gratifying success; and he had lately seen a private detective, who
attested his appreciation of Pinney's skill by offering him a
partnership. His wife was not in favor of his undertaking the work,
though she could not deny that he had some distinct qualification for
it. The air of confidence which he diffused about him unconsciously, and
which often served him so well in newspaper life, was in itself the most
valuable property that a detective could have. She said this, and she
did not object to the profession itself, except for the dangers that she
believed it involved. She did not wish Pinney to incur these, and she
would not be laughed out of her fears when he told her that there were
lines of detective work that were not half so dangerous, in the long
run, as that of a reporter subject to assignment. She only answered that
she would much rather he kept along on the newspaper. But this offer to
look up Northwick in behalf of his family, was a different affair. That
would give them a chance for their outing in Canada, and pay them better
than any newspaper enterprise. They agreed to this, and upon how much
good it would do the baby, and they imagined how Mrs. Pinney should stay
quietly at Quebec, while Pinney went about, looking up his man, if that
was necessary.

"And then," he said, "if I find him, and all goes well, and I can get
him to come home with me by moral suasion, I can butter my bread on both
sides. There's a reward out for him; and I guess I will just qualify as
a detective before we start, so as to be prepared for emergencies--"

"Lorenzo Pinney!" screamed his wife. "Don't you think of such a wicked
thing! So dishonorable!"

"How wicked? How dishonorable?" demanded Pinney.

"I'm ashamed to have to tell you, if you don't see; and I won't. But
if you go as a detective, go as a detective; and if you go as their
friend, to help them and serve them, then go that way. But don't you try
to carry water on both shoulders. If you do, I won't stir a step with
you; so there!"

"Ah!" said Pinney, "I understand. I didn't catch on, at first. Well, you
needn't be afraid of my mixing drinks. I'll just use the old fellow for
practice. Very likely he may lead to something else in the defaulter
line. You won't object to that?"

"No; I won't object to that."

They had the light preparations of young housekeepers to make, and they
were off to the field of Pinney's work in a very few days after he had
seen Matt, and told him that he would talk it over with his wife. At
Quebec he found board for his family at the same hotel where Northwick
had stopped in the winter, but it had kept no recognizable trace of him
in the name of Warwick on its register. Pinney passed a week of search
in the city, where he had to carry on his investigations with an eye not
only to Northwick's discovery, but to his concealment as well. If he
could find him he must hide him from the pursuit of others, and he went
about his work in the journalistic rather than the legal way. He had not
wholly "severed his connection," as the newspaper phrase is, with the
Events. He had a fast and loose relation with it, pending a closer tie
with his friend, the detective, which authorized him to keep its name on
his card; and he was soon friends with all the gentlemen of the local
press. They did not understand, in their old-fashioned, quiet ideal of
newspaper work, the vigor with which Pinney proposed to enjoy the
leisure of his vacation in exploiting all the journalistic material
relating to the financial exiles resident in their city. But they had a
sort of local pride in their presence, and with their help Pinney came
to know all that was to be known of them. The colony was not large, but
it had its differences, its distinctions, which the citizens were very
well aware of. There are defaulters and defaulters, and the blame is not
in all cases the same, nor the breeding of the offenders. Pinney learned
that there were defaulters who were in society, and not merely because
they were defaulters for large sums and were of good social standing at
home, but because there were circumstances that attenuated their offence
in the eyes of the people of their city of refuge; they judged them by
their known intentions and their exigencies, as the justice they had
fled from could not judge them. There were other defaulters of a
different type and condition, whose status followed them: embezzlers who
had deliberately planned their misdeeds, and who had fallen from no
domestic dignity in their exclusion from respectable association abroad.
These Pinney saw in their walks about the town; and he was not too
proud, for the purposes of art, to make their acquaintance, and to study
in their vacancy and solitude the dulness and weariness of exile. They
did not consort together, but held aloof from one another, and professed
to be ignorant each of the affairs of the rest. Pinney sympathized in
tone if not in sentiment with them, but he did not lure them to the
confidence he so often enjoyed; they proved to be men of reticent
temper; when frankly invited to speak of their history and their hopes
in the interest of the reputations they had left behind them, they said
they had no statement to make.

It was not from them that Pinney could hope to learn anything of the man
he was seeking; Northwick was not of their order, morally or socially,
and from the polite circles where the more elect of the exiles moved,
Pinney was himself excluded by the habits of his life and by the choice
of the people who formed those circles. This seemed to Pinney rather
comical, and it might have led him to say some satirical things of the
local society, if it had been in him to say bitter things at all. As it
was, it amused his inexhaustible amiability that an honest man like
himself should not be admitted to the company of even the swellest
defaulters when he was willing to seek it. He regretted that it should
be so, mainly because Northwick could have been heard of among them, if
at all; and when all his other efforts to trace him at Quebec failed, he
did not linger there. In fact he had not expected to find him there, but
he had begun his search at that point, because he must stop there on his
way to Rimouski, where Northwick's letter to the Events was posted.
This postmark was the only real clue he had; but he left no stone
unturned at Quebec, lest Northwick should be under it. By the time he
came to the end of his endeavors, Mrs. Pinney and the baby were on such
friendly terms with the landlady of the hotel where they were staying,
that Pinney felt as easy at parting from them as he could ever hope to
feel. His soft heart of husband and father was torn at leaving them
behind; but he did not think it well to take them with him, not knowing
what Rimouski might be like, or how long he might be kept remote from an
English-speaking, or English-practising, doctor. He got a passage down
the river on one of the steamers for Liverpool; and with many vows, in
compliance with his wife's charges, that he would not let the vessel by
any chance carry him on to Europe, he rent himself away. She wagged the
baby's hand at him from the window where she stood to watch him getting
into the calash, and the vision of her there shone in his tears, as the
calash dashed wildly down Mountain Hill Street, and whirled him through
the Lower Town on to the steamer's landing. He went to his stateroom as
soon as he got aboard, that he might give free course to his heartache,
and form resolutions to be morally worthy of getting back alive to them,
and of finding them well. He would, if he could, have given up his whole
enterprise; and he was only supported in it by remembering what she had
said in praise of its object. She had said that if he could be the means
of finding their father for those two poor women, she should think it
the greatest thing that ever was; and more to be glad of than if he
could restore him to his creditors. Pinney had laughed at this womanish
view of it; he had said that in either case it would be business, and
nothing else; but now his heart warmed with acceptance of it as the only
right view. He pledged himself to it in anticipative requital of the
Providence that was to bring them all together again, alive and well;
good as he had felt himself to be, when he thought of the love in which
he and his wife were bound, he had never experienced so deep and
thorough a sense of desert as in this moment. He must succeed, if only
to crown so meritorious a marriage with the glory of success and found
it in lasting prosperity.




II.


These emotions still filled Pinney to the throat when at last he left
his cabin and went forward to the smoking-room, where he found a number
of veteran voyagers enjoying their cigars over the cards which they had
already drawn against the tedium of the ocean passage. Some were not
playing, but merely smoking and talking, with glasses of clear, pale
straw-colored liquid before them. In a group of these the principal
speaker seemed to be an American; the two men who chorused him were
Canadians; they laughed and applauded with enjoyment of what was
national as well as what was individual in his talk.

"Well, I never saw a man as mad as old Oiseau when he told about that
fellow, and how he tried to start him out every day to visit his
soap-mine in the 'ill, as he called it, and how the fellow would slip
out of it, day after day, week after week, till at last Oiseau got
tired, and gave him the bounce when the first boat came up in the
spring. He tried to make him believe it would be good for his health, to
go out prospecting with him, let alone making his everlasting fortune;
but it was no good; and all the time Oiseau was afraid he would fall
into my hands and invest with me. 'I make you a present of 'im, Mr.
Markham,' says he. 'I 'ave no more use for him, if you find him.'"

One of the Canadians said, "I don't suppose he really had anything to
invest."

"Why, yes, that was the curious thing about it; he had a belt full of
thousand-dollar bills round him. They found it when he was sick; and old
Oiseau was so afraid that something would happen to him, and he would
be suspected of it, that he nursed him like a brother till he got well,
and as soon as he was able to get away he bounced him."

"And what do you suppose was the matter with him, that he wouldn't even
go to look at Oiseau's soap-mine?"

"Well," said the American, closing his eyes for the better enjoyment of
the analysis, and giving a long, slow pull at his cigar, "there might
have been any one of several things. My idea is that he was a defaulter,
and the thousand-dollar bills--there were forty or fifty of them, Oiseau
says--were part of the money he got away with. Then, very likely he had
no faith in Oiseau--knew it was probably a soap-mine, and was just
putting him off till he could get away himself. Or, maybe his fever left
him a little cracked, and he didn't know exactly what he was about.
Then, again, if my theory of what the man was is true, I think that kind
of fellow gets a twist simply from what he's done. A good many of them
must bring money away with them, and there are business openings
everywhere; but you never hear of their going into anything over here."

"That is odd," said the Canadian.

"Or would be if it were not so common. It's the rule here, and I don't
know an exception. The defaulter never does anything with his money,
except live on it. Meigs, who built those railroads on the Andes, is the
only one who ever showed enterprise; and I never understood that it was
a private enterprise with him. Anyway, the American defaulter who goes
to Canada never makes any effort to grow up with the country. He simply
rests on his laurels, or else employs his little savings to negotiate a
safe return. No, sir; there's something in defalcation that saps a man's
business energies, and I don't suppose that old fellow would have been
able to invest in Oiseau's gold mine if it had opened at his feet, and
he could have seen the sovereigns ready coined in it. He just
couldn't. I can understand that state of mind, though I don't pretend
to respect it. I can imagine just how the man trembled to go into some
speculation, and didn't dare to. Must have been an old hand at it, too.
But it seems as if the money he steals becomes sacred to a man when he
gets away with it, and he can't risk it."

"I rather think you could have overcome his scruples, Markham, if you
could have got at him," said the Canadian.

"Perhaps," Markham assented. "But I guess I can do better with our stock
in England."

Pinney had let his cigar go out, in his excitement. He asked Markham for
a light, though there were plenty of matches, and Markham accepted the
request as an overture to his acquaintance.

"Brother Yank?" he suggested.

"Boston."

"Going over?"

"Only to Rimouski. You don't happen to know the name of that defaulter,
do you?"

"No; I don't," said Markham.

"I had an idea I knew who it was," said Pinney.

Markham looked sharply at him. "After somebody in Rimouski?"

"Well, not just in that sense, exactly, if you mean as a detective. But
I'm a newspaper man, and this is my holiday, and I'm working up a little
article about our financiers in exile while I'm resting. My name's
Pinney."

"Markham can fill you up with the latest facts," said the Canadian,
going out; "and he's got a gold mine that beats Oiseau's hollow. But
don't trust him too far. I know him; he's a partner of mine."

"That accounts for me," said Markham, with the tolerant light of a
much-joked joker in his eyes. With Pinney alone he ceased to talk the
American which seemed to please his Canadian friend, and was willing
soberly to tell all he knew about Oiseau's capitalist, whom he merely
