which, found in the booty, were read 
aloud to the people that they might 
judge the morals of a nation that pretended to rule the world. 
Moral, certainly they were not; but 
like everything else which came from 
Greece, they were the work of a mas- 
ter in art. Concerning Aristidcs of 
Milet history is silent, but it may be 
safel}- conjectured that his life differed 
from' that of his heroes. As often as 
not the man who sounds the cymbals 
to the proprieties and plaj-s the flute 
to ethereal affection, conceals beneath 
obsequious cant the stigmata of satisfied vice. It is he who in vichy-water 
phrases pays to virtue the tribute of 
sin. On the other hand a tendency 
toward eroticism is the surest indication of chastity. It is continence that 
makes the St. Anthony. In the blood 
of the chaste cantharides abound. 
 
Whether such medicaments are serviceable to the soul is a different matter. Tiberius had other drugs on the 
ivory shelves — magic preparations that 
transported him to fabulous hetds. 
There was a work by Hecatsus, with 
which he could visit Hyperborea, that 
land where happiness was a birthright, 
inalienable at that; et a happiness so 
sweet that it must have been cloying; 
for the people who enjoyed it, and with 
it the appanage of limitless life, killed 
themselves from sheer ennui. Theo- 
pompus disclosed to him a stranger 
vista — a continent beyond the ocean — 
one where there were immense cities, 
and where two rivers flowed — the 
River of Pleasure and the River of 
Pain. With larabulus he discovered 
the Fortunate Isles, where there were 
men with elastic bones, bifurcated 
tongues ; men who never married, who 
worshipped the sun, whose life was an 
 
uninterrupted delight, and who, when 
overtaken by age, lay on a perfumed 
grass that produced a voluptuous 
death. Evhemerus, a terrible atheist, 
whose Sacred History the early bishops 
wielded against polytheism until 
they discoviired it was double-edged, 
took him to Panchaia, an island where 
incense grew; where property was 
held in common; where there was but 
one law —  Justice, yet a justice different from our own, one which Hugo 
must have intercepted when he made an entrancing yet enigmatical apparition exclaim: 
And in this paradise, where nature 
laughed the seasons through, there 
was a temple, and before it a column, 
about which, in Panchaian characters, 
ran a history of ancient kings, who, to 
the astonishment of the tourist, were 
found to be none other than the gods 
 
whom the universe adored, and who 
in earlier days had announced themselves divinities, the better to rule the 
hearts and minds of man. 
With other guides Tiberius journeyed through lands where dreams 
come true. Aristeas of Proconnesus 
led him among the Arimaspi, a curious 
people who passed their lives fighting 
for gold with griffons in the dark. 
With Isogonus he descended the 
valley of IsmSus, where wild men 
were, whose feet turned inwards. In 
Albania he found a race with pink 
eyes and white hair; in Sarmatia 
another that ate only on alternate 
days. Agatharcides took him to 
Libya, and there introduced him to 
the Psyllians, in whose bodies was a 
poison deadly to serpents, and who, to 
test the fidelity of their wives, placed 
their children in the presence of 
snakes; if the snakes fled they 
 
their wives were pure, Callias took 
him further yet, to the home of 
the hermaphrodites ; Nymphodorus 
showed him a race of fascinators who 
used enchanted words. With Apollonides he encountered women who 
killed with their eyes those on whom 
they looked too long. Megasthenes 
guided him to the Astomians, whose 
garments were the down of feathers, 
and who lived on the scent of the 
In his cups they all passed, confusedly, before him; the hermaphrodites 
whispered to the rose  — breathers 
secrets of impossible love; the griffons bore to him women with magical 
eyes; the Albanians danced with 
elastic feet; he heard the shrill call of 
the Psyllians, luring the serpents to 
death; the column of Panchaia un- 
veiled its mysteries; the Hyperboreans 
the reason of their fear of life, and on 
 
the wings of the chimera he set out 
again in search of that continent 
which haunted antiquity and which 
lay beyond the sea. 
"Another Phaethon for the universe," Tiberius is reported to have 
muttered, as he gazed at his nephew 
Caius, nicknamed Caligula, who was 
to suffocate him with a mattress and 
rule in his stead. 
To rule is hardly the expression. 
There is no term in English to convey that dominion over sea and sky 
which a Cxsar possessed, and which 
Caligula was the earliest to understand, 
Augustus was the first magistrate of 
Rome, Tiberius the first citizen. 
Caligula was the first emperor, but an 
emperor hallucinated by the enigma 
of his own grandeur, a prince for 
whose sovereignty the world was too 
small. 
 
Each epoch has its secret, sometimes puerile, often perplexing; but in 
its maker there is another and a more 
interesting one yet. Eliminate Cali- 
gula, and Nero, Domitian, Commo- 
dus, Caracalla and Heliogabalus 
would never have been. It was he 
who gave them both raison iVetre 
and incentive. The lives of all of 
them are horrible, yet analyze the horrible and you find the sublime. 
Fancy a peak piercing the heavens, 
shadowing the earth. It was on a 
peak such as that the young emperors 
of old Rome balanced themselves, a 
precipice on either side. Did they 
look below, a vertigo rose to meet 
them ; from above delirium came, 
while the horizon, though it hemmed 
the limits of vision, could ngt mark the 
frontiers of their dream. In addition 
there was the exaltation that altitudes 
produce. The valleys have their 
 
imbeciles; it is from mountains the 
poet and madman come, Caligula was 
both, sceptered at that ; and with what 
a sceptre! One that stretched from 
the Rhine to the Euphrates, dominated a hundred and fifty million people ; one that a mattress had given and 
a knife was to take away; a sceptre 
that lashed the earth, threatened the 
sky, beckoned planets and ravished 
the divinity of the divine. 
To wield such a sceptre securely 
requires grace, no doubt, majesty too, 
but certainly strength ; the latter 
Caligula possessed, but it was the 
feverish strength of one who had 
fathomed the unfathomable, and who 
sought to make its depths his own. 
Caligula was haunted by the intarr 
gible. His sleep was a communion 
with Nature, with whom he believed 
himself one. At times the Ocean 
talked to him; at others the 
 
Earth had secrets which it wished to 
tell. Again there was some matter of 
moment which he must mention to 
the day, and he would wander out in 
the vast galleries of the palace and 
invoke the Dawn, bidding it come and 
listen to his speech. The day was 
deaf, but there was the moon, and he 
prayed her to descend and share his 
couch. Luna declined to be the 
mistres of a mortal; to seduce her 
Caligula determined to become a god. 
Nothing was easier. An emperor 
had but to open his veins, and in an 
hour he was a divinity. But the 
divinity which Caligula desired was 
not of that kind. He wished to be a 
god, not on Olympus alone, but on 
earth as well. He wished to be a 
palpable, tangible, living god ; one that 
mortals could see, which was more, 
he knew, than could be said of the 
others. The mere wish was sufficient 
 Rome fell at his feet. The patent 
of divinity was in the genuflections of 
a nation. At once he had a temple, 
priests and flamens. Inexhaustible 
Greece was sacked again. The 
statues of her gods, disembarked at 
Rome, were decapitated, and on them 
the head of Caius shone. 
Heretofore his dress had not been 
Roman, nor, for that matter, the garb 
of a man. On his wrists were bracelets; about his shoulders was a mantle 
made bright with gems; beneath it 
was a tunic, and on his feet were the 
high white slippers that women wore. 
But when the god came the costume 
changed. One day he was Apollo, 
the nimbus on his curls, the Graces at 
his side; the next he was Mercury, 
wings at his heels, the caduceu.s in 
his hand; again he was Venus. But 
it was as Jupiter Latialis, armed with 
the thunderbolt and decorated with a 
great gold benrd, th.it he appeared at 
his best. 
The role was very real to him. 
After the fashion of Olympians he 
became frankly Incestuous, seducing 
vestals, his sisters too, and gaining 
in boldness with each metamorpho- 
sis, he menaced the Capitoline Jove. 
"Prove your power," he cried to him, 
"or fear my own!" lie thundered at 
him with machine-made thunder, with 
lightning that flashed from a pan. 
"Kill me," he shouted, "or I will kill 
you!" Jove, ummoved, must have 
moved his assailant, for presently 
Caligula lowered his voice, whispered 
in the old god's ear, questioned him, 
meditated on his answer, grew per- 
plexed, violent again, and threatened 
to send him home. 
These interviews humanized him. 
He forgot the moon and mingled with 
men, inviting them to die. The invitation being invariably' accepted, he 
became a connoisseur in death, an artist in blood, a ruler to whom cruelty 
was not merely an aid to government 
but an individual pleasure, and there- 
with such a perfect lover, such a 
charming host! 
"Dear heart," he murmured to his 
mistress Pryallis, as she lay one night 
in his arms, "I think I will have you 
tortured that you may tell mc why I 
love you so," But of that the girl 
saw no need. She either knew the 
reason or invented one, for presently 
he sighed in her ear: "And to think 
that I have but a sign to make and 
that beautiful head of yours is off!" 
Musings of this description were so 
pleasurable that one evening he explained to guests whom he had star- 
tled with his laughter, that it was 
amusing to reflect how easily he could 
have all of them killed. 
 
But even to a god life is not an unmixed delight. Caligula had his little troubles. About him there had 
settled a disturbing quiet. Rome was 
hushed, the world was very still. 
There was not so much as an earth- 
quake. The reign of Augustus had 
been marked by the defeat of Varus. 
Under Tiberius a falling amphithea- 
tre had killed a multitude. Caligula 
felt that through sheer felicity his own 
reign might be forgot, A famine, a 
pest, an absolute defeat, a terrific conflagration—any prodigious calamity 
that should sweep millions away and 
stamp his own memory immutably on 
the chronicles of time, how desirable 
it were ! But there was nothing. 
The crops had never been more 
abundant; apart from the arenas and 
the prisons, the health of the empire 
was excellent; on the frontiers not so 
much as the rumor of an insurrection 
 
could be heard, and Nero was vet to 
come. 
Perplexed, Caligula reflected, and 
presently from Baije to Puzzoli, over 
the waters of the bay, he galloped on 
horseback, the cuirass of Alexander 
glittering on his breast. The intervening miles had been spanned by a 
bridge of ships and on them a road 
had been built, one of those roads for 
which the Romans were famous, a 
road like the Appian Way, in earth 
and stone, bordered by inns, by pink 
arcades, green retreats, forest reaches, 
the murmur of trickling streams. So 
many ships were anchored there that 
through the unrepleted granaries the 
fear of famine stalked. Caligula, 
meanwhile, his guests behind him, 
made cavalry charges across the sea, 
or in a circus-chariot held the ribbons, 
while four white horses, maddened by 
swaying lights, bore him to the other 
 
shore. At night the entire coast was 
illuminated; the bridge was one great 
festival, brilliant but brief. Caligula 
had weaned of it all. At a signal 
the multitude of guests he had assem- 
bled there were tossed into the sea. 
By way of a souvenir, Tiberius, 
whom he murdered, had left him the 
immensity of his treasure. "I must be 
economical or Csesar," Caligula reflected, and tipped a coachman a million, rained on the people a hail of 
coin, bathed in essences, drank pearls 
dissolved in wine, set before his guests 
loaves of silver, gold omelettes, sau- 
sages of gems; sailed to the hum of 
harps on a ship that had porticoes, 
gardens, baths, bowers, spangled sails 
and a jewelled prow ; removed a mountain, and put a palace where it had 
been; filled in a valley and erected a 
temple on the top; supplied a horse 
with a marble home, with ivory stalls, 
 
with furniture and slaves ; contemplated making him consul; made him 
a host instead, one that in his own 
equine name invited the fashion of 
Rome to sup with Incitatus. 
In one year Tiberius' legacy, a 
sum that amounted to four hundred 
million of our money, was spent. 
Caligula was radiant; he had achieved 
the impossible; he was a bankrupt 
god, an emperor without a copper- 
But the very splendor of that triumph 
demanded a climax. If Caligula hesitated, no one knew it. On the morrow the palace of the Ca sars was 
turned into a lupanar, a little larger, 
a littie handsomer than the others, 
but still a brothel, one of which the 
inmates were matrons of Rome and 
the keeper Jupiter Latialis. 
After that, seemingly, there was 
nothing save apotheosis. But Caligula, in the nick of time, remembered 
the ocean. At the head of an army 
he crossed Gaul, attacked it, and re- 
turned refreshed. Decidedly he had 
not exhausted everything yet. He 
recalled Tiberius' policy, and abruptly 
the world was tilled again with accusers and accused. Gold poured in 
on him, the earth paid him tribute. 
In a vast hall he danced naked on the 
wealth of nations. Once more he 
was rich, richer than ever; there 
were still illusions to be looted, other 
dreams to be pierced; yet, even as he 
mused, conspirators were abroad. 
He loosed his pretorians. "Had 
Rome but one head!" he muttered. 
"Let them feel themselves die," he 
cried to his officers. "Let me be 
hated, but let me be feared." 
One day, as he was returning from 
the theatre, the dagger did its usual 
work. Rome had lost a genius; in 
his place there came an ass. 
 
There is a verse in Greek to the 
effect that the blessed have children 
in three months. Livia and Augustus 
were blessed in this pleasant fashion. 
Three months after their marriage a 
child was born — a miracle which sur- 
prised no one aware of their previous 
intimacy. The child became a man, 
and the father of Claud, an imbecile 
whom the pretorians, after Caligula's 
death, found in a closet, shaking with 
fright, and whom for their own protection they made emperor in his 
stead. 
Caligula had been frankly adored; 
there was in him an originality, and 
with it a grandeur and a mad magnifi- 
cence that enthralled. Then, too, he 
was young, and at his hours what the 
French call channeui-. If at times he 
frightened, always he dazzled. Of 
course he was adored; the prodigal 
emperors always were; so were their 
successors, the wicked popes. The 
virtue and moderation, which we of 
a later day admire so much, were 
not entirely appreciated then. Man 
was still too near to nature to be 
aware of shame, and infantile enough 
to care to be surprised. In that was 
Caligula's charm; he petted his peo- 
ple and surprised them too. Claud 
wearied. Between them they assimilate every contradiction, and in their 
incoherences explain that incomprehensible chaos which was Rome. 
Caligula jeered at everybody, everybody jeered at Claud. 
The latter was a fantastic, vacillating, abstracted, well-meaning and 
cowardly tyrant, issuing edicts in 
regard to the proper tarring of barrels, 
and rendering decisions which would 
insure the fortune of an opera-bouffe; 
declaring himself to be of the opinion 
of those who were right ; falling asleep 
on the bench, and on awakening 
announcing that he gave judgment 
in favor of those whuse reasons were 
the best; slappeJ in the face by an 
irritable plaintiff; held down by main 
force when he wanted to leave; inviting to supper those whom he had 
killed before breakfast; answering the 
mournful salute of the gladiators with 
a grotesque j4i?e/e vos — " Be it well too 
with you," a response, parenthetically, 
which the gladiators construed as a 
pardon and refused to fight; dowering 
the alphabet with three new letters 
which lasted no longer than he did; 
asserting that he would give centennial games as often as he saw fit; an 
emperor whom no one obeyed, whose 
eunuchs ruled in his stead ; whose 
lackeys dispensed exiles, death, con- 
sulates and crucifixions; whose valets 
insulted the senate, insulted Rome, 
insulted the sovereign that ruled the 
 
world ; whose people shared his consort's couch; a sHpshod drunkard in a 
tattered gown — such was the gentleman that succeeded Caligula and had 
Messalina for wife. 
It were curious to have seen that 
woman as Juvenal did, a veil over her 
yellow wig, hunting adventures 
through the streets of Rome, prostituting herself in the ergastules, while 
her husband in the Forum censured 
the dissoluteness of citizens. And it 
were curious, too, to understand 
whether it was her audacity or his 
stupidity which left him the only man 
in Rome unacquainted lAfith the pro- 
digious multiplicity and variety of her 
lovers. History has its secrets, yet, 
in connection with Messalina, there is 
one that historians have not taken the 
trouble to probe; to them she has 
been an imperial strumpet, a hetaira 
on a throne. Messalina was not that. 
 
At heart she was probably no better 
and no worse than any otlicr lady of 
the land, but physically she was a 
victim of nymphomania, one who to- 
day would be put through a course of 
treatment, instead of being put to 
death. When Claud at last learned, 
not the truth, but certain facts, 
namely, that some of her lovers were 
conspiring to get rid of him, he was 
not indignant; he was frightened 
to death. The conspirators were 
promptly disposed of, Messalina with 
them. Suetonius says that, a few 
days later, as he went in to supper, he 
asked why the empress did not ap- 
pear. 
Ap-vt from the malady from which 
she suffered, we're it possible to find 
an excuse for her conduct, the excuse 
would be Claud. The purple which 
made Caligula mad, made him an 
idiot; and when in course of time he 
 
was served with a succulent poison, 
there must have been many conjec- 
tures in Rome as to what the empire 
would next produce. 
The empire was extremely fecund, 
enormously vast. About Rome extended an immense circle of provinces 
and cities that were wholly hers. 
Without that circle was another, the 
sovereignty exercised over vassals 
and allies; beyond that, beyond the 
Rhine on one side, were the silenced 
Teutons; beyond the Euphrates on 
the other, the hazardous Parthians, 
while remotely to the north there 
extended the enigmas of barbarism; 
to the south, those semi-fabulous 
regions where geography ceased to 
be. 
Little by little, through the pa-tience of a people that felt i' elf 
eternal, this immensity had been 
assimilated and fused. A few fortresses and legions on the frontiers, a 
stretch of soldiery at any spot an invasion might be feared; a little tact, 
a maternal solicitude, and that was 
all. Rome governed unarmed, or 
perhaps it might be more exact to 
say she did not govern at all; she 
was the mistress of a federation of 
realms and republics that governed 
themselves, in whose government she 
was content, and from whom she exacted little, tribute merely, and obeisance to herself. Her strength was 
not in the sword; the lioness roared 
rarely, often slept; it was the fear 
smaller beasts had of her awakening 
that made them docile; once aroused, 
those indolent paws could do terrible 
work, and it was well not to excite 
them. When the Jews threatened to 
revolt, Agrippa warned them : "Look 
at Rome; look at her well; her arms 
are invisible, her troops are afar; she 
 
rules, not by them, but by the certainty of her power. If you rebel, the 
invisible sword will flash, and what 
can you do against Rome armed, 
when Rome unarmed frightens the 
world?" 
The argument was pertinent and 
suggestive, but the secret of Rome's 
ascendency consisted in the fact that 
where she conquered she dwelt. 
Wherever the eagles pounced, Rome 
multiplied herself in miniature. In 
the army was the nation, in the legion 
the city. Where it camped, presto! 
a judgment seat and an altar. On 
the morrow there was a forum; in a 
week there were paved avenues; in a 
fortnight, temples, porticoes ; in a 
month you felt yourself at home. 
Rome built with a magic that startled 
as surely as the glint of her sword. 
Time and again the nations whom 
Caesar encountered planned to eliminate his camp. When they reached 
it the camp had vanished; in its place 
was a walled, impregnable town. 
As the standards lowered before 
that town, the pomcerium was traced. 
Within it the veteran found a home, 
without it a wife; and, the family 
established, the legion that had conquered the soil with the sword, sub- 
sisted on it with the plow. Presently 
there were priests there, aqueducts, 
baths, theatres and games, all the 
marvel of imperial elegance and vice. 
When the aborigine wandered that 
way, his seduction was swift. 
The enemy that submitted became 
a subject, not a slave. Rome commanded only the free. If his goods 
were taxed, his goods remained his 
own, his personal liberty untrammeled. His land had become part of a 
new province, it is true, but provided 
he did not interest himself in such matters as peace and war, not only was 
he free to manage his own affairs, but 
that land, were it at the uttermost 
end of the earth, might, in recompense 
of his fidelity, come to be regarded 
as within the Italian territory ; as such, 
sacred, inviolate, free from taxes, and 
he a citizen of Rome, senator even, 
emperor ! 
Conquest once solidified, the rest 
was easy. Tattered furs were replaced 
by the tunic and uncouth idioms by 
the niceties of Latin speech. In some 
cases, where the speech had been 
beaten in with the hilt of the sword, 
the accent was apt to be rough, but a 
generation, two at most, and there 
were sweethearts and swains quoting 
Horace in the moonlight, naively unaware that only the verse of the 
Greeks could pleasure the Roman ear. 
Of the principalities and kingdoms 
that of their own wish [a wish often 
 
suggested, and not aiwajs amicably 
either] had become aUies of Rome 
and mingled their freedom with hers, 
nothing worth mentioning was required; they entered into an alliance 
whereby in return for Rome's patronage and protection they agreed to 
have a proper regard for the dignity 
of the Roman people and to have no 
other friends or enemies than those 
that were Rome's — a formula ex- 
quisite in the civility with which it 
exacted the renunciation of every in- 
herent right. "I have obeyed," wrote 
a king to the senate. "I have obeyed 
your deputy as I would have obeyed 
a god." "And you have done wisely," 
the senate answered, a reply, which, 
in its terseness, tells all. 
Diplomacy and the plow, such were 
 Rome's methods. As for herself she 
jought, she did not till. Italy, devas- 
ated by the civil wars, was uncultivated, cut up into vast unproductive 
estates. From one end to the other 
there was barely a trace of agriculture, not a sign of traffic. You met 
