"Well, boys," said Obed, at the end of an hour, "we may as well go to
work again. The gold's waitin' for us."
It was an old joke, and scarcely elicited a smile now. In fact, the boys
felt that they had waited a long time for the gold. It was not,
therefore, with a very hopeful feeling that they obeyed the summons and
returned to the claim. Though of a sanguine disposition, they began to
doubt seriously whether their efforts would ever be rewarded. They had
pretty much lost the stimulus of hope.
About four o'clock, when Jack was at work with the pick, something
curious happened. Instead of sinking into the earth it glanced off, as
from something hard.
"What is it, Jack?" asked Obed quickly.
"I must have struck a rock, Obed."
"Here, give me the pick," said Obed eagerly.
He struck, and lo! a yellow streak became plainly visible.
"Boys," said he in an agitated voice, "I believe our luck has come."
"What do you mean, Obed?"
"I believe we've found a nugget;" and to the boys' intense surprise he
immediately began to cover it up with dirt.
"What's that for?" asked Harry.
"Hush! we mustn't take it out now. Somebody might be looking. We'll wait
till it's darker."
Just then the tramp before mentioned strolled up.
"What luck, friends?" he asked.
"Same as usual," answered Obed, shrugging his shoulders. "Don't you want
to buy the claim?"
"Not I," and the tramp, quite deceived by his manner, kept on his
round.
CHAPTER XXIII.
RAISING THE NUGGET.
"It's lucky we covered up the gold," said Obed, in a low voice. "That's
the last man I wanted to discover our good luck."
"Shan't we keep on working?" asked Harry, in excitement.
"I will just probe a little to form some idea of the size of the
nugget," answered Obed.
"Then you think it is a nugget?" asked Jack eagerly.
"Yes, I think our luck has come at last, boys. I think we will be able
to pull up stakes and go back to America. But about keeping on now, we
shall need to be cautious. Someone might come by, and see what we are
about."
Then Harry made a suggestion.
"Let Jack go up to the top, and if anyone comes he can whistle. That
will put us on our guard."
"A good idea!" said Obed.
So Jack threw himself on the ground in a listless posture, and the other
two continued their explorations. They dug all about the boulder, which
proved to be about a foot in diameter. It was embedded in clay, from
which it was separated with some difficulty. It was encased in quartz,
but the interior was bright, glittering gold.
"It's a regular beauty," said Obed in a low tone, his eyes glittering
with excitement. "It isn't once in a dog's age that so big a nugget is
discovered."
"How much do you call it worth, Obed?" asked Harry in the same low
tone.
"That's hard tellin', Harry; but it's worth ten thousand dollars
easy."
"Thank God!" ejaculated Harry fervently. "That will release us from our
imprisonment, and enable us to go back to America."
"You are right, Harry, but the hardest job lies before us."
"What's that?"
"To get it out without observation, and keep it secure from thieves."
"We'll do our best. Only you give the orders, Obed."
"Then, first and foremost, we'll cover it up again, and go up till
evening, when we will secure it, and carry it to our cabin."
So said, so done. They joined Jack at the limit of the excavation.
"Is it all right?" asked the young sailor eagerly.
"Yes," answered Harry.
"Is it really a big one?"
"Yes; we can all go back to America, Jack."
"And I can once more be a sailor?"
"Yes, if you like it."
Jack was told of their plan of removing the nugget by night, and saw at
once that it was a wise one.
"Shall we go to the cabin now?" he asked.
"No, Jack; it won't do to leave our treasure unguarded. We will lounge
here and make sure that no one robs us of our discovery."
So they sat down, and Obed lighted his pipe once more.
A neighbor strolled up and sat down beside them.
"You are leaving off work early," he said.
"Yes," answered Obed with a yawn, "we might as well take it easy. It's
hard work--this mining."
"What luck?"
"Our luck is to come," said our Yankee friend. "How is it with you?"
"I have got out seventy-five dollars this week," answered the other
complacently.
"Whew! that's good! What do you say to swapping claims?"
"Oh, no," answered the neighbor, wagging his head jocosely. "I'm not so
green. The fact is, Mr. Stackpole, I don't want to discourage you, but I
don't believe you'll ever see the money you put into this hole. Come
now, what did you pay?"
"Five and twenty pounds."
"If you can get five pounds for it, my advice is, sell."
"I don't know but you're right," said Stackpole in a rueful tone. "Will
you give me five pounds for it?"
"Ho, ho! I might give you five shillings, though it would be a risk."
"Then I don't think we'll sell, eh, Harry?"
"We had better give it away than take that sum," said Harry, carefully
veiling his inward exultation.
They went to their cabin at the usual time and indulged themselves in a
better supper than usual, feeling that they could afford to do so. It is
wonderful how success stimulates the appetite.
"I don't know when I have been so hungry, Obed," said Harry.
"I feel the same way," chimed in Jack.
"A light heart increases the appetite, boys, but sometimes I've felt
wolfish when my heart was heavy. Fifteen months ago I was in Californy,
and down on my luck. Things had been goin' contrary, and I hadn't money
enough to buy a square meal. I didn't like to tell my friends, bein' a
bit proud. One day when I was feelin' so hungry that I wouldn't have
turned up my nose at a Chinaman's diet--rat pie--an old acquaintance met
me and asked me to dine with him. Did I accept? Well, I should smile. I
did smile all over my face, as I sat down to the table. You'd better
calculate that I made my knife and fork fly. Finally my friend remarked,
looking kind of queer, 'You've got a healthy appetite, Stackpole.' I
answered, 'It sort of runs in our family to eat whenever we get a
chance.' 'Good joke!' said he, laughing. But it was no joke when he came
to pay the bill, I tell you."
"I'll remember that, Obed," said Harry, smiling, "and when I invite you
to dinner, I'll first inquire whether you've had anything to eat for a
week back."
"I generally eat for a weak stomach," returned Obed, venturing on a
little joke at which the boys felt bound to laugh.
As they sat at the door of their cabin, they kept a good lookout in the
direction of their claim. They could not afford, now that success was in
their grasp, to have it snatched away. But they discovered no suspicious
movements on the part of anyone. In fact, no one suspected that they had
"struck it rich." So poor was the general opinion of their claim, that
they would have found it hard to obtain a purchaser at any price. Had
there been the least suspicion, the camp would have been greatly
excited.
As a rule, the miners retired early. They became fatigued during the
day, and sleep was welcome. There was, indeed, a gambling saloon at some
distance, frequented by the more reckless, but generally good hours were
observed in the camp.
About half past eleven, Obed nudged Harry and Jack, who had fallen
asleep.
"What is it?" asked Harry, in a drowsy tone.
"Hush!" whispered Obed. "Don't make any more noise than you can help. I
think it will be safe to go and secure the nugget now."
This was enough. Harry was wide awake in an instant, and he in turn
roused Jack.
There was no elaborate toilet to make, for they had thrown themselves
down in their day attire. They left the cabin, and by the faint light of
the moon, which was just ready to retire for the night, they found their
way to the claim without being observed.
Fifteen minutes' work, and the task was accomplished. The nugget was
raised, and wrapped in a red bandanna handkerchief, which Obed had
brought all the way from his New England home.
"It must weigh seventy-five pounds," whispered Obed exultantly. "Boys,
we're in tall luck. It was worth coming out to Australy for. We'll keep
it in the cabin over night, and to-morrow we'll put it where it will be
safe."
They gained the cabin without having been seen so far as they knew. Of
the hundreds of men sleeping within a furlong's distance, not one
dreamed of a discovery which was to draw the attention of the whole
colony to Bendigo. But they had not wholly escaped observation. One pair
of eyes had detected them in their midnight walk.
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE NUGGET IN DANGER.
The tramp, who has already been introduced to the reader, had spent the
evening at the gambling house, having come into possession, during the
day, of a small sum of money, given him by a compassionate miner. He had
risked it, and for a time been successful, so that at the end of an hour
he might have left off with twenty pounds. But the fatal fascination of
the game drew him on till all his winnings melted away, and he left the
cabin at midnight without a penny in his pocket, so far as he knew.
There was, however, a shilling which he had overlooked, and did not
discover till he was already some distance away. He was tempted to
return, and probably would have done so, had not his roving eyes
discovered Obed and the two boys returning from their claim with the
nugget.
"What are they up to," he asked himself in amazement, "that keeps them
out of bed till after midnight? There's something up. I wonder what it
is."
He had reason to be surprised. With the exception of those who, like
himself, spent the night in gambling (when he was in funds), no one in
the camp was awake or stirring. And of all, none kept more regular hours
than Obed and the two boys.
Casting about for some explanation, the tramp's attention was drawn to
the burden that Obed carried.
"What can it be?" he asked himself wonderingly. Then, with a flash of
conviction, he said to himself: "A nugget! They've found a nugget as
sure as I'm a sinner!"
The tramp was intensely excited. His covetous soul was stirred to its
depths. The opportunity he had been waiting for so long had come at
length. It meant fortune for him. Qualms of conscience about
appropriating the property of another troubled him not at all. He meant
to have the nugget, by fair means or foul.
The would-be thief understood well, however, that there would be
difficulties in the way of accomplishing his design. Obed and the two
boys were broad awake, and half an hour--perhaps an hour, must elapse
before he could feel sure that they would be asleep. In the meantime it
would be best to keep away from the cabin, lest someone inside might see
him lurking near, and suspect his purpose.
While he is keeping watch from a distance, let us enter the cabin.
Obed and the boys are sitting on their rude pallets, congratulating
themselves on having secured the nugget, and removed it from the mine
unobserved. Harry had made a remark to that effect, when Obed Stackpole
responded, "Do you know, boys, I feel sort of uneasy to-night."
"Why?" asked Jack.
"I'm afraid someone might have seen us on our way from the mine."
"I couldn't see anybody," Harry remarked.
"Nor I, but there may have been someone, nevertheless. The fact is, I
never expected to be uneasy on account of my wealth, but that's the way
the case stands just at present. When we were poor I slept like a top."
"I suppose you wouldn't care to get rid of your care by throwing the
nugget away," Harry said with a smile.
"I'm not so uneasy as that yet, but I should feel a little safer if we
and the nugget could be transported to Melbourne in five minutes."
"Suppose someone did see us?" queried Jack.
"Then we may expect a visit some time tonight."
"One of us might remain awake, Obed."
"That would be rather hard on us, for we are all tired. I don't believe
I could stay awake all night if I tried."
"Is there any way of concealing the nugget?"
"I don't know. If we had a cellar that would be a good place, but----"
"Stop, I have an idea!" cried Harry eagerly.
"Well, Harry, out with it."
"We can put the nugget in the trunk."
There was an old trunk, covered with hair, which had been left by the
last occupant of the cabin. The lock was broken, and it was not of much
use or value, but the boys occasionally used it as a seat.
"What security would that be?" said Obed. "It is easy enough to open the
trunk."
"I know it, but I have another idea. Wrap up that stone in the
handkerchief in place of the nugget. The thief--if one should
come--would see it, and make off with it without stopping to examine its
contents."
Obed smiled grimly.
"That's a good idea," he said. "I believe you're right, boy. It's dark,
and the thief couldn't tell the difference till he came to examine it."
Stones and fragments of rock are rare in that part of Australia, and I
am not prepared to explain how this particular rock found its way into
the mining village. The boys had found it, however, and thinking it
might be of some use had carried it to the cabin. Never, however, in
their wildest imaginings had it entered into their minds to conceive the
use to which they were now putting it.
No sooner said than done. The nugget was taken from the enfolding
bandanna, and dropped into the trunk, which Obed placed at the head of
his pallet.
"I wish there was a lock and key," he said. "I should somehow feel
safer."
"It's no use wishing," said Harry. "We've got to take things as we find
them."
"That's true philosophy, boy. Now get the rock, and tie it up."
Harry did so.
"Where shall I put it?" he asked.
"Anywhere where it can be seen easily. We won't trouble the thief to
look round much. We'll make everything easy for him."
When the transfer was effected, the boys laughed with glee.
"Do you know, Obed," said Harry. "I shall be rather disappointed now if
the thief doesn't come."
"I can get along without him," said Obed dryly.
"But it'll be such a good joke, Obed."
"I don't care so much about jokes as I did when I was your age, Harry. I
used to be a great feller for jokes when I was along in my teens. Did I
ever tell you the joke I played on the schoolmaster?
"Well, I was attendin' the district school the winter I was sixteen, and
I expect I was rather troublesome, though there wasn't anything
downright bad about me. But I remember one day when I stuck a bent pin
in the chair the master usually sot in, and I shan't forget till my
dyin' day how quick he riz up when he sot down on it."
Obed chuckled at the recollection, and so did the boys. Their sympathies
ought to have been with the schoolmaster, but I am sorry to say that did
not prevent their enjoying the joke.
"Were you found out?" asked Jack.
"Not exactly, but I think the master always suspected me. At any rate he
was always cuffin' me and pullin' my hair. I didn't mind the fust so
much as the last. So one day I got my mother to cut my hair close to my
head. When I went to school the master gave me a queer look. He knew
what made me have my hair cut. The next time I got into mischief he
called me up, and instead of pullin' my hair he pulled my ears till I
hollered. 'Now go home and get your ears cut off,' he said, but I
didn't."
"It seems to me the joke was on you that time, Obed."
"I've surmised as much myself," said Obed, laughing quietly. "But I'm
tired, boys, and I believe I shall have to go off to sleep, nugget or no
nugget."
"All right! Good-night, Obed."
"Good-night, boys."
CHAPTER XXV.
THE MIDNIGHT ROBBERY.
The thief had little difficulty in entering the cabin. No one in the
mining settlement thought of locking the outer door or closing the
windows. In many cases the doors were left ajar; in some cases there
were none. It was not necessary, therefore, to become a housebreaker.
Entrance then was the least difficulty.
The tramp, however, was not quite easy in his mind. He didn't care for
the two boys, but he glanced with apprehension at the reclining figure
of the tall gaunt Yankee, who was thin but wiry, and possessed of more
than ordinary physical strength.
"If he should tackle me," thought the midnight visitor with a shudder,
"it would be all up with me. He could shake the life out of me."
But the stake was a valuable one--it would in all probability make him
comfortable for life, if judiciously husbanded--and Obed's slumber
seemed so profound that there appeared to be no risk. Nevertheless the
tramp trembled, and his heart was in his mouth as he stealthily got in
through the open window, and moved toward the nugget, or what he
supposed to be such. He had one eye on Obed as he reached for the
bundle. It was with difficulty that he could lift it, so heavy was it,
but this only encouraged him, and made his eyes sparkle covetously. The
heavier it was, the more valuable it must be. Were it twice as heavy, he
would be willing to carry it ten miles, enduring cheerfully all the
fatigue it might entail. No thought of the rightful owners or of their
disappointment disturbed him. That greed of gain which hardens the heart
and banishes all scruples, held firm dominion over him.
He lifted the bundle, and as noiselessly as he entered he made his
egress through the window.
He thought he was unobserved, but he was mistaken.
Harry Vane was usually a heavy sleeper. He had slept through many a
thunder-storm at home, and under ordinary circumstances he would have
slept through this entire night. But the thought of the nugget, even in
his sleeping hours, weighed upon him and entered into his dreams.
Singularly, he was dreaming at this very moment that it was being
stolen, and in the intensity of his excitement all at once he became
broad awake, just as the thief was disappearing through the window. With
a startled look he glanced toward the place where the false nugget had
been placed.
It was gone!
Evidently the thief had been taken in, and the thought amused him so
much that he almost unconsciously laughed aloud. The sound fell on the
ears of the receding thief, and filled his heart with apprehension,
though he fancied it was a sound emitted in sleep. Still, it might
precede awakening.
Once out of the window he did not stand upon the order of his going, but
fled with a speed remarkable considering the weight of the bundle he
carried.
Harry rose from his bed, and though he felt sure the thief had been
deceived, he still, in order to make sure, opened the trunk and felt for
the lump of gold. With a thrill of joy he found it still there. Then he
could give way to his sense of amusement, and laughed long and loud. He
did not, however, arouse Jack and Obed, who, like himself, were sound
sleepers. He didn't like, however, to have all the amusement to himself,
so he shook the Yankee till he awoke.
"What's the matter?" asked Obed, in a drowsy tone.
"We've been robbed," answered Harry.
"What!" exclaimed Mr. Stackpole in dismay, bounding from his pallet, now
thoroughly awake. "What is that you say?"
"The nugget is gone!" said Harry.
"Confusion!" ejaculated Obed. "When? Who took it?"
"Don't be alarmed, Obed," said Harry quietly. "It's only the bogus
nugget. The real one is safe where we hid it."
"Tell me all about it, Harry. What skunk has been in here?"
"You know the man that was spying about our claim--the tramp."
"Did you see him?"
"Not till he was just getting out of the window."
Harry recounted briefly his sudden awakening, and the sight that greeted
him as he opened his eyes.
"I wish I'd been awake. I'd have boosted him out of that window," said
Obed grimly.
"I have no doubt you would, Obed," said Harry, laughing, "but I think we
needn't feel much of a grudge against the poor fellow. When he comes to
examine his booty by daylight, it's my impression he'll feel sick
enough."
Obed laughed too. "I'd like to be looking on when he makes the
discovery," he said. "He'll look green enough, I guess."
"How could the fellow have found out that we had found it?" said Harry,
with a puzzled expression.
"He must have been out late and seen us coming from the mine."
"It is lucky we thought of hiding it, and leaving the rock in its place,
Obed."
"That's so. The rock came in handy for once."
"Do you think there is any danger of another visit to-night?"
"No; he probably won't discover how he has been tricked till morning."
"And even if he does he may suppose that this rock is what we brought
with us."
"Possibly. Still, Harry, I think we'd better keep awake and watch
to-night. It will only be for one night, as to-morrow we can make
arrangements to send the nugget by express to Melbourne."
"I thought we should be carrying it there ourselves."
"No, it would not be safe. To-morrow everybody will know that we have
found a nugget, and if we attempted to carry it ourselves we should not
get ten miles away without being attacked, and perhaps killed."
"Then we can send it by express?" queried Harry.
"Yes, I have inquired into this--not that I thought we would be lucky
enough to need the information. The government escorts charge one per
cent., and besides the Crown exacts a royalty of ten per cent."
"That's pretty steep, isn't it, Obed?"
"I will cheerfully bear my part of it," said Obed. "I remember there was
an old fellow in our place who owned considerable property--at any rate
he was taxed for fifteen thousand dollars. Whenever taxes became due he
was always groanin' and predictin' that he'd end his days in the
poorhouse. My father, who was only taxed for fifteen hundred, said to
him one day, 'Mr. Higgins, if you'll give me half of your property, I'll
agree to pay taxes on the whole, so that you'll have nothing to pay.'"
"Did he accept?" asked Harry, with a smile.
"Not much, but he stopped growlin'. It may have given him a new idea of
the matter."
"How soon do you think of getting away, Obed?"
"As soon as we have sold the claim," answered the Yankee. "When it gets
reported round the camp what we've found there'll be plenty that'll want
to buy it on speculation, you may be sure of that."
"I didn't think of that," said Harry, his eyes brightening. "We're
luckier than I thought."
"Yes," answered Obed jocularly, "we're men of property now. I'm afraid
we'll have to pay taxes ourselves when we get home."
CHAPTER XXVI.
A THIEF'S EMBARRASSMENT.
When the thief left Obed Stackpole's cabin with his booty his heart was
filled with exultation. He had been drifting about for years, the
football of fortune, oftener down than up, and had more than once known
what it was to pass an entire day without food. And all this because he
had never been willing to settle down to steady work or honest industry.
He had set out in life with a dislike for each, and a decided preference
for living by his wits. Theft was no new thing for him. Once he had
barely escaped with his life in one of the Western States of America for
stealing a horse. He had drifted to Australia, with no idea of working
at the mines or anywhere else, but with the intention of robbing some
lucky miner and making off with the proceeds of his industry.
Well, he had succeeded, and his heart was light.
"No more hard work for me," he said to himself joyfully, "no more
privation and suffering. Now I can live like a gentleman."
It never seemed to occur to him that a thief could by no possibility
live like a gentleman. To be a gentleman, in his opinion, meant having a
pocketful of money.
He would like to have examined the nugget, but there was no time, nor
was there light enough to form an opinion of it. Besides, Obed and the
two boys might at any moment discover their loss, and then there would
be pursuers on his track. He could not hide it, for it was too large,
and anyone seeing what he carried would suspect its nature and
character.
The responsibility of property was upon him now. It was an unaccustomed
sensation. This thief began now to dread an encounter with other
thieves. There were other men, as well as himself, who had little
respect for the rights of property, and this he well knew.
"Where shall I go?" he asked himself in perplexity.
It would not do to stay in the neighborhood of the mining camp. By dawn,
or as soon as tidings of the robbery should spread, there would be an
organized pursuit. In any mining settlement a thief fares hard. In the
absence of any established code of laws, the relentless laws of Judge
Lynch are executed with merciless severity. Beads of perspiration began
to form on the brow of the thief as he realized the terrible danger he
had incurred. What good would it do him after all to get away with the
nugget if it should cost him his life, and that was a contingency, as
his experience assured him, by no means improbable.
"If I were only in Melbourne," he said to himself, "I would lose no time
in disposing of the nugget, and then would take the first ship for
England--or anywhere else. Any place would be better than Australia, for
that will soon be too hot to hold me."
It was one thing to wish, and another to realize the wish. He was still
in the immediate vicinity of the mining camp, and there were almost
insuperable difficulties in the way of getting far from it with his
treasure safe.
The thief kept on his way, however, and after a while reached a piece of
woods.
"This will be a good place to hide," he bethought himself. "I may be
able to conceal the nugget somewhere."
His first feeling of exultation had given place to one of deep anxiety
and perplexity. After, he was not as happy as he anticipated. Only
yesterday he had been poor--almost destitute--but at any rate free from
anxiety and alarm. Now he was rich, or thought he was, and his heart was
filled with nervous apprehension.
He wandered about for two or three hours, weary and feeling great need
of sleep, but afraid to yield to the impulse. Suppose he should lose
consciousness, and sleep till morning: the first man who found him
asleep would rob him of the precious nugget, and then he would be back
again where he had been the day before, and for years back. The dream of
his life had been fulfilled, and he was in no position to enjoy it.
Oftentimes God grants our wishes only to show us how little they add to
our happiness.
It was no light burden--this heavy nugget which he was forced to carry
with him, and, drowsy as he was, more than once he stumbled with it and
came near falling. But at last he saw before him a cabin--deserted,
apparently--and his heart was filled with joy. It would afford him a
place to obtain needed repose, and there would be some means of hiding
his rich treasure.
He peered timidly into the cabin and found it empty. On the floor in the
corner was a pallet. He put the nugget under the upper part, thus
raising it and supplying the place of a pillow. It was hard enough, as
the reader will imagine, but it was better than nothing; and appeared to
combine safety with a chance to rest.
The thief fell asleep, and slept soundly. When he awoke it was bright,
and the morning was evidently well advanced. In an instant consciousness
came, and with anxious thought he felt for the nugget. It was still
there, as he realized joyfully. He was on the point of examining it,
when a step was heard. He looked up startled, and saw a man entering the
cabin. This man was such another as himself--an adventurer--and the
tramp remembered to have seen him about the camp. He was an ill-favored
man, poorly dressed, and might have passed for a brother of the first
comer so far as his moral qualities and general appearance were
concerned.
"Halloa!" the new arrival said, gazing with a little surprise at the
prostrate man.
"Halloa," returned the other, surveying the new arrival with
apprehension.
"Is this your crib?"
"No, I'm only passing the night here."
"Haven't I seen you at the mines?"
"Yes, I have been there."
"And now you are leaving, are you?"
"I don't know exactly. I haven't made up my mind."
"Well I am. I'm out of luck."
"So am I."
"There's nothing to be done at the mines."
"Just my idea!"
"Humph! what do you think of doing?"
"I don't know. I want to get away for one thing."
"So do I. Suppose we keep company, friend. Two are more social than one,
eh?"
This proposal gave the first man anxious thought. If he had a companion,
he could not hide for any length of time the fact that he was in
possession of the nugget. Yet he did not know how to refuse without
exciting suspicion. The new arrival noticed it, and it stirred up anger
in him.
"Perhaps I aint good enough for you?" he said, frowning.
"No, no, it isn't that," said the first eagerly.
"Don't you want me to go with you?" demanded the new arrival bluntly.
"Yes or no."
"Have you got any money?" asked the thief, "because I haven't."
"No more have I. We'll be equal partners."
"Then I'm afraid we won't get very far."
"You'll get as far as I will. But I say, what is that under your head,
pard?"
The question had come at last. The thief trembled, and answered
nervously:
"It's--it's--I am using it for a pillow," he faltered.
"Let us see your pillow," said the new arrival suspiciously.
The thief came to a sudden determination, suggested by necessity. Two
would make a stronger guard than one, and, though this man was not the
one he would have selected, accident had thrown them together, and he
would risk it.
"Look here, my friend," he said, "it's a great secret."
"Oh, a secret, is it?"
"Yes, but I am going to make you my confidant. I am greatly in need of a
friend and partner, and I'll make it worth your while to stand by me.
I'll give you a quarter of--what I have here--if you'll see me safe to
Melbourne."
"What is it, pard? Out with it, quick!"
"It's--a nugget, and the biggest one that's been found at Bendigo since
they commenced mining."
"A nugget! Great Jehoshaphat! Let me see it!"
The thief drew the bundle--still wrapped in Obed's red bandanna--from
underneath the pallet, while his companion in intense excitement bent
over to catch a glimpse of the treasure.
CHAPTER XXVII.
BAFFLED CUPIDITY.
An expression of surprise and dismay, almost ludicrous, appeared on the
faces of the two adventurers as the contents of the handkerchief were
revealed.
"Why, it's nothing but a rock!" exclaimed the new-comer, with an oath.
The thief stared at him in helpless consternation, and was unable to
utter a word.
"What does all this mean?" asked the new-comer sternly. "If you are
humbugging me, I'll----" and he finished the sentence with an oath.
"I don't know what it means," answered the thief in a disconsolate tone.
"I'm just as much surprised as you are."
"Where did you get it? How came you to make such a fool of yourself?"
demanded the new-comer, frowning heavily.
"You know that Yankee and the two boys who have a claim next to
Pickett's?"
"Well?"
"Last night I was coming from the Hut"--that was the local name of the
cabin devoted to gambling purposes--"when I saw them coming from their
claim. The Yankee had this ---- rock tied up in yonder handkerchief. Of
course, I supposed it was a nugget. No one would suppose he was taking
all that pains with a common rock."
"Go on! Did you follow them?"
"Yes; that is, I kept them in sight. They entered their cabin, and I
waited, perhaps three-quarters of an hour, till they had time to fall
asleep."
"Were you near the cabin all the time?"
"No; I didn't dare to be too near for fear I should be observed. I
wanted the nugget, but I didn't want to run any risk."
"I have no doubt you were very prudent," said the second, with an
unpleasant sneer. Doubtless he would have done the same, but his
disappointment was so great that he could not resist the temptation of
indulging in this fling at the man who had unintentionally contributed
to it.
"Of course I was," said the first, with some indignation. "Would you
have had me enter the cabin while they were all awake, and carry it off
under their very eyes? That would be mighty sensible."
"At any rate, then you would have got the genuine nugget."
"What do you mean? Do you think there was a nugget?"
"Of course I do. It's as plain as the nose on your face, and that's
plain enough, in all conscience. They've played a trick on you."
"What trick?"
"It appears to me you are mighty stupid, my friend. They hid away the
real nugget, and put this in its place. That Yankee is a good deal
sharper than you are, and he wasn't going to run no risks."
"Do you believe this?" asked the thief, his jaw falling.
"There's no doubt of it. They've had a fine laugh at your expense before
this, I'll be bound."
"Just my luck!" ejaculated the thief dolefully. "After all the pains
I've taken, too."
"Yes, it is hard lines on a poor industrious man like you!" said the
new-comer cynically. "You're not smart enough to be a successful
thief."
"I suppose you are," retorted the other resentfully.
"Yes, I flatter myself I am," returned the other composedly. "When I
take anything, at any rate I have the sense to take something worth
carrying away--not a worthless rock like this. You must have had a fine
time lugging it from the mines."
"It nearly broke my back," said the thief gloomily.
"And now you don't know what to do with it? Take my advice, my friend,
and carry it back to the original owner. He may find it handy another
time."
"I'll be blessed if I do," growled the unhappy thief.
"I doubt that," said his companion dryly. "However, do as you please. It
don't interest me. I don't think on the whole I will accept your offer
of a partnership. When I take a partner I want a man with some small
supply of brains."
