" He has said nothing that I have heard." 
" Well, you were on the lucky side that time ! 
And you are in luck now. Zounds ! how plucky 
your mother was ! Not the sort of woman you'd 
look to for nerve, either. I suppose there is no 
real objection on your part ? When I have 
squeezed these people sufficiently " — 
Sabrina made a slight gesture of dissent with 
her hand, that arrested his voluble speech. He 
looked questioningly at her. 
" I am in no hurry to part with Chester House," 
she began slowly. " I cannot make up my mind 
at once" — 
" Really, are you going to be sentimental about 
the old place ? " He gave a mellow, pleasant 
laugh, as if it amused him. " But if you liked you 
might keep the house and — say ten acres or so. 
I really must go up and take a look. Here is 
a rough diagram," and he took a paper out of his 
memorandum. " You see — yes, the house is way 
over here. They want the property joining on 
the new town, — seventy odd acres in all. Well, 
you might dispose of fifty. Looking at it in the 
most advantageous light, the town can't stretch 
out to that point under ten years. Meanwhile, 
there are taxes, interests, and improvements. 
Why, it will eat up all the profits ! You see you 
have the interest of the money, and that may be 
turned over half a dozen times. When they come 
to study it out they may withdraw. You had 
better consent to my taking the best offer I can 
get. You know I shall not accept a poor one." 
" I wish — I would like to wait awhile — I want 
to think," she began confusedly. 
"Well, a fortnight > " 
"Sabrina, we will go to Newport next week." 
Mrs. Vantine had been looking over some letters. 
The Poynters are to make their farewell visit at 
the Barclays', and they would be delighted to meet 
us again. They are to sail about the middle of 
September. Yes, let your uncle manage matters 
as he thinks best. I must send a note to Madame 
Nadine to-night. The packing-case can follow us. 
Let me see, we will start on Monday, and I will 
send a letter of acceptance at once. Sir Archibald 
has been over to the Pacific coast, and is wildly 
enthusiastic." 
Mrs. Vantine went over to her desk. 
" I will think about the offer," Sabrina said to 
her guardian. Then she rose and went to her 
own room. The bric-a-brac had been packed 
away. The chairs were swathed in protecting 
covers. The profusion of flowers that was wont 
to greet her was absent, and it gave her a chilled, 
unhomelike feeling. The simplitity of Green- 
fields, the earnestness of the life there, touched 
her with longing. Yes, she had been in another 
country, where the atmosphere was fragrant with 
the higher purposes of the soul. Now she was 
to take heed again how she was clothed, how she 
dispensed her smiles. The needy or the suffering 
were not to be considered. There was a charmed 
.circle that demanded, not the best one had to 
give, but certain gifts and graces. She was go- 
ing back into it. For some time to come she 
must stand a little apart from the ideal that so 
stirred her. Fate took the high and inspiring 
possibility out of her hands. For a moment she 
protested ; for many moments she almost let her- 
self be swept into the current that yawned before 
her. 
Was this weakness the sense of disappointment 
because another had won the blessing that could 
have crowned her life.^ Sabrina straightened her- 
self and glanced in the tall mirror. She thought 
of the creed of honor and high-mindedness that 
she had set for herself long before this. Now, 
when she had reached a larger awakening, should 
she let a jealous regard rob her of the grace she 
had been striving to win ? Had she not longed to 
give of her very best? Was not that herself? 
Should she keep back part of the price ? The love 
that "seeketh not her own." Ah! that was it. 
With that high endeavor went all the rest. 
That evening she listened with a tender gra- 
ciousness to Mrs. Vantine's plans and her regrets 
for the wasted summer, the vague gossip, the 
anxiety that dressmakers were, the plans for a 
winter campaign, — subjects she should hear dis- 
cussed daily, no doubt. She could be thankful 
she had had such a long respite from them. In 
many ways she could order her life anew, but it 
would not be wise to make any violent break. 
Mr. Vantine had enjoyed his dinner and his 
cigars, and now he half dozed, wondering how it 
was that women could fill up their minds with 
such trifles ! 
Miss Eastwood, with her cool freshness, was 
quite an acquisition. There was Sir Archibald 
Poynter, who had been deeply fascinated with the 
fair American in the early years of his widower- 
hood, and who had supposed her eager for a title- 
his daughter, a nervous invalid ; his niece, the tra. 
ditionally robust English girl. Marianne Poynter 
had grown really fond of Miss Eastwood when 
she found she had no designs on her father, and 
now she welcomed her with unmistakable delight. 
Marianne had her poor and her schools at home, 
and her plans for the advancement of the world in 
general. Sabrina listened to them with a graceful 
attention that delighted the elder woman. But 
how different from Pearl Disbrowe, with her ac- 
tive, ardent love for humanity ! 
She watched her host and hostess with a new 
interest, thinking of the pathetic story she had 
left behind in Greenfields. No doubt the two 
much-buffeted pilgrims could claim kinship. How 
cruel that they had been compelled to drop out of 
their own gentle circle! A little of the luxury 
here would have been so much to them, saved so 
many pangs in their lives. Was not Pearl Dis- 
browe's kindly work greater than the ostentatious 
charities so often discussed.^ 
All this time she kept revolving her project in 
her mind. Pearl should have Chester House 
now, in the beginning of her life. If she, Sabrina, 
had gone on accumulating all these years, 
without any real income from that property, then 
surely she did not need it. Why should she seek 
to add to her already sufficient fortune.^ She 
wondered a little how she could best accomplish 
her purpose. There was no one to consult. The 
Vantines would consider her foolish above all 
women. Yet here was Marianne Poynter with a 
little orphanage of her own, established in a house 
bequeathed by an aunt, interested in the welfare 
of half a dozen little girls, and using her utmost 
endeavor to place it on a sure and permanent 
foundation, — girls who were to be trained to 
household service, no matter what their desires or 
their capacities might be. And there was Rhea 
Vasilis, rescued from, her hard, poverty-pinched 
life, and set in a high place, surrounded by love, 
some day, perhaps, to gladden the hearts of many. 
There were drives and dinners, receptions and 
dances, plans for winter, invitations given and ac- 
cepted. Between this and the Tuxedo engage- 
ment there intervened a week. Sabrina announced 
her intention of spending a few days at Chester 
House. Mr. Vantine had found his customers 
loath to increase their first offer, and he was 
holding off warily. Sabrina insisted that he 
should make no bargain until her return. 
" I think you ought to go at once to the city, 
and see about your fall wardrobe. It seems to 
me, Sabrina, that you really do not care how you 
look," declared Mrs. Vantine. "You might as 
well turn Quaker at once." 
Sabrina smiled. "They are spared a good deal 
of worry and anxiety. No wonder they keep look- 
ing young and pretty." 
" Well, but they are really going out of fashion, 
you see," returned Mrs. Vantine. "I have read 
in some of the statistics that they decrease in 
numbers every year. And there's the sisterhood 
idea that young unmarried women affect. It may 
be well enough when one feels that one's chances 
for marriage have passed; but I do hope, Sabrina, 
you won't take up any of these fads." 
Sabrina smiled again. Did everything revolve 
about marriage ? She was beginning to look at life 
with different eyes, — earnest eyes that, touched 
with the sacred fire of truth, could see how much 
nobler daily living might be made, without con- 
ventual seclusion. She wanted to be in the 
world, to take part in its advancement. She had 
the means ; she had, too, certain gifts, not those 
she desired most, perhaps, but at least one tal- 
ent which she must use. She could endeavor to 
make some virtues attractive to those with whom 
her daily life was cast. If she did not quite know 
the language of the byways, she could see that in 
the highways were standing many honest, fervent 
souls, whom "no man had hired," who were wait- 
ing for some one to show them the way, to point 
out the path that led to the "King's Country." 
She meant to so beautify some of these truths 
that others seeing would say, "We will go with 
thee." She had given up herself, and cast out 
the sweet hope of reward. 
The September afternoon had a slight autumnal 
chill in it as she was driven over the familiar way. 
There had been quite a frost during the night, 
ajid at noon the uncertain sky had turned off low- 
ering, indicating a coming storm. Little of the 
foliage had changed. Here and there a branch of 
scarlet maple was outlined against the gray sky, 
and bunches of flame-red sumach intensified the 
fading green by the wayside. But the wide porch 
was deserted. The lonely air sent a strange thrill 
through Sabrina. Pearl had caught sight of her, 
and sprang to the door. 
''I am so glad," she cried. "I wrote yesterday. 
Come in by the fire. You must be chilled with 
your drive. It has turned off quite cold." 
There was a fire on the wide, old-fashioned 
hearth, and a pleasant fragrance of pine and hem- 
lock diffused through the room. The spacious 
sofa had been drawn out from the corner, and 
Miss Barclay reclined there. Her eyes had a soft, 
mysterious brightness that transfigured her face, 
less thin, Sabrina thought, but with a curious 
transparent pallor. Mrs. Duane and Rhea were 
the only other inmates. The girl sat by the win- 
dow doing some pencil work. Pearl had been 
reading. What a pretty, homelike scene it was ! 
And in the corner stood a great jar of oak, maple, 
and hemlock branches, with sprays of flowers in- 
terspersed. It was almost as if one had brought 
in a bit of the woods. 
There was a good deal to tell. Mrs. Herrick 
and Stacy had given them a day and a night on 
their homeward way, and Stacy had been chari|j^ 
ing. Matters were improving a little at Brent- 
ford. Some of the shops were running again, 
though not on full time. But there was less abso- 
lute suffering. Mr. Olmstead's friend had re- 
turned and relieved him from duty, though he 
was still staying with Mr. Winchester, who was 
not improving as rapidly as they had all hoped. 
Their household had narrowed. Miss Searle had 
found her opportunity as a companion and sort of 
secretary to an elderly invalid, whose means and 
kindly heart admitted of many good works. They 
had one poor woman still unprovided for, but Mrs. 
Herrick had a place opening for her. 
From time to time Miss Eastwood glanced over 
to Miss Barclay. She remarked that Mrs. Duane 
brought in her supper; that Desire White came 
and carried her to her room in her strong arms. 
Presently the two girls were left alone. 
"I wonder if you would care to come here an- 
other summer, Pearl, and go on with your experi- 
ment ? " Sabrina asked after a long silence. "You 
know I had an offer for the place. Now there is 
another, by different parties, that has quite cap- 
tured my guardian, and he proposed that if I 
cared for the house I should reserve that and a 
few acres, and dispose of the rest. I suppose I 
ought to have some romantic attachment to Ches- 
ter House. If mamma had ever lived here — if I 
had any tender associations with it, except one " — 
"And that." asked Pearl, stretching out her 
hand over Miss Eastwood's. 
" It is you, Pearl. Do you know you ought to 
be mistress of a quaint, pretty home. You seem 
to be a part of just such an old house as this. 
Whether as a wife and mother, — that would give 
me the most delight, — or as one dispensing kindly 
comforts to needy souls and bodies. But you want 
a standing place, a centre. Pearl, I have been 
thinking, planning, learning about the sacredness 
of the life in which 'no man liveth unto himself.' I 
have been roused from my purposeless existence. 
I begin to see the great work there is to be done. 
I haven't the courage as yet to go out of my own 
sphere, but in it I can find some earnest souls 
that will suffice me until I reach a higher round. 
And I want you to go on unhampered, to feel free 
to try some of the experiments in which you de- 
light. Will you take Chester House and do with 
it what seems best — redeem it from the disagree- 
able impression it has had for me ? I used to 
think I never wanted to enter its doors. And you 
have made it a House Beautiful. Let me come 
now and then " — 
Pearl drew a long breath. " You do not mean " 
— she said hesitatingly. 
" I mean it as a gift. It has never been con- 
sidered of much value until now. I have plenty 
without it. There have been some quarrels and un- 
pleasant circumstances connected with it. There 
was no question but mamma had a right to fight 
for her own. Still, I sometimes wish — I do not 
want to sell it for so much money to strangers. I 
cannot make you understand " — 
A soft flush stole over the fair face, and the fine 
brows knitted in perplexity. 
"I think I do understand a little. Hollis Win- 
chester wants it. And you are not willing he 
shall have it. Yet it is dearer to him than to 
any human being. Was the quarrel too bitter 
to bridge over ? Can neither take a step towards 
it .-^ " The voice was soft and persuasive. 
Sabrina glanced steadily into the dying fire. 
Yes, she had been very angry at the imperious, 
dominant, selfish man, and rejected his proposal 
with scorn, as it deserved. And her mother had 
desired that the Winchesters should be barred out 
forever. Yet they also had been fighting for what 
they supposed their rights. 
" Don't trust me with it, Sabrina," said Pearl 
in a pleading tone ; " for I should always feel like 
turning it over to Mr. Winchester. I have be- 
come curiously interested in him through Mr. 
Olmstead. He is a sort of wrong-headed, obsti- 
nate hero, who has been making a god of self and 
money, and who has suddenly come to see that 
they are not the best nor the only things in life. 
He and Mr. Olmstead will always be fast friends 
now. And he — Mr. Olmstead, wondered " — 
Sabrina fluslied with sudden passion. Had they 
talked her over } What if Hollis Winchester — 
but he must know he had never really loved her. 
Olmstead and Winchester always friends ! Win- 
chester a chosen guest at Pearl's fireside ! 
" Wondered why I did not marry him, no 
doubt ! " Sabrina's tone was bitter and sarcas- 
tic in the extreme. " Romances always make 
such quarrels end in that fashion." 
" No, he never thought of that." Pearl looked 
up with clear, unhesitating eyes. Then she col- 
ored curiously. 
" I want you to have it. Pearl ; it is hardly more 
out of my abundance than taking Stacy and Aunt 
Jane to Niagara." 
The two girls looked steadily at each other. 
" If you want me to have it, then offer it first 
to Hollis Winchester. He has met with ^ome 
losses, but he is not a poor man. If he declines, 
then I will take it gladly." 
"He will not decline." Her beautiful lip curled 
with scorn. 
Pearl took the slim hands in hers, and drew 
Sabrina nearer. " O my dear," she cried, " why 
seek to perpetuate heart-burnings, enmities, and 
uncharity ? Will they not prove a bar in the way 
to better things ? They are aliens in the King's 
Country. It would take away the dearest charm 
for me. I should always think of the pilgrim out- 
side the gate who could never enter in. I suppose 
you think me foolish to plead for a stranger." 
Her voice broke. A soft flush suffused her 
face, but her eyes still entreated. 
Was this Parke Olmstead's plan as well ? 
" Let me think." There was a pathetic cadence 
in the tone. Then she turned and went softly 
away. 
CHAPTER XV 
" I HAVE LEARNED I SHALL SAY SO MUCH 
SINCE THEN " 
HoLLis Winchester lay on a cot in his cosey 
sitting-room, where a little fire burned in the 
grate, and watched the flame shoot up as the coal 
fell apart. Calista Spence had brought up his sup- 
per, and lingered a while, talking in her shrewd, 
homely fashion. He had never thought to find so 
much sterling good sense under the commonplace 
exterior. Perhaps Olmstead had opened the way 
for her, opened many ways that Winchester had 
strode over unknowingly. 
He would not have a lamp. He was growing 
a little irritable, for Olmstead had been away so 
long, since early in the afternoon, over to Chester 
House. It was curious that he had come to care 
for him, to depend upon him so much. And he 
was always wanting to hear what was going on at 
Chester House. Miss Disbrowe was so different 
from anything he had imagined one of your reli- 
gious women to be. For that matter, so was Olm- 
stead. Perhaps he, Winchester, had never been 
very clear as to what really constituted religion, 
esteeming it as something to be sneered at as 
occasion offered. 
For six weeks he had lain here most of the 
time, one week on the farthest verge of human 
life. He had come back weak and confused be- 
cause of a dislocated shoulder, a broken leg, sun- 
dry wounds and bruises, besides a concussion of 
the brain, the most serious thing at first. 
Wild stories had been afloat. All that was 
known of a certainty was Winchester's sudden 
rush to the drying-room up-stairs, and his com- 
mand to the half-dozen men employed to fly for 
their lives. Then he had gone to alarm two 
others in a sort of wing, and here the crash had 
caught them. The men were but little injured, a 
fall having saved them, but Winchester had been 
buried in the ruins. 
At first, foul play was suspected on the part of 
the disaffected workmen, two of whom had uttered 
threats. The explosion was a mystery. The in- 
vestigation proved the machinery trustworthy ; 
but the ruin and the fire afterward kept the secret 
from prying eyes. There seemed sufficient proof 
to commit the two ringleaders, who had made 
themselves notorious in other ways. 
This was what Winchester heard on his recovery 
from delirium and unconsciousness. And though 
he would have enjoyed the men's meeting their 
deserts on general terms, his honesty forbade 
their suffering wrongfully. He begged Olmstead 
to look after the injured men, who were recent 
comers in the town, non-union workers, and who 
had thus attracted the enmity of the old workmen. 
He had counted too long on the security of the 
building; but his first thankfulness was that there 
were so few lives risked, and that he was the chief 
sufferer. 
His deposition had been sufficient to secure the 
discharge of the two men at a later hearing. Day 
after day throngs of stragglers wandered about 
the ruins, speculating upon its future and discuss- 
ing its owner. He had never made any bid for 
admiration or posed on the philanthropical side of 
labor. A hard master, but a man of his word. 
Even the heroism of the rescue was rather 
dimmed by the damaging fact that the building 
was unsafe, and he had known or suspected it. 
What the outside world said mattered little to 
him. But down at the bottom of the man's soul 
there was a faint stirring of conscience, an irri- 
tating misgiving that there was some nobler thing 
to life than mere money-getting. Suppose he had 
gone out of the world ? Would any one have 
cared, or felt regret or pleasant remembrance.? 
Was that the limit of a human being's capacities ? 
The thought humiliated him. Was life blind and 
purposeless, and the end of it nullity ? Was not 
this his belief? The thought seized him and 
would not let him go. If there was anything bet- 
ter, any certainty — 
As he lay there day after day, unable to evade 
a certain responsibility, unwilling to take it up 
manfully, his power of recuperation suffered in 
the struggle. He grew ashamed of his own weak, 
irritable nerves, his temper and unreason. Calista 
Spcnce shone as nurse. She looked upon him 
as a fractious child, who did not at all understand 
what was best for him, and with whom it would be 
foolish to take umbrage. 
In the long, tiresome nights when he could not 
drive away his tormenting thoughts, Parke 
Olmstead became not only a friend, but a comforter. 
The " preaching " that Winchester secretly pro- 
tested against, and for which he armed himself, 
never came. Once when they were discussing the 
accident he said rather ironically, "Olmstead, how 
can you let such an opportunity pass .? I 've told 
you the truth. The matter might have been 
averted. I could even have saved myself this suf- 
fering. Was I allowed to go on to reap tjjfie reward 
of selfishness, to bring about a certain punishment, 
that it might convince me of wrong-doing, and 
convert me from the error of my ways ? " 
" You took a certain risk, as we do in many 
things. It seems to me it would have been wiser 
to have made no issue with your men until your 
orders were finished. Then you would have been 
free to make whatever repairs you deemed proper. 
You knew the building was not safe. . You were 
not trusting to any unseen power, but going 
against your own better judgment. If you put 
your hand into the fire it burns ; you do not expect 
God to suspend natural causes, or protect against 
the working of natural laws. God has not prom- 
ised this to any one. The providential part to me 
is that so few innocent persons were compelled to 
suffer. What if you had some man's death on 
your conscience, instead of your own suffering ? 
And why sbould I preach to you when your own 
conscience does it even more powerfully ?"
That was true enough. Call it what he might, 
the inward monitor would make itself felt. There 
was no need of sermons. What had been the 
real gain of his thirty odd years ? The great 
aim of his life had been frustrated. A fair, slim 
girl, with no apparent strength of character, had 
stood in his way, had rendered his efforts nuga- 
tory, and his own obstinacy had brought about 
a cataclysm. He had his lifework to begin over 
again. True, he would not be altogether impov- 
erished. But the prospect looked dreary. For 
the first time he asked what he had really done 
for himself. For others he had done nothing. 
So he fell to studying Olmstead more closely. 
A man working cheerfully and with simple direct- 
ness in the larger channels of true living, aim- 
ing to benefit his fellow-creatures, not from the 
sense of duty, not measuring out justice with an 
exact balance, but remembering mercy. 
Olmstead read or talked as the other's mood 
might be, — bright, breezy bits of out-door delight 
that were inspiriting to one condemned to help- 
lessness for the first time in an active life. And 
just at evening, when nerves and body began to 
feel the strain and weariness of the day, Olmstead 
had expedients to tide over the time. 
After Winchester had fretted away the twi- 
light and refused the lamp for the second time, 
scolded Calista for mending the fire and an- 
swered impatiently when she made some com- 
ment on Olmstead's unusual stay, he lay there 
in the ^oft darkness with his own thoughts for 
company. Eight o'clock, nine — yes, that was 
the firm but elastic step on the board walk ! 
There seemed something of importance to say. 
He could hear Mrs. Kent's voice with a certain 
impressiveness in it, accented with surprise and 
sympathy. Then the springing ascent of two 
steps at a time. 
"All in the dark, old fellow?" cried the clear, 
kindly voice, and the very presence seemed to 
bring a refreshment to every restless pulse. "I 
was detained far beyond any expectation. They 
are in sorrow over at Chester House, yet . it is 
not sorrow without a certain blessed hope."
He stirred the fire and lighted the lamp deftly 
as any woman could have done it. Winchester 
raised himself a little on his elbow. There was 
something in Olmstead's face, a sort of tender, 
yet lofty serenity, that touched him. 
" In sorrow .^ "he repeated vaguely. " Your 
friend Miss Disbrowe .-^ "
"The loss is Mrs. Duane's. Her sister has 
crossed over the narrow border, and is at home 
in the other country. So peacefully did she go 
that it was just as one leaves a room unnoticed, 
and you are hardly aware of the fact until you 
glance up and see the vacant place. They were 
all there. Miss Eastwood came last night. Miss 
Barclay has been growing weaker every day ; but 
she seemed to brighten unusually to-day, and 
take a vivid interest in the incidents of the morn- 
ing. Miss Eastwood sat reading to her this after- 
noon, 'In Memoriam.' I believe she gave her 
the last smile at a verse she particularly en- 
joyed. Then she closed her eyes, and seemed 
to sleep peacefully. As I entered the room 
Rhea bent over her caressingly, and learned the 
sad fact ; no, let us call it, rather, a blessed ex- 
change from pain and mortal weakness to the 
grand certainty of the new life. And that is 
why I stayed. There were many things to con- 
sider. Have you been lonely.^" 
''I missed you, yes. It would be ungracious 
to deny it. But I am aware that others have 
claims — and I must learn to do without you. 
I have a misgiving that you are staying a good 
deal on my account, now that you are released 
from your other duties." 
" Partly. And I have been interested in Ches- 
ter House. This change has not been unex- 
pected, and on it depended the other change. 
Mrs. Duane and her charge will go to the city 
for the winter. Miss Barclay will be buried at 
Greenfields; it was her wish."
"And Miss Disbrowe.?"
" She goes also."
" And Chester House will be closed again ? 
You know better now than I, Olmstead — is 
there any talk of selling it ? But in any event 
I suppose I would stand no chance,"Winches- 
ter declared bitterly. 
Olmstead took -several turns up and down the 
room at a soft, leisurely pace. 
" See here, Winchester,"he said persuasively. 
"make Miss Eastwood a fair, manly offer about 
it. I do not know how bitter the old dispute was, 
but can't you do your part toward healing the 
breach?" 
Winchester compressed his lips, and steely 
gleams flashed from his eyes. 
" You are dreaming about the millennium, Olmstead 
! I may as well tell you — you know the 
worst of me, and very little good. Like a fool, I 
asked her to marry me ! She seemed one of the 
cold, self-contained girls, and — yes, I was a little 
smitten, but back of it was the desire for Chester 
House. I dare say she saw the object too plainly. 
Any woman would have resented it. I do not hold 
malice for that. I didn't fully understand her 
mother's feeling, but I have thrown away my 
chance." 
" And you loved her ? " 
Olmstead compelled himself to utter this in a 
steady tone. He held the key to something that 
had puzzled him. Since that one brief episode 
weeks ago, Sabrina had changed curiously toward 
him. A great distance had spread itself between. 
Even to-day, when she had been so sweet, he was 
still kept at one side by some fine art. Certainly 
there had been no lack of lovers in her life. Was 
there a hidden restraining influence ? 
Winchester considered several moments, and 
the silence impressed Olmstead with a fatal cer- 
tainty. Then he began slowly : — 
" Tve never known what love was in your sense 
of the word. I'll be frank, Olmstead — I didn't 
suppose I ever should acknowledge it, but by 
