the table, gloating over the treasures she knew 
her uncle's generosity would make her own. 
''Look, how these little diamonds flash ! And 
the embroidery on this crepe ! — a dozen eyes 
went out ay ! yi ! This satin is like a tile ! 
These fans were made in Spain ! This is as big 
as a windmill. God of my soul I " — she threw 

a handful of yellow sewing-silk upon a piece of 
white satin ; " Ana shall embroider this gown, 
— the golden poppies of California on a bank of 
mountain snow." She suddenly seized a case 
of topaz and a piece of scarlet silk and ran over 
to me : I being a Monterefia, etiquette forbade 
me to purchase in Santa Barbara. "Thou 
must have these, my Eustaquia. They will 
become thee well. And wouldst thou like any 
of my white things ? Mary ! but I am selfish. 
Take what thou wilt, my friend." 

To refuse would be to spoil her pleasure and 
insult her hospitality : so I accepted the topaz 
^-of which I had six sets already — and the silk, 
— whose color prevailed in my wardrobe, — and 
told her that I detested white, which did not 
suit my weather-dark skin, and she was as blind 
and as pleased as a child. 

'' But come, come," she cried. " My father 
is not so generous when he has to wait too 
long." 

She gathered the mass of stuff in her arms and 
staggered up the companion-way. I followed, 
leaving Prudencia raking the trove her short 
arms would not hold. 

"Ay, my Chonita !" she wailed, "I cannot 
carry that big piece of pink satin and that 
vase. And I have only two pairs of slippers 

and one fan. Ay, Cho-n-i-i-ta, look at those 
shawls ! Mother of God, suppose Valencia 
Menendez comes " 

"Do not weep on the silk and spoil what 
thou hast, " called down Chonita from the top 
step. "Thou shalt have all thou canst wear 
for a year. " 

She reached the deck and stood panting 
and imperious before her father. " All ! All ! I 
must have all ! " she cried. " Never have they 
been so fine, so rich." 

'*Holy Mary!" shrieked Don Guillermo. 
"Dost thou think I am made of doubloons, 
that thou wouldst buy a whole ship's cargo ? 
Thou shalt have a quarter ; no more, — not a 
yard ! " 

" I will have all ! " And the stately daughter 
of the Iturbi y Moncadas stamped her little 
foot upon the deck. 

" A third, — not a yard more. And diamonds ! 
Holy Heaven ! There is not gold enough in 
the Californias to feed the extravagance of the 
Senorita Dona Chonita Iturbi y Moncada." 

She managed to bend her body in spite of 
her burden, her eyes flashing saucily above the 
mass of tulle which covered the rest of her 
face. 

" And not fine raiment enough in the world
 

to accord with the state of the only daughter 
of the Senor Don Guillermo Iturbi y Moncada, 
the delight and the pride of his old age. Wilt 
thou send these things to the North, to be worn 
by an Estenega ? Thy Chonita will cry her 
eyes so red that she will be known as the ugly 
witch of Santa Barbara, and Casa Grande will 
be like a tomb. " 

''Oh, thou spoilt baby! Thou wilt have 

thy way " At this moment Prudencia 

appeared. Nothing whatever could be seen of 
her small person but her feet ; she looked like 
an exploded bale of goods. " What ! what ! " 
gasped Don Guillermo. "Thou little rat! 
Thou wouldst make a Christmas doll of thyself 
with satin that is too heavy for thy grand- 
mother, and eke out thy dumpy inches with a 
train ? Oh, Mother of God ! " He turned to 
the captain, who was smoking complacently, 
assured of the issue. " I will let them carry 
these things home; but to-morrow one-half, 
at least, comes back. " And he stamped wrath- 
fully down the deck. 

''Send the rest," said Chonita to the captain, 
"and thou shalt have a bag of gold to-night." 

The next morning Chonita, clad in a long 
gown of white wool, a silver cross at her 
throat, her hair arranged like a coronet, sat in 
a large chair in the dispensary. Her father 
stood beside a table, parcelling drugs. The 
sick-poor of Santa Barbara passed them in a 
long line. 

The Doomswoman exercised her power to 
heal, the birthright of the twin. 

" I wonder if I can, " she said to me, laying 
her white fingers on a knotted arm, '* or if it is 
my father's medicines. I have no right to 
question this beautiful faith of my country, but 
I really don't see how I do it Still, I suppose 
it is like many things iii our religion, not 
for mere human beings to understand. This 
pleases my vanity, at least I wonder if I 
shall have cause to exercise my other endowment" 

" To curse?" 

'* Yes : I think I might do that with 
something more of sincerity." 


The men, women, and children, native Cali- 
fornians and Indians, scrubbed for the occasion,
filed slowly past her, and she touched 
all kindly and bade them be well. They 
regarded her with adoring eyes and bent almost 
to the ground. 

" Perhaps they will help me out of purga- 
tory," she said; " and it is something to be 
on a pedestal ; I should not like to come down. 
It is a cheap victory, but so are most of the 
victories that the world knows of." 

When she had touched nearly a hundred, 
they gathered about her, and she spoke a few 
words to them. 

" My friends, go, and say, ' I shall be well. ' 
Does not the Bible say that faith shall make ye 
whole ? Cling to your faith ! Believe ! Be- 
lieve ! Else will you feel as if the world 
crumbled beneath your feet ! And there is 
nothing, nothing to take its place. What folly, 
what presumption, to suggest that anything can 

— a mortal passion " She stopped suddenly, 

and continued coldly, " Go, my friends ; words 
do not come easily to me to-day. Go, and 
God grant that you may be well and happy," 




XII. 

We sat in the sala the next evening, awaiting
the return of the prodigal and his deliverer. 
The night was cool, and the doors were 
closed ; coals burned in a roof-tile. The room, 
unlike most Californian salas, boasted a carpet, 
and the furniture was covered with green rep, 
instead of the usual black horse-hair. 

Don Guillermo patted the table gently with 
his open palm, accompanying the tinkle of 
Prudencia's guitar and her light monotonous 
voice. She sat on the edge of a chair, her 
solemn eyes fixed on a painting of Reinaldo 
which hung on the wall. Doiia Trinidad was 
sewing as usual, and dressed as simply as if 
she looked to her daughter to maintain the 
state of the Iturbi y Moncadas. Above a 
black silk skirt she wore a black shawl, one 
end thrown over her shoulder. About her head 
was a close black silk turban, concealing, with 
the exception of two soft gray locks on either 
side of her face, what little hair she may still 
have possessed H er white face was delicately 


cut : the lines of time indicated spiritual sweet- 
ness rather than strength. 

Chonita roved between the sala and an 
adjoining room where four Indian girls em- 
broidered the yellow poppies on the white 
satin. I was reading one of her books, — the 
''Vicar of Wakefield." 

''Wilt thou be glad to see Reinaldo, my 
Prudencia ? " asked Don Guillermo, as the song 
finished. 

" Ay ! " and the girl blushed. 

"Thou wouldst make a good wife for 
Reinaldo, and it is well that he marry. It is 
true that he has a gay spirit and loves com- 
pany, but you shall live here in this house, and 
if he is not a devoted husband he shall have 
no money to spend. It is time he became a 
married man and learned that life was not 
made for dancing and flirting ; then, too, 
would his restless spirit get him into fewer 
broils. I have heard him speak twice of no 
other woman, excepting Valencia Menendez, 
and I would not have her for a daughter ; and 
I think he loves thee. " 

"Sure I " said Dona Trinidad. 

"That is love, I suppose," said Chopita, 
leaning back in her chair and forgetting the 
poppies. "With her a placid contented hope, 


with him a calm preference for a malleable 
woman. If he left her for another she would 
cry for a week, then serenely marry whom my 
father bade her, and forget Reinaldo in the 
donas of the bridegroom. The birds do almost 
as well." 

Don Guillermo smiled indulgently. Prudencia 
did not know whether to cry or not. 
Dona Trinidad, who never thought of replying 
to her daughter, said, — 

"Chonita mia, Liseta and Tomaso wish to 
marry, and thy father will give them the little 
house by the creek." 

"Yes, mamacita.?" said Chonita, absently: 
she felt no interest in the loves of the Indians. 

"We have a new Father in the Mission," 
continued her mother, remembering that she 
had not acquainted her daughter with  all the 
important events of her absence. "And Don' 
Rafael Guzman's son was drafted. That was 
a judgment for not marrying when his father 
bade him. For that I shall be glad to have 
Reinaldo marry. I would not have him go to 
the war to be killed." 

" No, " said Don Guillermo. " He must be a 
diputado to Mexico. I would not lose my only 
son in battle. I am ambitious for him ; and so 
art thou, Chonita, for thy brother ? Is it not so ? " 



" Yes. I have it in me to stab the heart of 
any man who rolls a stone in his way. " 

"My daughter," said Don Guillermo, with 
the accent of duty rather than of reproof, 
"thou must love without vengeance. Sus- 
tain thy brother, but harm not his enemy. I 
would not have thee hate even an Estenega, 
although I cannot love them myself. But we 
will not talk of the Estenegas. ' Dost thou
realize that our Reinaldo will be with us this night ? 
We must all go to confession to-morrow, — thy 
mother and myself, Eustaquia, Reinaldo, Pru- 
dencia, and thyself." 

Chonita's face became rigid. " I cannot go 
to confession, " she said. ' ' It may be months 
before I can : perhaps never." 

"What.?" 

" Can one go to confession with a hating and 
an unforgiving heart ? Ay ! that I never had 
gone to Monterey ! At least I had the consolation
of my religion before. Now I fight the 
darkness by myself. Do not ask me questions, 
for I shall not answer them. But taunt me no 
more with confession." 

Even Don Guillermo was dumb. In all the 
twenty-four years of her life she never had
betrayed violence of spirit before : even her hatred 
of the Estenegas had been a religion rather 



than a personal feeling. It was the first glimpse 
of her soul that she had accorded them, and 
they were aghast. What — what had happened 
to this proud, reserved, careless daughter of the 
Iturbi y Moncadas ? 

Dofia Trinidad drew down her mouth. Pru- 
dencia began to cry. Then, for the moment, 
Chonita was forgotten. Two horses galloped 
into the court-yard. 

"Reinaldo!" 

The door had but an inside knob : Don Guil- 
lermo threw it open as a young man sprang up 
the three steps of the corridor, followed by a 
little man who carefully picked his way. 

"Yes, I am here, my father, my mother, 
my sister, my Prudencia ! Ay, Eustaquia, 
thou too." And the pride of the house kissed 
each in turn, his dark eyes wandering absently 
about the room. He was a dashing caballero, 
and as handsome as any ever born in the Cali- 
fomias. The dust of travel had been removed 
— at a saloon — from his blue velvet gold-embroidered 
serape, which he immediately flung 
on the floor. His short jacket and trousers 
were also of dark-blue velvet, the former 
decorated with buttons of silver filigree, the latter 
laced with silver cord over spotless linen. The 
front of his shirt was covered with costly lace. 


His long botas were of soft yellow leather 
stamped with designs in silver and gartered 
with blue ribbon. The clanking spurs were 
of silver inlaid with gold. The sash, knotted 
gracefully over his hip, was of white silk. 
H is curled black hair was tied with a blue ribbon, 
and clung, clustering and damp, about a low 
brow. He bore a strange resemblance to 
Chonita, in spite of the difference of color, 
but his eyes were merely large and bril- 
li^pt ; they had no stars in their shallows. His 
mouth was covered by a heavy silken mus- 
tache, and his profile was bold. At first glance 
he impressed one as a perfect type of manly 
strength, aggressively decided of character. It 
was only when he cast aside the wide sombrero 
— which, when worn a little back, most becomingly 
framed his face — that one saw the narrow, 
insignificant head. 

For a time there was no conversation, only 
a series of exclamations. Chonita alone was 
calm, smiling a loving welcome. In the excite- 
ment of the first moments little notice was 
taken of the devoted bailer, who ardently re- 
garded Chonita. 

Don Juan de la Borrasca was flouting his 
sixties, fighting for his youth as a parent fights 
for its young. His withered little face wore 


the complacent smile of vanity ; his arched 
brows furnished him with a supercilious expres- 
sion which atoned for his lack of inches, — he was 
barely five feet two. His large curved nose 
was also a compensating gift from the god- 
mother of dignity, and he carried himself so 
erectly that he looked like a toy general. His 
small black eyes were bright as glass beads, 
and his hair was ribboned as bravely as Rei- 
naldo's. He was clad in silk attire, — red silk 
embroidered with butterflies. His little hands 
were laden with rings ; carbuncles glowed in the 
lace of his shirt. He was moderately wealthy, 
but a stanch retainer of the house of Iturbi y 
Moncada, the devoted slave of Chonita. 

She was the first to remember him, and held 
out her hand for him to kiss. " Thou hast the 
gratitude of my heart, dear friend," she said, as 
the little dandy curved over it. " I thank thee 
a thousand times for bringing my brother back 
to me." 

"Ay, Dofia Chonita, thanks be to God and 
Mary that I was enabled so to do. Had my 
mission proved unsuccessful I should have 
committed a crime and gone to prison with him. 
Never would I have returned here. Duefio 
adorado, ever at thy feet." 

Chonita smiled kindly, but she was listening 


to her brother, who was now expatiating upon 
his wrongs to a sympathetic audience. 

" Holy heaven ! " he exclaimed, striding up 
and down the room, '* that an Iturbi y Mon- 
cada, the descendant of twenty generations, 
should be put to shame, to disgrace and humiliation,by being cast into a common prison ! 
That an ardent patriot, a loyal subject of Mexico, 
should be accused of conspiring against the 
judgment of an Alvarado ! Carillo was my 
friend, and had his cause been a just one I had 
gone with him to the gates of death or the chair 
of state. But could I, I, conspire against a wise 
and great man like Juan Bautista Alvarado ? 
No ! not even if Carillo had asked me so to do. 
But, by the stars of heaven, he did not. I had 
been but the guest of his bounty for a month ; 
and the suspicious rascals who spied upon us, 
the poor brains who compose the Departmental 
Junta, took it for granted that an Iturbi y Mon- 
cada could not be blind to Carillo's plots and 
plans and intrigues, that, having been the in- 
timate of his house and table, I must perforce 
aid and abet whatever schemes engrossed him. 
Ay, more often than frequently did a dark sur- 
mise cross my mind, but I brushed it aside as 
one does the prompting of evil desires. I would 
not believe that a Carillo would plot, conspire. 

 

and rise again, after the terrible lesson he had 
received in 1838. Alvarado holds California to 
his heart; Castro, the Mars of the nineteenth 
century, hovers menacingly on the horizon. 
Who, who, in sober reason, would defy that 
brace of frowning gods ? " 

His eloquence was cut short by respiratory 
interference, but he continued to stride from 
one end. of the room to the other, his face 
flushed with excitement. Prudencia's large eyes 
followed him, admiration paralyzing her tongue. 
Dona Trinidad smiled upward with the self- 
approval of the modest barn-yard lady who 
has raised a magnificent bantam. Don Guil- 
lermo applauded loudly. Only Chonita turned 
away, the truth smiting her for the first time. 

" Words! words!" she thought, bitterly, 
'^ He would have said all that in two sentences. 
Is it true — ay, triste de mi! — what he said of my 
brother ? I hate him, yet his brain has cut mine 
and wedged there. My head bows to him, 
even while all the Iturbi y Moncada in me 
arises to curse him. But my brother ! my 
brother ! he is so much younger. And if he 
had had the same advantages — those years in 
Mexico and America and Europe — would he 
not know as much as Diego Estenega ? Oh, 
sure ! sure ! " 



"My son," Don Guillermo was saying, '* God 
be thanked that thou didst not merit thy 
imprisonment. I should have beaten thee with 
my cane and locked thee in thy room for a 
month hadst thou disgraced my name. But, 
as it happily is, thou must have compensation 
for unjust treatment. — Prudencia, give me thy 
hand." 

The girl rose, trembling and blushing, but 
crossed the room with stately step and stood 
beside her uncle. Don Guillermo took her 
hand and placed it in Reinaldo's. ' ' Thou shalt 
have her, my son," he said. '* I have divined 
thy wishes." 

Reinaldo kissed the small fingers fluttering in 
his, making a great flourish. He was quite 
ready to marry, and his pliant little cousin 
suited him better than any one he knew. 
" Day-star of my eyes ! " he exclaimed, ''con- 
solation of my soul ! Memories of injustice, 
discomfort, and sadness fall into the waters of 
oblivion rolling at thy feet. I see neither past 
nor future. The rose-hued curtain of youth 
and hope falls behind and before us." 

'*Yes, yes," assented Prudencia, delightedly. 
" My Reinaldo ! my Reinaldo ! " 

We congratulated them severally and collectively, 
and, when the ceremony was over, Rei- 


naldo cried, with even more enthusiasm than 
he had yet shown, " My mother, for the love 
of Mary give me something to eat, — tamales, 
salad, chicken, dulces. Don Juan and I are 
as empty as hides." 

Dona Trinidad smiled with the pride of the 
Californian housewife. " It is ready, my son. 
Come to the dining-room, no ? " 

She led the way, followed by the family, Rei- 
naldo and Prudencia lingering. As the others 
crossed the threshold he drew her back. 

" A lump of tallow, dost thou hear, my Pru- 
dencia ? " he whispered, hurriedly. " Put it 
under the green bench. I must have it to- 
night." 

"Ay ! Reinaldo '* 

" Do not refuse, my Prudencia, if thou lovest 
me. Wilt thou do it?" 

"Sure, my Reinaldo." 




XIII. 

The family retired early in its brief seasons 
of reclusion, and at ten o'clock Casa Grande was 
dark and quiet. Reinaldo opened his door and 
listened cautiously, then stepped softly to the 
green bench and felt beneath for the lump of 
tallow. It was there. He returned to his 
room and swung himself from his window into 
the yard, about which were irregularly disposed 
the manufactories of the Indians, a high wall 
protecting the small town. All was quiet here, 
and had been for hours. He stole to the 
wooden tower and mounted a ladder, lifting it 
from story to story until he reached the attic 
under the pointed roof. Then he lit a candle, 
and, removing a board from the floor, peered 
down into the room whose door was always 
so securely locked. The stars shone through 
the uncurtained windows and were no yellower 
than the gold coins heaped on the large table 
and overflowing the baskets. Reinaldo took 
a long pole from a corner and applied to one 
end a piece of the soft tallow. He lowered the 
pole and pressed it firmly into the pile of gold 
on the table. The pole was withdrawn, and 
this ingenious fisherman removed a large gold 
fish from the bait. He fished patiently for an 
hour, then filled a bag he had brought for the 
purpose, and returned as he had come. Not to 
his bed, however. Once more he opened his 
door and stole forth, this time to the town, to 
hold high revel around the gaming-table, where 
he was welcomed hilariously by his boon 
companions. 

A wild fandango in a neighboring booth 
provided relaxation for the gamblers. In an hour 
or two Reinaldo found his way to this well- 
known haven. Black-eyed dancing-girls in 
short skirts of tawdry satin trimmed with 
cotton lace, mock jewels on their bare necks and 
in their coarse black hair, flew about the room 
and screamed with delight as Reinaldo flung 
gold pieces among them. The excitement 
continued in all its variations until morning. Men 
bet and lost all the gold they had brought with 
them, then sold horse, serape, and sombrero to 
the men who neither drank nor gambled, but 
came prepared for close and profitable bargains. 
Reinaldo lost his purloins, won them again, 
stood upon the table and spoke with torrential 
eloquence of his wrongs and virtues, kissed all 


the girls, and when by easy and rapid stages 
he had succeeded in converting himself into a 
tank of aguardiente, he was carried home and 
put to bed by such of his coonpanions as were 
sober enough to make no noise. 

XIV. 

Chonita, clad in a black gown, walked slowly 
up and down the corridor of Casa Grande. 
The rain should have dripped from the eaves, 
beaten with heavy monotony upon the hard 
clay of the court-yard, to accompany her mood, 
but it did not. The sky was blue without fleck 
of cloud, the sun like the open mouth of a 
