hands in silence and sat down.
"I suppose it is all over?" said Dolly softly, in a tone of
interrogation.
"Yes, just as we feared."
"What has he got?" inquired Brett, lowering his voice as though he
feared that Marion might overhear him, though she was not in the room.
"Five years."
"Is that all?" asked the younger man almost indignantly.
Vanbrugh smiled faintly at the question.
"I am rather proud of it," he answered, "considering that I defended
the case."
"True, I forgot." Brett began to walk up and down again.
Dolly looked at Vanbrugh and nodded to him with a little smile as
though in approval of what he had done. He seemed pleased and grateful.
"You must be dreadfully tired," she said. "Do let me give you some
tea."
"Thanks--I should like some--but some one ought to tell Mrs. Darche.
Shall I? Where is she?"
"I will tell her," said Brett stopping suddenly. "I will send a message
and she will come down to the drawing-room."
He went out, leaving Dolly to comfort Vanbrugh with tea, for he was far
too much excited to sit down or to listen to their conversation. The
whole matter might be more or less indifferent to them, whose lives
could not be affected directly by Mrs. Darche's misfortunes, but he
felt that his own happiness was in the balance. He knew also that, by
the arrangements he had made, John Darche would be brought to the house
in the course of the next hour, before being taken back to prison for
the night, and it was necessary to warn Marion and to see that the old
gentleman was prepared to receive his son.
"How about old Mr. Darche?" inquired Dolly, when she and Vanbrugh were
left alone.
"Every one is sorry for him," said Vanbrugh, "just as every one
execrates John. I get very little credit for the defence," he added,
with a dry laugh.
"How good you are!" exclaimed Dolly.
"Am I? It seems to me it was the least I could do."
"It will not seem so to every one," said Dolly.
"I would do a great deal for Mrs. Darche," said Vanbrugh.
"Yes, I know you would. You--you are very fond of her, are you not?"
She turned her face away as she asked the question.
"I wish to be a good friend to her."
"And something more?" suggested Dolly, in a tone of interrogation.
"Something more?" repeated Vanbrugh, "I do not understand."
"Oh nothing! I thought you did."
"Perhaps I did. But I think you are mistaken."
"Am I?" Dolly asked, turning her face to him again. "I wish--I mean, I
do not think I am."
"I am sure you are."
"This is a good deal like a puzzle game, is it not?"
"No, it is much more serious," said Vanbrugh, speaking gravely. "This
is certainly not the time to talk of such things, Miss Maylands. John
Darche may come at any moment, and as far as possible his father has
been prepared for his coming. But that isn't it. Perhaps I had better
say it at once. We have always been such good friends, you know, and I
think a great deal of your good opinion, so that I do not wish you to
mistake my motives. You evidently think that I am devoted--to say the
least of it--to Mrs. Darche. After all, what is the use of choosing
words and beat about the bush? You think I am in love with her. I
should be very sorry to leave you with that impression--very, very
sorry. Do you understand?"
Dolly had glanced at him several times while he had been speaking, but
when he finished she looked into the fire again.
"You were in love with her once?" she said quietly.
"Perhaps; how do you know that?"
"She told me so, ever so long ago."
"She told you so?" Vanbrugh's tone betrayed his annoyance.
"Yes. Why are you angry? I am her best friend. Was it not natural that
she should tell me?"
"I hardly know."
A pause followed, during which Stubbs entered the room, bringing tea.
When he was gone and Dolly had filled Vanbrugh's cup she took up the
conversation again.
"Are you thinking about it?" she asked, with a smile.
"About what?" Vanbrugh looked up quickly over his cup.
"Whether it was natural or not?"
"No, I was wondering whether you would still believe it."
"Why should I?" asked Dolly.
"You might. In spite of what I tell you. You know very little of my
life."
"Oh, I know a great deal," said the young girl with much conviction. "I
know all about you. You are successful, and rich and popular and happy,
and lots of things."
"Am I?" asked Vanbrugh rather sadly.
"Yes. Everybody knows you are."
"You are quite sure that I am happy?"
"Unless you tell me that you are not."
"How oddly people judge us," exclaimed Vanbrugh. "Because a man behaves
like a human being, and is not cross at every turn, and puts his
shoulder to the wheel, to talk and be agreeable in society, everybody
thinks he is happy."
"Of course." Dolly smiled. "If you were unhappy you would go and sit in
corners by yourself and mope and be disagreeable. But you do not, you
see. You are always 'on hand' as they call it, always ready to make
things pleasant for everybody."
"That is because I am so good-natured."
"What is good nature?"
"A combination of laziness and vulgarity," Vanbrugh answered promptly.
"Oh!"
"Yes," said Vanbrugh. "The vulgarity that wishes to please everybody,
and the laziness that cannot say no."
"You are not a lawyer for nothing. But you are not lazy and you are not
vulgar. If you were I should not like you."
"Do you like me?" asked Vanbrugh quickly.
"Very much," she answered with a little laugh.
"You just made me define good nature, Miss Maylands. How do you define
liking?"
"Oh, it is very vague," said Dolly in an airy tone. "It is a sort of
uncly, auntly thing."
"Oh. I see."
"Do you?"
"Uncles and aunts sometimes marry, do they not?"
"What an idea? They are always brothers and sisters."
"Unless they are uncles and aunts of different people," suggested
Vanbrugh.
At this point they were interrupted by the entrance of Stubbs. That
dignified functionary had suffered intensely during the last few days,
but his tortures were not yet over. So far as lay in his power he still
maintained that absolute correctness of appearance which distinguished
him from the common, or hirsute "head man"; but he could not control
the colour of his face nor the expression of his eyes. He had been a
footman in the house of Marion's father, in that very house in fact,
and had completely identified himself with the family. Had he
considered that he was in the employment of Simon and John Darche, he
would have long since given notice and sought a place better suited to
his eminent respectability. But having always waited upon Marion since
she had been a little girl, he felt bound by all the tenets of
inherited butlerdom--and by a sort of devotion not by any means to be
laughed at--to stand by his young mistress through all her troubles. By
this time his eyes had a permanently unsettled look in them as though
he never knew what fearful sight he might next gaze upon, and the ruddy
colour was slowly but certainly sinking to the collar line. It had
already descended to the lower tips of his ears.
"Beg pardon, Miss Maylands," he said in a subdued tone, "beg pardon,
sir. Mr. John has come with those gentlemen."
Both Dolly and Vanbrugh started slightly and looked up at him. Vanbrugh
was the first to speak.
"Do you not think you had better go away--to Mrs. Darche?" he asked.
"She may want to see you for a minute."
Dolly rose and left the room.
"I suppose they will come in here," said Vanbrugh, addressing Stubbs.
"Yes, sir," answered the butler nervously, "they are coming."
"Well--let us make the best of it."
A moment later John Darche entered the room, followed closely by three
men, evidently dressed for the occasion, according to superior orders,
in what, at police head-quarters, was believed to be the height of the
fashion, for they all wore light snuff-coloured overcoats, white ties,
dark trousers and heavily-varnished shoes, and each had a perfectly
new high hat in his hand. They looked about the room with evident
curiosity.
Darche himself was deathly pale and had grown thinner. Otherwise he was
little changed. As soon as he caught sight of Vanbrugh, he came
forward, extending his hand.
"I have not had a chance to thank you for your able defence," he said
calmly.
"It is not necessary," answered Vanbrugh coldly, and putting his hands
behind him as he leaned against the mantelpiece. "It was a matter of
duty."
"Very well," said John Darche stiffly, and drawing back a step. "If you
do not want to shake hands we will treat it as a matter of business."
"He is pretty fresh, ain't he?" remarked one of the officers in an
undertone to his neighbour.
"You bet he is," answered the other.
"Now I have got to see the old gentleman," said Darche, speaking to
Vanbrugh. "Before I go, I would like to have a word with you. There is
no objection to my speaking privately to Mr. Vanbrugh, I suppose?" he
inquired, turning to the officer.
"Not if you stay in the room," answered the one who took the lead.
Darche nodded to Vanbrugh, who somewhat reluctantly followed him to the
other end of the room.
"I say," he began in a tone not to be overheard by the detectives. "Can
you not give me another chance?"
"What sort of chance?" replied Vanbrugh, raising his eyebrows.
"If I could get through that door," said John looking over Vanbrugh's
shoulder, "I could get away. I know the house and they do not.
Presently, when my father comes, if you could create some sort of
confusion for a moment, I could slip out. They will never catch me.
There is an Italian sailing vessel just clearing. I have had exact
information. If I can get through that door I can be in the Sixth
Avenue Elevated in three minutes and out of New York Harbour in an
hour."
Vanbrugh had no intention of being a party to the escape. He met
Darche's eyes coldly as he answered.
"No, I will not do it. I have defended you in open court, but I am not
going to help you evade the law."
"Do not be too hard, Vanbrugh," said Darche, in a tone of entreaty.
"Things are not half so bad as they are made out."
"If that is true, I am sorry. But you have had a perfectly fair trial."
"Will you not help me get away?" Darche urged knowing that this was his
last chance.
"No."
"Vanbrugh," said John in an insinuating tone, "you used to be fond of
my wife. You wanted to marry her."
"What has that to do with it?" asked Vanbrugh turning sharply upon him.
"You may marry her and welcome, if you let me get through that door. I
shall never be heard of again."
"You infernal scoundrel!" Vanbrugh was thoroughly disgusted. "Now
gentlemen," he said, turning to the officer in charge, "I will bring
Mr. Darche here to see his son. I am sure that for the old gentleman's
sake, out of mere humanity, you will do the best you can to keep up
the illusion we have arranged. He is old and his mind wanders. He will
scarcely notice your presence."
"Yes, sir," the man answered. "You may trust us to do that, sir. Now
then, boys," he said, addressing his two companions, "straighten up,
best company manners, stiff upper lip--keep your eye on the young man.
He is rather too near that door for my taste."
John Darche's face expressed humiliation and something almost
approaching to despair. He was about to make another attempt, and had
moved a step towards Vanbrugh, when he suddenly started a little and
stood still. Marion stood in the open door beyond three detectives. She
touched one of them on the shoulder as a sign that she wished to pass.
"Pardon me, lady," said the man, drawing back. "Anything that we can do
for you?"
"I am Mrs. Darche. I wish to speak to my husband."
"Certainly, madam," and all three made way for her.
She went straight to her husband, and stood before him at the other end
of the room, speaking in a low voice.
"Is there anything I can do for you, John?" she asked so that he could
barely hear her.
"You can help me to get away--if you will." John Darche's eyes fell
before hers.
She gazed at him during several seconds, hesitating, perhaps, between
her sense of justice and her desire to be faithful to her husband to
the very end.
"Yes, I will," she said briefly.
Before she spoke again she turned quite naturally, as though in
hesitation, and satisfied herself that the three men were out of
hearing. Vanbrugh, perhaps suspecting what was taking place, had
engaged them in conversation near the door.
"How?" she asked, looking at John again. "Tell me quickly."
"Presently, when my father comes, get as many people as you can. Let me
be alone for a moment. Make some confusion, upset something, anything
will do. Give me a chance to get through the door into the library."
"I will try. Is that all?"
"Thank you," said John Darche, and for one moment a look of something
like genuine gratitude passed over his hard face. "Yes, that is all.
You will be glad to get rid of me."
Marion looked one moment longer, hesitated, said nothing and turned
away.
"If you have no objections," said Vanbrugh addressing the officer in
charge, "we will take Mr. Darche to his father's room instead of asking
him to come here."
"Yes, sir," answered the detective. "We can do that."
As they were about to leave the room, Brett met them at the door. He
paused a moment and looked about. Then he went straight to Vanbrugh.
"Has he seen him yet?" he asked.
"No, we are just going," answered Vanbrugh.
"Can I be of any use?"
"Stay with Mrs. Darche."
"Shall we go?" he asked, turning to John.
"How brave you are!" exclaimed Brett when they were alone.
"Does it need much courage?" asked Marion, sinking into a chair. "I do
not know. Perhaps."
"I know that there are not many men who could bear all this as well as
you do," Brett answered, and there was a little emotion in his face.
"Men are different. Mr. Brett--" she began after a short pause.
"Yes, do you want to ask me something?"
"Yes, something that is very hard to ask. Something that you will
refuse."
"That would be hard indeed."
"Will you promise not to be angry?" asked Marion faintly.
"Of course I will," Brett answered.
"Do not be so sure. Men's honour is such a strange thing. You may think
what I am going to ask touches it."
"What is it?"
He sat down beside her and prepared to listen.
"Will you help my husband to escape?" asked Marion in a whisper.
"No--do not say it. Wait until I tell you first how it can be done.
Presently I will get them all into this room. Old Mr. Darche is too
ill to come, I am afraid. You have not spoken alone to John yet. Take
him aside and bring him close to this door on pretence of exchanging a
few words. I will make a diversion of some sort at the other end of the
room and as they all look round he can slip out. If he has one minute's
start they will never see him again. Will you do it?"
"You were right," said Brett gravely. "It is a hard thing to ask."
"Will you do it?"
"It is criminal," he answered.
"Will you do it?"
"For God's sake, give me time to think!" He passed his hand over his
eyes.
"There is no time," said Marion anxiously. "Will you do it for me?"
"How can I? how can I?"
"You told me that you loved me the other day--will you do it for my
sake?"
A change came over Brett's face.
"For your sake?" he asked in an altered tone. "Do you mean it?"
"Yes. For my sake."
"Very well. I will do it." He turned a little pale and closed one hand
over the other.
"Thank you--thank you, Harry." Her voice lingered a little, as she
pronounced his name. "Stay here. I will make them come. It is of no use
to leave them there. It is a mere formality, at best."
"I am ready," said Brett, rising.
Marion left her seat, and crossing the room again tried the door in
question to satisfy herself that it would open readily. She looked out
into the passage beyond and then came back, and passing Brett without a
word left the room.
She was not gone long, and during the minutes of her absence Brett
tried hard not to think of what he was going to do. He could not but be
aware that it was a desperately serious matter to help a convicted
criminal to escape. He thought of the expression he had seen on
Marion's face when he had promised to do it, and of the soft intonation
of her sweet voice, and he tried to think of nothing else.
In a moment more she was in the room again leading old Mr. Darche
forward, his arm linked in hers. John came in on his father's other
side, while Vanbrugh and the three officers followed.
"I understand, I understand, my boy," cried old Darche in his cheery
voice. "It is a grand thing."
John was very pale as he answered, and was evidently making a great
effort to speak lightly.
"Yes, of course. It has turned out much simpler than we expected,
however, thanks to your immense reputation, father. Without your name
we could not have done it, could we, gentlemen?" he asked, turning to
the detectives as though appealing to them.
"No, guess not," answered the three together.
"Good God, what a scene!" exclaimed Brett under his breath.
"Mr. Brett," said Marion approaching him. "You said you wanted to speak
to my husband. Now you must tell me all about it, father," she
continued, drawing the old gentleman towards the fire. "I do not half
understand in all this confusion."
"Why it is as plain as day, child," said Simon Darche, ever ready to
explain a matter of business. "The second mortgage of a million and a
half to square everything. Come here, come close to the fire, my hands
are cold. I think I must have been ill."
"You would never think Mr. Darche had been ill, would you, gentlemen?"
asked Marion, appealing again to the detectives.
"No, guess not," they answered in chorus.
Meanwhile Brett led Darche across the room, talking to him in a loud
tone until they were near the door.
"Your wife will make some diversion presently," he whispered. "I do not
know how. When she does, make for that door and get out."
"Thank you, thank you," said John with genuine fervour, and his face
lighted up. "God bless you, Brett!"
"Do not thank me," answered Brett roughly. "I do not want to do it.
Thank your wife."
"Oh!" exclaimed John Darche, and his eyelids contracted. "My wife! Is
it for her?"
"Yes."
"I will remember that. I will remember it as long as I live."
Brett never forgot the look which accompanied the words.
"Well, be grateful to her anyhow," he said.
At that moment a piercing scream rang through the room. Marion Darche,
while talking to her father-in-law, had been standing quite close to
the fire. When Brett turned his head the front of her dress was burning
with a slow flame and she was making desperate efforts to tear it from
her.
"Good Heavens, you are really burning!" cried Brett as he crushed the
flaming stuff with his bare hands, regardless of the consequences to
himself.
"Did you think that I cried out in fun?" asked Marion calmly.
On hearing his wife's cry John Darche had bestowed but one glance upon
her. It mattered but little to him that she was really on fire. The
detectives had rushed to her assistance and for one moment no one was
looking. He was close to the door. A moment later he had left the room
and turned the key behind him.
"My God!" exclaimed the officer in charge, suddenly. "He has gone! Run,
boys! Stop! One of you take the old one. We will not lose them both."
Old Darche started as though he had suddenly been waked out of a deep
sleep, and his voice rang out loud and clear.
"Hey, what is this?" he cried. "Hello! Detectives in my house?
Disguised too?"
"Yes, sir," answered one of the detectives, seizing him by the wrist
just as the other two left the room in pursuit of John Darche. "And one
of them has got you."
"Got me!" roared the old man. "Hands off, there! What do you mean? Damn
you, sir, let me go!"
"Oh, well," replied the officer calmly, "if you are going to take on
like that, you may just as well know that your son was tried and
convicted for forgery to-day. Not that I believe that you had anything
to do with it, but he is a precious rascal all the same, and has
escaped from your house--"
"I! Forgery? The man is mad! John, where are you? Brett! Vanbrugh! Help
me, gentlemen!"
He appealed to Brett, and then to Vanbrugh who, indeed, was doing his
best to draw the officer away.
"No, no," answered the latter firmly. "I've got one of them--it's all
in the family."
Though Marion's dress was still smouldering and Brett was on his knees
trying to extinguish the last spark with his own hands, she forgot her
own danger, and almost tearing herself away from Brett she clasped the
policeman's hand trying to drag it from Simon Darche's shoulder.
"Oh, sir," she cried in tearful entreaty, "pray let him go! He is
innocent--he is ill! He will not think of escaping. Don't you see that
we have kept it all from him?"
"Kept it all from me?" asked the old gentleman fiercely turning upon
her. "What do you mean? Where is John? Where is John? I say!"
"In handcuffs by this time I guess," said the detective calmly.
"But I insist upon knowing what all this means," continued old Darche,
growing more and more excited, while the veins of his temples swelled
to bursting. "Forgery! Trial! Conviction! John escaping! Am I dreaming?
Are not you three directors of the other road? Good God, young man,
speak!" He seized Brett by the collar in his excitement.
"Pray be calm, sir, pray be calm," answered the young man, trying to
loosen the policeman's sturdy grasp.
By a tremendous effort, such as madmen make in supreme moments, the old
man broke loose, and seizing Marion by the wrist dragged her half
across the room while he spoke. "Tell me this thing is all a lie!" he
cried, again and again.
"The lady knows the truth well enough, sir," said the policeman, coming
up behind him. "She caught fire just right."
For one moment Simon Darche stood upright in the middle of the room,
looking from one to the other with wild frightened eyes.
"Oh, it is true!" he cried in accents of supreme agony. "John has
disgraced himself! Oh, my son, my son!"
One instant more, and the light in his eyes broke, he threw out his
arms and fell straight backwards against the detective. Simon Darche
was dead.
CHAPTER VIII.
There was no lack of sympathy for Marion Darche, and it was shown in
many ways during the period of calm which succeeded her husband's
disappearance and the sudden death of his father. Every one was anxious
to be first in showing the lonely woman that she was not alone, but
that, on the contrary, those who had been her friends formerly were
more ready than ever to proclaim the fact now, and, so far as they were
able, not in words only, but in deeds also.
She was relieved, all at once, of the many burdens which had oppressed
her life during the past years--indeed, she sometimes caught herself
missing the constant sacrifice, the daily effort of subduing her
temper, the hourly care for the doting old man who was gone.
But with all this, there was the consciousness that she was not
altogether free. Somewhere in the world, John Darche was still alive, a
fugitive, a man for whose escape a reward was offered. It was worse
than widowhood to be bound to a husband who was socially dead. It would
have been easier to bear if he had never escaped, and if he were simply
confined in the Penitentiary. There would not have been the danger of
his coming back stealthily by night, which Marion felt was not
imaginary so long as he was at large.
Yet she made no effort to obtain a divorce from the man whose name was
a disgrace. On the contrary, so far as outward appearances were
concerned, she made no change, or very little, in her life. Public
opinion had been with her from the first, and society chose to treat
her as a young widow, deserving every sympathy, who when the time of
mourning should have expired, would return to the world, and open her
doors to it.
There was a great deal of speculation as to the reasons which prevented
her from taking steps to free herself, but no one guessed what really
passed in her mind, any more than the majority of her acquaintances
understood that she had once loved John Darche. It had been commonly
said for years that she had married him out of disappointment because
something had prevented her from marrying another man, usually supposed
to have been Russell Vanbrugh. People attributed to her a greater
complication of motives than she could have believed possible.
In order not to be altogether alone, she took a widowed cousin to live
with her--a Mrs. Willoughby, who soon became known to her more intimate
friends as Cousin Annie. She was a gray, colourless woman, much older
than Marion, kind of heart but not very wise, insignificant but
refined, a moral satisfaction and an intellectual disappointment,
accustomed to the world, but not understanding it, good by nature and
charitable, and educated in religious forms to which she clung by habit
and association rather than because they represented anything to her.
Cousin Annie was one of those fortunate beings whom temptation
overlooks, passing by on the other side, who can suffer in a way for
the loss of those dear to them, but whose mourning does not reach the
dignity of sorrow, nor the selfish power of grief.
Marion did not feel the need of a more complicated and gifted
individuality for companionship. On the contrary, it was a relief to
her to have some one at her side for whom she was not expected to
think, but who, on the contrary, thought for her in all the commonplace
matters of life, and never acted otherwise than as a normal, natural,
human unit. There had been enough of the unusual in the house in
Lexington Avenue, and Marion was glad that it was gone.
Three months passed in this way and the spring was far advanced. Then,
suddenly and without warning, came the news that John Darche had been
heard of, traced, seen at last and almost captured. He had escaped once
more and this time he had escaped, for ever, by his own act. He had
jumped overboard in the English Channel from the Calais boat, and his
body had not been found.
Mrs. Darche wore black for her husband, and Cousin Annie said it was
very becoming. Dolly Maylands thought it absurd to put on even the
appearance of mourning for such a creature, and said so.
"My dear child," answered Marion gently, "he was my husband."
"I never can realise it," said Dolly. "Do you remember, I used to ask
you if you did not sometimes forget it yourself?"
"I never forgot it." Mrs. Darche's voice had a wonderful gravity in it,
without the least sadness. She was a woman without affectation.
"No," said Dolly thoughtfully, "I suppose you never had a chance. It is
of no use, Marion dear," she added after a little pause, and in a
different tone, as though she were tired of pretending a sort of
subdued sympathy, "it is of no use at all! I can never be sorry, you
know--so that ends it. Why, just think! You are free to marry any one
you please, to begin life over again. How many women in your position
ever had such a chance? Not but what you would have been just as free
if you had got a divorce. But--somehow, this is much more solidly
satisfactory. Yes, I know--it is horrid and unchristian--but there is
just that--there is a solid satisfaction in--"
She was going to say "in death," but thought better of it and checked
herself.
"It will not make very much difference to me just yet," said Marion.
"Meanwhile, as I said, he was my husband. I shall wear mourning a short
time, and then--then I do not know what I shall do."
"It must be very strange," answered Dolly.
"What, child?"
"Your life. Now you need not call me child in that auntly tone, as
though you were five hundred thousand years older and wiser and duller
than I am. There are not six years between our ages, you know."
"Do not resent being young, Dolly."
"Resent it! No, indeed! I resent your way of making yourself out to be
old. In the pages of future history we shall be spoken of as
contemporaries."
Mrs. Darche smiled, and Dolly laughed.
"School-book style," said the girl. "That is my morning manner. In the
evening I am quite different, thank goodness! But to go back--what I
meant was that your own life must seem very strange to you. To have
loved really--of course you did--why should you deny it? And then to
have made the great mistake and to have married the wrong man, and to
have been good and to have put up the shutters of propriety and
virtue--so to say, and to have kept up a sort of Sunday-go-to-meeting
myth for years, expecting to do it for the rest of your life, and
then--to have the luck--well, no, I did not mean to put it that
way--but to begin life all over again, and the man you loved not
married yet, and just as anxious to marry you as ever--"
"Stop, Dolly! How do you know?" Marion knit her brows in annoyance.
"Oh! I know nothing, of course. I can only guess. But then, it is easy
to guess, sometimes."
"I am not so sure," answered Marion thoughtfully, and looking at Dolly
with some curiosity.
As for Brett, he said nothing to any one, when the news of John
Darche's death reached New York. He supposed that people would take it
for granted that in the course of time he would marry Marion, because
the world knew that he had formerly loved her, and that she had made a
mistake in not accepting him and would probably be quite willing to
rectify it now that she was free. There had always been a certain
amount of inoffensive chaff about his devotion to her interests. But he
himself was very far from assuming that she would take him now. He knew
her better than the world did, and understood the unexpected
hesitations and revulsions of which she was capable, much better than
the world could.
He took a hopeful view, however, as was natural. For the present he
waited and said nothing. If she chose to go through the form of
mourning, he would go through the form of respecting it while it
lasted. Society is the better for most of its conventionalities, a fact
of which one may easily assure oneself by spending a little time in
circles that make bold to laugh at appearances. A man may break the
social barriers for a great object's sake, or out of true passion--as
sheer necessity may force a man to sleep by the road side. But a man
who habitually makes his bed in the gutter by choice is a madman, and
one who thinks himself above manners and conventionalities is generally
a fool. There is nothing more intolerable than eccentricity for its
own sake, nor more pitiful than the perpetual acting of it to a gallery
that will not applaud.
For some time Brett continued to come and see Marion regularly, and she
did not hesitate to show him that he was as welcome as ever. Then,
without any apparent cause, his manner changed. He became much more
grave than he had ever been before, and those who knew him well were
struck by an alteration in his appearance, not easily defined at first,
but soon visible to any one. He was growing pale and thin.
Vanbrugh strolled into his office on a warm day in early June and sat
down for a chat. Brett's inner sanctum was in the Equitable Building,
measured twelve feet by eight, and was furnished so as to leave a space
of about six feet by four in the middle, just enough for two chairs and
the legs of the people who sat in them. Vanbrugh looked at his friend
and came to the just conclusion that something was materially wrong
with him.
"Brett," he said, suddenly, "let us run over to Paris."
"I cannot leave New York at present," Brett answered, without
hesitation, as though he had already considered the question of going
abroad.
"Not being able to leave New York is a more or less dangerous disease
which kills a great many people," observed Vanbrugh. "You must leave
New York, whether you can or not. I do not know whether you are ill or
not, but you look like an imperfectly boiled owl."
"I know I do. I want a change."
"Then come along."
"No, I cannot leave New York. I am not joking, my dear fellow."
"I see you are not. I suppose it is of no use to ask what is the
matter. If you wanted help you would say so. You evidently have
something on your mind. Anything I can do?"
"No, I wish there were. I will tell you some day. It is something
rather odd and unusual."
Brett was not an imaginative man, or Vanbrugh, judging from his
appearance and manner, would almost have suspected that he was
suffering from some persecution not quite natural or earthly. He had
the uneasy glance of a man who fancies himself haunted by a sight he
fears to see. Vanbrugh looked at him a long time in silence and then
rose to go.
"I am sorry, old man," he said, with something almost like a sigh. "You
live too much alone," he added, turning as he was about to open the
door. "You ought to get married."
Brett smiled in rather a ghastly fashion which did not escape his
friend.
"I cannot leave New York," he repeated mechanically.
"Perhaps you will before long," said Vanbrugh, going out. "I would if I
were you."
He went away in considerable perplexity. Something in Brett's manner
puzzled him and almost frightened him. As a lawyer, and one accustomed
to dealing with the worst side of human nature, he was inclined to play
the detective for a time; as a friend, he resolved not to inquire too
closely into a matter which did not concern him. In fact, he had
already gone further than he had intended. Only a refined nature can
understand the depth of degradation to which curiosity can reduce
friendship.
A day or two later Vanbrugh met Dolly Maylands at a house in Tuxedo
Park where he had come to dine and spend the night. There were enough
people at the dinner to insure a little privacy to those who had
anything to say to one another.
"Brett is ill," said Vanbrugh. "Do you know what is the matter with
him?"
"I suppose Marion has refused him after all," answered Dolly, looking
at her plate.
Vanbrugh glanced at her face and thought she was a little pale. He
remembered the conversation when they had been left together in the
