the pumpkin pies ; and the little maid 
brought coffee, and spilled it and scalded 
the cat with it, and told her it was good 
enough for her ; she wished she'd " 
murthered" her. And it was a very exciting- 
occasion. 
As for Donald, in one hour he did not 
understand how he had ever lived in East 
 
Tipton without Fay, and not " struck " for 
his reason and his life. 
Fay was a healthy, happy, rousing, sing 
ing, sensible girl. She laughed whenever 
she thought of it, and she thought of it very 
often. She ran up and down stairs, I can't 
say like a fawn, for she was a solid girl, but 
like a sracef ul collie that finds it work to 
keep still and play to keep going. She 
bounded in and out and flashed to and fro 
across those plain, poor parsonage rooms 
like the prisms in the rainbow-glass that she 
had brought home for a holiday present for 
her mother. And who ever knew that Fay 
went without silk mittens, such as the other 
girls had, and wore a cheap pair of woolen 
ones all winter, to get that prism ? " Poor 
mother had so few pretty colors in her life ! " 
Fay said. And to Donald she added, in the 
pleasant, instinctive confidence which grows 
so quickly between two young people who 
like each other from the start : 
" I thought it would be nice to see something 
dance in this house, if it 's only a rain 
bow ; don't you ? See them ! Aren't they 
dear, waltzing all over that ugly wall-paper, 
and polkaing across mamma 's cap- 
strings? And just look, one is performing 
a pas seul on. papa 's nose ! It 's a blue 
one, too ; a regular last-act, blue-devil color. 
But he wouldn't recognize it. He never 
e;oes to the play." 
"Do you?" asked Don. 
" I like to," she said quickly. " But I 
don't go unless he says I may. Besides, I 
can't afford it, you know. But I went a few 
times Freshman year. I was visiting a chum 
of mine in New York." 
" What are you now ? " asked Don anx 
iously. " A Senior ? " 
" Only a Junior," nodded Fay. " I'm 
only a year ahead of you. I should be a 
Senior, but I had to stay out a year." 
"Dropped?" asked Don. 
" Do I look like it? " returned Fay, turn 
ing sharply about and facing the mischief in 
his eyes. She stood straight and still before 
him ; a fine figure of a girl, with a face hand 
some this minute, plain the next, winning 
now, rebuffing then, melting with innocent 
coquetry while you looked at her, and with 
drawn into delicate dignity before you could 
speak to her ; a creature full of the whims 
of youth and the second thought of maturity ; 
bubbling with fun and controlled with 
resolve ; a girl made up of mischief and 
 
good sense, of frolic and modesty ; a gym 
nast and a musician, a dancer and a mathematician,
a romp and a scholar, that was 
Fay. 
" You look," said Don, with a low bow, 
" as if the faculty of Smith might have had 
their hands full with you " 
Fay 's delicate eyebrows arched disdain 
fully. 
"But didn't," finished Don. "They 
didn't. You thought you wouldn't. I'm 
afraid you've been the other kind of girl. 
I'm afraid you've learned your lessons and 
stood well, and all that." 
"And why, sir, do you suffer from fear 
on this account ? " 
" Because I haven't," said Don ruefully. 
" I see you're a scholar. It runs in your 
family. I'm not. I'm rusticated for a hazing 
scrape." 
" Dear me ! " said Fay, lifting her black 
eyes with the innocence of a baby. " Are 
you stupid ? " 
Don flushed ; he certainly did ; when had 
a girl 's tongue made Don blush before ? 
" I'm sorry for you," pursued Fay 
blandly. " It must be very uncomfortable. 
I've always thought that would be the hardest 
thing, not to be clever ; not to be able 
to learn things, like other people." 
" I don't know that I'm a born fool! " 
exploded Don viciously. 
" Oh ! aren't you ? Didn't you mean 
that ? I'm so relieved ! I thought I 
supposed I didn't know but you meant 
Then why in the world," demanded Fay vigorously,
" don't you learn your lessons ? 
Why on earth do you act like one ? " 
" One what ? " 
" It was your own word, sir ! Don't make 
me use it. Don't compel me to be rude. 
I don't like those pert girls. I don't think 
it 's good manners to be vicious, do you ? 
I in afraid I've gone too far. Have I been 
impolite ? I didn't mean to be. Shall I 
beg your pardon? " 
Fay 's voice melted into such gentleness 
when she said this, that Don 's smarting 
vanity went under, and he bowed before 
her. 
He thought her adorable, and he thought 
he would tell her so ; but something in Fay 's 
fine, far eyes checked him. She wasn't the 
girl one could make love to at two days 
acquaintance. The expression of Don 's face 
changed as gently almost as her own. 
" No," he said humbly, " don't beg my 
pardon. I deserved it. I'm a harum-scarum 
chap. But I'm not a bad fellow, Miss Fay," 
he added earnestly. He began to feel that 
he wished very much to stand well with Fay, 
in her modest, womanly thoughts of him ; 
he could not bear it that she should believe 
him worse than he was. 
" Oh, I know that ! " said Fay eagerly. 
"I 'll tell you," she hurried on, for her tact 
told her that she had gone far enough into a 
painful subject, "I 'll tell you why I was 
out for a year. I'm not ashamed of it. I 
had to earn my way that year. Jamie was 
sick, and needed every cent. So I took my 
turn. That was all right. You see " the 
girl hesitated, looking timidly at the young 
stranger, so soon a friend "they do have a 
hard time of it here, poor dears, two of us 
in college at once. That 's the worst of it. 
But it won't last long. Then I shall teach, 
and send them O-ooh ! " cried Fay, as 
girlishly as if she had never been to college. 
" I lie awake nights thinking of the things 
I'm going to send them. I've made out 
a list. It 's four pages and a half long
already ! " 
" What did you do," asked Don, with 
unwonted seriousness, " to earn money ? I 
never earned more than fifty dollars in my 
life. Father gave me that once for knock 
ing off cigarettes." 
" Oh, I taught music," said Fay care 
lessly ; " I'm not a player, but I'm accurate, 
and I can get classes. I learned pretty 
thoroughly what I do know. Then some 
times I take a school for a term. That 
helps. I don't mind hard work, I think," 
urged Fay meditatively ; " I like it. Don't 
you?" 
" I begin to think I might be made to," 
replied Don forlornly, "if I took a few 
quarters lessons in How to Do It from a 
girl like you." 
Fay looked at him ; she looked at him 
very soberly indeed, but so charmingly that 
Don hoped she would say something half as 
sweet as her look. But Fay said nothing 
at all. 
Fay never " preached " to him, from first 
to last. But from the beginning until the 
end she gave the boy something better than 
advice, and rebuke, and retort. 
She flashed over the panorama of his 
young life the ideal of a strong, sweet girl, 
educated and womanly, intellectual and tender,
and true, true to the last drop of her 
heart 's blood. Fay Fleet had her faults, but 
she never posed, she never tricked, she did 
not manage. No young man could say that 
Fay flirted, even when there was nothing else 
to do. It was almost as hard to say whether 
she liked a fellow, or not, very much, that 
is, whether one were important to her in any 
way. Don could not tell for the life of him. 
Girls had always liked Don quite easily 
enough. Without undue emphasis of the 
fact, the handsome boy had always had reason
to suppose that a girl 's interest was a 
thing to be lightly won, or indeed, that need 
not be won at all ; it came as a matter of 
course. With Fay it was quite different, 
but he could not have told why, though he 
speculated upon it a great deal. 
When Fay had been at home a week, he 
said to himself, one day : 
" I've got it. It 's because she has some 
thing else than fellows to think about." 
"You care," he said to her, "you really 
do care for what you are up to, college and 
all that. It gives you thoughts. It takes 
your time." 
" I want to be something," said Fay 
dreamily. " That 's all I know about it. I 
am always very busy." 
" You are something," replied Don, in a 
low tone. " That 's the point of it. You're 
the nicest, the the loveliest Miss 
Fay, you are the best girl I ever knew! 
Don't be mad at me," pleaded Don, when 
he saw her pretty blush. " I mean it all 
right. I don't mean to be silly. I've 
known most kinds. If you'd seen some of 
the kinds I have known I wish," he 
urged, with a sort of eager earnestness so 
new to Don Marcy that it seemed to soften 
and envelop him in a beautiful, gentle color, 
as the blush did the little woman, " I wish 
I could be a different kind of fellow, the 
kind well, your kind," he explained can 
didly, turning to look straight at her. 
" Do you really ? " asked Fay softly. 
" I'm very unhappy," replied Don ; "I 
never said so before. I'm not satisfied with 
the way I'm going on. I wish I were the 
other kind of boy." 
" Then be the other kind ! " cried Fay, in 
her rich, ringing voice. 
They were going out tobogganing, when 
this conversation occurred. Don, who was 
used to satisfy every whim that money could 
supply, took the toboggan fever when the 
heavy snow packed down upon the mountain- 
sides, and if there were no toboggan in the 
village, why not send to New York for one ? 
So he sent to New York for the toboggan. 
This was the first time that he and Fay had 
gone together for a long slide ; he had experimented
by himself upon his new-bought 
toy, to make sure of its safety and his own 
skill, and so on, before he trusted Fay upon 
it. But now they were well on their way 
across the wide, snow-blind fields, to give 
the Vermont girl her first toboggan slide ; 
they both wore snow - shoes (for the snow 
" slumped " occasionally, and was very deep), 
and Fay had extemporized some sort of a 
costume for the occasion ; she could not af 
ford a toboggan-suit, of course, but she had 
constructed something out of her gymnasium 
suit and an old red blanket, in which, with 
a red flannel cap and cheap red mittens, she 
was altogether charming. Her cheeks were 
flushed with the fine exercise, and her black 
eyes and hair seemed to snap, electrically, in 
the frosty sunshine. When she said, "Be 
the other kind ! " she turned her bright, 
round face up to Don in a way peculiar to 
herself. Some girls make that feminine 
motion of the head everybody knows it 
with a kind of helplessness, a leaning toward 
a young man, a clinging to him, as if the 
whole nature fell, a pretty burden, upon his 
own, for support, protection, and caressing 
care. This is sometimes interesting to a boy 
for a moment 's play. It becomes tiresome, 
girls, believe me, to a man, for a life 's work. 
Fay had an attitude of stirring and yet of 
gentle independence and strength of her own, 
which Don found delightful. She looked 
like the very soul and sense of the whole 
some, heartsome winter day. All the best of 
the gay boy 's nature sprang gravely to meet 
the effect which she had upon him. 
" Will you be my friend, true blue, 
my faithful friend, if / turn out the other 
kind ? " he asked her very soberly. 
Fay hesitated. 
" If I say I will, I shall, you know," she 
said, with a little, serious nod. "I never said 
that before to anybody, to any boy, I 
mean ! " 
" But you 'll say it to me ? r&gt; pleaded 
handsome Don. " I never asked it before, 
either. I've done my share of flirting, and 
carrying on, I dare say. But I never wanted 
a girl to be my friend before." 
" It 's a solemn sort of word," said Fay, in 
a low voice. 
 
" We're agreed on that," replied Donald 
proudly. " I haven't wasted it, nor blas 
phemed it, you know ; I never felt like sling 
ing it round on lots of people." 
" That goes a good way, with me," said 
Fay. 
"I mean," pursued Don, with an argu 
mentative and original air, as if he were the 
first boy who had ever talked friendship to a 
girl in all the history of the old, dear, fool 
ish world, " I want you to help me, to stand 
by me, to keep step with me, you know, as 
we do this minute ; good, strong, long steps ; 
and stimulate me, and make me think of different
things, and make a better fellow of 
me, in earnest, Miss Fay. I want it very 
much indeed." 
" You won't let me be ashamed of you," 
suggested Fay gently, " if I do that ? " 
" There 's my hand on it," said Don. He 
looked at her eagerly. Aspiration, born in 
his soul in that simple, studious country 
home, had lain a helpless, half -formed thing, 
waiting for the strong touch of resolve to 
nurse it into manly life. The girl had given 
the touch ; delicate and firm, and womanly 
as herself. 
She held out her red mitten. Don took it 
into his sealskin glove. After an instant 's 
hesitation he removed his glove ; his eyes 
deferentially said : May I ? He drew off the 
woolen mitten, and their hands clasped. 
Neither of them spoke for a moment. 
Then Fay put on her mitten and said : 
" Are we going straight down the side of 
Mount Tipton ? " 
" I 'll go anywhere you take me ! " rapturously. 
" I won't do anything so steep as that, 
sir ! " demurely. 
" Isn't there a little mountain anywhere 
we might go down ? " asked Don. " I don't 
feel as if a hill were big enough for the 
occasion. How 's that one, over there ? " 
It was instinctively understood between 
them that there was nothing more to be said 
about friendship just now. They abandoned 
themselves to the higher education of the 
toboggan, as utterly as if they had been ten 
years old. 
Fay thought there was a little mountain, 
" Small Tom " was its name, across a 
few more pastures and over the creek, and 
she thought there was a pretty fair clearing 
down an obtuse angle over beyond those 
pines, where it would be safe enough to get 
 
down, if he understood his vehicle. Don 
was sure that he knew his toboggan intimately ;
and they set out to climb Small 
Tom forthwith ; their peals of laughter 
when Fay 's feet went through the snow, or 
Don tripped up, or the toboggan " struck," 
echoing down the white hillside, with a ring 
that brought several of the lank, lean matrons
in the scattering farmhouses to breathe 
on their frosted windows and look through 
at the tobogganers. But the farmers daugh 
ters made quite big holes in the frost, to 
watch the young climbers, and one took the 
skin off from her tongue, and her mother 
made her gargle alum and water for the rest 
of the day. 
Fay found a slide that was to her mind ; 
there had been some coasting on it a few 
days ago, and it was broken in, a little. 
Still, it was a long, dizzy, diving road to 
take, and the two young people looked it 
over cautiously before they sat down. 
" I think, by steering carefully there 
and avoiding those stumps and putting- 
down brakes there, we can make it, don't 
you, Miss Fay ? " said Don eagerly. 
" I rather think so," said Fay, calculating 
the pitch with her trained eyes. " I've 
coasted here forty times on a common sled. 
We call it a little too steep for bobs." 
"Oh, a toboggan is ever so much safer 
than a bob," explained Don confidently. 
"All right," nodded Fay. "Go ahead. 
I'm not afraid, if you're not." 
He started slowly. How delightful was 
the toboggan ! Fay held on tight, and 
laughed out like a little girl. They began to 
move to start to skim to plunge 
to fly. Small Tom was a very small mountain, 
but a very big hill. He reared his 
humped side like a rocking camel, and that 
toboggan, once under way, went down like 
madness. It was all done in who knew how 
few moments ? A whirr a whizz a dive 
a flash, and something had happened. 
Somewhere, a sunken stump had snagged, 
or Small Tom 's crust had yielded, they 
never knew just what was the matter ; but 
there was a crash, a bump, stars, darkness, 
pain, and snow in the throat, and oh, who 
was hurt? 
Don crawled to his feet, where he lay 
sprawling under the wreck of his expensive 
toboggan. His wrists were cut and his foot 
bruised, and so on ; little hurts ; not worth 
speaking of ; but Fay, Fay lay quite still 
 
on the snow. Blood flowed from her head. 
She did not cry out, nor speak. 
With a horrible sinking at his heart, 
Donald got to her, and got her up from the 
snow in a sitting position, and held her 
against his arm, and called her name des 
perately. He had not the least idea what to 
do. All the girls in the world whom he had 
ever heard of in such cases sprained their 
ankles. He could have managed that; a 
long course of fictitious reading had taught 
him that he must carry the young lady in 
his arms all the way to the nearest farm 
house. But a wound in the head, a bleed 
ing and unconscious girl, this was another 
thing. In despair, he took his handkerchief 
and began clumsily to bind up the cut in 
Fay 's poor head. 
" That isn't the way," said a low voice 
distinctly. " Put it so, please." 
With that, Fay held up her head, as 
straight as she could, and moved a little 
away from his arm. 
"I've come to. I'll fix it. Don't be 
scared. I'm not killed, Mr. Don. I've got 
a bad bump, but that 's all." 
" What shall we do ? " cried Don in 
distress. "How will you ever get home? 
You're not fit to tramp down this blamed 
mountain. Won't you let me carry you 
somehow ? " 
" Dear, no ! " Fay sat straighter, and be 
gan to laugh. " I'm a heavy girl. I should 
break your back." 
" I'm used to tossing Freshmen in 
blankets," urged Don. 
" I'm a Junior," retorted Fay ; " I've got 
past that. You just help me a little till I 
don't feel so dizzy, and I 'll get down to Joe 
Jouncey s, that first farmhouse. It 's the 
one where the girl peeked through the win 
dow. They 'll let me have their old Lamen 
tations, he 's the horse. I'm all right, 
only a little achy and shaky, and I am cut 
some. But it 's nothing much. Don't look 
so ! " entreated Fay. 
Perhaps Don was not to be blamed for 
looking anyhow, just then. He never had 
felt, in all his life, what he felt in that long, 
cold, hard descent of Small Tom, with Fay, 
bleeding and white, plucky and silent, shaken 
from all her pretty little independence, and 
leaning on his arm heavily, because she 
simply could not move alone. 
"I'm not much hurt," she assured him 
from time to time ; " I shall be all right in 
a day or two." 
 
But Don 's heart was wrung within him. 
He looked at her speechlessly. He longed 
so to carry her, to hold her, to comfort her, 
that he did not know how to keep his arms 
off from her. 
But Fay 's sweet eyes dropped before his 
own. In spite of her pain and her pallor, 
she faintly and appealingly blushed. Donald 
set his teeth, and looked away from her 
across the blinding, blurring fields of snow. 
Alone there, a mile from a human eye, 
upon the mountain-side, with a faint and 
wounded girl, the young man would not so 
much as have pressed his lips upon her hand, 
nor touched her with the lightest touch which 
she was brave and sturdy enough to manage 
to do without. Solitude, sympathy, suffering,
gave him no little momentary freedom 
of that sort with Fay. He could not. Fay 
was not that kind of girl. He felt that he 
was not now that kind of boy. 
So, silently and sacredly, the two young 
people got down the mountain-side. They 
went straight to Joe Jouncey s, where the 
lean woman recommended alum-water for 
Fay, and the girl with the skin off her tongue 
brought bandages for Don, and Lamentations 
was put into the sleigh, and took the 
minister 's daughter home, where she was 
very plucky and sweet till she got well ; and 
Don felt as if she had been nearer to him 
than she would ever be again, and was quite 
sad about it, but comforted himself in taking 
care of her and making many steps to wait 
upon her, and in ordering Mr. Jasper to drive 
over to Tipton immediately, and never to 
return alive until he had found a florist and 
violets. 
When Mr. Jasper returned with no violets, 
but proudly carrying three pink rose 
buds, eight scarlet geraniums, and a quart of 
smilax, he brought a letter for Don. The 
letter was from Merry Gorond. Donald put 
that letter in the air-tight stove and lighted 
his fire with it. He did not even break 
Miss Merry 's elaborate emerald seal. 
A girl like that seemed as far away from 
his life now, as the shouts of a New York 
hackman from the hymns sung at the old 
parsonage piano on Sunday night, when Fay 
played softly, her pure face lighted with a 
feeling which the young man felt that he 
was not fit to understand. Fay was a religious 
girl, but she did not talk to Don about 
that. She was afraid of "preaching" to 
 
him, as we have said before. But Don understood
that she believed in holy things, 
and tried to live as such believers do. He 
began to wish to be religious himself ; and 
meant to ask her, some time, to teach him 
how. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
OVERBOARD. 
IT was a lovely clay in May, of Don 
Marcy 's Junior year. Harle harbor tossed 
to the tune of a stiff breeze. The waves had 
the cold, repellent, blue color which strikes 
the water in a late spring. It gave some 
of the boys the shivers to look at it ; but 
they did not say so. It was " the thing " to 
make light of all such points. Outside of 
the bar the " white-caps " began to nod irritably.
In fact, there was quite a sea. 
As one stood on the promontory that day, 
looking inward to the decorous university 
town, and outward to the lawless surf, bracing 
forward to keep one 's hat on, beaten by 
the chilly wind, and blinded by the blazing 
water, one would not have felt irresistibly 
drawn toward "life on the ocean wave." 
Unless one were very young and very excitable, 
or very cm fait in the life of Harle, 
one would have experienced some surprise 
at seeing, a mile away, the long, slender, 
 
sharp outline of a college shell piercing the 
rough water-line, and making straight for 
the bay. 
One of these crazy little crafts led, by a 
boat 's length, an eight-oared paper wherry, 
and piloted it toward the bar with as much 
composure as if the harbor had been a pan 
of rising cream. This shell belonged to the 
captain, and the larger boat was manned by 
the Junior crew. They were practicing for 
the regatta, to be rowed with a great rival 
university in midsummer. Marcy had put 
a Senior at the stroke, and had taken to a 
single-scull so as to see how the crew looked, 
to criticise, and to perfect their form as much 
as possible. 
There had been some difference of opinion 
about the condition of the water that Saturday
afternoon. Some of the crew thought 
it a little too choppy for practicing, for, as 
is well known, the shell is a boat not adapted 
to surf rowing. But on the crew there were 
several fellows of the sort who always think 
a thing can be done anyhow, and who are 
incapable of personal fear, especially in nautical
concerns. Trouncey O Grian was one 
of these, and the captain of the Junior crew, 
who, as we have said, was no other than 
Donald Marcy, was another. 
Some students on the banks, representing 
the class-spirit so universal in college, looked 
on with vigorous applause and Indian yells 
and calls ; thus supplying the element of 
the spectator, which is so necessary to give 
the zest to, and which so often causes the 
blunder in, a venturous deed. The Fresh 
men applauded the Junior crew, which the 
Seniors and Sophomores criticised at their 
pleasure. Such, in the main, was the turn 
of sympathy ; but as several of these skilled 
oarsmen were on the " varsity " crew, the 
interest was more divided than it would 
otherwise have been. 
Among the Sophomores, Lee Calhoun 's 
tall figure sauntered easily. He had lost 
most of the swagger with which he had 
ornamented Freshman year and Harle society, 
and was becoming like other fellows. His 
tremendous hazing experience had obviously 
changed either the current of college feel 
ing toward Calhoun, or else the boy him 
