satisfy, should it not ? " 
" Any one else, yes ; but him never. 
When a hyena has eaten, he is at peace 
with the world. But when were covetous- 
ness, crime, and folly filled? They are 
insatiable, and so is he" 
" He is my son," the old man interrupted, 
and then interrupting himself he added : 
" My son ! He is myself. The covetous- 
ness, crime, and folly that are in him are my 
own. It was from me he took them ; they 
are the legacies of my flesh. My covetous- 
ness has been the ruin of hundreds ; my 
crime preceded his birth ; but it was my 
folly to think that, criminal and covetous as 
I have been, I could elude the finger of 
God. There cannot be two hells, but there 
is one, and men such as I bear it in their hearts. You are right. I know my punishment is incomplete. Send for her. I will 
tell her, and then, God willing, I will turn 
my face to the wall." 
Bancroft raised a hand in protest. 
" It was not that which I meant, Mr. At- 
tersol ; indeed it was not. It was my dread, 
one which we all share, a dread which each 
day is increasing into conviction, that the 
disposition of your property will not affect 
Myrrha's feelings toward him in the least. 
It is that which should be counteracted," he 
added a little lamely, confused perhaps by 
the length of his own preamble, perhaps too 
by the vehemence of the old man's remorse. 
" That was what I meant, that and that 
only." 
But Mr. Attersol did not appear to no- 
tice, to heed even. 
" Bring her to me. Is it late ? Find her 
maid, then, and have her called. Perhaps 
yes, I had best see her alone. But come to 
me afterward. I am not well, and that will 
should be signed." 
He had risen, and putting his hands on 
Bancroft's shoulders looked him in the face. 
" Afterward " he accentuated the word 
with wider meaning "afterward tell her 
how I have suffered. And, Arthur, should 
she become your wife, be true to her there, 
I know you will. But never let her endure 
because of you, what her mother did because of me." 
Bancroft turned ; the old man watched 
him go. Then, in shame of his daughter's 
coming shame of him, he lowered the light 
to but a knot of gold and blue. 
" DERE it goes, Hosvald." 
From the road that skirted the house 
Quain and Isaacstein peered. First the 
lights on the ground floor had been extin- 
guished, then others on the floor above ; 
alone a glimmer from the room occupied by 
Mr. Attersol remained ; but now that had 
gone, the house itself seemed to have 
retreated. Under it pits had formed, and 
out of them an obscurity crept which effaced 
and devoured the lawn. Above, a blackness, brooding yet somnolent, enveloped 
the sky. The gale had lessened, but from 
beyond a swirl of waters put an accent on 
the gloom. 
" Vas you ready ? " 
From a pocket the Jew drew a handker- 
chief, black silk slit in three places, which 
he arranged about the young man's face 
and head. 
Quain readjusted it to his liking. " Should 
anything occur " 
" Lord love you, Hosvald, nothing will." 
" Hold your tongue. Should anything 
occur, go back to that place where we had 
supper. In five minutes I'll be there 
unless I happen to be detained." 
There was a wall to be crossed, the 
devoured lawn as well, and to Isaacstein 
abruptly he seemed to have been engulfed 
by the night. Silently yet swiftly, with the 
noiselessness of the ocelot, he reached the 
house, and there, at the veranda steps, 
crouched and listened. But there was 
nothing the swirl of waters merely, the 
hush of locusts, the beating of his heart. 
Reassured he loosened and removed his 
shoes, placing them carefully on a step, 
close to a pillar, where even in haste and 
possible excitement they could readily be 
found. Then at once the ascent of the 
pillar began, and continued through sheer 
strength of arm and knee, until, a projecting 
ledge aiding, he swung himself bodily on to 
the roof and landed there, acrobatically, on 
the tips of his toes. 
But the roof creaked a little, and he 
remained very still. The handkerchief had 
slipped a trifle, and he rearranged it properly. That window was the one, and he 
fell to wondering whether it might not be 
bolted. It was a thing of which he had not 
thought before, and he marvelled a little at 
himself. And that light ! But it was such 
a thread that he decided it must come from 
a night lamp. 
" After all," he reflected, " I can stand 
here an hour, if I like, and ask myself 
questions at the rate of one a second, or I 
can act. The latter course is, I fancy, what 
Isaacstein would prefer. Now, were is the 
shtuff ? " 
But the little bottle was safe enough. 
Tightening the knot of the handkerchief, 
he approached the window and put his fingers tentatively on the cross-piece, tentatively yet presently authoritatively, for it 
had moved, and authoritatively still he 
raised and raised it, until the spring, catching, snapped out feebly a minute gun of 
alarm. 
"Who's there?" 
In circumstances not necessarily similar, 
but cognate, men of experience, of learning, 
men of what it is usual to term the world, 
have asked and will ask just such a thing as 
that without, it may be, awaiting any definite 
reply. It is true Mr. Attersol was expecting 
his daughter, but heretofore such visits as 
she had made had been effected in a less 
circuitous fashion ; invariably she had come 
through the door. Then, too, what window 
of its own volition raised itself ? Mr. Atter- 
sol's curiosity was therefore quite natural, 
but that curiosity promptly gave way to a 
sentiment in which there was anger, and in 
which there was terror, too. 
The rationale of fear is simple it is the 
dread of the Unknown. And before any 
circumstantial answer to that question coufd 
have been received, abruptly at his side the 
Unknown surged a Thing which he could 
see yet not discern, which he could feel yet 
not describe, a form vague yet undeter- 
mined, nebulous yet solid, gigantic yet 
dwarfed a Thing which like the wave of 
the sea dashed him back on the chair from 
which he had half risen, pinioned him there, 
overwhelmed him, suffocated him, and left 
him drowned. 
"It was easier than I thought," the Thing 
reflected. " And so this is after. For the 
last hour I have been wondering how I 
should feel. I seem to feel hot. Nothing 
else." 
But in reflecting the Thing had not been 
inactive ; it had restoppered and repocketed 
a phial, turned up the light, and then trying 
the door and finding it unlocked, it had 
turned the key. 
" There, and now to work." 
In the chair Mr. Attersol lay ; his great 
haggard eyes protruding, the mouth open, 
the tongue curled. But the muscles of the 
neck no longer twitched, the head was 
quiet, and the hands were still. 
" I must rearrange that." 
And very adroitly and swiftly he closed 
the eyes, the mouth ; turned the head a 
little on the shoulder, folded the hands on 
the lap, put the body into the attitude of 
one whom sleep has overtaken, and fumbled 
in a pocket which he remembered of old. 
If the will was already signed, it was in 
the safe, he was convinced ; and with a key 
which he had found he busied himself with 
the lock, one which lacked complexity, for at 
a turn the door opened of itself, disclosing 
a vista of drawers and lettered pigeon-holes. 
The compartment marked W contained but 
one paper, the plan and diagram of a wharf. 
Perplexed, he opened at random a drawer ; 
it was partially filled, and he was about to 
rummage through the contents, when the 
question he had heard five minutes before 
leaped to his own lips there was some one 
at the door. 
Like a rat surprised he wheeled, all his 
senses concentrated yet alert. Behind the 
woodwork there was detection, recognition 
perhaps, and remotely the electric chair. 
To the palms of his hands perspiration 
started, and from his forehead drops fell 
beneath the handkerchief on his face. 
Then there came another knock, louder 
this time a knock that exacted admittance, 
one that rang out imperatively and echoed 
reverberant through the silence of the hall. 
He could yet go, he told himself. There 
was yet time. Yet did he now go with- 
out the will, without the cheques, he might 
better have remained away far better, in- 
deed ; and in that paralyzing uncertainty 
which fright provides, he crouched, un- 
determined still. Then abruptly his brain 
became a rendezvous of terrors. In men- 
tal flashlights he saw his entrance ob- 
served, his identity discowered ; he told 
himself that Isaacstein, perhaps, had sold 
him out ; that the police were there behind 
that door, beneath that veranda, too ; that 
the house was surrounded ; that there was 
no escape, not one ; and instinctively, with 
an unformed resolve to defend himself 
to the last, he drew out and clutched a 
knife. 
But why had that imperious knocking 
ceased ? The echoes had subsided, the hall 
was silent again no, there was the sound 
of footsteps ; but those footsteps yes, 
there could be no mistake, those footsteps 
were going away. 
He had not dared to breathe ; but as the 
sound of those footsteps retreated and died 
in the distance, he stood up, tremulous with 
the excess of emotion still, but himself, 
his mind dispossessed and vacated of its 
horrors. It was Mrs. Smithwick, no doubt, 
Myrrha perhaps, who had come on some 
unimportant errand, and finding the door 
locked had concluded that Mr. Attersol was 
asleep and had returned suspicionless as 
before. 
That was the explanation of it all ; in the 
relief it brought him he found the leisure 
to smile, and turned again to the drawer. 
Bills, vouchers, letters ; he was looking for 
none of these things. He closed it and 
looked at the pigeon-holes once more. 
The will might be in T, under the head of 
" Testament," and hurriedly he examined 
the papers that were there bonds of a 
turnpike road, defaulted presumably, and in 
any event worthless ; a bundle of stock of 
a traction company, and a receipt from the 
Telephone Service. 
" I can understand he locks that up," 
mused Quain. " But where is the will ? 
Where are the cheques ? Certainly he 
pointed to the safe this afternoon." 
His eyes roamed again over the pigeon- 
holes and lighted on Q. Ah ! it was there 
the cheques were, he could tell them by 
the edges. Yes, both of them ; and with 
a glance he thrust them in a pocket. Now 
for the will. Where could it be ? An 
hour, two even, would be insufficient to go 
over every paper in that safe ; and yet did 
he not assure himself regarding it, he might 
almost as well have remained away. Might 
it be that the old man had it about him? 
Of that it were easy to assure himself, and 
he turned to where he lay. 
Was it intuition, or was it the influence of 
that occult force which some of us recog- 
nize and none can explain, that compelled 
him, even as he turned, to look not at the 
door but above it ? Not a sound had he 
heard, yet the inexplicable drew his eyes 
that way ; and as he looked, during one 
fleeting yet ever memorable second, behind 
the transom he saw a head that disappeared 
so suddenly that you or I might have accounted it an optical delusion, a phantom created according to the pathology of the case 
by the over-taxing of digestion or of nerves. 
But Quain offered himself no such ex- 
planation. A fear more paralyzing even 
than uncertainty glued him to the spot ; he 
wanted to rush to the window, throw him- 
self down to the lawn, and be off, anywhere, 
afar from the accursed house yet his eyes 
were fastened on that transom, his feet 
rooted to the floor. If conscious at all, it 
was but of the immanence of fate, one that 
detained him there and would not suffer 
him to go. 
A moment, it had passed. The door was 
quaking and shrieking beneath the violence 
of blows. The uproar and the life of it 
banished the catalepsy which had garroted 
his will ; he raised a hand in testimony of 
his deliverance, and instantly he had use for 
it. The door flew open-. As though hurled 
from a catapult, Bancroft leaped at his 
throat. 
But the upraised hand, closed now and 
withdrawn, went out to meet the intruder, 
and fair on the forehead a blow to fell a 
bullock knocked him backward on the 
floor. He would have risen, but Quain 
gave him no time ; there was a flash of 
steel, one gasp, and silence. 
"And it was of that I was afraid ! " 
To convince himself, perhaps, of the idle- 
ness of it all, he gave the body a kick, not 
aggressive, but experimental, as an assur- 
ance that it was not a fake. 
"Bah! What did I tell him this day? 
There are souls that have teeth, and mine 
have bitten. But now for the will." 
Again he turned to where the old man 
lay, but hastily, fearful lest the household 
were aroused. In the breast pocket there 
was but a wallet ; it was not there it could 
be, and he replaced it, querying still, when 
an oblong document that lay on the table 
caught his eye. Reaching over, he drew it 
to him. 
" Know all men," he began, but a cry 
interrupted the cry of a heart that is breaking, the cry of the alma perdita; a cry agonizing, resonant, lancinant with pain, with 
anguish, too, with despair, with love ; a cry 
that filled the room with the moan of his 
name, passed into the night, and sank into 
stillness. 
In the doorway, clinging to the wainscot, 
Myrrha stood. His hand went to his face ; 
the handkerchief was no longer there. 
When he looked again, the girl had fallen. 
CHAPTER VI 
EXIT OSWALD QUAIN 
" YES, sir ; Mr. Attersol is dead, but you 
are not to talk." 
Bancroft would talk. The orders which 
the nurse had received and which that nurse 
proposed to obey were of no moment to 
him. He wanted to know everything at 
once, without delay. And as for the relapse with which he was menaced, it would 
come, and by express, unless his curiosity 
was there and then satisfied. But the nurse 
had not only received orders ; he knew his 
place, and knowing, too, that that place 
depended not on the patient who had not 
selected him, but on the physician who had, 
instantly pretended to be deaf and dumb. 
Besides, his tariff of ten dollars a day did 
not include the answering of fool questions. 
Bancroft had escaped heart puncture by a 
centimetre, special dispensation or Quain's 
inexperience. In addition, he was young, 
in tip-top trim, without an excess against 
him. He had been unconscious for hours, 
but he had slept beautifully. Though 
physically weak with that weakness which 
blood-letting induces, mentally he was alert 
so alert that the physician, who presently 
made his round, said that everything was 
going very nicely ; yet, as he would have 
said the same thing had the patient been 
comatose and moribund, Bancroft accepted 
it for what it was worth nothing. 
" When am I to get up ? " 
The doctor was feeling the young man's 
pulse, gravely, his thoughts occupied with 
other things ; but the question entangled 
them. He nodded that sphinx-like nod 
which the profession practise before a 
mirror and solicited an inspection of the 
tongue. 
" If I put it out, you will tell me to keep 
it out. You do my way first, and I may do 
yours. Answer my question." 
" When are we to get up, eh ? Why, the 
moment we are able the very moment." 
And the physician smiled blandly, with that 
effrontery, that assumption of wisdom with 
which the practitioner conceals his paucity 
of thought. 
" How strange that is, how very strange 
and queer ! But I thank you for the con- 
ciseness of your reply. Now tell me, have 
they got him ? " 
" The burglar ? Not that I have heard." 
" How is Miss Attersol ? " 
"Quite as well as could be expected 
quite as well. Dr. McMasters, with whom 
I have thought it advisable to consult and 
to whom I wired last night, will, I make no 
doubt, be here very shortly and confirm the 
opinion which I have advanced." 
" I don't see, doctor, that you have 
advanced any, but we won't argue over 
that. 1 think I will take a milk punch, and 
I think, too, I will take another nap." 
" But we must not take it too strong. 
We have a touch of fever still. Modera- 
tion must be our motto moderation in 
all things." And after more remarks of 
an equally scientific nature the doctor took 
his Cheshire-cat smile away. 
" Idiot," growled Bancroft as the door 
closed. 
" Yes, sir." It was the nurse that replied. 
"And to think that I have to lie here 
when so much should be done." 
But what possibilities of recuperation 
there are in strength of purpose and an un- 
vitiated constitution ! In a space of time, 
which by comparison to the gravity of the 
wound was instructively brief, Bancroft was 
able to receive a visitor. 
Meanwhile his thoughts had been busy. 
He had not alone death to consider, but 
life the life of one who was dearer to him 
than all things else, and whom the intestacy 
of her father left a prey to the wiles of that 
bandit. For he had recognized Quain at 
once. There was that in his carriage, in 
the length of his arms, which no mere mask 
could disguise. One look through the tran- 
som had sufficed, and it was then the door 
had gone down, he too, and blood had been 
spilled. 
But whether Myrrha had detected the 
identity he was as yet uninformed. On his 
initial return to consciousness he was able 
to say but a word in regard to the prove- 
nance of the wound, to explain what the 
open window, the uproar and disarray had 
already suggested that it was a burglar 
that had done the work. Then he had sunk 
back again into night ; yet, even as he sank, 
garnering ends and remnants of phrases, inti- 
mations of Mr. Attersol's death and Myrrha's 
disaster. 
Afterward, during the interminable parade 
of hours that passed him inactive and ban- 
daged in bed, he roamed through the past, 
out again into the future, ravening at the 
fate which had drawn him from that room 
before the will was signed, furious at the 
fatality which had prevented him from being 
there to receive Quain when he came, deter- 
mining even as he lay to land that highway- 
man in jail. 
The motor forces of human activity are 
gold and woman. It was the gold for 
which Quain had striven; the woman in 
the case was an incident. To Bancroft the 
woman was all. It was for her he was 
planning. And as his thoughts roamed 
forward and back, it was she that repre- 
sented the future. She might, he knew, 
never recompense him with more than a 
touch of the hand ; the embrace of her lithe 
white arms might be the destined bliss of 
another. But the love which little by little 
had grown within him until it mastered his 
being, though it gave no rights, brought 
duties, and those duties were every one to 
her. 
Of these duties, one, which the admission 
of the girl's father had made imperative, 
was the ablation from her heart of all affec- 
tion for Quain. 
Another was the prevention of further 
enterprise on the part of that brigand. 
To accomplish both, one thing was need- 
ful Quain's capture, prosecution, and im- 
prisonment. 
Unaware, indeed, that the spectacle which 
the girl had beheld had already enlightened 
her sufficiently, yet convinced that no one 
save himself now knew of the consanguinity 
which, had Mr. Attersol lived, would have 
prevented criminal proceedings, it was with 
the determination to let the assault go by 
the board, but to press the charge of forgery, that he finally fitted himself to receive 
a detective who, on presentation of the 
Philadelphia draft, had been employed to 
shadow Quain. 
The man who was then admitted did not, 
however, look like a detective. There was 
nothing of the Central Office about him. 
He looked shabby, but not genteel ; the 
air of one to whom the world owes a liv- 
ing and has shirked the debt. It was 
when he spoke that confidence came, for 
if uncertain of others he seemed quite 
sure of himself. 
" He has been too quick for us, Mr. 
Bancroft," he began, when the nurse had 
gone. " He was off before I got to his 
lodgings. It took me some time to discover 
he had come here. When I did, I followed. 
But he had cut again. It was then I learned 
what had occurred. Am I wrong in think- 
ing it has altered your intentions ? " 
" No. Before I wanted him shadowed. 
Now I want him sent up. You must find 
him, sergeant." 
" Will it be forgery, sir, or felonious 
assault ? " 
Bancroft stared. 
" You suspected, then " 
" I knew. But I knew too late. Which 
is it to be, sir, or is it to be both ? " 
" Forgery will do. Have you any idea 
where he is ? " 
" If I hadn't, I should not be here. It 
may take a little time, it may take longer, 
but in the end I can have him." 
" Very good, sergeant. Terms which are 
satisfactory to you will be entirely satisfactory to me. You will want something for 
your expenses, will you not ? " 
The detective coughed. 
" Hand me that cheque-book, will you, 
the red one on the table ; and the pen. 
" And now, sergeant," he continued, when 
the red book had been replaced, " how 
did you get your clew ? " 
" From the waiter in a restaurant where 
he went after leaving here." 
Bancroft closed his eyes. It seemed 
hap-hazard, the chance of capture remote. 
While the detective was off on a false trail 
perhaps, and he either pinioned where he 
was, or it might be recowered and at his 
Wall Street desk, what was there to pre- 
vent Quain from swooping down on Myrrha 
and carrying her off in his ape-like arms? 
What, indeed, unless he gave her the facts ? 
But at the moment she was in no condition 
to receive them. 
" Sergeant," he said suddenly, " money 
is of no moment in this matter, but it is an 
incentive. The sooner you arrest Quain 
the sooner you will get five thousand 
dollars." 
The detective rose from his seat, looked 
at his watch, and turned to the door. 
" There is a train at two for Providence. 
I may have him to-night." 
" If you do," Bancroft called after him, 
" I'll make it what you like." 
But not on that night nor on the sub- 
sequent one did any news of Quain's cap- 
ture reach him. A week passed, and then 
one morning, as he turned over the pages 
of the Herald, the following item sprang 
out and caressed his eye : 
LONDON, May 29. The Sidonia, from Boston, which 
arrived at Liverpool yesterday, reports that Oswald 
Quain, a first-class passenger, committed suicide by 
jumping overboard on the first day out. 
PART II 
CHAPTER I 
THE SIGHTING OF THE EARL 
"WHAT do you think of him, Myrrha? 
Doesn't he remind you of the prince in 
the fairy tale ? Isn't he charming ? Isn't he 
handsome ? And when he smiles ! " 
Mrs. Smithwick, teacup in hand, the 
chromatics of her silks subdued into dis- 
creet violet and silver gray, was probing, 
hap-hazard, with the air of a parrot, the 
enigma of the heart of her niece. 
" And so unassuming too, so simple, yet 
so high-bred ! And when you speak, the 
way he looks at you, as though he would 
absorb you with his eyes, as though he were 
drinking you in ! No, Myrrha, tell me, 
isn't he a very scion of the House of 
Lords ? " 
And Mrs. Smithwick, putting the cup 
. 
back on the tray, added with the abstrac- 
tion of a sibyl gauging the past : 
" To think that but a year ago in this very 
room I was -reading of his father's death. 
Dear me, dear me ! How strange it all 
seems ! How much has happened since ! 
Why, Myrrha, it was on that very night 
that " 
Mrs. Smithwick ran on, evoking episodes, 
relating incidents, ventilating platitudes, 
losing herself in extravagant conjectures, 
recovering herself again without effort ; her 
fancy rising and subsiding indefatigably in 
the flux and reflux of her words. 
But the girl had ceased to listen. Much 
indeed had happened ; and while her aunt 
splashed about through the shallows of 
thought, she had no need of suggestion to 
recall the drama of her youth. 
The noblest, truest, and best may be 
stricken, yet after the grave has opened and 
closed again, does not Memory still subsist, 
and to the mourner may not the old dreams 
return ? Death is by no means the worst 
that can come. Those who discover that 
affection reposed has been given to an illu- 
sory representation, to a trickster that has 
cheated the heart, sound a deeper depth of 
grief, one where not only despair is, but 
