Austin had planned a September tour. They would spend a few days with
grandmother, and then go to the Adirondacks. He knew a camping-out party
of artists and designers that it would be an advantage for John to meet.
John had packed his traps and sent them down to the boat, that was to go
out at six. There was nothing special to do. He would walk down, and
presently stop in at Brentano’s, then take the car. He was very fond of
seeing people group themselves together and change like a kaleidoscope.
But his heart was sore and indignant, and then his quick eye fell on the
withered rose-buds in the shrunken hand of the child, and after that
adventure he had barely time to catch his boat.
He hardly knew himself as he sat on the deck till past midnight. Two
little poverty-stricken waifs had somehow changed his thoughts, his
life. When he was a little boy at Travis Farm a great many curious ideas
about heaven had floated through his brain. And when his grandmother
sang in her soft, limpid voice,—
    “There is a land of pure delight,
    Where saints immortal reign;
    Infinite day excludes the night,
    And pleasures banish pain,”
he used to see it all as a vision. Perhaps his ideas were not much wiser
than those of poor little ignorant Bess. He had travelled with Pilgrim;
he had known all the people on the way, and they were real enough to him
at that period.
Oh, how long ago that seemed! Everything had changed since then. Science
had uprooted simple faith. One lived by sight now. The old myths were
still beautiful, of course. But long before Christ came, the Greek
philosophers had prayed, and the Indian religions had had their
self-denying saviours.
But he had promised to find the way to heaven for them, and they were so
ignorant. He had promised to go thither himself, and he had dipped into
so many philosophies; he knew so much, and yet he was so ignorant. But
there must be a heaven, that was one fact; and there must be a way to go
thither.
Sunday morning he was in Albany with Austin and two young men he had
known through the winter. One of them was very attentive to a pretty
cousin who would be found at Travis Farm. They had a leisurely elegant
breakfast, they took a carriage and drove about to points of interest,
had a course dinner, smoked and talked in the evening. But the inner
John was a little boy again, and had gone to church with his
grandmother. The sermon was long, and he did not understand it; but he
read the hymns he liked, and chewed a bit of fennel, and went almost
asleep. The singing was delightful, the spirited old “Coronation.”
They went out to Travis Farm the next morning. There was grandmother and
Aunt Maria, the single Miss Travis, Daisy Brockholst and her dear friend
Katharine Lee. Of course the young people had a good time. They always
did at Travis Farm, and they were fond of coming.
“Grandmother,” John said, in a hesitating sort of way, “you used to sing
an old hymn I liked so much,”
    “There is a land of pure delight.”
“Have you forgotten it? I wish you would sing it for me,” and his hand
slipped over hers.
“Why—yes, dear. I go singing about the house for company when no one is
here; but old voices are apt to get thin in places, you know.”
He did not say he had hunted up an old hymn-book, and read the words
over and over. He was ashamed that the children’s talk had taken such
hold of him. But presently he joined in, keeping his really fine tenor
voice down to a low key, and they sang together.
Then there was the soft silence of a country afternoon—the hushed
sweetness of innumerable voices that are always telling of God’s
wonders.
“John,” she said, in her low, caressing sort of tone that she had kept
from girlhood, “I think heaven won’t be quite perfect to me until I hear
your voice among the multitude no man can number.”
That was all. She had let her life of seventy-four years do her
preaching. But she still prayed for her sheaves.
How had he come to have so much courage on Saturday afternoon, and so
little now? Of course he could not be quite sure. And there would be
Austin’s incredulous laugh.
They went on to the Adirondacks. He made a sketch of Bess, and sent it
to a photographer’s with instructions. He was delighted with the artist
group. He was planning out his winter. He would take a studio with some
one. He would see what he could do for the Quinn children, and paint his
fine picture. She would see it when it was exhibited somewhere. There
would be a curious satisfaction in it. And yet he was carrying around
with him every day three faded, shrivelled wild-rose buds.
And then one day they brought in Austin Travis insensible—dead, maybe.
There was a little blood stain on his face and his golden brown beard;
and it was an hour before they could restore him to consciousness. Just
by a miracle he had been saved. A bit of rock that seemed so secure, had
been secure for centuries perhaps, split off, taking him down with it.
He had the presence of mind to throw away his gun, but the fall had
knocked him insensible. He had lain some time before the others found
him. There were bruises, a dislocated shoulder, and three broken ribs.
Surgery could soon mend those. But there was a puncture in the
magnificent lungs, such a little thing to change all one’s life; and at
first he rebelled with a giant’s strength. Life was so much to him,
all to him. He could not go down into nothingness with his days but
half told.
Out of all the plans and advice it was settled to try the south of
France, and perhaps the Madeira Isles, to take such good care and have
such an equable climate that the wound might heal. And John was to be
his companion and nurse and friend for all the lighter offices. Austin
had hardly allowed him to go out of his sight.
They had returned to New York. Everything was arranged. Austin was
impatient to be off before cold weather. For three days John never had a
moment; but Bess and Dil had not been out of his mind, and he could
steal this afternoon; so, with book and picture, he set out for Barker’s
Court, not much clearer about the way to heaven than he had been six
weeks before.
Barker’s Court was not inviting to-day, with its piles of garbage, and
wet clothes hanging about like so many miserable ghosts.
“Is it Misses Quinn ye want, or old Granny Quinn?” queried the woman he
questioned. “Granny lives up to th’ end, an’ Misses Quinn’s is the third
house, up-stairs.”
It was semi-twilight. He picked his way up and knocked gently.
So gently, Dil was sure of a customer for her mother. The babies were
asleep. Bess was fixed in her wagon. Dil had some patches of bright
colors that she was going to sew together, and make a new carriage rug.
She opened the door just a little way. He pushed it wider, and glanced
in.
“Oh, have you forgotten me?” he exclaimed. “Did you think I would not
come?”
Dil stood in a strange, sweet, guilty abasement. She had disbelieved
him. Bess gave a soft, thrilling cry of delight, and stretched out her
hands.
“I knew you would come,” and there was a tremulous exaltation in her
weak voice.
“I’ve only been in town a few days. I have been staying with a cousin
who met with a sad accident and is still ill. But I have run away for an
hour or two; and I have brought Bess’s picture.”
He was taking a little survey of the room. The stove shone. The floor
was clean. The white curtain made a light spot in the half gloom. The
warmth felt grateful, coming out of the chilly air, though it was rather
close. Dil did not look as well as on the summer day. Her eyes were
heavy, with purple shadows underneath; the “bang” of the morning had
left some traces. And Bess was wasted to a still frailer wraith, if such
a thing was possible.
They both looked up eagerly, as he untied the package, and slipped out
of an envelope a delicately tinted photograph.
“There, blue eyes, will it do for Dil?”
The child gave a rapturous cry. Dil stood helpless from astonishment.
“There ain’t no words good enough,” Dil said brokenly. “Leastways, I
don’t know any. O Bess, he’s made you look jes’ ’s if you was well. O
mister, will she look that way in heaven?” For Dil had a vague misgiving
she could never look that way on earth.
“She will be more beautiful, because she will never be ill again.”
“Dil’s right—there ain’t no words to praise it,” Bess said simply. “If
we was rich we’d give you hundreds and hundreds of dollars, wouldn’t we,
Dil?”
Dil nodded. Her eyes were full of tears. Something she had never known
before struggled within her, and almost rent her soul.
“And here is your book. You can read, of course?”
“I can read some. Oh, how good you are to remember.” She was deeply
conscience stricken.
The tone moved him immeasurably. His eyelids quivered. There were
thousands of poor children in the world, some much worse off than these.
He could not minister to all of them, but he did wish he could put these
two in a different home.
“I must go away again with my cousin, and I am sorry. I meant to”—what
could he do, he wondered—“to see more of you this winter; but a friend
of mine will visit you, and bring you a little gift now and then. You
must have spent all your money long ago,” flushing at the thought of the
paltry sum.
“We stretched it a good deal,” said Dil quaintly. “You see, I bought
Bess some clo’es, there didn’t seem much comin’ in for her. An’ the
fruit was so lovely. She’s been so meachin’.”
“Well, I am going to be—did you ever read Cinderella?” he asked eagerly.
“I ain’t had much time for readin’, an’ Bess couldn’t go to school but
such a little while.”
“And no one has told you the story?”
There was a curious eagerness in the sort of blank surprise.
“Well, this little Cinderella did kitchen work; and sat in the
chimney-corner when her work was done, while her sisters dressed
themselves up fine and went to parties. One evening a curious old woman
came, a fairy godmother, and touched her with a wand, a queer little
stick she always carried, and turned her old rags into silks and satins,
and made a chariot for her, and sent her to the ball at the king’s
palace.”
“Oh,” interposed Dil breathlessly, “she didn’t have to come back to her
rags, an’ chimney, an’ all, did she?”
“She did come back, because her fairy godmother told her to. But the
king’s son sent for her and married her.”
“Oh, if she’d only come to us, Dil!” Bess had a quicker and more vivid
imagination. She had not been so hard worked, nor had her head banged so
many times. “We’d have the char—what did you call it? an’ go to heaven.
Then you wouldn’t have to wheel me, Dil, an’ we’d get along so much
faster.” She laughed with a glad, happy softness, and her little face
was alight with joy. “Say, mister, you must think I’ve got heaven on the
brain. But if you’d had hurted legs so long, you’d want to get to the
Lord Jesus an’ have ’em made well. I keep thinkin’ over what you told us
’bout your Lord Jesus, an’ I know it’s true because you’ve come back.”
Such a little thing; such great faith! And he had been comparing claims,
discrepancies, and wondering, questioning, afraid to believe a delusion.
Was he truly his Lord Jesus? The simple belief of the children
touched, melted him. It was like finding a rare and exquisite blossom in
an arid desert. He wished he were not going away. He would like to care
for little Bess until the time of her release came. Ah, would they be
disillusioned when they came to know what the real pilgrimage was?
“There ain’t no fairies truly,” said Dil with pathetic gravity. “There
ain’t much of anything for poor people.”
“I can’t take you to a palace; but when I come back I mean you shall
have a nice, comfortable home in a prettier place—”
“Mother wouldn’t let Dil go on ’count of the babies. There ain’t but two
to-day, ’n’ she was awful mad! ’N’ I wouldn’t go athout Dil. No one else
’d know how to take care of me.”
“We will have that all right. And while I am gone you must have some
money to buy medicines and the little luxuries your mother cannot
afford.”
“She don’t buy nothin’ ever. I ain’t no good, ’cause I’ll never walk,
’n’ only Dil cares about me,” Bess said, as if she had so long accepted
the fact the sting was blunted.
“Yes, I care; and I will send a friend here to see you, a young lady,
and you need not be afraid to tell her of whatever you want. And Dil may
like to know—that I am going to put her in a picture, and the money will
be truly her own.”
He was not sure how much pride or personal delicacy people of this class
possessed.
“O Dil!” Bess was electrified with joy. “Oh, I hope you made Dil
look—just as she’d look if we lived in one of them beautiful houses, ’n’
had a maid ’n’ pretty clo’es, ’n’ no babies to take care of. We never
knowed any one like you afore. Patsey’s awful good to us, but he ain’t
fine like an’ soft spoken. Are you very rich, mister?”
He laughed.
“Only middling, but rich enough to make life a little pleasanter for you
when I come back.”
She seemed to be studying him.
“You look as if you lived in some of the fine, big houses. I’d like to
go in wan. An’ you know so much! You must have been to school a good
deal. Oh, how soft your hands are!”
She laughed delightedly as she enclosed one in both of hers, and then
pressed it to her cheek.
He stooped and kissed her. No one ever did that but Dil and Patsey.
“You’ll surely come back in time to go to heaven, soon as it’s pleasant
weather,” she said suddenly. “An’ Dil couldn’t be leaved behind. Mother
threatens to put her in a shop, an’ she does bang her head cruel. But I
wouldn’t want to be in a pallis an’ have everything, if I couldn’t have
Dil. An’ you’ll get it all fixed so’s we can go?”
Ah, ah! before that time Bess would have been folded in the everlasting
arms. There was a lump in his throat, and he began to untie the string
of the book to evade a more decisive answer.
It was an illustrated edition, simplified for children’s reading. He
turned some of the leaves and found one picture—Christiana ascending the
palace steps amid a host of angels.
From this squalid place and poverty, to that—how could he explain the
steps between? When he came back Bess would be gone—
    “Past night, past day,”
and he would give Dil a new and better chance in spite of her mother.
Dil drew a long, long breath.
“Can we all get to the pallis?” she asked, with a soft awe in her tone.
“Yes, there are many things to do—you will see what Christiana and Mercy
did. And if you love the Lord Jesus and pray to him—”
Poor Dil was again conscience smitten. Only this morning she had said
praying wasn’t any good. She glanced up through tears,—
“’Pears as if I couldn’t ever get to understand. I wasn’t smart at
school—”
“But you are smart,” interposed Bess. “An’ now we’ve got the book
we’ll find just how Christiana went. There’s only six months left.
You’ll surely be back by April?”
“I shall be back.” His heart smote him. He was a coward after all. Ah,
could he ever undertake any of the Master’s business?
“Do you remember a hymn an old lady sang for you once?” he said, glad of
even this faltering way out. “I have been learning the words.”
“’Bout everlasting spring?” and Bess’s eyes were alight. “Oh, do please
sing it! I’m in such an awful hurry for spring to come. Sometimes my
breath gets so short, as if I reely couldn’t wait.”
Dil raised her eyes with a slow, beseeching movement. He pushed a chair
beside the wagon, and held Bess’s small hands, that were full of leaping
pulses.
The sweet old hymn, almost forgotten amid the clash of modern music. Ah,
there was some one who would love and care for Dil in her desolation—his
grandmother. He would write to her. Then he began, and at the first note
the children were enraptured:—
    “There is a land of pure delight,
    Where saints immortal reign;
    Infinite day excludes the night,
    And pleasures banish pain.
    Oh, the transporting, rapturous scene,
    That dawns upon my sight;
    Sweet fields arrayed in living green,
    And rivers of delight.
    There everlasting spring abides,
    And never-withering flowers;
    Death, like a narrow sea, divides
    This heavenly land from ours.
    No chilling winds nor poisonous breath
    Can reach that blessed shore;
    Sickness and sorrow, pain and death,
    Are felt and feared no more.
    O’er all those wide extended plains,
    Shines one eternal day;
    There Christ the Son forever reigns,
    And scatters night away.
    Filled with delight, my raptured soul
    Can here no longer stay;
    Though Jordan’s waves around me roll,
    Fearless I launch away.”
John Travis had a tender, sympathetic voice. Just now he was more moved
by emotion than he would have imagined. Dil turned her face away and
picked up the tears with her fingers. It was too beautiful to cry about,
for crying was associated with sorrow or pain. A great inarticulate
desire thrilled through her, a blind, passionate longing for a better,
higher life, as if she belonged somewhere else. And, like Bess, an
impatience pervaded her to be gone at once.
“Oh, please do sing it again!” besought Bess in a transport, her face
spiritualized to a seraphic beauty. “Did they sing like that in the
Mission School, Dil?”
Dil shook her head in speechless ecstasy.
There was a knock, and then the door opened softly. It was Mrs. Murphy,
with her sick baby in her arms.
“Ah, dear,” she began deprecatingly, with an odd little old country
courtesy, “I heard the singing, an’ I said to poor old Mis’ Bolan,
‘That’s never the Salvation Army, for they do make such a hullabaloo;
but it must be a Moody an’ Sankey man that I wunst haird, with the v’ice
of an angel.’ An’ the pore craythur is a hankerin’ to get nearer. Will
ye lit her come down, plaise, or will ye come up?”
John Travis flushed suddenly. Dil glanced at her visitor aghast. Some
finer instinct questioned whether he were offended. But he smiled. If it
would give a poor old woman a pleasure—
Dil was considering a critical point. She had learned to be wise in
evading the fury of a half-drunken woman. There were many things she
kept to herself. But Mrs. Murphy would talk him over. A Moody and
Sankey man,—she had not a very clear idea; but if Mrs. Murphy knew, it
might be wisdom to have some one here who would speak a good word for
her if it should be needed.
“Ye can bring her down,” she answered, still looking at John Travis with
rising color.
She simply stepped into the hall; but the old woman was half-way
down-stairs, and needed no further summons.
“Ah, dear, it’s the v’ice of an angel shure. An’ though I’m not given to
them kind of maytins, on account of the praist, they do be beautiful an’
comfortin’ whiles they sing. Come in. It’s Dilly Quinn that’ll bid ye
welcome. For it’s the Moody an’ Sankey man.”
“Yer very good, Dilly Quinn, very good, to ask in a poor old woman;
though I’m main afeared of yer mother in a tantrum.” Her voice was
shrill and shaky, though she was not seventy; but poverty and hardships
age people fast. A bowed and shrunken woman, with thin, white,
straggling hair, watery, hungry-looking eyes, a wrinkled, ashen skin,
her lips a leaden blue and sunken from lack of teeth. She had one of
Mrs. Murphy’s rooms since the head of the house was safely bestowed
within prison limits. Mrs. Bolan’s only son had been killed in the war,
and she had her pension. Now and then some one gave her a little work
out of pity.
She dropped down on the lounge. “When I heard that there hymn,” she went
on quaveringly, “it took me back forty year an’ more. There was great
revival meetin’s. My poor old mother used to sing it. But meetin’s don’t
seem the same any more, or else we old folks kinder lost the end er
r’ligion.”
She was so pitiful, with her timorous, lonely look, and the hard
struggles time had written on her everywhere.
“Will you sing it for her?” Dil asked timidly, glancing up at Travis.
Some one else paused to listen and look in, and stared with strange
interest at the fine young fellow, whose rich, deep voice found a way to
their hearts. And as he sang, a realization of their pinched, joyless
lives filled him with dismay. Mrs. Bolan rocked herself too and fro, her
hands clutched tightly over her breast, as if she was hugging some
comfort she could not afford to let go. The tears rolled silently down
her furrowed cheeks.
The foreign part of the audience was more outspoken.
“Ah, did yez iver listen to the loikes! Shure, it would move the heart
of a sthone. It’s enough to take yez right t’ro’ to heaven widout the
laste taste o’ purgatory. Shure, Mrs. Kelly, it’s like a pack o’
troubles fallin’ off, an’ ye step out light an’ strong to yer work agen.
There’ll be a blissin’ for ye, young man, for the pleasure ye’ve given.”
Mrs. Bolan shuffled forward and caught his hand in hers, which seemed
almost to rattle, they were so bony.
“God bless you, sir.” Her voice was so broken it sounded like sobs. “An’
there’s something ’bout makin’ his face shine on you—I disremember, it’s
so long since I’ve read my Bible, more shame to me; but my eyes are so
old and bad, I hope the Lord won’t lay it up agen me. I’m a poor old
body, pushed outen the ranks. And you get kicked aside. Ye see, ’tain’t
every voice that takes one to heaven. Lord help us ’bout gettin’ in. But
mebbe he’ll be merciful to all who go astray. An’—if ye wouldn’t mind
sayin’ a bit of prayer, ’pears like ’twould comfort me to my dyin’ day.”
Her hungry eyes pleaded through their tears.
A bit of prayer! He had been praying a little for himself of late, but
it came awkward after his years of intellectual complacency. A youngish
woman was glancing at him in frightened desperation, as if she waited
for something to turn her very life. There was but one thing he could
think of in this stress—the divine mandate. Could anything be more
complete? When ye pray, say,—
“Our Father which art in heaven—”
VI—A WONDERFUL STORY
John Travis stood with upraised hand. Clearly, slowly, the words fell,
and you could hear only the labored respiration of the women. There was
a benediction—he could not recall it, but a verse of Scripture came into
his mind. “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the
world giveth give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither
let it be afraid.”
“The Lord will bless you,” said the trembling old woman.
He squeezed something into her hand as she turned to go. Mrs. Murphy’s
sickly baby began to cry, and one of Dil’s woke up. The little crowd
dispersed.
It began to grow dusky. Night came on early in Barker’s Court. Days were
shorter, and sunless at that.
Travis stepped back to Bess.
“I shall ask my friend to tell me all about you—she will write it. And I
shall come back.” He stooped and kissed Bess on the brow, for the last
time. Heaven help her on her lonely journey. But the Saviour who blessed
little children would be tender of her surely.
“We’ll all go—won’t we—to heaven? The singin’ was so beautiful. An’ the
everlastin’ spring.”
“Good-by.” He clasped Dil’s hand. “Remember, wherever you are, I shall
find you. Oh, do not be afraid, God will care for you.”
“I don’t seem to understand ’bout God,” and there was a great, strange
awe in Dil’s eyes. “But you’ve been lovely. I can understand that.”
One more glance at Bess, whose face was lighted with an exalted glow, as
if she were poised, just ready for flight. Oh, what could comfort Dil
when she was gone? And he had so much! He was so rich in home and
love.
A woman stood in the lower hallway, the half-despairing face he had
noted. She clutched his arm.
“See here,” she cried. “You said, ‘deliver us from evil.’ Is anybody—is
God strong enough to do it? From horrible evil—when there seems no other
way open—when you must see some one you love—die starvin’—an’ no work to
be had—O my God!”
The cry pierced him. Yes, there was a beneficent power in money. He gave
thanks for it, as he crushed it in her hand. How did the poor souls
live, herded in this narrow court? His father’s stable was a palace to
it in cleanliness.
He had reasoned about poverty being one of the judicious forces of the
world. He had studied its picturesque aspects, its freedom from care and
responsibility, its comfortable disregard of conventionals, its happy
indifference to custom and opinion. Did these people look joyous and
content? Why, their faces even now haunted him with the weight of
hopeless sorrow. Oh, what could he do to ease the burthen of the world?
Dil picked up the baby after she had lighted the lamp. She was still in
a maze, as if some vision had come and gone. Was he really here? Or had
she been in a blissful dream?
“Come an’ spell out what he’s written—an’—an’ his name, Dil!”
Bess was studying the fly-leaf. Yes, there it was, “John Travis.”
“I wisht it wasn’t John,” said Bess, a little disappointed. “He ought to
have a fine, grand name, he’s so splendid. Rich people have nice ways,
that poor people can’t seem to get.”
“No, they can’t get ’em, they can’t,” Dil repeated, with a despairing
sense of the gulf between. She had never thought much about rich people
before.
“You’d better hide the book, an’ the money, ’fore Owny comes in,” said
Bess fearfully. “I don’t even dast to look at the pictures. But we’ll
have it a good many days when mammy’s out, an’ I must learn to read the
hard words. O Dil! if I had two good legs, I would jump for joy.”
Dil wanted to sit down and cry from some unknown excess of feeling—she
never had time to cry from pure joy. But she heeded Bess’s admonition,
and hid their precious gifts. Then she stirred the fire and put on the
potatoes. It was beginning to rain, and the boys came in noisily. The
babies went home, and they had supper.
It was quite late when Mrs. Quinn returned home, and she threw a bundle
on the lounge. The boys being in, and Bess out of the way, she had
nothing to scold about. She had had her day’s work praised, and a good
supper in the bargain. Then cook had given her a “drap of the craythur”
to keep out the cold. And she could have two days’ work every week
“stiddy,” so she resolved to throw over some poorer customer.
But when Mrs. Murphy came down with a few potatoes in her hand that she
had borrowed, and full of her wonderful news, Dil’s heart sank within
her like lead.
“An’ what do ye think?” the visitor began incautiously. “Poor old Mrs.
Bolan is half wild with all the singin’ an’ the beautiful prisint he gev
her.”
“What prisint?” asked Mrs. Quinn peremptorily.
“Why, it was a five-dollar bill. I thought first she’d faint clear away
wid joy.”
“What man?” eying them both suspiciously.
Dil’s lips moved, but her throat was so dry she could not utter a sound.
“Wan of them Moody an’ Sankey men that do be singin’ around, an’
prayin’. An’ ye niver heard sich an’ iligant v’ice even at the free and
easies! Why, Mrs. Quinn, it’s my belafe, in spite of the praist, he cud
draw a soul out o’ purgatory just wid his singin’. Mrs. Bolan’s that
’raptured she does nothin’ but quaver about wid her shaky old v’ice. Ah,
dear—ave ye cud hev heard him!”
“To the divil wid him! Comin’ round to git money out’v poor folks. I
knows ’em. Dil, did you give him a cint?”
“I didn’t have any; but he didn’t ast for none,” and the poor child had
hard work to steady her voice.
“An’ ye’r mistaken, Mrs. Quinn, if ye think the likes of sich a
gentleman would be beggin’ of the poor,” returned Mrs. Murphy
indignantly. “An’ he a-gevin a poor ould craythur five dollars! An’ they
do be goin’ around a-missionin’ with their prayers and hymns.”
“I know ’em. An’ the praists an’ the sisters beggin’ the last cint, an’
promisin’ to pray ye outen purgatory! Mrs. Murphy,” with withering
contempt, “them men cuddent pray ye outen a sewer ditch if ye fell in!
An’ I won’t have them comin’ here—ye hear that, Dilsey Quinn! If I catch
a Moody an’ Sankey man here, I’ll break ivery bone in his body, an’
yours too; ye hear that now!”
Mrs. Quinn was evidently “spilin’ for a fight.” Mrs. Murphy went off in
high dudgeon without another word.
But she stopped to pour out her grievance to Mrs. Garrick on her floor.
“Shure, I pity them childers, for their mother do be the worst haythen
an’ infidel, not belayvin’ a word about her own sowl, an’ spindin’ her
money for gin as she do. She was a foine-lukin’ woman, an’ now her eyes
is all swelled up, an’ her nose the color of an ould toper. An’ that
poor little Bess dyin’ afore her very eyes widout a bit of a mass, or
even christenin’ I belayve. I’m not that bigoted, Mrs. Garrick, though
the praists do say there bees but the wan way. I’m willin’ that people
shall try their own ways, so long as they save their sowls; but pore,
helpless bits of childer that can’t know! An’ what are their mothers put
in the wurruld for but to tache them? But when ye don’t belayve ye have
a sowl of yer own it’s awful! There’s them b’ys runnin’ wild—an’ a
moighty good thing it’ll be whin they’re in the ’form-school, kapin’ out
o’ jail, an’ wuss!”
Dil sat in awful fear when the door had closed behind their neighbor.
She took up Owen’s trousers—the rent was sufficient to send any boy
early to bed.
That recalled her mother. She threw the bundle towards Dil.
“There’s some clo’es ye kin be fixin’ up for Dan, whin ye’ve so much
time as to be spindin’ it on Moody and Sankey men, drat ’em! foolin’
’round an’ wastin’ valyble time. Next I’ll hear that ye’ve ast in the
organ man an’ the monkey, and I’ll come home to find ye givin’ a pairty.
An’ ye’ll hev yer head broke for it, that ye will!”
So long as it was not broken now, Dil gave secret thanks. Did God help
any? Then, why didn’t he help other times when things were very bad? She
examined the suit, and found it a nice one, rather large for Dan, who
was not growing like a weed, although he ran the streets.
Her mother began to snore. She would be good for some hours’ sound
sleep. So Dil stole into the little room, and began to prepare Bess for
bed, though she trembled with a half fear.
“O Dil, I didn’t hardly dast to breathe! An’ if she’d known he come in
here an’ sung, she’d murdered us! An’ it made me feel glad like that he
was goin’ away, for mammy might happen to be home when he come—though
don’t you b’lieve he’d take us away right then? An’—an’ wasn’t it lucky
you didn’t have to tell about the—”
Bess held the bill up in her hand.
“Le’s put it in the book, an’ hide the book in the bottom of the wagon.
An’, Dil, I can’t help feeling light like, as if I was goin’ to float.
Think of that splendid place, an’ no night, an’ no winter, an’ all
beautiful things. Oh, I wisht he’d gev us the words too; I’m most sure I
could sing ’em. An’ the best of all is that mammy won’t be there, cause,
you see, ’twouldn’t please her any, and I’d be awful feared. She’d
ruther stay here an’ drink gin.”
They had not gone far enough in the Christian life, poor ignorant little
souls, to have much missionary spirit. But they kissed, and kissed
softly, in the half-dark, and cried a little—tender tears touched with a
sadness that was as sweet as joy.
Dil stepped about cautiously, emptied the grate, and did up her
night-work. There seemed a certainty about heaven that she had not
experienced before, a confidence in John Travis that gave her a stubborn
faith. He would surely return in the spring. They would go out some day
and never, never come back to Barker’s Court.
She fell asleep in her visionary journey when she was up beyond Central
Park. She was always so tired, and this night quite exhausted. But Bess
kept floating on a sea of delicious sound; and if ever one had visions
of the promised land, it was Bessy Quinn.
There were seven babies in the next morning, it being a sharp, clear
day. Mrs. Quinn had gone off about her business with no row. When Bess
had been dressed and had her breakfast, they drew out the precious book.
“I’ll jes’ cover it with a bit of old calico an’ no one will mistrust,
for you can jes’ slip it down in the carriage. An’ we’ll get out that
old speller of Owny’s, so mother can see that around if we do be taken
by s’prise.”
They looked at the pictures as the babies would allow them the leisure,
and spelled out the explanation underneath. It was so wonderful, though
at times they were appalled by the difficulties and dangers. And it was
almost night when they reached the crowning-point of all,—Christiana
going across the river.
“All the banks beyond the river were full of horses and chariots which
were come down from above to accompany her to the City Gate.” Her
friends were thronging round. She was entering the river with a fearless
step and uplifted face.
“Why, Dil, she jes’ walked right acrost.” Bess gave a joyous little
laugh. “You see, she couldn’t get drownded, because that Lord Jesus had
made it all right an’ safe, jes’ as he carried people in his arms. I’m
so glad we know. You see, when we get to the river, an’ it will be way,
way above Cent’l Park, when we’ve been through these giants an’ all—an’
I’m ’most afraid of thim; but the man did not let ’em hurt her, an’
he, our man, won’t let ’em hurt us. An’ we’ll jest step right in the
river,—maybe he’ll carry me acrost on account of my poor little
legs,—an’ we sha’n’t be a mite afraid, for he won’t let us drown. O Dil,
it’ll be so lovely! An’ here’s the pallis!”
There was the “throng that no man can number,” welcoming Christiana.
Angels with spreading wings and rapturous faces. Her husband coming to
meet her, and the Lord Jesus ministering an abundant welcome.
What a day it was! Never was day so short, so utterly delightful. Some
of the babies were cross: out of seven little poorly born and poorly
nourished babies, there were wants and woes; but Dil hugged them,
cuddled them, crooned to them, with a radiant bliss she had never known
before. She could look so surely at the end.
An old debt of half a dollar came in, and there were thirty-five cents
for the babies. Dan had on his new suit too, and altogether Mrs. Quinn
was remarkably good-natured. Dil felt almost conscience-smitten about
the book—but then the story would have to come out, and alas!
After that they began to read the wonderful story. Dil was not much of a
scholar. Her school-days had been few and far between, never continuous
enough to give her any real interest. Indeed, she had not been bright at
her books, and her mother had not cared. School was something to fill up
the time until children were old enough to go to work. But Dil surely
had enough to fill up her time.
Bess would have far outstripped her in learning. But Dil had a shrewd
head, and was handy with her needle. She possessed what Yankee people
call “faculty;” and her training had given her a sharp lookout for any
short cuts in what she had to do, as well as a certain tact in evading
or bridging over rough places.
But the reading was very hard labor. They did not know the meaning or
the application of words, and their pronouncing ability was indeed
halting.
They had not even attained to the practical knowledge acquired by
mingling with other children. Dil’s life had been pathetic in its
solitariness, like the loneliness of a strange crowd. Other children had
not “taken to her.” Her days had been all work. She would have felt
awkward and out of place playing with anything but a baby.
Bess found the most similitudes in Christiana. Even John Travis would
have been amused by her literal interpretation. Though it had been
simplified for children’s reading, it was far above their limited
capacity. But the pictures helped so much; and when Dil could not get
“the straight of it,” when the spiritual part tried and confused their
brains, they turned to Christiana crossing the river and entering
heaven.
Valiant Mr. Greatheart appealed strongly to Bess.
“He’s got such a strong, beautiful name,” she declared enthusiastically.
“He always comes when there’s troubles, an’ gettin’ lost, an’ all that.
I ’most wish his name was Mr. Greatheart. He could fight, I know; not
this common, hateful fightin’ down here in the court, but with giants
an’ wild beasts. An’ there were the boys, Dil; but I s’pose Owny
