broke. A faint gray light came in at the little 
window. All the dogs were leaping about the 
 
room. Sepp gave himself a shake, and his 
toilet was made. 
"Colonel," said Rex, standing over a bundle 
of rugs and hay, in which no head was visible, 
"Colonel! Sepp says we must hurry if we want 
to see a gams ." 
The colonel turned over. What he said was: 
"Damn the Gomps!" But he thought better of 
that and stood up looking cynical. 
"Come and have a dip in the spring," laughed 
Rex. 
When they took their dripping heads out of 
the wooden trough into which a mountain spring 
was pouring and running out again, leaving it 
always full, and gazed at life between rubs of 
the hard crash towel, it had assumed a kinder 
aspect. 
Half an hour later, when they all were start 
ing for the top, Ruth let the others pass her, 
and pausing for a moment with her hand on the 
lintel, she looked back into the little smoke- 
blackened hut. The door of the inner room 
was open. She had dreamed the sweetest dream 
of her life there. 
Before the others could miss her she was beside them, and soon was springing along in ad 
vance, swinging her alpenstock. It seemed as if 
she had the wings as well as the voice of a bird. 
"Der Jaeger zieht in grunem Wald 
Mitfrolichem Halloh!" 
she sang. 
Sepp laughed from the tip of his feather 
to the tip of his beard. 
"Wie sgnadigeFraulein hat G miith!" he said 
to Rex. 
"What's that?" asked the colonel. 
"He says," translated Rex freely, "What a 
lot of every delightful quality Ruth possesses!" 
But Ruth heard, and turned about, and was 
very severe with him. "Such shirking! Translate me Gemuth at once, sir, if you please!" 
"Old Wiseboy at Yarvard confessed he 
couldn't short of a treatise, and who am I to 
tackle what beats Wiseboy?" 
"Can you, Daisy?" asked her father. 
"Not in the least, but that's no reason for 
letting Rex off." Her voice took on a little of 
the pretty bantering tone she used to her par 
ents. She was beginning to feel such a happy 
confidence in Rex's presence. 
They were in the forest now, moving lightly 
over the wet, springy leaves, probing cautiously 
for dangerous, loose bowlders, and treacherous 
slides. When they emerged, it was upon a nar 
row plateau ; the rugged limestone rocks rose on 
one side, the precipice plunged down on the 
other. Against the rocks lay patches of snow, 
grimy with dirt and pebbles; from a cleft the 
long greenish white threads of "Peter's beard" 
waved at them; in a hollow bloomed a thicket 
of pink Alpen-rosen. 
They had just reached a clump of low firs, 
around the corner of a huge rock, when a rush of 
loose stones and a dull sound of galloping made 
them stop. Sepp dropped on his face; the 
others followed his example. The hound whined 
and pulled at the leash. 
On the opposite slope, some twenty Hirscn- 
cows with their fawns were galloping down into 
the valley, carrying with them a torrent of earth 
and gravel. Presently they slackened and 
stopped, huddling all together into a thicket. 
The Jaeger lifted his head and whispered 
"Stuck;" that being the complimentary name 
by which one designates female deer in German. 
"All?" said Rex, under his breath. At the 
same moment Ruth touched his shoulder. 
On the crest of the second ridge, only a hundred yards distant, stood a stag, towering in 
black outline, the sun just coming up behind 
him. Then two other pairs of antlers rose from 
behind the ridge, two more stags lifted their 
heads and shoulders and all three stood silhouetted against the sky. They tossed and 
stamped, and stared straight at the spot where 
their enemies lay hidden. 
A moment, and the old stag disappeared; the 
others followed him. 
"If they come again, shoot," said Sepp. 
Rex passed his rifle to Ruth. They waited a 
few minutes; then the colonel jumped up. 
"I thought we were after chamois!" he 
grumbled. 
"So we are," said Rex, getting on his feet. 
A shot rang out, followed by another. They 
turned, sharply. Ruth, looking half frightened, 
was lowering the smoking rifle from her shoul 
der. Across the ravine a large stag was sway 
ing on the edge; then he fell, and rolled to the 
bottom. The hound, loosed, was off like an 
 
arrow, scrambling and tumbling down the side. 
The four hunters followed, somehow. Sepp got 
down first, and sent back a wild Jcdel. The 
stag lay there, dead, and his splendid antlers 
bore eight prongs. 
When Ruth came up she had her hand on her 
father's arm. She stood and leaned on him, 
looking down at the stag. Pity mingled with a 
wild intoxicating sense of achievement confused her. A rich color flushed her cheek, but 
the curve of her lips was almost grave. 
Sepp solemnly drew forth his flask of Schnapps 
and taking off his hat to her, drank " VVaidmann's 
Heil!" a toast only drunk by hunters to hunters. 
Gethryn shook hands with her twenty times, 
and praised her until she could bear no more. 
She took her hand from her father's arm, and 
drew herself up, determined to preserve her 
composure. The wind blew the little bright 
rings of hair across her crimson cheek, and 
wrapped her kilts about her slender figure, as 
she stood, her rifle poised across her shoulder, 
one hand on the stock and one clasped below 
the muzzle. 
"Are you laughing at me, Rex?" 
"You know I am not!" 
Never had she been so happy in her whole life. 
The game drawn and hung, to be fetched 
later, they resumed their climb, and hastened 
upward toward the peak. 
Ruth led. She hardly felt the ground beneath her, but sprang from rock to moss, and 
from bowlder to bowlder, till a gasp from 
Gethryn made her stop and turn about. 
"Good Heavens, Ruth! what a climber you 
are!" 
And now the colonel sat down on the nearest 
stone and flatly refused to stir. 
"Oh! is it the hip, Father?" cried Ruth, hurry 
ing back and kneeling beside him. 
"No, of course it isn t! It's indignation!" 
said her father calmly regarding her anxious 
face. "If you can't go up mountains like a 
human girl, you're not going up any more moun 
tains with me." 
"Oh! I'll go like a human snail if you want, 
dear! I've  been too selfish ! It's a shame to 
tire you so!" 
"Indeed, it is a perfect shame!" cried the 
colonel 
 
Ruth had to laugh. "As I remarked to Rex, 
early this morning," her father continued, adjusting his eye-glass, "hang the Gomps!" Rex 
discreetly offered no comment. "Moreover," 
the colonel went on, bringing all the severity his 
eye-glass permitted to bear on them both, "I 
decline to go walking any longer with a pair of 
lunatics. I shall confide you both to Sepp, and 
will wait for you at the upper Shelter." 
"But it's only indignation ; it isn't the hip, 
Father?" said Ruth, still hanging about him, but 
trying to laugh, since he would have her laugh. 
He saw her trouble, and changing his tone 
said seriously, "My little girl, I'm only tired of 
this scramble, that's all." 
She had to be contented with this, and they 
separated, her father taking a path which led to 
the right, up a steep but well cleared ascent, to 
a plateau, from which they could see the gable 
of a roof rising, and beyond that the tip top 
rock, with its white cross marking the highest 
point. The others passed to the left, around 
and among huge rocks, where all the hollows 
were full of grimy snow. The ground was destitute of trees, and all shrubs taller than the. 
hardy Alpen-rosen. Masses of rock lay piled 
about the limestone crags that formed the summit. The sun had not yet tipped their peak 
with purple and orange, but some of the others 
were lighting up. No insects darted about 
them; there was not a living thing among the 
near rocks except the bluish black salamanders, 
which lay here and- there, cold and motionless. 
They walked on in silence; the trail grew 
muddy, the ground was beaten and hatched up 
with small, sharp hoof prints. Sepp kneeled 
down and examined them. 
"Hirsch, Reh, and fawn, and ja! ja! Sehen 
Sie? Gams!" 
After this they went on cautiously. All at 
once a peculiar shrill hiss, half whistle, half cry, 
sounded very near. 
A chamois, followed by two kids, flashed 
across a heap of rocks above their heads, and 
disappeared. The Jaeger muttered something, 
deep in his beard. 
"You wouldn't have shot her?" said Ruth, 
timidly. 
"No, but she will clear this place of chamois, 
It's useless to stay here now," 
 
It was an hour's hard pull to the next peak. 
When at last they lay sheltered under a ledge, 
grimy snow all about them, the Jaeger handed 
his glass to Ruth. 
"Hirsch on the Kaiser Aim, three Reh by 
Nani's Hutterl, and one in the ravine," he said, 
looking at Gethryn, who was searching eagerly 
with his own glass. Ruth balanced the one she 
held against her alpen-stock. 
"Yes, I see them all and why, there's a 
chamois!" 
Sepp seized the glass which she held toward 
him. 
"The gracious Fraiilein has a hunter's eye 
sight; a chamois is feeding just above the 
Hirsch." 
"We are right for the wind, but is this the 
best place ?" said Rex. 
"We must make the best of it," said Sepp. 
The speck of yellow was almost imperceptibly 
approaching their knoll, but so slowly that Ruth 
almost doubted if it moved at all. 
Sepp had the glass, and declining the one Rex 
offered her she turned for a moment to the superb 
panorama at their feet. East, west, north and 
south the mountain world extended. By this 
time the snow mountains of Tyrol were all 
lighted to gold and purple, rose and faintest 
violet. Sunshine lay warm now on all the near 
peaks. But great billowy oceans of mist rolled 
below along the courses of the Alp-fed streams, 
and deep under a pall of heavy, pale gray cloud 
the Trauerbach was rushing through its hidden 
valley down to Schicksalsee and Todtstein. 
There was perfect silence, only now and then 
made audible by the tinkle of a distant cow-bell, 
and the Jodel of a Sennerin. Ruth turned again 
toward the chamois. She could see it now 
without a glass. But Sepp placed his in her 
hand. 
The chamois was feeding on the edge of a 
cliff, moving here and there, leaping lightly 
across some gully, tossing its head up for a precautionary sniff. Suddenly it gave abound and 
stood still, alert. Two great clumsy "Hirsch- 
kuhe" had taken fright at some imaginary danger, 
and uttering their peculiar half grunt, half roar, 
were galloping across the aim, in half real, half 
assumed panic, with their calves at their heels, 
elderly female Hirsch is like a timorous 
 
granny, who loves to scare herself with ghost 
stories, and adores the sensation of jumping into 
bed before the robber under it can catch her by 
the ankle. 
It was such an alarm as this which now sent 
the two fussy old deer, with their awkward, long 
legged calves, clattering away with terror-strick 
en roars, which startled the delicate chamois, 
and for one moment petrified him. The next, 
with a bound, he fairly flew along the crest, seem 
ing to sail across the ravine like a hawk, and to 
cover distances in the flash of an eye. Sepp 
uttered a sudden exclamation, and forgot every 
thing but what he saw. He threw his rifle for 
ward, there was a sharp click! the cartridge 
had not exploded. Next moment he remem 
bered himself, and turned ashamed and depre 
cating to Gethryn. The latter laid his hand on 
the Jaeger's arm and pointed. The chamois 
sharp ear had caught the click ! he swerved aside, 
and bounded to a point of rock to look for this 
new danger. Rex tried to put his rifle in 
Ruth's hands. She pressed it back, resolutely. 
"It is your turn," she motioned with her lips, 
a.nd drew away out of his reach. That was no
time for argument. The Jaeger nodded, "Quick !" 
A shot echoed among the rocks and the 
chamois disappeared. 
"Is he hit? Oh, Rex! did you hit him?" 
"Ei! Zimbach!" Sepp slipped the leash, the 
hound sprang away, and in a moment his bell- 
like voice announced Rex good fortune. 
Ruth flew like the wind, not heeding their 
anxious calls to be careful, to wait for help. It 
was not far to go, and her light, sure foot 
brought her to the spot first. When Rex and 
Sepp arrived she was kneeling beside the dead 
chamois, stroking the "beard" that waved along 
its bushy spine. She sprang up and held out 
her hand to Gethryn. 
"Look at that beard, Nimrod!" she said. 
Her voice rang with an excitement she had not 
shown at her own success. 
"It is a fine beard," said Rex, bending over it. 
His voice was not quite steady. "Herrlich!" 
cried Sepp, and drank the "Waidmans' Heil!" 
toast to him in deep and serious draughts. Then 
he took out a thong, tied the four slender 
hoofs together, and opened his game sack; Rex 
helped him to hoist the chamois in, and onto 
his broad shoulders., 
 
Now for the upper Shelter. They started in 
great spirits, a happy trio. Rex was touched 
by Ruth's deep delight in his success, and by 
the pride in him which she showed more than 
she knew. He looked at her with eyes full of 
affection. Sepp was assuring himself, by all the 
saints in the Bavarian Calendar, that here was 
a "Herrschaft" which a man might be proud of 
guiding, and so he meant to tell the duke. 
Ruth's generous heart beat high. 
Their way back to the path where they had 
separated from Colonel Dene was long and toil 
some. Sepp did his best to beguile it with hun 
ter's yarns, more or less true, at any rate just 
as acceptable as if they had been proved and 
sworn to. 
Like a good South German, he hated Prussia 
and all its works, and his tales were mostly of 
Berliners who had wandered thither and been 
abused; of the gentleman who had been told, 
and believed that the "gams" slept by hooking 
its horns into crevices of the rock, swinging thus 
at ease, over precipices; of another whom 
Federl once deterred from going on the moun 
tains by telling how a chamois if enraged charged 
and butted; of a third who wept home glad to 
have learned that the chamois produced their 
peculiar call by biinging up a hind leg and 
whistling through the hoof. 
It was about half past two in the afternoon, 
and Ruth began to be very, very tired, when a 
Jodel from Sepp greeted the "Hiitte" and the 
white cross rising behind it. As they toiled up 
the steep path to the little aim, Ruth said, "I 
don't see Papa, but there are people there." A 
man in a summer helmet, wound with a green 
veil, came to the edge of the wooden platform 
and looked down at them; he was presently 
joined by two ladies, of whom one disappeared 
almost immediately, but they could see the 
other still looking down until a turn in the path 
brought them to the bottom of some wooden 
steps, close under the platform. On climbing 
these they were met at the top by the gentle 
man, hat in hand, who spoke in French to 
Gethryn, while the stout, friendly lady held out 
both hands to Ruth, and cried, in pretty broken 
English: 
"Ah! dear Mademoiselle! ees eet possible zat 
we meet a-h-gain!" 
 
"Madame Bordier!" exclaimed Ruth, and 
kissed her cordially on both cheeks. Then she 
greeted the husband of Madame, and presented 
Rex. 
"But we know heem!" smiled Madame; and 
her quiet, gentlemanly husband added in French 
that Monsieur the colonel had done them the 
honor to leave messages with them for Miss 
Dene and Mr. Gethryn, 
"Papa is not here?" said Ruth, quickly. 
Monsieur the colonel, finding himself a little 
fatigued, had gone on to the Jaeger-hiitte, where 
were better accommodations. 
Ruth's face fell, and she lost her bright color. 
"But no! my dear!" said Madame. "Zere 
ees nossing ze mattaire. Your fazzer ees quite 
veil," and she hurried her indoors. 
Rex and Monsieur Bordier were left together 
on the platform. The amiable Frenchman did 
the honors as if it were a private salon. Monsieur the colonel was perfectly well. But perfectly! It was really for Mademoiselle that he 
had gone on. He had decided that it would be 
quite too fatiguing for his daughter to return 
that day to Trauerbach, as they had planned, 
and he had gone on to secure the Jagd-hiHte for 
the night before any other party should arrive. 
"He watched for you until you turned into the 
path that leads up here, and we all saw that you 
were quite safe. It is only half an hour since 
he left. He did us the honor to say that Made 
moiselle Dene could need no better chaperon 
than my wife Monsieur the colonel was a little 
fatigued, but badly, no." 
Monsieur Bordier led the way to the usual 
spring and wooden trough, behind the house, 
and while Rex was enjoying a refreshing dip, 
he continued to chat. 
Yes, as he had already had the honor to inform 
Rex, Mademoiselle had been his wife's pupil in 
singing, the last two winters, in Paris. Mon 
sieur Gethryn, perhaps, was not wholly unac 
quainted with the name of Madame Bordier? 
"Madame's reputation as an artist, and a pro 
fessor of singing is world-wide," said Rex in his 
best Parisian, adding: 
"And you then, Monsieur, are the celebrated 
manager of La Fauvette ?" 
The manager replied with a politely gratified 
bow. 
 
"The most charming theater in Paris," added 
Rex. 
"Ah!" murmured the other, "Monsieur is him 
self an artist, though not of our sort, and artists 
know." 
"Colonel Dene has told you that I am study 
ing in Paris," said Rex modestly. 
"He has told me that Monsieur exhibited in 
the salon with a number one." 
Rex scrubbed his brown and rosy cheeks with 
the big towel. 
Monsieur Bordier went on: "But the talent 
of Mademoiselle! Mon Dieu! what a talent! 
What a voice of silver and crystal! And to-day 
she will meet another pupil of Madame of ours 
a genius. My word!" 
"To-day?" 
"Yes, she is with us here. She makes her 
debut at the Fauvette next autumn." 
Rex concealed a frown in the ample folds of 
the towel. It crossed his mind that the colonel 
might better have stayed and taken care of his 
own daughter. If he, Rex, had had a sister, 
would he have liked her to be on a Bavarian 
mountain top in a company composed of a game- 
keeper, the manager of a Paris theater and his 
wife, and a young person who was about to make 
her debut in opera-bouffe, and to have no better 
guardian than a roving young art student? Rex 
felt his unfitness for the post with a pang of com 
punction. Meantime he rubbed his head, and 
Monsieur Bordier talked tranquilly on. But be 
tween vexation and friction Gethryn lost the 
thread of Monsieur's remarks for awhile. 
The first word which recalled his wandering 
attention was "Chamois?" and he saw that Mon 
sieur Bordier was pointing to the game bag and 
looking amiably at Sepp, who, divided between 
sulkiness at Monsieur's native language and good 
will toward any one who seemed to be accepted 
by his "Herrschaften," was in two minds, whether 
to open the bag and show the game to this smil 
ing Frenchman, or "to say him a Grobheit" and 
go away. Sepp's "Grobheit" could be very in 
sulting indeed when he cared to make it so. Rex 
hastened to turn the scale. 
"Yes, Herr Director, this is Sepp, one of the 
duke's best game-keepers, Monsieur speaks 
German?" he interrupted himself to ask in 
French, 
 
"Parfaitement! Well," he went on in Sepp's 
native tongue, "Herr Director, in Sepp you see 
one of the best woodsmen in Bavaria, one of 
the best shots in Germany. Sepp, we must 
show the Herr Director our Gems." 
And there was nothing for Sepp but to open 
the bag, sheepish, beaten, laughing in spite of 
himself, and before he knew it they all three had 
their heads together over the game in perfect 
amity. 
A step sounded along the front platform, and 
Madame looked round the corner of the house, 
saying that lunch was ready. Her husband and 
Rex joined her immediately. "Ze young ladees 
are wizin," she said and led the way. 
The sun-glare on the limestone rocks outside 
made the little room seem almost black at first, 
and all Rex could distinguish as he followed the 
others was Ruth's bright smile as she stood 
near the door, and a jumble of dark figures 
farther back. 
"Permit me," said Monsieur, "to introduce 
you to our Belle Helene." Rex had already 
bowed low, seeing nothing. "Mademoiselle 
Descartes Monsieur Gethryn " Rex raised 
his head and looked into the white face of 
Yvonne. 
"Ah, yes! as I was saying," gossiped Monsieur 
while they were taking their places at table, "I 
shoot when I can, but merely the partridge and 
rabbit of the turnip. Bah! a man may not 
boast of that!" 
Rex kept his eyes fixed on the speaker and 
forced himself to understand what was being 
said. 
"But the sanglier?" His voice sounded in his 
ears like noises one hears with the head under 
water. 
"Mon Dieu! the sanglier! yes, that is also 
noble game. I do not deny it." Monsieur 
talked on evenly and quietly in his self-possessed, 
reasonable voice, about the habits and the hunt 
of the wild-boar. 
Ruth, sitting opposite, forcing herself to swallow the food, to answer Madame gaily, and look 
at her ease, felt her heart settle down like lead 
in her breast. 
What was this? Oh! what was it? She 
looked at Mademoiselle Descartes. This young, 
gentle stranger, with the dark hair, and the face 
 
like marble, this girl whom she had never heard 
of until an hour ago, was hiding from Rex, be 
hind the broad shoulders of Madame Bcrdier. 
The pupils of her blue eyes were so dilated that 
the sad, frightened eyes themselves looked black, 
Ruth turned to Gethryn. He was listening and 
answering. About his nostrils and temples the 
hollows showed; the flush of sunburn was gone, 
leaving only a pallid brown over the ashen grey 
of his face; his expression varied between a 
strained smile and a fixed stare. The cold weight 
at her heart melted and swelled in a passion of 
pity. 
"Some one must keep up! Some one must 
keep up!" she said to herself; and turned to 
assure Madame in tones which deserved the 
name of "crystal and silver," that, Yes, for her 
part she had not been able to see any reason 
why hearing Parsifal at Baireuth should make 
one forget that Bizet was also a great master. 
But the strain became too great, and at the 
first possible moment she said brightly to Rex, 
"I'm going to feed Zimbach. Sepp said I 
might." She collected some scraps on a plate 
and went out. The hound rose wagging as she 
approached. Ruth stood a moment looking 
down at him. Then she knelt and took his 
brown head in her arms. Her eyes were full of 
tears. Zimbach licked her face, and then 
wrenching his head away, began to dance about 
her, barking and running at the platter. She 
took a bone and gave him; it went with a snap; 
so bit by bit she fed him with her own hands, 
and the tears dried without one falling. 
She heard Rex come out and stood up to meet 
him with clear grey eyes that seemed to see 
nothing but a jest. 
"Look at this dog, Rex! He hasn't a word 
to say about the bones he's eaten already; he 
merely remarks that there don't seem to be any 
more at present!" 
Rex was taking down his gun. "Monsieur 
wants to see this," he said, in a dull, heavy 
voice. "And Ruth when you are ready your 
father, perhaps " 
"Yes, I really would like to join him as soon 
as possible " They went in together. 
An hour later they were taking leave. All the 
usual explanations had been made; every one 
knew where the others were stopping, and why 
 
they were there, and how long they meant to 
stay, and where they intended to go afterward. 
The Bordiers, with Yvonne, were at a lake on 
the opposite side of the mountain, but a visit 
to the Forester's house at Trauerbach was one 
of the excursions they had already planned. 
It only remained now, as Ruth said, to fix 
upon an early day for coming. 
The hour just past had been Ruth's hour, 
Without effort, or apparent intention, she had 
taken and kept the lead, from the moment when 
she returned with Rex. She it was who had 
given the key, who had set and kept the pitch, 
and it was due to her that not one discordant 
note had been struck. Vaguely yet vividly she 
felt the emergency. Refusing to ask herself the 
cause, she recognized a crisis. Something was 
dreadfully wrong. She made no attempt to go 
beyond that. Of all the deep emotions which she 
was learning now so suddenly, for the first time, 
the dominant one with her at present was a de 
sire to help and to protect. All her social ex 
perience, all her tact, were needed to shield Rex 
and this white-faced, silent stranger, who 
without her, must have betrayed themselves, so 
stunned, so dazed they were. And the courage 
of her father's daughter kept her fair head erect 
above the dead weight at her heart. 
And now, having said "Au revoir" to Monsieur 
and Madame, and fixed upon a day for their 
visit to the Forsthaus, she turned to Yvonne 
and took her hand. 
"Mademoiselle, I regret so much to hear that 
you are not quite strong. But when you come 
to Trauerbach, Mama and I will take such good 
care of you that you will not mind the fatigue." 
The sad blue eyes looked into the clear grey 
ones, and once more Ruth responded with a 
passion of grief and pity. 
How Rex made his adieux Ruth never knew. 
When he overtook her, she and Sepp were 
well started down the path to the Jagd-hiitte. 
They seemed to be having a duette of silence, 
which Rex turned into a trio when he joined 
them. 
For such walkers as they all were the distance 
they had to go was nothing. Soft afternoon 
lights were still lying peacefully beside the long 
afternoon shadows as they approached the little 
