talk enough, Jim being excited because the land was 
so full of history — Joseph and his brethren, Moses 
in the bulrushers, Jacob coming down into Egypt 
to buy corn, the silver cup in the sack, and all them 
interesting things ; and Tom just as excited too, 
because the land was so full of history that was in 
his line, about Noureddin, and Bedreddin, and such 
like monstrous giants, that made Jim's wool rise, 
and a raft of other ' Arabian Nights ' folks, which the 
half of them never done the things they let on they 
done, I don't believe. 
Then we struck a disappointment, for one of 
them early-morning fogs started up, and it warn't 
no use to sail over the top of it, because we would 
go by Egypt, sure, so we judged it was best to set 
her by compass straight for the place where the 
Pyramids was gitting blurred and blotted out, and 
then drop low and skin along pretty close to the 
ground and keep a sharp look-out. Tom took the 
helium, I stood by to let go the anchor, and Jim he 
straddled the bow to dig through the fog with his 
eyes and watch out for danger ahead. We went 
along a steady gait, but not very fast, and the fog 
got solider and solider, so solid that Jim looked dim 
and ragged and smoky through it. It was awful 
still, and we talked low and was anxious. Now and 
then Jim would say : 
'Highst her a p'int, Mars Tom, highst her!' 
and up she would skip a foot or two, and we would 
slide right over a flat- roofed mud cabin, with people 
that had been asleep on it just beginning to turn 
out and gap stretch ; and once when a feller was 
clear up on his hind legs so he could gap and stretch 
better, we took him a blip in the back and knocked 
him off. By and by, after about an hour, and 
everything dead still, and we a-straining our ears 
for sounds and holding our breath, the fog thinned 
a little very sudden, and Jim sung out in an awful 
scare : 
' Oh, for de lan's sake, set her back, Mars Tom, 
here's de biggest giant outen de ''Rabian Nights' a 
comin' for us ! ' and he went over backwards in the 
boat. 
Tom slammed on the back-action, and as we 
slowed to a standstill, a man's face as big as our 
house at home looked in over the gunnel, same as a 
house looks out of its windows, and I laid down and 
died. I must 'a' been clear dead and gone for as 
much as a minute or more ; then I come to, and 
Tom had hitched a boat-hook on to the lower lip of 
the giant and was holding the balloon steady with it 
whilst he canted his head back and got a good long 
look up at that awful face. 
Jim was on his knees with his hands clasped, 
gazing up at the thing in a begging way, and working 
his lips but not getting anything out. I took 
only just a glimpse, and was fading out again, but 
Tom says : 
' He ain't alive, you fools ; it's the Sphynx ! ' 
I never see Tom look so little and like a fly ; but 
that was because the giant's head was so big and 
awful. Awful ! yes, so it was, but not dreadful any 
more, because you could see it was a noble face, 
and kind of sad, and not thinking about you, but 
about other things and larger. It was stone — red- 
dish stone — and its nose and ears battered, and that 
give it an abused look, and you felt sorrier for it 
for that. 
We stood off a piece, and sailed around it and 
over it, and it was just grand. It was a man's 
head, or maybe a woman's, on a tiger's body a 
hundred and twenty-five foot long, and there was 
a dear little temple between its front paws. All 
but the head used to be under the sand for hun- 
dreds of years, maybe thousands ; but they had just 
lately dug the sand away and found that little 
temple. It took a power of sand to bury that cretur ; 
'most as much as it would to bury a steamboat, 
I reckon. 
We landed Jim on top of the head, with an 
American flag to protect him, it being a foreign 
land ; then we sailed off to this and that and t'other 
distance, to get what Tom called effects and per- 
spectives and proportions, and Jim he done the 
best he could, striking all the different kinds of 
attitudes and positions he could study up, but standing 
on his head and working his legs the way a frog 
does was the best. The further we got away, the 
littler Jim got, and the grander the Sphynx got, till 
at last it was only a clothes-pin on a dome, as you 
might say. That's the way perspective brings out 
the correct proportions, Tom said ; he said Jul' us 
Caesar's niggers didn't know how big he was, they 
was too close to him. 
Then we sailed off further and further, till we 
couldn't see Jim at all any more, and then that 
great figger was at its noblest, a- gazing out over 
the Nile valley so still and solemn and lonesome, 
and all the little shabby huts and things that was 
scattered about it clean disappeared and gone, and 
nothing around it now but a soft wide spread of 
yaller velvet, which was the sand. 
That was the right place to stop, and we done 
it. We set there a-looking and a-thinking for a half 
an hour, nobody a-saying anything, for it made us 
feel quiet and kind of solemn to remember it had 
been looking over that valley just that same way, 
and thinking its awful thoughts all to itself for 
thousands of years, and nobody can't find out what 
they are to this day. 
At last I took up the glass and see some little 
black things a-capering around on that velvet 
carpet, and some more a- climbing up the cretur's 
back, and then I see two or three wee puffs of white 
smoke, and told Tcm to look. He done it, and says : 
'They're bugs. No — hold on; they — why, I
believe they're men. Yes, it's men — men and 
horses, both. They're hauling a long ladder up 
on to the Sphynx's back — now, ain't that odd ? 
And now they're trying to lean it up a There's 
some more puffs of smoke — it's guns! Huck, 
they're after Jim ! ' 
We clapped on the power, and went for them 
a-b'iling. We was there in no time, and come a- 
whizzing down amongst them, and they broke and 
scattered every which way, and some that was 
climbing the ladder after Jim let go all holts and 
fell. We soared up and found him laying on top 
of the head panting and most tuckered out, partly 
from howling for help and partly from scare. He 
had been standing a siege a long time — a week, he 
said, but it warn't so, it only just seemed so to him 
because they was crowding him so. They had shot 
at him, and rained the bullets all around him, but he 
warn't hit ; and when they found he wouldn't stand 
up and the bullets couldn't git at him when he was 
laying down, they went for the ladder, and then he 
knowed it was all up with him if we didn't come pretty 
quick. Tom was very indignant, and asked him why 
he didn't show the flag and command them to git, in 
the name of the United States. Jim said he done 
it, but they never paid no attention. Tom said he 
would have this thing looked into at Washington, 
and says : 
' You'll see that they'll have to apologise for 
insulting the flag, and pay an indemnity, too, on 
top of it, even if they git off that easy.' 
Jim says : 
' What's an indemnity, Mars Tom ? ' 
' It's cash - that's what it is.' 
* Who gits it, Mars Tom ? ' 
' Why ice do.' 
' En who gits de apology ? ' 
' The United States. Or we can take which- 
ever we please. We can take the apology, if we 
want to, and let the Gov'ment take the money.' 
' How much money will it be, Mars Tom ? ' 
' Well, in an aggravated case like this one it 
will be at least three dollars apiece, and I don't know 
but more.' 
' Well, den, we'll take de money, Mars Tom — 
blame de 'pology ! Hain't dat yo' notion too ? En 
hain't it yourn, Huck ? ' 
We talked it over a little and allowed that that 
was as good a way as any, so we agreed to take the 
money. It was a new business to me, and I asked 
Tom if countries always apologised when they had 
done wrong, and he says : 
' Yes ; the little ones does.' 
We was sailing around examining the Pyramids, 
you know, and now ^e soared up and roosted on 
the flat top of the biggest one, and found it was 
just like what the man said in the Sunday school. 
It was like four pairs of stairs that starts broad at 
the bottom and slants up and comes together in a 
point at the top, only these stair-steps couldn't be 
dumb the way you climb other stairs ; no, for each 
step was as high as your chin, and you have to be 
boosted up from behind. The two other Pyramids 
warn't far away, and the people moving about on 
the sand between looked like bugs crawling, we was 
so high above them. 
Tom he couldn't hold himself, he was so worked 
up with gladness and astonishment to be in such a 
celebrated place, and he just dripped history from 
every pore, seemed to me. He said he couldn't 
scarcely believe he was standing on the very iden- 
tical spot the prince fltw from on the bionze horse. 
It was in the ' Arabian Night ' times, he said. Some- 
body give the prince a bronze horse with a peg in 
its shoulder, and he cOuld git on him and fly 
through the air like a bird, and go all over the world, 
and steer it by turning the peg, and fly high or low 
and land wherever he wanted to. 
When he got done telling it there was one of 
them uncomfortable silences that comes, you know, 
when a person has been telling a whopper and you 
feel sorry for him and wish you could think of some 
way to change the subject and let him down easy, 
but git stuck and don't see no way, and before you 
can pull your mind together and do something, that 
silence has got in and spread itself and done the 
business. I was embarrassed, Jim he was embar- 
rassed, and neither of us couldn't say a word. Well, 
Tom he glowered at me a minute, and says : 
' Come, out with it. What do you think ? ' 
I says : 
' Tom Sawyer, you don't believe that yourself.' 
' What's the reason I don't ? What's to hender 
me?' 
' There's one thing to hender you : it couldn't 
happen, that's all.' 
' What's the reason it couldn't happen ? ' 
' You tell me the reason it could happen.' 
' This balloon is a good enough reason it could 
happen, I should reckon.' 
' Why is it ? ' 
' Why is it ? I never saw such an idiot. Ain't 
this balloon and the bronze horse the same thing 
under different names ? ' 
' No, they're not. One is a balloon and the 
other's a horse. It's very different. Next you'll 
be saying a house and a cow is the same thing.' 
' By Jackson, Huck's got him ag'in ! Dey ain't 
no wigglin' outer dat ! ' 
' Shut your head, Jim ; you don't know what 
you're talking about. And Huck don't. Look here, 
Huck, I'll make it plain to you, so you can under- 
stand. You see, it ain't the mere form that's got 
anything to do with their being similar or unsimilar, 
it's the principle involved ; and the principle is the 
same in both. Don't you see now ? ' 
I turned it over in my mind, and says : 
' Tom, it ain't no use. Principles is all very 
well, but they don't git around that one big fact, 
that the thing that a balloon can do ain't no sort of 
proof of what a horse can do.' 
' Shucks, Huck ! you don't get the idea at all. 
Now, look here a minute — it's perfectly plain. Don't 
we fly through the air ? ' 
' Yes.' 
 Very well. Don't we fly high or fly low, just 
as we please ? ' 
'Yes.' 
' Don't we steer whichever way we want to ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' And don't we land when and where we please '? ' 
' Yes.' 
' How do we move the balloon and steer it ? ' 
' By touching the buttons.' 
' Now I reckon the thing is clear to you at last. 
In the other case the moving and steering was 
done by turning a peg. We touch a button, the 
prince turned a peg. There ain't an atom of dif- 
ference, you see. I knowed I could git it through 
your head if I stuck to it long enough.' 
He felt so happy he begun to whistle. But me 
and Jim was silent, so he broke off surprised, and 
says: 
' Looky here, Huck Finn, don't you see it yet ? ' 
I says : 
' Tom Sawyer, I want to ask you some 
questions.' 
' Go ahead,' he says, and I see Jim chirk up to 
listen. 
' As I understand it, the whole thing is in the 
buttons and the peg— the rest ain't of no conse- 
quence. A button is one shape, a peg is another 
shape, but that ain't any matter.' 
' No, that ain't any matter as long as they've 
both got the same power.' 
' All right, then. What is the power that's in 
a candle and in a match ? ' 
' It's the fire.' 
' It's the same in both, then ? ' 
' Yes, just the same in both.' 
' All right. Suppose I set fire to a carpenter 
shop with a match, what will happen to that car- 
penter shop ? ' 
' She'll burn up.' 
' And suppose I set fire to this Pyramid with a 
candle — will she burn up ? ' 
' Of course she won't.' 
 All right. Now, the fire's the same, both times. 
Why does the shop burn, and the Pyramid don't ? ' 
 Because the Pyramid can't burn.' 
 
' Aha ! and a horse can't fly ! ' 
' My Ian', ef Huck ain't got him ag'in ! Huck's 
landed him high en dry dis time, I tell you ! Hit's 
de smartes' trap I ever see a body walk inter — en 
efl ' 
But Jim was so full of laugh he got to strangling 
and couldn't go on, and Tom was that mad to see 
how neat I had floored him, and turned his own 
argument ag'in him and knocked him all to rags 
and flinders with it, that all he could manage to say 
was that whenever he heard me and Jim try to 
argue it made him ashamed of the human race. I 
never said nothing — I was feeling pretty well satis- 
fied. When I have got the best of a person that 
way, it ain't my way to go around crowing about it 
the way some people does, for I consider that if I 
was in his place I wouldn't wish him to crow over 
me. It's better to be generous, that's what I 
think. 
CHAPTEE XIII 
By and by we left Jim to float around up there 
in the neighbourhood of the Pyramids, and we dumb 
down to the hole where you go into the tunnel, and 
went in with some Arabs and candles, and away in 
there in the middle of the Pyramids we found a 
room and a big stone box in it where they used to 
keep that king, just as the man in the Sunday 
school said ; but he was gone now— somebody had 
got him. But I didn't take no interest in the place, 
because there could be ghosts there, of course ; 
not fresh ones, but I don't like no kind. 
So then we come out and got some little donkeys 
and rode a piece, and then went in a boat another 
piece, and then more donkeys, and got to Cairo; 
and all the way the road was as smooth and beautiful
a road as ever I see, and had tall date pams 
on both sides, and naked children everywhere, and 
the men was as red as copper, and fine and strong 
and handsome. And the city was a curiosity. 
Such narrow streets — why, they were just lanes, 
and crowded with people with turbans, and women 
with veils, and everybody rigged out in blazing 
bright clothes and all sorts of colours, and you won- 
dered how the camels and the people got by each 
other in such narrow little cracks, but they done 
it — a perfect jam, you see, and everybody noisy. 
The stores warn't big enough to turn around in, 
but you didn't have to go in ; the store-keeper sat 
tailor fashion on his counter, smoking his snaky 
long pipe, and had his things where he could reach 
them to sell, and he was just as good as in the 
street, for the camel-loads brushed him as they went 
by. 
Now and then a grand person flew by in a 
carriage with fancy dressed men running and yelling 
in front of it and whacking anybody with a long rod 
that didn't get out of the way. And by and by 
along comes the Sultan riding horseback at the 
head of a procession, and fairly took your breath- 
away his clothes was so splendid ; and everybody 
fell flat and laid on his stomach while he went by. 
I forgot, but a feller helped me remember. He 
was one that had a rod and run in front. 
There was churches, but they don't know enough 
to keep Sunday — they keep Friday and break the 
Sabbath. You have to take off your shoes when you 
go in. There was crowds of men and boys in the 
church, setting in groups on the stone floor and 
making no end of noise — getting their lessons by 
heart, Tom said, out of the Koran, which they think 
is a Bible, and people that knows better knows 
enough to not let on. I never see such a big 
church in my life before, and most awful high it 
was ; it made you dizzy to look up. Our village 
church at home ain't a circumstance to it ; if you 
was to put it in there, people would think it was a 
dry- goods box. 
What I wanted to see was a dervish, because I 
was interested in dervishes on account of the one 
that played the trick on the camel driver. So we 
found a lot in a kind of a church, and they called 
themselves Whirling Dervishes ; and they did whirl, 
too — I never see anything like it. They had tall 
sugar-loaf hats on, and linen petticoats ; and they 
spun and spun and spun, round and round like tops, 
and the petticoats stood out on a slant, and it was 
the prettiest thing I ever see, and made me drunk 
to look at it. They was all Moslems. Tom said, and 
when I asked him what a Moslem was, he said it 
was a person that wasn't a Presbyterian. So there 
is plenty of them in Missouri, though I didn't know 
it before. 
We didn't see half there was to see in Cairo, 
because Tom was in such a sweat to hunt out places 
that was celebrated in history. We had a most 
tiresome time to find the granary where Joseph 
stored up the grain before the famine, and when we 
found it it warn't worth much to look at, being such 
an old tumble-down wreck ; but Tom was satisfied, 
and made more fuss over it than I would make if I 
stuck a nail in my foot. How he ever found that 
place was too many for me. We passed as much as 
forty just like it before we came to it, and any of 
them would 'a' done for me, but none but just the 
right one would suit him. I never see anybody so 
particular as Tom Sawyer. The minute he struck 
the right one he reconnised it as easy as I would 
reconnise my other shirt if I had one, but how he 
done it he couldn't any more tell than he could fly ; 
he said so himself, 
Then we hunted a long time for the house where 
the boy lived that learned the Cadi how to try the 
case of the old olives and the new ones, and said it 
was out of the ' Arabian Nights,' and he would tell 
me and Jim about it when he got time. Well, we 
hunted and hunted till I was ready to drop, and I 
wanted Tom to give it up and come next day and 
git somebody that knowed the town and could talk 
Missourian and could go straight to the place ; but 
no — he wanted to find it himself, and nothing else 
would answer. So on we went. Then at last the 
remarkablest thing happened I ever see. The house 
was gone — gone hundreds of years ago — every last 
rag of it gone but just one mud brick. Now, a person 
wouldn't ever believe that a backwoods Missouri 
boy that hadn't ever been in that town before could 
go and hunt that place over and find that brick, but 
Tom Sawyer done it. I know he done it, because 
I see him do it. I was right by his very side at the 
time, and see him see the brick and see him recon- 
nise it. Well, I says to myself, how does he do it ? 
Is it knowledge, or is it instink ? 
Now, there's the facts, just as they happened ; 
let everybody explain it their own way. I've 
ciphered over it a good deal, and it's my opinion 
that some of it is knowledge but the main bulk of it 
is instinct. The reason is this. Tom put the brick 
in his pocket to give to a museum with his name on 
it and the facts when he went home, and I slipped 
it out and put another brick considerable like it in 
its place, and he didn't know the difference — but 
there was a difference, you see. I think that settles 
it— it's mostly instink, not knowledge. Instinct 
tells him where the exact place is for the brick to 
be in, and so he reconnises it by the place it's in, 
not by the look of the brick. If it was knowledge, 
not instinct, he would know the brick again by the 
look of it the next time he seen it — which he didn't. 
So it shows that for all the brag you hear about 
knowledge being such a wonderful thing, instink is 
worth forty of it for real unerringness. Jim says 
the same. 
When we got back Jim dropped down and took 
us in, and there was a young man there with a red 
skull cap and tassel on, and a beautiful blue silk 
jacket and baggy trousers with a shawl around his 
waist and pistols in it, that could talk English and 
wanted to hire to us as guide and take us to Mecca 
and Medina and Central Africa and everywheres 
for a half a dollar a day and his keep, and we 
hired him and left, and piled on the power, and by 
the time we was through dinner we was over the 
place where the Israelites crossed the Red Sea 
when Pharaoh tried to overtake them and , was 
caught by the waters. We stopped then, and had 
a good look at the place, and it done Jim good to 
see it. He said he could see it all now, just the 
way it happened ; he could see the Israelites walking 
along between the walls of water, and the 
Egyptians coming from away off yonder, hurrying 
all they could, and see them start in as the Israelites 
went out, and then, when they was all in, see the 
walls tumble together and drown the last man of 
them. Then we piled on the power again, and 
rushed away and huvvered over Mount Sinai, and 
saw the place where Moses broke the tables of stone, 
and where the children of Israel camped in the 
plain and worshipped the golden calf ; and it was 
all just as interesting as could be, and the guide 
knowed every place as well as I know the village 
at home. 
But we had an accident, now, and it fetched all 
the plans to a standstill. Tom's old onery corn-cob 
had got so old and swelled and warped that she 
couldn't hold together any longer, notwithstanding 
the strings and bandages, but caved in and went 
to pieces. Tom he didn't know what to do. The 
professor's pipe wouldn't answer — it warn't any- 
thing but a mershum, and a person that's got used 
to a cob pipe knows it lays a long ways over all 
the other pipes in this world, and you can't git 
him to smoke any other. He wouldn't take mine, 
I couldn't persuade him. So there he was. 
He thought it over, and said we must scour 
around and see if we could roust out one in Egypt 
or Arabia or around in some of these countries ; but 
the guide said no, it warn't no use — they didn't have 
them. So Tom was pretty glum for a little while, 
then he chirked up and said he'd got the idea and 
knowed what to do. He says : 
' I've got another corn-cob pipe, and it's a prime 
one too, and nearly new. It's laying on the rafter 
that's right over the kitchen stove at home in the 
village. Jim, you and the guide will go and git it, 
and me and Huck will camp here on Mount Sinai 
till you come back.' 
' But, Mars Tom, we couldn't ever find de village. 
I could find de pipe, 'caze I knows de kitchen, but 
my Ian' ! we can't ever find de village, nur Sent 
Louis, nur none 0' dem places. We don't know de 
way, Mars Tom.' 
That was a fact, and it stumped Tom for a 
minute. Then he said : 
' Looky here, it can be done, sure ; and I'll tell 
you how. You set your compass and sail west as 
straight as a dart, till you find the United States. 
It ain't any trouble, because it's the first land you'll 
strike the other side of the Atlantic. If it's day- 
time when you strike it, bulge right on, straight 
west from the upper part of the Florida coast, and 
in an hour and three-quarters you'll hit the mcuth 
of the Mississippi — at the speed that I'm going to 
send you. You'll be so high up in the air that the 
earth will be curved considerable — sorter like a 
washbowl turned upside down — and you'll see a 
raft of rivers crawling around every which way, 
long before you get there, and you can pick out the 
Mississippi without any trouble. Then you can 
follow the river north nearly an hour and three- 
quarters, till you see the Ohio come in ; then you 
want to look sharp, because you're getting near. 
Away up to your left you'll see another thread 
coming in — that's the Missouri, and is a little above 
St. Louis. You'll come down low then, so as you 
can examine the villages as you spin along. You'll 
pass about twenty -five in the next fifteen minutes, 
and you'll recognise ours when you see it — and if 
you don't you can yell down and ask.' 
' Ef it's dat easy, Mars Tom, I reckon we kin 
do it ; yassir, I knows we kin.' 
The guide was sure of it too, and thought 
that he could learn to stand his watch in a little 
while. 
' Jim can learn you the whole thing in a half 
an hour,' Tom said. ' This balloon's as easy to 
manage as a canoe.' 
Tom got out the chart and marked out the 
course and measured it, and says : 
' To go back west is the shortest way, you 
see. It's only about 7,000 miles. If you went 
east, and so on around, it's over twice as far.' 
Then he says to the guide : ' I want you both to 
watch the tell-tale all through the watches, and 
whenever it don't mark 300 miles an hour, you 
go higher or drop lower till you find a storm- 
current that's going your way. There's 100 miles 
an hour in this old thing without any wind to 
help. There's 200-mile gales to be found, any 
time you want to hunt for them.' 
 We'll hunt for them, sir.' 
' See that you do. Sometimes you may have to 
go up a couple of miles, and it'll be p'ison cold, but 
most of the time you'll find your storm a good deal 
lower. If you can only strike a cyclone — that's 
the ticket for you ! You'll see by the professor's 
books that they travel west in these latitudes ; and 
they travel low, too.' 
Then he ciphered on the time, and says : 
' Seven thousand miles, 300 miles an hour — you 
can make the trip in a day — twenty-four hours. This 
is Thursday ; you'll be back here Saturday after- 
noon. Come, now, hustle out some blankets and 
food and books and things for me and Huck, and 
you can start right along. There ain't no occasion 
to fool around — I want a smoke, and the quicker you 
fetch that pipe the better.' 
All hands jumped for the things, and in eight 
minutes our things was out and the balloon was 
ready for America. So we shook hands good-bye, 
and Tom give his last orders : 
' It's ten minutes to two p.m., now, Mount Sinai 
time. In twenty-four hours you'll be home, and 
it'll be six to-morrow morning, village time. When 
you strike the village, land a little back of the top of 
the hill, in the woods, out of sight ; then you rush 
down, Jim, and shove these letters in the post 
office, and if you see anybody stirring, pull your 
slouch down over your face so they won't know 
you. Then you go and slip in the back way, to the 
kitchen and git the pipe, and lay this piece of 
paper on the kitchen table and put something on 
it to hold it, and then slide out and git away and 
don't let aunt Polly catch a sight of you, nor 
nobody else. Then you jump for the balloon and 
shove for Mount Sinai 300 miles an hour. You 
won't have lost more than an hour. You'll start 
back seven or eight a.m., village time, and be here 
in twenty-four hours, arriving at two or three p.m., 
Mount Sinai time.' 
Tom he read the piece of paper to us. He 
wrote on it : 
' Thursday Afternoon. — Tom Sawyer the Krronort 
sends his love to aunt Polly from Mount Sinai, 
where the Ark was, and so does I Inch- Finn, and 
she trill get it to-morrow morning half-pant rix. 
'Tom Sawyer the Erronort.' 
' That'll make her eyes bulge out and the tears 
come,' he says. Then he says : 
 Stand by ! One — two — three — away you go ! ' 
And away she did go ! why, she seemed to whiz 
out of sight in a second. 
' This misplacing of the Ark is probably Huck's error, not 
Tom's.— M. T, 
