piazza and look in at the windows.”
She gave a little laugh of superiority, and twitched her pretty head in
the direction of the young country girls and country fellows who were
thronging the place that night in rather unusual numbers. They were well
enough looking, and, as it was Saturday night, they were in their best. I
suppose their dress could have been criticised; the young fellows were
clothed by the ready-made clothing-store, and the young girls after their
own devices from the fashion papers; but their general effect was good,
and their behavior was irreproachable; they were very quiet--if anything,
too quiet. They took up a part of the piazza that was yielded them by
common usage, and sat watching the hop inside, not so much enviously, I
thought, as wistfully; and for the first time it struck me as odd that
they should have no part in the gayety. I had often seen them there
before, but I had never thought it strange they should be shut out. It had
always seemed quite normal, but now, suddenly, for one baleful moment, it
seemed abnormal. I suppose it was the talk we had been having about the
working-men in society which caused me to see the thing as the Altrurian
must have seen it; but I was, nevertheless, vexed with him for having
asked such a question, after he had been so fully instructed upon the
point. It was malicious of him, or it was stupid. I hardened my heart, and
answered: “You might have told him, for one thing, that they were not
dancing because they had not paid the piper.”
“Then the money consideration enters even into your social pleasures?”
 asked the Altrurian.
“Very much. Doesn’t it with you?”
He evaded this question, as he evaded all straightforward questions
concerning his country: “We have no money consideration, you know. But do
I understand that all your social entertainments are paid for by the
guests?”
“Oh no, not so bad as that, quite. There are a great many that the host
pays for. Even here, in a hotel, the host furnishes the music and the room
free to the guests of the house.”
“And none are admitted from the outside?”
“Oh yes, people are welcome from all the other hotels and boarding-houses
and the private cottages. The young men are especially welcome; there are
not enough young men in the hotel to go round, you see.” In fact, we could
see that some of the pretty girls within were dancing with other girls;
half-grown boys were dangling from the waists of tall young ladies and
waltzing on tiptoe.
“Isn’t that rather droll?” asked the Altrurian.
“It’s grotesque!” I said, and I felt ashamed of it. “But what are you to
do? The young men are hard at work in the cities, as many as can get work
there, and the rest are out West, growing up with the country. There are
twenty young girls for every young man at all the summer resorts in the
East.”
“But what would happen if these young farmers--I suppose they are
farmers--were invited in to take part in the dance?” asked my friend.
“But that is impossible.”
“Why?”
“Really, Mrs. Makely, I think I shall have to give him back to you,” I
said.
The lady laughed. “I am not sure that I want him back.”
“Oh yes,” the Altrurian entreated, with unwonted perception of the humor.
“I know that I must be very trying with my questions; but do not abandon
me to the solitude of my own conjectures. They are dreadful!”
“Well, I won’t,” said the lady, with another laugh. “And I will try to
tell you what would happen if those farmers, or farm-hands, or whatever
they are, were asked in. The mammas would be very indignant, and the young
ladies would be scared, and nobody would know what to do, and the dance
would stop.”
“Then the young ladies prefer to dance with one another and with little
boys--”
“No, they prefer to dance with young men of their own station; they would
rather not dance at all than dance with people beneath them. I don’t say
anything against these natives here; they are very civil and decent. But
they have not the same social traditions as the young ladies; they would
be out of place with them, and they would feel it.”
“Yes, I can see that they are not fit to associate with them,” said the
Altrurian, with a gleam of commonsense that surprised me, “and that as
long as your present conditions endure they never can be. You must excuse
the confusion which the difference between your political ideals and your
economic ideals constantly creates in me. I always think of you
politically first, and realize you as a perfect democracy; then come these
other facts, in which I cannot perceive that you differ from the
aristocratic countries of Europe in theory, or practice. It is very
puzzling. Am I right in supposing that the effect of your economy is to
establish insuperable inequalities among you, and to forbid the hope of
the brotherhood which your policy proclaims?”
Mrs. Makely looked at me as if she were helpless to grapple with his
meaning, and, for fear of worse, I thought best to evade it. I said: “I
don’t believe that anybody is troubled by those distinctions. We are used
to them, and everybody acquiesces in them, which is a proof that they are
a very good thing.”
Mrs. Makely now came to my support. “The Americans are very high-spirited,
in every class, and I don’t believe one of those nice farm-boys would like
being asked in any better than the young ladies. You can’t imagine how
proud some of them are.”
“So that they suffer from being excluded as inferiors?”
“Oh, I assure you they don’t feel themselves inferior! They consider
themselves as good as anybody. There are some very interesting characters
among them. Now, there is a young girl sitting at the first window, with
her profile outlined by the light, whom I feel it an honor to speak to.
That’s her brother, standing there with her--that tall, gaunt young man
with a Roman face; it’s such a common type here in the mountains. Their
father was a soldier, and he distinguished himself so in one of the last
battles that he was promoted. He was badly wounded, but he never took a
pension; he just came back to his farm and worked on till he died. Now the
son has the farm, and he and his sister live there with their mother. The
daughter takes in sewing, and in that way they manage to make both ends
meet. The girl is really a first-rate seamstress, and so cheap! I give her
a good deal of my work in the summer, and we are quite friends. She’s very
fond of reading; the mother is an invalid, but she reads aloud while the
daughter sews, and you’ve no idea how many books they get through. When
she comes for sewing, I like to talk with her about them; I always have
her sit down; it’s hard to realize that she isn’t a lady. I’m a good deal
criticised, I know, and I suppose I do spoil her a little; it puts notions
into such people’s heads, if you meet them in that way; they’re pretty
free and independent as it is. But when I’m with Lizzie I forget that
there is any difference between us; I can’t help loving the child. You
must take Mr. Homos to see them, Mr. Twelvemough. They’ve got the father’s
sword hung up over the head of the mother’s bed; it’s very touching. But
the poor little place is so bare!”
Mrs. Makely sighed, and there fell a little pause, which she broke with a
question she had the effect of having kept back.
“There is one thing I should like to ask you, too, Mr. Homos. Is it true
that everybody in Altruria does some kind of manual labor?”
“Why, certainly,” he answered, quite as if he had been an American.
“Ladies, too? Or perhaps you have none.”
I thought this rather offensive, but I could not see that the Altrurian
had taken it ill. “Perhaps we had better try to understand each other
clearly before I answer that question. You have no titles of nobility as
they have in England--”
“No, indeed! I hope we have outgrown those superstitions,” said Mrs.
Makely, with a republican fervor that did my heart good. “It is a word
that we apply first of all to the moral qualities of a person.”
“But you said just now that you sometimes forgot that your seamstress was
not a lady. Just what did you mean by that?”
Mrs. Makely hesitated. “I meant--I suppose I meant--that she had not the
surroundings of a lady; the social traditions.”
“Then it has something to do with social as well as moral qualities--with
ranks and classes?”
“Classes, yes; but, as you know, we have no ranks in America.” The
Altrurian took off his hat and rubbed an imaginable perspiration from his
forehead. He sighed deeply. “It is all very difficult.”
“Yes,” Mrs. Makely assented, “I suppose it is. All foreigners find it so.
In fact, it is something that you have to live into the notion of; it
can’t be explained.”
“Well, then, my dear madam, will you tell me without further question what
you understand by a lady, and let me live into the notion of it at my
leisure?”
“I will do my best,” said Mrs. Makely. “But it would be so much easier to
tell you who was or who was not a lady. However, your acquaintance is so
limited yet that I must try to do something in the abstract and impersonal
for you. In the first place, a lady must be above the sordid anxieties in
every way. She need not be very rich, but she must have enough, so that
she need not be harassed about making both ends meet, when she ought to be
devoting herself to her social duties. The time is past with us when a
lady could look after the dinner, and perhaps cook part of it herself, and
then rush in to receive her guests and do the amenities. She must have a
certain kind of house, so that her entourage won’t seem cramped and mean,
and she must have nice frocks, of course, and plenty of them. She needn’t
be of the smart set; that isn’t at all necessary; but she can’t afford to
be out of the fashion. Of course, she must have a certain training. She
must have cultivated tastes; she must know about art and literature and
music, and all those kind of things, and, though it isn’t necessary to go
in for anything in particular, it won’t hurt her to have a fad or two. The
nicest kind of fad is charity; and people go in for that a great deal. I
think sometimes they use it to work up with, and there are some who use
religion in the same way; I think it’s horrid; but it’s perfectly safe;
you can’t accuse them of doing it. I’m happy to say, though, that mere
church association doesn’t count socially so much as it used to. Charity
is a great deal more insidious. But you see how hard it is to define
a lady. So much has to be left to the nerves, in all these things. And
then it’s changing all the time; Europe’s coming in, and the old American
ideals are passing away. Things that people did ten years ago would be
impossible now, or at least ridiculous. You wouldn’t be considered vulgar,
quite, but you would certainly be considered a back number, and that’s
almost as bad. Really,” said Mrs. Makely, “I don’t believe I can tell you
what a lady is.”
We all laughed together at her frank confession. The Altrurian asked: “But
do I understand that one of her conditions is that she shall have nothing
whatever to do?”
“Nothing to do!” cried Mrs. Makely. “A lady is busy from morning till
night. She always goes to bed perfectly worn out.”
“But with what?” asked the Altrurian.
“With making herself agreeable and her house attractive, with going to
lunches and teas and dinners and concerts and theatres and art
exhibitions, and charity meetings and receptions, and with writing a
thousand and one notes about them, and accepting and declining, and giving
lunches and dinners, and making calls and receiving them, and I don’t know
what all. It’s the most hideous slavery!” Her voice rose into something
like a shriek; one could see that her nerves were going at the mere
thought of it all. “You don’t have a moment to yourself; your life isn’t
your own.”
“But the lady isn’t allowed to do any useful kind of work?”
“Work! Don’t you call all that work, and useful? I’m sure I envy the
cook in my kitchen at times; I envy the woman that scrubs my floors. Stop!
Don’t ask why I don’t go into my kitchen, or get down on my knees with the
mop. It isn’t possible. You simply can’t. Perhaps you could if you were
very grande dame, but if you’re anywhere near the line of necessity, or
ever have been, you can’t. Besides, if we did do our own household work,
as I understand your Altrurian ladies do, what would become of the servant
class? We should be taking away their living, and that would be wicked.”
“It would certainly be wrong to take away the living of a
fellow-creature,” the Altrurian gravely admitted, “and I see the obstacle
in your way.”
“It’s a mountain,” said the lady, with exhaustion in her voice, but a
returning amiability; his forbearance must have placated her.
“May I ask what the use of your society life is?” he ventured, after a
moment.
“Use? Why should it have any? It kills time.”
“Then you are shut up to a hideous slavery without use, except to kill
time, and you cannot escape from it without taking away the living of
those dependent on you?”
“Yes,” I put in, “and that is a difficulty that meets us at every turn. It
is something that Matthew Arnold urged with great effect in his paper on
that crank of a Tolstoy. He asked what would become of the people who need
the work if we served and waited on ourselves, as Tolstoy preached. The
question is unanswerable.”
“That is true; in your conditions, it is unanswerable,” said the
Altrurian.
“I think,” said Mrs. Makely, “that, under the circumstances, we do pretty
well.”
“Oh, I don’t presume to censure you. And if you believe that your
conditions are the best--”
“We believe them the best in the best of all possible worlds,” I said,
devoutly; and it struck me that, if ever we came to have a national
church, some such affirmation as that concerning our economical conditions
ought to be in the confession of faith.
The Altrurian’s mind had not followed mine so far. “And your young girls,”
 he asked of Mrs. Makely--“how is their time occupied?”
“You mean after they come out in society?”
“I suppose so.”
She seemed to reflect. “I don’t know that it is very differently occupied.
Of course, they have their own amusements; they have their dances, and
little clubs, and their sewing-societies. I suppose that even an Altrurian
would applaud their sewing for the poor?” Mrs. Makely asked, rather
satirically.
“Yes,” he answered; and then he asked: “Isn’t it taking work away from
some needy seamstress, though? But I suppose you excuse it to the
thoughtlessness of youth.”
Mrs. Makely did not say, and he went on: “What I find it so hard to
understand is how you ladies can endure a life of mere nervous exertion,
such as you have been describing to me. I don’t see how you keep well.”
“We don’t keep well,” said Mrs. Makely, with the greatest amusement. “I
don’t suppose that when you get above the working classes, till you reach
the very rich, you would find a perfectly well woman in America.”
“Isn’t that rather extreme?” I ventured to ask.
“No,” said Mrs. Makely, “it’s shamefully moderate,” and she seemed to
delight in having made out such a bad case for her sex. You can’t stop a
woman of that kind when she gets started; I had better left it alone.
“But,” said the Altrurian, “if you are forbidden by motives of humanity
from doing any sort of manual labor, which you must leave to those who
live by it, I suppose you take some sort of exercise?”
“Well,” said Mrs. Makely, shaking her head gayly, “we prefer to take
medicine.”
“You must approve of that,” I said to the Altrurian, “as you consider
exercise for its own sake insane or immoral. But, Mrs. Makely,” I
entreated, “you’re giving me away at a tremendous rate. I have just been
telling Mr. Homos that you ladies go in for athletics so much now in your
summer outings that there is danger of your becoming physically as well as
intellectually superior to us poor fellows. Don’t take that consolation
from me.”
“I won’t, altogether,” she said. “I couldn’t have the heart to, after the
pretty way you’ve put it. I don’t call it very athletic, sitting around on
hotel piazzas all summer long, as nineteen-twentieths of us do. But I
don’t deny that there is a Remnant, as Matthew Arnold calls them, who do
go in for tennis and boating and bathing and tramping and climbing.” She
paused, and then she concluded, gleefully: “And you ought to see what
wrecks they get home in the fall!”
The joke was on me; I could not help laughing, though I felt rather
sheepish before the Altrurian. Fortunately, he did not pursue the inquiry;
his curiosity had been given a slant aside from it.
“But your ladies,” he asked, “they have the summer for rest, however they
use it. Do they generally leave town? I understood Mr. Twelvemough to say
so,” he added, with a deferential glance at me.
“Yes, you may say it is the universal custom in the class that can afford
it,” said Mrs. Makely. She proceeded as if she felt a tacit censure in his
question. “It wouldn’t be the least use for us to stay and fry through our
summers in the city simply because our fathers and brothers had to.
Besides, we are worn out, at the end of the season, and they want us to
come away as much as we want to come.”
“Ah, I have always heard that the Americans are beautiful in their
attitude toward women.”
“They are perfect dears,” said Mrs. Makely, “and here comes one of the
best of them.”
At that moment her husband came up and laid her shawl across her
shoulders. “Whose character is it you’re blasting?” he asked, jocosely.
“Where in the world did you find it?” she asked, meaning the shawl.
“It was where you left it--on the sofa, in the side parlor. I had to take
my life in my hand when I crossed among all those waltzers in there. There
must have been as many as three couples on the floor. Poor girls! I pity
them, off at these places. The fellows in town have a good deal better
time. They’ve got their clubs, and they’ve got the theatre, and when the
weather gets too much for them they can run off down to the shore for the
night. The places anywhere within an hour’s ride are full of fellows. The
girls don’t have to dance with one another there, or with little boys. Of
course, that’s all right if they like it better.” He laughed at his wife,
and winked at me, and smoked swiftly, in emphasis of his irony.
“Then the young gentlemen whom the young ladies here usually meet in
society are all at work in the cities?” the Altrurian asked him, rather
needlessly, as I had already said so.
“Yes, those who are not out West, growing up with the country, except, of
course, the fellows who have inherited a fortune. They’re mostly off on
yachts.”
“But why do your young men go West to grow up with the country?” pursued
my friend.
“Because the East is grown up. They have got to hustle, and the West is
the place to hustle. To make money,” added Makely, in response to a
puzzled glance of the Altrurian.
“Sometimes,” said his wife, “I almost hate the name of money.”
“Well, so long as you don’t hate the thing, Peggy.”
“Oh, we must have it, I suppose,” she sighed. “They used to say about the
girls who grew into old maids just after the Rebellion that they had lost
their chance in the war for the Union. I think quite as many lose their
chance now in the war for the dollar.”
“Mars hath slain his thousands, but Mammon hath slain his tens of
thousands,” I suggested, lightly; we all like to recognize the facts, so
long as we are not expected to do anything about them; then, we deny them.
“Yes, quite as bad as that,” said Mrs. Makely.
“Well, my dear, you are expensive, you know,” said her husband, “and if we
want to have you--why, we’ve got to hustle first.”
“Oh, I don’t blame you, you poor things! There’s nothing to be done about
it; it’s just got to go on and on; I don’t see how it’s ever to end.”
The Altrurian had been following us with that air of polite mystification
which I had begun to dread in him. “Then, in your good society you
postpone, and even forego, the happiness of life in the struggle to be
rich?”
“Well, you see,” said Makely, “a fellow don’t like to ask a girl to share
a home that isn’t as nice as the home she has left.”
“Sometimes,” his wife put in, rather sadly, “I think that it’s all a
mistake, and that we’d be willing to share the privations of the man we
loved.”
“Well,” said Makely, with a laugh, “we wouldn’t like to risk it.”
I laughed with him, but his wife did not, and in the silence that ensued
there was nothing to prevent the Altrurian from coming in with another of
his questions: “How far does this state of things extend downward? Does it
include the working classes, too?”
“Oh no!” we all answered together, and Mrs. Makely said: “With your
Altrurian ideas, I suppose you would naturally sympathize a great deal
more with the lower classes, and think they had to endure all the
hardships in our system; but if you could realize how the struggle goes on
in the best society, and how we all have to fight for what we get, or
don’t get, you would be disposed to pity our upper classes, too.”
“I am sure I should,” said the Altrurian.
Makely remarked: “I used to hear my father say that slavery was harder on
the whites than it was on the blacks, and that he wanted it done away with
for the sake of the masters.”
Makely rather faltered in conclusion, as if he were not quite satisfied
with his remark, and I distinctly felt a want of proportion in it; but I
did not wish to say anything. His wife had no reluctance.
“Well, there’s no comparison between the two things, but the struggle
certainly doesn’t affect the working classes as it does us. They go on
marrying and giving in marriage in the old way. They have nothing to lose,
and so they can afford it.”
“Blessed am dem what don’t expect nuffin! Oh, I tell you, it’s a
working-man’s country,” said Makely, through his cigar-smoke. “You ought
to see them in town, these summer nights, in the parks and squares and
cheap theatres. Their girls are not off for their health, anywhere, and
their fellows are not off growing up with the country. Their day’s work is
over, and they’re going in for a good time. And, then, walk through the
streets where they live, and see them out on the stoops with their wives
and children! I tell you, it’s enough to make a fellow wish he was poor
himself.”
“Yes,” said Mrs. Makely, “it’s astonishing how strong and well those women
keep, with their great families and their hard work. Sometimes I really
envy them.”
“Do you suppose,” said the Altrurian, “that they are aware of the
sacrifices which the ladies of the upper classes make in leaving all the
work to them, and suffering from the nervous debility which seems to be
the outcome of your society life?”
“They have not the remotest idea of it. They have no conception of what a
society woman goes through with. They think we do nothing. They envy us,
too, and sometimes they’re so ungrateful and indifferent, if you try to
help them, or get on terms with them, that I believe they hate us.”
“But that comes from ignorance?”
“Yes, though I don’t know that they are really any more ignorant of us
than we are of them. It’s the other half on both sides.”
“Isn’t that a pity, rather?”
“Of course it’s a pity, but what can you do? You can’t know what people
are like unless you live like them, and then the question is whether the
game is worth the candle. I should like to know how you manage in
Altruria.”
“Why, we have solved the problem in the only way, as you say, that it can
be solved. We all live alike.”
“Isn’t that a little, just a very trifling little bit, monotonous?” Mrs.
Makely asked, with a smile. “But there is everything, of course, in being
used to it. To an unregenerate spirit--like mine, for example--it seems
intolerable.”
“But why? When you were younger, before you were married, you all lived at
home together--or, perhaps, you were an only child?”
“Oh, no indeed! There were ten of us.”
“Then you all lived alike, and shared equally?”
“Yes, but we were a family.”
“We do not conceive of the human race except as a family.”
“Now, excuse me, Mr. Homos, that is all nonsense. You cannot have the
family feeling without love, and it is impossible to love other people.
That talk about the neighbor, and all that, is all well enough--” She
stopped herself, as if she dimly remembered who began that talk, and then
went on: “Of course, I accept it as a matter of faith, and the spirit of
it, nobody denies that; but what I mean is, that you must have frightful
quarrels all the time.” She tried to look as if this were where she really
meant to bring up, and he took her on the ground she had chosen.
“Yes, we have quarrels. Hadn’t you at home?”
“We fought like little cats and dogs, at times.”
Makely and I burst into a laugh at her magnanimous frankness. The
Altrurian remained serious. “But, because you lived alike, you knew each
other, and so you easily made up your quarrels. It is quite as simple with
us, in our life as a human family.”
This notion of a human family seemed to amuse Mrs. Makely more and more;
she laughed and laughed again. “You must excuse me,” she panted, at last,
“but I cannot imagine it! No, it is too ludicrous. Just fancy the jars of
an ordinary family multiplied by the population of a whole continent! Why,
you must be in a perpetual squabble. You can’t have any peace of your
lives. It’s worse, far worse, than our way.”
“But, madam,” he began, “you are supposing our family to be made up of
people with all the antagonistic interests of your civilization. As a
matter of fact--”
“No, no! I know human nature, Mr. Homos!” She suddenly jumped up and
gave him her hand. “Good-night,” she said, sweetly, and as she drifted off
on her husband’s arm she looked back at us and nodded in gay triumph.
The Altrurian turned upon me with unabated interest. “And have you no
provision in your system for finally making the lower classes understand
the sufferings and sacrifices of the upper classes in their behalf? Do you
expect to do nothing to bring them together in mutual kindness?”
“Well, not this evening,” I said, throwing the end of my cigar away. “I’m
going to bed--aren’t you?”
“Not yet.”
“Well, good-night. Are you sure you can find your room?”
“Oh yes. Good-night.”
VI
I left my guest abruptly, with a feeling of vexation not very easily
definable. His repetition of questions about questions which society has
so often answered, and always in the same way, was not so bad in him as it
would have been in a person of our civilization; he represented a wholly
different state of things, the inversion of our own, and much could be
forgiven him for that reason, just as in Russia much could be forgiven to
an American if he formulated his curiosity concerning imperialism from a
purely republican experience. I knew that in Altruria, for instance, the
possession of great gifts, of any kind of superiority, involved the sense
of obligation to others, and the wish to identify one’s self with the
great mass of men, rather than the ambition to distinguish one’s self from
them; and that the Altrurians honored their gifted men in the measure they
did this. A man reared in such a civilization must naturally find it
difficult to get our point of view; with social inclusion as the ideal, he
would with difficulty conceive of our ideal of social exclusion; but I
think we had all been very patient with him; we should have made short
work with an American who had approached us with the same inquiries.
Even from a foreigner, the citizen of a republic founded on the notion,
elsewhere exploded ever since Cain, that one is his brother’s keeper,
the things he asked seemed inoffensive only because they were puerile;
but they certainly were puerile. I felt that it ought to have been
self-evident to him that when a commonwealth of sixty million Americans
based itself upon the great principle of self-seeking, self-seeking was
the best thing, and, whatever hardship it seemed to work, it must carry
with it unseen blessings in tenfold measure. If a few hundred thousand
favored Americans enjoyed the privilege of socially contemning all the
rest, it was as clearly right and just that they should do so as that four
thousand American millionaires should be richer than all the other
Americans put together. Such a status, growing out of our political
equality and our material prosperity, must evince a divine purpose to any
one intimate with the designs of Providence, and it seemed a kind of
impiety to doubt its perfection. I excused the misgivings which I could
not help seeing in the Altrurian to his alien traditions, and I was aware
that my friends had done so, too. But, if I could judge from myself, he
must have left them all sensible of their effort; and this was not
pleasant. I could not blink the fact that although I had openly disagreed
with him on every point of ethics and economics, I was still responsible
for him as a guest. It was as if an English gentleman had introduced a
blatant American Democrat into Tory society; or, rather, as if a
Southerner of the olden time had harbored a Northern Abolitionist and
permitted him to inquire into the workings of slavery among his neighbors.
People would tolerate him as my guest for a time, but there must be an end
of their patience with the tacit enmity of his sentiments and the explicit
vulgarity of his ideals, and when the end came I must be attainted with
him.
I did not like the notion of this, and I meant to escape it if I could. I
confess that I would have willingly disowned him, as I had already
disavowed his opinions, but there was no way of doing it short of telling
him to go away, and I was not ready to do that. Something in the man, I do
not know what, mysteriously appealed to me. He was not contemptibly
puerile without being lovably childlike, and I could only make up my mind
to be more and more frank with him and to try and shield him, as well as
myself, from the effects I dreaded.
I fell asleep planning an excursion farther into the mountains, which
should take up the rest of the week that I expected him to stay with me,
and would keep him from following up his studies of American life where
they would be so injurious to both of us as they must in our hotel. A
knock at my door roused me, and I sent a drowsy “Come in!” toward it from
the bedclothes without looking that way.
“Good-morning!” came back in the rich, gentle voice of the Altrurian. I
lifted my head with a jerk from the pillow, and saw him standing against
the closed door, with my shoes in his hand. “Oh, I am sorry I waked you. I
thought--”
“Not at all, not at all,” I said. “It’s quite time, I dare say. But you
oughtn’t to have taken the trouble to bring my shoes in.”
“I wasn’t altogether disinterested in it,” he returned. “I wished you to
compliment me on them. Don’t you think they are pretty well done, for an
amateur?” He came toward my bed, and turned them about in his hands, so
that they would catch the light, and smiled down upon me.
“I don’t understand,” I began.
“Why,” he said, “I blacked them, you know.”
“You blacked them?”
“Yes,” he returned, easily. “I thought I would go into the baggage-room,
after we parted last night, to look for a piece of mine that had not been
taken to my room, and I found the porter there, with his wrist bound up.
He said he had strained it in handling a lady’s Saratoga--he said a
Saratoga was a large trunk--and I begged him to let me relieve him at the
boots he was blacking. He refused at first, but I insisted upon trying my
hand at a pair, and then he let me go on with the men’s boots; he said he
could varnish the ladies’ without hurting his wrist. It needed less skill
than I supposed, and after I had done a few pairs he said I could black
boots as well as he.”
“Did anybody see you?” I gasped, and I felt a cold perspiration break out
on me.
“No, we had the whole midnight hour to ourselves. The porter’s work with
the baggage was all over, and there was nothing to interrupt the
delightful chat we fell into. He is a very intelligent man, and he told me
all about that custom of feeing which you deprecate. He says that the
servants hate it as much as the guests; they have to take the tips now
because the landlords figure on them in the wages, and they cannot live
without them. He is a fine, manly fellow, and--”
“Mr. Homos,” I broke in, with the strength I found in his assurance that
no one had seen him helping the porter black boots, “I want to speak very
seriously with you, and I hope you will not be hurt if I speak very
plainly about a matter in which I have your good solely at heart.” This
was not quite true, and I winced inwardly a little when he thanked me with
that confounded sincerity of his which was so much like irony; but I went
on: “It is my duty to you, as my guest, to tell you that this thing of
doing for others is not such a simple matter here, as your peculiar
training leads you to think. You have been deceived by a superficial
likeness; but, really, I do not understand how you could have read all you
have done about us and not realize before coming here that America and
Altruria are absolutely distinct and diverse in their actuating
principles. They are both republics, I know; but America is a republic
where every man is for himself, and you cannot help others as you do at
home; it is dangerous--it is ridiculous. You must keep this fact in mind,
or you will fall into errors that will be very embarrassing to you in your
stay among us, and,” I was forced to add, “to all your friends. Now, I
certainly hoped, after what I had said to you and what my friends had
explained of our civilization, that you would not have done a thing of
this kind. I will see the porter, as soon as I am up, and ask him not to
mention the matter to any one, but, I confess, I don’t like to take an
apologetic tone with him; your conditions are so alien to ours that they
will seem incredible to him, and he will think I am stuffing him.”
“I don’t believe he will think that,” said the Altrurian, “and I hope you
won’t find the case so bad as it seems to you. I am extremely sorry to
have done wrong--”
“Oh, the thing wasn’t wrong in itself. It was only wrong under the
circumstances. Abstractly, it is quite right to help a fellow-being who
needs help; no one denies that, even in a country where every one is for
himself.”
“I am so glad to hear it,” said the Altrurian. “Then, at least, I have not
gone radically astray; and I do not think you need take the trouble to
explain the Altrurian ideas to the porter. I have done that already, and
they seemed quite conceivable to him; he said that poor folks had to act
upon them, even here, more or less, and that if they did not act upon them
there would be no chance for them at all. He says they have to help one
another very much as we do at home, and that it is only the rich folks
among you who are independent. I really don’t think you need speak to him
at all, unless you wish; and I was very careful to guard my offer of help
at the point where I understood from you and your friends that it might do
harm. I asked him if there was not some one who would help him out with
his boot-blacking for money, because in that case I should be glad to pay
him; but he said there was no one about who would take the job; that he
had to agree to black the boots, or else he would not have got the place
of porter, but that all the rest of the help would consider it a disgrace,
and would not help him for love or money. So it seemed quite safe to offer
him my services.”
I felt that the matter was almost hopeless, but I asked: “And what he
said--didn’t that suggest anything else to you?”
“How anything else?” asked the Altrurian, in his turn.
“Didn’t it occur to you that if none of his fellow-servants were willing
to help him black boots, and if he did it only because he was obliged to,
it was hardly the sort of work for you?”
“Why, no,” said the Altrurian, with absolute simplicity. He must have
perceived the despair I fell into at this answer, for he asked: “Why
should I have minded doing for others what I should have been willing to
do for myself?”
“There are a great many things we are willing to do for ourselves that we
are not willing to do for others. But even on that principle, which I
think false and illogical, you could not be justified. A gentleman is not
willing to black his own boots. It is offensive to his feelings, to his
self-respect; it is something he will not do if he can get anybody else to
do it for him.”
“Then in America,” said the Altrurian, “it is not offensive to the
feelings of a gentleman to let another do for him what he would not do for
himself?”
“Certainly not.”
“Ah,” he returned, “then we understand something altogether different by
the word gentleman in Altruria. I see, now, how I have committed a
mistake. I shall be more careful hereafter.”
I thought I had better leave the subject, and, “By-the-way,” I said, “how
would you like to take a little tramp with me to-day farther up into the
mountains?”
“I should be delighted,” said the Altrurian, so gratefully that I was
ashamed to think why I was proposing the pleasure to him.
“Well, then, I shall be ready to start as soon as we have had breakfast. I
will join you down-stairs in half an hour.”
He left me at this hint, though really I was half afraid he might stay and
offer to lend me a hand at my toilet, in the expression of his national
character. I found him with Mrs. Makely, when I went down, and she began,
with a parenthetical tribute to the beauty of the mountains in the morning
light: “Don’t be surprised to see me up at this unnatural hour. I don’t
know whether it was the excitement of our talk last night, or what it was,
but my sulphonal wouldn’t act, though I took fifteen grains, and I was up
with the lark, or should have been, if there had been any lark outside of
literature to be up with. However, this air is so glorious that I don’t
mind losing a night’s sleep now and then. I believe that with a little
practice one could get along without any sleep at all here; at least, I
