the best.
Captain Hap, penitent, but with no idea of saying so, came up the
tenement stairs. Mari and Joey sat beside the fire. Mari was frying
chunks of haddock for supper. Joey was singing in a contented
little voice something that he had caught in the mission:--
    “Veresawidenessin Godsmer--cy
      Likevewidenessof vesea....
    ForveloveofGod is bwoard--er
      Vanvemeazzerof mansmine
    Anve heartof veE--ter--nal
      Ismoswonderfully kine.”
“Hear the boy!” cried Mari, laughing for the first time for many
black days.
“What in the world is he singin’?” asked Joey’s father.
“Why, I’m sure it’s as plain as can be,” said Joey’s mother,--
    “‘There’s a wideness in God’s mercy,
      Like the wideness of the sea.’
Then he says:--
    “‘For the love of God is broader
      Than the measure of man’s mind,
    And the heart of the Eternal
      Is most wonderful and kind.’
Oh, ain’t he the clever boy?”
“We’ll see,” said Job unexpectedly, putting his feet to the floor.
“I ain’t a-goin’ to have the little fellar ashamed of his father,
see if I be!”
“All the same,” observed Captain Hap dryly, “I wouldn’t go on the
street to-night, if I was you. I’ll stay along of you a spell.
The minister’s beat out. There’s enough goin’ on yet to capsize a
soberer man than you be, Job. The fellar that did this here ain’t
a-goin’ to stop at rims of dippers. No, sir!... Job Slip! Don’t you
tech nothin’; not nothin’ outside of your own house, this six
month to come! Not a soda, Job! Not a tumbler o’ milk! Not a cup o’
coffee! Not a swaller o’ water! No, nor a bite of victuals. You’ll
be hunted down like a rat. There’s bread buttered with phosphorus
layin’ round loose for ye most anywheres. Everybody knows who done
this. ’T ain’t no use to spile good English callin’ bad names. He
won’t stop at nothin’ partikkelar to drawr you under.”
“But why?” asked Bayard. “Why should he hound down poor Job so?”
“To spite you, sir,” replied the captain without hesitation.
In the dead silence which followed the captain’s words, Joey’s
little voice piped up again:--
    “Be hushed my dark spew--it
    Ve wussvatcancome
    But shortens vy zhour--nee
    Anhastingsme home.”
Joey stole up merrily, and patted out the tune with his little
fingers on the minister’s pale cheek.
“He says,” began Mari proudly,
    “‘Be hushed, my dark spirit,
    The worst that can come’”--
But Captain Hap, who was not in a pious mood, interrupted the
maternal translation.
“Folks say that they’ve got into their ---- heads their license
is in genooine danger. Confine yourself to prayin’ an’ singin’,
an’ they don’t deny that’s what you’re hired for. Folks say if
you meddle with city politics, there ain’t an insurance company
in New England ’u’d take a policy on your life, sir. You might as
well hear what’s goin’ on, Mr. Bayard. I don’t suspicion it’ll
make no odds to you. I told ’em you wouldn’t tech the politics of
this here town with a forty-fathom grapplin’-iron,--no, nor with a
harbor-dredger!”
“You’re right there, Captain,” returned Bayard, smiling.
“Then ’tain’t true about the license?” asked the captain anxiously.
“I have nothing to conceal in the matter, Captain,” answered Bayard
after a moment’s silence. “There are legalized crimes in Angel
Alley which I shall fight till I die. But it will be slow work. I
don’t do it by lobbying. I have my own methods, and you must grant
me my own counsel.”
“The dawn that rises on the Trawls without their license,” slowly
said the captain, “that day, sir, you may as well call on the city
marshal for a body-guard. You’ll need it!”
“Oh, you and Job will answer, I fancy,” replied Bayard, laughing.
He went straight home and to bed, where he slept fitfully till
nearly noon of the next day. He was so exhausted with watching and
excitement, that there is a sense of relief in thinking that the
man was granted this one night’s rest before that which was to be
befell him.
For, at midnight of the succeeding night, he was awakened by the
clang of the city bells. It was a still night, there was little
wind, and the tide was calm at the ebb. The alarm was quite
distinct and easily counted. One? two? three? Six? One--two--three.
Six. Thirty-six. Thirty-six was the call from the business section
of the town. This alarm rang in for the board of trade, Angel
Alley, the wharves, and certain banks and important shops.
“A fire on the wharves, probably,” thought Bayard; he turned on his
pillow; “the fire-boat will reach it in three minutes. It is likely
to be some slight affair.”
One--two--three. Six. One--two--three. Six. One-two. One-two. The
sounding of the general alarm aroused him thoroughly. He got to
the window and flung open the blinds. In the heart of the city, two
miles away, a pillar of flame shot straight towards the sky, which
hung above it as red as the dashed blood of a mighty slaughter.
At this moment a man came running, and leaned on Mrs. Granite’s
fence, looking up through the dark.
“Mr. Bayard! Mr. Bayard!” he called loudly.
“Bob! Is that you? What is it? Where is it?”
“It’s in Angel Alley, sir.”
“Be there in a minute, Bob.”
“But, Mr. Bayard, sir--there’s them as think you’re safer where you
be. Job Slip says you stay to home if you love us, Mr. Bayard!”
“Wait for me, Bob,” commanded Bayard. “I’m half dressed now.”
“But, Mr. Bayard, Mr. Bayard--you ain’t got it through your head--I
said I wouldn’t be the man to tell you, and I wish to gollyswash
I’d stuck to it.”
“Bob! It isn’t the Mission?”
“Oh, sir--yes! They’ve set us afire!”
“Now, Bob,” said the minister, suddenly shooting up in the dark at
Bob’s side, with coat and vest over his arm, “run for it! Run!”
       
The building was doomed from the first. The department saw that, at
a glance, and concentrated its skill upon the effort to save the
block.
The deed had been dexterously done. The fire sprang from half a
dozen places, and had been burning inwardly, it was thought, for an
hour before it was discovered. The people had been too poor to hire
a night-watchman.
“We trusted Providence,” muttered Captain Hap. “And this is what we
get for it!”
The crowd parted before the minister when he came panting up, with
Bob a rod behind. Bayard had got into his coat on the way, but he
had not waited for his hat. In the glare, with his bared head and
gray-white face, he gathered an unearthly radiance.
He made out to get under the ropes, and sprang up the steps of the
burning building.
“No, sir!” said the chief respectfully; “you can’t get in, now.
We’ve saved all we could.”
“There are some things I must have. I can get at them. I’ve done
this before. Let me in!” commanded the minister.
All the coherent thought he had at that moment was that he must
save some of the pictures--Helen’s pictures that she had given
to the people. In that shock of trouble they took on a delirious
preciousness to him.
“Let me into my own chapel!” he thundered. But the chief put his
hand upon the preacher’s breast, and held it there.
“Not another step, Mr. Bayard. The roof will fall in five minutes.
Get back, sir!”
He heard his people calling him; strong hands took hold of him;
pitying faces looked at him.
“Come, Mr. Bayard,” some one said gently. “Turn away with us. Don’t
see it go.”
He protested no more, but obeyed quietly. For the first time since
they had known him, he faltered, and broke before his people.
They led him away, like a wounded man. He covered his face when
the crash came. The sparks flew far and hot over the wharves, and
embers followed. The water hissed as it received them.
At the first gray of dawn, the minister was on the ground again.
Evidently he had not slept. There was a storm in the sky, and slow,
large flakes of snow were falling. The crowd had gone, and the
Alley was deserted. Only a solitary guardian of the ruins remained.
Bayard stood before them, and looked up. Now, a singular thing
had happened. The electric wire which fed the illuminated sign in
front of the mission had not been disconnected by the fire; it had
so marvelously and beautifully happened; only a few of the little
colored glass globes had been broken, and four white and scarlet
words, paling before the coming day, and blurring in the snow, but
burning steadily, answered the smothered tongues of fire and lips
of smoke which muttered from the ruins.
As day opened, the people began to collect upon the spot.
Expressions of awe or of superstition were heard, as they looked
up and read, serene and undisturbed against the background of the
rising storm,--
  THE LOVE OF CHRIST.
XXII.
Immediately upon the destruction of the chapel, two things
happened. The first, was a visit from Mr. Hermon Worcester. Nothing
could have been more unexpected; and when Bayard, coming into
his lodgings one dreary afternoon, found his uncle in the bony
rocking-chair, the young man was much moved.
Mr. Worcester, not untouched by the sight of his nephew’s emotion,
held out an embarrassed hand. Bayard took it warmly. He had learned
the lesson of loneliness so thoroughly, that he was ill prepared
for the agitation of this little, common, human incident.
“You are ill, Manuel!” cried the elder man. “Good heavens, how you
have changed! I had no idea--You should have told me!” he added,
with the old autocratic accent. “I ought to have been informed....
And this is how you live!”
Hermon Worcester looked slowly about him. His eye fell on the
paper screen, the mosquito-net portière, the iron angel on the
stove, the hard lounge, the old carpet, the stained wall-paper; he
scrutinized the bookcase, he glanced at the Saint Michael. When he
saw the great Christ, he coughed, and turned his face away; got up
uneasily, and went into the bedroom, where he fell to examining
the cotton comforters.
“At least,” he said sharply, “you could have sent for your own hair
mattress! Nobody has slept on it, since”--
He broke off, and returned to the skeleton rocking-chair, with an
expression of discomfiture so serious that Bayard pitied him. He
hastened to say:--
“Oh, I have done very well, very well indeed, Uncle. A man expects
to rough it, if he chooses to be a home missionary. Give yourself
no concern--now.”
If there were an almost uncontrollable accent on the last word,
Mr. Hermon Worcester failed to notice it. Something in that other
phrase had arrested his Orthodox attention. A home missionary? A
home missionary. Was it possible to regard this heretic boy in that
irreproachable light?
To the home missions of his denomination Mr. Worcester was a large
and important contributor. Now and then an ecclesiastical Dives is
to be found who gives a certain preference to the heathen of his
own land before those of India, Africa, and Japan; Mr. Worcester
had always been one of these illuminated men. Indeed, Japan,
Africa, and India had been known to reflect upon the character of
his Christianity for the reason that his checks were cashed for the
benefit of Idaho, Tennessee, and the Carolinas.
To this hour it had not occurred to Mr. Worcester that the heathen
of Windover could be properly rated as in the home missionary
field. Even the starving pastors in the northern counties of
Vermont might have gratefully called for yearly barrels of his old
clothes; but Windover? Why, that was within two hours of Boston!
And, alas, the Vermont ministers were always “sound.” In Idaho,
Tennessee, and the Carolinas, where was a corrupt theology to be
found?
But that phrase had lodged in some nick of Mr. Worcester’s mind;
and he could no more brush it off than one can brush away a seed
out of reach in the crevice of a rock. He regarded his nephew with
a certain tolerance, warmly tinged by compassion.
“The boy is a wreck,” he said to himself. “Manuel will die if this
goes on. He might have expected it. And so might I.”
The old man’s face worked. He spoke, crossly enough. Bayard
remembered that he always used to be cross when he was touched.
“What’s to happen now? Ready to give it up, Manuel?”
“I am ready to begin all over again,” replied Emanuel, smiling.
His voice had the ring that his uncle knew too well; when he was a
little fellow, and bound to do a thing whether or no, he spoke in
that tone, and always with that engaging smile.
“Who pays for this phœnix?” asked the man of business brusquely.
“I passed by your place. It is a fine heap of ashes. A curious
sight I saw there, too. That sign you hang out--those four words.”
Bayard nodded.
“It is a pleasant accident. The department says it is almost
unprecedented. Oh, we shall crawl up somehow, Uncle! I don’t feel
very anxious. The town hall is already hired for temporary use.
There is great excitement in the city over the whole affair. You
see, it has reached the proportions, now, of a deadlock between
the rum interest and the decent citizens. Our treasurer is
circulating some sort of a paper. I think he hopes to collect a few
hundreds--enough to tide us over till we can float off. I don’t
know just how it is all coming out. Of course we can’t expect the
help that an ordinary church would get in a similar trouble.”
“I’m glad if you recognize that fact, Manuel,” replied Mr.
Worcester uncomfortably. In his heart he was saying, “The boy has
his mother’s splendid Worcester pride. He’ll perish here, like a
starving eagle on a deserted crag, but he won’t ask me!”
“You need a new building,” observed Mr. Worcester, with that quiet
way of putting a startling thing which was another Worcester
quality. “You seem to have made--from your own point of view,
of course--what any man of affairs would call a success here. Of
course, you understand, Manuel, that I cannot approve of your
course. It has been the greatest grief of my life.”
Bayard hastened to observe that his comprehension of this point was
not limited.
“From your point of view, not mine, Manuel, I should, as a man of
business, suggest that a new building--your own property--something
to impress business men, you know; something to give material form
to that--undoubtedly sincere and--however mistaken--unselfish,
religious effort that you have wasted in this freezing hole.... I
wonder, Manuel, if you could put the draughts on that confounded
box-burner with the angel atop? I don’t know when I’ve been so
chilly!”
Bayard hastened to obey this request, without intimating that the
draughts were closed to save the coal. This species of political
economy was quite outside of his uncle’s experience, and yet,
perhaps, the man of business had more imagination than his nephew
gave him credit for; he said abruptly:--
“Look here, Manuel, I’ve got to get the seven o’clock train home,
you know, and I’d best do the errand I came on, at once. You know
those old Virginia mines of your mother’s? There was a little stock
there, you remember? It went below zero. Hasn’t been heard of for
twenty years. But it remained on the inventory of the estate, you
know. Well, it’s come up. There’s a new plant gone in--Northern
enterprise, you know--and the stock is on the market again. There
is only a trifle, a paltry two thousand, if well handled. It’s
yours, you see, whatever there is of it. I came down to ask if you
would like to have me force a sale for you.”
“Two thousand dollars!” cried Bayard, turning pale. “Why, it would
almost build me--at least, it would furnish a new chapel. We
had about so much of inside property--library, piano, pictures,
settees, hymn-books, and all that--it is all a dead loss.
Unfortunately, Mr. Bond had never insured it--we were so poor;
every dollar tells!”
“Then he was a very bad man of business for a church--for
a--missionary officer!” cried Mr. Worcester irritably; “and I
hope you’ll do nothing of the kind. You could spend that amount
on your personal necessities inside of six months, and then not
know it, sir! You are--I hope, Manuel,” sternly, “that you will
regard my wish, for once, in one respect, before I die. Don’t fling
your mother’s money into the bottomless pit of this unendowed,
burnt-out, unpopular enterprise! Wait awhile, Manuel. Wait a little
and think it over. I don’t think, under the circumstances,” added
Mr. Worcester with some genuine dignity, “that it is very much to
ask.”
“Perhaps it is not,” replied Bayard thoughtfully. “At least, I will
consider it, as you say.”
Four days after, an envelope from Boston was put into Bayard’s
hand. It contained a typewritten letter setting forth the fact that
the writer desired to contribute to the erection of the new chapel
in Windover known by the name of Christlove, and representing a
certain phase of home missionary effort--the inclosed sum. It was
a bank draft for twenty-five hundred dollars. The writer withheld
his name, and requested that no effort be made to identify him.
He also desired that his contribution be used, if possible, in a
conditional character, to stimulate the growth of a collection
sufficient to put the building and the mission behind it, upon a
suitable basis.
The following day Mr. Worcester sent to Bayard by personal check
the remnant of his mother’s property. This little sum seemed as
large, now, to the Beacon Street boy, as if he had been reared
in one of the Vermont parsonages to which his uncle sent old
overcoats; or, one might say, as if he had never left the shelter
of that cottage under the pine grove in Bethlehem, where his eyes
first opened upon the snow-girt hills. Self-denial speaks louder
in the blood than indulgence, after all; and who knew how much of
Bayard’s simple manliness in the endurance of privation he owed to
the pluck of the city girl who left the world for love of one poor
man, and to become the mother of another?
Bayard had scarcely adjusted his mind to these events when he
received from Helen Carruth this letter:--
   “MY DEAR MR. BAYARD,--My little note of sympathy with your
  great trouble did not deserve so prompt an answer. I thank you
  for it. I could not quite make up my mind to tell you, in the
  midst of so much care and anxiety, what I can delay no longer in
  saying”--
Bayard laid down the letter. The room grew black before his
starting eyes.
“There is another man,” he thought. “She is engaged. She cannot
bear to tell me.”
Sparks of fire leaped before his eyeballs. Black swung into
purple--into gray--light returned; and he read on:--
  “If I flatter myself in supposing that you might mind it a
  little, why, the mistake hurts nobody, neither you nor me; but
  the fact is we are not coming to Windover this summer. We sail
  for Europe next week.
  “Father has decided quite suddenly, and there is nothing to be
  done but to go. It is something to do with Exegesis, if you
  please! There is a mistake in Exegesis, you know,--in the New
  Version. It seems to me a pretty Old Version by this time,
  but father has always been stirred up about it. He has been
  corresponding with a German Professor for a year or two on this
  burning subject. I have an inarticulate suspicion that, between
  them, they mean to write the New Testament over again. Could they
  do another Version? How many Versions can be versed?
  “I never graduated, you know; I never even attended a Cesarea
  Anniversary in my life (and you can’t think how it shocked the
  Trustees at dinner, and that was such fun, so I kept on not
  going!), and I can’t be expected to fathom these matters. Anyhow,
  it is mixed up with the Authenticity of the Fourth Gospel, and
  the Effect of German Rationalism upon the Evangelical Faith. It
  is a reason full of capital letters and Orthodoxy,--and go he
  will. He won’t leave mother behind, for he is one of the men who
  believe in living with their wives; he’s just as dependent on
  his womenkind when he’s engaged in a theological row, as a boy
  who’s got hurt at football; and I’ve got to go to take care of
  the two of them. So there it is! I think there is a convention in
  Berlin--an Exegetical Something--anyhow, there’s a date, and live
  up to it we must. He has sublet the Flying Jib to the Prudential
  Committee of the A. B. C. F. M.--I mean to one of it, with six
  grandchildren. Think how they’ll punch their fists through our
  lace curtains! I wish you’d go down and tell Mr. Salt they shan’t
  have my dory. Couldn’t you manage to use it yourself? And I--I
  can’t take Joey Slip to the circus, nor sit down in sackcloth on
  the ashes of Christlove Chapel to help you.
  “Truly, dear friend, I meant to help this summer. And I am
  disappointed, if you care to know it.
                       “Yours faithfully,
                                                 “HELEN CARRUTH.
  “I forgot to say that father has doubled up his lectures, and the
  Trustees have given him the whole summer term. This, I believe, is
  in view of the importance of the quarrel over the Fourth Gospel.
  We sail in the Scythia a week from Saturday.”
       
It was early afternoon of the next day, when Helen, standing in
her window to draw the shades, glanced over automatically at the
third-story northwest corner front of Galilee Hall. The room had
long since been occupied by a middler with blue spectacles and a
peaked beard; a long-legged fellow, who was understood to be a
Hebrew scholar, and quite Old School, and was expected to fill a
large parish without offending the senior deacon. Privately, Helen
hated the middler. But the eye that had learned to wander at sunset
across the Seminary “yard” to the window blazing in gold and glory,
had slowly unlearned the lesson of its brief and pleasant habit.
Even yet, on blue-white winter days, when life stood still to
freeze on Cesarea Hill, Helen found herself drearily looking at the
glittering glass--as one looks at the smile on a face from which
the soul has fled.
It was still many hours to sunset, and the early April afternoon
fell gustily and gray upon the snows of Cesarea. It was not a sunny
day, and Cesarea was at her worst. Helen idly watched a figure
splashing through two feet of slush “across lots” over the Seminary
grounds from the Trustees’ Hotel.
“A post-graduate,” she thought, “back on a visit. Or, more
likely, a minister without a pulpit, coming to Cesarea after
a parish, or places to supply. Probably he has seven children
and a mother-in-law to support. If he’s ‘sound’ he’ll come to
Father--no--yes. Why, yes!”
She drew suddenly back from the window. It was Emanuel Bayard.
He waded through the slush as quickly as so tired a man could. He
had walked from the station, saving his coach fare, and had made
but feint of being a guest at the hotel, where he had not dined.
He was not quite prepared to let Helen know that he had lunched on
cold johnny-cake and dried beef, put up by Mrs. Granite in a red
cotton doily, and tenderly pinned over by Jane with a safety-pin.
He lifted his eyes to the gloomy landscape for illumination, which
it denied him. He knew no more than the snow professor what he
should do, what he should say, no, nor why he had lapsed into this
great weakness, and come to Cesarea at all. He felt as if he might
make, indeed, a mortal mistake, one way or the other. He pleaded to
himself that he must see her face once more, or perish. Nature was
mightier than he, and drove him on, as it drives the strongest of
us in those reactions from our strenuous vow and sternest purpose,
for which we have lacked the simple foresight to provide in our
plan of life.
There was a new snow professor, by the way, comfortably melting
before the pump beside the Academy commons. He had been considered
sounder than any of his predecessors, and had been supplied
with a copy of St. Augustine’s Confessions, which he perused
with a corncob pipe between his lips of ice. A Westminster
catechism ornamented his vest pocket. He was said to have slumped
beautifully, when the thaw came.
Bayard shot a tolerant smile at the snow professor’s remains, as he
came up the steps.
Helen herself answered his ring. Both of them found this so natural
that neither commented upon this little act of friendliness.
The Professor was at his lecture; and Mrs. Carruth was making her
final appearance at certain local Cesarea charities; principally,
to-day, at the Association for Assisting Indigent Married Students
with blankets and baby-clothes. Helen explained these facts with
her usual irreverence, as she ushered her visitor into the parlor.
“If I had a fortune,” she observed, “I would found a society in
Cesarea for making it a Penal Offence for a Married Man to Study
for the Ministry without a Visible Income. The title is a little
long, don’t you think? How could we shorten it? It’s worse than the
Cruelty to Animals thing. Mr. Bayard?--why, Mr. Bayard!”
When she saw the expression of his face, her own changed with
remorseful swiftness.
“You are perfectly right,” he said with sudden, smiting
incisiveness. “You are more than right. It is the greatest act of
folly of my life that I am here.”
He stood still, and looked at her. The despair she saw in his eyes
seemed to her a measureless, bottomless thing.
“I had to come,” he said. “How could I let you go, without--you
must see that I had to look upon your face once more. Forgive
me--dear!”
Her chin trembled, at the lingering of that last, unlooked-for word.
“I have tried,” said Bayard slowly. “You won’t misunderstand me
if I say I have tried to do the best I can, at Windover; and I have
failed in it,” he added bitterly, “from every point of view, and in
every way!”
“As much as that,” said Helen, “happened to the Founder of the
Christian religion. You are presumptuous if you expect anything
different.”
“You are right,” answered Bayard, with that instinctive humility
which was at once the strongest and the sweetest thing about him.
“I accept your rebuke.”
“Oh,” cried Helen, holding out her hands, “I couldn’t rebuke you!
I”--she faltered.
“You see,” said Bayard slowly, “that’s just the difference, the
awful, infinite difference. All His difficulties were from the
outside.”
“How do you know that?” asked Helen quickly.
“I don’t,” replied Bayard thoughtfully. “I don’t know. But I have
been accustomed to think so. Perhaps I am under the traditions
yet; perhaps I am no nearer right than the other Christians I have
separated myself from. But mine, you see--my obstacles, the things
that make it so hard--the only thing that makes it seem impossible
for me to go on--is within myself. You don’t suppose He ever loved
a woman--as I--love you? It’s impossible!” cried the young man.
“Why, there are times when it seems to me that if the salvation of
the world hung in one scale, and you in the other--as if I--” He
finished by a blinding look. Her face drooped, but did not fall.
He could see her fingers tremble. “It was something,” he went on
dully, “to see you; to know that I--why, all winter I have lived on
it, on the knowledge that summer was coming--that you--Oh, you
can’t know! You can’t understand! I could bear all the rest!” he
cried. “This--this--”
His sentence broke, and was never completed; for Helen looked up
into his face. It was ashen, and all its muscles were set like
stiffening clay. She lifted her eyes and gave them to him.
“I do understand.... I do,” she breathed. “Would it make you any
happier if you knew--if I should tell you--of course, I know what
you said; that we can’t ... but would it be any easier if I should
tell you that I have loved you all the time?”
XXIII.
To the end of her life Helen will see the look on Emanuel Bayard’s
face when she had spoken these words.
With more of terror than delight, the woman’s nature sprang, for
that instant, back upon itself. Would she have recalled what she
had said? It is possible; for now she understood how he loved her,
and perceived that she had never understood what a man’s love is.
Yet, when he spoke, it was with that absence of drama, with that
repression amounting almost to commonplace, which characterize the
intensest crises of experience.
“Do you?” he said. “Have you?”
And at first that was all. But his voice shook, and his hand; and
his face went so white that he seemed like a man smitten rather by
death than by love.
Helen, in a pang of maiden fright, had moved away from him, and
retreated to the sofa; he sank beside her silently. Leaning forward
a little, he covered his eyes with one hand. The other rested
on the cushion within an inch of her purple dress; he did not
touch her; he did not touch it. Helen felt sorry, seeing him so
troubled and wrung; her heart went out in a throb of that maternal
compassion which is never absent from the love of any woman for
any man.
“Oh,” she sighed, “I meant to make you happy, to give you comfort!
And now I have made you unhappy!”
“You have made me the happiest of all miserable men!”
He raised his head, and looked at her till hers was the face to
fall.
“Oh, don’t!” she pleaded. “Not like that!”
But he paid no heed to this entreaty. The soul of the saint and
the heart of the man made duel together; and the man won, and
exulted in it, and wondered how he dared; but his gaze devoured
her willfully. The first embrace of the eyes--more delicate, more
deferent, and at once less guarded than the meeting of hands or
clasp of arms--he gave her, and did not restrain it. Before it,
Helen felt more helpless than if he had touched her. She seemed to
herself to be annihilated in his love.
“Happy?” he said exultingly, “you deify me! You have made a god of
me!”
“No,” she shook her head with a little teasing smile, “I have made
a man of you.”
“Then they are one thing and the same!” cried the lover. “Let me
hear you say it. Tell it to me again!”
She was silent, and she crimsoned to the brows.
“You are not sure!” he accused her. “You want to take it back. It
was a madness, an impulse. You don’t mean it. You do not, you have
not loved me.... How could you?” he added humbly. “You know I
never counted on it, never expected, did not trust myself to think
of it--all this while.”
She lifted her head proudly.
“I have nothing to take back. It was not an impulse. I am not that
kind of woman. I have been meaning to tell you--when you gave me
the chance. I love you. I have loved you ever since--”
She stopped.
“Since when? How long have you loved me? Come! Speak! I will
know!” commanded Bayard deliriously.
“Oh, what is going to be gained if I tell you?” Helen gave
him a prisoner’s look. She turned her head from side to side
rebelliously, as if she had flown into a cage whose door was now
unexpectedly shut.
“I meant to make you happy. All I say seems to make everything
worse. I shall tell you nothing more.”
“You will tell me,” he said in a tone of calm authority, “all I
ask. It is my affair whether I am happy or wretched. Yours is to
obey my wish: because you love me, Helen.”
His imperious voice fell to a depth of tenderness in which her soul
and body seemed to sink and drown.
“I have loved you,” she whispered, “ever since that night,--the
first time I saw you here, in my father’s house.”
“Now, sir!” she added, with her sudden, pretty willfulness, “make
the most of it. I’m not ashamed of it, either. But I shall be
ashamed of you if--this--if after I’ve said it all, it doesn’t
make you happy.... That’s all I care for,” she said quietly. “It is
all I care for in this world.”
“Oh, what shall we do?” pleaded Bayard.
“You have your work,” said Helen dreamily, “and I your love.”
Her voice sank to a whisper.
“Is that enough for you?” demanded the man. “I shall perish of it,
I shall perish!”
Something in his tone and expression caused Helen to regard him
keenly. He looked so wasted, so haggard, that her heart stood
still, and said to her,--“This is truer than he knows.”
“No,” she answered with a sweet, womanly composure, “it is not
enough for me.”
“And yet,” he said with the brutality of the tormented, “I cannot,
I must not, ask you to be my”--
She put the tips of her fingers to his lips to check the word. He
seized her hand and held it there; then, for he came to himself, he
relinquished it, and laid it down.
“Dear,” said Helen, “I shouldn’t mind it ... to be poor. I want you
to understand--to know how it is. I have never felt ... any other
way. It shall be just as you say,” she added with a gentleness
which gave a beautiful dignity to her words. “We need not ... do
it, because I say this. But I wanted you to know--that I was not
afraid of a hard life with you.”
“Oh, you cannot understand,” he groaned. “It is no picturesque
poverty you would have to meet. It would mean cold, hunger, misery
you’ve never thought of, cruel suffering--for you. It would mean
all that a man has no right to ask a woman to endure for him,
because he loves her ... as I love you.”
“I could starve,” said Helen.
“God help us!” cried the man. Nothing else came to his dry lips.
Then Helen answered him in these strong and quiet words: “I told
you I would trust you, and I shall do it to the end. When you are
ready for me, I shall come. I am not afraid--of anything, except
that you should suffer and that I could not comfort you. If you
never see the way to think it right ... I can wait. I love you; and
I am yours to take or leave.”
“This,” whispered Bayard reverently, for he could have knelt before
her, “is a woman’s love! I am unworthy of it--and of you.”
“Oh, there is the other kind of woman,” said Helen, trying rather
unsuccessfully to smile. “This is only my way of loving. I am not
ashamed of it.”
“Ashamed of it? It honors you! It glorifies you!”
He held out his arms; but she did not swerve towards them; they
dropped. She seemed to him encompassed in a shining cloud, in which
her own celestial tenderness and candor had wrapped and protected
her.
“Love me!” he pleaded. “Love me, trust me, till we can think. I
