of this extraordinary fact, and had also made known 
which of them was in possession of the legs yester- 
day — and this would, of course, indicate where the 
guilt of the assault belongs — but as this would be 
mere hearsay evidence, these revelations not having 
been made under oath — " 

"Never mind about that, Mr. Allen. It may not 





 

all be hearsay. We shall see. It may at least help 
to put us on the right track. Call the witnesses." 

"Then I will call Mr. John Buckstone, who is 
now present, and I beg that Mrs. Patsy Cooper may 
be sent for. Take the stand, Mr. Buckstone." 

Buckstone took the oath, and then testified that 
on the previous evening the Count Angelo Capello 
had protested against going to the hall, and had 
called all present to witness that he was going by 
compulsion and would not go if he could help him- 
self. Also, that the Count Luigi had replied sharply 
that he would go, just the same, and that he, Count 
Luigi, would see to that himself. Also, that upon 
Count Angelo's complaining about being kept on his 
legs so long, Count Luigi retorted with apparent 
surprise, " Your legs! — I like your impudence!" 

"Now we are getting at the kernel of the thing," 
observed the Judge, with grave and earnest satisfac- 
tion. "It looks as if the Count Luigi was in pos- 
session of the battery at the time of the assault." 

Nothing further was elicited from Mr. Buckstone 
on direct examination. Mr. Wilson took the witness. 

"Mr. Buckstone, about what time was it that that 
conversation took place?" 

"Toward nine yesterday evening, sir." 

"Did you then proceed directly to the hall?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"How long did it take you to go there?" 

"Well, we walked; and as it was from the ex- 
treme edge of the town, and there was no hurry, I 
judge it took us about twenty minutes, maybe a, 
trifle more." 





 

"About what hour was the kick delivered?" 

"About thirteen minutes and a half to ten." 

"Admirable! You are a pattern witness, Mr. 
Buckstone. How did you happen to look at your 
watch at that particular moment?" 

"I always do it when I see an assault. It's likely 
I shall be called as a witness, and it's a good point 
to have." 

"It would be well if others were as thoughtful. 
Was anything said, between the conversation at my 
house and the assault, upon the detail which we are 
now examining into?" 

"No, sir." 

"If power over the mutual legs was in the pos- 
session of one brother at nine, and passed into the 
possession of the other one during the next thirty or 
forty minutes, do you think you could have de- 
tected the change?" 

"By no means!" 

"That is all, Mr. Buckstone." 

Mrs. Patsy Cooper was called. The crowd made 
way for her, and she came smiling and bowing 
through the narrow human lane, with Betsy Hale, as 
escort and support, smiling and bowing in her wake, 
the audience breaking into welcoming cheers as the 
old favorites filed along. The Judge did not check 
this kindly demonstration of homage and affection, 
but let it run its course unrebuked. 

The old ladies stopped and shook hands with the 
twins with effusion, then gave the Judge a friendly 
nod, and bustled into the seats provided for them. 
They immediately began to deliver a volley of eager 





 

questions at the friends around them: "What is 
this thing for?" "What is that thing for?" "Who 
is that young man that's writing at the desk? Why, 
I declare, it's Jack Bunce! I thought he was sick." 
"Which is the jury? Why, is that the jury? Billy 
Price and Job Turner, and Jack Lounsbury, and 
— well, I never!" "Now who would ever 'a* 
thought—" 

But they were gently called to order at this point, 
and asked not to talk in court. Their tongues fell 
silent, but the radiant interest in their faces re- 
mained, and their gratitude for the blessing of a 
new sensation and a novel experience still beamed 
undimmed from their eyes. Aunt Patsy stood up 
and took the oath, and Mr. Allen explained the 
point in issue, and asked her to go on now, in her 
own way, and throw as much light upon it as she 
could. She toyed with her reticule a moment or two, 
as if considering where to begin, then she said: 

"Well, the way of it is this. They are Luigi's 
legs a week at a time, and then they are Angelo's, 
and he can do whatever he wants to with them." 

"You are making a mistake, Aunt Patsy Cooper," 
said the Judge. "You shouldn't state that as a. fact, 
because you don't know it to be a fact." 

"What's the reason I don't?" said Aunt Patsy, 
bridling a little. 

"What is the reason that you do know it?" 

"The best in the world — because they told me." 

"That isn't a reason." 

"Well, for the land's sake! Betsv Hale, do you 
hear that?" 





 

"Hear it? I should think so," said Aunt Betsy, 
rising and facing the court. "Why, Judge, I was 
there and heard it myself. Luigi says to Angelo — 
no, it was Angelo said it to — " 

"Come, come, Mrs. Hale, pray sit down, and — " 

"Certainly, it's all right, I'm going to sit down 
presently, but not until I've — " 

"But you must sit down!" 

"Must! Well, upon my word if things ain't 
getting to a pretty pass when — " 

The house broke into laughter, but was promptly 
brought to order, and meantime Air. Allen persuaded 
the old lady to take her seat. Aunt Patsy continued : 

"Yes, they told me that, and I know it's true. 
They're Luigi's legs this week, but — " 

"Ah, they told you that did they?" said the 
Justice, with interest. 

"Well, no, I don't know that they told me, but 
that's neither here nor there. I know, without that, 
that at dinner } r esterday, Angelo was as tired as a 
dog, and yet Luigi wouldn't lend him the legs to go 
up-stairs and take a nap with." 

"Did he ask for them?" 

"Let me see — it seems to me somehow, that — 
that — Aunt Betsy, do you remember whether he — " 

"Never mind about what Aunt Betsy remembers 
— she is not a witness; we only want to know what 
you remember yourself," said the Judge. 

"Well, it does seem to me that you are most 
cantankerously particular about a little thing, Sim 
Robinson. Why, when I can't remember a thing 
myself, I always — " 





 

"Ah, please go on!" 

"Now how can she when you keep fussing at her 
all the time?" said Aunt Betsy. "Why, with a 
person pecking at me that way, I should get that 
fuzzled and fuddled that — " 

She was on her feet again, but Allen coaxed her 
into her seat once more, while the court squelched 
the mirth of the house. Then the Judge said : 

"Madam, do you know — do you absolutely 
know, independently of anything these gentlemen 
have told you — that the power over their legs passes 
from the one to the other regularly every week?" 

"Regularly? Bless your heart, regularly ain't 
any name for the exactness of it ! All the big cities 
in Europe used to set the clocks by it." (Laughter, 
suppressed by the court.) 

"How do you know? That is the question. 
Please answer it plainly and squarely." 

"Don't you talk to me like that, Sim Robinson — 
I won't have it. How do I know, indeed! How 
do you know what you know? Because somebody 
told you. You didn't invent it out of your own 
head, did you? Why, these twins are the truthful- 
est people in the world; and I don't think it be- 
comes you to sit up there and throw slurs at them 
when they haven't been doing anything to you. 
And they are orphans besides — both of them. 
All—" 

But Aunt Betsy was up again now, and both old 
ladies were talking at once and with all their might ; 
but as the house was weltering in a storm of laughter, 
and the Judge was hammering his desk with an iron 





 

paper-weight, one could only see them talk, not 
hear them. At last, when quiet was restored, the 
court said: 

"Let the ladies retire." 

"But, your honor, I have the right, in the interest 
of my clients, to cross-exam — " 

"You'll not need to exercise it, Mr. Wilson — 
the evidence is thrown out." 

"Thrown out!" said Aunt Patsy, ruffled; "and 
what's it thrown out for, I'd like to know." 

"And so would I, Patsy Cooper. It seems to 
me that if we can save these poor persecuted stran- 
gers, it is our bounden duty to stand up here and talk 
for them till—" 

"There, there, there, do sit down!" 

It cost some trouble and a good deal of coaxing, 
but they were got into their seats at last. The trial 
was soon ended now. The twins themselves became 
witnesses in their own defense. They established 
the fact, upon oath, that the leg-power passed from 
one to the other every Saturday night at twelve 
o'clock sharp. But on cross-examination their 
counsel would not allow them to tell whose week of 
power the current week was. The Judge insisted 
upon their answering, and proposed to compel them, 
but even the prosecution took fright and came to 
the rescue then, and helped stay the sturdy jurist's 
revolutionary hand. So the case had to go to the 
jury with that important point hanging in the air. 
They were out an hour and brought in this verdict: 

"We the jury do find: 1, that an assault was 
committed, as charged; 2, that it was committed by 

one of the persons accused, he having been seen to 
do it by several credible witnesses; 3, but that his 
identity is so merged in his brother's that we have 
not been able to tell which was him. We cannot 
convict both, for only one is guilty. We cannot 
acquit both, for only one is innocent. Our verdict 
is that justice has been defeated by the dispensation 
of God, and ask to be discharged from further 
duty." 

This was read aloud in court and brought out a 
burst of hearty applause. The old ladies made a 
spring at the twins, to shake and congratulate, but 
were gently disengaged by Mr. Wilson and softly 
crowded back into their places. 

The Judge rose in his little tribune, laid aside his 
silver-bowed spectacles, roached his gray hair up 
with his fingers, and said, with dignity and solemnity, 
and even with a certain pathos: 

"In all my experience on the bench, I have not 
seen justice bow her head in shame in this court 
until this day. You little realize what far-reaching 
harm has just been wrought here under the fickle 
forms of law. Imitation is the bane of courts — I 
thank God that this one is free from the contamina- 
tion of that vice — and in no long time you will see 
the fatal work of this hour seized upon by profligate 
so-called guardians of justice in all the wide circum- 
stance of this planet and perpetuated in their perni- 
cious decisions. I wash my hands of this iniquity. 
I would have compelled these culprits to expose 
their guilt, but support failed me where I had most 
right to expect aid and encouragement. And I was 





 

confronted by a law made in the interest of crime, 
which protects the criminal from testifying against 
himself. Yet I had precedents of my own whereby 
I had set aside that law on two different occasions 
and thus succeeded in convicting criminals to whose 
crimes there were no witnesses but themselves. 
What have you accomplished this day? Do you 
realize it? You have set adrift, unadmonished, in 
this community, two men endowed with an awful 
and mysterious gift, a hidden and grisly power for 
evil — a power by which each in his turn may com- 
mit crime after crime of the most heinous character, 
and no man be able to tell which is the guilty or 
which the innocent party in any case of them all. 
Look to your homes — look to your property — look 
to your lives — for you have need! 

"Prisoners at the bar, stand up. Through sup- 
pression of evidence, a jury of your — our — country- 
men have been obliged to deliver a verdict con- 
cerning your case which stinks to heaven with the 
rankness of its injustice. By its terms you, the 
guilty one, go free with the innocent. Depart in 
peace, and come no more ! The costs devolve upon 
the outraged plaintiff — another iniquity. The court 
stands dissolved." 

Almost everybody crowded forward to overwhelm 
the twins and their counsel with congratulations; 
but presently the two old aunties dug the duplicates 
out and bore them away in triumph through the 
hurrahing crowd, while lots of new friends carried 
Pudd'nhead Wilson off tavern ward to feast him 
and "wet down" his great and victorious entry into 





 

the legal arena. To Wilson, so long familiar with 
neglect and depreciation, this strange new incense 
of popularity and admiration was as a fragrance 
blown from the fields of paradise. A happy man 
was Wilson. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE AMAZING DUEL 

A deputation came in the evening and conferred upon Wilsou 
the welcome honor of a nomination for mayor; for the village 
has just been converted into a city by charter. Tom skulks 
out of challenging the twins. Judge Driscoll thereupon chal' 
lenges Angelo (accused by Tom of doing the kicking); he de- 
clines, but Luigi accepts in his place against Angelo's timid 
protest. 

JT was late Saturday night — nearing eleven. 
The Judge and his second found the rest of 
the war party at the further end of the vacant 
ground, near the haunted house. Pudd'nhead Wil- 
son advanced to meet them, and said anxiously: 

"I must say a word in behalf of my principal's 
proxy, Count Luigi, to whom you have kindly 
granted the privilege of fighting my principal's 
battle for him. It is growing late, and Count Luigi 
is in great trouble lest midnight shall strike before 
the finish." 

"It is another testimony," said Howard, approv- 
ingly. "That young man is fine all through. He 
wishes to save his brother the sorrow of fighting on 
the Sabbath, and he is right; it is the right and 
maniy feeling and does him credit. We will make 
all possible haste." 

Wilson said: "There is also another reason — a 
consideration, in fact, which deeply concerns Count 





 

Luigi himself. These twins have command of their 
mutual legs turn about. Count Luigi is in command 
now; but at midnight, possession will pass to my 
principal, Count Angelo, and — well, you can foresee 
what will happen. He will march straight off the 
field, and carry Luigi with him." 

"Why! sure enough!" cried the Judge, "we have 
heard something about that extraordinary law of 
their being, already — nothing very definite, it is 
true, as regards dates and durations of power, but I 
see it is definite enough as regards to-night. Of 
course we must give Luigi every chance. Omit all 
the ceremonial possible, gentlemen, and place us in 
position." 

The seconds at once tossed up a coin; Howard 
won the choice. He placed the Judge sixty feet 
from the haunted house and facing it ; Wilson placed 
the twins within fifteen feet of the house and facing 
the Judge — necessarily. The pistol-case was opened 
and the long slim tubes taken out; when the moon- 
light glinted from them a shiver went through 
Angelo. The doctor was a fool, but a thoroughly 
well-meaning one, with a kind heart and a sincere 
disposition to oblige, but along with it an absence of 
tact which often hurt its effectiveness. He brought 
his box of lint and bandages, and asked Angelo to 
feel and see how soft and comfortable they were. 
Angelo's head fell over against Luigi's in a faint, 
and precious time was lost in bringing him to; 
which provoked Luigi into expressing his mind to 
the doctor with a good deal of vigor and frankness. 
After Angelo came to he was still so weak that 
Luigi was obliged to drink a stiff horn of brandy to 
brace him up. 

The seconds now stepped at once to their posts, half- 
way between the combatants, one of them on each 
side of the line of fire. Wilson was to count, very 
deliberately, "One — two — three — fire! — stop!" and 
the duelists could bang away at any time they chose 
during that recitation, but not after the last word. 
Angelo grew very nervous when he saw Wilson's hand 
rising slowly into the air as a sign to make ready, 
and he leaned his head against Luigi's and said : 

"Oh, please take me away from here, I can't 
stay, I know I can't!" 

"What in the world are you doing? Straighten 
up! What's the matter with you? — you're in no 
danger — nobody's going to shoot at you. Straighten 
up, I tell you!" 

Angelo obeyed, just in time to hear: 

"One—!" 

"Bang!" Just one report, and a little tuft of 
white hair floated slowly to the Judge's feet in the 
moonlight. The Judge did not swerve; he still 
stood erect and motionless, like a statue, with his 
pistol-arm hanging straight down at his side. He 
was reserving his fire. 

"Two—!" 

"Three—!" 

"Fire—!" 

Up came the pistol-arm instantly — Angelo dodged 
with the report. He said "Ouch!" and fainted 
again. 

The doctor examined and bandaged the wound. 





 

It was of no consequence, he said — bullet through 
fleshy part of arm — no bones broken — the gentle- 
man was still able to fight — let the duel proceed. 

Next time Angelo jumped just as Luigi fired, 
which disordered his aim and caused him to cut a 
chip out of Howard's ear. The Judge took his time 
again, and when he fired Angelo jumped and got a 
knuckle skinned. The doctor inspected and dressed 
the wounds. Angelo now spoke out and said he 
was content with the satisfaction he had got, and if 
the Judge — but Luigi shut him roughly up, and 
asked him not to make an ass of himself; adding: 

"And I want you to stop dodging. You take a 
great deal too prominent a part in this thing for a 
person who has got nothing to do with it. You 
should remember that you are here only by courtesy, 
and are without official recognition ; officially you are 
not here at all; officially you do not even exist. 
To all intents and purposes you are absent from this 
place, and you ought for your own modesty's sake 
to reflect that it cannot become a person who is not 
present here to be taking this sort of public and 
indecent prominence in a matter in which he is 
not in the slightest degree concerned. Now, don't 
dodge again; the bullets are not for you, they are 
for me; if I want them dodged I will attend to it 
myself. I never saw a person act so." 

Angelo saw the reasonableness of what his brother 
had said, and he did try to reform, but it was of no 
use; both pistols went off at the same instant, and 
he jumped once more; he got a sharp scrape along 
his cheek from the Judge's bullet, and so deflected 

Luigi's aim that his ball went wide and chipped a 
flake of skin from Pudd'nhead Wilson's chin. The 
doctor attended to the wounded. 

By the terms, the duel was over. But Luigi was 
entirely out of patience, and begged for one more 
exchange of shots, insisting that he had had no fair 
chance, on account of his brother's indelicate be- 
havior. Howard was opposed to granting so un- 
usual a privilege, but the Judge took Luigi's part, 
and added that indeed he himself might fairly be con- 
sidered entitled to another trial, because although 
the proxy on the other side was in no way to blame 
for his (the Judge's) humiliatingly resultless work, 
the gentleman with whom he was fighting this duel 
was to blame for it, since if he had played no ad- 
vantages and had held his head still, his proxy 
would have been disposed of early. He added: 

"Count Luigi's request for another exchange is 
another proof that he is a brave and chivalrous 
gentleman, and I beg that the courtesy he asks may 
be accorded him." 

"I thank you most sincerely for this generosity, 
Judge Driscoll," said Luigi, with a polite bow, and 
moving to his place. Then he added — to Angelo, 
' ' Now hold your grip, hold your grip, I tell you, and 
I'll land him sure!" 

The men stood erect, their pistol-arms at their 
sides, the two seconds stood at their official posts, 
the doctor stood five paces in Wilson's rear with his 
instruments and bandages in his hands. The deep 
stillness, the peaceful moonlight, the motionless 
figures, made an impressive picture and the impend- 





 

ing fatal possibilities augmented this impressiveness 
to solemnity. Wilson's hand began to rise — slowly 
— slowly — higher — still higher — in another moment : 

"Boom!" — the first stroke of midnight swung up 
out of the distance; Angelo was off like a deer! 

