there anything else ?" 
" Only some legacies." And Mr. Sage went on, 
trying to recall details that his attentive listener 
already knew. There were legacies to some of his 
relatives in New Hampshire, and there was a fund, 
quite a handsome fund, for the poor of the city, 
called the " Margaret Fund." And there was some- 
thing also for a relative of the late Mrs. Hender- 
son. 
Carmen again expressed her desire to carry out 
her husband's wishes in everything, and Mr. Sage 
was much impressed by her sweet manner. When 
she had found out all that he knew or remembered 
of the new will, and arose to go, Mr. Sage said he 
would accompany her to the oiBce. And Carmen 
gratefully accepted his escort, saying that she had 
wished to ask him to go with her, but that she 
feared to take up so much of his time. 
At the office the first will was found, but no 
other. The lawyer glanced through it, and then 
handed it to Mrs. Henderson, with the remark, " It 
leaves you, madam, pretty much everything of 
which he died possessed." Carmen put it aside. 
She did not care to read it now. She would go 
home and search for the other one. 
" If no other is found," said Mr. Sage, in bidding 
her good-morning, " this one ought to be proved 
to-morrow. I may tell you that you and Mr. Hollowell are named as executors." 
On her way home Carmen stopped at a telegraph 
station, and sent a message to Mavick, in Washington, to take an afternoon train and come to New 
York. 
When Carmen reached home she was in a serious but perfectly clear frame of mind. The revelation in the last will of Henderson's change of 
mind towards her was mortifying to a certain ex- 
tent. It was true that his fortune was much in- 
creased since the first will was made, and that it 
justified his benevolent scheme. But he might have 
consulted her about it. If she had argued the 
matter with her conscience, she would have told 
her conscience that she would carry out this new 
plan in her own way and time. She was master of 
the situation, and saw before her a future of al- 
most unlimited opportunity and splendor, except 
for one little obstacle. That obstacle was Mr. 
Mavick. She believed that she understood him 
thoroughly, but she could not take the next step 
until she had seen him. It was true that no one 
except herself positively knew that a second will 
now existed, but she did not know how much he 
might choose to remember. 
She was very impatient to see Mr. Mavick. She 
wandered about the house, restless and feverish. 
Presently it occurred to her that it would be best 
to take the will wholly into her own keeping. She 
unlocked the desk, took it out with a trembling 
hand, but did not open it again. It was not neces- 
sary. A first reading had burned every item of it 
into her brain. It seemed to be a sort of living 
thing. She despised herself for being so agitated, 
and for the furtive feeling that overcame her as she 
glanced about to be sure that she was alone, and 
then she ran up-stairs to her room and locked the 
document in her own writing-desk. 
What was that ? Oh, it was only the door-bell. 
But who could it be ? Some one from the office, 
from her lawyer ? She could see nobody. In two 
minutes there was a rap at her door. It was only 
the servant with a despatch. She took it and 
opened it without haste. 
" Yery well, Dobson ; no answer. I expect Mr. 
Mavick on business at ten. I am at home to no 
one else." 
At ten o'clock Mr. Mavick came, and was shown 
into the library, where Carmen awaited him. 
" It was very good of you to come," she said, as 
she advanced to meet him and gave him her hand 
in the natural subdued manner that the circum- 
stances called for. 
" I took the first train after I received your de- 
spatch." 
" I am sorry to inconvenience you so," she said, 
after they were seated, " but you know so much of 
Mr. Henderson's affairs that your advice will be 
needed. His will is to be proved to-morrow." 
"Yes?" saidMavick. 
"I went to see Mr. Sage to-day, and he went 
with me to the office. The will was in the safe. 
I did not read it, but Mr. Sage said that it left 
everything to me except a few legacies." 
"Yes?" 
" He said it should be proved to-morrow, unless 
a later will turned up." 
" Was there a later will ?" 
" That is what he did not know. He had drawn 
a new will about a year ago, but he doubted if it 
had ever been executed. Mr. Henderson was con- 
sidering it. He thought he had a memorandum of 
it somewhere, but he remembered the principal 
features of it." 
" Was it a great change from the first ?" Mavick 
asked. 
" Yes, considerable. In fact, the greater part of 
his property, as far as I could make out, was to go to 
endow a vast training-school, library, and reading- 
room on the East Side. Of course that would be a 
fine thing." 
" Of course," said Mavick. " And no such will 
has been found ?" 
"I've looked everywhere," replied Carmen, 
simply; "all over the house. It should be in that 
desk if anywhere. We can look again, but I feel 
pretty sure there is no such document there." 
She took in her hand the bunch of keys that lay 
on the table, as if she were about to rise and un- 
lock the desk. Then she hesitated, and looked 
Mavick full in the face. 
"Do you think, Mr. Mavick, that will was ever 
executed ?" 
For a moment they looked steadily at each other, 
and then he said, deliberately, their eyes squarely 
meeting, " I do not think it was." And in a mo- 
ment he added, "He never said anything to me 
about such a disposition of his property." 
Two things were evident to Carmen from this 
reply. He saw her interests as she saw them, and 
it was pretty certain that the contents of the will 
were not made known to him when he witnessed 
it. She experienced an immense feeling of relief 
as she arose and unlocked the desk. They sat 
down before it together, and went over its con- 
tents. Mavick made a note of the fresh business 
memoranda that might be of service next day, since 
Mrs. Henderson had requested him to attend the 
proving of the will, and to continue for the present 
the business relations with her that he had held 
with Mr. Henderson. 
It was late when he left the house, but he took 
with him a note to Mr. Sage to drop into the box 
for morning delivery. The note said that she had 
searched the house, that no second will existed 
there, and that she had telegraphed to Mr. Mavick, 
who had much knowledge of Mr. Henderson's af- 
fairs, to meet him in the morning. And she read 
the note to Mavick before she sealed it. 
Before the note could have been dropped into 
the box, Carmen was in her room, and the note 
was literally true. No second will existed. 
The will was proved, and on the second day its 
contents were in all the newspapers. But with it 
went a very exciting story. This was the rumor of 
another will, and of Henderson's vast scheme of 
benevolence. Mr. Sage had been interviewed and 
Carmen had been interviewed. The memorandum 
(which was only rough and not wholly legible 
notes) had been found and sent to Carmen. There 
was no concealment about it. She gave the re- 
porters all the details, and to every one she said 
that it was her intention to carry out her husband's 
wishes, so far as they could be ascertained from 
this memorandum, when his affairs had been set- 
tied. 
The thirst of the reporters for information amused 
-even Carmen, who had seen much of this industri- 
ous tribe. One of them, to whom she had partially 
explained the situation, ended by asking her, " Are 
you going to contest the will ?" 
" Contest the will ?" cried Carmen. " There is 
nothing to contest." 
" I didn't know," said the young man, whose us- 
ual occupation was reporting sports, and who had 
a dun idea that every big will must be contested. 
Necessarily the affair made a great deal of talk. 
The newspapers discussed it for days, and turned 
over the scheme in every light, the most saying 
that it was a noble gift to the city that had been 
intended, while only one or two doubted if chari- 
ty institutions of this sort really helped the poor. 
Regret, of course, was expressed that the second 
will had never been executed, but with this regret 
was the confidence that the widow would carry 
out, eventually, Henderson's plans. 
This revelation modified the opinion in regard 
to Henderson. He came to be regarded as a public 
benefactor, and his faithful wife shared the credit 
of his noble intention. 
CHAPTER XXI 
WAITING for something to turn up, Jack found a 
weary business. He had written to Mavick after 
the newspaper report that that government officer 
had been in the city on Henderson's affairs, and 
had received a very civil and unsatisfactory reply. 
In the note Mavick had asked him to come to 
Washington and spend a little time, if he had noth- 
ing better on hand, as his guest. Perhaps no of- 
fence was intended, but the reply enraged Jack. 
There was in the tone of the letter and in the 
manner of the invitation a note of patronage that 
was unendurable. 
" Confound the fellow's impudence !" said Jack 
to himself ; and he did not answer the invitation. 
Personally his situation was desperate enough, 
but he was not inclined to face it. In a sort of 
stupor he let the law take its course. There was 
nothing left of his fortune, and his creditors were 
in possession of his house and all it contained. 
" Do not try to keep anything back that legally 
belongs to them," Edith had written when he in- 
formed her of this last humiliation. Of course 
decency was observed. Jack's and Edith's ward- 
robes, and some pieces of ancestral furniture that 
he pointed out as belonging to his wife, were re- 
moved before the auction flag was hung out. 
When this was over he still temporized. Edith's 
affectionate entreaties to him to leave the dreadful 
city and come home were evaded on one plea or 
another. He had wild schemes of going off West 
or South of disappearing. Perhaps he would 
have luck somewhere. He couldn't ask aid or seek 
occupation of his friends, but some place where he 
was not known he felt that he might do something 
to regain his position, get some situation, or make 
some money lots of men had done it in a new 
country and reinstate himself in Edith's opinion. 
But he did not go, and days and weeks went by 
in irresolution. No word came from Carmen, and 
this humiliated Jack more than anything else 
not the loss of her friendship, but the remem- 
brance that he had ever danced attendance on her 
and trusted her. He was getting a good many 
wholesome lessons in these days. 
One afternoon he called upon Miss Tavish. There 
was no change in her. She received him with her 
usual gay cordiality, and with no affectation. 
" I didn't know what had become of you," she 
said. 
"I've been busy," he replied, with a faint at- 
tempt at a smile. 
"Yes, I know. It's been an awful time, what 
with Henderson's death and everything else. Al- 
most everybody has been hit. But," and she looked 
at him cheerfully, " they will come up again ; up and 
down; it is always so. Why, even I got a little 
twist in that panic." The girl was doing what she 
could in her way to cheer him up. 
"I think of going off somewhere to seek my 
fortune," said Jack, with a rueful smile. 
" Oh, I hope not ; your friends wouldn't like 
that. There is no place like New York, I'm sure." 
And there was a real note of friendliness and en- 
couragement in her tone. " Only," and she gave 
him another bright smile, " I think of running away 
from it myself, for a time. It's a secret yet. Car- 
men wants me to go abroad with her." 
" I have not seen Mrs. Henderson since her hus- 
band's death. How is she ?" 
" Oh, she bears up wonderfully. But then she 
has so much to do, poor thing. And then the let- 
ters she gets, the begging letters. You've no idea. 
I don't wonder she wants to go abroad. Don't 
stay away so long again," she said as Jack rose to 
go. " And, oh, can't you come in to dinner to- 
morrow night just Carmen I think I can per- 
suade her and nobody else ?" 
" I'm sorry that I have an engagement," Jack 
answered. 
" Well, some other time. Only soon." 
This call did Jack temporarily a world of good. 
It helped his self -esteem. But it was only tem- 
porary. The black fact stared him in the face 
every morning that he was ruined. And it came 
over him gradually that he was a useless member 
of society. He never had done anything ; he was 
not trained or fitted to do anything. And this 
^ was impressed upon him in the occasional attempts 
he made to get employment. He avoided as much 
as possible contact with those who knew him. 
Shame prevented him from applying to them for 
occupation, and besides he very well knew that to 
those who knew him his idle career was no recom- 
mendation. Yet he formed a habit of going down- 
town every day and looking for work. His ap- 
pearance commanded civility, but everywhere he 
met with refusal, and he began to feel like a well- 
bred tramp. There had been in his mind before 
no excuse for tramps. He could see now how they 
were made. 
It was not that he lacked capacity. He knew 
a great deal, in an amateurish way, about pict- 
ures, books, bric-a-brac, and about society. Why 
shouldn't he write ? He visited the Loan Exhibi- 
tion, and wrote a careful criticism on the pictures 
and sent it to a well-known journal. It was re- 
turned with thanks : the journal had its own art crit- 
ic. He prepared other articles about curious books, 
and one about porcelain and pottery. They were 
all returned, except one which gave the history of 
a rare bit of majolica, which had been picked up 
for - fifty cents and then sold for five hundred dol- 
lars, and was now owned by a collector who had 
paid four thousand dollars for- it. For that the 
newspaper sent him five dollars. That was not 
encouraging, and his next effort for the same jour- 
nal was returned. Either he hadn't the newspa- 
per knack, or the competition was too great. 
He had ceased going to his club. It was too 
painful to meet his acquaintances in his altered 
circumstances, and it was too expensive. It even 
annoyed him to meet Major Fairfax. That philos- 
opher had not changed towards him any more than 
Miss Tavish had, but it was a melancholy business 
to talk of his affairs, and to listen to the repeated 
advice to go down to the country to Edith, and 
wait for some good opening. That was just what 
he could not do. His whole frivolous life he began 
now to see as she must have seen it. And it seemed 
to him that he could only retain a remnant of his self- 
respect by doing something that would reinstate 
him in her opinion. 
" Yery well," said the Major, at the close of the 
last of their talks at the club ; " what are you go- 
ing to do ?" 
" I'm going into some business," said Jack, stiffly. 
" Have you spoken to any of your friends ?" 
" Ko. It's no use," he said, bitterly ; " they are 
all like me, or they know me." 
" And hasn't your wife some relations who are in 
business ?" 
" The last people I should apply to. No. I'm 
going to look around. Major, do you happen to 
know a cheap lodging-house that is respectable ?" 
" I don't know any that is not respectable," the 
Major replied, in a huffy manner. 
"I beg your pardon," said Jack. "I want to 
reduce expenses." 
The Major did know of a place in the neighbor- 
hood where he lived. He gave Jack the address, 
and thereafter the club and his usual resorts knew 
him no more. 
As the days went by and nothing happened to 
break the monotony of his waiting and his fruit- 
less search, he became despondent. Day after day 
he tramped about the city, among the business 
portions, and often on the East Side, to see misery 
worse than his own. He had saved out of the 
wreck his ample wardrobe, his watch, and some 
jewelry, and upon these he raised money for his 
cheap lodgings and his cheap food. He grew care- 
less of his personal appearance. Every morning 
he rose and went about the city, always with less 
hope, and every night he returned to his lodging, 
but not always sober. 
One day he read the announcement that Mrs. 
Rodney Henderson and Miss Tavish had sailed for 
Europe. That ended that chapter. What exactly 
he had expected he could not say. Help from Car- 
men ? Certainly not. But there had never been a 
sign from her, nor any word from Mavick lately. 
There evidently was nothing. He had been thrown 
over. Carmen evidently had no more use for him. 
She had other plans. The thought that he had 
been used and duped was almost more bitter than 
his loss. 
In after-days Jack looked back upon this time 
with a feeling akin to thankfulness for Carmen's 
utter heartlessness in regard to his affairs. He 
trembled to think what might have happened to 
him if she had sent for him and consulted him and 
drawn him again into the fatal embrace of her 
schemes and her fascinations. Now he was sim- 
ply enraged when he thought of her, and irritated 
with himself. 
These were dark days, days to which he looked 
back with a shudder. He wrote to Edith frequent- 
ly a brief note. He was straightening out his af- 
fairs ; he was busy. But he did not give her his 
address, and he only got her letters when the Ma- 
jor forwarded them from the club, which was ir- 
regularly. A stranger, who met him at his lodg- 
ings or elsewhere, would have said that he was an 
idle and rather dissipated-looking man. He was 
idle, except in his feeble efforts to get work ; he 
was worn and discouraged, but he was not doing 
anything very bad. In his way of looking at it, 
he was carrying out his notion of honor. He was 
only breaking a woman's heart. 
He was conscious of little except his own mis- 
fortunes and misery. He did not yet apprehend 
his own selfishness nor her nobility. He did not 
yet comprehend the unselfishness of a good wom- 
an's love. 
On the East Side one day, as he was sauntering 
along Grand Street, he encountered Dr. Leigh, his 
wife's friend, whom he had seen once at his house. 
She did not at first recognize him until he stopped 
and spoke his name. 
"Oh," she said, with surprise at seeing him. 
and at his appearance, " I didn't expect to see you 
here. I thought everybody had gone from the 
city. Perhaps you are going to the Neighborhood 
Guild?" 
" IS"o," and Jack forced a little laugh, " I'm not 
so good as that. I'm kept in town on business. I 
strolled over here to see how the other side of life 
looks." 
" It doesn't improve. It is one of the worst sum- 
mers I ever saw. Since Mr. Henderson's death 
" What difference did Henderson's death make 
over here ?" 
" Why, he had deposited a little fund for Father 
Damon to draw on, and the day after his death the 
bank returned a small check with the notice that 
there was no deposit to draw on. It had been such 
a help in extraordinary cases. Perhaps you saw 
some allusion to it in the newspapers ?" 
" Wasn't it the Margaret Fund ?" 
" Yes. Father Damon dropped a note to Mrs. 
Henderson explaining about it. No reply came." 
" As he might have expected." Dr. Leigh looked 
up quickly as if for an explanation, but Jack ig- 
nored the query, and went on. " And Father Da- 
mon, is he as active as ever ?" 
" He has gone." 
" What, left the city, quit his work ? And the 
mission ?" 
" I don't suppose he will ever quit his work while 
he lives, but he is much broken down. The mission 
chapel is not closed, but a poor woman told me 
that it seemed so." 
" And he will not return ? Mrs. Delancy will be 
so sorry." 
" I think not. He is in retreat now, and I heard 
that he might go to Baltimore. I thought of your 
wife. She was so interested in his work. Is she 
well this summer ?" 
" Yes, thank you," said Jack, and they parted. 
But as she went on her way his altered appearance 
struck her anew, and she wondered what had hap- 
pened. 
This meeting with Mr. Delancy recalled most 
forcibly Edith, her interest in the East Side work, 
her sympathy with Father Damon and the mission, 
the first flush of those days of enthusiasm. "When 
Father Damon began his work the ladies used to 
come in their carriages to the little chapel with 
flowers and money and hearts full of sympathy 
with the devoted priest. Alone of all these Edith 
had been faithful in her visits, always, when she 
was in town. And now the whole glittering show 
of charity had vanished for the time, and Father 
Damon 
The little doctor stopped, consulted a memoran- 
dum in her hand-bag, looked up at the tenement- 
house she was passing, and then began to climb its 
rickety stairway. 
Yes, Father Damon had gone, and Kuth Leigh 
simply went on with her work as before. Perhaps 
in all the city that summer there was no other per- 
son whose daily life was so little changed as hers. 
Others were driven away by the heat, by tempora- 
ry weariness, by the need of a vacation and change 
of scene. Some charities and some clubs and 
schools were temporarily suspended ; other chari- 
ties, befitting the name, were more active, the very 
young children were most looked after, and the 
Good Samaritans of the Fresh -Air Funds went 
about everywhere full of this new enthusiasm of 
humanity. But the occupation of Ruth Leigh re- 
mained always the same, in a faithful pertinacity 
that nothing could wholly discourage, in a routine 
that no projects could kindle into rnuclfenthusiasm. 
Day after day she went about among the sick and 
the poor, relieving and counselling individuals, and 
tiring herself out in that personal service, and more 
and more conscious, when she had time, at night, 
for instance, to think, of the monstrous injustice 
somewhere, and at times in a mood of fierce revolt 
against the social order that made all this misery 
possible and hopeless. 
Yet a great change had come into her life the 
greatest that can come to any man or woman in 
the natural order. She loved and she was loved. 
An ideal light had been cast upon her common- 
place existence, the depths of her own nature had 
been revealed to herself. In this illuminating 
light she walked about in the misery of this world. 
This love must be denied, this longing of the heart 
for companionship could never be gratified, yet 
after all it was a sweet self-sacrifice, and the love 
itself brought its own consolation. She had not to 
think of herself as weak, and neither was her lov- 
er's image dimmed to her by any surrender of his 
own principle or his own ideal. She saw him, as 
she had first seen him, a person consecrated and 
set apart, however much she might disagree with 
his supernatural vagaries set apart to the service 
of humanity. She had bitter thoughts sometimes 
of the world, and bitter thoughts of the false 
system that controlled his conduct, but never of 
him. 
It was unavoidable that she should recall her 
last interview with him, and that the image of his 
noble, spiritual face should be ever distinct in her 
mind. And there was even a certain comfort in 
this recollection. 
Father Damon had indeed striven, under the 
counsel of his own courage and of Brother Monies, 
to conquer himself on the field of his temptation. 
Bat with his frail physique it was asking too much. 
This at last was so evident that the good brother 
advised him, and the advice was in the nature of a 
command in his order, to retire for a while, and 
then take up his work in a fresh field. 
When this was determined on, his desire was 
nearly irresistible to see Kuth Leigh ; he thought it 
would be cowardly to disappear and not say good- 
by. Indeed, it was necessary to see her and ex- 
plain the stoppage of help from the Margaret 
Fund. The check that he had drawn, which was 
returned, had been for one of Dr. Leigh's cases. 
With his failure to elicit any response from Mrs. 
Henderson, the hope, raised by the newspaper 
comments on the unexecuted will, that the fund 
would be renewed was dissipated. 
In the interview which Father Damon sought 
with Dr. Leigh at the Women's Hospital all this 
was explained, and ways and means were discussed 
for help elsewhere. 
" I wanted to talk this over with you," said Fa- 
ther Damon, " because I am going away to take a 
rest." 
"You need it, Father Damon," was Ruth's an- 
swer, in a professional manner. 
"And and," he continued, Tvith some hesita- 
tion, " probably I shall not return to this mission." 
" Perhaps that will be best," she said, simply, 
but looking up at him now, with a face full of ten- 
der sympathy. 
" I am sure of it," he replied, turning away from 
her gaze. " The fact is, doctor, I am a little 
hipped overworked, and all that. I shall pull 
myself together with a little rest. But I wanted 
to tell you how much I appreciate } T our work, and 
and what a comfort you have been to me in my 
poor labors. I used to hope that some time you 
would see this world in relation to the other, 
and" 
" Yes, I know," she interrupted, hastily, " I can- 
not think as you do, but " And she could not go 
on for a great lump in her throat. Involuntarily 
she rose from her seat. The interview was too 
trying. Father Damon rose also. There was a 
moment's painful silence as they looked in each 
other's faces. Neither could trust the voice for 
speech. He took her hand and pressed it, and 
said " God bless you !" and went out, closing the 
door softly. 
A moment after he opened it again and stood 
on the threshold. She was in her chair, her head 
bowed upon her arms on the table. As he spoke 
she looked up, and she never forgot the expression 
of his face. 
"I want to say, Kuth" he had never before 
called her by her first name, and his accent thrilled 
her " that I shall pray for you as I pray for my- 
self, and though I may never see you again in this 
world, the greatest happiness that can come to me 
in this life will be to hear that you have learned to 
say Our Father which art in heaven." 
As she looked he was gone, and his last words re- 
mained a refrain in her mind that evening and af- 
terwards " Our Father which art in heaven " a 
refrain recurring again and again in all her life, in- 
separable from the memory of the man she loved. 
CHAPTER XXII 
ALONG the Long Island coast lay the haze of 
early autumn. It was the time of lassitude. In 
the season of ripening and decay Nature seemed 
to have lost her spring, and lay in a sort of deli- 
cious languor. Sea and shore were in a kind of 
truce, and the ocean south wind brought cool re- 
freshment but no incentive. 
From the sea the old brown farm-house seemed 
a snug haven of refuge ; from the inland road it 
appeared, with its spreading, sloping roofs, like an 
ancient sea-craft come ashore, which had been, 
covered in and then embowered by kindly Nat- 
ure with foliage. In those days its golden-brown 
color was in harmony with the ripening orchards 
and gardens. 
Surely, if anywhere in the world, peace was 
here. But to its owner this very peace and quiet- 
ness was becoming intolerable. The waiting days 
were so long, the sleepless nights of uncertainty 
were so weary. When her work was done, and 
Edith sat with a book or some sewing under the 
arbor where the grape clusters hung, growing dark 
and transparent, and the boy played about near 
her, she had a view of the blue sea, and about her 
were the twitter of birds and the hum of the cica- 
da. The very beauty made her heart ache. Sea- 
ward there was nothing nothing but the leap- 
