She pushed on with the feeble step of a middle- 
aged woman, made old by suffering before her time. 
Now the current of the stream of people turned, 
and she found herself borne in the direction of the 
palace of the Maccabees, where Herod, having come 
to town to celebrate the Passover, had taken up his 
quarters. 
The palace glittered in the sun with a forbidding 
378 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
cheerfulness. Its broad approach was decorated by 
imported shrubs, and trees descended from the days 
of Solomon. Under their cool shadow a file of 
guardsmen tramped. The representatives of the 
Hebrew church followed remotely, with civic dis- 
order of step. These did not enter the palace, nor 
did they set foot in the prsetorium. They were 
excellent churchmen. They would not defile them- 
selves on Passover week, by crossing a heathen 
threshold. 
The watcher had one distant glimpse of a tall 
figure, chained, and closely guarded, and walking 
with difficulty. 
" He will never know that I am here," she thought. 
The woman followed blindly; she felfc as if his 
chains dragged on her body, making one prisoner of 
the two. It was his mother. 
A gentle hand touched her robe, and turning, she 
saw the protecting face of her son's dearest disciple. 
John stood silently beside her. 
Painful rumors came from the palace. One 
could scarcely force the mind to believe them, they 
were so harsh. It was said that Herod, curious and 
talkative at first, had lapsed into petty mockeries 
and torments, unworthy of the meanest mind in 
Palestine. It was said 
Suddenly, down the marble steps, the people saw 
the military movement stirring once again. Tossed 
from the tetrarch to the governor, bandied between 
Rome and Israel, the worry of the law, the case 
went back. 
ON TRIAL 379 
The Nazarene was walking weakly down the long, 
shaded avenue. The toy of whim and spite, he bore 
himself majestically. But his face took on a mortal 
white, above the brilliant robe that taunted its 
piteous color. 
CHAPTER XVII 
GOLGOTHA 
THE tumult in the city mounted rapidly. Rumor, 
for once, was milder than the facts. These began 
to take incredible shapes. 
It was quickly known that Pilate, clinging to his 
reluctance to condemn the JSTazarene, had fallen back 
upon the politic Konian custom which pardoned one 
Hebrew criminal on Passover week. There lay in 
the dungeon of Herod a troublesome fellow, a noted 
revolutionist, under sentence for murder ; and pass- 
ing, strangely enough, by an ingenious alias, as Bar- 
Abbas, the son of the father. The procurator was 
bewildered when, having, in accordance with the 
traditions of the great anniversary, recommended 
the release of Jesus, there came back to him the de- 
mand that he should pardon the murderer instead. 
Pilate was plainly at his wits' end; these had 
drawn him into a difficulty from which, they proved 
unable to free him. It was said that he made 
earnest, even eager efforts to save the Naaarene 
from the fate that was upon him. It was noted that 
the governor vacillated over the case, and indeed, 
pleaded for the prisoner. It was known that but 
for the officers of the national church the Roman 
might have saved the life of the great Hebrew, 
GOLGOTHA 381 
to what a consequence, who can say ? The story of 
the world's future depended on the decision of this 
one man. But Rome was passing her day of de- 
cided wills. Firmness was going out of fashion in 
the enervated national character. Pilate was a pol- 
itician, harried between a turbulent, coerced peo- 
ple and an unreasonable and exacting government. 
Annoyed and unhappy, he threw up the game at 
last, and yielded to the clamor of the Jewish nation. 
He yielded to the people ; but the people yielded 
to the priests. These pious incendiaries fired the 
popular feeling, steadily and stolidly. They would 
take no alternative ; they would listen to no compro- 
mise. They wrought the mob to a religious frenzy, 
and the Nazarene went down before it. 
The nearest friends of Jesus closed together. 
They made a little band and kept as near him as 
they dared, watching the prsetorium for sight or 
news of him. The streets were now full to bursting, 
and movement became more and more difficult. It 
was still early, with such monstrous rapidity had 
the sham trial of the Nazarene proceeded. As the 
morning advanced, the clamor in front of the palace 
grew to alarming proportions. Suddenly the yells 
and shouts of the mob became articulate. Two ter- 
rible words formed themselves out of the general 
roar. Which among those who loved the Eabbi 
best was the first to understand what those words 
meant ? They turned, each man and woman of them, 
instinctively, to spare his mother. It was too late 
for that. Were her ears a little dulled by time and 
trouble? Who can tell? Mary of Nazareth said no 
382 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
word, while the air of Jerusalem quivered to the 
laceration of the outcry : 
" Crucify ! CRUCITY him ! " 
Pilate came to the balcony of the great palace of 
Herod. The superb building blazed in the strength- 
ening sunlight. The court room lay mistily within. 
Guardsmen covered every exposed spot, porticoes, 
steps, avenues ; even the roof was armed. No one 
knew how the day's riot would result. 
The Roman governor had a worried look. The 
people saw that he was agitated. A liveried slave 
brought him a basin and ewer, and began to pour 
water on his unsteady hands. Pilate held them up, 
dripping in the morning light. They were white, 
delicate hands ; the jewels on his fingers answered 
gayly to the sun. 
," I wash my hands ! I have washed them of this 
innocent blood ! " said Pilate. He spoke theatri- 
cally. But he was in earnest, as the theatrical may be. 
Then there rose from the throat of the Hebrew 
people, on their holy week, one long, sinister cry. 
Baser was never uttered by any nation. 
u His blood be upon us, and upon cm* children ! " 
*. 
A centurion came tip at this moment and roughly 
ordered back a little group of Hebrews wlio had at- 
tracted his attention by their agitated appearance, 
and their restraint of manner. A chance word of a 
bystander caused the officer to follow them with dark 
curiosity, but the person whom he sought was not 
among them. For their Lord's own sake, hia friendfi 
GOLGOTHA 383 
at Bethany had not shown themselves. The pre- 
sence of Lazarus in the capital would have infuri- 
ated the Sanhedrin, and would have hastened the 
end, or deepened the sufferings, of the gentle life 
with which his own was so marvelously in. wound. 
Lazarus accepted the look of being neglectful and 
ungrateful, that he might offer the fact of loyalty* 
But where was Mary? Bearing her part in this 
cruel dilemma, with strength, with sweetness, in 
silence, hidden somewhere, invisible to Jesus, 
watching, listening, with eyes to which the mercy of 
tears was denied. No woman in Palestine hav- 
ing set apart the mother of Jesus in her solitary 
sacredness endured what the sister of Lazarus 
did that day, and lived to know that she had en- 
dured it, and yet that she could not die. 
Again on the portico of the palace appeared the 
irresolute figure of the procurator. But this time 
he was pitiably accompanied. When the mob be- 
gan to divine how, and by whom, the terrible cry 
arose once more : 
" Crucify I CRUCIFY ! " 
Pilate drew back with a gesture half dramatic, 
half sincere. At a sign from him, one in the back- 
ground was thrust forward by military hands. 
" Ecce Homo ! " cried the Roman loudly. 
There fell upon all the people a sudden and solemn 
hush. For the sight that they saw moved the basest 
soul in. the multitude, and the witnesses of it who 
were the least unworthy painfully carried its repro- 
duction to their last dream. 
THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Jesus stood patiently, plainly to be seen, a tall 
man, symmetrically formed, in the rigor of his 
youth* A robe of crimson purple dashed royal 
color upon him. There was blood upon his brow, 
and drops which his chained hands, hanging heav- 
ily, could not wipe away, thickened upon his cheeks, 
A mutter rustled through the crowd when it was 
seen that a chaplet of thorns, woven in semblance of 
a crown, had been violently pressed, by rude hands, 
into his temples. It was soon perceived, from his 
evident physical suffering, that worse had been done 
to the man. He had passed through what was 
called the " intermediate death." The penal scourge 
of the times was often a severe weapon, a leathern 
strap, studded with spikes of iron or of bone ; nor 
was it wielded with a merciful hand. 
The sensitive flesh of the Nazarene quivered yet. 
. . His body was slightly bowed as if it still bent 
forward in the instinctive attitude of one who would, 
but cannot, avert blows. This detracted somewhat 
from his height, but nothing from his kingly de- 
meanor. His head rose nobly from his delicate, 
bared throat. His dark, brown hair and beard, 
curling and soft, finely framed a face that Palestine 
had loved before she hated, and which Rome re- 
spected while she feared. His features were strong, 
but as soon as one had said this, one perceived that 
they were fine. There was not a weak line in them, 
but there was not a rude one. Thero shone upon 
the man the light of such a stainless imagination, 
as seemed almost incompatible with the force and 
experience which he plainly possessed. This look 
o 
w 
0^ 
fl 
GOLGOTHA 385 
was something before which the clearest heart felt 
clouded. It caused a strange, personal discomfort 
in one who was not too dull to be aware of it. 
His lips, exquisitely cut, trembled to every stir of 
feeling ; but his chin had the moulding of a great 
will. His eyes, large and luminous, burned from 
sockets sunken by suffering. In their expression 
was something ineffable. Not a spark of resentment 
sprang from their inner stars. Unfathomable pity, 
deep below deep, rayed from them. He looked as 
if he could have taken his torturers to his heart, and 
forgiven them before they asked it. 
Signs of what he had endured he could not sup- 
press, and his face was very haggard. The most 
pathetic thing about it was the indication that he 
had not slept ; that he had endured much, and must 
endure worse, with nerves shaken to their utmost, 
and brain reeling. His whole physical system went 
to his therefore tenfold torment, unfortified by nat- 
ural, human rest. Out of that mass of many thou- 
sands, this occurred, possibly, to two or three minds. 
Now, full in his wasted face, from uncounted 
throats the roar went up again : 
" We have a law ! . . . He made himself the Son 
of God. He ought to die I " 
*.* 
It was between eight and nine o'clock in the 
morning when the word went forth that even the 
allowable respite of two days between sentence and 
execution was refused ; and that the man and the 
cross his last, his dumb companion had come 
together. 
386 THE STOEY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Crucifixion was not a Jewish death-penalty, nor 
was it, at that time, the favorite that it later became 
with Rome, when Hebrew souls went up by thou- 
sands from Roman crosses ; and when one of those 
ghastly, historic retributions, which nations, like 
individuals, sometimes undergo, avenged the Naza- 
rene. 
For this blameless man had been reserved the 
exceptional death ; that of the lowest shame, that of 
the sorest torment. 
The day was as fair as it had promised, and there 
was a show of happy sunlight upon his face and fig- 
ure when he was led out of the palace of Herod 
towards the narrow, arched street, known for his 
sake, from that time, as the Via Dolorosa. 
The mob had a glimpse of his peaceful, melan- 
choly face as the cross was adjusted by leathern 
straps to his arms and shoulders. A few, more 
thoughtful than the mass, observed how exhausted 
he looked* 
He had but a very short distance to walk to the 
hill then in use as the place of common execution. 
It lay in a northwesterly direction from the Temple. 
It was scarcely a quarter of a mile away* Great 
surprise was felt, when the cry came up from the 
following crowd : 
" He cannot do it ! He has dropped. The man 
is too weak to carry his own cross ! " 
It was soon known that a stranger from Gyrene, 
coming into the city, and meeting the brutal proces- 
sion, had been arrested, and forced by the Roman 
GOLGOTHA 387 
guards to bear the burden, under which the con- 
demned had sunken. No one had understood be- 
fore how far the strength of the Nazarene was gone. 
In every mob there is hidden the warmth, of some 
human mercy ; and as the gentle prisoner went to 
his death, the voices of the Hebrew women arose, 
wailing. He had cared for them, and blessed their 
wretched lives in so many ways that it was hard to 
say which of all his kindnesses was the kindest, or 
which of his wonders had been the most wonderful. 
He had cured their sick, he had saved their dissi- 
pated, he had loved their children, he had poured 
out his exquisite sympathy upon their unknown 
griefs. For the heart-break that only women know, 
for the woe that women of their times endured, as 
a matter of course, without complaint, he had been 
divinely sorry. He had been the only man who ever 
understood* 
The women sobbed and moaned bitterly, and cov- 
ered their faces with their robes, and their cry went 
up to heaven against the men who had done this 
murder. 
Then Jesus, when he heard the women weeping, 
forgot himself, and turned to comfort them. And 
he guarded them and warned them against troubles 
and perils of the future, known, it seemed, only to 
himself ; but which afterward, as he had said, fell 
heavily upon them and their hapless children. 
And the women wept the more, not for their 
ovm sakos, but for his, because he forgot himself 
and remembered them, in an hour when all men 
would ihave called it only natural if he had forgotten 
388 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
everything in heaven and earth, except his own 
emergency. This was now past all human hope. 
For the great heretic there could he no reprieve. 
There was in Jerusalem something like an asso- 
ciation of Hebrew ladies, organized for the purpose 
of relieving the sufferings of those condemned to 
lingering deaths. The use of anodynes was their 
chief or only practical method of doing this ; and a 
mixture of myrrh and strong wine was found most 
helpful to the tortured. The executive department 
of this feminine charity was delegated to men. 
The women who had followed Jesus, loving and 
mourning him, were distressed when they learned 
that the Nazarene declined their anodyne. After he 
had heen told of its nature, no one could persuade 
him to touch it. At whatever cost, he chose con- 
sciousness as the road to death. It was said that 
his convictions refused him the right to curtail any 
form of suffering which God allotted him. This was 
a strange thing. Who could understand it ? 
It was now nine o'clock in the morning. The 
little, sarcastic revenge of Pilate, on the prominent 
Jews who had forced him into an unpleasant posi- 
tion, had been affixed to the top of the cross. It 
was ingeniously written, for the benefit of a mixed 
population, in three languages, Latin, Greek, and 
Aramaean. This inscription set forth, as was usual, 
the charge under which the condemned was to die. 
A committee of Hebrew priests had hurried an- 
grily to the procurator. 
" Take down the titulus I " they demanded ; it 
GOLGOTHA 389 
is offensive to us to say that he is King of the Jews. 
Say that he claimed to be, Ee-write the titulus ! " 
But Pilate laughed. 
Baffled and stung, a number of very religious 
Jews ran up towards the place of execution, to see 
for themselves what was happening. The priests 
could not follow, for it was unlawful to defile them- 
selves with the associations of death, and at Passover 
time. These pious persons climbed to the wall^ of 
the Temple area ; and there, as the April morning 
broadened cheerfully, they sat in the pleasant light 
and feasted upon what they saw. Golgotha was 
quite within their range of vision. They watched 
the scene, in all its details, as long as they could 
see. 
A messenger, running, came breathless back to 
them. They hurled ravenous questions at him. 
"When the cross was lifted, what did you 
tear?" 
" Strange words." 
" Tell us them ! Give us the words ! What did 
he say?" 
And the messenger, dropping his voice for uncon- 
trollable awe, gave them the words. " As the Lord 
livoth, the man did say : * Father, forgive them, for 
they know not what they do.' " 
The priests glanced over their shoulders, and 
each man saw that the others had turned white to 
the lips. The oldest averted his face. The rest 
gazed on. 
<* * * 
Jeans, on Golgotha, looked down and off. He 
392 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 
heavens ; it was as if they had been splashed with 
blood. 
Between the crucified, high above the heads of 
the living, an awful conversation was taking place. 
From one of the condemned felons, taunts were 
overheard : 
" Then, why do you not save yourself, and us ? " 
Reproaches for this brutality issued from the dry 
lips of the other, a compeer in some dark past. It 
was observed that this man addressed the sinking 
Nazarene. He replied faintly, offering some devout 
comfort to his low companion in agony. 
This exquisite self-forgetfulness did not stop the 
ghastly hilarity, which still amused the mob at inter- 
vals, as it had all day. 
" "Why do you not come down from the cross, you 
Son of God?" 
Why did he not ? How simple a deed that were ! 
Where were the forces of which he had spoken in 
Gethseraane, in which he believed, but wrih whose 
mystical reinforcement he chose to dispense ? Silent, 
in unseen spaces, obeying unknown laws, marshaled 
but unsummoned, thrilling for his command, they 
awaited it. 
The taunts came up : 
"You saved other people! Now let us see you 
save yourself ! " 
His lips, parching with the thirst of crucifixion, 
moved painfully. There drove across his tortured 
brain the thought of the consequences if he said the 
word that burned for utterance, if he gave the sign 
that battled through his being for expression. 
GOLGOTHA 393 
What did he hear? Was it the dying throb of his 
own great heart ? Was it the voice of God ? or the 
wail of man ? 
" Thou shalt carry the sins of the world. . . . 
Thou Lamb of God!" 
Jesus opened his closing eyes. They were fading 
fast, and the figures in the moving mass before him 
were scarcely visible. He could see his mother's 
upturned face. He could yet feel upon him the 
eyes of John, whose expression bore to him the 
yearning of the frail, human love that might fail 
him, and grieve him, but which loved him still, and 
only asked to be trusted in its weakness and forgiven 
for its faultiness, because it was human, and because 
it was love. 
But the faces of his dearest passed on into the 
universal darkness, and went out. They were re- 
placed by ineffable visions. The stored strength of 
a lifetime of prayer lifted all his nature, and shut it 
in with God. Who forgot? Who deserted? His 
Father loved . . . 
Now all the woe of souls unborn thrust itself upon 
his consciousness. His own age, his own people, 
had slain him. But he was not dying for his own 
age. All times, all peoples, counted in the cost of 
his anguish. He felt the human exigencies in which 
belief would be hard, and scorn of the invisible nat- 
ural ; he thought of the weakened, and the pursued 
by trouble, and of those who would find their suf- 
fering greater than their endurance. He remem- 
bered that it was his to show them how to trust 
ill God. * * 
B94 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
A deadly darkness had swept down upon the 
crosses ; a roar that was neither tempest, nor thun- 
der, occupied the air. In the swift and startling 
gloom his face could be seen, struck out distinctly 
by inexplicable light. Before its expression, all the 
people fell upon the ground, those who had hated 
him praying Jehovah to spare their brutal souls; 
but those who loved him thought only of his, and 
prayed for him. 
Ah God, what a cry ! 
. . Uttered with the last energy which assists 
dissolution, spoken in the tongue of his youth, and 
of iite lowly people for whom he had cared, the 
piteous words which one who loves him sensitively 
would not, even yet, urge the refusing lips to repeat, 
carried tibe last surprise of his broken heart. 
As his unanswered question went up from the 
cross to the heavens, the darkness deepened to fright. 
The wind arose, but fell at once to ominous calm. 
Then the lips of the earth opened and spoke. 
In the unnatural dark, all the people ran hither 
and thither, and could not see one another's faces. 
But his upon the cross remained still visible, hang- 
ing a little higher than their own, and smitten out 
in light. 
The earthquake tore the rocks of Golgotha, and 
the walls of the city reeled, and stones which sealed 
the tombs in ancient burial gardens were loosened. 
In some instances they were thrust off, and sepulchres 
left open to the recoiling gaze. 
The panic on Golgotha shook from centre to cir- 
cumference of the half -blinded crowd. The people 
GOLGOTHA 395 
fled in horror, anyhow, anywhere, as they could ; as 
they ran, they beat their breasts, and uttered short, 
terrified sounds. 
The Eoman officer, who had been posted at the 
foot of the cross, fell flat with shame and terror. 
" It was the Son of God ! " he cried. 
When the priests, groping through the prolonged 
darkness, huddled together in the Temple, they 
found a fearful thing. The great and sacred veil, 
hanging before the Holy of Holies, was rent across 
its blue and purple, white and crimson folds, straight 
through its embroidered, golden cherubim torn 
from end to end. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
THE BESUERECTION AND THE LIFE 
WHEN the darkness lifted from the land, the 
crucified Nazarene did not stir. 
Was he dead so soon? There were those who 
were inclined to complain of him, because his sen- 
sitive and exhausted frame did not support torture 
longer. Even in death, he offended his tormentors. 
They took the quickest possible steps to make sure 
of the fact that he was gone, beyond a question. 
"Not a bone of him shall be broken " had sung an 
ancient poet of his people, in the days when prophecy 
and literature clasped strong hands. 
A Roman soldier stood on Golgotha with up- 
raised arm to apply the test of the crtcrifrayinm to 
the motionless body of Jesus. But he laid his mal- 
let down with uneasy surprise, and took his spear 
instead. Did there linger in the vigorous Galilean 
the innermost ember of life ? The trained military 
hand made no mistake in giving the vital wound. 
Then the spear dropped as the mallet had, and the 
Roman wished he had not marred the man. For 
there was something that he could not understand 
about the manner of this death* 
It has since been said that there were certain phy- 
siological evidences that the crucified Rabbi had, 
THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE 397 
indeed, died most piteously, yielding to a mental 
agony which, in rare cases, has been known to cause 
a lesion of the central organ of life. It has long 
been believed by many who would have wished to 
believe otherwise, that Jesus, in the literal sense of 
the words, died of a broken heart. 
The broken-hearted keep their own counsel ; and 
the secret is his yet. By whatever road he trod the 
last wilderness that lay between his lonely life and 
its appalling end, the end had come. Follower and 
foe, Jew and Gentile, accepted the fact : Jesus the 
Christ was dead. 
Now, upon the murdered man was poured a swift 
tenderness which was offered to him as it is to 
many a sensitive and deserted soul too late. 
A prominent Hebrew who had long loved the 
Rabbi in silence pushed his influence to the full, 
demanded the body of the Nazarene, and obtained 
from the Roman government its immediate posses- 
sion. He offered his own family burial place, a new 
tomb, that death had never occupied. The eminent 
citizen achieved what lowlier friends could not have 
accomplished, and the last dignities were offered 
without disturbance to the body of Jesus before the 
Sabbath sun had set. This was as the law compelled. 
The trembling fingers of his chosen friends drew 
out the spikes from the feet that had trodden Pales- 
tine over only to do it kindnesses, and bathed the 
hurts in the hands that had healed and blessed, but 
never harmed. As these were composed for their 
rest, one who had cared for him very much thought 
how often they had been seen lifted over the heads 
398 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
of the people, while he prayed that happiness, and 
health, and holiness might come to them. The tears 
of loving women dashed upon his face, when it was 
drawn down within their reach. They who had 
never ventured or thought to touch him while he 
was alive, begged permission to lift his cold hand to 
their lips. But his brow was so majestic that no 
kiss could intrude upon it. In death, as in life, he 
passed alone. 
They bore him to his garden tomb as the light 
was striking low upon the leaves of trees and plants, 
and upon the petals of the closing flowers. They 
carried him in haste and fear. Only his bearei'S and 
two or three friends accompanied him. With tired 
feet and tender thoughts he had followed many a 
burial procession. But Jerusalem was ashamed to 
follow his. 
Rudely embalmed, or wrapped in such spices as 
could be hastily procured^ and folded into fair linen, 
his noble body was left in the outer chamber of the 
pure, new sepulchre. He was not interred. 
As the round stone rolled into its place the sun 
sank. And the Hebrew nation piously set itself to 
the observance of High Sabbath ; for it was Holy 
Week. 
*..,. 
But there were ingenious minds among their 
priests and leading men, and the Roman governor 
promptly received one of the anxious committees 
that had tried his patience all the week, 
" Give us a watch at the tomb," urged the spokes- 
man shrewdly, " for the man has said strange things i 
THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE 399 
lie did claim that he would not stay in it three days. 
He has his friends. They would steal his body to 
save his reputation as a prophet. Give us guards ! " 
So Pilate yawned, and gave them guards, for he 
was weary of the subject. And the tomb was barred 
with a small stone, which, adjusted to the disk, held 
it in its place. A tablet of moist clay, so placed 
that the least movement would break it, was stamped 
with the imperial seal. The officers of Borne sat 
without and guarded the tomb. 
They sat there all night on duty. The next day 
they were relieved by other guards, and the next 
night the watch went on again. So the Sabbath 
came to its end, and midnight of Saturday to Sun- 
day followed. 
The ,watch were brave men, and accustomed to 
grim duties, but they had uncomfortable thoughts. 
The night was long, and there was no wind. It was 
so still that their own hearty breathing startled 
them. The garden was* in bloom all about the beau- 
tiful new sepulchre. The stalks of shrubs seemed to 
stir as if they had been hit by passers ; but no one 
moved. Now and then a flower stooped, as if it had 
been brushed; but it had not been touched. The 
air was faint with perfume ; the place was heavenly 
