Life Knox obeyed his orders to the letter, and made the left his
particular study; and when he saw something like signs of a plantation
in the distance, he dismounted, got over the fence, moving in a
direction to satisfy himself that no foragers were in sight. As he was
advancing towards the plantation, Grace Morgan came out of a bushy
knoll and confronted him. After the interview with her, he had carried
the treasure-chest to the road. He had sent the two privates to the
left; and as Sergeant Fronklyn galloped off to hurry up the platoon,
they rode down the road, and halted in front of him. One of these
soldiers was Deck's cousin, Alick Lyon.
"Have you seen or heard anything crooked, Lyon?" asked the chief scout.
"Not a thing, Sergeant; I thought I heard voices one time, but I could
make nothing of them. I saw this woman walking across a cornfield;" and
he pointed at Grace.
"I saw him too; but I was afraid of him," added the young woman.
"Wasn't you afeerd of me?" asked the sergeant, with a smile on his wiry
face.
"No, I was not; besides, I was tired out with the load I carried, and I
felt as though I could go no farther."
"How far from here does Colonel Halliburn live?" asked Life.
"It is more than a mile from this road."
"I reckon this box will not be very safe with him, for there's more
gorillas runnin' loose about this country than there is skippers in an
old cheese. Kin you ride horseback, Grace?"
"Every Kentucky girl can ride horseback," replied she, with the first
smile he had yet seen on her face, perhaps because she expected to be
sent to Colonel Halliburn's mansion.
"But we hain't got no side-saddle," suggested Life.
"I can get along very well on any saddle; and I have ridden a spirited
animal without any saddle," said the lady.
"Perhaps you would like to enlist in our company," added the sergeant,
with a heavy chuckle.
"I should like it first-rate, if it could be allowed," replied Grace,
with energy, while her eyes snapped at the idea.
"I shall have to leave that matter to Major Lyon. But here comes the
platoon," said Life, as thirty-five or forty men dashed down the road,
led by Lieutenant Lyon.
"Where are the enemy, Sergeant?" demanded the officer, as he reined in
his panting steed some distance in advance of his men, and in front of
Life and Grace Morgan.
"Half a mile or more to the east of where we stand," replied the scout.
"Is there a road or path over there?" inquired Deck.
"This is Grace Morgan, and she can tell you all about it, for she
brought me the news," answered Life, presenting the young woman.
The lieutenant raised his cap and bowed politely to the Kentucky
damsel; and he could not help observing that she was a very pretty
girl, though he had no time to indulge in the phrases of gallantry,
even if his fealty to Miss Kate Belthorpe had permitted him to do so.
This fair young lady was the sister of Lieutenant Belthorpe, and Deck
had made her acquaintance on the evening of the "Battle of Riverlawn,"
when he had rescued her from the grasp of a ruffian. He was too young
to be absolutely in love with the maiden, though he believed she was
the prettiest girl in the State of Kentucky.
Miss Morgan repeated the story she had told the sergeant.
"How did you escape from the ruffians?" asked Deck.
"We saw them coming from the direction of Miltonville; and Mr.
Halliburn, who is my guardian, sent me to carry his valuables to the
mansion of his brother, about a mile and a half from his own house,"
replied Grace, by this time quite reassured by the presence of the
soldiers.
"Have you the valuables now?"
"They are in a box," she replied, pointing to the treasure-chest. "It
contains a good deal of money in gold and silver, and it is so heavy
that I could not carry it any farther, for I was faint and tired out."
"I will send two of my men to see you safely to the house where you are
going," continued the lieutenant, as he glanced at his platoon, which
had halted in the road near the place where the maiden stood. "Life,
name two of your trustiest men," he added in a low tone to the
sergeant.
"Fronklyn and Sandy Lyon," responded Life promptly. "The lady can ride
on an army saddle, or even without any saddle."
"Send the men you mention; as our spare horses are with the
baggage-wagons, you can wait till they come up. Is there any road, Miss
Morgan, across these fields to your guardian's mansion?" added Deck,
willing that his men should rest for a few minutes, for he was not
inclined to fight his first battle, while in command, without fully
understanding the situation.
"There is a rough road across the fields and through the woods to the
mansion; but it is very soft and muddy," replied Grace.
"There comes a man across the field!" exclaimed Life.
"That is Win Milton!" cried the maiden, her face suffused with a blush,
as though she supposed all the listeners understood her relations to
the young man, who was now running with all the speed of his legs
across the field.
He was a stalwart fellow, and the maiden's crimson cheeks betrayed the
whole story. He was well dressed, and his face was intelligent and
expressive.
"I am so glad you have come, Win," ejaculated the blushing beauty, as
the young man grasped her offered hands. "What is the news from the
house?"
"The ruffians are guerillas, and they are trying to make Mr. Halliburn
give up his money, but he declared that he had not a dollar in the
house; yet he found time to tell me that you had taken the chest
containing it to his brother's," replied Winfield Milton, which was his
full name. "The robbers were ransacking the house in search of the
money or other valuables; and Mr. Halliburn insisted that I should
follow you, for he was alarmed in regard to your safety."
"Mr. Win--I have not heard your name yet," interposed the lieutenant.
"This is Mr. Winfield Milton, of Miltonville," added Grace, with
another blush.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Milton, for you can be of service to me. I
suppose you are acquainted with this locality?" replied Deck.
"Born and raised in these parts, Captain."
"Lieutenant Lyon, if you please. I have already detailed two of my men
to conduct Miss Morgan to the mansion where she wishes to go, for I
desire to employ you as my guide, if the lady will consent," continued
Deck.
"Certainly I will consent!" exclaimed Grace. "I would guide you myself,
if I had not to take care of the treasure-chest."
"I shall be very glad to serve you, Lieutenant," added Win.
Although not ten minutes had elapsed since the arrival of the officer
in command, the baggage wagons were in sight. Men were sent to them for
two of the extra horses, saddled for immediate use. One of them was
given to Miss Morgan, Sergeant Fronklyn received the treasure-chest on
his horse, and Sandy Lyon was sent on ahead to scout the path. The lady
seated herself on the army saddle, and the party moved off as rapidly
as the muddy road would permit.
CHAPTER III
THE LIEUTENANT BAGS HIS GAME
The Riverlawn Cavalry had lost a number of its men, who had been killed
in the several actions in which it had been engaged, and a greater
number had been disabled by wounds; though both companies had been
recruited up to their full standard. The squadron was so popular that
more than twenty had applied to enlist after its ranks were full. Deck
had, therefore, his full quota, and two more.
"The other horse is for you, Mr. Milton," said the lieutenant, when he
was ready to move on to the mansion invested by the ruffians.
"Thank you, Lieutenant Lyon; I left my horse a mile beyond Mr.
Halliburn's, when I learned that the guerillas were going in that
direction," replied the guide. "I am satisfied, now that Grace is
safe."
"There is another band of guerillas or foragers in the direction of
Breedings; but the first platoon of our company has gone over to give
them a reception, and I don't believe any of them will get as far south
as the house to which Miss Morgan is going," Deck explained.
"I hope not, for I am very anxious about Grace," added the guide.
"She is a very attractive young lady," suggested Deck.
"Which makes her peril all the greater," replied her intended, for such
he was, as they entered a forest of black walnut. "We have tried to
persuade her to go to her uncle's house in Springfield, Ohio; but she
refuses to leave her guardian, who has been a father to her from her
childhood. I shall get my horse, if the ruffians have not stolen him,
and hasten to Colonel Halliburn's, as soon as you have disposed of
these villains."
"I shall try to bag the whole of them," said Deck. "But so many
prisoners would be a nuisance to me."
"There is a loyal Home Guard in Millersville, if the Confederates have
not scattered them; and they would take care of your prisoners,"
suggested the guide.
"Now, Mr. Milton,"--
"Call me Win, as everybody else does, and that will save time,"
interposed the young man.
"As you please, Win; the name is shorter, and perhaps you will
recognize it more readily because it is more familiar to you than one
with a handle to it. Now, I want to know something more about the
surroundings of Mr. Halliburn's mansion. I wonder that this gentleman
is not a colonel, like most people of any importance in this State."
"He was formerly a clergyman, and sometimes officiates now on an
emergency. That fact saved him from any military infliction. Then his
brother is a real colonel, and two of the same title would have made
confusion in talking about them," the guide explained.
The mud was so deep that no great speed could be made on the march, and
the guerillas were not likely to complete their mission for some hours,
for they seldom left a plundered house without requiring a meal to be
provided for them. Still, the lieutenant pushed on with all practicable
haste.
"How does the land lie about the house?" asked Deck.
"All the land cultivated on the plantation, which contains over a
thousand acres, is on the east side of the mansion. Most of the ground
on the west of it is in walnut; for in the dry season it is easily
hauled to the Cumberland River, and carried to a market during high
water. It is a profitable crop to the planter."
"Does the walnut grove reach as far as the mansion?"
"Very nearly. There is a small grove south of the house, and a wooded
hill to the north-east of it."
"Very well; I think I have got the idea of it," replied Deck, as he
relapsed into silence to study his plan.
Though he had a great deal of confidence in himself, he was fully
conscious of the responsibility which rested upon him. Probably if
Captain Gordon had suspected that the lieutenant at eighteen would
encounter an enemy, he would have come with the platoon himself, though
he had quite as much confidence in Deck as in Tom Belthorpe. But the
other division was reasonably sure to engage an enemy, and doubtless
this consideration had decided the question as to which he should
accompany.
"This wood extends around to the north side of the mansion, if I
understand the situation," said Deck, when he had arranged the attack
in his own mind.
"Precisely so," replied the guide.
"That is on our left; how is it on the right, Win?"
"You come out of the woods into a cornfield; beyond this is a low hill,
and beyond it is a grove, where the family walk in warm weather."
"How far are we from the mansion now?"
"Something more than a hundred rods."
"Platoon--halt!" said the lieutenant, suddenly whirling his horse about
as on a pivot. "Sergeant Knox!"
Life rode up to him, saluted, and waited for further orders.
"With fifteen men you will move to the left through the woods till you
come to the mansion now directly in front of us. Move without noise,
and halt your force as near the house as you can without being seen by
the enemy, who are too busy to notice anything just now. When the bugle
sounds the 'Advance,' you will march at a gallop to the east side of
the house. Do you understand me, Life?" said Deck, speaking very
clearly, but in a low tone.
"I'll bet I do; shall I repeat the orders?" replied the sergeant.
"It is not necessary."
Deck then directed Corporal Tilford, another non-commissioned officer,
to take twelve men and proceed to the right, through the cornfield,
concealing himself behind the hill mentioned by Win, and halt in the
grove. At the same signal, a second time given, the corporal was to
march his men in haste to the front of the mansion. The two detachments
went to the left and the right as directed, and the lieutenant
continued the march directly to his destination. The stable of the
plantation was the first building they saw, for the west side of the
mansion was concealed by a dozen lofty trees. If the ruffians were
still in the house, they appeared to have taken no precautions to guard
against a surprise: for there was no sentinel, and no person could be
seen near the mansion.
"Platoon--halt!" said Deck, when he had led his men into the shelter of
the trees; but he spoke in a very low tone, for he was not more than
fifty feet from the mansion.
Taking the bugler and the guide with him, he crept carefully around the
principal building, halting at the corner. From this point he obtained
a full view of the ground in front. He counted twenty-two horses,
secured to a fence and in other places where it could be done. This he
concluded was the force of the enemy. He could hear very loud noises
and shouts within the mansion, and the sounds appeared to come from the
upper story of the building. It was evident that the marauders had
searched the lower part of the house, and were now engaged in going
through the upper portion.
"Was it known that Mr. Halliburn had a large sum of money in his
house?" asked Deck in a whisper of the guide.
"Probably it was; he kept it in several banks till recently. When he
withdrew the money from the banks, the officers of these institutions
were incensed against him; for his example would be followed by other
influential people, and the banks would be ruined," Win explained in
the same low tone.
"Stufton, go to the rear of the house, and send the first six men you
come to around to me. Tell them to make no noise," continued the
lieutenant, addressing the bugler.
He was not absent more than three minutes, and the men crept around the
house as though they had been engaged in a burglarious enterprise,
securing their sabres so that they did not rattle. Milton wondered what
the cavalryman in command intended to do, but he waited patiently for
the outcome. Ordering the men in a whisper to follow him, Deck stole
silently to the portico of the mansion on the east side, which was
precisely like one on the west.
The front door of the mansion was wide open. Deck stationed his six men
on the piazza, close to the building, and then passed into the hall
through the open passage. A door on each side opened into as many large
apartments. The one on the right was plainly the parlor. On a broad
sofa reclined a man with white hair and beard. He lay there, and did
not move any more than if the breath had left his body. In the room on
the left lay an elderly woman on another sofa, as motionless as the
other.
Heavy footsteps could be heard on the floors of the upper story, with
the sound of rough voices, from which proceeded a constant flow of
profanity. Deck stepped out of the hall to the piazza, and called the
men to him one at a time, and then stationed them in the hall
surrounding the staircase leading to the second story.
"If any one attempts to descend the stairs, warn him not to do so, and
shoot him if he disobeys," said Deck to each of the troopers, who had
his carbine in readiness for use.
"Are there any back stairs in the house, Win?" asked Deck in the usual
whisper.
"There are, by the dining-room in the rear," replied the guide, who
began to understand the method by which the lieutenant meant to
operate, but he said nothing.
Deck went to the west door of the mansion, opened it, and called three
more men, whom he instructed as he had the others, and stationed them
at the foot of the back stairs. Calling a corporal and a private, he
sent them to Life and Tilford, with an order to secure all horses, and
load their carbines, putting their revolvers in their belts. Then they
were to wait for the signal from the bugle.
"Now we will look into the two rooms, and see if the man and woman on
the sofas are dead," said Deck to the guide. "Come with me, Win, if you
please."
Milton had not entered the house before, and had not seen the persons
on the sofas. He followed the lieutenant into the room where the man
lay. Going nearer to him than before, he discovered that the gentleman
was strapped to the sofa so that he could not move.
"It is Mr. Halliburn!" was the whispered exclamation of Win.
"Hush! Don't speak, sir," said Deck, as he proceeded to remove the
straps which bound him, aided by the guide.
"Not a sound, sir!" continued the young officer. "You are safe, and so
is Miss Morgan, and also the treasure-chest. Not a word!"
Win assisted him to sit up on the sofa, and then went into the other
front room with Deck. The latter warned her as he had the man not to
speak, and then asked the guide who she was, while both of them began
at once to remove her bonds.
"Mrs. Halliburn," replied Win, who assisted her to rise as soon as she
was liberated.
"Now, Win, if you wish to go and find your horse, I can spare you,
though I should like very well to have you remain longer."
"I want to see this thing through," answered Milton. "I have seen you
pile up all the incidents of this affair, like those in a novel; and
now I want to see you pull out the pin in the last chapter, and let
everything down in a heap. I suppose Grace is safe with your men to
guard her."
"I will vouch for her safety. I am going to pull out the pin now,"
added Deck, as he beckoned the bugler to follow him to the front or
east piazza.
He ordered him to sound the "Advance," and the command was promptly
obeyed. The ringing notes of the startling call sounded clearly in the
silence of the retired locality, and it could have been heard at least
half a mile. Life Knox's force came first, and Deck directed the
sergeant to surround the house, and shoot down any guerilla that
attempted to escape. The bugle sounded the second call, and Corporal
Tilford and his dozen men appeared in front of the mansion. The
sergeant continued to station the men till all of them were in
position.
The marauders flocked to the windows, and found half a dozen carbines
pointed at each opening. It checked their enthusiasm at once. At the
staircase those who proposed to descend found as many pieces aimed at
them. It looked just then as though Lieutenant Lyon had bagged the
twenty-two guerillas in the upper story of the mansion.
CHAPTER IV
A REFRACTORY GUERILLA CHIEF
The situation did not look hopeful to the ruffians who had taken
possession of the mansion. They saw at least forty carbines pointed at
them, and the staircase looked like a barred gate to them. Their heavy
footsteps could be heard in the lower story as they walked about from
one window to another, searching for some avenue of escape. Life Knox
was passing around the house, assisted by Corporal Tilford, in
readiness to meet the first attempt to resist the fate that was in
store for them.
The lieutenant stood at the front door, and occasionally stepped
out-doors to assure himself that the house was well covered by his
troopers. He was disposed to wait for some movement on the part of the
enemy, or to allow them to get accustomed to the situation. He had
fought guerillas before; and it was not wise, in his judgment, to force
them suddenly into desperation, for they became reckless when pressed
too hard.
"You have got them into a tight place," said Win Milton, who was
watching the young officer with the most intense interest.
"The circumstances have just fitted the situation for me," replied
Deck, who kept his eyes wandering in every direction in search of any
demonstration on the part of the ruffians. "Do you know any of the men
you have seen about the place, Win?"
"I recognize one of them, and I have seen some of the others," replied
the guide. "A fellow who is called Captain Coonly seems to be in
command of the gang. He has been the most active Secessionist in Adair
County, and the most desperate one. He has an intense hatred of the
Union men of the vicinity, and has advocated hanging every one of them.
He is a fire-eater of the most pronounced stamp; but the rascal is a
coward, I believe, though he has the reputation of being a brave man;
yet he is nothing but a bully. You would think, to hear him talk, that
he was going to burn up the Cumberland River."
"Is he the long-haired fellow I saw at the head of the stairs, dressed
better than the rest of the gang?" asked Deck.
"That is the man. He is well educated, and is a lawyer in Columbia; but
the influential and conservative men, who are nearly all Unionists,
will have nothing to do with him, and have always looked upon him as a
scallawag. He raised a company of Home Guards, but he could enlist only
the ruffians of the vicinity," replied Milton, as he drew the picture
of the leader of the guerillas; and Deck thought the lawyer was not
unlike some of the Secessionists of Butler and Edmonson Counties.
"As you say, we have the ruffians in a tight place, and I want to give
them a chance to think over the situation, and take it in," added Deck.
"If they want to fight, we can accommodate them at any moment they are
ready to open the ball. I suppose they are all armed."
"With old shot-guns, horse-pistols, and antique rifles," replied Win
contemptuously.
"But even such weapons will kill; and I don't want to lose my men
unless it is absolutely necessary, for they can be put to a better use
than in grinding up such blackguards as we have here."
"Don't you think they comprehend the situation by this time?" asked
Milton, who seemed to be impatient to see the end of the affair.
"I might as well wait here as at Millersville; for Captain Gordon has
gone over to Breedings to settle up a case of this kind, and he may not
arrive for several hours yet. I will go into the house and talk with
Mr. Halliburn," said Deck, as he suited the action to the word.
"I doubt if he can give you any information you have not already
obtained," answered Milton, following the lieutenant into the mansion.
The planter and his wife were found on the sofas where they had been
confined; and they seemed to be still paralyzed with terror, for not a
few Union men had been hung or shot in the State within the preceding
year. Mr. Halliburn was a man of sixty or more. He had been a clergyman
during a considerable portion of his life, and he was not at all
belligerent in his nature.
"Mr. Halliburn, this is Lieutenant Lyon, of the Riverlawn Cavalry,
serving the United States Government," said Win, presenting the young
officer.
"I am very glad to see you, Lieutenant Lyon; I may say that I am
rejoiced to see you at this time, for I am beset by the children of
Satan, who would hang me to the highest walnut in my park," said the
venerable gentleman, with a sweetly religious smile on his thin lips,
while his eyes lighted up with an expression in keeping with the smile,
which excited the reverence of the youthful soldier.
"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Halliburn, for I hope I shall soon be
able to relieve you of your troublesome visitors," replied Deck, taking
the hand the planter extended to him.
"I am not a man of war or blood, and I have submitted with what
resignation I could command to the outrages of these myrmidons of sin,"
continued the ex-clergyman. "They learned in some manner that I had
money in the house, which belongs mostly to my ward, Miss Morgan."
"I have met her, and sent two of my men to conduct her to the house of
your brother," added Deck.
"God bless you for your kindness to the child!" exclaimed Mr.
Halliburn, grasping the officer's hand again. "When I saw these foes of
God and man coming towards the mansion, I understood their mission; and
I sent Grace to my brother's with all the money in the house. I hoped
to save it for her use, for nearly all of it belongs to her. But where
is my poor wife?"
"She is all right, in the sitting-room," replied Win. "I will bring her
in," and he hastened to the other front room for her.
Mr. Halliburn told the lieutenant that the marauders had threatened to
hang him if he did not tell where his money was concealed. He had told
them the truth, that there was no money in the house; but they refused
to believe him, and had been searching the house for the last hour.
They had opened every drawer and closet, explored the cellar, examined
the chimneys at each end of the house, and then gone up-stairs to
continue the hunt.
Mrs. Halliburn came into the room, leaning on the arm of Win Milton,
who presented her to the lieutenant. She looked like the twin-sister,
rather than the wife, of the planter, and the same pious expression was
settled upon her face. But Deck had learned all he cared to know at
present, and he thought by this time that the guerillas had come to a
realizing sense of their situation. He thought it was time for him to
attend to them. As he passed out of the parlor, a soldier saluted him.
"One on 'em wants to speak to the commanding officer," said he,
pointing to the head of the stairs, where the marauders were huddled
together. "This is the lieutenant in command," added the cavalryman,
calling to the man who wished to see him.
"What! that boy?" demanded the ruffian.
"Boy or man, I am in command of this detachment of United States
cavalry," replied Deck, elevating his head as high as he could get it;
and he was quite as tall as half of his platoon. "If you have anything
to say to me, say it with a civil tongue in your head."
"That is Captain Coonly," said Win in a low tone.
"I have come to the conclusion that I had better make terms with you,"
replied the leader of the ruffians.
"I make no terms with thieves and robbers," answered Deck, with dignity
enough for a major-general. "I find you engaged in plundering a citizen
of the United States, threatening him, and ransacking his mansion.
Soldiers do not engage in such work."
"I am in the service of the Southern Confederacy," replied Captain
Coonly, evidently somewhat crestfallen.
"Have you a commission about you?"
"Not yet; but I shall have one."
"I look upon you and your gang as guerillas, and I shall treat you as
such. Will you surrender to an officer of the United States?"
"No, I won't surrender! I am willing to make terms with you, and will
do the fair thing," blustered the captain without a commission.
"I do not make terms with such as you are. We have talked enough on
that subject, and you need not say another word about terms; there is
no such word in my book."
"My men are all armed in good shape, and they are fighting characters.
All I ask is fair play."
"You shall have it; and according to the civil law of Kentucky, that
means the inside of a prison-cell for such fellows as you are!"
answered the lieutenant coolly and calmly, with no display of anger;
for he was trying with all his might to follow the excellent advice his
father had given him for his guidance as an officer.
"No civil law about it!" exclaimed Captain Coonly, his wrath stirred up
by the mention of a prison. "I am a soldier, and so are my men. I
demand terms such as one military officer should give to another."
"I do not recognize you as a soldier in the service of the Confederacy,
which would entitle you to military consideration," Lieutenant Lyon
declared with as much solemnity as though he had been presiding over a
court-martial.
Win Milton could hardly control his risible muscles; for he was
inclined to laugh outright as he heard a young fellow of eighteen talk
as though he understood military law as well as he did cavalry tactics.
But Deck had studied the needed subjects for his conduct as an officer
while others slept, and he had improved every opportunity to converse
with Captain Gordon upon the laws and customs of the service.
"I thought you said we should have fair play?" growled Captain Coonly.
"I did; and I explained what fair play was in a case like this. But we
have talked enough about terms; and now we will proceed to business, or
to fight out this thing, if you so elect," said Deck very calmly but
very decidedly.
"But I only ask"--
"You need not ask anything!" interposed the lieutenant. "We have talked
enough; now will you oblige me by coming down the stairs?"
"What if I decline to come down the stairs?" demanded Captain Coonly.
"Then I shall interpret your reply to mean that you prefer to fight out
this matter."
"But you have us"--
"I have you, and I propose to keep you. No more talk! Come down-stairs,
Captain Coonly, or I will order my men to fire!"
The leader of the marauders hesitated, and then took a single step in
the descent; he halted there.
"I only want to say"--
"Say nothing more! Come down, or you are a dead man in another second!"
added Deck, still calm and resolute.
"Go down, Cap!" said several of his followers as they retired from the
dangerous locality at the head of the stairs.
The captain did not hesitate any longer, but descended the steps very
slowly, as though he was marching at his own funeral.
"Win, bring all the cords and straps you can find. We shall want a lot
of them," said Deck in a low tone to the guide. "Bugler, go with him
and help him bring them."
"This is not fair play," said the captain as he landed in the hall.
"No more talk!"
"What are you going to do with me?" demanded Coonly.
"You are my prisoner, and I intend to secure you properly. Give me your
sword and pistols."
"I'll see you in"--
"Life!" called Deck, as he saw the stalwart sergeant near the front
door.
"Here, Leftenant!" replied Life as he strode into the hall and made the
military salute to his officer.
"Disarm this man!" said Deck, pointing to the ruffian leader.
The tall sergeant seized Coonly by the collar of his coat with his left
hand, held him out as though he had been a small boy, unbuckled his
sword-belt, and took two revolvers from his pockets with his right. The
captain was a middling-sized man, and he struggled in the gripe of the
powerful Kentuckian; but he might as well have attempted to resist
Hercules himself.
"Now bind his arms behind him," continued Deck.
"I protest, Lieutenant, against this brutal treatment!" stormed the
prisoner in a loud voice.
"All right; protest as much as you please, but don't make too much
noise about it, or I shall be obliged to have you gagged."
This hint quieted him; and with the aid of the bugler he was secured as
the officer had ordered.
CHAPTER V
LIEUTENANT LYON ENCOUNTERS ANOTHER ENEMY
Surrounded by double their own number of soldiers, armed with the best
weapons, the marauders imprisoned in the upper story of the mansion
could not help realizing that their situation was hopeless. They had
not offered to come to the assistance of Captain Coonly when he was in
the gripe of the stalwart sergeant; for the carbines of the cavalrymen
still covered them, and they saw that they would be shot down if they
attempted to descend the stairs without orders, or fired upon their
assailants in the hall.
The captain was conducted into the sitting-room, and a man was placed
at the door to keep watch of him. But he was harmless by this time; as
Win expressed it, "the fun had all gone out of him." Deck began to
think he had spent time enough over the affair; and he was in a hurry
to return to the Millersville Road.
"Up-stairs there!" he called to the ruffians, who remained there
because they could not escape without the certainty of being shot
whether they attempted to leave by the windows or the stairs. "Is
there any officer among you?"
"Lieutenant Billock is here," replied one of them.
"Let him show himself."
"That is my name," responded a fellow nearly as big as Life Knox at the
head of the stairs.
"Your commander is a prisoner, and you rank next to him. What do you
propose to do, fight or surrender?" Deck inquired of him.
"What can I do?" asked the big fellow; and he had not the air of a
fighting-man, in spite of his ample proportions.
"That is for you to decide," answered Deck.
"We are surrounded by double our own number, and caged here like a lot
of mules. Give me five minutes to talk to the boys," returned the
guerilla lieutenant.
"All right; but not a minute more than five," added the officer of
cavalry, as he looked at his watch.
"What are you gwine to do with 'em when you get 'em?" asked Life in a
low tone.
"Turn them over to Captain Gordon when I have done my share of the
job," answered Deck.
"We have concluded to surrender," said Lieutenant Billock at the head
of the stairs. "I don't see 's we kin help ourselves under the
sucumstances."
"Very well; I shall hold you as prisoners, and treat you as I did your
captain. Call in six more men, Life."
This additional force, carbine in hand, was stationed in the hall by
the officer, with orders to shoot any man who resisted or tried to
escape; and the orders were given in a loud tone, so that the prisoners
on the floor above could hear them.
"Now you will form a line up there, and march down in single file, six
feet apart. Each man will deposit all his weapons on the floor, and go
into the room on the left, after his arms are tied behind him,"
continued Deck.
The prisoners said nothing, and obeyed the order in silence. Lieutenant
Billock came first. The bugler was ordered to see that every one put
all his arms on the floor, and assist him in doing so. Two men tied his
arms behind him, and led him to the sitting-room. All the others
followed him, and were served in the same manner. Twenty-two men were
counted when the ceremony was finished. The bugler was ordered to blow
the Assembly, and the whole platoon gathered in front of the mansion,
which faced the east.
Lieutenant Lyon appeared to have studied up his plan, for he was ready
to take the next step as soon as all the prisoners had been secured. He
next formed his men in two ranks, reaching from the mansion to the
fence, where the ruffians had hitched their horses, retaining the
sergeant and half a dozen soldiers in the hall, where he stood himself.
Then he sent half the prisoners out-doors, with their arms still
secured behind them, and directed Life in what manner to mount and
otherwise dispose of them.
The sergeant called ten men from the ranks to assist him, and each one
of them took a ruffian in his charge. Life had Captain Coonly in his
own hands. As the prisoners pointed out their own horses, they were
conducted to the fence. The cord or strap was then loosened from the
left wrist of each, but remained fastened to the right. They were then
required to mount their steeds, which were a sorry-looking set of
animals.
"Now you are all right," said Life when the captain was in his seat in
the saddle.
"Why don't you take this strap from my right wrist?" asked the
prisoner.
"Beca'se I kin make a better use on't," replied the sergeant, taking
the strap in his hand, and making it fast to the crupper strap behind
the rider.
It was drawn back far enough to prevent the prisoner from reaching it
with his left hand. This was a device of Deck himself; and he had
treated a prisoner in this manner once before, and it had succeeded
