appropriated to Dr. Ferrolan. He assured both of them that dry clothing
would be provided for them, and both of them stammered forth their
obligations very profusely from between their chattering teeth. The doors
were closed upon them after they had been instructed to call upon the
stewards outside for anything they needed.
The commander had taken the measure of the trio, and knew where to apply
for the clothing needed. The surgeon of the party was about the size of Mr.
Sage, the chief steward of the ship; and he was asked to supply a full
suit, including undergarments, shirt, socks, collar, and cravat. His
lordship was about the size of Mr. Woolridge, who was more than happy to
provide for the needs of this gentleman. Professor Giroud was a rather
slender person; and from his wardrobe came the suit and other furnishings
for the titled Hindu. The clothing of each person was placed on a stool at
the door of his room, and he was notified where to obtain it.
"Mr. Sage, you understand by this time that we have sixteen places to be
taken at the table," said Captain Ringgold to the chief steward.
"I think I had better set two tables, for sixteen would be rather crowded
in the space we use now," replied Mr. Sage, who was a Napoleon in his
calling. "I propose to arrange them as they were at the big dinner you gave
at Aden."
"And while you are about it you may arrange for nineteen places at the
tables," replied the captain; but he did not explain who were to occupy the
three he had added to the number.
The commander went to his private cabin, after he had visited the
pilot-house, and made a diagram of the two tables, assigning places to each
of the party and the guests, but leaving three of the end places vacant. He
showed it to Louis and Mrs. Belgrave, and they made no objection to the new
arrangement. It was handed to the chief steward, who put a card with the
name of the occupant of each seat on the plate in front of it. The
revolving chairs at the tables had to be all changed, and more added to it;
and Stevens the carpenter, with his assistants from the crew, were busy for
an hour making the change.
When the commander visited the music-room, he was unable to answer any of
the questions of his passengers as to the details of the wreck of the
Travancore, though he gave the names and quality of the three gentlemen who
had been invited to go below. The sleepers in the cabin had been aroused by
the erratic movements of the steamer before daylight, especially by the
change from rolling to pitching. There was a thundering roar of escaping
steam at times, and all of them had "turned out" to ascertain the cause of
the commotion. Felix and Morris had been the first to go on deck, and they
had informed the others of the nature of the event which had caused the
commotion on board.
The regular passengers had seen the strangers as they came down to the
promenade deck from the cutters. They were naturally filled with curiosity
to ascertain who and what the trio were. One was a lord, another a sir, and
the third a surgeon; and this was all that was known to any one.
"Have we really a live lord on board, Felix?" asked Mrs. Blossom, as they
were waiting for breakfast in the music-room.
"He is not a dead one, sure," replied the Milesian, "though he would soon
have been a very dead one if we had not happened along when we did."
"One of them was a colored man," added the good lady.
"Sir Modava Rao!" exclaimed Felix. "He is not more than a shade darker than
you are, Aunty; and he is a great man in the country we visit next. But dry
up; the captain is going to say something."
The commander gave the names of the three distinguished persons who were
then in the cabin. It was very nearly breakfast-time, and the trio had had
abundant time to dress themselves in the garments provided for them, and he
requested all the party to descend to the cabin, leading the way himself.
They found the rescued party seated on the divans between the doors of the
state-rooms, and they all rose to their feet as soon as the commander
appeared.
They presented an entirely different appearance from what they did in their
drabbled garments; for those who had supplied them with clothing had
brought out their best clothes, and the three gentlemen seemed to be in
condition to go to church. Lord Tremlyn hastened to the captain with
extended hand as he stepped down upon the floor of the cabin.
"I desire to express my gratitude anew to you, and to the gentlemen who
have made us capable of coming into your presence in proper condition,"
said his lordship, as the commander took his offered hand, which was wrung
with the utmost cordiality.
"So far as I am concerned, my Lord, I have done nothing but my duty; for I
am a sailor, and the true son of the ocean is always ready to sacrifice
even his life to save a shipwrecked brother of the sea," replied the
captain.
"Then you are a true son of the ocean, Captain Ringgold, and I shall
remember you as long as I live in my prayers!"
"So shall we all!" exclaimed Sir Modava, taking the hand of the commander.
"I indorse the sentiment," added Dr. Ferrolan.
"In regard to the clothing," said the commander, as he threw back his head,
elevated his shoulders, and spread out his arms, so as to exhibit to its
full extent the height and breadth of his stalwart form, "I was,
unfortunately, unable to contribute to the supply of garments for your
party; for mine on any one of you would have been like a shirt on a
handspike."
"But a London tailor could hardly have fitted us any better," replied the
spokesman of the trio.
"I am happy to see you in such excellent condition so soon after the
disaster. With your permission, gentlemen, I desire to introduce you to
each of my passengers, promising to indicate those whose garments you
wear," continued the commander.
"With the greatest pleasure," replied Lord Tremlyn; and the other two bowed
their acquiescence.
"This, gentlemen, is Mr. Belgrave, the owner of the Guardian-Mother, the
steam-yacht in which he is making a voyage round the world."
"I am extremely pleased to make your acquaintance, Mr. Belgrave," added
Lord Tremlyn, as he took the hand of the young millionaire. "We owe our
lives to the fortunate presence of your magnificent steam-yacht in this
part of the Arabian Sea. Permit me to present to you Prince Modava, who has
been knighted for his distinguished services to the British Crown, and who
prefers to be known by his English title."
"That's your colored man!" whispered Felix to Mrs. Blossom.
"Good gracious!" exclaimed the motherly lady. "A live prince!"
"It affords me very great pleasure to become acquainted with you, Mr.
Belgrave," with a smile so sweet and expressive that it ravished the hearts
of the ladies. "I am under a burden of obligation to you which I shall
never be able to repay; and I hope I shall be able to render you some
slight service in assisting you to see India, for I learn that you are
bound to Bombay."
"I thank you, Sir Modava; and we shall gratefully accept any favors you may
extend to us."
"Let me add, my Lord, that Mr. Belgrave pulled the stroke oar in the boat
which picked you up after you had sent our first cutter to the relief of
Sir Modava," interposed the commander.
"Then I shall have an additional reason to remember with gratitude the
young gentleman," added Lord Tremlyn.
"Mrs. Belgrave, gentlemen, the mother of our owner," the captain proceeded,
as he took the lady by the arm.
"I congratulate you, madam, on being the mother of such a noble son; for
not many young men with the fortune he has at his command would pull an oar
in such a gale, such a storm, even to save his fellow-beings from perishing
in the angry waves," said his lordship, as he took the hand of the lady.
"Blessed be the mother of such a boy!"
The members of the Woolridge family were next presented to the trio; and
the distinguished strangers had something pleasant to say to each of them.
The "live lord" was only twenty-eight years old, and Sir Modava but thirty,
while Dr. Ferrolan was forty-six; and all of them seemed to be greatly
impressed, and even startled, when Miss Blanche dawned upon them; for she
was as beautiful to them as she was to everybody else, and they seemed to
be unwilling to allow her to make room for the others to be introduced.
Every person in the cabin seemed to enter into the spirit of the occasion;
and the wearers of the borrowed clothing, as the owners of the garments
were indicated, brought forth many humorous remarks from both sides, which
it would be pleasant to report if space permitted. The ceremony was
finished in due time, though it was rather a long time.
"We are not accustomed to the companionship of titled personages," said the
commander at its conclusion. "But we are eminently a social party, and we
desire our guests to make themselves as much at home on board of the
Guardian-Mother as if they owned her, and were running her for their own
pleasure."
"Thank you, Captain Ringgold. Titles are not men, and we know that you are
all republicans. If we do not make ourselves worthy of the generous welcome
you have extended to us, we shall not ask any consideration on account
of the titles that have fallen upon us through the nature of our
constitutional government. I believe that we all stand on the same level
before our Maker; and whatever social distinctions prevail in our country,
they do not exempt any Briton from being a gentleman and an honest man,"
replied Lord Tremlyn. And his remarks were warmly applauded by both English
and Americans; and the gentleman bowed his thanks for this appreciation of
his sentiments.
At a nod from the captain the bell was rung for breakfast. Taking the "live
lord" by the arm, he conducted him to the seat next him on his right. Louis
conducted Sir Modava to the place on the commander's left, and placed his
mother next to him. It was found impracticable to heed the names that had
been placed on the plates, for it would have taken too much time. Louis
took Miss Blanche to the place next to his mother, and seated himself at
her right.
Dr. Hawkes took possession of Dr. Ferrolan, and placed himself and Uncle
Moses on each side of him. The professor took charge of Mrs. Blossom. The
captain invited those who remained standing to take such seats as they
chose; and when all were placed at the table, he reverently said a brief
grace. Everybody was unusually social; but as the commander had announced
that the particulars of the wreck of the Travancore would be detailed in
due time by Dr. Ferrolan, the subject was ignored, and the voyage of the
Guardian-Mother was the general subject of conversation. The chief steward
had "spread himself" on the breakfast, and the meal was far more elaborate
than usual; and the wrecked trio proved that they had excellent appetites.
                                 CHAPTER VII
                    DR. FERROLAN'S EXPLANATION OF THE WRECK
With the rising of the sun the gale had broken, and by the time the party
in the cabin left the table, the north-east monsoon was soothing the ocean
with its gentle blast. The angry sea was rapidly becoming good-natured
again, though the waves were still high enough to give the ship an uneasy
motion. But all the party, and no less the trio added to their number, had
their sea-legs on, and no reasonable motion disturbed any of them.
The two engineers from the wreck of the Travancore had been as carefully
looked after as the strangers in the main cabin. They had been supplied
with clothing, and they had breakfasted in the mess-room on the best the
larder afforded. The third person brought in by the second cutter was the
Hindu cook of the wrecked steamer; but he spoke English very well, and had
been otherwise Europeanized. He had been turned over to Baldy Bickling, the
second cook of the ship, who had clothed and fed him, and seemed to be
unable to do enough for him.
The three gentlemen in the cabin were as sociable as could be desired; and
though it was Sunday morning, the scene at the tables had been very
animated.
When the meal was finished, the guests at their own request were shown over
the ship; and they were not at all reserved in the expression of their
admiration at the elegance with which she had been fitted up, and not less
at the convenience of all the arrangements.
Lord Tremlyn was particularly interested in the educational feature of the
Guardian-Mother, as Captain Ringgold explained his pet scheme in the
library, or study, abaft the state-cabin, as it was called on the plan of
the vessel prepared by the gentleman for whom she had been built. The
guests looked at the titles of the books, considerable additions to which
had been made at Cairo, Alexandria, and elsewhere.
"This is not a library of romances," said his lordship with a smile, as he
took in the encyclopædias, books of travel, scientific treatises, and
geographical works.
"No, sir; they cover a broad range of useful information," replied the
commander. "Those of our company who are disposed to read novels supply
themselves with that kind of literature. Quite a number of them are
lecturers"--
"Lecturers!" exclaimed the distinguished guest. "Then a large number of
your passengers must be scientific people."
"Not at all, sir; the large majority of them are men and women of good
education, and Professor Giroud is a learned Frenchman who has been a
lecturer at various colleges and schools. Dr. Hawkes is a leading member of
his profession, and is sometimes a lecturer in various medical and surgical
institutions in New York. Both of these gentlemen are making this voyage to
regain their health, injured by over-work."
"You are fortunate in having such men on board," added his lordship.
"But most of our lecturers are persons of fair education, and only three of
them have been graduated from the university. We assign subjects to them
some time in advance, and they prepare themselves for the occasion. This
gives the unprofessional people an interest in the exercises they would not
otherwise have. For example, Mr. Woolridge"--
"I beg pardon, but he is the father of the beautiful young lady who was
seated at the table next to Mr. Belgrave, is he not?" interposed Lord
Tremlyn.
"The same, sir. At first he considered the lectures a bore; and doubtless
they were such to him, for he had been a sporting-man and a yachtsman,
though he has since abandoned the races. But I gave him as a subject the
horses and other animals of Egypt. He did very well with it in his peculiar
way; and since that he is one of the most interested in the lectures,--or
perhaps I had better call them simply talks," added the commander.
"Then this voyage will create a new taste for him."
"I have no doubt of it. He is a Fifth Avenue millionaire, and he is able to
cultivate any taste he may acquire. Mr. Belgrave is one of our most useful
speakers, for he studies his subjects very faithfully. He is a devoted
student, speaks French fluently, and gets along very well with Spanish.
This voyage is a college course for him."
"Do your ladies take an interest in these lectures, Captain Ringgold?"
"All of them, though I have assigned a subject to only one of them. They
all manifest their interest by asking questions. Like myself, Mrs. Belgrave
and Mrs. Blossom are Methodists, while the Woolridge family are
Episcopalians, though none of us are bigoted. The sisters of my church are
very favorable to religious topics, such as were suggested on the Nile; and
when we were near the land of Goshen and the Sinai peninsula Mrs. Belgrave
spoke to us in this connection. Mrs. Blossom is one of the "salt of the
earth," a very good woman, very religious, and her studies have been
confined to the Bible and her denominational newspapers. Her education was
neglected, and she is rather tonguey, so that she asks curious questions;
but we all esteem her very highly, though her American peculiarities may
seem very odd to you."
"I have known similar people in England, and your description of her leads
me to respect the lady," replied the titled gentleman, who appeared to be
very democratic so far as homely merit was concerned.
Dr. Hawkes had taken his professional brother in charge, and Louis, Sir
Modava, as the commander had Lord Tremlyn, and they were showing them over
the ship. We need not follow them or repeat their explanations; but they
finally reached the promenade deck, where all the officers were presented
to the guests of the steamer. At Conference Hall the three couples met, and
the lectures were again commented upon; for this subject was uppermost in
the mind of the commander.
"Do you have a lecture to-day, Captain Ringgold?" asked his lordship.
"No, sir; this is Sunday, and we keep the Sabbath in a reasonable manner,
and the conference is usually omitted on this day, though when the subject
is appropriate for the day the lecture is given. The professor is a Roman
Catholic; but we have not had the slightest friction in regard to any man's
creed. The owner and voyager in our consort, the white ship abreast of us,
whose boat picked up five men of your ship's company, is a Mohammedan,
though the captain and his wife are Congregationalists. We have a religious
service on board at eleven o'clock, to which your party are invited, though
no umbrage will be taken if you prefer to absent yourselves."
"I shall certainly attend," replied his lordship; and his companions said
the same. "Have you a chaplain?"
"We have not, and I am obliged to act in that capacity for the want of a
better," replied the captain. "We Methodists are all trained to 'speak in
meeting,' whether we have the gift or not."
At the appointed time the gong was sounded for divine service, and four
whistles were given, that all on board might hear the call. Chairs had been
provided for the guests, and all the party were seated when six bells
struck. The two engineers of the Travancore were seated on the platform
with, the cook, and all the officers and seamen who could be spared stood
within hearing.
Most of the party were provided with tune-books, and the captain gave out
"The Life-Boat." Books were passed to the strangers, and the commander led
off in the singing. Lord Tremlyn and Dr. Ferrolan joined in with vigorous
bass voices. Captain Ringgold then followed with an extemporaneous prayer,
in which he poured forth his thanks to the God who rules the sea and the
land for the mercy that had spared their brothers from other lands from the
mighty power of the raging billows. Instead of reading a printed sermon as
usual, he gave an impromptu address relating to the event of the early
morning. Its bearing was very religious, and it was as eloquent as it was
homely compared with studied discourses.
After the singing of "Nearer, my God, to thee," the service closed; but the
people were invited to keep their seats. Without any explanation of what
was to follow, the captain introduced Lord Tremlyn.
"Mr. Commander, and ladies and gentlemen, I am utterly unable to express my
high appreciation of the religious service in which we have all assisted.
It went to my heart, and I am sure we who have been saved from perishing in
the stormy billows joined heartily with him who officiated in giving thanks
to God for our preservation," his lordship began.
"We are all profoundly impressed by the kindness, the unbounded
hospitality, which have been extended to us in our unfortunate, I may say
our forlorn, condition; and I am sure that not one of us, from the amateur
captain of the Travancore, to the coolies who were saved by the Blanche,
will ever cease to bless the commander, the officers, the crew, and the
passengers of the Guardian-Mother for the overwhelming kindness and care
they have all bestowed upon us. Though we are not at the festive board, I
venture to propose to you the health of Captain Ringgold, as the
representative of all to whom we are so gratefully indebted."
           "For he's a jolly good fellow!
            For he's a jolly good fellow!
            For he's a jolly good fellow!
            So say we all of us!"
To the astonishment, and perhaps to the disgust, of the two Methodist
ladies, Dr. Ferrolan struck up this refrain, singing with a vigor which
proved his earnestness. Sir Modava, the engineers, and the cook immediately
joined in with him. Dr. Hawkes, Uncle Moses, Mr. Woolridge, and others,
because they approved the sentiment of the words, struck in at the second
line, and it became a full chorus before the last line was reached.
It is an English custom to follow a toast to a distinguished personage with
this refrain, as expressive of the sentiments of the company; and though it
was not adapted to Sunday use, it was sincere and heartfelt on the part of
all who sang it. Captain Ringgold rose and bowed his thanks, and Lord
Tremlyn spoke again:--
"It is very natural that you should desire to know something about the
guests who have been so fortuitously cast into your kindly embrace, and
especially in regard to the calamity which has made us the recipients of
your generous hospitality; and Captain Ringgold gives us this opportunity
to gratify your reasonable curiosity. I am no orator, like my brother, the
commander of the Guardian-Mother, and I shall call upon my friend and
secretary, who has been travelling with me in India for his health, to give
you the desired information." Though it was Sunday, even the commander
joined in the applause that greeted the doctor when he mounted the rostrum.
"Mr. Commander, and ladies and gentlemen, I beg to inform you that my Lord
Tremlyn is quite as capable of speaking for himself as I am for him; but as
I am called upon to make this explanation, I shall do so with pleasure. I
have the honor to be the secretary of the Right Honorable Viscount Tremlyn,
the son of the noble earl who is Secretary of State for India. He has been
on a mission in the interests of his father to obtain certain information,
though he holds no official position.
"Sir Modava Rao has held several official positions in India, and is
perhaps more familiar with the country and its British and native
governments than any other man. He has been travelling with Lord Tremlyn,
to assist him in obtaining the information connected with his unofficial
mission. My lord has completed the work assigned to him; but the viceroy
wished him to visit the Imam of Muscat unofficially for a certain purpose I
am not at liberty to state.
"In a small steam-yacht owned by Sir Modava, the most devoted friend of his
lordship, in which he had been all around the peninsula, and up several of
its rivers, we embarked for Muscat, and safely reached that country. Then
the viscount decided to proceed to Aden, where he had important business;
for he intended to return to England by the Euphrates route, in order to
inform himself in regard to the navigation of the river. We sailed for
Aden, believing we should have the calm and pleasant weather of the
north-east monsoon.
"Yesterday we encountered the gale from the south-west, which was very
unusual. But the Travancore was an able seaboat, and we went along very
well until we were run into by a steamer in the darkness and mist early
this morning. The side of the little steamer was stove in, and she began to
fill. We put on our life-preservers, and prepared for the worst. We
stretched a life-line fore and aft, and listened to the gurgling waters
below deck. Suddenly, when she was partly filled with water, she capsized.
We clung to the life-line, which unhitched forward.
"Of course we expected she would go down; but she did not for several
hours. We had our life-preservers on, and we made fast the lines forward,
which saved us from being washed off the bottom of the vessel. I had a
revolver in my pocket, and when I saw the port light of your steamer, I
fired it, and we all shouted at the top of our lungs.
"We could hear the air and the water bubbling and hissing under us at
times, and it was understood that the confined air above the water in the
hull had kept her afloat. But this air had all escaped as the
Guardian-mother approached us, and with no warning she went to the bottom.
We were floated by our life-preservers till your boats picked us up, though
we were fearfully shaken and tossed about by the waves. Our gallant
saviours know how we were rescued--all honor and glory to them!"
The doctor finished his explanation and took his seat.
                                 CHAPTER VIII
                      AN INTERVIEW IN THE CAPTAIN'S CABIN
"Our log-book indicates that we passed a steamer to the northward of us at
four bells in the mid-watch," said Captain Ringgold, when Dr. Ferrolan
finished his narrative. "She was headed about west by south; and very
likely it was the one which ran into the Travancore, for no other was
reported."
"She was a vessel of about four hundred tons," added the viscount. "I was
in the pilot-house at the time, though the weather was so thick that I
could hardly make her out as she slipped off from our starboard bow, and
went on her course."
"Didn't she hail you, and offer to stand by you?"
inquired the commander.
"I heard something like a shout coming from her, and in a moment she was
beyond hailing-distance. I supposed we were going to the bottom in a few
minutes, and had my hands full, so that I had no time to look out for her,
though I supposed she would come about and render assistance; but we did
not hear from her again."
"It is possible that she did so, and was unable to find you, for it was
very dark, and the sea was very rough," suggested the commander. "But her
conduct looks heathenish, and I will warrant that she was not an English
steamer; for the British tars never pass by their fellow-beings on the
ocean in distress without rendering assistance."
"It was a new experience to me," added his lordship, "and perhaps I
neglected something I ought to have done."
"I think not; for your first and supreme duty at that time was to look out
for the safety of your own vessel," replied Captain Ringgold.
"So far as that was concerned, I believe I did all I could do to repair the
mischief," continued the viscount. "The chief engineer reported to me that
the side of the yacht was stove in near the bow, and that the water was
pouring into the hull. He suggested that a double sailcloth be hauled under
the vessel. We had no sails, but we promptly made use of an awning, and we
succeeded in drawing it under the bottom, and covering the aperture."
"That was precisely the right thing to do," said the commander.
"Probably it enabled us to float a short time longer than we should
otherwise have done; but the yacht had taken in too much water before we
applied the remedy, for suddenly, on the top of a huge wave, she made a
heavy roll, capsized, and came up with her keel in the air. I am only
afraid that I did not do all that might have been done."
"I could have done no more if I had been there with all my ship's company,"
the commander declared; for the amateur captain of the Travancore was a
conscientious man, and desired to relieve his mind of all blame for his
conduct; and he had really done all that could be done, though the remedy
applied was a failure.
"My chief engineer was an experienced man, and I followed his counsels in
everything," added the viscount.
"His lordship did all that it was possible for any man to do in such a
case," interposed the chief engineer of the Travancore, who was seated on
the platform. "I can only thank God that we were all saved, and I am sure
that no one is to blame."
"I am told that our cabin waiter and four coolies were picked up by the
other steamer," said Lord Tremlyn, as he looked about him.
"That is true, sir," interposed Mr. Boulong, who stood on the deck by the
platform. "Sir Modava told me there were eleven persons on board of the
wreck. I saw that number saved myself."
The details of the wreck of the Travancore were fully explained, though
individuals continued to talk about it until lunch-time. At the mid-day
repast the commander gave up his plan of seating the party, and invited the
members of it to select their own places; and they all took those they had
occupied at breakfast. In the afternoon the rough sea had almost entirely
subsided under the influence of the north-east monsoon, and the motion of
the steamer was easy and pleasant.
The company assembled in the music-room after a walk on deck, and the
captain, with the three notable guests, joined them after they had finished
their cigars; for all of them smoked. The "Gospel Hymns" and other hymn and
tune books were distributed. It was the usual time for singing, and the
trio from the Travancore contributed largely to the volume of tone on the
occasion. The new third officer had been stationed in the watch with Mr.
Boulong, and Scott had the first part of the afternoon watch. The officers
and engineers not on duty, as well as the members of the party from the
wreck, gathered at the windows of the music-room, and the commander invited
them to take seats in the apartment, thus adding still more to the volume
of the harmony. The music was all sacred, and nothing purely secular was
permitted by the captain.
Dr. Ferrolan, who had a fine bass voice, was invited to sing "Rocked in the
Cradle of the Deep," at the suggestion of Lord Tremlyn. His lordship sang
"Oh that I had Wings!" and Mrs. Belgrave, who was the pianist of the
occasion, gave a solo, while Sir Modava sang the "Missionary Hymn," which
is still a favorite in England and America, translated into the Hindu
language. The party who could not understand him followed in the
hymn-books.
"I wonder who wrote that beautiful hymn," said Mrs. Blossom, when there was
a pause as the singer finished. "It says Heber in my book, but I don't know
who he was."
"Reginald Heber was an English clergyman and poet, born in 1783. He was a
student in an Oxford college; I forget which," replied Sir Modava.
"Brasenose," prompted the viscount.
"As a student in this college he wrote 'Palestine,' for which he obtained
the prize; and it still holds a place in the literature of England. He soon
obtained a living, and occupied a prominent position among the clergy of
his native island. In 1823 he was made Bishop of Calcutta.
"Three years later, in the midst of his zealous labors in the service of
his Master, he died at Trichinopoly of apoplexy, greatly lamented. Perhaps
                  'From Greenland's icy mountains,
                     From India's coral strand,'
which you have sung this afternoon, is the widest-known of Bishop Heber's
hymns; but will you indulge me if I ask you to sing another of them, which
I find in the book I hold in my hand?--
             'Brightest and best of the sons of the morning,
                Dawn on our darkness, and lend us thine aid.'"
The hymn was sung to Mozart's music by about twenty voices, and the effect
was exceedingly agreeable. Sir Modava seemed to be in a rapture, as the
piece was his favorite, and came from one who was connected with his native
land.
He was a rather tall and slender man, and all the ladies declared that he
was very handsome; and his slightly dusky hue added to, rather than took
from, the beauty of his countenance. He wore a small mustache, but no other
beard. He was a nervous and highly sensitive person, and there was always a
smile on his face. He had already become a favorite among the gentlemen as
well as the ladies.
Another meeting was held in the evening, which was varied by some speaking
on the part of the gentlemen, including the guests, Uncle Moses, Dr.
Hawkes, and the commander. At the conclusion of the exercises, Sir Modava
begged the company to close by singing another of Bishop Heber's verses,
which he repeated from memory, though it was in one of the books:--
           "God that madest earth and heaven,
              Darkness and light;
            Who the day for toil hast given,
              For rest the night,--
            May thine angel guards defend us,
            Slumber sweet thy mercy send us,
              This livelong night!"
With this musical prayer on their lips, the company retired. Most of them
went to their staterooms; for the guests were very tired, and the regular
inmates of the cabin had left their berths at an unusually early hour in
the morning. All of them, whether technically religious or not, had been
greatly impressed by the music and the speaking of the evening. Dr.
Ferrolan was a more inveterate smoker than his companions in misfortune,
and he went with the commander to the deck, and was invited to the
captain's cabin, where he was provided with cigars.
"As you have already learned, Doctor, I am greatly interested in the
educational feature of my ship," said Captain Ringgold, after they had
conversed a while. "I desire to make it as attractive as possible, and I
have studied to vary it all I could."
"You have turned your ship into a noble and useful institution," replied
the guest. "Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava have both spoken in the highest
terms of this feature. And these lectures are mainly for the benefit of Mr.
Belgrave, your owner?"
"The plan was introduced principally on his account; but it has grown into
an exercise for all the cabin party, and most of them are speakers as well
as listeners; for it makes all of them feel a greater interest in the
conferences," replied the commander. "To-morrow we are to begin upon India,
dwelling upon its geography, civilization, government, and history. Now, I
wish to ask you, Doctor, if there would be any impropriety in my asking the
members of your party berthed in the cabin to take part in these
exercises?"
"Not the slightest, Captain Ringgold."
"Probably you are all better informed in regard to the affairs of the
peninsula than any three other men I could find if I were to search for
them here and in England," added the commander.
"You are not far from right, sir, as far as my associates are concerned;
for officially or unofficially they have visited every part of India, and
studied up in detail everything relating to the people, the country, the
army, and the institutions, both native and British."
"As you have been with Lord Tremlyn in his travels, you must be very
familiar with the affairs of India, Doctor."
"Reasonably familiar; but not so well acquainted with them as my
companions," answered the physician. "Perhaps I do not violate any
confidence in saying that his lordship and his Hindu friend had a
conversation just before dinner to-day, in which they were discussing in
what manner they could best assist you in seeing India. As you suggest,
they are the two men who know more of India than any others I think of, not
excepting the governor-general and his subordinates."
"I came to this conclusion when I learned the nature of their mission."
"Sir Modava is personally acquainted with all the native princes; and he
and his lordship are regarded by them as second only to the viceroy, as he
is often unofficially designated. Every door in India, except those of a
few mosques and Parsee temples, open to them, and procure for them and
their friends all the privileges that can reasonably be expected. We
respect the religious exclusiveness of the sects, and do not ask them to
exempt our people from the operation of their rules and customs. The
British government rules India in the spirit of kindness and toleration,
and interferes with the religious, or even political, institutions only so
far as humanity and progressive civilization require. Both of them propose
to volunteer to attend you in your travels in the peninsula, if agreeable
to you."
"We should be delighted to have such conductors, and I shall gladly pay all
the expenses incurred," the commander declared, with an earnestness that
attested his sincerity.
"The expense is a matter of no consequence to the two gentlemen; for both
of them would be multimillionaires in America, though pounds don't count so
numerously as dollars. I am not at all sure they wouldn't gladly pay the
expenses of your party as well as their own; but I am not authorized to
speak on this point. I advise you not to mention expense to either of my
associates. But you can form no idea of the depths of gratitude in the
hearts of the three quartered in your cabin for the timely and skilful
service you rendered in saving us from certain death. I base my views on
what I have heard them say, and what I feel myself," said the doctor with
enthusiasm. "I am certain that any suggestion in regard to expense would
hurt the feelings of my friends and companions."
"I thank you, Dr. Ferrolan, for the frankness with which you have spoken,
and I shall assuredly profit by what you have said," added the commander.
"In what I said about expense I have been moved by what I should do myself
if I had the control of the matter, and were as able as Sir Modava and his
lordship to incur a heavy outlay; though I have a sufficient income to
support a bachelor, I am a poor man compared with them."
The interview closed, and the doctor retired at the end of his cigar. The
next morning Captain Ringgold obtained the ready assent of the two
gentlemen to take part in the conference appointed for half-past nine, and
later that of Dr. Ferrolan.
                                 CHAPTER IX
                      CONCERNING THE GEOGRAPHY OF INDIA
"Ladies and gentlemen, it affords me very great pleasure to present to you
Sir Modava Rao, who has kindly consented to give you a lesson on the
geography of India," said Captain Ringgold when the company were seated in
Conference Hall.
This announcement was greeted with unusually stormy applause, in which the
ladies joined, and then flourished their handkerchiefs as an additional
welcome to the handsome Hindu.
"I have also the pleasure to inform you that Lord Tremlyn and Dr. Ferrolan
have indulgently permitted me to call upon them for the instruction in
regard to India which they are so abundantly competent to give us,"
continued the commander with a very pleasant smile upon his dignified
countenance. "Their subjects have been arranged, and I congratulate you and
myself upon the satisfaction with which we shall all listen to these able
exponents of the present condition of this interesting country. Sir Modava
Rao, ladies and gentlemen."
The Hindu gentleman was again received with vigorous and long-continued
applause. His handsome face, the expression of which was intensified by the
fascinating smile that played upon his black eyes and around his finely
moulded mouth, was not wasted upon the ladies, or even upon the gentlemen;
and it was a considerable time before the plaudits of the company permitted
him to speak; and he stood upon the rostrum bowing so sweetly that he was
irresistible to the assembly.
"Mr. Commander, ladies and gentlemen," he began, "I have no claim upon you
for the exceeding warmth of the reception you have given me, and I thank
you with all my heart for all your kindness to me, a shipwrecked stranger
on board of your ship. I shall give you as briefly and clearly as I can
what I know about the geography of India. I understand that this was the
subject to be treated by Captain Ringgold; and I am confident that he could
have done it quite as well as I can, though I am 'to the manner born.' But
