West, a portly woman, came in from the back room, whisking off her
apron in haste.
"Oh, that you, Miss Lucindy?" she called. "I've just been fryin' some
riz doughnuts. Well, how'd the flowers suit?"
"I haven't quite made up my mind," said Lucindy, trying to speak with
the dignity befitting her quest. "I just come in with little Claribel
here. She's goin' to have a new hat, and her grandma said she might
come down with me to pick it out. You've got some all trimmed, I
believe?"
Miss West opened a drawer in an old-fashioned bureau.
"Yes," she said, "I've got two my niece trimmed for me before she went
to make her visit to Sudleigh. One's blue. I guess you've seen that.
Then there's a nice white one. The 'Weekly' says white's all the go,
this year."
She took out two little hats, and balanced them on either hand. The
blue one was strongly accented. The ribbon was very broad and very
bright, and its nodding cowslips gleamed in cheerful yellow.
"Ain't that a beauty?" whispered Lucindy close to the little girl's
ear. "But there! Don't you have it unless you'd rather. There's lots of
other colors, you know; pink, and all sorts.".
Claribel put out one little brown hand, and timidly touched the other
hat.
"This one," she said.
It was very plain, and very pretty; yet there were no flowers, and the
modest white ribbon lay smoothly about the crown. Miss Lucindy gave a
little cry, as if some one had hurt her.
"O!" she exclaimed, "O Claribel! you sure?" Claribel was sure.
"She's got real good taste," put in Miss West. "Shall I wrop it up?"
"Yes," answered Lucindy, drearily. "We'll take it. But I suppose if she
should change, her mind before she wore it--" she added, with some
slight accession of hope.
"Oh, yes, bring it right back. I'll give her another choice."
But Claribel was not likely to change her mind. On the way home, she
walked sedately, and carried her hat with the utmost care. At her
grandmother's gate, she looked up shyly, and spoke of her own accord,--
"Thank you, ever so much!"
Then she fled up the path, her bundle waving before her. That, at
least, looked like spontaneous joy, and the sight of it soothed Lucindy
into a temporary resignation; yet she was very much disappointed.
The next afternoon, Tiverton saw a strange and wondrous sight. The
Crane boy led Old Buckskin, under an ancient saddle, into Miss
Lucindy's yard, and waited there before her door. The Crane boy had
told all his mates, and they had told their fathers and mothers, so
that a wild excitement flew through the village like stubble fire,
stirring the inhabitants to futile action. "It's like the 'clipse,"
said one of the squad of children collected at the gate, "only they
ain't no smoked glass." Some of the grown people "made an errand" for
the sake of being in the street, but those who lived near-by simply
mounted guard at their doors and windows. The horse had not waited long
when Miss Lucindy appeared before the gaze of an eager world. Her face
had wakened into a keen excitement.
"Here!" she called to the Crane boy's brother, who was lingering in the
background grinding his toes on the gravel and then lifting them in
sudden agony, "you take this kitchen chair and set it down side of him,
so't I can climb up."
The chair was placed, and Miss Lucindy essayed to climb, but vainly.
"Ann!" she called, "you bring me that little cricket."
Ann Toby appeared unwillingly, the little cricket in her hand. She was
a tall, red-haired woman, who bore the reputation of being willing to
be "tore into inch pieces" for Miss Lucindy. Her freckled face burned
red with shame and anger.
"For Heaven's sake, you come back into the house!" she whispered, with
tragic meaning. "You jest give it up, an' I'll scatter them boys. Sassy
little peeps! what are they starin' round here for, I'd like to know!"
But Lucindy had mounted the cricket with much agility, and seated
herself on the horse's back. Once she slipped off; but the Crane boy
had the address to mutter, "Put your leg over the horn!" and, owing to
that timely advice, she remained. But he was to experience the
gratitude of an unfeeling world; for Ann Toby, in the irritation of one
tried beyond endurance, fell upon him and cuffed him soundly. And Mrs.
Crane, passing the gate at that moment, did not blame her.
"My! it seems a proper high place to set," remarked Lucindy, adjusting
herself. "Well, I guess I sha'n't come to no harm. I'll ride round to
your place, boys, when I get through, and leave the horse there." She
trotted out of the yard amid the silence of the crowd.
The spectacle was too awesome to be funny, even to the boys; it seemed
to Tiverton strangely like the work of madness. Only one little boy
recovered himself sufficiently to ran after her and hold up a switch he
had been peeling.
"Here!" he piped up, daringly, "you want a whip."
Lucindy smiled upon him benignly.
"I never did believe in abusin' dumb creatur's," she said, "but I'm
much obliged." She took the switch and rode on.
Now Mrs. Wilson had heard the rumor too late to admit of any
interference on her part, and she was staying indoors, suffering an
agony of shame, determined not to countenance the scandalous sight by
her presence. But as she sat "hooking-in," the window was darkened, and
involuntarily she lifted her eyes. There was the huge bulk of a horse,
and there was Lucindy. The horsewoman's cheeks were bright red with
exercise and joy. She wore a black dress and black mitts. Her little
curls were flying; and oh, most unbearable of all! they were surmounted
by a bonnet bearing no modest sheaf of wheat, but blossoming brazenly
out into lavender roses. The spectacle was too much for Mrs. Wilson.
She dropped her hook, and flew to the door.
"Well, I've known a good deal, fust an' last, but I never see the beat
o' this! Lucindy, where'd you git that long dress?"
"It's my cashmere," answered Lucindy, joyously. "I set up last night to
lengthen it down."
"Well, I should think you did! Lothrop!"
Her husband had been taking a nap in the sitting-room, and he came out,
rubbing his eyes. Mrs. Wilson could not speak for curiosity. She
watched him with angry intentness. She wondered if he would take
Lucindy's part now! But Lothrop only moved forward and felt at the
girth.
"You know you want to pull him up if he stumbles," he said; "but I
guess he won't. He was a stiddy horse, fifteen year ago."
"Lothrop," began his wife, "do you want to be made a laughin'-stock in
this town--"
"I guess if I've lived in a place over sixty year an' hil' my own, I
can yet," said Lothrop, quietly. "You don't want to ride too long,
Lucindy. You'll be lame to-morrer."
"I didn't suppose 'twould jounce so," said Lucindy; "but it's proper
nice. I don't know what 'twould be on a real high horse. Well,
good-by!" She turned the horse about, and involuntarily struck him with
her little switch. Old Buckskin broke into a really creditable trot,
and they disappeared down the village street. Lothrop sensibly took his
way down to the shop while his wife was recovering her powers of
speech; and for that, Jane herself mentally commended him.
Lucindy kept on out of the village and along the country road. The
orioles were singing in the elms, and the leaves still wore the gloss
of last night's shower. The earth smiled like a new creation, very
green and sweet, and the horse's hoofs made music in Lucindy's mind. It
seemed to her that she had lost sight both of youth and crabbed age;
the pendulum stood still in the jarring machinery of time, the hands
pointing to a moment of joy. She was quite happy, as any of us may be
who seek the fellowship of dancing leaves and strong, bright sun. She
turned into a cross-road, hardly wider than a lane, and bordered with
wild rose and fragrant raspberry. There was but one house here,--a
little, time-stained cottage, where Tom McNeil lived with his wife and
five children. Perhaps these were the happiest people in all Tiverton,
though no one but themselves had ever found it out. Tom made shoes in a
desultory fashion, and played the fiddle earnestly all winter, and in
summer, peddled essences and medicines from a pack strapped over his
shoulders. Sometimes in the warm summer weather Molly, his wife, and
all the children tramped with him, so that the house was closed for
weeks at a time,--a thing very trying to the conventional sensibilities
of Tiverton. Tom might have had a "stiddy job o' work" with some of the
farmers; Molly might have helped about the churning and ironing. But
no! they were like the birds, nesting happily in summer, and drawing
their feet under their feathers when the snow drifted in. The
children--lank, wild-eyed creatures--each went to school a few months,
and then stopped, unable to bear the cross of confinement within four
dull walls. They could not write; it was even rumored that they had
never learned to tell time. And, indeed, what good would it have done
them when the clock was run down and stood always at the hour of noon?
But they knew where thoroughwort grows, and the wholesome goldthread;
they gathered cress and peppermint, and could tell the mushroom from
its noisome kindred. Day after day, they roamed the woods for simples
to be distilled by the father, and made into potent salves and
ointments for man and the beasties he loved better.
When Lucindy came in sight of the house, she was glad to find it open.
She had scarcely gone so far afield for years, and the reports
concerning this strange people had reached her only by hearsay. She
felt like a discoverer. In close neighborhood to the house stood a
peculiar structure,--the half-finished dwelling McNeil had attempted,
in a brief access of ambition, to build with his own hands. The
chimney, slightly curving and very ragged at the top, stood foolishly
above the unfinished lower story. Lucindy remembered hearing how Tom
had begun the chimney first, and built the house round it. But the
fulfilment of his worldly dream never came to pass; and perhaps it was
quite as well, for thereby would the unity of his existence have been
destroyed. He might have lived up to the house; he might even have
grown into a proud man, and accumulated dollars. But the bent of birth
was too much for him. A day dawned, warm and entrancing; he left his
bricks and boards in the midst, and the whole family went joyfully off
on a tramp. To Tiverton, the unfinished house continued to serve as an
immortal joke, and Tom smiled as broadly as any. He always said he
couldn't finish it; he had mislaid the plan.
A little flower-garden bloomed between the two houses, and on the
grass, by one of its clove-pink borders, sat a woman, rocking back and
forth in an ancient chair, and doing absolutely nothing. She was young,
and seemed all brown; for her eyes were dark, and her skin had been
tanned to the deep, rich tint sweeter to some eyes than pure roses and
milk. Lucindy guided Buckskin up to the gate, and Molly McNeil looked
up and smiled without moving.
"How do?" she said, in a soft, slow voice. "Won't you come in?"
Lucindy was delighted. It was long since she had met a stranger.
"Well, I would," she answered, "but I don't know as I can get down.
This is new business to me."
"Ellen," called Mrs. McNeil, "you bring out somethin' to step on!"
A little girl appeared with a yellow kitchen chair. Mrs. McNeil rose,
carried it outside the gate, and planted it by Buckskin's side.
"There!" she said, "you put your hand on my shoulder and step down. It
won't tip. I've got my knee on it."
Lucindy alighted, with some difficulty, and drew a long breath.
"I'll hitch him," said Molly McNeil. "You go in and sit down in that
chair, and Ellen'll bring you a drink of water."
Ellen was barelegged and barefooted. Her brown hair hung over her dark
eyes in a pleasant tangle. Her even teeth were white, and her lips red.
There was no fault nor blemish in her little face; and when she had
brought the dipper full of water, and stood rubbing one foot against
its neighboring leg, Lucindy thought she had never seen anything so
absolutely bewitching. Molly had hitched the horse, in manly and
knowing fashion, and then seated herself on the kitchen chair beside
Lucindy; but the attitude seemed not to suit her, and presently she
rose and lay quietly down at full length on the grass. She did it quite
as a matter of course, and her visitor thought it looked very pleasant;
possibly she would have tried it herself if she had not been so
absorbed in another interest. She was watching the little girl, who was
running into the house with the dipper.
"Ain't she complete!" she said. "Your oldest?"
"She ain't mine at 'all." Mrs. McNeil rose on one elbow, and began
chewing a grass stem.
It was very restful to Lucindy to see some one who was too much
interested in anything, however trivial, to be interested in her. "You
know about the Italian that come round with the hand-organ last month?
He was her father. Well, he died,--fell off a mow one night,--and the
town sold the hand-organ and kept Ellen awhile on the farm. But she run
away, and my boys found her hidin' in the woods starved most to death.
So I took her in, and the overseer said I was welcome to her. She's a
nice little soul."
"She's proper good-lookin'!" Lucindy's eyes were sparkling.
"She don't look as well as common to-day, for the boys went off
plummin' without her. She was asleep, and I didn't want to call her.
She had a cryin' spell when she waked up, but I didn't know which way
they'd gone."
Ellen came wandering round the side of the house, and Lucindy crooked a
trembling finger at her.
"Come here!" she called. "You come here and see me!"
Ellen walked up to her with a steady step, and laid one little brown
hand on Lucindy's knee. But the old Judge's daughter drew the child
covetously to her lap.
"Look here," she said, "should you like to go home and spend a week
with me?"
The little maid threw back her tangle of curls, and looked Lucindy
squarely in the eyes.
"Yes," she answered.
Lucindy's grasp tightened round her.
"How should you like to live with me?"
The child touched her little breast inquiringly with one finger.
"Me?" She pointed over to Mrs. McNeil, who lay listening and stretching
her limbs in lazy comfort. "Leave her?" And then, gravely, "No; she's
good to me."
Lucindy's heart sank.
"You could come over to see her," she pleaded, "and I'd come too. We'd
all go plummin' together. I should admire to! And we'd have parties,
and ask 'em all over. What say?"
The child sat straight and serious, one warm hand clinging to Lucindy's
slender palm. But her eyes still sought the face of her older friend.
Molly McNeil rose to a sitting posture. She took the straw from her
mouth, and spoke with the happy frankness of those who have no fear
because they demand nothing save earth and sky room.
"I know who you are," she said to Lucindy. "You're left well off, and I
guess you could bring up a child, give you your way. We're as poor as
poverty! You take her, if she'll go. Ellen, she's a nice lady; you
better say 'yes.'"
Lucindy was trembling all over.
"You come, dear," she urged, piteously. "You come and live with me."
Ellen thought a moment more. Then she nodded.
"I'll come," said she.
Lucindy could not wait.
"I'll send a wagon over after her to-night." She had put Ellen down, and
was rising tremblingly. "I won't stop to talk no more now, but you come
and see me, won't you? Now, if you'll help me mount up--there! My! it's
higher 'n 'twas before! Well, I'll see you again." She turned Old
Buckskin's head away from the fence; then she pulled him fiercely round
again. "Here!" she called, "what if she should jump up behind me and
come now!"
Mrs. McNeil, being the thrall only of the earth, saw no reason, why a
thing should not be done as one wanted it. She lifted; the child and
set her on the horse behind Lucindy. And so, in this strange fashion,
the two entered the high street of Tiverton.
A few weeks after this, Mrs. Wilson and Lucindy went together to the
little millinery shop. Ellen trotted between them, taking excursions
into the street, now and again, in pursuit of butterflies or
thistledown. When they entered, Miss West, who had seen their approach
from her position at the ironing-board, came forward with a gay little
hat in her hand. It was trimmed with pink, and a wreath of tiny white
flowers clung about the crown. She set it on Ellen's curls; and Ellen,
her face quite radiant, looked up at Miss Lucindy for approval. But
that lady was gazing anxiously at Mrs. Wilson.
"Now, there ain't anything unsuitable about that, is there?" she asked.
"I know, it's gay, and I want it to be gay. I can tell about that!
But is it all right? Is it such as you'd be willin' to have Claribel
wear?"
"It's a real beauty!" Mrs. Wilson answered, cordially; but she could
not refrain from adding, while Miss West was doing up the hat, and
Ellen surreptitiously tried on a black poke bonnet, "Now, don't you
spile her, Lucindy! She's a nice little girl as ever was, but you ain't
no more fit to bring up a child than the cat!"
Lucindy did not hear. She was smiling at Ellen, and Ellen smiled back
at her. They thought they knew.
TOLD IN THE POORHOUSE.
"Le' me see," said old Sally Flint, "was it fifty year ago, or was it
on'y forty? Some'er's betwixt 1825 an' '26 it must ha' been when they
were married, an' 'twas in '41 he died."
The other old women in the Poorhouse sitting-room gathered about her.
Old Mrs. Forbes, who dearly loved a story, unwound a length of yarn
with peculiar satisfaction, and put her worn shoe up to the fire.
Everybody knew when Sally Flint was disposed to open her unwritten book
of folk-tales for the public entertainment; and to-day, having tied on
a fresh apron and bound a new piece of red flannel about her wrist, she
was, so to speak, in fighting trim. The other members of the Poorhouse
had scanty faith in that red flannel. They were aware that Sally had
broken her wrist, some twenty years before, and that the bandage was
consequently donned on days when her "hand felt kind o' cold," or was
"burnin' like fire embers;" but there was an unspoken suspicion that it
really served as token of her inability to work whenever she felt bored
by the prescribed routine of knitting and sweeping. No one had dared
presume on that theory, however, since the day when an untactful
overseer had mentioned it, to be met by such a stream of unpleasant
reminiscence concerning his immediate ancestry that he had retreated in
dismay, and for a week after, had served extra pieces of pie to his
justly offended charge.
"They were married in June," continued Sally. "No, 'twa'n't; 'twas the
last o' May. May thirty-fust--no, May 'ain't but thirty days, has it?"
"'Thirty days hath September,'" quoted Mrs. Giles, with importance.
"That's about all I've got left o' my schoolin', Miss Flint. May's got
thirty-one days, sure enough."
"Call it the thirty-fust, then. It's nigh enough, anyway. Well, Josh
Marden an' Lyddy Ann Crane was married, an' for nine year they lived
like two kittens. Old Sperry Dyer, that wanted to git Lyddy himself,
used to call 'em cup an' sasser, 'There they be,' he'd say, when he
stood outside the meetin'-house door an' they drove up; 'there comes
cup an' sasser.' Lyddy was a little mite of a thing, with great black
eyes; an' if Josh hadn't been as tough as tripe, he'd ha' got all wore
out waitin' on her. He even washed the potaters for her, made the
fires, an' lugged water. Scairt to death if she was sick! She used to
have sick headaches, an' one day he stopped choppin' pine limbs near
the house 'cause the noise hurt Lyddy Ann's head. Another time, I
recollect, she had erysipelas in her face, an' I went in to carry some
elder-blows, an' found him readin' the Bible. 'Lord!' says I, 'Josh;
that's on'y Genesis! 'twon't do the erysipelas a mite o' good for you
to be settin' there reading the be'gats! You better turn to
Revelation.' But 'twa'n't all on his side, nuther. 'Twas give an' take
with them. It used to seem as if Lyddy Ann kind o' worshipped him.
'Josh' we all called him; but she used to say 'Joshuay,' an' look at
him as if he was the Lord A'mighty."
"My! Sally!" said timid Mrs. Spenser, under her breath; but Sally gave
no heed, and swept on in the stream of her recollections.
"Well, it went on for fifteen year, an' then 'Mandy Knowles, Josh's
second cousin, come to help 'em with the work. 'Mandy was a queer
creatur'. I've studied a good deal over her, an' I dunno's I've quite
got to the bottom of her yit. She was one o' them sort o' slow women,
with a fat face, an' she hadn't got over dressin' young, though Lyddy
an' the rest of us that was over thirty was wearin' caps an' talkin'
about false fronts. But she never'd had no beaux; an' when Josh begun
to praise her an' say how nice 'twas to have her there, it tickled her
e'en a'most to death. She'd lived alone with her mother an' two
old-maid aunts, an' she didn't know nothin' about men-folks; I al'ays
thought she felt they was different somehow,--kind o' cherubim an'
seraphim,--an' you'd got to mind 'em as if you was the Childern of
Isr'el an' they was Moses. Josh never meant a mite o' harm, I'll say
that for him. He was jest man-like, that's all. There's lots o'
different kinds,--here, Mis' Niles, you know; you've buried your
third,--an' Josh was the kind that can't see more'n, one woman to a
time. He looked at 'Mandy, an' he got over seein' Lyddy Ann, that's
all. Things would ha' come out all right--as right as they be for most
married folks--if Lyddy Ann hadn't been so high-sperited; but she set
the world by Joshuay, an' there 'twas. 'Ain't it nice to have her
here?' he kep' on sayin' over'n' over to Lyddy, an' she'd say 'Yes;'
but byme-by, when she found he was al'ays on hand to bring a pail o'
water for 'Mandy, or to throw away her suds, or even help hang out the
clo'es--I see 'em hangin' out clo'es one day when I was goin' across
their lot huckleberr'in', an' he did look like a great gump, an' so did
she--well, then, Lyddy Ann got to seemin' kind o' worried, an' she had
more sick headaches than ever. Twa'n't a year afore that, I'd been in
one day when she had a headache, an' he says, as if he was perfessin'
his faith in meetin', 'By gum! I wish I could have them headaches for
her!' an' I thought o' speakin' of it, about now, when I run in to
borrer some saleratus, an' he hollered into the bedroom: 'Lyddy Ann,
you got another headache? If I had such a head as that, I'd cut it
off!' An' all the time 'Mandy did act like the very Old Nick, jest as
any old maid would that hadn't set her mind on menfolks till she was
thirty-five. She bought a red-plaid bow an' pinned it on in front, an'
one day I ketched her at the lookin'-glass pullin' out a gray hair.
"'Land, 'Mandy,' says I (I spoke right up), 'do you pull 'em out as
fast as they come? That's why you ain't no grayer, I s'pose. I was
sayin' the other day, "'Mandy Knowles is gittin' on, but she holds her
own pretty well. I dunno how she manages it, whether she dyes or not,"'
says I.
"An' afore she could stop herself, 'Mandy turned round, red as a beet,
to look at Josh an' see if he heard. He stamped out into the
wood-house, but Lyddy Ann never took her eyes off her work. Them little
spiteful things didn't seem to make no impression on her. I've thought
a good many times sence, she didn't care how handsome other women was,
nor how scrawny she was herself, if she could on'y keep Josh. An' Josh
he got kind o' fretful to her, an' she to him, an' 'Mandy was all honey
an' cream. Nothin' would do but she must learn how to make the
gingerbread he liked, an' iron his shirts; an' when Lyddy Ann found he
seemed to praise things up jest as much as he had when she done 'em,
she give 'em up, an' done the hard things herself, an' let 'Mandy see
to Josh. She looked pretty pindlin' then, mark my words; but I never
see two such eyes in anybody's head. I s'pose 'twas a change for Josh,
anyway, to be with a woman like 'Mandy, that never said her soul's her
own, for Lyddy'd al'ays had a quick way with her; but, land! you can't
tell about men, what changes 'em or what don't. If you're tied to one,
you've jest got to bear with him, an' be thankful if he don't run some
kind of a rig an' make you town-talk."
There was a murmur from gentle Lucy Staples, who had been constant for
fifty years to the lover who died in her youth; but no one took any
notice of her, and Sally Flint went on:
"It come spring, an' somehow or nuther 'Mandy found out the last o'
March was Josh's birthday, an' nothin' would do but she must make him a
present. So she walked over to Sudleigh, an' bought him a great long
pocket-book that you could put your bills into without foldin' 'em, an'
brought it home, tickled to death because she'd been so smart. Some o'
this come out at the time, an' some wa'n't known till arterwards; the
hired man told some, an' a good deal the neighbors see themselves. An'
I'll be whipped if 'Mandy herself didn't tell the heft on't arter 'twas
all over. She wa'n't more'n half baked in a good many things. It got
round somehow that the pocket-book was comin', an' when, I see 'Mandy
walkin' home that arternoon, I ketched up my shawl an' run in behind
her, to borrer some yeast. Nobody thought anything o' birthdays in our
neighborhood, an' mebbe that made it seem a good deal more 'n 'twas;
but when I got in there, I vow I was sorry I come. There set Josh by
the kitchen table, sort o' red an' pleased, with his old pocket-book
open afore him, an' he was puttin' all his bills an' papers into the
new one, an' sayin', every other word,--
"'Why, 'Mandy, I never see your beat! Ain't this a nice one, Lyddy?'
"An' 'Mandy was b'ilin' over with pride, an' she stood there takin' off
her cloud; she'd been in such a hurry to give it to him she hadn't even
got her things off fust. Lyddy stood by the cupboard, lookin' straight
at the glass spoon-holder. I thought arterwards I didn't b'lieve she
see it; an' if she did, I guess she never forgot it.
"'Yes, it's a real nice one,' says I.
"I had to say suthin', but in a minute, I was most scairt. Lyddy turned
round, in a kind of a flash; her face blazed all over red, an' her eyes
kind o' went through me. She stepped up to the table, an' took up the
old pocket-book.
"'You've got a new one,' says she. 'May I have this?'
"'Course you may,' says he.
"He didn't look up to see her face, an' her voice was so soft an'
still, I guess he never thought nothin' of it. Then she held the
pocket-book up tight ag'inst her dress waist an' walked off into the
bedroom. I al'ays thought she never knew I was there. An' arterwards it
come out that that old pocket-book was one she'd bought for him afore
they was married,--earned it bindin' shoes."
"'Twas kind o' hard," owned Mrs. Niles, bending forward, and, with
hands clasped over her knees, peering into the coals for data regarding
her own marital experiences. "But if 'twas all wore out--did you say
'twas wore?--well, then I dunno's you could expect him to set by it.
An' 'twa'n't as if he'd give it away; they'd got it between 'em."
"I dunno; it's all dark to me," owned Sally Flint. "I guess 'twould
puzzle a saint to explain men-folks, anyway, but I've al'ays thought
they was sort o' numb about some things. Anyway, Josh Marden was. Well,
things went on that way till the fust part o' the summer, an' then they
come to a turnin'-p'int. I s'pose they'd got to, some time, an' it
might jest as well ha' been fust as last. Lyddy Ann was pretty
miserable, an' she'd been dosin' with thoroughwort an' what all when
anybody told her to; but I al'ays thought she never cared a mite
whether she lived to see another spring. The day I'm comin' to, she was
standin' over the fire fryin' fish, an' 'Mandy was sort o' fiddlin'
round, settin' the table, an' not doin' much of anything arter all. I
dunno how she come to be so aggravatin', for she was al'ays ready to do
her part, if she had come between husband an' wife. You know how hard
it is to git a fish dinner! Well, Lyddy Ann was tired enough, anyway.
An' when Josh come in, 'Mandy she took a cinnamon-rose out of her
dress, an' offered it to him.
"'Here's a flower for your button-hole,' says she, as if she wa'n't
more 'n sixteen. An' then she set down in a chair, an' fanned herself
with a newspaper.
"Now that chair happened to be Lyddy Ann's at the table, an' she see
what was bein' done. She turned right round, with the fish-platter in
her hand, an' says she, in an awful kind of a voice,--
"'You git up out o' my chair! You've took my husband away, but you
sha'n't take my place at the table!'
"The hired man was there, washin' his hands at the sink, an' he told it
to me jest as it happened. Well, I guess they all thought they was
struck by lightnin', an' Lyddy Ann most of all. Josh he come to, fust.
He walked over to Lyddy Ann.
"'You put down that platter!' says he. An' she begun to tremble, an'
set it down.
"I guess they thought there was goin' to be murder done, for 'Mandy
busted right out cryin' an' come runnin' over to me, an' the hired man
took a step an' stood side o' Lyddy Ann. He was a little mite of a man,
Cyrus was, but he wouldn't ha' stood no violence.
"Josh opened the door that went into the front entry, an' jest p'inted.
'You walk in there,' he says, 'an' you stay there. That's your half o'
the house, an' this is mine. Don't you dast to darken my doors!'
"Lyddy Ann she walked through the entry an' into the fore-room, an' he
shet the door."
"I wouldn't ha' done it!" snorted old Mrs. Page, who had spent all her
property in lawsuits over a right of way. "Ketch me!"
"You would if you'd 'a' been Lyddy Ann!" said Sally Flint, with an
emphatic nod. Then she continued: "I hadn't more'n heard 'Mandy's story
afore I was over there; but jest as I put my foot on the door-sill,
Josh he come for'ard to meet me.
"'What's wanted?' says he. An' I declare for't I was so scairt I jest
turned round an' cut for home. An' there set 'Mandy, wringin' her
hands.
"'What be I goin' to do?' says she, over 'n' over. 'Who ever'd ha'
thought o' this?'
"'The thing for you to do,' says I, 'is to go, straight home to your
mother, an' I'll harness up an' carry you. Don't you step your foot
inside that house ag'in. Maybe ma'am will go over an' pack up your
things. You've made mischief enough.' So we got her off that
arter-noon, an' that was an end of her.
"I never could see what made Josh think so quick that day. We never
thought he was brighter 'n common; but jest see how in that flash o'
bein' mad with Lyddy Ann he'd planned out what would be most wormwood
for her! He gi'n her the half o' the house she'd furnished herself with
hair-cloth chairs an' a whatnot, but 'twa'n't the part that was fit to
be lived in. She stayed pretty close for three or four days, an' I
guess she never had nothin' to eat. It made me kind o' sick to think of
her in there settin' on her hair-cloth sofy, an' lookin' at her wax
flowers an' the coral on the what-not, an' thinkin' what end she'd
made. It was of a Monday she was sent in there, an' Tuesday night I
slipped over an' put some luncheon on the winder-sill; but 'twas there
the next day, an' Cyrus see the old crower fly up an' git it. An' that
same Tuesday mornin', Josh had a j'iner come an' begin a partition
right straight through the house. It was all rough boards, like a high
fence, an' it cut the front entry in two, an' went right through the
kitchen--so't the kitchen stove was one side on't, an' the sink the
other. Lyddy Ann's side had the stove. I was glad o' that, though I
s'pose she 'most had a fit every day to think o' him tryin' to cook
over the airtight in the settin'-room. Seemed kind o' queer to go to
the front door, too, for you had to open it wide an' squeeze round the
partition to git into Lyddy Ann's part, an' a little mite of a crack
would let you into Josh's. But they didn't have many callers. It was a
good long while afore anybody dared to say a word to her; an' as for
Josh, there wa'n't nobody that cared about seein' him but the
tax-collector an' pedlers.
"Well, the trouble Josh took to carry out that mad fit! He split wood
an' laid it down at Lyddy Ann's door, an' he divided the eggs an' milk,
an' shoved her half inside. He bought her a separate barrel o' flour,
an' all the groceries he could think on; they said he laid money on her
winder-sill. But, take it all together, he was so busy actin' like a
crazed one that he never got his 'taters dug till 'most time for the
frost. Lyddy Ann she never showed her head among the neighbors ag'in.
When she see she'd got to stay there, she begun to cook for herself;
but one day, one o' the neighbors heard her pleadin' with Josh, out in
the cow-yard, while he was milkin'.
"'O Joshuay,' she kep' a-sayin' over 'n' over, 'you needn't take me
back, if you'll on'y let me do your work! You needn't speak to me, an'
I'll live in the other part; but I shall be crazy if you don't let me
do your work. O Joshuay! O Joshuay!' She cried an' cried as if her
heart would break, but Josh went on milkin', an' never said a word.
"I s'pose she thought he'd let her, the old hunks, for the next day,
she baked some pies an' set 'em on the table in his part. She reached
in through the winder to do it. But that night, when Josh come home, he
hove 'em all out into the back yard, an' the biddies eat 'em up. The
last time I was there, I see them very pieces o' pie-plate, white an'
blue-edged, under the syringa bush. Then she kind o' give up hope. I
guess--But no! I'm gittin' ahead o' my story. She did try him once
more. Of course his rooms got to lookin' like a hog's nest--"
"My! I guess when she see him doin' his own washin', she thought the
pocket-book was a small affair," interpolated Mrs. Niles.
"She used to go round peerin' into his winders when he wa'n't there,
an' one day, arter he'd gone off to trade some steers, she jest spunked
up courage an' went in an' cleaned all up. I see the bed airin', an'
went over an' ketched her at it. She hadn't more'n got through an'
stepped outside when Josh come home, an' what should he do but take the
wheelbarrer an', beat out as he was drivin' oxen five mile, go down to
the gravel-pit an' get a barrerful o' gravel. He wheeled it up to the
side door, an' put a plank over the steps, an' wheeled it right in. An'
then he dumped it in the middle o' his clean floor. That was the last
o' her tryin' to do for him on the sly.
"I should ha' had some patience with him if 'twa'n't for one thing he
done to spite her. Seemed as if he meant to shame her that way afore
the whole neighborhood. He wouldn't speak to her himself, but he sent a
painter by trade to tell her he was goin' to paint the house, an' to
ask her what color she'd ruther have. The painter said she acted sort
o' wild, she was so pleased. She told him yaller; an' Josh had him go
right to work on't next day. But he had her half painted yaller, an'
his a kind of a drab, I guess you'd call it. He sold a piece o' ma'sh
to pay for't. Dr. Parks said you might as well kill a woman with a
hatchet, as the man did down to Sudleigh, as put her through such
treatment. My! ain't it growin' late? Here, let me set back by the
winder. I want to see who goes by, to-day. An' I'll cut my story short.
"Well, they lived jest that way. Lyddy Ann she looked like an old
woman, in a month or two. She looked every minute as old as you do,
Mis' Gridley. Ain't you sixty-nine? Well, she wa'n't but thirty-six.
Her hair turned gray, an' she was all stooped over. Sometimes I thought
she wa'n't jest right. I used to go in to see if she'd go coltsfootin'
with me, or plummin'; but she never'd make me no answer. I recollect
two things she said. One day, she set rockin' back'ards an' for'ards in
a straight chair, holdin' her hands round her knees, an' she says,--
"'I 'ain't got no pride, Sally Flint! I 'ain't got no pride!'
"An' once she looked up kind o' pitiful an' says, 'Ain't it queer I
can't die?' But, poor creatur', I never thought she knew what she was
sayin'. She'd ha' been the last one to own she wa'n't contented if
she'd had any gover'ment over her words.
"Well, Josh he'd turned the hired man away because he couldn't do for
him over the airtight stove, an' he got men to help him by days' works.
An' through the winter, he jest set over the fire an' sucked his claws,
an' thought how smart he was. But one day 'twas awful cold, an' we'd
been tryin' out lard, an' the fat ketched fire, an' everything was all
up in arms, anyway. Cyrus he was goin' by Josh's, an' he didn't see no
smoke from the settin'-room stove. So he jest went to the side door an'
walked in, an' there set Josh in the middle o' the room. Couldn't move
hand nor foot! Cyrus didn't stop for no words, but he run over to our
house, hollerin', 'Josh Harden's got a stroke!' An' ma'am left the
stove all over fat an' run, an' I arter her, I guess Lyddy Ann must ha'
seen us comin', for we hadn't more'n got into the settin'-room afore
she was there. The place was cold as a barn, an' it looked like a
hurrah's nest. Josh never moved, but his eyes follered her when she
went into the bedroom to spread up the bed.
"'You help me, Cyrus,' says she, kind, o' twittery-like, but calm.
'We'll carry him in here. I can lift.'
"But our men-folks got there jest about as they was tryin' to plan how
to take him, an' they h'isted him onto the bed. Cyrus harnessed up our
horse an' went after Dr. Parks, an' by the time he come, we'd got the
room so's to look decent. An'--if you'll b'lieve it! Lyddy Ann was in
the bedroom tryin' to warm Josh up an' make him take some hot drink;
but when I begun to sweep up, an' swop towards that gravel-pile in the
middle o' the floor, she come hurryin' up, all out o' breath. She
ketched the broom right out o' my hand.
"I'll sweep, byme-by,' says she. 'Don't you touch that gravel, none on
ye!' An' so the gravel laid there, an' we walked round it, watchers an'
