go."
At supper Miss Blagden placed something in my hand.
I looked at it, and found that it was a ticket to Patti's concert on the
following evening. It would give me admission to the most expensive
part of the house.
"You are very kind, Miss Blagden," I said, in grateful surprise.
"Don't mention where you got it. You may consider it in the light of a
fee for attendance upon your poor patient. By the way, how is she? Have
you been there to-day?"
"Yes; she is doing well, but is in a great hurry to get well. The rent
comes due next week, and--"
"How much is it?" asked Miss Blagden, interrupting me.
"Seven dollars."
She drew a ten dollar bill from her pocket-book and extended it to me.
"Give that to Mrs. Mills," she said.
"You make me very happy as well as her; I am beginning to find how kind
and charitable you are."
"No, no," she said gravely. "There are few of us of whom that may be
said. How soon do you think your patient will be able to resume work?"
"Next Monday, I hope. She is gaining rapidly."
"How thick you are with the Disagreeable Woman!" said Mrs. Wyman, when
she next met me. "Don't fail to invite me to the wedding."
"On one condition."
"What is that?"
"That you invite me to your wedding with the Count."
She smiled complacently and called me a naughty man. I wonder if she
aspires to become a Countess.
CHAPTER XV.
THE PROFESSOR'S COURTSHIP.
"What a guy!"
The busy day at Macy's was over. Troops of young women passed through
the doors, in street costume, and laughing and chatting, made their way
up or down Sixth Avenue, or turned into Twenty-third street. Among them
was Ruth Canby, and it was to her that her friend Maria Stevenson
addressed the above exclamation.
Ruth turned to observe the figure indicated by her friend, and was
almost speechless with surprise.
At the corner leaning against the lamppost was a figure she knew well.
The rusty overcoat with its amplitude of cape, the brown crushed hat,
the weather-beaten face, and the green goggles were unmistakable. It was
Prof. Poppendorf. He was peering in his short-sighted way at the young
women emerging from the great store with an inquiring gaze. Suddenly his
eyes brightened. He had found the object of his search.
"Mees Ruth!" he exclaimed, stepping forward briskly, "I haf come to walk
home with you."
Ruth looked confused and almost distressed. She would gladly have found
some excuse to avoid the walk but could think of none.
"Maria!" she said, hurriedly, "it is an old friend of the family. I
shall have to leave you."
Her friend looked at the rusty figure in amazement.
"Oh, well, Ruth," she said, "we will meet to-morrow. So long!"
This was not perhaps the way in which a Fifth Avenue maiden would have
parted from her friend, but Maria Stevenson was a free and easy young
woman, of excellent heart and various good qualities, but lacking the
social veneering to be met with in a different class of society.
"How provoking!" thought Ruth, as she reluctantly took her place beside
the Professor, who, unlike herself, seemed in the best of spirits.
"I haf waited here a quarter of an hour to meet you, Mees Ruth," he
said.
"I wish you hadn't," thought Ruth, but she only said, "I am sorry to
have put you to so much trouble."
"It was no trouble, I assure you, Mees Ruth," said her elderly companion
in as genial a tone as his bass voice could assume.
"Let us cross the street," suggested Ruth.
She wished as soon as possible to get out of sight of her shop
companions, who were sure to tease her the next day.
"With all my heart," said the Professor. "I should wish to be more
alone."
They crossed Sixth Avenue, and walked down on the west side. Ruth was
wondering all the while what on earth could have induced the Professor
to take such pains to offer her his escort. She did not have long to
wait.
"I haf something very particular to say to you, Mees Ruth," said the
Professor, gazing fondly at her through his green goggles.
"Indeed!" returned Ruth, in great surprise.
"Yes, Mees Ruth, I haf been feeling very lonely. I am tired of living at
a boarding-house. I wish to have a home of my own. Will you marry me?
Will you be my frau--I mean my wife?"
Ruth Canby stopped short. She was "like to drop," as she afterwards
expressed it.
"Marry you!" she repeated, in a dazed way.
"Yes, Mees Ruth, dear Mees Ruth, I want you to be my wife."
"But, Professor, I could never think of marrying a man so----" old she
was about to add, but she feared it would hurt the Professor's feelings.
"I know what you would say, Mees Ruth. You think I am too old. But I am
strong. See here!" and he smote his large breast vigorously. "I am
sound, and I shall live many years. My father lived till eighty-five,
and I am only sixty-five."
"I am only twenty."
"True! you are much younger, but no young man would love you so fondly."
"I don't know," said Ruth.
"Perhaps you think I am poor, but it is not so. I haf a good income, and
I haf just been appointed to gif lectures on philosophy in Miss Green's
school on Madison Avenue. We will take a nice flat. I will furnish it
well, and we will haf a happy home."
"Thank you very much, Prof. Poppendorf," said Ruth, hurriedly. "Indeed
I feel complimented that such a learned man and great scholar should
wish to marry me, but I am only a simple girl--I have not much
education--and I should not make a suitable wife for you."
"Do not think of that, Mees Ruth. I will teach you myself. I will teach
you Latin and Greek, and Sanscrit, if you please. I will read my
lectures on philosophy to you, and I will make you 'une femme
savante,' so that you can talk with my brother Professors who will come
to see me. You can cook, can you not, Mees Ruth?"
"Yes, I know how to cook, but--"
"Ah, that is well," said the Professor, in a tone of satisfaction. "All
the German ladies can cook. Frau von Bismarck, the wife of my old
friend, is an excellent cook. I haf dined at Bismarck's house."
"But," said Ruth, firmly, "I can not think of becoming your wife, Prof.
Poppendorf."
"Ach, so!" said the Professor, in a tone of disappointment. "Do not make
such a mistake, my dear Mees Ruth. Is it nothing to become Mrs.
Professor Poppendorf. You will take a good place in society. For I
assure you that I am well known among scholars. I am now busy on a great
work on philosophy, which will extend my fame. I will make you proud of
your husband."
"Indeed, Prof. Poppendorf, I do not doubt your learning or your fame,
but I can not marry a man old enough to be my grandfather."
"So, I am not so sure about that. I am old enough to be your father,
but--"
"Never mind! We will not argue the point. I hope you will say no more. I
can not marry you."
"Ah! is there another? Haf I a rival?" demanded the Professor, frowning
fiercely. "It is that Dr. Fenwick?"
"No, it is not."
"I do not think he would care to marry you."
"And I don't want to marry him, though I think him a very nice young
gentleman."
"Who is it, then?"
"If you must know," said Ruth, pettishly, "it is that young man who took
supper with us not long ago."
"The young man from the country?"
"Yes."
"But what do you see in him, Mees Ruth. He is a yokel."
"A what?"
"He is a very worthy young man, I do not doubt, but what does he know?
He is a farmer, is he not, with no ideas beyond his paternal acres?"
"Prof. Poppendorf, I will not have you speak so of my Stephen," said
Ruth, while a wave of anger passed over her face.
"Ah, that is his name. Stephen. Pardon, Mees Ruth! I do not wish to say
anything against this rural young man, but he will never give you the
position which I offer you."
"Perhaps not, but I like him better."
"Ach, so. Then is my dream at an end; I did hope to have you for my
frau, and haf a happy home and a loving companion in my declining
years."
His tone seemed so mournful that Ruth was touched with pity and remorse.
"Prof. Poppendorf," she said, gently, "you must not be too much
disappointed. There are many who would appreciate the honor of marrying
you. Why do you not ask Mrs. Wyman?"
"She is a butterfly--a flirt. I would not marry her if there were no
other woman living."
The young woman from Macy's quite agreed with the Professor, and it was
not without satisfaction that she heard him express himself in this
manner.
"Well," she continued, "then there is Miss Blagden. She is of a more
suitable age."
"The Disagreeable Woman. What do you take me for, Mees Ruth? She is too
strong-minded."
"Perhaps so, but I am sure she has a kind heart."
"I should never be happy with her--never!" said the Professor,
decidedly.
"Were you ever married, Professor?" asked Ruth with sudden curiosity.
"Yes, I was married when I was thirty--but my Gretchen only lived two
years. I haf mourned for her more than thirty years."
"You have waited a long time, Professor."
"Yes; till I saw you, Mees Ruth, I never haf seen the woman I wanted to
marry. Perhaps," he added with sudden hope, "this young man, Stephen,
does not wish to marry you."
"He will be only too glad," said Ruth, tossing her head. "He offered
himself to me a year ago."
"Then there is no hope for me?"
"None at all, Professor."
They had reached Waverley Place, and so there was no time for further
conversation. As they came up the stoop Mrs. Wyman saw them through the
window. She was in waiting in the hall.
"Have you had a nice walk together?" she purred.
"How I hate that woman!" said Ruth to herself.
She ran up stairs and prepared for supper.
CHAPTER XVI.
SITS THE WIND IN THAT QUARTER.
Of course I attended the Patti concert. The seat given me was in the
best part of the house, and I felt somewhat bashful when I found that
all my neighbors wore dress suits. My own suit--the best I had--was
beginning to show the marks of wear, but I did not dare go to the
expense of another.
My next neighbor was an elderly gentleman, bordering upon sixty. In the
twenty minutes that elapsed before the rise of the curtain we fell into
a pleasant conversation. It was pleasant to find that he was becoming
interested in me.
"You enjoy Patti?" he said. "But then I hardly need ask that. Your
presence here is sufficient evidence."
"I have no doubt I shall enjoy Patti," I answered. "I have never heard
her."
"Indeed? How does that happen?"
"Because I have been only three months in New York. I came here from the
country, and of course I had no chance to hear her there."
"Excuse my curiosity, but you do not look like a business man."
"I am not. I am a practising physician."
"Indeed!" he replied, with interest. "I wish you could cure my
rheumatism."
"I should like a chance to try."
This was a little audacious, as probably he had his own family
physician, but it came naturally upon his remark.
"You shall try," he said, impulsively. "My family physician has failed
to benefit me."
"It may be so with me."
"At any rate I will try you. Can you call at my house to-morrow at
eleven o'clock?"
"I will do so with pleasure."
He gave me his card. I found that his name was Gregory Vincent, and that
he lived in one of the finest parts of Madison Avenue. It occurred to me
that he was perhaps imprudent in trusting an unknown young physician,
but I was not foolish enough to tell him so.
"I will call," I said with professional gravity, and I entered the name
and engagement in my medical note-book.
Here the curtain rose, and our thoughts were soon occupied by the stage.
When the concert was over, my new friend as he shook my hand, said, "I
can rely upon your calling to-morrow, Dr. Fenwick?"
"I will not fail you."
"I don't know how it is," he said, "but though we are strangers I have a
prophetic instinct that you can help me."
"I will do my best, Mr. Vincent."
Congratulating myself on my new and promising patient, I made my way
into the lobby. There presently I met Mrs. Wyman and Count Penelli. I
learned later that she had purchased two cheap seats and invited the
Count to accompany her. They had not distinguished me in the audience, I
was so far away from them.
"Dr. Fenwick!" exclaimed Mrs. Wyman, in surprise. "I thought you said
you were not coming."
"I changed my mind," I answered, smiling. "Of course, you enjoyed the
concert?"
"Did I not? But where were you sitting?"
"In the orchestra."
"What! Among the millionaires?"
"I don't know if they were millionaires. I was ashamed of my appearance.
All wore dress suits except myself and the ladies."
"It seems to me, doctor, you were extravagant."
"It does seem so."
I did not propose to enlighten Mrs. Wyman as to the small expense I was
at for a ticket. I could see with secret amusement that her respect for
me was increased by my supposed liberal outlay. In this respect I showed
to advantage beside her escort who had availed himself of a ticket
purchased by her. She had represented that the tickets were sent her by
the management.
"The Count had an advantage over us," said the widow. "He could
understand the language."
"Si, Signora," said the Count, with a smile.
"It wasn't the words I cared for," said I. "I should enjoy Patti if she
sang in Arabic."
"Well, perhaps so. Were you ever in Italy, doctor?"
"No, the only foreign country I ever visited was New Jersey."
"Is New Jersey then a foreign country?" asked the Count, puzzled.
"It is only a joke, Count," said the widow.
"And a poor one, I admit."
"The Count had been telling me of his ancestral home, of the vine-clad
hills, and the olive trees, and the orange groves. Oh, I am wild to
visit that charming Italy."
"Perhaps you may do so some day, my dear Mrs. Wyman," said the Count, in
a soft tone.
The widow cast down her eyes.
"It would be too lovely," she said.
When we reached the boarding-house, the Count asked, "May I come up to
your room, Dr. Fenwick?"
"Certainly. I shall be glad to have you do so." My room was a small one.
I should have had to pay a higher price for a larger one. However, I
gave the Count my only chair, and sat on the bed.
"Is it permitted?" he asked, as he lighted a cigarette.
"Oh, yes," I replied, but I only said so out of politeness. It was
decidedly disagreeable to have any one smoke in my chamber in the
evening. I could, however, open the window afterwards and give it an
airing.
"Mrs. Wyman is a very fine woman," said the Count, after a pause.
"Very," I responded, briefly.
"And she is rich, is she not?" he asked, in some anxiety.
"Sits the wind in that quarter?" I thought. "Well, I won't stand in the
way."
"She seems independent."
"Ah! you mean--"
"That she has enough to live upon. She never seemed to have any money
troubles. I suppose it is the same with you, you no doubt draw a
revenue from your estates in Italy?"
"No, no, you make a mistake. They belong to my father, and he is
displease with me. He will send me no money."
"Are you the oldest son?"
"Si, signor!" but he answered hesitatingly.
"Then you will be all right some day."
"True, doctor, some day, but just now I am what you call short. You
could do me a great favor."
"What is it?"
"If you could lend me fifty dollar?"
"My dear Count, it would be quite impossible. Do you think I am rich?"
"You pay five--six dollar for your ticket to hear Patti."
"It was imprudent, but I wished to hear her; now I must be careful."
"I would pay you when I get my next remittance from Italy."
"It will not be possible," I answered, firmly. "Have you asked Prof.
Poppendorf?"
"No! Has he got money?"
"I think he has more than I."
"I have a special use for the money," said the Count, but I did not ask
what it was.
Presently the Count rose and left me. It took twenty minutes to clear
the room of the vile smell of cigarette smoke.
"After all," thought I, "there is a chance for Mrs. Wyman to become a
Countess, that is if he is a real Count." Upon this point I did not feel
certain.
"Well, did you enjoy Patti?" asked Miss Blagden at the breakfast table.
"Immensely. Why did you not go?"
"Because I have very little taste for music," answered the Disagreeable
Woman.
"Mrs. Wyman was there."
"She sings," said Miss Blagden, with a slight smile.
"Yes, the Count was with her."
"Humph! where did they sit?"
"In the upper part of the house somewhere. I felt myself out of place
among the Four Hundred. But it brought me luck."
"How is that?"
"I secured a patient, a Mr. Gregory Vincent of Madison Avenue."
"Was Gregory Vincent there? How did you make his acquaintance?"
"He was my next neighbor. He seemed to take a liking to me, confided to
me that he was a victim of rheumatism, and I am to assume charge of his
case."
"I am very glad," said Miss Blagden, heartily. "Do your best to cure
him."
"I will."
"And don't be afraid to send him in a good bill."
"I am sure he will pay me liberally."
"It may be your stepping stone to success."
"Thank you for your kind interest."
"And how is your poor patient--Alice Mills?"
"Quite well now, but I wish she were not obliged to spend so many hours
in a crowded store."
"When do you call there again?"
"I may call this morning."
"I will go with you. I have a plan for them."
Miss Blagden accompanied me to the poor house. She was so kind and
gentle that I did not understand how any one could call her the
Disagreeable Woman.
In a few days, thanks to her, Mrs. Mills was installed as housekeeper to
a wealthy widower in Fifty-seventh street. Alice was made governess to
two young children, and Frank was provided with a home in return for
some slight services.
CHAPTER XVII.
MY RICH PATIENT.
When I was admitted to the house of Gregory Vincent, I was surprised by
its magnificence. It has been said that there are few palaces in Europe
that compare in comfort and luxury with a first class New York mansion.
I have never been in a palace, and Mr. Vincent's house was the only
aristocratic house which I had had an opportunity to view. But I am
prepared to indorse the remark.
I handed my card to the liveried servant who opened the door.
"Dr. Fenwick," he repeated. "Yes, sir; you are expected."
He led me upstairs into an elegant library, or sitting-room and library
combined. Here sat my acquaintance of the evening before, with his foot
swathed in bandages and resting on a chair, while he was seated in a
cosy arm-chair.
"Good-morning, doctor," he said. "I am glad to see you. You see that I
am in the grasp of my old enemy."
"We will try to rout him," I said, cheerfully.
"That sounds well, and encourages me. Do you know, Dr. Fenwick, that
without any special reason I feel great confidence in you. You are a
young man, probably not more than half as old as my regular physician,
but he has not been able to do me any good."
"And I hope to be able to do so."
"I suppose you have had experience in such cases?"
"Yes, I have an old aunt who had suffered untold tortures from
rheumatism. She put herself under my charge, and for her sake I made an
extensive study of rheumatic cases and remedies."
"Well?" he asked, eagerly.
"I finally cured her. It is now three years since she has had a twinge."
"Good! My instinct was correct. That gives me hopes of success under
your charge. Don't be afraid to lose your patient by effecting a speedy
cure. I will make you a promise. When you have so far cured me that I am
free from rheumatic pains for three months, I will hand you a check for
a thousand dollars."
"A thousand dollars!" I repeated with sparkling eyes. "That will indeed
be an inducement."
"Of course I shall pay you your regular fees besides."
I could hardly credit my good fortune. I was like one who had just
received intelligence that I had drawn a large sum in the lottery. I
determined to win the promised check if there was any chance.
I began to question Mr. Vincent as to his trouble. I found that it was a
case of rheumatic gout. A difficult case, but very similar to that of
my aunt. I resolved to try the same treatment with him.
I wished to ask some questions, but he forestalled them.
"I have no wife," he said. "I was left a widower many years ago. My
niece and myself constitute our whole family."
"Don't you feel lonely at times?" I asked.
"Yes. My niece has her friends, suited to one of her age, but little
company for me. If I had a nephew now--like yourself--it would cheer me
up and give me a new interest in life."
"I wish you were my uncle," I said to myself.
"I am an old man, but I have great interest in young company. I think it
was that that drew me toward you at Patti's concert. When I learned that
you were a physician I saw that I could make it worth your while to call
on an old man. I hope you are not a very busy man."
"Not yet," I answered, guardedly. I felt that it would be unwise to let
him know how far from a busy man I was.
"Then you will be able to call upon me every day."
"I will do so gladly, but it will not be necessary--from a medical point
of view."
"No matter! I shall be glad to have you come, and of course I pay for
your time. It will be an advantage, no doubt, to have your patient under
constant observation."
"That is true."
"Now I won't put you to the trouble of keeping an account of your
visits. I will agree to pay you twenty-five dollars a week if that will
be satisfactory."
Twenty-five dollars a week! Why I scarcely made that sum in fees in a
month.
"It is more than I should think of charging," I said, frankly.
"Then it is satisfactory. Your money will be paid you at the end of
every week."
When I left the house I felt as if I had suddenly come into a fortune.
Now I could see my way clear. The little stock of money which still
remained to me would suffer no further diminution. On the contrary, I
should be able to add to it.
It is said that there comes to every man once in his life a chance to
succeed. Apparently mine had come to me, and this chance had come to me
through the Disagreeable Woman.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE PROFESSOR'S BOOK.
For some weeks matters went on quietly at our boarding-house. Prof.
Poppendorf, in spite of the failure of his matrimonial schemes, ate,
smoked, and drank as tranquilly as ever. Ruth was grateful to him that
he had accepted her refusal as final, and disturbed her no more. They
still sat near each other at the table, but there was never anything in
his manner to indicate that there had been any romantic passages between
them.
The Disagreeable Woman remained as great a mystery as ever. Sometimes
she was absent for three or four days together. Then she would suddenly
reappear. No one ever asked where she had been. It would have taken rare
courage to do that. Nor did she ever volunteer any explanation.
Whether she possessed large means or not no one could conjecture. She
always paid her board bill, and with unfailing regularity, at the end of
every week. Her dress was always plain, but oftentimes of costly
material. She seldom indulged in conversation, though she was always
ready with an answer when spoken to. Perhaps I may mention as exceptions
to her general rule of reticence the young woman from Macy's and myself.
She seemed to feel more kindly toward us than toward any of the others.
There had been various attempts to find out where she lived. None had
succeeded. One day Mrs. Wyman asked the question directly.
"Where do you live, Miss Blagden, if you will allow me to ask?"
"I will allow you to ask," returned the Disagreeable Woman, coolly. "Do
you propose to call on me?"
"If you will permit me."
"It is hardly necessary. We meet at the table every day. I am a hermit,"
she added after a pause, "I do not care to receive visitors."
"I once heard of a hermit who lived in one of the cottages on the rocks
near Central Park," said the widow, rather impertinently.
"I don't live there!" said the Disagreeable Woman, composedly.
"Of course not. I did not suppose you did."
"Thank you. You are right as usual."
If Miss Blagden meant to be sarcastic, nothing in her tone revealed it.
She had warded off the attack dictated by curiosity.
Whether Miss Blagden was rich or not, she was always ready to contribute
to any public or private cause. When Prof. Poppendorf announced that he
was about to publish a book, enlarged from his lecture on "The Material
and The Immaterial." Miss Blagden subscribed for two copies.
"One is for you, Dr. Fenwick!" she said, in a low tone.
"Thank you, Miss Blagden. You are very kind. Am I expected to read it?"
"If you can," she responded with a grim smile.
The other boarders were asked, but each had some excuse.
"I have just bought a new hat," said Mrs. Wyman.
"I no understand English," said the Count.
"Do you think I ought to subscribe, Miss Blagden?" asked Ruth.
"No, child. Why should you? You have a use for your money. Besides, you
would not understand it. If you wish, I will buy one for you?"
"No, thank you, Miss Blagden. It would be of no use to me, but I
thought the Professor would think it friendly."
She could not explain that she wished to make amends for refusing his
suit, for she had with rare delicacy abstained from mentioning the
learned German's uncouth courtship. Perhaps Miss Blagden, who was very
observing, penetrated her motive, for she said: "There is something in
that. Subscribe, and I will pay for the book."
Upon this Ruth gently told the Professor that she would take a copy.
He was surprised and delighted.
"By all means Mees Ruth, but perhaps I should give you one."
"No, no, Prof. Poppendorf. I want to show my interest in you--and your
book."
"You are so good. I will give you the first copy."
"Thank you," said Ruth, shyly.
"What do you want of the old fossil's book?" asked Mrs. Wyman later,
when the Professor was out of hearing. "I suspect that you are in love
with the Professor."
"No, you don't suspect that," said Ruth, composedly.
"At any rate he seems struck with you."
"I suppose I am either material or immaterial," returned Ruth, laughing.
"You went to walk with him one evening."
"I am afraid you are jealous, Mrs. Wyman."
The widow laughed and the conversation ended.
CHAPTER XIX.
A SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.
It was some time since Mrs. Gray had made any communication to the
boarders.
But one evening she seemed laboring under suppressed excitement.
"Something is up," said Mr. Blake, the young reporter who sat on my
left, the Disagreeable Woman being on my right.
"We shall have it after supper," I answered.
Mrs. Gray always waited till the last boarder had finished his meal. It
was one of the unwritten laws of the boarding-house.
The last boarder on this occasion was Professor Poppendorf. He was the
heartiest eater, and we usually had to wait for him. When he had taken
the last sip of beer, for in consideration of his national tastes he was
always supplied with a schooner of that liquid which is dear to the
Teutonic heart, Mrs. Gray opened her mouth.
"My friends," she said, "I have a letter to read to you."
She opened a perfumed billet, adjusted her spectacles, and read.
"It is from Mrs. Wyman," she said, "and it is at her request that I read
it."
We had already noticed that neither Mrs. Wyman nor the Count was
present.
Mrs. Gray began:
"MY DEAR MRS. GRAY:--For three years I have been an inmate of your happy
home. I have come to feel an interest in it and in all whose
acquaintance I have made here. I had no thought of leaving you, but
circumstances make it necessary. Let me say at once that I have
consented to marry Count di Penelli. You who are familiar with his fine
traits and aristocratic bearing will hardly be surprised that I have
been unable to resist his ardent entreaties. I had indeed intended never
to marry again, but it was because I never expected to find one who
could take the place of my dear departed first husband. The Count and I
leave by an early train for Philadelphia where the ceremony will be
performed. We may remain there for a few days. Beyond that our plans are
not arranged. We would have had a public wedding and invited our
friends, but as the Count's family are in Italy and cannot be present,
we thought it best to have a simple private ceremony. When we go to
Italy next summer there may be another ceremony at the Penelli Castle in
Southern Italy.
"I cannot tell when I shall return to New York. Probably I shall never
again be an inmate of your happy home. The Count and I may take a flat
up-town--a whole house would be too large for us. But I shall--we shall
certainly call on our old friends, and I trust that the ties that bind
us together in friendship may never weaken.
"I shall soon be the Countess di Penelli. But once more and for the last
time, I subscribe myself
"Your faithful and devoted
"LETITIA WYMAN."
We listened to the reading of the letter in silent excitement. Then
there was a chorus of exclamations.
"Did you ever?" ejaculated the young woman from Macy's.
"I am not surprised," said the Disagreeable woman, calmly. "Mrs. Wyman
has been courting the Count ever since he came here."
"You mean that he has been paying his attentions to her," suggested Mr.
Blake, the reporter.
"No, I mean what I say."
"She says she had no thought of marrying again."
"Mr. Blake, you are a young man. You don't understand women, and
particularly widows. Probably there is not a gentleman at the table whom
Mrs. Wyman has not thought of as a matrimonial subject, yourself not
excepted."
Mr. Blake was a very young man, and he blushed.
"She would not have married me," growled the Professor.
Most of us smiled.
"Are you pledged to celibacy, Professor?" asked the landlady.
"No, madam. If a certain young lady would marry me I would marry
to-morrow."
Ruth Canby blushed furiously, and was indignant with herself for doing
so, especially as it drew all glances to her.
"Let us hope you may be successful in your suit, Professor," said Mrs.
Gray.
"Thank you, my dear lady; time will show."
Miss Blagden turned her searching glance upon the flaming cheeks of Ruth
and smiled kindly. If there was any one at the table whom she liked it
was the young woman from Macy's.
"I suppose there is no doubt about his being a Count," suggested Mr.
Blake.
"I should say there was a good deal of doubt," answered the Disagreeable
Woman.
"Do you really think so?"
"It is my conjecture."
"Oh, I think there is no doubt about it," said the landlady, who prided
herself on having had so aristocratic a boarder.
"I am a loser by this marriage," said Mrs. Gray. "I have two rooms
suddenly vacated."
"A friend of mine will take one of them," said Mr. Blake, the reporter.
"He has been wishing to get in here for a month."
"I shall be glad to receive him," said Mrs. Gray, graciously.
The other room was also taken within a week.
CHAPTER XX.
A STARTLING DISCOVERY.
Usually I secured a morning paper, and ran over the contents at my
office while waiting for patients.
It was perhaps a week later that I selected the Herald--I did not
confine myself exclusively to one paper--and casually my eye fell upon
the arrivals at the hotels.
I started in surprise as I read among the guests at the Brevoort House
the name of Count di Penelli.
"What!" I exclaimed, "are our friends back again? Why is not the
Countess mentioned? Perhaps, however, the Count has left his wife in
Philadelphia, and come on here on business."
It chanced that I had occasion to pass the Brevoort an hour later.
I was prompted to call and inquire for the Count.
"Yes, he is in. Will you send up your card?"
I hastily inscribed my name on a card and sent it up to his room.
The bell-boy soon returned.
"The Count will be glad to see you, sir," he said. "Will you follow me?"
"He is getting ceremonious," I reflected. "I thought he would come down
to see me."
I followed the bell-boy to a room on the second floor.
