earnest then.
When they came out everybody shook hands so cordially. Aunt Nancy waited
a little while and then beckoned a tall, kindly looking man, who was
about as old as her father, though there was something quite different
about him. He shook hands with Sister Archer, and she introduced him. He
said he was very glad to see Mr. Underhill among them, and smiled down
at the little girl as he took her small hand. She came home quite
delighted that she had shaken hands with the mayor. Then one day Steve
took her and Ben down to Cliff Street, through the wonderful
printing-house, small in comparison to what it is to-day. They met the
mayor again and had a nice chat.
The next great thing to Hanny was Margaret's graduation. She had been
studying very hard to pass this year, for she was past eighteen, and she
was very successful. Even Joe found time to go down. She wore her pretty
white dress, but she had a white sash, and her bodice had been turned in
round the neck to make it low, as girls wore them then. Hanny thought
her the prettiest girl there. She had an exquisite basket of flowers
sent her, beside some lovely bouquets. Annette Beekman graduated too,
and all the Beekman family were out in force.
There were some very pretty closing exercises in the little girl's
school, and at Houston Street Jim was one of the orators of the day, and
distinguished himself in "Marco Bozzaris," one of the great poems of
that period.
After that people went hither and thither, and when schools opened and
business started up the Presidential campaign was in full blast. There
was Clay and Frelinghuysen, Polk and Dallas, and at the last moment the
Nationals, a new party, had put up candidates, which was considered bad
for the Whigs. Still they shouted and sang with great gusto:
    "Hurrah, hurrah, the country's risin'
    For Harry Clay and Frelinghuysen!"
The Democrats, Loco-Focos, as they were often called in derision, were
very sure of their victory. So were the Whigs. The other party did not
really expect success. There were parades of some kind nearly every
night. Even the boys turned out and marched up and down with fife and
drum. There was no end of spirited campaign songs, and rhymes of every
degree. The Loco Foco Club at school used to sing:
    "Oh, poor old Harry Clay!
    Oh, poor old Harry Clay!
      You never can be President
    For Polk stands in the way."
Nora Whitney used to rock in the big chair with kitty in her arms, and
this was her version:
    "Oh, poor old pussy gray!
    Oh, poor old pussy gray!
      You never can be President
    For Polk stands in the way."
This didn't tease the little girl nearly so much, for she knew no matter
how sweet and lovely and good a cat might be, it could only aspire to
that honor in catland. She did so hate to hear Mr. Clay called old and
poor when he was neither. To her he was brave Harry of the West, the
hero of battle-fields.
Jim had a rather hard time as well. He thought, with a boy's loyalty,
his people must be right. But there was Lily, who, with all her
people, was a rabid Democrat. He quite made up his mind he wouldn't keep
in with her, but the two girls he liked next best had Democratic
affiliations also.
Then the Whigs had a grand procession. Perhaps it would have been the
part of wisdom to wait until the victory was assured, but the leaders
thought it best to arouse enthusiasm to the highest pitch.
Stephen had joined with some friends and hired a window down Broadway.
The little girl thought it a very magnificent display. Such bands of
strikingly dressed men marching to inspiriting music, their torches
flaring about in vivid rays, such carriage loads, such wagons
representing different industries, and there was the grand Ship of
State, drawn by white horses, four abreast, and gayly attired, in which
Henry Clay was to sail successfully into the White House. After that
imposing display the little girl had no fear at all. Jim was very
toploftical to Miss Lily for several days.
Then came the fatal day. There were no telegraphs to flash the news all
over the country before midnight. A small one connected Baltimore and
Washington, but long distance was considered chimerical.
So they had to wait and wait. Fortunes varied. At last reliable accounts
came, and Polk had stood in the way, or perhaps Mr. Binney, the third
candidate, had taken too many votes. Anyhow, the day was lost to brave
Harry of the West.
The little girl was bitterly disappointed. She would have liked all the
family to tie a black crape around their arms, as Joe had once when he
went to a great doctor's funeral. Dele teased her a good deal, and Nora
sang:
    "Hurrah, old pussy gray!
    Hurrah, old pussy gray!
      We've got the President and all,
    And Polk has won the day."
Then the Democrats had their grand procession. The houses were
illuminated, the streets were full of shouting children. Even the boys
had a small brigade that marched up and down the street. And oh, grief,
Jim marched with them!
"I wouldn't be such a turn-coat!" declared the little girl angrily. "I'm
ashamed of you, James Underhill. I shall always feel as if you wasn't my
brother any more."
"Sho!" returned Jim. "Half the boys turning out have Whig fathers! There
wouldn't have been enough for any sort of procession without us. And
they promised to cry quits if we would turn out. It don't mean anything
but fun!"
She took her trouble to her father. "You are sorry we have been beaten?"
she said excitedly.
"Yes, pussy, very sorry. I still think we shall be sorry that Clay isn't
President."
"I'm sorry all the time. And when he was so good and splendid, why
didn't they put him in?"
"Well, a great many people think Mr. Polk just as splendid."
"Oh, the Democrats!" she commented disdainfully.
"More than half the votes of the country went against our Harry of the
West. One side always has to be beaten. It's hard not to belong to the
winning side. But we won four years ago, and we did a big lot of
crowing, I remember. We shouted ourselves hoarse over the announcement
that:
    'Tippecanoe and Tyler too!
    Were bound to rule the country through.'
We drove our enemies out of sight and erected Log Cabins on their ruins.
We had a grand, good time. And then our brave and loyal Tippecanoe died,
and some of us have been rather disappointed in Mr. Tyler. We will all
hope for the best. There are a good many excellent men on both sides. I
guess the country will come out all right."
There really were tears in her eyes.
"You see, my little girl, we must make up our minds to occasional
defeat, especially when we go into politics," and there was the shrewd
laughing twinkle in his eye. "It is supposed to be better for the
country to have the parties about evenly divided. They stand more on
their good behavior. And we will hope for better luck next time."
"But you couldn't turn round and be a Democrat, could you?" she asked,
with a sad entreaty.
"No, dear," he replied gravely.
"I'm glad we have Mayor Harper left. Can the new President put him out?"
"No, my dear."
They kissed each other in half-sorrowful consolation. But alas! next
year even Mayor Harper had to go out.
CHAPTER XII
A REAL PARTY
The little girl would have felt a great deal better if Lily Ludlow had
not been on the other side. Lily was growing into a very pretty girl.
They were wearing pantalets shorter now, and she noticed that Lily wore
hers very short. Then aprons were made without bibs or shoulder bands,
and had ruffles on the bottom. They were beginning to go farther around,
almost like another skirt. Lily had two white ones. She walked up and
down the block with a very grand air. Then Miss Chrissy met Margaret at
the house of a mutual acquaintance, and invited her very cordially to
call on her, and Margaret did the same. Miss Chrissy lost no time, but
came card-case in hand, and made herself very agreeable.
"Would you like to go down and call on Jim's girl?" Margaret asked
smilingly. Ben always called her that.
"No," replied Hanny, with much dignity. "I don't like her. She called me
'queer' the first time she saw me, and I shouldn't think of calling
Nora queer, no matter how she looked. If Jim wants her he may have her,
but I do hope they won't live in New York."
The temper was so unusual and so funny that Margaret let it go without a
word.
Everything came back to its normal state. Mr. Theodore and her father
and Steve remained the same good friends. The party transparencies and
emblems were taken down. It seemed to her that people had not been as
deeply disappointed as they ought to be. She was very loyal and faithful
in her attachments, and no doubt you think quite obstinate in her
dislikes.
But something else happened that aroused her interest. Indeed, there
were things happening all the time. Miss Jane Underhill, up at Harlem,
was dead and buried, and Margaret had taken a great interest in Miss
Lois. Cousins had been going and coming. Mrs. Retty Finch had a little
son, and Aunt Crete had come down and spent a week with her
sister-in-law. But this distanced them all--Steve and Dolly Beekman were
going to be married! The Beekmans had been staying up in the country
house. All the girls had been married there.
There were to be five bridesmaids. Annette and Margaret were among them.
Joe was to be best man and stand with Miss Annette. Doctor Hoffman was
to stand with Margaret. There was a Gessner cousin, a Vandam cousin,
and Dolly's dear friend, Miss Stuyvesant. All the bridesmaids were to be
gowned in white India mull, and Dolly was to have a white brocaded silk,
and a long veil that her grandmother had worn. Hosts and hosts of
friends were invited. The house would be big enough to take them all in.
Miss Cynthia made the little girl a lovely dress. First she took her
pink merino for a slip. Then there were lace puffs divided by insertion,
a short baby waist, short sleeves, pink satin bows on her shoulders,
with the long ends floating almost like wings, and a narrow pink ribbon
around her waist with a great cluster of bows and ends. She was to have
her hair curled all around, and to stand and hold Dolly's bouquet while
she was being married. I suppose now we would call her a maid of honor.
No one could say that Mr. Peter Beekman had ever given a mean wedding.
He liked Stephen very much, and Dolly could almost have wheedled the
moon out of him if she had tried. He teased Annette by telling her she
would have to be an old maid, and stay home to take care of her father
and mother.
Grandmother Van Kortlandt came down. She laid off her mourning and wore
her black velvet gown with its English crown point lace. Grandmother
Underhill came too, but she wore black silk with her pretty fine lace
fichu that she had been married in herself. Uncle David, and Aunt
Eunice, who wore a gray satin that had been made for her eldest son's
wedding. There were Underhill cousins by the score, some Bounetts from
New Rochelle, some Vermilyeas, for no one really worth while was to be
slighted.
The day had been very fine and sunny. That was a sign the bride would be
merry and happy and pleasant to live with. And when the evening fell the
great lawn was all alight with Chinese lanterns that a second cousin in
the tea trade had sent Dolly. All the front of the big old house was
illuminated. It was square, with a great cupola on top of the second
story, and that was in a blaze of light as well.
The Underhills all went up early. Steve was very proud of his mother,
who had a pretty changeable silk, lilac and gray, and Joe had given her
a collar and cuffs of Honiton lace, to wear at his wedding, he said.
They went in to see the bride when she was dressed. Of course she was
beautiful, a pretty girl couldn't look otherwise in her wedding gear.
Her veil was put on with orange blossoms and buds, and delicately
scented. There was a wreath of the same over one shoulder and across her
bosom. Her hair was done in a marvellous fashion, and looked like a
golden crown.
How the carriages rolled around and the silks rustled up and down the
stairs. There were gay voices and soft laughs, and presently word was
sent that the Reverend Dr. De Witt had arrived. Then the immediate
family went down. Dolly stooped and kissed Hanny and told her she must
not feel a mite afraid. The young men filed out. Stephen took Dolly,
just putting her white-gloved hand on his arm as if it was the most
precious thing in the world. Joe, smiling and really much handsomer than
Stephen, though you couldn't persuade Dolly to any such heresy; then
Doctor Hoffman and the others. They seemed to float down the broad
stairs. The rooms were very large, but oh, how full they were! The
procession walked through the back parlor; Stephen and Dolly and the
little girl went straight up to Dr. De Witt, who stood there in his gown
and bands, a sweet, reverential old man. The bridesmaids and groomsmen
made a half-circle around. There was some soft beautiful music, then a
silence. Dr. De Witt began. Dorothea Beekman and Stephen Decatur
Underhill promised each other and all the world, to love and cherish,
and live together according to God's holy ordinance all their lives.
The little girl held the flowers and listened attentively. She had an
idea there must be a great deal more to it and was almost disappointed,
for she could not understand that it included all one's life. Dr. De
Witt bent over and kissed the bride with solemn reverence. Then Stephen
kissed his wife. There was a great deal of kissing afterward, for the
new husband kissed the bridesmaids, and the groomsmen had a right to
kiss the bride. The mothers had their turn next, and afterward all was
laughing confusion.
In the midst of this Philip Hoffman leaned over Margaret.
"I believe you kiss the bridesmaid, too," he said, in a serious fashion,
and touched her soft red lips with his. Margaret's face was scarlet, and
her breath seemed taken away.
They made a pretty semicircle afterward, and all the guests came up with
good wishes. There were so many elegantly dressed people that the little
girl was half dazed. I forgot to tell you that she wore her string of
gold beads, and they always had a wedding flavor after that.
Presently the procession re-formed and went out to the dining-room,
where the table ought to have groaned, if tables ever do. There were
some immaculate black waiters who handed one thing after another. The
bride cut the cake of both kinds--pound cake like gold, and fruit cake
rich enough to give you indigestion. And this wasn't the regular supper.
The bride had to grace the head of every table. What merry quips and
jests there were! People were really gay and happy in those days. No one
thought of being bored, they had better manners and kindlier hearts, and
enjoyment was a duty as well as pleasure. The musicians were playing
softly in the hall. By and by the elder people, who had a long drive to
take and who had passed their dancing days long ago, began to say
good-by to the bridal couple. In the upper hall a table was piled with
white boxes tied with narrow white ribbon, containing a bit of the
bride's cake, and a maid stood there handing them to the guests. You put
some under your pillow and dreamed on it. If the dream was delightful
you might look for it to come true. If it was disagreeable you felt sure
you didn't believe in such nonsense.
Then the dancing commenced. There were three large rooms devoted to
this. Several of the old men went up-stairs to Mr. Beekman's special
room to have a smoke and a good game of cards. But oh, how merry they
were down-stairs! They danced with the utmost zest because they really
liked to.
The little girl danced, too. Steve took her out first, and she went
through a quadrille very prettily. Then it was Joe, and after that
Doctor Hoffman begged her mother to let her dance just once with him,
and though she was a little afraid, she enjoyed it very much. Dolly
introduced her to ever so many people, and said she was her little
sister.
"Am I really?" said Hanny, a little confused.
"Why, yes," laughingly. "And one reason why I wanted to marry Stephen
was because he had so many brothers. Now they are all mine, five of
them."
The little girl studied a moment. "It's queer," she said with a smile,
"but I have one more than you. And are you going to have Margaret, too?"
"Yes, and your mother and father. But I am going to be very good and not
take them away. Instead, I shall come to see you and have my little
piece. I'm quite in love with Benny Frank. And Jim's a regular
mischief."
Jim did wish, when he saw all the pretty girls, that he was a grown man
and could dance. Ben found some men to talk to, and Mr. Bond, who was in
a large jewelry establishment, told him about some rare and precious
stones. Old Mrs. Beekman made much of them and said she envied Mrs.
Underhill her fine boys.
There was supper about midnight. Cold meats of all kinds, salads,
fruits, and ice cream, to say nothing of the wonderful jellies. Tea and
coffee, and in an anteroom a great bowl of punch.
After that Mrs. Underhill gathered her old people and her young people,
and said they must go home. Joe promised he would look out for George,
and Margaret was to stay to the bridesmaid's breakfast the next morning.
Dolly slipped a ring on the little girl's finger.
"That's a sign you are my little sister for ever and ever," she said,
with a kiss.
"Can't I ever grow big?" asked Hanny seriously.
Mr. Beekman laughed at that.
"You must come down and see me," he exclaimed. "We're going to move
next week, and we always take Katchina. Come and have a good time with
us."
The little girl was asleep in grandmother's arms when they reached home.
And the old lady gently took off her pretty clothes and laid her in the
bed.
"She's by far the sweetest child you've got, Marg'ret," she said to Mrs.
Underhill.
That was not the end of the gayeties. Relatives kept giving parties, and
the bridesmaids were asked. Margaret began to feel as if she knew Doctor
Hoffman very well. He liked Annette, too. Perhaps he would marry
Annette. They had all been saying, "One wedding makes many."
It seemed so queer to be without Stephen. The little girl began to
realize that they had somehow given him away, and she did not quite
enjoy the thought. He and Dolly came down and stayed two days, and, oh,
dear! Dolly was the sweetest and merriest and funniest being alive. She
played such jolly tunes, she sang like a bird, and whistled like a
bobolink, could play checkers and chess and fox and geese, and she
brought Jim a backgammon board.
They talked a good deal about building a house way up-town. Mr. Beekman
had offered Dolly a lot. John said it was going to be the finest part of
the city. Stephen couldn't really afford to build, but they would like
to begin in their own home. Property was getting so high down-town that
young people like them, just beginning life, must look around and
consider.
"You just go up-town, you can't miss it. And Mayor Harper is going to
make a beautiful place of Madison Square. The firm I am with count on
that being the fine residential part," declared John.
"We can't afford much grandeur on the start," says Dolly, with charming
frankness. "When we get to be middle-aged people, perhaps----"
Mrs. Underhill is very glad to have her so prudent. She will make a fine
wife for Stephen.
Stephen took his new wife up to Yonkers to spend a Sunday, so that Aunt
Crete would not feel slighted. She seemed quite an old lady. And though
it was cold and blustering they walked up on the hill where father's new
house was to be built, by and by, a lovely place for the children and
grandchildren to cluster around a hearthstone.
Meanwhile Margaret was learning to cook and bake and keep house. She
practised her music diligently, she kept on with her French, and she
began to read some books Dr. Hoffman had recommended. There were calls
to make and invitations to tea, and a Christmas Eve party at one of her
schoolmate's. Joe said she must let him know when she wanted an escort,
and John was ready to go for her at any time.
It did not seem possible that Christmas could come around so soon.
Santa Claus was not quite such a real thing this year, so many gifts
came to the little girl by the way of the hall door. But she hung up her
stocking all the same, and had it full to the topmost round. There was a
beautiful set of dishes, and they came with best love from "Dolly and
Stephen." There was cloth for a pretty new winter coat, blue-and-black
plaid, some squirrel fur to trim it with, and a squirrel muff.
Among the gifts bestowed on Margaret was a box of lovely hothouse
flowers. There was only "Merry Christmas" on the card.
Stephen and Dolly came to the Christmas dinner, but they strenuously
denied any knowledge of it. Mrs. Underhill had all her family together,
and she was a happy woman. In truth she was very proud of Stephen's
wife.
Grandmother Van Kortlandt had come to make a visit. Aunt Katrina was
down also staying with her son, as the two old ladies found it rather
lonesome now that there were no active duties demanding their attention.
And Grandmother Underhill had sent the little girl her Irish chain
bedquilt, finished and quilted.
The Dean children came in during the afternoon to exchange notes and
tell a grand secret. Their aunt and two cousins were coming from
Baltimore. Bessy was quite a big girl, fourteen, and Ada was ten. Their
mother had said they might have a real party of boys and girls, not just
a little tea party and playing with dolls; but real plays with forfeits.
"You know I've just studied with all my might and main, and mother said
if I had all my lessons and a good record that I could have the thing I
wanted most, if it didn't cost too very much. And I said I wanted a real
party."
"It will be just splendid!" declared Hanny.
"And we've been counting up. We have seven cousins to ask. And the girls
at school--some of them. I wish we knew some more boys. Oh, do you think
Jim would come?"
"I'll ask him if you would like."
"Oh, just coax him. I suppose Benny Frank will feel that he's too old.
But he's so nice. Oh, do you s'pose John Robert Charles' mother would
let him come? Oh, there! I promised to call him Charles, but I think
Robert's prettier, don't you? And mother said she'd write the
invitations on note-paper. And she has some lovely little envelopes."
That did look like a party.
"I think John Robert Charles is real nice," said Hanny timidly. "But I
am afraid of his mother."
"Oh, so is he, awful! Yet she isn't real ugly to him, only cross, and so
dreadful particular. She makes him go out and wipe his feet twice, and
wear that queer long cloak when it rains, and that red woollen tippet.
She bought red because it was healthy; he said so. He wanted
blue-and-gray. She lets him come over to our house sometimes, and he can
sing just splendid. But the boys do make fun of him."
Poor John Robert Charles often thought his life was a burden on account
of his name and his mother's great virtue of cleanliness. He was not
allowed to play with the boys. Ball and marbles and hopscotch were
tabooed. He could walk up and down and do errands, and that with going
to school was surely enough. Then she exaggerated him. His white collars
were always broader; if trousers were a little wide, his were regular
sailor's. She bought his Sunday suit to grow into, so by the second
winter it just fitted him. His every-day clothes she made. And oh, she
cut his hair!
It is very hard to be the daughter of such a mother, a rigid,
uncompromising woman with no sense of the fitness of things, of harmony
or beauty, or indulgence in little fancies that are so much to a child.
Quite as hard to be the son. Charles had everything needful to keep him
warm, in good health, and books for study. When it rained hard he had
six cents to ride in the omnibus. And he did have the cleanest house,
and the cleanest clothes, and, his mother thought, a very nice time.
Luckily there were no boys this end of the block. They were quite grown
up, or little children. But there were enough below to torment the poor
lad. In the summer when the charcoal man went by they would sing out:
"John Robert Charles, what did you have for breakfast?" and the refrain
would be, "Charcoal."
"What did you have for dinner?" "Charcoal."
"How do you keep so clean?" "Charcoal."
Early this autumn the boy had made a protest. Day after day he said it
over to himself until he thought he had sufficient courage.
"Mother, why don't you call me just Charles, as my father does?"
His mother's surprise almost withered him. "Because," when she had
found her breath, "John is after my father, who was an excellent man,
and Robert was for the only brother I ever had, and Charles for your
grandfather Reed. If you grow up as good as any of them you'll have no
occasion to find fault with your name."
Yet boys at school called him Bob, and he really did enjoy it. He went
to a very nice, select school where there were only twenty boys.
He had made quite an acquaintance with the Dean girls. He could play
house, and they had such delightful books to read.
"And the party must be some time next week. Thursday, mother thought,
would be convenient. I should give the invitations out on Monday," Josie
said. "And, oh, try to coax Jim."
The cousins came. Hanny saw them on Sunday, and on Monday two little
girls went round with a pretty basket and left pale-green missives at
the houses of friends. There was one for Ben also.
"H-m-m," ejaculated Jim. "A baby party. Will they play with dolls?"
"Oh, Jim! it's going to be a real party with refreshments. Of course
there won't be dolls."
"Washington pie and round hearts."
The tears rushed to Hanny's eyes.
"Never mind about him," said Ben, "I'll go. I'll be your beau. And see
here, Hanny, it's polite to answer an invitation. Now you write yours
and I'll write mine, and I'll leave them at the door."
Hanny smiled and went up-stairs for her box of paper.
Jim gave a whistle and marched off; but when he saw the pretty Baltimore
cousin, he reconsidered, though he was afraid Lily Ludlow would laugh at
him when she heard of it.
Margaret dressed the little girl in her pretty blue cashmere, and she
felt very nice with her two brothers. Most of the children were ten and
twelve, but the two cousins were older. Bessie Ritter was quite used to
parties and took the lead, though the children were rather shy at first.
They played "Stage-coach," to begin with. When the driver, who stood in
the middle of the room, said, "Passengers change for Boston," every one
had to get up and run to another seat, and of course there was one who
could not find a seat, and he or she had to be driver. That broke up the
stiffness. Then they had "Cross Questions," where you answered for your
neighbor, and he answered for you, and you were always forgetting and
had to pay a forfeit. Of course they had to be redeemed.
Charles Reed came, though his mother couldn't decide until the last
moment. He looked very nice, too. He had to sing a song, and really, he
did it in a manly fashion.
But the little girl thought "Oats, peas, beans," the prettiest of all.
It nearly foreshadowed kindergarten songs. The children stood in a ring
with one in the middle, and as they moved slowly around, sang:
    "Oats, peas, beans, and barley grows,
    'Tis you nor I nor nobody knows
    How oats, peas, beans, and barley grows.
    Thus the farmer sows his seeds,
    Thus he stands and takes his ease,
    Stamps his foot and claps his hands
    And turns around to view his lands;
      A-waiting for a partner,
      A-waiting for a partner,
    So open the ring and take one in,
    And kiss her when you get her in."
The children had acted it all, sowing the seed, taking his ease,
stamping, clapping hands, and whirling around. They looked very pretty
doing it. Bessy Ritter had asked Ben to stand in first and he had
obligingly consented. Of course he chose her. Then the children sang
again:
    "Now you're married you must obey,
    You must be true to all you say,
    You must be kind, you must be good,
    And keep your wife in kindling-wood.
    The oats are gathered in the barn,
    The best produce upon the farm,
    Gold and silver must be paid,
    And on the lips a kiss is laid."
The two took their places in the ring, and Jim next sacrificed himself
for the evening's good and chose another of Josie's cousins. Then John
Robert Charles manfully took his place and chose Josie Dean. So they
went on until nearly all had been chosen. Then Mrs. Dean asked them out
to have some refreshments. They were all very merry indeed. Mr. Dean
sang some amusing songs afterward, and they all joined in several school
songs.
"I've just been happy through and through," admitted Charles. "I wish I
could give a party. You should come and plan everything," he whispered
to Josie.
It was time to go home then. There was a Babel of talk as the little
girls were finding their wraps, mingled with pleasant outbursts of
laughter. Mr. Dean was to take some of the small people home, and Jim
obligingly offered his escort. It had not been so very babyish.
Ben wrapped his little sister up "head and ears," and ran home with her.
How the stars sparkled!
"It's been just splendid!" she said to her mother. "Don't you think I
might have a party some time, and Ben and all of us?"
"Next winter, may be."
Her father looked up from his paper and smiled. She seemed to have grown
taller. What if, some day, he should lose his little girl!
The very next day Mr. Whitney announced that he was going to take the
Deans and their cousins and Nora to the Museum. He wanted the little
girl to go with them. Delia was visiting in Philadelphia. He promised,
laughingly, to have them all home in good season.
CHAPTER XIII
NEW RELATIONS
New Year's Day was gayer than ever. The streets were full of throngs of
men in twos up to any number, and carriages went whirling by. There were
no ladies out, of course. Margaret had two of her school friends
receiving with her, one a beautiful Southern girl whose father was in
Congress, and who was staying on in New York, taking what we should call
a post-graduate course now, perfecting herself in music and languages.
Margaret was a real young lady now. Joe had taken her to several
parties, and there had been quite a grand reception at the Beekmans'.
The little girl was dressed in her blue cashmere and a dainty white
Swiss apron ornamented with little bows like butterflies. Miss Butler
thought she was a charming child. She stood by the window a good deal,
delighted with the stir and movement in the street, and she looked very
picturesque. Her hair, which was still light, had been curled all round
and tied with a blue ribbon instead of a comb. Her mother said "it was
foolishness, and they would make the child as vain as a peacock." But I
think she was rather proud of the sweet, pretty-mannered little girl.
There was one great diversion for her. About the middle of the afternoon
two gentlemen called for her father. One was quite as old, with a
handsome white beard and iron-gray hair, very stylishly dressed. He wore
a high-standing collar with points, and what was called a neckcloth of
black silk with dark-blue brocaded figures running over it, and a
handsome brocaded-velvet vest, double-breasted, the fashion of the
times, with gilt buttons that looked as if they were set with diamonds,
they sparkled so. Over all he had worn a long Spanish circular which he
dropped in the hall. The younger man might have been eighteen or twenty.
Ben was waiting on the door. He announced "Mr. Bounett and Mr. Eugene
Bounett."
"We hardly expected to find any of the gentlemen at home," began the
elder guest. "We are cousins, in a fashion, and my son has met the
doctor----"
"Father is at home," said Margaret in the pause. "Hanny, run down-stairs
and call him."
"Miss Underhill, I presume," exclaimed the young man. "I have seen your
brother quite often of late. And do you know his chum, Phil Hoffman?
Doctor, I ought to say," laughingly.
"Oh, yes," and Margaret colored a little.
Then her father came up. These were some of the Bounetts from New
Rochelle, originally farther back from England and France in the time of
the Huguenot persecution. Mr. Bounett's father had come to New York a
young man seventy odd years ago. Mr. Bounett himself had married for his
first wife a Miss Vermilye, whose mother had been an Underhill from
White Plains. And she was Father Underhill's own cousin. She had been
dead more than twenty years, and her children, five living ones, were
all married and settled about, and he had five by his second marriage.
This was the eldest son.
They talked family quite a while, and Mrs. Underhill was summoned. The
young man went out in the back parlor where the table stood in its
pretty holiday array, and was introduced to Margaret's friends. They
hunted mottoes, which was often quite amusing, ate candies and almonds
and bits of cake while the elder people were talking themselves into
relationship. Eugene explained that his next younger brother was Louis;
then a slip of a girl of fifteen and two young cubs completed the second
family. But the older brothers and sisters were just like own folks;
indeed he thought one sister, Mrs. French, was one of the most charming
women he knew, only she did live in the wilds of Williamsburg. Francesca
was married in the Livingston family and lived up in Manhattanville.
How any one could bear to be out of the city--that meant below Tenth
Street--he couldn't see!
"Is that little fairy your sister?" he asked. "Isn't she lovely!"
Margaret smiled. She thought Mr. Eugene very flattering. Then the others
came out, and Mr. Bounett took a cup of black coffee and a very dainty
sandwich. He left sweets to the young people. And now that they had
broken the ice, he hoped the Underhills would be social. They, the
Bounetts, lived over in Hammersley Street, which was really a
continuation of Houston. And they might like to see grandfather, who was
in his ninetieth year and still kept to his old French ways and
fashions.
Miss Butler was very enthusiastic about the callers. "Why, you are quite
French," she said, "only they show it in their looks."
"We have had so much English admixture," and Father Underhill laughed
with a mellow sound. "But I've heard that my great grandmother was a
useless fine lady when they came to this country, and had never dressed
herself or brushed her hair, and had to have a lady's maid until she
died. She never learned to speak English, or only a few words, but she
could play beautifully on a harp and recite the French poets so well
that people came from a distance to see her. But her daughters had a
great many other things to learn, and were very smart women. My own
grandmother could spin on the big wheel and the little wheel equal to
any girl when she was seventy years old."
"How delightfully romantic!" cried Miss Butler.
"There's a big wheel in the garret at Yonkers, and a little wheel, and a
funny reel," said Hanny, who was sitting on Miss Butler's lap, "and we
used to play the reel was a mill, and make believe we ground corn."
"I've done many a day's spinning!" exclaimed Mrs. Underhill. "The
Hunters raised no end of flax, and we spun the thread for our bed and
table linen. One of our neighbors had a loom and did weaving. Cotton
goods were so high we were glad to keep to linen. Ah, well, the world's
changed a deal since my young days."
They were disturbed by an influx of guests. The fashionable young men
came late in the afternoon and evening. The gilt candelabrum on the
mantel was lighted up, and it had so many branches and prisms it was
quite brilliant. Then there were sconces at the side of the wall to
light up corners, and these have come around again, since people realize
what a soft, suggestive light candles give. The Underhills had no gas in
their house, it was esteemed one of the luxuries. Even the outskirts of
the city streets were still lighted with oil.
Steve came in and teased the girls and begged them to eat philopenas
with him. He seemed to find so many. And he said the best wish he could
give them for 1845 was that they might all find a good husband, as good
as he was making, and if they didn't like to take his word they were at
