humour, compare notes. The girl, finally, had 
now, to this dear boy she didn't love, something 
more to give than she had ever given ; and after 
a little she could see the dawn of suspicion of it 
in the eyes with which he searched her grave face. 
"I knew Miss Armiger had come back here, 
and I thought I should find her," he presently 
explained. 
" She was here a few minutes ago she has 
just left me," Jean said. 
" To go in again ? " Paul appeared to wonder 
he had not met her on his way out. 
" To go over to Bounds." 
He continued to wonder. " With Mr. Bream ? " 
"No with his little girl." 
Paul's surprise increased. "She has taken her 
up?" 
Jean hesitated ; she uneasily laughed. " Up 
up up : away up in her arms I ' 
Her companion was more literal. "A young 
woman of Effie's age must be a weight ! " 
" I know what weight I've carried her. Miss 
Armiger did it precisely to prevent that." 
" To prevent your carrying her ? " 
" To prevent my touching or, if possible, look 
ing at her. She snatched her up and fled with 
her to get her away from me." 
"Why should she wish to do that?" Paul 
inquired. 
"I think you had better ask her directly." 
Then Jean added: "As you say, she has taken 
her up. She's Tier occupation, from this time." 
"Why, suddenly, from this time?" 
"Because of what has happened." 
"Between you and me?" 
"Yes that's one of her reasons." 
"One of them?" laughed Paul. "She has 
so many?" 
"She tells me she has two." 
"Two? She speaks of it?" 
Jean saw, visibly, that she mystified him; but 
she as visibly tried to let him see that this was 
partly because she spared him. " She speaks of 
it with perfect frankness." 
" Then what's her second reason ? " 
"That if I'm not engaged" Jean hung fire, 
but she brought it out "at least she herself is." 
"She herself? instead of you?" 
Paul's blankness was so utter that his com 
panion's sense of the comic was this time, and 
in spite of the cruelty involved in a correction, 
really touched. "To you? No, not to you, my 
dear Paul. To a gentleman I found with her 
here. To that Mr. Vidal," said Jean. 
Paul gasped. "You found that Mr. Vidal 
with her ? " He looked bewilderedly about. 
"Where then is he?" 
" He went over to Bounds." 
"And she went with him?" 
"No, she went after." 
Still Paul stood staring. " Where the dickens 
did he drop from ? " 
" I haven't the least idea." 
The young man had a sudden light. "Why, 
I saw him with mamma! He was here when 
I came off the river he borrowed the boat." 
"But you didn't know it was he?" 
"I never dreamed and mamma never told 
me." 
Jean thought a moment. "She was afraid. 
You see I'm not." 
Paul Beever more pitifully wondered; he re 
peated again the word she had left ringing in 
his ears. " She's ' engaged ' ? " 
"So she informed me." 
His little eyes rested on her with a stupefaction 
so candid as almost to amount to a challenge ; 
then they moved away, far away, and he stood 
lost in what he felt. She came, tenderly, nearer 
to him, and they turned back to her; on which 
she saw they were rilled with the tears that 
another failure she knew of had no power to 
draw to them. " It's awfully odd ! " he said. 
" I've had to hurt you," she replied. " I'm 
very sorry for you." 
"Oh, don't mind it!" Paul smiled. 
" These are things for you to hear of 
straight." 
"From her? Ah, I don't want to do that! 
You see, of course, I sha'n't say anything." And 
he covered, for an instant, working it clumsily, 
one of his little eyes with the base of one of his 
big thumbs. 
Jean held out her hand to him. " Do you love 
her?" 
He took it, embarrassed, without meeting her 
look ; then, suddenly, something of importance 
 
seemed to occur to him, and he replied with 
simple alertness: "I never mentioned it!" 
Dimly, but ever so kindly, Jean smiled. " Be 
cause you hadn't had your talk with me f " She 
kept hold of his hand. " Dear Paul, I must say 
it again you're beautiful ! " 
He stared, not, as yet, taking this approval 
home ; then with the same prompt veracity, 
" But she knows it, you know, all the same ! " 
he exclaimed. 
Jean laughed as she released him; but it kept 
no gravity out of the tone in which she presently 
repeated: "I'm sorry for you." 
" Oh, it's all right ! May I light a cigarette ? " 
he asked. 
" As many as you like. But I must leave you." 
He had struck a match, and at this he paused. 
"Because I'm smoking?" 
"Dear, no. Because I must go over to see 
Effie." Facing wistfully to her little friend's 
quarter, Jean thought aloud. " I always bid 
her good-night. I don't see why on her birth 
day, of all evenings I should omit it." 
"Well, then, bid her good-night for me too." 
She was half-way down the slope; Paul went 
in the same direction, puffing his cigarette hard. 
Then, stopping short, "Tony puts him up?" he 
abruptly asked. 
" Mr. Vidal ? So it appears." 
He gazed a little, blowing his smoke, at this 
appearance. " And she has gone over to see 
him?" 
"That may be a part of her errand." 
He hesitated again. "They can't have lost 
much time ! " 
"Very little indeed." 
Jean went on again ; but again he checked 
her with a question. "What has he, what has 
the matter you speak of, to do with her cutting 
in ?" He paused as if in the presence of 
things painfully obscure. 
"To the interest others take in the child? 
Ah," said Jean, " if you feel as you do " she 
hesitated " don't ,ask me. Ask her!" 
She went her 'way, and, standing there in 
thought, he waited for her to come, after an 
interval, into sight on the curve of the bridge. 
Then as the minutes elapsed without her doing 
so, he lounged, heavy and blank, up again to 
where he had found her. Manning, while his 
back was turned, had arrived with one of her 
aids to carry off the tea-things ; and from a 
 
distance, planted on the lawn, he bent on these 
evolutions an attention unnaturally fixed. The 
women marched and countermarched, dismantling 
the table ; he broodingly and vacantly watched 
them ; then, as he lighted a fresh cigarette, he 
saw his mother come out of the house to give 
an eye to their work. She reached the spot 
and dropped a command or two ; after which, 
joining him, she took in that her little company 
had dispersed. 
" What has become of everyone ? " 
Paul's replies were slow; but he gave her 
one now that was distinct. "After the talk 
on which I lately left you, I should think you 
would know pretty well what had become of me." 
She gave him a keen look ; her face softened. 
"What on earth's the matter with you?" 
He placidly smoked. "I've had my head 
punched." 
" Nonsense for all you mind me ! " She 
scanned him again. " Are you ill, Paul ? " 
"I'm all right," he answered philosophically. 
"Then kiss your old mammy." Solemnly, 
silently he obeyed her ; but after he had done 
so she still held him before her eyes. She gave 
him a sharp pat. " You're worth them all ! " 
Paul made no acknowledgment of this tribute 
save to remark after an instant rather awkwardly : 
"I don't know where Tony is." 
"I can do without Tony," said his mother. 
"But where's Tony's child?" 
"Miss Armiger has taken her home." 
" The clever thing ! " Mrs. Beever fairly ap 
plauded the feat. " She was here when you came 
out?" 
"No, but Jean told me." 
"Jean was here?" 
"Yes; but she went over." 
" Over to Bounds after what has happened? " 
Mrs. Beever looked at first incredulous; then 
she looked stern again. " What in the name 
of goodness possesses her?" 
"The wish to bid Effie good-night." 
Mrs. Beever was silent a moment. "I wish 
to Heaven she'd leave Effie alone!" 
"Aren't there different ways of looking at 
that?" Paul indulgently asked. 
" Plenty, no doubt and only one decent one." 
The grossness of the girl's error seemed to loom 
larger. "I'm ashamed of her!" she declared. 
" Well, I'm not ! " Paul quietly returned. 
" Oh, you of course you excuse her ! " In 
 
the agitation that he had produced Mrs. Beever 
bounced across an interval that brought her into 
view of an object from which, as she stopped 
short at the sight of it, her emotion drew fresh 
sustenance. "Why, there's the boat!" 
" Mr. Vidal has brought it back," said Paul. 
She faced round in surprise. " You've seen 
him?" 
"No, but Jean told me." 
The lady of Eastmead stared. " She has seen 
him? Then where on earth is he?" 
"He's staying at Bounds," said Paul. 
His mother's wonderment deepened. " He has 
got there already?" 
Paul smoked a little ; then he explained. " It's 
not very soon for Mr. Vidal he puts things 
through. He's already engaged to her." 
Mystified, at sea, Mrs. Beever dropped upon 
a bench. "Engaged to Jean?" 
"Engaged to Miss Armiger." 
She tossed her head with impatience. " What 
news is that ? He was engaged to her five years 
ago!" 
" Well, then he is still. They've patched it up." 
Mrs. Beever was on her feet. " She has seen 
him?" 
Tony Bream at this moment came rapidly down 
the lawn and had the effect of staying Paul's 
answer. The young man gave a jerk to the 
stump of his cigarette and turned away with 
marked nervousness. 
XXVII 
THE lady of Eastmead fronted her neighbour 
with a certain grimness. "She has seen him 
they've patched it up." 
Breathless with curiosity, Tony yet made but a 
bite of her news. " It's on again it's all right? " 
"It's whatever you like to call it. I only 
know what Paul tells me." 
Paul, at this, stopped in his slow retreat, wheel 
ing about. " I only know what I had just now 
from Jean." 
Tony's expression, in the presence of his young 
friend's, dropped almost comically into the con 
siderate. " Oh, but I daresay it's so, old man. 
I was there when they met," he explained to 
Mrs. Beever, "and I saw for myself pretty well 
how it would go." 
"I confess I didn't," she replied. Then she 
added: "It must have gone with a jump!' 
"With a jump, precisely and the jump was 
hers ! " laughed Tony. " All's well that ends 
well ! " He was heated he wiped his excited 
brow, and Mrs. Beever looked at him as if it 
struck her that she had helped him to more 
emotion than she wished him. "She's a most 
extraordinary girl," he went on, "and the effort 
she made there, all unprepared for it" he 
nodded at the very spot of the exploit "was 
magnificent in its way, one of the finest things 
I've ever seen." His appreciation of the results 
of this effort seemed almost feverish, and his 
elation deepened so that he turned, rather 
blindly, to poor Paul. " Upon my honour she's 
cleverer, she has more domestic resources, as one 
may say, than I don't care whom ! " 
" Oh, we all know how clever she is ! " Mrs. 
Beever impatiently grunted. 
Tony's enthusiasm, none the less, overflowed; 
he was nervous for joy. "I thought I did my 
self, but she had a lot more to show me ! " He 
addressed himself again to Paul. " She told you 
with her coolness?" 
Paul was occupied with another cigarette; he 
emitted no sound, and his mother, with a glance 
at him, spoke for him. "Didn't you hear him 
say it was Jean who told him?" 
 
"Oh, Jean!" Tony looked graver. "She 
told Jean?" But his gaiety, at this image, 
quickly came back. " That was charming of her ! " 
Mrs. Beever remained cold. "Why on earth 
was it charming ? " 
Tony, though he reddened, was pulled up but 
an instant his spirits carried him on. " Oh, 
because there hasn't been much between them, 
and it was a pretty mark of confidence." He 
glanced at his watch. " They're in the house ? " 
"Not in mine in yours." 
Tony looked surprised. "Rose and Vidal?" 
Paul spoke at last. "Jean also went over 
went after them." 
Tony thought a moment. "'After them' 
Jean? How long ago?" 
" About a quarter of an hour," said Paul. 
Tony continued to wonder. " Aren't you mis 
taken? They're not there now." 
"How do you know," asked Mrs. Beever, "if 
you've not been home ? " 
" I have been home I was there five minutes 
ago." 
"Then how did you get here ?" 
"By the long way. I took a fly. I went 
back to get a paper I had stupidly forgotten and 
that I needed for a fellow with whom I had to 
talk. Our talk was a bore for the want of it, so 
I drove over there and got it, and, as he had his 
train to catch, I then overtook him at the sta 
tion. I ran it close, but I saw him off ; and here 
I am." Tony shook his head. " There's no one 
at Bounds." 
Mrs. Beever looked at Paul. "Then where's 
Effie?" 
"Effie's not here?" Tony asked. 
"Miss Armiger took her home," said Paul. 
"You saw them go?" 
"No, but Jean told me." 
"Then where's Miss Armiger?" Tony con 
tinued. "And where's Jean herself?" 
"Where's Effie herself that's the question," 
said Mrs. Beever. 
" No," Tony laughed, " the question's Where's 
Vidal? He's the fellow I want to catch. I 
asked him to stay with me, and he said he'd go 
over, and it was my finding just now he hadn't 
come over that made me drive on here from the 
station to pick him up." 
Mrs. Beever gave ear to this statement, but 
she gave nothing else. "Mr. Vidal can take 
care of himself; but if Effie's not at home, 
 
where is she?" She pressed her son. "Are 
you sure of what Jean said to you?" 
Paul bethought himself. "Perfectly, rnamma. 
She said Miss Armiger carried off the little girl." 
Tony appeared struck with this. " That's 
exactly what Rose told me she meant to do. 
Then they're simply in the garden they simply 
hadn't come in." 
" They've been in gardens enough ! " Mrs. 
Beever declared. "I should like to know the 
child's simply in bed." 
" So should I," said Tony with an irritation 
that was just perceptible ; " but I none the less 
deprecate the time-honoured custom of a flurry 
I may say indeed of a panic whenever she's 
for a minute out of sight." He spoke almost as 
if Mrs. Beever were trying to spoil for him by 
the note of anxiety the pleasantness of the news 
about Rose. The next moment, however, he 
questioned Paul with an evident return of the 
sense that toward a young man to whom such 
a hope was lost it was a time for special tact. 
"You, at any rate, dear boy, saw Jean go?" 
"Oh, yes I saw Jean go." 
" And you understood from her that Rose and 
Effie went with Vidal?" 
Paul consulted his memory. "I think Mr. 
Vidal went first." 
Tony thought a moment. "Thanks so much, 
old chap." Then with an exaggerated gaiety 
that might have struck his companions had it 
not been the sign of so much of his conversa 
tion : " They're all a jolly party in the garden 
together. I'll go over." 
Mrs. Beever had been watching the bridge. 
"Here comes Rose she'll tell us." 
Tony looked, but their friend had already 
dropped on the hither side, and he turned 
to Paul. "You wouldn't object a to din- 
ing ?" 
"To meet Mr. Vidal?" Mrs. Beever inter 
posed. " Poor Paul," she laughed, " you're be 
tween two fires! You and your guest," she 
said to her neighbour, "had better dine here." 
"Both fires at once?" Tony smiled at her 
son. "Should you like that better?" 
Paul, where he stood, was lost in the act of 
watching for Rose. He shook his head absently. 
" I don't care a rap ! " Then he turned away 
again, and his mother, addressing Tony, dropped 
her voice. 
"He won't show." 
 
"Do you mean his feelings?" 
" I mean for either of us." 
Tony observed him a moment. "Poor lad, I'll 
bring him round ! " After which, " Do you mind 
if I speak to her of it ? " he abruptly inquired. 
"To Rose of this news?" Mrs. Beever 
looked at him hard, and it led her to reply with 
severity: "Tony Bream, I don't know what to 
make of you ! " She was apparently on the 
point of making something rather bad, but she 
now saw Rose at the bottom of the slope and 
straightway hailed her. " You took Effie home ? " 
Rose came quickly up. " Not I ! She isn't 
here?" 
"She's gone," said Mrs. Beever. "Where is 
she?" 
" I'm afraid I don't know. I gave her up." 
Paul had wheeled round at her first negation; 
Tony had not moved. Bright and handsome, 
but a little out of breath, she looked from one 
of her friends to the other. "You're sure she's 
not here?" Her surprise was fine. 
Mrs. Beever's, however, had greater freedom. 
" How can she be, when Jean says you took her 
away?" 
Rose Armiger stared; she threw back her 
head. " ' Jean says ' ? " She looked round her. 
"Where is 'Jean'?" 
" She's nowhere about she's not in the 
house." Mrs. Beever challenged the two men, 
echoing the question as if it were indeed perti 
nent. " Where is the girl ? " 
" She has gone to Bounds," said Tony. " She's 
not in my garden?" 
" She wasn't five minutes ago I've just come 
out of it." 
" Then what took you there ? " asked Mrs. 
Beever. 
" Mr. Vidal." Rose smiled at Tony : " You 
know what ! " She turned again to Mrs. Beever, 
looking her full in the face. " I've seen him. I 
went over with him." 
" Leaving Efne with Jean precisely," said 
Tony, in his arranging way. 
"She came out she begged so hard," Rose 
explained to Mrs. Beever. " So I gave in." 
"And yet Jean says the contrary?" this lady 
demanded in stupefaction of her son. 
Rose turned, incredulous, to Paul. " She said 
to you anything so false?" 
"My dear boy, you simply didn't under 
stand ! " Tony laughed. " Give me a cigarette." 
 
Paul's eyes, contracted to the pin-points we 
have already seen them become in his moments 
of emotion, had been attached, while he smoked 
still harder, to Rose's face. He turned very red 
and, before answering her, held out his cigarette- 
case. "That was what I remember she said 
that you had gone with Erne to Bounds." 
Rose stood wonderstruck. " When she had 
taken her from me herself ?" 
Mrs. Beever referred her to Paul. " But she 
wasn't with Jean when he saw her ! " 
Rose appealed to him. " You saw Miss Mar- 
tie alone?" 
" Oh yes, quite alone." Paul now was crim 
son, and without visible sight. 
"My dear boy," cried Tony, impatient, "you 
simply don't remember." 
"Yes, Tony. I remember." 
Rose had turned grave she gave Paul a 
sombre stare. "Then what on earth had she 
done with her ? " 
"What she had done was evident: she had 
taken her home ! " Tony declared with an air 
of incipient disgust. "They made a silly mys 
tery of nothing." 
Rose gave him a quick, strained smile. "But 
if the child's not there ?" 
" You just told us yourself she isn't ! " Mrs. 
Beever reminded him. 
He hunched his shoulders as if there might 
be many explanations. " Then she's somewhere 
else. She's wherever Jean took her." 
" But if Jean was here without her ? " 
"Then Jean, my dear lady, had come back." 
"Come back to lie?" asked Mrs. Beever. 
Tony coloured at this, but he controlled him 
self. "Dearest Mrs. Beever, Jean doesn't lie." 
" Then somebody does ! " Mrs. Beever roundly 
brought out. 
" It's not you, Mr. Paul, I know ! " Rose de 
clared, discomposed but still smiling. "Was it 
you who saw her go over?" 
"Yes; she left me here." 
"How long ago?" 
Paul looked as if fifty persons had been watch 
ing him. " Oh, not long ! " 
Rose addressed herself to the trio. "Then 
why on earth haven't I met her? She must 
explain her astounding statement ! " 
" You'll see that she'll explain it easily ! " said 
Tony. 
"Ah, but, meanwhile, where's your daughter, 
don't you know? " Rose demanded with resentment. 
 
" I'm just going over to see." 
" Then please go ! " she replied with a nervous 
laugh. She presented to the others, as a criti 
cism of his inaction, a white, uneasy face. 
" I want first," said Tony, " to express to you 
my real joy. Please believe in it." 
She thought she seemed to come back from 
a distance. " Oh, you know ? " Then to Paul : 
" She told you ? It's a detail," she added impa 
tiently. " The question " she thought again 
" is the poor child." Once more she appealed to 
Paul. " Will you go and see ? " 
"Yes, go, boy." Tony patted his back. 
"Go this moment," his mother put in. 
He none the less lingered long enough to 
offer Rose his blind face. "I want also to ex 
press 
She took him up with a wonderful laugh. 
" Your real joy, dear Mr. Paul ? " 
"Please believe in that too." And Paul, at 
an unwonted pace, took his way. 
"I believe in everything I believe in every 
one," Rose went on. "But I don't believe " 
She hesitated, then checked herself. "No mat 
ter. Can you forgive me?" she asked of Mrs. 
Beever. 
"For giving up the child?" The lady of 
Eastmead looked at her hard. " No ! " she said 
curtly, and, turning straight away, went and 
dropped into a seat, from which she watched 
the retreating figures of her two parlour-maids, 
who carried off between them a basket contain 
ing the paraphernalia of tea. Rose, with a queer 
expression, but with her straight back to the 
painful past, quietly transferred her plea to 
Tony. "It was his coming it made the dif 
ference. It upset me." 
" Upset you ? You were splendid ! " 
The light of what had happened was in her 
face as she considered him. " You are ! " she 
replied. Then she added: "But he's finer than 
either of us ! " 
"I told you four years ago what he is. He's 
all right." 
"Yes," said Rose "he's all right. And I 
am now," she went on. "You've been good 
to me." She put out her hand. "Good-bye." 
"'Good-bye'? You're going?" 
"He takes me away." 
" But not to-night ! " Tony's native kindness, 
expressed in his inflection, felt that it could now 
risk almost all the forms he essentially liked. 
 
From the depth of Rose's eyes peeped a dis 
tracted, ironic sense of this. But she said with all 
quietude : " To-morrow early. I may not see you." 
" Don't be absurd ! " laughed Tony. 
"Ah, well if you will!" She stood a mo 
ment looking down; then raising her eyes, 
"Don't hold my hand so long," she abruptly 
said. " Mrs. Beever, who has dismissed the ser 
vants, is watching us." 
Tony had the appearance of having felt as if 
he had let it go ; but at this, after a glance at the 
person indicated, staring and smiling with a clear 
face, he retained his grasp of it. " How in the 
world, with your back turned, can you see that ? " 
"It's with my back turned that I see most. 
She's looking at us hard." 
" I don't care a hang ! " said Tony gayly. 
"Oh, I don't say it for myself!" But Rose 
withdrew her hand. 
Tony put both his own into his pockets. "I 
hope you'll let me say to you very simply - 
that I believe you'll be very happy." 
"I shall be as happy as a woman can be who 
has abandoned her post." 
" Oh, your post ! " Tony made a joke of that 
now. But he instantly added: "Your post will 
be to honour us with your company at Bounds 
again ; which, as a married woman, you see, you'll 
be perfectly able to do." 
She smiled at him. " How you arrange things ! " 
Then with a musing headshake : " We leave Eng 
land." 
" How you arrange them ! " Tony exclaimed. 
"He goes back to China?" 
" Very soon he's doing so well." 
Tony hesitated. " I hope he has made money." 
" A great deal. I should look better shouldn't 
I ? if he hadn't. But I show you enough how 
little I care how I look. I blow hot and cold; 
I'm all there then I'm off. No matter," she re 
peated. In a moment she added: "I accept your 
hopes for my happiness. It will do, no doubt, as 
soon as I learn ! " Her voice dropped for 
impatience; she turned to the quarter of the 
approach from the other house. 
" That Erne's all right? " Tony saw their mes 
senger already in the shrubbery. "Here comes 
Paul to tell us." 
Mrs. Beever rejoined them as he spoke. "It 
wasn't Paul on the bridge. It was the Doctor 
without his hat." 
" Without his hat ? " Rose murmured. 
