"You saw Tony there?"
"Yes, sir; when I was going up, I saw him come out of the barn and go
into the wood-house."
"Did you see Mr. Whipple?"
"No, sir."
Frank and Charles looked at each other. Tim's story differed from
Tony's.
"You saw Tony in the woodshed?"
"When I went in, he was tucking away something in his pocket."
Tony's friends were utterly confounded by this bold statement.
"You didn't see what it was, did you?" inquired Mr. Hyde, pained by the
turn the affair was taking.
"I didn't. I thought it was an egg at first. He was kind of struck up
when I entered, and asked me if I had seen Farmer Whipple. I told him I
hadn't. The bell rang then, and he cut away to school."
Tim's story seemed plausible, but the master could not harbor a
suspicion that Tony was guilty of theft.
"Which pocket was it, Tim?" asked Farmer Whipple.
"The side pocket of his linen sack."
"Which side?"
"The left-hand side."
"That will do," said Mr. Hyde; and he and Mr. Whipple conferred on the
subject.
Frank was amazed. Tony steal the wallet! Impossible! He never could do
such a thing.
The conference ended, and Farmer Whipple left the schoolroom. Returning
to his house, he harnessed his horse, and drove down to Squire
Murdock's, the magistrate, to procure a warrant for the arrest of Tony.
This he obtained; and after getting a constable to serve it, he drove
to the widow Weston's.
Tony was in the garden picking some currants to sell the following
morning. He was hard at work, and his coat lay upon a bush near him.
Farmer Whipple and the constable jumped over the fence and approached
him.
"How do you do, Mr. Whipple?" said Tony, suspending his occupation.
"How do you do, Mr. Headley?"
"I am sorry to trouble you, Tony; but we've got some suspicions agin
you," began Farmer Whipple.
"Against me!" exclaimed Tony, with a glance at the constable.
"Sorry for it, but it looks bad agin you."
"What have I done?" asked the poor boy, alarmed by the words of the
farmer.
"I lost my wallet this morning, and Tim Bunker says he saw you tucking
something into your pocket," replied Farmer Whipple, proceeding to
detail all the circumstances.
"I am innocent!" pleaded Tony.
"But you were there?"
"I was there;" and Tony told his story just as he had related it to
Frank Sedley.
"All that may be; but you see, Tony, things are against you. Tim's
story is as straight as can be. This is your coat, ain't it?"
"Yes; you can examine that, and search the house if you like."
The constable took the coat. The pockets were filled with various
articles known in the vocabulary of a schoolboy. Mr. Headley thrust his
hand in, and Tony confidently waited the result. Several things were
taken out and returned. It was not in that pocket.
But the first thing the constable drew out of the other pocket was
Farmer Whipple's wallet!
"No use, Tony," said Mr. Headley.
"I did not know it was there; I did not put it there!" protested the
poor boy, whose face was as white as a sheet.
"You must come with me, Tony; I never would have believed it," said the
constable.
The widow Weston was called, and a statement of the case made to her.
Poor, loving, devoted mother! her heart was wrung with agony. But there
was a consolation for her. Tony could not be a thief. He was innocent,
she was sure, however strong appearances might point to his guilt.
The constable took him into the wagon; and Farmer Whipple drove off to
the Rippleton jail, which was located in the village. Tony had never in
his life been so utterly cast down as when he looked into the cell to
which he was conducted. But he realized that he was not guilty, and
this feeling made the prison less terrible to him.
CHAPTER X
TONY'S CASE
No one of all Tony's numerous friends was more surprised at the
accusation made against him than Captain Sedley. Like all who were
familiar with the past life of the brave little fellow, he was
incredulous. The very fact that Tim Bunker was near at the time of the
alleged theft seemed to be sufficient to clear him. The finding of the
wallet in his pocket was the most unaccountable piece of testimony that
had been adduced against him. It did not seem probable that it would
have remained so long in his pocket unknown to him, if any one had been
so wicked as to place it there.
As soon as the wagon which bore Tony a prisoner to the Rippleton jail
had gone, Mrs. Weston put on her bonnet, and hastened over to Captain
Sedley's house. She was sure of finding assistance there. She was so
confident of Tony's innocence, that the thought of proving it for the
satisfaction of the public seemed superfluous.
"I am sure he never could do such a thing in the world, Captain
Sedley," said she, wiping away her tears, and gazing with earnestness
into the face of her benevolent patron.
"Tony always was honest," replied Captain Sedley.
"Honest! He would not steal the value of a pin from anybody."
"I think he would not."
"I know he wouldn't!"
"But it seems very strange that the wallet should have been found in
his pocket."
"Tim Bunker put it there, you may depend upon it."
"Very likely; but, Mrs. Weston, you know that all these things must be
proved. As the affair stands now, I am afraid the testimony against
him, notwithstanding his good character, will be quite sufficient to
convict him."
"O Captain Sedley, I know he is innocent!" exclaimed the poor widow,
her eyes filling with tears again.
"But it must be proved, you see. The finding of the wallet upon him,
and the testimony of Tim Bunker that he saw him putting something in
his pocket, in the very place where the lost property was alleged to
have been left, will leave scarcely a doubt in the minds of judge and
jury."
"Tim Bunker did it, I know!"
Captain Sedley shook his head. Though he had the fullest confidence in
Tony's innocence, he desired to give his mother a perfect understanding
of the difficulties of the case. After all, there was a remote
possibility that poor Tony had been led to take the wallet; and if such
should finally prove to be the fact, it was better for the widow to be
prepared for the worst.
"I do not think Tony is guilty, Mrs. Weston; but you must consider that
appearances are very strong against him," said he.
"I know it, sir. Poor Tony! must he spend the night in jail? Is there
no way to get him out?" sobbed the widow.
"He shall not want for a friend, Mrs. Weston. Farmer Whipple must have
returned by this time, and I will go up and see him. But I do not think
we can get him out to-day."
"Thank you, sir; you are very good. If I could only see him, and tell
him that I feel sure he is innocent, the cold walls would seem less
dreary to him. I know what the poor fellow is thinking about."
Mrs. Weston cried like a child when she thought of her darling boy shut
up within the narrow walls of a prison cell.
"He will be thinking of his home," continued she. "He will think of
me."
"He has been a good son, Mrs. Weston."
"That he has, sir. Tony steal? No, sir. He thinks too much of his
mother and his home to do such a thing. But don't you suppose I could
see him?"
"I will see him myself; won't that do as well?"
"I don't know."
"I will tell him just how you feel about it,--that you are confident he
is innocent."
"Thank you, sir; he will be so comforted by it."
"And to-morrow he will probably be examined before the magistrate."
"Then he will discharge him, I know!"
"I fear not; if there are reasonable grounds for supposing him guilty,
he will be committed to await the action of the grand jury."
"Then it will be weeks and months before they prove his innocence,"
interposed the widow.
"The grand jury is in session now; all they will do, if they find a
bill against him, will be to commit him for trial."
"That makes three times they will try him," said Mrs. Weston, perplexed
by the complications of the law. "Must he stay in prison till all these
trials are finished?"
"He can be bailed out to-morrow, after his examination."
"I must give bonds for him, must I?"
"I will do that, Mrs. Weston. Probably he can come home before
to-morrow noon."
"God bless you, Captain Sedley. You have always been very good to me in
my troubles."
"Ben," said Captain Sedley, going to the window, and calling the old
sailor who was at work in the garden, "Ben, put the bay horse into the
chaise."
"This is a world of trouble, Captain Sedley," said the widow, with a
deep sigh.
"But from trouble and affliction come forth our purest aspirations. God
is good to us, even when he sends us trials and sorrows."
"I will not complain; I have much to be thankful for."
In a few moments the horse and chaise were ready.
"I am going over to see Farmer Whipple, Mrs. Weston, and then I shall
ride down to Rippleton. Keep your spirits up, and be assured everything
shall be done to comfort your son, and to prove his innocence. I shall
engage Squire Benson to defend him."
"Heaven bless you, Captain Sedley," said the poor widow, wiping away
her tears, as her benevolent friend got into his chaise.
Farmer Whipple was fortunately at home when he arrived at his house,
and Captain Sedley immediately opened his business.
"I don't much think that Tony did it," said the farmer; "but things
were agin him, you see."
"How much money was there in the wallet?" asked Captain Sedley.
"More'n I can afford to lose, Cap'n. It was a careless trick of mine."
"What was the amount?"
"There was forty-six dollars in bills, besides some odd change."
"Do you remember what banks the bills were on?"
"Most on 'em. There was a twenty dollar bill on the Rippleton Bank, a
ten on the Village Bank, and some small bills, mostly on Boston Banks."
"Where is the wallet now?"
"I got it; Squire Little said I might take it agin."
"Was the money all right?"
"Bless you, no! If it had been, I wouldn't say a word. All the small
bills were there, but the big ones were gone."
"Indeed!"
"That's the wo'st on't."
"Have you any description of the lost bills?"
"Well, yes; I reckon I should know the twenty agin, if I saw it."
"How?"
"Well, it happens rather lucky. Arter we came from the jail, I went
into Doolittle's store to git some tea. When I went in there, he was
fixin' some kind of a plate, with his name on't; a pencil plate, I
believe he called it."
"A stencil plate," said Captain Sedley.
"Jest so; he was marking his name on the back of some bank bills with
it. I telled him about the robbery, and that the twenty dollar bill he
give me the day before was gone with the rest. Then he telled me that
that twenty dollar bill was marked with his 'pencil plate,' d'ye see?"
"He might have marked a dozen others with it," added Captain Sedley.
"No, he didn't. You see, he didn't git the plate till jest afore he
paid me that bill, and he is sartin that is the only twenty dollar bill
he has marked."
"Did you see the mark yourself?"
"I saw sunthin' on it, but I couldn't read it without puttin' my
glasses on; so I didn't mind what it was."
Captain Sedley considered this important information. If the twenty
dollar bill, thus marked, should ever appear in the village, it might
furnish a clew by which to trace out the thief.
On his arrival at Rippleton village, he went to Doolittle's store, and
ascertained that he had marked no more bills; that he was sure he had
marked no other twenty dollar bill than the one he paid to Farmer
Whipple. Requesting him not to mark any more, he went over to the jail.
Tony was in much better spirits than he expected to find him. His only
trouble was in relation to his mother, and he cried bitterly when he
spoke of her. Captain Sedley comforted him, assuring him his mother and
his friends were satisfied that he was innocent, and that he should
have the best lawyer in the county to defend him.
"I don't want any lawyer, Captain Sedley," said Tony stoutly; "I am as
innocent of this crime as though I had never been born."
"But, Tony, who do you think stole the wallet?"
"I have no idea, unless Tim Bunker did; and he has laid it to me to
clear himself."
"Tim is one of the witnesses, and a good lawyer may be able to get the
truth out of him."
"I don't believe he could," replied Tony with a faint smile.
"I shall engage Squire Benson to defend you; and to-morrow, before the
examination, he will come in to see you. If you have anything to say,
you can say it to him."
"I can only say I am innocent."
"He will want to know all the circumstances."
"I will tell him all I know about it."
After some further conversation, Captain Sedley took his leave, and
hastened to the office of Squire Benson, who was the most distinguished
lawyer in that county.
The legal gentleman readily engaged to defend Tony, and arrangements
were made for the examination. The marked bank bill was an important
matter for consideration, though there was no present hope of finding
it. But there was a prospect that it would eventually come to light.
On his arrival at his house, Captain Sedley found the widow Weston
waiting his return. She was much comforted when she heard that Tony was
in good spirits. She listened with attention to all her kind friend
said, and went home with a lighter heart than when she came. The
interest which Captain Sedley manifested in the case inspired her with
hope. He was an influential man, and his assistance would enable her to
do all that could be done.
On the following morning the examination of Tony took place at the
office of Squire Little. Mrs. Weston had an interview with her son when
he was brought in by the officer. Both wept, but there was hope in the
consciousness that he was innocent. Frank, Charles, and Tim Bunker were
there as witnesses, as well as Farmer Whipple and Mr. Hyde.
The examination proceeded, but it was only a repetition of the facts
already given. Squire Benson, in his cross examination, pressed Tim
Bunker severely; but though there were several trifling inconsistencies
in his answers, his testimony was generally accurate. He denied having
told Tony that he saw Farmer Whipple pass through the wood-house.
Captain Sedley had prepared Mrs. Weston for the result; and when Tony
was bound over to await the action of the grand jury, she heard the
decision with tolerable calmness. Her benevolent friend became his
bail; he was liberated, and they all went home together.
CHAPTER XI
THE BOAT-HOUSE
The boat-house for the Zephyr had been begun on Wednesday, the day
following her arrival. All the carpenters that could work upon it were
engaged by Captain Sedley, so that by Saturday it was nearly finished.
Its location was at one end of the beach, near the flat rock, and not
far from the moorings of the sailboat. It was sixty feet long, and
extended out over the waters of the lake. It was built on piles, driven
into the sand on the bottom. The club hall was at the land end of the
building, and was about twenty feet square. From this apartment the
boys passed into the boat-house proper, which was so arranged that they
could all take their places in the boat, and push out into the lake
without confusion or inconvenience.
But as my young friends undoubtedly feel a great desire to obtain an
accurate idea of the situation and arrangements of the boat-house, I
have drawn a plan of it, which is here subjoined.
If my young readers carefully examine the plan, and refer to the
explanations, they can understand the position of the rooms, and the
situation of everything connected with the boat-house.
[Illustration: Explanations.--a, the outside door; B, the club
hall; c, stove; d, d, cases for the library; e, entrance to the
boat hall; f, f, f, f, a platform; g, g, the boat; h, h, the
water in which the boat floats; i, the door through which the boat
passes out upon the lake.]
Around the platform a railing was constructed with a gate at the bow,
and one on each side of the boat, so that the members of the club could
get into it only at these three places.
Frank and Charles protested against this railing at first, and
maintained that there was not the least danger of their falling into
the water; but Captain Sedley, knowing how prone boys are to scuffle
and be careless, insisted upon having it.
The boys watched the progress the carpenters made in erecting the
boat-house with the deepest interest, and Uncle Ben got almost out of
patience answering the innumerable questions they put to him in regard
to what everything was for. Morning, noon, and night they visited the
building, and longed for Saturday afternoon, when they were to make
another excursion in the Zephyr.
Poor Tony's misfortunes had excited all their sympathy, and divided
their attention with the club. Some of them ventured to doubt the
innocence of their companion, though a large majority felt quite sure
he would be cleared at the trial.
Early on Saturday afternoon, Frank and Charles met at the boat-house.
"Will Tony come, do you think?" asked the latter.
"I told him this morning to be sure and come. I hope he will."
"Do you think your father will let him continue to belong to the club?"
asked Charles.
"Certainly he will! Why not?"
"Only think of it--taken up for stealing!"
"Do you believe he is guilty?"
"They wouldn't put him in jail if he wasn't, it isn't likely."
"But he hasn't been tried yet."
"No; but then to think that the wallet was found in his pocket."
"I don't believe he is guilty any more than I believe I am," replied
Frank warmly.
"Nor I; but----"
"But what, Charley?"
"Things look so against him."
"I am afraid Tim Bunker knows more about it than he chooses to tell."
"Don't you remember Tony didn't want us to meddle with it, and said we
had better tell Farmer Whipple it was there rather than touch it
ourselves?" added Charles, looking earnestly into the face of his
companion.
"I know Tony wouldn't steal it."
"He might."
"I am surprised to hear you say so, Charley," said Frank, hurt by the
doubts of his friend.
"He might have thought that Farmer Whipple would never find him out."
"That wouldn't have made any difference with Tony."
"He might have thought, too, how much good the money would do his
mother."
"Tony never could have thought that stolen money would do his mother
any good."
"Perhaps he did not think anything about the wickedness of the act."
"Is it possible, Charley, that you have so poor an opinion of Tony as
that? I shouldn't think you would wish to associate with him now."
"I don't know," said Charles, apparently absorbed by his own thoughts.
"Do you think we ought to have him in the club till after this thing is
settled?"
"Why, Charley! You can't think how it hurts my feelings to hear you
talk so."
"What do you suppose your father will say about it?"
"I know what he will say; he believes Tony is entirely innocent."
"Oh, if he does, we ought not to say a word," replied Charles
promptly. "Only, you know, he said so much about the club being a means
of improvement as well as amusement."
Frank could not understand the thoughts of his friend; but his father,
who had been instructing the workmen in regard to the boat-house,
joined them soon after, and the question was referred to him, with a
statement of Charles's views.
Captain Sedley looked into Charles's eye searchingly.
"You think Tony ought to be excluded from the club, do you?" asked he.
"No, sir; I don't think so; but I didn't know but you might think
so," replied Charles, confused by the earnestness of Captain Sedley's
glance.
"Charles, I am afraid you have not made your mind up in regard to the
question. You are willing to believe anything that will please those
whom you wish to conciliate."
"I want to believe the truth."
"You are not so particular about the truth as you are about suiting
your friends."
Captain Sedley had had a great deal of experience in reading the
characters of men; and he readily perceived that Charles desired to be
foremost in condemning evil, for the purpose of getting the good will
of others. It was a dangerous state of mind, for with the Bunkers he
would probably have been just as forward in a bad cause. His motive was
not a worthy one. It was the same as that which sometimes induces men
and women to go to church, to give money to the poor, or to assume a
virtue they do not possess,--for the reputation it would give them. It
was the same motive which had urged him to give his money to the widow
Weston.
Perhaps he was not fully conscious of his motive in thus being the
foremost to condemn poor Tony; but Captain Sedley read his character
rightly, and understood the workings of his mind.
"I am sure I feel kindly towards Tony; as kindly as any other fellow in
the club," said Charles.
"I do not doubt it, but we must watch all our thoughts and actions."
Captain Sedley returned to the boat-house to give further directions
concerning the building. Before two o'clock all the boys, with the
exception of Tony Weston, were gathered on the beach.
"I hope he will come," said Frank, much concerned at the absence of his
friend.
"I hope so," added Charles.
"Here is Uncle Ben. Hurrah!" shouted several of the boys.
"I arn't goin' with you this afternoon," said the veteran, as he laid
an armful of oars, boat-hooks, and other furniture belonging to the
Zephyr, which had been carried to the house for safe keeping, upon the
beach.
"Not going with us, Uncle Ben?" asked Frank.
"Your father is going," replied the old sailor, as he drew the boat in
shore, and put the oars and other articles in their places on board.
"Here he comes," added Frank.
"Where is Tony?" asked Captain Sedley, as he discovered the absence of
the widow's son.
"He has not come."
"I am sorry for that. We will go up and see where he is. Ben, take the
boat over to the flat rock."
"Ay, ay, sir."
The boys scampered over to the place of embarkation, followed by
Captain Sedley.
"Frank, you may take Tony's place," said his father when they had
reached the rock, "and I will steer."
Frank leaped into the bow of the boat, and took the boat-hook.
Steadying her, he called the numbers, and the club all took their
places in excellent order, and sat waiting for further commands.
"Very well, boys; your discipline is most excellent," said Captain
Sedley. "Push off, Frank. Ready with the oars."
"Up oars!" said Uncle Ben, who stood on the rock.
The manoeuvre was executed with admirable precision.
"Shove off!" which was done by the bow and stroke oarsmen.
"Let fall!" said Ben.
The oars fell altogether on the water, and the boys shipped them.
"Give way together!" added Ben; and away went the Zephyr with the first
stroke of the oars.
Captain Sedley steered up the lake in the direction of the widow
Weston's cottage. The Zephyr darted like an arrow through the water,
her sharp bow cutting the tiny waves like a knife, making a most
musical ripple as it dashed a clear jet of white foam as high as the
gunwale.
It was scarcely three minutes before Captain Sedley gave the command
"Way enough!" The boat darted into a cove by the widow's house, and
Frank and his father landed.
Tony, it seemed, wished to join the club; but his mother, fearful lest
some of the boys should taunt him with the occurrences of the past few
days, desired him to remain at home. Captain Sedley's request, however,
was quite sufficient, and Tony followed Frank down to the boat.
"Three cheers for Tony Weston!" exclaimed Charles Hardy, as they came
in sight.
The cheers were given, but Captain Sedley could not but question the
motives of him who had proposed them.
"Now, Frank, you are coxswain again," said Captain Sedley. "You will do
better than I can; for I am not posted on man-of-war-boat tactics, and
Ben has trained you to naval discipline."
Tony took his place at the bow oar, and Frank in the stern-sheets. The
former was received with sympathy and kindness by the club, and the
poor boy felt how pleasant it was to have the good will of his
companions in the midst of his trials.
"Up oars!" said Frank, when all was ready for a start. "Let fall! Give
way!"
"Down the lake, Frank, towards the village," added Captain Sedley.
Again the beautiful Zephyr bounded over the waters; but after pulling a
few minutes, Captain Sedley directed Frank to cease rowing.
"Boys, we are going to have a uniform for the club," said he.
"A uniform!" repeated several of the boys.
"Hurrah!" shouted Charles Hardy.
"I have already spoken to Mr. Burlap, the tailor; and now we are going
down to have him take your measures."
"What will the uniform be, father?" asked Frank.
"White sailors' trousers, a blue jacket, and a white shirt trimmed with
blue. The hat will be a tarpaulin, with 'Zephyr' in gilt letters on the
front."
The boys all clapped their hands, as the only means in their power to
express their gratification.
"Now pull for Rippleton."
"Stand by! Give way!"
The Zephyr parted the waters before her graceful bow, and sped like a
rocket on her way. The beautiful boat excited a great deal of attention
at the village; and when the boys returned from the tailor's, hundreds
had collected on the bank to see them row.
Captain Sedley gratified the curiosity of the people by requiring Frank
to exercise the club for some time near the spot where they stood.
After a row across the lake, they returned, and the Zephyr was moored
in her new house, much to the delight of her enthusiastic crew.
CHAPTER XII
THE FIRST MEETING IN ZEPHYR HALL
In another fortnight the boat-house was entirely completed, furnished,
and ready for the occupancy of the club. School had closed for the
season, and the summer vacation had begun; but most of the boys, in
anticipation of the pleasure which the boat club promised them,
preferred to stay at home rather than go to the seashore or the
mountains, or visit their friends at a distance.
Mr. Burlap, the tailor, had exerted himself to the utmost; and the new
dress of the boat club was soon ready for use. The tarpaulins had been
purchased and lettered, and the uniforms had been hung up in the little
closets in the club-room of the boat-house. One was appropriated to
each member, whose number was painted upon the door.
Uncle Ben had given the boys several extra lessons in rowing in the
meantime, and the discipline of the club and the rowing were pronounced
perfect. The first meeting in the new hall was appointed to take place
on Monday morning, and punctually to the hour the members were all
assembled.
The hall had been tastefully furnished and decorated, under the
direction of Captain Sedley. On the floor was a very pretty carpet with
bright colors; on the walls hung several large maps and engravings in
frames, illustrative of various boat-scenes; and over the door leading
to the boat-house proper was painted in blue letters,--
    ZEPHYR BOAT CLUB.
On the window-curtains the name of the club was also painted. In the
middle of the room was placed a long table, around which were arranged
thirteen chairs for the members. The library cases were filled with
books, which had been selected with great care by Mr. and Mrs. Sedley.
On the table were placed various pamphlets and periodicals; and when
the club assembled, Uncle Ben was there, seated in the coxswain's
armchair, poring over the pages of the Sailor's Magazine.
The boys all came in and took their chairs, each of which was numbered;
and Uncle Ben cheerfully resigned his place to the coxswain.
"Order!" said Frank, rapping on the table.
Captain Sedley had instructed Frank in some of the forms of conducting
a public meeting; and the matter had been made the topic of
conversation among the others, so that they had a tolerable idea of
parliamentary usage. They were all enthusiastic and eager to learn; and
some of them had attended a special town meeting a few days before, for
the purpose, as they expressed it, of "seeing how the thing was done."
And when Captain Sedley came in to breakfast on the morning of that
eventful day, he found Frank intently perusing the pages of Cushing's
"Manual."
When, therefore, the coxswain called the meeting to order, all noise
and conversation immediately ceased; and the members of the club seemed
determined to conduct themselves with more propriety than the "legal
voters" of Rippleton had at the town meeting they had attended.
Frank, in the words of the newspaper reporters, "made a neat and
appropriate speech," on the occasion of taking possession of the new
hall. After this important matter had been disposed of, the coxswain
remarked that the first business of the club would be to select a name
for the hall.
"Mr. Chairman," said Charles Hardy, rising with the utmost gravity and
decorum.
Uncle Ben laughed outright; but immediately apologized for his unseemly
mirth, and fearful lest he should disturb the dignified body again, he
withdrew from the hall, and busied himself in polishing up the brass
work of the boat.
"Charles Hardy," said the young chairman, bowing to the member who had
obtained the floor.
"I move that this hall, hereafter, henceforward, and for all time to
come, be called Sedley Hall," said Charles, who, in the absence of any
work on parliamentary tactics in his father's library, had carefully
studied the "Business Man's Assistant," from which he had stored his
memory with a variety of legal and technical phrases. He had the jingle
of them in his head, and did not mind much about the substance.
Captain Sedley entered the hall just as he made his motion.
"Second the motion," said Fred Harper.
"It is moved and seconded that this room be called Sedley Hall,"
continued the coxswain, rising from the chair. "The question is open
for discussion."
"Mr. Chairman," said Captain Sedley, scarcely able to control his
inclination to indulge in a hearty laugh at the dignity and formality
of the proceedings, "though not, strictly speaking, a member of the
club, perhaps you will indulge me in a few remarks on the question
before the house. I am very grateful to you for the honor to my name
and family which is contemplated by the excellent member on the other
side of the table; but for reasons of my own, I must beg the gentleman
to withdraw his motion."
"He cannot withdraw without the consent of the house--of the club, I
mean," said Frank, blushing at his blunder.
"It is customary when no objection is made," replied Captain Sedley
gravely, "to permit a motion to be withdrawn."
"Mr. Chairman," said Charles, rising, "for the obvious reasons
mentioned by the honorable and distinguished gentleman, I withdraw my
motion."
At the risk of disturbing the dignity of the meeting, Captain Sedley
remarked that he had stated no reasons.
"I move that the room be called Zephyr Hall," said Tony Weston.
"Second the motion," said Charles.
Frank stated the question, and observed that it was open for any
remarks. But the members, not feeling disposed to indulge in any
flights of eloquence before Captain Sedley, maintained an obstinate
silence for full five minutes. The chairman, impressed with the idea
that some speeches must be made, anyhow, did not interrupt the
dignified quiet by putting the question.
At last the silence was broken by a hearty laugh on the part of Captain
Sedley.
"Why don't you put the question, Frank?" asked he.
"The debate has not taken place yet."
"There are some questions which it is not necessary to debate."
"Question!" said Fred Harper, who had been to town meeting.
"Those in favor of calling the room Zephyr Hall, please manifest it by
raising the right hand."
"All up!" cried Fred Harper.
"It is a unanimous vote," added the chairman.
"Let the clerk record the vote," whispered Captain Sedley to his son.
"We have no clerk yet."
"Doing business without a clerk!" laughed his father.
"The next business will be to choose a clerk," continued Frank,
laughing. "Please to bring in your ballots for a clerk."
There were paper and pens at the other end of the table; and Fred
Harper, who seemed to have a very good idea of "the manner in which the
public business is transacted," commenced writing votes. In a few
moments they were all supplied.
"I move that a committee of three be appointed by the chair to collect,
sort, and count the votes, and report to the meeting," said Fred.
"Second the motion," added Tom Greene.
The motion was put and carried.
"The chair appoints Frederic Harper, Thomas Greene, and Mark Leman."
The votes were collected and reported.
"Whole number of votes, thirteen," repeated Frank; "necessary for a
choice, seven; Frederic Harper has one; Anthony Weston has twelve, and
is elected."
Captain Sedley clapped his hands at this evidence of good will on the
part of the members, and the club all joined heartily in the
demonstration. Three days before, the grand jury had found a bill
against Tony; but his friends still continued to regard and treat him
as an innocent person.
"I thank you for your kindness," said Tony, rising; "I am sure, I--"
but the poor fellow choked up, and could say no more.
His heart was full, and the great tears rolled down his cheeks.
"Never mind it, Tony; here is the record-book," said Fred Harper,
taking it from the library case.
Tony wiped away his tears, and seated himself at the foot of the table,
where a small desk had been placed for the use of the clerk.
