ful days — especially in the winter. In the summer we 
children were out on the breezy uplands with the flocks 
from dawn till night, and then there was noisy frolicking 
and all that ; but winter was the cosy time, winter was 
the snug time. Often we gathered in old Jacques d' Arc's 
big dirt-floored apartment, with a great Kre~going7 and 
played games, and sang songs, and told fortunes, and 
listened to the old villagers tell tales and histories and lies 
and one thing and another till twelve o'clock at night. 
One winter's night we were gathered there — it was the 
winter that for years afterwards they called the hard 
winter — and that particular night was a sharp one. It 
blew a gale outside, and the screaming of the wind was a 
stirring sound, and I think I may say it was beautiful, for 
I think it is great and fine and beautiful to hear the wind 
rage and storm and blow its clarions like that, when you 
are inside and comfortable. And we were. We had a 
roaring fire, and the pleasant spit-spit of the snow and sleet 
falling in it down the chimney, and the yarning and laugh- 
ing and singing went on at a noble rate till about ten 
o'clock, and then we had a supper of hot porridge and 
beans, and meal cakes with butter, and appetites to 
match. 
Little Joan sat on a box apart, and had her bowl and 
bread on another one, and her pets around her, helping. 
She had more than was usual of them or economical, 
because all the outcast cats came and took up with her, and 
homeless or unlovable animals of other kinds heard about 
it and came, and these spread the matter to the other 
creatures, and they came also ; and as the birds and the 
other timid wild things of the woods were not afraid of 
her, but always had an idea she was a friend when they 
came across her, and generally struck up an acquaintance 
with her to get invited to the house, she always had 
samples of those breeds in stock. She was hospitable to 
them all, for an animal was an animal to her, and dear by 
mere reason of being an animal, no matter about its sort 
or social station ; and as she would allow of no cages, no 
collars, no fetters, but left the creatures free to come and 
go as they liked, that contented them, and they came ; but 
they didn't gOy to any extent, and so they were a marvellous 
nuisance, and made Jacques d'Arc swear a good deal ; but 
his wife said God gave the child the instinct, and knew 
what He was doing when He did it, therefore it must have 
its course ; it would be no sound prudence to meddle with 
His affairs when no invitation had been extended. So the 
pets were left in peace, and here they were, as I have said, 
rabbits, birds, squirrels, cats, and other reptiles, all around 
the child, and full of interest in her supper, and helping 
what they could. There was a very small squirrel on her 
shoulder, sitting up, as those creatures do, and turning a 
rocky fragment of prehistoric chestnut-cake over and over 
in its knotty hands, and hunting for the less indurated 
places, and giving its elevated bushy tail a flirt and its 
pointed ears a toss when it found one— signifying thankful- 
ness and surprise — and then it filed that place off with 
those two slender front teeth which a squirrel carries for 
that purpose and not for ornament, for ornamental they 
never could be, as any will admit that have noticed them. 
Everything was going fine and breezy and hilarious, 
but then there came an interruption, for somebody 
hammered on the door. It was one of those ragged road- 
stragglers — the eternal wars kept the country full of them. 
He came in, all over snow, and stamped his feet and shook 
and brushed himself, and shut the door, and took off his 
limp ruin of a hat and slapped it once or twice against his 
leg to knock off its fleece of snow, and then glanced around 
on the company with a pleased look upon his thin face, 
and a most yearning and famished one in his eye when it 
fell upon the victuals, and then he gave us a humble and 
conciliatory salutation, and said it was a blessed thing to 
have a fire like that on such a night, and a roof overhead 
like this, and that rich food to eat, and loving friends 
to talk with — ah, yes, this was true, and God help the 
homeless, and such as must trudge the roads in this 
weather. 
Nobody said anything. The poor embarrassed creature 
stood there and appealed to one face after the other with 
his eyes, and found no welcome in any, the smile on his 
own face flickering and fading and perishing, meanwhile ; 
then he dropped his gaze, the muscles of his face began to 
twitch, and he put up his hand to cover this womanish sign 
of weakness. 
' Sit down ! ' 
This thunder-blast was from old Jacques d'Arc, and 
Joan was the object of it. The stranger was startled, and 
took his hand away, and there was Joan standing before 
him offering him her bowl of porridge. The man said : 
' God Almighty bless you, my darling ! ' and then the 
tears came, and ran down his cheeks, but he was afraid to 
take the bowl. 
' Do you hear me ? Sit down, I say ! ' 
There could not be a child more easy to persuade than 
Joan, but this was not the way. Her father had not the 
art ; neither could he learn it. Joan said : 
' Father, he is hungry ; I can see it.' 
' Let him go work for food, then. We are being eaten 
out of house and home by his like, and I have said I would 
endure it no more, and will keep my word. He has the 
face of a rascal anyhow, and a villain. Sit down, I tell 
you ! ' 
' I know not if he is a rascal or no, but he is hungry, 
father, and shall have my porridge — I do not need it.' 
 
' If you don't obey me I'll Rascals are not entitled 
to help from honest people, and no bite nor sup shall they 
have In this house. Joan I ' 
She set her bowl down on the box and came over and 
stood before her scowling father, and said : 
' Father, if you will not let me, then it must be as you 
say ; but I would that you would think — then you would 
see that it is not right to punish one part of him for what 
the other part has done ; for it is that poor stranger's head 
that does the evil things, but it is not his head that is 
hungry, it is his stomach, and it has done no harm to any- 
body, but is without blame, and innocent, not having any 
way to do a wrong, even if it was minded to it. Please 
let—' 
' What an idea ! It is the most idiotic speech I ever 
heard.' 
But Aubrey, the maire, broke in, he being fond of an 
argument, and having a pretty gift in that regard, as all 
acknowledged. Rising in his place and leaning his 
knuckles upon the table and looking about him with easy 
dignity, after the manner of such as be orators, he began, 
smooth and persuasive : 
' I will differ with you there, gossip, and will undertake 
to show the company ' — here he looked around upon us 
and nodded his head in a confident way — ' that there is a 
grain of sense in what the child has said ; for look you, it 
is of a certainty most true and demonstrable that it is a 
man's head that is master and supreme ruler over his whole 
body. Is that granted ? Will any deny it ? ' He glanced 
around again ; everybody indicated assent. ' Very well, 
then ; that being the case, no part of the body is responsible 
for the result when it carries out an order delivered to it by 
the head ; ergo, the head is alone responsible for crimes 
done by a man's hands or feet or stomach — do you get the 
idea ? am I right thus far ? ' Everybody said yes, and said 
it with enthusiasm, and some said, one to another, that the 
maire was in great form to-night and at his very best — 
which pleased the maire exceedingly and made his eyes 
sparkle with pleasure, for he overheard these things ; so 
he went on in the same fertile and brilliant way . ' Now, 
then, we will consider what the term responsibility means, 
and how it affects the case in point. Responsibility makes 
a man responsible for only those things for which he is 
properly responsible ' — and he waved his spoon around in 
a wide sweep to indicate the comprehensive nature of that 
class of responsibilities which render people responsible, 
and several exclaimed, admiringly, ' He is right ! — he has 
put that whole tangled thing into a nutshell — it is 
wonderful ! ' After a little pause to give the interest 
opportunity to gather and grow, he went on :  Very good. 
Let us suppose the case of a pair of tongs that falls upon 
a man's foot, causing a cruel hurt. Will you claim that 
the tongs are punishable for that ? The question is 
answered : I see by your faces that you would call such a 
claim absurd. Now, why is it absurd? It is absurd 
because, there being no reasoning faculty — that is to say, 
no faculty of personal command — in a pair of tongs, 
personal responsibility for the acts of the tongs is wholly 
absent from the tongs ; and therefore, responsibility being 
absent, punishment cannot ensue. Am I right ? ' A 
hearty burst of applause was his answer. ' Now, then, we 
arrive at a man's stomach. Consider how exactly, how 
marvellously, indeed, its situation corresponds to that of a 
pair of tongs. Listen — and take careful note, I beg you. 
Can a man's stomach plan a murder ? No. Can it plan a 
theft ? No. Can it plan an incendiary fire ? No. Now 
answer me — Can a pair of tongs "i (There were admiring 
shouts of ' No ! ' and ' The cases are just exact ! ' and 
' Don't he do it splendid ! ') ' Now, then, friends and 
neighbours, a stomach which cannot plan a crime cannot 
be a principal in the commission of it — that is plain, as you 
see. The matter is narrowed down by that much ; we will 
narrow it further. Can a stomach, of its own motion, 
assist at a crime ? The answer is no, because command is 
absent, the reasoning faculty is absent, volition is absent — 
as in the case of the tongs. We perceive, now, do we 
not, that the stomach is totally irresponsible for crimes 
committed, either in whole or in part, by it ? ' He got a 
rousing cheer for response. ' Then what do we arrive at 
as our verdict ? Clearly this : that there is no such thing 
in this world as a guilty stomach ; that in the body of the 
veriest rascal resides a pure and innocent stomach ; that, 
whatever its owner may do,  at least should be sacred in 
our eyes ; and that while God gives us minds to think just 
and charitable and honourable thoughts, it should be and 
is our privilege, as well as our duty, not only to feed the 
hungry stomach that resides in a rascal, having pity for its 
sorrow and its need, but to do it gladly, gratefully, in 
recognition of its sturdy and loyal maintenance of its 
purity and innocence in the midst of temptation and" in 
company so repugnant to its better feelings. I am do ne,.' _ 
Well, you never saw such an effect ! They rose — the 
whole house rose — and clapped, and cheered, and praised 
him to the skies ; and one after another, still clapping and 
shouting, they crowded forward, some with moisture in 
their eyes, and wrung his hands, and said such glorious 
things to him that he was clear overcome with pride and 
happiness, and couldn't say a word, for his voice would 
have broken, sure. It was splendid to see ; and everybody 
said he had never come up to that speech in his life before, 
and never could do it again. Eloquence is a power, there 
is no question of that. Even old Jacques d'Arc was carried 
away, for once in his life, and shouted out — 
' It's all right, Joan — give him the porridge ! ' 
She was embarrassed, and did not seem to know what 
to say, and so didn't say anything. It was because she 
had given the man the porridge long ago, and he had 
already eaten it all up. When she was asked why she 
had not waited until a decision was arrived at, she said 
the man's stomach was very hungry, and it would not 
have been wise to wait, since she could not tell what the 
decision would be. Now that was a good and thoughtful 
idea for a child. 
The man was not a rascal at all. He was a very good 
fellow, only he was out of luck, and surely that was no 
crime at that time in France. Now that his stomach was 
proved to be innocent, it was allowed to make itself at 
home ; and as soon as it was well filled and needed nothing 
more, the man unwound his tongue and turned it loose, 
and it was really a noble one to go. He had been in the 
wars for years, and the things he told, and the way he 
told them, fired everybody's patriotism away up high, and 
set all hearts to thumping and all pulses to leaping ; then, 
before anybody rightly knew how the change was made, 
he was leading us a sublime march through the ancient 
glories of France, and in fancy we saw the titanic forms of 
the twelve paladins rise out of the mists of the past and 
face their fate ; we heard the tread of the innumerable 
hosts sweeping down to shut them in ; we saw this human 
tide flow and ebb, ebb and flow, and waste away before 
that little band of heroes ; we saw each detail pass before 
us of that most stupendous, most disastrous, yet most 
adored and glorious day in French legendary history ; 
here and there and yonder, across that vast field of the 
dead and dying, we saw this and that and the other paladin 
dealing his prodigious blow's with weary arm and failing 
strength, and one by one we saw them fall, till only one 
remained — he that was without peer, he whose name gives 
name to the Song of Songs, the song which no Frenchman 
can hear and keep his feelings down and his pride of country 
cool ; then, grandest and pitifulest scene of all, we saw 
his own pathetic death ; and our stillness, as we sat with 
parted lips and breathless, hanging upon this man's words, 
gave us a sense of the awful stillness that reigned in that 
field of slaughter when that last surviving soul had passed. 
And now, in this solemn hush, the stranger gave Joan 
a pat or two on the head and said : 
' Little maid — whom God keep ! — you have brought 
 
me from death to life this night ; now listen : here is your 
reward,' and at that supreme time for such a heart-melting, 
soul-rousing surprise, without another word he lifted up 
the most noble and pathetic voice that was ever heard, 
and began to pour out the great Song of Roland ! 
Think of that, with a French audience all stirred up 
and ready. Oh, where was your spoken eloquence now ? 
what was it to this ? How fine he looked, how stately, 
how inspired, as he stood there with that mighty chant 
welling from his lips and his heart, his whole body trans- 
figured, and his rags along with it ! 
Everybody rose and stood while he sang, and their 
faces glowed and their eyes burned ; and the tears came 
and flowed down their cheeks, and their forms began to 
sway unconsciously to the swing of the song, and their 
bosoms to heave and pant ; and moanings broke out, and 
deep ejaculations ; and when the last verse was reached, 
and Roland lay dying, all alone, with his face to the field 
and to his slain, lying there in heaps and windrows, and 
took off and held up his gauntlet to God with his failing 
hand, and breathed his beautiful prayer with his paling- 
lips, all burst out in sobs and wailings. But when the 
final great note died out and the song was done, they all 
flung themselves in a body at the singer, stark mad with 
love of him and love of France and pride in her great deeds 
and old renown, and smothered him with their embracings ; 
but Joan was there first, hugged close to his breast, and 
covering his face with idolatrous kisses. 
The storm raged on outside, but that was no matter ; 
this was the stranger's home now, for as long as he might 
please. 
CHAPTER V 
All children have nicknames, and we had ours. We got 
one apiece early, and they stuck to us ; but Joan was 
richer in this matter, for as time went on she earned a 
second, and then a third, and so on, and we gave them to 
her. First and last she had as many as half a dozen. 
Several of these she never lost. Peasant girls are bashful 
naturally ; but she surpassed the rule so far, and coloured 
so easily, and was so easily embarrassed in the presence 
of strangers, that we nicknamed her the Bashful. We 
were all patriots, but she was called the Patriot, because 
our warmest feeling for our country was cold beside hers. 
Also she was calle d the Beautiful ; and this was not merely 
because of the extraordinary beauty of her face and form, 
but because of the loveliness of her character. These 
names she kept, and one other — the Brave. 
We grew along up, m thaF plodding and peaceful 
region, and got to be good-sized boys and girls — big 
enough, in fact, to begin to know as much about the wars 
raging perpetually to the west and north of us as our elders, 
and also to feel as stirred up over the occasional news 
from those red fields as they did. I remember certain of 
these days very clearly. One Tuesday a crowd of us were 
romping and singing around the Fairy Tree, and hanging 
garlands on it in memory of our lost little fairy friends, 
when little Mengette cried out : 
' Look ! What is that ? ' 
When one exclaims like that, in a way that shows 
astonishment and apprehension, he gets attention. All 
the panting breasts and flushed faces flocked together, and 
all the eager eyes were turned in one direction — down the 
slope, toward the village. 
' It's a black flag.' 
' A black flag ! No— is it ? ' 
' You can see for yourself that it is nothing else.' 
' It was a black flag, sure ! Now, has any ever seen the 
like of that before ? ' 
' What can it mean ? ' 
' Mean ? It means something dreadful — what else ? ' 
' That is nothing to the point ; anybody knows that 
without the telling. But tvhat? — that is the question.' 
' It is a chance that he that bears it can answer as well 
as any that are here, if you can contain yourself till he 
come.' 
' He runs well. Who is it ? ' 
Some named one, some another ; but presently all saw 
that it was Etienne Roze, called the Sunflower, because he 
had yellow hair and a round, pock-marked face. His 
ancestors had been Germans some centuries ago. He 
came straining up the slope, now and then projecting his 
flag-stick aloft and giving his black symbol of woe a wave 
in the air, whilst all eyes watched him, all tongues dis- 
cussed him, and every heart beat faster and faster with 
impatience to know his news. At last he sprang among 
us, and struck his flag-stick into the ground, saying : 
' There ! Stand there and represent France while I 
get my breath. She needs no other flag, now.' 
All the giddy chatter stopped. It was as if one had an- 
nounced a death. In that chilly hush there was no sound 
audible but the panting of the breath-blown boy. When 
he was presently able to speak, he said : 
' Black news is come. A treaty has been made at 
Troyes between France and the English and Burgundians. 
By it France is betrayed and delivered over, tied hand and 
foot, to the enemy. It is the work of the Duke of Bur- 
gundy and that she-devil the Queen of France. It marries 
Henry of England to Catharine of France ' 
' Is not this a lie ? Marries the daughter of France to 
the Butcher of Agincourt ? It is not to be believed. You 
have not heard aright.' 
' If you cannot believe that, Jacques d'Arc, then you 
have a difficult task indeed before you, for worse is to 
come. Any child that is born of that marriage — if even a 
girl — is to inherit the thrones of both England and France, 
and this double ownership is to remain with its posterity 
for ever ! ' 
' Now that is certainly a lie, for it runs counter to our 
Salic law, and so is not legal and cannot have eff"ect,' said 
Edmond Aubrey, called the Paladin, because of the armies 
he was always going- to eat up some day. He would have 
said more, but he was drowned out by the clamours of the 
others, who all burst into a fury over this feature of the 
treaty, all talking at once and nobody hearing anybody, 
until presently Haumette persuaded them to be still, saying
' It is not fair to break him up so in his tale ; pray let 
him go on. You find fault with his history because it 
seems to be lies. That were reason for satisfaction—
kind of lies— not discontent. Tell the rest, Etienne.' 
' There is but this to tell : Our King, Charles VI., is to 
reign until he dies, then Henry V. of England is to be 
Regent of France until a child of his shall be old enouo-h 
to '  
' Tza man is to reign over us— the Butcher  It is 
lies! all lies!' cried the Paladin. ' Besides, look you— 
what becomes of our Dauphin ? What says the treaty 
about him ? ' 
' Nothing. It takes away his throne and makes him 
an outcast.' 
Then everybody shouted at once and said the news was 
a he ; and all began to get cheerful again, saying, ' Our 
Kmg would have to sign the treaty to make it good ; and 
that he would not do, seeing how it serves his own son.' 
But the Sunflower said : ' I will ask you this : Would 
the Queen sign a treaty disinheriting her son ? ' 
 That viper? Certainly. Nobody is talking of her 
Nobody expects better of her. There is no villany she will 
stick at, if It feed her spite ; and she hates her son. Her 
signing It is of no consequence. The King must sign ' 
I will ask you another thing. What is the King's con- 
dition ? Mad, isn't he ? ' 
' Yes, and his people love him all the more for it It 
brings him near to them by his sufferings ; and pityinp- 
him makes them love him.' 
' You say right, Jacques d'Arc. Well, what would you 
of one that is mad ? Does he know what he does ? No. 
Does he do what others make him do ? Yes. Now, then, 
I tell you he has signed the treaty.' 
' Who made him do it ? ' 
' You know, without my telling. The Queen.' 
Then there was another uproar — everybody talking at 
once, and all heaping execrations upon the Queen's head. 
Finally Jacques d'Arc said : 
' But many reports come that are not true. Nothing 
so shameful as this has ever come before, nothing that cuts 
so deep, nothing that has dragged France so low ; there- 
fore there is hope that this tale is but another idle rumour. 
Where did you get it ? ' 
The colour went out of his sister Joan's face. She 
dreaded the answer ; and her instinct was right. 
' The cure of Maxey brought it.' 
There was a general gasp. We knew him, you see, for 
a trusty man. 
' Did he believe it ? ' 
The hearts almost stopped beating. Then came the 
answer : 
' He did. And that is not all. He said he knew it to 
be true.' 
Some of the girls began to sob ; the boys were struck 
silent. The distress in Joan's face was like that which one 
sees in the face of a dumb animal that has received a mortal 
hurt. The animal bears it maki ng no complaint ; she 
bore it also, saying no word. Her brother Jacques put 
his hand on her head and caressed her hair to indicate his 
sympathy, and she gathered the hand to her lips and kissed 
it for thanks, not saying anything. Presently the reaction 
came, and the boys began to talk. Noel Rainguesson 
said : 
' Oh, are we never going to be men ! We do grow 
along so slowly, and France never needed soldiers as she 
needs them now, to wipe out this black insult.' 
' I hate youth ! ' said Pierre Morel, called the Dragon- 
Ay. .baSiau? Ah' .MJsiLsmL . ' You've always got to 
wait, and wait, and wait— and here are the great wars 
wasting away for a hundred years, and you never get a 
chance. If I could only be a soldier now ! ' 
' As for me, I'm not going to wait much longer,' said 
the Paladin ; ' and when I do start you'll hear from me, I 
promise "you that. There are some who, in storming a 
castle, prefer to be in the rear ; but as for me, give me 
the front or none ; I will have none in front of me but the 
officers.' 
Even the girls got the war spirit, and Marie Dupont 
said — 
' I would I were a man ; I would start this minute ! ' 
and looked very proud of herself, and glanced about for 
applause. 
' So would I,' said Cecile LetelHer, sniffing the air like 
a war-horse that smells the battle ; ' I warrant you I would 
not turn back from the field though all England were in 
front of me.' 
' Pooh ! ' said the Paladin ; ' girls can brag, but that's 
all they are good for. Let a thousand of them come face 
to face with a handful of soldiers once, if you want to see 
what running is like. Here's little Joan— next she be 
threatening to go for a soldier ! ' 
The idea was so funny, and got such a good laugh, 
that the Paladin gave it another trial, and said : ' Why, 
you can just see her !— see her plunge into battle like any 3 
old veteran. Yes, indeed ; and not a poor shabby common  
soldier like us, but an officer— an officer, mind you, with ' 
armour on, and the bars of a steel helmet to blush behind -2 
and hide her embarrassment when she finds an army in ' 
front of her that she hasn't been introduced to. An officer.  
Why, she'll be a captain ! A captain, I tell you, with a  
hundred men at her back— or maybe girls. Oh, no com- 
mon-soldier business for her! And, dear me, when she 
starts for that other army, you'll think there's a hurricane 
blowing it away ! ' 
Well, he kept It up like that till he made their sides ache 
with laughing ; which was quite natural, for certainly it 
was a very funny idea — at that time — I mean, the idea of 
that gentle little creature, that wouldn't hurt a fly, and 
couldn't bear the sight of blood, and was so girlish and 
shrinking in all ways, rushing into battle with a gang of 
soldiers at her back. Poor thing, she sat there confused 
and ashamed to be so laughed at ; and yet at that very 
minute there was something about to happen which would 
change the aspect of things, and make those young people 
see that when it comes to laughing, the person that laughs 
last has the best chance. For just then a face which we 
all knew and all feared projected itself from behind the 
Fairy Tree, and the thought that shot through us all was, 
crazy Benoist has gotten loose from his cage, and we are 
as good as dead ! This ragged and hairy and horrible 
creature glided out from behind the Tree, and raised an axe 
as he came. We all broke and fled, this way and that, the 
girls screaming and crying. No, not all ; all but Joan. 
She stood up and faced the man, and remained so. As we 
reached the wood that borders the grassy clearing and 
jumped into its shelter, two or three of us glanced back to 
see if Benoist was gaining on us, and that is what we saw 
— Joan standing, and the maniac gliding stealthily toward 
her with his axe lifted. The sight was sickening. We 
stood where we were, trembling- and not able to move. I 
did not want to see the murder done, and yet I could not 
take my eyes away. Now I saw Joan step forward to meet 
the man, though I believed my eyes must be deceiving me. 
Then I saw him stop. He threatened her with his axe, as 
if to warn her not to come further, but she paid no heed, 
but went steadily on, until she was right in front of him — 
right under his axe. Then she stopped, and seemed to 
begin to talk with him. It made me sick, yes, giddy, and 
everything swam around me, and I could not see anything 
for a time — whether long or brief I do not know. When 
this passed and I looked again, Joan was walking by the 
man's side toward the village, holding him by his hand. 
The axe was in her other hand. 
One by one the boys and girls crept out, and we stood 
there gazing, open-mouthed, till those two entered the vill- 
age and were hid from sight. It was then that we named 
her the Brave. 
We left the black flag there to continue its mournful 
office, for we had other matter to think of now. We started 
for the village on a run, to give warning, and get Joan out 
of her peril ; though for one, after seeing what I had seen, 
it seemed to me that while Joan had the axe the man's 
chance was not the best of the two. When we arrived the 
danger was past, the madman was in custody. All the 
people were flocking to the little square in front of the 
church to talk and exclaim and wonder over the event, and 
it even made the town forget the black news of the treaty 
for two or three hours. 
All the women kept hugging and kissing Joan, and 
praising her, and crying, and the men patted her on the 
head and said they wished she was a man, they would send 
her to the wars and never doubt but that she would strike 
some blows that would be heard of. She had to tear herself 
away and go and hide, this glory was so trying to her 
diffidence. 
Of course the people began to ask us for the particulars. 
I was so ashamed that I made an. excuse Jo the first comer, 
and got privately away and went back to the Fairy Tree, 
to get relief from the embarrassment "question 
There I found Joan, but she was there get relief from 
the embarrassment of glory. One by one the others skirked 
the mquirers and joined us in our refuge. Then we gathered 
around Joan, and asked her how she had dared to do that 
thmg. She was very modest about it, and said : 
' You make a great thing of it, but you mistake ; it was 
not a great matter. It was not as if I had been a stranger 
to the man. I know him, and have known him long ; and 
he knows me, and likes me. I have fed him through the 
bars of his cage many times ; and last December when they 
chopped off two of his fingers to remind him to stop seizing 
and wounding people passing by, I dressed his hand every 
day till it was well again.' 
' That is all well enough,' said Little Mengette, ' but he 
is a madman, dear, and so his likings and his gratitude and 
friendliness go for nothing when his rage is up. You did a 
perilous thing.' 
' Of course you did,' said the Sunflower. ' Didn't he 
threaten to kill you with the axe ? ' 
'Yes.' 
' Didn't he threaten you more than once ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' Didn't you feel afraid ? ' 
' No — at least not much — very little.' 
' Why didn't you ? ' 
She thought a moment, then said, quite simply — 
' I don't know.' 
It made everybody laugh. Then the Sunflower said it 
was like a lamb trying to think out how it had come to eat 
a wolf, but had to give it up. 
Cecile Letellier asked : ' Why didn't you run when we 
did?' 
' Because it was necessary to get him to his cage ; else 
he would kill some one. Then he would come to the like 
harm himself.' 
It is noticeable that this remark, which implies that Joan 
was entirely forgetful of herself and her own danger, and 
had thought and wrought for the preservation of other 
people alone, was not challenged, or criticised, or com- 
mented upon by anybody there, but was taken by all as 
matter of course and true. It shows how clearly her 
character was defined, and how well it was known and 
established. 
There was silence for a time, and perhaps we were all 
thinking of the same thing — namely, what a poor figure we 
had cut in that adventure as contrasted with Joan's 
performance. I tried to think up some good way of explaining 
why I had run away and left a little girl at the mercy of a 
maniac armed with an axe, but all of the explanations that 
offered themselves to me seemed so cheap and shabby that 
I gave the matter up and remained still. But others were 
less wise. Noel Rainguesson fidgeted a while, then broke 
out with a remark which showed what his mind had been 
running on : 
'The fact is, I was taken by surprise. That is the 
reason. If I had had a moment to think, I would no more 
have thought of running than I would think of running from 
a baby. For, after all, what is Thophile Benoist, that I 
should seem to be afraid of him ? Pooh ! the idea of being 
afraid of that poor thing ! I only wish he would come 
along now — I'd show you ! ' 
' So do I ! ' cried Pierre Morel. ' If I wouldn't make 
him climb this tree quicker than— well, you'd see what I 
