in ! " Jeff cried, with a laugh at the daze in Westover's 
face. " You must have known about the flirtation ; if 
you haven't, you're the only one." His vanity in the 
fact betrayed itself in his voice. " It came to a crisis 
last week, and we tried to make each other believe 
that we were in earnest. But there won't be any real 
love lost." 
Westover did not speak. He could not make out 
 
whether he was surprised or whether he was shocked, 
and it seemed to him that he was neither surprised 
nor shocked. He wondered whether he had really 
expected something of the kind, sooner or later, or 
whether he was not always so apprehensive of some 
deviltry in Durgin that nothing he did could quite 
take him unawares. At last he said : "I suppose it's 
true — even though you say it. It's probably the only 
truth in you." 
" That's something like," said Jefi, as if the con- 
tempt gave him a sort of pleasure ; and his heavy face 
lighted up and then darkened again. 
" Well," said Westover, " what are we going to do ? 
You've come to tell me." 
" I'm going to break with her. I don't care for her 
— that ! " He snapped his fingers. " I told her I 
cared because she provoked me to. It happened be- 
cause she wanted it to and led up to it." 
" Ah ! " said Westover. " You put it on her ! " 
But he waited for Durgin's justification with a dread 
that he should find something in it. 
" Pshaw ! What's the use ? It's been a game from 
the beginning, and a question which should win. I  
won. She meant to throw me over, if the time came 
for her, but it came for me first, and it's only a ques- 
tion now which shall break first ; we've both been near 
it once or twice already. I don't mean she shall get 
the start of me." 
Westover had a glimpse of the innate enmity of the 
sexes in this game ; of its presence in passion that was 
lived and of its prevalence in passion that was played. 
But the fate of neither gambler concerned him ; he was 
impatient of his interest in what JefE now went on. to 
tell him, without scruple concerning her, or palliation 
of himself. He scarcely realized that he was listening, 
but afterwards he remembered it all, with a little pity 
for Bessie and none for Jeff, but with more shame for 
her, too. Love seems more sacredly confided to women 
than to men ; it is and must be a higher and finer as 
well as a holier thing with them ; their blame for its 
betrayal must always be the heavier. He had some- 
times suspected Bessie's willingness to amuse herself 
with Jeff, as with any other man who would let her 
play with him ; and he would not have relied upon 
anything in him to defeat her purpose, if it had been 
anything so serious as a purpose. 
At the end of Durgin's story he merely asked : 
" And what are you going to do about Cynthia ? " 
" I am going to tell her," said Jeff. " That's what 
I am going up there for." 
Westover rose, but Jeff remained sitting where he 
had put himself astride of a chair, with his face over 
the back. The painter walked slowly up and down 
before him in the capricious play of the street light. 
He turned a little sick, and he stopped a moment at 
the window for a breath of air. 
" Well ? " asked Jeff. 
"Oh! You want my advice?" Westover still 
felt physically incapable of the indignation which he 
strongly imagined. "I don't know what to say to 
you, Durgin ? You transcend my powers. Are you 
able to see this whole thing yourself? " 
 
" I guess SO," Jeff answered. " I don't idealize it, 
though. I look at the facts ; they're bad enough. You 
don't suppose that Miss Lynde is going to break her 
heart over — " 
" I don't believe I care for Miss Lynde any more 
than I care for you. But I believe I wish you were 
not going to break with her." 
" Why ? " 
" Because you and she are fit for each other. If 
you want my advice, I advise you to be true to her — 
if you can." 
"And Cynthia?" 
"Break with her." 
" Oh ! " Jeff gave a snort of derision. 
" You're not fit for her. You couldn't do a cruder 
thing for her than to keep faith with her." 
" Do you mean it ? " 
" Yes, I mean it. Stick to Miss Lynde — if she'll 
let you." 
Jeff seemed puzzled by Westover's attitude, which 
was either too sincere or too ironical for him. He 
pushed his hat, which he had kept on, back from his 
forehead. " Damned if I don't believe she would," 
he mused aloud. The notion seemed to flatter him 
and repay him for what he must have been suffering. 
He smiled, but he said : " She wouldn't do, even if 
she were any good. Cynthia is worth a million of her. 
If she wants to give me up after she knows all about 
me, well and good. I sha'n't blame her. But I shall 
give her a fair chance, and I sha'n't whitewash my- 
self; you needn't be afraid of that, Mr. Westover." 
 
"Why should I care what you do?" asked the 
painter, scornfully. 
" Well, you can't, on my account," Durgin allowed. 
" But you do care on her account." 
" Yes, I do," said Westover, sitting down again, 
and he did not say anything more. 
Durgin waited a long while for him to speak before 
he asked, " Then that's really your advice, is it ? " 
"Yes, break with her." 
"And stick to Miss Lynde." 
" If she'll let you." 
Jeff was silent in his turn. He started from his 
silence with a laugh. " She'd make a daisy landlady 
for Lion's Head. I believe she would like to try it 
awhile just for the fun. But after the ball was over 
— well, it would be a good joke, if it was a joke. 
Cynthia is a woman — she a'n't any corpse-light. She 
understands me, and she don't overrate me either. 
She knew just how much I was worth, and she took 
me at her own valuation. I've got my way in life 
marked out, and she believes in it as much as I do. 
If anybody can keep me level and make the best of 
me, she can, and she's going to have the chance, if 
she wants to. I'm going to act square with her about 
the whole thing. I guess she's the best judge in a 
case like this, and I shall lay the whole case before 
her, don't you be afraid of that. And she's got to 
have a free field. Why, even if there wa'n't any ques- 
tion of her" he went on, falling more and more into 
his vernacular, " I don't believe I should care in the 
long-run for this other one. We couldn't make it go 
 
for any time at all. She wants excitement, and after 
the summer folks began to leave, and we'd been to 
Florida for a winter, and then came back to Lion's 
Head — well ! This planet hasn't got excitement 
enough in it for that girl, and I doubt if the solar 
system has. At any rate, I'm not going to act as ad- 
vance-agent for her." 
" I see," said Westover, " that you've been reason- 
ing it all out, and I'm not surprised that you've kept 
your own advantage steadily in mind. I don't sup- 
pose you know what a savage you are, and I don't 
suppose I could teach you. I sha'n't try, at any rate. 
I'll take you on your own ground, and I tell you again 
you had better break with Cynthia. I won't say that 
it's what you owe her, for that won't have any effect 
with you, but it's what you owe yourself. You can't 
do a wrong thing and prosper on it — " 
" Oh, yes you can," Jefi interrupted with a sneer- 
ing laugh. " How do you suppose all the big fortunes 
were made ? By keeping the commandments ? " 
" No. But you're an unlucky man if life hasn't 
taught you that you must pay in suffering of some 
kind, sooner or later, for every wrong thing you do — " 
"Now that's one of your old-fashioned supersti- 
tions, Mr. Westover," said Jeff, with a growing kind- 
liness in his tone, as if the pathetic delusion of such 
a man really touched him. " You pay, or you don't 
pay, just as it happens. If you get hit soon after 
you've done wrong, you think it's retribution, and if 
it holds off till you've forgotten all about it, you think 
it's a strange Providence, and you puzzle over it, but 
 
you don't reform. You keep right along in the old 
way. Prosperity and adversity, they've got nothing 
to do with conduct. If you're a strong man, you get 
there, and if you're a weak man, all the righteousness 
in the universe won't help you. But I propose to do 
what's right about Cynthia, and not what's wrong ; 
and according to your own theory of life — which 
won't hold water a minute — I ought to be blessed to 
the third and fourth generation. I don't look for 
that, though. I shall be blessed if I look out for my- 
self ; and if I don't, I shall suffer for my want of fore- 
sight. But I sha'n't suffer for anything else. Well, 
I'm going to cut some of my recitations, and I'm going 
up to Lion's Head, to-morrow, to settle my business 
with Cynthia. I've got a little business to look after 
here with some one else first, and I guess I shall 
have to be about it. I don't know which I shall like 
the best."' He rose, and went over to where West- 
over was sitting, and held out his hand to him. 
"What is it? " asked Westover. 
" Any commands for Lion's Head ? " Jeff said, as at 
first. 
" No," said Westover, turning his face away. 
"Oh, all right." Durgin put his hand into his 
pocket unshaken. 
XLIV. 
" What is it, JefE ? " asked Cynthia, the next night, 
as they started out together after supper, and began 
to stroll down the hill towards her father's house. It 
lay looking very little and low in the nook at the foot 
of the lane, on the verge of the woods that darkened 
away to the northward from it, under the glassy night 
sky, lit with the spare young moon. The peeping of 
the frogs in the marshy places filled the air ; the 
hoarse voice of the brook made itself heard at inter- 
vals through them. 
" It's not so warm here, quite, as it is in Boston," 
he returned. " Are you wrapped up enough ? This 
air has an edge to it." 
" I'm all right," said the girl. " What is it ? " 
" You think there's something ? You don't believe 
I've come up for rest over Sunday ? I guess mother 
herself didn't, and I could see your father following 
up my little lies as if he wa'n't going to let one escape 
him. Well, you're right. There is something. Think 
of the worst thing you can, Cynthy ! " 
She pulled her hand out of his arm, which she had 
 
taken, and halted him by her abrupt pause. " You're 
not going to get through ! " 
" I'm all right on my conditions," said Jeii, with 
forlorn derision. " You'll have to guess again." He 
stood looking back over his shoulder at her face, 
which showed white in the moonlight, swathed airily 
round in the old-fashioned soft woollen cloud she 
wore. 
"Is it some trouble you've got into ? I shall stand 
by you ! " 
" Oh, you splendid girl ! The trouble's over, but it's 
something you can't stand by me in, I guess. You 
know that girl I wrote to you about — the one I met 
at the college tea, and — " 
" Yes ! Miss Lynde ! " 
" Come on ! We can't stay here talking. Let's go 
down and sit on your porch." She mechanically 
obeyed him, and they started on together down the 
hill again ; but she did not ofEer to take his arm, and 
he kept the width of the roadway from her. 
" What about her ? " she quietly asked. 
" Last night I ended up the flirtation I've been car- 
rying on with her ever since." 
" I want to know just what you mean, Jefi." 
" I mean that last week I got engaged to her, and 
last night I broke with her." Cynthia seemed to 
stumble on something ; he sprang over and caught her, 
and now she put her hand in his arm, and stayed her- 
self by him as they walked. 
" Go on," she said. 
" That's all there is of it." 
 
" No ! " She stopped, and then she asked with a 
kind of gentle bewilderment, " What did you want to 
tell me for ? " 
" To let you break with me — if you wanted to." 
" Don't you care for me any more ? " 
" Yes, more than ever I did. But I'm not fit for 
you, Cynthia. Mr. Westover said I wasn't. I told 
him about it — " 
" What did he say ? " 
" That I ought to break with you." 
" But if you broke with her ? " 
" He told me to stick to her. He was right about 
you, Cynthy. I'm not fit for you, and that's a fact." 
" What was it about that girl ? Tell me every- 
thing." She spoke in a tone of plaintive entreaty, 
very unlike the command she once used with Jeff when 
she was urging him to be frank with her and true to 
himself. They had come to her father's house and 
she freed her hand from his arm again, and sat down 
on the step before the side door with a little sigh as 
of fatigue. 
" You'll take cold," said Jeff, who remained on foot 
in front of her. 
" No," she said, briefly. "Go on." 
"Why," Jeff began, harshly, and with a note of 
scorn for himself and his theme in his voice, " there 
isn't any more of it, but there's no end to her. I 
promised Mr. Westover I shouldn't whitewash myself, 
and I sha'n't. I've been behaving badly, and it's no 
excuse for me.because she wanted me to. I began to 
go for her as soon as I saw that she wanted me to, 
 
and that site liked the excitement. The excitement is 
all that she cared for ; she didn't care for me eiccept 
for the excitement of it. She thought she could have 
fun -with me, and then throw me over ; but I guess she 
found her match. You couldn't understand such a 
girl, and I don't brag of it. All she cared for was to 
flirt with me, and she liked it all the more because I 
was a jay and she could get something new out of it. 
I can't explain it; but I could see it right along. She 
fooled herself more than she fooled me." 
" Was she — very good-looking ? " Cynthia asked, 
listlessly. 
" No ! " shouted Jefi. " She wasn't good-looking at 
all. She was dark and thin, and she had little slant- 
ing eyes ; but she was graceful, and she knew how to 
make herself go further than any girl I ever saw. If 
she came into a room, she made you look at her, or 
you had to somehow. She was bright too ; and she 
had more sense than all the other girls there put to- 
gether. But she was a fool, all the same." Jefi 
paused. " Is that enough ? " 
" It isn't all." 
" No, it isn't all. We didn't meet much at first, 
but I got to walking home with her from some teas ; 
and then we met at a big ball. I danced with her 
the whole while nearly, and — and I took her brother 
home — Pshaw ! He was drunk ; and I — well, he 
had got drunk drinking with me at the ball. The 
wine didn't touch me, but it turned his head ; and I 
took-him home ; he's a drunkard, anyway. She let us 
in when we got to their house, and that kind of made 
 
a tie between us. She pretended to tiink ste was 
under obligations to me, and so I got to going to her 
house." 
" Did she know how her brother got drunk? " 
" She does now. I told her last night." 
" How came you to tell her ? " 
" I wanted to break with her. I wanted to stop it, 
once for all, and I thought that would do it, if any- 
thing would." 
" Did that make her willing to give you up ? " 
Jeff checked himself in a sort of retrospective laugh. 
" I'm not so sure. I guess she liked the excitement 
of that, too. You couldn't understand the kind of 
girl she — She wanted to flirt with me that night I 
brought him home tipsy." 
" I don't care to hear any more about her. Why 
did you give her up ? " 
" Because I didn't care for her, and I did care for 
you, Cynthy." 
" I don't believe it." Cynthia rose from the step, 
where she had been sitting, as if with renewed 
strength. " Go up and tell father to come down here. 
I want to see him." She turned and put her hand on 
the latch of the door. 
"You're not going in there, Cynthia," said Jeff. 
" It must be like death in there." 
" It's more like death out here. But if it's the cold 
you mean, you needn't be troubled. We've had a fire 
to-day, airing out the house. Will you go ? " 
" But what do you — what are you going to say to 
 
"I don't know, yet. If I said anything now, I 
should tell you what Mr. Westover did: go back to 
that girl, if she'll let you. You're fit for each other, 
ks he said. Did you tell her that you were engaged 
to some one else? " 
" I did, last night." 
"But before that she didn't know how false you 
were. Well, you're not fit for her, then ; you're not 
good enough." 
She opened the door and went in, closing it after 
her. JeflE turned and walked slowly away; then he 
came quickly hack, as if he were going to follow her 
within. But through the window he saw her as she 
stood by the table with a lamp in her hand. She had 
turned up the light, which shone full in her face and 
revealed its severe beauty broken and writhen with the 
effort to repress her weeping. He might not have 
minded the severity or the beauty, but the pathos was 
more than he could stand. "Oh, Lord!" he said, 
with a shrug, and he turned again and walked slowly 
up the hill. 
When Whitwell faced his daughter in the little sit- 
ting-room, whose low ceiling his hat almost touched 
as he stood before her, the storm had passed with her, 
and her tear-drenched visage wore its wonted look of 
still patience. 
" Did JefE tell you why I sent for you, father ? " 
" No. But I knew it was trouble," said Whitwell, 
with a dignity which his sympathy for her gave a 
countenance better adapted to the expression of the 
lighter emotions. 
" I guess you were right about him," she resumed. 
She went on to tell in brief the story that Jeff had 
told her. Her father did not interrupt her, but at the 
end he said, inadequately : " He's a comical devil. I 
knew about his gittin' that feller drunk. Mr. West- 
over told me when he was up here." 
" Mr. Westover did ! " said Cynthia, in a note of 
indignation. 
" He didn't offer to," Whitwell explained. " I got 
it out of him in spite of him, I guess." He had sat 
down with his hat on, as his absent-minded habit was, 
and he now braced his knees against the edge of the 
table. Cynthia sat across it from him with her head 
drooped over it, drawing vague figures on the board 
with her finger. " What are you goin' to do ? " 
" I don't know," she answered. 
" I guess you don't quite realize it yet," her father 
suggested, tenderly. " Well, I don't want to hurry you 
any. Take your time." 
" I guess I realize it," said the girl. 
"Well, it's a pootty plain case, that's a fact," 
Whitwell conceded. She was silent, and he asked, 
" How did he come to tell you ? " 
" It's what he came up for. He began to tell me 
at once. I was certain there was some trouble." 
" Was it his notion to come, I wonder, or Mr. West- 
over's ? " 
" It was his. But Mr. Westover told him to break 
off with me, and keep on with her, if she would let 
him." 
" I goess that was pootty good advice," said Whit- 
 
well, letting his face betray his humorous relish of it. 
" I guess there's a pair of 'em." 
" She was not playing any one else false," said Cyn- 
thia, bitterly. 
" Well, I guess that's so, too," her father assented. 
" 'Ta'n't so much of a muchness as you might think, 
in that light." He took refuge from the subject in 
an undirected whistle. 
After a moment the girl asked, forlornly, " What 
should you do, father, if you were in my place ? " 
"Well, there I guess you got me, Cynthy," said 
her father. " I don't believe 't any man, I don't care 
how old he is, or how much experience he's had, knows 
exactly how a girl feels about a thing like this, or has 
got any call to advise her. Of course, the way I feel 
is like takin' the top of his head off. But I d' know," 
he added, " as that would do a great deal of good, 
either. I  presume a woman's got rather of a chore to 
get along with a man, anyway. We a'n't any of us 
much to brag on. It's out o' sight, out o' mind, with 
the best of us, I guess." 
" It wouldn't be with Jackson — it wouldn't be with 
Mr. Westover." 
" There a'n't many men like Mr. Westover — well 
not a, great many ; or Jackson, either. Time ! I wish 
Jackson was home ! He'd know how to straighten 
this thing out, and he wouldn't weaken over Jeff much 
— well, not much. But he a'n't here, and you've got 
to act for yourself. The way I look at it is this : you 
took Jeff when you knowed what a comical devil he 
was, and I presume you ha'n't got quite the same right 
 
to be disappointed in what he done as if you hadn't 
knowed. Now mind, I a'n't excusin' him. But if 
you knowed he was the feller to play the devil if- he 
got a chance, the question is whether — whether — " 
" I know what you mean, father," said the girl, 
" and I don't want to shirk my responsibility. It was 
everything to have him come right up and tell me." 
" Well," said Whitwell, impartially, " as far forth 
as that goes, I don't think he's strained himself. He'd 
know you would hear of it sooner or later anyway, and 
he ha'n't just found out that he was goin' wrong. 
Been keepin' it up for the last three months, and 
writin' you all the while them letters you was so crazy 
to get." 
" Yes," sighed the girl. " But we've got to be just 
to his disposition as well as his actions. I can see it 
in one light that can excuse it some. He can't bear 
to be put down, and I know he's been left out a good 
deal among the students, and it's made him bitter. 
He told me about it ; that's one reason why he wanted 
to leave Harvard this last year. He saw other young 
men made much of, when he didn't get any notice ; 
and when he had the chance to pay them back with a 
girl of their own set that was trying to make a fool of 
him—" 
" That was the time for him to remember you" said 
Whitwell. 
Cynthia broke under the defence she was trying to 
make. " Yes," she said, with an indrawn sigh, and 
she began to sob piteously. 
The sight of her grief seemed to kindle her father's 
 
wrath to a flame. " Anyway you look at him, he's 
been a dumn blackguard ; that's what he's been. 
Yoji're a million times too good for him ; and I — " 
She sobbed herself quiet, and then she said ; " Fa- 
ther, I don't like to go up there to-night. I want to 
stay here." 
" All right, Cynthia. I'll come down and stay with 
you. You got everything we want here ? " 
" Yes. And I'll go up and get the breakfast for 
them in the morning. There won't be much to do." 
" Dumn 'em ! Let 'em get their own breakfast ! " 
said Whitwell, recklessly. 
"And, father," the girl went on as if he had not 
spoken, " don't you talk to Mrs. Durgin about it, will 
you ? " 
" No, no. I sha'n't speak to her. I'll just tell 
Frank you and me are goin' to stay down here to- 
night. She'll suspicion something, but she can figure 
it out for herself. Or she can make Jeff tell her. It 
can't be kept from her." 
" Well, let him be the one to tell her. Whatever 
happens, I shall never speak of it to a soul besides 
you." 
" All right, Cynthy. You'll have the night to think 
it over — I guess you won't sleep much — and I'll 
trust you to do what's the best thing about it." 
XLV. 
Cynthia found Mrs. Durgin in the old farm-house 
kitchen at work getting breakfast when she came up 
to the hotel in the morning. She was early, but the 
elder woman had been earlier still, and her heavy face 
showed more of their common night-long trouble than 
the girl's. 
She demanded, at sight of her, " What's the mat- 
ter with you and JefE, Cynthy ? " 
Cynthia was unrolling the cloud from her hair. 
She said, as she tied on her apron, " You must get 
him to tell you, Mrs. Durgin." 
" Then there is something ? " • 
" Yes." 
" Has JeflE been using you wrong ? " 
Cynthia stooped to open the oven door, and to turn 
the pan of biscuit she found inside. She shut the 
door sharply to, and said, as she rose : " I don't want 
to tell anything about it, and I sha'n't, Mrs. Durgin. 
He can do it, if he wants to. Shall I make the 
coffee ? " 
" Yes ; you seem to make it better than I do. Do 
you think I shouldn't believe you was fair to him ? " 
 
" I wasn't thinking of that. But it's his secret. If 
he wants to keep it, he can keep it, for all me." 
" You ha'n't give each other up ? " 
" I don't know." Cynthia turned away with a 
trembling chin, and began to beat the coffee up with 
an egg she had dropped into the pot. She put the 
breakfast on the table when it was ready, but she 
would not sit down with the rest. She said she did 
not want any breakfast, and she drank a cup of coffee 
in the kitchen. 
It fell to Jeff mainly to keep the talk going. He had 
been out at the barn with Jombateeste since daybreak, 
looking after the cattle, and the joy of the weather 
had got into his nerves and spirits. At first he had 
lain awake after he went to bed, but he had fallen 
asleep about midnight, and got a good night's rest. 
He looked fresh and strong and very handsome. He 
talked resolutely to every one at the table, but Jom- 
bateeste was always preoccupied with eating at his 
meals, and Frank Whitwell had on a Sunday silence, 
which was perhaps deepened by a feeling that there 
was something wrong between his sister and Jeff, and 
it would be rash to commit himself to an open friend- 
liness until he understood the case. His father met 
Jeff's advances with philosophical blandness and eva- 
sion, and Mrs. Durgin was provisionally dry and se- 
vere both with the Whitwells and her son. After 
breakfast she went to the parlor, and Jeff set about a 
tour of the hotel, inside and out. He looked carefully 
to the details of its winter keeping. Then he came 
back and boldly joined his mother where she sat be- 
 
fore her stove, whose subdued heat she found pleas- 
ant in the lingering cold of the early spring. 
He tossed his hat on the table beside her, and sat 
down on the other side of the stove. " Well, I must 
say, the place has been well looked after. I don't be- 
lieve Jackson himself could have kept it in better 
shape. When was the last you heard from him ? " 
" I hope," said his mother, gravely, " you've been 
lookin' after your end at Boston, too." 
" Well, not as well as you have here, mother," said 
Jeff, candidly. " Has Cynthy told you ? " 
" I guess she expected you to tell me, if there was 
anything." 
" There's a lot ; but I guess I needn't go over it all. 
I've been playing the devil." 
" JefE I " 
" Yes, I have. I've been going with another girl 
down there, one of the kind you wanted me to make 
up to, and I went so far I — well, I made love to her ; 
and then I thought it over, and I found out I didn't 
really care for her, and I had to tell her so, and then 
I came up to tell Cynthy. That's about the size of it. 
What do you think of it ?" 
" D' you tell Cynthy ? " 
"Yes, I told her." 
" What' d she say ? " 
" She said I'd better go back to the other girl." 
JefE laughed hardily, but his mother remained impas- 
sive. 
" I guess she's right ; I guess you had." 
" That seems to be the general opinion. That's 
 
what Mr. Westover advised. I seem to be the only 
one against it. I suppose you mean that I'm not fit 
for Cynthy. I don't deny it. All I say is I want her, 
and I don't want the other one. What are you going 
to do in a case like that ? " 
"The way I should look at it," said his mother, 
" is this : whatever you are, Cynthy made you. Yon 
was a lazy, disobedient, worthless boy, and it was her 
carin' for you from the first that put any spirit and 
any principle into you. It was her that helped you 
at school when you was little things together ; and 
she helped you at the academy, and she's helped you 
at college. I'll bet she could take a degree, or what- 
ever it is, at Harvard better than you could now ; 
and if you ever do take a degree, you've got her to 
thank for it." 
