some of her bills, but he didn't like her to live with him; and she had
lately, in Paris, with several hundred other young women, spent a year
in a studio, arming herself for the battle of life by a course with an
impressionist painter. She was determined to work, but her impressions,
or somebody's else, were as yet her only material. Mrs. Gereth had told
her she liked her because she had an extraordinary flair; but under
the circumstances a flair was a questionable boon: in the dry places
in which she had mainly moved she could have borne a chronic catarrh.
She was constantly summoned to Cadogan Place, and before the month was
out was kept to stay, to pay a visit of which the end, it was agreed,
should have nothing to do with the beginning. She had a sense, partly
exultant and partly alarmed, of having quickly become necessary to her
imperious friend, who indeed gave a reason quite sufficient for it in
telling her there was nobody else who understood. From Mrs. Gereth there
was in these days an immense deal to understand, though it might be
freely summed up in the circumstance that she was wretched. She told
Fleda that she couldn't completely know why till she should have seen
the things at Poynton. Fleda could perfectly grasp this connection,
which was exactly one of the matters that, in their inner mystery, were
a blank to everybody else.
The girl had a promise that the wonderful house should be shown her
early in July, when Mrs. Gereth would return to it as to her home; but
even before this initiation she put her finger on the spot that in the
poor lady's troubled soul ached hardest. This was the misery that
haunted her, the dread of the inevitable surrender. What Fleda had to
sit up to was the confirmed appearance that Owen Gereth would marry Mona
Brigstock, marry her in his mother's teeth, and that such an act would
have incalculable bearings. They were present to Mrs. Gereth, her
companion could see, with a vividness that at moments almost ceased to
be that of sanity. She would have to give up Poynton, and give it up to
a product of Waterbath--that was the wrong that rankled, the humiliation
at which Fleda would be able adequately to shudder only when she should
know the place. She did know Waterbath, and she despised it--she had
that qualification for sympathy. Her sympathy was intelligent, for she
read deep into the matter; she stared, aghast, as it came home to her
for the first time, at the cruel English custom of the expropriation of
the lonely mother. Mr. Gereth had apparently been a very amiable man,
but Mr. Gereth had left things in a way that made the girl marvel. The
house and its contents had been treated as a single splendid object;
everything was to go straight to his son, and his widow was to have a
maintenance and a cottage in another county. No account whatever had
been taken of her relation to her treasures, of the passion with which
she had waited for them, worked for them, picked them over, made them
worthy of each other and the house, watched them, loved them, lived with
them. He appeared to have assumed that she would settle questions with
her son, that he could depend upon Owen's affection. And in truth, as
poor Mrs. Gereth inquired, how could he possibly have had a
prevision--he who turned his eyes instinctively from everything
repulsive--of anything so abnormal as a Waterbath Brigstock? He had been
in ugly houses enough, but had escaped that particular nightmare.
Nothing so perverse could have been expected to happen as that the heir
to the loveliest thing in England should be inspired to hand it over to
a girl so exceptionally tainted. Mrs. Gereth spoke of poor Mona's taint
as if to mention it were almost a violation of decency, and a person who
had listened without enlightenment would have wondered of what fault the
girl had been or had indeed not been guilty. But Owen had from a boy
never cared, had never had the least pride or pleasure in his home.
"Well, then, if he doesn't care!"--Fleda exclaimed, with some
impetuosity; stopping short, however, before she completed her sentence.
Mrs. Gereth looked at her rather hard. "If he doesn't care?"
Fleda hesitated; she had not quite had a definite idea. "Well--he'll
give them up."
"Give what up?"
"Why, those beautiful things."
"Give them up to whom?" Mrs. Gereth more boldly stared.
"To you, of course--to enjoy, to keep for yourself."
"And leave his house as bare as your hand? There's nothing in it that
isn't precious."
Fleda considered; her friend had taken her up with a smothered ferocity
by which she was slightly disconcerted. "I don't mean of course that he
should surrender everything; but he might let you pick out the things to
which you're most attached."
"I think he would if he were free," said Mrs. Gereth.
"And do you mean, as it is, that she'll prevent him?" Mona Brigstock,
between these ladies, was now nothing but "she."
"By every means in her power."
"But surely not because she understands and appreciates them?"
"No," Mrs. Gereth replied, "but because they belong to the house and the
house belongs to Owen. If I should wish to take anything, she would
simply say, with that motionless mask: 'It goes with the house.' And day
after day, in the face of every argument, of every consideration of
generosity, she would repeat, without winking, in that voice like the
squeeze of a doll's stomach: 'It goes with the house--it goes with the
house.' In that attitude they'll shut themselves up."
Fleda was struck, was even a little startled with the way Mrs. Gereth
had turned this over--had faced, if indeed only to recognize its
futility, the notion of a battle with her only son. These words led her
to make an inquiry which she had not thought it discreet to make before;
she brought out the idea of the possibility, after all, of her friend's
continuing to live at Poynton. Would they really wish to proceed to
extremities? Was no good-humored, graceful compromise to be imagined or
brought about? Couldn't the same roof cover them? Was it so very
inconceivable that a married son should, for the rest of her days, share
with so charming a mother the home she had devoted more than a score of
years to making beautiful for him? Mrs. Gereth hailed this question with
a wan, compassionate smile; she replied that a common household, in such
a case, was exactly so inconceivable that Fleda had only to glance over
the fair face of the English land to see how few people had ever
conceived it. It was always thought a wonder, a "mistake," a piece of
overstrained sentiment; and she confessed that she was as little capable
of a flight of that sort as Owen himself. Even if they both had been
capable, they would still have Mona's hatred to reckon with. Fleda's
breath was sometimes taken away by the great bounds and elisions which,
on Mrs. Gereth's lips, the course of discussion could take. This was the
first she had heard of Mona's hatred, though she certainly had not
needed Mrs. Gereth to tell her that in close quarters that young lady
would prove secretly mulish. Later Fleda perceived indeed that perhaps
almost any girl would hate a person who should be so markedly averse to
having anything to do with her. Before this, however, in conversation
with her young friend, Mrs. Gereth furnished a more vivid motive for her
despair by asking how she could possibly be expected to sit there with
the new proprietors and accept--or call it, for a day, endure--the
horrors they would perpetrate in the house. Fleda reasoned that they
wouldn't after all smash things nor burn them up; and Mrs. Gereth
admitted when pushed that she didn't quite suppose they would. What she
meant was that they would neglect them, ignore them, leave them to
clumsy servants (there wasn't an object of them all but should be
handled with perfect love), and in many cases probably wish to replace
them by pieces answerable to some vulgar modern notion of the
convenient. Above all, she saw in advance, with dilated eyes, the
abominations they would inevitably mix up with them--the maddening
relics of Waterbath, the little brackets and pink vases, the sweepings
of bazaars, the family photographs and illuminated texts, the "household
art" and household piety of Mona's hideous home. Wasn't it enough simply
to contend that Mona would approach Poynton in the spirit of a
Brigstock, and that in the spirit of a Brigstock she would deal with her
acquisition? Did Fleda really see her, Mrs. Gereth demanded, spending
the remainder of her days with such a creature's elbow in her eye?
Fleda had to declare that she certainly didn't, and that Waterbath had
been a warning it would be frivolous to overlook. At the same time she
privately reflected that they were taking a great deal for granted, and
that, inasmuch as to her knowledge Owen Gereth had positively denied his
betrothal, the ground of their speculations was by no means firm. It
seemed to our young lady that in a difficult position Owen conducted
himself with some natural art; treating this domesticated confidant of
his mother's wrongs with a simple civility that almost troubled her
conscience, so deeply she felt that she might have had for him the air
of siding with that lady against him. She wondered if he would ever know
how little really she did this, and that she was there, since Mrs.
Gereth had insisted, not to betray, but essentially to confirm and
protect. The fact that his mother disliked Mona Brigstock might have
made him dislike the object of her preference, and it was detestable to
Fleda to remember that she might have appeared to him to offer herself
as an exemplary contrast. It was clear enough, however, that the happy
youth had no more sense for a motive than a deaf man for a tune, a
limitation by which, after all, she could gain as well as lose. He came
and went very freely on the business with which London abundantly
furnished him, but he found time more than once to say to her, "It's
awfully nice of you to look after poor Mummy." As well as his quick
speech, which shyness made obscure--it was usually as desperate as a
"rush" at some violent game--his child's eyes in his man's face put it
to her that, you know, this really meant a good deal for him and that he
hoped she would stay on. With a person in the house who, like herself,
was clever, poor Mummy was conveniently occupied; and Fleda found a
beauty in the candor and even in the modesty which apparently kept him
from suspecting that two such wiseheads could possibly be occupied with
Owen Gereth.
III
They went at last, the wiseheads, down to Poynton, where the palpitating
girl had the full revelation. "Now do you know how I feel?" Mrs.
Gereth asked when in the wonderful hall, three minutes after their
arrival, her pretty associate dropped on a seat with a soft gasp and a
roll of dilated eyes. The answer came clearly enough, and in the rapture
of that first walk through the house Fleda took a prodigious span. She
perfectly understood how Mrs. Gereth felt--she had understood but
meagrely before; and the two women embraced with tears over the
tightening of their bond--tears which on the younger one's part were the
natural and usual sign of her submission to perfect beauty. It was not
the first time she had cried for the joy of admiration, but it was the
first time the mistress of Poynton, often as she had shown her house,
had been present at such an exhibition. She exulted in it; it quickened
her own tears; she assured her companion that such an occasion made the
poor old place fresh to her again and more precious than ever. Yes,
nobody had ever, that way, felt what she had achieved: people were so
grossly ignorant, and everybody, even the knowing ones, as they thought
themselves, more or less dense. What Mrs. Gereth had achieved was indeed
an exquisite work; and in such an art of the treasure-hunter, in
selection and comparison refined to that point, there was an element of
creation, of personality. She had commended Fleda's flair, and Fleda
now gave herself up to satiety. Preoccupations and scruples fell away
from her; she had never known a greater happiness than the week she
passed in this initiation.
Wandering through clear chambers where the general effect made
preferences almost as impossible as if they had been shocks, pausing at
open doors where vistas were long and bland, she would, even if she had
not already known, have discovered for herself that Poynton was the
record of a life. It was written in great syllables of color and form,
the tongues of other countries and the hands of rare artists. It was all
France and Italy, with their ages composed to rest. For England you
looked out of old windows--it was England that was the wide embrace.
While outside, on the low terraces, she contradicted gardeners and
refined on nature, Mrs. Gereth left her guest to finger fondly the
brasses that Louis Quinze might have thumbed, to sit with Venetian
velvets just held in a loving palm, to hang over cases of enamels and
pass and repass before cabinets. There were not many pictures--the
panels and the stuffs were themselves the picture; and in all the great
wainscoted house there was not an inch of pasted paper. What struck
Fleda most in it was the high pride of her friend's taste, a fine
arrogance, a sense of style which, however amused and amusing, never
compromised nor stooped. She felt indeed, as this lady had intimated to
her that she would, both a respect and a compassion that she had not
known before; the vision of the coming surrender filled her with an
equal pain. To give it all up, to die to it--that thought ached in her
breast. She herself could imagine clinging there with a closeness
separate from dignity. To have created such a place was to have had
dignity enough; when there was a question of defending it the fiercest
attitude was the right one. After so intense a taking of possession she
too was to give it up; for she reflected that if Mrs. Gereth's remaining
there would have offered her a sort of future--stretching away in safe
years on the other side of a gulf--the advent of the others could only
be, by the same law, a great vague menace, the ruffling of a still
water. Such were the emotions of a hungry girl whose sensibility was
almost as great as her opportunities for comparison had been small. The
museums had done something for her, but nature had done more.
If Owen had not come down with them nor joined them later, it was
because he still found London jolly; yet the question remained of
whether the jollity of London was not merely the only name his small
vocabulary yielded for the jollity of Mona Brigstock. There was indeed
in his conduct another ambiguity--something that required explaining so
long as his motive didn't come to the surface. If he was in love, what
was the matter? And what was the matter still more if he wasn't? The
mystery was at last cleared up: this Fleda gathered from the tone in
which, one morning at breakfast, a letter just opened made Mrs. Gereth
cry out. Her dismay was almost a shriek: "Why, he's bringing her
down--he wants her to see the house!" They flew, the two women, into
each other's arms and, with their heads together, soon made out that the
reason, the baffling reason why nothing had yet happened, was that Mona
didn't know, or Owen didn't, whether Poynton would really please her.
She was coming down to judge; and could anything in the world be more
like poor Owen than the ponderous probity which had kept him from
pressing her for a reply till she should have learned whether she
approved what he had to offer her? That was a scruple it had naturally
been impossible to impute. If only they might fondly hope, Mrs. Gereth
wailed, that the girl's expectations would be dashed! There was a fine
consistency, a sincerity quite affecting, in her arguing that the better
the place should happen to look and to express the conceptions to which
it owed its origin, the less it would speak to an intelligence so
primitive. How could a Brigstock possibly understand what it was all
about? How, really, could a Brigstock logically do anything but hate it?
Mrs. Gereth, even as she whisked away linen shrouds, persuaded herself
of the possibility on Mona's part of some bewildered blankness, some
collapse of admiration that would prove disconcerting to her swain--a
hope of which Fleda at least could see the absurdity and which gave the
measure of the poor lady's strange, almost maniacal disposition to
thrust in everywhere the question of "things," to read all behavior in
the light of some fancied relation to them. "Things" were of course the
sum of the world; only, for Mrs. Gereth, the sum of the world was rare
French furniture and Oriental china. She could at a stretch imagine
people's not having, but she couldn't imagine their not wanting and not
missing.
The young couple were to be accompanied by Mrs. Brigstock, and with a
prevision of how fiercely they would be watched Fleda became conscious,
before the party arrived, of an amused, diplomatic pity for them. Almost
as much as Mrs. Gereth's her taste was her life, but her life was
somehow the larger for it. Besides, she had another care now: there was
some one she wouldn't have liked to see humiliated even in the form of a
young lady who would contribute to his never suspecting so much
delicacy. When this young lady appeared Fleda tried, so far as the wish
to efface herself allowed, to be mainly the person to take her about,
show her the house, and cover up her ignorance. Owen's announcement had
been that, as trains made it convenient, they would present themselves
for luncheon and depart before dinner; but Mrs. Gereth, true to her
system of glaring civility, proposed and obtained an extension, a dining
and spending of the night. She made her young friend wonder against what
rebellion of fact she was sacrificing in advance so profusely to form.
Fleda was appalled, after the first hour, by the rash innocence with
which Mona had accepted the responsibility of observation, and indeed by
the large levity with which, sitting there like a bored tourist in fine
scenery, she exercised it. She felt in her nerves the effect of such a
manner on her companion's, and it was this that made her want to entice
the girl away, give her some merciful warning or some jocular cue. Mona
met intense looks, however, with eyes that might have been blue beads,
the only ones she had--eyes into which Fleda thought it strange Owen
Gereth should have to plunge for his fate and his mother for a
confession of whether Poynton was a success. She made no remark that
helped to supply this light; her impression at any rate had nothing in
common with the feeling that, as the beauty of the place throbbed out
like music, had caused Fleda Vetch to burst into tears. She was as
content to say nothing as if, Mrs. Gereth afterwards exclaimed, she had
been keeping her mouth shut in a railway-tunnel. Mrs. Gereth contrived
at the end of an hour to convey to Fleda that it was plain she was
brutally ignorant; but Fleda more subtly discovered that her ignorance
was obscurely active.
She was not so stupid as not to see that something, though she scarcely
knew what, was expected of her that she couldn't give; and the only mode
her intelligence suggested of meeting the expectation was to plant her
big feet and pull another way. Mrs. Gereth wanted her to rise, somehow
or somewhere, and was prepared to hate her if she didn't: very well, she
couldn't, she wouldn't rise; she already moved at the altitude that
suited her, and was able to see that, since she was exposed to the
hatred, she might at least enjoy the calm. The smallest trouble, for a
girl with no nonsense about her, was to earn what she incurred; so that,
a dim instinct teaching her she would earn it best by not being
effusive, and combining with the conviction that she now held Owen, and
therefore the place, she had the pleasure of her honesty as well as of
her security. Didn't her very honesty lead her to be belligerently blank
about Poynton, inasmuch as it was just Poynton that was forced upon her
as a subject for effusiveness? Such subjects, to Mona Brigstock, had an
air almost of indecency, and the house became uncanny to her through
such an appeal--an appeal that, somewhere in the twilight of her being,
as Fleda was sure, she thanked heaven she was the girl stiffly to draw
back from. She was a person whom pressure at a given point infallibly
caused to expand in the wrong place instead of, as it is usually
administered in the hope of doing, the right one. Her mother, to make up
for this, broke out universally, pronounced everything "most striking,"
and was visibly happy that Owen's captor should be so far on the way to
strike: but she jarred upon Mrs. Gereth by her formula of admiration,
which was that anything she looked at was "in the style" of something
else. This was to show how much she had seen, but it only showed she had
seen nothing; everything at Poynton was in the style of Poynton, and
poor Mrs. Brigstock, who at least was determined to rise, and had
brought with her a trophy of her journey, a "lady's magazine" purchased
at the station, a horrible thing with patterns for antimacassars, which,
as it was quite new, the first number, and seemed so clever, she kindly
offered to leave for the house, was in the style of a vulgar old woman
who wore silver jewelry and tried to pass off a gross avidity as a sense
of the beautiful.
By the day's end it was clear to Fleda Vetch that, however Mona judged,
the day had been determinant; whether or no she felt the charm, she felt
the challenge: at an early moment Owen Gereth would be able to tell his
mother the worst. Nevertheless, when the elder lady, at bedtime, coming
in a dressing-gown and a high fever to the younger one's room, cried
out, "She hates it; but what will she do?" Fleda pretended vagueness,
played at obscurity and assented disingenuously to the proposition that
they at least had a respite. The future was dark to her, but there was a
silken thread she could clutch in the gloom--she would never give Owen
away. He might give himself--he even certainly would; but that was his
own affair, and his blunders, his innocence, only added to the appeal he
made to her. She would cover him, she would protect him, and beyond
thinking her a cheerful inmate he would never guess her intention, any
more than, beyond thinking her clever enough for anything, his acute
mother would discover it. From this hour, with Mrs. Gereth, there was a
flaw in her frankness: her admirable friend continued to know everything
she did; what was to remain unknown was the general motive.
From the window of her room, the next morning before breakfast, the girl
saw Owen in the garden with Mona, who strolled beside him with a
listening parasol, but without a visible look for the great florid
picture that had been hung there by Mrs. Gereth's hand. Mona kept
dropping her eyes, as she walked, to catch the sheen of her
patent-leather shoes, which resembled a man's and which she kicked
forward a little--it gave her an odd movement--to help her see what she
thought of them. When Fleda came down Mrs. Gereth was in the
breakfast-room; and at that moment Owen, through a long window, passed
in alone from the terrace and very endearingly kissed his mother. It
immediately struck the girl that she was in their way, for hadn't he
been borne on a wave of joy exactly to announce, before the Brigstocks
departed, that Mona had at last faltered out the sweet word he had been
waiting for? He shook hands with his friendly violence, but Fleda
contrived not to look into his face: what she liked most to see in it
was not the reflection of Mona's big boot-toes. She could bear well
enough that young lady herself, but she couldn't bear Owen's opinion of
her. She was on the point of slipping into the garden when the movement
was checked by Mrs. Gereth's suddenly drawing her close, as if for the
morning embrace, and then, while she kept her there with the bravery of
the night's repose, breaking out: "Well, my dear boy, what does your
young friend there make of our odds and ends?"
"Oh, she thinks they're all right!"
Fleda immediately guessed from his tone that he had not come in to say
what she supposed; there was even something in it to confirm Mrs.
Gereth's belief that their danger had dropped. She was sure, moreover,
that his tribute to Mona's taste was a repetition of the eloquent words
in which the girl had herself recorded it; she could indeed hear, with
all vividness, the pretty passage between the pair. "Don't you think
it's rather jolly, the old shop?" "Oh, it's all right!" Mona had
graciously remarked; and then they had probably, with a slap on a back,
run another race up or down a green bank. Fleda knew Mrs. Gereth had not
yet uttered a word to her son that would have shown him how much she
feared; but it was impossible to feel her friend's arm round her and not
become aware that this friend was now throbbing with a strange
intention. Owen's reply had scarcely been of a nature to usher in a
discussion of Mona's sensibilities; but Mrs. Gereth went on, in a
moment, with an innocence of which Fleda could measure the cold
hypocrisy: "Has she any sort of feeling for nice old things?" The
question was as fresh as the morning light.
"Oh, of course she likes everything that's nice." And Owen, who
constitutionally disliked questions--an answer was almost as hateful to
him as a "trick" to a big dog--smiled kindly at Fleda and conveyed that
she would understand what he meant even if his mother didn't. Fleda,
however, mainly understood that Mrs. Gereth, with an odd, wild laugh,
held her so hard that she hurt her.
"I could give up everything without a pang, I think, to a person I could
trust, I could respect." The girl heard her voice tremble under the
effort to show nothing but what she wanted to show, and felt the
sincerity of her implication that the piety most real to her was to be
on one's knees before one's high standard. "The best things here, as you
know, are the things your father and I collected, things all that we
worked for and waited for and suffered for. Yes," cried Mrs. Gereth,
with a fine freedom of fancy, "there are things in the house that we
almost starved for! They were our religion, they were our life, they
were us! And now they're only me--except that they're also you,
thank God, a little, you dear!" she continued, suddenly inflicting on
Fleda a kiss apparently intended to knock her into position. "There
isn't one of them I don't know and love--yes, as one remembers and
cherishes the happiest moments of one's life. Blindfold, in the dark,
with the brush of a finger, I could tell one from another. They're
living things to me; they know me, they return the touch of my hand. But
I could let them all go, since I have to, so strangely, to another
affection, another conscience. There's a care they want, there's a
sympathy that draws out their beauty. Rather than make them over to a
woman ignorant and vulgar, I think I'd deface them with my own hands.
Can't you see me, Fleda, and wouldn't you do it yourself?"--she appealed
to her companion with glittering eyes. "I couldn't bear the thought of
such a woman here--I couldn't. I don't know what she'd do; she'd be
sure to invent some deviltry, if it should be only to bring in her own
little belongings and horrors. The world is full of cheap gimcracks, in
this awful age, and they're thrust in at one at every turn. They'd be
thrust in here, on top of my treasures, my own. Who would save them
for me--I ask you who would?" and she turned again to Fleda with a
dry, strained smile. Her handsome, high-nosed, excited face might have
been that of Don Quixote tilting at a windmill. Drawn into the eddy of
this outpouring, the girl, scared and embarrassed, laughed off her
exposure; but only to feel herself more passionately caught up and, as
it seemed to her, thrust down the fine open mouth (it showed such
perfect teeth) with which poor Owen's slow cerebration gaped. "You
would, of course--only you, in all the world, because you know, you
feel, as I do myself, what's good and true and pure." No severity of the
moral law could have taken a higher tone in this implication of the
young lady who had not the only virtue Mrs. Gereth actively esteemed.
"You would replace me, you would watch over them, you would keep
the place right," she austerely pursued, "and with you here--yes, with
you, I believe I might rest, at last, in my grave!" She threw herself on
Fleda's neck, and before Fleda, horribly shamed, could shake her off,
had burst into tears which couldn't have been explained, but which might
perhaps have been understood.
IV
A week later Owen Gereth came down to inform his mother that he had
settled with Mona Brigstock; but it was not at all a joy to Fleda,
conscious how much to himself it would be a surprise, that he should
find her still in the house. That dreadful scene before breakfast had
made her position false and odious; it had been followed, after they
were left alone, by a scene of her own making with her extravagant
friend. She notified Mrs. Gereth of her instant departure: she couldn't
possibly remain after being offered to Owen, that way, before her very
face, as his mother's candidate for the honor of his hand. That was all
he could have seen in such an outbreak and in the indecency of her
standing there to enjoy it. Fleda had on the prior occasion dashed out
of the room by the shortest course and in her confusion had fallen upon
Mona in the garden. She had taken an aimless turn with her, and they had
had some talk, rendered at first difficult and almost disagreeable by
Mona's apparent suspicion that she had been sent out to spy, as Mrs.
Gereth had tried to spy, into her opinions. Fleda was sagacious enough
to treat these opinions as a mystery almost awful; which had an effect
so much more than reassuring that at the end of five minutes the young
lady from Waterbath suddenly and perversely said: "Why has she never had
a winter garden thrown out? If ever I have a place of my own I mean to
have one." Fleda, dismayed, could see the thing--something glazed and
piped, on iron pillars, with untidy plants and cane sofas; a shiny
excrescence on the noble face of Poynton. She remembered at Waterbath a
conservatory where she had caught a bad cold in the company of a stuffed
cockatoo fastened to a tropical bough and a waterless fountain composed
of shells stuck into some hardened paste. She asked Mona if her idea
would be to make something like this conservatory; to which Mona
replied: "Oh no, much finer; we haven't got a winter garden at
Waterbath." Fleda wondered if she meant to convey that it was the only
grandeur they lacked, and in a moment Mona went on: "But we have got a
billiard-room--that I will say for us!" There was no billiard-room at
Poynton, but there would evidently be one, and it would have, hung on
its walls, framed at the "Stores," caricature-portraits of celebrities,
taken from a "society-paper."
When the two girls had gone in to breakfast it was for Fleda to see at a
glance that there had been a further passage, of some high color,
between Owen and his mother; and she had turned pale in guessing to what
extremity, at her expense, Mrs. Gereth had found occasion to proceed.
Hadn't she, after her clumsy flight, been pressed upon Owen in still
clearer terms? Mrs. Gereth would practically have said to him: "If
you'll take her, I'll move away without a sound. But if you take any
one else, any one I'm not sure of, as I am of her--heaven help me, I'll
fight to the death!" Breakfast, this morning, at Poynton, had been a
meal singularly silent, in spite of the vague little cries with which
Mrs. Brigstock turned up the underside of plates and the knowing but
alarming raps administered by her big knuckles to porcelain cups. Some
one had to respond to her, and the duty assigned itself to Fleda, who,
while pretending to meet her on the ground of explanation, wondered what
Owen thought of a girl still indelicately anxious, after she had been
grossly hurled at him, to prove by exhibitions of her fine taste that
she was really what his mother pretended. This time, at any rate, their
fate was sealed: Owen, as soon as he should get out of the house, would
describe to Mona that lady's extraordinary conduct, and if anything more
had been wanted to "fetch" Mona, as he would call it, the deficiency was
now made up. Mrs. Gereth in fact took care of that--took care of it by
the way, at the last, on the threshold, she said to the younger of her
departing guests, with an irony of which the sting was wholly in the
sense, not at all in the sound: "We haven't had the talk we might have
had, have we? You'll feel that I've neglected you, and you'll treasure
it up against me. Don't, because really, you know, it has been quite
an accident, and I've all sorts of information at your disposal. If you
should come down again (only you won't, ever,--I feel that!) I should
give you plenty of time to worry it out of me. Indeed there are some
things I should quite insist on your learning; not permit you at all, in
any settled way, not to learn. Yes indeed, you'd put me through, and I
should put you, my dear! We should have each other to reckon with, and
you would see me as I really am. I'm not a bit the vague, mooning, easy
creature I dare say you think. However, if you won't come, you won't;
n'en parlons plus. It is stupid here after what you're accustomed
to. We can only, all round, do what we can, eh? For heaven's sake, don't
let your mother forget her precious publication, the female magazine,
with the what-do-you-call-'em?--the grease-catchers. There!"
Mrs. Gereth, delivering herself from the doorstep, had tossed the
periodical higher in air than was absolutely needful--tossed it toward
the carriage the retreating party was about to enter. Mona, from the
force of habit, the reflex action of the custom of sport, had popped
out, with a little spring, a long arm and intercepted the missile as
easily as she would have caused a tennis-ball to rebound from a racket.
"Good catch!" Owen had cried, so genuinely pleased that practically no
notice was taken of his mother's impressive remarks. It was to the
accompaniment of romping laughter, as Mrs. Gereth afterwards said, that
the carriage had rolled away; but it was while that laughter was still
in the air that Fleda Vetch, white and terrible, had turned upon her
hostess with her scorching "How could you? Great God, how could
you?" This lady's perfect blankness was from the first a sign of her
serene conscience, and the fact that till indoctrinated she didn't even
know what Fleda meant by resenting her late offense to every
susceptibility gave our young woman a sore, scared perception that her
own value in the house was just the value, as one might say, of a good
agent. Mrs. Gereth was generously sorry, but she was still more
surprised--surprised at Fleda's not having liked to be shown off to Owen
as the right sort of wife for him. Why not, in the name of wonder, if
she absolutely was the right sort? She had admitted on explanation
that she could see what her young friend meant by having been laid, as
Fleda called it, at his feet; but it struck the girl that the admission
was only made to please her, and that Mrs. Gereth was secretly surprised
at her not being as happy to be sacrificed to the supremacy of a high
standard as she was happy to sacrifice her. She had taken a tremendous
fancy to her, but that was on account of the fancy--to Poynton of
course--Fleda herself had taken. Wasn't this latter fancy then so great
after all? Fleda felt that she could declare it to be great indeed when
really for the sake of it she could forgive what she had suffered and,
after reproaches and tears, asseverations and kisses, after learning
that she was cared for only as a priestess of the altar and a view of
her bruised dignity which left no alternative to flight, could accept
the shame with the balm, consent not to depart, take refuge in the thin
comfort of at least knowing the truth. The truth was simply that all
Mrs. Gereth's scruples were on one side and that her ruling passion had
in a manner despoiled her of her humanity. On the second day, after the
tide of emotion had somewhat ebbed, she said soothingly to her
companion: "But you would, after all, marry him, you know, darling,
wouldn't you, if that girl were not there? I mean of course if he were
to ask you," Mrs. Gereth had thoughtfully added.
"Marry him if he were to ask me? Most distinctly not!"
The question had not come up with this definiteness before, and Mrs.
Gereth was clearly more surprised than ever. She marveled a moment. "Not
even to have Poynton?"
"Not even to have Poynton."
"But why on earth?" Mrs. Gereth's sad eyes were fixed on her.
Fleda colored; she hesitated. "Because he's too stupid!" Save on one
other occasion, at which we shall in time arrive, little as the reader
may believe it, she never came nearer to betraying to Mrs. Gereth that
she was in love with Owen. She found a dim amusement in reflecting that
if Mona had not been there and he had not been too stupid and he verily
had asked her, she might, should she have wished to keep her secret,
have found it possible to pass off the motive of her action as a mere
passion for Poynton.
Mrs. Gereth evidently thought in these days of little but things
hymeneal; for she broke out with sudden rapture, in the middle of the
week: "I know what they'll do: they will marry, but they'll go and
live at Waterbath!" There was positive joy in that form of the idea,
which she embroidered and developed: it seemed so much the safest thing
that could happen. "Yes, I'll have you, but I won't go there!" Mona
would have said with a vicious nod at the southern horizon: "we'll leave
your horrid mother alone there for life." It would be an ideal solution,
this ingress the lively pair, with their spiritual need of a warmer
medium, would playfully punch in the ribs of her ancestral home; for it
would not only prevent recurring panic at Poynton--it would offer them,
as in one of their gimcrack baskets or other vessels of ugliness, a
definite daily felicity that Poynton could never give. Owen might manage
his estate just as he managed it now, and Mrs. Gereth would manage
everything else. When, in the hall, on the unforgettable day of his
return, she had heard his voice ring out like a call to a terrier, she
had still, as Fleda afterwards learned, clutched frantically at the
conceit that he had come, at the worst, to announce some compromise; to
tell her she would have to put up with the girl, yes, but that some way
would be arrived at of leaving her in personal possession. Fleda Vetch,
whom from the first hour no illusion had brushed with its wing, now held
her breath, went on tiptoe, wandered in outlying parts of the house and
through delicate, muffled rooms, while the mother and son faced each
other below. From time to time she stopped to listen; but all was so
quiet she was almost frightened: she had vaguely expected a sound of
contention. It lasted longer than she would have supposed, whatever it
was they were doing; and when finally, from a window, she saw Owen
stroll out of the house, stop and light a cigarette and then pensively
lose himself in the plantations, she found other matter for trepidation
in the fact that Mrs. Gereth didn't immediately come rushing up into her
arms. She wondered whether she oughtn't to go down to her, and measured
the gravity of what had occurred by the circumstance, which she
presently ascertained, that the poor lady had retired to her room and
wished not to be disturbed. This admonition had been for her maid, with
whom Fleda conferred as at the door of a death-chamber; but the girl,
without either fatuity or resentment, judged that, since it could render
Mrs. Gereth indifferent even to the ministrations of disinterested
attachment, the scene had been tremendous.
She was absent from luncheon, where indeed Fleda had enough to do to
look Owen in the face; there would be so much to make that hateful in
their common memory of the passage in which his last visit had
terminated. This had been her apprehension at least; but as soon as he
stood there she was constrained to wonder at the practical simplicity of
the ordeal--a simplicity which was really just his own simplicity, the
particular thing that, for Fleda Vetch, some other things of course
aiding, made almost any direct relation with him pleasant. He had
neither wit, nor tact, nor inspiration: all she could say was that when
they were together the alienation these charms were usually depended on
