not too exhaustive a knowledge of what 
he is to find. For I, in entering, expected 
merely to drink from the cup of sweet 
memories, reflecting, " Here stood John 
with his Loma when Carver's shot came 
crashing in, charged with death to one 
and madness for her lover ; " but pure 
surprise chased such sentimental mus- 
ing from the field. Stepping within 
the nave, the previously uninstructed is 
amazed at certain tablets on the north 
 
wall ; for these perpetuate the memory 
of the Snowe family, to which Black- 
more has vouchsafed a long-lasting ten- 
ure of life, and one of them is even 
adorned by the name of Farmer Nicholas 
himself, though of another generation 
than John's old neighbor. The Snowes, 
so saith the chronicler, are worthy yeo- 
men who have held land in this region 
since the days of Alfred ; and this en- 
during brass doth so plainly resurrect 
them before the eye that one is tempted 
to subscribe then and there to a sober 
belief in all Blackmore's broidery of fact, 
asserting, " The bricks are alive at this 
day to testify it." 
Beyond Oare, the road is less diver- 
sified ; and at Malmsmead, a collection 
of two or three houses devoted, as by 
an irrevocable vow, to the upholding of 
Doone legends, you may take an Exmoor 
pony and ride along a sweetly sylvan 
path into the true valley. And here, at 
whatever season you go, so that green 
boughs be welcoming, it shall seem " the 
boyhood of the year ;'' for everywhere is 
budding or expanded growth, under dap- 
pling of shadow and flickering of light. 
After Blackmore's paean, all that one can 
 
say of the Doone Valley rings of bathos, 
the more lukewarm in proportion to its 
truth. For here, indeed, is the water- 
slide, a rocky incline covered by a thin 
streamlet, amicably flowing to meet the 
Bagworthy Water ; but it is by no means 
a way perilous, and its ascent need not 
have tired little John's stout muscles 
so sorely. The valley itself, broken by 
the desolate foundations of a few tiny 
huts, is hemmed in by moorland hills ; 
but, compared with a score of Exmoor's 
chasms and retreats, it is as Leah to 
Rachel. We are in the home of the 
Doones ; and very fair it is, with the 
summer sky above us and the whispering 
leaves at hand. But the magic picture 
of our search we shall by no means find, 
save between the covers of Blackmore's 
book wonderful. Learn, however, the 
sequel : forget not the epilogue ! For, 
when one has turned his back on this 
disappointing spot and taken his home- 
ward road, he cannot forbear exclama- 
tion, at more points than one, over the 
actual valley of his dreams. For the 
reality of that word-picture exists, though 
not where tradition has placed it. Here 
are steep inclines, hundreds of feet high, 
 
down which even the anguished red deer 
dare not hurl himself in his extremity 
of flight. Here are inaccessible gullies, 
foaming water, and fern -clad hollow. 
And thus it is that he who truly seeks 
will find, even though the prize be long 
deferred. 
There are few places in whose records 
I take more delight than in those of 
Tiverton and her Blundell School. Who 
that has the heart of youth does not re- 
call, with a responsive thrill, John Ridd's 
tale of the Blundell boys' heaven-sent 
holiday ? For " in the very front of the 
gate, just without the archway, where the 
ground is paved most handsomely, you 
may see in copy-letters done a great 
P. B. of white pebbles. Now it is the 
custom and the law that, when the in- 
vading waters, either fluxing along the 
wall from below the road-bridge or pour- 
ing sharply across the meadows from 
a cut called ' Owen's ditch,' — and I 
myself have seen it come both ways, — 
upon the very instant when the waxing 
element lips though it be but a single 
pebble of the founder's letters, it is in 
the license of any boy, so ever small and 
undoctrined, to rush into the great 
 
school-rooms, where a score of masters 
sit heavily, and scream at the top of his 
voice, ' P. B. ! ' 
" Then, with a yell, the boys leap up or 
break away from their standing. They 
toss their caps to the black-beamed roof, 
and haply the very books after them ; 
and the great boys vex no more the small 
ones, and the small boys stick up to the 
great ones. One with another, hard they 
go, to see the gain of the waters, . . . 
and are prone to kick the day-boys out, 
with words of scanty compliment. Then 
the masters look at one another, hav- 
ing no class to look to, and (boys being 
no more left to watch) in a manner they 
put their mouths up. With a spirited 
bang they close their books, and make 
invitation, the one to the other, for pipes 
and foreign cordials, recommending the 
chance of the time and the comfort away 
from cold water." 
Peter Blundell, the foimder of the 
school, was, according to good John 
Prince, "at first a very Poor Lad of Tiv- 
erton; who, for a little Support, went 
Errands for the Carriers that came to 
that Town, and was Tractable in looking 
after their Horses and doing little Ser- 
 
vices for them, as they gave him Orders. 
By degrees, in such means, he got a 
little Money, of which he was very Provi- 
dent and Careful ; and bought therewith 
a kersey, which a Carrier was so kind as 
to carry to London, gratis, and to make 
him the Advantage of the Return. Hav- 
ing done so for some time, he at length 
got kersies enough to Lade an Horse, 
and went up to London with it humbly : 
Where being found very Diligent and 
Industrious, he was received into good 
Imployment by those who managed there 
the Kersey Trade (for which Tiverton 
was then very famous), and he continued 
therein, until he was Rich enough to set 
up the Calling of making Kersies for 
himself. . . . He came at last to a vast 
and large Estate; whereby he was en- 
abled to do such noble Benefactions, and 
bestow such large Legacies as he did." 
The school itself is painstakingly de- 
scribed by this ever-delightful chronicler: 
"This House stands at the East end 
of the Town, a very tall and spacious 
Structure, built something like the Col- 
lege-Halls in the Universities, with a fair 
Cupulo in the middle. The Pile contains 
one School for the Master, and another 
 
for the Usher, only an entry between 
them ; both, by his Direction, One hun- 
dred Foot long, and four and twenty 
broad; well wainscoted and Boarded. 
Close adjoyning to which, is a very large 
House for the Master, and another con- 
venient one for the Usher: with very 
good Orchards, Gardens, and Out-Lots, 
belonging to it 
"Before the School-House is a large 
spacious Green-Court, in Figure a Quad- 
rangle, in Continent one Acre of Ground, 
at the enterance in from the Street. All 
enclosed with an high and stately Wall, 
coped with yellow Purbeck-Stone, very 
handsome to behold. It hath a fair Gate 
at the Entry into it, over which is this 
Inscription, cut in Stone, now rendered 
by Time and Weather almost illegible. 
"'This Free Grammar-School was 
Founded at the only Cost and Charge 
of Mr. Peter Blundell of this Town, some 
times Clothier.' " 
Outwardly, alas! the Blundell's of 
"Loma Doone" is no more. In 1880 
new buildings were erected, nearly a mile 
away, and the old ones, sold under certain 
conditions, were converted into dwelling- 
houses. Thus it is that Tiverton is 
 
sadly disappointing to a visitor weak in 
the memory. These facts I knew, but 
somehow they slipped my mind, as pins 
run into cracks, and when I passed that 
" high and stately Wall," on my way from 
the station, I smiled at the " fair Gate " 
leading therein, and was content, know- 
ing how securely tradition rested there 
and would rest. But next day's sun, 
according to immemorial right, dispelled 
my fancy. I might peep within at walls 
and velvet sward, but the spirit of old 
BlundelFs had fled. I lingered, scowling 
at the spirit of change, and then took my 
dusty way up the hill, to glare at the 
prosperous modern buildings of new old 
Blundeirs and greet the transplanted 
P. B. loyally holding place at the entrance 
gates. 
" Never again, I fear," writes a master 
of the school, "can the waters of the 
Lowman hope to cover these honored 
initials, — at least, in the ordinary course 
of things ; and I can hardly contemplate 
the possibility that the ' license of any 
boy' should extend to the length of 
' rushing into the school-room, crying P. 
B.' Such a course of action would not 
recommend itself to any Blundellian of 
 
the present day as likely to obtain a holi- 
day for the school. This luxury is rarely 
granted nowadays." 
Readers of Blackmore, himself a Blun- 
dellian, will remember his account of the 
perpetual feuds between boarders and 
day-boys : — 
"For it had been long fixed among 
us, who were of the house and cham- 
bers, that these same day-boys were all 
'caddes,' as we had discovered to call 
it, because they paid no groat for their 
schooling and brought their own com- 
mons with them. In consumption of 
these we would help them, for our fare 
in hall fed appetite ; and, while we ate 
their victuals, we allowed them freely to 
talk to us. Nevertheless, we could not 
feel, when all the victuals were gone, but 
that these boys required kicking from 
the premises of Blundell." 
But at length did "the whirligig of 
time," consonant to eternal word, " bring 
in his revenges." For in 1846, accord- 
ing to F. H. Snell, a former Blundell 
scholar at Oxford, a dispute, which had 
long been pending between the Feoffees 
of the school and the inhabitants of Tiv- 
erton, terminated in the victory of the 
 
latter. These worthy citizens complained 
that, whereas the Blundell benefaction 
had been intended primarily for Tiver- 
ton boys, its privileges were eaten up by 
boarders, who not only absorbed most of 
the scholarship fund, but despised and 
harried the native students (or " cads ! "). 
Proceedings ran a long and tortuous 
course; but the final decision given by 
the Vice-Chancellor was that "neither 
the Master nor the Usher of the said 
School ought to receive any pa)nnents 
from or in respect of any of the boys 
educated in the said School, or ought 
to take any boarder ; and that none but 
boys educated as Free Scholars, videli- 
cet. Scholars free of expense in the said 
School, . . . ought to be eligible to the 
said Scholarships and Exhibitions." Then 
followed a dreary period ; for the imme- 
diate effect of the decree had been to 
sweep away at least half the number of 
pupils, and the provisions for teaching 
the remainder were by no means satis- 
factory. However, matters slowly read- 
justed themselves ; and at the present 
writing, Blundell's boasts a goodly roll of 
boarders and day scholars, who, if they 
do loyally continue the ancient feud, 
 
doubtless proceed in the scientific fashion 
observed by John Ridd and Robin Snell. 
Tiverton herself is all lovable in her 
assured and not too flaunting prosperity, 
and the spirit of her people is worthy of 
the county ; for nowhere in England do 
you find truer and more unfailing courtesy 
than in Devon. It was in Tiverton that 
one short day gave me a round of social de- 
lights, chiefly at almshouses, where dear 
old women potter about their tiny quar- 
ters in a flutter of hospitality, bringing 
out their last treasures of china for your 
sake — ancient teapots and copper-lustre 
half -pints which they lingeringly agree to 
sell, but with such evident agony of soul 
that you incontinently refuse the bargain 
and flee from temptation. Yet it is to be 
hoped that here the nimble shilling leaps 
from your purse into some eager, wrin- 
kled hand ; for a shilling buys much tea. 
The White Horse Inn, where "girt 
Jan " rested after his victory over Robin, 
still exists in Gold Street, but inevitable 
joy thereat is tempered by the fact that 
the " souls of John and Joan Greenway," 
mentioned tenderly by Blackmore, could 
scarcely have found there a congenial 
resting-place ; for they have long since 
 
disappeared. They may, however, be 
heard of across the road, at Greenway's 
Chapel or Almshouses, which are still in 
being, and have not been diverted from 
their original uses. 
There is, perhaps, no more pathetic 
record contained in those letters graven 
by men who would fain assure to them- 
selves a brief immortality than that set 
down by John and Joan Greenway, who 
seemed strangely timorous as to their 
reception in the next world and extrava- 
gantly desirous of establishing some sort 
of lien on the kindly feeling of this. John 
Greenway, though " of mean parentage," 
grew "vastly Rich," and in the early 
part of the sixteenth century founded an 
almshouse for a limited number of poor 
men, endowing them with a small weekly 
revenue. He added a chapel to the 
church ; and there, according to Prince, 
"in a spacious Vault, . . . under a large 
Stone, lieth this John Greenway and his 
Wife Joan ; on which the Figures of them 
both, curiously done in Brass, are fixed : 
round the Edges goes a Fillet of Brass, 
having their Epitaph engraven on it, in 
old Characters, now partly obliterated: 
what remains legible here follows: — 
 
" ' Of your Charite prey for the Souls 
of John and Joan Greenway his Wife 
which Died . . . and for their 
Faders and Moders, and for their Friends 
and their Lovers. On them Jesu 
have Mercy. Amen.' 
" Out of the mouth of John Greenway 
proceeds a Label of Brass, on which are 
these Words, 
" ' O I then to thee we pray, 
Have mercy of John Greenway.' " 
His wife had, in her own name, the 
benefit of the same pious wish. And, 
though these labels have long since been 
torn away, the chapel, even after sad 
experience of the vandalism known as 
restoration, bears continually reiterated 
petitions for John Greenway's heavenly 
welfare, and that of his spouse. On the 
exterior are inscribed the mottoes : — 
" God sped J. G." 
" Of your charitie pray for the Souls 
of John Greenway and his wife." 
" Oh Lord all way grant to John 
Grenway good fotue and grace 
and In heaven a place ! " 
 
Eveiywhere was repeated that pathetic 
injunction, like a cry from some far and 
solitary land : — " Pray for John Green- 
way ! " Alas, poor ghost ! Did he find 
this earth and his foothold at Tiverton 
too goodly to be relinquished, or was he 
by nature a distrustful soul, who shrank 
from those new worlds which the poorest 
of us must conquer ? Is he, indeed, at 
rest, or doth his immortal part still pro- 
test against its progress to another star ? 
Pray for his soul ! 
And in this relic-hunting of the Doones, 
what must be the conclusion of the whole 
matter? That a band of outlaws two 
hundred years ago built their huts in an 
isolated valley, and lived there a life of 
rapine and shame ; that John Ridd, the 
champion wrestler and eater of beef, is 
hotly believed in by the sons of Devon, 
to whom legend has been handed down 
like family jewels ; and that Tom Faggus 
and his strawberry mare, and even Betty 
Muxworthy, are articles of local faith. 
But what are these but the dry bones of 
belief? Supreme and vital walks the 
glowing truth that a beautiful book was 
bom of their ashes, and that its fame 
shall be ever-living. 
 
All over England are scattered the 
footprints of King Arthur, legendary 
hero and crown of chivalry. His prowess 
is chanted by mountain streamlets, and 
lowland rushes whisper his name. Corn- 
wall wears the renown of his birth, and 
most appropriately ; for it is the coimty 
of giants and fairies, of saint and mythic 
hero. To this day, it has preserved more 
of its old-time character than any other 
comer in England; and the traveler 
need spur his imagination but slightly to 
fed, on entering its borders, that he has 
reached the land of ancient custom and 
romance. Varied and seemingly inex- 
haustible are its antiquities. Here are bar- 
rows, cromlechs, stone-rings, and ruined 
fortifications, to occupy the speculations 
of Dryasdust. Neither need the roman- 
tic wanderer depart unfed, for in this 
still, secluded spot awaiteth him many 
a delightsome morsel. By night, he 
may hear the wailing of Tregeagle, spirit 
haunted by demons, and doomed to expiate 
a wicked life by perpetual toil at 
impossible tasks; or he may steep his 
soul in that solace which is a sort of in- 
tellectual nicotine by turning the pages 
of legend, from the story of the Giant 
Cormoran to that of Britain's hero-king. 
Cornwall, like most regions diversified 
by a huge and rocky formation, was once, 
according to the popular belief, overrun 
with giants, from whom it was delivered 
by that noble Jack, son of a wealthy 
farmer near Land's End, who first earned 
his sobriquet of " Giant Killer " by slay- 
ing the terrible Cormoran, builder and 
lord of Saint Michael's Mount. In Corn- 
wall lived also the Giant Bolster. He 
made nothing of compassing six miles 
at a stride, and yet was overtaken by 
fate in the person of Saint Agnes, whom 
he so persecuted with offers of affection 
that she was compelled, in self-defense, 
to entrap him into an amiable suicide. 
All over the duchy are scattered names 
recalling that age of wonder. There are 
giants' cradles, graves, pulpits, spoons, 
and bowls; and though one legend de- 
clares that the devil dare not enter Corn- 
wall for fear of being made into a pie 
(for at least three hundred varieties of 
 
pasty have flourished at one time or an- 
other on the west Tamar side), still he 
has served as sponsor for many a natural 
oddity. Indeed, as one antiquary de- 
clares, in the eastern part of Cornwall 
every phenomenon out of the common 
course is referred to King Arthur ; in 
the west, to giants or the devil. The 
subject of Cornish pies, however, is one 
which is not to be lightly dismissed. 
The most casual consideration of it puts 
forever to flight certain dogmatic asser- 
tions regarding the lack of variety in 
English cooking. Cornwall has pies of 
beef, duck, and conger-eel, lammy pies, 
concocted of the succulent kid : and, as 
hath been said, star-gazing pies, made 
of pilchards. In short, their name is 
that of a legion alarming to the con- 
servative foreigner. Only a temperate 
mind may choose among such pretty 
dishes "to set before the king." To- 
day, pilchard fishing is the great indus- 
try of the coast, furnishing a wealth not 
to be despised beside that which once 
lay in tin and copper. The local tin 
mines are almost exhausted, — scarcely 
a subject for wonder when we consider 
that before the Christian era they were 
 
supplying Greek, Roman, and Phoenician 
merchants with metal loaded at the port 
Iktis, now Saint MichAel's Mount. This, 
therefore, is an old, old civilization ; and 
here, to a very late date, have been pre- 
served the customs of a sparsely chron- 
icled time. Droll-tellers, a species of 
wandering minstrel, went formerly from 
house to house, gladly welcomed and 
hospitably entertained, to sing folk bal- 
lads and repeat old tales. Even as late 
as the first part of the present century 
two such venders of " drolls," or tales of 
marvel and delight, were still alive. This 
was a quaint and simple people, albeit 
somewhat chary of communicating its 
old-time legends to alien folk. The terms 
"uncle" and "aunt" were freely inter- 
changed among them in token of respect 
and affection ; and thus did the Virgin 
Mary come to be tenderly spoken of as 
Modryb Marya, "Aunt Mary." One 
subject, however, to this day rouses 
them to wrath, — the comparison of their 
clotted cream with the cream of Devon. 
"Ah, you can't make Cornish cream 
anywhere else ! " said a wise old woman. 
"It takes Cornish cows." That I firmly 
believe ; and yet, when in Devonshire, I 
 
am convinced of the paramount excel- 
lence of Devonshire cows. There is no 
such cream as the Cornish cream save 
in Devonshire, and none like the Devon 
cream except in Cornwall. 
The coast of Cornwall is rock-bound, 
full of terrible crags, of sounding caves, 
and beaten upon by mighty surges. Yet, 
inland from its rocky strongholds, how 
the earth smiles in leaf and bloom ! In 
its valleys, on the south coast, blossoms 
a tropical wealth of flowers, quite amaz- 
ing in a country of England's latitude. 
Fuchsias, roof-high, adorn the cottage 
fronts ; scarlet geraniums and roses clam- 
ber to their very eaves. Near the Lizard 
grows the wonderful Cornish heath, 
found nowhere else but in Portugal, — 
delicate and gracious sojourner from a 
warmer clime. In the sweet freshness 
of the sea winds every petal assumes a 
brilliancy of tint unknown farther inland. 
The heather is rosier, the gorse has a 
more golden glow, foxgloves are reddened 
by a lustier current. Over the headlands, 
to the very beginning of their rocky de- 
fenses, grows the pink thrift, and, paint- 
ing the rocks themselves, creeps a golden 
lichen. Its domestic features have a 
 
character all their own. Tiny stone 
cottages, whitewashed and roofed with 
slate, stand in clustering sociability, each 
little hamlet with its gray stone church, 
crouching low to avoid the winds, and 
with a square tower often high enough 
for a beacon. Many a village is under 
saintly patronage, like Saint Ives, Saint 
Sennen, or Saint Just. Saints were plen- 
tiful here ; and, indeed, one authority de- 
clares that in the Cornish folk-lore it is 
difficult to distinguish their deeds from 
those of the giants. 
In seeking this land of eld, my first 
thought was of that heroic king — giant 
among his contemporaries — who set his 
seal upon the sixth century, and whose 
name has passed into the literature of 
France and Italy, to creep back from the 
former into his own land by means of 
Sir Thomas Malory's pen and Caxton's 
press. 
A public coach furnishes conveyance 
from Newquay to Tintagel, by way of 
Boscastle, a little town rich in a store of 
antiquarian memories, and adorned by 
fine headlands and a quaint harbor, cer- 
tain to delight the artistic eye. To those 
unfamiliar with the face of this particular 
region, the road reads a pleasing pre- 
lude to the peculiar beauties of Cornwall. 
It is monotonous compared with certain 
drives along the Devon coast; yet its 
quiet charm is such as one would be 
loath to miss. This is a country of ridgy, 
wind-swept hills, garnished by a scanty 
tree growth, and looking down into 
sweet valleys, where, especially in the 
south, lies all its luxuriance of growth 
and bloom. The Cornish hedges are lit- 
erally banks, made of earth and stone, 
some of them ten feet high, and often 
with a surface of two feet at the top, 
either planted with shrubs or left bare for 
a footpath. In this cementing earth has 
taken root all manner of creeping things 
and blossoming life. Besides the may 
and honeysuckle, I have gathered pim- 
pernel, a royal yellow trefoil, thyme, and 
foxglove from their crannies ; but chiefly 
are they overspread with a rich mantle 
of heath. On that day when we drove to 
Tintagel, perhaps over the ground where 
Iseult rode, with hawk on wrist, or Tris- 
tram carolled, — sad of name, but gay in 
Gallic grace, — the sky was full of windy 
clouds and the air passing chill. Yet the 
