exceptional history, but it belonged to a great 
class of its kind at that time popular with the 
mass of our people, and unquestionably use 
ful in stimulating a taste for decent ways of 
living among that proportion of our fellow- 
citizens whom the liquor traffic disgraces and 
ruins. Having become once convinced that 
the method however foreign to my taste and 
to my training was sound and sensible ; was, 
in fact, so much wiser and greater than my 
 
ignorance or timidity, that it commanded my 
respect as well as my conscience, of course 
I had no choice but to give myself to the 
principle, and try to improve its practice, if I 
might. As our Methodist friends would say, 
I " followed the leading," and I never
regretted it. 
For three years I had the great happiness 
of serving the people who had needed and 
selected me. There and then, if ever, I be 
came acquainted with life. I learned more 
from my Gloucester people than I ever taught 
them, and I shall hold them gratefully and 
lovingly in my heart as long as I live. 
The pathetic battle of those tempted men 
with themselves ; the hardships of the fisher 
men, shipped for midwinter voyages ; rum 
on the wharves and rum on the vessel, mocking 
the vow of the newly-sobered man ; the distrusts 
and jealousies and obstacles flung in the way 
of " reformed men " by their own mates, or by 
respectable citizens who ought to have sunk 
to their knees with shame for deeds that I 
have known to be done ; and the persistent 
unpopularity of our efforts, an unpopularity 
that is known to all movements everywhere 
in the pursuance of what is called the 
temperance work, such things one remembers 
when the easy side of existence is forgotten. 
 
In the ultimate valuation of life, when soul and 
body are " put to the question," one may no 
longer feel concern about the creation of a 
style, or the verity of a literary school, or the 
importance of a light touch ; one may not re 
call the brilliant conversers of the choicest 
society one has known and valued ; possibly, 
even precious passion of study on sheltered 
winter days by open fires among one's dearest 
books, and with one's highest masters, may 
pass : who can tell ? 
I think there are things that will not pass, 
the look of a manly fellow when he has been 
sober for two years ; the expression in the eyes 
of his wife, and a word or two she said ; the 
sobs of a man who had " broken his pledge," 
and begged for his soul's life to be saved (a 
vulgar incident I grant you ! Did I claim that 
it was " Literature " ?) ; the eyes of the men 
when they stopped in the middle of an oath 
upon the wharves, and came in and finished 
the hymn that we were singing in the club- 
room ; and oh, the way the women looked ! 
these common scenes may last when every 
other brain-cell but those retaining them and 
such as they, has given back its impression to 
the great Engraver. 
Touching beyond words were the appeals of 
the women. One, I remember, walked miles 
 
to my house, and she was quite unfit for walk 
ing, to beg me, in their superstitious way, 
to "stop her husband drinking." For I was 
sometimes accosted on the street by strange 
men, who would detain me respectfully to say : 
" I hear when you talk to folks they stop 
drinkin ; I wish you'd talk to me ! " 
This woman pulled up her sleeve and showed 
me big, purple bruises on her beautiful arm 
and shoulder. " He's always kind when he's 
sober," she urged, " but I wish you'd talk to 
him. He peeked in at the window last night 
at the club to see you. He said he see you, 
and you was readin something out of a book. 
He said he wanted to go in and listen, but 
he dassent, for he felt ashamed. So he come 
home, and throwed himself on the lounge, and 
put his hands acrosst his eyes and groaned, as 
if he was hurted in an accident, and he says, 
" Jane, I wisht I was a better man ; an I 
says,"- 
" * Tom, I wisht you was ! and he says he'd 
like to have you talk to him so I come 
down. First I thought I'd go to Mrs. Caesar 
Augustus Smith, but he didn't say anything 
about Mrs. Caesar Augustus Smith an so I 
come to you. For he never hits me when he's 
sober, and he likes the baby, and so I thought 
I'd come." 
 
Speaking of literature, I remember a bit of 
pure eloquence, which I heard from one of our 
men one evening. He was a fine fellow or 
was meant to be ; a tall, well-looking man, with 
a good head, and something in it. He drank 
till he was fifty, then stopped slipped a few 
times but died sober. He had never been 
a man of many words on matters of religious 
belief, and was popularly credited with a tinge 
of awful skepticism. When one day, there 
fore, he quietly announced to his mates in our 
little organization his purpose to sympathize 
with the more religious aspects of its work, 
the incident created a furore. The man's 
motives were immediately and bitterly impugned. 
Few of his neighbors but questioned his sincerity.
It would be difficult to make one unfamiliar
with just such forms of service among 
precisely such people, understand the large 
temporary importance of small events like 
these. 
The next week our "reformed man" rose 
serenely in the little chapel and said this only : 
" I understand that my sincerity has been 
doubted in what I said here last week that I 
meant to be a better man, and that I should 
like to live a different life. I want to say 
this : If my old neighbors cannot forget my 
past, I have been taught to believe that Christ 
 
can" For clear " persuasion of speech " I 
have seldom heard that surpassed. 
It occurs to me that I have said more of the 
obstacles than of the aids to our work among 
the Gloucester drunkards ; and far be it from 
me to fall into that coarseness of heart which 
is more conscious of the absence than of the 
presence of human sympathy. It was invigorating 
to me at the time ; and as I look back 
upon it from this distance, it seems to have 
been extraordinary that we received so much 
assistance from sources outside of the bound 
ary of local interest. I used often to be asked 
to drive down the North Shore and tell the
summer people what we were doing for the fisher 
men. These parlor talks always resulted in 
something less evasive than pleasant words. 
Generous and hearty to a surprising degree 
were the contributions to our always clamorous 
needs from people to whose tastes and experience
our work was quite foreign. Our stead 
iest help came from a life-long invalid whose 
noble heart never failed to reply to the suffer 
ing of the world from which she was shut in. 
It is so easy to doubt the humanity of the 
easy classes ; flings at the hardness of wealth 
and social position are so common and so often 
unjust that I am glad to take this chance to 
testify to the warm hearts, the generous
impulses, the lavish purses, and the sincere sym 
pathy which I found only waiting for the op 
portunity to pour themselves upon a need in 
whose reality they could trust. The thing 
which interested me in this especial case was 
that so much of this practical cordiality came 
from the people who had the smallest natural 
amount of sympathy with the religious aspect 
of what we were doing. 
I remember one day, sitting alone in my 
little study by the harbor, that I heard the 
tap-tapping of a very small, pointed feminine 
heel upon the rocks, and that the shadow of 
a little lady suddenly darkened the door. I 
knew her at a glance for one of the queens of 
that phase of society which we still call fash 
ionable. She was, in fact, a very gay little 
lady and remains so. She came in quite 
soberly and gently, and began to talk with me 
about the Gloucester fishermen, asking the 
most appreciative and intelligent questions ; I 
wondered at them. Her boys, she said, wanted 
to put a set of standard novels in the library of 
our club-room. When she went away she left 
substantial evidence of what was it ? A mo 
ment's sympathy ? An hour's genuineness ? 
A movement of regret, or of resolve ? Who 
can say ? Perhaps this gay benefactress was do 
ing a bit of penance of her own ? It is possible. 
Did I feei at liberty to use her name, a large 
portion of the gay world would appreciate the 
incident. But, for myself, whenever I hear this 
little lady, as one sometimes does, criticised 
for her merry-making at life, I recall that 
afternoon at Gloucester. I hear the tapping 
of the tiny heels upon my rocks. I see the 
sober face, chastened with a look never seen 
in the drawing-rooms, where she rules it whim 
sically and royally. I hear an accent of some 
thing like perplexity, like wonder, like appeal, 
like reverence in her elaborate voice, and I 
am silent; for my thoughts of her are kind, 
" long thoughts." 
To this little group of puzzled and tempted 
people, for whom my heart was full, at my 
audacious request, came Phillips Brooks. In 
deed, he came not once, but twice, in the
busiest part of his year, and preached to us ; once 
in September and again, I think, in March. 
I know that the Indian summer was on the 
harbor at the time of his first visit, and that 
the snow lay heavily upon the narrow streets 
when he came again. 
Take it altogether, this is the pleasantest 
memory which I have of the great preacher. 
He lent himself to those little people with 
luxurious heartiness. He had that gracious 
way of conferring a favor, as if he were its 
 
recipient. In fact, he seemed to enjoy the 
two sermons preached to that handful of fisher 
men outside of his own church connections, 
outside of the trend of his own work, and 
perhaps a little strange to his experience of
audiences as much as any which I ever heard 
from his lips. 
Of course our people were touched with the 
hojioiLwhich he did them ; and they thronged 
the hall, or audience room. The wharves and 
the streets and the fleets poured out a mighty 
delegation ; Trinity Church never gave him 
more devout attention. It was a beautiful 
sight. 
Now, one thing I noticed. In the course of 
his two sermons given to those drunkards and 
fishermen, the preacher alluded to the object 
for which we were united but a single time. 
Then he said : " There are men who give up 
the beautiful possibilities of life to low sins, 
and drunkenness} He drew himself to his 
superb height, and brought out that one word 
with an accent of glorious scorn. The tempted 
men lowered their eyes before it. It scathed 
them harder than hours of denunciation, and 
moved them more than pages of appeal. 
DISTINCTLY, in fact almost entirely with 
Gloucester, I find interwoven my recollections 
of the poet, Edward Rowland Sill a man of 
exquisite performance, and of superior promise 
in American letters ; still a young man too 
soon overtaken by death. 
He happened on Eastern Point one summer, 
or opening autumn, like a bird on the wing 
from some foreign land. In truth, there was 
always, to my fancy, something bird-like about 
him. He had that shy eye, that essential
reticence united with apparent frankness, that air 
of a form of creation finer than ours and com 
petent to be critical of us accordingly ; yet, 
from very fineness pathetically depended upon 
our sympathy. 
He had, at the time I knew him, printed but 
one thin book, I think a booklet,, he called 
it. It has, since his death, been republished. 
The best thing he ever wrote was "The Fool's 
Prayer." Or perhaps I should hesitate between 
 
that and his beautiful poem written for Smith 
College ; that containing the well-known lines : 
" Were women wise, and men all true 
And one thing more that may not be, 
Old earth were fair enough for me." 
He and Mrs. Sill occupied a cottage near 
me, for a few weeks, and it was my good for 
tune to know something of them in the free 
dom from constraint which belongs to summer 
seashore neighborhoods, especially, I some 
times think, to Gloucester neighborhood. 
I had known the poet for some time by 
correspondence only ; he was a wonderful 
letter-writer. Real literary correspondence 
in fact, correspondence of any kind is a lost 
art in our scurrying day ; and I found his let 
ters pungently stimulating through one long, 
secluded Andover winter. I only understood how 
valuable they were when they ceased forever. 
A certain quaintness in the man used to show 
itself in the shapes and styles of his letters. I 
remember receiving quite a number written 
upon long narrow coils of white paper ; I never 
decided whether they were the tapes such as 
the telegrams of an olden time used to be in 
scribed upon, and such as stock brokers still 
use, or whether they were the foldings from 
his wife's ribbons. This is the only instance 
in which I ever received letters by the yard. 
I had never seen him, as I say, and I well 
remember his shy appearance at my cottage. 
He seemed to shrink unaccountably from the 
first meeting. " We have an ideal of a person 
from writing," he said. Whether he feared 
to lose his of me, or mine of him, he did not 
divulge ; and I did not dare to ask. He was, 
in most respects, one of the most finely-strung 
human beings whom I have ever known. How 
easily most of us brush off our ideals ! His 
were the realities of life, to him. 
He and Mrs. Sill were enthusiastic walkers ; 
and gave much of their time to wandering 
over the Gloucester downs. I could not join 
in this pleasure ; and my talks with him were 
fragmentary, but always rich and nutritive. 
He did not chat ; he conversed. A talkative 
feminine fellow-boarder he named, I remem 
ber, The Jabberwock. Mr. Sill was charmed 
with Gloucester. He had the Wonson cottage, 
with the beautiful lava gorge in front, 
where the tide rises almost to the piazza ; and 
his favorite way of spending an evening was to 
go out and sit on the rocks in the dark, and 
swing his feet off. He liked to hang them 
over the water, he said. 
The same moral refinement which marks his 
poems characterized the man. His personal 
unselfishness was of a very high order. To 
 
sacrifice himself for the comfort of others was 
as natural to him as true metre. It was impossible
to be in his company a week and not 
make some discovery in the science of kind 
ness. This is not always preeminently true 
of the critical temperament ; and his was dis 
tinctly that. He should have ranked with the 
foremost of our American critics, if he had 
given himself to that form of literary expres 
sion. I always perceived that he had the right 
of nature as well as of training, to sit in the 
courts of judgment. His loss has been obvious 
in this respect. His experience as pro 
fessor of English had made him an invaluable 
literary friend; for it added patience to 
power. 
On the morning that he was to leave Gloucester 
for his home in Ohio, Mrs. Sill came run 
ning to our cottage for help. Mr. Sill had 
met with an accident, more serious than it was 
thought at the time, and had fainted. He re 
mained where he was for some days before 
being able to move ; then pluckily continued 
his journey. I went with them as far as Boston, 
where they parted from me ; and I never 
saw him again. He died that winter. 
I do not think that the loss to our literature, 
in missing the full blossom of his powers, has 
ever been fitly estimated. A few knew, and 
know what his value was and would have be 
come. A man so sensitively balanced is always 
at a painful disadvantage in our calling. He 
is incapable of urging himself, and too easily 
swerved from the expostulation of competition. 
A well-known editor once wrote to him, 
carelessly, of a certain contribution which had 
the appearance of being less popular than 
others : " The people are fickle. They want 
some new thing all the time. It is good-by 
to you to-day, and welcome somebody else to 
morrow ! " Another man might have taken 
these thoughtless words as lightly as they 
were given. Mr. Sill was with difficulty
persuaded to write again for that magazine. Our 
editors might learn a lesson from an incident 
like this ; they deal " not with flesh and blood, 
but with principalities and powers," of select 
nature ; they do well to take even a little 
troublesome care where they strike, and how. 
I happen to know that, in this instance, the 
contributor was held in high honor by the 
editor ; but it was almost impossible, after 
wards, to make the poet believe it. 
It was the same in the last great ordeal. 
He died under conditions from which a coarser 
man would have easily rallied. " We did not 
suppose," was the stupefied cry, "we did not 
 
know the patient had such an organization as 
this ! " 
Fortunately for human happiness, perhaps, 
such exquisitely ordered natures are so few 
that the dull, blundering average of us does 
not know how to treat them. We inflict 
when we thought to play, and kill where we 
meant to heal. When it is too late " We 
did not suppose," we plead. " Other organizations
are not like this ! " Of course not. Why 
should they be ? How could they be ? 
The pages of the Gloucester story turn fast 
now, and yet I write on, because I shrink 
from the abrupt termination of that beautiful 
chapter of my life which dealt with those 
whom I still find it impossible not to call " my 
people." Time and trouble, illness and death, 
change and chance, have scattered them far; 
and yet, to me, they always seem to be a little 
group, affectionate and wistful, waiting for me 
in the old club-room, and softly singing, " I 
need Thee every hour" their chosen hymn 
and mine as I come in. 
I had been writing "The Story of Avis" 
during this overwrought time of personal pre 
occupation at Gloucester. That book came 
from near my heart, and tore it, perhaps, 
accordingly. I wrote chiefly in the winters, at 
Andover, and revised at Gloucester. That 
last summer, I remember, was pushed with 
the proof-sheets of this book, crowding in
between the needs of my people. Many a morn 
ing's work was interrupted by the visits of the 
" reformed men ; " or by the little dissensions 
and troubles of their club organization ; or by 
signs of the coldness or opposition of those 
who might have aided us, and who would have 
done so I like to believe if they had ever 
understood our aims and motives. If there 
be one lesson above another which experience 
in moral reforms teaches a fair-minded person, 
I think it is patience with the averseness of 
those who do not join in our own particular 
methods of improving the world. Lack of 
sympathy with these is quite as likely to
signify want of head as want of heart ; or 
simply to indicate a deficient imagination, or one 
strung below its key. 
My own observation leads me to believe 
that when one has discovered for one's self 
this profound but subtle truth, one is just 
about ready to begin to enter upon a course 
or career of practical beneficence. As a rule, 
one is far on in such before one makes this 
discovery. For myself, the enforced end of my 
work at Gloucester and that illumination which 
would have made it so much easier and gentler 
to the enduring nerves, came together. As I 
 
say, " The Story of Avis " may have had its 
share in the sudden surrender of strength, 
which for a long time put an end to my use 
of my pen, and to all my hopes and visions of 
any personal part in alleviating the lot of the 
tempted men and suffering women of my sea 
port home. 
One evening in September, at the end of a 
worried summer, I came home from a service 
at the club-room with a strange lightness at 
the head. The moonlight on the harbor had a 
look which it never wore before or since ; an 
expression remote, as familiar scenery may 
appear, we think, to those about to leave the 
world forever. In that thrilling harbor-light, 
everything that one was doing or caring about 
took on a small look. Service for humanity 
itself acquired a vague value, and the fever of 
soul and body which fed it turned again and 
rent me. 
I sank on my pillow, faintly wishing that I 
need never leave it again, but perfectly aware 
that I should get up and go on at eight o clock 
to-morrow morning, as usual. Till dawn I 
watched the harbor throbbing under full moon 
and full tide. That night the watcher did not 
sleep ; nor the next ; nor the next. I closed 
my house suddenly, and fled to my father's 
home ; where, except in the great, uncontrollable 
crises of life, rest had always awaited 
me. This was no uncontrollable crisis ; nor 
even a crisis at all, that I could see ; and I 
" crawled in," as the grown child does, under 
a father's roof, confident of peace and healing. 
Neither came. The next night and the next 
passed like the others ; and then the rack of 
habitual insomnia closed in. 
One slips into the door of the torture 
chamber, thinking it to be the entrance to some 
commonplace apartment, perhaps some pleasant 
room with broad views and easy exit. 
One turns to step out, on some natural errand 
then, behold the bars, the bolts, the locks. 
Escape ? Try the windows. They seem to 
hang a million feet above the solid earth ; 
their grating is of metal never known before 
to the prisoner's chemistry, a relentless fibre, 
made from the pillars of the world. Weep if 
you will ; pray, if you choose. But " God shut 
the door." You will stay there till He opens 
it. 
It is not my purpose to turn even one chap 
ter of these recollections into an invalid's diary. 
Up to this point I have refrained from a subject 
always of so much more importance to 
the sufferer than to his friends, that one's 
preference would exile it from these records 
 
altogether. Since that is not quite practicable, 
it seems to me the simpler way to meet it as 
frankly and as briefly as possible. 
Perhaps we all have some plea more reason 
able than others, to account for the absence of 
the things which we have failed to be or to do. 
It has always seemed to me that the views 
taken by persons capable of " the vision and 
the dream," of the grounds on which they 
have omitted to reach . their ideal, would have 
an interest far above that of mere biographic 
personalities. What warning in this experience
of wasted aspiration ! What stimulus in 
that ! But here we come to the question : Is 
aspiration ever wasted ? Is achievement, or 
the effort to achieve, the essence of value ? 
When Sidney Colvin, Stevenson's particular 
critic, condemned "The Ebb-Tide," to my 
mind one of the best things which Stevenson 
ever did, the exiled and sinking man wrote 
pathetically : 
" The inherent tragedy of things works it 
self out from white to black and blacker, and 
the poor things of a day look ruefully on. 
Does it shake my cast-iron faith ? I cannot 
say it does. I believe in the ultimate decency 
of things ; ay, and if I woke in hell, should 
still believe it ! But it is hard walking ! . . . 
(Observe the cruelty give me a parenthesis 
to say it : This comfortable Englishman, 
tasting the fruits of the world, pouring what 
he called " criticism " on a dying man, prisoner 
in an island in the South Sea, where the mails 
come but once a month, and where a poor 
fellow might be buried before he could know 
that his book sold, or his critics repented them 
of their sins ! Facts like this deepen a natural 
skepticism as to the usefulness of the art of 
criticism into a fierce pang of resentment for 
the dying author's sake.) 
" I am an idler and a cumberer of the 
ground," he writes in one of the last letters 
to which he set his trembling pen. " It may 
be excused to me, perhaps, by twenty years of 
industry and ill health, which have taken the 
cream off the y milk. ... I am almost ready to 
call the world an error. Because ? Because I 
have not drugged myself with successful work, 
and there are all kinds of ... unfriendly 
trifles buzzing in my ear. If I could find a 
place where I could lie down and give up for 
(say) two years, and allow the sainted public 
to support me, if it were a lunatic asylum, 
wouldn't I go, just ! . . . But you men with 
salaries don't know how a family weighs on a 
fellow's mind." 
Stevenson is our latest and most pathetic 
specimen of the not inconsiderable list of 
invalid writers who have been important to the 
world ; and if the rest of them had " spoken 
out " as bluntly, as quaintly, and as wistfully 
as he, we might all have been the wiser or the 
gentler for their candor ; at least, all but those 
critics who appropriate wisdom and scorn gen 
tleness, and who will doubtless perceive in 
these very outcries of genius and of dissolution, 
wailing over from Samoa, a fault of syn 
tax, or an error in taste, or some pathological 
inefficiency, to be picked up and sported on 
the point of an easy pen. The solemn, antique 
writhing of power overcome by fate, the great 
attitude, like that of the Laocoon, the gran 
deur of strength rending its own weakness, 
the long, touching conflict of spirit with flesh, 
the massive determination crowding down physical 
disorder which would have killed a lesser 
creature twenty times over, twenty years be 
fore who is to rate all this in an estimate of 
the man's value to literature ? No one ; abso 
lutely no one who has not fought the lions of 
physical disease in the cage of a life bolted by 
the sharp need of daily bread ; no one who has 
not fought them with the sinew and the nerve 
of a creative genius. 
An invalid or disabled writer does not ask 
for the sops and gruels of the sick-room ; he 
does not expect his metre to be scanned by 
his headaches, or his perspicacity to be taken 
by the physician's thermometer. He is the 
last man toiling and suffering, to appeal to the 
stethoscope against his rhetoric or his construction. 
He asks nothing but fair play, and 
that fair sense which is the basis of fair play. 
In a word, he ought to be judged by the presence 
of a certain quality which suffering only 
gives, as well as by the absence of certain 
other qualities which are the properties of 
health alone. It is precisely this discrimina 
tion which is too often lacking in comfortable 
