gardens, was the scene of roystering and 
coarse amusement. And it is surprising 
that plays of such sustained moral great- 
ness as Shakespeare's should have been 
welcome. 
The more private amusements of the 
great may well be illustrated by an ac- 
count given by Busino of a masque (it 
was Ben Jonson's " Pleasure Reconciled 
to Virtue ") performed at Whitehall on 
Twelfth-night, 1617. During the play, 
twelve cavaliers in masks, the central 
figure of whom was Prince Charles, chose 
partners, and danced every kind of dance, 
until they got tired and began to flag ; 
whereupon King James, " who is nat- 
urally choleric, got impatient, and shout- 
ed aloud, ' Why don't they dance ? 
What did you make me come here for? 
Devil take you all, dance !' On hear- 
ing this, the Marquis of Buckingham, 
G 
 
his majesty's most favored minion, im- 
mediately sprang forward, cutting a 
score of lofty and very minute capers, 
with so much grace and agility that he 
not only appeased the ire of his angry 
sovereign, but moreover rendered him- 
self the admiration and delight of every- 
body. The other masquers, being thus 
encouraged, continued successively ex- 
hibiting their powers with various ladies, 
finishing in like manner with capers, 
and by lifting their goddesses from the 
ground. . . . The prince, however, ex- 
celled them all in bowing, being very 
exact in making his obeisance both to 
the king and his partner ; nor did we ever 
see him make one single step out of time 
— a compliment which can scarcely be 
paid to his companions. Owing to his 
youth, he has not much wind as yet, 
but he nevertheless cut a few capers 
very gracefully." The prince then went 
 
and kissed the hand of his serene parent, 
who embraced and kissed him tenderly. 
When such capers were cut at White- 
hall, we may imagine what the revelry 
was in the Bankside taverns. 
The punishments of the age were not 
more tender than the amusements were 
refined. Busino saw a lad of fifteen led 
to execution for stealing a bag of cur- 
rants. At the end of every month, be- 
sides special executions, as many as 
twenty-five people at a time rode through 
London streets in Tyburn carts, singing 
ribald songs, and carrying sprigs of rose- 
mary in their hands. Everywhere in 
the streets the machines of justice were 
visible — pillories for the neck and hands, 
stocks for the feet, and chains to stretch 
across, in case of need, and stop a mob. 
In the suburbs were oak cages for noc- 
turnal offenders. At the church doors 
might now and then be seen women en- 
 
veloped in sheets, doing penance for their 
evil deeds. A bridle, something like a 
bit for a restive horse, was in use for the 
curbing of scolds ; but this was a later 
invention than the cucking-stool, or 
ducking-stool. There is an old print of 
one of these machines standing on the 
Thames's bank : on a wheeled platform 
is an upright post with a swinging beam 
across the top, on one end of which the 
chair is suspended over the river, while 
the other is worked up and down by a 
rope ; in it is seated a light sister of the 
Bankside, being dipped into the unsav- 
ory flood. But this was not so hated by 
the women as a similar discipline — be- 
ing dragged in the river by a rope after 
a boat. 
Hanging was the common'punishment 
for felony, but traitors and many other 
offenders were drawn, hanged, bowelled, 
and quartered; nobles who were traitors 
IOO 
 
usually escaped with having their heads 
chopped off only. Torture was not prac- 
tised ; for, says Harrison, our people de- 
spise death, yet abhor to be tormented, 
being of frank and open minds. And 
" this is one cause why our condemned 
persons do go so cheerfully to their 
deaths, for our nation is free, stout, 
hearty, and prodigal of life and blood, 
and cannot in any wise digest to be used 
as villains and slaves." Felony covered 
a wide range of petty crimes — breach of 
prison, hunting by night with painted or 
masked faces, stealing above forty shil- 
lings, stealing hawks' eggs, conjuring, 
prophesying upon arms and badges, 
stealing deer by night, cutting purses, 
counterfeiting coin, etc. Death was 
the penalty for all these offences. For 
poisoning her husband a woman was 
burned alive ; a man poisoning an- 
other was boiled to death in water 
IOI 
 
or oil ; heretics were burned alive ; 
some murderers were hanged in chains; 
perjurers were branded on the fore- 
head with the letter P ; rogues were 
burned through the ears ; suicides were 
buried in a field with a stake driven 
through their bodies ; witches were 
burned or hanged ; in Halifax thieves 
were beheaded by a machine almost ex- 
actly like the modern guillotine; scolds 
were ducked ; pirates were hanged on 
the sea-shore at low-water mark, and 
left till three tides overwashed them ; 
those who let the sea-walls decay were 
staked out in the breach of the banks, 
and left there as parcel of the foun- 
dation of the new wall. Of rogues — 
that is, tramps and petty thieves — the 
gallows devoured three to four hun- 
dred annually, in one place or another ; 
and Henry VIII. in his time did hang 
up as many as seventy-two thousand 
 
rogues. Any parish which let a thief 
escape was fined. Still the supply held 
out. 
The legislation against vagabonds, 
tramps, and sturdy beggars, and their 
punishment by whipping, branding, etc., 
are too well known to need comment. 
But considerable provision was made 
for the unfortunate and deserving poor 
— poor-houses were built for them, and 
collections taken up. Only sixty years 
before Harrison wrote there were few 
beggars, but in his day he numbers 
them at ten thousand ; and most of 
them were rogues, who counterfeited 
sores and wounds, and were mere thieves 
and caterpillars on the commonwealth. 
He names twenty-three different sorts 
of vagabonds known by cant names, 
such as " ruffers," " uprightmen," " prig- 
gers," "fraters," " palliards," "Abrams," 
" dummerers"; and of women," demand- 
 
ers for glimmer or fire," " mortes," 
" walking mortes," " doxes," " kinching 
coves." 
London was esteemed by its inhabi- 
tants and by many foreigners as the 
richest and most magnificent city in 
Christendom. The cities of London 
and Westminster lay along the north 
bank in what seemed an endless stretch; 
on the south side of the Thames the 
houses were more scattered. But the 
town was mostly of wood, and its rapid 
growth was a matter of anxiety. Both 
Elizabeth and James again and again 
attempted to restrict it by forbidding 
the erection of any new buildings with- 
in the town, or for a mile outside ; and 
to this attempt was doubtless due the 
crowded rookeries in the city. They 
especially forbade the use of wood in 
house-fronts and windows, both on ac- 
count of the danger from fire, and be- 
 
cause all the timber in the kingdom, 
which was needed for shipping and 
other purposes, was being used up in 
building. They even ordered the pull- 
ing down of new houses in London, 
Westminster, and for three miles around. 
But all efforts to stop the growth of the 
city were vain. 
London, according to the Venetian 
Busino, was extremely dirty. He did 
not admire the wooden architecture ; the 
houses were damp and cold, the stair- 
cases spiral and inconvenient, the apart- 
ments " sorry and ill connected." The 
wretched windows, without shutters, he 
could neither open by day nor close by 
night. The streets were little better 
than gutters, and were never put in 
order except for some great parade. 
Hentzner, however, thought the streets 
handsome and clean. When it rained 
it must have been otherwise. There 
 
was no provision for conducting away 
the water; it poured off the roofs upon 
the people below, who had not as yet 
heard of the Oriental umbrella; and the 
countryman, staring at the sights of the 
town, knocked about by the carts, and 
run over by the horsemen, was often 
surprised by a douche from a conduit 
down his back. And, besides, people 
had a habit of throwing water and slops 
out of the windows, regardless of pass- 
ers-by. 
The shops were small, open in front, 
when the shutters were down, much like 
those in a Cairo bazaar, and all the 
goods were in sight. The shopkeepers 
stood in front and cried their wares, 
and besought customers. Until 1568 
there were but few silk shops in Lon- 
don, and all those were kept by women. 
It was not till about that time that 
citizens' wives ceased to wear white knit 
 
woollen caps, and three-square Minever 
caps with peaks. In the beginning of 
Elizabeth's reign the apprentices (a 
conspicuous class) wore blue cloaks in 
winter and blue gowns in summer; un- 
less men were threescore years old, it 
was not lawful to wear gowns lower 
than the calves of the legs, but the 
length of cloaks was not limited. The 
journeymen and apprentices wore long 
daggers in the daytime at their backs 
or sides. When the apprentices at- 
tended their masters and mistresses in 
the night they carried lanterns and can- 
dles, and a great long club on the neck. 
These apprentices were apt to lounge 
with their clubs about the fronts of 
shops, ready to take a hand in any 
excitement — to run down a witch, or 
raid an objectionable house, or tear 
down a tavern of evil repute, or spoil 
a playhouse. The high - streets, espe- 
 
cially in winter-time, were annoyed by 
hourly frays of sword and buckler men ; 
but these were suddenly suppressed 
when the more deadly fight with rapier 
and dagger came in. The streets were 
entirely unlighted and dangerous at 
night, and for this reason the plays at 
the theatres were given at three in the 
afternoon. 
About Shakespeare's time many new 
inventions and luxuries came in : masks, 
muffs, fans, periwigs, shoe-roses, love- 
handkerchiefs (tokens given by maids 
and gentlewomen to their favorites), 
heath -brooms for hair-brushes, scarfs, 
garters, waistcoats, flat-caps; also hops, 
turkeys, apricots, Venice glass, tobacco. 
In 1524, and for years after, was used 
this rhyme : * 
" Turkeys, Carpes, Hops : Piccarel, and beere, 
Came into England : all in one year." 
10S 
 
There were no coffee-houses as yet, for 
neither tea nor coffee was introduced 
till about 1661. Tobacco was first made 
known in England by Sir John Haw- 
kins in 1565, though not commonly 
used by men and women till some years 
after. It was urged as a great medicine 
for many ills. Harrison says, 1573, "In 
these days the taking in of the smoke 
of the Indian herb called ' Tabaco,' by 
an instrument formed like a little ladle, 
whereby it passeth from the mouth 
into the head and stomach, is greatly 
taken up and used in England, against 
Rewmes and some other diseases en- 
gendered in the lungs and inward parts, 
and not without effect." Its use spread 
rapidly, to the disgust of James I. and 
others, who doubted that it was good 
for cold, aches, humors, and rheums. 
In 1614 it was said that seven thousand 
houses lived by this trade, and that 
 
^"399,375 a year was spent in smoke. 
Tobacco was even taken on the stage. 
Every base groom must have his pipe ; 
it was sold in all inns and ale-houses, 
and the shops of apothecaries, grocers, 
and chandlers were almost never, from 
morning till night, without company 
still taking, of tobacco. 
There was a saying on the Continent 
that " England is a paradise for women, 
a prison for servants, and a hell or pur- 
gatory for horses." The society was 
very simple compared with the complex 
condition of ours, and yet it had more 
striking contrasts, and was a singular 
mixture of downrightness and artifici- 
ality; plainness and rudeness of speech 
went with the utmost artificiality of 
dress and manner. It is curious to 
note the insular, not to say provincial, 
character of the people even three cen- 
turies ago. When the Londoners saw 
no 
 
a foreigner very well made or particu- 
larly handsome, they were accustomed 
to say, " It is a pity he is not an ENGLISH- 
MAN." It is pleasant, I say, to trace 
this " certain condescension " in the 
good old times. Jacob Rathgeb (1592) 
says the English are magnificently 
dressed, and extremely proud and over- 
bearing ; the merchants, who seldom go 
unto other countries, scoff at foreigners, 
who are liable to be ill-used by street 
boys and apprentices, who collect in 
immense crowds and stop the way. Of 
course Cassandra Stubbes, whose mind 
was set upon a better country, has little 
good to say of his countrymen: "As 
concerning the nature, propertie, and 
disposition of the people they be desir- 
ous of new fangles, praising things past, 
contemning things present, and covet- 
ing after things to come. Ambitious, 
proud, light, and unstable, ready to be 
in 
 
carried away with every blast of wind." 
The French paid back with scorn the 
traditional hatred of the English for 
the French. Perlin (1558) finds the 
people proud and seditious, with bad 
consciences and unfaithful to their 
word — " in war unfortunate, in peace 
unfaithful"; and there was a Spanish 
or Italian proverb : " England, good 
land, bad people." But even Perlin 
likes the appearance of the people : 
" The men are handsome, rosy, large, 
and dexterous, usually fair-skinned ; the 
women are esteemed the most beau- 
tiful in the world, white as alabaster, 
and give place neither to Italian, Flem- 
ish, nor German ; they are joyous, cour- 
teous, and hospitable (de bon recueil)." 
He thinks their manners, however, lit- 
tle civilized : for one thing, they have 
an unpleasant habit of eructation at the 
table (car iceux routent a la table sans 
 
honie & ignominie)', which recalls Chau- 
cer's description of the Trumpington f 
miller's wife and daughter : — 
" Men might her rowtyng hearen a forlong, 
The wenche routeth eek par companye." 
Another inference as to the table man- 
ners of the period is found in Coryat's 
" Crudities " (161 1). He saw in Italy gen- 
erally a curious custom of using a little 
fork for meat, and whoever should take 
the meat out of the dish with his fingers 
would give offence. And he accounts for 
this peculiarity quite naturally : " The 
reason of this their curiosity is, because 
the Italian cannot by any means indure 
to have his dish touched with fingers, 
seeing all mens fingers are not alike 
cleane." Coryat found the use of the 
fork nowhere else iri Christendom, and 
when he returned, and, oftentimes in 
h 
 
England, imitated the Italian fashion, 
his exploit was regarded in a humorous 
light. Busino says that fruits were sel- 
dom served at dessert, but that the 
whole population were munching them 
in the streets all day long, and in the 
places of amusement; and it was an 
amusement to go out into the orchards 
and eat fruit on the spot, in a sort of 
competition of gormandize between the 
city belles and their admirers. And he 
avers that one young woman devoured 
twenty pounds of cherries, beating her 
opponent by two pounds and a half. 
All foreigners were struck with the 
English love of music and drink, of ban- 
queting and good cheer. Perlin notes 
a pleasant custom at table: during the 
feast you hear more than a hundred 
times, " Drink ion" (he loves to air his 
English), that is to say, " Je m'en vois 
boyre a toy." You respond, in their 
 
language, " Iplaigin " ; that is to say, 
" Je vous plege." If you thank them, 
they say in their language, "God tanque 
artelay" ; that is, " Je vous remercie de 
bon coeur." And then, says the artless 
Frenchman, still improving on his Eng- 
lish, you should respond thus : "Bigod, 
sol drink ion agoud oin." At the great 
and princely banquets, when the pledge 
went round and the heart's desire of 
lasting health, says the chronicler, " the 
same was straight wayes knowne, by 
sound of Drumme and Trumpet, and 
the cannon's loudest voyce." It was 
so in Hamlet's day: — 
"And as he drains his draughts of Rhenish 
down, 
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out 
The triumph of his pledge." 
According to Hentzner (1598), the 
English are serious, like the Germans, 
 
and love show and to be followed by 
troops of servants wearing the arms of 
their masters ; they excel in music and 
dancing, for they are lively and active, 
though thicker of make than the French; 
they cut their hair close in the middle 
of the head, letting it grow on either 
side ; " they are good sailors, and bet- 
ter pyrates, cunning, treacherous, and 
thievish"; and, he adds, with a touch 
of satisfaction, " above three hundred 
are said to be hanged annually in Lon- 
don." They put a good deal of sugar 
in their drink; they are vastly fond of 
great noises, firing of cannon, beating of 
drums, and ringing of bells, and when 
they have a glass in their heads they go 
up into some belfry, and ring the bells 
for hours together, for the sake of exer- 
cise. Perlin's comment is that men are 
hung for a trifle in England, and that 
r ou will not find many lords whose par- 
 
ents have not had their heads chopped 
off. 
It is a pleasure to turn to the simple 
and hearty admiration excited in the 
breasts of all susceptible foreigners by 
the English women of the time. Van 
Meteren, as we said, calls the women 
beautiful, fair, well dressed, and modest. 
To be sure, the wives are, their lives 
only excepted, entirely in the power of 
their husbands, yet they have great lib- 
erty; go where they please; are shown 
the greatest honor at banquets, where 
they sit at the upper end of the table 
and are first served ; are fond of dress 
and gossip and of taking it easy ; and 
like to sit before their doors, decked out 
in fine clothes, in order to see and be 
seen by the passers-by. Rathgeb also 
agrees that the women have much more 
liberty than in any other place. When 
old Busino went to the Masque at 
 
Whitehall, his colleagues kept exclaim- 
ing, " Oh, do look at this one — oh, do 
see that ! Whose wife is this ? — and that 
pretty one near her, whose daughter is 
she?" There was some chaff mixed in, 
he allows, some shrivelled skins and 
devotees of S. Carlo Borromeo, but the 
beauties greatly predominated. 
In the great street pageants, it was 
the beauty and winsomeness of the Lon- 
don ladies, looking on, that nearly drove 
the foreigners wild. In 1606, upon the 
entry of the king of Denmark, the chron- 
icler celebrates " the unimaginable num- 
ber of gallant ladies, beauteous virgins, 
and other delicate dames, filling the win- 
dows of every house with kind aspect." 
And in 1638, when Cheapside was all 
alive with the pageant of the entry of 
the queen mother, " this miserable old 
queen," as Lilly calls Marie de Medicis 
(Mr.. Furnivall reproduces an old cut of 
 
the scene), M. de la Serre does not try 
to restrain his admiration for the pretty- 
women on view: only the most fecund 
imagination can represent the content 
one has in admiring the infinite number 
of beautiful women, each different from 
the other, and each distinguished by 
some sweetness or grace to ravish the 
heart and take captive one's liberty. No 
sooner has he determined to yield to 
one than a new object of admiration 
makes him repent the precipitation of 
his judgment. 
And all the other foreigners were in 
the like case of " goneness." Kiechel, 
writing in 1585, says, "Item, the women 
there are charming, and by nature so 
mighty pretty as I have scarcely ever 
beheld, for they do not falsify, paint, or 
bedaub themselves as in Italy or other 
places" ; yet he confesses (and here is 
another tradition preserved) " they are 
 
somewhat awkward in their style of 
dress." His second " item" of gratitude is 
a Netherland custom that pleased him — 
whenever a foreigner or an inhabitant 
went to a citizen's house on business, 
or as a guest, he was received by the 
master, the lady, or the daughter, and 
"welcomed " (as it is termed in their 
language) ; "he has a right to take them 
by the arm and to kiss them, which is 
the custom of the country ; and if any 
one does not do so, it is regarded and 
imputed as ignorance and ill -breeding 
on his part." Even the grave Erasmus, 
when he visited England, fell easily into 
this pretty practice, and wrote with un- 
theological fervor of the " girls with 
angel faces," who were " so kind and 
obliging." "Wherever you come," he 
says, " you are received with a kiss by 
all ; when you take your leave you are 
dismissed with kisses ; you return, kisses 
 
are repeated. They come to visit you, 
kisses again ; they leave you, you kiss 
them all round. Should they meet you 
anywhere, kisses in abundance : in fine, 
wherever you move there is nothing but 
kisses" — a custom, says this reformer, 
who has not the fear of Stubbes before 
his eyes, " never to be sufficiently com- 
mended." 
We shall find no more convenient op- 
portunity to end this part of the social 
study of the age of Shakespeare than 
with this naive picture of the sex which 
most adorned it. Some of the details 
appear trivial ; but grave history which 
concerns itself only with the actions of 
conspicuous persons, with the manoeu- 
vres of armies, the schemes of politics, 
the battles of theologies, fails signally 
to give us the real life of the people by 
which we judge the character of an age. 
 
CHAPTER III 
WHEN we turn from France to Eng- 
land in the latter part of the sixteenth 
and the beginning of the seventeenth 
century, we are in another atmosphere ; 
we encounter a literature that smacks 
of the soil, that is as varied, as racy, 
often as rude, as human life itself, and 
which cannot be adequately appreciated 
except by a study of the popular mind 
and the history of the time which pro- 
duced it. 
" Voltaire," says M. Guizot, " was the 
first person in France who spoke of 
Shakespeare's genius ; and although he 
spoke of him merely as a barbarian gen- 
ius, the French public were of the opin- 
ion that he had said too much in his 
 
favor. Indeed, they thought it nothing 
less than profanation to apply the words 
genius and glory to dramas which they 
considered as crude as they were coarse." 
Guizot was one of the first of his na- 
