quick, spicy, sentimental by spells, not the kind 
of a girl to waste herself on a young, impecunious 
fellow like our friend Jim, here, so he goes scot- 
free. Weir, I hope you 're not hard hit. We 've 
all had a good time ; but I think now we must 
address ourselves to the examinations in hand, 
and let the girls go. Though I am in for two 
big weddings, presently." 

There was a summons to the class-room that 
stopped the chaffing. Jim felt very sober. Lily 
had indirectly led him to think she cared a great 
deal about him, and if matters only were a little 
different ! He ought not to get engaged ; but the 
preference was flattering when a man like Weir 
was head over heels in love with her ! 

But to marry an old man like Gerald William- 
son ! thought the young fellow, disdainfully. 



 



CHAPTER XVI 

COUNTING UP THE COST 

JlM failed miserably. What was the matter? 
He couldn't seem to remember the simplest 
thing. Did it make any difference to him whom 
she married ? Well - - if it had been Weir ; but that 
imperious, pretentious, half-dissipated Williamson, 
who report said had run though with one fortune, 
and two years ago had fallen heir to another ! Why 
were some people so lucky ! Grandmother Van 
Kortlandt had some money ; but Hanny was named 
for her, and Joe was a great favourite. Then Jim 
flushed hotly. The idea of counting on any one's 
money ! 

Still he had a boyish, chivalric idea that he would 
like to snatch Lily from this awful peril, as it seemed 
to him. Could it be really true? The older men 
said Williamson was a braggart. There might be 
no truth in it. He would ask Lily. 

Several days passed before Jim achieved his 
desire. Then, as he loitered around one afternoon, 
he saw Williamson leave the house. After a few 
moments he knocked. 

" Miss Lily is indisposed, and cannot see any 
one," announced the maid. 



"She will see me," returned Jim, with an air of 
dignity; and he walked into the parlour that had 
an atmosphere of twilight, quite determined to 
remain until she came down. 

She seemed in no hurry, and Jim's temper began 
to loose its serenity. The maid came and lighted 
the gas jet in the hall. Then there was a rustle 
of silken garments on the stair. 

" Oh, Jim dear," the entreating voice said, 
" I 've had such a horrid headache all the after- 
noon. I 've been in the bed. I really did not 
feel fit to see any one," with a languid, indifferent 
air. 

And Williamson had just gone away ! 

" So you will excuse me, if I 'm stupid - 

"Is the story true about your- -your engage- 
ment? ' asked the young fellow, abruptly. 

" My engagement? Well, I've had an offer of 
marriage, - - two of them. Wouldn't you advise 
me to take the best one?' rather archly. 

The tone rang flippantly. Jim felt she was 
evading. 

" You see I can't be young always. And Aunt 
Nicoll may go without a moment's warning. She 
had a bad spell yesterday ; and she does get in such 
horrid tantrums ! Mother is awfully tired of stay- 
ing with her. And most girls get married - - those 
who have a chance." She ended with a forced 
little laugh. 

"Is it Williamson? You don't know the sort 
of man he is," and Jim's voice was husky with 
emotion. 

 

" Oh, everybody gets talked about sooner or 
later ! He has been rather wild ; but he wants to 
settle down now. And I 'm not a sentimental girl. 
Yes, I do think I 'll take him," hesitatingly. 

"Lily!" 

" Oh, Jim, you are very young and inexperienced ! 
If you were ten years older, there wouldn't be a 
man on the whole earth I 'd marry as soon. But 
you know I said we could only be friends ; and 
I hope you haven't been cherishing any silly 
romances about me," tossing her head coquettishly. 
" I shall always like you, and I want us to keep 
friends. But you can't understand all the reasons. 
Some girls might drag you into an engagement, 
and waste all your young years ; but I could not 
be so mean to any friend I cared about. We have 
settled all this matter." 

Her tone took on a rather sharp business accent. 
It was almost curt. 

Yes, it had been settled. Yet she had de- 
manded a lover-like devotion, and allowed him to 
speculate on what might have been if she were 
rich or he older. And though Jim's sturdy com- 
mon-sense had kept him from going very deep, 
he felt wretched and jealous that any other man 
should have the supreme right ; and yet he had a 
conviction that the friendship or flirtation ought 
to end. 

"He thinks you are Mrs. Nicoll's heiress." 

She gave a light laugh. "Oh, that will do to 
talk about ; and she may leave me a little. If I 
was her heiress ' 



The glance roused Jim's anger. He rose 
suddenly. 

" I hope you love Williamson," he said, in 
a tone that he meant to sound bitterly cutting. 
"A girl who sells herself for money to such a 
man - 

" Nonsense, Jim!' She rose also. " You 'll
find most of the world will consider it a good 
marriage ; and anyhow, I have to look out for 
myself. It 's too bad to break up the pleasant 
times we 've had this winter; but you must not be 
angry. You will understand it better presently. 
I wouldn't let you go off in this way if I 
hadn't such a wretched headache; but you will 



come in again." 



Jim said good-evening with superb dignity. 
What a stylish fellow he was. Of course he felt 
a little "huffy" now; but next winter, when she 
had a home of her own, she would give attractive 
parties, and invite Jim among the very first. By 
that time he would be over his boyish folly. 
And now, what must she wear to the theatre 
to-night ? She must look her prettiest. Her 
wretched headache was gone. 

James Underbill felt as he had sometimes in 
the old school days, that he had been duped. 
He was angry with her, with himself. He had 
brought his friends to the house; and he knew 
Weir was really in love with her, yet she had 
laughed daintily about some of his peculiarities. 
What if she had laughed with Gaynor about him ? 
She did satirise people. It was strange how many 

 

faults he saw in her! Yet he did hate to have 
her marry Williamson. 

He heard of her being at the theatre that even- 
ing with an array of diamonds, which young girls 
seldom wore. In a week or so the marriage was 
discussed with a little wonder. Mrs. Nicoll was 
one of the old New Yorkers, a Ludlovv herself. 
It was fortunate for Lily's prestige that her plain, 
unambitious father was dead, and her mother kept 
well in the background. No one quite knew about 
the fortune. 

Richard Weir was certainly hard hit. He made 
a pretence of devoting himself to his studies to 
keep away from Gaynor's raillery. But one day 
he said to Jim, - 

"Something ought to be done to save Miss 
Ludlow from such an awful sacrifice; don't you 
think so, Underbill? That old aunt has egged 
her on, and she 's doing this for her mother's 
sake. If I was in a position to marry, I know I 
could persuade her to throw it up. What shall I 
do, Jim? I know she really loves me. She is 
heroic about it. She thinks it would spoil my 
life in the very beginning. I don't know how 
father would take it; and there 's such a family 
of us to provide for." 

"Let her alone," returned Jim, gruffly. So she 
had played with this honest-hearted young fellow 
as well ; and the saddest of all was that he really 
believed in her. 

" She will marry Williamson, no matter what 
comes. Weir, I 'm sorry enough I introduced 



you, if you are going to take it that way. Lily 
Ludlow is a flirt, pure and simple. I 've never 
believed it until now. There is no use in our 
wasting our sympathies upon her. " 

''You don't half do her justice, Jim; if you 
could hear her side - 

"I have heard it," laconically. 'Weir, I'm 
awful sorry," and he wrung the young fellow's 
hand. 

There was another aspect to Jim beside the 
mortification. He had dropped behind in his 
standing. Late hours and planning all sorts of 
amusements had distracted his attention. And 
there was another fact to face. He had been 
spending money with a lavishness that he won- 
dered at now. He had borrowed of Weir, of 
Gaynor, of Ben. When he counted up the total 
he was dismayed. His father had been gener- 
ous. They had all been very proud of him. How 
could he confess the miserable fiasco to any one? 
Perhaps, after he had taken his degree 

But he had to study hard for that. No more 
frolicking about ! He had a good deal of resolu- 
tion, when it was put to the test. He would ask 
sober-sroinsr Ben to lend him a hundred dollars, 

o o 

which he would pay back by degrees. No girl 
should ever win a smile out of him again. He 
would never borrow when he was once out of this 
difficulty. 

He knew Dick Weir really needed his money, and 
this emboldened him to apply to Ben. Alas ! 

" I 'd do it in a minute Jim ; but I 've been trying 





a sort of experiment. I had a chance to buy some 
capital stock, five hundred dollars' worth, and I just 
scraped up everything I had, and borrowed, so I 'm 
behind, and must catch up. You 've been pretty 
gay, haven't you, Jim? ' 

" I have been an idiot," replied Jim, sturdily. 
" But I have learned a lesson." 

" You just go to Joe. He 's the best fellow in 
all the world. Don't worry father about it ; he 
takes such pride in his young collegian," and Ben 
smiled with generous kindliness upon his younger 
brother. 

That was the best thing certainly ; yet it was 
days before Jim could summon sufficient courage. 
And then he found, as he blundered a little over 
the matter, that Joe thought it worse than it really 
was. 

"Have you been gambling?' the elder asked 
gravely. 

" No, not that, Joe. It 's all been a silly sort of 
extravagance. I am mad at myself when I think 
of it." He wouldn't say he had been tempted by 
a girl into much unwise expenditure. How could 
he have been so weak ! 

" It will be all right," returned Joe. " I am glad 
it is not gambling debts; though a hundred dollars 
wouldn't cover much. I hope you are coming 
through in good shape." 

" You may be sure of that. Oh, Joe, how kind 
you are ! ' 

" What is brotherhood for, if not that? " said Joe, 
gravely. 



He would not put himself in the way of meeting 
Miss Ludlow, though she did send him two rather 
plaintive notes. Early in June, the marriage took 
place; and the bride's trousseau was quite magni- 
ficent, if it was not made in Paris. Mrs. Nicoll 
was delighted with what she termed her grand- 
niece's good sense, and gave her a handsome set 
of rubies, beside having her diamonds reset for 
her. And when she died, some two months later, 
it was found she had made a new will on Lily's 
wedding day, in which she bequeathed the bride 
all her personal effects and some valuable bank- 
stock, if the amount was not very large. The 
next winter, Mrs. Williamson took her place in 
society, and was quite a married belle, managing 
her husband as adroitly as she had managed her 
lovers. 

Jim studied day and almost night to make up 
for the dissipation of the winter, and passed with 
honour, though Joe had hoped he would have one 
of the orations. He went immediately into the law 
office of a friend of Stephen's as clerk and copy- 
ist while he was waiting for the new term of the 
law school. 

Charles Reed did distinguish himself, and was 
one of the heroes of the occasion. He was a fine, 
manly fellow now, and Mrs. Dean loved him like 
a son. Indeed, it seemed as if he might be her 
son, the young people were so much to each 
other. Josie would graduate the next year at the 
high school. 

Ben and Delia had gone along through the winter 



with very little change, except to learn how much 
they loved each other. The young men did not 
have quite such rollicking good times, though Nora 
was developing into a very attractive young girl 
and enchanted them with her singing. Delia was 
very busy trying her best to come up to some high 
standards of literary work. Everybody was not a 
genius in those days. Colleges had not begun to 
turn them out by the score, and the elder people 
were very often helpful to the younger ones. 

There was, it is true, a certain kind of Bohemian- 
ism among the men that proved dangerous to 
more than one fine, promising mind. Ben liked 
the bright wit and keen encounters, and the talk 
that ran through centuries of intellectual activity 
as if it was only yesterday. He was taking a 
curious interest in politics as well, for some great 
questions were coming to the fore. 

Mrs. Underbill had preserved a cautious silence 
respecting Delia, indeed, ignored the whole matter. 
Dolly was cordial when they met. Jim had been 
so taken up with his engrossing experience that 
he rarely went to Beach Street ; and the two sets 
of society were widely apart. Delia had supposed 
everything would come around straight ; it generally 
did in her happy-go-lucky fashion. 

But on Commencement day, when she was all 
smiles and gladness, Mrs. Underbill's coolness and 
Mrs. Hoffman's stately distance quite amazed her. 

" Ben," she said, " something has happened with 
your people. Your mother hardly spoke to me, and 
Margaret was icy. And now that I come to think 


of it, Hannv hasn't been near us since Nora's birth- 


day February that was. Are they offended be- 
cause- -don't they like our engagement? And I 
love them all so, from least to greatest; only 
Margaret is rather high up." 

" Hanny 's had such lots of lessons, and her 
music, and she 's corresponding with Daisy Jasper 
in French. Grandmother takes her time, too. 
You don't have so much leisure out of child- 
hood." 

" What jolly times we had back there in First 
Street ! Oh, Ben, I did like you all so much ! 
And I can't bear to have the good feeling die 
out." 

There were tears in Delia's brown eyes. Ben 
was moved immeasurably. 

" May be I ought to have said something to 
mother; Joe counselled me to wait." 

" Then it has been talked about! ' Delia stood 
up very straight, and looked like a spirited picture. 
" What is their objection to me? Your family are 
all prospering. Stephen is really a man of mark; 
Of course Dr. Hoffman was rich to begin with. 
And John's wife had quite a fortune when her 
parents died. Joe is up among the important 
people; and Jim will make a smart lawyer, every 
one says. You arc a splendid lot ! " and her honest 
admiration touched him. 

" I don't know. I 've never felt very splendid." 

" You are solid, and strong, and sensible. Vv'hat 
a pity that alliteration won't do in a poem ! " and 
she laughed in her joyous manner. " I don't care 

 

if you never are rich, so long as we have good 
times. And as you can't write a bit of verse, you 
dear, lovely old Ben, nor a story, I do not believe 
our tastes will clash. Why shouldn't we agree 
just as well when we are married as we do now? 
Even that tremendous, gloomy, erratic Edgar Allan 
Poe adored not only his wife, but his mother-in- 
law. To be sure, there was Milton and Byron, 
and Mrs. Hemans and Bulwer, and a host of them ; 
but Mr. and Mrs. Browning are going on serenely. 
And 'The Scarlet Letter' hasn't made trouble in 
Hawthorne's family yet. I think it is temper, 
rather than genius. And I have a good temper, 
Ben," looking up out of honest, convincing eyes. 

" You just have," returned Ben, with emphasis, 
kissing her fondly. 

" Ben, I love you too well to make you unhappy." 
" You will never make me unhappy." 
" May be I 'm not careful enough in little 
things." 

" I don't fret about the little things," said Ben. 
" We both like easy-chairs, and evenings at home, 
and reading about famous people, or queer people, 
and wonderful places. We both like a fire, and a 
cat; I adore a nice cat, it is such a comfortable 
thing. And we like to go out where people are 
bright and vivacious, and know something. We're 
fond of music, and pictures, and like a good play. 
Oh, there are things enough to agree upon all our 
lives ; so what would be the use of hunting round 
to find a few things to dispute about." 

" Why, there wouldn't be. But I want your 



mother to like me, and to feel sure I shall do my 
best to make you happy. Of course, we may not 
get rich." 

"Bother riches! But I'm not going to give 
you up for anybody in Christendom." 

" You are very sweet, Ben." There was a sound 
of tears in Delia's voice. 

" I 'll see what it is," subjoined Ben. " Oh, it 
will all come straight, I know." 

" I shall not marry you for the next seven years, 
no, not for twenty, until everybody is willing," 
said Delia, decisively. 

Why couldn't people be kindly affectioned one 
toward another, as the Apostle enjoined, when 
there was nothing very objectionable in the other ? 
It puzzled Ben. He was passionately fond of his 
mother, too ; but the issue had to be met. And 
the very next evening when Mrs. Underbill was 
out watering her garden, that had in it all manner 
of sweet herbs and the old-time flowers dear to her 
heart, Ben came wandering down the clean-cut 
path. 

" Mother," when they had both stood silently 
several minutes,- - " mother, I want to tell you 
Delia Whitney and I are engaged." 

" I supposed as much," said his mother, tartly. 
Then she turned to come up the path. 

4< Mother, you have welcomed Dolly and 
Cleanthe ; and we have all been like brothers 
and sisters. Haven't you a tender word for 
Delia? You used to like her." 

" Delia Whitney was well enough for a neigh- 

hour. You have run and run there, Ben, and really 
never taken the trouble to look about. You are 
young, and hardly know what is best for you. You 
could have looked higher. But you Ye gotten in 
with those newspaper people ; and they do drink, 
and are not very choice in their company." 

" And lawyers drink ; yet we are going to make 
a lawyer out of Jim. And we have known country 
farmers addicted to the habit. Newspaper-men 
are quite up to the average. But that has nothing 
to do with Delia." 

" No, women don't so often take to drinking. But 
she is in it all ; and I don't like such public business 
for a woman. A wife's place is at home ; and 
Mrs. Whitney is a very poor housekeeper. Ben, 
a great deal of a man's happiness depends on the 
way his house is kept." 

" But their house is always bright and pleasant. 
And think how Delia used to work in First Street. 
She can keep house good enough for me." 

" You have always had things so neat and orderly, 
Ben, that you don't know how trying that sort of 
helter-skelter housekeeping can be. A woman 
can't run hither and yon, and write stories and 
what not; and now they are beginning to lecture 
and talk, and make themselves as mannish as pos- 
sible ! Xo, I don't like it. And I pity the man 
who has to live in that sort cf neglected home. 
And then, Ben, come disputes and separations." 

He had heard the narrow reasoning before. 
Mrs. Reed came into his mind. With her passion 
for cleanliness and order, she certainly knew noth- 





ing about a happy, comfortable home. His mother 
still scouted a sewing-machine. Delia had hired 
one with a good operator, and declared that in a 
week they had done up all the summer sewing. 
He knew his mother would say it was only half- 
done. To be sure, Delia's mother was a great 
novel-reader and had neglected her household 
many a time for an interesting book. But she 
wrote neither stories nor verses. 

"Of course, you will do as 3-011 like. And you 
think you are the only one that will suffer. But a 
mother has many sorrowful hours over a son's 
unhappiness and discomfort." 

Then she passed him, and went into the house. 
And, after the fashion of unreasoning women, she 
hurried up to her own room and cried a few bitter 
tears. Ben had been such a good, upright, pleasant 
son. He oueht to have the best wife in the world. 

o 

for he was easy-going and would put up with almost 
anything. She was disappointed. 

She would have scouted the idea of being aris- 
tocratic or mercenary; yet she did want him to 
look higher. There had been such an attractive 
Hoffman cousin spending a month with Margaret, 
who thought Ben delightful. There were two or 
three girls in the neighbourhood. In fact, a young 
man micrht as well marrv some one of distinction 

* 

and character; Dolly and Cleanthe were none the 
worse for their money. 

" I don't know what I can do," Ben said to Dolly, 
