they do go on ! And finally when ushers come and plead, and 
beg, and gently and reverently crowd them down into their 
seats, they say, " Oh, I'm not tired — I could bang along a 
week ! " and they sit there looking simple and childlike, and 
gentle, and proud of their oratory, and wholly unconscious of 
what is going on at the other end of the room. And so one 
of the great dignitaries gets a chance, and begins his carefully- 
prepared speech, impressively and with solemnity — • 
"When we, now great and prosperous and powerful, bow our heads in 
reverent wonder in the contemplation of those sublimities of energy, of wis- 
dom, of forethought, of — " 
Up come the immortal six again, in a body, with a joyous 
" Hey, I've thought of another one ! " and at it they go, with 
might and main, hearing not a whisper of the pandemonium 
that salutes them, but taking all the visible violences for 
applause, as before, and hammering joyously away till the im- 
ploring ushers pray them into their seats again. And a pity, 
too ; for those lovely old boys did so enjoy living their heroic 
youth over, in these days of their honored antiquity ; and cer- 
tainly the things they had to tell were usually worth the tell- 
ing and the hearing. 
It was a stirring spectacle ; stirring in more ways than one, 
for it was amazingly funny, and at the same time deeply 
pathetic ; for they had seen so much, these time-worn veterans, 
and had suffered so much ; and had built so strongly and well, 
and laid the foundations of their commonwealth so deep, in 
liberty and tolerance ; and had lived to see the structure rise 
to such state and dignity and hear themselves so praised for 
their honorable work. 
One of these old gentlemen told me some things of interest 
afterward ; things about the aboriginals, mainly. He thought 
them intelligent — remarkably so in some directions — and he 
said that along with their unpleasant qualities they had some 
exceedingly good ones ; and he considered it a greai pity that 
the race had died out. He instanced their invention of the 
boomerang and the " weet-weet" as evidences of their bright- 
ness ; and as another evidence of it he said he had never seen 
a white man who had cleverness enough to learn to do the 
miracles with those two toys that the aboriginals achieved. 
He said that even the smartest whites had been obliged to con- 
fess that they could not learn the trick of the boomerang in 
perfection ; that it had possibilities which they could not 
master. The white man could not control its motions, could 
not make it obey him ; but the aboriginal could. He told me 
some wonderful things — some almost incredible things — 
which he had seen the blacks do with the boomerang and the 
weet-weet. They have been confirmed to me since by other 
early settlers and by trustworthy books. 
It is contended — and may be said to be conceded — that 
the boomerang was known to certain savage tribes in Europe 
in Eoman times. In support of this, Virgil and two other 
Roman poets are quoted. It is also contended that it was 
known to the ancient Egyptians. 
One of two things either some one with is then apparent: 
a boomerang arrived in Australia in the 
days of antiquity before European knowledge of the thing had 
been lost, or the Australian aboriginal reinvented it. It will 
take some time to find out which of these two propositions is 
the fact. But there is no hurry. 
CHAPTER XX. 
It is by the gooduess of God that in our country we have those three un- 
speakably precious things : freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, and the pru- 
dence never to practice either of them. — Pudd'nhead Wilsons New Calendar. 
rROM diary : 
Mr. G. called. I had not seen him since Nauheim, 
Germany — several years ago ; the time that the cholera 
broke out at Hamburg. We talked of the people we had 
known there, or had casually met ; and G. said : 
" Do you remember my introducing you to an earl — the 
Earl of C. ? " 
"Yes. That was the last time I saw you. You and he 
were in a carriage, just starting — belated — for the train. I 
remember it." 
"I remember it too, because of a thing which happened 
then which I was not looking for. He had told me a while be- 
fore, about a remarkable and interesting Californian whom he 
had met and who was a friend of yours, and said that if he 
should ever meet you he would ask you for some particulars 
about that Californian. The subject was not mentioned that 
day at Nauheim, for we were hurrying away, and there was 
no time ; but the thing that surprised me was this : when I in- 
troduced you, you said, ' I am glad to meet your lordship — 
again.' The ' again ' was the surprise. He is a little hard of 
hearing, and didn't catch that word, and I thought you hadn't 
intended that he should. As we drove off I had only time to 
say, ' Why, what do you know about him ? ' and I understood 
you to say, ' Oh, nothing, except that he is the quickest judge 
of — ' Then we were gone, and I didn't get the rest. I won 
dered what it was that he was such a quick judge of. I have 
thought of it many times since, and still wondered what it 
could be. He and I talked it over, but could not guess it out. 
He thought it must be fox-hounds or horses, for he is a 
good judge of those — no one is a better. But you couldn't 
know that, because you didn't know Mm', you had mistaken him 
for some one else ; it must be that, he said, because he knew 
you had never met him before. And of course you hadn't — 
had you ." 
" Yes, I had."  
"Is that so? Where?" 
" At a fox-hunt, in England." 
" How curious that is. Why, he hadn't the least recollec- 
tion of it. Had you any conversation with him ? " 
" Some — yes." 
"Well, it left not the least impression upon him. What 
did you talk about ? " 
" About the fox. I think that was all." 
" Why, that would interest him ; that ought to have left an 
impression. What did he talk about ?" 
" The fox." 
"It's very curious. I don't understand it. Did what he 
said leave an impression upon you ? " 
" Yes. It showed me that he was a quick judge of — how- 
ever, I will tell you all about it, then you will understand. It 
was a quarter of a century ago — 1873 or '74. I had an Amer- 
ican friend in London named F., who was fond of hunting, and 
his friends the Blanks invited him and me to come out to a 
hunt and be their guests at their country place. In the morn- 
ing the mounts were provided, but when I saw the horses I 
changed my mind and asked permission to walk. I had never 
seen an English hunter before, and it seemed to me that I 
could hunt a fox safer on the ground. I had always been diffi- 
dent about horses, anyway, even those of the common alti- 
tudes, and I did not feel competent to hunt on a horse that 
went on stilts. So then Mrs. Blank came to my help and said 
I could go with her in the dog- cart and we would drive to a 
place she knew of, and there we should have a good glimpse of 
the hunt as it went by. 
" When we got to that place I got out and went and leaned 
my elbows on a low stone wall which enclosed a turfy and 
beautiful great field with heavy wood on all its sides except 
ours. Mrs. Blank sat in the dog-cart fifty yards away, which 
was as near as she could get with the vehicle. I was full of 
interest, for I had never seen a fox-hunt. I waited, dreaming 
and imagining, in the deep stillness and impressive tranquility 
which reigned in that retired spot. Presently, from away off 
in the forest on the left, a mellow bugle-note came floating; 
then all of a sudden a multitude of dogs burst out of that forest 
and went tearing by and disappeared in the forest on the right; 
there was a pause, and then a cloud of horsemen in black caps 
and crimson coats plunged out of the left-hand forest and went 
flaming across the field like a prairie-fire, a stirring sight to 
see. There was one man ahead of the rest, and he came spur- 
ring straight at me. lie was fiercely excited. It was fine to 
see him ride ; he was a master horseman. He came like a 
storm till he was within seven feet of me, where I was leaning 
on the wall, then he stood his horse straight up in the air on 
his hind toe-nails, and shouted like a demon : 
" ' Which way'd the fox go ? ' 
" I didn't much like the tone, but I did not let on ; for he 
was excited, you know. But I was calm ; so I said softly, and 
without acrimony : 
'' Which toxV '
" It seemed to anger him. I don't know why ; and he 
thundered out : 
" ' Which fox ? Why, the fox ? Which way did the fox go ? * 
" I said, with great gentleness — even argumentatively : 
" ' If you could be a little more definite — a little less vague 
— because I am a stranger, and there are many foxes, as you 
will know even better than I, and unless I know which one it 
is that you desire to identify, and — ' 
" 'You're certainly the damdest idiot that has escaped in a 
thousand years ! ' and he snatched his great horse around as 
easily as I would snatch a cat, and was away like a hurricane. 
A very excitable man. 
" I went back to Mrs. Blank, and she was excited, too — oh, 
all alive. She said : 
" ' He spoke to you ! — didn't he ? ' 
" ' Yes, it is what happened.' 
" ' I knew it ! I couldn't hear what he said, but I knew he 
spoke to you ! Do you know who it was ? It was Lord C, — 
and he is Master of the Buckhounds ! Tell me — what do you 
think of him?' 
" ' Him ? Well, for sizing-up a stranger, he's got the most 
sudden and accurate judgment of any man I ever saw.' 
" It pleased her. I thought it would." 
G. got away from Kauheim just in time to escape being 
shut in by the quarantine-bars on the frontiers ; and so did we, 
for we left the next day. But G. had a great deal of trouble 
in getting by the Italian custom-house, and we should have 
fared likewise but for the thoughtf ulness of our consul-general 
in Frankfort. He introduced me to the Italian consul-general, 
and I brought away from that consulate a letter which made 
our way smooth. It was a dozen lines merely commending me 
in a general way to the courtesies of servants in his Italian 
Majesty's service, but it was more powerful than it looked. In 
addition to a raft of ordinary baggage, we had six or eight 
trunks which were filled exclusively with dutiable stuff — house- 
hold goods purchased in Frankfort for use in Florence, where 
we had taken a liouse. I was going to ship these through by 
express ; but at the last moment an order went throughout Ger- 
many forbidding the moving of any parcels by train unless the 
owner went with them. This was a bad outlook. We must 
take these things along, and the delay sure to be caused by the 
examination of them in the custom-house might lose us our 
train. I imagined all sorts of terrors, and enlarged them 
steadily as we approached the Italian frontier. We were six 
in number, clogged with all that baggage, and I was courier 
for the party — the most incapable one they ever employed. 
We arrived, and pressed with the crowd into the immense 
custom-house, and the usual worries began ; everybody crowd- 
ing to the counter and begging to have his baggage examined 
first, and all hands clattering and chattering at once. It seemed
to me that I could do nothing ; it would be better to give it all 
up and go away and leave the baggage. I couldn't speak the 
liinguage ; I should never accomplish anything. Just then a 
tall handsome man in a fine uniform was passing by and I 
knew he must be the station-master — and that reminded me of 
my letter. I ran to him and put it into his hands. He took it 
out of the envelope, and the moment his eye caught the royal 
coat of arms printed at its top, he took off his cap and made a 
beautiful bow to me, and said in English — 
" Which is your baggage ? Please show it to me." 
I showed him the mountain. Nobody was disturbing it ; 
nobody was interested in it ; all the family's attempts to get 
attention to it had failed — except in the case of one of the trunks 
containing the dutiable goods. It was just being opened. My 
officer said — 
" There, let that alone ! Lock it. Now chalk it. Chalk 
all of the lot. Now please come and show me the hand-baggage." 
He plowed through the waiting crowd, I following, to the 
counter, and he gave orders again, in his emphatic military 
way — 
" Chalk these. Chalk all of them." 
Then he took off his cap and made that beautiful bow again, 
and went his way. By this time these attentions had attracted 
the wonder of that acre of passengers, and the whisper had 
gone around that the royal family were present getting their 
baggage chalked ; and as we passed down in review on our way 
to the door, I was conscious of a pervading atmosphere of envy 
which gave me deep satisfaction. 
But soon there was an accident. My overcoat pockets were 
stuffed with German cigars and linen packages of American 
smoking tobacco, and a porter was following us around with 
this overcoat on his arm, and gradually getting it upside down. 
Just as I, in the rear of my family, moved by the sentinels at 
the door, about three hatf uls of the tobacco tumbled out on the 
floor. One of the soldiers pounced upon it, gathered it up in 
his arms, pointed back whence I had come, and marched me 
ahead of him past that long wall of passengers again — he 
chattering and exulting like a devil, they smiling in peaceful 
joy, and I trying to look as if my pride was not hurt, and as if 
I did not mind being brought to shame before these pleased 
people who had so lately envied me. But at heart I was 
cruelly humbled. 
"When I had been marched two-thirds of the Ions: distance 
and the misery of it was at the worst, the stately station-mas- 
ter stepped out from somewhere, and the soldier left me and 
darted after him and overtook him ; and I could see by the 
soldier's excited gestures that he was betraying to him the 
whole shabby business. The station-master was plainly very 
angry. He came striding down toward me, and when he was 
come near he began to pour out a stream of indignant Italian ; 
then suddenly took off his hat and made that beautiful bow 
and said — 
" Oh, it is you ! I beg a thousands pardons ! This idiot 
here — " lie turned to the exulting soldier and burst out with 
a flood of white-hot Italian lava, and the next moment he was 
bowing, and the soldier and I were moving in procession again 
— he in the lead and ashamed, this time, I with my chin up. 
And so we marched by the crowd of fascinated passengers, and 
I went forth to the train with the honors of war. Tobacco and 
all. 
CHAPTEK XXI. 
Man will do many things to get himself loved, he will do all things to get 
himself envied. — Paddti'head Wilsori's New Calendar. 
BEFORE I saw Australia I had never heard of the 
" weet-weet " at all. I met but few men who had seen 
it thrown — at least I met but few who mentioned 
having seen it thrown. Roughly described, it is a fat wooden 
cigar with its butt-end fastened to a flexible twig. The whole 
thing is only a couple of feet long, and weighs less than two 
ounces. This feather — so to call it — is not thrown through 
the air, but is flung with an underhanded throw and made to 
strike the ground a little way in front of the thrower ; then it 
glances and makes a long skip ; glances again, skips again, and 
again and again, like the flat stone which a boy sends skating 
over the water. The water is smooth, and the stone has a 
good chance; so a strong man may make it travel fifty or 
seventy-five yards ; but the weet-weet has no such good chance, 
for it strikes sand, grass, and earth in its course. Yet an 
expert aboriginal has sent it a measured distance of two 
hundred and twenty yards. It would have gone even further 
but it encountered rank ferns and underwood on its passage 
and they damaged its speed. Two hundred and twenty yards ; 
and so weightless a toy — a mouse on the end of a bit of wire, 
in effect ; and not sailing through the accomodating air, but 
encountering grass and sand and stuff at every jump. It looks 
wholly impossible ; but Mr. Brough Smyth saw the feat and 
did the measuring, and set down the facts in his book about 
aboriginal life, which he wrote by command of the Victorian 
Government. 
"What is the secret of the feat? No one explains. It 
cannot be physical sti-ength, for that could not drive such a 
feather-weight any distance. It must be art. But no one ex- 
plains what the art of it is; nor how it gets around that law 
of nature which says you shall not throw any two-ounce thing 
220 yards, either through the air or bumping along the ground. 
Eev. J. G. Woods says : 
"The distance to which the weet-weet or kangaroo-rat can be thrown is 
truly astonishing. I have seen an Australian stand at one side of Kennington 
Oval and throw the kangaroo rut completely across it." (Width of Kenning- 
ton Oval not stated.) " It darts through the air with the sharp and menac- 
ing hiss of a rifle-ball, its greatest height from the ground being some seven 
or eight feet When properly thrown it looks just like a living 
animal leaping along Its movements have a wonderful 
resemblance to the long leaps of a kangaroo-rat fleeing in alarm, with its long 
tail trailing behind it." 
The Old Settler said that he had seen distances made by the 
weet-weet, in the early days, which almost convinced him that 
it was as extraordinary an instrument as the boomerang. 
There must have been a large distribution of acuteness 
among those naked skinny aboriginals, or they couldn't have 
been such unapproachable trackers and boomerangers and 
weet-weeters. It mast have been race-aversion that put upon 
them a good deal of the low-rate intellectual reputation which 
they bear and have borne this long time in the world's estimate 
of them. 
They were lazy — alwaJT's lazy. Perhaps that was their 
trouble. It is a killing defect. Surely they could have in- 
vented and built a competent house, but they didn't. And 
they could have invented and developed the agricultural arts, 
but they didn't. They went naked and houseless, and lived 
on fish and grubs and worms and wild fruits, and were just 
plain savages, for all their smartness. 
With a country as big as the United States to live and 
multiply in, and with no epidemic diseases among them till the 
white man came with those and his other appliances of 
civilization, it is quite probable that there was never a day in 
his history when he could muster 100,000 of his race in all 
Australia. He diligently and deliberately kept popu- 
lation down by infanticide — largely; but mainly by 
certain other methods. He 
did not need to practise 
these artificialities any more 
after the white man came. 
The white man knew ways 
of keeping down population 
which were worth 
several of his. The 
white man knew ways 
of reducing a native 
population 80 per 
cent, in 20 years. The 
native had never seen anything as fine as that before. 
For example, there is the case of the country now called 
Victoria — a country eighty times as large as Rhode Island, as 
I have already said. By the best official guess there were 
4,500 aboriginals in it when the whites came along in the 
middle of the ' Thirties. Of these, 1,000 lived in Gippsland, 
a patch of territory the size of fifteen or sixteen Rhode Islands : 
they did not diminish as fast as some of the other communities; 
indeed, at the end of forty years there were still 200 of them 
left. The Geelong tribe diminished more satisfactorily : from 
173 persons it faded to 34 in twenty years ; at the end of 
another twenty the tribe numbered one person altogether. 
The two Melbourne tribes could muster almost 300 when the 
white man came ; they could muster but twenty, thirty-seven 
years later, in 1875. In that year there were still odds and 
ends of tribes scattered about the colony of "Victoria, but I 
was told that natives of full blood are very scarce now. It is 
said that the aboriginals continue in some force in the huge 
territory called Queensland. 
The early whites were not used to savages. They could 
not understand the primary law of savage life : that if a man 
do you a wrong, his whole tribe is responsible — each individual 
of it — and you may take your change out of any individual 
of it, without bothering to seek out the guilty one. When a 
white killed an aboriginal, the tribe applied the ancient law, 
and killed the first white they came across. To the whites 
this was a monstrous thing. Extermination seemed to be the 
proper medicine for such creatures as this. They did not kill 
all the blacks, but they promptly killed enough of them to 
make their own persons safe. From the dawn of civilization 
down to this day the white man has always used that very 
precaution. Mrs. Campbell Praed lived in Queensland, as a 
child, in the early days, and in her " Sketches of Australian 
life," we get informing pictures of the early struggles of the 
white and the black to reform each other. 
Speaking of pioneer days in the mighty wilderness of 
Queensland, Mrs. Praed says : 
"At first the natives retreated before the whites; and, except that they 
every now and then speared a beast in one of the herds, gave little cause for 
uneasiness. But, as the number of squatters increased, each one taking up 
miles of country and bringing two or three men in his train, so that shepherds' 
huts and stockmen's camps lay far apart, and defenseless in the midst of 
hostile tribes, the Blacks' depredations became more frequent and murder 
was no unusual event. 
"Tlie loneliness of the Australian bush can hardly be painted in words. 
Here extends mile after mile of primeval forest where perhaps foot of white 
man has never trod — interminable vistas where the eucalyptus trees rear their 
lofty trunks and spread forth their lanky limbs, from which the red gum 
oozes and hangs in fantastic pendants like crimson stalactites ; ravines along 
the sides of which the long-bladed grass grows rankly ; level untimbered 
plains alternating with undulating tracts of pasture, here and there broken 
by a stony ridge, steep gully, or dried-up creek. All wild, vast and desolate ; 
all the same monotonous gray coloring, except where the wattle, when in 
blossom, shows patches of feathery gold, or a belt of scrub lies green, glossy, 
and impenetrable as Indian jungle. 
"The solitude seems intensified by the strange sounds of reptiles, birds, 
and insects, and by the absence of larger creatures ; of which in the day- 
time, the only audible signs are the stampede of a herd of kangaroo, or the 
rustle of a wallabi, or a dingo stirring the grass as it creeps to its lair. But 
there are the whirring of locusts, the demoniac chuckle of the laughing jack- 
ass, the screeching of cockatoos and parrots, the hissing of the frilled lizard, 
and the buzzing of innumerable insects hidden under the dense undergrowth. 
And then at night, the melancholy wailing of the curlews, the dismal howling 
of dingoes, the discordant croaking of tree-frogs, might well shake the 
nerves of the solitary watcher." 
That is the theater for the drama. When you comprehend 
one or two other details, you will perceive how well suited for 
trouble it was, and how loudly it invited it. The cattlemen's 
stations were scattered over that profound wilderness miles 
and miles apart — at each station half a dozen persons. There 
was a plenty of cattle, the black natives were always ill- 
nourished and hungry. The land belonged to them. The 
whites had not bought it, and couldn't buy it ; for the tribes 
had no chiefs, nobody in authority, nobody competent to sell 
and convey ; and the tribes themselves had no comprehension 
of the idea of transferable ownership of land. The ousted 
owners were despised by the white interlopers, and this opinion 
was not hidden under a bushel. More promising materials for 
a tragedy could not have been collated. Let Mrs. Praed speak : 
"At Nie Nie station, one dark night, the unsuspecting hut-keeper, having, 
as he believed, secured himself against assault, was lying wrapped in his 
blankets sleeping profoundly. The Blacks crept stealthily down the chimney 
and battered in his skull while he slept." 
One could guess the whole drama from that little text. 
The curtain was up. It would not fall until the mastership of 
one party or the other was determined — and permanently : 
" There was treachery on both sides. The Blacks killed the Whites when 
they found them defenseless, and the Whites slew the Blacks in a wholesale 
and promiscuous fashion which offended against my childish sense of justice. 
. . . They were regarded as little above the level of brutes, and in some 
cases were destroyed like termirt. 
" Here is an instance. A squatter, whose station was surrounded by Blacks, 
whom he suspected to be hostile and from whom he feared an attack, parleyed 
with them from his house-door. He told them it was Christmas-time — a time 
at which all men, black or white, feasted ; that there were flour, sugar-plums, 
good things in plenty in the store, and that he would make for them such a 
pudding as they had never dreamed of — a great pudding of which all might 
eat and be iilled. The Blacks listened and were lost. The pudding was 
made and distributed. Next morning there was howling in the camp, for it 
had been sweetened with sugar and arsenic ! " 
The white man's spirit was right, but his method was 
wrong. His spirit was the spirit which the civilized white has 
always exhibited toward the savage, but the use of poison was 
a departure from custom. True, it was merely a technical 
departure, not a real one ; still, it was a departure, and there- 
fore a mistake, in my opinion. It was better, kinder, swifter
and much more humane than a number of the methods which 
have been sanctified by custom, but that does not justify its 
employment. That is, it does not wholly justify it. Its un- 
usual nature makes it stand out and attract an amount of 
attention which it is not entitled to. It takes hold upon 
morbid imaginations and they work it up into a sort of exhibi- 
tion of cruelty, and this smirches the good name of our civiliz- 
ation, whereas one of the old harsher methods would have had 
no such effect because usage has made those methods familiar 
to us and innocent. In many countries we have chained the 
savage and starved him to death ; and this we do not care for, 
because custom has inured us to it ; yet a quick death by 
poison is lovingkindness to it. In many countries we have 
burned the savage at the stake ; and this we do not care 
for, because custom has inured us to it ; yet a quick death 
is lovingkindness to it. In more than one country we have 
hunted the savage and his little children and their mother 
with dogs and guns through the woods and swamps for an 
afternoon's sport, and filled the region with happy laughter 
over their sprawling and stumbling flight, and their wild sup- 
plications for mercy ; but this method we do not mind, because 
custom has inured us to it ; yet a quick death by poison is 
lovingkindness to it. In many countries we have taken the 
savage's land from him, and made him our slave, and lashed 
him every day, and broken his pride, and made death his only 
friend, and overworked him till he dropped in his tracks ; and 
this we do not care for, because custom has inured us to it ; 
yet a quick death by poison is lovingkindness to it. In the 
Matabeleland to-day — why, there we are confining ourselves 
to sanctified custom, we Rhodes-Beit millionaires in South 
Africa and Dukes in London ; and nobody cares, because we 
are used to the old holy customs, and all we ask is that no 
notice-inviting new ones shall ba intruded upon the attention of 
our comfortable consciences. Mrs. Praed says of the poisoner, 
" That squatter deserves to have his name handed down to the 
contempt of posterity." 
I am sorry to hear her say that. I myself blame him for 
one thing, and severely, but I stop there. I blame him for 
the indiscretion of introducing a novelty which was calculated 
to attract attention to our civilization. There was no occasion 
to do that. It was his duty, and it is every loyal man's duty 
to protect that heritage in every way he can ; and the best 
way to do that is to attract attention elsewhere. The squat- 
ter's judgment was bad — that is plain; but his heart was 
right. He is almost the only pioneering representative of 
civilization in history who has rien above the prejudices of his 
caste and his heredity and tried to introduce the element of 
mercy into the superior race's dealings with the savage. His 
name is lost, and it is a pity ; for it deserves to be handed 
down to posterity with homage and reverence. 
This paragraph is from a London journal : 
"To learn what France is doing to spread the blessings of civilization in 
her distant dependencies we may turn with advantage to New Caledonia. 
With a view to attracting free settlers to that penal colony, M. Feillet, the 
Governor, forcibly expropriated the Kanaka cultivators from the best of their 
plantations, with a derisory compensation, in spite of the protests of the 
Council General of the island. Such immigrants as could be induced to cross 
the seas thus found themselves in possession of thousands of coffee, cocoa, 
banana, and bread-fruit trees, the raising of which had cost the wretched 
natives years of toil, whilst the latter had a few five-franc pieces to spend in 
the liquor stores of Noumea." 
You observe the combination ? It is robbery, humiliation, 
and slow, slow murder, through poverty and the white man's 
whisky. The savage's gentle friend, the savage's noble friend, 
the only magnanimous and unselfish friend the savage has ever 
had, was not there with the merciful swift release of his poi- 
soned pudding. 
There are many humorous things in the world; among 
them the white man's notion that he is less savage than the 
other savages.* 
* See Chapter on Tasmania, post. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
Nothing is so ignorant as a man's left hand, except a lady's watch. 
— PadiVnhead Wilsons New Calendar, 
YOU notice that Mrs. Praed knows her art. She can 
place a thing before you so that you can see it. She 
is not alone in that. Australia is fertile in writers 
whose books are faithful mirrors of the life of the country and 
of its history. The materials were surprisingly rich, both in 
quality and in mass, and Marcus Clarke, Ralph Boldrewood, Gor- 
don, Kendall, and the others, have built out of them a brilliant 
and vigorous literature, and one which must endure. Mate- 
rials — there is no end to them ! Why, a literature might be 
made out of the aboriginal all by himself, his character and 
ways are so freckled with varieties — varieties not staled by 
familiarity, but new to us. You do not need to invent any 
picturesquenesses ; whatever you want in that line he can fur- 
nish you ; and they will not be fancies and doubtful, but real- 
ities and authentic. In his history, as preserved by the white 
man's official records, he is everything — everything that a hu- 
man creature can be. He covers the entire ground. He is a 
coward — there are a thousand fact to prove it. He is brave 
— there are a thousand facts to prove it. He is treacherous — 
oh, beyond imagination ! he is faithful, loyal, true — the white 
man's records supply you with a harvest of instances of it that 
are noble, worshipful, and pathetically beautiful. He kills the 
starving stranger who comes begging for food and shelter — 
there is proof of it. He succors, and feeds, and guides to 
safety, to-day, the lost stranger who fired on him only yesterday — 
there is proof of it. He takes his reluctant bride by 
force, he courts her with a club, then loves her faithfully 
through a long life — it is of record. He gathers to himself 
another wife by the same processes, beats and bangs her 
as a daily diversion, and by and by lays down his life in 
defending her from some outside harm — it is of record. 
He will face a hundred hostiles to rescue one of his children, 
and will kill another of his children because the family is large 
enough without it. His delicate stomach turns, at certain de- 
tails of the white man's food ; but he likes over-ripe fish, and 
brazed dog, and cat, and rat, and will eat his own uncle with 
relish. He is a sociable animal, yet he turns aside and hides 
behind his shield when his mother-in-law goes by. He is 
childishly afraid of ghosts and other trivialities that menace 
his soul, but dread of physical pain is a weakness which he is 
not acquainted with. He knows all the great and many of the 
little constellations, and has names for them ; he has a symbol- 
writing by means of which he can convey messages far and 
wide among the tribes ; he has a correct eye for form and ex- 
pression, and draws a good picture ; he can track a fugitive by 
delicate traces which the white man's eye cannot discern, and 
by methods which the finest white intelligence cannot mas- 
ter ; he makes a missile which science itself cannot duplicate 
without the model — if with it ; a missile whose secret baffled 
and defeated the searchings and theorizings of the white 
mathematicians for seventy years ; and by an art all his own 
he performs miracles with it which the white man cannot ap- 
proach untaught, nor parallel after teaching. Within certain 
limits this savage's intellect is the alertest and the brightest 
known to history or tradition ; and yet the poor creature was 
never able to invent a counting system that would reach above 
five, nor a vessel that he could boil water in. He is the prize- 
curiosity of all the races. To all intents and purposes he is 
dead — in the body ; but he has features that will live in 
literature. 
Mr. Philip Chauncy, an oificer of the Victorian Govern- 
ment, contributed to its archives a report of his personal ob- 
servations of the aboriginals which has in it some things which 
I wish to condense slightly and insert here. He speaks of the 
quickness of their eyes and the accuracy of their judgment of 
the direction of approaching missiles as being quite extraor- 
dinary, and of the answering suppleness and accuracy of limb 
and muscle in avoiding the missile as being extraordinary also. 
He has seen an aboriginal stand as a target for cricket-balls 
thrown with great force ten or fifteen yards, by professional 
bowlers, and successfully dodge them or parry them with his 
shield during about half an hour. One of those balls, properly 
placed, could have killed him ; " Yet he depended, with the 
utmost self-possession, on the quickness of his eye and his 
agility." 
The shield was the customary war-shield of his race, and 
would not be a protection to you or to me. It is no broader 
