Patience rose and went into the room where the maid had carried her hat
and jacket. It was a bedroom, a white nest of lace and velvet. When she
returned she said: “I should like to go home and think it over. I feel
queer and stunned. You have taken me so completely by surprise that I
can hardly think.”

Rosita coloured angrily.

“You are shocked, I suppose,” she said with a sneer. “I should think—”
She paused abruptly. She was still an amiable little soul.

Patience understood perfectly, and turned a shade paler. “I told you
that I did not understand how I felt. In fact, I hardly ever know just
how I feel about anything. I suppose it is because I have the sort of
mind that is made to analyse, and I haven’t had experience enough to
know how. And I never judge any one. Why should I? Why should we judge
anybody? We are not all made alike. I couldn’t do what you have done,
but that is no reason why I should condemn you. That would be absurd. If
any one else had told me this story I should only have been
interested—I am so curious about everything. But you see you are the
only girl friend I ever had, and that is what makes me feel so
strangely. Good-bye;” and she hurriedly left the room.


                                   XV

When she reached home she forgot her horror of death chambers, and went
to Miss Tremont’s room and flung herself on the bed. She did not
cry—her tears had all been spent; but she felt something of the
profound misery of the last year in Monterey. During the intervening
years she had seen little of the cloven hoof of human nature; the
occasional sin over on Hog Heights hardly counted; creatures of the
lower conditions had no high lights to make the shadows startling. But
to-day the horror of old experiences rushed over her; she was filled
with a profound loathing of life, of human nature.

So far, of love, in its higher sense—if it possessed such a part—she
had seen nothing; of sensuality, too much. True, she had spent two weeks
with Miss Galpin, during that estimable young woman’s engagement; but
Miss Galpin took love as a sort of front-parlour, evening-dress affair,
and Patience had not deigned to be interested. She had speculated
somewhat over Miss Tremont’s early romance, but could only conclude that
it was one of those undeveloped little histories that so many old maids
cherish.

She recalled all the love stories she had read. Even the masters were
insipid when they attempted to portray spiritual love. It was only when
they got down to the congenial substratum of passion that they wrote of
love with colour and fire. Was she to believe that it did not
exist,—this union of soul and mind? Her dreams receded, and refused to
cohere. She wondered, with natural egoism, if any girl of her age had
ever received so many shocks. She was on the threshold of life, with a
mass of gross material out of which to shape her mental attitude to
existing things. True, she had met only women of relative sinlessness
during these last years, but their purity was uninteresting because it
was that of people mentally limited, and possessed of the fad of the
unintellectual. Moreover, they had their erotism, the oddest, most
unreal, and harmless erotism the world has known in the last two
thousand years; and after all quite incidental: her keen eyes had long
since observed that the old maids were far more religious than the
married women, that the girls cooled perceptibly to the great
abstraction as soon as a concrete candidate was approved.

She longed passionately for Miss Tremont. All her old restlessness and
doubt had returned with the flight of that ardent absorbing personality.
She wished that she could have been remodelled; for, after all, the dear
old lady, whatever her delusions, had been happy. But she was still
Patience Sparhawk; she could only be thankful that Miss Tremont had
cemented her hatred of evil.

She rose abruptly, worn out by conjectures and analysis that led
nowhere, and went out into the woods.

“Oh,” she said, lifting her arms, “this at least is beautiful.”

The ground was hard and white and sparkling. The trees were crystal,
down to the tiniest twig. They glittered iridescently under the level
rays of the sun descending upon the Palisades on the far side of the
Hudson. The river was grey under great floating blocks of ice. Groves of
slender trees in the hollows of the Palisades looked like fine bunches
of feathers. On the long slopes the white snow lay deep; above, the dark
steeps were merely powdered, here and there; on the high crest the woods
looked black.

She walked rapidly up and down, calmed, as of old, by the beauty of
nature, but dreading the morrow and the recurring to-morrows. Suddenly
through those glittering aisles pealed the rich sonorous music of the
organ. The keys were under the hands of a master, and the great notes
throbbed and swelled and rolled through the winter stillness in the
divine harmonies of “The Messiah.” Patience stood still, shaking a
little. On a hill above the wood a large house had been built recently;
the organ must be there.

The diamond radiance of the woods was living melody. The very trees
looked to bow their crystal heads. The great waves of harmony seemed
rolling down from an infinite height, down from some cathedral of light
and stars.

The ugly impressions of the day vanished. The sweet intangible longing
she had been used to know in Carmel tower flashed back to her. What was
it? She recalled the words of the Stranger. It was long since she had
thought of him. She closed her eyes and stood with him in the tower. His
voice was as distinct as the notes of the organ. She felt again the
tumult of her young half-comprehending mind. Was not life all a matter
of ideals? Were not the bad and the good happy only if consistent to a
fixed idea? Did she make of herself such a woman as the Stranger had
evoked out of the great mass of small feminity, could she not be
supremely happy with such a man? Where was he? Was he married? He seemed
so close—it was incredible that he existed for another woman. Who more
surely than she could realise the purest ideal of her imaginings,—she
with her black experience and hatred of all that was coarse and evil?
She closed her eyes to her womanhood no longer. It thrilled and shook
her. If he would come—She trembled a little.

All men were henceforth possible lovers. Unless the Stranger appeared
speedily his memory must give way to the definite. The imperious demands
of a woman’s nature cannot be satisfied with abstractions. The ideal
which he stood for would lend a measure of itself to each engaging man
with whom she exchanged greeting.


                                  XVI

“Miss Patience!” cried a strident voice.

Patience turned with a violent start. Ellen was a large blotch on the
white beauty of the wood.

“There’s a young lady to see you. She didn’t give her name as I
remember.”

Patience followed the servant resentfully. The world was cold and dull
again. But when she recognised the Peele coachman and footman on the
handsome sleigh before the door she forgot her dreams, and went eagerly
into the house.

A girl was standing before the mantel, regarding through a lorgnette a
row of photographs. She turned as she heard footsteps, and came forward
with a cordial smile on her plain charming face. She wore a black cloth
frock and turban which made Patience feel dowdy as Rosita’s magnificence
had not.

“I am Hal,” she said, “and you are Patience, of course. I hope you have
heard as much of me as I have of you. Dear old girl, I was awfully fond
of her. You look so tired—are you?”

“A little. It is so good of you to come. Yes, I’ve heard a very great
deal of you.”

“I’ll sit down, thank you. Let’s try this sofa. I’ve already tried the
chairs, and they’re awful. But I suppose dear old Harriet never sat down
at all. I wonder if she’ll be happy in heaven with nothing to do.”

Patience smiled sympathetically. “She ought to be glad of a rest, but I
don’t believe she is.”

“She thought we were all heathens—dear old soul; but I did love her.
What was the trouble? We only had one short letter from Miss Beale. Do
tell me all about it.”

Miss Peele had an air of reposeful alertness. She leaned forward
slightly, her eyes fixed on Patience’s with flattering attention. She
looked a youthful worldling, a captivating type to a country girl. Her
voice was very sweet, and exquisitely modulated. Occasionally it went
down into a minor key.

“What shall you do with yourself, now?” she asked anxiously, when
Patience had finished the brief story. “I am so interested in you. I
don’t know why I haven’t called before, except that I never find time to
do the things I most care for; but I have wanted to come a dozen times,
and when we returned yesterday and heard of the dear old girl’s death I
made up my mind to come at once. And I’m coming often. I know we shall
be such good friends. I’m so glad she left you her money so you won’t
have to work. It must be so horrid to work. I’m going to ask mamma to
ask you to visit us. She’s feeling rather soft now over Cousin Harriet’s
death, so I’ll strike before she gets the icebergs on. She isn’t
pleasant then. I’ll tell her you don’t wear the white ribbon yet—” She
broke into a light peal of laughter. “Poor mamma! how she used to
suffer. Cousin Harriet’s white bow was the great cross of her life. It
will go far toward reconciling her—Don’t think that my parent is
heartless. She merely insists upon everything belonging to her to be
sans reproche. That’s the reason we don’t always get along. What
lovely hair you have—a real blonde cendrée. It’s all the rage in
Paris. And that great coil is beautiful. Tell me, didn’t you find that
Temperance work a hideous bore?”

“Oh, yes, but no one could resist Miss Tremont.”

“Indeed one couldn’t. I believe she’d have roped me in if I’d lived with
her; but I’m a frivolous good-for-nothing thing. You look so serious. Do
you always feel that way?”

Patience smiled broadly. “Oh, no. I often feel that I would be very
frivolous indeed if circumstances would permit. It must be very
interesting.”

“You get tired of yourself sometimes—I mean I do. Are you very
religious?”

“I am not religious at all.”

“Oh, how awfully jolly. I do the regulation business, but it is really
tragic to carry so much religion round all the time. I wonder how Cousin
Harriet and the Lord hit it off, or if they liked each other better at a
distance? I corresponded once with the brother of a school friend for a
year, and when I met him I couldn’t endure him. Those things are very
trying. I am going to call you Patience. May I? And if ever you call me
Miss Peele you’ll be sorry. How awfully smart you’d look in gowns. My
colouring is so commonplace. If I didn’t know how to dress, and hadn’t
been taught to carry myself with an air, I’d be just nothing—no more
and no less. But you have such a lovely nose and white skin—and that
hair! You are aristocratic looking without being swagger. I’m the other
way. You can acquire the one, but you can’t the other. When you have
both you’ll be out of sight.

“What fun it would be,” she rambled on in her bright inconsequential
way, “if Bev should fall in love with you and you’d marry him. Then I’d
have such fun dressing you, and we’d get ahead of my cousin Honora
Mairs, whom I hate, and who, I’m afraid, will get him. Propinquity and
flattery will bring down any man—they’re such peacocks. But I’ll bring
him to see you. You ought to have a violet velvet frock. I’d bet on Bev
then. But, of course, you can’t wear colours yet, and that dead black is
wonderfully becoming. Can I bring him up in a day or two?”

“Oh, yes,” said Patience, smiling as she recalled her brief periods of
spiritual matrimony with Beverly Peele; “by all means. I’ll be so glad
to meet all of you. And you are certainly good to take so much interest
in me.”

“I am the angel of the family. Well, I must be off, or I’ll have to dine
all by me lonely. None of the rest of the family uses slang: that is the
reason I do. May is a grown-up baby, and never disobeyed her mamma in
her life. Honora is a classic, and only swears in the privacy of her
closet when her schemes fail. Mother—well, you’ve seen mother. As you
may imagine, she doesn’t use slang. Papa doesn’t talk at all, and Bev is
a prig where decent women are concerned. So, you see, I have to let off
steam somehow, and as I haven’t the courage to be larky, I read French
novels and use bad words.”

She rose and moved toward a heavy coat that lay on a chair. “Well,
Patience—what a funny lovely old-fashioned name you have—I’m going to
bring Bev to see you as a last resource. I’ve tried him on a dozen other
girls, but it was no go. I’ll talk you up to him meanwhile—I’ll tell
him that you are one of the cold haughty indifferent sort, and yet
withal a village maiden. He admires blondes, and you’re such a natural
one. We’ll come up Sunday on horseback. Now be sure to make him think
you don’t care a hang whether he likes you or not—he’s been so run
after. Isn’t it too funny? I did not come here on matchmaking thoughts
intent, but I do like you, and we could have such jolly good fun
together. I’ll teach you how to smoke cigarettes—”

“But Miss Peele—Hal—you know—I don’t want to marry your brother—I
have never even seen him—much as I should like to live with you—I’d
even smoke cigarettes to please you—but really—”

“Oh, I know, of course. I can only hope for the best, and Bev certainly
is fascinating. At least he appears to be,” and she smiled oddly; “but
being a man’s sister is much like being his valet, you know. Would you
mind helping me into this coat?

“I hate these heavy fur things,” she said petulantly. “Oh, thanks—they
don’t suit my light and airy architecture, and I can’t get up any
dignity in them at all. I need fluffy graceful French things. You’d look
superb in velvet and furs and all that sort of thing. Well,
bye-bye,—no,—au revoir.”

She took Patience’s face between her hands and lightly kissed her on
either cheek.

“Don’t be lonesome,” she said. “I’d go frantic in this house. Can’t I
send you some books? I’ve a lot of naughty French ones—”

“No!” said Patience, abruptly, “I don’t want them. Don’t think I’m a
prig,” she added, hastily, as a look of apprehension crossed Miss
Peele’s face; “but I had a hideous shock to-day, and I don’t want to
read anything similar at present—”

“Oh, tell me about it. How could you have a shock in Mariaville?”

“I didn’t. It was in New York—”

“Oh, was it real wicked? Did you have an adventure? Do tell me—Well,
don’t, of course, if you don’t want to, only I’m so interested in you.
Well, I must, must go;” and despite the furs she moved down the walk
with exceeding grace. As she drove off she leaned out of the sleigh and
waved her hand.

“Oh!” thought Patience, “I’m so glad she came. It was like fresh air
after a corpse covered with sachet bags.” And then she went to the
mantel and gazed upon Beverly Peele.


                                  XVII

When Sunday came Patience dressed herself with unusual care. It did not
occur to her that people in different spheres of life arose at different
hours, and she expected her guests any time after eight o’clock.

Of course she must wear unrelieved black, but after prolonged regard in
the becoming mirror of the best spare room, she decided that it rather
enhanced her charms, now that a week’s rest had banished the circles
from her eyes and cleared her skin.

She had coiled her soft ashen hair loosely on the top of her head,
pulling it out a little about her face—she wore no bangs. Her restless
eyes were dark and clear and sparkling, her mouth pink. She carried her
slender figure with a free graceful poise. The carriage of her head was
almost haughty. Her hips had a generous swell. Her hands and teeth were
very white.

“I certainly have a look of race,” she thought, “if I’m not a beauty.
I’d give a good deal to know that my ancestors really did have good
blood in their veins. I don’t care so much for money, but I’d like to be
sure of that.”

After breakfast she wandered about restlessly. She had known few moments
of peace since Miss Peele’s visit. The train had been fired, and her
being was in a tumult. Beverly Peele, the Stranger, and the vague ideals
of her earlier girlhood were inextricably mixed. The result was a being
before whom she trembled with mingled rapture and terror. Her vivid
imagination had evoked a distinct entity, and the love scenes that had
been enacted between the girl and this wholly satisfactory eidolon were
such as have time out of mind made life as it is seem a singularly
defective composition to the wondering mind of woman.

At times she was terrified at the rich possibilities of her nature, so
little suspected. The revelation gave her vivid comprehension of woman’s
tremendous power for sacrifice and surrender, possibilities of which she
had read with much curiosity, but little sympathy. For those women she
felt a warm honour, a fierce desire to espouse their cause. For Rosita
she had only loathing and contempt.

It was not only passion that was awake. Sentiment, that finer child of
the brain, and the sweet faint feeling which assuredly lingers about the
region of the heart, whatever its physical cause may be, were there in
full measure to lend their potent lashings to that primeval force which
is as mighty in some women as in some men. It is doubtful if a woman
ever loves a man when in his arms with the same exaltation of soul and
passion which she feels for that creation of her brain that he little
more than suggests, and that is only wholly hers when the man himself is
absent. Imagination in woman is as arbitrary as desire in man, and she
is beaten down and crushed by this imperious and capricious brain-imp so
many times in her life that the wonder is she is not driven to the hopes
and illusions of religion, or to humour, long before the skin has
yellowed and the eye paled.

And when the imagination has full sway, when the man has not been
beheld, when he has been invested with every quality dear to the heart
of the generously endowed woman, when, indeed, all eidola blend, and she
has a confused vision of an immense and mighty force bearing down upon
her which shall sweep every tradition out of existence and annihilate
the material world, then assuredly man himself would do well to retire
into obscurity and curse his shortcomings.

It was four o’clock, and she had been through the successive stages of
hope, despair, hope, melancholia, hope, and resignation, before she
heard the sharp clatter of hoofs on the road. She ran to the dining-room
window, her heart thumping, and peered through the blind. They were
coming! Hal sat her horse like a swaying reed, but the young man on the
large chestnut rode in the agonised fashion of the day. He was of medium
height, she saw, compactly and elegantly built, and the beauty of his
face had defied the photographer’s art.

Patience ran to the kitchen and told Ellen to answer the bell
immediately, then sat down by the stove to compose herself. She was
still trembling, and wished to appear cold and stately, as Hal had
recommended. When Ellen returned and announced the visitors, she sprang
up, patted her hair, pulled down the bodice of her gown, and then, with
what dignity she could muster, went forth to meet her fate. She did wish
she had a train. It was so difficult to be stately in a skirt that
cleared the ground.

As she entered the parlour Mr. Peele was standing by the opposite door.
His riding gear was very becoming. Patience noted swiftly that his eyes
were a spotted brown and that his mouth pouted under the dark moustache.

Hal came forward with both hands extended. “We have come, you see,” she
said, “and we had to make a wild break to do it—had a lot of company;
but I was bound to come. Patience, this is Beverly. He’s quite frantic
to meet you. It was all I could do to keep him away until to-day.”

The young man bowed in anything but a frantic manner, and stood
gracefully until the girls were seated. Then he took a chair and
caressed his moustache, regarding Patience attentively.

“Would you mind if Bev smoked?” asked Hal. “He is just wild for a cigar.
We had to ride so hard to keep warm that he didn’t have a chance, and
he’s a slave to the weed.”

Patience glanced swiftly at the door, half-expecting to see the
indignant wraith of Miss Tremont, then, almost reluctantly, gave the
required permission. Mr. Peele promptly lit a cigar. Patience wondered
if he would ever speak. Perhaps he did not think it worth his while. He
looked very haughty.

“We had a perfectly beautiful ride,” said Hal, in her plaintive voice.
“I’d rather be on a horse than on an ocean steamer, and I do love to
travel. You look ever so much better than you did, Patience. You must
have needed a rest.”

Mr. Peele removed his cigar. “Perhaps that was what she had been
impatiently waiting for,” he remarked.

Patience stared at him. Her eyes expanded. Something seemed crumbling
within her.

“Oh, Bev, you do make me so tired,” said his sister. “I tell him
eighteen times a day that punning is the lowest form of wit, but he’s
incorrigible. I suppose it’s in the blood, and I’m glad it broke out in
him instead of in me. It is well to be philosophical in this life—”

“When you can’t help yourself—” interrupted Mr. Peele, easily.

Patience felt it incumbent upon her to make conversation, although her
thoughts were dancing a jig.

“You have a beautiful horse,” she said to the young man.

His eyes lit up with enthusiasm. “Isn’t she a beauty?” he exclaimed.
“She’s taken two prizes and won a race. She’s the daughter—”

“Patience doesn’t know anything about horses,” interrupted Hal. “What
does she care whose daughter Firefly is?”

“Oh, I’m very much interested,” faltered Patience.

“Are you really?” cried Mr. Peele, with a smile so beautiful that
Patience caught her breath. “I’ve got the rarest book in the country on
horses—beautiful pictures—coloured—I’ll bring it up and explain it to
you. Tell you a lot of stories about famous horses.”

“I shall be delighted.”

“Do you ride?”

“I used to ride a pony, but I haven’t been on a horse for so long I’ve
almost forgotten what it’s like.”

“That’s too bad. There’s nothing like it. Makes you feel so good. When I
have dyspepsia I just jump on Firefly, and I’m all right in less than no
time. I take a canter for dyspepsia—although I can’t—er—always feel
at home that way. Ahem!”

Patience wanted to tear her hair. It was with an effort that she kept
her face from convulsing with disgust. She caught sight of the young
man’s intellectual brow, and, without any premonitory consciousness,
laughed aloud. Mr. Peele smiled back with the pleasure of appreciated
wit, and resumed his cigar.

“Bev isn’t such a fool as he looks,” remarked Hal, airily. “Just have
patience with him. We all have our little failings.”

Patience sat as if turned to clay. She could not talk. All her natural
animation had deserted her. She wished they would go and leave her
alone. But Hal pulled off her riding gloves, and made herself
comfortable on the sofa. As she rattled on, Patience noticed how
beautiful her nails were. She turned her own hands over so that the
palms lay upward.

“Never mind,” said young Peele, in a low tone. “They’re much prettier.”

“What’s that?” cried Hal. “What are you blushing about, Patience? How
lovely it is to blush like that. I’ve forgotten how—and I’m only
twenty-two. There’s tragedy for you. It’s not that I’ve had so many
compliments about my beauty, nor yet about my winning ways,—which are
my strong point,—but I found so much to blush about when I was first
launched upon this wicked world that I exhausted my capacity. And Bev
always did tell such naughty stories—” She paused abruptly. “Dear me!
perhaps I’ve made a bad break, and prejudiced you against my brother;
and I want you to be good friends so that we can have jolly times
together. Perhaps you have an ideal man—a sort of Sir Galahad. I
haven’t sounded you yet.”

“Sir Galahad is not my ideal,” said Patience, with the quick scorn of
the woman who is born with intuitive knowledge of man. “I could not find
anything interesting in an elongated male infant.”

“Oh, how lovely!” cried Hal. “Give me the man of the world every time. I
tell you, you appreciate the difference when you have to entertain ’em.
And the elongated infant, as you put it, never understands a woman, and
she has no use for that species whatever. He doesn’t even want to
understand her, and a woman resents that as a personal insult. The bad
ones hurt sometimes, but they’re interesting; and when you learn how to
manage them it’s plain sailing enough. Mrs. Laurence Gibbs—a friend of
mamma’s, awfully good, goes in for charity and all that sort of
thing—said the other day that at the rate women were developing and
advancing, the standard of men morally would have to be raised. But I
said ‘Not much!’ that the development of woman meant that women were
becoming more clever, not merely bright and intellectual, and that
clever women would demand cleverness and fascination in man above all
else; and that Sir Galahads were not that sort. It’s experience that
makes a man interesting to us women,—they represent all we’d like to be
and don’t dare. If they were like ourselves—if they didn’t excite our
imaginations—we wouldn’t care a hang for them. Mrs. Gibbs was
horrified, of course, and told me I didn’t know what I was talking
about. But I said I guessed it was the other way. I’m not clever—not by
a long sight,—and if I can’t stand a prig I know a clever woman can’t
and won’t.”

“I’m so glad I’m not a prig,” murmured Mr. Peele.

“Oh, you’re a real devil. If you were clever now, you’d have to be shut
up to protect society; but as it is, you just go on your good looks, so
you’re not as dangerous as some.”

She rattled on, not giving the others a chance for more than a stray
remark. Patience, listening with deep curiosity to this new philosophy,
became aware of an increasing desire to turn her eyes to the man that
had so bitterly disappointed her. A direct potent force seemed to
emanate from him. It was her first experience of man’s magnetism, but
she knew that he possessed it to a remarkable degree. When he finally
shot out an insignificant remark she felt, in the excuse it gave her to
turn to him, a sensation of positive relief. He was leaning back in his
chair, in the easy attitude of a man that has been too accustomed to
luxury all his life to look uncomfortable in any circumstances. With his
picturesque garb, his noble, beautiful face, his subtle air of elegance
and distinction, he looked the ideal hero of girlhood’s dreams. Patience
wondered what Nature had been about, then recalled the many tricks of
that capricious dame made famous in history, the round innocent faces of
the worst boys in the Loyal Legion class, the saintly physiognomy of a
Mariaville minister who had recently fallen from grace.

Peele was watching her out of his half-closed eyes, and as she met them
he smiled almost affectionately. Patience averted her head quickly,
angry that she had felt an impulse to respond, and fixed her attention
on Hal. “Dear old Cousin Harriet,” that young woman was remarking, “how
I do wish that I were even sorrier than I am that she is dead. I try to
think it’s because I saw so little of her; but I know it’s just because
I’m so beastly selfish. I don’t care a hang for anything that doesn’t
affect my own happiness—”

“You’re not selfish,” interrupted Patience, indignantly.

“Oh, but I am,” said Miss Peele, with a comical little air of disgust
which sat as gracefully upon her as all her varying moods and manners.
“I get up thinking what I can get out of the day, and I go to bed glad
or mad according to what the day has done for me. I don’t go in for
Church work like Honora—dear Honora!—nor am I always doing some pretty
little thing for people like May. I suppose you think I’m an angel
because I came to see you. I assured myself at great length that it was
my duty—but it was plain curiosity, no more nor less; and now I like
you awfully, better than any woman I ever met—and I do so want you to
come and visit us, but—”

“Couldn’t you come and stay with me?” asked Patience, hurriedly. She had
no desire to visit Mrs. Gardiner Peele. “You know you have more or less
company, and I should be very quiet for a while. And oh! I should so
like to have you.”

“Oh, I’d love to! I’ll come and stay a week. I’m so sick of the whole
family, Bev included. We won’t be going anywhere for three months out of
respect for Cousin Harriet—mamma is very particular about those
things—and I can get away as well as not. I’ll come on Tuesday,—can I?
Bev will come up occasionally and see how I’m getting on—won’t you,
Bevvy, dear?”

“I’d much rather you would not be here,” said Mr. Peele, calmly.

“Oh—really—well, we’re all young yet. I’m coming all the same. I
suppose we must be going. We have to get home to dress for dinner, you
know.”

She rose, and drew on her gloves. Her brother stood up immediately and
helped her into her covert coat. “Well, Patience,” she said, kissing her
lightly, “you’ll see me on Tuesday. I’ll come by train, and wire you
beforehand. Mamma’ll raise Cain, but I’ll manage it. It’s only
occasionally she’s too much for me. The cold glare of those blue eyes of
hers freezes my marrow at times and takes all the starch out of me. It’s
awful to have been brought up under that sort of eye. When Honora
marries it’s the sort of eye she’ll have. She cultivates the angelic at
present. Have I talked you to death, Patience? So good of you to ask me
to come.”

Peele held out his hand, and Patience could do no less than lay hers
within it. As it closed she resisted an impulse to nestle her own more
closely into that warm grasp. He held her hand longer than was
altogether necessary, and she felt indignantly that she had no desire to
draw it away.

“That’ll do for one day,” said Hal, drily. “Come along, Beverly Peele.
We won’t get home for coffee at this rate.”

When they had gone Patience threw herself on the sofa and burst into
tears, then laughed suddenly. “I feel like the heroine of a tragedy,”
she thought. “And the tragedy is a pun!”


                                 XVIII

Hal arrived on Tuesday afternoon. Patience for twenty-four hours after
Beverly Peele’s visit looked upon life through grey spectacles. She had
an impression of being a solitary figure on a sandy waste, illimitable
in extent. Life was ugly practical reality. It frightened her, and she
cowered before it, hating the future, her blood chilled, her nerves
blunt, her brain stagnant.

But by Tuesday morning, being young and buoyant, she revived, and roamed
through the woods, entirely loyal to the Stranger. She made up her mind
that she would find him, that he could not be married. He must have
waited for her. “Oh!” she thought, “if I could not believe that
