of us."
There was something in this threat which startled Jasper, bold and brave
as he was.
"Such an outrage won't be permitted," he said.
"Won't it?" sneered Jack. "We'll see about that. I'll take the risk. You
don't know me yet," he added, with an oath.
"Is it wholly because you are afraid I will betray you that you treat me
in this way?" asked Jasper.
"No."
"What other reason have you?"
"I'll tell you. You're the sort of boy we want. You ain't any whining,
milk-and-water sort of boy. You're brave and spirited. You would be
worth a good deal to us."
Burglar though Jack was, Jasper was not insensible to the compliment.
Any boy likes to be considered spirited, even if he does not deserve it,
and he felt flattered by this tribute, which he felt that he deserved,
at least, in part.
"I am glad you have a good opinion of my courage," he said, "but I think
I can find a better use for it than in the career you open to me. If I
accepted your proposal from fear of imprisonment it would show that I
was not such a boy as you describe."
"You are an obstinate fool!" said Jack, with a frown.
"I am obstinate in this," said Jasper, composedly. "You want to spoil my
life by making me a criminal."
"Do you mean to call me a criminal!" exclaimed Jack, angrily.
"I call you nothing--I only take you at your word."
"You'll talk differently from this a week from now!" said Jack,
prepariug to shut the sliding-door.
"Do you mean to keep me in this dark hole a week?" asked Jasper, unable
to repress a shudder.
"Ha! that disturbs you, does it?" asked the other, smiling sardonically.
"Yes, it does. You don't think I fancy it, do you?"
"Well, you know the way to end your imprisonment."
"Is there only one way?"
"There's only one way. Tell the old man, Nathan, when you've made up
your mind to accept my offer."
Without waiting for a reply Jack pushed the sliding-door in its place,
and once more Jasper found himself in the dark.
CHAPTER XXVII.
AN UNEXPECTED FRIEND.
Three days and nights passed, and Jasper was still in confinement. Three
times a day Nathan came to bring him his meals. Each time he asked our
hero:
"Are you ready to join our friends?"
And each time Jasper answered:
"No!"
"You must like staying here," said the old man.
"I am very tired of it," said Jasper, with a sigh.
"You can come out any time," said Nathan.
"Let me out now, then."
"Oh, no, my dear young friend," said Nathan, shaking his head, "not
until you accept Jack's offer."
"Good heavens!" thought Jasper, "can it be possible that in the middle
of a great city I can be imprisoned like this, with hundreds passing the
house every hour? I wish I could be heard outside."
But this was impossible, owing to the peculiar situation of the room.
The prospects of our young hero were certainly gloomy enough. But
there's an old saying that the darkest hour is just before the dawn, and
deliverance was nearer than Jasper supposed.
On the fourth day, at noon, Jasper heard steps ascending the stairs. He
supposed it to be the old man, with his dinner, and he looked up
listlessly as the sliding-door was opened. But instead of the wrinkled
face of Nathan he beheld the fresh face of a young girl, apparently
about sixteen years of age. She regarded the prisoner with curiosity and
surprise.
"Here's your dinner," she said.
"Thank you," said Jasper. "Where is the old man that generally comes
up?"
"Uncle Nathan? Oh, he's gone out for a little while."
"He's your uncle, then?"
"Yes."
"Do you live here?"
"I've only just come. He sent for me. What do they keep you here for?"
she asked, her face expressing curiosity. "Are you sick?"
"I'm sick of being cooped up here."
"Then why do you stay?"
"Because I have to. Your uncle won't let me out."
"Why not?"
"Hasn't he told you?"
"No. He only told me to bring up your dinner. I thought it was a man. I
didn't know it was a boy."
"You want to know why I am confined here?"
"Yes, if you'll tell me."
"It is because your uncle is afraid I'll inform the police against him
and the men who come here."
"I don't know much about them. Are they bad people, then?"
"I am afraid they are. They do things that make them liable to be
arrested."
"What! my uncle, too?" asked the girl, who appeared to be startled.
"I am not sure about him, but I feel sure about two men who come here.
Their names are Jack and Bill."
"I know. I have seen them both. One is a young man, the other must be
near fifty. He's stout."
"Yes."
"How long do you think they will keep you here?"
"Until I agree to join them in breaking the laws."
"That's too bad," said the girl, compassionately. "Isn't it awful to be
shut up there?"
"Yes, it is. I've been here three or four days, and it seems as many
weeks. Don't you think you could help me to escape?" asked Jasper, in a
lower tone.
The girl looked frightened.
"I wouldn't dare to," she said.
"Wouldn't you, if you were sure your uncle wouldn't find out?"
"Yes, I would," she answered, heartily.
"Don't you think you could manage it?" asked Jasper, eagerly.
"I don't know. I wish I could," she answered, with evident sincerity.
"Nancy!" called the old man's voice from below, sharply, "hasn't that
boy got through yet?"
"Coming, uncle," she answered.
"I'll speak with you again when I bring up your supper," she said, as
she hurried down stairs.
She left Jasper eager and excited. At last he had made a friend in the
camp of his enemies, and there was hope ahead.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
ESCAPE.
Jasper waited impatiently for supper-time, not that he was hungry, for
excitement had taken away his appetite, but because he was feverish with
anxiety as to his prospects of release.
"Suppose the old man should suspect her and come up with the supper
himself," he thought, anxiously.
But his anxiety proved groundless.
A little after five the door was opened and disclosed the young girl,
Nancy. His face lighted up joyfully.
"I'm glad it's you, Nancy," he said. "I was afraid I should see your
uncle. Does he suspect anything?"
"No; he scolded me for allowing you so long to eat your dinner, that's
all."
"I'll take it off the plate and eat afterward. Now, I want to talk a
little. Have you found out any way to help me?"
"I don't know. Do you think you could get out of this window?"
Jasper looked at the aperture critically.
"Yes, I think I could," he said, after a pause, "with some one on the
other side to pull me through."
"I'll do that," said Nancy.
"You will? You're a trump! What am I to do afterward? Can you help me to
leave the house?"
"That's what I've been thinking," said Nancy. "I'm afraid it wouldn't do
to let you out at the front door. It's locked and bolted, and the bolt
squeaks. I've tried it to see."
"The windows?" suggested Jasper, anxiously.
"No, I am afraid not."
"Then if I can't leave the house, it's no use to get out of this room."
"Yes, there's another way out, but it requires courage."
"I'm not a coward," said Jasper.
"No, you don't look like it," said Nancy, who was more favorably
disposed toward Jasper on account of his good looks.
"Thank you," said Jasper, gratified. "Now tell me, what is your plan?"
"There's a scuttle through which you can get out on the roof. Would you
dare to do it?"
"Yes; I might get on to some other roof."
"Yes, but you might slip off."
"I am not afraid. You think of that because you are a girl."
"Yes. I would rather stay here than trust myself on the roof."
"Do you know if the next house is higher than this?"
"Yes, it is."
"That's very awkward," said Jasper, thoughtfully.
"But there are some windows in the side of the house. You might get in
at one of them."
"And be taken for a house-breaker? Well, I must run the risk, any way.
When do you think I had better try it?"
"To-night. There'll be nobody in the house to-night but uncle and me."
"That's good," said Jasper, reflecting that Nathan looked feeble, and
being small in size would not be more than a match for his strength if
the worst came to the worst.
"When does your uncle go to bed?" he asked.
"At eleven."
"When will you come for me?"
"At twelve, or a little after."
"Are the nights dark now?" asked Jasper. "It would be rather ticklish
being on the roof if it were pitch dark."
"No, the moon will be up then."
"That's all right. If you find out anything else that will help, let me
know."
"Yes, I will."
"Nancy!"
"Yes, uncle!" answered the girl. "To-night at twelve!" she said, in a
low voice, and hurried down stairs.
Jasper, in thinking over the plan he had in view, realized that it was
one that would probably require all his courage and nerve. It would be a
great relief to get through without accident. But he never thought of
backing out. He felt that anything was better than to be confined longer
in his present prison.
It seemed a long time to wait, especially in the darkness, for the oil
was burned out in his lamp, and there was no chance of asking for a
further supply. He had forgotten it when Nancy came up with his supper.
However, he felt that it was of no particular consequence, as he was so
soon to be released.
So the hours passed. He did not permit himself to fall asleep, lest he
should not be awake when Nancy came.
At last he heard a faint noise at the door, and saw Nancy standing
outside with a candle.
"Are you ready?" she whispered.
"Yes, ready and waiting."
"Now try to get through, and I will help you."
She set down the candle, and Jasper set about his task. It was a tight
squeeze, but at last he got out, and stood on his feet in the entry.
"Now, follow me," said Nancy, in a whisper.
He climbed a narrow, steep staircase, and then a ladder, and unfastening
the scuttle, he laid it back. The moon shone softly down, bathing the
city in its beautiful light. He got out lightly on the roof.
"Good-bye!" he said, "and thank you, Nancy."
"Good luck!" said Nancy.
He lowered the scuttle, and sat astride the roof, considering what to do
next.
CHAPTER XXIX.
JASPER IN A NEW CHARACTER.
It was a relief to be out of his prison, but it must be admitted that
Jasper's situation was not particularly desirable or agreeable. It was
midnight, and he was seated astride the roof of the house which had
served as his prison. There seemed to be no chance to reach the street,
except to slide down the roof, and that would be certain death.
Jasper looked about him in great perplexity.
As his deliverer had told him, the next house was a story higher than
the one on whose roof he was seated, and, still more important, there
was a side-window looking out in that direction. When Jasper saw this,
hope sprang up in his heart.
"If that window is not fastened I can get in," he thought.
He edged his way along to the window, and found that to reach it he
would have to slide down a little way and catch hold of the blind to
prevent sliding too far.
"There's some risk about it," thought Jasper. "Shall I try it?"
I don't know whether Jasper was justified in taking the risk he did, for
there was great danger of sliding over into the street. I don't think I
should have ventured to do it; but our hero was fearless and courageous,
and he resolved that, as this was the only method of escape, he would
avail himself of it. As a precaution against slipping, however, he took
off his shoes, and catching the strings in his teeth commenced the
perilous descent. He succeeded in grasping the blind and staying his
progress.
"Now, if the window should be fastened, what should I do?" he thought.
But it was not. He succeeded in raising it, and with a feeling of
intense relief made his way into the chamber.
Then for the first time there flashed upon him the thought that he had
placed himself in a very suspicious predicament. He had entered a house
at midnight through the window. Why might he not be taken for a burglar?
This was the way a burglar was likely to enter, and if he should be
caught here his explanation would be considered very unsatisfactory.
Jasper, brave as he was, was startled by this thought, while
simultaneously the difficulty of escape was forced upon him. He looked
about him in mental disturbance.
It was a small attic chamber. There was a bed in the room, a wash-stand,
a couple of chairs, and a clothes-press. This, being open, revealed a
few clothes belonging, apparently, to a man.
"Why isn't he here?" thought Jasper, "and what shall I do if he comes?"
Though his story was true, he nevertheless felt that it was improbable,
and before he could tell it he thought it likely that an alarm would be
given, resulting in his being consigned to the care of the police.
An idea came to him.
He opened the bed, drew out one of the sheets and arrayed himself in it,
after carefully folding back the quilt.
"Now," he said to himself, "if it is necessary, I will see what sort of
a ghost I can make."
Hardly had he done this than he heard steps ascending the stairs. Jasper
had little doubt that it was the occupant of the chamber which he had so
unceremoniously entered.
"I'll get into the wardrobe if I can," he thought.
He managed to squeeze himself into the wardrobe, and waited with anxiety
for the arrival of the new-comer.
Through a crevice he saw the entrance of a stout, good-natured-looking
young man, whistling a popular song. He was probably a clerk or young
mechanic, who, after a hard day's work, had been to some cheap place of
amusement. Wholly unconscious of Jasper's presence, the young man
undressed himself, still continuing to whistle, and got into bed. It was
so light outside that he had not lighted the gas.
"I wonder how long it'll take for him to get to sleep?" thought Jasper.
"I'm getting tired of being cooped up here."
Unfortunately for him the young man seemed to be in no hurry. He
whistled to himself, and occasionally sung in a low tone. At length
Jasper decided to make a desperate move. Observing that the young man
was lying with his face turned from the wardrobe, he seized his
opportunity, stepped softly out, and gained the middle of the floor
before he was seen.
The effect upon the young man was startling. The whistle died away, and
with blanched cheeks and staring eyes he sat bolt upright in bed.
"Oh, Lord!" he exclaimed, tremulously. "What are you?"
Not a word escaped from the white figure, but it solemnly waved its
hand.
"Are you a ghost?" asked the young man.
Jasper made a guttural noise and waved his arm again.
"Oh, Lord preserve me!" ejaculated the young man, shaking with terror.
"Go away, do, good ghost! I haven't done anything!"
As he spoke he covered up his head with the bedclothes, and Jasper could
see by the convulsive movements that he was in a state of the greatest
agitation. Our hero felt inclined to laugh, but forebore. He considered
whether it would be safe, disguised as he was, to make his way down
stairs and out at the front door. But another course suddenly suggested
itself. The young man looked good-natured. Why shouldn't he reveal
himself to him, and throw himself upon him for protection? Besides, he
was sorry to frighten him so much.
Acting upon his new resolution, he threw off the sheet and said in his
natural voice:
"Don't be frightened. I am not a ghost."
The young man in bed took courage to uncover his head.
"Ain't you a spirit?" he said, doubtfully.
"No more than you," said Jasper, laughing.
"What made you frighten me so? Who are you?"
"I am a friend of yours."
"I don't think I ever saw you before. How did you get in?"
"Through the window."
"You ain't a burglar, are you?" asked the young man, with fresh
apprehension.
"Of course not," said Jasper, laughing. "Do I look like a burglar?"
"No; but I don't see what made you come in."
"The fact is, I want you to help me," said Jasper. "Just light the gas,
and I'll tell you all about it."
He spoke so frankly and straightforwardly that the young man was
reassured. He got out of bed and lighted the gas.
"There! do I look like a burglar?" asked Jasper.
"No, you don't; but I don't see how you got in."
"Then I'll tell you. I've just escaped from the next house."
"Escaped?"
"Yes. I was locked up in a dark room for four days, and the only way I
could get out was through the roof. Of course I couldn't slide off into
the street and break my neck, so I got in here through the window."
"You don't say!" ejaculated the young man. "What did they shut you up
for? Was it your father?"
"No. It's a long story. I knew something they were afraid I would tell."
"What are you going to do?"
"I am going to ask you to let me out into the street."
"What! so late as this? You would have to stay out all night."
"That would be better than to be locked up as I have been for the last
four days."
"Suppose you wait till morning. This bed is big enough for both of us."
"Thank you. I should like that, and shall be much obliged to you."
"You are sure you are not a burglar?" said the young man, with a brief
return of his former suspicion.
"Neither burglar nor ghost," said Jasper.
"What made you put on the sheet?"
"I was afraid you would take me for a burglar, so I meant to frighten
you and escape, concluding that you would be afraid to pursue me."
"That's so. I really thought you were a spirit."
"If you think so now, just feel my muscle," said Jasper, smiling.
"I don't think so now."
"If I am to sleep with you, here is your sheet. We can make better use
of it than in masquerading as ghosts."
Jasper undressed himself and got into bed. He learned that his
companion's name was Adam Diedrich, and that he kept a small cigar store
near-by.
CHAPTER XXX.
JASPER GETS A PLACE.
Jasper took breakfast the next morning with the friendly young German,
whose acquaintance he had so singularly made. Not a word was said as to
the manner in which he had entered the house. He was introduced by Adam
as "my friend, Mr. Kent."
After breakfast Jasper went around with his new friend to the place of
business of the latter. He decided not to call upon Mr. Fitch till about
ten o'clock.
While on his way to the merchant's counting-room he met the girl, Nancy,
with a tin pail in her hand. The girl's face lighted up when she saw
him.
"So you got off the roof," she said. "I was so afraid you would fall."
"Thank you, Nancy," said Jasper. "Thanks to you I am out of prison."
"But how did you get off the roof?"
Jasper gave her an account of his midnight adventures.
"And now tell me," he said, "how does your uncle take my flight?"
"He's awful mad about it," said the girl, shaking her head.
"What does he think? Does he suspect you?" asked Jasper, eagerly.
"He did at first, but he doesn't now. He's puzzled to know how you got
away. And Jack, he's mad, too."
"Jack, does he know it?"
"Yes; he came around to the house about eight o'clock. He was looking
seedy, as if he'd been up all night. As near as I can find out, he
failed in some job last night, and that made him cross."
"Very likely."
"'Have you carried up that boy's breakfast?' I heard him say.
"'No,' said my uncle.
"'Then give it to me, and I'll take it up; I want to talk to him.'
"So Uncle Nathan made me get the breakfast ready. I gave it to him, and
he went up. A minute after he roared down stairs:
"'Where's the boy? What have you done with him?'
"Uncle Nathan stared, and called out:
"'Where's your eyes, Jack? Can't you see straight this morning?'
"Jack answered, as mad as could be:
"'Come up here, you old fool, and see if your eyes are any better than
mine!'
"Uncle went up the stairs, two at a time, and looked in the chamber,
too.
"'There, what do you say to that?' I heard Jack say.
"'I'm dumfounded!' said Uncle Nathan; and then he called me."
"Were you frightened?" asked Jasper.
"A little," said the girl. "I was afraid I'd look guilty.
"'Do you know anything about this?' asked my uncle, sternly.
"'Good gracious! You don't mean to say he's gone?' I said, looking as
much surprised as possible. 'How did he get out?'
"'That's what I want to know,' said Jack, and he looked suspiciously at
Uncle Nathan and me.
"'I'm as innocent as a new-born babe,' said Uncle Nathan.
"'Somebody must have let him out,' said Jack.
"'I guess he squeezed through the opening,' said I.
"'Maybe he did,' said Uncle Nathan.
"'Suppose he did, you'd see him or hear him. He couldn't get out.'
"'He might have got out through the door in the night,' said Uncle
Nathan.
"'Did you find the door unlocked?' asked Jack.
"'Nancy was up first. How was it, Nancy?' asked my uncle.
"'No; it was all right,' said I.
"That puzzled them both. Then they thought of the roof, and went up. I
was afraid they would find you there, but they didn't. They seemed to
think you couldn't get away so, and they're dreadfully puzzled to know
how you did escape. I was afraid you'd fallen off, so I went outside to
see if I could find any blood on the sidewalk, but I couldn't, and I
hoped you'd got into the next house."
"Your uncle didn't think of that, did he?"
"No, nor Jack, either."
"Well, I've been lucky. I only hope they won't suspect you."
"They will if they should see me talking to you in the street."
"Then we'd better separate. Good-morning, Nancy. I won't forget the
service you've done me."
"Good-morning, Jasper. I'm so glad you got away."
"I wish you were away, too, Nancy. It's not a good place for you."
"I don't think I shall stay long," said the girl. "I didn't know uncle
kept such company or I wouldn't have come to his house. Some day I shall
leave him, and then I shall go out to service."
"That would be better for you. I advise you to do it soon."
The two parted company, and Jasper proceeded at once to Mr. Fitch's
office.
"I wonder what he'll think of me?" Jasper said to himself. "I promised
to come back after carrying the money, and now it is four days late."
"Is Mr. Fitch in the counting-room?" asked our hero of the clerk.
"Yes, but he's busy."
"I will wait, then."
"Can't I attend to your business?"
"I think not."
"Your business must be very important," said the clerk, with a sneer.
"I don't know about that," said Jasper, composedly, "but I think if you
will tell Mr. Fitch that Jasper Kent is here he will receive me."
"Is your name of such weight?" asked the clerk, with another sneer.
"Suppose you put it to the test," said Jasper, smiling.
The clerk had not seen Jasper when he called before and didn't recognize
him as the restorer of little Harry; otherwise, he would have treated
our hero with more attention.
Influenced by curiosity he went into the counting-room and announced
Jasper's name.
"Bring him in," said the merchant.
Jasper entered, but the manner of Mr. Fitch differed greatly from what
it had been when they parted four days before. Then it was cordial and
friendly, now it was cold and suspicious.
"Good-morning, Mr. Fitch," said Jasper.
"Good-morning," responded the merchant, coldly. "You have been a long
time returning from your errand!"
"That's true, sir; but I would have come sooner if I could."
Mr. Fitch looked up in surprise.
"Do you mean to say that you couldn't come?" demanded he.
"Yes, sir."
"What prevented you?"
"I was in close confinement."
"What! were you arrested?" and again the merchant's face was overspread
by doubt and suspicion.
"No, sir; I hope I shall never fall into the hands of the police."
"How then could you be in confinement? This is a riddle."
"The house to which I was requested to bring the money was a haunt of
desperate men--burglars, I found out--and they were afraid I would
betray their rendezvous. They mixed me some lemonade, which I now think
must have been drugged, for I went to sleep in the middle of the day,
soon after drinking it. When I awoke up I found myself in a dark room,
in the centre of the house."
"Is this true?" asked the merchant, amazed. "Can such things take place
within earshot of the police?"
"Yes, sir; there was no chance of my making myself heard; if there had
been I would have called for help."
"How did you get out, and when?"
"Last night, at midnight."
"How?"
"I will tell you, sir. That, I think, is the most interesting part of
it."
"Proceed."
When Mr. Fitch had heard Jasper's explanation he no longer doubted him.
His friendly, cordial manner returned, and he congratulated our hero on
his prompt rejection of Jack's offers, though that rejection exposed him
to continued imprisonment.
"Now," he asked, "what are your plans?"
"To get something to do," said Jasper.
"Of what kind?"
"Any kind."
"I will engage you, for the present, at ten dollars a week. Will that
suit you?"
"Yes, sir. Nothing could suit me better."
"Do you think you can live on that?"
"Easily."
"Then that is settled. To-night you will go home with me. To-morrow will
be soon enough to look for a boarding-place. Here are your first week's
wages in advance."
"Thank you, sir. You are very kind."
"I have not forgotten that I am indebted to you for the recovery of my
little Harry. Here, Leonard."
The clerk already mentioned entered the counting-room. He looked
inquiringly from Jasper to Mr. Fitch.
"Leonard," said the latter, "this young man is to be your fellow-clerk.
He takes the place of Victor, who left last week. Instruct him in his
duties."
"Yes, sir," said the clerk, in no little surprise.
Jasper followed him out into the warehouse.
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE UNWELCOME RELATIVE.
Now that Jasper has found a place we can venture to leave him for a time
and go back to the home which he had felt compelled to leave.
His step-mother felt relieved by his departure. It left her mistress of
the situation, with no one to interfere with or question her authority.
How Jasper fared she cared little, or not at all. How he was likely to
get along without money she never inquired, nor did she feel a twinge of
remorse for her treatment of one who had been her late husband's sole
care and hope. It was enough for her that she had Nicholas with her.
Stern as she generally was toward him, she was weakly indulgent.
Whatever he wanted she gave him, if it were not utterly unreasonable.
She was afraid he would tire of the country and want to go away, and
this led her to gratify him in his wishes, in order that she might
retain him at her side.
Nicholas was not slow in finding out his power and in using it. He asked
and obtained a horse for his own use, and later an elegant little
carriage was ordered from the city, in which he used to drive around the
neighborhood with the airs of a young prince. To others he might seem
arrogant and conceited--to his mother he was only possessed of the
proper spirit of a gentleman. In her eyes he was handsome, though in the
eyes of no one else.
But perfect happiness is short-lived. In her new prosperity Mrs. Kent
forgot that she had a brother who was not likely to reflect credit upon
the family. She had not heard from him for years, and supposed he did
not know where she was. But in this, as we know, she was mistaken.
One day Nicholas was standing on the lawn in front of the house, waiting
for his carriage to be brought around from the stable, when his
attention was drawn to a common-looking man who was standing by the
fence and looking at him in what he considered an impudently familiar
way.
Since Nicholas had become a young aristocrat he was easily made angry by
such familiarity on the part of anyone of the lower orders, and he
resented it at once.
"Why are you standing there, fellow?" he demanded, frowning.
The man neither seemed overawed nor angry. He only looked amused.
"Because I am tired of walking," he said.
"Then go somewhere else."
"Thank you, this suits me very well," said the man, smiling provokingly.
"It doesn't suit me, though," said Nicholas, bristling up.
"Who are you?" inquired Dick, for it was he, with provoking nonchalance.
"Who am I? I'll let you know!" retorted Nicholas, now very angry.
"I wish you would. That's what I just asked you."
"I'm the owner of this place, and I warn you off."
"Oh, you're the owner of this place!" said the stranger, laughing. "Do
you own the road, too?"
"Yes," said Nicholas, "I own the road in front of my place."
Dick laughed again.
"You're a young man, ain't you, to be a landed proprietor. How about
your mother? Doesn't she own anything?"
"What do you know about my mother?" demanded Nicholas, a little
nonplussed.
"More than you think for, young man," said Dick. "She used to go to
school with me."
"Did she? Well, I suppose she couldn't help it if there were low persons
in the school with her."
"That's good!" said the stranger, laughing heartily. "So I am a low
person, am I?"
"You look like it," said Nicholas, insolently.
He expected the man would be angry, but instead he laughed more heartily
than before.
Nicholas began to think he was crazy.
"Well, boy," he said, after a pause, "just remember that appearances are
sometimes deceitful."
"I don't think they are so in this case," said Nicholas, "but I can't
waste anymore time with you. There's my horse coming around. I'm going
to ride."
"Is that your team? It's very neat, 'pon my word."
"That's nothing to you."
"Won't you give me a seat? I've never been in this town before, and I
should like to take a drive."
"Look here, fellow, you've got cheek!" exclaimed Nicholas.
"Have I?"
"Do you think I would be seen in such low company?"
"Why not? I'm a gentleman. If you are a gentleman, then I am, too."
"What do you mean? What have I to do with you?"
"A good deal," said the stranger. "I am your uncle!"
Nicholas gasped for breath. What! this low, common person his uncle? He
would not credit it.
"That's a lie!" he said. "You are trying to humbug me."
"Not so fast, nephew Nicholas," said Dick. "You can't alter facts. I'm
your mother's brother. Didn't she ever tell you of your Uncle Dick?"
Uncle Dick! Nicholas did remember that his mother had named such a
person, and the uncomfortable apprehension dawned upon him that the
stranger's claim was well founded, after all. He kept silent, but flared
at the stranger in a state of mental disturbance.
"I see you've heard of me," said Dick, with a short laugh. "Is your
mother at home?"
"I believe so," said Nicholas, sullenly.
"I've come a long way to see her. Will you go in and tell her I am
here?"
Nicholas was not overwilling to obey the person whom he had just called
low, but he felt considerable curiosity as to whether the man was really
his uncle, and this decided him to comply with his request.
"I will speak to my mother," he said. "She will know whether you are
what you claim to be."
"Yes, she will know. I don't believe she has forgotten brother Dick."
Nicholas sought and found his mother.
"What, Nicholas, back so soon?" she said, looking up from her sewing.
"No, mother, I haven't started yet. There's a person down stairs who
says he is my Uncle Dick, and he wants to see you."
"Good heavens! is he here?" exclaimed Mrs. Kent, in a tone of vexation.
"How in the world did he find me out?"
"Then it is he? He is a very common-looking person."
"He's kept low associates. Where is he?"
"Down on the lawn."
"Tell him to come in. I suppose I shall have to see him."
