we 'll talk of it to-morrow. Meantime I 
must get some air." 
Mrs. Wix, with her back to the window, 
threw up her head to a height that still, for 
a moment, had the effect of detaining him. 
"All the air in France, Sir Claude, won't, 
I think, give you the courage to deny that 
you 're simply afraid of her ! " 
Oh, this time he did look queer; Maisie 
had no need of Susan's vocabulary to note 
it ! It would have come to her of itself as, 
with his hand on the door, he turned his 
eyes from his stepdaughter to her governess 
and then back again. Resting on Maisie' s, 
though for ever so short a time, there was 
something they gave up to her and tried to 
explain. His lips, however, explained noth- 
ing ; they only completed his collapse. " Yes. 
I'm simply afraid of her!" He opened 
the door and passed out. 
It brought back to Maisie his confession 
of fear of her mother; it made her step- 
mother then the second lady about whom he 
failed of the particular virtue that was sup- 
posed most to mark a gentleman. In fact 
there were three of them if she counted in 
Mrs. Wix, before whom he had undeniably 
quailed. Well, his want of valor was but a 
deeper appeal to her tenderness. To thrill 
with response to it she had only to remember 
all the ladies she herself had, as they called 
it, funked. 
XXIV 
IT continued to rain so hard that her fond 
private calculation of explaining the Con- 
tinent to their visitor had to contain a pro- 
viso for some adequate treatment of the 
weather. At the table d'hote that evening 
she threw out a variety of lights : this was 
the second ceremony of the sort she had sat 
through, and she would have neglected her 
privilege and dishonored her vocabulary 
which indeed consisted mainly of the names 
of dishes if she had not been proportion- 
ately ready to dazzle with interpretations. 
Preoccupied and overawed, Mrs. Wix was 
comparatively dim : she accepted her pupil's 
version of the mysteries of the menu in a 
manner that might have struck the child as 
the depression of a credulity conscious not 
so much of its needs as of its dimensions. 
Maisie was soon enough though it scarce 
happened before bedtime confronted again 
with the different sort of prospectus for 
which she reserved her criticism. They re- 
mounted together to their sitting-room while 
Sir Claude, who said he would join them 
later, remained below to smoke and to con- 
verse with the old acquaintances that he met 
wherever he turned. He had offered his 
companions, for coffee, the enjoyment of the 
salon de lecture ; but Mrs. Wix had replied 
promptly, and with something of an air, that 
it struck her their own apartments supplied 
them every convenience. They supplied 
the good lady herself, Maisie could immedi- 
ately observe, not only that of this rather 
grand reference which, already emulous, 
so far as it went, of her pupil, she made as if 
she had spent her life in salons ; but that of 
a lean French sofa where she could sit and 
stare at the faint French lamp (in default of 
the French clock that had stopped) as if for 
some account of the time Sir Claude would 
so markedly interpose. Her demeanor ac- 
cused him so directly of hovering beyond 
her reach that Maisie sought to divert her by 
a report of Susan's quaint attitude toward 
what they had talked of after lunch. Maisie 
had mentioned to the young woman, for 
sympathy's sake, the plan for her relief ; but 
her disapproval of alien ways appeared, 
strange to say, only to prompt her to hug 
her gloom ; so that, between Mrs. Wix's ef- 
fect of displacing her and the visible stiffen- 
ing of her back, the child had the sense of a 
double office, an enlarged play for pacific 
powers. 
These powers played to no great purpose, 
it was true, in keeping before Mrs. Wix the 
vision of Sir Claude's perversity, which hung 
there in the pauses of talk and which he 
himself, after unmistakable delays, finally 
made quite lurid by bursting in it was near 
ten o'clock with an object held up in his 
hand. She knew before he spoke what it 
was ; she knew at least from the underlying 
sense of all that, since the hour spent after 
the Exhibition with her father, had not 
sprung up to reinstate Mr. Farange she 
knew it meant a triumph for Mrs. Beale. 
The mere present sight of Sir Claude's face 
caused her, on the spot, to drop straight 
through her last impression of Mr. Farange a 
plummet that reached still deeper down than 
the security of these days of flight. She 
had wrapped that impression in silence a 
silence that had parted with half its veil to 
cover also, from the hour of Sir Claude's ad- 
vent, the image of Mr. Farange's wife. But 
as the object in Sir Claude's hand revealed 
itself as a letter which he held up very high, 
so there was something in his mere motion 
that laid Mrs. Beale again bare. " Here we 
are ! " he cried almost from the door, shaking 
his trophy at them and looking from one to 
the other. Then he came straight to Mrs. 
Wix: he had pulled two papers out of the 
envelope and glanced at them again to see 
which was which. He thrust one out open 
to Mrs. Wix. " Read that." She looked at 
him hard, as if in fear : it was impossible not 
to see that he was excited. Then she took 
the letter, but it was not her face that Maisie 
watched while she read. Neither, for that 
matter, was it this countenance that Sir 
Claude scanned : he stood before the fire 
and, more calmly now that he had acted, 
communed in silence with his stepdaughter. 
This silence was in truth quickly broken : 
Mrs. Wix rose to her feet with the violence 
of the sound she emitted. The letter had 
dropped from her and lay upon the floor ; it 
had made her turn ghastly white, and she 
was speechless with the effect of it. " It 's 
too abominable it 's too unspeakable ! " she 
then cried. 
"Isn't it a charming thing?" Sir Claude 
asked. " It has just arrived, enclosed in a 
word of her own. She sends it on to me 
with the remark that comment is superfluous. 
I really think it is that 's all you can say." 
" She ought n't to pass such a horror 
about," said Mrs. Wix. " She ought to put 
it straight in the fire." 
" My dear woman, she 's not such a fool ! 
It's much too precious." He had picked the 
letter up, and he gave it, again, a glance of 
complacency which produced a light in his 
face. " Such a document " he considered, 
then concluded with a slight drop " such a 
document is, in fine, a basis." 
"A basis for what?" 
"Well for proceedings." 
" Hers ? " Mrs. Wix's voice had become 
outright the voice of derision. " How can 
she proceed ? " 
Sir Claude turned it over. " How can she 
get rid of him ? Well she is rid of him." 
" Not legally." Mrs. Wix had never looked 
to her pupil so much as if she knew what she 
was talking about. 
"I dare say," Sir Claude laughed; "but 
she 's not a bit less deprived than I am ! " 
" Of the power to get a divorce? It's just 
your want of the power that makes the scan- 
dal of your connection with her. Therefore 
it's just her want of it that makes that of 
hers with you. That's all I contend!" 
Mrs. Wix concluded with an unparalleled 
neigh of battle. Oh, she did know what she 
was talking about ! 
Maisie had meanwhile appealed mutely to 
Sir Claude, who judged it easier to meet 
what she did n't say than to meet what Mrs. 
Wix did. "It's a letter to Mrs. Beale from 
your father, my dear, written from Spa and 
making the rupture between them perfectly 
irrevocable. It lets her know, and not in 
pretty language, that, as we technically say, 
he deserts her. It puts an end, forever, to 
their relations." He ran his eyes over it 
again, then appeared to make up his mind. 
" In fact it concerns you, Maisie, so nearly, 
and refers to you so particularly, that I really 
think you ought to see the terms in which 
this new situation is created for you." And 
he held out the letter. 
Mrs. Wix, at this, pounced upon it ; she 
had grabbed it too soon even for Maisie to 
become aware of being rather afraid of it. 
Thrusting it instantly behind her, she posi- 
tively glared at Sir Claude. "'See' it, 
wretched man the innocent child see such 
a thing? I think you must be mad, and she 
shall not have a glimpse of it while I 'm here 
to prevent." 
The breadth of her action had made Sir 
Claude turn red he even looked a little 
foolish. "You think it's too bad, eh ? But 
it 's precisely because it 's bad that it seemed 
to me it would have a lesson and a virtue for 
her." 
Maisie could do a quick enough justice to 
his motive to be able clearly to interpose. 
She fairly smiled at him. " I assure you I 
can quite believe how bad it is ! " She hesi- 
tated an instant ; then she added : "I know 
what 's in it." 
He of course burst out laughing, and while 
Mrs. Wix groaned an " Oh heavens ! " he 
threw off: " You would n't say that, old boy, 
if you did ! The point I make is," he con- 
tinued to Mrs. Wix with a blandness now 
re-established " the point I make is simply 
that it sets Mrs. Beale free." 
She hung fire but an instant. " Free to 
live with you?" 
" Free not to live, not to pretend to live, 
with her husband." 
" Ah, they 're mighty different things ! " 
a truth as to which her earnestness could now, 
with a fine, inconsequent look, invite the par- 
ticipation of the child. 
Before Maisie could commit herself, how- 
ever, the ground was occupied by Sir Claude, 
who, as he stood before their visitor with an 
expression half rueful, half persuasive, rubbed 
his hand sharply up and down the back of 
his head. "Then why the deuce do you 
grant so do you, I may even say, rejoice 
so that, by the desertion of my precious 
partner, I'm free?" 
Mrs. Wix met this challenge first with si- 
lence, then with a demonstration the most 
extraordinary, the most unexpected. Maisie 
could scarcely believe her eyes as she saw 
the good lady, with whom she had never 
associated the faintest form of coquetry, 
actually, after an upward grimace, give Sir 
Claude a great giggling, insinuating, naughty 
slap. "You wretch you know why ! " And 
she turned away. The face that, with this 
movement, she left him to present to Maisie 
was to abide with his stepdaughter as the 
very image of stupefaction; but the pair 
lacked time to communicate either amuse- 
ment or alarm before their interlocutress was 
upon them again. She had begun in fact to 
show infinite variety, and she flashed about 
with a still quicker change of tone. " Have 
you brought me that thing as a pretext for 
going over? " 
Sir Claude braced himself. "I can't, after 
such news, in common decency not. I mean 
don't you know? in common courtesy and 
humanity. My dear lady, you can't chuck a 
woman that way, especially taking the mo- 
ment when she has been most insulted and 
wronged. A fellow must behave like a gen- 
tleman, damn it, dear good Mrs. Wix. We 
did n't come away, we two, to hang right on, 
you know : it was only to try our paces and 
just put in a few days that might prove to 
every one concerned that we're in earnest. 
It 's exactly because we 're in earnest that, 
hang it, we need n't be so awfully particular. 
I mean don't you know? we need n't be 
so awfully afraid." He showed a vivacity, an 
intensity of argument, and if Maisie counted 
his words she was all the more ready to swal- 
low, after a single swift gasp, those that, the 
next thing, she became conscious he paused 
for a reply to. " We did n't come, old girl, 
did we," he pleaded straight, " to stop right 
away forever and put it all in now? " 
Maisie had never doubted she could be 
heroic for him. "Oh, no!" It was as if she 
had been shocked at the bare thought. 
"We're just taking it as we find it." She 
had a sudden inspiration, which she backed 
up with a smile. "We're just seeing what 
we can afford." She had never yet, in her 
life, made any claim for herself, but she hoped 
that this time, frankly, what she was doing 
would somehow be counted to her. Indeed 
she felt Sir Claude was counting it, though 
she was afraid to look at him afraid she 
should show him tears. She looked at Mrs. 
Wix ; she reached her maximum. " I don't 
think I should be bad to Mrs. Beale." 
She heard on this a deep sound, some- 
thing inarticulate and sweet, from Sir Claude ; 
but tears were what Mrs. Wix did n't scruple 
to show. " Do you think you should be bad 
to me? " The question was the more discon- 
certing that Mrs. Wix's emotion didn't de- 
prive her of the advantage of her effect. " If 
you see that woman again you 're lost ! " she 
declared to their companion. 
Sir Claude looked at the moony globe of 
the lamp ; he seemed to see for an instant 
what seeing Mrs. Beale would consist of. It 
was also apparently from this vision that he 
drew strength to return : " Her situation, by 
what has happened, is completely changed ; 
and it 's no use your trying to prove to me 
that I need n't take any account of that." 
" If you see that woman you 're lost ! " 
Mrs. Wix, with greater force, repeated. 
" Do you think she 'll not let me come 
back to you? My dear lady, I leave you 
here, you and Maisie, as an hostage to for- 
tune, and I promise you by all that 's sacred 
that I shall be with you again, at the very 
latest, on Saturday. I provide you with 
funds ; I install you in these lovely rooms ; I 
arrange with the people here that you be 
treated with every attention and supplied 
with every luxury. The weather, after this, 
will mend ; it will be sure to be exquisite. 
You 'll both be as free as air, and you can 
roam all over the place and have tremendous 
larks. You shall have a carriage to drive 
you ; the whole house shall be at your call. 
You 'll have, in a word, a magnificent posi- 
tion." He paused, he looked from one of his 
companions to the other as if to see the im- 
pression he had made. Whether or no he 
judged it adequate he subjoined after a mo- 
ment : " And you 'll oblige me, above all, by 
not making a fuss." 
Maisie could only answer for the impres- 
sion on herself, though indeed from the heart 
even of Mrs. Wix's rigor there floated, to her 
sense, a faint fragrance of depraved conces- 
sion. Maisie had her dumb word for the 
show such a speech could make, for the 
exquisite charm it could take from his ex- 
quisite sincerity; and before she could do 
anything but blink at excess of light she 
heard this very word sound on Mrs. Wix's 
lips, just as if the poor lady had guessed it and 
wished, snatching it from her, to blight it like 
a crumpled flower. " You 're dreadful, you 're 
terrible, for you know but too well that it 's 
not a small thing to me that you should ad- 
dress me in a fashion that 's princely ! " 
Princely was what he stood there and looked 
and sounded ; that was what Maisie, for the 
occasion, found herself reduced to simple 
worship of him for being. Yet, strange to 
say too, as Mrs. Wix went on, an echo rang 
within her that matched the echo she had 
herself just produced. " How much you 
must want to see her, to say such things as 
that and to be ready to do so much for the 
poor little likes of Maisie and me ! She has 
a hold of you, and you know it, and you 
want to feel it again, and from God knows, 
or at least  know, what base motive and de- 
sire to enjoy it once more and give your- 
self up to it ! It does n't matter if it 's one 
day or three; enough's as good as a feast, 
and the lovely time you 'll have with her is 
something you 're willing to pay for ! I dare 
say you 'd like me to believe that your pay 
is to get her to give you up ; but that 's a 
matter on which I adjure you not to put 
down your money in advance. Give her up 
first. Then pay her what you please ! " 
Sir Claude took this to the end; though 
there were things in it that made him color, 
called into his face more of the apprehension 
than Maisie had ever perceived there of a 
particular sort of shock. She had an odd 
sense that it was the first time she had seen 
any one but Mrs. Wix really and truly scan- 
dalized, and this fed her inference, which 
grew and grew from moment to moment, 
that Mrs. Wix was proving more of a force 
to reckon with than either of them had allowed 
so much room for. It was true that, long 
before, she had obtained a "hold" of him, 
as she called it, different in kind from that 
obtained by Mrs. Beale and, originally, by 
her ladyship. But Maisie could quite feel 
with him now that he had really not expected 
that advantage to be driven so home. Oh, 
they had n't at all got yet to where Mrs. Wix 
would stop, for the next minute she was 
driving harder than ever. It was the result 
of his saying with a certain dryness, though 
so kindly that what most affected Maisie in 
it was his patience: "My dear friend, it's 
simply a matter in which I must judge for 
myself. You 've judged for me, I know, a 
good deal of late, in a way that I appreciate, 
I assure you, down to the ground. But you 
can't do it always: no one can do that for 
another, don't you see? in every case. 
There are exceptions, particular cases that 
turn up and that are awfully delicate. It 
would be too easy if I could shift it all off 
on you ; it would be allowing you to incur an 
amount of responsibility that I should simply 
become quite ashamed of. You 'll find, I 'm 
sure, that you 'll have quite as much as 
you 'll enjoy if you 'll be so good as to 
accept the situation as circumstances happen 
to make it for you, and to stay here with our 
friend, till I rejoin you, on the footing of as 
much pleasantness and as much comfort 
and I think I have a right to add, to both of 
you, of as much faith in me as possible. " 
Oh, he was princely indeed ! that came out 
more and more with every word he said and 
with the particular way he said it, and Maisie 
could feel his monitress stiffen almost with 
anguish against the increase of his spell and 
then hurl herself, as a desperate defence from 
it, into the almost admitted inferiority of 
violence, of iteration. "You're afraid of 
her afraid, afraid, afraid ! Oh, dear, oh, 
dear, oh, dear ! " Mrs. Wix wailed it with a 
high quaver, then broke down into a long 
shudder of helplessness and woe. The next 
minute she had flung herself again on the 
hard sofa and had burst into a passion of 
tears. 
Sir Claude stood and looked at her a 
moment; he shook his head slowly and al- 
most tenderly. " I 've already admitted it 
I 'm in mortal terror, and we 'll let that settle 
the question. I think you had best go to 
bed," he added; "you've had a tremendous 
day and you must both be tired to death. 
I shall not expect you to concern yourselves 
in the morning with my movements. There 's 
an early boat on; I shall have cleared out 
before you 're up; and I shall moreover have 
dealt directly and most effectively, I assure 
you, with the haughty but not quite hope- 
less Miss Ash." He turned to his step- 
daughter as if at once to take leave of her 
and give her a sign of how, through all ten- 
sion and friction, they were still united in 
such a way that she at least needn't worry. 
" Maisie, boy ! " he opened his arms to her. 
With her culpable lightness she flew into 
them and, while he kissed her, chose the soft 
method of silence to promise him the silence 
that, after battles of talk, was the best balm 
she could offer his wounds. They held each 
other long enough to reaffirm intensely their 
vows; after which they were almost forced 
apart by Mrs. Wix's jumping to her feet. 
Her jump, either with a quick return or 
with a final lapse of courage, was also to 
supplication almost abject. " I beseech you 
not to take a step so miserable and so fatal. 
I know her but too well, even if you jeer at 
me for saying it; little as I 've seen her I 
know her, I know her. I know what she 'll 
do I see it as I stand here. Since you are 
afraid of her, it 's the mercy of heaven ; 
don't, for God's sake, be afraid to show it, 
to profit by it and to arrive at the very safety 
that it gives you. I'm not afraid of her, I 
assure you ; you must already have seen for 
yourself that there's nothing I'm afraid of 
now ! Let me go to her I 'll settle her, and 
I 'll take that woman back without a hair of 
her touched. Let me put in the two or three 
days let me wind up the connection ! You 
stay here with Maisie, with the carriage and 
the larks and the luxury; then I 'll return 
to you, and we 'll go off together and we 'll 
live together without a cloud. Take me, 
take me," she went on and on the tide of 
her eloquence was high. "Here I am; I 
know what I am and what I ain't; but I say 
boldly to the face of you both that I 'll do 
better for you, far, than ever she will even 
try to. I say it to yours, Sir Claude, even 
though I owe you the very dress on my back 
and the very shoes on my feet. I owe you 
everything that 's just the reason; and to 
pay it back, in profusion what can that be 
but what I want ? Here I am here I am ! " 
she repeated, spreading herself with an air 
of exhibition that, combined with her inten- 
sity and her decorations, appeared to suggest 
her for strange offices and devotions, for 
ridiculous replacements and substitutions. 
She manipulated her gown as she talked, she 
insisted on the items of her debt. " I have 
nothing of my own, I know no money, no 
clothes, no appearance, no anything; noth- 
ing but my hold of this one little truth which 
is all in the world I can bribe you with 
that the pair of you are more to me than all 
besides, and that if you 'll let me help you 
and save you, make what you both want pos- 
sible in the one way it can be, why, I 'll 
work myself to the bone in your service ! " 
Sir Claude wavered there without an an- 
swer to this magnificent appeal; he plainly 
cast about for one, and in no small agita- 
tion and pain. He addressed himself in his 
quest, however, only to vague quarters, until 
he met renewedly, as he so frequently and 
actively met it, the more than filial gaze of 
his intelligent little charge. That gave 
him poor plastic and dependent male his 
issue. If she was still a child, she was yet 
of the sex that could help him out. He 
signified as much by a renewed invitation to 
an embrace; she freshly sprang to him, and 
again they inaudibly conversed. " Be nice 
to her, be nice to her," he at last distinctly 
articulated "be nice to her as you 've not 
even been to me ! " On which, without 
another look at Mrs. Wix, he somehow got 
out of the room; leaving Maisie under the 
slight oppression of these words as well as 
of the idea that he had, unmistakably, once 
more dodged. 
XXV 
EVERY single thing he had thus prophesied 
came so true that it was after all no more 
than fair to expect quite as much for what 
he had as good as promised. His pledges 
they could verify to the letter, down to his 
very guarantee that a way would be found 
with Miss Ash. Roused in the summer 
dawn and vehemently squeezed by that inter- 
esting exile, Maisie fell back upon her couch 
with a renewed appreciation of his policy; 
a memento of which, when she rose, later on, 
to dress, glittered at her from the carpet in 
the shape of a sixpence that had overflowed 
from Susan's pride of possession. Six- 
pences really, for the forty-eight hours that 
followed, seemed to abound in her life; she 
fancifully computed the number of them 
represented by such a period of "larks." 
The number was not kept down, she pres- 
ently noticed, by any scheme of revenge for 
Sir Claude's flight which should take, on 
Mrs. Wix's part, the form of a refusal to 
avail herself of the facilities he had so bravely 
ordered. It was in fact impossible to escape 
them; it was, in the good lady's own phrase, 
ridiculous to go on foot when you had a car- 
riage prancing at the door. Everything 
about them pranced, the very waiters, even, 
as they presented the dishes to which, from 
a similar sense of the absurdity of perver- 
sity, Mrs. Wix helped herself with a freedom 
that spoke to Maisie quite as much of her de- 
pletion as of her logic. Her appetite was a 
sign to her companion of a great many 
things, and testified not less, on the whole, 
to her general than to her particular condi- 
tions. She had arrears of dinner to make up, 
and it was touching that in a dinnerless state 
her moral passion should have burned so 
clear. She partook largely, as a refuge from 
depression, and yet the opportunity to par- 
take was just a mark of the sinister symptoms 
that depressed her. The affair was in short 
a combat, in which the baser element tri- 
umphed, between her refusal to be bought off 
and her consent to be clothed and fed. It 
was not, at any rate, to be gainsaid that 
there was comfort for her in the develop- 
ments of France ; comfort so great as to leave 
Maisie free to take with her all the security 
for granted and brush all the danger aside. 
That was the way to carry out in detail Sir 
Claude's injunction to be "nice;" that was 
the way as well to look with her, in a sur- 
vey of the pleasures of life abroad, straight 
over the head of any doubt. 
They shrunk at last, all doubts, as the 
weather cleared up; it had an immense effect 
on them and became quite as lovely as Sir 
Claude had engaged. This seemed to have 
put him so into the secret of things, and the 
joy of the world so waylaid the steps of his 
friends, that little by little the spirit of hope 
filled the air and finally took possession of 
the scene. To drive on the long cliff was 
splendid, but it was perhaps better still to 
creep in the shade for the sun was strong 
along the many-colored and many-odored 
port and through the streets in which, to 
English eyes, everything that was the same 
was a mystery and everything that was 
