for by the forethought of Kendricks, and our concern was how each could
make the other go with the young people on their excursions and
expeditions.  We had seen and done all the things that they were doing,
and it presently bored us to chaperon them.  After a good deal of talking
we arrived at a rough division of duty, and I went with them walking and
eating and drinking, and for anything involving late hours, and Mrs.
March presided at such things as carriage exercise, concerts, and
shopping.

There are not many public entertainments at Saratoga, except such as the
hotels supply; but a series of Salvation Army meetings did duty as
amusements, and there was one theatrical performance—a performance of
East Lynne entirely by people of colour.  The sentiments and incidents
of the heart-breaking melodrama, as the coloured mind interpreted them,
were of very curious effect.  It was as if the version were dyed with the
same pigment that darkened the players’ skins: it all came out negro.
Yet they had tried to make it white; I could perceive how they aimed not
at the imitation of our nature, but at the imitation of our convention;
it was like the play of children in that.  I should have said that
nothing could be more false than the motives and emotions of the drama as
the author imagined them, but I had to own that their rendition by these
sincere souls was yet more artificial.  There was nothing traditional,
nothing archaic, nothing autochthonic in their poor art.  If the scene
could at any moment have resolved myself into a walk-round, with an
interspersion of spirituals, it would have had the charm of these; it
would have consoled and edified; but as it was I have seldom been so
bored.  I began to make some sad reflections, as that our American
society, in its endeavour for the effect of European society, was of no
truer ideal than these coloured comedians, and I accused myself of a
final absurdity in having come there with these young people, who,
according to our good native usage, could have come perfectly well
without me.  At the end of the first act I broke into their talk with my
conclusion that we must not count the histrionic talent among the gifts
of the African race just yet.  We could concede them music, I supposed,
and there seemed to be hope for them, from what they had some of them
done, in the region of the plastic arts; but apparently the stage was not
for them, and this was all the stranger because they were so imitative.
Perhaps, I said, it was an excess of self-consciousness which prevented
their giving themselves wholly to the art, and I began to speak of the
subjective and the objective, of the real and the ideal; and whether it
was that I became unintelligible as I became metaphysical, I found
Kendricks obviously not following me in the incoherent replies he gave.
Miss Gage had honestly made no attempt to follow me.  He asked, Why,
didn’t I think it was pretty well done?  They had enjoyed it very much,
he said.  I could only stare in answer, and wonder what had become of the
man’s tastes or his principles; he was either humbugging himself or he
was humbugging me.  After that I left them alone, and suffered through
the rest of the play with what relief I could get from laughing when the
pathetic emotions of the drama became too poignant.  I decided that
Kendricks was absorbed in the study of his companion’s mind, which must
be open to his contemporaneous eye as it could never have been to my
old-sighted glasses, and I envied him the knowledge he was gaining of
that type of American girl.  It suddenly came to me that he must be
finding his account in this, and I felt a little less regret for the
waste of civilities, of attentions, which sometimes seemed to me beyond
her appreciation.

I, for my part, gave myself to the study of the types about me, and I
dwelt long and luxuriously upon the vision of a florid and massive matron
in diaphanous evening dress, whom I imagined to be revisiting the
glimpses of her girlhood in the ancient watering-place, and to be getting
all the gaiety she could out of it.  These are the figures one mostly
sees at Saratoga; there is very little youth of the present day there,
but the youth of the past abounds, with the belated yellow hair and the
purple moustaches, which gave a notion of greater wickedness in a former
generation.

I made my observation that the dress, even in extreme cases of elderly
prime, was very good—in the case of the women, I mean; the men there, as
everywhere with us, were mostly slovens; and I was glad to find that the
good taste and the correct fashion were without a colour-line; there were
some mulatto ladies present as stylish as their white sisters, or
step-sisters.

The most amiable of the human race is in great force at Saratoga, where
the vast hotel service is wholly in its hands, and it had honoured the
effort of the comedians that night with a full house of their own
complexion.  We who were not of it showed strangely enough in the dark
mass, who let us lead the applause, however, as if doubtful themselves
where it ought to come in, and whom I found willing even to share some
misplaced laughter of mine.  They formed two-thirds of the audience on
the floor, and they were a cloud in the gallery, scarcely broken by a
gleam of white.

I entertained myself with them a good deal, and I thought how much more
delightful they were in their own kindly character than in their
assumption of white character, and I tried to define my suffering from
the performance as an effect from my tormented sympathies rather than
from my offended tastes.  When the long stress was over, and we rose and
stood to let the crowd get out, I asked Miss Gage if she did not think
this must be the case.  I do not suppose she was really much more
experienced in the theatre than the people on the stage, some of whom I
doubted to have ever seen a play till they took part in East Lynne.
But I thought I would ask her that in order to hear what she would say;
and she said very simply that she had seen so few plays she did not know
what to think of it, and I could see that she was abashed by the fact.
Kendricks must have seen it too, for he began at once to save her from
herself, with all his subtle generosity, and to turn her shame to praise.
My heart, which remained sufficiently cold to her, warmed more than ever
to him, and I should have liked to tell her that here was the finest and
rarest human porcelain using itself like common clay in her behalf, and
to demand whether she thought she was worth it.

I did not think she was, and I had a lurid moment when I was tempted to
push on and make her show herself somehow at her worst.  We had
undertaken a preposterous thing in befriending her as we had done, and
our course in bringing Kendricks in was wholly unjustifiable.  How could
I lead her on to some betrayal of her essential Philistinism, and make
her so impossible in his eyes that even he, with all his sweetness and
goodness, must take the first train from Saratoga in the morning?

We had of course joined the crowd in pushing forward; people always do,
though they promise themselves to wait till the last one is out.  I got
caught in a dark eddy on the first stair-landing; but I could see them
farther down, and I knew they would wait for me outside the door.

When I reached it at last they were nowhere to be seen; I looked up this
street and down that, but they were not in sight.




XII


I DID not afflict myself very much, nor pretend to do so.  They knew the
way home, and after I had blundered about in search of them through the
lampshot darkness, I settled myself to walk back at my leisure,
comfortably sure that I should find them on the verandah waiting for me
when I reached the hotel.  It was quite a thick night, and I almost ran
into a couple at a corner of our quieter street when I had got to it out
of Broadway.  They seemed to be standing and looking about, and when the
man said, “He must have thought we took the first turn,” and the woman,
“Yes, that must have been the way,” I recognised my estrays.

I thought I would not discover myself to them, but follow on, and
surprise them by arriving at our steps at the same moment they did, and I
prepared myself to hurry after them.  But they seemed in no hurry, and I
had even some difficulty in accommodating my pace to the slowness of
theirs.

“Won’t you take my arm, Miss Gage?” he asked as they moved on.

“It’s so very dark,” she answered, and I knew she had taken it.  “I can
hardly see a step, and poor Mr. March with his glasses—I don’t know what
he’ll do.”

“Oh, he only uses them to read with; he can see as well as we can in the
dark.”

“He’s very young in his feelings,” said the girl; “he puts me in mind of
my own father.”

“He’s very young in his thoughts,” said Kendricks; “and that’s much more
to the purpose for a magazine editor.  There are very few men of his age
who keep in touch with the times as he does.”

“Still, Mrs. March seems a good deal younger, don’t you think?  I wonder
how soon they begin to feel old?”

“Oh, not till along in the forties, I should say.  It’s a good deal in
temperament.  I don’t suppose that either of them realises yet that
they’re old, and they must be nearly fifty.”

“How strange it must be,” said the girl, “fifty years old!  Twenty seems
old enough, goodness knows.”

“How should you like to be a dotard of twenty-seven?” Kendricks asked,
and she laughed at his joke.

“I don’t suppose I should mind it so much if I were a man.”

I had promised myself that if the talk became at all confidential I would
drop behind out of earshot; but though it was curiously intimate for me
to be put apart in the minds of these young people on account of my years
as not of the same race or fate as themselves, there was nothing in what
they said that I might not innocently overhear, as far as they were
concerned, and I listened on.

But they had apparently given me quite enough attention.  After some
mutual laughter at what she said last, they were silent a moment, and
then he said soberly, “There’s something fine in this isolation the dark
gives you, isn’t there?  You’re as remote in it from our own time and
place as if you were wandering in interplanetary space.”

“I suppose we are doing that all the time—on the earth,” she suggested.

“Yes; but how hard it is to realise that we are on the earth now.
Sometimes I have a sense of it, though, when the moon breaks from one
flying cloud to another.  Then it seems as if I were a passenger on some
vast, shapeless ship sailing through the air.  What,” he asked, with no
relevancy that I could perceive, “was the strangest feeling you ever
had?”  I remembered asking girls such questions when I was young, and
their not apparently thinking it at all odd.

“I don’t know,” she returned thoughtfully.  “There was one time when I
was little, and it had sleeted, and the sun came out just before it set,
and seemed to set all the woods on fire.  I thought the world was burning
up.”

“It must have been very weird,” said Kendricks; and I thought, “Oh, good
heavens!  Has he got to talking of weird things?”

“It’s strange,” he added, “how we all have that belief when we are
children that the world is going to burn up!  I don’t suppose any child
escapes it.  Do you remember that poem of Thompson’s—the City of
Dreadful Night man—where he describes the end of the world?”

“No, I never read it.”

“Well, merely, he says when the conflagration began the little flames
looked like crocuses breaking through the sod.  If it ever happened I
fancy it would be quite as simple as that.  But perhaps you don’t like
gloomy poetry?”

“Yes, yes, I do.  It’s the only kind that I care about.”

“Then you hate funny poetry?”

“I think it’s disgusting.  Papa is always cutting it out of the papers
and wanting to send it to me, and we have the greatest times!”

“I suppose,” said Kendricks, “it expresses some moods, though.”

“Oh yes; it expresses some moods; and sometimes it makes me laugh in
spite of myself, and ashamed of anything serious.”

“That’s always the effect of a farce with me.”

“But then I’m ashamed of being ashamed afterward,” said the girl.  “I
suppose you go to the theatre a great deal in New York.”

“It’s a school of life,” said Kendricks.  “I mean the audience.”

“I would like to go to the opera once.  I am going to make papa take me
in the winter.”  She laughed with a gay sense of power, and he said—

“You seem to be great friends with your father.”

“Yes, we’re always together.  I always went everywhere with him; this is
the first time I’ve been away without him.  But I thought I’d come with
Mrs. Deering and see what Saratoga was like; I had never been here.”

“And is it like what you thought?”

“No.  The first week we didn’t do anything.  Then we got acquainted with
Mr. and Mrs. March, and I began to really see something.  But I supposed
it was all balls and gaiety.”

“We must get up a few if you’re so fond of them,” Kendricks playfully
suggested.

“Oh, I don’t know as I am.  I never went much at home.  Papa didn’t care
to have me.”

“Ah, do you think it was right for him to keep you all to himself?”  The
girl did not answer, and they had both halted so abruptly that I almost
ran into them.  “I don’t quite make out where we are.”  Kendricks seemed
to be peering about.  I plunged across the street lest he should ask me.
I heard him add, “Oh yes; I know now,” and then they pressed forward.

We were quite near our hotel, but I thought it best to walk round the
square and let them arrive first.  On the way I amused myself thinking
how different the girl had shown herself to him from what she had ever
shown herself to my wife or me.  She had really, this plain-minded
goddess, a vein of poetic feeling, some inner beauty of soul answering to
the outer beauty of body.  She had a romantic attachment to her father,
and this shed a sort of light on both of them, though I knew that it was
not always a revelation of character.




XIII


WHEN I reached the hotel I found Miss Gage at the door, and Kendricks
coming out of the office toward her.

“Oh, here he is!” she called to him at sight of me.

“Where in the world have you been?” he demanded.  “I had just found out
from the clerk that you hadn’t come in yet, and I was going back for you
with a searchlight.”

“Oh, I wasn’t so badly lost as all that,” I returned.  “I missed you in
the crowd at the door, but I knew you’d get home somehow, and so I came
on without you.  But my aged steps are not so quick as yours.”

The words, mechanically uttered, suggested something, and I thought that
if they were in for weirdness I would give them as much weirdness as they
could ask for.  “When you get along toward fifty you’ll find that the
foot you’ve still got out of the grave doesn’t work so lively as it used.
Besides, I was interested in the night effect.  It’s so gloriously dark;
and I had a fine sense of isolation as I came along, as if I were
altogether out of my epoch and my environment.  I felt as if the earth
was a sort of Flying Dutchman, and I was the only passenger.  It was
about the weirdest sensation I ever had.  It reminded me, I don’t know
how, exactly of the feeling I had when I was young, and I saw the sunset
one evening through the woods after a sleet-storm.”

They stared at each other as I went on, and I could see Kendricks’s fine
eyes kindle with an imaginative appreciation of the literary quality of
the coincidence.  But when I added, “Did you ever read a poem about the
end of the world by that City of Dreadful Night man?” Miss Gage
impulsively caught me by the coat lapel and shook me.

“Ah, it was you all the time!  I knew there was somebody following us,
and I might have known who it was!”

We all gave way in a gale of laughter, and sat down on the verandah and
had our joke out in full recognition of the fact.  When Kendricks rose to
go at last, I said, “We won’t say anything about this little incident to
Mrs. March, hey?”  And then they laughed again as if it were the finest
wit in the world, and Miss Gage bade me a joyful good-night at the head
of the stairs as she went off to her room and I to mine.

I found Mrs. March waiting up with a book; and as soon as I shut myself
in with her she said, awfully, “What were you laughing so about?”

“Laughing?  Did you hear me laughing?”

“The whole house heard you, I’m afraid.  You certainly ought to have
known better, Basil.  It was very inconsiderate of you.”  And as I saw
she was going on with more of that sort of thing, to divert her thoughts
from my crime I told her the whole story.  It had quite the effect I
intended up to a certain point.  She even smiled a little, as much as a
woman could be expected to smile who was not originally in the joke.

“And they had got to comparing weird experiences?” she asked.

“Yes; the staleness of the thing almost made me sick.  Do you remember
when we first compared our weird experiences?  But I suppose they will go
on doing it to the end of time, and it will have as great a charm for the
last man and woman as it had for Adam and Eve when they compared their
weird experiences.”

“And was that what you were laughing at?”

“We were laughing at the wonderful case of telepathy I put up on them.”

Mrs. March faced her open book down on the table before her, and looked
at me with profound solemnity.  “Well, then, I can tell you, my dear, it
is no laughing matter.  If they have got to the weird it is very serious;
and her talking to him about her family, and his wanting to know about
her father, that’s serious too—far more serious than either of them can
understand.  I don’t like it, Basil; we have got a terrible affair on our
hands.”

“Terrible?”

“Yes, terrible.  As long as he was interested in her simply from a
literary point of view, though I didn’t like that either, I could put up
with it; but now that he’s got to telling her about himself, and
exchanging weird experiences with her, it’s another thing altogether.
Oh, I never wanted Kendricks brought into the affair at all.”

“Come now, Isabel!  Stick to the facts, please.”

“No matter!  It was you that discovered the girl, and then something had
to be done.  I was perfectly shocked when you told me that Mr. Kendricks
was in town, because I saw at once that he would have to be got in for
it; and now we have to think what we shall do.”

“Couldn’t we think better in the morning?”

“No; we must think at once.  I shall not sleep to-night anyhow.  My peace
is gone.  I shall have to watch them every instant.”

“Beginning at this instant.  Why not wait till you can see them?”

“Oh, you can’t joke it away, my dear.  If I find they are really
interested in each other I shall have to speak.  I am responsible.”

“The young lady,” I said, more to gain time than anything else, “seems
quite capable of taking care of herself.”

“That makes it all the worse.  Do you think I care for her only?  It’s
Kendricks too that I care for.  I don’t know that I care for her at all.”

“Oh, then I think we may fairly leave Kendricks to his own devices; and
I’m not alarmed for Miss Gage either, though I do care for her a great
deal.”

“I don’t understand how you can be so heartless about it, Basil,” said
Mrs. March, plaintively.  “She is a young girl, and she has never seen
anything of the world, and of course if he keeps on paying her attention
in this way she can’t help thinking that he is interested in her.  Men
never can see such things as women do.  They think that, until a man has
actually asked a girl to marry him, he hasn’t done anything to warrant
her in supposing that he is in love with her, or that she has any right
to be in love with him.”

“That is true; we can’t imagine that she would be so indelicate.”

“I see that you’re determined to tease, my dear,” said Mrs. March, and
she took up her book with an air of offence and dismissal.  “If you won’t
talk seriously, I hope you will think seriously, and try to realise what
we’ve got in for.  Such a girl couldn’t imagine that we had simply got
Mr. Kendricks to go about with her from a romantic wish to make her have
a good time, and that he was doing it to oblige us, and wasn’t at all
interested in her.”

“It does look a little preposterous, even to the outsider,” I admitted.

“I am glad you are beginning to see it in that light, my dear, and if you
can think of anything to do by morning I shall be humbly thankful.  I
don’t expect to.”

“Perhaps I shall dream of something,” I said more lightly than I felt.
“How would it do for you to have a little talk with her—a little motherly
talk—and hint round, and warn her not to let her feelings run away with
her in Kendricks’s direction?”  Mrs. March faced her book down in her
lap, and listened as if there might be some reason in the nonsense I was
talking.  “You might say that he was a society man, and was in great
request, and then intimate that there was a prior attachment, or that he
was the kind of man who would never marry, but was really cold-hearted
with all his sweetness, and merely had a passion for studying character.”

“Do you think that would do, Basil?” she asked.

“Well, I thought perhaps you might think so.”

“I’m afraid it wouldn’t,” she sighed.

“All that we can do now is to watch them, and act promptly, if we see
that they are really in love, either of them.”

“I don’t believe,” I said, “that I should know that they were in love
even if I saw it.  I have forgotten the outward signs, if I ever knew
them.  Should he give her flowers?  He’s done it from the start; he’s
brought her boxes of Huyler candy, and lent her books; but I dare say
he’s been merely complying with our wishes in doing it.  I doubt if
lovers sigh nowadays.  I didn’t sigh myself, even in my time; and I don’t
believe any passion could make Kendricks neglect his dress.  He keeps his
eyes on her all the time, but that may be merely an effort to divine her
character.  I don’t believe I should know, indeed I don’t.”

“I shall,” said Mrs. March.




XIV


WE were to go the next day to the races, and I woke with more anxiety
about the weather than about the lovers, or potential lovers.  But after
realising that the day was beautiful, on that large scale of loveliness
which seems characteristic of the summer days at Saratoga, where they
have them almost the size of the summer days I knew when I was a boy, I
was sensible of a secondary worry in my mind, which presently related
itself to Kendricks and Miss Gage.  It was a haze of trouble merely,
however, such as burns off, like a morning fog, when the sun gets higher,
and it was chiefly on my wife’s account.

I suppose that the great difference between her conscience and one
originating outside of New England (if any conscience can originate
outside of New England) is that it cannot leave the moral government of
the universe in the hands of divine Providence.  I was willing to leave
so many things which I could not control to the Deity, who probably could
that she accused me of fatalism, and I was held to be little better than
one of the wicked because I would not forecast the effects of what I did
in the lives of others.  I insisted that others were also probably in the
hands of the somma sapienza e il primo amore, and that I was so little
aware of the influence of other lives upon my own, even where there had
been a direct and strenuous effort to affect me, that I could not readily
believe others had swerved from the line of their destiny because of me.
Especially I protested that I could not hold myself guilty of misfortunes
I had not intended, even though my faulty conduct had caused them.  As to
this business of Kendricks and Miss Gage, I denied in the dispute I now
began tacitly to hold with Mrs. March’s conscience that my conduct had
been faulty.  I said that there was no earthly harm in my having been
interested by the girl’s forlornness when I first saw her; that I did not
do wrong to interest Mrs. March in her; that she did not sin in going
shopping with Miss Gage and Mrs. Deering; that we had not sinned, either
of us, in rejoicing that Kendricks had come to Saratoga, or in letting
Mrs. Deering go home to her sick husband and leave Miss Gage on our
hands; that we were not wicked in permitting the young fellow to help us
make her have a good time.  In this colloquy I did all the reasoning, and
Mrs. March’s conscience was completely silenced; but it rose triumphant
in my miserable soul when I met Miss Gage at breakfast, looking radiantly
happy, and disposed to fellowship me in an unusual confidence because, as
I clearly perceived, of our last night’s adventure.  I said to myself
bitterly that happiness did not become her style, and I hoped that she
would get away with her confounded rapture before Mrs. March came down.
I resolved not to tell Mrs. March if it fell out so, but at the same
time, as a sort of atonement, I decided to begin keeping the sharpest
kind of watch upon Miss Gage for the outward signs and tokens of love.

She said, “When you began to talk that way last night, Mr. March, it
almost took my breath, and if you hadn’t gone so far, and mentioned about
the sunset through the sleety trees, I never should have suspected you.”

“Ah, that’s the trouble with men, Miss Gage.”  And when I said “men” I
fancied she flushed a little.  “We never know when to stop; we always
overdo it; if it were not for that we should be as perfect as women.
Perhaps you’ll give me another chance, though.”

“No; we shall be on our guard after this.”  She corrected herself and
said, “I shall always be looking out for you now,” and she certainly
showed herself conscious in the bridling glance that met my keen gaze.

“Good heavens!” I thought.  “Has it really gone so far?” and more than
ever I resolved not to tell Mrs. March.

I went out to engage a carriage to take us to the races, and to agree
with the driver that he should wait for us at a certain corner some
blocks distant from our hotel, where we were to walk and find him.  We
always did this, because there were a number of clergymen in our house,
and Mrs. March could not make it seem right to start for the races direct
from the door, though she held that it was perfectly right for us to go.
For the same reason she made the driver stop short of our destination on
our return, and walked home the rest of the way.  Almost the first time
we practised this deception I was met at the door by the sweetest and
dearest of these old divines, who said, “Have you ever seen the races
here?  I’m told the spectacle is something very fine,” and I was obliged
to own that I had once had a glimpse of them.  But it was in vain that I
pleaded this fact with Mrs. March; she insisted that the appearance of
not going to the races was something that we owed the cloth, and no
connivance on their part could dispense us from it.

As I now went looking up and down the street for the driver who was
usually on the watch for me about eleven o’clock on a fair day of the
races, I turned over in my mind the several accidents which are employed
in novels to bring young people to a realising sense of their feelings
toward each other, and wondered which of them I might most safely invoke.
I was not anxious to have Kendricks and Miss Gage lovers; it would be
altogether simpler for us if they were not; but if they were, the sooner
they knew it and we knew it the better.  I thought of a carriage
accident, in which he should seize her and leap with her from the flying
vehicle, while the horses plunged madly on, but I did not know what in
this case would become of Mrs. March and me.  Besides, I could think of
nothing that would frighten our driver’s horses, and I dismissed the
fleeting notion of getting any others because Mrs. March liked their
being so safe, and she had, besides, interested herself particularly in
the driver, who had a family and counted upon our custom.  The poor
fellow came in sight presently, and smilingly made the usual arrangement
with me, and an hour later he delivered us all sound in wind and limb at
the racecourse.

I watched in vain for signs of uncommon tenderness in the two young
people.  If anything they were rather stiff and distant with each other,
and I asked myself whether this might not be from an access of
consciousness.  Kendricks was particularly devoted to Mrs. March, who, in
the airy detachment with which she responded to his attentions, gave me
the impression that she had absolutely dismissed her suspicions of the
night before, or else had heartlessly abandoned the affair to me
altogether.  If she had really done this, then I saw no way out of it for
me but by an accident which should reveal them to each other.  Perhaps
some one might insult Miss Gage—some ruffian—and Kendricks might strike
the fellow; but this seemed too squalid.  There might be a terrible jam,
and he interpose his person between her and the danger of her being
crushed to death; or the floor of the grand stand might give way, and
everybody be precipitated into the space beneath, and he fight his way,
with her senseless form on his arm, over the bodies of the mangled and
dying.  Any of these things would have availed in a novel, and something
of the kind would have happened, too.  But, to tell the truth, nothing
whatever happened, and if it had not been for that anxiety on my mind I
should have thought it much pleasanter so.

Even as it was I felt a measure of the hilarity which commonly fills me
at a running race, and I began to lose in the charm of the gay scene the
sense of my responsibility, and little by little to abate the vigilance
apparently left all to me.  The day was beautiful; the long heat had
burned itself out, and there was a clear sparkle in the sunshine, which
seemed blown across the wide space within the loop of the track by the
delicate breeze.  A vague, remote smell of horses haunted the air, with
now and then a breath of the pines from the grove shutting the
race-ground from the highway.  We got excellent places, as one always
may, the grand stand is so vast, and the young people disposed themselves
on the bench in front of us, but so near that we were not tempted to talk
them over.  The newsboys came round with papers, and the boys who sold
programmes of the races; from the bar below there appeared from time to
time shining negroes in white linen jackets, with trays bearing tall
glasses of lemonade, and straws tilted in the glasses.  Bookmakers from
the pool-rooms took the bets of the ladies, who formed by far the greater
part of the spectators on the grand stand, and contributed, with their
summer hats and gowns, to the gaiety of the ensemble.  They were of all
types, city and country both, and of the Southern dark as well as the
Northern fair complexion, with so thick a sprinkling of South Americans
that the Spanish gutturals made themselves almost as much heard as the
Yankee nasals.  Among them moved two nuns of some mendicant order,
receiving charity from the fair gamblers, who gave for luck without
distinction of race or religion.

I leaned forward and called Kendricks’s attention to the nuns, and to the
admirable literary quality of the whole situation.  He was talking to
Miss Gage, and he said as impatiently as he ever suffered himself to
speak, “Yes, yes; tremendously picturesque.”

“You ought to get something out of it, my dear fellow.  Don’t you feel
copy in it?”

“Oh, splendid, of course; but it’s your ground, Mr. March.  I shouldn’t
feel it right to do anything with Saratoga after you had discovered it,”
and he turned eagerly again to Miss Gage.

My wife put her hand on my sleeve and frowned, and I had so far lost
myself in my appreciation of the scene that I was going to ask her what
