"Give it to me quick. Do not un 
wrap it." 
Adan handed over the meat, then dis 
mounted also. 
" A bear-trap ? " he asked. 
"Yes, a natural one. Come this way, 
before I unwrap the meat." 
The boys forced their way to the south 
of the large hole, dragging the still 
terrified horses, who were not disposed to 
respond to anything less persuasive than 
the spur. Roldan approached the edge of 
the excavation and shook the meat loose, 
fiinging the paper after it. As the smell 
of fresh beef pervaded the air it was 
greeted by a growl like rising thunder, 
and almost simultaneously the huge 
unwieldy form of the bear hurled itself 
down through the brush. The boys held 
their breath. Even Roldan felt a singing 
in his ears. But the grizzly, without 
pausing to ascertain his bearings, went 
down into the hole at a leap. He made 
one mouthful of the meat, then appeared 
to realise that he was in a trap. With a 
roar that made the horses rear and neigh 
like stricken things, he flung himself 
against the sides of his prison, drew back 
and leaped clumsily, tore up the earth, and 
galloped frantically to and fro. But he 
was caught like a rat in a trap. 
The boys laughed gleefully and remounted their horses, which also seemed 
to appreciate the situation, for they had 
quieted suddenly. 
 
" Adios ! Adios ! " cried Roldan, as they 
forced their way up to the trail the bear 
had discovered. " You will make a fine 
skeleton ; we will come back and look at 
you some day." 
But it was not the last they were to see 
of Bruin in the flesh. 
AN hour later they began to descend 
the mountain on the other side, and 
by dawn espied a ranch house in a valley. 
The white walls were pink under the first 
streamers of the morning. The redwoods 
rose like a solid black wall on the towering 
mountains on every side. 
" Ay ! " exclaimed Roldan, drawing a 
deep sigh. " Sleep and a hot breakfast. 
They will be good once more." 
"They will," answered Adan, who had 
been collapsing and digging his knuckles 
into his eyes for an hour and more. 
They feared that no one might be stir 
ring, but, as they approached the verandah, 
the door opened and a stout smiling Cali- 
fornian, dressed in brown small-clothes, 
appeared. 
" Who have we here ? " he cried. " But 
you are early visitors, my young friends." 
" We are dodging the conscript," said 
Roldan. " You will not betray us ? " 
" I should think not. I'd hide my own 
boys, if the mountains did not do that for 
me. Come in, come in. The house is 
yours, my sons. Burn it if you will. 
Tired ? Here. Go in and get into bed. 
The servants are not up, but I myself will 
make you chocolate and a tortilla." 
The boys did not awaken for eight 
hours. When they emerged, somewhat 
shamefacedly, they found the family as 
sembled on the verandah, drinking their 
afternoon chocolate, and impatient with 
curiosity. There were no girls to criticise
the dilapidated garments which the 
kind hostess had mended while the boys 
slept; but there were two youths of 
fourteen and fifteen and two young men 
who were lying in hammocks and smoking 
cigaritos. 
Roldan and Adan were made welcome 
at once. 
" My name is Jose Maria Perez," said 
the host, coming forward. " This is my 
wife, Dona Theresa, and these are my 
sons, Emilio, Jorge, Benito, and Carlos. 
What shall we call you, my sons?" 
" My name is Roldan CastaRada of the 
Rancho Los Palos Verdes, and this is my 
friend Adan Pardo of the Rancho Buena 
Vista." 
"Ay! we have distinguished visitors. 
But you were just as welcome before. Sit 
down while I go and see if the big stew 
I ordered is done. Caramba! but you 
must be hungry." 
The four lads quickly fraternised, and 
Roldan began at once to relate their 
adventures, continuing them over the 
steaming dish of stew. When he reached 
the point which dealt with the outwitting 
of the bear, Don Emilio sprang from his 
hammock. 
"A bear trapped?" he cried. "A 
grizzly ? We will have a fight with a bull. 
You are rested, no ? As soon as you have 
eaten, come and show us the way." 
The boys, always ready for sport, and 
believing that they were beyond the grasp 
of the law for the present, eagerly con 
sented. An hour later Don Emilio, Don 
 
Jorge, the four lads, and three vaqueros 
all sallied forth to capture one poor 
bear. The vaqueros dragged a sled, and 
much stout rope. 
When they reached the trap darkness 
had come, but the four boys held lighted 
torches over the hole this was their 
part. The bear, disheartened with his long 
and futile effort to escape, lay on the 
uneven surface below, alternately growling 
and roaring. As the torches flared above 
him he sprang to his feet with a vast roar, 
his eyes as green and glittering as marsh 
lights. In a moment a lasso had flown 
over his head and he was on his back. 
But his formidable legs were not to be 
encountered rashly. Each was lassooed 
in turn, also his back; then his huge 
lunging body was dragged up the side 
of the excavation and onto the sled. 
There he was bound securely ; then the 
rope about his neck was loosened and 
he was fed on a hind quarter of sheep. 
But it placated him little. His anger 
was terrific. He roared until the echoes 
awoke, and strained at the rope until it 
seemed as if his great muscles must 
conquer. 
But he was powerless, and the proces 
sion started: first Roklan and Benito 
with their torches; then two vaqueros 
dragging the sled, the third holding the 
rope which encircled the bear's neck, 
ready to tighten it on a second's notice. 
Following were Don Jorge and Don 
Kmilio, then the two other young torch 
bearer-. Thus was poor Bruin carried 
ignominiously out of the forest where he 
had been lord, to perform for the benefit 
of the kind he despised. That night he 
rested alone in a high walled corral, 
liberated by the quick knife of one of the 
vaqueros, who sprang through the door 
just in time to save himself. 
There was an angry guest on the ranch 
that night. The bear's lungs, which were 
of the best, had little repose, and he flung 
himself against the earth walls of the corral 
until they quivered with the impact. The 
horses in the neighbouring corrals 
whinnied ; the cows in the fields bellowed. It 
was a vocal night, and few slept. 
Nevertheless everybody was excited and 
good-natured next morning. Immediately 
after breakfast they went out to the corral, 
and by means of a ladder mounted the 
wall and stood on the broad summit. At 
a signal from Don Emilio a vaquero 
opened the gate cautiously and drove in 
a large bull, who had been carefully 
irritated since sunrise. 
The two unamiable beasts, glad of an 
object to vent their spleen upon, flew at 
each other. The bear, giant as he was, 
was ignominiously rolled in the dust by 
the furious onslaught of bulk and horns. 
He recovered himself with surprising 
alacrity, however, and rushed at the bull. The 
latter, off guard for the moment, and strug 
gling for his lost breath, was hurled on his 
back. He rolled over quickly, but before 
he could gather his legs under him, the 
bear sat himself squarely upon the heavy 
flanks. The bull jerked up his head, his 
eyes injected, his tongue rolling out. The 
bear raised one of his mighty paws and 
dealt him a box on the ear. The head 
fell with an ugly thud on the hard floor 
of the corral. The bear adjusted himself 
comfortably and licked his paws. 
On the wall the onlookers were far 
more excited than the gladiators in the 
arena. The Perez sympathised with their 
personal property, but Roldan and Adan 
felt that the bear was their menagerie, and 
that their honour was at stake. Party 
feeling ran very high. Roldan and Benito 
were twice separated by their anxious 
elders. 
"Ay! yi!" cried Carlos. "The bull 
wakes." 
The poor bull, in truth, despite the 
crushing weight on his vitals, raised his 
head again, shook himself feebly, and was 
once more boxed into unconsciousness. 
The side of his face was crushed ; his 
body was slowly flattening. The family 
encouraged him with tears and spirit. 
" Ay, Ignacio, Ignacio, my poor one ! "
cried Don Jose. " Arouse thyself and 
kill the brute. Ay ! thou wert so beautiful, 
so elegant, thy sleek sides like the satin of 
Dona Theresa and he like a wild man 
that has never washed. Where is thy 
pride, Ignacio? .Arouse thyself!" 
Thus encouraged, the bull raised his 
head once more. The bear gave him a 
whack that snapped his spinal cord, then 
rose and swung himself round the enclosure
with the arrogant mien of a bloated 
sultan who has swept off a troublesome 
head. This attitude aroused Benito to 
fury. 
" Ay, the cheat ! the assassin ! " he cried. 
" It was not a fair fight. Our Ignacio had 
no chance " 
" That is not true ! " exclaimed Roldan. 
" He had the same chance at the first. If 
you are not satisfied, Senorito Benito, then 
fight me." 
No sooner said than done. The boys, 
who stood some distance from the others, 
doubled their fists and rushed at each 
other like two fighting cocks. They pom 
melled for several minutes, then locked 
their arms about each other and went 
reeling about the wall, to the horror of the 
others, who dared not approach lest they 
should inflame them further. 
" Jump down ! Jump down, you im 
beciles ! " cried Don Jose. " Do you wish 
 
to be food for the bear ? A misstep " 
The words ended in a hoarse gurgle. 
Dona Theresa shrieked. Adan and Car 
los sobbed. The young men turned cold 
and weak. The two boys had fallen head 
long into the corral. 
They were sobered and fraternal in a 
moment. The bear stood upon his hind 
legs and opened his arms invitingly. He 
stood in front of the gate. 
" Ay! ay!" gasped Benito. "He wili 
eat us!" 
" No ; he will eat the bull first ; but he 
will hug us to death that is, if he gets 
us which he won t. Adan!" he cried, 
" lower the ladder." 
Benito began to cry, his terror enhanced 
by the babel of voices on the wall, each of 
which was suggesting a different measure. 
On the opposite wall and in the branches 
of a neighbouring tree were the Indian 
servants and "the vaqueros. They stared 
stupidly, with shaking lips. 
Adan had recovered his presence of 
mind. With a firm hand, he lowered the 
ladder. But his wit was not quick. He 
should have carried it along the wall and 
placed it behind the boys. Instead, it de 
scended several yards away. The bear, 
who appeared to be no fool, lowered his 
forepaws and trotted slowly toward the 
boys. 
"Juan ! " shouted Roldan to a vaquero. 
" Lasso the bull and drag him to the west 
side far from the gate." 
The vaquero, alert enough under orders, 
swung the lasso with supple wrist and 
missed. The boys dodged the bear, who 
seemed in no haste, but stalked them 
methodically, nevertheless. The vaquero 
swung again. This time the rope caught 
the horns, was tightened by a quick turn, 
and the carcass went thudding across the 
yard. The bear gave a furious howl and 
plunged after. The boys scampered up the 
ladder. Don Jose took each by the collar 
and shook them soundly. When they 
were released they embraced each other. 
"Ay! but I was inhospitable to fight 
my guest," sobbed Benito. 
" Ay, my friend," said Roldan, with dig 
nity, winking back the tears started by 
various emotions. " It is I who should have 
had my ears boxed by the bear for insult 
ing my host, and bringing anguish to the 
house of Perez." Then he embraced Adan, 
but this time mutely. 
Doila Theresa had been carried to her 
room, where she lay prcstrated with a ner 
vous headache; but her family and guests 
did ample justice to the chickens stewed 
in tomatoes, the red peppers and onions, 
the fried rice, tomales, and dulces which 
her cook had prepared in honour of the 
event. Excitement and good will reigned ; 
even Don Jose had forgiven the young 
offenders, and they all talked at once, at 
the top of their voices, as fast as they could 
rattle and with no falling inflection.
Roldan and Adan were pressed to remain at 
the Hacienda Perez until the search was 
over, and although the former had a secret 
yearning for adventure he was more than 
half inclined to consent. 
After a brief siesta the entire male
population of the hacienda retired to the wall 
of the corral to pot the bear. It was 
agreed that each should fire at once, and 
 
that he who missed should have no dulces 
for a week. 
The bear was sitting near the middle of 
the corral, surly but replete, for he had 
eaten of the bull. Don Jose gave the 
signal. Twenty-two shots were fired. 
The bear gave a roar which awoke the 
echoes of the forest, lunged frantically on 
shattered legs, then fell, an ugly heap of 
dusty grey hair. 
As the smoke cleared and Don Jose 
was announcing that only two Indian 
servants had missed, Benito clutched Roldan's 
arm suddenly. 
" Look up," he said. " Do you see any 
thing? Are not those men ; soldiers ? " 
Roldan looked up to a ledge of the 
high mountain before the house. A bend 
of the trail traversed a clearing. In this 
open were three men on horseback, mo 
tionless for the moment. 
" Adan ! " shouted Roldan. He ran 
down the ladder. 
" I cannot be sure that those are the sol 
diers," he called up to Don Jose. " But I 
take no risks. We must go." 
 
The others descended hastily. " My 
sons will have to hide too," said Don Jose. 
" There is plenty of time. In a moment 
those men will be in the forest again and 
can see nothing more for half an hour. 
He must do nothing while they watch 
there ! they have gone." 
He shouted to the vaqueros to saddle 
six fresh horses, and ordered the house 
servants to pack the bags with food. 
" There is a cave in the mountain on the 
other side which I defy anyone to find," 
said Don Jose. " If there were a war my 
sons should fight, but I need them now." 
While the horses were saddling, Roldan 
and Adan consulted together. At the end 
of a few moments the former went up to 
Don Jose. 
" I think it would be wiser to separate," 
he said. " Adan and I will go one way, 
your sons another. That will put them 
off the track ; and the cave, Carlos says, 
i- not very large." 
"As you like," said Don Jose, who was 
perturbed and busy. " A vaquero will go 
with you for a distance and advise you." 
The truth was, Roldan fancied lying 
inert in a cave for several days as little as 
he fancied the somnolent life of a barrack, 
and Adan, who had a secret preference for 
the cave, was too loyal to oppose him. 
In ten minutes the horses were ready, 
affectionate good-byes said, and Roldan 
and Adan, followed by many good wishes, 
and prayers to return, started southeast 
ward through a dense canon. 
IV 
THE vaquero guided the boys rapidly 
through the cafion. The almost 
perpendicular walls, black with a dense 
growth of brush and scrub trees, towered 
so high above them- that the atmosphere 
was damp and the long strip of sky was 
like a pale-blue banner. The trail was 
well worn, and there was nothing to 
impede their progress. The mustangs responded to the lifted bridle and ran at 
breakneck speed. They emerged at the 
end of half an hour. It was an abrupt 
sally, and the great level plain before them 
seemed a blaze of sunlight. 
" Bueno" said the vaquero, halting. 
* Ride straight ahead. Keep to the trail. 
At night you will come to a river. Before 
you reach it all trace of you will be lost, 
because between now and there are many 
side trails, and as the ground is so hard 
they cannot tell which you take. Cross the 
river and take the trail to the left. That 
will bring you to the Mission about 
twenty miles farther where the good 
padres will let you rest and give you fresh 
horses. The senor, meanwhile, will throw 
the officers off the scent. But if you are 
wise, you will make for the Sierras and hide 
there. Adios, senor, adios, senor; "and he 
wheeled about and disappeared into the 
darkness of the canon. 
" We are like the babes in the wood," 
said Adan. " I feel as if we never should 
find our way home again." 
"We shall," said Roldan, stoutly;
although he, too, felt the chill of the
immense solitude. " And we have begun 
well ! What an adventure to start with I 
I am sure we shall have more." 
Adan crossed himself. 
The boys rode at a long even gallop, the 
high chaparral closing behind them. 
Every half hour they paused, and Roldan, 
dismounting, held his ear to the ground. 
But as yet they were unpursued. 
A soft wind blew over the plain, 
fragrant with the honeydew of the chaparral. 
 
The sun set in a great bank of yellow 
cloud. Then the night came suddenly. 
A few moments later Roldan called: 
" Halt ! " and held up his hand. " I hear 
the rush of the water," he said. " We must 
be near the river." 
" It sounds as if it was high," said Adan. 
" It has rained hard this month. Suppose 
these horses don't swim ? " 
" We'll make them. Come on." 
" Ay ! yi ! " exclaimed Adan, not many 
moments after. 
They pulled up suddenly on the banks 
of the river, a body of water about three 
hundred yards wide. It was swollen almost 
level with the high banks. The tumultuous 
waters were racing as if Neptune 
astride them was fleeing from angry gods. 
There is something unhuman in the 
roar of an angry river : it has a knell 
in it. 
Roldan and Adan looked at each other. 
The latter's face had paled. Roldan 
contracted his lids suddenly, and when his 
friend met the glance that grew between 
them he compressed his lips and involuntarily 
straightened himself: he knew its 
significance. 
" We must cross," said Roldan. " It 
would never do to spend the night on this 
side. If they followed, they would never 
suspect us of crossing. If we remained 
here, we could not hear them until they 
were upon us." 
" Very well," said Adan. 
Roldan raised his bridle. The mustang; 
did not move forward, but cowered. " I 
don't like to hurt horses," said the young 
don, " but he's got to go." He clapped 
his spurs savagely against the animal's, 
sides, and the next moment the waves were 
lashing about him. 
Adan was beside him at once, and 
together they breasted the rushing waters. 
The mustangs were strong and made fair 
headway, incited by terror and the spur. 
The water was very cold, but the boys 
scarcely felt it. Their eyes were strained 
.toward the opposite shore, measuring the 
distance, which seemed to grow less very 
slowly. The stars were thick and the 
moon was floating just above the chaparral, 
but the darkness about them was grim, 
and only a narrow line of white indicated 
the shore. 
The horses were not able to keep a 
straight course. The current lashed 
them about more than once, but they 
righted, shook the water from their 
quivering nostrils, and plunged on. 
The boys glance so persistently sought 
their haven that they saw nothing of what 
was passing about them. They were 
within twenty yards of the shore. Adan, 
having the stronger beast, was some little 
distance ahead. He did not observe it. 
He was registering a vow that if he 
reached land in safety he would be drafted 
every year of his life before he would ford 
another river after heavy rain. 
Suddenly Roldan became conscious 
that the wiry little body between his 
gripping knees had relaxed somewhat the 
tension of its muscles. Was the poor 
brute collapsing? Roldan leaned over 
and patted his neck. It responded for a 
moment, then fell back again. Roldan 
set his lips. As he did so he cast about 
 
him the instinctive glance of those in 
peril. A huge log was bearing down 
upon him like a projectile. 
In a second his feet were out of his stir 
rups and he was crouching on the mus 
tang's back. The losf struck the beast 
full in the side, tossing Roldan as if he had 
been a feather. The mustang gave a 
hoarse neigh, unheard above the roar of 
the water. 
Roldan, keeping his face from the 
pounding waves as best he could, struck 
out for the bank. But the current was 
too much for his slender body, plucky as 
it was. He made a mighty effort and 
shouted, 
"Adan!" 
The high clear note pierced to his com 
panion's ear. Adan turned his head, 
uttered a cry, and pulled his unwilling 
mustang about. But the current was 
carrying the white face on the waves 
rapidly past. 
"Lariat!" Roldan managed to scream. 
Adan's faculties had been paralysed for 
the moment, but they responded almost 
 
automatically to that imperious will. He 
unwound the lariat rapidly from the pom 
mel, hastily gathered the loops, then flung 
it with sure hand straight at his friend. 
It fell about Roldan's neck. The boy 
jerked it over his shoulders, then signed 
to A dan to proceed. 
A clan once more urged his horse for 
ward, not daring to look behind. Roldan 
made no attempt to swim; he merely 
used his arms to keep his head above 
water. There were but a few yards farther. 
The mustang, despite his double load, 
made them, and scrambled up the bank. 
Adan, realising for the first time that 
he was stiff with cold, scrambled off and 
pulled in the rope with hands that were 
aching and almost numb. He heard 
Roldan strike the bank, a moment later 
the snapping of brush. Roldan's head 
rose into view, Adan gave a last despair 
ing tug, and a moment later the two boys 
lay on their backs, panting for breath. 
" DO you want any more adventures?" 
 asked Adan feebly, after a time. 
" Not at present," said Roldan. 
He raised himself stiffly. "Come," he 
said, " this will never do. We shall both 
have rheumatism. We must have a fire 
at once." 
Adan groaned pathetically, but got on 
his feet. They had found refuge in the 
open ; but a grove of trees was near, and 
in a quarter of an hour they had piled a 
heap of branches and chaparral as high as 
an Indian pyre, hunted up two pieces of 
flint, and sent sparks flying through the 
dry mass. 
The boys divested themselves of their 
dripping clothes and hung them close to 
the fire, then raced up and down with 
what energy was left in them to scotch 
the chill night air. Finally they paused 
breathless before the pile, which was now 
roaring merrily. 
" I should like to know what we are 
to have for supper," said Roldan. " That 
Mission is twenty miles away, and I for 
one can't walk to it. Climb up a tree 
and see if there is a light anywhere." 
" Thanks, senor," said Adan, " when my 
clothes are dry." 
" True, we must keep our skin. I have 
it ! " He sprang on the back of the mus 
tang, who also had fallen upon reach 
ing the shore but had risen to nibble for 
supper, and stood on the tips of his feet 
