" The Duchess's highway is clear," he said. "The 
way is open and the road is swept. But the broom — " 
He turned livid and reeled. 
" The broom is broken ! " he cried, as he fell at 
full length almost under the Arab mare's feet. 
He had been shot through the middle with an 
arrow, but had lived to tell of victory. In an instant 
the Queen knelt beside him, trying to raise his head; 
and he smiled when he knew her, and died. But 
there were gentle tears in her eyes as she rose to her 
feet and bade them bury the Gascon deep, while she 
herself laid his shield upon his knees, and crossed his 
hands upon his breast. 
Many others died there, and were buried quickly ; 
but the bodies of the Seljuks were dragged aside, 
out of the hne of the march ; and it was high noon, 
for all that had happened had taken place in 
about two hours. Yet as the way was long to 
the summit of the pass, those of Gilbert's men who 
had not been killed urged the Queen to march on 
at once, in order that the camp might be pitched 
by daylight where Gilbert was waiting. So Eleanor 
commanded that all her people should follow her 
in the best order they could keep, and she began 
to ride up the steep way. But in the valley the 
King's army was pressing on and up toward the 
place where Gilbert had fought yesterday, where 
the bones of the slain Seljuks were already white, 
and the gorged vultures perched sleeping in the 
noonday sun. 
Two hours passed, and because the guides knew the 
way well, it being now the third time of their pass- 
ing there, and because the Queen and her vanguard 
were on sure-footed horses, they reached the top in 
that time, and saw Gilbert and the eighty men he 
 
still had with him sitting on the rocks in their 
armour, waiting, and their horses tethered near by, 
but saddled and bridled. Then Gilbert stood out 
before the rest and waited for the Queen, who 
cantered forward and halted beside him. She began 
to speak somewhat hurriedly, and she constantly 
looked about her, rather than into his face, telling 
him how they had fought in the wood, and how the 
King and many of the host had gone round by the 
valley. Thereat Gilbert became yery anxious. 
"The ladies are following me," said Eleanor, 
gently, for she knew why he was pale. 
As she spoke, a cry came on the air, wild, distinct 
as the scream of the hungry falcon, but it was the 
cry of thousands. 
"Hurr! Hurr ! Hurr !" 
" The Seljuks are upon them," said Gilbert, " for 
that cry is from the pass above the valley. God 
have mercy on the souls of Christian men ! " 
Dunstan, who knew him well, brought his horse at 
the first alarm. 
" By your Grace's leave," said Gilbert, taking the 
bridle to mount, " I will take my men and do what I 
can to help them. I have explored the way round 
this mountain, and every man who follows me may 
kill ten Seljuks at an advantage, from above, just as 
the Seljuks are now slaying the King's men, below 
them." 
"Hurr! Hurr! Kill! Kill ! " 
Ear-piercing, wild, the cry of slaughter came up 
from the valley again and again, and worse sounds 
came now on the clear air, the howls of men 
pressed together and powerless, slain in hundi-eds 
with arrows and stones, and the unearthly shrieks 
of horses wounded to death. 
" They are in thousands," said Gilbert, listening. 
"I must have more men." 
" I give you my army," said Eleanor. " Command 
all, and do your best." 
For one moment Gilbert looked hard at her, scarcely 
believing that she meant the words. But she raised 
herself in her saddle, and called out in a loud voice to 
the hundreds of nobles and knights who had already 
come up. 
" Sir Gilbert Warde commands the army ! " she 
cried. " Follow the Guide of Aquitaine ! " 
There was light in his face as he silently bowed 
his head and mounted. 
" Sirs," he said, when he was in the saddle, " the 
way by which I shall lead you to rescue the King is 
narrow ; therefore follow me in good order, two and 
two, all those who have sure-footed horses. But 
beyond the defile as many as a thousand may fight 
without hindering each other. The rest encamp 
here and protect the Queen and her ladies. For- 
ward ! " 
He saluted Eleanor and rode away, leaving her 
there. She hesitated and looked longingly after 
him, but Anne of Auch laid a hand upon her 
bridle. 
"Madam," she said, "your place is here, where 
there is no one to command. And here also there 
may be danger before long." 
All the time, the dreadful din of fight came up 
 
from below, louder and louder. The Seljuks had 
waited until not less than five thousand men, with 
the King himself, had passed through the narrow 
channel from the lower valley and choked the 
upper gorge, pushed on by those behind ; and then, 
from their hiding-places among the rocks and trees, 
they had sprung up in their thousands to kill those 
taken in the trap like mice. B'^irst came the thick 
flight of their arrows, straight and deadly, going 
down with flashes into the sea of men ; and then 
great stones rolled from the heights, boulders that 
crushed the life out of horse and man and rolled 
straight through the mass of human bodies, leaving 
a track of blood behind ; and then more arrows, 
darting hither and thither in the sunlight like rock- 
swallows ; and again stones and boulders, till the 
confusion and the panic were at their height, and 
the wild Seljuks sprang down the sides of the 
gorge, yelling for death, swinging their scimitars, 
to kill more surely by hand, lest they should waste 
arrows on dead men. 
The blood was ankle-deep in the pass, through 
which more and more of the Christians were driven 
up to the slaughter by those who followed them. 
The King was forcing his way through his own men, 
and with them, toward the side where there were 
most enemies. His sluggish blood was roused at 
last, and his sword was out. Nor was it long before 
he was able to fight hand to hand ; but many of 
those around him were slain, because their arms 
were hampered in the close press. The Seljuks 
made room by killing, and climbed upon the slain 
towards the living. In the vast and screaming din, 
no one could have heard a voice of command, and 
the air was darkening with the steam and reek of 
battle. 
A full hour the Seljuks slew and slew, almost 
unharmed, and the Christians were dead in thou- 
sands under their feet. The King, with a hundred 
followers, was at bay by the roots of a huge oak tree, 
fighting as best he might, and killing a man now and 
then, though wounded in the face and shoulder, and 
sorely spent. But he saw that it was a desperate 
case and that all was lost, and no more of his army 
were coming up to the rescue, because the narrow pass 
was choked with dead. So he began to sing the 
penitential psalms in time with the swinging of his 
sword. 
It was towards evening, for the days were short, 
and the westering sun suddenly poured its light 
straight into the gorge and upon the rising ground 
above. Some of the Christians looked up out of the 
carnage, and the King turned his eyes that way 
when he could spare a glance, and suddenly the sun 
flashed back from the height, as from golden and 
silver mirrors quickly moving, and foremost was an 
azure shield with a golden cross flory, and the Chris- 
tians knew it well. Then a feeble shout went up 
from the few who lived. 
" The Guide of Aquitaine ! " they cried. 
But they were not heard, for suddenly there 
was a louder cry from the Seljuks, and it was 
not their war-yell, but something like a howl of 
fear. 
 
" The Wrath of God ! The White Fiend ! " 
For they were caught in their own trap, and death 
rose in their eyes. On the low heights above the 
gorge a thousand Christians had formed in ranks 
quickly, with lance lowered and sword loose in 
sheath. A moment later, and a steel cap went 
whirling through the air, glancing and gleaming in 
the sun, till it fell among the enemy below, and then 
came the sharp command, the leader's single word : 
« Charge ! " 
The Seljuks heard the terrible, quick clanking 
of armour as the great troop began to move, and 
the Guide of Aquitaine swept down in a storm of 
steel, bareheaded, his fair hair streaming on the 
wind, his eyes on lire in the setting sun, his great 
sword high in air, the smile of destruction on his 
even lips. 
"The White Fiend! The Wrath of God!" 
screamed the Seljuks. 
They tried to fly, but there was no way out, 
for the pass was choked with dead below, and 
they must win or die, every living soul of their 
host. So they turned at bay, joining their strength, 
and standing as they could on heaps of dead bodies. 
There, where they had slain, Gilbert slew them, and 
a thousand blades flashed red in the red sunlight, in 
time with his; and there was a low, sure sound of 
killing as steel went through flesh and bone and 
was wrenched back to strike again. The Seljuks 
fought like madmen and like wild beasts while they 
could ; but in Gilbert's eyes there was the awful light 
of victory, and his arm tired not, while rank upon 
rank the enemy went down, and the Christians who 
still lived began to smite them from behind. Then 
the pass was filled fuller than before, and a small 
red river leaped down from stone to stone, following 
the channel to the broad valley beyond, where nearly 
fifty thousand powerless men watched it flowing 
among them. But they listened, too, and the Seljuk 
yell grew fainter, because few were left, and there 
were few to cry out. 
The shout of triumphant Christian men came 
ringing down the evening air instead, and fear gave 
way to rejoicing and gladness; for though there 
were many dead in the upper valley, and many 
strong knights and men-at-arms, young and old, 
great and small, lay under the dead Seljuks who had 
killed them, yet the great body of the army was 
alive, the strength of the enemy was broken, and 
Gilbert had saved the King. In truth, he had 
found him in an evil case, with his back against 
the oak tree, and his knights dead around him ; three 
of the last Seljuks who lived were still hacking at 
him with their crooked swords, while he sang his 
"De profundis," for his soul's good, and used Ms 
best fence for his body's safety, hewing away like 
a strong man and brave, as he was, notwithstand- 
ing his faults; and he was sore spent. 
" Sir," he said, taking Gilbert's hand, " ask what 
you will of me, and if it be no sin, you shall have 
it, for you have saved the army of the Cross." 
But the Englishman smiled and would ask noth- 
ing, for he had honour enough that day. Yet he 
knew not that on the cliff whence he had descended 
 
to the valley, there sat two women who dearly lovec 
him, watching him from first to last, — the Queer 
and Beatrix. 
There they sat, unconsciously clasping hand ir 
hand, and their eyes were wide with fear for him 
and yet bright with pride of him as they saw th( 
splendour of his deeds, how his fair streaming haii 
went ever forward through the Seljuk ranks, and 
how his track was deep and red for others to follow, 
till it seemed not possible that one man could slaji 
so many and be unhurt, and a sort of awe came ovei 
them, as if he were a being beyond nature. 
Neither spoke, nor did either hand loosen on the 
other ; but when it was done, and they saw him dis- 
mount, and stand a little apart from other men, rest- 
ing on his sword, with the glory of the sunset in 
his face as he looked down the valley, then Beatrix 
turned to the Queen, and the tears of joy sprang 
to her eyes as she buried her girl's face in Eleanor's 
bosom, and she was glad of the kind arms that held 
her, seeming to understand all her joy. But the 
Queen's eyes were dry, her face was white, and her 
beautiful coral lips were parched as in a fever. 
CHAPTER XXIII 
In this way it came about that Gilbert, of whom the 
historians say that nothing else is known, was placed 
in command of the whole army of Crusaders, to lead 
them through the enemy's country down into Syria ; 
and so he did, well and bravely. After the great 
battle in the valley there was much fighting still to 
be done, day by day; for the Seljuks retreated foot by 
foot, filling the mountains and sweeping down like 
storm-clouds, to disappear as quickly, leaving blood 
behind them. But Gilbert led the van, and held the 
whole pilgrimage together, commanding where the 
camp should be each night, and ordering the march. 
Men wondered at his wisdom, and at his strength to 
endure hardship ; for all were very tired, and pro- 
vision was scarce, and the Greek hill people sold at 
a tenfold value the little they had to sell, so that the 
soldiers dined not every day, and a dish of boiled 
goat's flesh was a feast. So the pilgrimage went on 
in fighting and suffering, and as time passed the peo- 
ple were the more in earnest with themselves and 
with one another, looking forward to the promised 
forgiveness of sins when they should have accom- 
plished their vows in the holy places. 
They came down at last from the mountains to 
the sea, to a place called Attalia. Thence Gilbert 
would have led them still by land into Syria; but the 
 
King was weary, and the Queen also had seen the 
great mistake she had made in bringing her ladies 
into the pilgrimage ; for few had the strength of the 
hardy Anne of Auch, or the spirit of Beatrix, to 
endure without murmuring, like men, and like very 
brave men. The ladies' train had become a company 
of complainers, murmuring against everything, long- 
ing for the good things of France, and often crying 
out bitterly, even with tears, that they had been 
brought out to waste their youth and freshness, or 
even their lives, in a wilderness. Therefore Eleanor 
consented at last to the King's desire, which was to 
take ship from Attalia to Saint Simeon's Harbour, 
which is close to Antioch. In Antioch also reigned 
her uncle. Count Raymond, a man of her own blood, 
and thinking as she thought ; him sh« now desired 
to see and consult with, because he knew the world, 
and was an honourable man, and of good counsel. 
Yet there was danger there, too, for the King had 
once believed that this Count Raymond loved her, 
when he had been at the court, and the King was 
ever very jealous and sour. 
He would have brought the whole army to Antioch 
with him, but a great outcry arose ; for, whereas 
all the great barons and knights were for the safer 
journey, the poorer sort of pilgrims feared the 
sea more than they feared the Seljuks, and they 
would not take ship. So at last the King let 
them go, and they, not knowing whither they went, 
boasted that they should reach Antioch first. He 
gave them money and certain guides whom he 
trusted. 
Then Gilbert, seeing that there was a choice of 
two ways, sat down at night and debated what he 
should do. He desired to follow Beatrix with the 
ships, for he had not seen Sir Arnold de Curboil 
since Christmas Eve, and he believed that he had 
gone back to Ephesus to sail for Syria, so that at 
the present time he could not suddenly surprise his 
daughter and carry her away, to force her to a mar- 
riage of which heirs might be born to his great 
possessions in England. Gilbert knew also that his 
command over the whole army was ended, that the 
enemy's country was now passed, and that all were 
to join forces with Count Raymond to win back 
Edessa in the spring. He should therefore have 
more time and leisure to protect Beatrix if needful; 
and this was a strong thing to move him, for he had 
seen her many times of late, and he loved her with 
all his heart. 
But on the other hand, when he saw how many 
thousands of the poorer people, who had taken the 
Cross in simple faith that God would provide for the 
journey, were about to go up into the passes again, 
to fight their own way through, without King or 
Queen or army, his charity bade him stay with thein 
and lead them, as he only could, to live or die with 
them, rather than to go safely by water. So it was 
hard to decide which he should do, and he would not 
see Beatrix, lest she should persuade him ; nor would 
he let himself think too much of the people, nor mix 
with them, for they knew him, and honoured him 
greatly, and would have carried him on their 
shoulders to make him their leader if he would. 
 
Therefore his debating with himself came to noth- 
ing, and he slept HI. 
In the early morning, as he was walking by the 
seashore, he met the Lady Anne of Auch, with two 
women behind her, coming back from the mass, and 
they stood and talked together. As he looked into 
her face he saw friendship there, and suddenly, 
though he was often slow of impulse, he began to 
tell her his trouble, walking beside her. 
" Sir Gilbert," she said quietly, " I loved a good 
man, who was my husband, and he loved me; but he 
was killed, and they brought him home to me dead. 
I tell you. Sir Gilbert, that the true love of man and 
woman is the greatest and best thing in all the 
world ; but when two love one another, if their 
love be not the greatest thing save honour, then 
it is not true, nor worthy to be reckoned in account. 
Think well whether you love this lady truly, as 
I mean, or not, and if you do, there can be no more 
doubt." 
" Lady Anne," said Gilbert, when he had thought 
a little while, "you are a very honourable woman, 
and your counsel is good." 
After they had talked, they parted, and Gilbert 
went back to his lodging, being determined to go 
to Antioch by sea with the King and Queen; but 
still he was sorry for the poor pilgrims who were 
to be left behmd to fight a way through for them- 
selves. 
The great ships that had been hired for the voyage 
were heavy and unwieldy vessels to see, but yet swift 
through the water, whether the vast lateen sails drew 
full with, a fair wind or were close-reefed in a gale, 
till they seemed mere jibs bent to the long yards, 
or even when in a flat calm the vessels were sent 
along by a hundred sweeps, fifty on each side ; and 
they were partly Greek galleys and partly they 
were of Amalfi, whose citizens had all the commerce 
of the East, and their own quarter in every town 
and harbour, from the Piraeus round by Constanti- 
nople and all Asia Minor and Egypt, as far as Tunis 
itself. 
A clear northwest wind began to blow on the very 
day fixed for departure, and the big galleys swept 
out one by one, close upon each other, till they 
were outside and hoisted their sails, the sea being 
very smooth under the land ; and when they had 
run out two or three miles, with the wiad aft, they 
wore ship, one after another, coming to a little, to get 
their sheets in, and then holding off to jibe the great 
sails for the port tack, with much creaking of yards 
and flapping of canvas. Then, as they ran free 
along the coast to the eastward, the wind quartering, 
they got out great booms to windward, guyed fore 
and aft, and down to the forward beaching-hooks at 
the water's edge, at the first streak under the wales ; 
and they set light sails, hauling the tacks well 
out and making the sheet fast after the southern 
fashion, and then swaying away at the halyards, 
till the white canvas was up to the mast-head, 
bellying full, and as steady as the upper half of a 
half-moon. 
Before many days they came to Saint Simeon's 
Harbour, which was the port of Antioch, and saw 
 
the mighty walls and towers on the heights a dozen 
miles inshore ; and when Gilbert looked from the 
deck of his ship, he was glad that the army was not 
to besiege that great and strong fortress, since it 
belonged to Count Raymond, the Queen's uncle. 
But if he had known what things were to happen 
to him there, rather than have ridden up to the 
walled city he would have gone barefoot to Jeru- 
salem, to fulfil his vow as he might. 
Count Eaymond, with his broad shoulders and 
bronzed face and dark hair just turning gray at the 
temples, came down to meet the army at the shore; 
and first he embraced the King, according to custom, 
and then he kissed the Queen, his niece, not once, 
but four or five times, and she kissed him, for they 
were very glad to see each other ; but it is not true, 
as some have said in their chronicles, that there were 
thoughts of love between them. Queen Eleanor had 
many bitter enemies, and her sins were almost as 
many as her good deeds, but love for Count Ray- 
mond was not among them. 
Nevertheless, King Louis was very jealous as soon 
as he saw the two embracing, for he had always be- 
lieved that there was more than he knew. But he 
said nothing, for he feared his Queen. So there were 
great rejoicings in Antioch, when all the ladies and 
the barons and other nobles were installed there to 
keep Easter together; and though they had still some 
days of fasting during Holy Week, they were so glad 
to be in the great city, and so much lightened of 
trouble by having left the poorer pilgrims to shift 
for themselves, that it would have been easy for 
them to live on bread and water, instead of eating 
the dainty dishes of good fish, and the imitations 
of eggs made with flour and saffron and blanched 
almonds, and the delicate sweetmeats, and all the 
many good things which Count Raymond's fifty 
cooks knew how to prepare for Lent. For the 
Count lived luxuriously, though he was a good 
fighter at need. 
Most of all, he was a keen man, with few scruples, 
and the Queen began to ask him to help her in 
getting her marriage annulled, because she could no 
longer bear to be the wife of a spoon-faced monk, 
as she called the King ; whereat Count Raymond 
laughed. Then he thought awhile and bent his 
broad brows ; but soon his face cleared, for he had 
found a remedy. The King, he said, was surely 
Eleanor's cousin and within the prohibited degrees 
of consanguinity, so that the marriage was null 
and void ; and the Pope would be obliged against 
his will to adhere to the rule of the Church and pro- 
nounce it so. They were cousins in the seventh 
degree, he said, because the King was descended 
from Eleanor's great-great-great-great-grandfather, 
William Towhead, Duke of Guienne, whose daugh- 
ter, Adelaide of Poitiers, married Hugh Capet, 
King of France ; and the seventh degree of consan- 
guinity was still prohibited, and no dispensation 
had been given, nor even asked for. 
At first the Queen laughed, but presently she sent 
for the Bishop of Metz, and asked him ; and he said 
that Count Raymond spoke truly, but that he would 
have nothing to do with the matter, since it had never 
 
been the intention of the Church that her rules should 
be misused. Yet it is said that he was afterwards of 
the Council which declared that there had been no 
marriage. 
So, being sure, the Queen went to the King and 
told him to his face that she had meant to marry a 
king, and not a monk as he was, and that she had 
now found out that her marriage was no marriage, 
wherefore he was living in mortal sin ; and if he 
would save his soul he must repudiate her as soon 
as they should have returned to France. At this 
the King was overcome with grief and wept bit- 
terly, not because he was to be delivered from the 
woman of Belial, as he had prayed, . but because he 
had unwittingly lived in such great sin so many 
years. She laughed and went away, leaving him 
weeping. 
From that time she spent her days and her even- 
ings in consultation with Count Raymond, and they 
were continually closeted together in her apartment, 
which was in one of the western towers of the palace 
and looked out over the city walls towards the sea. 
It was early spring, and the air smelt of Syrian 
flowers and was tender to breathe. 
Although the King was now sure that Eleanor was 
not his wife, he continued to be very jealous of her, 
because he had once loved her in his dull fashion, 
and she was very beautiful. Therefore, when he was 
not praying, he was watching and spying, to see 
whether she were alone with Count Raymond. Cer- 
tain writers have spoken of the great Saladin at this 
time, saying that she met him secretly, for the de- 
liverance of her kinsman Sandebeuil de Sanzay, who 
had been taken prisoner, and that she loved Saladin 
for his generosity, and that the King was jealous of 
him ; which things are lies, because Saladin was at 
that time but seven years old. 
Daily, as he watched, the King grew very sure that 
Raymond loved Eleanor, and he swore by his hope 
of salvation that such things should not be. In this 
way the feast of Easter passed, and there were great 
rejoicings, and feastings, and all manner of delight. 
Also during this time Gilbert saw Beatrix freely, so 
that their love grew more and more ; but he seldom 
spoke with the Queen, and then briefly. 
Now Eleanor lived in the western tower, and only 
one staircase led up to the vestibule of her apartments, 
by which way Count Raymond came, and the great 
nobles when she summoned them, and the guards 
also. But beyond her inner chamber there was a 
door opening into the long wing of the palace where 
all her ladies were lodged, and by that door she went 
to them and they came to her. Often the Lady 
Anne came in, and Beatrix, and some of the others 
who were more especially her familiars, and they 
found the Queen and Count Raymond sitting in 
chairs, and talking without constraint, and some- 
times playing at chess by the open window which 
looked out on the west balcony. They thought no 
evil, for they knew that he had become her counsel- 
lor in the matter of the repudiation ; and Beatrix 
cared not, for she knew well that the Queen loved 
Gilbert, and she never saw him there. 
On an evening in the week after Easter the King 
 
determined that he would see the Queen himself and 
tell her his mind. He therefore took two nobles for 
an escort, with torchbearers and a few guards ; and 
when he had descended into the main court, he 
walked across to the west side and went up into 
Eleanor's tower ; for he would not go through the 
ladies' wing, lest his eyes should see some fair and 
noble maiden, or some young dame of great beauty, 
whereby his pious thoughts might be disturbed ever 
so little. 
Having come to the vestibule, he demanded admit- 
tance to the Queen's chamber ; and the young Lord 
of Sanzay, who was in waiting, begged him to wait 
while he himself inquired if the Queen were at leis- 
ure. Then the King was angry, and said that he 
waited for no one, and he went forward to go in. 
But Sanzay stood before the door and bade the 
Gascon guards form in rank and keep it till he 
should come back. The King saw that he had 
small chance of forcing a way, and he stood still, 
repeating some prayers the while, lest he should 
draw his sword and fight, out of sheer anger. Then 
Sanzay came back. 
"My lord King," he said in a clear voice, "her 
Grace bids me say that she has no leisure now, and 
that when she has need of a monk she will send 
for him." 
At the great insult, swords were out as soon as the 
words, and the broken reflections of steel flashed red 
under the high lamps and in the torchlight ; for the 
King drew to strike down Sanzay where he stood, and 
his nobles and guards drew with him, while the Gas- 
cons were as quick as they. But Sanzay would not 
draw his sword, for he had once saved the King's life 
in battle, and he thought it not knightly. Then 
some blows were exchanged and blood was shed ; but 
presently, being at a disadvantage, the King stepped 
back and lowered his point. 
" Sirs," he said, " it is not seemly that we of the 
Cross should kill one another. Let us go." 
When Sanzay heard this, he called his guards back, 
and the King went away discomfited. In the court- 
yard he turned aside and sat down upon a great 
stone seat. 
" Fetch me Sir Gilbert Warde," he said, " and let 
him come quickly." 
He waited silently till the knight came and stood 
before him in his surcoat and mantle, with only his 
dagger in his belt ; and the King bade all his at- 
tendants go away to a distance, leaving a torch 
stuck in the ring in the wall. 
He desired of Gilbert that he should take a force 
of trusted men who would obey him, and go up the 
west tower to bring the Queen out a prisoner ; for he 
would not stay in Antioch another night, nor leave 
her behind, and he meant to ride down to the har- 
bour and take ship for Ptolemais, leaving the army 
to follow him on the morrow. But for a space 
