"To the station-house. I'll tache ye to fight in the streets. You
must go along, too, and make complaint," he added, addressing Mike
Rafferty.
"All right, captain. Come along, b'yes," said Mike, with a wink of
enjoyment at his companions.
Ben felt not a little humiliated at walking along Broadway in the
clutch of a policeman. He felt bewildered, too, it had come upon
him so quickly. It really seemed as if misfortunes were crowding
upon him. First, his uncle had practically disowned him, he had
been rebuffed in his attempt to obtain employment, and now he was
arrested, and on his way to the station-house, charged with fighting
and disorderly conduct in the streets.
To make matters worse and heighten his humiliation, as he was
walking along, shrinking from observation, he met his cousin,
Clarence Plantagenet, in company with another boy, somewhat older,
dressed also in the height of the fashion.
Clarence regarded Ben in amazement, and turned away his head in a
disgust which he did not attempt to conceal.
"He will tell Uncle Nicholas," thought our unfortunate hero, "and he
will think I have been doing something disgraceful."
"Come along, ye young rapscallion!" said the policeman, roughly,
"I'll soon attind to your case."
                           CHAPTER VII.
                       A STRANGE ADVENTURE.
Under different circumstances Ben might have been interested in his
first view of a police station. But, standing before the bar in the
custody of a policeman, he felt too much troubled in mind to notice
his surroundings. As another prisoner was under examination, fifteen
minutes elapsed before Ben's turn came.
"What is the charge against this boy?" asked the sergeant.
"I caught him fightin' in the streets," said the officer. "He was
hittin' that b'ye yonder," indicating Mike Rafferty.
Mike, who looked emphatically like a hard case, tried to appear like
a respectable, well-behaved boy, who had been set upon by a young
ruffian.
"What's your name?" asked the sergeant, addressing Mike.
"Mike Rafferty, yer honor," answered Mike, thinking it best to be as
respectable as possible.
"Did this boy strike you?"
"Yes, and he did, your honor, and if you don't believe me just ax
any of them b'yes," indicating his companions. "Tommy Burke, didn't
you see him hit me?"
"That will do. What did he hit you for?"
"Faith, and I don't know," said Mike, shrugging his shoulders.
"Did you hit him first?"
"No, I didn't do nothing to him," answered Mike, virtuously.
"I think you have been here before," said the sergeant, whose memory
was good.
"I don't remember it," said Mike, cautiously, not thinking it
politic to contradict the sergeant.
"Officer, do you know anything of the boy you have brought in?"
"Oh, yes, I've known him a long time. He's wan of the gang,"
answered the policeman, glibly.
Just then a gentleman came forward, whom, much to Ben's delight, he
remembered as the keeper of a dry-goods store in Sunderland. Bowing
to the sergeant, he said, respectfully:
"I know this boy, and I know that the policeman is under a great
mistake. Will you allow me to say what I know about him?"
"Go on, sir."
"So far from his being a member of any city gang, he lives in the
country, and it is extremely doubtful if the policeman ever saw him
before. He only came to the city yesterday."
"He's wan of the gang," persisted the officer, sullenly. "I've seen
him ivery day for the last three months."
"Mr. Sergeant," said the former speaker, "this officer is guilty of
willful falsehood. I know the boy as well as I know my own son, and
I know that he has passed the last three months in the country."
"The boy is discharged," said the officer. He added, sharply:
"Officer Flynn, I expect the truth from you in future. The boy
you have arrested is much more respectable in appearance than his
accuser, and, under the circumstances, I cannot attach any credit to
your charge against him. Be more careful in future."
With sullen reluctance, the officer, who is a type of a considerable
number on the force, but not of all, released Ben.
Our hero walked up to the gentleman whose testimony had been of so
much value to him, and warmly thanked him.
"I was in a bad scrape," he said, "and I don't know how I would have
come out of it if you had not spoken for me."
"I chanced to see you in charge, and followed as soon as I could,"
said Mr. Woodbury. "What luck are you meeting with in New York, Ben?"
"Not much, yet; but don't say anything to mother about your meeting
me here, or she may be worried. I shall make every effort to get
something to do here. If I can't, I may be obliged to go home."
"Well, Ben, I wish you good luck. I must now leave you, as I have
several business calls to make."
Ben emerged from the station-house feeling that he had made a lucky
escape. The boys who had followed him (Mike and his friends) had
vanished, on finding that things did not turn out as they expected,
fearing that they might get into trouble themselves.
"I see," said Ben to himself, "that I must keep my eyes wide open in
New York. I used to think that an innocent person need not fear the
police, but I don't find it exactly so."
He strolled back to Broadway, and mingled once more with the busy
crowds. The same thought came to him, as to so many in his position,
"Everybody seems to have something to do except me. Why am I alone
idle?"
When Ben reached the Metropolitan Hotel he paused for a moment at
the entrance. As he stood there a gentleman passed out hurriedly.
As his eyes fell upon Ben his face lighted up, and a sudden plan
presented itself to his mind.
"Boy," he said, "do you live in New York?"
"I expect to, if I can find anything to do."
"Where do you come from?"
"Sunderland."
"Where is that?"
"In Connecticut."
"How far away is it?"
"About forty miles."
"What relatives have you living?"
"A mother and sister in the country."
As the gentleman did not inquire whether he had relatives in New
York, Ben did not see fit to volunteer information, particularly as
he did not care to claim relationship with an uncle and cousin who
were evidently ashamed of him.
"You are in search of a position, are you?" asked the gentleman.
"Yes, sir."
"And you are not particular what you do?"
"No, sir, as long as it is honest."
"Yes, I think he will do," soliloquized the gentleman, regarding
Ben intently. "He is the same size and shape, and has a similar
expression. It will be easy to mistake him for Philip."
Ben only caught part of this soliloquy, and of course he did not
understand it.
"Of course, of course," said the gentleman, hastily, answering Ben's
words after a while. "Well, I think I can give you something to do.
Do you write a fair hand?"
"Yes, sir, pretty fair."
"Come up stairs with me," said the gentleman, abruptly. "I am
staying at this hotel."
"Is it safe?" thought Ben; but the thought that he was a poor boy,
and was little likely to attract the attention of adventurers,
reassured him, and without hesitation he followed his new, and, as
it appeared, rather eccentric acquaintance.
They took the elevator and got out at the fourth landing.
His new friend nodded, and Ben followed him along the hall.
The gentleman drew a key from his pocket and opened the door of a
room near at hand.
"Come in," he said.
The room was a double one, consisting of a parlor and bedchamber.
There were two trunks in the bedroom.
"Sit down," said the gentleman.
Ben seated himself.
"What is your name?"
"Benjamin Baker."
"I engage you as my private secretary."
"Do you think I will suit?" asked Ben, considerably amazed.
"You won't have much to do," was the answer. "You are also to pass
for my nephew."
"I wonder whether I am awake or dreaming," he asked himself.
"I shall call you Philip Grafton," continued the stranger.
"Why can't I keep my own name?" asked Ben, uneasily.
"It is unnecessary to state. My secretary must be Philip Grafton,"
said the gentleman, firmly. "Don't you like the name?"
"Yes, sir; it is a good name. Many would prefer it to mine, but I
don't like to sail under false colors."
"It is a whim of mine," said the gentleman, "but I don't think you
will be sorry for acceding to it. Now, as to compensation, I propose
to pay you fifty dollars a month and board--that is, of course, you
will live with me."
"Fifty dollars a month!" repeated Ben, opening his eyes in amazement.
"Yes; isn't it satisfactory?"
"I don't see how I can possibly earn fifty dollars a month."
"That is my lookout. As long as I am satisfied, you needn't worry
about that."
"I am afraid you will be disappointed in me, sir."
"I hope not. Do as I tell you, and I shall be satisfied."
"When am I to go to work?" asked Ben.
"You will enter upon your duties at once. I suppose you have no
objection?"
"Am I to live at the hotel with you, sir?"
"Yes."
"Then I will go and get my clothes."
"Ah, yes; I didn't think of that. You won't need to get them."
"Won't need to get my clothes?" repeated Ben in amazement.
He began to think his employer was out of his head.
"I have clothes for you here--in that trunk. This key fits it. Open
it."
Wondering much, Ben took the key, and, fitting it in the lock of
the smaller trunk, lifted the lid. He found it full of shirts,
under-garments, handkerchiefs, etc., of fine texture.
"You will find underneath two suits of clothes," said his employer.
"Take them out."
Ben followed directions.
"Now take off your own clothes--all of them--and dress yourself from
the contents of the trunk."
Ben hesitated. He could not at all understand what was happening to
him.
"Of course," said the gentleman, "your present clothing won't do for
my private secretary. The contents of this trunk are yours, if the
clothes fit you."
Ben proceeded to remove his clothing, and in a few minutes he was
newly rigged from top to toe. Every article fitted admirably.
"Now look at yourself in the mirror," said the gentleman, evidently
pleased with the transformation.
Ben looked in the mirror, and was delighted with the change in
his appearance. His outer suit was of fine French cloth, all
his under-garments were of costly fabric, and he found himself
transformed from a country boy in badly-cut garments of coarse cloth
to a finely-dressed young gentleman.
"How do you like it?" asked the gentleman, smiling.
"Very much," said Ben, sincerely.
"So do I," answered the gentleman.
"Where shall I put my old clothes?" asked Ben.
"Make a bundle of them and give them to some poor boy. You won't
need them."
Ben resolved, instead, to send them home by express. They might come
in use some time.
"Now," said the gentleman, "there is one thing more. Have you a
pocket-book?"
"Yes, sir."
"Here is a little money in advance. You will need to carry some
about with you."
He took from his own pocket-book fifteen dollars in bills and handed
them to Ben.
"I wonder if I am dreaming," thought our hero. "This may be like
the fairy gold I have read of."
As a matter of fact, however, they were bank-notes on the Park Bank
of New York, and Ben soon had occasion to test their genuineness.
"We will go down to lunch now," said Richard Grafton, for that was
the name of the gentleman, as Ben discovered.
Ben entered the large dining-room and took a seat next his employer.
Though new to hotel life he copied what he saw other guests do, and
no one suspected that the handsomely-dressed boy had not all his
life been used to luxury.
When the meal was over, Mr. Grafton said:
"You can go where you please this afternoon, but be on hand at six
o'clock. We shall go to some theatre this evening."
Mr. Grafton left the hotel. Ben took an opportunity to examine
the hotel register soon after. He discovered that Mr. Grafton had
arrived the day before.
This was the entry:
    "RICHARD GRAFTON, London, England."
Underneath, to his amazement, he read another name:
     "MASTER PHILIP GRAFTON, London, England."
"I suppose that means me," he said to himself. "What does it all
mean? How did Mr. Grafton know that I would be here? He had never
seen me. And how did he find clothes to fit me so exactly?"
There was certainly a mystery, but it was fraught with so much to
the advantage of our hero that he resolved to cease asking questions
and accept the gifts of fortune.
                           CHAPTER VIII.
          AN UNEXPECTED MEETING AT THE GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
When Clarence Plantagenet saw his poor country cousin marching up
Broadway escorted by a policeman he was very much surprised, but on
the whole he was not displeased.
"Do you know that boy?" asked his companion.
"No, certainly not," answered Clarence, coloring.
"I thought you looked as if you did."
"He looks like a boy I met in the country last summer," was the
evasive answer.
"Poor devil! I wonder what he has been doing."
"Stealing, very likely," said Clarence, shrugging his shoulders.
"He doesn't look like a thief."
"Appearances are deceitful," said Clarence, oracularly.
At the supper-table, where Clarence met his father for the first
time since he had called at his office, he said:
"Oh, papa, what do you think? That country boy I saw in your office
has got into trouble."
"Do you mean your cousin Benjamin?"
"I suppose he is my cousin," said Clarence, reluctantly, "but I
don't care about knowing him for a relation. I saw him on Broadway
in charge of a policeman."
"Are you sure of this?" said Mr. Walton, much surprised.
"Yes; I knew him well enough by his clothes."
Clarence then gave an account of his meeting Ben.
"Did you speak to him?" asked his father.
"Mercy, no! Percy Van Dyke was with me. I wouldn't for a hundred
dollars have him know that I had a cousin arrested, and such a
countryfied-looking cousin, too."
"I think Benjamin would be a good-looking boy if he were well
dressed," said Mr. Walton.
"I don't," said Clarence, decidedly.
"I am sorry to hear he has got into trouble," said Mr. Walton, who
was not so mean as his son. "I think I ought to do something to help
him."
"Better leave him to his fate, pa. No doubt he is a bad boy."
"I can't understand why he should be. My sister is poor but an
excellent woman, and his father was an exemplary man."
"I don't think we have any call to trouble ourselves about this
boy," said Clarence. "He has disgraced us, and we couldn't do
anything without having it all come out."
"By the way, Clarence, I have two tickets to the Grand Opera House
this evening; would you like to go?"
"Just the thing, pa; I was wondering what we should do to pass the
time."
"Edwin Booth is to appear as Cardinal Richelieu. It is one of his
best characters. It will be a rare treat."
"Percy Van Dyke is to be there with his sister," said Clarence.
"That is the reason why he wouldn't take supper with me at
Delmonico's this evening."
"You will have a chance to see your friends between the acts," said
Mr. Walton. "I am perfectly willing you should become intimate with
the Van Dykes. By the way, bring your friend around and introduce
him to me."
"Yes, pa."
Mr. Walton had been the architect of his own fortune, while the Van
Dykes were descended from an old Dutch family, and had held for over
a century a high social position. Now that the merchant had money,
he thirsted for social recognition--something money will not always
buy.
Eight o'clock found father and son in choice orchestra seats in the
Grand Opera House, and they began to look about them.
Suddenly Mr. Walton said, sharply:
"What was all that rubbish you were telling me about your cousin
being arrested?"
"It was perfectly true, pa," answered Clarence, looking at his
father in surprise.
"What do you say to that, then?"
Following the direction of his father's finger, Clarence's eyes
rested upon his despised country cousin, elegantly dressed, sitting
two rows to the front, and a little to the right, with his eyes
fixed upon the curtain, which was then rising.
"That looks very much as if your cousin had been arrested!" said his
father, with a sneer.
"I can't understand it," ejaculated Clarence. "It can't be my
cousin. It must be some other boy that looks like him."
Just then Ben chanced to turn round. Observing his uncle's eyes
fixed upon him, he bowed politely and turned once more to the stage.
                            CHAPTER IX.
                       CLARENCE IS PUZZLED.
Clarence Plantagenet was so puzzled by the appearance of his cousin
at a fashionable theatre at a time when he supposed him to be
enjoying the hospitality of the police authorities that he paid
little attention to the stage performance. He had a large share of
curiosity, and resolved to gratify it, even if it were necessary to
speak to Ben himself.
At the end of the second act, Ben, feeling thirsty, and having
noticed that ice-water could be obtained in the lobby, left his seat
and walked up the aisle.
Clarence, observing this, rose also, and followed him.
He came to the water-fount just as Ben had quenched his thirst. He
was surprised anew when he observed how elegantly his cousin was
dressed. He was fastidious as to his own dress, but was obliged to
confess that Ben surpassed him in this respect.
Ben was conscious of the same thing, and, under the circumstances,
it gratified him.
Another thing also was evident to Clarence, though he admitted it
with reluctance, that Ben was a strikingly handsome boy. He had
appeared somewhat to disadvantage in his country-made suit, but all
signs of rusticity had now disappeared.
"Good evening," said Clarence, with a good deal more politeness than
he had displayed at the office.
"Good evening," said Ben, politely.
"I am surprised to see you here," continued Clarence.
"Yes," answered Ben. "I didn't expect to see you here."
"Oh, I come here often. I thought you would spend the evening in an
entirely different place," said Clarence, significantly.
"You are kind to think of me at all," said Ben, smiling.
Clarence was puzzled. He began to think that he must have been
mistaken in the person when he supposed he saw Ben in the custody
of an officer. Now he came to think of it, the boy under arrest had
shown no signs of recognition. We know that it was because Ben was
far from wishing to attract the attention of any one who knew him.
"Have you passed the day pleasantly?" inquired Clarence, thinking he
might lead up to the subject on which he desired light.
"Quite pleasantly," answered Ben. "New York is a beautiful city."
"I was afraid you had got into a scrape," said Clarence. "As I was
walking along Broadway, soon after you left father's office, I saw a
boy just like you in charge of a policeman."
"Poor fellow! I hope he got off. Did you stop and speak to him?"
"No; I was so surprised that I stood still and stared till it was
too late."
"I am not at all anxious to make the acquaintance of the police,"
said Ben, not sorry to have put his cousin off the scent.
"You have changed your dress," said Clarence, wishing to satisfy
his curiosity in another direction.
"Yes," answered Ben, with studied indifference.
"You have a good seat to-night."
"Yes; I have an excellent view of the play."
"The orchestra seats are high-priced. I thought you were short of
money."
"I was, but I am earning a good income now, and----"
"You haven't got a place, have you?" ejaculated his cousin, in
surprise.
"Yes, I have."
"Is it in a store?"
"No; I am private secretary to a gentleman living at the
Metropolitan Hotel."
"Private secretary!" exclaimed Clarence, in continued surprise. "You
can't be fit for such a position. How did you get it?"
"I am not sure whether I shall suit," said Ben, "but the gentleman
applied to me, and I accepted."
"I never heard of anything so strange. How much pay do you get?"
"Fifty dollars a month and board."
"It can't be possible!"
"That is what I say to myself," responded Ben, good-naturedly. "I am
afraid that my employer will find out that he is paying me too much
money."
"Are you staying at the Metropolitan, too?"
"Yes, for the present."
"I will call on you before long."
"Thank you."
"My aristocratic cousin seems disposed to be very polite to me now,"
thought Ben. "I am glad I put him off the track about the arrest."
"Excuse me," he said. "I believe the curtain is rising."
"Who is that fine-looking boy you were just speaking to?" asked
Percy Van Dyke, who came up at this moment.
"It is a cousin of mine," answered Clarence, not unwillingly.
"I should like to know what tailor he employs. He is finely
dressed, and a handsome fellow, besides."
"Of course, being a cousin of mine," said Clarence, with a smirk.
"How does it happen I have never met your cousin before?"
"He has only recently come to the city. He is staying at the
Metropolitan just at present."
Wonders will never cease. Here was Clarence Plantagenet Walton, the
son of a wealthy merchant, actually acknowledging with complacency
his relationship to a country cousin whom earlier in the day he had
snubbed.
He did not have another chance to speak to Ben that evening, as his
cousin remained in his seat till the close of the performance, and
in the throng at the close he lost sight of him.
As he and his father were walking home, Clarence said:
"I saw Ben in the lobby, between the acts."
"What did he say?" asked the merchant, who was himself not without
curiosity.
"I must have been mistaken about his being in charge of a
policeman," said Clarence.
"I thought you were."
"But the boy I saw looked precisely like Ben."
"What did your cousin say?"
"He has had a stroke of good luck. He has been engaged as private
secretary to a gentleman staying at the Metropolitan Hotel."
"Is this true, Clarence?"
"So Ben says; and he says, also, that he is to receive fifty dollars
a month."
"He can't be fitted for any such position with his country
education."
"So I told him."
"And what did he say?"
"He agreed with me. He said he was afraid his employer would find
out that he was paying him too much."
"The boy is candid. If all this is true, he is strangely lucky."
"Did you notice how stylishly he was dressed, pa?"
"I observed that he was dressed a good deal better than when he
called at my office to-day."
"Even Percy Van Dyke noticed it, and asked me who he was."
"Did you tell him?"
"Yes, I said he was a cousin of mine, who was staying at the
Metropolitan. He wanted to find out who was Ben's tailor."
"Your cousin seems a very smart boy. Perhaps he was right in
thinking that he would be better off in the city."
"I never saw such a change in a boy in my life. I told him I would
call on him at the hotel."
"Do so, Clarence. I confess I have a curiosity to learn how he has
managed to get such a position."
Certainly this had been a day of strange vicissitudes to Ben. He had
been in the depths of humiliation and at the summit of joy.
He had come to the city in the morning, a poor country boy. In the
evening he had attended a performance at a fashionable theatre as
elegantly dressed as any of his own age in the audience.
Mr. Grafton's room contained two beds, a large and a small one. The
latter was appropriated to Ben.
Our hero was very tired, and Mr. Grafton was obliged to call him
the next morning.
"Wake up, my boy," he said; "it is half-past eight."
"Half-past eight! Why, I got up at half-past six in the country."
"Dress yourself and we will go down to breakfast. Afterward I have
to make a business call, and you must go with me."
                            CHAPTER X.
                   AT THE OFFICE OF MR. CODICIL.
In one of the large business buildings appropriated chiefly to
offices, within a stone's throw of Printing-House Square, were the
commodious offices of Nathan Codicil, a prominent lawyer, whose
business related chiefly to the estates of wealthy clients.
Mr. Codicil himself was a dignified-looking gentleman, of grave
aspect, whose whitening locks seemed to indicate that he had reached
the age of threescore. He was a cautious, careful, trustworthy man,
whose reputation was deservedly high.
Mr. Grafton and Ben, stepping out of the elevator, paused before the
door of Mr. Codicil's office for a moment, when the former opened
the door and entered.
"You may sit down here, Philip, while I go in and speak to Mr.
Codicil," said Mr. Grafton, indicating a chair near the door.
"I wish he wouldn't call me Philip," thought Ben. "I like my own
name much better."
He did not complain aloud, however, for he felt that his salary
was liberal enough to compensate him for some slight sacrifice of
feeling.
"Good morning, Mr. Grafton," said the lawyer, advancing to meet his
visitor.
"Good morning, Mr. Codicil; I am glad to find you in, for I've made
quite an effort to reach your office at an early hour. You observe I
have brought the boy with me."
The sharp eyes of the lawyer had not failed to note the presence of
Ben.
"You observe that he is in excellent health, despite all reports to
the contrary."
"So it appears," said the lawyer. "He seems to have lost all
resemblance to the family."
"Do you think so?" said Grafton, carelessly. "Opinions differ about
that. For my own part, I can see the resemblance plainly."
"How old is he now?"
"Sixteen."
"I have not seen him since he was four years of age."
"Twelve years effect many changes."
"Very true."
"And now, Mr. Codicil, as I have another engagement very soon, if
you can conveniently attend to our little business at once--"
"Certainly, sir."
Mr. Codicil prepared a receipt which he requested Mr. Grafton to
sign. He then opened a check-book and filled a check for a large
amount, which he handed to his visitor. The latter pocketed it with
evident satisfaction.
"I hope, Mr. Codicil, you are not disappointed to know that the boy
is still alive?" he said.
"Heaven knows that I wish no harm to the lad!" said the lawyer,
warmly. "Yet, when I consider how his poor cousins are compelled to
struggle for a living, I cannot help regretting the injustice of
old John Portland's will, which maintains one grandchild in luxury,
while three others, having equal natural claims, should be thrown on
the cold mercies of the world."
"Yes, to be sure!" said Richard Grafton, carelessly. "Still a man's
last will and testament must be respected. A man can do as he likes
with his own."
"True, in the eyes of the law. Morally, there would be no harm in
your young ward doing something for his poor cousins. They would
like to meet him and make his acquaintance."
"I am afraid it won't be possible. We remain in the city but a short
time," said Mr. Grafton, hastily.
"Where do you go?"
"I have not quite decided whether to take a trip to the Pacific
coast or to return to Europe. Of course I shall apprise you promptly
when I have made my decision."
"Your ward is an American. Is it right to rear him in Europe,
leaving him without any adequate knowledge of his own country?"
"He will have advantages abroad which he would not have in his own
country. However, I will consider what you have said, and I may
arrange to spend a part of each year in America."
"I would like to speak to Philip," said Mr. Codicil.
Richard Grafton hesitated, but only for a moment. He was playing a
bold game for a large stake. It would not do to be timid.
"Come here, Philip," he said, "Mr. Codicil wishes to speak to you."
Ben rose and advanced to meet the lawyer.
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, sir," he said.
"And I am pleased to meet you, my boy. You look well!"
"Yes, sir; I always enjoy good health."
Mr. Codicil looked a little surprised, but he regarded with approval
the boy's bright face and manly figure.
"He is certainly a very attractive boy," thought the lawyer. "I
haven't much confidence in his guardian, but the boy doesn't appear
to be spoiled."
"Come, Philip. I am afraid I must hurry you away," said Mr. Grafton,
"as I have another visit to pay."
Ben shook hands with the lawyer and went out of his office.
"I cannot help distrusting that man," said Mr. Codicil, as the door
closed. "I believe him to be a trickster. I wish the boy were under
better influences."
Ben had been at such a distance from the inner office that he had
not heard or understood the conversation between his employer and
Mr. Codicil, yet it seemed to him singular that he should have
received so much attention from the lawyer.
"I suppose Mr. Grafton was speaking to him about me," said he to
himself.
When they reached the street Mr. Grafton said:
"Philip, I shall not require your company any longer this morning.
If you have any plans of your own you are quite at liberty to follow
them. Have you all the money you need?"
"Yes, sir; you gave me fifteen dollars yesterday."
"I remember. Very well; you can go where you please. We will meet at
the hotel at one o'clock."
"Would you object, Mr. Grafton, to my sending five dollars to my
mother? I shall have enough left for myself."
"Do as you like. You may send ten dollars if you like. When you are
out of money you have only to apply to me."
"You are very kind, sir," said Ben, gratefully.
"It is on account of your first month's wages, you know."
Then he paused a moment, regarding Ben with some apparent solicitude.
"By the way," he said, "I must guard you against saying too much
about me or your relation with me. I have a great dislike to have
myself or my affairs talked about."
"I will remember, sir."
"You need not mention that I have desired you to bear a different
name from your own."
"I will not mention it, sir, if you object."
"With me it is a matter of sentiment," said Mr. Grafton in a low
voice. "I had a dear son named Philip. He died, and left me alone in
the world. You resemble him. It is pleasant to me to call some one
by his name, yet I cannot bear to excite the curiosity of a cold,
unsympathizing world, and be forced to make to them an explanation
which will harrow up my feelings and recall to me my bitter loss."
"I quite understand you, Mr. Grafton," said Ben, with quiet
sympathy. "Though I would prefer to be called by my own name, I am
glad if I can help make up to you for your loss."
"Enough, my boy! I felt that I had judged you aright. Now go where
you please. Only try to be back at the hotel at one o'clock."
As Ben walked away Richard Grafton said to himself, in a tone of
self-congratulation:
"I might have sought far and wide without finding a boy that would
suit my purpose as well as this one. Codicil, as shrewd as he thinks
himself, was quite taken in. I confess I looked forward to the
interview with dread. Had I allowed the boy to be closely questioned
all would have come out, and I would have lost the handsome income
which I receive as his guardian. While the real Philip Grafton
sleeps in his foreign grave, his substitute will answer my purpose,
and insure me ease and comfort. But it won't do to remain in New
York. There are too many chances of discovery. I must put the sea
between me and the lynx-eyed sharpness of old Codicil."
Mr. Grafton's urgent business engagement was at the Park Bank,
where he got his check cashed. He next proceeded to the office of
the Cunard Steamship Company, and engaged passage for the next
