surprised look of my friend, which immediately told me she had missed
me. It came to me straightway, under her contact, that, with plain
heartiness, mere relieved anxiety at my appearance, she knew nothing
whatever that could bear upon the incident I had there ready for her. I
had not suspected in advance that her comfortable face would pull me
up, and I somehow measured the importance of what I had seen by my thus
finding myself hesitate to mention it. Scarce anything in the whole
history seems to me so odd as this fact that my real beginning of fear
was one, as I may say, with the instinct of sparing my companion. On
the spot, accordingly, in the pleasant hall and with her eyes on me,
I, for a reason that I couldn’t then have phrased, achieved an inward
revolution--offered a vague pretext for my lateness and, with the plea
of the beauty of the night and of the heavy dew and wet feet, went as
soon as possible to my room.
Here it was another affair; here, for many days after, it was a queer
affair enough. There were hours, from day to day,--or at least there
were moments, snatched even from clear duties,--when I had to shut
myself up to think. It was not so much yet that I was more nervous than
I could bear to be as that I was remarkably afraid of becoming so; for
the truth I had now to turn over was, simply and clearly, the truth
that I could arrive at no account whatever of the visitor with whom
I had been so inexplicably and yet, as it seemed to me, so intimately
concerned. It took little time to see that I could sound without forms
of inquiry and without exciting remark any domestic complication. The
shock I had suffered must have sharpened all my senses; I felt sure, at
the end of three days and as the result of mere closer attention, that
I had not been practised upon by the servants nor made the object of
any “game.” Of whatever it was that I knew nothing was known around
me. There was but one sane inference: someone had taken a liberty
rather gross. That was what, repeatedly, I dipped into my room and
locked the door to say to myself. We had been, collectively, subject to
an intrusion; some unscrupulous traveller, curious in old houses, had
made his way in unobserved, enjoyed the prospect from the best point of
view, and then stolen out as he came. If he had given me such a bold
hard stare, that was but a part of his indiscretion. The good thing,
after all, was that we should surely see no more of him.
This was not so good a thing, I admit, as not to leave me to judge
that what, essentially, made nothing else much signify was simply my
charming work. My charming work was just my life with Miles and Flora,
and through nothing could I so like it as through feeling that I could
throw myself into it in trouble. The attraction of my small charges
was a constant joy, leading me to wonder afresh at the vanity of my
original fears, the distaste I had begun by entertaining for the
probable grey prose of my office. There was to be no grey prose,
it appeared, and no long grind; so how could work not be charming
that presented itself as daily beauty? It was all the romance of the
nursery and the poetry of the schoolroom. I don’t mean by this, of
course, that we studied only fiction and verse; I mean I can express
no otherwise the sort of interest my companions inspired. How can
I describe that except by saying that instead of growing used to
them--and it’s a marvel for a governess: I call the sisterhood to
witness!--I made constant fresh discoveries. There was one direction,
assuredly, in which these discoveries stopped: deep obscurity continued
to cover the region of the boy’s conduct at school. It had been
promptly given me, I have noted, to face that mystery without a
pang. Perhaps even it would be nearer the truth to say that--without
a word--he himself had cleared it up. He had made the whole charge
absurd. My conclusion bloomed there with the real rose-flush of his
innocence: he was only too fine and fair for the little horrid, unclean
school-world, and he had paid a price for it. I reflected acutely that
the sense of such differences, such superiorities of quality, always,
on the part of the majority--which could include even stupid, sordid
head-masters--turns infallibly to the vindictive.
Both the children had a gentleness (it was their only fault, and
it never made Miles a muff) that kept them--how shall I express
it?--almost impersonal and certainly quite unpunishable. They were like
the cherubs of the anecdote, who had--morally, at any rate--nothing to
whack! I remember feeling with Miles in especial as if he had had, as
it were, no history. We expect of a small child a scant one, but there
was in this beautiful little boy something extraordinarily sensitive,
yet extraordinarily happy, that, more than in any creature of his age
I have seen, struck me as beginning anew each day. He had never for a
second suffered. I took this as a direct disproof of his having really
been chastised. If he had been wicked he would have “caught” it,
and I should have caught it by the rebound--I should have found the
trace. I found nothing at all, and he was therefore an angel. He never
spoke of his school, never mentioned a comrade or a master; and I, for
my part, was quite too much disgusted to allude to them. Of course I
was under the spell, and the wonderful part is that, even at the time,
I perfectly knew I was. But I gave myself up to it; it was an antidote
to any pain, and I had more pains than one. I was in receipt in these
days of disturbing letters from home, where things were not going
well. But with my children, what things in the world mattered? That was
the question I used to put to my scrappy retirements. I was dazzled by
their loveliness.
There was a Sunday--to get on--when it rained with such force and
for so many hours that there could be no procession to church;
in consequence of which, as the day declined, I had arranged with
Mrs. Grose that, should the evening show improvement, we would attend
together the late service. The rain happily stopped, and I prepared
for our walk, which, through the park and by the good road to the
village, would be a matter of twenty minutes. Coming downstairs to
meet my colleague in the hall, I remembered a pair of gloves that had
required three stitches and that had received them--with a publicity
perhaps not edifying--while I sat with the children at their tea,
served on Sundays, by exception, in that cold, clean temple of mahogany
and brass, the “grown-up” dining-room. The gloves had been dropped
there, and I turned in to recover them. The day was grey enough, but
the afternoon light still lingered, and it enabled me, on crossing
the threshold, not only to recognise, on a chair near the wide window,
then closed, the articles I wanted, but to become aware of a person on
the other side of the window and looking straight in. One step into the
room had sufficed; my vision was instantaneous; it was all there. The
person looking straight in was the person who had already appeared to
me. He appeared thus again with I won’t say greater distinctness,
for that was impossible, but with a nearness that represented a forward
stride in our intercourse and made me, as I met him, catch my breath
and turn cold. He was the same--he was the same, and seen, this time,
as he had been seen before, from the waist up, the window, though the
dining-room was on the ground-floor, not going down to the terrace
on which he stood. His face was close to the glass, yet the effect of
this better view was, strangely, only to show me how intense the former
had been. He remained but a few seconds--long enough to convince me
he also saw and recognised; but it was as if I had been looking at him
for years and had known him always. Something, however, happened this
time that had not happened before; his stare into my face, through
the glass and across the room, was as deep and hard as then, but it
quitted me for a moment during which I could still watch it, see it
fix successively several other things. On the spot there came to me the
added shock of a certitude that it was not for me he had come there. He
had come for someone else.
The flash of this knowledge--for it was knowledge in the midst of
dread--produced in me the most extraordinary effect, started, as I
stood there, a sudden vibration of duty and courage. I say courage
because I was beyond all doubt already far gone. I bounded straight
out of the door again, reached that of the house, got, in an instant,
upon the drive, and, passing along the terrace as fast as I could rush,
turned a corner and came full in sight. But it was in sight of nothing
now--my visitor had vanished. I stopped, I almost dropped, with the
real relief of this; but I took in the whole scene--I gave him time
to reappear. I call it time, but how long was it? I can’t speak
to the purpose today of the duration of these things. That kind of
measure must have left me: they couldn’t have lasted as they actually
appeared to me to last. The terrace and the whole place, the lawn and
the garden beyond it, all I could see of the park, were empty with a
great emptiness. There were shrubberies and big trees, but I remember
the clear assurance I felt that none of them concealed him. He was
there or was not there: not there if I didn’t see him. I got hold of
this; then, instinctively, instead of returning as I had come, went
to the window. It was confusedly present to me that I ought to place
myself where he had stood. I did so; I applied my face to the pane
and looked, as he had looked, into the room. As if, at this moment, to
show me exactly what his range had been, Mrs. Grose, as I had done for
himself just before, came in from the hall. With this I had the full
image of a repetition of what had already occurred. She saw me as I
had seen my own visitant; she pulled up short as I had done; I gave her
something of the shock that I had received. She turned white, and this
made me ask myself if I had blanched as much. She stared, in short,
and retreated on just my lines, and I knew she had then passed out
and come round to me and that I should presently meet her. I remained
where I was, and while I waited I thought of more things than one. But
there’s only one I take space to mention. I wondered why she should
be scared.
V
Oh, she let me know as soon as, round the corner of the house,
she loomed again into view. “What in the name of goodness is the
matter----?” She was now flushed and out of breath.
I said nothing till she came quite near. “With me?” I must have
made a wonderful face. “Do I show it?”
“You’re as white as a sheet. You look awful.”
I considered; I could meet on this, without scruple, any innocence. My
need to respect the bloom of Mrs. Grose’s had dropped, without a
rustle, from my shoulders, and if I wavered for the instant it was not
with what I kept back. I put out my hand to her and she took it; I held
her hard a little, liking to feel her close to me. There was a kind
of support in the shy heave of her surprise. “You came for me for
church, of course, but I can’t go.”
“Has anything happened?”
“Yes. You must know now. Did I look very queer?”
“Through this window? Dreadful!”
“Well,” I said, “I’ve been frightened.” Mrs. Grose’s eyes
expressed plainly that she had no wish to be, yet also that she
knew too well her place not to be ready to share with me any marked
inconvenience. Oh, it was quite settled that she must share! “Just
what you saw from the dining-room a minute ago was the effect of
that. What I saw--just before--was much worse.”
Her hand tightened. “What was it?”
“An extraordinary man. Looking in.”
“What extraordinary man?”
“I haven’t the least idea.”
Mrs. Grose gazed round us in vain. “Then where is he gone?”
“I know still less.”
“Have you seen him before?”
“Yes--once. On the old tower.”
She could only look at me harder. “Do you mean he’s a stranger?”
“Oh, very much!”
“Yet you didn’t tell me?”
“No--for reasons. But now that you’ve guessed----”
Mrs. Grose’s round eyes encountered this charge. “Ah, I haven’t
guessed!” she said very simply. “How can I if you don’t
imagine?”
“I don’t in the very least.”
“You’ve seen him nowhere but on the tower?”
“And on this spot just now.”
Mrs. Grose looked round again. “What was he doing on the tower?”
“Only standing there and looking down at me.”
She thought a minute. “Was he a gentleman?”
I found I had no need to think. “No.” She gazed in deeper
wonder. “No.”
“Then nobody about the place? Nobody from the village?”
“Nobody--nobody. I didn’t tell you, but I made sure.”
She breathed a vague relief: this was, oddly, so much to the good. It
only went indeed a little way. “But if he isn’t a gentleman----”
“What is he? He’s a horror.”
“A horror?”
“He’s--God help me if I know what he is!”
Mrs. Grose looked round once more; she fixed her eyes on the duskier
distance, then, pulling herself together, turned to me with abrupt
inconsequence. “It’s time we should be at church.”
“Oh, I’m not fit for church!”
“Won’t it do you good?”
“It won’t do them----!” I nodded at the house.
“The children?”
“I can’t leave them now.”
“You’re afraid----?”
I spoke boldly. “I’m afraid of him.”
Mrs. Grose’s large face showed me, at this, for the first time, the
far-away faint glimmer of a consciousness more acute: I somehow made
out in it the delayed dawn of an idea I myself had not given her and
that was as yet quite obscure to me. It comes back to me that I thought
instantly of this as something I could get from her; and I felt it to
be connected with the desire she presently showed to know more. “When
was it--on the tower?”
“About the middle of the month. At this same hour.”
“Almost at dark,” said Mrs. Grose.
“Oh no, not nearly. I saw him as I see you.”
“Then how did he get in?”
“And how did he get out?” I laughed. “I had no opportunity to ask
him! This evening, you see,” I pursued, “he has not been able to
get in.”
“He only peeps?”
“I hope it will be confined to that!” She had now let go my hand;
she turned away a little. I waited an instant; then I brought out:
“Go to church. Good-bye. I must watch.”
Slowly she faced me again. “Do you fear for them?”
We met in another long look. “Don’t you?” Instead of answering
she came nearer to the window and, for a minute, applied her face to
the glass. “You see how he could see,” I meanwhile went on.
She didn’t move. “How long was he here?”
“Till I came out. I came to meet him.”
Mrs. Grose at last turned round, and there was still more in her
face. “I couldn’t have come out.”
“Neither could I!” I laughed again. “But I did come. I have my
duty.”
“So have I mine,” she replied; after which she added: “What is
he like?”
“I’ve been dying to tell you. But he’s like nobody.”
“Nobody?” she echoed.
“He has no hat.” Then seeing in her face that she already, in
this, with a deeper dismay, found a touch of picture, I quickly added
stroke to stroke. “He has red hair, very red, close-curling, and
a pale face, long in shape, with straight, good features and little,
rather queer whiskers that are as red as his hair. His eyebrows are,
somehow, darker; they look particularly arched and as if they might
move a good deal. His eyes are sharp, strange--awfully; but I only know
clearly that they’re rather small and very fixed. His mouth’s wide,
and his lips are thin, and except for his little whiskers he’s quite
clean-shaven. He gives me a sort of sense of looking like an actor.”
“An actor!” It was impossible to resemble one less, at least, than
Mrs. Grose at that moment.
“I’ve never seen one, but so I suppose them. He’s tall, active,
erect,” I continued, “but never--no, never!--a gentleman.”
My companion’s face had blanched as I went on; her round eyes started
and her mild mouth gaped. “A gentleman?” she gasped, confounded,
stupefied: “a gentleman he?”
“You know him then?”
She visibly tried to hold herself. “But he is handsome?”
I saw the way to help her. “Remarkably!”
“And dressed----?”
“In somebody’s clothes. They’re smart, but they’re not his
own.”
She broke into a breathless affirmative groan. “They’re the
master’s!”
I caught it up. “You do know him?”
She faltered but a second. “Quint!” she cried.
“Quint?”
“Peter Quint--his own man, his valet, when he was here!”
“When the master was?”
Gaping still, but meeting me, she pieced it all together. “He
never wore his hat, but he did wear--well, there were waistcoats
missed! They were both here--last year. Then the master went, and Quint
was alone.”
I followed, but halting a little. “Alone?”
“Alone with us.” Then, as from a deeper depth, “In charge,”
she added.
“And what became of him?”
She hung fire so long that I was still more mystified. “He went
too,” she brought out at last.
“Went where?”
Her expression, at this, became extraordinary. “God knows where! He
died.”
“Died?” I almost shrieked.
She seemed fairly to square herself, plant herself more firmly to utter
the wonder of it. “Yes. Mr. Quint is dead.”
VI
It took of course more than that particular passage to place
us together in presence of what we had now to live with as we
could--my dreadful liability to impressions of the order so vividly
exemplified, and my companion’s knowledge, henceforth,--a knowledge
half consternation and half compassion,--of that liability. There had
been, this evening, after the revelation that left me, for an hour,
so prostrate--there had been, for either of us, no attendance on
any service but a little service of tears and vows, of prayers and
promises, a climax to the series of mutual challenges and pledges that
had straightway ensued on our retreating together to the schoolroom and
shutting ourselves up there to have everything out. The result of our
having everything out was simply to reduce our situation to the last
rigour of its elements. She herself had seen nothing, not the shadow
of a shadow, and nobody in the house but the governess was in the
governess’s plight; yet she accepted without directly impugning my
sanity the truth as I gave it to her, and ended by showing me, on this
ground, an awe-stricken tenderness, an expression of the sense of my
more than questionable privilege, of which the very breath has remained
with me as that of the sweetest of human charities.
What was settled between us, accordingly, that night, was that we
thought we might bear things together; and I was not even sure that,
in spite of her exemption, it was she who had the best of the burden. I
knew at this hour, I think, as well as I knew later what I was capable
of meeting to shelter my pupils; but it took me some time to be wholly
sure of what my honest ally was prepared for to keep terms with so
compromising a contract. I was queer company enough--quite as queer as
the company I received; but as I trace over what we went through I see
how much common ground we must have found in the one idea that, by good
fortune, could steady us. It was the idea, the second movement, that
led me straight out, as I may say, of the inner chamber of my dread. I
could take the air in the court, at least, and there Mrs. Grose could
join me. Perfectly can I recall now the particular way strength came to
me before we separated for the night. We had gone over and over every
feature of what I had seen.
“He was looking for someone else, you say--someone who was not
you?”
“He was looking for little Miles.” A portentous clearness now
possessed me. “That’s whom he was looking for.”
“But how do you know?”
“I know, I know, I know!” My exaltation grew. “And you know,
my dear!”
She didn’t deny this, but I required, I felt, not even so much
telling as that. She resumed in a moment, at any rate: “What if he
should see him?”
“Little Miles? That’s what he wants!”
She looked immensely scared again. “The child?”
“Heaven forbid! The man. He wants to appear to them.” That he
might was an awful conception, and yet, somehow, I could keep it at
bay; which, moreover, as we lingered there, was what I succeeded in
practically proving. I had an absolute certainty that I should see
again what I had already seen, but something within me said that
by offering myself bravely as the sole subject of such experience,
by accepting, by inviting, by surmounting it all, I should serve as
an expiatory victim and guard the tranquillity of my companions. The
children, in especial, I should thus fence about and absolutely save. I
recall one of the last things I said that night to Mrs. Grose.
“It does strike me that my pupils have never mentioned----”
She looked at me hard as I musingly pulled up. “His having been here
and the time they were with him?”
“The time they were with him, and his name, his presence, his
history, in any way.”
“Oh, the little lady doesn’t remember. She never heard or knew.”
“The circumstances of his death?” I thought with some intensity.
“Perhaps not. But Miles would remember--Miles would know.”
“Ah, don’t try him!” broke from Mrs. Grose.
I returned her the look she had given me. “Don’t be afraid.” I
continued to think. “It is rather odd.”
“That he has never spoken of him?”
“Never by the least allusion. And you tell me they were ‘great
friends’?”
“Oh, it wasn’t him!” Mrs. Grose with emphasis declared. “It
was Quint’s own fancy. To play with him, I mean--to spoil him.” She
paused a moment; then she added: “Quint was much too free.”
This gave me, straight from my vision of his face--such a face!--a
sudden sickness of disgust. “Too free with my boy?”
“Too free with everyone!”
I forbore, for the moment, to analyse this description further than by
the reflection that a part of it applied to several of the members of
the household, of the half-dozen maids and men who were still of our
small colony. But there was everything, for our apprehension, in the
lucky fact that no discomfortable legend, no perturbation of scullions,
had ever, within anyone’s memory, attached to the kind old place. It
had neither bad name nor ill fame, and Mrs. Grose, most apparently,
only desired to cling to me and to quake in silence. I even put her,
the very last thing of all, to the test. It was when, at midnight, she
had her hand on the schoolroom door to take leave. “I have it from
you then--for it’s of great importance--that he was definitely and
admittedly bad?”
“Oh, not admittedly. I knew it--but the master didn’t.”
“And you never told him?”
“Well, he didn’t like tale-bearing--he hated complaints. He was
terribly short with anything of that kind, and if people were all right
to him----”
“He wouldn’t be bothered with more?” This squared well enough
with my impression of him: he was not a trouble-loving gentleman, nor
so very particular perhaps about some of the company he kept. All
the same, I pressed my interlocutress. “I promise you I would have
told!”
She felt my discrimination. “I dare say I was wrong. But, really,
I was afraid.”
“Afraid of what?”
“Of things that man could do. Quint was so clever--he was so deep.”
I took this in still more than, probably, I showed. “You weren’t
afraid of anything else? Not of his effect----?”
“His effect?” she repeated with a face of anguish and waiting while
I faltered.
“On innocent little precious lives. They were in your charge.”
“No, they were not in mine!” she roundly and distressfully
returned. “The master believed in him and placed him here because he
was supposed not to be well and the country air so good for him. So
he had everything to say. Yes”--she let me have it--“even about
them.”
“Them--that creature?” I had to smother a kind of howl. “And you
could bear it!”
“No. I couldn’t--and I can’t now!” And the poor woman burst
into tears.
A rigid control, from the next day, was, as I have said, to follow
them; yet how often and how passionately, for a week, we came back
together to the subject! Much as we had discussed it that Sunday night,
I was, in the immediate later hours in especial--for it may be imagined
whether I slept--still haunted with the shadow of something she had
not told me. I myself had kept back nothing, but there was a word
Mrs. Grose had kept back. I was sure, moreover, by morning, that this
was not from a failure of frankness, but because on every side there
were fears. It seems to me indeed, in retrospect, that by the time the
morrow’s sun was high I had restlessly read into the facts before us
almost all the meaning they were to receive from subsequent and more
cruel occurrences. What they gave me above all was just the sinister
figure of the living man--the dead one would keep awhile!--and of
the months he had continuously passed at Bly, which, added up, made
a formidable stretch. The limit of this evil time had arrived only
when, on the dawn of a winter’s morning, Peter Quint was found, by a
labourer going to early work, stone dead on the road from the village:
a catastrophe explained--superficially at least--by a visible wound
to his head; such a wound as might have been produced--and as, on the
final evidence, had been--by a fatal slip, in the dark and after
leaving the public house, on the steepish icy slope, a wrong path
altogether, at the bottom of which he lay. The icy slope, the turn
mistaken at night and in liquor, accounted for much--practically, in
the end and after the inquest and boundless chatter, for everything;
but there had been matters in his life--strange passages and perils,
secret disorders, vices more than suspected--that would have accounted
for a good deal more.
I scarce know how to put my story into words that shall be a credible
picture of my state of mind; but I was in these days literally able to
find a joy in the extraordinary flight of heroism the occasion demanded
of me. I now saw that I had been asked for a service admirable and
difficult; and there would be a greatness in letting it be seen--oh,
in the right quarter!--that I could succeed where many another girl
might have failed. It was an immense help to me--I confess I rather
applaud myself as I look back!--that I saw my service so strongly and
so simply. I was there to protect and defend the little creatures in
the world the most bereaved and the most loveable, the appeal of whose
helplessness had suddenly become only too explicit, a deep, constant
ache of one’s own committed heart. We were cut off, really, together;
we were united in our danger. They had nothing but me, and I--well, I
had them. It was in short a magnificent chance. This chance presented
itself to me in an image richly material. I was a screen--I was to
stand before them. The more I saw, the less they would. I began
to watch them in a stifled suspense, a disguised excitement that
might well, had it continued too long, have turned to something like
madness. What saved me, as I now see, was that it turned to something
else altogether. It didn’t last as suspense--it was superseded by
horrible proofs. Proofs, I say, yes--from the moment I really took
hold.
This moment dated from an afternoon hour that I happened to spend in
the grounds with the younger of my pupils alone. We had left Miles
indoors, on the red cushion of a deep window-seat; he had wished to
finish a book, and I had been glad to encourage a purpose so laudable
in a young man whose only defect was an occasional excess of the
restless. His sister, on the contrary, had been alert to come out,
and I strolled with her half an hour, seeking the shade, for the sun
was still high and the day exceptionally warm. I was aware afresh, with
her, as we went, of how, like her brother, she contrived--it was the
charming thing in both children--to let me alone without appearing to
drop me and to accompany me without appearing to surround. They were
never importunate and yet never listless. My attention to them all
really went to seeing them amuse themselves immensely without me: this
was a spectacle they seemed actively to prepare and that engaged me as
an active admirer. I walked in a world of their invention--they had no
occasion whatever to draw upon mine; so that my time was taken only
with being, for them, some remarkable person or thing that the game
of the moment required and that was merely, thanks to my superior, my
exalted stamp, a happy and highly distinguished sinecure. I forget what
I was on the present occasion; I only remember that I was something
very important and very quiet and that Flora was playing very hard. We
were on the edge of the lake, and, as we had lately begun geography,
the lake was the Sea of Azof.
Suddenly, in these circumstances, I became aware that, on the other
side of the Sea of Azof, we had an interested spectator. The way this
knowledge gathered in me was the strangest thing in the world--the
strangest, that is, except the very much stranger in which it quickly
merged itself. I had sat down with a piece of work--for I was something
or other that could sit--on the old stone bench which overlooked the
pond; and in this position I began to take in with certitude, and
yet without direct vision, the presence, at a distance, of a third
person. The old trees, the thick shrubbery, made a great and pleasant
shade, but it was all suffused with the brightness of the hot, still
hour. There was no ambiguity in anything; none whatever, at least,
in the conviction I from one moment to another found myself forming
as to what I should see straight before me and across the lake as a
consequence of raising my eyes. They were attached at this juncture
to the stitching in which I was engaged, and I can feel once more the
spasm of my effort not to move them till I should so have steadied
myself as to be able to make up my mind what to do. There was an
alien object in view--a figure whose right of presence I instantly,
passionately questioned. I recollect counting over perfectly the
possibilities, reminding myself that nothing was more natural, for
instance, than the appearance of one of the men about the place,
or even of a messenger, a postman or a tradesman’s boy, from the
village. That reminder had as little effect on my practical certitude
as I was conscious--still even without looking--of its having upon the
character and attitude of our visitor. Nothing was more natural than
that these things should be the other things that they absolutely were
not.
Of the positive identity of the apparition I would assure myself
as soon as the small clock of my courage should have ticked out the
right second; meanwhile, with an effort that was already sharp enough,
I transferred my eyes straight to little Flora, who, at the moment,
was about ten yards away. My heart had stood still for an instant with
the wonder and terror of the question whether she too would see; and I
held my breath while I waited for what a cry from her, what some sudden
innocent sign either of interest or of alarm, would tell me. I waited,
but nothing came; then, in the first place--and there is something
more dire in this, I feel, than in anything I have to relate--I was
determined by a sense that, within a minute, all sounds from her had
previously dropped; and, in the second, by the circumstance that,
also within the minute, she had, in her play, turned her back to the
water. This was her attitude when I at last looked at her--looked with
the confirmed conviction that we were still, together, under direct
personal notice. She had picked up a small flat piece of wood, which
happened to have in it a little hole that had evidently suggested to
her the idea of sticking in another fragment that might figure as
a mast and make the thing a boat. This second morsel, as I watched
her, she was very markedly and intently attempting to tighten in
its place. My apprehension of what she was doing sustained me so that
after some seconds I felt I was ready for more. Then I again shifted my
eyes--I faced what I had to face.
VII
I got hold of Mrs. Grose as soon after this as I could; and I can
give no intelligible account of how I fought out the interval. Yet I
still hear myself cry as I fairly threw myself into her arms: “They
know--it’s too monstrous: they know, they know!”
“And what on earth----?” I felt her incredulity as she held me.
“Why, all that we know--and heaven knows what else besides!”
Then, as she released me, I made it out to her, made it out perhaps
only now with full coherency even to myself. “Two hours ago, in the
garden”--I could scarce articulate--“Flora saw!”
Mrs. Grose took it as she might have taken a blow in the
stomach. “She has told you?” she panted.
“Not a word--that’s the horror. She kept it to herself! The
child of eight, that child!” Unutterable still, for me, was the
stupefaction of it.
Mrs. Grose, of course, could only gape the wider. “Then how do you
know?”
“I was there--I saw with my eyes: saw that she was perfectly
aware.”
“Do you mean aware of him?”
“No--of her.” I was conscious as I spoke that I looked
prodigious things, for I got the slow reflection of them in my
companion’s face. “Another person--this time; but a figure of
quite as unmistakeable horror and evil: a woman in black, pale and
dreadful--with such an air also, and such a face!--on the other side
of the lake. I was there with the child--quiet for the hour; and in the
midst of it she came.”
“Came how--from where?”
“From where they come from! She just appeared and stood there--but
not so near.”
“And without coming nearer?”
“Oh, for the effect and the feeling, she might have been as close
as you!”
My friend, with an odd impulse, fell back a step. “Was she someone
you’ve never seen?”
“Yes. But someone the child has. Someone you have.” Then, to show
how I had thought it all out: “My predecessor--the one who died.”
“Miss Jessel?”
“Miss Jessel. You don’t believe me?” I pressed.
She turned right and left in her distress. “How can you be sure?”
This drew from me, in the state of my nerves, a flash of
impatience. “Then ask Flora--she’s sure!” But I had no
sooner spoken than I caught myself up. “No, for God’s sake,
don’t! She’ll say she isn’t--she’ll lie!”
Mrs. Grose was not too bewildered instinctively to protest. “Ah, how
can you?”
“Because I’m clear. Flora doesn’t want me to know.”
“It’s only then to spare you.”
“No, no--there are depths, depths! The more I go over it, the more
I see in it, and the more I see in it the more I fear. I don’t know
what I don’t see--what I don’t fear!”
Mrs. Grose tried to keep up with me. “You mean you’re afraid of
seeing her again?”
“Oh, no; that’s nothing--now!” Then I explained. “It’s of
not seeing her.”
But my companion only looked wan. “I don’t understand you.”
“Why, it’s that the child may keep it up--and that the child
assuredly will--without my knowing it.”
At the image of this possibility Mrs. Grose for a moment collapsed, yet
presently to pull herself together again, as if from the positive force
of the sense of what, should we yield an inch, there would really be
to give way to. “Dear, dear--we must keep our heads! And after all,
if she doesn’t mind it----!” She even tried a grim joke. “Perhaps
she likes it!”
“Likes such things--a scrap of an infant!”
“Isn’t it just a proof of her blessed innocence?” my friend
bravely inquired.
