Paul entered the bank, and, going up to the proper clerk, subscribed
the books of the bank, giving his age, and other particulars necessary
to identification; and then, rather to the surprise of the bank
officer, wrote out a deposit check for forty dollars.
“You have just been paid off, I take it,” he said with a smile.
“Yes, sir,” answered Paul.
“Two weeks’ pay, I presume?”
“I earned it in considerably less time than that, sir.”
“Indeed!”
“Yes, I earned it all, and ten dollars besides, in one night.”
“Then your business is better than mine. I should be willing to
exchange.”
“It isn’t a steady business,” said Paul.
“What is it?”
“Defending a house from burglars.”
“I am not quite sure how I should like that business; there might be
some risk attending it.”
Paul’s business was completed, and he prepared to go away. The book he
put in his pocket, and took his way back to the office on Broadway.
He began to feel like a young capitalist. Forty dollars may not seem
a very large sum to some of my fortunate readers, but Paul had never
before possessed ten dollars at a time, and to him it seemed a small
fortune.
He had no idea that his visit to the bank was observed by any one that
knew him, but such was the case.
Old Jerry, as the reader already knows, was a depositor at the Bowery
Savings Bank, and this very morning, having a small deposit to make, he
was shambling along the Bowery, when he saw Paul descend the steps with
a bank book in his hand. He was intensely surprised.
CHAPTER X. PAUL LOSES HIS BANK BOOK.
Old Jerry felt outraged at Paul’s withholding money from him for
deposit in the savings bank.
“The--the thieving young rascal!” he muttered to himself, indignantly.
“He is putting my money into the bank, and letting me starve at home,
while he lives on the fat of the land, and lays up money. Me that have
taken care of him ever since he was a little boy, and--and cared for
him like a father.”
Jerry had a curious idea of the way fathers care for their children,
judging from his words. When Paul was only six years old, he had been
sent into the streets to sell matches and papers, and, being a bright,
winning boy, had earned considerably more, even at that tender age,
than many older boys.
At times Jerry had induced him to beg, but it was only for a short
time. Paul had a natural pride and independence that made him shrink
from asking alms, as soon as he was old enough to understand the
humiliation of it. So there was never a time when he had not earned his
own living, and more besides. But Jerry chose to forget this, and to
charge Paul with ingratitude, when he discovered that he had a private
fund of his own.
“I must get hold of that money,” thought Jerry. “I wonder how much Paul
has got.”
There was no way of finding out, unless he got hold of the book, or
inquired at the bank. He decided to do the latter. Accordingly he went
over to the bank, and entering it walked up to the receiving teller.
“Was there a boy named Paul Parton here just now?” he asked.
“Yes; what of it?”
“Did he put some money into the bank?”
“Yes.”
“How much was it?”
“We don’t give information about our depositors,” said the teller. “Is
he your grandson?”
“Yes; that is, he lives with me.”
“You are a depositor also, are you not? I seem to remember your face.”
“Yes.”
“What is your name?”
“Jeremiah Barclay.”
“I remember now. Why do you want to know about this boy?”
“He ought to have given me the money, instead of putting it into the
bank.”
“We have nothing to do with that. He did not steal it from you, I
presume.”
“No,” answered Jerry, reluctantly. It occurred to him for an instant
to claim that Paul had robbed him, but he was rather afraid that the
telegraph boy would in that case become angry and leave him, and the
sum he had in bank would not pay him for that.
The miser did not suspect that Paul had over five dollars laid up,
having no knowledge of the handsome gift he had received from Mrs.
Cunningham. But even if it were only five dollars, it was sufficient
to excite Jerry’s cupidity, and he decided that he must manage to get
possession of it.
“Then you won’t tell me how much money Paul has in the bank?”
“It is against our rules.”
Jerry felt that he was dismissed, and stumbled out of the bank,
forgetting, in his thoughts about Paul, the business of his own which
had brought him there.
But there was other business for Jerry to attend to that morning. We
are about to let the reader into a secret, which he had hitherto kept
from Paul.
Not far away was a small tenement house which Jerry hired and sublet to
tenants. Every month he called to collect his rents, and the difference
between the rent he paid for the whole building, and the rents he
collected from the tenants, gave him a handsome profit.
It was not rent day, but there were two of the tenants in arrears. One
was a laborer, temporarily out of work, and the other was a poor widow
who went out scrubbing, but was now taken down with rheumatism, and
therefore not able to work.
The old man ascended with painful toil to the third floor, and called
on the widow first.
She turned pale when she saw him enter, for she knew his errand, and
how little chance there was of softening him.
“I hope you have got the rent for me this morning, Mrs. O’Connor,” said
Jerry, harshly.
“And where would I get it, Mr. Barclay?” she asked. “It’s very little
work I can do on account of the sharp pains I have.”
“That’s none of my business,” said Jerry, in a harsh tone. “You will
have to go, then.”
“And would you put me on the street, me and my poor childer?” said the
poor woman, with a troubled look. “I’m afraid it’s the hard heart you
have, Mr. Barclay.”
“Don’t talk nonsense, Mrs. O’Connor,” said Jerry, sharply. “I can’t let
you stay here for nothing. I--I’m very poor myself,” he added, with his
customary whine.
“You poor!” repeated the widow, bitterly. “I’ve heard that you’re
rolling in riches, Mr. Barclay.”
“Who--who says so?” asked Jerry, alarmed.
“Everybody says so.”
“Then you can tell ’em they’re very much mistaken.”
“What do you do with all the rent you get from this building, then?”
“I pay it away, that is, almost all of it. I don’t own the building.
I--I hire it, and some months, on account of losses, I don’t make a
cent,” asseverated Jerry. “I--I think I’m a little out take the year
together.”
“Then why don’t you give it up if you don’t make any money out of it?”
“That--that is nothing to the purpose. Once more, Mrs. O’Connor, will
you pay me my rent?”
“How can I when I have no money?”
“Then you must borrow it. I’ll give you till tomorrow, and not a day
longer. Remember that, Mrs. O’Connor, will you not?”
Next Jerry visited the other tenant with rather better success, for he
collected one dollar on account.
He waited eagerly for Paul to come home. He had made up his mind to
explore Paul’s pockets after he was asleep and get possession of his
bank book. With that, as he thought, he would go to the bank and draw
the money that stood in Paul’s name. It would be a theft, but Jerry
did not look at it in that light. He persuaded himself that he had a
perfect right to take the property of the boy who was living under his
guardianship, though, to speak properly, it was rather Paul that took
care of him.
It was rather late in the evening when Paul got home, for every other
evening he was employed. The old man was awake, but pretended to be
asleep. Paul took off his coat and vest, and threw himself on the
lounge, covering himself up with a quilt. His clothes he put on a chair
alongside.
It was not long before he was sound asleep, being much fatigued with
the labors of the day.
Old Jerry got up cautiously from the bed. He, too, was dressed, for
he seldom took the trouble to undress, and cautiously drew near the
lounge. He took up Paul’s coat, and threw his claw-like fingers into
an inside pocket. His eyes sparkled with delight as he drew out the
telegraph boy’s bank book.
“I’ve got it!” he muttered, gleefully. “Paul isn’t any match for the
old man! I--I wonder how much money he has saved up!”
Paul slept on, unaware of the cunning old man’s treachery, and of the
danger to which his little treasure was exposed.
CHAPTER XI. AT THE SAVINGS BANK.
Old Jerry laid down Paul’s coat, and opened the bank book, of which he
had just obtained possession. He was eager to ascertain how much Paul
had saved up.
“Forty dollars!”
He could hardly believe his eyes.
How in the world could Paul have managed to save up forty dollars?
“Forty dollars!” exclaimed old Jerry, gleefully. “I’m in luck for once.
Of course it belongs to me. I am Paul’s guardian, and have a right to
his earnings. He shouldn’t have kept it from me. I--I will go to the
bank and draw it all tomorrow. Then I will put it in in my own name.
That will make it all right.” And old Jerry rubbed his hands joyfully.
After this theft, for it can be called by no other name, Jerry did not
sleep much. He was too much excited by the unexpected magnitude of his
discovery, and by his delight at adding so much to his own hoards.
Then, again, he was afraid Paul might wake up, and, discovering his
loss, demand from him the restitution of the book.
Generally Paul rose at six o’clock, as this enabled him to get his
breakfast and get round to the telegraph company at seven. He generally
waked about fifteen minutes before the hour, such was the force of
habit.
This morning he woke at the usual time, but old Jerry had got up
softly and left the room twenty minutes before.
Turning over, Paul glanced toward the bed in the corner, and was
surprised to see no signs of the old man.
“Jerry gone out already!” he said to himself, in amazement “I wonder
what’s come over him. I hope he isn’t sick.”
Paul didn’t however borrow any trouble, for he concluded that Jerry had
got tired of his bed, and gone out for a morning walk.
He lay till seven, and then, throwing off the quilt, rose from the
lounge. He was already partly dressed, and only needed to put on his
coat. Then, with a cheerful smile, he felt for his bank book, which he
had placed in the inside pocket of his coat.
It was not there!
He started, and turned pale.
“Where is my bank book?” he asked himself in alarm.
Then it flashed upon him.
“Old Jerry has taken it!” he said, sternly, “and has slunk off with it
before I am up. That’s why he got up so early. But I’ll put a spoke in
his wheel. I’ll go to the bank and give notice that my book has been
stolen. He shan’t draw the money on it, if I can prevent it.”
But Paul was unable to carry out his intention of calling at the
bank at the hour of opening, in order to give notice of his loss. On
reporting for duty at the telegraph office, he was sent over to Jersey
City, where he was detained until eleven o’clock. He felt uneasy, and
thought of asking to have some other boy assigned to the duty, but it
so happened that the superintendent was not in an amiable frame of
mind, and he knew that his request would not be granted.
Meanwhile, about five minutes after the bank was opened, old Jerry
shambled in, and, sitting down at a table, wrote out an order for forty
dollars in favor of Book No. 251,610 signing it “Paul Parton.”
This he took to the desk of the cashier.
“Please give me the money on this,” he said.
The cashier eyed him sharply.
“Are you Paul Parton?” he demanded.
“N-no,” faltered the old man; “I am Paul’s guardian.”
“Did you put in this money for him?”
“N-no.”
“Did he write this order?”
Old Jerry would have had no scruples about asserting that it was
written by Paul, but he knew that the statement would at once be
recognized as false, as he had himself written it in the presence of
the cashier.
“N-no,” he admitted, reluctantly; “but it makes no difference; Paul is
busy, and can’t come. He’s a telegraph boy. H-he wanted me to draw it
for him.”
It will be seen that old Jerry’s conscience was elastic, and that he
had no scruple about lying.
“That won’t answer,” replied the cashier, eying the old man
suspiciously. “It is not according to our rules.”
“I--I want to use the money--that is, Paul does,” remonstrated old
Jerry, disappointed.
“That makes no difference.”
“I--I’ll get Paul to write an order,” said Jerry, as he left the bank.
“That old man stole the boy’s book,” thought the cashier. “Now he is
going home to forge an order in the boy’s name.”
That is exactly what old Jerry meant to do. He thought it best however,
to wait till afternoon.
Meanwhile, at twelve o’clock, Paul, then for the first time able to get
away, hurried into the bank, breathless.
“I want to give notice that my bank book has been taken,” he said,
panting.
“Your name, please?”
“Paul Parton.”
“Number of book?”
“No. 251,610.”
“Your book was presented two hours since by an old man, who handed in
an order for all the money.”
The perspiration gathered on Paul’s brow.
“Did you give it to him?”
“No; it is not according to our rules to pay, except to the written
order of the depositor.”
“I am glad of that,” said Paul. “Don’t pay it if he comes again.”
“We will not,” replied the cashier; and Paul left the building feeling
greatly relieved.
Old Jerry ought to have known that there was very little chance of a
forged order being honored, for the bank possessed Paul’s autograph
signature on its books, making the fact of the forgery evident at once,
but it sometimes happens that men sharp in some matters are very obtuse
in others. This was the case with old Jerry in the present instance.
About two o’clock he entered the bank once more. Paul had not come home
at the noon hour--he seldom did, being in the habit of dining at a
restaurant, and the old man thought him still ignorant of the theft. He
was anxious to draw the money before the telegraph boy learned that his
book had been appropriated.
He had prepared an order, having taken one with him in blank, and made
it out for forty dollars, signing it “Paul Parton.”
Armed with this, he walked up to the cashier’s window, and without a
word presented it in the book.
The cashier recognized him instantly.
“Well,” he said, “what do you want?”
“The money,” answered the old man, his features working with cupidity.
“You were here this morning?”
“Y--yes.”
“I told you you could not draw out the money on your own order.”
“This is Paul’s order,” returned Jerry, with unblushing falsehood.
“Did he write it?”
“Y--yes.”
“I thought you said he was occupied by business.”
“He--he came home at noon, and wrote the order.”
“That is false!” said the cashier, sternly. “The boy has been here to
report that his book has been stolen, and forbade us to pay out any
money on it.”
The old man’s face was the picture of dismay.
“The--there’s some mistake,” he managed to mutter. “It must be some
other boy. Paul asked me to draw the money. Besides, it isn’t his money
at all. It--it rightfully belongs to me.”
“You can draw no money on the order which you have forged,” said the
cashier, sternly.
“Then give me back the book,” said Jerry, beginning to get frightened.
“I shall retain the book for the rightful owner,” said the official.
“And now let me advise you never to come here again on any such errand,
or I shall feel it my duty to hand you over to the police.”
Without another word old Jerry shambled out of the bank, with a scared
look on his face. This reference to the police startled him. It had not
occurred to him that he was doing anything of which the law could take
cognizance. His exultation of the morning had quite passed away. He had
flattered himself that his hoard would increase by forty dollars. Now
he had found himself foiled in the attempt to convert Paul’s savings to
his own use.
About six o’clock Paul returned to the humble home. Old Jerry was
resting on the bed in the corner. He looked up nervously as the
telegraph boy entered, and saw at once by the expression on Paul’s face
that he knew all.
“Jerry,” said Paul, “why did you take my bank book?”
“I--I’m so poor, Paul,” whined Jerry, “I--I needed the money.”
“So you turned thief,” returned the boy, indignantly.
“The money was mine by right--you shouldn’t have kept it from me.”
“I deny it!” said Paul, with emphasis. “Have you got the book with you?”
“N--no; they wouldn’t give it back to me,” complained Jerry.
“And they did right. If you ever play such a trick on me again, robbing
me in my sleep, I’ll leave you. Suppose I should get hold of your bank
book--”
“I--I haven’t any money in the bank. I’m so poor!” ejaculated the
miser, panic stricken.
“I have reason to believe you have the bank book in your pocket at this
moment.”
“You--you wouldn’t rob me, Paul?” implored Jerry.
“How can I if you have no bank book? But you can rest easy. I am not in
the habit of stealing.”
He went out to supper, leaving Jerry utterly discomposed. Not only had
his plan failed, but his secret had been discovered.
CHAPTER XII. JAMES BARCLAY’S DISAPPOINTMENT.
Though he is a very unworthy specimen of humanity, the reader may
feel interested to know something more about James Barclay, whose
acquaintance we made while he was attempting to commit a burglary.
It was mere accident that made him acquainted with the fact that his
father was living in New York. To him it seemed a most fortunate
discovery. Knowing old Jerry’s miserly habits, he had no doubt that the
old man was worth some thousands of dollars, and upon this sum he felt
that he had a right to draw. His father was timid, and he depended upon
terrifying him into complying with his demands.
The first visit terminated as well as he expected. He didn’t suppose
that Jerry kept much money in his room. Hence his arrangement to come
back the next day.
As he left the poor tenement house he chuckled to himself, “I’ll scare
the old man into giving me all the money I want. It will be like
drawing a tooth, and I’ve no doubt he’ll make a great fuss, but there’s
no escape for him. He can live on little or nothing and enjoy it. It
won’t do him any real harm to let me have, say half of his miserly
hoard. Egad, James Barclay, you’re in luck at last. I thought when that
telegraph kid foiled me last night that nothing would go well with me,
but things seem turning. If I ever meet that boy again I must give him
a lesson. He’s a bold young rascal, though, and would be a credit to my
line of business.”
It is doubted whether Paul would have considered this a compliment if
he had heard it. His ambitions did not run in the direction of becoming
a successful burglar.
It was a question with James Barclay where to spend the intervening
time, as he was not to call on his father till the next day. He was
about at the end of his resources, having less than a dollar in silver
in his possession. He might have tried to hatch up some dishonest
scheme for filling his pockets but for the chance discovery of his
father. That afforded a chance quite as promising, and far less
perilous, and he decided not to make any illegal ventures till he had
made all he could out of old Jerry.
“I’d rather be honest,” he said to himself in a glow of virtuous
feeling; “but, confound it, a man must live, and as the world owes me a
living, I must get it one way or another.”
It did not seem to occur to James Barclay that the same chance existed
for him as for the majority of his fellow men--a chance of earning a
living by honest work. Labor and industry he abhorred. They might do
for others, but not for him.
“Tomorrow I’ll be in funds,” he said to himself complacently. “Now,
what shall I do with myself today? A man can’t do much without money.”
It occurred to him that an old acquaintance--rather a shady
acquaintance by the way--used to live in Jersey City. He would go over
and see him. It would while away the time in a pleasant manner, and he
might get news of his other companions, for he had been out of the city
himself for several years. In fact, for we need not keep the secret
from the reader, he had been passing three years in seclusion at the
village of Sing Sing on the Hudson. That accounted for his father
having been spared any visits for that length of time.
James Barclay turned down Cortlandt Street, and made his way to the
ferry at the foot of the street. He invested three cents in a ferry
ticket, and in a few minutes set foot in Jersey City.
“It’s a long time since I have been here,” he reflected. “Ten to one
Jack isn’t hanging out at the old place. However, I can see.”
He made his way to the former abode of his old friend, Jack Cratts, who
was much such a character as himself, but, being more prudent, less apt
to get into trouble.
He only met with disappointment. Another family occupied the room
once tenanted by Jack, and he could obtain no information as to the
whereabouts of his friend.
James Barclay was disappointed. The time was hanging heavily on his
hands. He made his way slowly toward the ferry, when he encountered
a poorly dressed woman of about thirty, carrying a heavy basket of
clothes. She was evidently a laundress.
His face lighted up with instant recognition.
“Is it you, Ellen?” he said.
The woman turned pale, and nearly dropped the basket she was carrying.
“James!” she ejaculated, faintly.
“Yes, Ellen, it is your poor, unfortunate husband. Egad, I’m glad to
see you.”
It was now over three years since James Barclay and his wife had met.
She had never been very happy with him, after the first few months of
married life, and she did not know now whether to be glad or sorry she
had met him. She had not lost all love for him--wives seldom do under
any provocation--but she knew him too well to believe that he had
changed materially. He was likely still to prove a disturbing element
in her life. Yet she felt a momentary pleasure, lonely as she was, in
meeting the man who, ten years before, had captured her affections.
“Are you glad to see me, Ellen?” asked Barclay, in an unusually
pleasant tone.
“Yes,” she answered, slowly.
“How are the children? I don’t suppose I should know them.”
“They are well. Jimmy and Mary are going to school. Jimmy sells papers
evenings to help me along.”
“How old is the young rascal?”
“Eight years old.”
“Is he a chip of the old block, eh, Ellen?”
“I hope not,” said the woman, heartily. Then, with a half frightened
look, she added, “Don’t be offended with me, James, but I don’t want
him to follow in your steps.”
“No offense, Ellen,” said Barclay, laughingly. “I don’t pretend to be
an angel, and I hope the kid will be more of one than I. And how are
you yourself, old woman?”
“I’ve had to work very hard, James,” sighed the woman. “It’s been all I
can do to earn a poor living for the children.”
“I wish I could help you, and perhaps I may. I’m expecting some money
tomorrow, and I’m hanged if I don’t give you ten dollars of it.”
“It would be a great help to me, James,” said his wife, with a
momentary look of pleasure.
“Are you going home now?”
“Yes, James.”
“I’ll go along, too, and see what sort of a crib you’ve got. Can you
let me have some dinner?”
“Yes, James, though it’ll be a poor one.”
“O, I shan’t mind. Here, give me that basket. I’m stronger than you.”
“Has he really reformed and become better?” thought Ellen, puzzled. She
had never been used to such marks of attention from her husband. But he
was in an amiable frame of mind. He had found a place of refuge till
the next day, and then he would draw fifty dollars from his father--the
first of many forced loans he promised himself.
He lounged away the rest of the day at his wife’s poor room. When the
children came home from school he received them with boisterous good
nature. They seemed afraid of him, remembering his severity in earlier
days, but this only seemed to amuse him.
“That’s a pretty way to receive your loving father,” he said,
laughingly. “Come here and sit on my knee, Mary.”
The little girl obeyed with scared face, because she did not dare to
refuse lest she should anger her father. So the day passed. James
Barclay lay in bed late next morning, but about eleven o’clock started
for New York, to meet the appointment with his father.
A little before noon he ascended the staircase, and opened the door of
the room which he had visited the day before.
It was empty!
His face darkened, and an unpleasant misgiving entered his mind.
He knocked at the door of the opposite room, which was opened by a
woman.
“What has become of the old man who occupied the room opposite?” he
asked.
“He has moved,” answered Mrs. Duane.
“Moved! When did he move?”
“This morning, I believe.”
“Where has he gone to?”
“He didn’t leave word.”
“The old fox!” muttered James Barclay. “He has gone to get rid of me.
But I’ll follow him up, and sooner or later I’ll find him.”
CHAPTER XIII. JAMES BARCLAY AT HOME.
James Barclay’s disappointment was intense when he discovered that his
father had eluded him. He was almost penniless, and had nothing of
sufficient value to pawn. Had he raised the sum which he had expected
from old Jerry, it is doubtful whether he would have returned to his
family in Jersey City. As it was, he had no other resource.
His wife, who took in washing to do at home, was hard at work ironing
when the door opened and her husband entered. A frown was on his face,
and he was evidently in ill temper.
A cat, the family pet, being in his way, he kicked her brutally, and
the poor animal, moaning piteously, fled in wild dismay.
“Get out of the way, you beast!” he said, angrily.
“Don’t kick poor Topsy!” pleaded his wife. “I am afraid you have hurt
the poor little thing.”
“Keep her out of my way, then,” growled Barclay. “I hate cats. You must
be a fool to keep one.”
“The children love poor Topsy, James,” said his wife.
“I suppose you’d keep a snake for them, if they liked it.”
“A kitten is very different from a snake.”
“I shall kill it some time if it gets in my way. Have you got anything
to eat in the house?”
Mrs. Barclay paused in her work long enough to get some bread and meat
from the pantry, which she set before her husband.
“Where are the children?” he asked, after a while.
“They have gone to school.”
“They ought to be earning something at their age,” growled Barclay.
“They are very young yet, James. You wouldn’t have me take them from
school?”
“School won’t do ’em much good.”
“You wouldn’t have them grow up ignorant, surely?”
“They have got to earn something. I can’t support them in idleness.”
As it was some years since he had contributed a cent to their support,
his wife didn’t quite appreciate his complaint, but she knew too much
of her husband’s temper to argue with him.
“Jimmy sells papers when he gets home from school,” she said.
“How much does he earn that way?”
“Sometimes from fifteen to twenty cents.”
“He’ll need to earn more, I can tell you that. I’m very poor, Ellen,
and cursed unfortunate, too. I haven’t money enough to buy a ten cent
cigar.”
“I will try to support the children if you will take care of yourself,
James.”
Any man with a spark of true manhood in him would have been shamed by
such a proposition, but James Barclay was a thoroughly selfish man. It
seemed to him that his wife ought to support him, too.
“Have you got a dollar about you, Ellen?” he asked.
“Ye-es,” she answered, hesitatingly, “but I must buy some bread and
groceries this evening, or the children won’t have their supper.”
“Seems to me you care more about the children than you do about your
husband. A pretty wife you are!”
“I don’t deserve that, James. Of course you are welcome to your share
of the supper.”
“Thank you! So you want to treat me as a child.”
The man was utterly unreasonable, and his wife can hardly be blamed if
there rose in her mind a regret that he had not stayed away longer, and
left her and the children in peace.
“I thought you expected to have some money today, James,” she said.
“Yes, but I didn’t get it. Just my cursed luck!” he answered, bitterly.
“My own father turns his back on me, and won’t give me a cent, though
he has money in plenty.”
“Your father?” said his wife in surprise. “Is he--have you seen him?”
“Yes, I saw him yesterday, and told him I would call today for fifty
dollars. I went, and found the old scoundrel had disappeared.”
“Is it right to call your father by such a name? He may not have had
the money.”
“You don’t know my father. He’s a miser, and always has been. He lives
in a wretched hole, not so good as this place, while he has thousands
of dollars invested, or hidden somewhere. He thinks he’s got rid of me,
but” (here an oath escaped his lips) “he will find he’s mistaken.”
All this was new to Mrs. Barclay, who had heard very little of her
husband’s family.
“Perhaps if you find him you could induce him to come and live with
us,” she said. “He might take an interest in the children and do
something for them.”
“More likely he would want to live off us. However, if I could once get
him here, I’d manage to get my hand into his purse. It’s a good idea.”
“Does he live alone? He must be an old man.”
“He’s all bent and shriveled up; he’s got a telegraph boy living with
him, he told me. I hate telegraph boys--I met one the other night--an
impudent young rascal! I’d like to meet him again. I’d wring the kid’s
neck for him.”
“Where did you meet him, James?”
James Barclay eyed his wife suspiciously. He did not care to tell her
under what circumstances he met Paul Parton.
“Never you mind, old woman!” he said. “It’s no concern of yours.”
“If you don’t want to tell me, I don’t care to know, James,” she
answered, meekly.
“Well, I don’t want to tell you. But about the old man’s coming here,
it’s a good idea of yours. I will send off the telegraph boy, for he
might be dangerous. Ten to one he’s trying to get the old man to leave
him his property. I wish I knew where he is.”
“Haven’t you got any clew?”
“No, he’s hid somewhere. He won’t come out of his hole for fear of
meeting me.”
“If you could meet this telegraph boy, you might learn through him
where your father is.”
“Unfortunately, Mrs. B., I don’t know the telegraph boy--never met
him--shouldn’t know him from Adam.”
“I suppose he has a number.”
“That’s so, old woman!” exclaimed Barclay, slapping his knee with
emphasis. “I think I know where I can find out his number, and then
it’ll be easy to find him. He can’t hide from me, for he has to be on
duty every day. But I shall want money--just give me that dollar!”
“I can’t, James; the poor children would have to go without their
supper.”
“Look here, Mrs. B., I want you to understand that you’ve got to obey
your husband. I’ll give you back the money as soon as I can, but I need
it to track my father. Let me once get hold of him, and it’ll be all
right. I will soon have plenty of money.”
“But I can’t spare the money, James. The children must have their
supper.”
“I’m tired of your talk,” he rejoined, roughly. “If you refuse me the
money, I’ll raise it in some other way.”
He glared round the room, and his eyes rested on a dress that his wife
had just ironed.
“I can raise something on that,” he said, seizing the dress, and
preparing to carry it away.
“Stop, James, for pity’s sake!” cried his wife, terrified. “That dress
belongs to one of my customers. It would be stealing to take it!”
“She’s probably got plenty of others; she can spare it,” he said.
His wife hastened to him and tried to wrench the dress from his grasp,
but holding it in one hand beyond her reach, he gripped her arm with
the other so hard that she uttered a cry of pain.
At this moment the door was pushed open, and a new character appeared
upon the scene in the person of a stalwart policeman.
“What’s all this?” he demanded, in a tone of authority. “Release that
woman, or I’ll take you in.”
CHAPTER XIV. ON THE TRACK OF NUMBER 91.
The policeman’s sudden appearance can be easily explained. He and his
family occupied rooms in the same house with Mrs. Barclay, and he
happened to be passing the door of her apartment when he heard the cry.
“What’s all this?” he demanded once more.
“None of your business!” returned Barclay, indignantly. “What call have
you to intrude where you’re not wanted?”
“I often do that,” said the policeman, grimly. “Mrs. Barclay, who is
this man?”
“My husband, sir.”
“There, do you hear that?” demanded Barclay. “I have a right to be
here.”
“What were you about to do to your wife? What made her cry out?” asked
the policeman, sharply. “I ask you that question, Mrs. Barclay.”
“My husband was carrying off that dress to pawn it,” replied the wife.
“It does not belong to me, and it would have got me into trouble.”
“What have you to say to that?” asked the officer, turning to Barclay.
“My wife would give me no money,” answered Barclay, sullenly, “and I
threatened to pawn her dress.”
“She says it was not her dress.”
