was interrupted without compunction.
"You never'd know me. I'm from out West. Isabel's father's brother
married my uncle--no, I would say my step-niece. An' so I'm her aunt. By
adoption, 't ennyrate. We al'ays call it so, leastways when we're
writin' back an' forth. An' I've heard how Isabel was goin' on, an' so I
ketched up my bunnit, an' put for Tiverton. 'If she ever needed her own
aunt,' says I--'her aunt by adoption--she needs her now.'"
Once or twice, during the progress of this speech, the visitor had
shifted his position, as if ill at ease. Now he bent forward, and peered
at his hostess.
"Isabel is well?" he began tentatively.
"Well enough! But, my sakes! I'd ruther she'd be sick abed or paraletic
than carry on as she does. Slack? My soul! I wisht you could see her
sink closet! I wisht you could take one look over the dirty dishes she
leaves round, not washed from one week's end to another!"
"But she's always neat. She looks like an--an angel!"
Isabel could not at once suppress the gratified note which crept of
itself into her voice.
"That's the outside o' the cup an' platter," she said knowingly. "I
thank my stars she ain't likely to marry. She'd turn any man's house
upside down inside of a week."
The parson made a deprecating noise in his throat. He seemed about to
say something, and thought better of it.
"It may be," he hesitated, after a moment,--"it may be her studies take
up too much of her time. I have always thought these elocution
lessons"--
"Oh, my land!" cried Isabel, in passionate haste. She leaned forward as
if she would implore him. "That's her only salvation. That's the makin'
of her. If you stop her off there, I dunno but she'd jine a circus or
take to drink! Don't you dast to do it! I'm in the family, an' I know."
The parson tried vainly to struggle out of his bewilderment.
"But," said he, "may I ask how you heard these reports? Living in
Illinois, as you do--did you say Illinois or Iowa?"
"Neither," answered Isabel desperately. "'Way out on the plains. It's
the last house afore you come to the Rockies. Law! you can't tell how a
story gits started, nor how fast it will travel. 'T ain't like a gale o'
wind; the weather bureau ain't been invented that can cal'late it. I
heard of a man once that told a lie in California, an' 'fore the week
was out it broke up his engagement in New Hampshire. There's the
'tater-bug--think how that travels! So with this. The news broke out in
Missouri, an' here I be."
"I hope you will be able to remain."
"Only to-night," she said in haste. More and more nervous, she was
losing hold on the sequence of her facts. "I'm like mortal life, here
to-day an' there to-morrer. In the mornin' I sha'n't be found." ("But
Isabel will," she thought, from a remorse which had come too late, "and
she'll have to lie, or run away. Or cut a hole in the ice and drown
herself!")
"I'm sorry to have her lose so much of your visit," began the parson
courteously, but still perplexing himself over the whimsies of an old
lady who flew on from the West, and made nothing of flying back. "If I
could do anything towards finding her"--
"I know where she is," said Isabel unhappily. "She's as well on 't as
she can be, under the circumstances. There's on'y one thing you could
do. If you should be willin' to keep it dark't you've seen me, I should
be real beholden to ye. You know there ain't no time to call in the
neighborhood, an' such things make talk, an' all. An' if you don't speak
out to Isabel, so much the better. Poor creatur', she's got enough to
bear without that!" Her voice dropped meltingly in the keenness of her
sympathy for the unfortunate girl who, embarrassed enough before, had
deliberately set for herself another snare. "I feel for Isabel," she
continued, in the hope of impressing him with the necessity for silence
and inaction. "I do feel for her! Oh, gracious me! What's that?"
A decided rap had sounded at the front door. The parson rose also,
amazed at her agitation.
"Somebody knocked," he said. "Shall I go to the door?"
"Oh, not yet, not yet!" cried Isabel, clasping her hands under her
cashmere shawl. "Oh, what shall I do?"
Her natural voice had asserted itself, but, strangely enough, the parson
did not comprehend. The entire scene was too bewildering. There came a
second knock. He stepped toward the door, but Isabel darted in front of
him. She forgot her back breadth, and even through that dim twilight the
scarlet of her gown shone ruddily out. She placed herself before the
door.
"Don't you go!" she entreated hoarsely. "Let me think what I can say."
Then the parson had his first inkling that the strange visitor must be
mad. He wondered at himself for not thinking of it before, and the idea
speedily coupled itself with Isabel's strange disappearance. He stepped
forward and grasped her arm, trembling under the cashmere shawl.
"Woman," he demanded sternly, "what have you done with Isabel North?"
Isabel was thinking; but the question, twice repeated, brought her to
herself. She began to laugh, peal on peal of hysterical mirth; and the
parson, still holding her arm, grew compassionate.
"Poor soul!" said he soothingly. "Poor soul! sit down here by the stove
and be calm--be calm!"
Isabel was overcome anew.
"Oh, it isn't so!" she gasped, finding breath. "I'm not crazy. Just let
me be!"
She started under his detaining hand, for the knock had come again.
Wrenching herself free, she stepped into the entry. "Who's there?" she
called.
"It's your aunt Mary Ellen," came a voice from the darkness. "Open the
door."
"O my soul!" whispered Isabel to herself. "Wait a minute!" she
continued. "Only a minute!"
She thrust the parson back into the sitting-room, and shut the door. The
act relieved her. If she could push a minister, and he could obey in
such awkward fashion, he was no longer to be feared. He was even to be
refused. Isabel felt equal to doing it.
"Now, look here," said she rapidly; "you stand right there while I take
off these things. Don't you say a word. No, Mr. Bond, don't you speak!"
Bonnet, false front, and spectacles were tossed in a tumultuous pile.
"Isabel!" gasped the parson.
"Keep still!" she commanded. "Here! fold this shawl!"
The parson folded it neatly, and meanwhile Isabel stepped out of the
mutilated dress, and added that also to the heap. She opened the blue
chest, and packed the articles hastily within. "Here!" said she; "toss
me the shawl. Now if you say one word--Oh, parson, if you only will keep
still, I'll tell you all about it! That is, I guess I can!" And leaving
him standing in hopeless coma, she opened the door.
"Well," said aunt Mary Ellen, stepping in, "I'm afraid your hinges want
greasing. How do you do, Isabel? How do you do?" She put up her face and
kissed her niece. Aunt Mary Ellen was so pretty, so round, so small,
that she always seemed timid, and did the commonest acts of life with a
gentle grace. "I heard voices," she said, walking into the sitting-room.
"Sadie here?"
The parson had stepped forward, more bent than usual, for he was peering
down into her face.
"Mary Ellen!" he exclaimed.
The little woman looked up at him--very sadly, Isabel thought.
"Yes, William," she answered. But she was untying her bonnet, and she
did not offer to shake hands.
Isabel stood by with downcast eyes, waiting to take her things, and
aunt Mary Ellen looked searchingly up at her as she laid her mittens on
the pile. The girl, without a word, went into the bedroom, and her aunt
followed her.
"Isabel," said she rapidly, "I saw the chest. Have you burnt the
things?"
"No," answered Isabel in wonder. "No."
"Then don't you! don't you touch 'em for the world." She went back into
the sitting-room, and Isabel followed. The candle was guttering, and
aunt Mary Ellen pushed it toward her. "I don't know where the snuffers
are," she said. "Lamp smoke?"
Isabel did not answer, but she lighted the lamp. She had never seen her
aunt so full of decision, so charged with an unfamiliar power. She felt
as if strange things were about to happen. The parson was standing
awkwardly. He wondered whether he ought to go. Aunt Mary Ellen smoothed
her brown hair with both hands, sat down, and pointed to his chair.
"Sit a spell," she said. "I guess I shall have something to talk over
with you."
The parson sat down. He tried to put his fingers together, but they
trembled, and he clasped his hands instead.
"It's a long time since we've seen you in Tiverton," he began.
"It would have been longer," she answered, "but I felt as if my niece
needed me."
Here Isabel, to her own surprise, gave a little sob, and then another.
She began crying angrily into her handkerchief.
"Isabel," said her aunt, "is there a fire in the kitchen?"
"Yes," sobbed the girl.
"Well, you go out there and lie down on the lounge till you feel better.
Cover you over, and don't be cold. I'll call you when there's anything
for you to do."
Tall Isabel rose and walked out, wiping her eyes. Her little aunt sat
mistress of the field. For many minutes there was silence, and the clock
ticked. The parson felt something rising in his throat. He blew his nose
vigorously.
"Mary Ellen"--he began. "But I don't know as you want me to call you
so!"
"You can call me anything you're a mind to," she answered calmly. She
was near-sighted, and had always worn spectacles. She took them off and
laid them on her knee. The parson moved involuntarily in his chair. He
remembered how she had used to do that when they were talking
intimately, so that his eager look might not embarrass her. "Nothing
makes much difference when folks get to be as old as you and I are."
"I don't feel old," said the parson resentfully. "I do not! And you
don't look so."
"Well, I am. We're past our youth. We've got to the point where the
only way to renew it is to look out for the young ones."
The parson had always had with her a way of reading her thought and
bursting out boyishly into betrayal of his own.
"Mary Ellen," he cried, "I never should have explained it so, but Isabel
looks like you!"
She smiled sadly. "I guess men make themselves think 'most anything they
want to," she answered. "There may be a family look, but I can't see it.
She's tall, too, and I was always a pint o' cider--so father said."
"She's got the same look in her eyes," pursued the parson hotly. "I've
always thought so, ever since she was a little girl."
"If you begun to notice it then," she responded, with the same gentle
calm, "you'd better by half ha' been thinking of your own wife and her
eyes. I believe they were black."
"Mary Ellen, how hard you are on me! You did't use to be. You never were
hard on anybody. You wouldn't have hurt a fly."
Her face contracted slightly. "Perhaps I wouldn't! perhaps I wouldn't!
But I've had a good deal to bear this afternoon, and maybe I do feel a
little different towards you from what I ever have felt. I've been
hearing a loose-tongued woman tell how my own niece has been made
town-talk because a man old enough to know better was running after
her. I said, years ago, I never would come into this place while you
was in it; but when I heard that, I felt as if Providence had marked out
the way. I knew I was the one to step into the breach. So I had Tim
harness up and bring me over, and here I am. William, I don't want you
should make a mistake at your time of life!"
The minister seemed already a younger man. A strong color had risen in
his face. He felt in her presence a fine exhilaration denied him through
all the years without her. Who could say whether it was the woman
herself or the resurrected spirit of their youth? He did not feel like
answering her. It was enough to hear her voice. He leaned forward,
looking at her with something piteous in his air.
"Mary Ellen," he ventured, "you might as well say 'another mistake.' I
did make one. You know it, and I know it."
She looked at him with a frank affection, entirely maternal. "Yes,
William," she said, with the same gentle firmness in her voice, "we've
passed so far beyond those things that we can speak out and feel no
shame. You did make a mistake. I don't know as 't would be called so to
break with me, but it was to marry where you did. You never cared about
her. You were good to her. You always would be, William; but 't was a
shame to put her there."
The parson had locked his hands upon his knees. He looked at them, and
sad lines of recollection deepened in his face.
"I was desperate," he said at length, in a low tone. "I had lost you.
Some men take to drink, but that never tempted me. Besides, I was a
minister. I was just ordained. Mary Ellen, do you remember that day?"
"Yes," she answered softly, "I remember." She had leaned back in her
chair, and her eyes were fixed upon vacancy with the suffused look of
tears forbidden to fall.
"You wore a white dress," went on the parson, "and a bunch of Provence
roses. It was June. Your sister always thought you dressed too gay, but
you said to her, 'I guess I can wear what I want to, to-day of all
times.'"
"We won't talk about her. Yes, I remember."
"And, as God is my witness, I couldn't feel solemn, I was so glad! I was
a minister, and my girl--the girl that was going to marry me--sat down
there where I could see her, dressed in white. I always thought of you
afterwards with that white dress on. You've stayed with me all my life,
just that way."
Mary Ellen put up her hand with a quick gesture to hide her middle-aged
face. With a thought as quick, she folded it resolutely upon the other
in her lap. "Yes, William," she said. "I was a girl then. I wore white
a good deal."
But the parson hardly heeded her. He was far away. "Mary Ellen," he
broke out suddenly, a smile running warmly over his face, and creasing
his dry, hollow cheeks, "do you remember that other sermon, my trial
one? I read it to you, and then I read it to Parson Sibley. And do you
remember what he said?"
"Yes, I remember. I didn't suppose you did." Her cheeks were pink. The
corners of her mouth grew exquisitely tender.
"You knew I did! 'Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair;
thou hast doves' eyes.' I took that text because I couldn't think of
anything else all summer. I remember now it seemed to me as if I was in
a garden--always in a garden. The moon was pretty bright, that summer.
There were more flowers blooming than common. It must have been a good
year. And I wrote my sermon lying out in the pine woods, down where you
used to sit hemming on your things. And I thought it was the Church, but
do all I could, it was a girl--or an angel!"
"No, no!" cried Mary Ellen, in bitterness of entreaty.
"And then I read the sermon to you under the pines, and you stopped
sewing, and looked off into the trees; and you said 't was beautiful.
But I carried it to old Parson Sibley that night, and I can see just how
he looked sitting there in his study, with his great spectacles pushed
up on his forehead, and his hand drumming on a book. He had the
dictionary put in a certain place on his table because he found he'd got
used to drumming on the Bible, and he was a very particular man. And
when I got through reading the sermon, his face wrinkled all up, though
he didn't laugh out loud, and he came over to me and put his hand on my
shoulder. 'William,' says he, 'you go home and write a doctrinal sermon,
the stiffest you can. This one's about a girl. You might give it to
Mary Ellen North for a wedding-present.'"
The parson had grown almost gay under the vivifying influence of memory.
But Mary Ellen did not smile.
"Yes," she repeated softly, "I remember."
"And then I laughed a little, and got out of the study the best way I
could, and ran over to you to tell you what he said. And I left the
sermon in your work-basket. I've often wished, in the light of what came
afterwards--I've often wished I'd kept it. Somehow 't would have brought
me nearer to you."
It seemed as if she were about to rise from her chair, but she quieted
herself and dulled the responsive look upon her face.
"Mary Ellen," the parson burst forth, "I know how I took what came on us
the very next week, but I never knew how you took it. Should you just as
lieves tell me?"
She lifted her head until it held a noble pose. Her eyes shone
brilliantly, though indeed they were doves' eyes.
"I'll tell you," said she. "I couldn't have told you ten years ago,--no,
nor five! but now it's an old woman talking to an old man. I was given
to understand you were tired of me, and too honorable to say so. I don't
know what tale was carried to you"--
"She said you'd say 'yes' to that rich fellow in Sudleigh, if I'd give
you a chance!"
"I knew 't was something as shallow as that. Well, I'll tell you how I
took it. I put up my head and laughed. I said, 'When William Bond wants
to break with me, he'll say so.' And the next day you did say so."
The parson wrung his hands in an involuntary gesture of appeal.
"Minnie! Minnie!" he cried, "why didn't you save me? What made you let
me be a fool?"
She met his gaze with a tenderness so great that the words lost all
their sting.
"You always were, William," she said quietly. "Always rushing at things
like Job's charger, and having to rush back again. Never once have I
read that without thinking of you. That's why you fixed up an angel out
of poor little Isabel."
The parson made a fine gesture of dissent. He had forgotten Isabel.
"Do you want to know what else I did?" Her voice grew hard and
unfamiliar. "I'll tell you. I went to my sister Eliza, and I said: 'Some
way or another, you've spoilt my life. I'll forgive you just as soon as
I can--maybe before you die, maybe not. You come with me!' and I went up
garret, where she kept the chest with things in it that belonged to them
that had died. There it sets now. I stood over it with her. 'I'm going
to put my dead things in here,' I said. 'If you touch a finger to 'em,
I'll get up in meeting and tell what you've done. I'm going to put in
everything left from what you've murdered; and every time you come here,
you'll remember you were a murderer.' I frightened her. I'm glad I did.
She's dead and gone, and I've forgiven her; but I'm glad now!"
The parson looked at her with amazement. She seemed on fire. All the
smouldering embers of a life denied had blazed at last. She put on her
glasses and walked over to the chest.
"Here!" she continued; "let's uncover the dead. I've tried to do it ever
since she died, so the other things could be burned; but my courage
failed me. Could you turn these screws, if I should get you a knife?
They're in tight. I put 'em in myself, and she stood by."
The little lid of the till had been screwed fast. The two middle-aged
people bent over it together, trying first the scissors and then the
broken blade of the parson's old knife. The screws came slowly. When
they were all out, he stood back a pace and gazed at her. Mary Ellen
looked no longer alert and vivified. Her face was haggard.
"I shut it," she said, in a whisper. "You lift it up."
The parson lifted the lid. There they lay, her poor little relics,--a
folded manuscript, an old-fashioned daguerreotype, and a tiny locket.
The parson could not see. His hand shook as he took them solemnly out
and gave them to her. She bent over the picture, and looked at it, as we
search the faces of the dead. He followed her to the light, and, wiping
his glasses, looked also.
"That was my picture," he said musingly. "I never've had one since. And
that was mother's locket. It had"--He paused and looked at her.
"Yes," said Mary Ellen softly; "it's got it now." She opened the little
trinket; a warm, thick lock of hair lay within, and she touched it
gently with her finger. "Should you like the locket, because 't was your
mother's?"
She hesitated; and though the parson's tone halted also, he answered at
once:--
"No, Mary Ellen, not if you'll keep it. I should rather think 'twas with
you."
She put her two treasures in her pocket, and gave him the other.
"I guess that's your share," she said, smiling faintly. "Don't read it
here. Just take it away with you."
The manuscript had been written in the cramped and awkward hand of his
youth, and the ink upon the paper was faded after many years. He turned
the pages, a smile coming now and then.
"'Thou hast doves' eyes,'" he read,--"'thou hast doves' eyes!'" He
murmured a sentence here and there. "Mary Ellen," he said at last,
shaking his head over the manuscript in a droll despair, "it isn't a
sermon. Parson Sibley had the rights of it. It's a love-letter!" And the
two old people looked in each other's wet eyes and smiled.
The woman was the first to turn away.
"There!" said she, closing the lid of the chest; "we've said enough.
We've wiped out old scores. We've talked more about ourselves than we
ever shall again; for if old age brings anything, it's thinking of other
people--them that have got life before 'em. These your rubbers?"
The parson put them on, with a dazed obedience. His hand shook in
buckling them. Mary Ellen passed him his coat, but he noticed that she
did not offer to hold it for him. There was suddenly a fine remoteness
in her presence, as if a frosty air had come between them. The parson
put the sermon in his inner pocket, and buttoned his coat tightly over
it. Then he pinned on his shawl. At the door he turned.
"Mary Ellen," said he pleadingly, "don't you ever want to see the sermon
again? Shouldn't you like to read it over?"
She hesitated. It seemed for a moment as if she might not answer at all.
Then she remembered that they were old folks, and need not veil the
truth.
"I guess I know it 'most all by heart," she said quietly. "Besides, I
took a copy before I put it in there. Good-night!"
"Good-night!" answered the parson joyously. He closed the door behind
him and went crunching down the icy path. When he had unfastened the
horse and sat tucking the buffalo-robe around him, the front door was
opened in haste, and a dark figure came flying down the walk.
"Mr. Bond!" thrilled a voice.
"Whoa!" called the parson excitedly. He was throwing back the robe to
leap from the sleigh when the figure reached him. "Oh!" said he;
"Isabel!"
She was breathing hard with excitement and the determination grown up in
her mind during that last half hour of her exile in the kitchen.
"Parson,"--forgetting a more formal address, and laying her hand on his
knee,--"I've got to say it! Won't you please forgive me? Won't you,
please? I can't explain it"--
"Bless your heart, child!" answered the parson cordially; "you needn't
try to. I guess I made you nervous."
"Yes," agreed Isabel, with a sigh of relief, "I guess you did." And the
parson drove away.
Isabel ran, light of heart and foot, back into the warm sitting-room,
where aunt Mary Ellen was standing just where he had left her. She had
her glasses off, and she looked at Isabel with a smile so vivid that the
girl caught her breath, and wondered within herself how aunt Mary Ellen
had looked when she was young.
"Isabel," said she, "you come here and give me a corner of your apron to
wipe my glasses. I guess it's drier 'n my handkerchief."
HORN O' THE MOON
If you drive along Tiverton Street, and then turn to the left, down the
Gully Road, you journey, for the space of a mile or so, through a
bewildering succession of damp greenery, with noisy brooks singing songs
below you, on either side, and the treetops on the level with your
horse's feet. Few among the older inhabitants ever take this drive, save
from necessity, because it is conceded that the dampness there is
enough, even in summer, to "give you your death o' cold;" and as for the
young, to them the place wears an eerie look, with its miniature
suggestion of impassable gulfs and roaring torrents. Yet no youth
reaches his majority without exploring the Gully. He who goes alone is
the more a hero; but even he had best leave two or three trusty comrades
reasonably near, not only to listen, should he call, but to stand his
witnesses when he afterwards declares where he has been. It is a
fearsome thing to explore that lower stratum of this round world, so
close to the rushing brook that it drowns your thoughts, though not your
apprehensions, and to go slipping about over wet boulders and among
dripping ferns; but your fears are fears of the spirit. They are
inherited qualms. You shiver because your grandfathers and fathers and
uncles have shivered there before you. If you are very brave indeed, and
naught but the topmost round of destiny will content you, possibly you
penetrate still further into green abysses, and come upon the pool
where, tradition says, an ancient trout has his impregnable habitation.
Apparently, nobody questions that the life of a trout may be
indefinitely prolonged, under the proper conditions of a retired dusk;
and the same fish that served our grandfathers for a legend now enlivens
our childish days. When you meet a youngster, ostentatiously setting
forth for the Gully Road, with bait-box and pole, you need not ask where
he is going; though if you have any human sympathy in the pride of life,
you will not deny him his answer:--
"Down to have a try for the old trout!"
The pool has been still for many years. Not within the memory of aged
men has the trout turned fin or flashed a speckled side; but he is to
this day an historical present. He has lived, and therefore he lives
always.
Those who do not pause upon the Gully Road, but keep straight on into
the open, will come into the old highway leading up and up to Horn o'
the Moon. It is an unshaded, gravelly track, pointing duly up-hill for
three long miles; and it has become a sober way to most of us, in this
generation: for we never take it unless we go on the solemn errand of
getting Mary Dunbar, that famous nurse, to care for our sick or dead.
There is a tradition that a summer visitor once hired a "shay," and
drove, all by herself, up to Horn o' the Moon, drawn on by the elusive
splendor of its name. But she met such a dissuading flood of comment by
the way as to startle her into the state of mind commonly associated
with the Gully Road. Farmers, haying in the field, came forward, to lean
on the fence, and call excitedly,--
"Where ye goin'?"
"Horn o' the Moon," replied she, having learned in Tiverton the value of
succinct replies.
"Who's sick?"
"Nobody."
"Got any folks up there?"
"No. Going to see the place."
The effect of this varied. Some looked in amazement; one ventured to
say, "Well, that's the beater!" and another dropped into the cabalistic
remark which cannot be defined, but which has its due significance,
"Well, you must be sent for!" The result of all this running
commentary was such that, when the visitor reached the top of the hill
where Horn o' the Moon lies, encircled by other lesser heights, she was
stricken by its exceeding desolation, and had no heart to cast more than
a glance at the noble view below. She turned her horse, and trotted,
recklessly and with many stumblings, down again into friendly Tiverton.
Horn o' the Moon is unique in its melancholy. It has so few trees, and
those of so meagre and wind-swept a nature, that it might as well be
entirely bald. No apples grow there; and in the autumn, the inhabitants
make a concerted sally down into Tiverton Street, to purchase their
winter stock, such of them as can afford it. The poorer folk--and they
are all poor enough--buy windfalls, and string them to dry; and so
common is dried-apple-pie among them that, when a Tivertonian finds this
makeshift appearing too frequently on his table, he has only to remark,
"I should think this was Horn o' the Moon!" and it disappears, to return
no more until the slur is somewhat outworn.
There is very little grass at the top of the lonely height, and that of
a husky, whispering sort, in thin ribbons that flutter low little songs
in the breeze. They never cease; for, at Horn o' the Moon, there is
always a wind blowing, differing in quality with the season. Sometimes
it is a sighing wind from other heights, happier in that they are sweet
with firs. Sometimes it is exasperating enough to make the March
breezes below seem tender; then it tosses about in snatching gusts,
buffeting, and slapping, and excoriating him who stands in its way.
Somehow, all the peculiarities of Horn o' the Moon seem referable, in a
mysterious fashion, to the wind. The people speak in high, strenuous
voices, striving to hold their own against its wicked strength. Most of
them are deaf. Is that because the air beats ceaselessly against the
porches of their ears? They are a stunted race; for they have grown into
the habit of holding the head low, and plunging forward against that
battling element. Even the fowl at Horn o' the Moon are not of the
ordinary sort. Their feathers grow the wrong way, standing up in a
ragged and disorderly fashion; and they, too, have the effect of having
been blown about and disarranged, until nature yielded, and agreed to
their permanent roughness.
Moreover, all the people are old or middle-aged and possibly that is
why, again, the settlement is so desolate. It is a disgrace for us below
to marry with Horn o' the Mooners, though they are a sober folk; and now
it happens that everybody up there is the cousin of everybody else. The
race is dying out, we say, as if we considered it a distinct species;
and we agree that it would have been wiped away long ago, by weight of
its own eccentricity, had not Mary Dunbar been the making of it. She is
the one righteous among many. She is the good nurse whom we all go to
seek, in our times of trouble, and she perpetually saves her city from
the odium of the world.
Mary was born in Tiverton Street. We are glad to remember that, we who
condemn by the wholesale, and are assured that no good can come out of
Nazareth. When she was a girl of eighteen, her father and mother died;
and she fell into a state of spiritual exaltation, wherein she dreamed
dreams, and had periods of retirement within her house, communing with
other intelligences. We said Mary had lost her mind; but that was
difficult to believe, since no more wholesome type of womanhood had ever
walked our streets. She was very tall, built on the lines of a beauty
transcending our meagre strain. Nobody approved of those broad shoulders
and magnificent arms. We said it was a shame for any girl to be so
overgrown; yet our eyes followed her, delighted by the harmony of line
and action. Then we whispered that she was as big as a moose, and that,
if we had such arms, we never'd go out without a shawl. Her "mittins"
must be wide enough for any man!
Mary did everything perfectly. She walked as if she went to meet the
morning, and must salute it worthily. She carried a weight as a goddess
might bear the infant Bacchus; and her small head, poised upon that
round throat, wore the crown of simplicity, and not of pride. But we
only told how strong she was, and how much she could lift. We loved
Mary, but sensibility had to shrink from those great proportions and
that elemental strength.
One snowy morning, Mary's spiritual vision called her out of our midst,
to which she never came back save as we needed her. The world was very
white that day, when she rose, in her still house, dressed herself
hastily, and roused a neighbor, begging him to harness, and drive her up
to Horn o' the Moon. Folks were sick there, with nobody to take care of
them. The neighbor reasoned, and then refused, as one might deny a
person, however beloved, who lives by the intuitions of an unseen world.
Mary went home again, and, as he believed, to stay. But she had not
hesitated in her allegiance to the heavenly voice. Somehow, through the
blinding snow and unbroken road, she ploughed her way up to Horn o' the
Moon, where she found an epidemic of diphtheria; and there she stayed.
We marveled over her guessing how keenly she was needed; but since she
never explained, it began to be noised abroad that some wandering
peddler told her. That accounted for everything and Mary had no time for
talk. She was too busy, watching with the sick, and going about from
house to house, cooking delicate gruels and broiling chicken for those
who were getting well. It is said that she even did the barn work, and
milked the cows, during that tragic time. We were not surprised. Mary
was a great worker, and she was fond of "creatur's."
Whether she came to care for these stolid people on the height, or
whether the vision counseled her, Mary gave up her house in the village,
and bought a little old dwelling under an overhanging hillside, at Horn
o' the Moon. It was a nest built into the rock, its back sitting snugly
there. The dark came down upon it quickly. In winter, the sun was gone
from the little parlor as early as three o'clock; but Mary did not mind.
That house was her temporary shell; she only slept in it in the
intervals of hurrying away, with blessed feet, to tend the sick, and
hold the dying in untiring arms. I shall never forget how, one morning,
I saw her come out of the door, and stand silent, looking toward the
rosy east. There was the dawn, and there was she, its priestess, while
all around her slept. I should not have been surprised had her lips,
parted already in a mysterious smile, opened still further in a
prophetic chanting to the sun. But Mary saw me, and the alert, answering
look of one who is a messenger flashed swiftly over her face. She
advanced like the leader of a triumphal procession.
"Anybody want me?" she called. "I'll get my bunnit."
It was when she was twenty, and not more than settled in the little
house at Horn o' the Moon, that her story came to her. The Veaseys were
her neighbors, perhaps five doors away; and one summer morning, Johnnie
Veasey came home from sea. He brought no money, no coral from foreign
parts, nor news of grapes in Eshcol. He simply came empty-handed, as he
always did, bearing only, to vouch for his wanderings, a tanned face,
and the bright, red-brown eyes that had surely looked on things we never
saw. Adam Veasey, his brother, had been paralyzed for years. He sat all
day in the chimney corner, looking at his shaking hands, and telling how
wide a swathe he could cut before he was afflicted. Mattie, Adam's wife,
had long dealt with the problem of an unsupported existence. She had
turned into a flitting little creature with eager eyes, who made it her
business to prey upon a more prosperous world. Mattie never went about
without a large extra pocket attached to her waist; into this, she could
slip a few carrots, a couple of doughnuts, or even a loaf of bread. She
laid a lenient tax upon the neighbors and the town below. Was there a
frying of doughnuts at Horn o' the Moon? No sooner had the odor risen
upon the air, than Mattie stood on the spot, dumbly insistent on her
toll. Her very clothes smelled of food; and it was said that, in
fly-time, it was a sight to see her walk abroad, because of the hordes
of insects settling here and there on her odoriferous gown. When Johnnie
Veasey appeared, Mattie's soul rose in arms. Their golden chance had
come at last.
"You got paid off?" she asked him, three minutes after his arrival, and
Johnnie owned, with the cheerfulness of those rich only in hope, that he
did get paid, and lost it all, the first night on shore. He got into the
wrong boarding-house, he said. It was the old number, but new folks.
Mattie acquiesced, with a sigh. He would make his visit and go again,
and, that time, perhaps fortune might attend him. So she went over to
old Mrs. Hardy's, to borrow a "riz loaf," and the wanderer was feasted,
according to her little best.
Johnnie stayed, and Horn o' the Moon roused itself, finding that he had
brought the antipodes with him. He was the teller of tales. He described
what he had seen, and then, by easy transitions, what others had known
and he had only heard, until the intelligence of these stunted,
wind-blown creatures, on their island hill, took fire; and every man
vowed he wished he had gone to sea, before it was too late, or even to
California, when the gold craze was on. Johnnie had the tongue of the
improvisator, and he loved a listener. He liked to sit out on a log, in
the sparse shadow of the one little grove the hill possessed, and, with
the whispering leaves above him tattling uncomprehended sayings brought
them by the wind, gather the old men about him, and talk them blind. As
he sat there, Mary came walking swiftly by, a basket in her hand.
Johnnie came bolt upright, and took off his cap. He looked amazingly
young and fine, and Mary blushed as she went by.
"Who's that?" asked Johnnie of the village fathers.
"That's only Mary Dunbar. Guess you ain't been here sence she moved up."
Johnnie watched her walking away, for the rhythm of her motion attracted
him. He did not think her pretty; no one ever thought that.
It happened, then, that he spent two or three evenings at the Hardys',
where Mary went, every night, to rub grandmother and put her to bed; and
while she sat there in the darkened room, soothing the old woman for her
dreary vigil, she heard his golden tales of people in strange lands. It
seemed very wonderful to Mary. She had not dreamed there were such lands
in all the world; and when she hurried home, it was to hunt out her old
geography, and read it until after midnight. She followed rivers to
their sources, and dwelt upon mountains with amazing names. She was
