presence.
He had walked quite five miles, as he judged from the passage of time,
when at last he made a discovery. Moored to the bank was a dismantled
raft, if such an expression is allowable. Rupert remembered now that on
their trip down the river Boone had called his attention to it, saying:
"It must have been left there by some party of travelers."
Rupert little thought how serviceable this would prove to him.
His eyes lighted up with joy, for he hailed the finding of the raft as a
good omen, and foresaw how important it would prove to him.
"But was it in a condition for use?"
That was the important question.
Rupert bent down and examined it critically. The boards were still
pretty firm, though water-soaked, and seemed to be securely fastened
together. The rope that fastened it to the small sapling on the bank was
quite rotten, and it was a wonder that it had not parted.
Rupert pulled on it to see how secure it was, and it broke. This,
however, was of little consequence. He selected a long stick to serve as
an oar, and getting on the raft, pushed out into the stream.
The stick, however, made a very poor substitute for an oar. Still he
found that it was of some use.
But just as he was starting he discovered, almost covered with
underbrush, the paddle which had probably been used by the parties who
had constructed and used the raft. This worked tolerably well, and he
was glad to have found it.
At last he was ready, and started on his journey. He found his progress
slow, and his task toilsome. Still he was making progress, and that was
encouraging.
How rapid this progress he could only conjecture. It might be two miles
an hour; probably it was not more than that, and he was obliged to
confess with a sinking of the heart that it would take a very long time
at this rate before he would get back.
He had tugged away possibly three hours, when his strength began to give
out. He began to feel faint and hungry, especially as his breakfast had
not been very satisfying.
Then, for the first time, with a sinking heart, he realized that he had
made a serious blunder. What few provisions were left after breakfast he
had left behind him, and he was absolutely without a mouthful to eat.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
A LUCKY ENCOUNTER.
Unsatisfied hunger is always a serious discomfort. What it was to a
young, healthy boy like Rupert, who had been working hard for several
hours, may be imagined.
Even if there had been a prospect of his dining in two or three hours,
it would have been inconvenient, but he could have endured it. As it
was, he did not know when he could satisfy his appetite, if at all.
He discovered in his pockets some silver change which Ben hadn't taken,
but that could do him no good in the Colorado wilderness.
Rupert was in general sanguine and light-hearted. But it must be owned
that he felt terribly depressed about this time. He had his gun with
him, but even if he should succeed in shooting anything, how could he
cook it? He had not even a match with which to light a fire.
Was he destined to starve in this out of the way region? he asked
himself. A hundred miles off he had a rich friend. In New York he owned
two valuable lots and had money in the bank besides, but neither of
these could do him any good now.
The French speak of an uncomfortable quarter of an hour. Rupert had two
hours at least that could be described in this way. All this while,
faint as he was and tired as his exertions on an empty stomach had made
him, he still paddled on. At last, to his great joy, there came light in
the darkness. As the raft turned a corner in the windings of the river
he saw on the bank, curiously regarding him, a tall, thin,
dark-complexioned girl, in a calico dress too short for her.
A new hope was born in Rupert's heart? and he stopped paddling.
"Do you live around here?" he asked.
"Yes," answered the girl.
"Could I buy some food at your house?"
"Don't know. I reckon so."
"Then I'll stop, and you can show me the way to your house."
"Where did you come from?"
"From below--about ten miles down the river."
"Is that where you live?"
"No. I live in New York."
"Where is that? Is it in Colorado?"
"Didn't you ever hear of New York?" asked Rupert, in genuine surprise at
the ignorance of his new acquaintance.
"No."
"It's a large city."
The girl seemed to take very little interest in the information he gave
her.
"Did you always live here?" asked Rupert, becoming himself the
questioner.
"Reckon so."
By this time Rupert had brought the raft to shore and tied it to a
stump. He obtained a nearer view of the girl, but did not find her
attractive.
She was tall, thin, and had a sallow complexion. Her dress hung straight
down. Moreover, it was not clean. The girl eyed him attentively, and
didn't seem in the least bashful. She seemed to arrive at a decision in
regard to him.
"Say, you're good-lookin'," she said, in a matter-of-fact tone.
"Do you think so?" returned Rupert, blushing.
"Yes. How old be you?"
"Seventeen."
"I'm fourteen. If you lived round here I'd take you for my beau."
"But I don't live round here," said Rupert, with an air of relief. "What
is your name?" he asked, with a sudden thought.
"Sal. That's what mam calls me. What's yours?"
"Rupert."
"That's a mighty cur'us name. Never heard it afore."
"I don't think it is a common name."
"You jest come along, if you want some dinner. You said you'd pay for
it, didn't you?"
"Yes."
"Then I guess mam will give you some."
"Do you live far off?" asked Rupert, anxiously.
"No. Jest in the woods a little way."
Rupert followed the girl for about a quarter of a mile. Then, in a
little clearing, he saw a rude cabin--just such a house as he fancied
Sal would live in.
"That's our house, and there's mam at the door," said his young guide.
A tall, thin woman, between whom and Sal there was considerable
resemblance, not only in appearance but in dress, stood in the doorway,
shading her eyes with her hand as she looked down the path.
"She's lookin' for me," explained Sal, with a grin.
"Here you, Sal!" called her mother. "Where've you been gallivantin' to?"
Then she stopped short, for she caught sight of Rupert.
"Who've you got with you?" she asked, abruptly.
"A boy," answered Sal. "Ain't he nice lookin'?"
Rupert blushed again, as most of my boy readers would probably have
done under like circumstances.
"No matter how he looks," said the mother, sharply. "What does he want
here?"
"He wants somethin' to eat, and he's got money to pay for it," answered
Sal.
"I am very hungry, madam," said Rupert, taking off his hat. "I shall
consider it a great favor if you will give me some dinner."
"I reckon I kin scare up something," said the woman, more amiably. "Jest
come in."
Rupert entered the cabin. It was rudely and scantily furnished, but
doubtless the occupants enjoyed it as much as a New York millionaire
enjoys his elegant mansion on Fifth Avenue. There was a fire in the
cooking-stove, and in a pantry Rupert noticed some cold remnants of the
noonday meal.
"Sit down," said the woman. "I'll scare you up something in a jiffy."
"I'll sit down outside, if you don't mind," answered Rupert.
He sat down on a settee on one side of the door. Soon the odor of some
meat which was being fried assailed his nostrils, and gave him the
keenest delight.
In about twenty minutes Sal called him in, and he was glad to accept her
rather unceremonious invitation.
On the table was a dish of meat. He didn't know what kind it was, but it
smelled good. On another plate was some corn bread, but no butter was
provided.
"We ain't got no whiskey," said the woman. "We're sort o' run out, but I
can give you some tea."
"That will do just as well, madam."
Rupert might have said that it would do better, but he saw that the
family were not prohibitionists and might take offense if he spoke
against the use of whiskey.
Rupert had seldom enjoyed a meal more than the one he sat down to in
that rude cabin.
"What kind of meat is this?" he asked.
"Bear meat. Didn't you ever eat any?"
"No, madam."
"We reckon it's good. My man killed the bear."
"It is excellent," said Rupert, and he really meant what he said.
"I'm glad you like it."
Rupert ate till he was ashamed. He had not asked the price of the meal
in advance, for he was fully resolved to eat it, even if it took every
cent he had left to pay for it. But when at last he laid down his knife
and fork he summoned courage to ask how much he must pay.
"I reckon a quarter'll do," said the woman.
Rupert breathed a sigh of relief. It not only came within his means, but
he would have fifty cents left after paying.
Then the woman began to ask questions.
"Where mought you be goin'?" she asked.
Rupert mentioned his destination.
"How far away is that?"
"Nearly a hundred miles."
"Are you travelin' alone?"
"I had a man with me till this morning."
"Where is he now?"
"He got up early, robbed me of all my money and ran off, taking the boat
with him," Rupert answered in indignant tones.
"If he took all your money, how are you goin' to pay for your dinner?"
asked the woman, frowning.
"I have a little money left in silver," said Rupert, producing the
quarter.
"How are you goin' to get back?"
"I don't know. I have no money, and only a raft."
Then an idea came to him.
"If I could find a man who would go back with me, I would pay him well."
"But you have no money."
"Mr. Packard, of Red Gulch, is my friend. He is a rich man and he would
pay for me."
"Do you mean Giles Packard?"
"Yes."
"I know about him. He is rich. Is he your friend?"
"Yes."
Rupert followed up his advantage.
"If I could find a man who would take me to him I would promise him
fifty dollars--and this gun."
The woman's eyes showed her interest. She was fond of money, and fifty
dollars seemed to her a large sum.
"I reckon my man would go along with you," she said slowly. "The fifty
dollars would be sure?"
"Yes, and if I was satisfied with him, I would give him ten dollars
more."
"Mam," said Sal, "you'd better say yes. We'll all be rich if dad gets
sixty dollars."
"When will your husband be home?" asked Rupert, becoming hopeful.
"I reckon he'll be home directly--if you kin wait."
"Oh, yes, I can wait. Has he got a boat?"
"He has a canoe."
"That will do just as well."
"And will you give me the raft?" asked Sal. "You won't want it."
"Yes, you shall have the raft."
Sal was so delighted that she threw her arms round Rupert's neck and
kissed him, much to his confusion.
"Quit that, you Sal. Ain't you got no manners?" said her mother,
sharply. "There's your dad comin' now."
Rupert raised his flushed face, and was indescribably astonished when a
tall Indian entered the cabin.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
AN INDIAN GUIDE.
"Is that your husband?" asked Rupert, in a tone that betrayed his
surprise.
"Yes. What yer gawkin' at? He's enough sight better'n my first husband,
who was a white man. Isn't he, Sal?"
"You bet, mam!"
The Indian, who had an air of natural dignity, seemed pleased with their
tributes to his excellence.
"Yes," continued Sal's mother, "he's my man now. John, this boy wants
you to take him to Giles Packard's ranch."
"It's a long way," said the Indian, slowly.
"Yes, I know that," answered Rupert, "but I am willing to pay you. That
is, I haven't money with me, but Mr. Packard will pay you fifty dollars,
and I will give you my gun besides."
The Indian seemed most impressed with the last part of the offer. He
held out the gun and examined it closely. Then a look of satisfaction
overspread his face, and he said "Good."
"He seems straight, though he's only a boy," remarked the woman. "You'd
better go. Fifty dollars is a good deal of money."
"Gun good," said the Indian, sententiously.
"Yes, but the money is better."
"When you want to go?" asked John.
"You'd better wait till to-morrow morning," put in the woman. "I'll bake
up some bread and fry some bear steak for you to carry."
"That will suit me if you will give me a place to sleep and some
supper," said Rupert.
This was readily agreed to.
One of those best pleased with this arrangement was Sal. She seemed so
impressed with Rupert that the latter was afraid she would kiss him
again, but fortunately she refrained.
She made up her mind, however, to enjoy the boy's companionship, and
challenged him to a trial of speed. Rupert was almost ashamed to
compete with a girl, but he found that Sal was a rival by no means to be
despised. She kept up well with him in a quarter mile run, and in a
running jump she beat him once out of three times.
"You jump very well--for a girl," said Rupert.
"You're taller'n I be, or I'd beat you. Besides, you're older."
"And your mother's older than you. Can she beat you?"
"I'd jump mam out of her boots," said Sal, confidently. "Want to try,
mam?"
"Try what?"
"Jumpin'."
"Oh, quit yer foolin'. A nice sight I'd be, jumpin'. Your dad will jump
with you."
"Yes," said John, smiling gravely.
"Oh, he can beat me, of course."
"Won't you jump, John?" asked Rupert, thinking the Indian looked
desirous of a trial.
"Yes," answered John.
Like most of his race, he was supple and well trained in all athletic
exercises. He jumped three feet farther than Rupert, though the white
boy plumed himself on his agility.
Later Rupert and Sal took a trip down the river on the raft. Sal desired
to do the paddling, and Rupert was obliged to confess that she
understood the art of paddling a raft better than he.
"You gave it to me, didn't you?" she said.
"Yes, Sal, it is yours."
The girl looked pleased.
"I will go out on it a good deal," she said. "Dad doesn't like me to use
his canoe."
"Where does he keep his canoe?"
"Up the river a way. Shall I show you?"
"Yes, if you will."
She kept on paddling till they reached a secluded part of the stream,
where there was a circular indentation in the bank. Here was the
Indian's canoe. It was higher than the skiff in which Rupert had
traveled with Ben Boone, and though as long, was narrower.
"It is a beautiful canoe!" said Rupert, admiringly.
"Isn't it? Dad's proud of it."
"How long has he been married to your mother?"
"'Bout three years."
"You don't mind having an Indian for a father?" asked Rupert, feeling
that he might be on delicate ground.
"No, John's a good man. He never drinks, as my own father did. He's good
to mam. Then he is a good hunter, and brings us plenty of bear's meat."
"Would you be willing to marry an Indian yourself?"
"No, I'd rather marry you," was Sal's disconcerting reply.
"I am not old enough to be married," said Rupert, blushing.
"You will be some day."
"Yes. I shall be some day--if I live."
"Then will you come and marry me?"
This was a leap year proposal with a vengeance. Rupert was hardly
prepared with an answer. He replied diplomatically, "I can't tell yet. I
must ask my mother."
"Mam would be willing I should marry you," said Sal. "Where does your
mother live?"
"Near New York."
"Won't you ask her?"
"Yes," answered Rupert; "but perhaps you will see some one else you will
like better."
"No, I shan't," said Sal, positively. "You are awful handsome."
"Am I?" said Rupert, in rather an embarrassed tone.
"Yes, you've got such nice red cheeks."
Rupert scanned her critically, but he was unable to return the
compliment. Her face was thin and sallow, and the only feature that was
passable was her bright black eyes.
The next morning, when Rupert was ready to start, Sal showed an
inclination to kiss him again, but he hurried off with the Indian, and
escaped this affectionate demonstration.
"You'll come back some time?" said Sal, anxiously, as she looked after
him.
"Yes, some day."
Rupert hoped that before he saw Sal again she would have secured a
husband in her own station in life.
Rupert found the Indian a very satisfactory companion. Compared to Ben
he was silent and reserved, but he was willing to answer questions, and
the young traveler managed to extract considerable information from him.
There was no unnecessary delay. Rupert had no desire to remain longer in
the wilderness. So on the evening of the third day he reached Red Gulch
and sought out his friend Giles Packard.
The cattleman eyed his companion with surprise.
"Where have you left Ben?" he said.
"He left me," answered Rupert, and he told the story of Ben Boone's
treachery.
Giles Packard was very angry.
"The rascal!" he said. "I knew he was lazy and shiftless, but I didn't
think he was a villain. If I could get hold of him he'd find it worse
than being in a bear's clutches. Have you any idea where he went?"
"No; I thought he might have come home."
"He wouldn't dare to come home without you."
"I've got it!" exclaimed Rupert, suddenly.
"What is it?"
"I understand now. He's on his way to New York."
"What do you mean?"
"He asked a great deal about New York, and said he would go there if he
only had money enough. I expect he is using my money for traveling
expenses."
"Where did you pick up your Indian friend?"
Rupert told of the compact he had made with the Indian, and asked Mr.
Packard to lend him money enough to keep it.
"Certainly, lad, and I'd do a great deal more for you, if necessary."
John was paid his money, and received the gun besides as a free gift.
With them he started for home happy and proud.
Rupert might have sent his love to Sal, but he refrained.
"By the way, Rupert," said Giles Packard, "I have two letters for you."
Rupert opened them hastily. The first was from his mother. The important
part ran thus:
     "Mr. Strathmore is sick with pneumonia, and there is little hope
     of his living. Of course this will make it necessary for me and
     Grace to seek a new home. I wish we might all be together again. I
     have been contented, because I knew you were doing well, but I
     should be happier to have you with me. Will you be back soon? I
     will make no arrangements till you return."
The second letter was from Leslie Waters. He wrote:
     "Congratulate me, Rupert! I have at last realized my ambition and
     am to become an actor. I have been engaged to play a part in the
     comedy of 'Fireflies.' You won't get any idea of the piece from the
     title. My part is a very good one. I am to represent a Broadway
     swell. I can't give you any idea of the plot, but I hope some time
     you may be able to see it played. Of course I have resigned my
     position as a bell-boy. We start on the road on Monday, opening at
     Albany, and going thence to Buffalo. I will send you my route as
     soon as I can. Answer this to Cleveland, Ohio."
"I suppose Leslie is happy," thought Rupert. "I hope he will succeed."
"I trust your letters contain good news," said Giles Packard.
"One contains bad news. My mother is about to lose her home, and I am
afraid I must start at once for New York."
"Wait till to-morrow, Rupert, and I will go with you. I have a capable
superintendent who will take my place, and a journey will do me good."
"I shall be delighted to have your company, Mr. Packard."
Giles Packard looked pleased, for the longer he knew Rupert the better
he liked him.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
HOW TO MANAGE A ROGUE.
At the last moment Giles Packard decided to take his uncle, John
Plympton, with him, finding that the old man was reluctant to be left
alone.
"I shall stop on the way at Rochester and see if I can collect Uncle
John's note," he said. "Perhaps I may be more successful than he."
"If you don't mind, Mr. Packard," said Rupert, "I will go on at once to
New York, as I feel anxious about my mother."
"Very well. Go to the Somerset Hotel, and put up as a guest. I shall
follow you soon."
Leaving Rupert to pursue his journey, we will detail the experiences of
Giles and his uncle at Rochester.
"We will put up at a cheap hotel, Uncle John," he said. "I don't want
Eben to suspect that I am well off."
"He wouldn't judge so from your dress, Giles," remarked the old man,
with a humorous glance at his nephew's well-worn suit.
"That is true, Uncle John. I don't look very much like a dude, I admit.
However, I will go to a first-class tailor in New York and get myself
rigged out. While I am about it I will get a new suit for you."
"I need it badly enough, Giles, but having given all my money to Eben
Jackson, I did not feel able to buy new clothes."
"You won't have occasion to complain of being without money long."
"Thank you, Giles. It has been a great relief to me, your purchasing the
note, but I don't want you to lose money."
"I don't intend to. Eben Jackson may swindle you. He will find it harder
to get the advantage of me."
Eben Jackson was standing at the desk in his store when Giles and John
Plympton entered. Eben took no particular notice of the middle-aged and
rather rough-looking stranger, whom he did not recognize, but frowned
perceptibly when he saw John Plympton.
"You here, Uncle John?" he said, roughly.
"Yes," answered the old man, meekly.
"Where have you been?"
"I went to Chicago."
"Didn't you find anything to do there?"
"No."
"Probably you didn't try very hard."
"It wasn't that. They all said I was too old. Chicago is a city of young
men."
"Yes, you have seen your best days," said his nephew, unfeelingly.
"And I suppose I ought not to cumber the ground. Is that what you mean,
Eben?"
"Well, not exactly, but you can't expect that you can find employment as
you used to do."
"Isn't that pretty hard? I am only sixty-five."
"That's old for a man seeking employment."
"What will you do when you are sixty-five?"
"It will be different with me. I have a business of my own."
"I hope you'll be better off than I am at that age."
"I shall. You never had much business capacity."
"I've been thinking, Eben, I'd better take that three thousand dollars
of mine and buy an annuity. At my age I ought to get enough to take care
of me economically."
"I don't see how you're going to do that. I've got your money."
"True, but I should like to have it back."
"You can't have it at present. It would be inconvenient for me to take
it from my business."
"But, Eben, I need it. At any rate you can let me have the interest that
has already accrued."
"I'll see about it."
"But I want money at once."
"Then you can't get it," said the nephew, rudely. "Where are you
staying?"
John Plympton mentioned the name of the hotel.
Eben Jackson turned up his nose. This was distinctly a third-class
house, charging one dollar and a quarter a day.
"You'd better go to a cheap boarding-house. You needn't expect me to pay
your hotel bill."
"I have a right to expect you will give me enough of my own money to pay
the bill."
"I won't encourage you in any such ridiculous extravagance, Uncle John."
"Perhaps you think it is extravagant in me to eat at all."
"I think it is extravagant to pay a dollar and a quarter a day for
board. Who is that man with you?"
On hearing this, Giles Packard came forward.
"You ought to know me, Eben," he said.
Eben Jackson took stock of the cattleman's shabby clothes, and answered,
coldly, "You have the advantage of me, sir."
"Then you don't remember your cousin, Giles Packard?"
"Are you Giles Packard? I didn't know but you were dead."
"No, thank you, not just yet."
"Where have you been living?"
"In Colorado."
"Have you met with any success? What business have you followed?"
"I have been in the cattle business."
"Oh, a cowboy?" sneered Eben.
"If you choose to call me so."
"Why didn't you stay in Colorado? Why have you come East?"
"I thought I should enjoy a vacation."
"But traveling costs money."
"So it does. Uncle John tells me you have three thousand dollars of
his."
Eben Jackson frowned.
"Yes," he said, "I am taking care of his money for him."
"As he can't find employment, he will need to have it returned."
"That can't be done. He has my note for it."
"Yes. I have seen the note. I observe that it is made out 'On demand.'"
"Well?"
"That means that he can call for it at any time."
"I shall pay it when I get ready," said Eben, haughtily.
"It may be wise for you to get ready very soon."
"Oh, you threaten, do you? That is all the good it will do you."
To Eben Jackson's surprise Giles Packard took the matter very coolly. He
even smiled.
"I suspect you will change your mind," he said.
"I understand your drift. You want to get hold of Uncle John's money
yourself."
"Perhaps so. Uncle John, are you willing that I should take charge of
your money?"
"Yes, Giles."
"Ah, a very nice conspiracy. Uncle John, you are a fool."
"Why?" asked the old man, mildly.
"This man has made a failure of his life, and is as poor as poverty,
judging from his appearance. He has got up a nice scheme for depriving
you of your money. If he got hold of it you would never see a cent of
it. He is evidently an adventurer."
"Then you won't give me my money?"
"No. I shall keep it in your own interest. Why, if you gave it to him
you would be a pauper in less than a year."
Giles Packard did not seem in the least irritated by his cousin's
uncomplimentary remarks.
Turning to John Plympton, he said: "I think we may as well go, Uncle
John."
"I am glad you realize that," observed Jackson. "Before you go, let me
say that your scheme has utterly failed."
"My scheme of getting you to return Uncle John his money?"
"Your plan of getting his money into your own possession."
"Call it as you like. You will hear from us very soon."
"Is that meant as a threat?"
"Well, perhaps so."
"Go ahead. Take what measures you choose. It is immaterial to me."
"What did I tell you, Giles?" said John Plympton, as they left the
store.
"Eben Jackson is meaner than I supposed. We will give him a little
surprise."
"Before night Eben Jackson received the following letter from the
leading lawyer in Rochester:
     "SIR--
     "My client, Mr. Giles Packard, has placed in my hands for
     collection a demand note for three thousand dollars, signed by
     yourself, transferred to him by John Plympton. Will you arrange to
     pay it? If not, I am instructed by my client to sue.
     "Yours respectfully,
     "EDWARD NETTLETON, Att'y."
This was like a bomb in the camp of the enemy. Mr. Nettleton was a sharp
and successful lawyer, and to be feared. He was steep in his charges,
and Eben felt that his cousin was a fool to employ so high-priced an
attorney.
He lost no time in seeking the humble hotel where his uncle and cousin
were domiciled.
"What does all this mean?" he demanded, angrily.
"What do you refer to?"
"To Mr. Nettleton's letter."
"It means that I am going to have my uncle's money," said Giles, firmly.
"Your lawyer will charge you an immense fee. Better let the matter
drop."
"Eben Jackson, I'll make you pay that money if it costs me five thousand
dollars for expenses."
"Ridiculous! Why, you are almost a pauper."
"I hope not. When I left Colorado I was worth nearly a hundred thousand
dollars. I don't think I have lost any money since."
"Is this true?" gasped Jackson.
"It is. You thought me poor, because I was poorly dressed. You were
mistaken. I am what is called a rich man. I am unmarried, but after the
way you have treated me, you can judge what chances you have of being
remembered in my will."
"It is all a mistake, Cousin Giles," said Eben, in a conciliatory tone.
"I'll pay the money, and I hope you and Uncle John will do me the favor
of staying at my house while you are in Rochester."
Giles Packard smiled grimly.
"We shall start for New York to-morrow," he said, "and it won't be
advisable for us to leave the hotel. I shall leave the note in Mr.
Nettleton's hands, and I will give you a month in which to pay it."
"Thank you. Won't you call at the house? Mary will be glad to see you,
and I want to show you the children."
"Yes, we will call."
Giles Packard smiled when his cousin left the hotel.
"Eben seems to have changed," he said. "I think we shan't have any more
trouble with him."
CHAPTER XXXIX.
NEW PLANS.
When Rupert entered the Somerset Hotel on his return from the West he
received a cordial welcome from Mr. Malcolm, the clerk.
"I hope you have had a pleasant journey," he said.
"Very pleasant, on the whole."
"And do you want your old place again?"
"No," answered Rupert. "I hope to go into some other line of business."
"I'm glad for one reason. I have taken a very good boy in your
place--David Williams--and I would not like to discharge him."
"I hear Leslie has left you also."
"Yes. He has gone on the stage, I believe," said the clerk, smiling.
"Have you any plans in that direction?"
"No; I couldn't make as much as the wages you were paying me."
"I doubt if Leslie will find the change to his advantage."
"Whom have you in his place?"
"A boy named Bernard Benton. He is also a good boy. By the way, a letter
came for you yesterday. Here it is."
Rupert supposed the letter might be from his mother, but on reading the
address he found that it was in a business hand. He opened the envelope
and read as follows.
     "MR. RUPERT ROLLINS--
     "DEAR SIR: I learn that you are the owner of two lots on One
     Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street, in Harlem. I should like to buy
     them, and am willing to pay you seven thousand dollars for the two.
     "Yours truly,
     "ALBERT CROSSMAN."
Rupert read the letter with mingled pleasure and surprise. The lots had
cost but one thousand dollars each. That they should have increased in
value to such an extent was hardly credible.
He did not feel like deciding the matter until he had a chance to
consult with Mr. Packard, and he so wrote Mr. Crossman. Now that his
mother had lost her position he felt that this stroke of good luck was
particularly timely.
He went out in the afternoon to see his mother and Grace. He found that
Mr. Strathmore was dead, and that his funeral had taken place.
"I don't know what we shall do, Rupert," said Mrs. Rollins anxiously.
"It may be some time before I can obtain another position where I can
support myself and Grace. However, I have saved seventy-five dollars, so
that for a time I shall not be a burden upon you."
"Don't talk of being a burden, mother. You never can be that."
"But how can your small earnings support three persons?"
"You forget, mother, that I have property."
"To what do you refer, Rupert?"
