nor my reluctant composure unnatural.
Mariposa had her emotions better in hand. She sobbed volubly, wiping
away real tears with the baby's calico slip, and three other girls
accomplished commendable snivels. An embarrassing halt brought down my
handkerchief and hushed audible mourning. The affair was not over. Every
eye was riveted expectantly upon me, and I had forgotten what came next.
Mariposa plucked my cloak and whispered in my ear:--
"Thar oughter be a pra'ar now!"
The propriety of the suggestion was obvious. I had seen pictures of
funerals and knew how the officiating clergyman appeared in committing
"dust to dust, ashes to ashes." But there was the fear aforementioned of
breaking a Commandment by addressing the Almighty in a make-believe
service.
"'Tain't a fun'ral 'thout thars a pra'ar!" Mariposa muttered
insistently.
Nerved by the exigency, I lifted both hands and eyes toward the sky:--
"World without end, Amen and Amen!"
"A-a-men!" groaned my faithful lieutenant. Her emphasis assured me
that the inspiration I had obeyed was a felicitous touch. She pressed
still closer to me, mindful of my dignity, and prompted me further, in
an artistic mutter, without using her lips.
"The services o' this solemn 'casion will be close' by er hymn."
I uttered it as if she had not given the cue, and "lined out" the hymn I
had pitched upon as eminently appropriate for the "solemn 'casion."
   "When I can read my title clear
   To mansions in the skies."
Mariposa raised the tune and carried it, the rest of the band screaming
in her wake.
   "I'll bid farewell to every fear
   And wipe my weeping eyes,"
I continued in a nasal sing-song.
The chorus was plain sailing before a spanking breeze;
   "And wipe my weeping eye-eye-eyes!
   And wipe my weeping eye-er-ese!
   I'll bid farewell to every fear
   And wipe my weeping eyes."
Like the echo of the final screech a fearsome wail arose from within the
enclosure,--a long-drawn cry, repeated while we stared into one
another's blanched faces, too affrighted for words.
Mariposa was the first to recover the use of her tongue and limbs.
"Th' ghos' o' the little baby!" she yelled, and took to her nimble
heels at a rate that made it impossible for the fleetest of her fellow
fugitives to overtake her.
I was left all alone.
[Illustration]
Chapter VI
[Illustration]
Leaning against the outside of the brick wall, too stunned to join in my
companions' stampede, I yet did not lose my senses. Neither did I cry
out or whimper. Children have gone into convulsions and become idiotic
for less cause. I was phenomenally healthy, and, as I have said, no
coward. Before the hindmost deserter gained the draw-bars my reason was
on the return path. I had the signal advantage above my comrades of not
believing in ghosts. My father had asserted to me positively, once and
again, that no such things existed, and put himself to much trouble to
explain natural phenomena that are often misinterpreted by the ignorant
and superstitious into supernatural manifestations. His orders were
strict that the servants should never retail ghost stories in our
hearing; and he was obeyed by the elder negroes. Mam' Chloe, whatever
may have been her reserved rights of private judgment, backed him up
dutifully with the epigram:--
"Folks that's gone to the bad place can't get out to come back, an'
them that's in heaven don't want to."
The cry I had heard certainly sounded like the weak wail of Cousin Mary
Bray's skinny little baby, but God and the dear angels would never let
the helpless, tiny mite wander back to earth alone. My mother had said
to me, last night, that it would never cry any more.
"It was in pain all the while it was here," she reminded me. "It never
awoke that it did not begin to cry. Think how sweet it must be for it
not to suffer now. I think that God sent for it to come to heaven
because He was so sorry for it."
Strength flowed into my soul with the recollection. My mother never said
what was not exactly true. Happy, safe, and saving faith of childhood in
a parent's wisdom, a parent's word, a parent's power!
Curious, rather than frightened, I stepped over Musidora's grave, and
hurried around to the locked gate. Two unsodded mounds were near the
entrance. One was long, and one short. Stretched upon this last was
something that moved slightly and cried again, yet more piteously, when
I called to it. The sight sent me flying like a flushed partridge
through the Old Orchard to the garden fence, over it and up the middle
walk of the garden. While yet afar off, I saw my father standing there
talking with the gardener. Evidently the scattered horde had not spread
an alarm. My father turned at my loud panting, and eyed me with
astonishment. Without pausing to consider why he should be amazed, I
caught hold of him and shrieked my news:--
"Father! father! it is Alexander the Great come back to look for Lucy!"
My father seldom scolded. He more rarely punished without inquiry. He
was stern now and spoke sharply.
"What is the meaning of this nonsense, Molly? You are forever getting up
some new sensation. There is such a thing as having too much
'make-believe.' I would rather have a little sensible truth now and
then."
"But, father, really and truly--" chokingly, for his words were as drawn
swords to my loving heart.
He pushed my hand away from his arm.
"When you look and behave less like a crazy child, I will hear what you
have to say. Where did you get those things?"
I wished that the ground would open and swallow me away from his cold,
contemptuous eye. I had forgotten my ridiculous costume entirely. The
shame and humiliation of having exposed myself to his just criticism,
the added disgrace of the grinning gardener's enjoyment of the figure I
had cut--the absurd coal-scuttle of a bonnet hanging down my back, the
black silk apron streaming behind me like a half-inflated
balloon--overwhelmed me with speechless confusion. I hung my head in an
agony.
"Where did you get them, I say?" repeated my father.
"Up in the lumber-room," I stammered, faintly and sheepishly.
"Go, put them back where you found them! Then, come to me. As I was
saying, James--"
He went on with his directions to the gardener.
I slunk away, forgetful of everything except my personal discomfiture,
dodging from one clump of shrubbery to another, lest I should be seen
from the windows of the house, going almost on all-fours in exposed
stretches of walk or garden-beds, and so making my retreat to the side
door of the north wing. I had stripped off the hateful masquerade
habiliments and rolled them into a compact bundle, but anybody who met
me would ask what I was carrying under my arm, and I could bear no more
that day. Unable to contain myself a minute longer, I sank down in the
solitude of the steep staircase leading to the lumber-room, and had my
cry--if not out--so nearly to the end that I felt adequate to making my
judge see reason,--if only he would not look at me as if he were ashamed
of his daughter! Was it very wrong to take those things on the sly?
Would I be punished for it? Had he told my mother yet? And did Mary
'Liza know about it? I could never, never tell her that I had worn the
nasty bonnet and cloak as mourning to Musidora's funeral. I would be
whipped first.
Crying again in anticipation of the dilemma, I trudged slowly up the
steps, and pushed back the door, which stuck fast again although I did
not recollect shutting it.
"Just's if somebody was leaning against it!" said I, pettishly, and
flung my whole weight against the lower panel.
The door flew back and I fell headlong, face downward, on the floor, the
bundle flying ahead of me clear to the hearth. I picked myself up,
rubbed my smarting palms and, in a vile humor, recovered the detestable
cause of all the trouble. I boxed the lop-ears of the bonnet, and gave
the apron a vicious shake, in restoring them to their respective pegs.
Then, I backed down from the chair on which I had been standing, and
started for the door. A feeble cry stopped me as if a shot had passed
through me.
The room was in afternoon shadow, and the blinds of the larger of the
two windows had blown shut. The cry quavered out again, and at the same
instant I saw--or verily believed that I saw with my natural
eyes--Cousin Mary Bray seated in the rocking-chair between the hearth
and the window, holding a baby in her arms. She was rocking gently back
and forth, her face was pale and peaceful, and she wore a sort of dim
gray dress. Thus much I had seen when my father called loudly to me from
the bottom of the steps:--
"Molly! what are you doing up there? Come down directly! do you hear?"
The apparition disappeared on the instant, and as I moved toward the
door, I stumbled over something soft that mewed miserably. In a second I
had it in my arms,--a rack of bones covered with muddy, tangled gray
fur,--and rushed down the stairs.
"I told you so, father! don't you see? It is Alexander the Great. Now,
isn't it?"
Will it be believed that the commotion attendant upon the recognition of
the wanderer, the talk, conjectures and questions, the nursing and
feeding, and cosseting the creature who was at the point of death from
starvation and fatigue--put all thought of revealing what I had beheld
in the haunted chamber out of my head, until, when I recalled it in all
its vividness, I simply could not speak of it? It was all like a swift,
bad dream, the telling of which might revive the unpleasant sensation
it created in passing. I do not pretend to explain a child's reserve on
subjects which have gone very far into the deeps of a consciousness that
never lets them go. Perhaps the solution is partly in the poverty of a
vocabulary which lags painfully behind the development of thought and
emotion. Certain it is that I was a woman grown before I ever confided
to a living soul what I thought sat in the rocking-chair in the haunted
room, brooding peacefully above a quieted baby.
Lucy's cat--guided by what instinct only his Creator and ours knows--had
found his way to her grave over two hundred miles of fen, field, and
forest. Not finding her there, he had tracked me to the room where she
had last played with him. When carried to other parts of the house, he
cried piteously all day and all night. When the north wing was locked
against him, he went back to the grave and could not be coaxed away.
Finally, my mother proposed that he be allowed to stay there, until
cold weather. He was the plantation-pet all summer, growing plump, but
never playful, with nourishing food and rest. His meals were sent to him
twice a day, but he partially supported himself by catching birds and
field-mice in the burying-ground, which he never left. We got used to
his presence there after a while, and his habit of patrolling the top of
the wall, several times a day, for exercise, or under the impression
that he was guarding the short green mound where he slept every night.
As the winter approached repeated efforts were made to tempt him to the
house, and when they were ineffectual my father took him there in his
own arms. The cat refused food and sleep, keeping the household awake
with his cries, and in the morning flew so savagely at his jailers that
we were obliged to let him go.
The fiercest tempest known in mid-Virginia for forty years beset us on
the anniversary of Lucy's death, and raged for three days. When the
drifts in the graveyard melted, we found Alexander the Great dead at his
post.
[Illustration]
Chapter VII
Just For Fun
[Illustration]
The floor of the summer-house at Uncle Carter's was of lovely white
sand, and did not soil my clean pink gingham frock, although I sat down
flat upon it. Under one of the three benches that furnished it, I had
dug a vault yesterday. It was modelled upon the description given in
The Fairchild Family of one belonging to a nobleman's estate. My
self-education was essentially Squeersian. When I read a thing, I
forthwith went and did it. The gardener had lent me a trowel, and I had
found a thin, flat stone that served as a cover. Digging was easy work
in the top-dressing of sand and the substratum of loose, dry soil.
There were eight niches in the vault--two on a side. When all was
finished, I sallied forth in quest of occupants. My vault was stocked by
nightfall. In one niche was a dead sparrow my cousin Burwell had shot by
mistake and thrown away. In a second was a frog on which a horse or cow
had trod, crippling it so badly that Uncle Carter mercifully killed it
with a blow of his stick. The poultry-yard and an epidemic of pip
supplied me with two more silent tenants. A mouse-trap strangled a
fifth, the gardener's mole-trap yielded up a sixth. Nos. 7 and 8 were
land-terrapins ("tar'pens," in negro dialect), which I knew must be dead
when I found them, although I could discern no sign of violence. Their
shells were shut so tightly that I could not force a straw between the
upper and lower, and no amount of kicking and thumping elicited any sign
of life.
An innovation upon the Fairchild pattern was the deposit in the bottom
of the vault of a tumbler full of flies which Aunt Eliza told the
dining room servant to throw into the kitchen fire. A primitive snare
for these destroyers of the housewife's peace was made by filling a
tumbler within an inch of the brim with strong soap-suds, and fitting
upon the top a round cover of thick "sugar-loaf paper," with a hole in
the middle. Molasses was smeared all around this hole upon the under
side of the paper, and an alluring drop or two on the top attracted
attention to the larger supply of sweets. At least a quart of flies, per
day, were caught in this way in the height of the season before window
and door screens were invented.
I waylaid the man and tumbler in the back porch.
"Are they dead, sure enough?" I whispered.
"Dead as a door-nail, little mistis."
"Give 'em to me, please! I'll bury them."
He complied, good-naturedly. I poured the contents of the glass into the
vault, and strewed fine dry sand over them an inch deep. Then I fitted
on the flat stone, and said nothing to anybody of my new branch of
industry.
I was tired of being called "an old-fashioned child!" My mother's oft
and resigned ejaculation--"What next, I wonder!" was to my ears a
covert reproach for not being "steady" and "a comfort," like Mary 'Liza.
Even my less critical father's shout of laughter at any unusual freak or
experiment abraded my moral cuticle sometimes. At home the colored
children would have entered heartily into my mortuary enterprise,--yes!
and kept my counsel. The reticence of the serf exceeds in dumb
doggedness that of a misunderstood child. But I did not play with Uncle
Carter's little negroes. Every Southern child comprehended the
distinction between "home-folks" and other people's servants.
Not that I was ever lonely. What I called "things" were an unfailing
resource to me. An ant-hill was entertainment for a whole forenoon; I
watched bees and their hives by the hour; my vault kept me busy and
happy all day. If Cousin Molly Belle suspected what I was about, she
asked no questions, and refrained from spying upon me. When dressed
clean in the afternoon, for the second time since breakfast,--the
manufacture of mud-pies, puddings, and cakes, and the baking of several
batches in the sun, having engrossed the morning,--I took The Fairchild
Family out into the summer-house and reread, for the tenth time, the
account of the opening of the family vault.
Why, I reasoned within myself, should innocent dumb creatures be thrown
away like dead leaves, when they have stopped living? It would be kind
in me, or in anybody, to bury them in vaults, and to write Bible verses
and all that on their tombstones. I would dig another vault to-morrow
and look around for things to put into it,--and still another the next
day. I had, in imagination, honeycombed the space under the benches with
catacombs, and my book was clean forgotten, before I saw a movement in
the sandy flooring, close to the edge of the flat stone sealing the
mouth of the vault. I leaned forward to inspect it more nearly. The
stone had been undermined at one side, and a hole left there, through
which a line of flies, gray with dust, was feebly crawling into the
sunshine. There seemed to be a thousand of them, all dusty, but some
more active than others. As soon as they were quite clear of the hole,
they dispersed in various directions, some alighting upon twigs and
blades of grass, some flying up to the benches, where they sat cleaning
their bodies and wings with their feet and mouths.
I worked my hands into the hole and raised the stone. A cloud of
resurrected flies arose in my astonished face. The vault was quick with
them. The dry sand, warmed by the sun, that I had sifted over them, had
acted as a hot blanket upon the chilled body of a dying man. When I got
rid of the swarm I examined the vault. Both of the terrapins were
missing. The sapping and mining was their work. Through the tunnel thus
excavated they had regained their liberty, and released a mighty host of
fellow-captives.
"The rest of you are dead, anyhow!" said I, aloud, intensely chagrined
at the cheat practised upon my benevolent nature, and I shoved the stone
back over the violated vault.
A shadow fell upon the white sand. Looking up, I saw a young gentleman
in the door of the summer-house, smiling down at me. At the first glance
I took him for my cousin Burwell, who was at home on his vacation. A
second undeceived me. I scrambled to my feet and stared hard at the
stranger who stood with his hands behind him, still smiling, but not
saying a word. He was nattily dressed in a blue cloth coat and trousers,
and a white waistcoat. A white satin stock of the latest style encircled
a slender neck; he wore shiny boots, a leghorn hat was set jauntily
above a crop of black curls. I was never shy, having been accustomed
from my birth to meeting strangers and to "entertaining company" when
called upon to do so. Yet I was strangely embarrassed by the merry eyes
fixed silently upon me.
"How do you do, sir!" I said, dropping a little courtesy, as well-bred
children still did in that part of the civilized world.
Still without speaking, the stranger drew nearer and stooped to kiss me.
This was going several steps too far. I clapped one hand over my mouth
and pushed him away with the other.
"Cousin Molly Belle! oh, Cousin Molly Belle!" I screamed between my
fingers.
She was the only member of the family at home, my uncle, aunt, and their
two sons having gone on an all-day visit to a plantation some miles
away.
"Why, Namesake! don't you know me?"
Her voice answered in my very ear, her arm held me as I ceased
struggling.
I laughed like a mad thing in the excess of my relief and surprise, and
when she sat down, I climbed to her knee for a good look at her
disguise.
"Cousin Burwell's clothes!" I said analytically. "And his hat. But your
hair is black."
She lifted the hat to show that she had on a black wig.
"It belonged to poor Grandpapa when he was young. He had a fever and his
head was shaved. I found it in a box on the top shelf of mother's
closet, and tried it on just for fun. I liked myself so well in the
glass that I thought I'd see how I would have looked if Burwell had been
the girl, and I the boy. I know now that I ought to have been. I mean to
be--just for fun--until they all come home. I'm in exactly the humor to
do something outrageous. I'm tired to death of everyday doings and
everyday people, and my everyday self. You and I are going to have a
real spree, a glorious frolic, and nobody else is to know a single
thing about it. Flora" (her maid) "helped me on with this rig. She is as
close as wax, and you never tell tales,--Oh, yes! I know--" as I opened
my mouth eagerly--"you would have your tongue pulled out by the roots
before you would get me into trouble. And there would be all sorts of
trouble if I were found out."
She tied my sunbonnet, made of the same pink gingham as my frock, under
my chin, and we set forward gleefully upon our spree. To begin with, we
jumped over the yard palings, so that we should not have to pass in
sight of the house and kitchen, in order to get into the lane leading to
the public road. We called it "a lane." Now it would be an avenue, or
drive. The finest Lombardy poplars in Powhatan County bordered it; sheep
mint, pennyroyal, sweetbrier, and wild thyme grew up close to the
wheel-track and gave out a goodly smell as we brushed by and trod upon
them. I was in a high gale of spirits, and prattled as fast as my
tongue could run, flattered beyond expression by the choice of myself as
an accomplice in the frolic.
"It's a pity you can't change places with Cousin Burwell!" I
regretted. "You'd be a heap handsomer gentleman than he is. And it must
be just fine not to have to hold up your frocks when you want to run
fast, and to climb trees and jump fences. Would it be sure-enough
wrong--I don't mean not lady-like--but would it be sinful for you to
dress that way all the time?"
"People seem to think so, Namesake. They think so so much that it is
against the law for a woman to wear a man's clothes, or for a man to
wear a woman's. Though why any man with a grain of sense in his head
should ever want to put on skirts, I can't see. If I were to meet a
magistrate while I have on these--things,"--flicking her trousers with
a switch she had cut from a hickory sapling,--"he would have a right to
put me in jail."
"Oh, Cousin Molly Belle!" squeezing her hand hard. "S'pose we should!"
"I'm Cousin Burwell until we get home. No 's'pose,' you little goosie!
If we did, we'd take to the woods, and outrun him. Or, we'd climb a
tree."
We were in the highroad, striding the ruts and skipping over stones like
two boys on the way home from school. There was pleasanter walking in
bridle-paths and wood-roads branching off from the thoroughfare every
few rods. I think the madcap chose the rutty and mud-holey route because
there was, at least, a chance that we might have to plunge into the
bushes to hide, or to brave the scrutiny of strangers and acquaintances.
The sauce of danger made the escapade the more attractive.
Half a mile from home a creek, shallow, but broad, crossed the road. We
could not pass over dry-shod and had to go up the bank into the low
grounds to find a long log laid from side to side of a narrower part of
the stream. My companion hoisted me upon her back and ran along the
uncertain bridge as fleetly as a squirrel.
"How far are we going?" I asked, as she set me down.
"Around by Tom's Hill, and then cut across the field home. It's more
than a mile. Can you walk so far?"
"I walked two miles at a time, once!" I boasted.
"You are a brave little lightwood knot!"
She was "fey"--exaltée--in the state of lighthearted-and
lightheadedness for which sober, literal, decorous English has no
synonym. As we went, she danced and sang, and laughed out joyously at
everything and at nothing, and talked the most fascinating nonsense--all
in the rôle of "Cousin Burwell." She could imitate him to perfection;
her strut and swagger and slang threw me into paroxysms of delight. We
picked huckleberries, and dived into the woods to feast upon wild plums
that had ten drops of syrupy juice between tough skins and flinty
stones encased in the pulp of bitterness, and gathered handfuls of wild
flowers because their beauty tempted sight and touch, and with no
intention of taking them home with us. Two of Pan's dryads turned loose
for a holiday could not have sported more irrationally.
We met neither man nor beast until we had climbed Tom's Hill, a stony
eminence from the top of which, as the neighbors were proud of saying,
one could see six dwelling-houses, each with its group of outbuildings,
representing six fine plantations. A saddle-horse was tied to a
persimmon tree a hundred yards or so down the other side. He whinnied at
sight of us, and Cousin Molly Belle ran up to him.
"Well done, Snap! old fellow! clothes don't make any difference to
you--do they?"
It was Mr. Frank Morton's riding horse, and the fence by which he stood
bounded an extensive tobacco field belonging to Mr. Frank Morton's
brother. About the middle of the field was a tobacco barn, and by
climbing upon the top rail of the fence so as to overlook a row of
sassafras saplings, I could see a group of men about the door. Their
backs were toward us, and if they had looked our way they could not have
seen us, when I got down.
Cousin Molly Belle's eyes were two dancing stars. She clapped her hands
in riotous glee. Without a word she untied the bridle from the tree,
vaulted into the saddle, drew me up in front of her, and before I could
put a question we were pacing briskly down the hill. At the bottom we
struck into a cross-road leading to Uncle Carter's plantation. Cousin
Molly Belle was laughing too heartily to speak distinctly, and I joined
in with all my heart, with a very imperfect appreciation of the extent
of the practical joke. Mr. Frank Morton would not have to walk home. He
had only to go to his brother's house when he missed Snap and borrow a
horse, and Snap would be sent back safely to him in good time.
"What d'you s'pose he'll say when he comes to the fence and Snap isn't
there?" queried I, at length.
"Oh, don't I wish I were hiding somewhere near enough to hear and see
him!" another and yet more infectious outburst. "That would be the best
part of the joke. I'm going to turn Snap loose when we get to our outer
gate, and hit him a crack with my switch and start him toward home.
He'll not tell tales out of school--will you, old boy?" slapping his
neck affectionately. "Mr. Frank Morton will never guess why the horse
thief let such a fine animal get away from him, when once he had got
him. I can hear him now, telling me the story, and I'll look as grave as
a dozen judges, and wonder as hard as he does--and--Hark!"
We were, perhaps, half a mile from the place where we had found Snap,
but, as I have said, Tom's Hill was a stony ledge, running like a sharp
backbone between fertile fields, and we heard from afar off the
clattering hoofs of a horse pressed to his utmost speed.
[Illustration]
Chapter VIII
My First Lie, and What Came of It.
[Illustration]
"He is after us!" exclaimed Cousin Molly Belle, and brought down her
switch stingingly upon Snap's flanks.
Tightening her arm about me, she urged him from canter to gallop, from a
gallop to a run. The trees swept by us like lightning; the wind tore the
breath from our lungs, but I had no thought of fear. My cousin was a
fearless rider, and the perfectly broken hunter under us flew as
steadily and as straight as a blue martin. Against the back of my head
Cousin Molly Belle's heart was pounding like an unbalanced trip-hammer.
I wondered if it were possible that she was frightened, and twisted my
face around to get a glimpse of hers. It was as white as a sheet, and
her teeth were set hard upon her lower lip. Within a stone's throw of
Uncle Carter's outer gate she brought the horse down to a walk, then to
a full stop, and slipped to the ground. Her face was so pale and rigid
as she set me upon my feet that I began to tremble.
"Are you scared?" I faltered.
"Scared to death, child! Hush!"
She turned Snap's head in the direction from which we had come, and
struck him smartly with her switch, in letting go of the bridle.
"Go home, sir! Go!"
He galloped off, stirrups and mane flying, and she drew a deep, agitated
breath.
"If ever I get into such a scrape again!"
She bent low and listened; the scared look settled again upon her face.
Through the stillness of the summer afternoon, we heard a sharp "Whoa!"
faint but clear, when, as we judged, Snap neared our pursuer. The pause
of a second ensued, and the hoofs, doubled in number and resonance,
sounded nearer and nearer, thundering over the soft ground, clicking
against the stones, like a charge of cavalry. Cousin Molly Belle was so
white that a few freckles, never seen through her usually brilliant
complexion, made a line of sallow dots across her cheek bones and the
bridge of her nose. Clutching me more roughly than she had ever touched
me before, she thrust me well into the heart of a tall cedar whose
lowest boughs grew out horizontally and swept the earth.
"Don't move or speak!" she whispered fiercely and forced her way to the
hole of the tree.
I heard the grating of the bark under her feet, and felt the branches
shake, then grow quiet. She was well up the tree, and hidden by the
bushy foliage. The tumultuous beat of the charging hoofs echoed more and
more loudly. The rider would be upon us in another minute. Escape
through the gate and down the avenue to the house was out of the
question. We would have been in sight from the road for several hundred
yards, and a few seconds would be lost in opening the gate.
On my part, the adventure was, thus far, pure fun, and the excitement
delicious. I giggled in my sleeve in the anticipation of hearing the
furious hoofs sweep past and lose themselves in the distance on the
false scent. I had not had time to speculate as to why my companion was
"scared to death."
The clatter was abreast of, and behind me in the road when the
imperative "Whoa!" again arrested it. I knew the voice now. A man leaped
to the ground; hasty footsteps struck across the turf edging the
highway; dry sticks cracked, my bushy covert was jarred, and Mr. Frank
Morton stood before me, parting the branches to get a good look at me.
My pink gingham had betrayed me.
"Molly Burwell! what are you doing here?"
As if prompted by a telepathic despatch from the fugitive overhead, I
began to pick the bluish white berries studding the twigs and to cram
them into my mouth.
"Picking cedar-berries!" I retorted coolly, cocking a saucy eye at him.
"Who came with you?"
I stood on tiptoe to tug at a fat cedar-ball, glossy, brown, and deeply
pitted.
"Oh, Mr. Frank! won't you please cut it off for me?"
He whipped out his knife and severed the twig.
"Did you come all the way from the house alone?"
I had never, within my memory, told a deliberate lie. My cheeks burned
like fire; my eyes dropped guiltily. My tongue did not trip or tangle.
"Yes, sir."
There was a dread silence. My ears rang, my heart was sinking slowly and
sickeningly into my heels. I had bethought myself just as he put the
question, that Cousin Molly Belle might be put in jail if he found out
that she had been with me, and had on her brother's clothes. As a
well-tutored child in a Presbyterian family, I knew what becomes of
liars when they leave off living and lying together. My teeth ceased to
chatter and met with a snap. The loyal heart rallied to the help of the
guilty tongue. I raised my eyes in sullen defiance.
"It isn't so dreadful far! I came all by my loney-toney self!"
My friend laughed.
"My dear little girl, there is no great harm in that. Only, I wouldn't
run away again if I were you. Your aunt might be uneasy if she missed
you."
"She isn't at home," I answered incautiously. "She 'n' Uncle Carter 'n'
Cousin Burwell 'n' Cousin Dick have gone to Mr. Cunningham's."
"Ah!" The ejaculation was not regretful. "Isn't Miss Molly Belle at
home? You would be sorry to make her anxious, I know."
The cedar-branches thrilled slightly, as at the flight of a startled
bird. Mr. Frank did not notice it, but the movement nerved me. I spoke
hastily, walking away from the tree toward the gate.
"Oh, yes, she's at home! I reckon she must have been taking a nap when
I came away. I'm going right back now."
I had never dreamed that lying was such an easy performance.
"I'll take you home. Wait a minute!"
Snap was grazing on the roadside. Another saddle-horse stood by with
drooping head, his bridle hanging loosely in the bend of Mr. Frank's
arm. I was lifted to Snap's back; my escort walked beside me through the
gate, and along the lane, one hand on me, and leading the second horse.
"I suppose you are wondering what I am doing with two horses," he said
lightly. "It is a very funny story. I'll tell you and Miss Molly Belle
when we get to the house. It will make you both laugh."
He had given me Snap's bridle to hold, as if I were riding all by
myself. He thought it would please me. In other circumstances I should
have been glad and proud to be so mounted, and by him. But from my lofty
seat I could see over his head across the field of corn which lay to the
left of the road. Something or somebody was running between the close
rows in a straight line from the plantation gate to the house. Running
like a deer, or a greyhound--or Cousin Molly Belle. She must get home
and up to her room before we got there.
"Oh, Mr. Frank!" I cried. "I have dropped my cedar-ball!" And when he
had picked it up, "Won't you please make Snap walk very slow? I am
afraid I might fall off."
"What has got into you to-day, little Duchess?" He had a dozen pet names
for me, and my heart smote me sore at sight of his kind, honest face.
"It isn't like you to be afraid of horses,--and you and Snap are old
friends. You will never be such a rider as Miss Molly Belle if you learn
to be nervous."
Not another sound fell from my lips until I was put down gently at the
front gate of my uncle's house, and Flora bustled out, cross lines in
her forehead and cross tones in her voice.
"I do declar', Miss Molly--(How-you-do, Mars' Frank?) I do declar', Miss
Molly, you're enough to drive anybody crazy with you' wild tomboy ways.
Me 'n' Miss Molly Belle, we've been jes' raisin' the plantation fo' you,
and hyar you come home a-riding Mars' Frank Mo'ton's horse, gran' as you
please, and nobody knowin' whar you been ever sence dinner-time. Miss
Molly Belle 'll be mighty obleeged to you for fotchin' of her home,
Mars' Frank. She'll be down pretty soon for to tell you so herself. Walk
into the parlor, please, sir. Jim, you take Mr. Mo'ton's horses to
the stable. And Miss Molly, you jes' stay thar 'n' ent'tain Mr. Mo'ton
like a little lady tell you' cousin comes down sta'rs."
[Illustration: THE END OF THE PRANK.
"I was put down at my uncle's house, and Flora bustled out."]
I obeyed with docility that must have surprised the autocrat. Meek and
miserable, I preceded the guest to the parlor, although every minute
spent under his unsuspecting eyes was a danger and a pain. I made no
attempt to "entertain him." Seated upon a high chair, my feet swinging
dolefully six inches above the floor, I fingered the wretched
cedar-ball, redolent of rosin through much bruising, my pink sunbonnet
hanging from the knotted strings to the small of my back, and with
difficulty refrained from crying. I had never been wretched just in that
way before. Two imperative duties had met plump and face to face, with a
shock that jarred all preconceived principles of belief and action out
of plumb. Cousin Molly Belle had trusted me to keep her secret, and I
saw no way of doing it except to lie outright and repeatedly. The sin
lashed my conscience until I could have located in my corporeal frame
the exact whereabouts of the uncomfortable possession. So absorbed was I
by individual upbraidings that Flora's barefaced fabrication of the
search her young mistress and she had had for the runaway passed
unrebuked by so much as a look. It was no comfort to me to hear another
person lie even more glibly than myself. Flora was an ignorant colored
person, I, a baptized white child of the covenant who could read the
Bible for herself.
Mr. Morton tried to make me talk by well-concerted questions. Children
are best approached through the interrogative mood. It offers just so
many nails set in a sure place upon which to hang conversation. He was a
handsome, well-set-up young fellow, and, if somewhat graver by nature
and habit than most of Cousin Molly Belle's beaux, suited my taste best
of them all. Yesterday I should have been tickled clean out of the
proprieties by the chance of talking to him all by myself for twenty
minutes, sitting up in Aunt Eliza's parlor, just like grown folks.
The twenty minutes were like one hundred in sloth and weight before the
tap of high heels on the oaken stairs and the swish of skirts against
the banisters advised us who was coming.
She walked into the room with her head high and chin level; her eyes
shone and her coloring was superb. She had never been more beautiful,
and never so dignified. Her admirer felt both of these facts, and was
moved to mute inquiry into the cause of the singular mood. His glowing
eyes questioned hers while she shook hands with him and then sat down,
and held out her hand silently to me, without a smile. I went as
straight to her as a wounded bird to shelter, dropped upon a stool
beside her and rested my cheek against her knee, my hand in a grasp that
was close and loving, and--or so I fancied--monitory. My heart retorted
upon writhing conscience that she was worth sinning for. I added,
dogged and desperate, that I would do it again, if she needed to have it
