need to explain to the cj^nical the wisdom of the 
Creator in making the most attractive and fas- 
cinating sex. 
The traits, good and bad, persist ; they may 
be veneered or restrained, they are seldom eradi- 
cated. All the traits that made the great Na- 
poleon worshipped, hated, and feared existed in 
the little Bonaparte, as perfectly as the pea-pod 
in the flower. The whole of the First Empire 
was smirched with Corsican vulgarity. The 
world always reckons with these radical influ- 
 
ences that go to make up a family. One of the 
first questions asked by an old politician, who 
knew his world thoroughly, about any man be- 
coming prominent, when there was a discussion 
of his probable action, was, "Whom did he 
marry ?" 
There are exceptions to this general rule, and 
they are always noticeable when they occur — 
this deviation from the traits of the earliest years 
— and offer material for some of the subtlest 
and most interesting studies of the novelist. 
It was impossible for those who met Philip 
Burnett after he had left college, and taken his 
degree in the law-school, and spent a year, more 
or less studiously, in Europe, to really know 
him if they had not known the dreaming boy 
in his early home, with all the limitations as 
well as the vitalizing influences of his start in 
life. And on the contrary, the error of the 
neighbors of a lad in forecasting his career comes 
from the fact that they do not know him. The 
verdict about Philip would probably have been 
that he was a very nice sort of a boy, but that 
he would never " set the North Eiver on fire." 
There was a headstrong, selfish, pushing sort of 
boy, one of Philip's older school-mates, who had 
become one of the foremost merchants and 
operators in New York, and was already talked 
of for mayor. This success was the sort that 
 
fulfilled the rural idea of getting on in the world, 
whereas Philip's accomplishments, seen through 
the veneer of conceit which they had occasioned 
him to take on, did not commend themselves as 
anything worth while. Accomplishments rarely 
do unless they are translated into visible posi- 
tion or into the currency of the realm. How 
else can they be judged? Does not the great 
public involuntarily respect the author rather 
for the sale of his books than for the books 
themselves ? 
The period of Philip's novitiate — those most 
important years from his acquaintance with 
Celia Howard to the attainment of his profes- 
sional degree — was most interesting to him, but 
the story of it would not detain the reader of 
exciting fiction. He had elected to use his little 
patrimony in making himself instead of in mak- 
ing money — if merely following his inclination 
could be called an election. If he had reasoned 
about it he would have known that the few 
thousands of dollars left to him from his father's 
estate, if judiciously invested in business, would 
have grown to a good sum when he came of age, 
and he would by that time have come into busi- 
ness habits, so that all he would need to do would 
be to go on and make more money. If he had 
reasoned more deeply he would have seen that 
by this process he would become a man of com- 
 
paratively few resources for the enjoyment of 
life, and a person of very little interest to him- 
self or to anybody else. So perhaps it was just 
as well that he followed his instincts and post- 
poned the making of money until he had made 
himself, though he was to have a good many 
bitter days when the possession of money seemed 
to him about the one thing desirable. 
It was Celia, who had been his constant coun- 
sellor and tormentor, about the time when she 
was beginning to feel a little shy and long-legged, 
in her short skirts, who had, in a romantic sym- 
pathy with his tastes, opposed his going into a 
"store" as a clerk, which seemed to the boy at 
one time an ideal situation for a young man. 
" A store, indeed !" cried the young lady ; 
" pomatum on your hair, and a grin on your 
face; snip, snip, snip, calico, ribbons, yard-stick; 
' It's very becoming, miss, that color ; this is only 
a sample, only a remnant, but I shall have a new 
stock in by Friday ; anything else, ma'am, to- 
day ?' Sho ! Philip, for a man !" 
Fortunately for Philip there lived in the vil- 
lage an old waif, a scholarly oddity, uncommuni- 
cative, whose coming to dwell there had excited 
much gossip before the inhabitants got used to 
his odd ways. Usually reticent and rough of 
speech — the children thought he was an old bear 
— he was nevertheless discovered to be kindly 
 
and even charitable in neighborhood emergencies, 
and the minister said he was about the most 
learned man he ever knew. His history does 
not concern us, but he was doubtless one of the 
men whose talents have failed to connect with 
success in anything, who had had his bout with 
the world, and retired into peaceful seclusion 
in an indulgence of a mild pessimism about the 
world generally. 
He lived alone, except for the rather neutral 
presence of Aunt Hepsy, who had formerly been a 
village tailoress, and whose cottage he had bought 
with the proviso that the old woman should con- 
tinue in it as " help." With Aunt Hepsy he was 
no more communicative than with anybody else. 
" He was always readin', when he wasn't goin' 
fishin' or off in the woods with his gun, and 
never made no trouble, and was about the easiest 
man to get along with she ever see. You mind 
your business and he'll mind his'n." That was 
the sum of Aunt Hepsy's delivery about the re- 
cluse, though no doubt her old age was enriched 
by constant " study " over his probable history 
and character. But Aunt Hepsy, since she had 
given up tailoring, was something of a recluse 
herself. 
The house was full of books, mostly queer 
books, "in languages nobody knows what," as 
Aunt Hepsy said, which made Philip open his 
 
eyes when he went there one day to take to the 
old man a memorandum -book which he had 
found on Mill Brook. The recluse took a fancy 
to the ingenuous lad when he saw he was inter- 
ested i'n books, and perhaps had a mind not much 
more practical than his own ; the result was an 
acquaintance, and finally an intimacy — at which 
the village wondered until it transpired that 
Philip was studying with the old fellow, who 
was no doubt a poor shack of a school-teacher 
in disguise. 
It was from this grufp friend that Philip 
learned Greek and Latin enough to enable him 
to enter college, not enough drill and exact train- 
ing in either to give him a high stand, but an 
appreciation of the literatures about which the 
old scTiolar was always enthusiastic. Philip re- 
gretted all his life that he had not been severely 
drilled in the classics and mathematics, for he 
never could become a specialist in anything. 
But perhaps, even in this, fate was dealing with 
him according to his capacities. And, indeed, he 
had a greater respect for the scholarship of his 
wayside tutor than for the pedantic acquirements 
of many men he came to know afterwards. 
It was from him that Philip learned about 
books and how to look for what he wanted to 
know, and it was he who directed Philip's taste 
to the best. "When he went off to college the 
 
lad had not a good preparation, but he knew a 
great deal that would not count in the entrance 
examinations. " You will need all the tools you 
can get the use of, my boy, in the struggle," was 
the advice of his mentor, " and the things you 
will need most may be those you have thought 
least of. I never go fishing without both fly 
and bait." 
Philip was alwaj'^s grateful that before he en- 
tered college he had a fine reading knowledge of 
French, and that he knew enough German to 
read and enjoy Heine's poems and prose, and 
that he had read, or read in, pretty much all the 
English classics. 
He used to recall the remark of a lad about 
his own age, who was on a vacation visit to 
Kivervale, and had just been prepared for col- 
lege at one of the famous schools. The boys 
liked each other and were much together in the 
summer, and talked about what interested them 
during their rambles, carrying the rod or the 
fowling-piece. Philip naturally had most to say 
about the world he knew, which was the world 
of books — that is to say, the stored information 
that had accumulated in the world. This more 
and more impressed the trained student, who one 
day exclaimed : 
" By George ! I might have known something 
if I hadn't been kept at school all my life." 
 
Philip's career in college could not have been 
called notable. He was not one of the dozen 
stars in the class-room, but he had a reputation 
of another sort. His classmates had a habit of 
resorting to him if they wanted to "know any- 
thing" outside the text-books, for the range of 
his information seemed to them encyclopsedic. 
On the other hand, he escaped the reputation of 
what is called "a good fellow." He was not so 
much unpopular as he was unknown in the col- 
lege generally, but those who did know him were 
tolerant of the fact that he cared more for read- 
ing than for college sports or college politics. 
It must be confessed that he added little to the 
reputation of the university, since his name was 
never once mentioned in the public prints — search 
has been made since the public came to know 
him as a writer — as a hero in any crew or team 
on any game field. Perhaps it was a little selfish 
that his muscle developed in the gymnasium 
was not put into advertising use for the univer- 
sity. The excuse was that he had not time to 
become an athlete, any more than he had time 
to spend three years in the discipline of the regu- 
lar army, which was in itself an excellent thing. 
Celia, in one of her letters — it was during her 
first year at a woman's college, when the devel- 
opment of muscle in gymnastics, running, and 
the vigorous game of ball was largely engaging 
 
the attention of this enthusiastic young lady — 
took him to task for his inactivity. " This is the 
age of muscle," she wrote ; " the brain is useless 
in a flabby body, and probably the brain itself is 
nothing but concentrated intelligent muscle. I 
don't know how men are coming out, but women 
will never get the position they have the right 
to occupy until they are physically the equals of 
men." 
Philip had replied, banteringly, that if that 
were so he had no desire to enter in a physical 
competition with women, and that men had bet- 
ter look out for another field. 
But later on, when Celia had got into the swing 
of the classics, and was training for a part in 
the play of " Antigone," she wrote in a different 
strain, though she would have denied that the 
change had any relation to the fact that she had 
strained her back in a rowing-match. She did 
not apologize for her former advice, but she was 
all aglow about the Greek drama, and made ref- 
erence to Aspasia as an intellectual type of what 
women might become. " I didn't ever tell you 
how envious I used to be when you were study- 
ing Greek with that old codger in Eivervale, and 
could talk about Athens and all that. Next time 
we meet, I can tell you, it will be Greek meets 
Greek. I do hope you have not dropped the 
classics and gone in for the modern notion of 
 
being real and practical. If I ever hear of your 
writing ' real ' poetry — it is supposed to be real 
if it is in dialect or misspelled — I never will write 
you again, much less speak to you." 
Whatever this decided young woman was doing 
at the time she was sure was the best for every- 
body to do, and especially for Master Phil. 
Now that the days of preparation were over, 
and Philip found himself in ISTew York, face to 
face with the fact that' he had nowhere to look 
for money to meet the expense of rent, board, 
and clothes except to his own daily labor, and 
that there was another economy besides that 
which he had practised as to luxuries, there were 
doubtless hours when his faith wavered a little 
in the wisdom of the decision that had invested 
all his patrimony in himself. He had been fortu- 
nate, to be sure, in securing a clerk's desk in the 
great law-office of Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle, and 
he had the kindly encouragement of the firm 
that, with close application to business, he would 
make his way. But even in this he had his mis- 
givings, for a great part of his acquirements, and 
those he most valued, did not seem to be of any 
use in his office- work. He had a lofty conception 
of his chosen profession, as the right arm in tlie 
administration of justice between man and man. 
In practice, however, it seemed to him that the 
object was to win a case rather than to do justice 
 
in a case. Unfortunately, also, he had cultivated 
his imagination to the extent that he could see 
both sides of a case. To see both sides is indeed 
the requisite of a great lawyer, but to see the 
opposite side only in order to win, as in looking 
over an opponent's hand in a game of cards. It 
seemed to Philip that this clear perception would 
paralyze his efforts for one side if he knew it was 
the wrong side. The argument was that every 
cause — a man's claim or his defence — ought to be 
presented in its fulness and urged with all the 
advocate's ingenuity, and that the decision was 
in the bosom of an immaculate justice on the 
bench and the unbiassed intelligence in the jury- 
box. This might be so. But Philip Avondered 
what would be the effect on his own character 
and on his intellect if he indulged much in the 
habit of making the worse appear the better cause, 
and taking up indifferently any side that paid. 
For himself, he was inclined always to advise 
clients to "settle," and he fancied that if the 
occupation of the lawyer was to explain the case 
to people ignorant of it, and to champion only 
the right side, as it appeared to an unprejudiced, 
legally trained mind, and to compose instead of 
encouraging differences, the law would indeed 
be a noble profession, and the natural misunder- 
standings, ignorance, and different points of view 
would make business enough. 
 
" Stuff !" said Mr. Sharp. " If you begin by 
declining causes you disapprove of, the 'public 
will end by letting you alone in your self-con- 
ceited squeamishness. It's human nature you've 
got to deal with, not theories about law and jus- 
tice. I tell you that men like litigation. They 
want to have it out with somebody. And it is 
better than fisticuffs." 
From Mr. Hunt, who moved in the serener 
upper currents of the law, Philip got more satis- 
faction. 
"Of course, Mr. Burnett, there are miserable 
squabbles in the law practice, and contemptible 
pettifoggers and knaves, and men who will sell 
themselves for any dirty work, as there are in 
most professions and occupations, but the profes- 
sion could not exist for a day if it was not on the 
whole on the side of law and order and justice. 
No doubt it needs from time to time criticism 
and reformation. So does the church. You 
look at the characters of the really great law- 
yers ! And there is another thing. In dealing 
with the cases of our complex life, there is no ac- 
complishment, no learning in science, art, or lit- 
erature, that the successful practitioner will not 
find it very advantageous to possess. And a 
lawyer will never be eminent who has not im- 
agination." 
Philip thought he had a very good chance of 
 
exercising his imagination in the sky chamber 
where he slept — a capital situation from which 
to observe the world. There could not have 
been an uglier view created — a shapeless mass of 
brick and stone and painted wood, a collected, 
towering monstrosity of rectangular and inhar- 
monious lines, a realized dream of hideousness — 
but for the splendid sky, always changing and 
doing all that was possibler in the gleams and 
shadows and the glowing colors of morning and 
evening to soften the ambitious work of man ; 
but for the wide horizon, with patches of green 
shores and verdant flats washed by the kindly 
tide ; but for the Highlands and Staten Island, 
the gateway to the ocean ; but for the great river 
and the mighty bay shimmering and twinkling 
and often iridescent, and the animated life of 
sails and steamers, the le^viathans of commerce 
and the playthings of pleasure, and the beetle- 
like, monstrous ferry-boats that pushed their 
noses through all the confusion, like intelligent, 
business-like saurians that knew how to keep an 
appointed line by a clumsy courtesy of apparent 
yielding. Yes, there was life enough in all this, 
and inspiration, if one only knew what to be in- 
spired about. 
"When Philip came home from the office at 
sunset, through the bustling streets, and climbed 
up to his perch, he insensibly brought with him 
 
something of the restless energy and strife of tlie 
city, and in this naood the prospect before him 
took on a certain significance of great things ac- 
complished, of the highest form of human en- 
ergy and achievement ; he was a part of this ex- 
uberant, abundant life, to succeed in the struggle 
seemed easy, and for the moment he possessed 
what he saw. The little room had space enough 
for a cot bed, a toilet-stand, a couple of easy- 
chairs — an easy-chair is the one article cf fur- 
niture absolutely necessary to a reflecting student 
—some well-filled book-shelves, a small writing- 
desk, and a tiny closet quite large enough for a 
wardrobe which seemed to have no disposition 
to grow. Except for the books and the writing- 
desk, with its heterogeneous manuscripts, unfin- 
ished or rejected, there was not much in the room 
to indicate the taste of its occupant, unless you 
knew that his taste was exhibited rather by what 
he excluded from the room than by what it con- 
tained. It must be confessed that, when Philip 
was alone with his books and his manuscripts, 
his imagination did not expand in the directions 
that would have seemed profitable to the head of 
his firm. That life of the town which was roar- 
ing in his ears, that panorama of prosperity 
spread before him, related themselves in his mind 
not so much as incitements to engage in the 
quarrels of his profession as something demand- 
 
ing study and interpretation, something much 
more human than processes and briefs and argu- 
ments. And it was a dark omen for his success 
that the world interested him much more for it- 
self than for what he could make out of it. Make 
something to be sure he must — so long as he was 
only a law clerk on a meagre salary — and it was 
this necessity that had much to do with the pro- 
duction of the manuscripts. It was a joke on 
Philip in his club — by-the-way, the half-yearly 
dues were not far off — that he was doing splen- 
didly in the law; he already had an extensive 
practice in chambers ! 
The law is said to be a jealous mistress, but 
literature is a young lady who likes to be loved 
for herself alone, and thinks permission to adore 
is sufficient reward for her votary. Common- 
sense told Philip that the jealous mistress would 
flout him and land him in failure if he gave her 
a half-hearted service ; but the other young lady, 
the Helen of the professions, was always beckon- 
ing him and alluring him by the most subtle 
arts, occupying all his hours with meditations on 
her grace and beauty, till it seemed the world 
were well lost for her smile. And the fasci- 
nating jade never hinted that devotion to her 
brought more drudgery and harassment and 
pain than any other service in the world. It 
would not have mattered if she had been frank, 
 
and told him that her promise of eternal life was 
illusory and her rewards commonly but a flatter- 
ing of vanity. There was no resisting her en- 
chantments, and he would rather follow her 
through a world of sin and suffering, pursuing 
her radiant form over bog and moor, in penury 
and heart- ache, for one sunrise smile and one 
glimpse of her sunset heaven, than to walk at 
ease with a commonplace maiden on any illu- 
mined and well-trod highway. 
CHAPTER V 
It is the desire of every ambitious soul to en- 
ter Literature by the front door, and the few 
who have patience and money enough to live 
without the aid of the beckoning Helen may 
enter there. But a side entrance is the destiny 
of most aspirants, even those with the golden 
key of genius, and they are a long time in work- 
ing their way to be seen coming out of the front 
entrance. It is true that a man can attract con- 
siderable and immediate attention by trying to 
effect an entrance through the sewer, but he sel- 
dom gains the respect of the public whom he in- 
terests, any more than an exhibitor of fireworks 
gains the reputation of an artist that is accorded 
to the painter of a good picture. 
Philip was waiting at the front door, with his 
essays and his prose symphonies and his satiri- 
cal novel — the satire of a young man is apt to be 
very bitter— but it was as tightly shut against 
him as if a publisher and not the muse of litera- 
ture kept the door. 
There was a fellow-boarder with Philip, whose 
 
acquaintance he had made at the common table 
in the basement, who appeared to be free of the 
world of letters and art. He was an alert, compact, 
neatly dressed little fellow, who had apparently 
improved every one of his twenty-eight years in 
the study of life, in gaining assurance and con- 
fidence in himself, and also presented himself as 
one who knew the nether world completely but 
was not of it. He would have said of himself 
that he knew it profoundly, that he frequented it 
for " material," but that his home was in another 
sphere. The impression was that he belonged 
among those brilliant guerillas of both sexes, in 
the border -land of art and society, who lived 
daintily and talked about life with unconventional 
freedom. Slight in figure, with very black hair, 
and eyes of cloudy gray, an olive complexion, 
and features trained to an immobility proof 
against emotion or surprise, the whole poised as 
we would say in the act of being gentlemanly, 
it is needless to say that he took himself serious- 
ly. His readiness, self-confidence, cocksureness, 
Philip thought all expressed in his name — Olin 
Brad. 
Mr. Brad was not a Bohemian — that is, not 
at all a Bohemian of the recognized type. His 
fashionable dress, closely trimmed hair, and 
dainty boots took him out of that class. He 
belonged to the new order, which seems to have 
 
come in with modern journalism — that is, Bohe- 
mian in principle, but of the manners and apparel 
of the favored of fortune. Mr. Brad was un- 
doubtedly clever, and was down as a bright 
young man in the list of those who employed 
talent which was not dulled by conscientious 
scruples. He had stood well in college, during 
three years in Europe he had picked up two or 
three languages, dissipated his remaining small 
fortune, acquired expensive tastes, and knowl- 
edge, both esoteric and exoteric, that was valu- 
able to him in his present occupation. Return- 
ing home fully equipped for a modern literary 
career, and finding after some bitter experience 
that his accomplishments were not taken or paid 
for at their real value by the caterers for intel- 
lectual New York, he had dropped into congenial 
society on the staff of the Daily Spectrum, a 
mighty engine of public opinion, which scattered 
about the city and adjacent territory a million 
of copies, as prodigally as if they had been 
auctioneers' announcements. Fastidious people 
who did not read it gave it a bad name, not rec- 
ognizing the classic and heroic attitude of those 
engaged in pitch-forking up and turning over the 
muck of the Augean stables under the pretence 
of cleaning them. 
Mr. Brad had a Socratic contempt for this 
sort of fault-finding. It w^as answer enough to 
 
say, " It pays. The people like it or they wouldn't 
buy it. It commands the best talent in the 
market and can afford to pay for it ; even clergy- 
men like to appear in its columns — they say it's 
a providential chance to reach the masses. And 
look at the Morning Goo-Goo^^ (this was his 
nick -name for one of the older dailies), "it 
couldn't pay its paper bills if it hadn't such 
a small circulation." 
Mr. Brad, however, was not one of the editors, 
though the acceptance of an occasional short 
editorial, sufficiently piquant and impudent and 
vivid in language to suit, had given him hopes. 
He was salaried, but under orders for special 
service, and was always in the hope that the 
execution of each new assignment would bring 
him into popular notice, which would mean an 
advance of position and pay. 
Philip was impressed with the ready talent, 
the adaptable talent, and the facility of this ac- 
complished journalist, and as their acquaintance 
improved he was let into many of the secrets of 
success in the profession. 
" It isn't an easy thing," said Mr. Brad, " to 
cater to a public that gets tired of anything in 
about three days. But it is just as well satisfied 
with a contradiction as with the original state- 
ment. It calls both news. You have to watch 
out and see what the people want, and give it 
 
to 'em. It is something like the purveying of 
the manufacturers and the dry-goods jobber for 
the changing trade in fashions ; only the news- 
paper has the advantage that it can turn a somer- 
sault every day and not have any useless stock 
left on hand. The public hasn't any memory, 
or, if it has, this whirligig process destroys it. 
What it will not submit to is the lack of a daily 
surprise. Keep that in your mind and you can 
make a popular newspaper. Only," continued 
Mr. Erad, reflectively, "you've got to hit a lot 
of different tastes. 
"You'd laugh," this artist in emotions went 
on, after a little pause, " at some of my assign- 
ments. There was a run awhile ago on elope- 
ments, and my assignment was to have one every 
Monday morning. The girl must always be lovely 
and refined and moving in the best society ; elope- 
ment with the coachman preferred, varied with 
a teacher in a Sunday-school. Invented? Not 
always. It was surprising how many you could 
find ready made, if you were on the watch. I got 
into the habit of locating them in. the interior of 
Pennsylvania as the safest place, though Jersey 
seemed equally probable to the public. Did I 
never get caught? That made it all the more 
lively and interesting. Denials, affidavits, elab- 
orate explanations, two sides to any question ; if 
it was too hot, I could change the name and 
 
shift the scene to a still more obscure town. Or 
it could be laid to the zeal of a local reporter, 
who could give the most ingenious reasons for 
his story. Once I worked one of those imaginary- 
reporters up into such prominence for his clever 
astuteness that my boss was taken in, and asked 
me to send for him and give him a show on the 
paper. 
" Oh yes, we have to keep up the domestic 
side. A paper will not go unless the women like 
it. One of the assignments I liked was ' Sayings 
of Our Little Ones.' This was for every Tuesday 
morning. Not more than half a column. These 
always got copied by the country press solid. It 
