poral figure, but she had constantly grown in flesh, 
while he had dwindled away until he was not much 
more than half the weight of his prime. Their diges 
tion was alike impaired by their joint life, but as they 
took the same medicines Mrs. Lander was baffled to 
account for the varying result. She was sure that all 
the anxiety came upon her, and that logically she was 
the one who ought to have wasted away. But she 
had before her the spectacle of a husband who, while 
he gave his entire attention to her health, did not 
audibly or visibly worry about it, and yet had lost 
weight in such measure that upon trying on a pair of 
his old trousers taken out of storage with some clothes 
of her own, he found it impossible to use the side 
pockets which the change in his figure carried so far 
to the rear when the garment was reduced at the 
waist. At the same time her own dresses of ten 
years earlier would not half meet round her; and one 
of the most corroding cares of a woman who had done 
everything a woman could to get rid of care, was 
what to do with those things which they could neither 
of them ever wear again. She talked the matter over 
with herself before her husband, till he took the des 
perate measure of sending them back to storage ; and 
they had been left there in the spring when the Lan 
ders came away for the summer. 
They always spent the later spring months at a 
hotel in the suburbs of Boston, where they arrived in 
May from a fortnight in a hotel at New York, on their 
way up from hotels in Washington, Ashville, Aiken 
 
and St. Augustine. They passed the summer months 
in the mountains, and early in the autumn they went 
back to the hotel in the Boston suburbs, where Mrs. 
Lander considered it essential to make some sojourn 
before going to a Boston hotel for November and 
December, and getting ready to go down to Florida 
in January. She would not on any account have gone 
directly to the city from the mountains, for people 
who did that were sure to lose the good of their sum 
mer, and to feel the loss all the winter, if they did 
not actually come down with a fever. 
She was by no means aware that she was a selfish 
or foolish person. She made Mr. Lander subscribe 
statedly to worthy objects in Boston, which she still 
regarded as home, because they had not dwelt any 
where else since they ceased to live there ; and she 
took lavishly of tickets for all the charitable enter 
tainments in the hotels where they stayed. Few if 
any guests at hotels enjoyed so much honor from por 
ters, bell-boys, waiters, chambermaids and bootblacks 
as the Landers, for they gave richly in fees for every 
conceivable service which could be rendered them; 
they went out of their way to invent debts of gratitude 
to menials who had done nothing for them. He would 
make the boy who sold papers at the dining-room 
door keep the change, when he had been charged a 
profit of a hundred per cent, already ; and she would 
let no driver who had plundered them according to 
the carriage tariff escape without something for him 
self. 
A sense of their munificence penetrated the clerks 
 
and proprietors with a just esteem for guests who 
always wanted the best of everything, and questioned 
no bill for extras. Mrs. Lander, in fact, who ruled 
these expenditures, had no knowledge of the value of 
things, and made her husband pay whatever was asked. 
Yet when they lived under their own roof they had 
lived simply, and Lander had got his money in an old- 
fashioned business way, and not in some delirious 
speculation such as leaves a man reckless of money 
afterwards. He had been first of all a tailor, and then 
he had gone into boys and youths clothing in a small 
way, and finally he had mastered this business and 
come out at the top, with his hands full. He invested 
his money so prosperously that the income for two 
elderly people, who had no children, and only a few 
outlying relations on his side, was far beyond their 
wants, or even their whims. 
She was a woman, who in spite of her bulk and the 
jellylike majesty with which she shook in her smoothly 
casing brown silks, as she entered hotel dining-rooms, 
and the severity with which she frowned over her fan 
down the length of the hotel drawing-rooms, betrayed 
more than her husband the commonness of their ori 
gin. She could not help talking, and her accent and 
her diction gave her away for a middle-class New 
England person of village birth and unfashionable so 
journ in Boston. He, on the contrary, lurked about the 
hotels where they passed their days in a silence so 
dignified that when his verbs and nominatives seemed 
not to agree, you accused your own hearing. He was 
correctly dressed, as an elderly man should be, in the 
yesterday of the fashions, and he wore with impres- 
siveness a silk hat whenever such a hat could be worn. 
A pair of drab cloth gaiters did much to identify him 
with an old school of gentlemen, not very definite in 
time or place. He had a full gray beard cut close, 
and he was in the habit of pursing his mouth a great 
deal. But he meant nothing by it, and his wife meant 
nothing by her frowning. They had no wish to sub 
due or overawe any one, or to pass for persons of 
social distinction. They really did not know what 
society was, and they were rather afraid of it than 
otherwise as they caught sight of it in their journeys 
and sojourns. They led a life of public seclusion, and 
dwelling forever amidst crowds, they were all in all to 
each other, and nothing to the rest of the world, just 
as they had been w r hen they resided (as they would 
have said) on Pinckney street. In their own house 
they had never entertained, though they sometimes 
had company, in the style of the country town where 
Mrs. Lander grew up. As soon as she was released 
to the grandeur of hotel life, she expanded to the full 
measure of its responsibilities and privileges, but still 
without seeking to make it the basis of approach to 
society. Among the people who surrounded her, she 
had not so much acquaintance as her husband even, 
who talked so little that he needed none. She some 
times envied his ease in getting on with people when 
he chose ; and his boldness in speaking to fellow 
guests and fellow travellers, if he really wanted any 
thing. She wanted something of them all the time, 
she wanted their conversation and their companion- 
 
ship ; but in her ignorance of the social arts she was 
thrown mainly upon the compassion of the chamber 
maids. She kept these talking as long as she could 
detain them in her rooms ; and often fed them candy 
(which she ate herself with childish greed) to bribe 
them to further delays. If she was staying some days 
in a hotel, she sent for the house-keeper, and made all 
she could of her as a listener, and as soon as she set 
tled herself for a week, she asked who was the best 
doctor in the place. With doctors she had no 're 
serves, and she poured out upon them the history of 
her diseases and symptoms in an inexhaustible flow 
of statement, conjecture and misgiving, which was by 
no means affected by her profound and inexpugnable 
ignorance of the principles of health. From time to 
time she forgot which side her liver was on, but she 
had been doctored (as she called it) for all her organs, 
and she was willing to be doctored for any one of 
them that happened to be in the place where she fan 
cied a present discomfort. She was not insensible to 
the claims which her husband 's disorders had upon 
science, and she liked to end the tale of her own suf 
ferings with some such appeal as : "I wish you could 
do something for Mr. Landa, too, docta." She made 
him take a little of each medicine that was left for 
her ; but in her presence he always denied that there 
was anything the matter with him, though he was apt 
to follow the doctor out of the room, and get a pre 
scription from him for some ailment which he pro 
fessed not to believe in himself, but wanted to quiet 
Mrs. Lander 's mind about. 
 
He rose early, both from long habit, and from the 
scant sleep of an elderly man ; he could not lie in bed ; 
but his wife always had her breakfast there and 're 
mained so long that the chambermaid had done up 
most of the other rooms and had leisure for talk with 
her. As soon as he was awake, he stole softly out and 
was the first in the dining-room for breakfast. He 
owned to casual acquaintance in moments of expan 
sion that breakfast was his best meal, but he did 
what he could to make it his worst by beginning with 
oranges and oatmeal, going forward to beefsteak and 
fried potatoes, and closing with griddle cakes and 
syrup, washed down with a cup of cocoa, which his 
wife decided to be wholesomer than coffee. By the 
time he had finished such a repast, he crept out of 
the dining-room in a state of tension little short of 
anguish, which he confided to the sympathy of the 
bootblack in the washroom. 
He always went from having his shoes polished to 
get a toothpick at the clerk 's desk; and at the Mid- 
dlemount House, the morning after he had been that 
drive with Mrs. Lander, he lingered a moment with 
his elbows beside the register. " How about a buck- 
boa'd ? " he asked. 
"Something you can drive yourself" the clerk 
professionally dropped his eye to the register " Mr. 
Lander ? " 
u Well, no, I guess not, this time," the little man 're 
turned, after a moment 's reflection. " Know anything 
of a family named Claxon, down the road, here, a 
piece ? " He twisted his head in the direction he meant. 
"This is my first season at Middlemount ; but I 
guess Mr. Atwell will know." The clerk called to the 
landlord, who was smoking in his private room behind 
the office, and the landlord came out. The clerk 're 
peated Mr. Lander 's questions. 
" Pootty good kind of folks, I guess," said the land 
lord provisionally, through his cigar-smoke. " Man 's 
a kind of univussal genius, but he 's got a nice family 
of children; smaht as traps, all of em." 
" How about that oldest gul ? " asked Mr. Lander. 
" Well, the a," said the landlord, taking the cigar 
out of his mouth. " I  think she 's about the nicest 
little thing goin . We 've  had her up he e, to help out 
in a busy time, last summer, and she 's got moa sense 
than guls twice as old. Takes hold like lightnin ." 
" About how old did you say she was ? " 
" Well, you 've  got me the a, Mr. Landa; I guess I 'll 
ask Mis Atwell." 
" The e 's no hurry," said Lander. " That buckboa'd 
be round pretty soon?" he asked of the clerk. 
" Be right along now, Mr. Lander," said the clerk, 
soothingly. He stepped out to the platform that the 
teams drove up to from the stable, and came back to 
say that it was coming. " I believe you said you 
wanted something you could drive yourself ? " 
" No, I didn t, young man," answered the elder 
sharply. But the next moment he added, " Come to 
think of it, I guess it 's just as well. You needn 't get 
me no driver. I guess I know the way well enough. 
You put me in a hitchin strap." 
" All right, Mr. Lander," said the clerk, meekly. 
 
The landlord had caught the peremptory note in Lan 
der 's voice, and he came out of his room again to see 
that there was nothing going wrong. 
" It 's all right," said Lander, and went out and got 
: into his buckboard. 
" Same horse you had yesterday," said the young 
clerk. " You don 't need to spare the whip." 
" I guess I can look out for myself," said Lander, 
and he shook the reins and gave the horse a smart 
cut, as a hint of what he might expect. 
The landlord joined the clerk in looking after the 
brisk start the horse made. " Not the way he set off 
with the old lady, yesterday," suggested the clerk. 
The landlord rolled his cigar round in his tubed 
lips. " I guess he 's used to ridin after a good hoss." 
He added gravely to the clerk, u You don 't want to 
make very free with that man, Mr. Fane. He won 't 
stan it, and he 's a class of custom that you want to 
cata to when it comes in your way. I suspicioned 
what he was when they came here and took the high 
est cost rooms without tu nin a haia. They 're a class 
of custom that you won 't get outside the big hotels 
in the big reso ts. Yes, sir," said the landlord taking 
a fresh start, " they 're them kind of folks that live 
the whole yea round in hotels ; no th in summa, south 
in winta, and city hotels between times. They want 
the best their money can buy, and they got plenty of 
it. She " he meant Mrs. Lander " has been tellin 
my wife how they do ; she likes to talk a little betta 
than he doos ; and I guess when it comes to society, 
they 're away up, and they won 't stan any nonsense." 
III. 
LANDER came into his wife 's room between ten and 
eleven o clock, and found her still in bed, but with 
her half-finished breakfast on a tray before her. As 
soon as he opened the door she said, " I do wish you 
would take some of that hea t-tonic of mine, Albe t, 
that the docta left for me in Boston. You 'll find it 
in the upper right bureau box, the a ; and I know it 'll 
be the very thing for you. It 'll relieve you of that 
suffocatin feeling that I  always have, comin up 
stai s. Dea ! I don 't see why they don 't have an 
elevata ; they make you pay enough ; and I wish you'd 
get me a little more silva, so 's t I can give to the cham- 
bamaid and the bell-boy ; I do hate to be out of it. I 
guess you been up and out long ago. They did make 
that polonaise of mine too tight after all I said, and 
I 've  been thinkin how I could get it alt ed ; but I 
presume there ain 't a seamstress to be had around 
he e for love or money. Well, now, that 's right, Al 
be t ; I 'm glad to see you doin it." 
Lander had opened the lid of the bureau box, and 
uncorked a bottle from it, and tilted this to his lips. 
" Don 't take too much," she cautioned him, " or 
you 'll lose the effects. When I take too much of a 
medicine, it 's wo se than nothing, as fah 's I can make 
out. When I had that spell in Thomasville spring 
before last, I believe I should have been over it twice 
as quick if I had taken just half the medicine I did. 
You don 't really feel anyways bad about the hea t, 
do you, Albe t ? " 
" I 'm all right," said Lander. He put back the 
bottle in its place and sat down. 
Mrs. Lander lifted herself on her elbow and looked 
over at him. " Show me on the bottle how much you 
took." 
He got the bottle out again and showed her with 
his thumb nail a point which he chose at random. 
" Well, that was just about the dose for you," she 
said, and she sank down in bed again with the air of 
having used a final precaution. " You don 't want to 
slow your hea t up too quick." 
Lander did not put the bottle back this time. He 
kept it in his hand, with his thumb on the cork, and 
rocked it back and forth on his knees as he spoke. 
" Why don 't you get that woman to alter it for you ? " 
" What woman alta what ? " 
" Your polonaise. The one whe e we stopped yes- 
taday." 
" Oh ! Well, I 've  been thinkin about that child, 
Albe t; I did before I went to sleep; and I don 't be 
lieve I want to risk anything with her. It would be 
a ca e," said Mrs. Lander with a sigh, " and I guess 
I don 't want to take any moa ca e than what I 've  got 
 
now. What makes you think she could alta my po 
lonaise ? " 
" Said she done dress-makin ," said Lander, dog 
gedly. 
" You mVf been the a ? " 
He nodded. 
"You didn 't say anything to her about her daugh- 
ta?" 
" Yes, I did, said Lander. 
" Well, you ce tainly do equal anything," said his 
wife. She lay still awhile, and then she roused her 
self with indignant energy. "Well, then, I can tell 
you what, Albe t Landa: you can go right straight 
and take back everything you said. I don 't want the 
child, and I won 't have her. I 've  got care enough to 
worry me now, I should think; and we should have 
her whole family on our hands, with that shiftless 
father of hers, and the whole pack of her brothas and 
sistas. What made you think I wanted you to do 
such a thing ? " 
" You wanted me to do it last night. Wouldn 't 
ha dly let me go to bed." 
" Yes ! And how many times have I told you neva 
to go off and do a thing that I wanted you to, unless 
you asked me if I did ? Must I die befo e you can 
find out that there is such a thing as talkin , and such 
anotha thing as doin ? You wouldn 't get yourself 
into half as many scrapes if you talked more and 
done less, in this wo Id." Lander rose. 
" Wait ! Hold on ! What are you going to say 
to the pooa thing ? She 'll be so disappointed ! " 
 
" I don 't know as I shall need to say anything my 
self," answered the little man, at his dryest. " Leave 
that to you." 
" Well, I can tell you," returned his wife, " I 'm 
not goin nea them again ; and if you think What 
did you ask the woman, anyway ? " 
" I asked her," he said, " if she wanted to let the 
gul come and see you about some sewing you had to 
have done, and she said she did." 
" And you didn 't speak about havin her come to 
live with us ?" 
" No." 
" Well, why in the land didn 't you say so before, 
Albe t?" 
" You didn 't ask me. What do you want I should 
say to her now ? " 
" Say to who ? " 
" The gul. She 's down in the pahlor, waitinV 
" Well, of all the men ! " cried Mrs. Lander. But 
she seemed to find herself, upon reflection, less able 
to cope with Lander personally than with the situa 
tion generally. " Will you send her up, Albe t ? " she 
asked, very patiently, as if he might be driven to 
further excesses, if not delicately handled. As soon 
as he had gone out of the room she wished that she 
had told him to give her time to dress and have her 
room put in order, before he sent the child up ; but 
she could only make the best of herself in bed with a 
cap and a breakfast jacket, arranged with the help of 
a handglass. She had to get out of bed to put her 
other clothes away in the closet and she seized the 
 
chance to push the breakfast tray out of the door, and 
smooth up the bed, while she composed her features 
and her ideas to receive her visitor. Both, from long 
habit rather than from any cause or reason, were of a 
querulous cast, and her ordinary tone was a snuffle 
expressive of deep-seated affliction. She was at once 
plaintive and voluable, and in moments of excitement 
her need of freeing her mind was so great that she 
took herself into her own confidence, and found a 
more sympathetic listener than when she talked to her 
husband. As she now whisked about her room in 
her bed-gown with an activity not predicable of her 
age and shape, and finally plunged under the covering 
and drew it up to her chin with one hand while she 
pressed it out decorously over her person with the 
other, she kept up a rapid flow of lamentation and 
conjecture. " I do suppose he 'll be right back with 
her before I 'm half ready; and what the man was 
thinkin of to do such a thing anyway, I  don 't know. 
I don 't know as she 'll notice much, comin out of such 
a lookm place as that, and I don 't know as I need to 
care if she did. But if the e 's care anywhe 's around, 
I presume I 'm the one to have it. I presume I did 
take a fancy to her, and I guess I shall be glad to see 
how I like her now ; and if he 's only told her I want 
some sew in done, I can scrape up something to let 
her carry home with her. It 's well I keep my things 
where I can put my hand on em at a time like this, 
and I don 't believe I shall sccCe the child, as it is. I 
do hope Albe t won 't hang round half the day before 
he brings her ; I like to have a thing ova." 
 
Lander wandered about looking for the girl through 
the parlors and the piazzas, and then went to the office 
to ask what had become of her. 
The landlord came out of his room at his question 
to the clerk. " Oh, I guess she 's round in my wife 's 
room, Mr. Landa. She always likes to see Clemen 
tina, and I guess they all do. She 's a so t o pet 
amongst em." 
" No hurry," said Lander, " I guess my wife ain 't 
quite ready for her yet." 
" Well, she 'll be right out, in a minute or so," said 
the landlord. 
The old man tilted his hat forward over his eyes, 
and went to sit on the veranda and look at the land 
scape while he waited. It was one of the loveliest 
landscapes in the mountains ; the river flowed at the 
foot of an abrupt slope from the road before the 
hotel, stealing into and out of the valley, and the 
mountains, gray in the farther distance, were draped 
with folds of cloud hanging upon their flanks and 
tops. But Lander was tired of nearly all kinds of 
views and prospects, though he put up with them, in 
his perpetual movement from place to place, in the 
same resignation that he suffered the limitations of 
comfort in parlor cars and sleepers, and the unwhole- 
someness of hotel tables. He was chained to the 
restless pursuit of an ideal not his own, but doomed 
to suffer for its impossibility as if he contrived each 
of his wife 's disappointments from it. He did not 
philosophize his situation, but accepted it as in an 
order of Providence which it would be useless for him 
 
to oppose ; though there were moments when he per 
mitted himself to feel a modest doubt of its justice. 
He was aware that when he had a house of his own 
he was master in it, after a fashion, and that as long 
as he was in business he was in some sort of author 
ity. He perceived that now he was a slave to the 
wishes of a mistress who did not know what she 
wanted, and that he was never farther from pleasing 
her than when he tried to do what she asked. He 
could not have told how all initiative had been taken 
from him, and he had fallen into the mere follower of 
a woman guided only by her whims, who had no ob 
ject in life except to deprive it of all object. He felt 
no rancor toward her for this ; he knew that she had 
a tender regard for him, and that she believed she 
was considering him first in her most selfish arrange 
ments. He always hoped that sometime she would 
get tired of her restlessness, and be willing to settle 
down again in some stated place ; and wherever it 
was, he meant to get into some kind of business again. 
Till this should happen he waited with an apathetic 
patience of which his present abeyance was a detail. 
He would hardly have thought it anything unfit, and 
certainly nothing surprising, that the landlady should 
have taken the young girl away from where he had 
left her, and then in the pleasure of talking with her, 
and finding her a centre of interest for the whole do 
mestic force of the hotel, should have forgotten to 
bring her back. 
The Middlemount House had just been organized 
on the scale of a first class hotel, with prices that had 
risen a little in anticipation of the other improvements. 
The landlord had hitherto united in himself the func 
tions of clerk and head waiter, but he had now got a 
senior, who was working his way through college, to 
take charge of the dining-room, and had put in the 
office a youth of a year 's experience as under clerk at 
a city hotel. But he meant to relinquish no more 
authority than his wife who frankly kept the name as 
well as duty of house-keeper. It was in making her 
morning inspection of the dusting that she found 
Clementina in the parlor where Lander had told her 
to sit down till he should come for her. 
" Why, Clem ! " she said, " I didn 't know you ! 
You have grown so ! Youa folks all well ? I decla e 
you ah quite a woman now," she added, as the girl 
stood up in her slender, graceful height. "You look 
as pretty as a pink in that hat. Make that dress youa- 
self ? Well, you do beat the witch ! I want you 
should come to my room with me." 
Mrs. Atwell showered other questions and exclama 
tions on the girl, who explained how she happened to 
be there, and said that she supposed she must stay 
where she was for fear Mr. Lander should come back 
and find her gone ; but Mrs. Atwell overruled her with 
the fact that Mrs. Lander 's breakfast had just gone 
up to her ; and she made her come out and see the 
new features of the enlarged house-keeping. In the 
dining-room there were some of the waitresses who 
had been there the summer before, and recognitions 
of more or less dignity passed between them and 
Clementina. The place was now shut against guests, 
and the head-waiter was having it put in order for the 
one o clock dinner. As they came near him, Mrs. 
Atwell introduced him to Clementina, and he behaved 
deferentially, as if she were some young lady visitor 
whom Mrs. Atwell was showing the improvements, 
but he seemed harassed and impatient, as if he were 
anxious about his duties, and eager to get at them 
again. He was a handsome little fellow, with hair 
lighter than Clementina 's and a sanguine complexion, 
and the color coming and going. 
" He 's smaht," said Mrs. Atwell, when they had 
left him he held the dining-room door open for 
them, and bowed them out. " I don 't know but he 
worries almost too much. That 'll wear off when he 
gets things runnin to suit him. He 's pretty p tic la . 
Now I 'll show you how they 've  made the office over, 
and built in a room for Mr. Atwell behind it." 
The landlord welcomed Clementina as if she had 
been some acceptable class of custom, and when the 
tall young clerk came in to ask him something, and 
Mrs. Atwell said, " I want to introduce you to Miss 
Claxon, Mr. Fane," the clerk smiled down upon her 
from the height of his smooth, acquiline young face, 
which he held bent encouragingly upon one side. 
" Now, I want you should come in and see where 
I  live, a minute," said Mrs. Atwell. She took the 
girl from the clerk, and led her to the official house 
keeper 's room which she said had been prepared for 
her so that folks need not keep running to her in her 
private room where she wanted to be alone with her 
children, when she was there. Why, you ain 't much 
moa than a child youaself, Clem, and here I be talk- 
in to you as if you was a mother in Israel. How old 
ah? you, this summa ? Time does go so ! " 
" I 'm sixteen now," said Clementina, smiling. 
" You be ? Well, I don 't see why I say that, eitha ! 
You 're full lahge enough for your age, but not seein 
you in long dresses before, I didn 't realize your age 
so much. My, but you do all of you know how to do 
things ! " 
" I 'm about the only one that don t, Mrs. Atwell," 
said the girl. u If it hadn 't been for mother, I don 't 
believe I could have eva finished this dress." She 
began to laugh at something passing in her mind, and 
Mrs. Atwell laughed too, in sympathy, though she did 
not know what at till Clementina said, " Why, Mrs. 
Atwell, nea ly the whole family wo ked on this dress. 
Jim drew the patte n of it from the dress of one of 
the summa boa das that he took a fancy to at the 
Centa, and fatha cut it out, and I helped motha make 
it. I guess every one of the children helped a little." 
" Well, it 's just as I said, you can all of you do 
things," said Mrs. Atwell. " But I guess you ah the 
one that keeps em straight. What did you say Mr. 
Landa said his wife wanted of you ? " 
" He said some kind of sewing that motha could 
do." 
"Well, I 'll tell you what! Now, if she liaVt 
really got anything that your motha 'll want you to 
help with, I wish you'd come here again and help me. 
I tu ncd my foot, here, two-three weeks back, and I 
feel it, times, and I should like some one to do about 
 
half my steppin for me. I don 't want to take you 
away from her, but if. You shain 't go int the dinin - 
room, or be under anybody 's oddas but mine. Now, 
will you ? " 
" I 'll see, Mrs. Atwell. I don 't like to say anything 
till I know what Mrs. Landa wants." 
" Well, that 's right. I decla e, you 've  got moa 
judgment ! That 's what I used to say about you last 
summa to my husband: she 's got judgment. Well, 
what 's wanted ? " Mrs. Atwell spoke to her husband, 
who had opened her door and looked in, and she 
stopped rocking, while she waited his answer. 
" I guess you don 't want to keep Clementina from 
Mr. Landa much longa. He 's settin out there on the 
front piazza waitin for her." 
"Well, the a!" cried Mrs. Atwell. "Ain 't that 
just like me ? Why didn 't you tell me sooner, Alon- 
zo ? Don 't you forgit what I said, Clem ! " 
IV. 
MRS. Lander had taken twice of a specific for what 
she called her nerve-fag before her husband came with 
Clementina, and had rehearsed aloud many of the 
things she meant to say to the girl. In spite of her 
preparation, they were all driven out of her head 
when Clementina actually appeared, and gave her a 
bow like a young birch 's obeisance in the wind. 
" Take a chaia," said Lander, pushing her one, and 
the girl tilted over toward him, before she sank into 
it. He went out of the room, and left Mrs. Lander 
to deal with the problem alone. She apologized for 
being in bed, but Clementina said so sweetly, " Mr. 
Landa told me you were not feeling very well, m," 
that she began to be proud of her ailments, and 
bragged of them at length, and of the different doc 
tors who had treated her for them. While she talked 
she missed one thing or another, and Clementina 
seemed to divine what it was she wanted, and got it 
for her, with a gentle deference which made the elder 
feel her age cushioned by the girl 's youth. When 
she grew a little heated from the interest she took in 
o 
