Mark turned round to see who were the newcomers.
"Good evening, Edgar," said Mark.
"You here!" exclaimed Edgar, in unqualified amazement.
"Yes; I did not expect to have the pleasure of meeting you," answered
Mark with an amused smile. He understood Edgar's surprise, and the
reason of it.
Meanwhile Stanley Rayburn stood by in silence.
"Introduce me to your friend, Edgar," he said, for he was attracted by
Mark's frank, handsome face.
"Mark Mason--Stanley Rayburn!" said Edgar awkwardly. He would have liked
to decline introducing Stanley to his poor cousin, but there seemed to
be no way of avoiding it.
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Mason," said Stanley
cordially.
"Thank you, but don't call me Mr. Mason."
"I would rather say Mark. Any friend of Edgar----"
"Mark Mason and I are only acquaintances," said Edgar hurriedly, and in
the worst possible taste.
"I hope that we shall be friends," said Stanley with emphasis,
thinking that Edgar was a cad.
"I hope so too," rejoined Mark earnestly, "if, after getting my
'character' from Edgar," he added with a smile, "you still wish it."
Stanley was a little puzzled, not knowing how Mark was regarded by his
companion.
"I think I shall go down at once," said Stanley. "I don't think I
require any finishing touches to my toilet."
"Be ready to go with me to Miss Gilbert," said Edgar. "I will follow you
in a minute."
"Very well."
"Now," said Edgar, when he and his cousin were alone, "how do you happen
to be here?"
"By Miss Gilbert's invitation, of course. I suppose that is the case
with you."
"Certainly. Does she know that you are a telegraph boy?"
"Yes."
"That's strange. Did you ever meet her?"
"Oh, yes; I have spent the evening here two or three times."
"That's queer. By the way, you seem to be very nicely dressed."
"I am glad you like my suit."
"Yet you are as poor as poverty. It was a crazy idea to run into debt
for an expensive suit."
"I didn't run into debt. My suit is paid for."
"Yet your mother claims to be very poor."
"We are getting along better now."
"It would have been wiser for you to save the money you spent on this
suit and keep it for rent and food."
"Your advice is very kind, Edgar, but I really feel that I can manage my
own business."
"Oh, well, if you choose to resent my good advice----"
"I don't. I hope it springs from your interest in me."
During this conversation Edgar was brushing his hair carefully and
"prinking" before the glass, for he was anxious to appear as fascinating
as possible when he presented himself to Miss Gilbert.
"Shall we go down?" asked Mark.
"Yes, perhaps we may as well. I suppose you would feel awkward entering
the drawing-room alone."
"Perhaps so," said Mark smiling.
As the two presented themselves in the room below Edgar looked about for
Stanley, but did not see him.
"I wonder where Stanley has disappeared to," he said in a tone of
vexation. "He promised to go up with me to Miss Gilbert."
"If he doesn't show up, Edgar, I shall be glad to take his place. As you
have only recently come to the city, I suppose you don't know her well."
"I only met her once," Edgar admitted, "and she may not remember me."
"Then come with me."
Almost against his wishes Edgar found himself walking up to the other
end of the room with his despised cousin. He would not have believed it
possible if this had been predicted to him an hour earlier.
"Good evening, Mark! I am glad to see you here," said Maud Gilbert, with
a pleasant smile.
"Let me present Mr. Edgar Talbot," said Mark after a suitable
acknowledgment.
"I had the pleasure of meeting you when in company with Stanley
Rayburn," explained Edgar.
"Oh, yes, I remember. And so you are also acquainted with Mark."
"Yes," answered Edgar, rather awkwardly. "I expected Mr. Rayburn to
present me."
"You have found a sponsor equally good," returned Maud.
Then the two walked on, giving place to others.
"You seem to know Miss Gilbert very well," said Edgar in a tone of
curiosity.
"Yes."
"It is strange. I don't understand it."
Edgar was relieved to find that Mark did not claim him as a cousin,
though to his surprise he saw that Mark stood particularly well with the
young hostess.
"How do you, Mark?" The speaker was a bright boy of sixteen, the brother
of Miss Gilbert. "How well you are looking!"
"Thank you, Charlie. If a young lady had told me that it would make me
proud."
"Come along. I will introduce you to a couple of nice girls."
"Who is that?" asked Edgar of Rayburn, who had now come up.
"Don't you know? That is Charlie Gilbert, Maud's brother."
"So he knows Mark, too."
"Why shouldn't he?"
"Because Mark is--you will be surprised to hear it--a common telegraph
boy."
"He may be a telegraph boy, but he certainly is not a common one. He is
a nice-looking fellow, and I am glad to know him."
Presently dancing began. In his earlier days, when his father was
living, Mark had taken lessons from a teacher, and though he was rather
out of practise he ventured to go out on the floor, having as his
partner one of the prettiest girls in the room.
As there was space for but two sets of dancers, Edgar was obliged to sit
still and see the others dance. He felt very much dissatisfied
especially as Mark seemed to be enjoying himself thoroughly.
"Society in New York seems to be very much mixed," he said to himself,
"when telegraph boys can push in and make themselves so conspicuous in
rich men's houses."
Edgar got a chance to dance once later on, but the girl he danced with
was very small and insignificant in appearance.
       *       *       *       *       *
"Well, what kind of a time did you have?" asked Solon Talbot when his
son returned home.
"Very good."
"I suppose it was quite a brilliant affair," said Solon Talbot
complacently. "I am glad to have you invited to such a swell house. Did
Stanley Rayburn take you up to Miss Gilbert?"
"No; he promised to, but when I looked for him he was not to be found."
"That was awkward."
"No; I found a substitute, a boy whom you and I both know."
"I have no idea whom you can mean."
"No; you might guess all night, but without success. It was Mark Mason."
"What! You don't mean to say that Mark Mason was a guest at the party?"
"Yes he was, and he seemed very well acquainted too."
"Was he in his telegraph uniform?"
"No; he had on a nice new suit, as handsome as mine. He had a rose in
his buttonhole and looked quite like a dude."
"How very extraordinary!" ejaculated Solon.
"I thought you would say so."
"Why, they are living from hand to mouth, steeped in poverty."
"So I thought, but it doesn't seem like it."
"The boy must be very cheeky, but even so, I can't account for his
success. I shall have to call on his mother and ask what it means."
CHAPTER XXVI.
AN IMPORTANT COMMISSION.
A WEEK later Mark received the follow letter:
"Mark Mason: Please call at my office as soon as convenient.
"D. GILBERT."
"This letter is from Maud Gilbert's father," said Mark, addressing his
mother. "I wonder what he wants."
"Nothing disagreeable, I am sure. Of course you will go."
"I will call to-morrow morning."
Mr. Gilbert was a commission merchant, with an office in the lower part
of the city, west of Broadway. Mark obtained leave of absence for an
hour agreeing to pay the price usually charged to customers.
He had seen Mr. Gilbert, a stout, portly man of fifty, during his call
at the house in Forty-Fifth Street. Therefore when he was admitted to
Mr. Gilbert's office, he addressed him not as a stranger but as an old
acquaintance.
"I received your note, Mr. Gilbert, and have called according to your
request."
"That is right, Mark. Sit down till I have finished looking over my
letters. You will find the morning Herald on the table near you."
In ten minutes the merchant had finished with his letters, and whirled
round in his chair.
"I believe you are a telegraph boy," he said.
"Yes, sir."
"What pay do you receive?"
"I don't average over six dollars a week."
"How old are you?"
"Sixteen."
"My daughter thinks you are unusually bright and intelligent."
"I am very much obliged to Miss Maud for her good opinion," said Mark,
his face flushing with gratification.
"How can you get along on six dollars a week? You have a mother
partially dependent upon you, I believe."
"I have lately had a present of a thousand dollars from Mr. Luther
Rockwell, the banker. I was in his office when a dynamite crank
threatened to blow us all up."
"I heartily congratulate you, Mark. You deserved the gift for your
coolness and courage, but it isn't every rich man who would make so
generous an acknowledgment for your services."
"That's true, sir. Mr. Rockwell has been very kind."
"How do you like the position of telegraph boy?"
"I would like to give it up. It doesn't lead to anything. But I don't
want to throw myself out of work. Six dollars a week is a small income,
but it is better than nothing."
"I approve your prudence, but I think other and better employment can be
obtained for you. Maud tells me that you were sent not long since to
Cleveland with some valuable jewelry."
"Yes, sir."
"You succeeded in your mission?"
"Yes, sir."
"Did you meet with any adventures while you were gone?"
"Yes, sir."
"Tell me briefly what they were."
Mark did so.
"Don't think I am influenced by curiosity," said Mr. Gilbert. "The fact
is, I have a still longer journey for you if you don't object, and I
wished to assure myself that you were adequate to undertake it. It may
take six weeks, or it may take two months. I should advise you to give
up your position as messenger, and I will guarantee you an equally good
place when you return."
"Thank you, sir. In that case I won't hesitate to give it up."
"Your week closes to-morrow, I suppose."
"Yes, sir."
"Then give notice at once."
"Where are you going to send me, sir?" asked Mark, with pardonable
curiosity.
"To California."
Mark looked amazed. He knew that California was even further away than
Liverpool, and having the love of travel and adventure natural to boys
of his age he felt that he should thoroughly enjoy the trip.
"I should like very much to go," he said promptly.
"Now I must tell you why I send you. A cousin of mine has just died in
California, leaving a young son of ten years of age. He wrote me a
letter from his death-bed commending the boy to my care. I will gladly
undertake the charge of the boy, as I had a strong regard for his
father, who, by the way had died poor.
"But a difficulty presented itself. The boy could not come East by
himself, and there seemed no one to bring him. Of course I can't leave
my business, and there is no one else in my family who can be sent.
Under these circumstances Maud has recommended me to send you."
"I shall be glad to go, sir."
"You are a rather young guardian for a young boy, but I think you
possess the necessary qualification. Your experience as a telegraph boy
has made you sharp and self-reliant, and altogether I think you will
acquit yourself to my satisfaction."
"I will try to, sir."
"I need no assurance of that."
"How am I to go?"
"By the Union and Central Pacific Road from Omaha. I will supply you
with a through ticket."
"Shall you wish me to return immediately?"
"No; you can stay in California two or three weeks and get acquainted
with the boy. I have never seen him, but I think you won't find him
troublesome. Are you fond of children?"
"Very, sir."
"The poor boy will need a kind friend, having lost his father so
recently. And now, there is one thing more to be spoken of--your
compensation."
"I shall be satisfied with whatever you think right."
"Then we will fix that after your return. But you will need to leave
some money with your mother to pay expenses while you are away."
"I can draw from Mr. Rockwell."
"No; if you have money in his hands let it remain. I will advance you a
hundred dollars to leave with your mother. I may as well do that now. On
Saturday evening, when you are released from your present position, call
at the house and receive your ticket and final instructions."
"Thank you, sir."
Mr. Gilbert rang a little bell, and a boy appeared.
"Go to the bank and get this check cashed," said the merchant.
In a few minutes he returned with a roll of bills.
"Count them over and see if they are right, Mark."
"Yes, sir; they are correct."
"Very good! Remember that they are for your mother. Tell her also that
if you remain longer than I anticipate, and she gets short of money, she
can call at my office and I will supply her with more."
Mark left the office in a state of joyful excitement.
He was to make a long journey across the continent. He would see many
states and cities, and become acquainted with places which he now knew
only by hearsay. And after he returned his prospects would be brighter,
for Mr. Gilbert had promised to find him a position at least equal to
the one he resigned.
In the afternoon as Mark was returning from an errand in West Fiftieth
Street, he saw Edgar Talbot in the neighborhood of Bryant Park.
"Hallo!" said Edgar condescendingly. "Are you on an errand?"
"Yes."
"Ho, ho! how you will look in a telegraph boy's uniform when you are a
young man of twenty-five."
"What makes you think I am going to be a telegraph boy so long?"
"Because you are not fit for any other business."
Mark smiled.
"I am sorry for that," he said, "for as it happens I have tendered my
resignation."
"You don't mean that you are going to leave the messenger service?"
"Yes."
"But how are you going to live? It won't be any use to ask father for
money."
"I presume not."
"Perhaps," suggested Edgar hopefully, "you have been discharged."
"I discharged myself."
"Have you got another position?"
"I am going to travel for a while."
Edgar Talbot was more and more perplexed. In fact he had always found
Mark a perplexing problem.
"How can you travel without money?"
"Give it up. I don't propose to."
"Have you got any money?"
Mark happened to have with him the roll of bills given him for his
mother. He drew it out.
"Do you mean to say that is yours? How much is there?"
"A hundred dollars."
"I don't believe it is yours."
"It isn't. It belongs to my mother."
"But father said she was very poor."
"At any rate this money belongs to her."
"Where are you going to travel?"
"Out West."
This was all the information Mark would give. Edgar reported the
conversation to his father, who was also perplexed.
"Mark Mason is a strange boy," he said. "I don't understand him."
CHAPTER XXVII.
LAST INSTRUCTIONS.
MARK had intended to find a new and more comfortable place for his
mother, being dissatisfied with their humble rooms in St. Mark's Place,
but the journey he was called upon so unexpectedly to make, led to a
postponement of this plan.
"You can move, mother, if you like," said Mark, after placing the
hundred dollars in her hands. "You'll have money enough."
"That's true, Mark, but you wouldn't know how to address me, and I might
lose some of your letters. I shall be satisfied to stay here till you
return. But do you think you had better go? You are very young to cross
the continent alone."
"I am nearly sixteen, mother, and I have been in the habit of looking
out for myself. Besides Mr. Gilbert thinks I am old enough, and if he
has confidence in me I ought to have confidence in myself."
"I suppose it is all right, but I shall miss you terribly."
"It is for my good, and will be for yours, mother. I have long wanted to
leave the messenger service and get into some steady position where I
can push myself ahead, and this seems to me my chance."
"You will write often, Mark?"
"I will be sure to do that. You don't think I will forget my mother?"
On Saturday evening Mark went to Mr. Gilbert's to receive instructions.
"I must tell you something about the boy of whom you are to be temporary
guardian," said Mr. Gilbert. "Perhaps it will be best for me to read you
in the first place the letter I received from my poor cousin just before
his death. It was written at his dictation, for he was already too weak
to hold the pen."
He drew from a desk this letter which he proceeded to read aloud:
       *       *       *       *       *
"Gulchville, California,
"Oct. 17.
"MY DEAR COUSIN,
"When this letter reaches you I shall in all probability be in a better
world. I am dying of consumption. I leave behind me a boy of ten--my
poor little Philip. I leave him to the mercies of a cold world, for I am
penniless. I had a little property once, but I speculated and lost all.
Poor Philip will be an orphan and destitute. I know you are rich and
prosperous. Won't you, in your generosity, agree to care for my poor
boy? He won't require much, and I shall be content to have him reared
plainly, but I don't want him to suffer.
"I am sick at the house of a cousin of my wife. He is a mean man, and
his wife is also penurious and mean. They have made my sickness still
more bitter by their taunts. They complain that I am an expense to them,
and they would turn me out of doors, sick as I am, I am convinced, if
they were not ashamed to do so. Poor Philip will be left to their tender
mercies, but I hope only for a short time. I can bear to suffer myself,
but I can't bear to think of his suffering. He is a sensitive boy, not
over strong, and ill-fitted to bear the buffetings of a cold and unkind
world. Won't you send for him as soon as you can? In your hands I am
sure he will be safe and kindly cared for.
"I am getting very tired and must stop. God bless you!
"Your unfortunate cousin,
"John Lillis.
"P. S. The man in whose house I am stopping is named Nahum Sprague."
       *       *       *       *       *
"You see, Mark, your mission will be one of mercy. The sooner the poor
boy is rescued from such people as Mr. and Mrs. Sprague the better for
him. By the way, I don't want them to say my cousin has been an expense
to them. Therefore I will authorize you to obtain from them an itemized
account of what they have spent for him and the boy and pay it. You will
see that they don't impose upon me by presenting too large a bill."
"Yes, sir. I will look sharply after your interests."
"I shall give you more than enough to get you to San Francisco, and I
will give you a letter to a firm there, authorizing you to draw upon
them for any sum you may require up to a thousand dollars."
"But that will be a great deal more than I shall need."
"I presume so, but I give you so large a credit to use in case of
emergencies."
"You are trusting me very far, Mr. Gilbert."
"I am aware of that, but I feel entirely safe in doing so."
"Thank you, sir."
Other directions were given, and it was agreed that Mark should start on
his long journey on Monday morning.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
MARK AT OMAHA.
SOME days later Mark found himself at Omaha. Here he was to transfer
himself to the Union Pacific Railroad, at that time the only Pacific
road built with the exception of the Central Pacific, which formed with
it a continuous line to San Francisco. Mark decided to remain in Omaha
for a single day and then take the train for his destination.
At the hotel Mark found himself sitting next to a man with bronzed face
and rough attire who embodied his ideas of a miner. The stranger during
the meal devoted himself strictly to business, but going out of the
dining-room at the same time with Mark he grew sociable.
"Well, young pard.," he said, "what's your trail?"
Mark looked puzzled.
"I mean which way are you going--East or West?"
"I am going to San Francisco."
"Ever been there before?"
Mark shook his head.
"I never was as far West as this before," he answered. "I came from New
York."
"So I thought. You look like a tenderfoot. Are you going out to stay?"
"Only a short time. I am going after a young boy. I am going to carry
him back with me."
"A kid, eh? You're not much more than a kid yourself."
"I guess I can take care of myself," said Mark with a smile.
"Shouldn't wonder. You look like it. Nothing soft about you."
"I hope I haven't got a soft head. As to my heart, I hope that isn't
hard."
"Good for you. I reckon you're a likely kind of boy."
"I suppose you have been to California," said Mark, thinking it his turn
to ask questions.
"Yes; I've been on the coast for three years, more or less."
"How do you like it out there?"
"Well, I've had my ups and downs. A year ago, six months for that
matter, I was dead broke."
"Did your luck change?"
"Not till I struck Nevada. Then I got a small interest in the Golden
Hope mine----"
"The Golden Hope mine?" exclaimed Mark in excitement.
"Do you know anything of that mine, youngster?"
"Yes; I have a--a friend who owns some stock in it."
"Then your friend is in luck. Why, do you know where the stock stands
to-day?"
"No, but I should like to know."
"At 110."
Mark's eyes sparkled with joyous excitement.
"Is it possible?" he exclaimed.
"It's so. I've got a block of a hundred shares myself, which I bought
eighteen months ago for a song. I give you my word I didn't think it
worth more than a dollar or two a share--what I gave--when I learned not
long since that they'd struck it rich, and I was no longer a pauper."
"That's good news for me," said Mark slowly.
"Why? Have you got any of it?"
"My mother is entitled to two hundred shares from her father's estate."
"Whew! Have you come out to see about it?"
"No; that was not my object, but I shall find out what I can about it."
"You're in luck."
"Well, perhaps so. But my uncle is trying to cheat my mother out of it."
"Then he must be a rascal. Tell me about it."
The man looked sympathetic and trustworthy, and Mark without hesitation
told him the story as it is already known to the reader.
"Do you think the stock has reached its highest point?" he asked
anxiously.
"No; it will probably rise to two hundred."
"Then my uncle probably won't close it out just at present."
"No; he will hear how the matter stands, and if he is sharp he will hold
on."
"I am glad of that, for I want a little time to decide how to act."
"I am going to stop at the mine on my way to 'Frisco."
"I will give you my address and ask you to write me a line to the care
of my banker there, letting me know what you can about the mine."
"All right, boy! I like you, and I'll do it. When do you start?"
"To-morrow."
"We'll start together, and I'll get off the train in Nevada."
CHAPTER XXIX.
NAHUM SPRAGUE AND HIS ORPHAN WARD.
LEAVING Mark on his way we will precede him, and carry the reader at
once to Gulchville, in California, where he was to find the young boy of
whom Mr. Gilbert had requested him to take charge.
In an unpainted frame house lived Mr. Nahum Sprague. In New England such
a building would hardly have cost over five hundred dollars, but here it
had been erected at more than double the expense by the original owner.
When he became out of health and left California it was bought for a
trifling price by Nahum Sprague.
The letter was a man of forty-five with small eyes and a face
prematurely wrinkled. He was well-to-do, but how he had gained his money
no one knew. He and his wife, however, were mean and parsimonious.
They had one son, a boy of fifteen, who resembled them physically and
mentally. He was named Oscar, after a gentleman of wealth, in the hope
that at his death the boy would be remembered. Unfortunately for Oscar
the gentleman died without a will and his namesake received nothing.
The disappointed parents would gladly have changed the boy's name, but
Oscar would not hear of it, preferring the name that had become
familiar.
This was the family whose grudging hospitality had embittered the last
days of John Lillis, and to them he was obliged to commit the temporary
guardianship of his little son Philip.
In the field adjoining, Philip Lillis, a small pale boy, was playing
when Oscar Sprague issued from the house.
"Come here, you little brat!" he said harshly.
Philip looked with a frightened expression.
"What do you want of me?" he asked.
"What do I want? Come here and see."
The little fellow approached.
He was received with a sharp slap in the face.
"Why do you hit me, Oscar?" Philip asked tearfully.
"Because you didn't come quicker," answered the young tyrant.
"I didn't know you were in a hurry."
"Well, you know it now."
"You wouldn't have hit me when papa was alive," said Philip with a flash
of spirit.
"Well, he isn't alive, see?"
"I know he isn't, and I am alone in the world."
"Well, don't snivel! If anything makes me sick at the stomach it is to
see a boy snivel."
"Maybe you'd cry if your papa was dead."
"There ain't much fear. The old man's too tough," responded Oscar, who
had no sentimental love for his father. Indeed, it would have been
surprising if he had shown any attachment to Nahum Sprague, who was
about as unattractive in outward appearance as he was in character and
disposition.
"You didn't tell me what you wanted me to do."
"Just wait till I tell you, smarty. Do you see this bottle?"
"Yes."
"Take it to the saloon and get it full of whisky."
"Papa didn't want me to go into a liquor saloon."
"Well, your papa ain't got nothing to do with you now. See? You just do
as I tell you."
Philip took the bottle unwillingly and started for the saloon.
"Mind you don't drink any of it on the way home," called out Oscar.
"As if I would," said Philip indignantly. "I don't drink whisky and I
never will."
"Oh, you're an angel!" sneered Oscar. "You're too good for this world.
Ain't you afraid you'll die young, as they say good boys do?"
"I don't believe you'll die young, Oscar."
"Hey? Was that meant for an insult? But never mind! I don't pretend to
be one of the goody-goody Sunday-school kids. Now mind you don't loiter
on the way."
Oscar sat down on the doorstep and began to whittle.
The door opened and his father came out.
"Why didn't you go to the saloon as I told you?" he asked hastily.
"It's all the same. I sent Philip."
"You sent that boy? He ain't fit to send on such an errand."
"Why ain't he? He can ask to have the bottle filled, can't he?"
"What did he say? Was he willing to go?"
"He said his papa," mimicked Oscar, "didn't want him to go into a liquor
saloon."
"He did, hey? All the more reason for making him go. His
poverty-stricken father can't help him now. Why, I am keeping the boy
from starving."
"Are you going to keep him always, dad?"
"I ought to turn him over to the town, but folks would talk. There's a
man in New York that his father said would send for him. I don't know
whether he will or not. There's a matter of fifty dollars due to me for
burying John Lillis. That's the way I get imposed upon."
Philip kept on his way to the saloon. He was a timid, sensitive boy, and
he shrank from going into the place which was generally filled with
rough men. Two miners were leaning against the front of the wooden
shanty used for the sale of liquor when Philip appeared.
As he passed in one said to the other, "Well, I'll be jiggered if here
isn't a kid comin' for his liquor. I say, kid, what do you want?"
"Some whisky," answered Philip timidly.
"How old are you?"
"Ten."
"I say, young 'un, you're beginnin' early."
"I don't want it for myself," returned Philip half indignantly.
"Oh, no, of course not. You won't take a sip yourself, of course not."
"No, I won't. My papa never drank whisky, and he told me not to."
"Where is your papa?"
"Gone to Heaven."
The miner whistled.
"Then who sent you for whisky?"
"Mr. Sprague."
"Old Nahum?"
"His name is Nahum."
"I thought he was too mean to buy whisky. Do you live with him?"
"Yes, sir."
"Is he any kin to you?"
"No," answered Philip quickly.
"Does he treat you well?"
"I don't like to answer such questions," said Philip guardedly.
"I suppose you are afraid to. Did your father leave any money?"
"No," answered Philip sadly.
"Then I understand how it is. Do you expect to keep on living with Mr.
Sprague?"
"Papa wrote to a gentleman in New York. I expect he will send for me."
"I hope he will for your sake, poor little chap. Well, go on and get
your whisky. I don't want to take up your time."
As Philip entered the first speaker remarked, "Well, Bill, I don't
pretend to be an angel, but I wouldn't send a kid like that for whisky.
I drink it myself, but I wouldn't want a boy like that to go for it. I'd
go myself."
"I agree with you," said Bill. "That Sprague ain't of much account any
way. I'd lick him myself for a dollar. He's about as mean as they make
'em."
CHAPTER XXX.
A CIRCUS IN MR. SPRAGUE'S YARD.
PHILIP timidly made known his request and the bottle was filled. The
saloon-keeper attended to the order in a matter-of-fact manner. As long
as he got his pay he cared very little whom he dealt with.
Philip, feeling ashamed of his burden, came out with the bottle and set
out on his return home. He had been delayed by the conversation at the
door, and he had also had to wait to have the bottle filled, there being
several customers to attend to before him. So it happened that when he
got back Mr. Sprague and Oscar were awaiting him impatiently.
"There the boy comes at last, father," said Oscar. "He's creeping like a
snail."
Whisky was Mr. Sprague's one extravagance, and he had waited longer than
usual for his customary drink. This made him irritable.
"Why don't you come along faster, you young beggar?" he called out
harshly.
"I'll start him up, dad," said Oscar with alacrity.
"Do so!"
Oscar started down the road with a cruel light in his eyes. He liked
nothing better than to ill-treat the unfortunate boy who had been left
to the tender mercies of his father.
Philip did not understand what Oscar's coming portended till the older
boy seized him violently by the shoulders.
"Why don't you hurry up?" he demanded. "Don't you know any better than
to waste your time playing on the street?"
"I didn't waste any time. I couldn't get waited on at first."
"That's too thin! You were walking like a snail any way. I'll see if I
can't make you stir your stumps a little faster."
Oscar pushed Philip so violently that the little fellow stumbled, and
then came a catastrophe! He was thrown forward. The bottle came in
contact with a stone, and of course broke, spilling the precious
contents, as Nahum Sprague thought them.
"Now you've done it!" exclaimed Oscar. "I wouldn't be in your shoes,
young man. Pa will flog you within an inch of your life."
"See what Philip has done, pa!" said Oscar, pointing to the broken
bottle.
Nahum Sprague absolutely glared at the unfortunate boy. His throat was
dry and parched, and his craving for whisky was almost painful in its
intensity. And now to have the cup dashed from his lips! It would take
time to get a fresh supply, not to count the additional cost. His wrath
