"It is very sad," said the visitor with a dubious smile.
"Do you want to see him particular?" asked Mrs. Fogson.
"Yes; I wished to see him."
"Has he got into any scrape?" asked she with malicious eagerness.
The visitor eyed Mrs. Fogson closely, and saw at once that she was Jed's
enemy.
"That's about the size of it," he answered. "Of course as you are his
friend you would rather not tell me where he is."
"Who said I was his friend? I'll tell you with pleasure. Percy Dixon
came and told me only a few minutes since. He's probably at Bar Harbor,
or he'll get there some time this week."
"Bar Harbor!" repeated the visitor in evident surprise.
"Yes; he's working for a Mr. Roper--Mr. Schuyler Roper. He went down
there on a yacht. If you want to arrest him, or anything, you'd better
go down there right off, for Percy Dixon has written to Mr. Roper that
Jed was brought up in the poorhouse, and will probably get bounced very
soon."
"Thank you very much for telling me, Mrs. Fogson. I am glad you have put
me on his track."
"You don't mind telling me what he has been doing?" asked the lady.
"No; I might defeat the ends of justice by doing so."
"Just so!" rejoined Mrs. Fogson. "I do wonder what that boy's done?" she
said to herself as the stranger turned into the public road. "Very
likely it's burglary, or forgery."
CHAPTER XXXIV.
THE DETECTIVE.
The man in drab smiled to himself as he left the presence of Mrs.
Fogson.
"I wonder whether that woman's husband has her amiable traits?" he
speculated. "If so, the Scranton poor must be made very uncomfortable."
As he reached the village he met Percy Dixon once more. Percy had an
ungovernable curiosity, and he crossed the street to intercept the
stranger.
"I suppose you found the poorhouse," he said suggestively.
"Yes; I could not miss it after your clear directions."
"Are you related to Mr. and Mrs. Fogson?" asked Percy, rather boldly.
"Well no," answered the stranger with a smile. "I haven't the honor."
"Have you any relations among the paupers?"
"Not that I am aware of. However, I called to inquire after one of
them--a boy."
"Jed Gilman?" said Percy eagerly.
"Yes; I believe that is his name. Are you acquainted with him?"
"I have known him for years."
"I suppose he is a friend of yours?"
"Not much. Do you think I would be friends with a pauper?"
"I don't know. I see no reason why not if he is a nice boy."
"But Jed isn't a nice boy. He's an artful, forward, presuming young
jackanapes, and was awfully troublesome."
"I am sorry to hear it. Mrs. Fogson seems to think of him very much as
you do."
"I should think she would. She and Fogson couldn't do anything with
him."
"Mrs. Fogson says he isn't there now."
"No; he ran away after making a brutal assault on Fogson."
The man in drab felt an inclination to smile, but suppressed it.
"I don't know as I ought to have spoken against him," continued Percy
with a cunning look of inquiry. "You may be after him."
The man in drab paused a moment, then assuming a look of mystery, said,
"Can you keep a secret?"
"Yes," answered Percy eagerly.
"Come here, then."
Percy drew near, and the other whispered mysteriously, "I am a
detective!"
"You don't say so!" ejaculated Percy, gazing at him with a species of
awe, begotten of his idea of detectives as introduced into books which
he had read.
The other nodded.
"And I am after Jed Gilman!" he continued.
"Is that so?" said the delighted Percy. "What has he done?"
"That is a secret which I am not permitted to reveal at present."
"Do you want to find him?"
"Very much."
"Then I'll tell you where he is. He's gone to Bar Harbor--in Maine, you
know."
The detective nodded.
"He went on a yacht--the Juno--owned by Mr. Schuyler Roper--a rich New
York gentleman."
"But how did he get into such company?"
"Oh, Mr. Roper took pity on him and gave him a place."
"Then you think he is comfortably situated?"
"Yes, but he won't be long."
"Why not?"
"Because I have written a letter to Mr. Roper, telling him Jed's real
character. I expect he'll be bounced when that letter arrives."
"That would upset all my plans and enable him to escape."
Percy looked perplexed and disappointed.
"I am sorry for that," he said. "I guess I'd better write again and tell
him to keep Jed another week."
"Perhaps you had better do so. Say that---- But no. I will telegraph to
him to keep Jed with him till I arrive."
"That'll do better. You couldn't possibly tell me what Jed has done?"
"Not at present."
"You'll let me know sometime?"
"I think I shall be able to gratify your curiosity before long."
"I'll give you my address, and you can write to me. I wish I knew
whether Jed had stolen anything or not."
"I cannot say a word! My lips are sealed!" said the detective in a
solemn tone.
Percy was impressed. The man in drab quite came up to his idea of a
detective.
"By the way," said his companion, "I want to call on Mr. and Mrs. Avery,
who, I understand, know something of the boy's early life."
"They live there--in that small house. I'll go with you."
"No, I prefer to go alone. One can't be too careful."
"All right," said Percy. "I wonder what under the canopy Jed's been
doing? It's likely he'll have to go to jail."
CHAPTER XXXV.
MRS. AVERY'S STORY.
The detective crossed the street, walked up a tiny footpath and rang the
bell of the small house.
Mrs. Avery came to the door, a gentle-faced little woman with white
hair. She looked inquiringly at the visitor.
"Mrs. Avery, I believe?" said the man in drab.
"That is my name."
"I would like the favor of a few words with you, madam."
"Come in then," and she led the way to a modest sitting-room.
"My husband," she said, introducing him to a kindly old man, as
white-haired as herself.
"My name is Fletcher," said the visitor, "and I have come to you for
information. But first, am I right in my belief that you were once in
charge of the Scranton poorhouse?"
"Yes, sir. My husband and I had charge of it for fifteen years. We
should have been there now, but for Squire Dixon, the new Overseer of
the Poor, who wanted the place for some friends of his, Mr. and Mrs.
Fogson."
"I have had the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Fogson," said Fletcher with a
smile. "I am sure, now that I have seen you both, that the change was
for the worse."
"I fear that the poor people are very shabbily treated," said Mrs. Avery
gravely. "It makes me feel very badly, but what can I do? Squire Dixon
sustains them, and he has everything to say. But you say you want some
information. I shall be glad to tell you what I can."
"I want information touching a boy, now perhaps sixteen years of age,
bearing the name of Jed Gilman."
Mr. and Mrs. Avery immediately showed signs of interest.
"He has left the poorhouse," said Mr. Avery.
"So I am told."
"Do you inquire as a friend of the poor boy?" asked Mrs. Avery.
"Emphatically his friend. But first tell me, what kind of a boy is he?"
"A fine, manly, spirited lad, warm-hearted and attractive."
The detective looked pleased, but surprised.
"That doesn't correspond with what Mrs. Fogson told me," he said.
"I suppose not. She and her husband tried to bully Jed and overwork him,
till he was compelled to run away. I don't know where he is now."
"But I do. He is at Bar Harbor, in the company of a rich gentleman from
New York, and I believe employed on his yacht."
"I am thankful to hear it."
"But what I wish to learn are the circumstances attending his being
placed at the poorhouse. I suppose you remember them?"
"Oh yes, as well as if it were yesterday, though it is fourteen years
since."
"Go on, madam, I am all interest."
"It was a cold evening in November," began Mrs. Avery reflectively, "and
I was about to lock up, though it was but nine o'clock, for we kept
early hours at the poorhouse, when there was a knock at the door. I
opened it and saw before me a young woman of dark hair and complexion,
holding by the hand a pretty boy of about two years of age.
"'Can you give me and my boy a night's lodging?' she asked.
"We often had such applications, and never sent away a decent-looking
person. So I said yes readily enough and the two entered. They seemed
hungry, and though it was late for us I gave them some bread and milk,
of which the child in particular partook heartily. I asked the young
woman some questions but she was very close-mouthed.
"'Wait till morning,' she said. 'The boy and I are very tired.'
"I asked no more but gave them a bed, and I suppose they both slept
well. I was able to give them a small room to themselves.
"In the morning when I entered I found only the boy. The young woman had
gone, but pinned to the child's clothing was this note:
     "'I am obliged to leave the boy with you for the present. I hope
     you will take care of him. His name is Jed Gilman. Some time he
     will probably be called for. Don't try to find me for it will be
     useless.'
"That was all. Mr. Avery and myself were dumfounded, but we had taken a
fancy to the boy and resolved to keep him. There was some difficulty
about it, for he was not legally entitled to be brought up at the town's
cost. However, Mr. Avery and I agreed to pay part of the expense for the
first year, and after that he was looked upon as one of the regular
inmates and cared for as such."
"And the young woman never called again?"
"Never."
"Nor sent you any message, oral or written?"
"Never."
"Was there any article of dress, or any ornament, left with the child
that might help to identify it?"
"Yes. Wait here a minute and I will show you something which I have
carefully preserved from that day to this."
CHAPTER XXXVI.
"WHO WAS JED?"
Mrs. Avery went up stairs to her own room, but reappeared in five
minutes. She had in her hand an old-fashioned gold locket.
"This," she said, "was attached to the neck of the boy when he came into
our hands."
"Have you opened it?" asked the detective eagerly. "Is there a picture
inside?"
"There are two miniatures--one on each side."
She opened the locket, and it proved to be as she said.
One of these was a miniature of a young and handsome man, apparently
thirty years of age, the other of a young lady with a very sweet and
attractive face, probably five years younger.
"These must represent the parents of the boy Jed," said the detective.
"So we concluded--Mr. Avery and myself."
"Does the lady bear any resemblance to the girl who brought the child to
you?"
"Not the slightest. The girl was common in appearance. She probably
filled the position of a servant or nursemaid."
"Did it occur to you that she might be in any way related to the child?"
"Not for a moment. He was evidently the child of parents wealthy or well
to do."
"Did you form any conjectures relative to her or her object in bringing
you the child?"
"No. There was nothing to serve as a clew. It was all guesswork on our
part. Still the thought did occur to us that the child had been stolen
or abducted from his people for some reason unknown to us."
The detective hesitated a moment, and then, having apparently made up
his mind to confide in the worthy couple, said: "Your guess was very
near the truth. The child, I have every reason to believe, was stolen
from its mother--the father was dead--through the machinations of an
uncle who wanted the boy's title and estate."
"Title!" exclaimed Mrs. Avery, in great surprise.
"Yes. This boy I believe to be the only son of the late Sir Charles
Fenwick, of Fenwick Hall, Gloucestershire, England."
"Well, well!" ejaculated Mrs. Avery. "Then if the boy had his rights
would he be Sir Jed Gilman?"
"No," answered the detective smiling. "He has no more claim to the name
Jed Gilman than I have."
"What is his real name?"
"Robert Fenwick, as I have every reason to believe."
"Why has there been no search for him till now?"
"There has been a search covering all the intervening years; but the
mother, who is still living, had no information to guide her, and the
search has been a groping in the dark."
"And did the wicked uncle get the title and estate?" asked Mrs. Avery.
"Yes. He is enjoying both now."
"Is it a large estate?"
"It would not be considered large in England. Probably it amounts to
five thousand pounds annual rental."
"Five thousand pounds!" said Mrs. Avery.
"Yes, or in our money about twenty-five thousand dollars."
"And this large estate ought to belong to poor Jed?"
"I submit that, if so, he will not need to be called poor Jed."
"And you say that the mother is living?"
"She is living, and in New York. She is comfortably established at the
Windsor Hotel on Fifth Avenue. It is by her that I am employed. This is
my card."
He drew out a small card bearing the name
     JAMES PEAKE.
"Yes. I am an American," he said in reply to a question by Mrs. Avery.
"I am a New York detective, and was detailed for this work by Inspector
Byrnes."
"What sort of a person is Jed's mother?" asked Mrs. Avery.
"Still a beautiful woman, though she cannot be far from forty years of
age."
"Does she look like the picture in the locket?"
"There is considerable resemblance--of course, making allowance for the
difference in the ages of the two. This locket, Mrs. Avery, is most
important, and will, I think, establish the identity of Jed Gilman with
the stolen heir of the Fenwick estate. Will you permit me to take it and
show it to Lady Fenwick?"
"Has she a title, too?"
"Certainly. She was the wife of Sir Charles Fenwick."
"And what is the name of the wicked uncle?"
"Guy Fenwick. He is known as Sir Guy Fenwick, but probably, almost
positively, has no rightful claim to the title."
"Does he know that you are looking for his nephew?"
"I presume he has taken measures to keep acquainted with all the
movements of Lady Fenwick."
"I wonder how the girl came to give the boy the name of Jed Gilman?"
"I think I can explain this. The name of this treacherous nursemaid was
Jane Gilman. She selected a name as near to her own as possible. You say
you have neither seen nor heard anything of this girl since Jed was left
in your hands?"
"We have heard nothing whatever."
At this moment there was a ring at the door-bell--a sharp, quick,
impatient ring.
Mrs. Avery answered it.
She came back, her face showing excitement.
"It is a woman of middle age," she said, "and she, too, has come to make
inquiries about Jed Gilman."
The detective also looked excited.
"Do you think," he asked, "it can be Jane Gilman herself come back after
all these years?"
"That's it!" said Mrs. Avery, her face lighting up. "I wondered where I
had seen her face before. Now, though she is so much older, I recognize
in this middle-aged woman the girl who brought Jed to the door fourteen
years ago."
"Bring her in here, hear what she has to say, and place me somewhere, so
that, myself unseen, I can hear what she says."
This was what the detective said in a quick, decided tone.
"Very well, sir, go in there. It is a small bedroom. You can keep the
door ajar."
The detective lost no time in concealing himself.
The woman came in. She was a stout, florid-complexioned woman, rather
showily dressed, with the look of an Englishwoman of the middle class.
Before we proceed to record the interview that took place between Mr.
and Mrs. Avery and herself we must go back again to the poorhouse, and
our friends, Mr. and Mrs. Fogson.
Twenty minutes after the departure of James Peake, the detective, this
woman knocked at the door of the poorhouse.
Her summons was answered by Mrs. Fogson.
"What's wanted?" asked the poorhouse matron, looking inquisitively at
the new arrival.
"Is there a boy named Jed Gilman living here?" asked the woman eagerly.
"Jed Gilman again!" repeated Mrs. Fogson. "What do you want of Jed
Gilman?"
"Answer my question first, if you please."
"Such a boy was living here till lately, but he became very troublesome
and finally ran away."
"Then he is not here now?" said the woman, looking very much
disappointed.
"No, but I expect he'll have to come back some time. A bad penny
generally returns. You haven't told me what you have to do with him?"
"Then I will tell you. I was the person who brought him here fourteen
years ago."
"You don't say so?" ejaculated Mrs. Fogson, her little bead-like eyes
sparkling with curiosity. "Was he your child?"
"Certainly not, but he was my brother's child."
"And what was your object in bringing him here?"
"My brother was dead, and the child was thrown upon me for support,"
answered the woman after a little hesitation. "I could not support him,
and so brought him where I thought he would have a home. But you are not
the woman who was in charge of the poorhouse at that time."
"No; that was Mrs. Avery."
"And is Mrs. Avery still living?"
"Yes; she lives in a small house in the village."
"I will go and see her."
But this did not suit the views of Mrs. Fogson, who was curious to hear
more about the antecedents of Jed.
"Won't you come in and take a cup of tea?" she asked with unusual
hospitality.
"I don't care for tea--it's slops," answered the visitor. "If you could
give me a thimbleful of whiskey I wouldn't mind taking it. When I am
tired and dragged out it goes to the right spot."
"Yes, I can give you a glass," answered Mrs. Fogson. "Me and Fogson
generally keeps a little in case of sickness, though we wouldn't have
it known, as this is a temperance town."
"You are safe with me, I won't mention it," said the caller.
She then learned that Jed was probably at Bar Harbor; but Mrs. Fogson
found out very little from her in return. After a few minutes the
strange woman set out on her walk to the Avery cottage.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
JANE GILMAN.
The visitor took a seat in the rocking-chair offered her by Mrs. Avery.
"Do you remember me?" she asked, throwing back her veil so as to give an
unobstructed view of her full, florid face.
"Are you the girl who brought the boy Jed to me fourteen years ago?"
"The same. I don't find you in your old place."
"No; we--my husband and I--left the poor farm about a year since. Have
you been there?"
"Yes, I saw the new woman, and a spiteful piece she is, I'll be bound."
Mrs. Avery smiled.
"I don't admire Mrs. Fogson," she said, "but I suppose that is natural."
"She tells me the boy is no longer in the poorhouse."
"No."
"Can you tell me why he left?"
"He was ill-treated by Mr. and Mrs. Fogson."
"That woman tells me he was very troublesome."
"We never found him so, and up to a year ago he was under our charge."
"I surmised as much. Then he has grown up a good boy?"
"Excellent. I feel great affection for Jed."
"That is gratifying to my feelings, seeing I am his aunt."
Mrs. Avery regarded her visitor with surprise.
"Do you claim Jed as your nephew?" she asked.
"Certainly. He is the son of my only brother."
But for her interview with the detective Mrs. Avery would have believed
this story. As it was, she did not choose to dispute it. She only sought
to draw out her visitor so as to understand better her object in
calling.
"Are you willing to explain why it was that you were led to place your
nephew under my care?"
"Certainly. There is no secret about that now. My brother, who was a
blacksmith, failed, and was unable to support the boy."
"What was your brother's name?"
"Jedediah Gilman. That is why I desired to have the boy called Jed
Gilman, after his father. My name is Jane Gilman."
"Then you are not married?"
"No," said Miss Gilman. "Not but I might have been married half a dozen
times if I had wanted to. But the men are a shiftless lot, in my
opinion."
"Not all of them. I never charged my husband with being shiftless."
"Oh, well, there are exceptions. But I liked my freedom, so I am Jane
Gilman still. I may change my mind yet, and get married. There's a many
after me, and I am only thirty-two."
Mrs. Avery was too polite to question her statement, but privately
decided that the other was ten years older.
"Are you an American?" she asked.
"No, I'm English, and I'm proud to own it."
"Was Jed born in England?"
Jane Gilman hesitated, but finally answered in the affirmative.
"In what English town or village was he born?"
"Oh, lor, you wouldn't know any better if I should tell you. My brother
came over here with Jed when he was a baby, to better his fortunes. He
went out to Iowa, leaving the baby with me. But I found I couldn't get a
place with a baby on my hands, and so I took it to the Scranton
poorhouse."
"And where have you been since?"
"I went to Philadelphia and got a position there. Since then I've been
in a many places."
"I wonder you didn't write to me for some news of the baby."
"I got news of him from time to time, though I don't mean to tell you
how," answered Jane Gilman with a cunning smile. "But I've been away for
the last three years, and so I didn't know that Jed had gone off."
"You must be disappointed not to find him."
"So I am. It seems so long since I've seen the dear child," and Jane
drew out a handkerchief of ample size and pressed it to her tearless
eyes. "Is he a nice-looking boy?"
"He has a fine, frank, open face, but you'll excuse my saying that he
doesn't resemble you in the least."
"No," answered Jane, not the least bit disconcerted. "He didn't look
like the Gilmans, but like his ma's family."
"What was his mother's maiden name?"
"Fenwick," responded Jane Gilman, having no suspicion that Mrs. Avery
had heard the name before.
Mrs. Avery started.
"I've heard that name before," she said.
"Have you?" asked Jane, momentarily uneasy, but quickly recovering her
self-possession she reflected that the Averys could not possibly know
anything of Jed's real history. "I suppose there's a many Fenwicks in
the world and some of 'em in America. My brother's wife was a
good-looking woman, and the boy takes after her."
"She died young, I suppose?"
"Only three months after he was born."
"Is your brother still living?"
"No; he was killed in a railroad accident out in Iowa six months since.
He was a brakeman on the railroad. He left me a tidy sum of money, and
said that I was to look up Jed."
"This accounts for your visit, then?"
"Yes; I want to take my nephew with me and see to his education, as my
brother wished me to."
"Did Mrs. Fogson give you any idea where he was?"
"She said he had run away, but she had information that he was at Bar
Harbor, wherever that is, in the service of some rich gentleman."
"We have heard the same thing. What do you propose to do?"
"I'll have to go there, I suppose. But there is one thing I want to ask
you about."
"What is that?"
"When I left the baby with you there was a gold locket suspended from
his neck. Did you find it?"
"Yes, I found it."
"I'll thank you if you'll give it to me. I meant to take it at the time,
but I went away in a hurry, as you know, and I thought it would be safe
in your hands."
"I can't let you have it to-day, Miss Gilman."
"And why not?" demanded Jane suspiciously.
"I deposited it with a party I had confidence in, for safe keeping,"
replied Mrs. Avery.
"Then I'll be glad to have you get it as soon as you can. I want it,"
rejoined Jane Gilman sharply.
"How am I to feel sure you are entitled to it?" asked Mrs. Avery.
"If I am not, who is, I'd like to know? I'm the one that left the boy
with you at the poorhouse."
"I presume this is true."
"Of course it's true. I'll tell you what, Mrs. Avery, I'm not much
pleased with your trying to keep the locket. Are you sure you haven't
sold or pawned it?"
"Yes, I am sure of that. But perhaps I shall not have to make you wait
long for it. The gentleman in whose hands I placed it is in this house
at this very minute."
Jane Gilman looked very much surprised.
"Where is he?" she asked.
Detective Peake answered for himself. He stepped into the room from the
small bedroom and held up the locket.
"Is this the one?" he asked.
"Yes," answered the woman eagerly. "Give it to me."
Mr. Peake quietly put it back into his pocket.
"Not till I have asked you a few questions," he answered.
"What right have you to ask me questions?" asked Jane defiantly.
"I will assume that I have the right," the detective answered. "Whose
miniatures are those in the locket?"
"They are my brother and his wife."
"Your brother doesn't seem to look like you, Miss Gilman."
"Perhaps you know better than I who it is," said Jane sullenly.
"Well, perhaps so."
"And who do you say they are?"
"Sir Charles and Laura Fenwick of Fenwick Hall, England."
Jane Gilman started to her feet in astonishment.
"Who told you?" she asked hoarsely.
"It is not necessary for me to tell you. It is enough that I am
commissioned by the boy's mother to find him and restore him to her.
There may be trouble in store for you, Miss Jane Gilman," he added
significantly.
Jane Gilman fanned herself vigorously and seemed very ill at ease.
"However," continued the detective, "you can save yourself and secure a
handsome reward by giving me all the help you can, and making full
confession of your stealing the child, and telling who instigated you to
do it."
The woman hesitated, but her hesitation was brief.
"Will you promise this?" she asked.
"Yes. I am the confidential agent of Lady Fenwick, who is now in
America."
"Then I'll do it. Guy Fenwick hasn't treated me right, and I don't mind
if I do go back on him. It was he that hired me to make off with little
Robert, though I didn't let him know what I did with him."
"And what was your present object?"
"To take the boy away and make Sir Guy pay a good round sum for my
keeping the secret."
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
THE DETECTIVE SECURES AN ALLY.
"Are you in communication with Guy Fenwick? Do you know whether he is
now at Fenwick Hall?" asked the detective.
"No, he is not there."
"Where is he, then?"
"At sea. In a day or two he will probably be in New York," answered Jane
Gilman coolly.
Mr. Peake started. This was unexpected intelligence.
"What brings him to New York?" he inquired hastily.
"I do."
"What do you mean by that?"
"I wrote him some time since for a hundred pounds. He sent me five
pounds and told me that I needn't call on him again."
"He doesn't seem much afraid of you."
"No; he thought the boy was dead."
"I suppose you told him so?"
"I let him think that the boy had died of fever four years ago. That
made him feel safe, and he concluded that he had no more use for Jane
Gilman. He'll find out!" and Jane tossed her head, in an independent
manner.
"Have you any letters from him in reference to the matter?" asked
Detective Peake.
From a pocket of unknown depth Miss Gilman drew out an epistle which she
handed to the detective.
"You can read it if you want to," she said.
Mr. Peake opened the letter and read it. It ran thus:
     MISS JANE GILMAN:
     Your letter requesting me to send you a hundred pounds is received.
     Your request is certainly an audacious one. Why I should send you a
     hundred pounds, or even ten pounds, I am at a loss to imagine. The
     boy Robert, whose existence you think would be dangerous to me, is
     dead by your own admission, and my right to the Fenwick title and
     estates is undisputed and indisputable. If you expect me to support
     you for the balance of your life, your expectations are doomed to
     disappointment. You are strong and healthy, and are able to earn
     your own living in the sphere in which you were born. Besides, if
     you had been prudent you would have saved a considerable sum out of
     the large pension you have received from me during the last dozen
     or more years. I think it quite probable that you have a snug sum
     invested and are not in any danger of suffering.
     Still I don't want to be hard upon you. I accordingly inclose a
     five-pound note, which you will please consider as a final gift on
     my part.
          GUY FENWICK.
"Miss Gilman," said Detective Peake, "will you permit me to keep this
letter--for the present?"
"What do you want to do with it?" asked Jane suspiciously.
"Use it against the man who calls himself Sir Guy Fenwick. In connection
with your testimony it will prove valuable evidence."
"You have promised that I shall be well paid?"
"Yes, I can take it upon myself to promise that."
"Very well. You may keep the letter."
"One question more. You tell me that Sir Guy Fenwick is on his way to
New York. Can you tell me why he is coming?"
"Yes. I dropped him a hint, in answer to this letter, that the boy
Robert was still living, and this alarmed my gentleman," she added with
a laugh.
"Did he write you that he was coming?"
"Yes."
"Have you that letter?"
"No; but I can tell you what was in it. He wrote that he did not believe
my story, but he would come to New York, and I might call upon him at
the Brevoort House on Monday next."
"You infer from that that he was anxious?"
"It looks like it, doesn't it?"
"Yes. What did you propose to say to him?"
"That the boy was living, and that I could lay my hand upon him."
"That is why you came to Scranton?"
"Yes."
"I see. The whole thing lies in a nutshell. Even without your evidence I
shall probably be able to establish the rights of my young client. But
your help will make it surer."
"I am at your service, if you will keep your promise. What do you want
me to do?"
"Go with me to Bar Harbor and see the boy."
"I would like to," said Jane Gilman with an expression of pleasure. "I
haven't seen him since he was a baby. I'd like to see how he looks now."
"When he is restored to his title and estate he will not see you
suffer."
"When will you start for Bar Harbor?"
"We shall leave Scranton by the next train."
CHAPTER XXXIX.
JED LEARNS WHO HE IS.
Mr. Roper and Jed were having a very enjoyable time at Bar Harbor. They
made trips, chiefly on foot, to the various interesting
localities--Schooner Head, Great Head, Hull's Cove and The Ovens--being
favored with unusually fine and clear weather. They had just returned at
four o'clock in the afternoon from a trip to the summit of Green
Mountain when they were informed at the hotel that a gentleman wished to
see them.
Mr. Roper took the card and examined it.
"James Peake," he said. "I don't know of any such person. Do you, Jed?"
"No, sir," answered Jed.
"You may bring him up," said Roper, turning to the bell boy.
In less than a minute the latter reappeared, followed by a plain-looking
man, who scanned both attentively as he entered, but devoted the most
attention to Jed.
"Mr. Peake?" said Schuyler Roper interrogatively.
"Yes, sir."
"You have business with me?"
"Rather with your young friend. Is he known as Jed Gilman?"
"Yes," answered the boy so designated.
"I am a detective from the staff of Inspector Byrnes of New York."
Jed blushed and looked uneasy. This announcement naturally alarmed him.
