overlook her humble station, and sue for her hand.
"Then, Jane, you at least will not blame me for refusing my cousin's
hand?"
"That I won't, miss. Do you know, Miss Florence"--and here Jane
lowered her voice--"I've a suspicion that Mr. Curtis is married
already?"
"What do you mean, Jane?" asked Florence, startled.
"There was a poor young woman called here last month and inquired for
Mr. Curtis. She was very sorrowful-like, and poorly dressed. He came
up when she was at the door, and he spoke harshlike, and told her to
walk away with him. What they said I couldn't hear, but I've a
suspicion that she was married to him, secretlike for I saw a wedding
ring upon her finger."
"But, Jane, it would be base and infamous for him to ask for my hand
when he was already married."
"I can't help it, miss. That's just what he wouldn't mind doin'. Oh,
he's a sly deceiver, Mr. Curtis. I'd like to see him foolin' around
me."
Jane nodded her head with emphasis, as if to intimate the kind of
reception Curtis Waring would get if he attempted to trifle with her
virgin affections.
"I hope what you suspect is not true," said Florence, gravely. "I do
not like or respect Curtis, but I don't like to think he would be so
base as that. If you ever see this young woman again, try to find out
where she lives. I would like to make her acquaintance, and be a
friend to her if she needs one."
"Shure, Miss Florence, you will be needin' a friend yourself."
"It is true, Jane. I forgot that I am no longer a young lady of
fortune, but a penniless girl, obliged to work for a living."
"What would your uncle say if he knew that Mr. Curtis had a wife?"
"We don't know that he has one, and till we do, it would not be
honorable to intimate such a thing to Uncle John."
"Shure, he wouldn't be particular. It's all his fault that you're
obliged to leave home, and go into the streets. Why couldn't he take
no for an answer, and marry somebody else, if he can find anybody to
have him?"
"I wish, indeed, that he had fixed his affections elsewhere,"
responded Florence, with a sigh.
"Shure, he's twice as old as you, Miss Florence, anyway."
"I shouldn't mind that so much, if that was the only objection."
"It'll be a great deal better marryin' a young man."
"I don't care to marry any one, Jane. I don't think I shall ever
marry."
"It's all very well to say that, Miss Florence. Lots of girls say so,
but they change their minds. I don't mean to live out always myself."
"Is there any young man you are interested in, Jane?"
"Maybe there is, and maybe there isn't, Miss Florence. If I ever do
get married I'll invite you to the wedding."
"And I'll promise to come if I can. But I hear the bell. I think my
friend Dodger has come."
"Shall I ask him in, miss?"
"No. Tell him I will be ready to accompany him at once."
She went out into the hall, and when the door was opened the visitor
proved to be Dodger. He had improved his appearance so far as his
limited means would allow. His hands and face were thoroughly clean;
he had bought a new collar and necktie; his shoes were polished, and
despite his shabby suit, he looked quite respectable. Getting a full
view of him, Florence saw that his face was frank and handsome, his
eyes bright, and his teeth like pearls.
"Shure, he's a great deal better lookin' than Mr. Curtis," whispered
Jane. "Here, Mr. Dodger, take Miss Florence's valise, and mind you
take good care of her."
"I will," answered Dodger, heartily. "Come, Miss Florence, if you
don't mind walking over to Fourth Avenue, we'll take the horse cars."
So, under strange guidance, Florence Linden left her luxurious home,
knowing not what awaited her. What haven of refuge she might find she
knew not. She, like Dodger, was adrift in New York.
Chapter VIII.
A Friendly Compact.
Florence, as she stepped on the sidewalk, turned, and fixed a last sad
look on the house that had been her home for so many years. She had
never anticipated such a sundering of home ties, and even now she
found it difficult to realize that the moment had come when her life
was to be rent in twain, and the sunlight of prosperity was to be
darkened and obscured by a gloomy and uncertain future.
She had hastily packed a few indispensable articles in a valise which
she carried in her hand.
"Let me take your bag, Miss Florence," said Dodger, reaching out his
hand.
"I don't want to trouble you, Dodger."
"It ain't no trouble, Miss Florence. I'm stronger than you, and it
looks better for me to carry it."
"You are very kind, Dodger. What would I do without you?"
"There's plenty that would be glad of the chance of helping you," said
Dodger, with a glance of admiration at the fair face of his companion.
"I don't know where to find them," said Florence, sadly. "Even my
uncle has turned against me."
"He's an old chump!" ejaculated Dodger, in a tone of disgust.
"Hush! I cannot hear a word against him. He has always been kind and
considerate till now. It is the evil influence of my Cousin Curtis
that has turned him against me. When he comes to himself I am sure he
will regret his cruelty."
"He would take you back if you would marry your cousin."
"Yes; but that I will never do!" exclaimed Florence, with energy.
"Bully for you!" said Dodger. "Excuse me," he said, apologetically. "I
ain't used to talkin' to young ladies, and perhaps that ain't proper
for me to say."
"I don't mind, Dodger; your heart is in the right place."
"Thank you, Miss Florence. I'm glad you've got confidence in me. I'll
try to deserve it."
"Where are we going?" asked the young lady, whose only thought up to
this moment had been to get away from the presence of Curtis and his
persecutions.
They had now reached Fourth Avenue, and a surface car was close at
hand.
"We're going to get aboard that car," said Dodger, signaling with his
free hand. "I'll tell you more when we're inside."
Florence entered the car, and Dodger, following, took a seat at her
side.
They presented a noticeable contrast, for Florence was dressed as
beseemed her station, while Dodger, in spite of his manly, attractive
face, was roughly attired, and looked like a working boy.
When the conductor came along, he drew out a dime, and tendered it in
payment of the double fare. The money was in the conductor's hand
before Florence was fully aware.
"You must not pay for me, Dodger," she said.
"Why not?" asked the boy. "Ain't we friends?"
"Yes, but you have no money to spare. Here, let me return the money."
And she offered him a dime from her own purse.
"You can pay next time, Miss Florence. It's all right. Now, I'll tell
you where we are goin'. A friend of mine, Mrs. O'Keefe, has a lodgin'
house, just off the Bowery. I saw her last night, and she says she's
got a good room that she can give you for two dollars a week--I don't
know how much you'd be willing to pay, but----"
"I can pay that for a time at least. I have a little money, and I must
find some work to do soon. Is this Mrs. O'Keefe a nice lady?"
"She ain't a lady at all," answered Dodger, bluntly. "She keeps an
apple-stand near the corner of Bowery and Grand Street; but she's a
good, respectable woman, and she's good-hearted. She'll be kind to
you, and try to make things pleasant; but if you ain't satisfied----"
"It will do for the present. Kindness is what I need, driven as I am
from the home of my childhood. But you, Dodger, where do you live?"
"I'm goin' to take a small room in the same house, Miss Florence."
"I shall be glad to have you near me."
"I am proud to hear you say that. I'm a poor boy, and you're a rich
lady, but----"
"Not rich, Dodger. I am as poor as yourself."
"You're a reg'lar lady, anyway. You ain't one of my kind, but I'm
going to improve and raise myself. I was readin' the other day of a
rich man that was once a poor boy, and sold papers like me. But
there's one thing in the way--I ain't got no eddication."
"You can read and write, can't you, Dodger?"
"Yes; I can read pretty well, but I can't write much."
"I will teach you in the evenings, when we are both at leisure."
"Will you?" asked the boy, with a glad smile. "You're very kind--I'd
like a teacher like you."
"Then it's a bargain, Dodger," and Florence's face for the first time
lost its sad look, as she saw an opportunity of helping one who had
befriended her. "But you must promise to study faithfully."
"That I will. If I don't, I'll give you leave to lick me."
"I shan't forget that," said Florence, amused. "I will buy a ruler of
good hard wood, and then you must look out. But, tell me, where have
you lived hitherto?"
"I don't like to tell you, Miss Florence. I've lived ever since I was
a kid with a man named Tim Bolton. He keeps a saloon on the Bowery,
near Houston Street. It's a tough place, I tell you. I've got a bed in
one corner--it's tucked away in a closet in the day."
"I suppose it is a drinking saloon?"
"Yes, that's what it is."
"And kept open very late?"
"Pretty much all night."
"Is this Tim Bolton any relation of yours?"
"He says he's my father; but I don't believe it."
"Have you always lived with him?"
"Ever since I was a small kid."
"Have you always lived in New York?"
"No; I was out in Australia. Tim was out in the country part of the
time, and part of the time he kept a saloon in Melbourne. There was
thieves and burglars used to come into his place. I knew what they
were, though they didn't think I did."
"How terrible for a boy to be subjected to such influences."
"But I've made up my mind I won't live with Tim no longer. I can earn
my own livin' sellin' papers, or smashin' baggage, and keep away from
Tim. I'd have done it before if I'd had a friend like you to care for
me."
"We will stand by each other, Dodger. Heaven knows I need a friend,
and if I can be a friend to you, and help you, I will."
"We'll get out here, Miss Florence. I told Mrs. O'Keefe I'd call at
her stand, and she'll go over and show you your room."
They left the car at the corner of Grand Street, and Dodger led the
way to an apple-stand, presided over by a lady of ample proportions,
whose broad, Celtic face seemed to indicate alike shrewd good sense
and a kindly spirit.
"Mrs. O'Keefe," said Dodger, "this is the young lady I spoke to you
about--Miss Florence Linden."
"It's welcome you are, my dear, and I'm very glad to make your
acquaintance. You look like a rale leddy, and I don't know how you'll
like the room I've got for you."
"I cannot afford to be particular, Mrs. O'Keefe. I have had a--a
reverse of circumstances, and I must be content with an humble home."
"Then I'll go over and show it to you. Here, Kitty, come and mind the
stand," she called to a girl about thirteen across the street, "and
don't let anybody steal the apples. Look out for Jimmy Mahone, he
stole a couple of apples right under my nose this mornin', the young
spalpeen!"
As they were crossing the street, a boy of fourteen ran up to Dodger.
"Dodger," said he, "you'd better go right over to Tim Bolton's. He's
in an awful stew--says he'll skin you alive if you don't come to the
s'loon right away."
Chapter IX.
The New Home.
"You can tell Tim Bolton," said Dodger, "that I don't intend to come
back at all."
"You don't mean it, Dodger?" said Ben Holt, incredulously.
"Yes, I do. I'm going to set up for myself."
"Oh, Dodger," said Florence, "I'm afraid you will get into trouble for
my sake!"
"Don't worry about that, Miss Florence. I'm old enough to take care of
myself, and I've got tired of livin' with Tim."
"But he may beat you!"
"He'll have to get hold of me first."
They had reached a four-story tenement of shabby brick, which was
evidently well filled up by a miscellaneous crowd of tenants; shop
girls, mechanics, laborers and widows, living by their daily toil.
Florence had never visited this part of the city, and her heart sank
within her as she followed Mrs. O'Keefe through a dirty hallway, up a
rickety staircase, to the second floor.
"One more flight of stairs, my dear," said Mrs. O'Keefe,
encouragingly. "I've got four rooms upstairs; one of them is for you,
and one for Dodger."
Florence did not reply. She began to understand at what cost she had
secured her freedom from a distasteful marriage.
In her Madison Avenue home all the rooms were light, clean and
luxuriously furnished. Here---- But words were inadequate to describe
the contrast.
Mrs. O'Keefe threw open the door of a back room about twelve feet
square, furnished in the plainest manner, uncarpeted, except for a
strip that was laid, like a rug, beside the bedstead.
There was a washstand, with a mirror, twelve by fifteen inches, placed
above it, a pine bureau, a couple of wooden chairs, and a cane-seated
rocking-chair.
"There, my dear, what do you say to that?" asked Mrs. O'Keefe,
complacently. "All nice and comfortable as you would wish to see."
"It is--very nice," said Florence, faintly, sacrificing truth to
politeness.
"And who do you think used to live here?" asked the apple-woman.
"I'm sure I don't know."
"The bearded woman in the dime museum," answered Mrs. O'Keefe, nodding
her head. "She lived with me three months, and she furnished the room
herself. When she went away she was hard up, and I bought the
furniture of her cheap. You remember Madam Berger, don't you, Dodger?"
"Oh, yes, I seen her often."
"She got twenty-five dollars a week, and she'd ought to have saved
money, but she had a good-for-nothin' husband that drank up all her
hard earnin's."
"I hope she didn't drink herself," said Florence, who shuddered at the
idea of succeeding a drunken tenant.
"Not a drop. She was a good, sober lady, if she did work in a dime
museum. She only left here two weeks ago. It isn't every one I'd be
willin' to take in her place, but I see you're a real leddy, let alone
that Dodger recommends you. I hope you'll like the room, and I'll do
all I can to make things pleasant. You can go into my room any hour,
my dear, and do your little cookin' on my stove. I s'pose you'll do
your own cookin'?"
"Well, not just at present," faltered Florence. "I am afraid I don't
know much about cooking."
"You'll find it a deal cheaper, and it's more quiet and gentale than
goin' to the eatin'-houses. I'll help you all I can, and glad to."
"Thank you, Mrs. O'Keefe, you are very kind," said Florence,
gratefully. "Perhaps just at first you wouldn't object to taking me as
a boarder, and letting me take my meals with you. I don't think I
would like to go to the eating-houses alone."
"To be sure, my dear, if you wish it, and I'll be glad of your
company. I'll make the terms satisfactory."
"I have no doubt of that," said Florence, feeling very much relieved.
"If I might be so bold, what kind of work are you going to do?"
"I hardly know. It has come upon me so suddenly. I shall have to do
something, for I haven't got much money. What I should like best would
be to write----"
"Is it for the papers you mean?"
"Oh, no; I mean for some author or lawyer."
"I don't know much about that," said Mrs. O'Keefe. "In fact, I don't
mind tellin' you, my dear, that I can't write myself, but I earn a
good livin' all the same by my apple-stand. I tell you, my dear," she
continued in a confidential tone, "there is a good dale of profit in
sellin' apples. It's better than sewin' or writin'. Of course, a young
leddy like you wouldn't like to go into the business."
Florence shook her head, with a smile.
"No, Mrs. O'Keefe," she said. "I am afraid I haven't a business turn,
and I should hardly like so public an employment."
"Lor', miss, it's nothin' if you get used to it. There's nothin' dull
about my business, unless it rains, and you get used to havin' people
look at you."
"It isn't all that are worth looking at like you, Mrs. O'Keefe," said
Dodger, slyly.
"Oh, go away wid your fun, Dodger," said the apple-woman,
good-naturedly. "I ain't much to look at, I know."
"I think there's a good deal of you to look at, Mrs. O'Keefe. You must
weigh near three hundred."
"I've a good mind to box your ears, Dodger. I only weigh a hundred and
ninety-five. But I can't be bothered wid your jokes. Can you sew, Miss
Florence?"
"Yes; but I would rather earn my living some other way, if possible."
"Small blame to you for that. I had a girl in Dodger's room last year
who used to sew for a livin'. Early and late she worked, poor thing,
and she couldn't make but two dollars a week."
"How could she live?" asked Florence, startled, for she knew very
little of the starvation wages paid to toiling women.
"She didn't live. She just faded away, and it's my belief the poor
thing didn't get enough to eat. Every day or two I'd make an excuse to
take her in something from my own table, a plate of meat, or a bit of
toast and a cup of tay, makin' belave she didn't get a chance to cook
for herself, but she got thinner and thinner, and her poor cheeks got
hollow, and she died in the hospital at last."
The warm-hearted apple-woman wiped away a tear with the corner of her
apron, as she thought of the poor girl whose sad fate she described.
"You won't die of consumption, Mrs. O'Keefe," said Dodger. "It'll take
a good while for you to fade away."
"Hear him now," said the apple-woman, laughing. "He will have his
joke, Miss Florence, but he's a good bye for all that, and I'm glad
he's goin' to lave Tim Bolton, that ould thafe of the worruld."
"Now, Mrs. O'Keefe, you know you'd marry Tim if he'd only ask you."
"Marry him, is it? I'd lay my broom over his head if he had the
impudence to ask me. When Maggie O'Keefe marries ag'in, she won't
marry a man wid a red nose."
"Break it gently to him, Mrs. O'Keefe. Tim is just the man to break
his heart for love of you."
Mrs. O'Keefe aimed a blow at Dodger, but he proved true to his name,
and skillfully evaded it.
"I must be goin'," he said. "I've got to work, or I can't pay room
rent when the week comes round."
"What are you going to do, Dodger?" asked Florence.
"It isn't time for the evenin' papers yet, so I shall go 'round to the
piers and see if I can't get a job at smashin' baggage."
"But I shouldn't think any one would want to do that," said Florence,
puzzled.
"It's what we boys call it. It's just carryin' valises and bundles.
Sometimes I show strangers the way to Broadway. Last week an old man
paid me a dollar to show him the way to the Cooper Institute. He was a
gentleman, he was. I'd like to meet him ag'in. Good-by, Miss Florence;
I'll be back some time this afternoon."
"And I must be goin', too," said Mrs. O'Keefe. "I can't depend on that
Kitty; she's a wild slip of a girl, and just as like as not I'll find
a dozen apples stole when I get back. I hope you won't feel lonely, my
dear."
"I think I will lie down a while," said Florence. "I have a headache."
She threw herself on the bed, and a feeling of loneliness and
desolation came over her.
Her new friends were kind, but they could not make up to her for her
uncle's love, so strangely lost, and the home she had left behind.
Chapter X.
The Arch Conspirator.
In the house on Madison Avenue, Curtis Waring was left in possession
of the field. Through his machinations Florence had been driven from
home and disinherited.
He was left sole heir to his uncle's large property with the prospect
of soon succeeding, for though only fifty-four, John Linden looked at
least ten years older, and was as feeble as many men past seventy.
Yet, as Curtis seated himself at the breakfast table an hour after
Florence had left the house, he looked far from happy or triumphant.
One thing he had not succeeded in, the conquest of his cousin's heart.
Though he loved himself best, he was really in love with Florence, so
far as he was capable of being in love with any one.
She was only half his age--scarcely that--but he persuaded himself
that the match was in every way suitable.
He liked to fancy her at the head of his table, after the death of his
uncle, which he anticipated in a few months at latest.
The more she appeared to dislike him, the more he determined to marry
her, even against her will.
She was the only one likely to inherit John Linden's wealth, and by
marrying her he would make sure of it.
Yet she had been willing to leave the home of her youth, to renounce
luxury for a life of poverty, rather than to marry him.
When he thought of this his face became set and its expression stern
and determined.
"Florence shall yet be mine," he declared, resolutely. "I will yet be
master of her fate, and bend her to my will. Foolish girl, how dare
she match her puny strength against the resolute will of Curtis
Waring?"
"Was there any one else whom she loved?" he asked himself, anxiously.
No, he could think of none. On account of his uncle's chronic
invalidism, they had neither gone into society, nor entertained
visitors, and in the midst of a great city Florence and her uncle had
practically led the lives of recluses.
There had been no opportunity to meet young men who might have proved
claimants for her hand.
"When did Miss Florence leave the house, Jane?" he inquired, as he
seated himself at the table.
"Most an hour since," the girl answered, coldly, for she disliked
Curtis as much as she loved and admired Florence.
"It is sad, very sad that she should be so headstrong," said Curtis,
with hypocritical sorrow.
"It is sad for her to go away from her own uncle's house," returned
Jane.
"And very--very foolish."
"I don't know about that, sir. She had her reasons," said Jane,
significantly.
Curtis coughed.
He had no doubt that Florence had talked over the matter with her
hand-maiden.
"Did she say where she was going, Jane?" he asked.
"I don't think the poor child knew herself, sir."
"Did she go alone?"
"No, sir; the boy that was here last night called for her."
"That ragamuffin!" said Curtis, scornfully. "She certainly shows
extraordinary taste for a young lady of family."
"The boy seems a very kind and respectable boy," said Jane, who had
been quite won by Dodger's kindness to her young mistress.
"He may be respectable, though I am not so sure of that; but his
position in life is very humble. He is probably a bootblack; a
singular person to select for the friend of a girl like Florence."
"There's them that stands higher that isn't half so good," retorted
Jane, with more zeal than good grammar.
"Did Miss Florence take a cab?"
"No; she just walked."
"But she took some clothing with her?"
"She took a handbag--that is all. She will send for her trunk."
"If you find out where she is living, just let me know, Jane."
"I will if she is willing to have me," answered Jane, independently.
"Look here, Jane," said Curtis, angrily, "don't forget that you are
not her servant, but my uncle's. It is to him you look for wages, not
to Miss Florence."
"I don't need to be told that, sir. I know that well enough."
"Then you know that it is to him that your faithful services are due,
not to Florence?"
"I'm faithful to both, Mr. Waring."
"You are aware that my uncle is justly displeased with my cousin?"
"I know he's displeased, but I am sure he has no good reason to be."
Curtis Waring bit his lips. The girl, servant as she was, seemed to be
openly defying him. His imperious temper could ill brook this.
"Take care!" he said, with a frown. "You seem to be lacking in respect
to me. You don't appear to understand my position in this house."
"Oh, yes, I do. I know you have schemed to get my poor young mistress
out of the house, and have succeeded."
"I have a great mind to discharge you, girl," said Curtis, with
lowering brow.
"I am not your servant, sir. You have nothing to do with me."
"You will see whether I have or not. I will let you remain for a time,
as it is your attachment to Miss Florence that has made you forget
yourself. You will find that it is for your interest to treat me
respectfully."
A feeble step was heard at the door, and John Linden entered the
breakfast-room. His face was sad, and he heaved a sigh as he glanced
mechanically at the head of the table, where Florence usually sat.
Curtis Waring sprang to his feet, and placing himself at his uncle's
side, led him to his seat.
"How do you feel this morning, uncle?" he asked, with feigned
solicitude.
"Ill, Curtis. I didn't sleep well last night."
"I don't wonder, sir. You had much to try you."
"Is--is Florence here?"
"No, sir," answered Jane, promptly. "She left the house an hour ago."
A look of pain appeared on John Linden's pale face.
"Did--did she leave a message for me?" he asked, slowly.
"She asked me to bid you good-by for her," answered Jane, quickly.
"Uncle, don't let yourself be disturbed now with painful thoughts. Eat
your breakfast first, and then we will speak of Florence."
John Linden ate a very light breakfast. He seemed to have lost his
appetite and merely toyed with his food.
When he arose from the table, Curtis supported him to the library.
"It is very painful to me--this conduct of Florence's, Curtis," he
said, as he sank into his armchair.
"I understand it fully, uncle," said Curtis. "When I think of it, it
makes me very angry with the misguided girl."
"Perhaps I have been too harsh--too stern!"
"You, uncle, too harsh! Why, you are the soul of gentleness. Florence
has shown herself very ungrateful."
"Yet, Curtis, I love that girl. Her mother seemed to live again in
her. Have I not acted cruelly in requiring her to obey me or leave the
house?"
"You have acted only for good. You are seeking her happiness."
"You really think this, Curtis?"
"I am sure of it."
"But how will it all end?" asked Linden, bending an anxious look upon
his wily nephew.
"By Florence yielding."
"You are sure of that?"
"Yes. Listen, uncle; Florence is only capricious, like most girls of
her age. She foolishly desires to have her own way. It is nothing more
serious, I can assure you."
"But she has left the house. That seems to show that she is in
earnest."
"She thinks, uncle, that by doing so she can bend you to her wishes.
She hasn't the slightest idea of any permanent separation. She is
merely experimenting upon your weakness. She expects you will recall
her in a week, at the latest. That is all of it."
Like most weak men, it made Mr. Linden angry to have his strength
doubted.
"You think that?" he said.
"I have no doubt of it."
"She shall find that I am resolute," he said, irritably. "I will not
recall her."
"Bravo, uncle! Only stick to that, and she will yield unconditionally
within a fortnight. A little patience, and you will carry your point.
Then all will be smooth sailing."
"I hope so, Curtis. Your words have cheered me. I will be patient. But
I hope I shan't have to wait long. Where is the morning paper?"
"I shall have to humor and deceive him," thought Curtis. "I shall have
a difficult part to play, but I am sure to succeed at last."
Chapter XI.
Florence Secures Employment.
For a few days after being installed in her new home Florence was like
one dazed.
She could not settle her mind to any plan of self-support.
She was too unhappy in her enforced exile from her home, and it
saddened her to think that the uncle who had always been so kind was
permanently estranged from her.
Though Mrs. O'Keefe was kind, and Dodger was her faithful friend, she
could not accustom herself to her poor surroundings.
She had not supposed luxury so essential to her happiness.
It was worse for her because she had nothing to do but give way to her
morbid fancies.
This Mrs. O'Keefe was clear-sighted enough to see.
"I am sorry to see you so downcast like, my dear young lady," she
said.
"How can I help it, Mrs. O'Keefe?" returned Florence.
"Try not to think of your wicked cousin, my dear."
"It isn't of him that I think--it is of my uncle. How could he be so
cruel, and turn against me after years of kindness?"
"It's that wicked Curtis that is settin' him against you, take my word
for it, Miss Florence. Shure, he must be wake-minded to let such a
spalpeen set him against a swate young leddy like you."
"He is weak in body, not in mind, Mrs. O'Keefe. You are right in
thinking that it is Curtis that is the cause of my misfortune."
"Your uncle will come to his right mind some day, never fear! And now,
my dear, shall I give you a bit of advice?"
"Go on, my kind friend. I will promise to consider whatever you say."
"Then you'd better get some kind of work to take up your mind--a bit
of sewin', or writin', or anything that comes to hand. I suppose you
wouldn't want to mind my apple-stand a couple of hours every day?"
"No," answered Florence. "I don't feel equal to that."
"It would do you no end of good to be out in the open air. It would
bring back the roses to your pale cheeks. If you coop yourself up in
this dark room, you'll fade away and get thin."
"You are right. I will make an effort and go out. Besides, I must see
about work."
Here Dodger entered the room in his usual breezy way. In his hand he
brandished a morning paper.
"How are you feelin', Florence?" he asked; he had given up saying Miss
Florence at her request. "Here's an advertisement that'll maybe suit
you."
"Show it to me, Dodger," said Florence, beginning to show some
interest.
The boy directed her attention to the following advertisement:
    "Wanted.--A governess for a girl of twelve. Must be a good
    performer on the piano, and able to instruct in French and
    the usual English branches. Terms must be moderate. Apply to
    Mrs. Leighton, at 127 W. ---- Street."
"There, Florence, what do you say to that? That's better than sewin'."
"I don't know, Dodger, whether I am competent."
"You play on the pianner, don't you?"
"Yes."
"Well enough to teach?"
"I think so; but I may not have the gift of teaching."
"Yes, you have. Haven't you been teachin' me every evenin'? You make
everything just as clear as mud--no, I don't mean that. You just
explain so that I can't help understandin'."
"Then," said Florence, "I suppose I am at liberty to refer to you."
"Yes; you can tell the lady to call at the office of Dodger, Esq., any
mornin' after sunrise, and he'll give her full particulars."
Florence did not immediately decide to apply for the situation, but
the more she thought of it the more she felt inclined to do so. The
little experience she had had with Dodger satisfied her that she
should enjoy teaching better than sewing or writing.
Accordingly, an hour later, she put on her street dress and went
uptown to the address given in the advertisement.
No. 127 was a handsome brown-stone house, not unlike the one in which
Florence had been accustomed to live. It was a refreshing contrast to
the poor tenement in which she lived at present.
"Is Mrs. Leighton at home?" inquired Florence. "Yes, miss," answered
the servant, respectfully. "Whom shall I say?"
"I have come to apply for the situation of governess," answered
Florence, feeling rather awkward as she made the statement.
"Ah," said the servant, with a perceptible decline in respect. "Won't
you step in?"
"Thank you."
"Well, she do dress fine for a governess," said Nancy to herself.
"It's likely she'll put on airs."
The fact was that Florence was dressed according to her past social
position--in a costly street attire--but it had never occurred to her
that she was too well dressed for a governess.
She took her seat in the drawing-room, and five minutes later there
was a rustling heard, and Mrs. Leighton walked into the room.
"Are you the applicant for the position of governess?" she asked,
surveying the elegantly attired young lady seated on the sofa.
"Yes, Mrs. Leighton," answered Florence, easily, for she felt more at
home in a house like this than in the tenement.
"Have you taught before?"
"Very little," answered Florence, smiling to herself, as she wondered
what Mrs. Leighton would say if she could see Dodger, the only pupil
she ever had. "However, I like teaching, and I like children."
"Pardon me, but you don't look like a governess, Miss----"
"Linden," suggested Florence, filling out the sentence. "Do
governesses have a peculiar look?"
"I mean as to dress. You are more expensively dressed than the average
governess can afford."
"It is only lately that my circumstances required me to support
myself. I should not be able to buy such a dress out of my present
earnings."
"I am glad to hear you say that, for I do not propose to give a large
salary."
"I do not expect one," said Florence, quietly. "You consider yourself
competent to instruct in music, French and the English branches?"
"Oh, yes."
"Do you speak French?"
"Yes, madam."
"Would you favor me with a specimen of your piano playing?"
There was a piano in the back parlor. Florence removed her gloves, and
taking a seat before it, dashed into a spirited selection from
Strauss.
