could not take awav, blast them !” 
Various comments were uttered. The Englishman 
now thought of half a dozen things they might have done. 
The Dutch couple sat upon the sand and bewailed their 
misfortunes. 
Angelique tore off her wrappings. The fragrant air 
was delightful after the close cabin. The dawn was 
stirring in the east, the gorgeous tints struggling through 
the gray. There was a little chilliness in the air and they 
huddled closely together, though the sailors dropped 
down on the sand and were soon finishing the nap from 
which they had been aroused. 
Then the sun rode up royally out of the ocean ; that was 
all they could see from the eastward. Angelique stirred, 
lifted her head from Barbe’s arm that had been her pillow, 
and stared about. Endless reaches of sand strewn with 
bits of shells, and here and there a mass of stone jutting 
out, fretting the slow tide. Further up, a line of stunted 
trees stood, green and vivid against the opalescent sky. 
The strange, yet dreary, magnificence sent a shiver over 
her. 
Jaques roused as well, and then the captain suddenly 
sat up. 
“I wonder if we have been left to perish on some 
wretched island !” he exclaimed. “Or it may be a part 
of mainland. My friend, let us stretch our legs and take 
a tour of observation.’' 
Jaques joined him and they proceeded toward the strip 
of woods. The ground rose perceptibly, and now there 
began to be hummocks of verdure and the white sand 
broken with streaks of earth that had doubtless washed 
down. To the west were clusters of islands, some shining 
in translucent green. Hither . and thither sea birds 
darted, a fish-hawk pounced down upon his prey, but the 
loneliness of sea and sky was intense, and it was a long 
distance to the woods. Still some discovery must be 
made, even if it was to face starvation on a desolate 
island. 
They had slanted in a westerly direction, and when they 
neared the end of the belt they saw quite an island indeed, 
cut of from a larger mainland by a wide channel. 
‘Tf I had a glass,” said the captain. “That looks like 
a settled country over yonder ! And — yes, there are ves- 
sels moving, I am sure. We may put up a flag of dis- 
tress and attract some one.” 
“The women may have something handy. This side 
of the island is more promising, at all events. And see — 
someone has been here, for there are signs of a fire.” 
It was true. In a natural depression in a rock there 
was a sort of fireplace, sheltered alike from wind and 
most rains. And now they could see a long point of the 
island jutting out, forming a sort of bay that might be a 
safe anchorage. They also discovered several battered 
tin utensils. Some one had been in the same plight as 
themselves, or, indeed, it might be a rendezvous for 
piratical expeditions. 
When they returned, their little crew was busy with 
dozens of plans for escape. Barbette had spread a cloth 
on the sand and set out some of the provisions. Gervaise 
was full of adventure, Angelique serious, and Sylvie 
running gayly about, gathering her skirt full of shells. 
When they had finished their meal they decided to 
follow the captain’s advice, and remove to the more 
promising side of the island. 
‘Tn case of storm we should find a shelter,” he said, 
“and there certainly are some signs of life on the op- 
posite shore. With a glass we could see plainly.” 
“I have a small one in the box,” cried Gervaise. “Yes, 
let us go somewhere. Sitting here watching this great 
ocean would drive one crazy !” 
The sun that had risen so magnificently had retired 
behind pale rose-gray levels, tinged with lavender, droop- 
ing down and growing duller. But it made a pleasant 
under-roof, and all the reaches of sand seemed set with 
grains of silver, rather than the gold of half an hour 
agone. 
They soon started on their march, two of the sailors 
carrying the chest, and others shouldering various boxes 
and bundles. The air blew up fresh ; the specks of 
islands about made picturesque breaks in the wide 
expanse of waters. More ' than once they put down 
their burdens. The way seemed much longer than they 
thought, and there was some grumbling. But at 
length the woody fragrance was perceptible ; the greenery 
diffused a certain sense of being once more reunited to 
the living earth. And now the sun was struggling 
through the clouds. It was well they had found such 
a promising place of refuge. 
Sylvie had danced along in eager, childish fashion, 
and sung snatches of songs. Angelique, graver and 
older, lived over the peril, and wondered with Gervaise 
how the pirates had allowed them to escape with so little 
personal molestation. The truth was that they were most 
anxious to get to their own destination and have the 
Rudersdorp put in trim to prey upon other merchantmen. 
They had learned by experience that honest, well-trained 
sailors were not to be trusted ; that they were only too 
ready to listen to mutinous projects, and that their secrets 
were hardly safe if one of them escaped. There were 
enough bold, adventurous men to be picked up almost 
anywhere. 
The first thing was to hang out a flag of distress. 
Barbe supplied the cloth. They tore it in two long strips 
to float out pennantwise, and one of the sailors cut a 
young sapling to which it was firmly attached, and then, 
climbing one of the trees, fastened it securely, making 
it much higher than the adjacent branches. When the 
wind blew it out straight it was quite a sightly object. 
They strained their eyes even with the glass, but, besides 
the islands in the distance, could only see vaguely what 
they believed was the shore-line of some of the Colonial 
States. Between was a wide space of comparatively 
tranquil water. All the afternoon passed, and now there 
would be hunger and thirst to face. Food might be 
obtained, for there seemed fish in plenty, but no springs 
or rills in the sandy soil. 
The half threatening clouds of the day broke into a 
wild, sweeping, tropical shower that hurried out to the 
ocean and was quenched in a brilliant sunset. But it had 
filled the hollows in the rocks and they drank their fill 
with delight, and made their bed under the trees, sleeping 
for very weariness. 
The captain and two of the sailors were up at early 
dawn, but the magnificence of the morning hardly 
touched them. Was that really a sail in the distance? 
So long it seemed stationary that it must be some mirage ; 
and they retraced their weary footsteps, not daring to 
announce their vague hope. 
After breakfast Gervaise began to stroll up toward the 
northern end of the island, taking both girls with him. 
The captain came out again with the glass. 
“Look up!” cried Gervaise, eagerly. ‘•‘There, to the 
northeast. I thought at first it must be a flock of gulls. 
Is it — anything?” and he caught his breath, his face pale 
and then red, his eyes strained. 
“It is a vessel of some kind. She is headed this way. 
Yes, she is coming through the strait or channel, what- 
ever it is. I saw it nearly two hours ago, but I dared not 
hope. If she will only see our signal! So do not run 
back, nor say a word. It may be some mistake.” 
Gervaise paused. His first impulse was to fly to the 
little group and announce the news. He held out his 
hand for the glass. 
“I doubt if your eyes are better than mine, young sir,” 
and there was a kind of desperate hopefulness in his 
tone. 
“But she is coming this way !” The lad’s voice broke 
with emotion. “Oh, yes, I can see plainly. And the wind 
is fair for her. Oh, if our signal was only up this 
end ” 
“Run and ask some of the sailors to bring it. We 
must not miss any chance.” 
It was not only the signal and the needed help, but the 
whole company followed. And now that the light at- 
mosphere hovering about cleared away, she could be seen 
with the unaided eye. How they watched ! What breath- 
less, wordless prayers went up to the blue vault above 
them ! It seemed hours, so slowly did the minutes pass. 
The pennant flew out bravely. The vessel came straight 
on. At last there was the thrice-welcome sound of the 
trumpet. Madame Ten Broeck threw herself on the 
ground and cried hysterically ; Angelique hid her face on 
Barbe’s shoulder. There was a strange silence through 
the little group for many moments, a sense of relief that 
had no words, needed none. They were surely rescued ! 
The Mary Ann, stout and seaworthy, with a miscel- 
laneous cargo, was bound for New Orleans. Captain 
Strong listened to the story of the wayfarers, and took 
them on board, every heart full of thanksgiving, for they 
knew now it might have been many days before another 
vessel would come that way. 
CHAPTER III. 
OLD NEW ORLEANS. 
Across the blue waters of the Gulf the rescued 
travellers sped. Lakes and bays, and points and islands, 
and the low-lying banks of the yellow Mississippi with 
craft of all kinds, at that day flat-bottomed boats and 
sailing vessels, and a strange sound of many languages, 
a jumble of nationalities as if all the world had poured 
their overflow into this one spot. Africans of various 
hues, swarthy Portuguese, Spanish, F'rench, Indians, and 
Americans — a bewildering sight to the French emigrants, 
who shrank together with a lost, homeless feeling. 
The straggling rows of long black rafts, with short 
paddles at the sides that projected like fins, and one long 
oar at the stern, piled high with fruit, vegetables, 
poultry, and pork ; other and more pretentious craft with 
barrels of flour, cotton, which even then was a source of 
profit, though still in its infancy, and other bales of 
merchandise — a feature of the fast growing development 
and commercial enterprise that was to make a famous 
city later on, but seemed now one vast jumble, after 
orderly Amsterdam. 
The Mary Ann was safely moored. There were some 
troublesome preliminaries to be gone through with. 
And now the sun was slanting low in the western 
heavens, losing itself behind the great mountains still to 
be explored, and the river began to gleam like a sinuous 
golden band between the verdurous shores. Then a cold 
wind blew up from the Gulf, and the convent bells began 
to chime. How soft and sweet it sounded ! — the call 
to vespers. Suddenly an army of flags were run up to 
the masthead, colors of many nations. 
'‘Oh, how beautiful it all is ! And look at the bowed 
heads ! It makes one almost envy the Catholics,” ex- 
claimed Angel ique, deeply touched. 
It did seem wonderful that among that bedlam of din 
there should be an instant halt and reverence. Men and 
women crossed themselves, responded softly ; then the 
labor of life went on like a great ocean wave rolling 
back. 
"It is a marvellous sight,” replied Gervaise, as his eyes 
wandered slowly about. "One can hardly believe it 
real.” 
Sylvie had tight hold of Angelique’s hand. 
"Oh, look at the little black children,” she cried, breath- 
lessly. "Are they the Indians? And what makes their 
hair grow in little tails ? And see those dancing ! O that 
cruel man, to strike them with his lash !” 
A man with a broad-brimmed hat and a long horse- 
whip in his hand had scattered a group of merry 
youngsters that made the air resound with their howls 
and cries. He was cleating a way in the muddy street 
for his wagon. 
Captain Strong came up to them. 
“You will not care to stay all night on the boat in the 
noise and the smell of everything. Your boxes will be 
safe in the cabin. You may lock it in and take the key. 
Neither will you like the lodging house; that is well 
enough for the men. I will send someone with you 
where you will be comfortable for the night. It is a 
Madame Milhet in Dauphine Street, something of a walk, 
but a nice, quiet place.” 
“We shall not stay here. Monsieur Strong. We shall 
push on — to some place,” and Barbe knitted her brows 
a little. “Yes, we shall be glad of a refuge to-night. 
And you have been so good, Monsieur.” 
“Who wouldn’t be good, as you call it, to such un- 
fortunate castaways ! But then — I have heard worse 
pirate stories than yours. And I don’t see how your 
young girl escaped their clutches, even by playing off 
ill,” and a quizzical sort of smile crossed his weather- 
beaten face. “Yes, you have much to be thankful for.” 
“We are, M’sieur,” and she bowed her head. 
“Mere Milhet will be very good to you. She is 
French, not Spanish nor mixed,” and he laughed a little, 
thinking how proud and tenacious these French people 
were ! Already American blood began to show the 
peculiar cosmopolitanism that was to make them at ease 
with all nations, while not less proud of their birthright. 
One of the sailors was deputed to accompany them. 
They left the boat, walking over the long gang-plank 
that was like a raft, and picking a way through bales and 
boxes and barrels, and a swarming crowd that set Bar- 
bette almost wild with terror. She had Angelique by 
the arm, while Jaques picked up Sylvie, who clasped 
her arms tightly about his neck. The streets were narrow 
and muddy, and gutters were full of ill-smelling, stagnant 
water. There were scarcely no sidewalks. Booths and 
stores were closing for the night. There were rows of 
low houses, blackened by exposure to the weather and 
the indifference of their owners. It was growing rapidly 
dark, but here and there a light flared in a window, and 
there were sounds of mirth and revelry and wild French 
songs. Negresses thrust flowers in their faces, or from 
some corner cried hot eatables from which came a savory 
smell. 
Presently the crowd grew less, the houses wore a dif- 
ferent aspect. In some, where the heavy wooden shut- 
ters stood ajar, there were signs of home life and gay 
voices chattering. Then they turned into Dauphine Street, 
and here another change met them. The houses were 
detached; there were gardens and trees between, the air 
was fragrant with the sweetness that nightfall wooed 
from leaf and blossom. Most of the houses had an 
upper story with an overhanging balcony, vine-wreathed, 
and reviving one with its delicious odor. 
The man paused before a heavy batten door, with a 
fanlight above, guarded by iron bars. On one side was 
a heavy iron knocker, and this made the street resound 
with the force of his summons. 
A head looked out from above. “Who is there, and 
what is it you want?” asked a woman’s voice, in rather 
broken English. 
“It is Jack Dubois. I come from Captain Strong, who 
is just in. He begs you to take some French refugees 
for the night. They were caught by pirates and barely 
escaped by the skin of their teeth. He will answer for 
them.” 
“I will come down.” 
“The heavy bolt was pulled. The door was opened 
cautiously, as if still half in fear. 
“Oh, it is all right. Mere Milhet. The captain picked 
them up on an island where they had been set ashore. 
And he says you are not to be afraid. He had them two 
days.’’ 
The door opened wider. There was a sort of square 
vestibule, shut off by another strong door. Mere Milhet 
had hung her candle in the sconce at the side, but it 
hardly lighted the dark walls, that were of cypress wood, 
grown deeper by age. 
'‘There are many of you,” she said, with a little hesita- 
tion. “But Captain Strong is my very good friend. 
Yes, come in, Madame, M’sieu — ah, the petite dar- 
ling ” and she looked from one to the other of the 
women as if to trace relationship, as Gervaise stood Sylvie 
down on the stone floor. ' 
Barbette explained at a little length in French, inter- 
rupted now and then by Mere Milhet’s ejaculations. 
‘.‘Well, now that I have done my duty, I will report 
to the captain,” said their guide. “Some one will come 
for them in the morning ” 
“Why not find my own way down?” exclaimed 
Gervaise in eager tones. “Yes, Jaques and I will see 
to the luggage — what is left of it,” with a touch of irony 
in his tone. 
“Well, well, as you like.” The man touched his cap 
with his adieu. 
Mere Milhet led the way to the inner room, that was 
quite well furnished and spacious. A long wooden settee 
had a mattress covered with gay chintz and some 
cushions at either end. 
“Ah, what you must have endured !” she began. “The 
Gulf is infested with pirates who rendezvous in the 
islands about. And there are the privateers, little better, 
perhaps. Why must they prey on each other like wild 
beasts? There would be work enough; there is land to 
settle, but they take the goods of others continually. 
And there are horrible stories told — but. you must be 
tired and need refreshment. Lucie, Dolomine, get 
ready the table ! Will you follow me upstairs — to her 
guests. 
There were two side ells to the house, which left a sort 
of courtyard at the back, before the real garden began. 
Flowers and vines grew about everywhere, adding a 
hundred fragrances to the soft, clear air, so different 
from the sickening smells of the levee. In one ell was a 
large, long room with three single pallets in a row, each 
one covered with a snowy white quilt. The floor was 
bare, but scrubbed until it almost shone. Two or three 
queer old pieces of furniture, half desks and chests of 
drawers, an iron-bound, massive chest, several antique 
chairs, and a shelf on which stood a pair of odd pitchers 
and some silver candlesticks. On either side of the 
dressing-table hung an iron sconce. Madame lighted the 
candles. 
‘I can hardly tell — you are not the mother of both?’' 
glancing inquiringly at Barbette. 
"I must be mother to both now. This young girl, 
Angelique Saucier, has been orphaned from early years. 
Her relative, the Marquise de Brienne, took her. The 
little one was also related to Madame, on her mother’s side, 
and I was foster sister to her mother — the lovely young 
girl whose husband was killed in the war with Spain, and 
she soon followed him with a broken heart. The Mar- 
quise sent for Sylvie and myself, and we all lived in the 
old chateau. The Sieur Hugh came to Canada three 
years ago, and we have not heard from him of late. The 
Marquise fell ill with a lingering complaint. Nearly a 
year ago she died. And there was trouble in France ” 
'‘Horrible trouble ! The Spanish are our masters, 
Madame, but we do not forget we are French. The 
poor King and Queen ! And now, Madame, no one is 
safe. It is frightful ! People being rushed to the 
guillotine every day, innocent of any crime. What are 
these fiends? Surely they 'cannot be French. It must 
be some wild rabble that has descended upon them as 
did the Huns. There are emigrants coming all the time, 
glad to escape. They will build a new France. Even 
here — then, Madame, is it your pleasure to remain with 
your charges?” suddenly bringing herself back to her 
duties as hostess. “There is water and towels for re- 
freshment. And now I will provide for the gentlemen.” 
They were placed in the other wing, and were most 
grateful for so delightful a refuge. 
Sylvie ran to the window and peered out in the 
darkness. 
“It is like Brienne !” she cried, delightedly. “It is so 
sweet, and hark ” putting her dainty head on one 
side, “Music!” 
There was the tinkle of a guitar and a curious ac- 
companiment of a banjo that deepened the melody in 
several places. Then a soft, clear voice broke into song. 
“Oh, it is delightful I Barbe, I want to stay here 
always. I hate the ocean and the ships. I will never 
go in one again with the nasty, watery smell. And here 
it is so sweet ! See, there are stars coming out. There 
is a great golden one hanging down low. And the 
beautiful singing! Angel, why do you not sing any 
more ?” 
Angelique gave a short, unmirthful laugh. 
“One must be gay to sing,- and we have been so full 
of care ” 
“But you did sing for Captain Bolmer.” 
“And the pirates never asked me for a song.” 
'‘You were ill in the berth. That is why I will not go 
sailing any more. Are there pirates all over ?” 
“Oh, I hope not, my little dear.” 
“Are we very far from France?” 
“Thousands of miles.” 
“And shall I never see Philippe again?” mournfully. 
“And my beautiful doll ! You know I was going to ask 
Philippe to marry her.” 
A tall negress in a gay turban announced that supper 
was in readiness. 
They had bathed hands and faces and felt a little 
restored, but to Barbe it seemed as if she had never been 
clean since leaving Amsterdam. 
But the snowy cloth, the fragrant tea, the great piles 
of tropical fruit, and the generous elbow-room were en- 
chanting. Mina — this tall negress who carried herself 
like a queen was called Dolomine — waited upon them in 
a royal fashion. The lines of caste had been so broken 
in upon that they all sat down together. Barbette 
Champe was grave and well-bred enough for any lady, 
and though Jaques had hesitated at first upon putting 
himself on an equality with his young master, who might 
one day be lord of Brienne, dangers had brought them 
into close relationship as friends. 
Madame Milhet answered many of Gervaise’s ques- 
tions about New Orleans. It was plain to be seen that 
she did not love the Spanish domination. 
“Ah, M’sieu, we were basely sold to Spain by our own 
King,” the hostess said, with a long sigh. “People did 
explain that by force of war and treaty the King was 
compelled to give us up. At first we did not believe it. 
We were French to our heart’s core, although there were 
many Spanish even then. So a great meeting was called 
at Place d’Armes. Planters and merchants and gentle- 
men, and even the small farmers, arranged to appeal to the 
King. For it was rumored that with the coming of 
Spanish rule there would be a looking forward to the 
establishment of an inquisitor general here. My hus- 
band’s cousin, who was a rich merchant, was sent to 
Paris to plead for a restoration of the old relations. 
Then we waited and waited. Jean Milhet never saw the 
King — there was so much chicanery. Then came Don 
Antonio de Ulloa, the new Spanish Governor, and up 
went Spanish flags. The commerce with France and 
the West Indies was suppressed. There was talk of 
ruin everywhere. The French resolved to rise. Per- 
haps it was not wisely done, but some of us had a hope 
of founding a new French kingdom, or colony of some 
kind, that should be independent. What right had the 
King to trade us off?” 
Mere Milhet was past sixty now. With years she had 
grown to ample proportions. Ider eyes were black and 
sparkling when she was excited, but, with the general 
softening effect of time, they too had softened in repose. 
Her dark olive skin was clear, her features quite regular, 
though the nose had broadened out a little. Her cheeks 
still had a girlish pink, unless the infrequent indulgence 
in temper flamed them to a vivid red. 
“Was it the King — really ? That was Louis XV.” 
“Yes. They barricaded the Governor’s house. They 
ran up the French flag, they filled the air with shouts for 
the King, and enjoined the Governor to leave the colony 
at once. Then they sent messengers to the courts of 
France and Spain. The plan for a republic was formed. 
If we had possessed wise and far-sighted men like the 
American colonies when they made their brave struggle, 
— but, perhaps it was too soon. It was in July ’69 that 
the Spaniards reached our great river in overwhelming 
force. Everybody was filled with dismay. Don Alex- 
andro O’Reilly, with twenty-six hundred troops, landed 
and took formal possession in the name of the King of 
Spain.” 
'‘But I would have fought to the death !” cried the boy, 
interested beyond measure. “Did they not even strike 
one blow ?” 
“My husband thought it was because they had no 
responsible head that they had temporized too long. 
Clearly resistance would have been useless. The brave 
Lafreniere made a manly address and proffered the 
homage of the people. But it was of no avail. He and 
many of the other leaders were arrested and sentenced 
to be hanged, but even the Spanish officials joined the 
colonists in beseeching that they might at least have a 
more honorable death. Lafreniere, Doyan, Caresse, 
Joseph Milhet, and Marquis were shot ; most of the others 
were sent to Morro Castle, Havana, and when they 
were released they were expatriated from Louisiana. 
The old Council was swept away; the Cabilda took its 
place. Then there were new offices made, and there was 
great pomp and ceremony attending them. But O’Reilly 
did not remain long. And then it was Uuzaga, and the 
new Spanish priests who tried to banish our good Father 
Dagobert. And the nuns’ schools were to teach Spanish, 
but they could not take from us our beloved French 
tongue with all their efforts. And, after all, O’Reilly 
was but a mongrel — not even a true Spaniard. But it 
is said, after his cruelty, he was excessively polite and 
urbane, and very fond of high society.” 
“Then you are not really French at all?” 
“Except in heart and soul, M’sieu. And some of us 
cherish a hope — but strange things happen in the world 
now.” 
“And France has no king. Oh, what will become of 
her!” 
“I have faith in France,” Mere Milhet said, proudly. 
Sylvie came around and leaned her golden head on 
Barbe’s shoulder, her eyes almost closed. 
“I am so sleepy,” she murmured. 
“The poor child ! And you are all tired ! I have talked 
twice too long.” 
“And I have not heard half enough. I am interested 
in your strange New Orleans,” declared Gervaise. 
Barbe took her charge upstairs and undressed her, 
and the little girl slept soundly among the fragrant roses. 
CHAPTER IV. 
“Oh, where are we ?” cried Sylvie, springing from her 
narrow bed. “Barbe — Angel I — did we leave the boat 
last night and have such a delicious supper, and was there 
some one who talked — and a tall black woman — or was 
I dreaming? I was so tired and sleepy. Oh yes, here 
is the window and the vines — and here is a wonderful 
bird, and look at the trees, and the roses and flowers that 
I do not know about. Is it really New Orleans? And 
where is the rest of America ?” 
Angelique laughed at the child’s eargerness. She, too, 
felt refreshed. 
There was a tap at the door. Sylvie ran. 
“Oh, here is a great bucket of water,” she exclaimed. 
“Did it drop down from the clouds, think?” 
“Doesn’t water generally drop down from the clouds?” 
queried Angelique. 
“But not by the bucketful.” 
“Well, I am not so sure about that; I have seen it 
come down in torrents,” said Barbe. 
“But there wasn’t any bucket unless you set one out 
to catch the water,” returned the child, archly. 
“Come and let me make your toilette. It is so long 
since we have lived in any Christian fashion.” 
“It seems years and years since we left Brienne,” and 
Angelique gave a little sigh, not that she wished herself 
back. And yet those last days were so strange that she 
continually asked herself if the events had really taken 
place? Was Hugh de Brienne truly and lawfully 
married ? 
Sylvie looked fresh as a rose. She ran downstairs 
without waiting to ask whether it was right or not. In 
fact, she seemed like a bird suddenly released. A big girl 
she had not seen the night before was filling vases with 
flowers. She was not dark like the other women, and 
she wore no turban, though a great coil of braids was 
wound over the top of her head. 
“So,” she began in pretty French, curiously softened, 
“you are the little girl who was taken by pirates? And 
you come from France?” 
“Yes, and from many other places. I think I must 
have been nearly all round the world.” 
“But it is a very big world. And there are great 
cities and kingdoms over East. The Americans have one, 
though they began by calling their king a president. 
That is all wrong. And they have the queer English 
language, which is barbarous. Then, the English drove 
us out of Canada. I hate them !” 
She stamped her foot and her eyes flashed. 
Sylvie look amazed. 
“It was my mother’s people. We were Acadians. 
And France had so much of this New World ! It was 
New France; it would have been a splendid world, and 
no barbarous talk but the Indians’. They had no right 
to come and drive us out — send us away from the homes 
we had made.” 
“Oh,” cried Sylvie, “then we are something alike. I 
left the old France. I don’t know why — it was because” 
— her small brow knitted with thought — “we were to be 
taken to a convent, I believe.” 
“Oh, I was not born then. And my mother married 
and died. And my father went away somewhere, and 
has not come back. Mere Richard had me and she beat 
and starved me, and I ran away. Then Nannete took 
me. She is a free woman and keeps a cake shop down 
by the wharf. It was not good for me, and Mere Milhet 
took me. But I think I shall become a nun. I go to 
school at the convent. I like the Sisters.” 
“Then you are a Catholic?” 
“A Catholic of course. What should I be? There is 
only one true Church.” 
“And I am a — a Huguenot.” Sylvie held up her head 
very straight, though she had a faint misgiving as to 
whether she was on the true side. 
The girl shook her head doubtfully. “I will ask at 
the convent ; the Sisters must know. You are too pretty 
to be a — to be an infidel! And French, too, although 
you talk not quite like us, a little more strong — harsh, 
that is it. Now I must finish my flowers. Mere Milhet 
will soon be home from mass, and then breakfast, and I 
go to the convent, where I stay all day.” 
She darted off, but Sylvie followed her. “Oh!” the 
child ejaculated, stopping suddenly as something blue 
and glistening and beautiful rose before her. 
“That is the heron. Oh, he is tame enough. Come, 
Piti. But I have no crumbs for you. Let the little girl 
stroke your neck. Your name is Sylvie?” 
“How did you know ?” with a bright smile. 
“I heard them talking of you this morning. I had 
broken a rule yesterday and I had to say ten pater nostcrs 
by myself in the dark and then go to bed. So I did not 
