him. It was all round, visibly--given his own new contribution--a case
of pressure; and in a case of pressure Kate, for quicker knowledge,
might have come out with her aunt. The possibility that in this event
she might be sitting in the carriage--the thing most likely--had had
the effect, before he could check it, of bringing him within range of
the window. It wasn't there he had wished to see her; yet if she was
there he couldn't pretend not to. What he had however the next moment
made out was that if some one was there it wasn't Kate Croy. It was,
with a sensible shock for him, the person who had last offered him a
conscious face from behind the clear plate of a café in Venice. The
great glass at Florian's was a medium less obscure, even with the
window down, than the air of the London Christmas; yet at present also,
none the less, between the two men, an exchange of recognitions could
occur. Densher felt his own look a gaping arrest--which, he disgustedly
remembered, his back as quickly turned, appeared to repeat itself as
his special privilege. He mounted the steps of the house and touched
the bell with a keen consciousness of being habitually looked at by
Kate's friend from positions of almost insolent vantage. He forgot for
the time the moment when, in Venice, at the palace, the encouraged
young man had in a manner assisted at the departure of the
disconcerted, since Lord Mark was not looking disconcerted now any more
than he had looked from his bench at his café. Densher was thinking
that he seemed to show as vagrant while another was ensconced. He was
thinking of the other as--in spite of the difference of situation--more
ensconced than ever; he was thinking of him above all as the friend of
the person with whom his recognition had, the minute previous,
associated him. The man was seated in the very place in which, beside
Mrs. Lowder's, he had looked to find Kate, and that was a sufficient
identity. Meanwhile at any rate the door of the house had opened and
Mrs. Lowder stood before him. It was something at least that she
wasn't Kate. She was herself, on the spot, in all her affluence; with
presence of mind both to decide at once that Lord Mark, in the
brougham, didn't matter and to prevent Sir Luke's butler, by a firm
word thrown over her shoulder, from standing there to listen to her
passage with the gentleman who had rung. "I'll tell Mr. Densher; you
needn't wait!" And the passage, promptly and richly, took place on the
steps.
"He arrives, travelling straight, to-morrow early. I couldn't not come
to learn."
"No more," said Densher simply, "could I. On my way," he added, "to
Lancaster Gate."
"Sweet of you." She beamed on him dimly, and he saw her face was
attuned. It made him, with what she had just before said, know all, and
he took the thing in while he met the air of portentous, of almost
functional, sympathy that had settled itself as her medium with him and
that yet had now a fresh glow. "So you have had your message?"
He knew so well what she meant, and so equally with it what he "had
had" no less than what he hadn't, that, with but the smallest
hesitation, he strained the point. "Yes--my message."
"Our dear dove then, as Kate calls her, has folded her wonderful wings."
"Yes--folded them."
It rather racked him, but he tried to receive it as she intended, and
she evidently took his formal assent for self-control. "Unless it's
more true," she accordingly added, "that she has spread them the wider."
He again but formally assented, though, strangely enough, the words
fitted a figure deep in his own imagination. "Rather, yes--spread them
the wider."
"For a flight, I trust, to some happiness greater--!"
"Exactly. Greater," Densher broke in; but now with a look, he feared,
that did a little warn her off.
"You were certainly," she went on with more reserve, "entitled to
direct news. Ours came late last night: I'm not sure otherwise I
shouldn't have gone to you. But you're coming," she asked, "to me?"
He had had a minute by this time to think further, and the window of
the brougham was still within range. Her rich "me," reaching him
moreover through the mild damp, had the effect of a thump on his chest.
"Squared," Aunt Maud? She was indeed squared, and the extent of it just
now perversely enough took away his breath. His look from where they
stood embraced the aperture at which the person sitting in the carriage
might have shown, and he saw his interlocutress, on her side,
understand the question in it, which he moreover then uttered. "Shall
you be alone?" It was, as an immediate instinctive parley with the
image of his condition that now flourished in her, almost hypocritical.
It sounded as if he wished to come and overflow to her, yet this was
exactly what he didn't. The need to overflow had suddenly--since the
night before--dried up in him, and he had never been aware of a deeper
reserve.
But she had meanwhile largely responded. "Completely alone. I should
otherwise never have dreamed; feeling, dear friend, but too much!"
Failing on her lips what she felt came out for him in the offered hand
with which she had the next moment condolingly pressed his own. "Dear
friend, dear friend!"--she was deeply "with" him, and she wished to be
still more so: which was what made her immediately continue. "Or
wouldn't you this evening, for the sad Christmas it makes us, dine with
me tête-à-tête?"
It put the thing off, the question of a talk with her--making the
difference, to his relief, of several hours; but it also rather
mystified him. This however didn't diminish his need of caution. "Shall
you mind if I don't tell you at once?"
"Not in the least--leave it open: it shall be as you may feel, and you
needn't even send me word. I only will mention that to-day, of all
days, I shall otherwise sit there alone."
Now at least he could ask. "Without Miss Croy?"
"Without Miss Croy. Miss Croy," said Mrs. Lowder, "is spending her
Christmas in the bosom of her more immediate family."
He was afraid, even while he spoke, of what his face might show. "You
mean she has left you?"
Aunt Maud's own face for that matter met the enquiry with a
consciousness in which he saw a reflexion of events. He was made sure
by it, even at the moment and as he had never been before, that since
he had known these two women no confessed nor commented tension, no
crisis of the cruder sort would really have taken form between them:
which was precisely a high proof of how Kate had steered her boat. The
situation exposed in Mrs. Lowder's present expression lighted up by
contrast that superficial smoothness; which afterwards, with his time
to think of it, was to put before him again the art, the particular
gift, in the girl, now so placed and classed, so intimately familiar
for him, as her talent for life. The peace, within a day or two--since
his seeing her last--had clearly been broken; differences, deep down,
kept there by a diplomacy on Kate's part as deep, had been shaken to
the surface by some exceptional jar; with which, in addition, he felt
Lord Mark's odd attendance at such an hour and season vaguely
associated. The talent for life indeed, it at the same time struck him,
would probably have shown equally in the breach, or whatever had
occurred; Aunt Maud having suffered, he judged, a strain rather than a
stroke. Of these quick thoughts, at all events, that lady was already
abreast. "She went yesterday morning--and not with my approval, I don't
mind telling you--to her sister: Mrs. Condrip, if you know who I mean,
who lives somewhere in Chelsea. My other niece and her affairs--that I
should have to say such things to-day!--are a constant worry; so that
Kate, in consequence--well, of events!--has simply been called in. My
own idea, I'm bound to say, was that with such events she need have,
in her situation, next to nothing to do."
"But she differed with you?"
"She differed with me. And when Kate differs with you--!"
"Oh I can imagine." He had reached the point in the scale of hypocrisy
at which he could ask himself why a little more or less should signify.
Besides, with the intention he had had he must know. Kate's move, if
he didn't know, might simply disconcert him; and of being disconcerted
his horror was by this time fairly superstitious. "I hope you don't
allude to events at all calamitous."
"No--only horrid and vulgar."
"Oh!" said Merton Densher.
Mrs. Lowder's soreness, it was still not obscure, had discovered in
free speech to him a momentary balm. "They've the misfortune to have, I
suppose you know, a dreadful horrible father."
"Oh!" said Densher again.
"He's too bad almost to name, but he has come upon Marian, and Marian
has shrieked for help."
Densher wondered at this with intensity; and his curiosity compromised
for an instant with his discretion. "Come upon her--for money?"
"Oh for that of course always. But, at this blessed season, for
refuge, for safety: for God knows what. He's there, the brute. And
Kate's with them. And that," Mrs. Lowder wound up, going down the
steps, "is her Christmas."
She had stopped again at the bottom while he thought of an answer.
"Yours then is after all rather better."
"It's at least more decent." And her hand once more came out. "But why
do I talk of our troubles? Come if you can."
He showed a faint smile. "Thanks. If I can."
"And now--I dare say--you'll go to church?"
She had asked it, with her good intention, rather in the air and by way
of sketching for him, in the line of support, something a little more
to the purpose than what she had been giving him. He felt it as
finishing off their intensities of expression that he found himself to
all appearance receiving her hint as happy. "Why yes--I think I will":
after which, as the door of the brougham, at her approach, had opened
from within, he was free to turn his back. He heard the door, behind
him, sharply close again and the vehicle move off in another direction
than his own.
He had in fact for the time no direction; in spite of which indeed he
was at the end of ten minutes aware of having walked straight to the
south. That, he afterwards recognised, was, very sufficiently, because
there had formed itself in his mind, even while Aunt Maud finally
talked, an instant recognition of his necessary course. Nothing was
open to him but to follow Kate, nor was anything more marked than the
influence of the step she had taken on the emotion itself that
possessed him. Her complications, which had fairly, with everything
else, an awful sound--what were they, a thousand times over, but his
own? His present business was to see that they didn't escape an hour
longer taking their proper place in his life. He accordingly would have
held his course hadn't it suddenly come over him that he had just lied
to Mrs. Lowder--a term it perversely eased him to keep using--even more
than was necessary. To what church was he going, to what church, in
such a state of his nerves, could he go?--he pulled up short again,
as he had pulled up in sight of Mrs. Lowder's carriage, to ask it. And
yet the desire queerly stirred in him not to have wasted his word. He
was just then however by a happy chance in the Brompton Road, and he
bethought himself with a sudden light that the Oratory was at hand. He
had but to turn the other way and he should find himself soon before
it. At the door then, in a few minutes, his idea was really--as it
struck him--consecrated: he was, pushing in, on the edge of a splendid
service--the flocking crowd told of it--which glittered and resounded,
from distant depths, in the blaze of altar-lights and the swell of
organ and choir. It didn't match his own day, but it was much less of a
discord than some other things actual and possible. The Oratory in
short, to make him right, would do.
IV
The difference was thus that the dusk of afternoon--dusk thick from an
early hour--had gathered when he knocked at Mrs. Condrip's door. He had
gone from the church to his club, wishing not to present himself in
Chelsea at luncheon-time and also remembering that he must attempt
independently to make a meal. This, in the event, he but imperfectly
achieved: he dropped into a chair in the great dim void of the club
library, with nobody, up or down, to be seen, and there after a while,
closing his eyes, recovered an hour of the sleep he had lost during the
night. Before doing this indeed he had written--it was the first thing
he did--a short note, which, in the Christmas desolation of the place,
he had managed only with difficulty and doubt to commit to a messenger.
He wished it carried by hand, and he was obliged, rather blindly, to
trust the hand, as the messenger, for some reason, was unable to return
with a gage of delivery. When at four o'clock he was face to face with
Kate in Mrs. Condrip's small drawing-room he found to his relief that
his notification had reached her. She was expectant and to that extent
prepared; which simplified a little--if a little, at the present pass,
counted. Her conditions were vaguely vivid to him from the moment of
his coming in, and vivid partly by their difference, a difference sharp
and suggestive, from those in which he had hitherto constantly seen
her. He had seen her but in places comparatively great; in her aunt's
pompous house, under the high trees of Kensington and the storied
ceilings of Venice. He had seen her, in Venice, on a great occasion, as
the centre itself of the splendid Piazza: he had seen her there, on a
still greater one, in his own poor rooms, which yet had consorted with
her, having state and ancientry even in their poorness; but Mrs.
Condrip's interior, even by this best view of it and though not
flagrantly mean, showed itself as a setting almost grotesquely inapt.
Pale, grave and charming, she affected him at once as a distinguished
stranger--a stranger to the little Chelsea street--who was making the
best of a queer episode and a place of exile. The extraordinary thing
was that at the end of three minutes he felt himself less appointedly a
stranger in it than she.
A part of the queerness--this was to come to him in glimpses--sprang
from the air as of a general large misfit imposed on the narrow room by
the scale and mass of its furniture. The objects, the ornaments were,
for the sisters, clearly relics and survivals of what would, in the
case of Mrs. Condrip at least, have been called better days. The
curtains that overdraped the windows, the sofas and tables that stayed
circulation, the chimney-ornaments that reached to the ceiling and the
florid chandelier that almost dropped to the floor, were so many
mementoes of earlier homes and so many links with their unhappy mother.
Whatever might have been in itself the quality of these elements
Densher could feel the effect proceeding from them, as they lumpishly
blocked out the decline of the dim day, to be ugly almost to the point
of the sinister. They failed to accommodate or to compromise; they
asserted their differences without tact and without taste. It was truly
having a sense of Kate's own quality thus promptly to see them in
reference to it. But that Densher had this sense was no new thing to
him, nor did he in strictness need, for the hour, to be reminded of it.
He only knew, by one of the tricks his imagination so constantly played
him, that he was, so far as her present tension went, very specially
sorry for her--which was not the view that had determined his start in
the morning; yet also that he himself would have taken it all, as he
might say, less hard. He could have lived in such a place; but it
wasn't given to those of his complexion, so to speak, to be exiled
anywhere. It was by their comparative grossness that they could somehow
make shift. His natural, his inevitable, his ultimate home--left, that
is, to itself--wasn't at all unlikely to be as queer and impossible as
what was just round them, though doubtless in less ample masses. As he
took in moreover how Kate wouldn't have been in the least the creature
she was if what was just round them hadn't mismatched her, hadn't made
for her a medium involving compunction in the spectator, so, by the
same stroke, that became the very fact of her relation with her
companions there, such a fact as filled him at once, oddly, both with
assurance and with suspense. If he himself, on this brief vision, felt
her as alien and as ever so unwittingly ironic, how must they not feel
her and how above all must she not feel them?
Densher could ask himself that even after she had presently lighted the
tall candles on the mantel-shelf. This was all their illumination but
the fire, and she had proceeded to it with a quiet dryness that yet
left play, visibly, to her implication between them, in their trouble
and failing anything better, of the presumably genial Christmas hearth.
So far as the genial went this had in strictness, given their
conditions, to be all their geniality. He had told her in his note
nothing but that he must promptly see her and that he hoped she might
be able to make it possible; but he understood from the first look at
her that his promptitude was already having for her its principal
reference. "I was prevented this morning, in the few minutes," he
explained, "asking Mrs. Lowder if she had let you know, though I rather
gathered she had; and it's what I've been in fact since then assuming.
It was because I was so struck at the moment with your having, as she
did tell me, so suddenly come here."
"Yes, it was sudden enough." Very neat and fine in the contracted
firelight, with her hands in her lap, Kate considered what he had said.
He had spoken immediately of what had happened at Sir Luke Strett's
door. "She has let me know nothing. But that doesn't matter--if it's
what you mean."
"It's part of what I mean," Densher said; but what he went on with,
after a pause during which she waited, was apparently not the rest of
that. "She had had her telegram from Mrs. Stringham; late last night.
But to me the poor lady hasn't wired. The event," he added, "will have
taken place yesterday, and Sir Luke, starting immediately, one can see,
and travelling straight, will get back to-morrow morning. So that Mrs.
Stringham, I judge, is left to face in some solitude the situation
bequeathed to her. But of course," he wound up, "Sir Luke couldn't
stay."
Her look at him might have had in it a vague betrayal of the sense that
he was gaining time. "Was your telegram from Sir Luke?"
"No--I've had no telegram."
She wondered. "But not a letter--?"
"Not from Mrs. Stringham--no." He failed again however to develop
this--for which her forbearance from another question gave him
occasion. From whom then had he heard? He might at last, confronted
with her, really have been gaining time; and as if to show that she
respected this impulse she made her enquiry different. "Should you like
to go out to her--to Mrs. Stringham?"
About that at least he was clear. "Not at all. She's alone, but she's
very capable and very courageous. Besides--!" He had been going on, but
he dropped.
"Besides," she said, "there's Eugenio? Yes, of course one remembers
Eugenio."
She had uttered the words as definitely to show them for not untender;
and he showed equally every reason to assent. "One remembers him
indeed, and with every ground for it. He'll be of the highest value to
her--he's capable of anything. What I was going to say," he went on,
"is that some of their people from America must quickly arrive."
On this, as happened, Kate was able at once to satisfy him. "Mr.
Someone-or-other, the person principally in charge of Milly's
affairs--her first trustee, I suppose--had just got there at Mrs.
Stringham's last writing."
"Ah that then was after your aunt last spoke to me--I mean the last
time before this morning. I'm relieved to hear it. So," he said,
"they'll do."
"Oh they'll do." And it came from each still as if it wasn't what each
was most thinking of. Kate presently got however a step nearer to that.
"But if you had been wired to by nobody what then this morning had
taken you to Sir Luke?"
"Oh something else--which I'll presently tell you. It's what made me
instantly need to see you; it's what I've come to speak to you of. But
in a minute. I feel too many things," he went on, "at seeing you in
this place." He got up as he spoke; she herself remained perfectly
still. His movement had been to the fire, and, leaning a little, with
his back to it, to look down on her from where he stood, he confined
himself to his point. "Is it anything very bad that has brought you?"
He had now in any case said enough to justify her wish for more; so
that, passing this matter by, she pressed her own challenge. "Do you
mean, if I may ask, that she, dying--?" Her face, wondering, pressed
it more than her words.
"Certainly you may ask," he after a moment said. "What has come to me
is what, as I say, I came expressly to tell you. I don't mind letting
you know," he went on, "that my decision to do this took for me last
night and this morning a great deal of thinking of. But here I am." And
he indulged in a smile that couldn't, he was well aware, but strike her
as mechanical.
She went straighter with him, she seemed to show, than he really went
with her. "You didn't want to come?"
"It would have been simple, my dear"--and he continued to smile--"if it
had been, one way or the other, only a question of 'wanting.' It took,
I admit it, the idea of what I had best do, all sorts of difficult and
portentous forms. It came up for me really--well, not at all for my
happiness."
This word apparently puzzled her--she studied him in the light of it.
"You look upset--you've certainly been tormented. You're not well."
"Oh--well enough!"
But she continued without heeding. "You hate what you're doing."
"My dear girl, you simplify"--and he was now serious enough. "It isn't
so simple even as that."
She had the air of thinking what it then might be. "I of course can't,
with no clue, know what it is." She remained none the less patient and
still. "If at such a moment she could write you one's inevitably quite
at sea. One doesn't, with the best will in the world, understand." And
then as Densher had a pause which might have stood for all the involved
explanation that, to his discouragement, loomed before him: "You
haven't decided what to do."
She had said it very gently, almost sweetly, and he didn't instantly
say otherwise. But he said so after a look at her. "Oh yes--I have.
Only with this sight of you here and what I seem to see in it for
you--!" And his eyes, as at suggestions that pressed, turned from one
part of the room to another.
"Horrible place, isn't it?" said Kate.
It brought him straight back to his enquiry. "Is it for anything awful
you've had to come?"
"Oh that will take as long to tell you as anything you may have.
Don't mind," she continued, "the 'sight of me here,' nor
whatever--which is more than I yet know myself--may be 'in it' for me.
And kindly consider too that, after all, if you're in trouble I can a
little wish to help you. Perhaps I can absolutely even do it."
"My dear child, it's just because of the sense of your wish--! I
suppose I'm in trouble--I suppose that's it." He said this with so odd
a suddenness of simplicity that she could only stare for it--which he
as promptly saw. So he turned off as he could his vagueness. "And yet I
oughtn't to be." Which sounded indeed vaguer still.
She waited a moment. "Is it, as you say for my own business, anything
very awful?"
"Well," he slowly replied, "you'll tell me if you find it so. I mean if
you find my idea--"
He was so slow that she took him up. "Awful?" A sound of
impatience--the form of a laugh--at last escaped her. "I can't find it
anything at all till I know what you're talking about."
It brought him then more to the point, though it did so at first but by
making him, on the hearthrug before her, with his hands in his pockets,
turn awhile to and fro. There rose in him even with this movement a
recall of another time--the hour in Venice, the hour of gloom and
storm, when Susan Shepherd had sat in his quarters there very much as
Kate was sitting now, and he had wondered, in pain even as now, what he
might say and mightn't. Yet the present occasion after all was somehow
the easier. He tried at any rate to attach that feeling to it while he
stopped before his companion. "The communication I speak of can't
possibly belong--so far as its date is concerned--to these last days.
The postmark, which is legible, does; but it isn't thinkable, for
anything else, that she wrote--!" He dropped, looking at her as if
she'd understand.
It was easy to understand. "On her deathbed?" But Kate took an
instant's thought. "Aren't we agreed that there was never any one in
the world like her?"
"Yes." And looking over her head he spoke clearly enough. "There was
never any one in the world like her."
Kate, from her chair, always without a movement, raised her eyes to the
unconscious reach of his own. Then when the latter again dropped to her
she added a question. "And won't it further depend a little on what the
communication is?"
"A little perhaps--but not much. It's a communication," said Densher.
"Do you mean a letter?"
"Yes, a letter. Addressed to me in her hand--in hers unmistakeably."
Kate thought. "Do you know her hand very well?"
"Oh perfectly."
It was as if his tone for this prompted--with a slight strangeness--her
next demand. "Have you had many letters from her?"
"No. Only three notes." He spoke looking straight at her. "And very,
very short ones."
"Ah," said Kate, "the number doesn't matter. Three lines would be
enough if you're sure you remember."
"I'm sure I remember. Besides," Densher continued, "I've seen her hand
in other ways. I seem to recall how you once, before she went to
Venice, showed me one of her notes precisely for that. And then she
once copied me something."
"Oh," said Kate almost with a smile, "I don't ask you for the detail of
your reasons. One good one's enough." To which however she added as if
precisely not to speak with impatience or with anything like irony:
"And the writing has its usual look?"
Densher answered as if even to better that description of it. "It's
beautiful."
"Yes--it was beautiful. Well," Kate, to defer to him still, further
remarked, "it's not news to us now that she was stupendous. Anything's
possible."
"Yes, anything's possible"--he appeared oddly to catch at it. "That's
what I say to myself. It's what I've been believing you," he a trifle
vaguely explained, "still more certain to feel."
She waited for him to say more, but he only, with his hands in his
pockets, turned again away, going this time to the single window of the
room, where in the absence of lamplight the blind hadn't been drawn. He
looked out into the lamplit fog, lost himself in the small sordid
London street--for sordid, with his other association, he felt it--as
he had lost himself, with Mrs. Stringham's eyes on him, in the vista of
the Grand Canal. It was present then to his recording consciousness
that when he had last been driven to such an attitude the very depth of
his resistance to the opportunity to give Kate away was what had so
driven him. His waiting companion had on that occasion waited for him
to say he would; and what he had meantime glowered forth at was the
inanity of such a hope. Kate's attention, on her side, during these
minutes, rested on the back and shoulders he thus familiarly
presented--rested as with a view of their expression, a reference to
things unimparted, links still missing and that she must ever miss, try
to make them out as she would. The result of her tension was that she
again took him up. "You received--what you spoke of--last night?"
It made him turn round. "Coming in from Fleet Street--earlier by an
hour than usual--I found it with some other letters on my table. But my
eyes went straight to it, in an extraordinary way, from the door. I
recognised it, knew what it was, without touching it."
"One can understand." She listened with respect. His tone however was
so singular that she presently added: "You speak as if all this while
you hadn't touched it."
"Oh yes, I've touched it. I feel as if, ever since, I'd been touching
nothing else. I quite firmly," he pursued as if to be plainer, "took
hold of it."
"Then where is it?"
"Oh I have it here."
"And you've brought it to show me?"
"I've brought it to show you."
So he said with a distinctness that had, among his other oddities,
almost a sound of cheer, yet making no movement that matched his words.
She could accordingly but offer again her expectant face, while his
own, to her impatience, seemed perversely to fill with another thought.
"But now that you've done so you feel you don't want to."
"I want to immensely," he said. "Only you tell me nothing."
She smiled at him, with this, finally, as if he were an unreasonable
child. "It seems to me I tell you quite as much as you tell me. You
haven't yet even told me how it is that such explanations as you
require don't come from your document itself." Then as he answered
nothing she had a flash. "You mean you haven't read it?"
"I haven't read it."
She stared. "Then how am I to help you with it?"
Again leaving her while she never budged he paced five strides, and
again he was before her. "By telling me this. It's something, you
know, that you wouldn't tell me the other day."
She was vague. "The other day?"
"The first time after my return--the Sunday I came to you. What's he
doing," Densher went on, "at that hour of the morning with her? What
does his having been with her there mean?"
"Of whom are you talking?"
"Of that man--Lord Mark of course. What does it represent?"
"Oh with Aunt Maud?"
"Yes, my dear--and with you. It comes more or less to the same thing;
and it's what you didn't tell me the other day when I put you the
question."
Kate tried to remember the other day. "You asked me nothing about any
hour."
"I asked you when it was you last saw him--previous, I mean, to his
second descent at Venice. You wouldn't say, and as we were talking of a
matter comparatively more important I let it pass. But the fact
remains, you know, my dear, that you haven't told me."
Two things in this speech appeared to have reached Kate more distinctly
than the others. "I 'wouldn't say'?--and you 'let it pass'?" She looked
just coldly blank. "You really speak as if I were keeping something
back."
"Well, you see," Densher persisted, "you're not even telling me now.
All I want to know," he nevertheless explained, "is whether there was a
connexion between that proceeding on his part, which was
practically--oh beyond all doubt!--the shock precipitating for her what
has now happened, and anything that had occurred with him previously
for yourself. How in the world did he know we're engaged?"
V
Kate slowly rose; it was, since she had lighted the candles and sat
down, the first movement she had made. "Are you trying to fix it on me
that I must have told him?"
She spoke not so much in resentment as in pale dismay--which he showed
he immediately took in. "My dear child, I'm not trying to 'fix'
anything; but I'm extremely tormented and I seem not to understand.
What has the brute to do with us anyway?"
"What has he indeed?" Kate asked.
She shook her head as if in recovery, within the minute, of some mild
allowance for his unreason. There was in it--and for his reason
really--one of those half-inconsequent sweetnesses by which she had
often before made, over some point of difference, her own terms with
him. Practically she was making them now, and essentially he was
knowing it; yet inevitably, all the same, he was accepting it. She
stood there close to him, with something in her patience that suggested
her having supposed, when he spoke more appealingly, that he was going
to kiss her. He hadn't been, it appeared; but his continued appeal was
none the less the quieter. "What's he doing, from ten o'clock on
Christmas morning, with Mrs. Lowder?"
Kate looked surprised. "Didn't she tell you he's staying there?"
"At Lancaster Gate?" Densher's surprise met it. "'Staying'?--since
when?"
"Since day before yesterday. He was there before I came away." And then
she explained--confessing it in fact anomalous. "It's an accident--like
Aunt Maud's having herself remained in town for Christmas, but it isn't
after all so monstrous. We stayed--and, with my having come here,
she's sorry now--because we neither of us, waiting from day to day for
the news you brought, seemed to want to be with a lot of people."
"You stayed for thinking of--Venice?"
"Of course we did. For what else? And even a little," Kate wonderfully
added--"it's true at least of Aunt Maud--for thinking of you."
He appreciated. "I see. Nice of you every way. But whom," he enquired,
"has Lord Mark stayed for thinking of?"
"His being in London, I believe, is a very commonplace matter. He has
some rooms which he has had suddenly some rather advantageous chance to
let--such as, with his confessed, his decidedly proclaimed want of
money, he hasn't had it in him, in spite of everything, not to jump at."
Densher's attention was entire. "In spite of everything? In spite of
what?"
"Well, I don't know. In spite, say, of his being scarcely supposed to
do that sort of thing."
"To try to get money?"
"To try at any rate in little thrifty ways. Apparently however he has
had for some reason to do what he can. He turned at a couple of days'
notice out of his place, making it over to his tenant; and Aunt Maud,
who's deeply in his confidence about all such matters, said: 'Come then
to Lancaster Gate--to sleep at least--till, like all the world, you go
to the country.' He was to have gone to the country--I think to
Matcham--yesterday afternoon: Aunt Maud, that is, told me he was."
Kate had been somehow, for her companion, through this statement,
beautifully, quite soothingly, suggestive. "Told you, you mean, so that
you needn't leave the house?"
"Yes--so far as she had taken it into her head that his being there was
part of my reason."
"And was it part of your reason?"
"A little if you like. Yet there's plenty here--as I knew there would
be--without it. So that," she said candidly, "doesn't matter. I'm glad
I am here: even if for all the good I do--!" She implied however that
that didn't matter either. "He didn't, as you tell me, get off then to
Matcham; though he may possibly, if it is possible, be going this
afternoon. But what strikes me as most probable--and it's really, I'm
bound to say, quite amiable of him--is that he has declined to leave
Aunt Maud, as I've been so ready to do, to spend her Christmas alone.
If moreover he has given up Matcham for her it's a procédé that won't
please her less. It's small wonder therefore that she insists, on a
dull day, in driving him about. I don't pretend to know," she wound up,
"what may happen between them; but that's all I see in it."
"You see in everything, and you always did," Densher returned,
"something that, while I'm with you at least, I always take from you as
the truth itself."
She looked at him as if consciously and even carefully extracting the
sting of his reservation; then she spoke with a quiet gravity that
seemed to show how fine she found it. "Thank you." It had for him, like
everything else, its effect. They were still closely face to face, and,
yielding to the impulse to which he hadn't yielded just before, he laid
his hands on her shoulders, held her hard a minute and shook her a
little, far from untenderly, as if in expression of more mingled
things, all difficult, than he could speak. Then bending his head he
applied his lips to her cheek. He fell, after this, away for an
instant, resuming his unrest, while she kept the position in which, all
passive and as a statue, she had taken his demonstration. It didn't
prevent her, however, from offering him, as if what she had had was
enough for the moment, a further indulgence. She made a quiet lucid
connexion and as she made it sat down again. "I've been trying to place
exactly, as to its date, something that did happen to me while you were
in Venice. I mean a talk with him. He spoke to me--spoke out."
"Ah there you are!" said Densher who had wheeled round.
"Well, if I'm 'there,' as you so gracefully call it, by having refused
to meet him as he wanted--as he pressed--I plead guilty to being so.
Would you have liked me," she went on, "to give him an answer that
would have kept him from going?"
It made him a little awkwardly think. "Did you know he was going?"
"Never for a moment; but I'm afraid that--even if it doesn't fit your
strange suppositions--I should have given him just the same answer if I
had known. If it's a matter I haven't, since your return, thrust upon
you, that's simply because it's not a matter in the memory of which I
find a particular joy. I hope that if I've satisfied you about it," she
continued, "it's not too much to ask of you to let it rest."
"Certainly," said Densher kindly, "I'll let it rest." But the next
