as little as he was pleased, one morning, when he 
came to take the chair beside her to find Miss Ras 
mith in it, talking and laughing to the girl, who 
perversely showed herself amused. Miss Rasmith 
made as if to offer him the seat, but he had to 
go away disappointed, after standing long enough 
before them to be aware that they were suspending 
some topic while he stayed. 
He naturally supposed the topic to be himself, 
but it was not so, or at least not directly so. It 
was only himself as related to the scolding he had 
given Miss Rasmith for trifling with the innocence 
of Boyne, which she wished Miss Kenton to under 
stand as the effect of a real affection for her brother. 
She loved all boys, and Boyne was simply the most 
delightful creature in the world. She went on to 
 
explain how delightful he was, and she showed such 
an appreciation of the infantile sweetness mingled 
with the mature severity of Boyne 's character that 
Ellen could not help being pleased and won. She 
told some little stories of Boyne that threw a light 
also on their home life in Tuskingum, and Miss 
Easmith declared herself perfectly fascinated, and 
wished that she could go and live in Tuskingum. 
She protested that she should not find it dull ; Boyne 
alone would be entertainment enough; and she fig 
ured a circumstance so idyllic from the hints she 
had gathered, that Ellen 's brow darkened in silent 
denial, and Miss Kasmith felt herself, as the chil 
dren say in the game, very hot in her proximity 
to the girl 's secret. She would have liked to know 
it, but whether she felt that she could know it when 
she liked enough, or whether she should not be 
so safe with Breckon in knowing it, she veered sud 
denly away, and said that she was so glad to have 
Boyne 's family know the peculiar nature of her de 
votion, which did not necessarily mean running 
away with him, though it might come to that. She 
supposed she was a little morbid about it from what 
Mr. Breckon had been saying; he had a conscience 
that would break the peace of a whole community, 
though he was the greatest possible favorite, not 
only with his own congregation, which simply wor 
shipped him, but with the best society, where he 
was in constant request. 
It was not her fault if she did not overdo these 
phases of his contemporary history, but perhaps it 
 
was all true about the number of girls who were 
ready and willing to marry him. It might even 
be true, though she had no direct authority for 
saying it, that he had made up his mind never to 
marry, and that was the reason why he felt himself 
so safe in being the nicest sort of friend. He was 
safe, Miss Rasmith philosophized, but whether other 
people were so safe was a different question. There 
were girls who were said to be dying for him; but 
of course those things were always said about a 
handsome young minister. She had frankly taken 
him on his own ground, from the beginning, and 
she believed that this was what he liked. At any 
rate, they had agreed that they were never to be 
anything but the best of friends, and they always 
had been. 
Mrs. Kenton came and shyly took the chair on 
Miss Rasmith 's other side, and Miss Rasmith said 
they had been talking about Mr. Breckon, and she 
repeated what she had been saying to Ellen. Mrs. 
Kenton assented more openly than Ellen could to 
her praises, but when she went away, and her daugh 
ter sat passive, without comment or apparent in 
terest, the mother drew a long, involuntary sigh. 
"Do you like her, Ellen?" 
" She tries to be pleasant, I think." 
" Do you think she really knows much about Mr. 
Breckon?" 
"Oh yes. Why not? She belongs to his church." 
" He doesn 't seem to me like a person who would 
have a parcel of girls tagging after him." 
 
" That is what they do in the East, Boyne says." 
" I wish she would let Boyne alone. She is mak 
ing a fool of the child. He 's round with her every 
moment. I think she ought to be ashamed, such an 
old thing!" 
Ellen chose to protest, or thought it fair to do 
so. " I don 't believe she is doing him any harm. 
She just lets him talk out, and everybody else 
checks him up so. It was nice of her to come 
and talk with me, when we had all been keeping 
away from her. Perhaps he sent her, though. She 
says they have always been such good friends be 
cause she wouldn 't be anything else from the be 
ginning." 
" I don 't see why she need have told you that." 
" Oh, it was just to show he was run after. I 
wonder if he thinks we are running after him? 
Momma, I am tired of him! I wish he wouldn 't 
speak to me any more." 
"Why! do you really dislike him, Ellen?" 
"No, not dislike him. But it tires me to have 
him trying to amuse me. Don 't you understand ?" 
Mrs. Kenton said yes, she understood, but she 
was clear only of the fact that Ellen seemed flushed 
and weak at that moment. She believed that it was 
Miss Kasmith and not Mr. Breckon who was to 
blame, but she said : " Well, you needn 't worry about 
it long. It will only be a day or two now till we 
get to Boulogne, and then he will leave us. Hadn 't 
you better go down now, and rest awhile in your 
berth? I will bring your things." 
 
Ellen rose, pulling her wraps from her skirts 
to give them to her mother. A voice from behind 
said between their meeting shoulders : " Oh, are 
you going down? I was just coming to beg Miss 
Kenton to take a little walk with me," and they 
looked round together and met Breckon 's smiling 
face. 
"I 'm afraid," Mrs. Kenton began, and then, like 
a well-trained American mother, she stopped and 
left the affair to her daughter. 
" Do you think you can get down with them, 
momma ?" the girl asked, and somehow her mother 's 
heart was lightened by her evasion, not to call it 
uncandor. It was at least not morbid, it was at 
least like other girls, and Mrs. Kenton imparted 
what comfort there was in it to the judge, when he 
asked where she had left Ellen. 
" Not that it 's any use," she sighed, when she 
had seen him share it with a certain shamefaced- 
ness. " That woman has got her grip on him, and 
she doesn 't mean to let go." 
Kenton understood Miss Rasmith by that woman ; 
but he would not allow himself to be so easily cast 
down. This was one of the things that provoked 
Mrs. Kenton with him; when he had once taken 
hope he would not abandon it without reason. " I 
don 't see any evidence of her having her grip on 
him. I ve noticed him, and he doesn 't seem atten 
tive to her. I should say he tried to avoid her. 
Pie certainly doesn 't avoid Ellen." 
"What are you thinking of, Rufus?" 
 
" What are you ? You know we d both be glad 
if he fancied her." 
"Well, suppose we would? I don 't deny it. He 
is one of the most agreeable gentlemen I ever saw; 
one of the kindest and nicest." 
"He 's more than that," said the judge. "I ve 
been sounding him on various points, and I don 't 
see where he 's wrong. Of course, I don 't know much 
about his religious persuasion, if it is one, but I 
think I 'm a pretty fair judge of character, and that 
young man has character. He isn 't a light person, 
though he likes joking and laughing, and he ap 
preciates Ellen." 
" Yes, so do we. And there 's about as much pros 
pect of his marrying her. Rufus, it 's pretty hard! 
She 's just in the mood to be taken with him, but 
she won 't let herself, because she knows it 's of no 
use. That Miss Rasmith has been telling her how 
much he is run after, and I could see that that 
settled it for Ellen as plainly as if she said so. 
More plainly, for there 's enough of the girl in her 
to make her say one thing when she means an 
other. She was just saying she was sick of him, and 
never wanted to speak to him again, when he 
came up and asked her to walk, and she went 
with him instantly. I knew what she meant. 
She wasn 't going to let him suppose that any 
thing Miss Rasmith had said was going to change 
her." 
"Well, then," said the judge, "I don 't see what 
you 're scared at." 
" I 'm not scared. But, oh, Rufus ! It can 't come 
to anything ! There isn 't time !" An hysterical hope 
trembled in her asseveration of despair that made 
him smile. 
" I guess if time 's all that 's wanted " 
" He is going to get off at Boulogne." 
" Well, we can get off there, too." 
" Rufus, if you dare to think of such a thing !" 
" I don t. But Europe isn 't so big but what he 
can find us again if he wants to." 
" Ah, if he wants to !" 
Ellen seemed to have let her mother take her 
languor below along with the shawls she had given 
her. Buttoned into a close jacket, and skirted short 
for the sea, she pushed against the breeze at Breck- 
on 's elbow with a vigor that made him look his 
surprise at her. Girl-like, she took it that something 
was wrong with her dress, and ran herself over with 
an uneasy eye. 
Then he explained : " I was just thinking how 
much you were like Miss Lottie if you 'll excuse 
my being so personal. And it never struck me be 
fore." 
" I didn 't suppose we looked alike," said Ellen. 
"No, certainly. I shouldn 't have taken you for 
sisters. And yet, just now, I felt that you were 
like her. You seem so much stronger this morning 
perhaps it 's that the voyage is doing you good. 
Shall you be sorry to have it end?" 
"Shall you? That 's the way Lottie would an- 
 
Breckon laughed. "Yes, it is. I shall be very 
sorry. I should be willing to have it rough again, 
if that would make it longer. I liked it 's being 
rough. We had it to ourselves." He had not 
thought how that sounded, but if it sounded par 
ticular, she did not notice it. 
She merely said, " I was surprised not to be sea 
sick, too." 
"And should you be willing to have it rough 
again?" 
" You wouldn 't see anything more of your friends, 
then." 
"Ah, yes; Miss Rasmith. She is a great talker. 
Did you find her interesting?" 
" She was very interesting." 
"Yes? What did she talk about?" 
Ellen realized the fact too late to withhold it. 
" Why, about you." 
" And was that what made her interesting ?" 
" Now, what would Lottie say to such a thing 
as that?" asked Ellen, gayly. 
" Something terribly cutting, I 'm afraid. But 
don 't you! From you I don 't want to believe I de 
serve it, no matter what Miss Rasmith said of 
me." 
" Oh, she didn 't say anything very bad. Unless 
you mind being a universal favorite." 
" Well, it makes a man out rather silly." 
" But you can 't help that." 
" Now you remind me of Miss Lottie again !" 
"But I didn 't mean that," said Ellen, blushing 
 
 
and laughing. " I hope you wouldn 't think I could 
be so pert." 
" I wouldn 't think anything that wasn 't to your 
praise," said Breckon, and a pause ensued, after 
which the words he added seemed tame and flat. 
" I suspect Miss Rasmith has been idealizing the 
situation. At any rate, I shouldn 't advise you to 
trust her report implicitly. I 'm at the head of a 
society, you know, ethical or sociological, or altru 
istic, whatever you choose to call it, which hasn 't 
any very definite object of worship, and yet meets 
every Sunday for a sort of worship; and I have 
to be in the pulpit. So you see ?" 
Ellen said, " I think I understand," with a temp 
tation to smile at the ruefulness of hi.s appeal. 
Breckon laughed for her. "That 's the mischief 
and the absurdity of it. But it isn 't so bad as it 
seems. They 're really most of them hard - headed 
people; and those that are not couldn 't make a 
fool of a man that nature hadn 't begun with. Still, 
I 'm not very well satisfied with my work among 
them that is, I 'm not satisfied with myself." He 
was talking soberly enough, and he did not find 
that she was listening too seriously. " I 'm going 
away to see whether I shall come back." He looked 
at her to make sure that she had taken his meaning, 
and seemed satisfied that she had. "I 'm not sure 
that Fm fit for any sort of ministry, and I may 
spend the winter in England trying to find out. 
I was at school in England, you know." 
Ellen confessed that she had not known that. 
 
"Yes; I suppose that 's what made me seem so 
Englishy the first day to Miss Lottie, as she called 
it. But I 'm straight enough American as far as 
parentage goes. Do you think you will be in 
England later ?" 
"I don 't know. If poppa gets too homesick we 
will go back in the fall." 
"Miss Kenton," said the young man, abruptly, 
" will you let me tell you how much I admire and 
revere your father?" 
Tears came into her eyes and her throat swelled. 
"But you don 't know," she begun; and then she 
stopped. 
" I have been wanting to submit something to his 
judgment; but I ve been afraid. I might seem to 
be fishing for his favor." 
"Poppa wouldn 't think anything that was un 
just," said Ellen, gravely. 
" Ah," Breckon laughed, " I suspect that I should 
rather have him unjust. I wish you d tell me what 
he would think." 
" But I don 't know what it is," she protested, with 
a reflected smile. 
" I was in hopes Miss Rasmith might have told 
you. Well, it is simply this, and you will see that 
I 'm not quite the universal favorite she 's been 
making you fancy me. There is a rift in my lute, 
a schism in my little society, which is so little that 
I could not have supposed there was enough of it 
to break in two. There are some who think their 
lecturer for that 's what I amount to ought to be 
 
an older, if not a graver man. They are in the 
minority, but they 're in the right, I 'm afraid; and 
that 's why I happen to be here telling you all this. 
It 's a question of whether I ought to go back to New 
York or stay in London, where there 's been a faint 
call for me." He saw the girl listening devoutly, 
with that nattered look which a serious girl cannot 
keep out of her face when a man confides a serious 
matter to her. " I might safely promise to be older, 
but could I keep my word if I promised to be 
graver? That 's the point. If I were a Calvinist 
I might hold fast by faith, and fight it out with 
that; or if I were a Catholic I could cast myself 
upon the strength of the Church, and triumph in 
spite of temperament. Then it wouldn 't matter 
whether I was grave or gay; it might be even bet 
ter if I were gay. But," he went on, in terms 
which, doubtless, were mot then for the first time 
formulated in his mind, "being merely the 
leader of a sort of forlorn hope in the Divine 
Goodness, perhaps I have no right to be so cheer 
ful." 
The note of a sad irony in his words appealed 
to such indignation for him in Ellen as she never 
felt for herself. But she only said, " I don 't believe 
poppa could take that in the wrong way if you told 
him." 
Breckon stared. " Yes, your father ! What would 
he say?" 
" I can 't tell you. But I 'm sure he would know 
what you meant." 
 
"And you," he pursued, "what should you 
say?" 
"I? I never thought about such a thing. You 
mustn 't ask me, if you 're serious; and if you 're 
not" 
" But I am ; I am deeply serious. I would like 
to know how the case strikes you. I shall be so 
grateful if you will tell me." 
" I 'm sorry I can t, Mr. Breckon. Why don 't you 
ask poppa?" 
" No, I see now I sha n 't be able. I feel too much, 
after telling you, as if I had been posing. The 
reality has gone out of it all. And I 'm ashamed." 
"You mustn 't be," she said, quietly; and she 
added, " I suppose it would be Me a kind of defeat 
if you didn 't go back ?" 
"I shouldn 't care for the appearance of defeat," 
he said, courageously. " The great question is, 
whether somebody else wouldn 't be of more use in 
my place." 
"Nobody could be," said she, in a sort of im 
passioned absence, and then coming to herself, " I 
mean, they wouldn 't think so, I don 't believe." 
" Then you advise " 
"No, no! I can t; I don t. I 'm not fit to have 
an opinion about such a thing; it would be crazy. 
But poppa " 
They were at the door of the gangway, and she 
slipped within and left him. His nerves tingled, 
and there was a glow in his breast. It was sweet 
to have surprised that praise from her, though he 
 
could not have said why he should value the praise 
of a girl of her open ignorance and inexperience 
in everything that would have qualified her to 
judge him. But he found himself valuing it su 
premely, and wonderingly wishing to be worthy of 
it. 
XVII 
ELLEN discovered her father with a book in a dis 
tant corner of the dining-saloon, which he preferred 
to the deck or the library for his reading, in such 
intervals as the stewards, laying and cleaning the 
tables, left him unmolested in it. She advanced 
precipitately upon him, and stood before him in 
an excitement which, though he lifted his dazed eyes 
to it from his page, he was not entirely aware of 
till afterwards. Then he realized that her cheeks 
were full of color, and her eyes of light, and that 
she panted as if she had been running when she 
spoke. 
"Poppa," she said, "there is something that Mr. 
Breckon wants to speak to you to ask you about. 
He has asked me, but I want you to see him, for I 
think he had better tell you himself." 
While he still stared at her she was as suddenly 
gone as she had come, and he remained with his 
book, which the meaning had as suddenly left. 
There was no meaning in her words, except as he 
put it into them, and after he had got it in he strug 
gled with it in a sort of perfunctory incredulity. 
It was not impossible; it chiefly seemed so because 
it seemed too good to be true; and the more he 
 
pondered it the more possible, if not probable, it 
became. He could not be safe with it till he had 
submitted it to his wife; and he went to her while 
he was sure of repeating Ellen 's words without vary 
ing from them a syllable. 
To his astonishment, Mrs. Kenton was instantly 
convinced. " Why, of course," she said, " it can 't 
possibly mean anything else. Why should it be 
so very surprising? The time hasn 't been very 
long, but they ve been together almost every mo 
ment; and he was taken with her from the very 
beginning I could see that. Put on your other 
coat," she said, as she dusted the collar of the coat 
the judge was wearing. " He 'll be looking you up 
at once. I can 't say that it 's unexpected," and she 
claimed a prescience in the matter which all her 
words had hitherto denied. 
Kenton did not notice her inconsistency. "If 
it were not so exactly what I wished," he said, "I 
don 't know that I should be surprised at it myself. 
Sarah, if I had been trying to imagine any one 
for Ellen, I couldn 't have dreamed of a person bet 
ter suited to her than this young man. He 's every 
thing that I could wish him to be. I ve seen the 
pleasure and comfort she took in his way from the 
first moment. He seemed to make her forget Do 
you suppose she has forgotten that miserable wretch ? 
Do you think " 
" If she hadn t, could she be letting him come to 
speak to you? I don 't believe she ever really cared 
for Bittridge or not after he began flirting with 
 
Mrs. Uphill." She had no shrinking from the names 
which Kenton avoided with disgust. " The only 
question for you is to consider what you shall say 
to Mr. Breckon." 
" Say to him ? Why, of course, if Ellen has made 
up her mind, there 's only one thing I can say." 
"Indeed there is! He ought to know all about 
that disgusting Bittridge business, and you have 
got to tell him." 
" Sarah, I couldn t. It is too humiliating. How 
would it do to refer him to You could manage 
that part so much better. I don 't see how I could 
keep it from seeming an indelicate betrayal of the 
poor child " 
"Perhaps she 's told him herself," Mrs. Kenton 
provisionally suggested. 
The judge eagerly caught at the notion. "Do 
you think so? It would be like her! Ellen would 
wish him to know everything." 
He stopped, and his wife could see that he was 
trembling with excitement. " We must find out. I 
will speak to Ellen " 
"And you don 't think I d better have the talk 
with him first?" 
" Certainly not ! Why, Ruf us ! You were not 
going to look him up?" 
"No," he hesitated; but she could see that some 
such thing had been on his mind. 
" Surely," she said, " you must be crazy !" But 
she had not the heart to blight his joy with sarcasm, 
and perhaps no sarcasm would have blighted it. . 
 
"I merely wondered what I had better say in 
case he spoke to me before you saw Ellen that 's 
all. Sarah! I couldn 't have believed that anything 
could please me so much. But it does seem as if 
it were the assurance of Ellen 's happiness; and she 
has deserved it, poor child! If ever there was a 
dutiful and loving daughter at least before that 
wretched affair she was one." 
" She has been a good girl," Mrs. Kenton stoically 
admitted. 
"And they are very well matched. Ellen is a 
cultivated woman. He never could have cause to 
blush for her, either her mind or her manners, in 
any circle of society; she would do him credit un 
der any and all circumstances. If it were Lot 
tie" 
"Lottie is all right," said her mother, in 're 
sentment of his preference; but she could not help 
smiling at it. "Don 't you be foolish about Ellen. 
I approve of Mr. Breckon as much as you do. But 
it 's her prettiness and sweetness that 's taken his 
fancy, and not her wisdom, if she 's got him." 
"If she 's got him?" 
" Well, you know what I mean. I 'm not saying 
she hasn t. Dear knows, I don 't want to! I feel 
just as you do about it. I think it 's the greatest 
piece of good fortune, coming on top of all our 
trouble with her. I couldn 't have imagined such a 
thing." 
He was instantly appeased. "Are you going to 
speak with Ellen at once?" he radiantly inquired. 
 
" I will see. There 's no especial hurry, is there ?" 
" Only, if he should happen to meet me " 
"You can keep out of his way, I reckon. Or 
you can put him off, somehow." 
"Yes," Kenton returned, doubtfully. "Don t," 
he added, " be too blunt with Ellen. You know she 
didn 't say anything explicit to me." 
"I think I will know how to manage, Mr. Ken- 
ton." 
" Yes, of course, Sarah. I 'm not saying that." 
Breckon did not apparently try to find the judge 
before lunch, and at table he did not seem especially 
devoted to Ellen in her father 's jealous eyes. He 
joked Lottie, and exchanged those passages of repar 
tee with her in which she did not mind using a 
bludgeon when she had not a rapier at hand; it 
is doubtful if she was very sensible of the differ 
ence. Ellen sat by in passive content, smiling now 
and then, and Boyne carried on a dignified conver 
sation with Mr. Pogis, whom he had asked to lunch 
at his table, and who listened with one ear to 
the vigorous retorts of Lottie in her combat with 
Breckon. 
The judge witnessed it all with a grave dis 
pleasure, more and more painfully apparent to his 
wife. She could see the impatience, the gathering 
misgiving, in his face, and she perceived that she 
must not let this come to conscious dissatisfaction 
with Breckon; she knew her husband capable of 
indignation with trifling which would complicate 
the situation, if it came to that. She decided to 
 
speak with Ellen as soon as possible, and she meant 
to follow her to her state-room when they left the 
table. But fate assorted the pieces in the game 
differently. Boyne walked over to the place where 
Miss Rasmith was sitting with her mother; Lottie 
and Mr. Pogis went off to practise duets together, 
terrible, four - handed torments under which the 
piano presently clamored; and Ellen stood for a 
moment talked to by Mr. Breckon, who challenged 
her then for a walk on deck, and with whom she 
went away smiling. 
Mrs. Kenton appealed with the reflection of the 
girl 's happiness in her face to the frowning censure 
in her husband s; but Kenton spoke first. "What 
does he mean?" he demanded, darkly. "If he is 
making a fool of her he 'll find that that game 
can 't be played twice, with impunity. Sarah, I be 
lieve I should choke him." 
"Mr. Kenton!" she gasped, and she trembled in 
fear of him, even while she kept herself with diffi 
culty from shaking him for his folly. "Don 't say 
such a thing! Can 't you see that they want to 
talk it over? If he hasn 't spoken to you it 's be 
cause he wants to know how you took what she 
said." Seeing the effect of these arguments, she 
pursued: "Will you never have any sense? I will 
speak to Ellen the very minute I get her alone, 
and you have just got to wait. Don 't you suppose 
it 's hard for me, too? Have I got nothing to 
bear?" 
Kenton went silently back to his book, which he 
 
took with him to the reading-room, where from time 
to time his wife came to him and reported that Ellen 
and Breckon were still walking up and down to 
gether, or that they were sitting down talking, or 
were forward, looking over at the prow, or were 
watching the deck-passengers dancing. Her hus 
band received her successive advices with relaxing 
interest, and when she had brought the last she 
was aware that the affair was entirely in her hands 
with all the responsibility. After the gay parting 
between Ellen and Breckon, which took place late 
in the afternoon, she suffered an interval to elapse 
before she followed the girl down to her state-room. 
She found her lying in her berth, with shining 
eyes and glad, red cheeks; she was smiling to her 
self. 
" That is right, Ellen," her mother said. " You 
need rest after your long tramp." 
"I 'm not tired. We were sitting down a good 
deal. I didn 't think how late it was. I 'm ever so 
much better. Where 's Lottie?" 
" Off somewhere with that young Englishman," 
said Mrs. Kenton, as if that were of no sort of 
consequence. "Ellen," she added, abruptly, trying 
within a tremulous smile to hide her eagerness, 
"what is this that Mr. Breckon wants to talk with 
your father about?" 
" Mr. Breckon ? With poppa ?" 
" Yes, certainly. You told him this morning that 
Mr. Breckon" 
"Oh! Oh yes!" said Ellen, as if recollecting 
something that had slipped her mind. " He wants 
poppa to advise him whether to go back to his con 
gregation in New York or not." 
Mrs. Kenton sat in the corner of the sofa next 
the door, looking into the girl 's face on the pillow 
as she lay with her arms under her head. Tears of 
defeat and shame came into her eyes, and she 
could not see the girl 's light nonchalance in adding : 
" But he hasn 't got up his courage yet. He thinks 
