must not."
"Why not I, of all men? I, of all men, will."
She was standing with her back to the wall on the landing, and he was
facing her now. His face looked a little more set and determined than
usual, and he was rather pale, and he stood sturdily still before her.
She could see his face through her veil, though he could hardly
distinguish hers. He felt for a moment as if he were talking to a sort
of lay figure that represented her and could not answer him.
"I, of all men, will take care that no one says a word against you," he
said, as she was silent.
"But why? Why you?"
"You have definitely given up all idea of marrying Guido? Absolutely?
For ever? You are sure, in your own conscience, that he has no sort of
claim on you left, and that he knows it?"
"Yes, yes! But----"
"Then," he said, not heeding her, "as you and I may not meet again for a
long time, and as it cannot do you the least harm to know it, and as you
will have no right to feel that I shall be lacking in respect to you, if
I say it, I am going to give myself the satisfaction of telling you
something I have taken great pains to hide since we first met."
"What is it?" asked Cecilia, nervously.
"It is a very simple matter, and one that will not interest you much."
He paused one moment, and fixed his eyes on the brown veil, where he
knew that hers were.
"I love you."
Cecilia started violently, and put out one hand against the wall behind
her.
"Do not be frightened, Contessina," he said gently. "Many men will say
that to you before you are old. But none of them will mean it more truly
than I. Shall we go? Your mother may not stay long with Guido."
He moved, expecting her to go on, but she leaned against the wall where
she stood, and she stared at his face through her veil. For an instant
she thought she was going to faint, for her heart stopped beating and
the blood left her head. She did not know whether it was happiness, or
surprise, or fear that paralysed her, when his simple words revealed the
vastness of the mistake in which she had lived, and the immensity of joy
she had missed by so little. She pressed her hand flat against the wall
beside her, sure that if she moved it she must fall.
"Have I offended you, Signorina?" Lamberti asked, and the low tones
shook a little.
She could not speak yet, but his voice seemed to steady her, and her
heart beat again. As if she were making a great effort her hand slowly
left the wall, and she stretched it out towards him, silently asking for
his. He did not understand, but he took it and held it quietly, coming a
little nearer to her.
"You have forgiven me," he said. "Thank you. You are kind. Good-bye."
But then her fingers closed on his with almost frantic pressure.
"No, no!" she cried. "Not yet! One moment more!"
Still he did not understand, but he felt the blood rising and singing in
his heart like the tide when it is almost high. A strange expectation
filled him, as of a great change in his whole being that must come in
the most fearful pain, or else in a happiness almost unbearable,
something swelling, bursting, overwhelming, and enormous beyond
imagination.
She did not know that she was drawing him nearer to her, she would have
blushed scarlet at the thought; he did not know that his feet moved,
that he was quite close to her, that she was clutching his hand and
pressing it upon her own heart. They did not see what they were doing.
They were standing together by a marble pillar in the Vestals' House.
They were out in the firmament beyond worlds, not seeing, not hearing,
not touching, but knowing and one in knowledge.
The veil touched his cheek and lightly pressed against it. It was the
Vestal's veil. He had felt it in dreams, between his face and hers. Then
the world broke into visible light, and he heard her whisper in his ear.
"That was my secret. You know it now."
A distant footfall echoed from far up the stone staircase. Once more as
she heard it she pressed his hand to her heart with all her might, and
he, with his left round her neck, drew her veiled face against his and
held it there an instant in simple pressure, not trying to kiss her.
Then those two separated and went down the remaining steps in silence,
side by side, and very demurely, as if nothing had happened. The
Countess's brougham was in the courtyard, and the porter, just going
into his lodge under the archway, touched his big-visored cap to
Lamberti and glanced at Cecilia carelessly as they went out. Petersen
was sitting in an open cab in the blazing sun, under a large white
parasol lined with green cotton, and her mistress was seated beside her
before she had time to rise. Cecilia had quickly turned up her veil over
the brim of her hat as soon as she had passed the porter's lodge, for he
knew her face and she did not wish him to see her go out with Lamberti.
"Thank you," she said in a matter-of-fact tone as Lamberti stood hat in
hand in the sun by the step of the cab. "Palazzo Massimo," she called
out to the coach-man.
She nodded to Lamberti indifferently, and the cab drove quickly away to
the right, rattling over the white paving-stones of the Piazza Farnese
in the direction of San Carlo a Catinari.
"Did you see your mother?" Petersen asked. "She stopped the carriage and
called me when she saw me, and she said she was going to ask after
Signor d'Este. I said you had gone up to the embassy."
"No," Cecilia answered, "I did not see her. We shall be at home before
she is."
She did not speak again on the way. Petersen was too near-sighted and
unsuspicious to see that she surreptitiously loosened the brown veil
from her hat, got it down beside her on the other side, and rolled it up
into a ball with one hand. Somehow, when she reached her own door, it
was inside the parasol, just where the revolver had been half an hour
earlier.
Lamberti put on his straw hat and glanced indifferently at the departing
cab as he turned away, quite sure that Cecilia would not look round. He
went back into the palace, feeling for a cigar in his outer breast
pocket. His hands felt numb with cold under the scorching sun, and he
knew that he was taking pains to look indifferent and to move as if
nothing extraordinary had happened to him; for in a few minutes he would
be face to face with Guido d'Este and the Countess Fortiguerra. He lit
his cigar under the archway, and blew a cloud of smoke before him as he
turned into the staircase; but on the first landing he stopped, just
where he had stood with Cecilia. He paused, his cigar between his teeth,
his legs a little apart as if he were on deck in a sea-way, and his
hands behind him. He looked curiously at the wall where she had leaned
against it, and he smoked vigorously. At last he took out a small pocket
knife and with the point of the blade scratched a little cross on the
hard surface, looked at it, touched it again and was satisfied, returned
the knife to his pocket, and went quietly upstairs. Most seafaring men
do absurdly sentimental things sometimes. Lamberti's expression had
neither softened nor changed while he was scratching the mark, and when
he went on his way he looked precisely as he did when he was going up
the steps of the Ministry to attend a meeting of the Commission. He had
good nerves, as he had told the specialist whom he had consulted in the
spring.
But he would have given much not to meet Guido for a day or two, though
he did not in the least mind meeting the Countess. Cecilia could keep a
secret as well as he himself, almost too well, and there was not the
slightest danger that her mother should guess the truth from the
behaviour of either of them, even when together. Nor would Guido guess
it for that matter; that was not what Lamberti was thinking of just
then.
He felt that chance, or fate, had made him the instrument of a sort of
betrayal for which he was not responsible, and as he had never been in
such a position in his life, even by accident, it was almost as bad at
first as if he had intentionally taken Cecilia from his friend. He had
always been instinctively sure that she would love him some day, but
when he had at last spoken he had really not had the least idea that she
already loved him. He had acted on an impulse as soon as he was quite
sure that she would never marry Guido; perhaps, if he could have
analysed his feelings, as Guido could have done, he would have found
that he really meant to shock her a little, or frighten her by the
point-blank statement that he loved her, in the hope of widening the
distance which he supposed to exist between them, and thereby making it
much more improbable that she should ever care for him.
Even now he did not see how he could ever marry her and remain Guido's
friend. He was far too sensible to tell Guido the truth and appeal to
his generosity, for the best man living is not inclined to be generous
when he has just been jilted, least of all to the man to whom he owes
his discomfiture. In the course of time Guido might grow more
indifferent. That was the most that could be hoped. Nevertheless, from
the instant in which Lamberti had realised the truth, coming back to his
senses out of a whirlwind of delight, he had known that he meant to have
the woman he loved for himself, since she loved him already, and that he
would count nothing that chanced to stand in his way, neither his
friend, nor his career, nor his own family, nor neck nor life, either,
if any such improbable risk should present itself. He was very glad that
he had waited till he was quite sure that she was free, for he knew very
well that if the moment had come too soon he should have felt the same
reckless desire to win her, though he would have exiled himself to a
desert island in the Pacific Ocean rather than yield to it.
And more than that. He, who had a rough and strong belief in God, in an
ever living soul within him, and in everlasting happiness and suffering
hereafter, he, who called suicide the most dastardly and execrable crime
against self that it lies in the power of a believing man to commit,
would have shot himself without hesitation rather than steal the love of
his only friend's wedded wife, content to give his body to instant
destruction, and his soul to eternal hell--if that were the only way not
to be a traitor. God might forgive him or not; salvation or damnation
would matter little compared with escaping such a monstrous evil.
He did not think these things. They were instinctive with him and sure
as fate, like all the impulses of violent temperaments; just as certain
as that if a man should give him the lie he would have struck him in the
face before he had realised that he had even raised his hand. Guido
d'Este, as brave in a different way, but hating any violent action,
would never strike a man at all if he could possibly help it, though he
would probably not miss him at the first shot the next morning.
A quarter of an hour had not elapsed since Lamberti had left the
Countess and Guido together when he let himself in again with his
latch-key. He went at once to the bedroom, walking slowly and
scrutinising the floor as he went along. He had heard of tragedies
brought about by a hairpin, a glove, or a pocket handkerchief, dropped
or forgotten in places where they ought not to be. He looked everywhere
in the passage and in Guido's room, but Cecilia had not dropped
anything. Then he examined his beard in the glass, with an absurd
exaggeration of caution. Her loose brown veil had touched his cheek, a
single silk thread of it clinging to his beard might tell a tale. He was
a man who had more than once lived among savages and knew how slight a
trace might lead to a broad trail. Then he got a chair and set it
against the side of the tall wardrobe. Standing on it he got hold of the
cornice with his hands, drew himself up till he could see over it,
remained suspended by one hand and, with the other, laid the revolver
and the cartridges on the top. Guido would never find them there.
The Countess's unnecessary shyness had disappeared as soon as she saw
how ill Guido looked. His head was aching terribly now, and he had a
little fever again, but he raised himself as well as he could to greet
her, and smiled courteously as she held out her hand.
"This is very kind of you, my dear lady," he managed to say, but his own
voice sounded far off.
"I was really so anxious about you!" the Countess said, with a little
laugh. "And--and about it all, you know. Now tell me how you really
are!"
Guido said that he had felt better in the morning, but now had a bad
headache. She sympathised with him and suggested bathing his temples
with Eau de Cologne, which seemed simple. She always did it herself when
she had a headache, she said. The best was the Forty-Seven Eleven kind.
But of course he knew that.
He felt that he should probably go mad if she stayed five minutes
longer, but his courteous manner did not change, though her face seemed
to be jumping up and down at every throb he felt in his head. She was
very kind, he repeated. He had some Eau de Cologne of that very sort. He
never used any other. This sounded in his own ears so absurdly like the
advertisements of patent soap that he smiled in his pain.
Yes, she repeated, it was quite the best; and she seemed a little
embarrassed, as if she wanted to say something else but could not make
up her mind to speak. Could she do anything to make him more
comfortable? She could go away, but he could not tell her so. He thanked
her. Lamberti and his man had taken most excellent care of him. Why did
he not have a nurse? There were the Sisters of Charity, and the French
sisters who wore dark blue and were very good; she could not remember
the name of the order, but she knew where they lived. Should she send
him one? He thanked her again, and the room turned itself upside down
before his eyes and then whirled back again at the next throb. Still he
tried to smile.
She coughed a little and looked at her perfectly fitting gloves, wishing
that he would ask after Cecilia. If he had been suffering less he would
have known that he was expected to do so, but it was all he could do
just then to keep his face from twitching.
Then she suddenly said that she had something on her mind to say to him,
but that, of course, as he was so very ill, she would not say it now,
but as soon as he was quite well they would have a long talk together.
Guido was a man more nervous than sanguine, and probably more phlegmatic
than either, and his nervous strength asserted itself now, just when he
began to believe that he was on the verge of delirium. He felt suddenly
much quieter and the pain in his head diminished, or he noticed it less.
He said that he was quite able to talk now, and wished to know at once
what she had to say to him.
She needed no second invitation to pour out her heart about Cecilia, and
in a long string of involved and often disjointed sentences she told him
just what she felt. Cecilia had done her best to love him, after having
really believed that she did love him, but it was of no use, and it was
much better that Guido should know the truth now, than find it out by
degrees. Cecilia was dreadfully sorry to have made such a mistake, and
both Cecilia and she herself would always be the best friends he had in
the world; but the engagement had better be broken off at once, and of
course, as it would injure Cecilia if everything were known, it would be
very generous of him to let it be thought that it had been broken by
mutual agreement, and without any quarrel. She stopped at last, rather
frightened at having said so much, but quite sure that she had done
right, and believing that she knew the whole truth and had told it all.
She waited for his answer in some trepidation.
"My dear lady," he said at last, "I am very glad you have been so frank.
Ever since your daughter wrote me that letter I have felt that it must
end in this way. As she does not wish to marry me, I quite agree that
our engagement should end at once, so that the agreement is really
mutual and friendly, and I shall say so."
"How good you are!" cried the Countess, delighted.
"There is only one thing I ask of you," Guido said, after pressing his
right hand upon his forehead in an attempt to stop the throbbing that
now began again. "I do not think I am asking too much, considering what
has happened, and I promise not to make any use of what you tell me."
"You have a right to ask us anything," the Countess answered,
contritely.
"Who is the man that has taken my place?"
The Countess stared at him blankly a moment, and her mouth opened a
little.
"What man?" she asked, evidently not understanding him.
"I naturally supposed that your daughter felt a strong inclination for
some one else," Guido said.
"Oh dear, no!" cried the Countess. "You are quite mistaken!"
"I beg your pardon, then. Pray forget what I said."
He saw that she was speaking the truth, as far as she knew it, and he
had long ago discovered that she was quite unable to conceal anything
not of the most vital importance. She repeated her assurance several
times, and then began to review the whole situation, till Guido was in
torment again.
At last the door opened and Lamberti entered. He saw at a glance how
Guido was suffering, and came to his side.
"I am afraid he is not so well to-day," he said. "He looks very tired.
If he could sleep more, he would get well sooner."
The Countess rose at once, and became repentant for having stayed too
long.
"I could not help telling him everything," she explained, looking at
Lamberti. "And as for Cecilia being in love with some one else," she
added, looking down into Guido's face and taking his hand, "you must put
that out of your head at once! As if I should not know it! It is
perfectly absurd!"
Lamberti stared fixedly at the top of her hat while she bent down.
"Of course," Guido said, summoning his strength to bid her good-bye
courteously, and to show some gratitude for her visit. "I am sorry I
spoke of it. Thank you very much for coming to see me, and for being so
frank."
In a sense he was glad she had come, for her coming had solved the
difficulty in which he had been placed. He sank back exhausted and
suffering as she left the room, and was hardly aware that Lamberti came
back soon afterwards and sat down beside him. Before long his friend
carried him back to his bed, for he seemed unable to walk.
Lamberti stayed with him till he fell asleep under the influence of a
soporific medicine, and then called the man-servant. He told him he had
taken the revolver from the drawer, because his master was not to be
married after all, and might do something foolish, and ought to be
watched continually, and he said that he would come back and stay
through the night. The man had been in his own service, and could be
trusted now that he had slept.
Lamberti left the Palazzo Farnese and walked slowly homeward in the
white glare, smoking steadily all the way, and looking straight before
him.
                               CHAPTER XXV
The Countess wrote that afternoon to Baron Goldbirn, of Vienna, and to
the Princess Anatolie, now in Styria, that the engagement between her
daughter and Signor Guido d'Este was broken off by mutual agreement. She
had told Cecilia that she had been to see Guido and had confessed the
plain truth, and that there need be no more comedies, because men never
died of that sort of thing after all, and it was much better for them to
be told everything outright. Cecilia seemed perfectly satisfied and
thanked her. Then the Countess said she would like to go to Brittany, or
perhaps to Norway, where she had never been, but that if Cecilia
preferred Scotland, she would make no objection. She would go anywhere,
provided the place were cool, and on the top of a mountain, or by the
sea, but she wished to leave at once. Everything had been ready for
their departure several days ago.
"You do not really mean to leave Rome till Guido--I mean, till Signor
d'Este is out of all danger, do you?" asked the young girl.
"My dear, since you are not going to marry him, what difference can it
make?" asked the Countess, unconsciously heartless. "The sooner we go,
the better. You are as pale as a sheet and as thin as a skeleton. You
will lose all your looks if you stay here!"
Cecilia was in a loose white silk garment with open sleeves. She looked
at the perfect curve of her arm, from the slender wrist to the
delicately rounded elbow, and smiled.
"I am not a skeleton yet," she said.
"You will be in a few days," her mother answered cheerfully. "There is a
telegraph to everywhere nowadays, and Signor Lamberti will be here and
can send us news all the time. You cannot possibly go and see the poor
man, you know. If you could only guess how I felt, my dear, when I found
myself there this morning alone with him! I confess, I half expected
that the walls would be covered with the most dreadful pictures, those
things I do not like you to look at in the Paris Salon, you know. Women
apparently waiting for tea on the lawn--before dressing--that sort of
thing." The good Countess blushed at the thought.
"They are only women!" said Cecilia. "Why should I not look at them?"
"Because they are horrid," answered the Countess. "But I must say I saw
nothing of the sort in Guido's rooms. Nevertheless, I felt like the
wicked ladies in the French novels, who always go out in thick veils and
have little gold keys hidden somewhere inside their clothes. It must be
very uncomfortable."
She prattled on and her daughter scarcely heard her. All sorts of hard
questions were presenting themselves to Cecilia's mind together. Had she
done wrong, or right? And then, though it might have been quite right to
let Lamberti know that she loved him, had her behaviour been modest and
maidenly, or over bold? After all, could she have helped putting out her
hand to find his just then? And when she had found it, could she
possibly have checked herself from drawing him nearer to her? Had she
any will of her own left at that moment, or had she been taken unawares
and made to do something which she would never have done, if she had
been quite calm? Calm! She almost laughed at the word as it came into
her thought.
Her mother was reading the Figaro now, having given up talking when
she saw that Cecilia did not listen. Ever since Cecilia could remember
her mother had read the Figaro. When it did not come by the usual post
she read the number of the preceding day over again.
Cecilia was trying to decide where to spend the rest of the summer,
tolerably sure that she could make her mother accept any reasonable plan
she offered. By a reasonable plan she meant one that should not take her
too far from Rome. For her own part she would have been glad not to go
away at all. There was Vallombrosa, which was high up and very cool, and
there was Viareggio, which was by the sea, but much warmer, and there
was Sorrento, which had become fashionable in the summer, and was never
very hot and was the prettiest place of all. Something must be decided
at once, for she knew her mother well. When the Countess grew restless
to leave town, it was impossible to live with her. A startled
exclamation interrupted Cecilia's reflections.
"My dear! How awful!"
"What is it?" asked Cecilia, placidly, expecting her mother to read out
some blood-curdling tale of runaway motor cars and mangled nursery
maids.
"This is too dreadful!" cried the Countess, still buried in the article
she had found, and reading on to herself, too much interested to stop a
moment.
"Is anybody amusing dead?" enquired Cecilia, with calm.
"What did you say?" asked the Countess, reaching the end. "This is the
most frightful thing I ever heard of! A million of francs--in small
sums--extracted on all sorts of pretexts--probably as blackmail--it is
perfectly horrible."
"Who has extracted a million of francs from whom?" asked Cecilia, quite
indifferent.
"Guido d'Este, of course! I told you--from the Princess Anatolie----"
"Guido?" Cecilia started from her seat. "It is a lie!" she cried,
leaning over her mother's shoulder and reading quickly. "It is an
infamous lie!"
"My dear?" protested the Countess. "They would not dare to print such a
thing if it were not true! Poor Guido! Of course, I suppose they take an
exaggerated view, but the Princess always gave me to understand that he
had large debts. It was a million, you see, just that million they
wished us to give for your dowry! Yes, that would have set him straight.
But they did not get it! My child, what an escape you have made! Just
fancy if you had been already married!"
"I do not believe a word of it," said Cecilia, indignantly throwing down
the paper she had taken from her mother's hand. "Besides, there is only
an initial. It only speaks of a certain Monsieur d'E."
"Oh, there is no doubt about it, I am afraid. His aunt, 'a certain
Princess,' his father 'one of the great of the earth.' It could not be
any one else."
"I should like to kill the people who write such things!" Cecilia was
righteously angry.
The seed sown by Monsieur Leroy was bearing fruit already, and in a much
more public place than he had expected, or even wished. The young lawyer
cared much less for the money he might make out of the affair than for
the advantage of having his name connected with a famous scandal, and he
had not found it hard to make the story public. The article appeared in
the shape of a letter from an occasional correspondent, and said it was
rumoured that since her nephew was to make a rich marriage the Princess
would bring suit to recover the sums she had been induced to lend him on
divers pretences. Her legal representative in Rome, it was stated, had
been interviewed, but had positively refused to give any information,
and his name was given in full, whereas all the others were indicated by
initials followed by dots. The lawyer flattered himself that this was a
remarkably neat way of letting the world know who he was and with what
great discretion he was endowed.
As Cecilia thought of Guido's face as she had seen it that morning, her
heart beat with anger and she clenched her hand and turned away. Her
mother believed the story, or a part of it, and others would believe as
much. The Figaro had come in the morning, and the article would
certainly appear in the Roman papers that very evening. Guido would not
hear of it at present, because Lamberti would keep it from him, but he
must know it in the end.
The girl was powerless, and realised it. If she had been mistress of her
own fortune she would readily have satisfied the Princess's demands on
Guido, for she suspected that in some way the abominable article had
been authorised by his aunt. But she was still Baron Goldbirn's ward,
and the sensible financier would have laughed to scorn the idea of
ransoming Guido d'Este's reputation. So would her mother, though she was
generous; and besides, the Countess could not touch her capital, which
was held in trust for Cecilia.
"What a mercy that you are not married to him!" she said, reading the
article again, while her daughter walked up and down the small boudoir.
"You should not say such things!" Cecilia answered hotly. "Why do you
read that disgusting paper? You know the story is a vile falsehood, from
beginning to end. You know that as well as I do! Signor Lamberti will go
to Paris to-night and kill the man who wrote it."
Her eyes flashed, and she had visions of the man she loved shaking a
miserable creature to death, as a terrier kills a rat. Oddly enough the
miserable creature took the shape of Monsieur Leroy in her vivid
imagination.
"Monsieur Leroy is at the bottom of this," she said with instant
conviction. "He hates Guido."
"I daresay," answered the Countess. "I never liked Monsieur Leroy. Do
you remember, when I asked about him at the Princess's dinner, what an
awful silence there was? That was one of the most dreadful moments of my
life! I am sure her relations never mention him."
"He does what he likes with her. He is a spiritualist."
"Who told you that, child?"
"That dear old Don Nicola Francesetti, the archæologist who showed us
the discoveries in Saint Cecilia's church."
"I remember. I had quite forgotten him."
"Yes. He told me that Monsieur Leroy makes tables turn and rap, and all
that, and persuades the Princess that he is in communication with
spirits. Don Nicola said quite gravely that the devil was in all
spiritualism."
"Of course he is," assented the Countess. "I have heard of dreadful
things happening to people who made tables turn. They go mad, and all
sorts of things."
"All sorts of things," in the Countess's mind represented everything she
could not remember or would not take the trouble to say. The expression
did not always stand grammatically in the sentence, but that was of no
importance whatever compared with the convenience of using it in any
language she chanced to be speaking. She belonged to a generation in
which a woman was considered to have finished her education when she had
learned to play the piano and had forgotten arithmetic, and she had now
forgotten both, which did not prevent her from being generally liked,
while some people thought her amusing.
Just at that moment she seemed hopelessly frivolous to Cecilia, who was
in the greatest distress for Guido, and left her to take refuge in
solitude. She could remember no day in her life on which so much had
happened to change it, and she felt that she must be alone at last.
In her old way she sat down to let herself dream with open eyes in the
darkened room. There could be no harm in it now, and the old longing
came upon her as if she had never tried to resist it. She sat facing the
shadows and concentrated all her thoughts on one point with a steady
effort, sure that presently she should be thinking of nothing and
waiting for the vision to appear, and for the dream-man she had loved so
long. He might take her into his arms now, and she would not resist him;
she would let his lips meet hers, and for one endless instant she would
be lifted up in strong and strange delight, as when to-day her veiled
cheek had pressed against his for a second--or an hour--she did not
know. He might kiss her in dreams now, for in real life he loved her as
she loved him, and some day, far off no doubt, when poor Guido was well
and strong again, and Lamberti had silenced all the calumnies invented
against him, then it would all surely come true indeed.
But now she waited long, patiently, in the certainty that she could go
back to the marble court and stand by the pillar in the morning light
till she felt him coming up behind her. Yet she saw nothing, and her
eyes grew weary of watching the shadows, and closed themselves, for it
was afternoon, and very hot, and she was tired. She fell into a sweet
sleep in her chair, and presently the refreshing breeze that springs up
in Rome towards five o'clock in summer blew through the drawn blinds to
fan her delicate cheek, and stir the little golden ringlets at her
temples. While she slept her face grew sad by slow degrees, and on her
lap her hands moved and lay with their palms turned upwards as if she
were appealing piteously to some higher power for mercy and help.
Shadows darkened softly under her eyes, as she lay thus, and the young
lids swelled and trembled; and she, who never shed tears waking, wept
silently in her sleep. The bright drops hung by the lashes and broke,
trickling down her cheeks, one by one, till they fell sideways upon her
bare white neck. Many they were and long they fell, and when they ceased
at last, her face was very white and still, as if she were quite dead,
and dead of a sorrow that could be consoled only in heaven.
She had dreamed that the Vestal's vow was broken at last, and that she
was sitting alone at night on the steps of the closed Temple, leaning
back against the base of a pillar, watching the stars that slowly
ascended out of the east; and she was thinking of what she had been, and
that she should never again stand within the holy place to feed the
sacred fire with the consecrated wood, and sweep the precious ashes into
the mysterious pit beneath the altar. Never again was she to write down
the records of the lordly Roman unions that had kept the stock great and
pure and the free blood clean from that of slaves for a thousand years.
Never might she sit at the feet of the Chief Virgin in the moonlit
court, listening to tales of holy Vestals in old time, while the slow
water murmured in the channels between one fountain and another.
It was all over, all ended, all behind her in the past for ever. Her vow
was broken, because her veiled cheek had touched the cheek of a living,
breathing man who had laid a strong hand upon her neck and had pressed
her close to him, she consenting, and always to consent. She was not to
die for it, since it was no mortal sin, but she was no longer a Vestal
now, and the Temple and the house of the pure in heart were shut against
her henceforth and would not be opened again. She knew that she had
passed the threshold for the last time, and that the man she loved would
soon come and take her away to another life. After that there would be
no fear in the world, since she would always be with him, and he would
make her forget all. But he had not come yet, and while she waited her
tears flowed quietly and sadly for all that was no more to be hers, but
most of all because she had broken a high and solemn promise which had
been the foundation of her life. In the old dream, when the Vestals were
dismissed from their office each to her own home, she was the most
faithful of them all, to the very end. But now she had been the very
first to yield, and they had put her out of their midst, sadly and
silently, to wait alone in the night for him she loved. So she waited
and wept, and the night wind seemed to freeze the salt tears on her face
and neck; yet he did not come.
Then she heard his step; but she was wakened by the soft sound of the
latch bolt of her door in its socket, and she sprang to her feet,
straight and white, with a little sharp cry, for the fancied sound had
always frightened her as nothing else could. This time she had not
turned the key, and the door opened.
"Did I startle you, child?" asked her mother's voice, kindly. "I am
sorry. Signor Lamberti is in the drawing-room. I think you had better
come. He has heard of the article in the Figaro, and is reading it
now."
"I will come in a minute, mother," Cecilia answered, turning her face
away. "Let me slip on my frock."
"It is only Signor Lamberti," the Countess observed, rather
thoughtlessly. "But I will send you Petersen."
The door was shut again, and Cecilia heard her mother's tripping
footsteps on the glazed tiles in the corridor. She knew that she had
blushed quickly, for she had been taken unawares, but the room was
darkened and her mother had noticed nothing. She was suddenly aware that
her cheeks and her neck were wet, and she remembered what she had dreamt
and wondered that her tears should have been real. She had let in more
light now and she looked at herself in the glass with curiosity, for she
did not remember to have cried since she had been a little girl. The
dried tears gave her face a stained and spotted look she did not like,
and she made haste to bathe it in cold water. Even the near-sighted
Petersen might see something unusual, and she would not let Lamberti
guess that she had been crying on that day of all days.
It was all very strange, and while she dressed she wondered still why
the real tears had come, and why she had dreamt she had broken her vow.
She had never dreamt that before, not even when she used to meet
Lamberti in her dreams by the fountain in the Villa Madama. It was
stranger still that she should not have been able to call up the waking
vision in the old way. It was as if some power she had once possessed
had left her very suddenly, a power, or a faculty, or a gift; she could
not tell what it was, but it was gone and something told her that it
would not return. She made haste, and almost ran along the broad
passage.
When she went into the drawing-room Lamberti was standing with the
Figaro in his hand, before her mother who was sitting down. He bowed
rather stiffly, though he smiled a little, and she saw that his blue
eyes glittered and his face had the ruthless look she used to dread. She
knew what it meant now, and was pleased. She wished she could see him
shake the wretch who had written the article; she was glad that he was
just what he was, not too tall, strong, active, red-haired and angry, a
fighting man from head to foot, roused and ready for a violent deed. She
had waited for him so long, outside the closed Temple of Vesta in the
cold night wind!
"It is not the article that matters," he said, taking it for granted
that she knew the contents. "It is what Guido would feel if he read it."
"Especially just now," observed the Countess, looking at Cecilia.
"What are you going to do?" Cecilia asked as quietly as she could.
"Shall you go to Paris?"
"No! this was written in Rome. I will wager my life that the lawyer who
is mentioned here wrote it all and got some clever Frenchman to
translate it for him. I know the fellow by name."
"I thought Monsieur Leroy was at the bottom of it," said Cecilia.
Lamberti looked at her a moment.
"I daresay," he said. "I am sure that the Princess never meant that
anything of this sort should be printed. Did Guido ever tell you about
her money dealings with him?"
Guido had never mentioned them, of course, and Lamberti explained in a
few words exactly what had happened, and the nature of the receipts
Guido had given to his aunt.
"I daresay you are right about Monsieur Leroy," he concluded, "for the
old lady is far too clever to have done such an absurd thing as this,
and it is just like his blundering hatred of Guido."
"I wish he were here," said Cecilia, looking at Lamberti's hands. "I
wonder what you would do to him."
"The lawyer is here, which is more to the purpose," Lamberti answered.
"You cannot fight a lawyer, can you?" asked the young girl. "You cannot
