strain, helped, and if he happened to affect her as a firm 
object she could hold on by, he wouldn't jerk himself out 
of her reach. People in difficulties held on by what was 
nearest, and he was perhaps, after all, not further off than 
sources of comfort more abstract. It was as to this he 
had made up his mind ; he had made it up, that is, to give 
her a sign. The sign would be that — though it was her 
own affair — he understood ; the sign would be that — 
though it was her own affair — she was free to clutch. 
Since she took him for a firm object — much as he might 
to his own sense appear at times to rock — he would do his 
best to be one. 
The end of it was that, half an hour later, they were 
seated together, for an early luncheon, at a wonderful, a 
delightful house of entertainment on the left bank — a 
place of pilgrimage for the knowing, they were both 
aware, the knowing who came, for its great renown, the 
homage of restless days, from the other end of the town. 
Strether had already been there three times — first with 
Miss Gostrey, then with Chad, then with Chad again and 
with Waymarsh and little Bilham, all of whom he had 
himself sagaciously entertained; and his pleasure was deep 
now on learning that Mmc. dc Vionnet had not yet been 
initiated. When he had said, as they strolled round the 
church by the river, acting at last on what, within, he had 
made up his mind to, " Will you, if you have time, come 
to dejeuner with me somewhere? Eor instance, if you 
know it, over there on the other side, which is so easy a 
walk " and then had named the place ; when he had 
done this she stopped short as for quick intensity, and yet 
deep difficulty, of response. She took in the proposal as 
if it were almost too charming to be true ; and there had 
perhaps never yet been for her companion so unexpected a 
moment of pride — so fine, so odd a case, at any rate, as 
his finding himself thus able to offer to a person in such 
universal possession a new, a rare amusement. She had 
heard of the happy spot, but she asked him in reply to a ; 
further question how in the world he could suppose her to 
have been there. He supposed himself to have supposed 
that Chad might have taken her, and she guessed this the  
next moment, to his no small discomfort. 
" Ah, let me explain," she smiled, " that I don't go 
about with him in public ; I never have such chances — not ' 
having them otherwise — and it's just the sort of thing   
that, as a quiet creature living in my hole, I adore." It 
was more than kind of him to have thought of it — though, 
frankly, if he asked whether she had tim.e, she hadn't a ! 
single minute. That, however, made no difference — she 
would throw everything over. Every duty, at home, I 
domestic, maternal, social, awaited her ; but it was a case I 
for a high line. Her affairs would go to smash; but hadn't 
one a right to one's snatch of scandal when one was 
prepared to pay? It was on this pleasant basis of costly 
disorder, consequently, that they eventually seated them- ! 
selves, on either side of a small table, at a window adjusted   
to the busy quay and the shining, barge-burdened Seine ;   
where, for an hour, in the matter of letting himself go, 
of diving deep, Strether was to feel that he had touched 
bottom. He was to feel many things on this occasion, and 
one of the first of them was that he had travelled far since 
that evening, in London, before the theatre, when his 
dinner with Maria Gostrey, between the pink-shaded 
candles, had struck him as requiring so many explanations. 
He had at that time gathered them in, the explanations 
— he had stored them up ; but it was at present as if he 
had either soared above or sunk below them — he couldn't 
tell which ; he could somehow think of none that didn't 
seem to leave the appearance of collapse and cynicism 
easier for him than lucidity. How could he wish it to 
be lucid for others, for anyone, that he, for the hour, saw 
reasons enough in the mere way the bright, clean, ordered 
water-side life came in at the open window ? — the mere 
way Mme. de Vionnet, opposite him over their intensely 
white table-linen, their omelette aux toviates, their bottle 
of straw-coloured Chablis, thanked him for everything 
almost with the smile of a child, while her gray eyes 
moved in and out of their talk, back to the quarter of the 
warm spring air, in which early summer had already begun 
to throb, and then back again to his face and their human 
questions. 
Their human questions became many before they had 
done — many more, as one after the other came up, than 
our friend's free fancy had at all foreseen. The sense he 
had had before, the sense he had had repeatedly, the sense 
that the situation was running away with him, had never 
been so sharp as now ; and all the more that he could 
perfectly put his finger on the moment it had taken the 
bit in its teeth. That accident had definitely occurred, the 
other evening, after Chad's dinner; it had occurred, as he 
fully knew at the moment when he interposed between 
this lady and her child, when he suffered himself so to 
discuss with her a matter closely concerning them that 
her own subtlety, with its significant " Thank you ! " 
instantly sealed the occasion in her favour. Again he 
had held off for ten days, but the situation had continued 
out of hand in spite of that ; the fact that it was running 
so fast being indeed just why he had held off. What had 
come over him as he recognised her in the nave of the church 
was that holding off could be but a losing game from the 
instant she was worked for not only by her subtlety, but 
by the hand of fate itself. If all the accidents were to 
fight on her side — and by the actual showing they loomed 
large — he could only give himself up. This was what he 
had done in privately deciding then and there to propose 
she should breakfast with him. What did the success of 
his proposal in fact resemble but the smash in which a 
regular runaway probably ends ? The smash was their 
walk, their luncheon, their omelette, the Chablis, the place, 
the view, their present talk and his present pleasure in it — 
to say nothing, wonder of wonders, of her own. To this 
tune and nothing less, accordingly, was his surrender made 
good. It sufficiently lighted up at least the folly of hold- 
ing off. Ancient proverbs sounded, for his memory, in 
the tone of their words and the clink of their glasses, in 
the hum of the town and the plash of the river. It was 
clearly better to suffer as a sheep than as a lamb. One 
might as well perish by the sword as by famine. 
" Maria's still away ? " — that was the first thing she had   
asked him ; and when he had found the frankness to be - 
cheerful about it in spite of the meaning he knew her to 
attach to Miss Gostrey's absence, she had gone on to   
inquire if he didn't tremendously miss her. There were  
reasons that made him by no means sure, yet he never- 
theless answered " Tremendously " ; which she took in as s 
if it were all she had wished to prove. Then " A man 
in trouble must be possessed, somehow, of a woman," she 
said ; " if she doesn't come in one way she comes in : 
another." 
" Why do you call me a man in trouble? " 
" Ah, because that's the way you strike me." She spoke 
ever so gently, and as if with all fear of wounding him 
while she sat partaking of his bounty. ' Aren't you in   
trouble ? " 
He felt himself colour at the question, and then he hated 
that — hated to pass for anything so idiotic as woundable. 
Woundable by Chad's lady, in respect to whom he had 
come out with such a fund of indifference — was he already 
at that point ? Perversely, meanwhile, however, his pause 
gave a strange air of truth to her supposition ; and what 
was he in fact but disconcerted at having struck her just 
in the way he had most dreamed of not doing? " I'm not 
in trouble yet," he at last smiled. " I'm not in trouble 
now." 
" Well, I'm always so. But that you sufficiently know." 
She was a woman who, between courses, could be graceful 
with her elbows on the table. It was a posture unknown 
to Mrs. Newsome, but it was easy for a femvie du monde. 
" Yes— I am ' now ' ! " 
"There was a question you put to me," he presently 
returned, " the night of Chad's dinner. I didn't answer it 
then, and it has been very handsome of you not to have 
sought an occasion for pressing me about it since." 
She was instantly all there. " Of course I know what 
you always allude to, I asked you what you had meant 
by saying, the day you came to see me, just before you left 
me, that you would save me. And you then said — at our 
friend's — that you would have really to wait to see for 
yourself what you did mean." 
" Yes, I asked for time," said Strether. " And it sounds 
now, as you put it, lik.: a very ridiculous speech." 
"Oh!" she murmured — she was full of attenuation. 
But she had another thought. " If it does sound ridiculous, 
why do you deny that you're in trouble ? " 
" Ah, if I were," he replied, " it wouldn't be the trouble 
of fearing ridicule. I don't fear it." 
" What then do you ? " 
 ' Nothing — now." And he leaned back in his chair. 
" I like your 'now' !" she laughed across at him. 
" Well, it's precisely that it fully comes to me at present 
that I've kept you long enough. I know by this time, at 
any rate, what I meant by my speech ; and I really knew 
it the night of Chad's dinner." 
"Then why didn't you tell me?" 
" Because it was difficult at the moment. I had already 
at that moment done something for you, in the sense of 
what I had said the day I went to see you ; but I wasn't 
then sure of the importance I might represent this as 
having." 
She was all eagerness. " And you're sure now ? " 
" Yes ; I see that, practically, I've done for you — had 
done for you when you put me your question — all that 
it's as yet possible to me to do. I feel now," he went on, 
" that it may go further than I thought. What I did after 
my visit to you," he explained, " was to write straight off 
to Mrs. Newsome about you, and I'm at last, from one 
day to the other, expecting her answer. It's this answer 
that will represent, as I believe, the consequences." 
Patient and beautiful was her interest. " I see — the 
consequences of your speaking for me." And she waited, 
as if not to hustle him. 
He acknowledged it by immediately going on. " The 
question, you understand, was how I should save you. 
Well, I'm trying it by thus letting her know that I consider 
you worth saving." 
" I see — I see." Her eagerness broke through. " How 
can I thank you enough?" He couldn't tell her that, 
however, and she quickly pursued. "You do really, for 
yourself, consider it ? " 
His only answer at first was to help her to the dish that 
had been freshly put before them. " I've written to her 
again since then — I've left her in no doubt of what I 
think. I've told her all about you." 
"Thanks — not so much. ' All about' me," she went on 
— " yes." 
" All it seems to me," said Strether, " you've done for 
him." 
" Ah, and you might have added all it seems to me ! " 
She laughed again, while she took up her knife and fork, 
as in the cheer of these assurances. " But you're not sure 
how she'll take it." 
" No, I'll not pretend I'm sure." 
" Voila." And she waited a moment. " I wish you'd 
tell me about her." 
" Oh," said Strether with a slightly strained smile, " all 
that need concern you about her is that she's really a 
grand person." 
Mme. de Vionnet seemed to demur. " Is that all that 
need concern me about her ? " 
But Strether neglected the question. " Hasn't Chad 
talked to you ? " 
"Of his mother? Yes, a great deal — immensely. But 
not from your point of view." 
" He can't," our friend returned, " have said any ill of 
her." 
"Not the least bit. He has given me, like you, the 
assurance that she's really grand. But her being really 
grand is somehow just what has not seemed to simplify 
our case. Nothing," she continued, " is further from me 
than to wish to say a word against her ; but of course I 
feel how little she can like being told of her owing me 
anything. No woman ever enjoys such an obligation to 
another woman." 
This was a proposition Strether couldn't contradict. 
" And yet what other way could I have expressed to her 
what I felt? It's what there was most to say about you." 
" Do you mean then that she will be good to me ? " 
" It's what I'm waiting to see. But I've little doubt 
she would," he added, " if she could comfortably see 
you." 
It seemed to strike her as a happy, a beneficent thought. 
"Oh then, couldn't that be managed? Wouldn't she come 
out ? Wouldn't she if you so put it to her ? Did you by 
any possibility?" she faintly quavered. 
"Oh no" — he was prompt. "Not that. It would be, 
much more, to give an account of you that — since there's 
no question of your paying the visit — I should go home 
first." 
It instantly made her graver. " And are you thinking 
of that ? " 
" Oh, all the while, naturally." 
" Stay with us — stay with us ! " she exclaimed on this. 
" That's your only way to make sure." 
" To make sure of what ? " 
" Why, that he doesn't break up. You didn't come out 
to do that to him." 
" Doesn't it depend," Strether returned after a moment, 
" on what you mean by breaking up ? " 
" Oh, you know well enough what I mean ! " 
His silence, again, for a little, seemed to denote an under- 
standing. " You take for granted remarkable things." 
" Yes, I do — to the extent that I don't take for granted 
vulgar ones. You're perfectly capable of seeing that what 
you came out for was not really at all to do what you 
would now have to do." 
" Ah, it's perfectly simple," Strether good-humouredly 
pleaded. " I've had but one thing to do — to put our case 
before him. To put it as it could only be put, here, on the 
spot — by personal pressure. My dear lady," he lucidly 
pursued, " my work, you see, is really done, and my 
reasons for staying on even another day are none of the 
best. Chad's in possession of our case and professes to 
do it full justice. What remains is with himself. I've had 
my rest, my amusement and refreshment ; I've had, as we 
say at Woollett, a lovely time. Nothing in it has been 
more lovely than this happy meeting with you — in these 
fantastic conditions to which you've so delightfully con- 
sented. I've a sense of success. It's what I wanted. 
My getting all this good is what Chad has waited for, and 
I gather that if I'm ready to go he's the same." 
She shook her head with a finer, deeper wisdom. 
"You're not ready. If you're ready, why did you write 
to Mrs. Newsome in the sense you've mentioned to 
me?" 
Strether considered. " I shan't go before I hear from 
her. You're too much afraid of her," he added. 
It produced between them a long look from which 
neither shrank. " I don't think you believe that — believe 
I've not really reason to fear her." 
" She's capable of great generosity," Strether presently 
declared. 
" Well then, let her trust me a little. That's all I ask. 
Let her recognise, in spite of everything, what I've done." 
" Ah, remember," our friend replied, " that she can't 
effectually recognise it without seeing it for herself. Let 
Chad go over and show her what you've done, and let him 
plead with her there for it and, as it were, for you!' 
She measured the depth of this suggestion. " Do you 
give me your word of honour that if she once has him 
there she won't do her best to marry him ? " 
It made her companion, this inquiry, look again a while 
out at the view ; after which he spoke without sharpness. 
" When she sees for herself what he is " 
But she had already broken in. " It's when she sees for 
herself what he is that she'll want to marry him most." 
Strether's attitude, that of due deference to what she 
said, permitted him to attend for a minute to his luncheon. 
" I doubt if that will come off. It won't be easy to make 
it." 
" It will be easy if he remains there — and he'll remain 
for the money. The money appears to be, as a probability, 
so hideously much." 
" Well," Strether presently concluded, " nothing could 
really hurt you but his marrying." 
She gave a strange light laugh. " Putting aside what 
may really hurt himy 
But her friend looked at her as if he had thought of 
that too. " The question will come up, of course, of the 
future that you yourself offer him." 
She was leaning back now, but she fully faced him. 
"Well, let it come up!" 
" The point is that it's for Chad to make of it what he 
can. His being proof against marriage will show what he 
does make." 
"If he is proof, yes" — she accepted the proposition. 
" But for myself," she added, " the question is what you 
make." 
" Ah, I make nothing. It's not my affair." 
" I beg your pardon. It's just there that, since you've 
taken it up and are committed to it, it most intensely 
becomes yours. You're not saving me, I take it, for your 
interest in myself, but for your interest in our friend. The 
one, at any rate, is wholly dependent on the other. You 
can't in honour not see me through," she wound up, " because you can't in honour not see me!' 
Strange and beautiful to him was her quiet, soft acuteness. The thing that most moved him was really that she 
was so deeply serious. She had none of the portentous 
forms of it, but he had never come in contact, it struck 
him, with a spirit whose lightest throbs were so full. Mrs. 
Newsome, goodness knew, was serious ; but it was nothing 
to this. He took it all in, he saw it all together. " No," 
he mused, " I can't in honour not see him." 
Her face affected him as with an exquisite light. " You 
will then ? " 
" I will." 
At this she pushed back her chair and was the next 
moment on her feet. " Thank you ! " she said with her 
hand held out to him across the table and with no less a 
meaning in the words than her lips had so particularly 
given them after Chad's dinner. The golden nail she had 
then driven in pierced a good inch deeper. Yet he 
reflected that he himself had only meanwhile done what 
he had made up his mind to on the same occasion. So 
far as the essence of the matter went, he had simply stood 
fast on the spot on which he had then planted his feet. 
XVII 
He received three days after this a communication from 
America, in the form of a scrap of blue paper folded and 
gummed, not reaching him through his bankers, but 
delivered at his hotel by a small boy in uniform, who, 
under instructions from the concierge, approached him as 
he slowly paced the little court. It was the evening hour, 
but daylight was long now and Paris more than ever 
penetrating. The scent of flowers was in the streets ; he 
had the whiff of violets perpetually in his nose ; and he 
had attached himself to sounds and suggestions, vibrations 
of the air, human and dramatic, he imagined, as they were 
not in other places, that came out for him more and more 
as the mild afternoons deepened — a far-off hum, a sharp, 
near click on the asphalt, a voice calling, replying, some- 
where, and as full of tone as an actor's in a play. He was 
to dine at home, as usual, with Waymarsh — they had 
settled to that for thrift and simplicity ; and he now hung 
about before his friend came down. 
He read his telegram in the court, standing still a long 
time where he had opened it and giving five minutes, 
afterwards, to the renewed study of it. At last, quickly, 
he crumpled it up as if to get it out of the way ; in spite 
of which, however, he kept it there — still kept it when, at 
the end of another turn, he had dropped into a chair 
placed near a small table. Here, with his scrap oT paper 
compressed in his fist and further concealed by his folding 
his arms tight, he sat for some time in thought, gazed 
before him so straight that Waymarsh appeared and 
approached him without catching his eye. The latter, in 
fact, struck with his appearance, looked at him hard for a 
single instant and then, as if determined to that course by 
some special vividness in it, dropped back into the salon de 
lecture without addressing him. But the pilgrim from 
Milrose permitted himself still to observe the scene from 
behind the clear glass plate of that retreat Strether 
ended, as he sat, by a fresh scrutiny of his compressed 
missive, which he smoothed out carefully again as he 
placed it on his table. There it remained for some minutes, 
until, at last looking up, he saw Waymarsh watching him 
from within. It was on this that their eyes met — met for 
a moment during which neither moved. But Strether then 
got up, folding his telegram more carefully and putting it 
into his waistcoat pocket. 
A few minutes later the friends were seated together at 
dinner ; but Strether had meanwhile said nothing about it, 
and they eventually parted, after coffee in the court, with 
nothing said on either side. Our friend had moreover the 
consciousness that even less than usual was said on this 
occasion between them, so that it was almost as if each 
had been waiting for something from the other. Way- 
marsh had always more or less the air of sitting at the 
door of his tent, and silence, after so many weeks, had 
come to play its part in their concert. This note indeed, 
to Strether's sense, had lately taken a fuller tone, and it 
was his fancy to-night that they had never quite so drawn 
it out. Yet it befell, none the less, that he closed the door 
to confidence when his companion finally asked him if 
there were anything particular the matter with him. 
" Nothing," he replied, " more than usual." 
On the morrow, at an early hour, however, he found 
occasion to give an answer more in consonance with the 
facts. What was the matter had continued to be so all 
the previous evening, the first hours of which, after dinner, 
in his room, he had devoted to the copious composition of 
a letter. He had quitted Waymarsh for this purpose, 
leaving him to his own resources with less ceremony than 
their wont, but finally coming down again with his letter 
unconcluded and going forth into the streets without 
inquiry for his comrade. He had taken a long, vague 
walk, and one o'clock had struck before his return and his 
reascent to his room by the aid of the glimmering candle- 
end left for him on the shelf outside the porter's lodge. 
He had possessed himself, on closing his door, of the 
numerous loose sheets of his unfinished composition, and 
then, without reading them over, had torn them into small 
pieces. He had thereupon slept — as if it had been in 
some measure thanks to that sacrifice — the sleep of the 
just, and had prolonged his rest considerably beyond his 
custom. Thus it was that when, between nine and ten, 
the tap of the knob of a walking-stick sounded on his 
door, he had not yet made himself altogether presentable. 
Chad Newsome's bright, deep voice determined quickly 
enough, none the less, the admission of the visitor. The 
little blue paper of the evening before, plainly an object 
the more precious for its escape from premature destruc- 
tion, now lay on the sill of the open window, smoothed 
out afresh and kept from blowing away by the superin- 
cumbent weight of his watch. Chad, looking about with 
careless and competent criticism, as he looked wherever he 
went, immediately espied it and permitted himself to fix it 
for a moment rather hard. After which he turned his eyes 
to his host. " It has come then at last?" 
Strether paused in the act of pinning his necktie. 
"Then you know ? You have had one too?" 
" No, I've had nothing, and I only know what I see. 
I see that thing and I guess. Well," he added, " it comes 
as pat as in a play, for I've precisely turned up this 
morning — as I would have done yesterday, but it was 
impossible — to take you." 
" To take me ? " Strether had faced again to his glass. 
"Back, at last, as I promised. I'm ready — I've really 
been ready this month. I've only been waiting for you — 
as was perfectly right. But you're better now ;  -ou're 
safe — I see that for myself; you've got all your good. 
You're looking, this morning, as fit as a flea." 
Strether, at his glass, finished dressing, consulting that 
witness moreover on this last opinion. JVas he looking 
preternaturally fit? There was something in it perhaps 
for Chad's wonderful eye, but he had felt himself, for hours, 
rather in pieces. Such a judgment, however, was after all 
but a contribution to his resolve ; it testified unwittingly 
to his wisdom. He was still firmer, apparently — since if 
shone in him as a light — than he had flattered himself. 
His firmness, indeed, was slightly compromised, as he 
faced about to his friend, by the way this very personage 
looked — though the case would of course have been worse 
had not the secret of personal magnificence been at every 
hour Chad's unfailing possession. There he was in all the 
pleasant morning freshness of it — strong and sleek and 
gay, easy and fragrant and fathomless, with happy health 
in his colour, and pleasant silver in his thick young hair, 
and the right word for everything on the lips that his clear 
brownness caused to show as red. He had never struck 
Strether as personalh  such a success ; it was as if now, 
for his definite surrender, he had gathered himself vividly 
together. This, sharply and rather strangely, was the form 
in which he was to be presented to Woollett. Our friend 
took him in again — he was always taking him in and yet 
finding that parts of him still remained out, though even 
thus his image showed through a mist of other things. 
" I've had a cable," Strether said, " from your mother." 
" I dare say, my dear man. I hope she's well." 
Strether hesitated. " No — she's not well, I'm sorry to 
have to tell you." 
" Ah," said Chad, " I must have had the instinct of it. 
All the more reason then that we should start straight off." 
Strether had now got together hat, gloves and stick, 
but Chad had dropped on the sofa as if to show where he 
wished to make his point. He kept observing his com- 
panion's things ; he might have been judging how quickly 
they could be packed. He might even have wished to 
hint that he would send his own servant to assist. " What 
do you mean," Strether inquired, "by 'straight off'?" 
" Oh, by one of next week's boats. Everything at this 
season goes out so light that berths will be easy anywhere." 
Strether had in his hand his telegram, which he had 
kept there after attaching his watch, and he now offered 
it to Chad, who, however, with an odd movement, declined 
to take it. " Thanks, I had rather not. Your correspond- 
ence with mother is your own affair. I'm only with you 
both on it, whatever it is." Strether, at this, while their 
eyes met, slowly folded the missive and put it in his 
packet, after which, before he had spoken again, Chad 
broke fresh ground. "Has Miss Gostrey come back?" 
But when Strether presently spoke, it was not in answer, 
" It's not, I gather, that your mother is physically ill ; her 
health, on the whole, this spring, seems to have been 
better than usual. But she's worried, she's anxious, and '' 
it appears to have risen within the last few days to a 
climax. We've tired out, between us, her patience."   
" Oh, it isn't you" Chad generously protested. 
" I beg your pardon — it is me." Strether was mild and 
melancholy, but firm. He saw it far away and over his 
companion's head. " It's very particularly me." 
" Well, then, all the more reason. Marc/tons, marchons !"  
said the young man gaily. His host, however, at this, 
but continued to stand agaze ; and he had the next thing 
repeated his question of a moment before. " Has Miss 
Gostrey come back ? " 
" Yes, two days ago." 
" Then you've seen her ? " 
" No — I'm to see her to-day." But Strether wouldn't ;. 
linger now on Miss Gostrey. " Your mother sends me an   
ultimatum. If I can't bring you I'm to leave you; I'ra to 
come at any rate myself."  
" Ah, but you can bring me now," Chad, from his sofa, 
reassuringly replied. 
Strether hesitated. " I don't thixik I understand you. 
Why was it that, more than a month ago, you put it 
to me so urgently to let Mme. de Vionnet speak for 
you ? "  
" ' Why ' ? " Chad considered, but he had it at his fingers' 
ends. " Why, but because I knew how well she'd do it ? 
It was the way to keep you quiet and, to that extent, do 
you good. Besides," he happily and comfortably ex- 
plained, " I wanted you really to know her and to get  
the impression of her — and you see the good that was 
done you." 
" Well," said Strether, " the way she has spoken for you, , 
all the same — so far as I have given her a chance — has 
only made me feel how much she wishes to keep you. If 
you make nothing of that I don't see why you wanted me 
to listen to her." ' 
" Why, my dear man," Chad exclaimed, " I make every-  
thing of it ! How can you doubt ? " 
" I doubt only because you come to me this morning ' 
with your signal to start." 
Chad stared, then gave a laugh. " And isn't my signal 
to start just what you've been waiting for?" 
Strether debated; he took another turn. "This last 
month I've been awaiting, I think, more than anything 
else, the message I have here." 
" You mean you've been afraid of it ? " 
" Well, I was doing my business in my own way. And 
I suppose your present announcement," Strether went on, 
" isn't merely the result of your sense of what I've expected. 
Otherwise you wouldn't have put me in relation " But 
he paused, pulling up. 
At this Chad rose. " Ah, her wanting me not to go has 
nothing to do with it ! It's only because she's afraid — afraid 
of the way that, over there, I may get caught. But her 
fear's groundless." 
He had met again his companion's sufficiently searching 
look. " Are you tired of her ? " 
Chad gave him in reply to this, with a movement of the 
head, the strangest slow smile he had ever had from him. 
" Never." 
It had immediately, on Strether's imagination, so deep 
and soft an effect that our friend could only, for the 
moment, keep it before him. " Never ? " 
" Never," Chad obligingly and serenely repeated. 
It made his companion take several more steps. " Then 
you're not afraid ? " 
"Afraid to go?" 
Strether pulled up again. " Afraid to stay." 
The young man looked brightly amazed. " You want 
me now to ' stay ' ? " 
" If I don't immediately sail, the Pococks will immediately 
come out. That's what I mean," said Strether, " by your 
mother's ultimatum." 
Chad showed a still livelier but not an alarmed interest. 
"She has turned on Sarah and Jim?" 
Strether joined him for an instant in the vision. " Oh, 
and you may be sure, Mamie. That's whom she's turning 
on." 
This also Chad saw — he laughed out. " Mamie — to 
corrupt me? " 
" Oh," said Strether, " she's very charming." 
" So you've already more than once told me. I should 
certainly like to see her." 
Something happy and easy, something above all unconscious, in the way he said this, brought home again 
to his companion the facility of his attitude and the enviability of his state. " See her then by all means. And 
consider, too," Strether went on, " that you really give your 
sister a lift in letting her come to you. You give her 
a couple of months of Paris, which she hasn't seen, if I'm 
not mistaken, since just after she was married, and which
