Bessie knew by experience that to beg 
Freddy not to tell was the surest way to 
make him. And though she did not feel 
in a very pleasant humor, she wanted to 
lead him to forget the incident, or if he 
did mention it to have him do so in no 
suspicious manner. 

‘AVill you have a piece of this nice 
gingerbread, or a biscuit? Oh, Freddy, 
what have you been doing? Making a 
fire there on the floor? You had, wicked 
boy ! Why, you might have set the house 
on fire ! I have a good mind not to give 
you anything.” 

‘Mt was only a little bonfire,” whim- 
pered Freddy. '‘It fell oft of the stove 
hearth and burned, and I couldn’t pick 
it up.” 


 


There was a scorched spot on the floor 
that mother 's sharp eyes would be sure 
to detect. Oh, dear! 

She scolded Freddy soundly. He 
cried, and she gave him a piece of cake 
to pacify him, swept up the fragments, 
and lifted the stove lid. The fire was 
out. Just then the clock struck eleven. 

First of all, she must go upstairs and 
put Dick’s bureau in order. If she only 
dared take the book out. Would he look 
at dinner-time! 

She stood and considered, read another 
page, and then hurriedly thrust the book 
back into its place, took up the drawer 
and began to push it in, but alas, it 
seemed a world too big. If one corner 
went in the other wouldn’t. If the bot- 
tom went in the top caught. She pinched 
her fingers, scraped her knuckles, cried a 

 


little, and at last, by accident, bit the 
fortunate medium. The clothes were 
tumbled in. Which corner held the 
bottle? For the life of her she could 
not tell ; so she put it in at a venture and 
ran downstairs. Half-past eleven, and 
no fire, no beans shelled, no potatoes 
ready! She let down the coal and put 
in some dry wood, set the tea-kettle over, 
washed her potatoes, burned two fingers 
in her haste, then went at arranging the 
table. 

don’t believe father knew about 
the beans,” putting them out of sight. 
‘‘There is cold meat and pie, and it will 
do well enough. Oh, dear, my poor 
fingers ! ’ ’ 

Father and Jamie came in at a quarter 
past twelve; Dick, who was in a store, 
five minutes later. She had managed to 

 


wash Freddy, and he had begged her not 
to tell abont the fire, because he meant 
to be so very good all day long. But 
she was flurried, and her hand pained, 
and altogether she felt like crying. 

‘‘Well, little housekeeper,'’ exclaimed 
Dick, cheerily, “your table looks as nice 
as a new pin. There is one white mark 
for you. I am to keep account, you 
know. ’ ’ 

Bessie flushed uneasily. She wasn’t 
bad or deceitful by nature, or rather, I 
should say, not persistently, and now her 
conscience smote her, because she knew 
she did not deserve a white mark. 

“I want to stay home this afternoon,” 
declared Jamie; “I am going to make 
my pigeon coop.” 

“You had better come with me, and 
I’ll do it this evening. You might bring 

 


a basket and gather some nice wild 
grapes, said his father. 

Can’t I go, too?” asked Freddy. 
''I’m tired of being all alone.” 

‘'No, yon stay with sister this after- 
noon. To-morrow I will take you and 
Jamie riding as far as the stone bridge 
if you are good boj's. ’ ’ 

That settled the matter happily. 

‘'Oh, Bessie,” her father said, pres- 
ently, ‘ ' I picked some limas this morning 
for dinner. I suppose your mother for- 
got to speak of it. You might cook them 
for tea. They are coming on so fast. ’ ’ 
'‘Well, I will hunt them up,” she said, 
with a little flush. 

She was very glad to get them all out 
of the way. Freddy lay on the lounge 
with his picture-book in his hand, and 
she knew he would soon drop asleep. 




She ran upstairs to take another glance 
at Dick’s drawer. It did look tumbled, 
so she straightened out the articles, 
placed them in little piles, and left it 
neat enough, hoping that Dick would not 
notice any little change. Then she took 
her dishes out to the shed sink, cleared 
up the dining-room, brushed out the 
flies, and went to dish-washing. 

Oh, here were her breakfast knives all 
rusted! Some one had dropped water 
over them, and now the scouring would 
be twice as hard. The hot water made 
her scraped fingers smart, and Bessie 
really could not help crying. After the 
work was done she shelled her beans, 
tried to scrub out the burnt spot on the 
floor, and found it past three o’clock. 
Freddy woke up then and went out on 
the porch. She tied up her four fingers 

 


with some cooling ointment, brushed her 
hair, and changed her dress, when Addie 
Strong came in. 

‘ ' I want you to come over to our house 
to tea to-morrow,’’ she said. '‘My two 
cousins from Newton are to spend the 
day. Gracie plays so beautifully, you 
know, and you are so fond of music. I 
shall not ask anyone else.” 

"And I can’t come. It is too bad. 
Oh, dear!” and she had half a mind to 
send for Cousin Jane, cross old thing 
that she was. And maybe she wouldn’t 
let her go. Cousin Jane thought so 
much liberty was the ruin of children 
nowadays. No, she could not go— that 
was all about it. 

Addie was very sorry, and Bessie could 
have cried, but there was no help for it. 
She walked a short distance down the 


 


street with her, and paused at the gate 
to speak to Sophie Lewis. Could they 
not come over a little while to-morrow 
afternoon? 

Of course they would. And if Mrs. 
Collins was away, they would have such 
fun. 

"What is it? Can’t I come, too? 
Don’t shut me out of fun,” said Carrie 
Lanliam’s gay voice. 

'If you like,” said Bessie, thinking 
that she really could not help asking 
her, and rather glad that it had so 
happened. 

‘‘We’ll have a regular frolic in the 
barn. Your barn is such a nice, clean 
place. ’ ’ 

Mdien she reached home she found that 
Freddy had been digging dirt out of the 
path and carrying it up on the porch, 


wliere with a cup of water he was making 
pies. 

‘'Oh, Freddy, jon had boy! Mother 
has forbidden you to bring sand up on 
this iDorch. And look at your clean 
apron! Oh, you disobedient, aggravat- 
ing— there, take that, and clear out with 
your blocks!’' 

She gave him a hard slap in her vexa- 
tion. 

Idl tell mother — you see!'’ and 
Freddy cried more with anger than pain. 

won’t pick up a single block, you 
ugly old thing!” 

‘‘You deserve a good whipping, that’s 
what you do!” and for a moment Bessie 
would have been delighted to administer 
it. But Mrs. Collins had forbidden the 
elder children to strike the younger ones, 
no matter what the provocation might he. 


 


So Bessie swept the porch and then 
wiped it over with the mop. It was time 
to make np the fire again. She was cross 
to Freddy, ont of temper, and as a nat- 
ural result everything went wrong. 
Supper was a little late, but so was her 
father, and Dick never reached home 
until seven. 

She went to bed shortly after her work 
was done, for she was tired and out of 
spirits. Housekeeping had not been the 
brilliant success she imagined it. But 
Freddy was so much trouble. Never 
mind, to-morrow afternoon he would he 
gone, and she and the girls could have a 
good time. 

Her father had the kettle boiling in 
the morning before he called her. The 
smart and ache was out of her fin- 
gers, and she felt rested. Everything 

 


went smoothly at breakfast, only Dick 
said— 

"You need not have taken so much 
pains setting my drawer aside, Bessie. 
I had to laugh this morning when I could 
not find a single thing where I had put it. 
But I suppose housekeeping was a great 
treat to you, ’ ’ and he laughed. 

Bessie flushed. He would never know 
the rest, but if she could only have the 
book to read. 

'If that’s a specimen, you’ll be splen- 
did, Bessie, neat enough for an old 
maid.” 

Bessie turned away to listen to her 
father. Could she not boil some beets? 
and he would send in a steak for dinner, 
and— was there anything else? 

Jamie stayed at home all the morning 
and helped to amuse Freddy. Bessie at- 

 


tended to her sleeping rooms, and then 
went to the kitchen. After washing the 
dishes she concluded to try making some 
cookies. They would he so good to eat 
this afternoon when the girls came. 

She had often helped her mother on 
baking days, but it was somewhat differ- 
ent to plan everything for herself. Bes- 
sie was not quite as wise as she fancied, 
though she often imagined that she could 
improve upon her mother’s ways. She 
poured in her milk without any measure- 
ment, and then had to use more flour, 
making twice the quantity of dough that 
she meant to. She could not remember 
whether she had put in salt or not, and, 
without thinking to taste, ran for some 
more. They were rolled out, cut, and 
placed in the pans. 

‘‘ I ’ll make a cake of the rest, ’’she said 


 


to herself. ‘‘I can’t bother cutting out 
so much. ’ ’ 

She put them in the oven and began to 
tidy up her kitchen. What a sight of 
work there was to do, after all! Beans 
to shell and Dick had asked for mashed 
potatoes. Oh, her cookies must be 
done ! 

They were hard and dried, but not the 
beautiful brown that she was accustomed 
to see. What could be the matter I 
There was a good fire— oh, she had never 
turned the damper ! How could she have 
forgotten it? Well, she would try the 
others. As for these— they might as well 
be cannon balls. She would not say any- 
thing about them, but soak them and give 
them to the chickens. A little flour was 
of no account. She turned the damper, 
and the rest baked very nicely. Then 

 


she put in her cake, and was so busy with 
potatoes, beans, and the dinner table that 
she never thought to look until her dishes 
were washed. The cake was a cinder, 
of course, and the pan would have to be 
scoured before it met her mother’s eyes. 
But as the girls were coming, she would 
not do it now. 

Mr. Collins had taken the two boys with 
him, so Bessie thought she would dress 
up for her company. There was a pretty 
lawn dress that her mother was rather 
choice of, but, then, if it did get crumpled, 
she could iron it out again. To be sure, 
her calico was clean, but this was the 
prettiest, and ruffled. She would be very 
careful. 

Carrie came first. She was a bright, 
droll girl, who could talk broken Irish 
and Dutch, and mimicked every one to 

 


tlie life. She came up to Bessie room 
and inspected everything. When SojDhie 
and Mary came, Bessie ran down, leaving 
her there. 

"Let us go out in the barn and have 
a good romp,’’ said Mary. 'It is such 
fun climbing over the hay. And we can 
do nothing much in-doors. ’ ’ 

' ‘ Agreed. I like it much the best, ’’ 
declared Bessie. "Come, Carrie!” she 
called. 

The visitor ran’ down i)resently, and 
said in a breathless way that she had been 
looking out of every window. There 
was a great fragrance of cologne about 
her, and Bessie mistrusted at once that 
she had been helping herself. 

They did have a gay time, sure enough. 
Carrie said and did everything funny, 
but somehow Bessie did not feel quite at 
ease. The amusement did not seem to 
go down to the bottom of her heart and 
satisfy. And as she was scrambling 
about, her dress caught on something. 
Oh, the fearful rent ! Just above the ruf- 
fle, where it never could be mended, for 
it was drawn all out of shape. She might 
have known— why did she wear it out 
here to play in the hay 
is dreadful, isnT it? Will your 
mother scold? Can T you mend it? Oh, 
what a dreadful tear ! ’ 

Their fun was spoiled then. They 
came down very soberly and returned to 
the house, looked over some books, and 
then declared they must go home. Bes- 
sie forgot about the cookies that she 
was going to treat them with. She had 
a good cry as they went out of the gate, 
then she took her dress off and looked at 


 


it. No, it never could be mended. The 
whole breadth, too. If it only had torn 
anyhere else. 

Presently a bright thought came into 
Bessie 's head. Her mother had taught 
her to sew very nicely ; indeed, not being 
able to keep a servant, Bessie was made 
her chief assistant. She hnnted up her 
mother’s piece bag, and, oh, joy! there 
was a large piece, enough for a new 
breadth. If she could get it in before her 
mother ’s return. 

She began to rip it out, but, being 
sewed with a machine, it was slow work. 
Her father came home, there was sup- 
per to get, the boys to wash and put to 
bed, and then she took a lamp to her 
room, but ere long her father called to 
Imow if she had gone to bed, and why her 
light was burning. 


 


She wiped away a few tears and went 
to bed. 

"Who broke my cologne bottle T’ 
asked Dick, the next morning. Jamie, 
was it your work ? ’ ' 

" No, it wasn ’t. I haven ’t been in your 
room.’’ 

 

“ IT was not you, Bessie? It looks as 
 if some one had hit it to loosen the 
stopper and broken the neck off. 
The cologne is nearly all spilled, hut the 
bottle is standing upright, so it could not 
have been the cat. ’ ’ 

"What a strange thing ! J amie, don T 
tell any story about it,’' said his father, 
sternly. 

didn’t, father. I haven’t touched 

it. Please do believe me. ’ ’ 

can guess how it happened,” Bessie 

said, in great confusion. Carrie Lan- 
ham called yesterday, and I took her to 
my room while I was dressing. Then the 

 


Lewis girls ran over, and I came down, 
expecting she would follow. When she 
did come down, she was very sweet with 
cologne, but I thought she had been using 
mine. ’ ’ 

' ‘ I wish you would keep your girls out 
.of my room, ’ ’ said Dick, crossly. 

did not know she went there. It 
was very ill-bred. But, Dick, I will 
give you my bottle,’' Bessie said, in 
so deprecating a tone that Dick was con- 
quered. 

' ‘ Isn ’t that the girl mother doesn 't like, 
Bessie ? Don ’t ever ask her here. ’ ' 

‘‘No, I will not,’' Bessie answered. 
“She cannot be real good or she would 
not have done such a thing. ’ ’ 

Every spare moment of the morning 
poor Bessie worked upon her dress, but 
what with the boys and the dinner there 

 


were so many interruptions. As soon as 
she could get the dishes out of the way 
she took her dress over to Mrs. Lewis to 
ask her to sew up the breadths and stitch 
the ruffles on. 

am so glad you could do it/’ said 
Bessie. 

‘‘You are a very ingenious little girl,” 
remarked Mrs. Lewis. “How fortunate 
that you had some lawn like it. But you 
ought to have known better than to play 
in such a delicate dress. ’ ’ 

Bessie expressed her thanks with 
a great sense of relief. When she 
reached home, she ironed it out and 
hung it in the wardrobe, then finished 
putting her house in order, and had just 
time to dress herself and go to meet her 
mother. 

How glad Bessie was to see her. 


Housekeeping had not been so very de- 
lightful, after all. She was worried and 
anxious, and seemed to have a load at 
her heart, and the tears came into her 
eyes as her mother kissed her. 

Grandma is better, dear, and I have 
had a nice visit. She wants you to come 
and stay a week, and I promised you 
should. Are they all well, and did you 
keep house nicely? I have thought of 
you half the time. ’ ’ 

Pretty well,’' Bessie answered, so- 
berly. 

And there is father, too, come to meet 
us. Run on, Lotty, dear, and catch 
him. ’ ' 

Mrs. Collins was escorted to the house 
in a triumphant procession, and Mr. Col- 
lins declared that Bessie had been the 
nicest little housekeeper in the world, and 



that mother might go again; but Bessie 
felt as if she never wanted to be left alone 
with household cares. 

When Dick came home to supper, he 
put a square white parcel on her plate. 
He was a little sorry for his crossness 
that morning. 

‘ ‘ Oh, ’ ' she cried, " a book ! And Little 
Women! Dear Dick— 

‘‘She deserved it, mother. She has 
kept house like an old woman, and noth- 
ing has been behindhand. ’ ’ 

Bessie ran out of the room to cry a 
little. She felt so sorry for the things 
they could not know— the dreadful things 
she never should have the courage to 
confess. But she never would touch 
Dick’s books again without permission, 
and as for Carrie Lanham— 

“What is in this jar?” asked her 

