the base of the straight wall there was a channel about 
two feet wide, through which the dark water flowed 
rapidly. It entered from the right-hand corner, by a 
low, arched aperture, through which it seemed out of 
the question that a man could crawl, or even an ordi- 
nary boy of twelve. When they had first come to this 
place Masin had succeeded in poking in a long stick 
with a bit of lighted wax taper fastened to it, and both 
men had seen that the channel ran on as far as it could 
be seen, with no widening. At the other end of the 
chamber it ran out again by a similar conduit. What 
had at first surprised Malipieri had been that the water 
did not enter from the side of the foundations near the 
Vicolo dei Soldati, but ran out that way. He had also 
been astonished at the quantity and speed of the cur- 
rent. A channel a foot deep and two feet wide carries 
a large quantity of water if the velocity be great, and 
Malipieri had made a calculation which had convinced 
him that if the outflow were suddenly closed, the small 
space in which he now stood would in a few minutes 
be full up to within three or four feet of the vault. 
He would have given much to know whence the water 
came and whither it went, and what devilry had made 
it rise suddenly and drown a man when the excavations 
had been made under Gregory Sixteenth. 
From below, the place where an entrance had then 
been opened was clearly visible. The vault had been 
broken into and had afterwards been rebuilt from 
 
above. The bits of timber which had been used for 
the frame during the operation were still there, a 
rotting and mouldy nest for hideous spiders and 
noisome creatures that haunt the dark. 
The air was very cold, and was laden with the inde- 
scribable smell of dried slime which belongs to deep 
wells which have long been almost quite dry. It was 
clearly a long time since the little stream had over- 
flowed its channel, but at the first examination he had 
made Malipieri had understood that in former times 
the water had risen to within three feet of the vault. 
Up to that height there was a thin coating of the dry 
mud, which peeled off in irregular scales if lightly 
touched. The large fragments of masonry that half 
covered the floor were all coated in the same way with 
what had once been a film of slime. 
The air, though cold, could be breathed easily, and 
the lights did not grow dim in it as they do in sub- 
terranean places where the atmosphere is foul. The 
stream of water, flowing swiftly in its deep channel 
from under the little arch, brought plentiful ventilation 
into it. Above, there was no aperture in the vault- 
ing, but there was one in the mediaeval masonry that 
projected into the chamber. There, on the side towards 
the right, where the water flowed in, Malipieri had 
found a narrow slit, barely wide enough to admit a 
man's open hand and wrist, but nearly five feet high, 
evidently a passage intended for letting the water flow 
into the interior of the construction when it overflowed 
its channel and rose above the floor of the chamber. 
At first Malipieri tad supposed that this aperture 
eommunicated with some ancient and long-forgotten 
drain by which the water could escape to the Tiber ; 
it was not until he had gained an entrance to the 
hollow mass of masonry that he understood the hideous 
use to which it had been applied. 
It had not been hard to enlarge it. Any one who 
has worked among ruins in Italy could tell, even blind- 
fold, the difference between the w^ork done in ancient 
times and that of the middle ages. Roman brickwork 
is quite as compact as solid sandstone, but mediaeval 
masonry was almost invariably built in a hurry by bad 
workmen, of all sorts of fragments embedded in poorly 
mingled cement, and it breaks up with tolerable ease 
under a heavy pickaxe. - 
In half a day Malipieri and Masin had widened the 
slit to a convenient passage, but as soon as it had been 
possible to squeeze through, the architect had gone in. 
He never forgot what he felt when he first looked 
about him. Masin could not follow him until many 
blows of the pick had widened the way for his bulkier 
frame. 
Malipieri stopped at the entrance now, holding his 
lantern close to the ground, and looking for traces of 
footsteps. He found none, but as he was about to 
move forward he uttered an exclamation of surprise, 
and picked up a tiny object which he held close to the 
light. It was only a wax match, of which the head 
had been broken off when it had been struck, so that 
it had not been lighted. That was all, but neither he 
 
nor Masin carried wax matches in the vaults, because 
the dampness soon made them useless. They took 
common sulphur matches in tin match-boxes. Be- 
sides, this was an English wax light, as any one could 
tell at a glance, for it was thicker, and stiffer, and 
longer than the cheaper Italian ones. 
Malipieri drew back and showed it to his man, who 
examined it, understood, and put it into his pocket 
without a word. Then they both went in through the 
aperture in the wall. 
The masonry outside was rectangular, as far as it 
could be seen. Inside, it was built like a small circular 
cistern, smoothly cemented, and contracting above in a 
dome, that opened by a square hole to the well-shaft 
above. Like the stones in the outer cjiamber, the 
cement was coated with scales of dried mud. The 
shaft was now certainly closed at the top, for in the 
daytime not a ray of light penetrated into its blackness. 
The lanterns illuminated the place completely, and 
the two men looked about, searching for some new trace 
of a living being. The yellow light fell only on the 
remains of men dead long ago. Some of the bones lay 
as they had lain since then, when the drowned bodies 
had gently reached the floor as the " lost water " sub- 
sided! Malipieri had not touched them, nor Masin 
either. Two skeletons lay at full length, face down^ 
wards, as a drowned body always sinks at last, when 
decay has done its loathsome work. A third lay on its 
side, in a frightfully natural attitude, the skull a little 
raised up and resting against the cemented wall, the 
arms stretched out together, the hands still clutching a 
rusty crowbar. This one was near the entrance, and if, 
in breaking their way in, Malipieri and Masin had not 
necessarily destroyed the cement on each side of the 
slit, they would have found the marks where the dead 
man's crowbar had worked desperately for a few min- 
utes before he had been drowned. Malipieri had im- 
mediately reflected that the unfortunate wretch, who 
was evidently the mason of whom Sassi had told him, 
had certainly not entered through the aperture formerly 
made from above in the outer chamber, since the narrow 
slit afforded no possible passage to the well. That 
doubtless belonged to some other attempt to find the 
treasure, and the fact that the mason's skeleton lay in- 
side would alone have shown that he had got in from 
above, most likely through a low opening just where 
the dome began to curve inward. A further search 
had discovered some bits of wood, almost rotted to 
powder, which had apparently once been a ladder. 
A much less practised eye than the architect's would 
have understood at a glance that if a living man were 
let down through the shaft in the centre of the dome, 
and left on the floor, he could not possibly get up even 
as far as the other hole, since the smooth cement offered 
not the slightest hold; and that if the outflow o*f the 
stream from the first chamber were arrested, the water 
would immediately fill it and rise simultaneously in the 
well, to drown the victim, or to strip his bones by its 
action, if he had been allowed to die of hunger or thirst. 
It was clear, too, that if the latter form of death were 
 
chosen, he must have suffered to the last minute of his 
life the agony of hearing the stream flowing outside, not 
three paces from him, beyond the slit. Human imagi- 
nation could hardly invent a more hideously cruel 
death-trap, nor one more ingeniously secret from the 
world without. 
The unhappy mason's ladder had perhaps broken 
with his weight, or his light had gone out, and he had 
then been unable to find the horizontal aperture, but he 
had probably entered through the latter, when he had 
met his fate. The fact was, as Malipieri afterwards 
guessed, that the hole through the vault outside had 
been made hastily after the accident, in the hope of re- 
covering the man's body, but that it had been at once 
closed again because it appeared to open over a deep 
pit full of still water. 
A stout rope ladder now dangled from the lateral 
aperture in the dome, which Malipieri had immediately 
understood to have been made to allow the water to 
overflow when the well was full. He had also felt tol- 
erably sure that the well itself had not been originally 
constructed for the deadly use to which it had evidently 
been put in later times, but for the purpose of con- 
fining the water in a reservoir that could be easily 
cleaned, since it could be easily emptied, and in which 
the supply could be kept at a permanent level, conven- 
ient for drawing it from above. In the days when all 
the ancient aqueducts of Rome were broken, a well of 
the " lost water " was a valuable possession in houses 
that were turned into fortresses at a moment's notice 
and were sometimes exposed to long and desperate 
sieges. 
In order to reach the horizontal opening, Malipieri 
had climbed upon Masin's sturdy shoulders, steadying 
himself as well as he might till he had laid his hands on 
the edge of the orifice. As he hung there, Masin had 
held up the handle of a pickaxe as high as he could 
reach against the smooth wall, as a crossbar on which 
Malipieri had succeeded in getting a slight foothold, 
enough for a man who was not heavy and was extraor- 
dinarily active. A moment later he had drawn him- 
self up and inward. At the imminent risk of his life, 
as he afterwards found, he had crawled on in total dark- 
ness till the way widened enough for him to turn round 
and get back. He had then lowered a string he had 
with him, and had drawn up a lantern first, then the 
end of a coil of rope, then the tools for carrying on the 
exploration. The rest had been easy. Masin had 
climbed up by the rope, after making knots in it and 
when Malipieri had called out, from the inner place to 
which he had retired with the end, that it was made 
fast. But the light showed the architect that in turn- 
ing round, he had narrowly escaped falling into an open 
shaft, of which he could not see the bottom, but which 
was evidently meant for the final escape of the over- 
flowing water. 
There was room to pass this danger, however, and 
they had since laid a couple of stout boards over it, 
weighted with stones to keep them in place. Beyond, 
the passage rose till it was high enough for a man to 
 
walk upright. Judging from the elevation now reached 
this passage was hollowed in the thickness of one of the 
main walls of the palace, and it was clear that the water 
could not reach it. A few yards from the chasm, it 
inclined quickly downwards, and at the end there were 
half a dozen steps, which evidently descended to a 
greater depth than the floor of the first outer chamber. 
So far as it had hitherto been possible to judge, there 
was no way of getting to these last steps, except that 
opened by the two men, and leading through the dry 
well. In former times, there might have been an en- 
trance through the wall at the highest level, but if it 
had ever existed it had been so carefully closed that no 
trace of it could now be found. 
This tedious explanation of a rather complicated 
construction has been necessary to explain what after- 
wards happened. Reducing it to its simplest terms, it 
becomes clear that if the water rose, a person in the 
passage, or anywhere beyond the overflow shaft, could 
not possibly get back through the well, though he 
would apparently be safe from drowning if he stayed 
where he was ; and to the best of Malipieri's know- 
ledge there was no other way out. Any one caught 
there would have to wait till the water subsided, and if 
that did not happen he v^ould starve to death. 
The two men stood still and listened. They could 
'-still distinguish the faint gurgling of the water, very 
far off, but that was all. 
"I believe you heard a rat," said Malipieri, discon- 
tentedly, after a long pause. 
" Rats do not carry English wax matches," observed 
Masin. 
" They eat them when they can find them," answered 
Malipieri. " They carry them off, and hide them, and 
drop them, too. And a big rat running away makes a 
noise very like a man's footsteps." 
" That is true," assented Masin. " There were many 
of them in the prison, and I sometimes thought they 
were the keepers when I heard them at night." 
" At all events, we will go to the end," said Malipieri, 
beginning to walk down the inclined way, and carrying 
his lantern low, so as not to be dazzled by the light. 
Masin followed closely, grasping his drilling-iron, 
and still expecting to use it. The end of the passage 
had once been walled up, but they had found the frag- 
ments of brick and mortar lying much as they had 
fallen when knocked away. It was impossible to tell 
from which side the obstacle had been destroyed. 
Going further, they stepped upon the curve of a 
tunnel vault, and were obliged to stoop low to avoid 
striking against another overhead. The two vaults 
had been carefully constructed, one outside the other, 
leaving a space of about five feet between them. The 
one under their feet covered the inner chamber in 
which Malipieri had seen the bronze statue. He and 
Masin had made a hole a little on one side of the 
middle, in order not to disturb the keystones, working 
very carefully lest any heavy fragments should fall 
through ; for they had at once been sure that if any- 
thing was to be found, it must be concealed in that 
 
place. Before making the opening, they had thoroughly 
explored the dark curved space from end to end and 
from side to side, but could discover no aperture. The 
inner vault had never been opened since it had been 
built. 
Malipieri, reconstructing the circumstances of the 
accident in the last century, came to the conclusion 
that the mason who had been drowned had been already 
between the vaults, when some of the men behind had 
discovered that the water was rising in the well, and 
that they had somehow got out in time, but that their 
unfortunate companion had come back too late, or had 
perished while trying to break his way out by the slit, 
through which the water must have been rushing in. 
How they had originally entered the place was a 
mystery. Possibly they had been lowered from above, 
down the well-shaft, but it was all very hard to explain. 
The only thing that seemed certain was that the treas- 
ure had never been seen by any one since it had been 
closed in under the vault, ages ago. Malipieri had not 
yet found time to make a careful plan of all the places 
through which he had passed. There were so many 
turns and changes of level, that it would be impossible 
to get an accurate drawing without using a theodolite 
or some similar instrument of precision. From the 
measurements he had taken, however, and the rough 
sketches he had made, he believed that the double vault 
was not under the palace itself, but under the open 
courtyard, at the depth of about forty feet, and there- 
fore below the level of the Tiber at average high water. 
Both men now knelt by the hole, and Masin thrust 
his lantern down to the full length of his arm. The 
light shone upon the vast hand of the statue, and made 
a deep reflection in the great ruby of the ring, as if the 
gem was not a stone, but a little gold cup filled with 
rich wine. The hand itself, the wrist and the great 
muscles of the chest on which it lay, seemed of pure 
gold. But Malipieri's eyes fixed themselves on some- 
thing else. There were marks on the bright surface of 
the metal which had not been there when he had looked 
at it in the afternoon ; there were patches of dust, and 
there were several small scratches, which might have 
been made by the nails of heavy shoes. 
"You were right after all," said Malipieri, with- 
drawing the lantern and setting it down beside him. 
" The man is here." 
Masin's china-blue eyes brightened at the thought of a 
possible fight, and his hold tightened again on his drill. 
" What shall we do with him ? " he asked, looking 
down into the hole. 
Cunning, as the Italian peasant is by nature, Masin 
made a sign to his master that the man, if he were 
really below, could hear all that was said. 
" Shall I go down and kill him, sir ? " Masin en- 
quired with a quiet grin and raising his voice a little. 
" I am not sure," Malipieri answered, at once enter- 
ing into his man's scheme. " He is caught in his own 
trap. It is not midnight yet, and there is plenty of 
time to consider the matter. Let us sit here and talk 
about it." 
 
He now turned himself and sat beside the hole, 
placing his lantern near the edge. He took out a 
cigar and lit it carefully. Masin sat on the other 
side, his drill in his hand. 
"If he tries to get out while we are talking," he 
said,' "I can break his skull with a touch of this." 
"Yes," Malipieri answered, puffing at his cigar. 
"There is no hurry. Keep your iron ready." 
" Yes, sir. " Masin made the heavy drill ring on the 
stones of the vault. 
A pause followed. 
"Have you got your pipe with you?" asked Mali- 
pieri presently. " We must talk over this quietly." 
"Yes, sir. Will you hold the iron while I get a 
light ? He might try to jump out, and he may have 
firearms. Thank you, sir." 
Masin produced a short black pipe, filled it and 
lighted it. 
" I was thinking, sir," he said, as he threw away the 
wooden match, "that if we kill him here we may 
have trouble in disposing of his body. Thank you, 
sir," he added as he took over the drill again and 
made it clang on the stones. 
"There will be no trouble about that," Malipieri 
answered, speaking over the hole. "We can drop 
him down the overflow shaft in the passage." 
"Where do you think the shaft leads, sir?" asked 
Masin, grinning with delight. 
" To some old drain and then to the Tiber, of course. 
The body will be found in a week or two, jammed 
against the pier of some bridge, probably at the island 
of Saint Bartholomew." 
"Yes, sir. But the drain is dry now. The body 
will lie at the bottom of the shaft, where we drop it, 
and in a few days the cellars will be perfumed." 
He laughed roughly at his horrible joke, which was 
certainly calculated to affect the nerves of the intruder 
who was meant to hear it. Malipieri began to wonder 
when the man would give a sign of life. 
" We can fill the •tvell by plugging the arch in the 
outer chamber," he suggested. " Then the water will 
pour down the shaft and wash the body away." 
"Yes, sir," assented Masin. "That is a good idea. 
Shall I go down and kill him now, sir ? " 
"Not yet," Malipieri answered, knocking the ash 
from his cigar. " We have not finished smoking, and 
there is no hurry. Besides, it occurs to me that if we 
drive anything into the hole when the water runs out, 
we shall not be able to get the plug away afterwards. 
Then we ourselves could never get here again." 
A long silence followed. From time to time Masin 
made a little noise with the drill. 
"Perhaps the fellow is asleep," he observed pleas- 
antly at last. " So much the better, he will wake in 
Paradise ! " 
"It is of no use to run any risks," said Malipieri. 
" If we go down to kill him he may kill one of us first, 
especially if he has a revolver. There is no hurry, I 
tell you. Do you happen to know how long it takes 
to starve a man to death ? " 
 
"Without water, a man cannot live a week, sir. 
That is the best idea you have had yet." 
" Yes. We will wall him up in the vault. That is 
easy enough. Those boards that are over the shaft 
will do to make a little frame, and the stones are all 
here, just as we got them out. We can fasten up the 
frame with ends of rope." 
" We have no mortar, sir." 
" Mud will do as well for such a small job," answered 
Malipieri. "We can easily make enough. Give me 
your iron, in case he tries to get out, and go and get 
the boards and the rope." 
Masin began to rise. 
" In a week we can come and take him out," he re- 
marked in a matter-of-fact way. "By that time he 
will be dead, and we can have his grave ready." 
He laughed again, as he thought of the sensations 
his cheerful talk must produce in the mind of the man 
below. 
" Yes," said Malipieri. " We may as well do it at 
once and go to bed. It is of no use to sit up all night 
talking about the fellow's body. Go and get the rope 
and the boards." 
Masin was now on his feet and his heavy shoes made 
a grinding noise on the stones. At that moment a 
sound was heard from below, and Malipieri held up a 
finger and listened. Somebody was moving in the vault. 
" You had better stay where you are," said Malipieri, 
speaking down. " If you show yourself I will drop a 
stone on your head." 
A hollow voice answered him from the depths. 
"Are you Christians," it asked, "to wall a man up 
alive ? " 
"That is what we are going to do," Malipieri 
answered coolly. " Have you anything to say ? It 
will not take us long to do the job, so you had better 
speak at. once. How did you get in ? " 
"If I am to die without getting out, why should I 
tell you ? " enquired the voice. 
Malipieri looked at Masin. 
" There is a certain sense in what the man says, sir," 
Masin said thoughtfully. 
" My good man," said Malipieri, speaking down, " we 
do not want anybody to know the way to this place 
for a few days, and as you evidently know it better 
than we do, we intend to keep you quiet." 
" If you will let me out, I can serve you," answered 
the man below. " There is nobody in Rome who can 
serve you as I can." 
" Who are you ? " asked Malipieri. 
"Are you going to let me out, Signor Malipieri?" 
enquired the man. " If you are, I will tell you." 
" Oh, you know my name, do you ? " 
"Perfectly. You are the engineer engaged by the 
Senator Volterra to find the treasure." 
" Yes. Quite right. What of that ? " 
" You have found it," answered the other. " Of 
what use will it be to kill me ? I cannot take that 
statue away in my waistcoat pocket, if you let me out, 
can I ? " 
 
" You had better not make too many jokes, my man, 
or we will put tlie boards over tbis bole in five minutes. 
If you can really be of use to me, I will let you out. 
Wbat is your name ? " 
" Toto," answered the voice sullenly. 
"Yes. That means Theodore, I suppose. Now 
make haste, for I am tired of waiting. What are you, 
and how did you get in ? " 
" I was the mason of the palace, until the devil flew 
away with the people who lived in it. I know all the 
secrets of the house. I can be very useful to you. " 
" That changes matters, my friend. I have no 
doubt you can be useful if you like, though we have 
managed to find one of the secrets without you. It 
happens to be the only one we wanted to know." 
" No," answered Toto. " There are two others. 
You do not know how I got in, and you do not know 
how to manage the ' lost water.' " 
" That is true," said Malipieri. " But if I let you out 
you may do me harm, by talking before it is time. The 
government is not to know of this discovery until I 
am ready." 
" The government ! " exclaimed Toto contemptu- 
ously, from his hiding-place. " May an apoplexy seize 
it ! Do you take me for a spy ? I am a Christian." 
" I begin to think he is, sir," put in Masin, knock- 
ing the ash from his pipe. 
"I think so, too," said Malipieri. "Throw away 
that iron, Masin. He shall show himself, at all events, 
and if we like his face we can talk to him here." 
Masin dropped the drill with a clang. Toto's hairy 
hand appeared, grasping the golden wrist of the statue, 
as he raised himself to approach the hole. 
"He is a mason, as he says," said Masin, catching 
sight of the rough fingers. 
" Did you take me for a coachman ? " enquired Toto, 
thrusting his shaggy head forward cautiously, and 
looking up through the aperture. 
"Before you come up here," Malipieri answered, 
" tell me how you got in." 
" You seem to know so much about the overflow 
shaft that I should think you might have guessed. 
If you do not believe that I came that way, look at my 
clothes ! " 
He now crawled upon the body of the statue, and 
Malipieri saw that he was covered with half-dried mud 
and ooze. 
" You got through some old drain, I suppose, and 
found your way up." 
" It seems so," answered Toto, shaking his shoulders, 
as if he were stiff. 
"Are you going to let him go free, sir?" asked 
Masin, standing ready. " If you do, he will be down 
the shaft, before you can catch him. These men know 
their way underground like moles." 
" Moles, yourselves ! " answered Toto in a growl, 
putting his head up above the level of the vault. 
Masin measured him with his eye, and saw that he 
was a strong man, probably much more active than he 
looked in his heavy, mud-plastered clothes. 
 
" Get up here," said Malipieri. 
Toto obeyed, and in a moment he sat on the edge of 
the hole, his legs dangling down into it. 
" Not so bad," he said, settling himself with a grunt 
of satisfaction. 
" I like you. Master Toto," said Malipieri. " You 
might have thought that we really meant to kill you, 
but you did not seem much frightened." 
" There is no woman in the affair," answered Toto. 
" Why should you kill me ? And I can help you." 
"How am I to know that you will?" asked Mali- 
pieri. 
" I am a man of honour," Toto replied, turning his 
stony face to the light of the lanterns. 
" I have not a doubt of it, my friend," returned 
Malipieri, without conviction. " Just now, the only 
help I need of you, is that you should hold your tongue. 
How can I be sure that you will do that ? Does any 
one else know the way in through the drain ? " 
" No. I only found it to-night. If there is a day's 
rain in the mountains, and the Tiber rises even a little, 
nobody can pass through it. The lower part is barely 
above the level of the river now." 
" How did you guess that you could get here by that 
way ? " 
" We know many secrets in our trade, from father to 
son," answered Toto gruffly. 
" You must have lifted the boards, with the stones 
on them, to get out of the shaft. Why did you put 
them back in their place ? " 
" You seem to think I am a fool ! I did not mean 
to let you know that I had been here, so I put them 
back, of course. I supposed that I could get out 
through the cellars, but you have put a padlock on the 
inner door." 
" Is there any way of turning water into that 
shaft?" 
"Only by filling the well, I think. If the Tiber 
rises, the water will back up the shaft through the 
drain. That is why the ancients who built the well 
made another way for the water to run off. When 
the river is swollen in a flood it must be much higher 
in the shaft than the bottom of the well, and if the 
' lost water ' were running in all the time, the air would 
probably make it back, so that the shaft would be use- 
less and the well would be soiled with the river water." 
"You evidently know your trade. Master Toto," 
said Masin, with some admiration for his fellow-crafts- 
man's clear understanding. 
" You know yours," retorted Toto, who was seldom at 
a loss, "for just now you talked of killing like a pro- 
fessional assassin." 
This pleasing banter delighted Masin, who laughed 
heartily, and patted Toto on the back. 
" We shall be good friends," he said. 
" In this world one never knows," Toto answered 
philosophically. " What are you going to do ? " 
" You must come back with us to my apartment," 
said Malipieri, who had been considering the matter. 
" You must stay there a couple of days, without going 
 
out. I will pay you for your time, and give you a 
handsome present, and plenty to eat and drink. After 
that you will be free to go where you please and say 
what you like, for the secret will be out." 
" Thank you," answered Toto without enthusiasm. 
"Are you going to tell the government about the 
treasure ? " 
" The Senator will certainly inform the government, 
which has a right to buy it." 
To this Toto said nothing, but he lifted his legs out 
of the hole and stood up, ready to go. Malipieri and 
Masin took up their lanterns. 
CHAPTER XI 
Masin led the way back, Toto followed and Mali- 
pieri went last, so that the mason was between his two 
captors. They did not quite trust him, and Masin was 
careful not to walk too fast where the way was so 
familiar to him, while Malipieri was equally careful 
not to lag behind. In this order they reached the 
mouth of the overflow shaft, covered with the loaded 
boards. Masin bent down and examined them, for he 
wished to convince himself that the stones had been 
