“Not much over a mile distant. You might take a hansom.”

“I think I will. Otherwise I might fall in with Professor Puffer again,
and even if I escaped from him, the delay might prove fatal.”

“Very true. Fortunately, the expense will be trifling.”

Bernard went up to his room and put on a clean collar. He brushed his
hair carefully also. His shoes were all right, thanks to his young
street friend, Dick Sprowl.

Then he went to the Strand and hailed a hansom.

“I want to go to Morley’s Hotel, Trafalgar Square,” he said. “Do you
know where it is?”

“Yes, sir,” answered cabby, with a pitying smile. “I’ll have you there
in a jiffy.”

In about fifteen minutes the cab drew up in front of a plain hotel, and
the driver assisted Bernard to descend.

Bernard satisfied himself that this was Morley’s Hotel, and dismissing
the cab driver he advanced to the entrance. The result of his
application would be so important to him that he could not help feeling
nervous.




CHAPTER XXIII.  AN APARTMENT AT MORLEY’S  HOTEL.

|Bernard was shown up-stairs to an apartment on the second floor. He was
ushered into an anteroom, where four persons were already sitting. These
Bernard inferred were applicants for the post of traveling companion.

When he entered, the others regarded him with interest, and, as it
seemed, with amusement. His youth made it seem ridiculous in their eyes
for him to aspire to the position advertised.

Bernard, too, was interested in taking stock of his competitors.

One was a tall young man, of about thirty-five, dressed in a tightly
fitting suit, the coat buttoned up to the throat. Whatever his
qualifications might be, he looked stiff and uncompanionable.

His next neighbor was considerably shorter, quite smartly dressed, and
his face wore a self-satisfied smirk, as if he had a remarkably good
opinion of himself. Another was a man of at least forty, with a
middle-aged look, and an air of discouragement about him.

The fourth was an awkward looking young man, not over twenty-one, who
seemed bashful and ill at ease. He was just from the university, where
he had not quite completed the full course, and, whatever his
scholarship might be, looked inexperienced and unpractical.

A man servant appeared, and looking about him doubtfully, signaled to
the first mentioned applicant to follow him. While he was closeted with
the advertiser, the others were expectant and ill at ease. They feared
that choice would be made of the first applicant.

At the end of ten minutes he reappeared in the anteroom. All eyes were
turned upon him.

“Are you engaged?” asked applicant No. 2.

The tall young man answered complacently, “Not yet, but I probably shall
be. Mr. Cunningham will communicate with me.”

He left the room, and No. 2 followed the servant into the advertiser’s
presence. He reappeared at the end of five minutes.

“Well?” asked the man of middle age anxiously.

“I think it will be me,” was the reply. “Mr. Cunningham was very social
and agreeable. Between ourselves, there isn’t the slightest chance of
the other man being taken. He flattered himself too much.”

“Is he going to write to you?”

“Yes. I told him that the first man fully expected the appointment, but
he only laughed. I understood what that meant.”

So No. 2 departed and No. 3 was invited into the advertiser’s presence.

He, too, came back at the end of from five to ten minutes, but he did
not look as confident as the two who preceded him.

“Are you chosen?” asked the university man eagerly.

“No, and I don’t think I shall be. Mr. Cunningham evidently regarded me
as too old. He is himself a young man. I don’t think he is over
twenty-three or twenty-four.”

The college man brightened up. This seemed favorable to his chances. As
he argued, Cunningham would naturally prefer a person somewhere near his
own age.

At a signal, from the servant he entered the presence of Walter
Cunningham, his face flushing with nervous embarrassment.

Soon he, too, came out, and there was but one applicant
left--Bernard--to greet him. He, too, had been of opinion that the
college man would be accepted.

“Am I to congratulate you?” he asked.

“I don’t know,” answered the university man.

“Mr. Cunningham was very kind and friendly. He has reserved his
decision, and tells me that if I am selected I will hear from him in two
days.”

“Follow me, young man,” said the servant, signaling to Bernard.

Bernard found himself almost immediately in the presence of Walter
Cunningham. The advertiser was a pleasant looking young man, whose
appearance attracted Bernard. He looked rather surprised at Bernard’s
youth.

“Have you come in answer to my advertisement?” he asked.

“I have,” replied Bernard. “I can see that you think me very young.”

“Well, certainly you are not very old,” returned Cunningham, smiling
pleasantly. “How old are you?”

“Sixteen.”

“And I am twenty-three.”

“It is rather presumptuous in me to answer your advertisement, but there
was no limitation of age.”

“True. You were quite justified in applying. You are not English?”

“No; I am an American.”

“So I judged. I know something of America. Two years since I spent six
months in the States. I have seen most of your large cities, from New
York to San Francisco.”

“I am sorry to say that my traveling has been very limited.”

“And you really have no special qualifications for the position of a
traveling companion?”

“No, sir.”

“Are you acquainted with any of the modern languages?”

“I can read French pretty easily.”

Mr. Cunningham looked pleased.

“That will be a help,” he said. “Do you speak it at all?”

“Just a little. I wrote French exercises, and had a few lessons in
French conversation. Of course, I have very small claim to the place,
but it is quite important for me to find employment, and an American
lady--a teacher--suggested to me to apply.”

“Then your means are limited? Have you parents?”

“No, sir; I am quite alone in the world.”

“How did you chance to come to England?”

“It might take me some time to answer that question.”

“Never mind! I have plenty of time at my command.”

Thus invited, Bernard made a full statement of his position, and the
circumstances which led to his leaving America. He also explained why he
had left Professor Puffer.

“I am very much interested in your narrative,” said Cunningham. “You
are certainly placed in a difficult position. You have reason to think
that your guardian is no friend of yours?”

“I am certain of that, sir.”

“This Professor Puffer, though it is doubtful if he has any rightful
claim to the title, appears to be a bad lot.”

“That’s what he calls me,” said Bernard, laughing. He already felt on
very cordial terms with Mr. Cunningham.

“I may be foolish,” went on Cunningham, after a pause. “I don’t know
what my friends will say, but I feel very much inclined to engage you.”

“I hope you will. It is not only that I need employment. I am sure I
should enjoy being with you.”

“That settles it,” said Cunningham. “I already like you, and if you like
me I am sure it will be pleasant for us to be associated. To be sure,
you don’t know much about traveling. I do, and can supply your
deficiencies. Now I will tell you why I seek a companion. Partly because
it is agreeable, but partly also because I am not robust and am
likely--that is, there is a chance of being sick--and in that case I
should need a friend with me. I think I want a friend more than a
companion. That was one reason why I didn’t feel favorably inclined to
the other applicants.”

“No doubt they were better qualified than I am.”

“Yes, they were. The first one has considerable experience in traveling
and speaks two or three of the Continental languages, but I never could
make a friend of him.”

“He seemed very stiff and unsocial.”

“That was my judgment of him. As to the second, he was entirely too well
satisfied with himself. I have no doubt he would try to make himself
agreeable, and he has traveled some.”

“He seemed to think there was every chance of his obtaining the
position. No one thought I had any chance.”

“You wouldn’t have with most persons, but I happen to like you,” said
Walter Cunningham frankly.

“I am glad of that. I thought the young man who went in last might be
successful. The middle-aged man didn’t have strong hopes.”

“No, he is too old, and seems to have had such a rough time in life that
he would be far from a cheerful companion. He seems very hard up. When I
write him my refusal I shall send him a five pound note to relieve his
feeling of disappointment.”

“That will be very kind in you. I would do the same in your place.”

“I think we are alike in being considerate of others. As to the young
man, he doesn’t seem to be practical. I am afraid that I should be a
companion to him rather than he to me.”

“It may be so with me, but I shall try to make myself useful.”

“You look bright, and would, I think, learn rapidly to do all I expect
of you.”

At this moment the man servant came in and handed a card to Mr.
Cunningham, who uttered an exclamation of surprise.

“Whose card do you think this is?” he asked.

“I couldn’t guess.”

“It bears the name of Professor Ezra Puffer, your friend.”

“Don’t call him my friend! What can bring him here?”

“He wants to be my traveling companion.”




CHAPTER XXIV.  PROFESSOR PUFFER FROM HIS OWN POINT OF VIEW.

|Shall you see him, Mr. Cunningham?” asked Bernard.

“Yes; I have engaged you, to be sure, but after what you have told me of
the professor, I am curious to interview him.”

“I shouldn’t like to have him see me. He might try to get me into his
power.”

“Wouldn’t you like to be present and hear what he has to say?”

“Yes, if I could do so unobserved.”

“You can. There is an alcove curtained off from the main room. Go in
there, and you can hear every word that passes between us.”

“Thank you, I shall like it very much.”

“You may tell the gentleman to come in,” said Walter Cunningham,
addressing his servant.

The latter reappeared, followed by Professor Puffer, who bowed low to
the young man from whom he sought a position.

“Professor Puffer?” said Cunningham inquiringly.

“I have that honor,” said Puffer. “I called about your advertisement for
a traveling companion.”

“Do you know of any one whom you can recommend?”

“I would be glad to accept the position myself. What salary do you
propose to give?”

“That will be a matter of negotiation after I have made my selection.”

“I only wanted to make sure that it would be worth my while to accept.
As you may infer from my card I am a man of reputation,” and Professor
Puffer swelled out his chest and assumed a look of dignity.

“I am glad to hear it. I consider it a compliment that a man of your
standing should be willing to be my companion.”

“To tell the truth, Mr. Cunningham,” went on Puffer, “I was not sure
till I saw you whether I should be willing, but now that I have seen you
I have a strong desire to accompany you.”

“Appearances are deceitful, you know, professor.”

“I am willing to take the risk. How soon do you propose to start?”

“My dear sir, it seems to me you are going too fast. I have not yet
selected you. I should like to ask you a few questions.”

“I shall have pleasure in answering, sir. Professor Puffer is always
open and aboveboard.”

“That is well. May I ask where you have held the position of professor?”

“At the American University of Harvard. Doubtless you have heard of it.”

“Certainly.”

“I have also lectured at Cornell University.”

“On what subject?”

“Ahem! On antiquities.”

“Then that is your specialty?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Doubtless I should find your companionship very instructive.”

“You are kind to say so.”

“I don’t say so. I only say that from your account of yourself I should
presume so. Of course I know of you only from your own statements. So
you were a professor at Harvard University?”

“Yes, sir.”

“During what years?”

“I left there a year since, after serving for a term of five years.”

“That was a long period. Why did you leave, may I ask?”

“On account of my health. I labored so assiduously that it became
seriously affected. My physician prescribed traveling for a year or
more. My means are not large, partly because I have spent so much money
on books and scientific research, and our salaries as professors were
not munificent.”

“You have a large library?”

“About four hundred volumes,” answered Puffer promptly. “I think those
books--many of them rare--must have cost over ten thousand dollars.”

“Where are they now?”

“I have stored them. I could not make up my mind to sell them.”

“What an old humbug!” thought Bernard, as he heard the professor’s
statements in the security of the alcove.

“May I ask your age, Professor Puffer?”

Puffer hesitated, and finally answered, “I am forty-five.”

Walter Cunningham would have been surprised if he had put any confidence
in the professor’s statements, as he looked at least ten years older.

“I asked because I am a young man, and though you are doubtless a man
from whom I should gain instruction, I am in doubt as to whether your
age would not be too great to make you a congenial companion.”

“My dear Mr. Cunningham,” said the professor with a genial smile, “I am
not surprised to hear you say so. Forty-five no doubt seems very old to
you, but I assure you I have a young heart and my company is prized by a
great many young people. Why, only recently I was engaged as companion
for a boy of sixteen.”

“Indeed! What was his name?”

“Bernard Brooks.”

“Did he seem happy in your company?”

“Yes, indeed! We were like brothers. He loved me dearly.”

Walter Cunningham had hard work to suppress a smile, and Bernard felt
like choking with laughter.

“Old Puffer is a worse humbug than I supposed,” he said to himself. “How
I should like to burst upon him after that big falsehood! Wouldn’t he
look disconcerted!”

“Where is the boy now? I should like to see him.”

“He has left England with some friends of the family.”

“Was he sorry to part with you?”

“I don’t like to boast, but, big boy as he is, he shed tears at leaving
me.”

“How was it that you gained such an ascendency over him?”

“I really can’t say. I am naturally fond of young people, and they take
to me.”

“You think, then, that I should find you an agreeable companion?”

“My dear Mr. Cunningham, may I say Walter, give me a week and we should
be like Damon and Pythias.”

“I suppose this boy Bernard was an attractive boy?”

“Very much so. Of course he had his faults--most boys have--but as long
as he gave me his affection I was willing to overlook them.”

“That was very kind in you. I am afraid I have faults, too.”

“Very few, I am sure, Walter--excuse me, Mr. Cunningham.”

“Can you give me an idea of what you would regard as a satisfactory
salary in case I engaged you?”

The professor brightened up. This looked encouraging.

“At Harvard I was paid three thousand dollars a year,” he said, “but
then my duties were arduous. I instructed a large junior class, and gave
lectures weekly to the seniors.”

“I hope you wouldn’t feel inclined to lecture me, professor.”

“Ha, ha! very good!” said Puffer, laughing heartily. “You will have your
joke. However, I only mentioned this to explain why my salary was so
large. Of course I shouldn’t expect nearly as much with you. If you paid
my traveling expenses and a hundred dollars a month it would satisfy me.
I am not expecting to save much in this my year of recreation.”

“I will consider your proposal. By the way, can you show me a catalogue
of Harvard University with your name enrolled as professor?”

“I am really sorry, but I don’t happen to have a catalogue with me.”

“One of Cornell, where I understand you gave a course of lectures, will
do.”

“I regret to say that I haven’t that either.”

“Of course I don’t doubt you, but it would be pleasant to have some
confirmation of your statements.”

“My dear Mr. Cunningham, I hope you don’t doubt my word.”

“You know I have never met you before this morning. Perhaps you have
some of the books you have published which you can show me.”

“I haven’t at present, but I may be able to pick one up in the London
book stores.”

“Do so, and send it to me by messenger. I shall be too busy to see you
for a week to come.”

“Do I understand,” asked the professor insinuatingly, “that you engage
me as a traveling companion?”

“Don’t understand anything of the kind just now. Give me your address,
and I will communicate with you.”.

“I am staying at the Brown Hotel, in Norfolk Street.”

“Very well, I will note it down.”

“I shall be glad to hear from you as soon as possible, as I have another
position in view.”

“Very well, Professor Puffer. I won’t keep you waiting unduly.”

Professor Puffer bowed gracefully and retired. Then Bernard was called
from his nook by Mr. Cunningham. He came out all smiles.

“It was as good as a play, Mr. Cunningham,” he said. “I am very glad the
professor speaks so well of me. It is quite unexpected.”

“It seems you shed tears at leaving him.”

“If I did they were tears of joy.”

“I don’t know but I had better reconsider my decision and engage
Professor Puffer instead of you.”

“If you really think you would like him better, Mr. Cunningham, you had
better do so.”

“You are not very much afraid of it. Well, Bernard, I will tell you what
I did not care to tell him. I mean to start away inside of a week, and I
think you had better join me at this hotel, so that we may make
preparations together.”

“I should like nothing better.”

“As to the salary--you have not inquired how much I am to pay you.”

“I am content to leave that to you.”

“Very well. The professor settled that matter. I will pay your traveling
expenses and give you a hundred dollars a month.”

“But that is much more than I can earn,” said Bernard, in astonishment.

“Very probably. I give you a large salary out of friendship.”

Miss Smith, the schoolmistress, was delighted to hear of Bernard’s
success. The next day he removed to Morley’s Hotel.




CHAPTER XXV.  BERNARD’S GOOD FORTUNE

|It will be several days before I shall be able to get away, Bernard,”
 said Walter Cunningham, the next morning, “and, by the way, I have not
told you where I am going.”

“No, sir; I should like very much to know.”

“I propose to visit Italy and perhaps Sicily. We shall go first to
Paris, and remain a short time.” Bernard’s eyes sparkled. He had always
wished to visit the continent, and had expected to do so in the company
of Professor Puffer, but he felt that he should enjoy himself much more
in the companionship of Walter Cunningham. Even had Puffer proved a
reliable man, there was nothing about him to win the good will and
attachment of a boy of his age.

“I shall enjoy it very much, Mr. Cunningham,” said Bernard.

“So I hope. I have not told you much about myself,” continued the young
man, “but as we are to be companions and friends it is proper that I
should do so.”

Bernard did not speak, but his face expressed unmistakable interest.

“I am alone in the world. My father and mother are dead, and I never had
a brother or sister. My father was a wealthy man of business and a man
of note, having reached (this was two years before he died) the position
of Lord Mayor of London. He contracted a fever at his country house,
where, it appeared, the drainage was bad. Two years since, just after I
had attained my majority, he died, my mother having preceded him; and I
was left in possession of a hundred thousand pounds.”

“Half a million of dollars!” said Bernard.

“Yes, that is the way it would be rated in America. In a pecuniary way,
therefore, I am fortunate, but I can’t tell you how solitary I feel at
times.”

“I can understand it, Mr. Cunningham. I am in the same position as
yourself, only that I am left destitute.”

“Then it appears to me, Bernard, there is a special propriety in our
being together. How old are you?”

“Sixteen.”

“I am but seven years older. I shall look upon you as a younger brother,
and in our new relationship I shall expect you to drop the formal Mr.
and call me Walter.”

“It will seem awkward at first, but I shall get used to it and like it.”

“By the way--you will excuse my mentioning it--but it seems to me that
your suit is well worn, not to say shabby.”

“That is true. As soon as I can afford it I will buy another.”

“You need not wait till then. I will send you to my tailor’s, with
instructions to make you two suits at once. I will also give you an
order on my haberdasher for such articles as you may require in his
line.”

“Thank you. You can deduct the price from my salary.”

“That is unnecessary. These articles will be my first gift to you.”

“How kind you are, Walter. I think,” Bernard added with a smile,
“Professor Puffer would be willing to be a brother to you.”

“I have no doubt of it, but in spite of the professor’s fascinations and
the affection which he says you entertain for him, I am afraid I should
not appreciate him as perhaps he deserves. Now, I think it will be well
for you to go and order your clothing, as we haven’t much time to
spare.”

Mr. Cunningham’s tailor occupied a shop in Regent Street, and thither
Bernard went. He took with him a note from his employer which insured
him a flattering reception. He had no trouble in choosing cloth for
suits, as Mr. Cunningham had sent instructions. Next he repaired to the
