— what do you do about it? I will tell you some- 
thing right now, to begin with; it will startle you, 
perhaps, and you may not believe it; but I mean 
to prove it later on. For the present I say this: 
that of the seven poets who constitute the glory 
of the literature of England in the nineteenth 
century, four of them were rich men, five of them 
were independent, one of them was endowed 
when he was a youth, and the seventh, the 
greatest of them all, died like a poisoned rat 
in a hole. 
And what do you do about it? What you do 
is to lean back in your chair and say : " The Uter- 
ary market was never so wide-awake as it is now, 
and the publishers never so anxious for new tal- 
ent"! 
Fools ! And you think that the publishers are 
in business for the developing of talent, and for 
the glory of literature! And that they care about 
whether a man of Genius dies in the streets, or 
not! Why, have I not heard them tell me, with 
their own lips, that " a publisher who published 
books that the trade did not want would be 
driven out of business in a year"? 
And you tell me that the author is an inde- 
pendent man nowadays! And can earn his liv- 
ing with his books! 
It is your privilege to think that, if you 
choose; but perhaps you will not mind hearing 
what I tell you — that the author can find no way 
to a living more degrading to him than the earn- 
ing of it with his books. I have shoveled snow, 
and shoveled manure too, in the streets, and 
shoveled food for swine in a restaurant.. But I 
never did anything so degrading as I should have 
had to do if I had tried to earn my Hving with 
my books. 
Oh, the author may be independent, may he! 
And you will escape with that fine platitude, 
and with that bitter mockery ! And never think 
that the author's independence is but the fine 
phrase for your own indifference! 
Again it is your privilege to think what you 
choose; but again perhaps you will not mind 
hearing what I tell you — that there can never 
be any man in this world more dependent than 
an author, if he be a true author. A true au- 
thor is the singer and dreamer of society; and 
who is there more dependent than the singer 
and the dreamer — who is there less powerful and 
less cunning in the things of the body? 
Why, the author gives up his whole life for 
your joy and help, he consecrates himself, he 
lashes and burns and tortures himself — for your 
sake! And you spurn him from you, and tell 
him he is "independent "! 
Here is the truth, here is the crux, here is the 
whole thing in" a sentence.-- A publisher is hot in 
business for the furtherance of Art, or for the up- 
lifting of humanity, or for the worship of God. 
He doesn't mind doing these things incidentally, 
of course, when the fortunate occasion arises; 
but do you think if he had his choice between 
publishing a new Paradise Lost to be read fifty 
years from date, and publishing a biography of 
a reigning prince, or a treatise on gastronomy, 
or a new dime novel by Marie Corelli in a first 
edition of a hundred thousand copies — do you 
think he would hesitate, now really? 
You say that " literary excellence is identical 
with publishing availability"! I tell you that 
they are as far apart — why, that they are just 
exactly this far apart — as far as what mankind 
likes is from what mankind ought to like. 
And you ask the man of Genius to cringe 
and tremble before the standard of what the 
reading public likes! You ask him to tame the 
frenzy of his inspiration, to pull your pleasure- 
carriages with his winged steed! He shall be no 
more the seer and the prophet and the leader — 
he shall be mountebank and public-entertainer. 
And you call yourself civilized! O God! 
And the poet! Again the poet! Is he not 
vital to your society? Is he not, in the last analy- 
sis, the lawmaker, the law-enforcer — this seeker, 
this inspirer, this man with the new vision of 
right? I look at this society — body enough I 
see, bone and muscle, and a good, large, capable 
stomach. Brain enough I see, too, or nearly 
enough; but Soul? Soul? Who will dare to tell 
me that there is Soul enough? And your poet — 
why, he is your Soul! He is the man who fills the 
millions with the breath of life, who makes the 
whole vast machine a living, rejoicing, beautiful 
thing. He — every noble impulse that you have 
has come originally from him — the memory of 
his words thrill in the hearts of men — pupils 
gather to study them — tired hearts seek them for 
refreshment — they grow and they fill all the 
earth — and never through the centuries do they 
die! They blossom into noble impulses, into new 
movements, — into reforms that reach down to 
the lowest wretches of the gutter, who never 
even heard of a poet. Why, they have reached 
to the very dogs, that are beaten less than they 
were. 
And what is it that makes civilization in the 
end? What is it that the world really honors in 
the end? You Americans, you who love your 
country, you who believe in your country's insti- 
tutions, who believe that your country holds in 
her womb the future of mankind ! You who want 
the world to believe that! — how are you going to 
get the world to believe that? Is it — poor, im- 
potent, foolish creatures — by covering your land 
until it is a maze of twenty-story office buildings? 
By lining it with railroads six feet apart? — Do you 
not know that this very hour the reason why Eu- 
rope does not believe in America is that it has 
not a man to sing its Soul? That it has been a 
century in the eyes of the world, and has not yet 
brought forth one single poet or thinker of the 
first rank? 
The poet! And I sought to be that man, 
my heart burned to sing that song! And look 
at me! 
Who will dare to say that I might not have 
sung it? What chance have I had — have I not 
been handicapped and stunted, beaten and dis- 
couraged, punished as if I had been a loafer — by 
you, the world? Here I am — I am only a boy — 
and thrilling with unutterable things! And I am 
going: down,- down to destruction! Why, for 
what I had to say I needed years and years to 
ripen; and how can I tell now — how can any 
man tell now — what those things would have 
been? 
And I — what am I? — a worm, an atom! But 
what happens to me to-day may happen to an- 
other to-morrow, and may happen to a hundred 
in a century. And who knows? — who cares? 
'hat do you do with your railroad presi- 
dents? You take good care that they get their 
work done, don't you? They have secretaries to 
catch every word, they have private cars to carry 
them where they would go, men to run and serve 
them, to make smooth their paths and save their 
every instant for them ! But your poet, your man 
of genius — who makes smooth his paths, who 
helps himf He needs nobody to run and serve 
him — he needs no cars and no palaces, no gold 
and precious raiment — no, nor even praise and 
honor! What he needs — I have said it once — 
he needs but to be left alone, to listen to the 
voices of his soul, and to have some one bring 
him food to keep him alive while he does it. That 
— only that! — think of it — for the most precious 
things of this life, the things that alone save- this- 
life from being a barren mockery and a grinning 
farce! And he can not have them — and you, you 
enlightened society, you never care about it, you 
never think of it! 
If he comes a master, he can force his way; 
or if he be rich, or if some one honor him, then 
he can live his life and heed nothing. But when 
he is poor! And when he is weak ! And when he 
is young! God help him, God help him! — for 
you, you great savage world, you crush him. 
You send him to the publishers! And he is 
young, and crude, and inexperienced! He has 
not found himself, he has not found his voice, 
he stammers, he falters, he is weak! And you 
send him to the publishers ! 
I have said it once, I say it again: that the 
publisher is part of the world and his law is a 
law of iron — he publishes the books that will 
sell. And this feeble voice, this young love, this 
tender aspiration, this holy purpose — oh, it is a 
thing to make one shudder! 
And these things higher yet, these things 
so precious that we dare not whisper them — this 
new awe of righteousness — this new rage at what 
the world loves best — this flash of insight that 
will astound a new age! 
You send it all to the publisher! 
But what can you do? I will tell you what 
you can do — I will tell you what you will do when 
you come finally to honor what is truly precious 
in this life — when you are really civilized and en- 
lightened — when you really believe in and value 
Genius. 
You will provide it that your young poet, 
your young worshiper, come elsewhere to receive 
a judgment than to the money-making publisher, 
and to the staring, vulgar crowd. You will pro- 
vide it that he does not measure his voice against 
the big-drum thumping of the best-selling pom- 
posities of the hour. You will provide it that he 
come, with all honor and all dignity, to the best 
and truest men that you can engage for the serv- 
ice; and that he come to be judged by one stand- 
ard, and that not the standard of sales. Whether 
it be true, whether it be noble, whether it be sin- 
cere; whether it show imagination, whether it 
have melody, beauty, love, aspiration, knowl- 
edge; whether, in short, in those forms or in 
any other forms, it have power! Whether the 
man who wrote it is a man worth training, 
whether he will repay society for its trust, 
whether he will bring new beauty into the world! 
— And then, if these things be true, so long as 
he works, and grows, and proves his value, so 
long shall he have the pittance that he needs until 
he be the master of his voice. 
Yes, you never thought of that before! I 
read everything — everywhere — and I never 
heard it before. And what does that tell about 
the poverty and blindness and stupidity of this 
world? Are we not rich enough? Are we not 
the richest nation in the world? Have we not 
railroads and houses, food and clothing and bank- 
stocks enough to make the brain reel? And do 
we not call ourselves a Christian land? And wor- 
ship as divine the Teacher who said that " man 
shall not live by bread alone, but by every word 
that proceedeth out of the mouth of God "? 
Oh, you world! 
And what would it do? What would it mean ? 
I will tell you a few things that it would mean. 
First of all it would mean that the man who 
felt in him the voice of God would know that 
there was a road he could travel, would know 
that there was a home for him. He would no 
longer face the fearful alternative of mediocrity 
or starvation. He would no longer be tempted, 
he would no longer be forced to turn from his 
faith, and stunt his development, and wreck his 
plans, by base attempts to compromise between 
his highest and what the world will pay for. Can 
you have any idea what that would mean to 
an artist? You say that you love art! Can you 
have any idea of the eflfect which that would have 
upon art? Upon the art of your country — upon 
American literature ! To have a band of perhaps 
a hundred — perhaps a thousand, proved and 
chosen — the best and strongest that could be 
found — and set free and consecrated to the search 
for beauty! Try it for fifty years — try it for ten 
years — try the method of raising your poets in 
your gardens instead of flinging them into your 
weed-beds — and see what the result would be! 
See if in fifty years American literature would not 
have done more than all the rest of the world ! 
And what would it cost? — O God! Is there 
a railroad in this country so small that its earnings 
would not pay for it — for the whole of the thou- 
sand? Why, pay a poet five hundred dollars a 
year, and he is a rich man; if he is not, he is no 
poet, but a knave. 
And there would be waste? — Yes — where is 
there not waste? But grant that in the whole 
thousand there is just one who is a master mind; 
and that him you set free and keep from defeat — 
that him with all his glory you make yours — and 
then tell me if there be any other way in this 
world that you could have done so much for man 
with your money! 
— No, these are not your ways, oh you cruel 
world! You let every man go his way — you let 
him starve, you let him die in any hole that he 
can find. The poet — tenderest and most sensi- 
tive of all men! The poet — the master of the 
arts of sufifering! Exposed on every side, nerv- 
ous, haunted, unused to the world, knowing 
how to feel and knowing that alone! Is not his 
life an agony under any conditions, — is he not 
tortured for you — the world? And you leave 
him helpless, despairing! 
What is the matter with you? — How can you 
be so blind? There are some of you who really 
love books — look and see the story of genius — 
if it be not a thing to make you shudder and 
turn sick. It has been so through all the ages, 
and it will be so through all the ages to come, 
until society has a conscience and a soul. Tell 
me if there is anything in this world more fright- 
ful than the lot of the poets who have been born 
poor — of Marlowe and Chatterton and Gold- 
smith, Johnson and Burns and Keats! And who 
can tell how many were choked before even their 
first utterance? 
I can not talk of that, for it makes me sick; 
but I will talk of the poets who were born rich. 
Is it not singular — is it not terrible — how many 
of the great stalwart ones were rich? To be edu- 
cated, to own books, to hear music, to dwell in 
the country, to be free from men and men's judg- 
ments! Oh, the words break my heart! 
— But was not Goethe rich, and did he not 
have these things? And was not Hugo rich? 
And Milton? When he left college he spent five 
years at his father's country place and wrote four 
poems that have done more to make men happy 
than if they had cost many milHons of dollars. 
But let me come to what I spoke of before, 
the seven poets of this century in England. 
I name Wordsworth and Byron, Tennyson, 
Browning and Swinburne, Shelley and Keats. I 
said that six of them were independent, and that 
the other — the greatest — died like a dog. 
Wordsworth came first; he was young and 
poor and struggling, and a friend left him just 
such an independence as I have cried for; and 
he consecrated himself to art, and he revolution- 
ized English poetry, he breathed truth into a 
whole nation again. And when he was clear and 
looked back, he made such statements as these: 
that " a poet has to create the taste by which he 
is to be enjoyed," and that " my poetry has never 
brought me enough to pay for my shoe-strings." 
And see how the publishers and critics — how 
the literary world — received him! How they 
jeered and jibed, and took fifty years to under- 
stand him! Oh think of these things, think what 
they mean, you who love literature! Think that 
the world owes its possession of Wordsworth's 
poetry to the accident that a friend died and left 
him some money! 
I name Byron; he was a rich man. I name 
Tennyson; he had a little competence, and he 
gave up the idea of marriage and for ten years 
devoted himself to art; and when he was thirty- 
two he published his work — and then they gave 
him a pension! 
I name Browning; Browning went his own 
way, heeding no man; and he never had to think 
about money. I name Swinburne; and the same 
was true of him. 
I name Shelley; and Shelley was wealthy. 
They kept him poor for a time, but his poems do 
not date from then. When he wrote the poetry 
that has been the spiritual food of the high souls 
of this century, he lived in a beautiful villa in 
Italy, and wandered about the forest with his 
books. And oh, you who love books, stop just 
a moment and listen: I am dying, and the cry of 
all my soul is in this. Tell me, you who love 
Shelley — the " pardlike spirit, beautiful and 
swift " — " thyself the wild west wind, oh boy 
divine!" — tell me how much you think you'd 
have had of that glorious burst of music — that 
golden rain of melody, of heavenly ecstasy — if 
the man who wrote had been a wholesale-paper 
clerk or a cable-car conductor! How much do 
you think you'd have had if when he'd torn him- 
self free to write Queen Mab — or even if he'd 
been ripe enough and written his Prometheus — 
if he'd had to take them to pubhshers! If he had 
had to take them to the critics and the literary 
world and say, " Here is my work, now set me 
free that I may help mankind! " 
— And when I wrote that I sank down and 
burst into tears. It can not be helped. It is 
very hard for me. — 
Oh, but come face this thing — you that are 
responsible! 
— " But who is responsible? " I hear a voice. 
Every single man is responsible — every single 
man who has money, who loves letters, and who 
faces these facts — you — you — are responsible! 
Perhaps you are weary of my pleading, you 
think that I perish of my own weakness. But 
come and tell me, if you can, what it is that I 
have not done? What expedient is there that I 
have not tried, what resource, what hope? Have 
I not been true enough, have I not worked 
enough? Have I been extravagant, have I been 
dissipated? Did I not make my work my best? 
Come and reason with me — I shall be dead when 
you read this, but let us talk it over calmly. Put 
yourself here in my place and tell me what you 
would do. Have I not tried the publishers, the 
critics, the editors, the poets, the clergymen, the 
professors? Have I not waited — until I am sick, 
crazy? Have I not borne indignities enough? 
Have I not gotten myself kicked enough for my 
efforts? 
— But you say: " I know nothing about The 
Captive! " Yes — so it is — then let us go back 
to Shelley. A fair test would be Queen Mab or 
The Revolt of Islam — he was my age then; but 
I will go ten years later and take Prometheus 
Bound. Would he have found any one to pub- 
lish it? Did he find any one to read it? Why, 
ten or twenty years after Shelley died. Browning 
(then a boy) records that he searched all Eng- 
land for a copy of that queer poet's works! 
Why, Shelley's poetry was a byword and a 
mockery ; and Shelley himself — first of all he was 
insane, of course, and afterward he was exile, 
atheist, adulterer, and scoundrel. They took his 
children away from him, because he was not fit 
to take care of them! 
And he would not have been welcomed with 
open arms, I think! And he wouldn't have been 
set free — consecrated soul that he was. And sen- 
sitive, nervous, fragile, hysterical boy — do you 
think he would ever have written his poems, 
that he would ever have uttered his message? 
I have to make somebody understand this 
thing, somehow. I suggest that you think what 
that would have meant to you — to you who love 
poetry. Think that you would never have read: 
Oh wild west wind, thou breath of Autumn's being! . . . 
Oh lift me as a wave, a leaf, a cloud, 
I fall upon the thorns of life, I bleed ! 
Think that you would never have read: 
Teach me half the gladness 
That thy brain must know ! 
That you would never have read: 
On a poet's lips I slept ! 
I repeat that I have to make somebody under- 
stand this thing. I try that plan a little more. 
Listen to me now — think what it would have 
meant if that wise friend had not died when he 
did; think that you would never have read: 
And then my heart with rapture fills. 
And dances with the daffodils ! 
Think that you would never have read : 
The light that never was on sea or land, 
The consecration and the poet's dream ! 
Think that you would never have read: 
Blank misgivings of a creature 
Moving about in world not realized ; 
High instincts before which our moral nature 
Did tremble like a guilty thing surprised ! 
That you would never have read: 
Will no one tell me what she sings ? 
Perhaps the plaintive numbers flow 
For old, unhappy, far-off things 
And battles long ago. 
I say a third time that I have to make some- 
body understand this thing. Let us try it again 
now, just once again. Let us suppose that there 
had not been any little independence or any pen- 
sion. Who can think what it would have meant 
to us? Who can think what it would mean 
never to have read 
Ring out, wild bells, 
or 
When the war-drum throbs no longer, 
or 
Crossing the bar. 
Never to have read 
Blow, bugle, blow ! 
Never to have read 
My strength is as the strength of ten. 
Because my heart is pure ! 
Oh, think not of what these things are to you 
  — think of what they are to tnenl How many rail- 
roads would pay for them? — one, do you think? 
The work of how many libraries have they done, 
do you think? How much money do you think 
could be raised in the world to-day to save them? 
And not one cent to create them! 
— I have saved the chief thing to the last. I 
have spoken of the six fortunate ones who had 
money; I have not spoken of thee, oh my poor, 
poor Keats! The hours that I have hungered 
with thee, the hours that I have wept with thee, 
oh thou my poet, oh thou my Keats! Oh thou 
most wretched, most miserable of poets, oh thou 
most beautiful, most exquisite, most unthinkable 
of poets! Most inspired poet of England, since 
Milton died! — It was given to others to be beau- 
tiful, it was given to thee alone to be perfect! It 
was given to thee to be ecstasy incarnate, to be 
melody too sweet to hear! It was given to thee, 
alone of all poets, to achieve by mere language 
a rapture that thrills the soul like the sound of 
an organ. And they mocked thee, they spit 
upon thee, they cursed thee, oh my poor, poor 
Keats! Thou, the hostler's son — thou, the 
apothecary's clerk! Thou, sick and starved and 
helpless — thou, dying of disease and neglect and 
despair: 
Oh for a draft of vintage ! That hath been 
Cool'd a long age in the deep-delvfed earth. 
Tasting of Flora and the country green. 
Dance and Provencal song, and sunburnt mirth ! 
Oh for a beaker full of the warm South, 
Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene, 
With beaded bubbles winking at the brim, 
And purple-stainfed mouth ; 
That I might drink and leave the world unseen. 
And with thee fade away into the forest dim I 
" Go back to thy gallipots, Mr. Keats! " 
Think not of Gififord — poor fool — but think of 
yourself, oh world! Think what you lost in that 
man! You killed him, yes, you trampled him, 
and you throttled him! And he was only twenty- 
five! And he had never finished Hyperion — be- 
cause he had not the heart! 
— Come, now, all you who love books, come 
quickly, and let us take up a subscription, that 
we may save for men the rest of Hyperion! 
Lost Echo sits amid the voiceless mountains. 
And feeds her grief with his remembered lay ! 
I have been sitting here from seven in the 
evening until three in the morning, and I can 
not write any more. 
Only — think about this thing. Look up the 
facts and see if they are not true. These seven 
men made England's poetry for a century; they 
made England's thought for a century — they 
make it to-day! They are the inspiration of 
whole peoples, the sources of multitudes of no- 
ble deeds and purposes. What do you think in 
money would be represented by the value of 
these books alone? Enough to support ten thou- 
sand poets for a lifetime, do you think? And 
how many hundreds of thousands of students are 
hearing about them this day? How many young 
men and maidens are going out into the world 
owing all that they have that is beautiful to them? 
And all these authors of the day, all these critics 
and teachers, novelists and poets — how much of 
what they have that is true do they not owe to 
these men? Go ask them, go ask them! 
— And you have it all because of the acci- 
dent that these men were independent! You 
have all from six of them for that, and from the 
seventh you have nothing — yes, almost nothing 
— because he was poor! Because he was a hos- 
tler's son, and not a gentleman's son; and you 
sent him back to his gallipots and to his grave. 
June 4th. 
I wait to hear from the publisher merely as a 
matter of duty. I have .never had the least idea 
that he will take the book. 
I have made up my mind to drown myself. 
There is no mess about it, and men do not have 
to know of it. 
I have often read of murder cases. They tie 
a rope around the body and a stone to the rope; 
but the stone slips out, or the rope wears, and 
then it is unpleasant. I used to say they were 
fools; why did they not get a dumb-bell or some- 
thing like that, and a small chain. Then there 
would have been no trouble. 
When I thought of that I smiled grimly. I 
am living on dry bread, and saving my money to 
buy a dumb-bell and a chain on Friday. 
I pray most of the time. I have no longer 
the old ecstasy — such things do not come often 
in cities. But it will come once again before I 
die, that I know. 
I have a strange attitude toward death. To 
me it is nothing. There is, of course, the pain of 
drowning — it probably hurts to be strangled, but 
I do not think it will hurt as much as ten lines of 
The Captive hurt. 
About the physical part of it, the " invisible 
corruption," I never think; it is enough that it 
will be invisible. And for the rest, death is noth- 
ing, it is the end. I have never shrunk from the 
thought of it, it does not come as a stranger to 
me now. I take it simply and naturally — it is 
the end. It is the end that comes to all things 
in this phantom-dance of being; to flowers and 
to music, to mountains and to planets, to his- 
tories, and to universes, and to men. 
I said : " It must come some day. It may 
come any day. Love not thy life too much — 
know what thou art." 
God can spare me. He got along without 
me once, and doubtless he can do it again. There 
are many things that I should like to see — I 
should like to see all the ages; but that was not 
my fate. 
When I was young they taught me to be 
orthodox. And I see them stare at me now in 
horror. " Suicide! " they gasp. " Suicide! " 
Yes! — Why not? Am I not the lord of mine 
own life, to end it as well as to live it? 
And the law! Prate not of laws, I know of 
no laws, either of man or God; my law is the 
right and my holy will. 
And the punishment! Well, and if your hell 
be a reality, why, it is my home — it is the home of 
all true men. The sublime duty of being damned 
is ever my reply to theological impertinences. 
— No, the sight of death does not thrill me 
in the least — when I stand upon the brink it will 
hot thrill me. It is not fearful; what the weakest 
of men have done, I can do. And it is not sub- 
lime. Life is sublime, life thrills me; death is 
nothing. 
June 5th. 
To-day I wished that it were winter. A 
