farther down over his eyes, and tested the looseness of his sword.
"The drunken fools!" he muttered, continuing.  "Well for them they came
not this way."
When he entered the Rue de Béthisy, he stopped, searched up and down
the thoroughfare.  Far away to his right he saw wavering torches, but
these receded and abruptly vanished round a corner of the Rue des
Fossés St-Germain l'Auxerrois.  He was alone.  A hundred yards to his
left, on the opposite side of the street, stood a gloomy but
magnificent hôtel, one of the few in this quarter that was surrounded
by a walled court.  The hôtel was dark.  So far as the man in the grey
cloak could see, not a light filled any window.  There were two gates.
Toward the smaller of the two the man cautiously directed his steps.
He tried the latch.  The gate opened noiselessly, signifying frequent
use.
"So far, so good!"
An indecisive moment passed, as though the man were nerving himself for
an ordeal of courage and cunning.  With a gesture resigning himself to
whatever might befall, he entered the court, careful to observe that
the way out was no more intricate than the way in.
"Now for the ladder.  If that is missing, it's horse and away to Spain,
or feel the edge of Monsieur Caboche.  Will the lackey be true?  False
or true, I must trust him.  Bernouin would sell Mazarin for twenty
louis, and that is what I have paid.  Monsieur le Comte's lackey.  It
will be a clever trick.  Mazarin will pay as many as ten thousand
livres for that paper.  That fat fool of a Gaston, to conspire at his
age!  Bah; what a muddled ass I was, in faith!  I, to sign my name in
writing to a cabal!  Only the devil knows what yonder old fool will do
with the paper.  Let him become frightened, let that painted play-woman
coddle him; and it's the block for us all, all save Gaston and Condé
and Beaufort.  Ah, Madame, Madame, loveliest in all France, 'twas your
beautiful eyes.  For the joy of looking into them, I have soiled a
fresh quill, tumbled into a pit, played the fool!  And a silver crown
against a golden louis, you know nothing about politics or intrigue,
nor that that old fool of a husband is making a decoy of your beauty.
But my head cleared this morning.  That paper must be mine.  First,
because it is a guaranty for my head, and second, because it is likely
to fatten my purse.  It will be simple to erase my name and substitute
another's.  And this cloak!  My faith, it is a stroke.  To the devil
with Gaston and Condé and Beaufort; their ambitions are nothing to me,
since my head is everything."
He tiptoed across the stone flags.
"Faith, this is a delicate operation; and the paper may be hidden
elsewhere into the bargain.  We venture, we lose or we win; only this
is somewhat out of my line of work.  Self-preservation is not theft;
let us ease our conscience with this sophism . . .  Ha! the ladder.
Those twenty louis were well spent.  This is droll, good heart.  An
onlooker would swear that this is an assignation.  Eh well, Romeo was a
sickly lover, and lopped about like a rose in a wind-storm.  Mercutio
was the man!"
He had gained the side of the hôtel.  From a window above came a faint
yellow haze such as might radiate from a single candle.  This was the
signal that all was clear.  The man tested the ladder, which was of
rope, and it withstood his weight.  Very gently he began to climb,
stopping every three or four rounds and listening.  The only noise came
from the armory where a parcel of mercenaries were moving about.  Up,
up, round by round, till his fingers touched the damp cold stone of the
window ledge; the man raised himself, leaned toward the left, and
glanced obliquely into the room.  It was deserted.  A candle burned in
a small alcove.  The man drew himself quickly into the room, which was
a kind of gallery facing the grand staircase.  A sound coming from the
hall below caused the intruder to slip behind a curtain.  A lackey was
unbarring the door.  The man in the gallery wondered why.
"My very nerves have ears," he murmured.  "If I were sure . . . to pay
madame a visit while she sleeps and dreams!"  His hand grew tense
around the hilt of his sword.  "No; let us play Iago rather than
Tarquinius; let ambition, rather than love, strike the key-note.  Greed
was not born to wait.  As yet I have robbed no man save at cards; and
as every noble cheats when he can, I can do no less.  Neither have I
struck a man in the back.  And I like not this night's business."
On the cold and silent night came ten solemn strokes from the clock of
St.-Germain l'Auxerrois.  Then all was still again.  The man came from
behind the curtain, his naked sword flashing evilly in the flickering
light.  He took up the candle and walked coolly down the wide corridor.
The sureness of his step could have originated only in the perfect
knowledge of the topography of the hôtel.  He paused before a door, his
ear to the keyhole.
"She sleeps! . . . and the wolf prowls without the door!"  He mused
over the wayward path by which he had come into the presence of this
woman, who slept tranquilly beyond these panels of oak.  He felt a glow
on his cheeks, a quickening of his pulse.  To what lengths would he not
go for her sake?  Sure of winning her love, yes, he would become great,
rise purified from the slough of loose living.  He had never killed a
man dishonorably; he had won his duels by strength and dexterity alone.
He had never taken an advantage of a weakling; for many a man had
insulted him and still walked the earth, suffering only the slight
inconvenience of a bandaged arm or a tender cheek, and a fortnight or
so in bed.  Condé had once said of him that there was not a more
courageous man in France; but he could not escape recalling Condé's
afterthought: that drink and reckless temper had kept him where he was.
There was in him a vein of madness which often burst forth in a blind
fury.  It had come upon him in battle, and he had awakened many a time
to learn that he had been the hero of an exploit.  He was not a
boaster; he was not a broken soldier.  He was a man whose violent
temper had strewn his path with failures. . . .  In love!  Silently he
mocked himself.  In love, he, the tried veteran, of a hundred
inconstancies!  He smiled grimly beneath his mask.  He passed on,
stealthily, till he reached a door guarded by two effigies of Francis
I.  His sword accidentally touched the metal, and the soft clang
tingled every nerve in his body.  He waited.  Far away a horse was
galloping over the pavement.  He tried the door, and it gave way to his
pressure.  He stood in the library of the master of the hôtel.  In this
very room, while his brain was filled with the fumes of wine and
passion, he had scribbled his name upon crackling parchment on which
were such names as Gaston d'Orléans, Condé, Beaufort, De Longueville,
De Retz.  Fool!
Grinning from the high shelves were the Greek masks, Comedy and
Tragedy.  The light from the candle gave a sickly human tint to the
marble.  He closed the door.
"Now for the drawer which holds my head; of love, anon!"
He knelt, placing the candle on the book-ledge.  Along the bottom of
the shelves ran a series of drawers.  These he opened without sound,
searching for secret bottoms.  Drawer after drawer yawned into his
face, and his heart sank.  What he sought was not to be found.  The
last drawer would not open.  With infinite care and toil he succeeded
in prying the lock with the point of his sword, and his spirits rose.
The papers in this drawer were of no use to any one but the owner.  The
man in the grey cloak cursed under his breath and a thrill of rage ran
through him.  He was about to give up in despair when he saw a small
knob protruding from the back panel of the drawer.  Eagerly he touched
the knob, and a little drawer slid forth.
"Mine!"  With trembling fingers he unfolded the parchment.  He held it
close to the candle and scanned each signature.  There was his own,
somewhat shaky, but nevertheless his own. . . .  He brushed his eyes,
as if cobwebs of doubt had suddenly gathered there.  Her signature!
Hers!  "Roses of Venus, she is mine, mine!"  He pressed his lips to the
inken line.  Fortune indeed favored him . . . or was it the devil?
Hers!  She was his; here was a sword to bend that proud neck.  Ten
thousand livres?  There was more than that, more than that by a hundred
times.  Passion first, or avarice; love or greed?  He would decide that
question later.  He slipped the paper into the pocket of the cloak.
Curiosity drew him toward the drawer again.  There was an old
commission in the musketeers, signed by Louis XIII; letters from Madame
de Longueville; an unsigned lettre-de-cachet; an accounting of the
revenues of the various chateaus; and a long envelope, yellow with age.
He picked it out of the drawer and blew away the dust.  He read the
almost faded address, and his jaw fell. . . .  "To Monsieur le Marquis
de Périgny, to be delivered into his hands at my death."
He was not conscious how long a time he stared at that address.  Age
had unsealed the envelope, and the man in the grey cloak drew out the
contents.  It was in Latin, and with some difficulty he translated it.
. . .  So rapt was he over what he read, so nearly in a dream he knelt
there, that neither the sound of a horse entering the court nor the
stir of activity in the armory held forth a menace.
"Good God, what a revenge!" he murmured.  "What a revenge!"
Twice, three times, and yet again he drank of the secret.  That he of
all men should make this discovery!  His danger became as nothing; he
forgot even the object of his thieving visit.
"Well, Monsieur?" said a cold, dry voice from the threshold.
The man in the grey cloak leaped to his feet, thrusting the letter into
the pocket along with the cabal.  His long rapier snarled from its
scabbard, just in time.  The two blades hung in mid air.
"Nicely caught," said the cold, dry voice again.  "What have you to
say?  It is hanging, Monsieur, hanging by the neck."  The speaker was a
man of sixty, white of hair, but wiry and active.  "Ha! in a mask, eh?
That looks bad for you.  You are not a common thief, then? . . .  That
was a good stroke, but not quite high enough.  Well?"
"Stand aside, Monsieur le Comte," said the man in the cloak.  His tones
were steady; all his fright was gone.
The steel slithered and ground.
"You know me, eh?" said the old man, banteringly.  His blade ripped a
hole in the cloak.  "You have a voice that sounds strangely familiar to
my ears."
"Your ears will soon be dull and cold, if you do not let me pass."
"Was it gold, or jewels? . . .  Jesus!"  The old man's gaze, roving a
hair's breadth, saw the yawning drawers.  "That paper, Monsieur, or you
shall never leave this place alive!  Hallo!  Help, men!  To me,
Grégoire!  Help, Captain!"
"Madame shall become a widow," said the man in the mask.
Back he pressed the old man, back, back, into the corridor, toward the
stairs.  They could scarce see each other, and it was by instinct alone
that thrust was met by parry.  Up the rear staircase came a dozen
mercenaries, bearing torches.  The glare smote the master in the eyes,
and partly dazzled him.  He fought valiantly, but he was forced to give
way.  A chance thrust, however, severed the cords of his opponent's
mask.
"You?"
There was a gurgling sound, a coughing, and the elder sank to his
knees, rolled upon his side, and became still.  The man in the grey
cloak, holding the mask to his face, rushed down the grand staircase,
sweeping aside all those who barred his path.  He seemed possessed with
strength and courage Homeric; odds were nothing.  With a back
hand-swing of his arm he broke one head; he smashed a face with the
pommel; caught another by the throat and flung him headlong.  In a
moment he was out of the door.  Down the steps he dashed, through the
gate, thence into the street, a mob yelling at his heels.  The light
from the torches splashed him.  A sharp gust of wind nearly tore the
mask from his fingers.  As he caught it, he ran full into a priest.
"Out of the way, then, curse you!"
Before the astonished priest, who was a young man, could rise from the
pavement where the impact had sent him sprawling, the assailant had
disappeared in the alley.  He gained the door of the low tavern, flung
it open, pushed by every one, upsetting several, all the while the
bloody rapier in one hand and the mask held in place by the other.  The
astonished inmates of the tavern saw him leap like a huge bird and
vanish through one of the windows, carrying the sash with him.  But a
nail caught the grey cloak, and it fluttered back to the floor.  Scarce
a moment had passed when the pursuers crowded in.  When questioned, the
stupefied host could only point toward the splintered window frame.
Through this the men scrambled, and presently their yells died away in
the distance.
A young man of ruddy countenance, his body clothed in the garments of a
gentleman's lackey, stooped and gathered up the cloak.
"Holy Virgin!" he murmured, his eyes bulging, "there can not be two
cloaks like this in Paris; it's the very same."
He crushed it under his arm and in the general confusion gained the
alley, took to his legs, and became a moving black shadow in the grey.
He made off toward the Seine.
Meanwhile terror stalked in the corridors of the hôtel.  Lights flashed
from window to window.  The court was full of servants and mercenaries.
For the master lay dead in the corridor above.  A beautiful young
woman, dressed in her night-robes, her feet in slippers, hair
disordered and her eyes fixed with horror, gazed down at the lifeless
shape.  The stupor of sleep still held her in its dulling grasp.  She
could not fully comprehend the tragedy.  Her ladies wailed about her,
but she heeded them not.  It was only when the captain of the military
household approached her that she became fully aroused.  She pressed
her hand against her madly beating heart.
"Who did this?" she asked.
"A man in a mask, Madame," replied the captain, kneeling.  He gently
loosed the sword from the stiffening fingers.  The master of
twenty-five years was gone.
"In a mask?"
"Yes, Madame."
"And the motive ?"
"Not robbery, since nothing is disturbed about the hôtel save in
monsieur's library.  The drawers have all been pulled out."
With a sharp cry she crossed the corridor and entered the library.  The
open drawers spoke dumbly but surely.
"Gone!" she whispered.  "We are all lost!  He was fortunate in dying."
Terror and fright vanished from her face and her eyes, leaving the one
impassive and the other cold.  She returned to the body and the look
she cast on it was without pity or regret.  Alive, she had detested
him; dead, she could gaze on him with indifference.  He had died,
leaving her the legacy of the headsman's ax.  And his play-woman? would
she weep or laugh? . . .  She was free.  It came quickly and penetrated
like a dry wine: she was free.  Four odious years might easily be
forgiven if not forgotten.  "Take him to his room," she said softly.
After all, he had died gallantly.
Soon one of the pursuers returned.  He was led into the presence of his
mistress.
"Have they found him?"
"No, Madame.  He disappeared as completely as if the ground had
swallowed him.  All that can be added is that he wore a grey cloak."
"A grey cloak, did you say?"  Her hand flew to her throat and her eyes
grew wild again.  "A grey cloak?"
"Yes Madame; a grey cloak with a square velvet collar."
"Ah!" said the captain, with a singular smile.  He glanced obliquely at
madame.  But madame lurched forward into the arms of one of her
waiting-women.  She had fainted.
CHAPTER II
THE TOILET OF THE CHEVALIER DU CEVENNES
The Chevalier du Cévennes occupied the apartment on the first floor of
the Hôtel of the Silver Candlestick, in the Rue Guénégaud.  The
apartment consisted of three rooms.  In all Paris there was not to be
found the like of them.  They were not only elegant, they were simple;
for true elegance is always closely allied to simplicity.  Persian rugs
covered the floors, rugs upon which many a true believer had knelt in
evening prayer; Moorish tapestries hung from the walls, making a fine
and mellow background for the various pieces of ancient and modern
armor; here and there were Greek marbles and Italian vases; and several
spirited paintings filled the gaps left between one tapestry and
another.  Sometimes the Chevalier entertained his noble friends, young
and old, in these rooms; and the famous kitchens of Madame Boisjoli,
the landlady of the Candlestick, supplied the delicacies of his tables.
Ordinarily the Chevalier dined in the cheery assembly-room below; for,
like all true gourmands of refinement, he believed that there is as
much appetite in a man's ears and eyes as in his stomach, and to feed
the latter properly there must be light, a coming and going of old and
new faces, the rumor of voices, the jest, and the snatch of song.
At this moment the Chevalier was taking a bath, and was splashing about
in the warm water, laughing with the joyous heart of a boy.  With the
mild steam rose the vague perfume of violets.  Brave as a Crillon
though he was, fearless as a Bussy, the Chevalier was something of a
fop; not the mincing, lisping fop, but one who loved physical
cleanliness, who took pride in the whiteness of his skin, the clarity
of his eyes.  There had been summer nights in the brilliant gardens of
La Place Royale when he had been pointed out as one of the handsomest
youths in Paris.  Ah, those summer nights, the cymbals and trumpets of
les beaux mousquetaires, the display of feathers and lace, unwrought
pearls and ropes of precious stones, the lisping and murmuring of
silks, the variety of colors, the fair dames with their hoods, their
masks, their elaborate coiffures, the crowds in the balconies!  All the
celebrities of court might be seen promenading the Place; and to be
identified as one above many was a plume such as all Mazarin's gold
could not buy.
"My faith! but this has been a day," he murmured, gazing wistfully at
his ragged nails.  "Till I entered this tub there was nothing but lead
in my veins, nothing but marble on my bones.  Look at those boots,
Breton, lad; a spur gone, the soles loose, the heels cracked.  And that
cloak!  The mud on the skirts is a week old.  And that scabbard was new
when I left Paris.  When I came up I looked like a swashbuckler in one
of Scudéry's plays.  I let no one see me.  Indeed, I doubt if any would
have recognized me.  But a man can not ride from Rome to Paris, after
having ridden from Paris to Rome, changing neither his clothes nor his
horse, without losing some particle of his fastidiousness, and, body of
Bacchus! I have lost no small particle of mine."
"Ah, Monsieur Paul," said the lackey, hiding the cast-off clothing in
the closet, "I am that glad to see you safe and sound again!"
"Your own face is welcome, lad.  What weather I have seen!" wringing
his mustache and royal.  "And Heaven forfend that another such ride
falls my lot."  He smiled at the ruddy heap in the fireplace.
What a ride, indeed!  For nearly two weeks he had ridden over hills and
mountains, through valleys and gorges, access deep and shallow streams,
sometimes beneath the sun, sometimes beneath the moon or the stars,
sometimes beneath the flying black canopies of midnight storms, always
and ever toward Paris.  He had been harried by straggling Spaniards; he
had drawn his sword three times in unavoidable tavern brawls; he had
been robbed of his purse; he had even pawned his signet-ring for a
night's lodging: all because Mazarin had asked a question which only
the pope could answer.
Paris at last!--Paris the fanciful, the illogical, the changeable, the
wholly delightful Paris!  He knew his Paris well, did the Chevalier.
He had been absent thirty days, and on the way in from Fontainebleau,
where he had spent the preceding night at the expense of his
signet-ring, he had wondered what changes had taken place among the
exiles and favorites during this time.  What if the Grande Mademoiselle
again headed that comic revolution, the Fronde, as in the old days when
she climbed the walls at Orléans and assumed command against the forces
of the king?  What if Monsieur de Retz issued orders from the Palais
Royal, using the same-pen with which Mazarin had demanded his
resignation as Archbishop of Paris?  In fact, what if Madame de
Longueville, aided by the middle class, had once more taken up quarters
in the Hôtel de Ville?  Oh! so many things happened in Paris in thirty
days that the Chevalier would not have been surprised to learn that the
boy Louis had declared to govern his kingdom without the assistance of
ministers, priests, and old women.  Ah, that Fronde!  Those had been
gallant days, laughable, it is true; but every one seemed to be able to
pluck a feather from the golden goose of fortune.  He was eighteen
then, and had followed the royal exodus to Germain.
The Chevalier sighed as he continued to absorb the genial heat of the
water.  The captain at the Porte Saint Antoine had told him that the
Grande Mademoiselle was still in exile at Blois, writing lampoons
against the court and particularly against Mazarin; that De Retz was
biting his nails, full of rage and impotence against those fetters
which banishment casts around men of action; that Madame de Longueville
was conducting a love-intrigue in Normandy; and that Louis had to
borrow or beg his pocket-money.  Strange as it seemed to the Chevalier,
Paris was unchanged.
But what warmed the Chevalier's heart, even as the water warmed his
body, was the thought of that adorable mystery, that tantalizing,
haunting mystery, the woman unknown.  This very room was made precious
by the fact that its air had once embraced her with a familiarity such
as he had never dared assume.  What a night that had been!  She had
come, masked; she had dined; at his protestations of love she had
laughed, as one laughs who hears a droll story; and in the attempt to
put his arm around her waist, the cold light flashing from her
half-hidden eyes had stilled and abashed him.  Why did she hold him,
yet repel?  What was her object?  Was she some princess who had been
hidden away during her girlhood, to appear only when the bud opened
into womanhood, rich, glorious, and warm?  Like a sunbeam, like a
shadow, she flitted through the corridors and galleries of the Louvre
and the Palais Royal, and whenever he had sought to point her out to
some one, to discover her name, lo, she was gone!  Tormenting mystery!
Ah, that soft lisp of hers, those enchanting caprices, those amazing
extravagances of fancy, that wit which possessed the sparkle of white
chambertin!  He would never forget that summer night when, dressed as a
boy, she had gone with him swashbuckling along the quays.  And for all
these meetings, for all her supplicating or imperious notes, what had
been his reward?  To kiss her hand when she came, to kiss her hand when
she went, and all the while her lips burned like a cardinal poppy and
her eyes lured like those phantom lakes of the desert.  True, he had
often kissed her perfumed tresses without her knowledge; but what was
that?  Why had he never taken by force that which entreaty did not win?
Love.  Man never uses force where he loves.  When would the day come
when the hedge of mystery inclosing her would be leveled?  "Love you,
Monsieur?" she had said.  "Ah, well, in a way!"
The Chevalier smiled.  Yes, it was fine to be young, and rich, and in
love.  He recalled their first meeting.  He had been placed on guard at
the entrance to the grand gallery at the Palais Royal, where Mazarin
was giving a mask.  Presently a slender, elegant youth in the garb of a
grey musketeer approached.
"Your name, Monsieur, if you please," he said, scanning the list of
invited guests.
"I am one of those who pass without the interrogatory."  The voice was
hoarse, affectedly so; and this roused the Chevalier's suspicions.
"I can not believe that," he laughed, "since Monsieur le Duc, his
Majesty's brother, was good enough to permit me to question him."  He
leaned against the wall, smiling and twisting his mustache.  What a
charming musketeer!
"What!" haughtily, "you parley with me?"  A gauntleted hand flew to a
jeweled hilt.
"Monsieur will not be so rude?" mockingly.
"Monsieur!" with a stamp of the foot--a charming foot.
"Monsieur!" he mimicked, also stamping a foot which, though shapely,
was scarce charming.
Then through the curtain of the mask there came a low, rollicking
laugh.  The hand fell away from the sword-hilt, and a grey gauntlet
slipped to the floor, discovering a hand as dazzling white and begemmed
as that on which Anne of Austria prided herself.
"Death of my life!" said a voice as soft and musical as the vibration
of a bell, "you make an admirable Cerberus.  My gauntlet."  The sweep
of the hand fascinated him.  "Are your ears like the sailors' of
Ulysses, filled with wax?  I am asking you to pick up my gauntlet."
As he stooped to obey the command, a laugh sounded behind him, and he
knew that he had been tricked.  The little musketeer had vanished.  For
a moment he was disturbed.  In vain he searched the gauntlet for some
distinguishing sign.  But as reason told him that no harm could
possibly come from the prank, his fears subsided, and he laughed.  On
being relieved from duty, later, he sought her, to return the gauntlet.
She was talking to Mademoiselle de Longueville.  As she saw the
Chevalier, she moved away.  The Chevalier, determined on seeing the
adventure to its end, followed her deliberately.  She sat in a
window-seat.  Without ceremony he sat down beside her.
"Monsieur," he said, smiling, and he was very handsome when he smiled,
"permit me to return this gauntlet."
She folded her arms, and this movement of her shoulders told him that
she was laughing silently.
"Are you madame or mademoiselle?" he asked, eagerly.
She raised her mask for an instant, and his subjugation was complete.
The conversation which ensued was so piquant and charming that
thereafter whatever warmth the gauntlet knew was gathered not from her
hand but from the Chevalier's heart.
The growing chill in the water brought the Chevalier out of his
reverie.  He leaped from the tub and shone rosily in the firelight, as
elegantly proportioned a youth as ever was that fabulous Leander of the
Hellespont.
"Bring me those towels I purchased from the wandering Persian.  I
regret that I did not have them blessed by his Holiness.  For who knows
what spell the heretic Saracen may have cast over them?"
"Monsieur knows," said Breton piously, "that I have had them sprinkled
with the blessed water."
The Chevalier laughed.  He was rather a godless youth, and whatever
religion he possessed was merely observance of forms.  "Donkey, if the
devil himself had offered them for sale, I should have taken them, for
they pleased me; and besides, they have created a fashion.  I shall
wear my new baldric--the red one.  I report at the Palais Royal at
eight, and I've an empty stomach to attend to.  Be lively, lad.  Duty,
duty, always duty," snatching the towels.  "I have been in the saddle
since morning; I am still dead with stiffness; yet duty calls.  Bah!  I
had rather be fighting the Spaniard with Turenne than idle away at the
Louvre.  Never any fighting save in pothouses; nothing but ride, ride,
ride, here, there, everywhere, bearing despatches not worth the paper
written on, but worth a man's head if he lose them.  And what about?
Is this person ill?  Condolences.  Is this person a father?
Congratulations.  Monsieur, the king's uncle, is ailing; I romp to
Blois.  A cabal is being formed in Brussels; I gallop away.  His
Eminence hears of a new rouge; off I go.  And here I have been to Rome
and back with a message which made the pope laugh; is it true that he
is about to appoint a successor?  Mazarin, tiring of being a
left-handed king, aspires to the mantle of Saint Peter.  Mazarin always
selects me for petty service.  Why?  Oh, Monsieur le Chevalier, having
an income, need not be paid moneys; because Monsieur le Chevalier was
born in the saddle, his father is an eagle, his grandsire was a
centaur.  And don't forget the grey cloak, lad, the apple of my eye,
the admiration of the ladies, and the confusion of mine enemies; my own
particular grey cloak."  By this time the Chevalier was getting into
his clothes; fine cambrics, silk hose, velvet pantaloons, grey doublet,
and shoes with buckles and red heels.
"But the grey cloak, Monsieur Paul . . ." began the lackey.
"What! you have dared to soil it?"
"No, Monsieur; but you have forgotten that you loaned it to Monsieur de
Saumaise, prior to your departure to Italy.  He has not returned it."
"That's not like Victor.  And I had dreamed of wearing that cloak.
Mademoiselle complimented me on it, and that fop De Montausier asked me
how many pistoles I paid for it."
"The purple cloak is new, Monsieur.  It is fully as handsome as the
grey one.  All it lacks is the square collar you invented."
"Ah well, since there is no grey cloak.  Now the gossip.  First of all,
my debts and debtors."
"Monsieur de Saumaise," said Breton, "has remitted the ten louis he
lost to you at tennis."
"There's a friend; ruined himself to do it.  Poetry and improvidence;
how they cling together!"
"Brisemont, the jeweler, says that the garters you ordered will come to
one hundred and ten pistoles.  But he wants to know what the central
gem shall be, rubies or sapphires surrounding."
"Topaz for the central gem, rubies and diamonds for the rest.  The
clasps must match topaz eyes.  And they must be done by Monday."
"Monsieur's eyes are grey," the lackey observed slyly.
"Rascal, you are asking a question!"
"No, Monsieur, I was simply stating a fact.  Plutarch says . . ."
"Plutarch?  What next?" in astonishment.
"I have just bought a copy of Amyot's translation with the money you
gave me.  Plutarch is fine, Monsieur."
"What shall a gentleman do when his lackey starts to quote Plutarch?"
with mock helplessness.  "Well, lad, read Plutarch and profit.  But
keep your grimy hands off my Rabelais, or I'll trounce you."
Breton flushed guiltily.  If there was one thing he enjoyed more than
another it was the adventures of the worthy Pantagruel and his
resourceful esquire; but he had never been able to complete this record
of extravagant exploits, partly because he could not read fast enough
and partly because his master kept finding new hiding places for it.
"A messenger from De Guitaut," he said, "called this morning for you."
"For me?  That is strange.  The captain knew that I could not arrive
before to-night, which is the twentieth."
"I told the officer that.  He laughed curiously and said that he
expected to find you absent."
"What the devil did he call for, then?"
Breton made a grimace which explained his inability to answer this
question.
The Chevalier stood still and twisted his mustache till the ends were
like needle-points.  "Horns of Panurge! as Victor would say; is it
possible for any man save Homer to be in two places at once?  Possibly
I am to race for some other end of France.  I like it not.  Mazarin
thinks because I am in her Majesty's Guards that I belong to him.
Plague take him, I say."
He snapped the buckles on his shoes, while Breton drew from its worn
scabbard the Chevalier's campaign rapier, long and flexile, dreaded by
many and respected by all, and thrust it into the new scabbard,
"Ah, Monsieur," said Breton, stirred by that philosophy which, one
gathers from a first reading of Plutarch, "a man is a deal like a
sword.  If he be good and true, it matters not into what kind of
scabbard he is thrust."
"Aye, lad; but how much more confidence a handsome scabbard gives a
man!  Even a sword, dressed well, attracts the eye; and, heart of mine,
what other aim have we poor mortals than to attract?"
"Madame Boisjoli makes out her charges at twelve louis, including the
keep of the horses."
"That is reasonable, considering my absence.  Mignon is an excellent
woman."
"The Vicomte d'Halluys did not come as he promised with the eight
hundred pistoles he lost to you at vingt-et-un."
"Ah!"  The Chevalier studied the pattern in the rug.  "Eh, well, since
I had no pistoles, I have lost none.  I was deep in wine, and so was
he; doubtless he has forgotten.  The sight of me will recall his
delinquency."
"That is all of the debts and credits, Monsieur."
"The gossip, then, while I trim my nails.  Paris can not have stood
still like the sun of Joshua's time, simply because I was not here."
"Beaufort has made up with Madame de Montbazon."
"Even old loves can become new loves.  Go on."
Breton recounted the other important court news, while the Chevalier
nodded, or frowned, as the news affected him.
"Mademoiselle Catharine . . ."
"Has that woman been here again?"
"Yes, Monsieur."
"You attended her down the stairs?"
"I did, but she behaved coarsely and threatened not to cease coming
until you had established her in the millinery."
The Chevalier roared with laughter.  "And all I did was to kiss the
lass and compliment her cheeks.  There's a warning for you, lad."
Breton looked aggrieved.  His master's gallantries never ceased to
cause him secret unrest.
"Yesterday your quarterly remittance from Monsieur le Marquis, your
father, arrived."
"Was there a letter?" with subdued eagerness.
"There was nothing but the gold, Monsieur," answered Breton, his eyes
lowered.  How many times during the past four years had his master
asked this question, always to receive the same answer?
The Chevalier's shoulders drooped.  "Who brought it?"
"Jehan," said the lackey.
"Had he anything to say?"
"Very little.  Monsieur le Marquis has closed the chateau in Périgny
and is living at the hôtel in Rochelle."
"He mentions my name?"
"No, Monsieur."
The Chevalier crossed the room and stood by one of the windows.  It was
snowing ever so lightly.  The snow-clouds, separating at times as they
rushed over the night, discovered the starry bowl of heaven.  Some
noble lady's carriage passed surrounded by flaring torches.  But the
young man saw none of these things.  A sense of incompleteness had
taken hold of him.  The heir to a marquisate, the possessor of an
income of forty thousand livres the year, endowed with health and
physical beauty, and yet there was a flaw which marred the whole.  It
was true that he was light-hearted, always and ever ready for a rout,
whether with women or with men, whether with wine or with dice; but
under all this brave show there was a canker which ate with subtile
slowness, but surely.  To be disillusioned at the age of sixteen by
one's own father!  To be given gold and duplicate keys to the
wine-cellars!  To be eye-witness of Roman knights over which this
father had presided like a Tiberius!
The Duchesse de Montbazon had been in her youth a fancy of the marquis,
his father.  Was it not a fine stroke of irony to decide that this son
of his should marry the obscure daughter of madame?--the daughter about
whom very few had ever heard?  Without the Chevalier's sanction,
miniatures had been exchanged.  When the marquis presented him with
that of Mademoiselle de Montbazon, together with his desires, he had
ground the one under foot without glancing at it, and had laughed at
the other as preposterous.  Since that night the marquis had ceased to
recall his name.  The Chevalier's mother had died at his birth; thus,
he knew neither maternal nor paternal love; and a man must love
something which is common with his blood.  Even now he would have gone
half-way, had his father's love come to meet him.  But no; Monsieur le
Marquis loved only his famous wines, his stories, and his souvenirs.
Bah! this daughter had been easily consoled.  The Comte de Brissac was
fully sixty.  The Chevalier squared his shoulders and shifted his
baldric.
With forced gaiety he turned to his lackey.  "Lad, let us love only
ourselves.  Self-love is always true to us.  We will spend our gold and
play the butterfly while the summer lasts.  It will be cold soon, and
then . . . pouf!  To-morrow you will take the gold and balance my
accounts."
"Yes, Monsieur.  Will Monsieur permit a familiarity by recalling a
forbidden subject?"
"Well?"
"Monsieur le Comte de Brissac died last night," solemnly.
"What! of old age?" ironically.
"Of steel.  A gallant was entering by a window, presumably to entertain
madame, who is said to be young and as beautiful as her mother was.
Monsieur le Comte appeared upon the scene; but his guard was weak.  He
was run through the neck.  The gallant wore a mask.  That is all I know
of the scandal."
"Happy the star which guided me from the pitfall of wedded life!  What
an escape!  I must inform Monsieur le Marquis.  He will certainly
relish this bit of scandal which all but happened at his own fireside.
Certainly I shall inform him.  It will be like caviar to the appetite.
I shall dine before the effect wears off."  The Chevalier put on his
hat and cloak, and took a final look in the Venetian mirror.  "Don't
wait for me, lad; I shall be late.  Perhaps to-night I shall learn her
name."
