sprang upon the beach, breathless and happy. Then from the ocean came
another cry, clear, joyous, and a white arm rose in the air.
"She came drifting in with the waves like a white sea-sprite, laughing
at me, and I plunged into the breakers again to join her.
"Side by side we swam along the coast, just outside the breakers,
until in the next cove we saw the flutter of her maid's cap-strings.
"'I will beat you to breakfast!' she cried, as I rested, watching her
glide up along the beach.
"'Done!' said I--'for a sea-shell!'
"'Done!' she called, across the water.
"I made good speed along the shore, and I was not long in dressing,
but when I entered the dining-room she was there, demure, smiling,
exquisite in her cool, white frock.
"'The sea-shell is yours,' said I. 'I hope I can find one with a pearl
in it.'
"The professor hurried in before she could reply. He greeted me very
cordially, but there was an abstracted air about him, and he called me
Dick until I recognized that remonstrance was useless. He was not
long over his coffee and rolls.
"'McPeek and Frisby will return with the last load, including your
trunk, by early afternoon,' he said, rising and picking up his bundle
of drawings. 'I haven't time to explain to you what we are doing,
Dick, but Daisy will take you about and instruct you. She will give
you the rifle standing in my room--it's a good Winchester. I have sent
for an 'Express' for you, big enough to knock over any elephant in
India. Daisy, take him through the sheds and tell him everything.
Luncheon is at noon. Do you usually take luncheon, Dick?'
"'When I am permitted,' I smiled.
"'Well,' said the professor, doubtfully, 'you mustn't come back here
for it. Freda can take you what you want. Is your hand unsteady after
eating?'
"'Why, papa!' said Daisy. 'Do you intend to starve him?'
"We all laughed.
"The professor tucked his drawings into a capacious pocket, pulled his
sea-boots up to his hips, seized a spade, and left, nodding to us as
though he were thinking of something else.
"We went to the door and watched him across the salt meadows until the
distant sand-dune hid him.
"'Come,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'I am going to take you to the shop.'
"She put on a broad-brimmed straw hat, a distractingly pretty
combination of filmy cool stuffs, and led the way to the long, low
structure that I had noticed the evening before.
"The interior was lighted by the numberless little port-holes, and I
could see everything plainly. I acknowledge I was nonplussed by what I
did see.
"In the centre of the shed, which must have been at least a hundred
feet long, stood what I thought at first was the skeleton of an
enormous whale. After a moment's silent contemplation of the thing I
saw that it could not be a whale, for the frames of two gigantic,
batlike wings rose from each shoulder. Also I noticed that the animal
possessed legs--four of them--with most unpleasant-looking webbed
claws fully eight feet long. The bony framework of the head, too,
resembled something between a crocodile and a monstrous
snapping-turtle. The walls of the shanty were hung with drawings and
blue prints. A man dressed in white linen was tinkering with the
vertebrae of the lizard-like tail.
"'Where on earth did such a reptile come from?' I asked at length.
"'Oh, it's not real!' said Daisy, scornfully; 'it's papier-maché.'
"'I see,' said I; 'a stage prop.'
"'A what?' asked Daisy, in hurt astonishment.
"'Why, a--a sort of Siegfried dragon--a what's-his-name--er, Pfafner,
or Peffer, or--'
"'If my father heard you say such things he would dislike you,' said
Daisy. She looked grieved, and moved towards the door. I
apologized--for what, I knew not--and we became reconciled. She ran
into her father's room and brought me the rifle, a very good
Winchester. She also gave me a cartridge-belt, full.
"'Now,' she smiled, 'I shall take you to your observatory, and when we
arrive you are to begin your duty at once.'
"'And that duty?' I ventured, shouldering the rifle.
"'That duty is to watch the ocean. I shall then explain the whole
affair--but you mustn't look at me while I speak; you must watch the
sea.'
"'This,' said I, 'is hardship. I had rather go without the luncheon.'
"I do not think she was offended at my speech; still she frowned for
almost three seconds.
"We passed through acres of sweet bay and spear grass, sometimes
skirting thickets of twisted cedars, sometimes walking in the full
glare of the morning sun, sinking into shifting sand where
sun-scorched shells crackled under our feet, and sun-browned sea-weed
glistened, bronzed and iridescent. Then, as we climbed a little hill,
the sea-wind freshened in our faces, and lo! the ocean lay below us,
far-stretching as the eye could reach, glittering, magnificent.
"Daisy sat down flat on the sand. It takes a clever girl to do that
and retain the respectful deference due her from men. It takes a
graceful girl to accomplish it triumphantly when a man is looking.
"'You must sit beside me,' she said--as though it would prove irksome
to me.
"'Now,' she continued, 'you must watch the water while I am talking.'
"I nodded.
"'Why don't you do it, then?' she asked.
"I succeeded in wrenching my head towards the ocean, although I felt
sure it would swing gradually round again in spite of me.
"'To begin with,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'there's a thing in that ocean
that would astonish you if you saw it. Turn your head!'
"'I am,' I said, meekly.
"'Did you hear what I said?'
"'Yes--er--a thing in the ocean that's going to astonish me.' Visions
of mermaids rose before me.
"'The thing,' said Daisy, 'is a thermosaurus!'
"I nodded vaguely, as though anticipating a delightful introduction to
a nautical friend.
"'You don't seem astonished,' she said, reproachfully.
"'Why should I be?' I asked.
"'Please turn your eyes towards the water. Suppose a thermosaurus
should look out of the waves!'
"'Well,' said I, 'in that case the pleasure would be mutual.'
"She frowned and bit her upper lip.
"'Do you know what a thermosaurus is?' she asked.
"'If I am to guess,' said I, 'I guess it's a jelly-fish.'
"'It's that big, ugly, horrible creature that I showed you in the
shed!' cried Daisy, impatiently.
"'Eh!' I stammered.
"'Not papier-maché, either,' she continued, excitedly; 'it's a real
one.'
"This was pleasant news. I glanced instinctively at my rifle and then
at the ocean.
"'Well,' said I at last, 'it strikes me that you and I resemble a pair
of Andromedas waiting to be swallowed. This rifle won't stop a beast,
a live beast, like that Nibelungen dragon of yours.'
"'Yes, it will,' she said; 'it's not an ordinary rifle.'
"Then, for the first time, I noticed, just below the magazine, a
cylindrical attachment that was strange to me.
"'Now, if you will watch the sea very carefully, and will promise not
to look at me,' said Daisy, 'I will try to explain.'
"She did not wait for me to promise, but went on eagerly, a sparkle of
excitement in her blue eyes:
"'You know, of all the fossil remains of the great batlike and
lizard-like creatures that inhabited the earth ages and ages ago, the
bones of the gigantic saurians are the most interesting. I think they
used to splash about the water and fly over the land during the
carboniferous period; anyway, it doesn't matter. Of course you have
seen pictures of reconstructed creatures such as the ichthyosaurus,
the plesiosaurus, the anthracosaurus, and the thermosaurus?'
"I nodded, trying to keep my eyes from hers.
"'And you know that the remains of the thermosaurus were first
discovered and reconstructed by papa?'
"'Yes,' said I. There was no use in saying no.
"'I am glad you do. Now, papa has proved that this creature lived
entirely in the Gulf Stream, emerging for occasional flights across an
ocean or two. Can you imagine how he proved it?'
"'No,' said I, resolutely pointing my nose at the ocean.
"'He proved it by a minute examination of the microscopical shells
found among the ribs of the thermosaurus. These shells contained
little creatures that live only in the warm waters of the Gulf Stream.
They were the food of the thermosaurus.'
"'It was rather slender rations for a thing like that, wasn't it? Did
he ever swallow bigger food--er--men?'
"'Oh yes. Tons of fossil bones from prehistoric men are also found in
the interior of the thermosaurus.'
"'Then,' said I, 'you, at least, had better go back to Captain
McPeek's--'
"'Please turn around; don't be so foolish. I didn't say there was a
live thermosaurus in the water, did I?'
"'Isn't there?'
"'Why, no!'
"My relief was genuine, but I thought of the rifle and looked
suspiciously out to sea.
"'What's the Winchester for?' I asked.
"'Listen, and I will explain. Papa has found out--how, I do not
exactly understand--that there is in the waters of the Gulf Stream the
body of a thermosaurus. The creature must have been alive within a
year or so. The impenetrable scale-armor that covers its body has, as
far as papa knows, prevented its disintegration. We know that it is
there still, or was there within a few months. Papa has reports and
sworn depositions from steamer captains and seamen from a dozen
different vessels, all corroborating one another in essential details.
These stories, of course, get into the newspapers--sea-serpent
stories--but papa knows that they confirm his theory that the huge
body of this reptile is swinging along somewhere in the Gulf Stream.'
"She opened her sunshade and held it over her. I noticed that she
deigned to give me the benefit of about one-eighth of it.
"'Your duty with that rifle is this: if we are fortunate enough to see
the body of the thermosaurus come floating by, you are to take good
aim and fire--fire rapidly every bullet in the magazine; then reload
and fire again, and reload and fire as long as you have any cartridges
left.'
"'A self-feeding Maxim is what I should have,' I said, with gentle
sarcasm. 'Well, and suppose I make a sieve of this big lizard?'
"'Do you see these rings in the sand?' she asked.
"Sure enough, somebody had driven heavy piles deep into the sand all
around us, and to the tops of these piles were attached steel rings,
half buried under the spear-grass. We sat almost exactly in the centre
of a circle of these rings.
"'The reason is this,' said Daisy; 'every bullet in your cartridges is
steel-tipped and armor-piercing. To the base of each bullet is
attached a thin wire of pallium. Pallium is that new metal, a thread
of which, drawn out into finest wire, will hold a ton of iron
suspended. Every bullet is fitted with minute coils of miles of this
wire. When the bullet leaves the rifle it spins out this wire as a
shot from a life-saver's mortar spins out and carries the life-line to
a wrecked ship. The end of each coil of wire is attached to that
cylinder under the magazine of your rifle. As soon as the shell is
automatically ejected this wire flies out also. A bit of scarlet tape
is fixed to the end, so that it will be easy to pick up. There is also
a snap-clasp on the end, and this clasp fits those rings that you see
in the sand. Now, when you begin firing, it is my duty to run and pick
up the wire ends and attach them to the rings. Then, you see, we have
the body of the thermosaurus full of bullets, every bullet anchored to
the shore by tiny wires, each of which could easily hold a ton's
strain.'
"I looked at her in amazement.
"'Then,' she added, calmly, 'we have captured the thermosaurus.'
"'Your father,' said I, at length, 'must have spent years of labor
over this preparation.'
"'It is the work of a lifetime,' she said, simply.
"My face, I suppose, showed my misgivings.
"'It must not fail,' she added.
"'But--but we are nowhere near the Gulf Stream,' I ventured.
"Her face brightened, and she frankly held the sunshade over us both.
"'Ah, you don't know,' she said, 'what else papa has discovered. Would
you believe that he has found a loop in the Gulf Stream--a genuine
loop--that swings in here just outside of the breakers below? It is
true! Everybody on Long Island knows that there is a warm current off
the coast, but nobody imagined it was merely a sort of backwater from
the Gulf Stream that formed a great circular mill-race around the cone
of a subterranean volcano, and rejoined the Gulf Stream off Cape
Albatross. But it is! That is why papa bought a yacht three years ago
and sailed about for two years so mysteriously. Oh, I did want to go
with him so much!'
"'This,' said I, 'is most astonishing.'
"She leaned enthusiastically towards me, her lovely face aglow.
"'Isn't it?' she said; 'and to think that you and papa and I are the
only people in the whole world who know this!'
"To be included in such a triology was very delightful.
"'Papa is writing the whole thing--I mean about the currents. He also
has in preparation sixteen volumes on the thermosaurus. He said this
morning that he was going to ask you to write the story first for some
scientific magazine. He is certain that Professor Bruce Stoddard, of
Columbia, will write the pamphlets necessary. This will give papa time
to attend to the sixteen-volume work, which he expects to finish in
three years.'
"'Let us first,' said I, laughing, 'catch our thermosaurus.'
"'We must not fail,' she said, wistfully.
"'We shall not fail,' I said, 'for I promise to sit on this sand-hill
as long as I live--until a thermosaurus appears--if that is your wish,
Miss Holroyd.'
"Our eyes met for an instant. She did not chide me, either, for not
looking at the ocean. Her eyes were bluer, anyway.
"'I suppose,' she said, bending her head and absently pouring sand
between her fingers--'I suppose you think me a blue-stocking, or
something odious?'
"'Not exactly,' I said. There was an emphasis in my voice that made
her color. After a moment she laid the sunshade down, still open.
"'May I hold it?' I asked.
"She nodded almost imperceptibly.
"The ocean had turned a deep marine blue, verging on purple, that
heralded a scorching afternoon. The wind died away; the odor of cedar
and sweet-bay hung heavy in the air.
"In the sand at our feet an iridescent flower-beetle crawled, its
metallic green-and-blue wings burning like a spark. Great gnats, with
filmy, glittering wings, danced aimlessly above the young golden-rod;
burnished crickets, inquisitive, timid, ran from under chips of
driftwood, waved their antennæ at us, and ran back again. One by one
the marbled tiger-beetles tumbled at our feet, dazed from the exertion
of an aërial flight, then scrambled and ran a little way, or darted
into the wire grass, where great, brilliant spiders eyed them askance
from their gossamer hammocks.
"Far out at sea the white gulls floated and drifted on the water, or
sailed up into the air to flap lazily for a moment and settle back
among the waves. Strings of black surf-ducks passed, their strong
wings tipping the surface of the water; single wandering coots whirled
from the breakers into lonely flight towards the horizon.
"We lay and watched the little ring-necks running along the water's
edge, now backing away from the incoming tide, now boldly wading after
the undertow. The harmony of silence, the deep perfume, the mystery of
waiting for that something that all await--what is it? love? death? or
only the miracle of another morrow?--troubled me with vague
restlessness. As sunlight casts shadows, happiness, too, throws a
shadow, an the shadow is sadness.
"And so the morning wore away until Freda came with a cool-looking
hamper. Then delicious cold fowl and lettuce sandwiches and champagne
cup set our tongues wagging as only very young tongues can wag. Daisy
went back with Freda after luncheon, leaving me a case of cigars, with
a bantering smile. I dozed, half awake, keeping a partly closed eye on
the ocean, where a faint gray streak showed plainly amid the azure
water all around. That was the Gulf Stream loop.
"About four o'clock Frisby appeared with a bamboo shelter-tent, for
which I was unaffectedly grateful.
"After he had erected it over me he stopped to chat a bit, but the
conversation bored me, for he could talk of nothing but bill-posting.
"'You wouldn't ruin the landscape here, would you?' I asked.
"'Ruin it!' repeated Frisby, nervously. 'It's ruined now; there ain't
a place to stick a bill.'
"'The snipe stick bills--in the sand,' I said, flippantly.
"There was no humor about Frisby. 'Do they?' he asked.
"I moved with a certain impatience.
"'Bills,' said Frisby, 'give spice an' variety to nature. They break
the monotony of the everlastin' green and what-you-may-call-its.'
"I glared at him.
"'Bills,' he continued, 'are not easy to stick, lemme tell you, sir.
Sign-paintin's a soft snap when it comes to bill-stickin'. Now, I
guess I've stuck more bills onto New York State than ennybody.'
"'Have you?' I said, angrily.
"'Yes, siree! I always pick out the purtiest spots--kinder filled
chuck full of woods and brooks and things; then I h'ist my paste-pot
onto a rock, and I slather that rock with gum, and whoop she goes!'
"'Whoop what goes?'
"'The bill. I paste her onto the rock, with one swipe of the brush for
the edges and a back-handed swipe for the finish--except when a bill
is folded in two halves.'
"'And what do you do then?' I asked, disgusted.
"'Swipe twice,' said Frisby, with enthusiasm.
"'And you don't think it injures the landscape?'
"'Injures it!' he exclaimed, convinced that I was attempting to joke.
"I looked wearily out to sea. He also looked at the water and sighed
sentimentally.
"'Floatin' buoys with bills onto 'em is a idea of mine,' he observed.
'That damn ocean is monotonous, ain't it?'
"I don't know what I might have done to Frisby--the rifle was so
convenient--if his mean yellow dog had not waddled up at this
juncture.
"'Hi, Davy, sic 'em!' said Frisby, expectorating upon a clam-shell and
hurling it seaward. The cur watched the flight of the shell
apathetically, then squatted in the sand and looked at his master.
"'Kinder lost his spirit,' said Frisby, 'ain't he? I once stuck a bill
onto Davy, an' it come off, an' the paste sorter sickened him. He was
hell on rats--once!'
"After a moment or two Frisby took himself off, whistling cheerfully
to Davy, who followed him when he was ready. The rifle burned in my
fingers.
"It was nearly six o'clock when the professor appeared, spade on
shoulder, boots smeared with mud.
"'Well,' he said, 'nothing to report, Dick, my boy?'
"'Nothing, professor.'
"He wiped his shining face with his handkerchief and stared at the
water.
"'My calculations lead me to believe,' he said, 'that our prize may be
due any day now. This theory I base upon the result of the report from
the last sea-captain I saw. I cannot understand why some of these
captains did not take the carcass in tow. They all say that they
tried, but that the body sank before they could come within half a
mile. The truth is, probably, that they did not stir a foot from their
course to examine the thing.'
"'Have you ever cruised about for it?' I ventured.
"'For two years,' he said, grimly. 'It's no use; it's accident when a
ship falls in with it. One captain reports it a thousand miles from
where the last skipper spoke it, and always in the Gulf Stream. They
think it is a different specimen every time, and the papers are
teeming with sea-serpent fol-de-rol.'
"'Are you sure,' I asked, 'that it will swing into the coast on this
Gulf Stream loop?'
"'I think I may say that it is certain to do so. I experimented with a
dead right-whale. You may have heard of its coming ashore here last
summer.'
"'I think I did,' said I, with a faint smile. The thing had poisoned
the air for miles around.
"'But,' I continued, 'suppose it comes in the night?'
"He laughed.
"'There I am lucky. Every night this month, and every day, too, the
current of the loop runs inland so far that even a porpoise would
strand for at least twelve hours. Longer than that I have not
experimented with, but I know that the shore trend of the loop runs
across a long spur of the submerged volcanic mountain, and that
anything heavier than a porpoise would scrape the bottom and be
carried so slowly that at least twelve hours must elapse before the
carcass could float again into deep water. There are chances of its
stranding indefinitely, too, but I don't care to take those chances.
That is why I have stationed you here, Dick.'
"He glanced again at the water, smiling to himself.
"'There is another question I want to ask,' I said, 'if you don't
mind.'
"'Of course not!' he said, warmly.
"'What are you digging for?'
"'Why, simply for exercise. The doctor told me I was killing myself
with my sedentary habits, so I decided to dig. I don't know a better
exercise. Do you?'
"'I suppose not,' I murmured, rather red in the face. I wondered
whether he'd mention fossils.
"'Did Daisy tell you why we are making our papier-maché thermosaurus?'
he asked.
"I shook my head.
"'We constructed that from measurements I took from the fossil remains
of the thermosaurus in the Metropolitan Museum. Professor Bruce
Stoddard made the drawings. We set it up here, all ready to receive
the skin of the carcass that I am expecting.'
"We had started towards home, walking slowly across the darkening
dunes, shoulder to shoulder. The sand was deep, and walking was not
easy.
"'I wish,' said I at last, 'that I knew why Miss Holroyd asked me not
to walk on the beach. It's much less fatiguing.'
"'That,' said the professor, 'is a matter that I intend to discuss
with you to-night.' He spoke gravely, almost sadly. I felt that
something of unparalleled importance was soon to be revealed. So I
kept very quiet, watching the ocean out of the corners of my eyes.
XX
"Dinner was ended. Daisy Holroyd lighted her father's pipe for him,
and insisted on my smoking as much as I pleased. Then she sat down,
and folded her hands like a good little girl, waiting for her father
to make the revelation which I felt in my bones must be something out
of the ordinary.
"The professor smoked for a while, gazing meditatively at his
daughter; then, fixing his gray eyes on me, he said:
"'Have you ever heard of the kree--that Australian bird, half parrot,
half hawk, that destroys so many sheep in New South Wales?'
"I nodded.
"'The kree kills a sheep by alighting on its back and tearing away the
flesh with its hooked beak until a vital part is reached. You know
that? Well, it has been discovered that the kree had prehistoric
prototypes. These birds were enormous creatures, who preyed upon
mammoths and mastodons, and even upon the great saurians. It has been
conclusively proved that a few saurians have been killed by the
ancestors of the kree, but the favorite food of these birds was
undoubtedly the thermosaurus. It is believed that the birds attacked
the eyes of the thermosaurus, and when, as was its habit, the mammoth
creature turned on its back to claw them, they fell upon the thinner
scales of its stomach armor and finally killed it. This, of course, is
a theory, but we have almost absolute proofs of its correctness. Now,
these two birds are known among scientists as the ekaf-bird and the
ool-yllik. The names are Australian, in which country most of their
remains have been unearthed. They lived during the Carboniferous
period. Now, it is not generally known, but the fact is, that in 1801
Captain Ransom, of the British exploring vessel Gull, purchased from
the natives of Tasmania the skin of an ekaf-bird that could not have
been killed more than twenty-four hours previous to its sale. I saw
this skin in the British Museum. It was labelled, "Unknown bird,
probably extinct." It took me exactly a week to satisfy myself that it
was actually the skin of an ekaf-bird. But that is not all, Dick,'
continued the professor, excitedly. 'In 1854 Admiral Stuart, of our
own navy, saw the carcass of a strange, gigantic bird floating along
the southern coast of Australia. Sharks were after it, and before a
boat could be lowered these miserable fish got it. But the good old
admiral secured a few feathers and sent them to the Smithsonian. I saw
them. They were not even labelled, but I knew that they were feathers
from the ekaf-bird or its near relative, the ool-yllik.'
"I had grown so interested that I had leaned far across the table.
Daisy, too, bent forward. It was only when the professor paused for a
moment that I noticed how close together our heads were--Daisy's and
mine. I don't think she realized it. She did not move.
"'Now comes the important part of this long discourse,' said the
professor, smiling at our eagerness. "'Ever since the carcass of our
derelict thermosaurus was first noticed, every captain who has seen it
has also reported the presence of one or more gigantic birds in the
neighborhood. These birds, at a great distance, appeared to be
hovering over the carcass, but on the approach of a vessel they
disappeared. Even in mid-ocean they were observed. When I heard about
it I was puzzled. A month later I was satisfied that neither the
ekaf-bird nor the ool-yllik was extinct. Last Monday I knew that I was
right. I found forty-eight distinct impressions of the huge,
seven-toed claw of the ekaf-bird on the beach here at Pine Inlet. You
may imagine my excitement. I succeeded in digging up enough wet sand
around one of these impressions to preserve its form. I managed to get
it into a soap-box, and now it is there in my shop. The tide rose too
rapidly for me to save the other footprints.'
"I shuddered at the possibility of a clumsy misstep on my part
obliterating the impression of an ool-yllik.
"'That is the reason that my daughter warned you off the beach,' he
said, mildly.
"'Hanging would have been too good for the vandal who destroyed such
priceless prizes,' I cried out, in self-reproach.
"Daisy Holroyd turned a flushed face to mine and impulsively laid her
hand on my sleeve.
"'How could you know?' she said.
"'It's all right now,' said her father, emphasizing each word with a
gentle tap of his pipe-bowl on the table-edge; 'don't be hard on
yourself, Dick. You'll do yeoman's service yet.'
"It was nearly midnight, and still we chatted on about the
thermosaurus, the ekaf-bird, and the ool-yllik, eagerly discussing the
probability of the great reptile's carcass being in the vicinity. That
alone seemed to explain the presence of these prehistoric birds at
Pine Inlet.
"'Do they ever attack human beings?' I asked.
"The professor looked startled.
"'Gracious!' he exclaimed, 'I never thought of that. And Daisy running
about out-of-doors! Dear me! It takes a scientist to be an unnatural
parent!'
"His alarm was half real, half assumed; but, all the same, he glanced
gravely at us both, shaking his handsome head, absorbed in thought.
Daisy herself looked a little doubtful. As for me, my sensations were
distinctly queer.
"'It is true,' said the professor, frowning at the wall, 'that human
remains have been found associated with the bones of the ekaf-bird--I
don't know how intimately. It is a matter to be taken into most
serious consideration.'
"'The problem can be solved,' said I, 'in several ways. One is, to
keep Miss Holroyd in the house--'
"'I shall not stay in,' cried Daisy, indignantly.
"We all laughed, and her father assured her that she should not be
abused.
"'Even if I did stay in,' she said, 'one of these birds might alight
on Master Dick.'
"She looked saucily at me as she spoke, but turned crimson when her
father observed, quietly, 'You don't seem to think of me, Daisy!'
"'Of course I do,' she said, getting up and putting both arms around
her father's neck; 'but Dick--as--as you call him--is so helpless and
timid.'
"My blissful smile froze on my lips.
"'Timid!' I repeated.
"She came back to the table, making me a mocking reverence.
"'Do you think I am to be laughed at with impunity?' she said.
"'What are your other plans, Dick?' asked the professor. 'Daisy, let
him alone, you little tease!'
"'One is, to haul a lot of cast-iron boilers along the dunes,' I said.
'If these birds come when the carcass floats in, and if they seem
disposed to trouble us, we could crawl into the boilers and be safe.'
"'Why, that is really brilliant!' cried Daisy.
"'Be quiet, my child. Dick, the plan is sound and sensible and
perfectly practical. McPeek and Frisby shall go for a dozen loads of
boilers to-morrow.'
"'It will spoil the beauty of the landscape,' said Daisy, with a
taunting nod to me.
"'And Frisby will probably attempt to cover them with bill-posters,' I
added, laughing.
"'That,' said Daisy, 'I shall prevent, even at the cost of his life.'
And she stood up, looking very determined.
"'Children, children,' protested the professor, 'go to bed--you bother
me.'
"Then I turned deliberately to Miss Holroyd.
"'Good-night, Daisy,' I said.
"'Good-night, Dick,' she said, very gently.
XXI
"The week passed quickly for me, leaving but few definite impressions.
As I look back to it now I can see the long stretch of beach burning
in the fierce sunlight, the endless meadows, with the glimmer of water
in the distance, the dunes, the twisted cedars, the leagues of
scintillating ocean, rocking, rocking, always rocking. In the starlit
nights the curlew came in from the sand-bars by twos and threes; I
could hear their querulous call as I lay in bed thinking. All day long
the little ring-necks whistled from the shore. The plover answered
them from distant, lonely inland pools. The great white gulls drifted
like feathers upon the sea.
"One morning towards the end of the week, I, strolling along the
dunes, came upon Frisby. He was bill-posting. I caught him red-handed.
"'This,' said I, 'must stop. Do you understand, Mr. Frisby?'
"He stepped back from his work, laying his head on one side,
considering first me, then the bill that he had pasted on one of our
big boilers.
"'Don't you like the color?' he asked. 'It goes well on them black
boilers.'
"'Color! No, I don't like the color, either. Can't you understand that
there are some people in the world who object to seeing
patent-medicine advertisements scattered over a landscape?'
"'Hey?' he said, perplexed.
"'Will you kindly remove that advertisement?' I persisted.
"'Too late,' said Frisby; 'it's sot.'
"I was too disgusted to speak, but my disgust turned to anger when I
perceived that, as far as the eye could reach, our boilers, lying from
three to four hundred feet apart, were ablaze with yellow-and-red
posters extolling the 'Eureka Liver Pill Company.'
"'It don't cost 'em nothin',' said Frisby, cheerfully; 'I done it fur
the fun of it. Purty, ain't it?'
"'They are Professor Holroyd's boilers,' I said, subduing a desire to
beat Frisby with my telescope. 'Wait until Miss Holroyd sees this
work.'
"'Don't she like yeller and red?' he demanded, anxiously.
"'You'll find out,' said I.
"Frisby gaped at his handiwork and then at his yellow dog. After a
moment he mechanically spat on a clam-shell and requested Davy to
'sic' it.
"'Can't you comprehend that you have ruined our pleasure in the
landscape?' I asked, more mildly.
"'I've got some green bills,' said Frisby; 'I kin stick 'em over the
yeller ones--'
"'Confound it,' said I, 'it isn't the color!'
"'Then,' observed Frisby, 'you don't like them pills. I've got some
bills of the "Cropper Automobile" and a few of "Bagley, the Gents'
Tailor"--'
"'Frisby,' said I, 'use them all--paste the whole collection over your
dog and yourself--then walk off the cliff.'
"He sullenly unfolded a green poster, swabbed the boiler with paste,
laid the upper section of the bill upon it, and plastered the whole
bill down with a thwack of his brush. As I walked away I heard him
muttering.
"Next day Daisy was so horrified that I promised to give Frisby an
ultimatum. I found him with Freda, gazing sentimentally at his work,
and I sent him back to the shop in a hurry, telling Freda at the same
time that she could spend her leisure in providing Mr. Frisby with
sand, soap, and a scrubbing-brush. Then I walked on to my post of
observation.
"I watched until sunset. Daisy came with her father to hear my report,
but there was nothing to tell, and we three walked slowly back to the
house.
"In the evenings the professor worked on his volumes, the click of his
type-writer sounding faintly behind his closed door. Daisy and I
played chess sometimes; sometimes we played hearts. I don't remember
that we ever finished a game of either--we talked too much.
"Our discussions covered every topic of interest: we argued upon
politics; we skimmed over literature and music; we settled
international differences; we spoke vaguely of human brotherhood. I
say we slighted no subject of interest--I am wrong; we never spoke of
love.
"Now, love is a matter of interest to ten people out of ten. Why it
was that it did not appear to interest us is as interesting a question
as love itself. We were young, alert, enthusiastic, inquiring. We
eagerly absorbed theories concerning any curious phenomena in nature,
as intellectual cocktails to stimulate discussion. And yet we did not
discuss love. I do not say that we avoided it. No; the subject was
too completely ignored for even that. And yet we found it very
difficult to pass an hour separated. The professor noticed this, and
laughed at us. We were not even embarrassed.
"Sunday passed in pious contemplation of the ocean. Daisy read a
little in her prayer-book, and the professor threw a cloth over his
type-writer and strolled up and down the sands. He may have been lost
in devout abstraction; he may have been looking for footprints. As for
me, my mind was very serene, and I was more than happy. Daisy read to
me a little for my soul's sake, and the professor came up and said
something cheerful. He also examined the magazine of my Winchester.
"That night, too, Daisy took her guitar to the sands and sang one or
two Basque hymns. Unlike us, the Basques do not take their pleasures
sadly. One of their pleasures is evidently religion.
