of the Long House, and where that hag-sorceress, Catrine Montour, had
failed to pledge the Oneidas to the war-post, the Cherry-Maid had taken
part. Indeed, some said that she was a daughter of the Huron witch; but
Jack Mount, who saw the rite, swore that the Cherry-Maid was but a
beautiful child, painted from brow to ankle----
Suddenly I thought of the hag's daughter as Carolyn. Carolyn? Lyn! By
heaven, the Cherry-Maid was Carolyn Montour, mistress of Walter Butler!
Here in bygone days she had scrawled her name--here her title. And
Walter Butler had been present at that frantic debauch where the False
Faces cringed to their prophetess, Magdalen Brant. Perhaps it was there
that this man had met his match in the lithe young animal whelped by
the Toad-Woman--this slim, lawless, depraved child, who had led the
False Faces in their gruesome rites and sacrifice!
I stared at the diamond scrawl; and before my eyes I seemed to see the
three fires burning, the clattering rows of wooden masks, the white
blankets of the sachems, the tawny, naked form of the Cherry-Maid,
seated between samphire and hazel, her pointed fingers on her hips, her
heavy hair veiling a laughing face, over which the infernal fire shadow
played.
Ah, it was well! Beast linked to beast--what need of priest in the
fierce mating of such creatures of the dusk? He was hers, and she his
by all laws of nature, and in the eternal fitness of things vast and
savage. They must live and breed in the half-light of forests; they
must perish as the sun follows the falling trees, creeping ever
inexorably westward.
Somberly brooding, I turned and descended into the cellar. There was
little light here, and I cared not to strike flint. Groping about I
touched with my foot remains of bottles of earthenware, then made my
way to the door again and began to ascend.
The stairway seemed steeper and more tortuous to me. As I climbed I
became uneasy at its length. Then, in a second, it flashed on me that I
had blundered upon a secret stairway[1] leading upward from the cellar.
At this same instant my head brushed the ceiling; I gave a gentle push,
and a trap-door lifted, admitting me to another flight of stairs, up
which I warily felt my way. This must end in another trap-door on the
second floor--I understood that--and began to reach upward, feeling
about blindly until my hands fell on a bolt. This I drew; it was not
rusty, and did not creak, and, as I slid it back, to my astonishment my
fingers grew wet and greasy. The bolt had been recently oiled!
      [1] Evidences of this stairway still exist in the ancient house of
      Walter Butler.
Now all alert as a gray wolf sniffing a strange trail that cuts his
own, I warily lifted the trap to a finger's breadth. The crack of light
dazzled me; gradually my blurred sight grew clearer; I saw a low,
oblong window under the eaves of the steep, pointed roof; and, through
it, the sunlight falling on the bare floor of a room all littered with
papers, torn letters, and tape-bound documents of every description.
Could these be the Butler papers? I had heard that all documents had
been seized by the commissioners after the father and son had fled. But
the honorable commissioners of sequestration had evidently never
suspected this stairway.
In spite of myself I started! How had I, then, entered it? Somebody
must have mounted it before me, leaving the secret door open in the
cellar, and I, groping about, had chanced upon it. But whoever left it
open must have been acquainted with the house--an intimate here, if not
one of the family!
When had this unknown entered? Was any one here now? At the thought my
skin roughened as a dog bristles. Was I alone in this house?
Listening, motionless, nostrils dilated, every sense concentrated on
that narrow crack of light, I crouched there. Then, very gradually, I
raised the trap, higher, higher, laying it back against the upright of
white oak.
I was in a tiny room--a closet, lighted by a slit of a window.
Everywhere around me in the dust were small moccasin prints, pointing in
every direction. I could see no door in the wooden walls of the closet,
but I stepped out of the stair-well and leaned over, examining the
moccasin tracks, tracing them, until I found a spot where they led
straight up to the wall; and there were no returning tracks to be seen.
A chill crept over me; only a specter could pass through a solid wall.
The next moment I had bent, ear flattened to the wooden wainscot. There
was something moving in the next room!
CHAPTER XII
THENDARA
Motionless, intent, holding my breath, I listened at the paneled wall.
Through the wainscot I could hear the low rustling of paper; and I
seemed to sense some heavier movement within, though the solid floor
did not creak, nor a window quiver, nor a footfall sound.
And now my eyes began traveling cautiously over the paneled wall,
against which I had laid my ear. No crack or seam indicated a hidden
door, yet I knew there must be one, and gently pressed the wainscot
with my shoulder. It gave, almost imperceptibly; I pressed again, and
the hidden door opened a hair's breadth, a finger's breadth, an inch,
widening, widening noiselessly; and I bent forward and peered into
another closet like the one I stood in, also lighted by a loop for
rifle-fire. As my head advanced, first a corner of the floor littered
with papers came into my range of vision, then an angle of the wall,
then a shadowy something which I could not at first make out--and I
opened the door a little wider--scarcely an inch--holding it there.
The shadowy something moved; it was a human foot; and the next instant
my eyes fell on a figure, partly in shade, partly in the light from the
loophole--an Indian, kneeling, absorbed in deciphering a document held
flat on the bare floor.
Astounded, almost incredulous, I glared at the vision. Gradually the
shock of the surprise subsided; details took shape under my wondering
eyes--the slim legs, doubled under, clothed with fringed and beaded
leggings to the hips, the gorgeously embroidered sporran, moccasins, and
clout, the smooth, naked back, gleaming like palest amber under curtains
of stiffly strung scarlet-and-gold traders' wampum--traders' wampum?
What did that mean? And what did those heavy, double masses of hair
indicate--those soft, twisted ropes of glossy hair, braided half-way
with crimson silk shot with silver, then hanging a cloudy shock of black
to the belted waist?
Here was no Iroquois youth--no adolescent of the Long House attired for
any rite I ever heard of. The hip-leggings were of magnificent Algonquin
work; the quill-set, sinew-embroidered moccasins, too. That stringy,
iridescent veil of rose, scarlet, and gold wampum on the naked body was
de fantasie; the belt and knife-sheath pure Huron. As for the
gipsy-like arrangement of the hair, no Iroquois boy ever wore it that
way; it hinted of the gens de prairie. What on earth did it mean?
There was no paint on limb or body to guide me. Never had I seen such a
being so dressed for any rite or any practise in North America! Oh, if
Little Otter were only here! I stole a glance out of the loop, but saw
nothing save the pale sunshine on the weeds. If the Oneida had arrived,
he had surely already found my horse tied in the lilac thicket, and
surely he would follow me where the weeds showed him I had passed. He
might wait for a while; but if I emerged not from the house I knew he
would be after me, smelling along like a wolfhound until he had tracked
me to a standstill. Should I wait for him? I looked at the kneeling
figure. So absorbed was the strange young Indian in the document on the
floor that I strained my eyes to make out its script, but could not
decipher even the corner of the paper exposed to my view. Then it
occurred to me that it was a strange thing for an Indian to read. Scarce
one among the Iroquois, save Brant and the few who had been to Dr.
Wheelock's school, knew A from Zed, or could more than scrawl their
clan-mark to a birchen letter.
Suspicious lest, after all, I had to do with a blue-eyed Indian or
painted Tory, I examined the unconscious reader thoroughly. And, after
a little while, a strange apprehension settled into absolute conviction
as I looked. So certain was I that every gathered muscle relaxed; I
drew a deep, noiseless breath of relief, smiling to myself, and stepped
coolly forward, letting the secret door swing to behind me with a
deadened thud.
Like a startled tree-cat the figure sprang to its feet, whirling to
confront me. And I laughed again, for I was looking into the dark,
dilated eyes of a young girl.
"Have no fear," I began quietly; and the next instant the words were
driven into my throat, for she was on me in one bound, hunting-knife
glittering.
Round the walls we reeled, staggering, wrestling, clinched like
infuriated wolverines. I had her wrist in my grip, squeezing it, and
the bright, sparkling knife soon clattered to the boards, but she
suddenly set her crooked knee inside mine and tripped me headlong,
hurling us both sideways to the floor, where we rolled, desperately
locked, she twisting and reaching for the knife again and again, until
I kicked it behind me and staggered to my feet, dragging her with me in
all her fury. But her maddened strength, her sinuous twisting, her
courage, so astonished me that again and again she sent me reeling
almost to my knees, taxing my agility and my every muscle to keep her
from tripping me flat and recovering her knife. At length she began to
sway; her dark, defiant eyes narrowed to two flaming slits; her
distorted mouth weakened into sullen lines, through which I caught the
flash of locked teeth crushing back the broken, panting breath. I held
her like a vise; she could no longer move. And when at last she knew
it, her rigid features, convulsed with rage, relaxed into a blank,
smooth mask of living amber.
For a moment I held her, feeling her whole body falling loose-limbed
and limp--held her until her sobbing breath grew quieter and more
regular. Then I released her; she reeled, steadying herself against the
wall with one hand; and, stepping back, I sank one knee, and whipped
the knife from the floor.
That she now looked for death at my hands was perfectly evident, I
being dressed as a forest-runner who knows no sex when murder is afoot.
I saw the flushed face pale slightly; the lip curl contemptuously.
Proudly she lifted her head, haughtily faced me.
"Dog of bastard nation!" she panted; "look me between the eyes and
strike!"
"Little sister," I answered gravely, using the soft Oneida idiom, "let
there be peace between us."
A flash of wonder lit her dark eyes. And I said again, smiling: "O
Heart-divided-into-two-hearts, te-ha-eho-eh, you are like him whom we
name, after 'The Two Voices'--we of the Wolf. Therefore is there peace
and love 'twixt thee and me."
The wonder in her eyes deepened; her whole body quivered.
"Who are you with a white skin who speak like a crested sachem?" she
faltered.
"Tat-sheh-teh, little sister. I bear the quiver, but my war-arrows are
broken."
"Oneida!" she exclaimed softly, clasping her hands between her breasts.
I stepped closer, holding out my arms; slowly she laid her hands in
mine, looking fearlessly up into my face. I turned her palms upward and
placed the naked knife across them; she bent her head, then
straightened up, looking me full in the eyes.
Still smiling, I laid both my hands on the collar of my hunting-shirt,
baring throat and chest; and, as the full significance of the tiny
tattoo dawned upon her, she shivered.
"Tharon!" she stammered. "Thou! What have I done!" And, shuddering,
cast the knife at my feet as though it had been the snake that rattles.
"Little sister----"
"Oh, no! no! What have I done! What have I dared! I have raised my hand
against Him whom you have talked with face to face----"
"Only Tharon has done that," I said gently, "I but wear his sign.
Peace, Woman of the Morning. There is no injury where there is no
intent. We are not yet 'at the Forest's Edge.'"
Slowly the color returned to lip and cheek, her fascinated eyes roamed
from my face to the tattooed wolf and mark of Tharon crossing it. And
after a little she smiled faintly at my smile, as I said:
"I have drawn the fangs of the Wolf; fear no more, Daughter of the
Sun."
"I--I fear no more," she breathed.
"Shall an ensign of the Oneida cherish wrath?" I asked. "He who bears a
quiver has forgotten. See, child; it is as it was from the beginning.
Hiro."
I calmly seated myself on the floor, knees gathered in my clasped
hands; and she settled down opposite me, awaiting in instinctive
silence my next words.
"Why does my sister wear the dress of an adolescent, mocking the False
Faces, when the three fires are not yet kindled?" I asked.
"I hold the fire-right," she said quickly. "Ask those who wear the mask
where cherries grow. O sachem, those cherries were ripe ere I was!"
I thought a moment, then fixed my eager eyes on her.
"Only the Cherry-Maid of Adriutha has that right," I said. My heart,
beating furiously, shook my voice, for I knew now who she was.
"I am Cherry-Maid to the three fires," she said; "in bud at Adriutha,
in blossom at Carenay, in fruit at Danascara."
"Your name?"
"Lyn Montour."
I almost leaped from the floor in my excitement; yet the engrafted
Oneida instinct of a sachem chained me motionless. "You are the wife of
Walter Butler," I said deliberately, in English.
A wave of crimson stained her face and shoulders. Suddenly she covered
her face with her hands.
"Little sister," I said gently, "is it not the truth? Does a
Quiver-bearer lie, O Blossom of Carenay?"
Her hands fell away; she raised her head, the tears shining on her
heavy lashes: "It is the truth."
"His wife?" I repeated slowly.
"His wife, O Bearer of Arrows! He took me at the False Faces' feast,
and the Iroquois saw. Yet the cherries were still green at Danascara.
Twice the Lenape covered their faces; twice 'The Two Voices' unveiled
his face. So it was done there on the Kennyetto." She leaned swiftly
toward me: "Twice he denied me at Niagara. Yet once, when our love was
new--when I still loved him--he acknowledged me here in this very
house, in the presence of a County Magistrate, Sir John Johnson. I am
his wife, I, Lyn Montour! I have never lied to woman or man, O my elder
brother!"
"And that is why you have come back?"
"Yes; to search--for something to help me--some record--God knows!--I
have searched and searched--" She stretched out her bare arms and gazed
hopelessly around the paper-littered floor.
"Will not Sir John uphold you with his testimony?" I asked.
"He? No! He also denies it. What can a woman expect of a man who has
broken parole?" she added, in contempt.
I leaned toward her, speaking slowly, and with deadly emphasis:
"Dare Walter Butler deny what the Iroquois Nation may attest?"
"He dare," she said, burning eyes on mine. "I am more Algonquin than
Huron, and more than nine-tenths white. What is it to the Iroquois that
this man puts me away? It was the Mohican and Lenape who veiled their
faces, not the Iroquois. What is it to white men that he took me and
has now put me away? What is it to them that he now takes another?"
"Another? Whom?" My lips scarcely formed the question.
"I do not know her name. When he returned from the horrors of Cherry
Valley Sir Frederick Haldimand refused to see him. Yet he managed to
make love to Sir Frederick's kinswoman--a child--as I was when he took
me----"
She closed her eyes. I saw the lashes all wet again, but her voice did
not tremble: "He is at Niagara with his Rangers--or was. And--when I
came to him he laughed at me, bidding me seek a new lover at the
fort----"
Her voice strangled. Twisting her fingers, she sat there, eyes closed,
dumb, miserable. At last she gasped out: "O Quiver-bearer, with a white
voice and a skin scarce whiter than my own, though your nation be
sundered from the Long House, though I be an outcast of clans and
nations, speak to me kindly, for my sadness is bitter, and the ghost of
my dead honor confronts me in every forest-trail!" She stretched out
her arms piteously:
"Teach me, brother; instruct me; heal my bruised heart of hate for this
young man who was my undoing--cleanse my fierce, desirous heart. I love
him no longer; I--I dare not hate him lest I slay him ere he rights my
wrongs. My sorrow is heavier than I can bear--and I am young, O
sachem--not yet eighteen--until the snow flies."
She laid her face in her hands once more; through her slim fingers the
bright tears fell slowly.
"Are you Christian, little sister?" I asked, wondering.
"I do not know. They say so. A brave Jesuit converted me ere I was
unstrapped from the cradle-board--ere I could lisp or toddle. God knows.
My own brother died in war-paint; my grandmother was French Margaret, my
mother--if she be my mother--is the Huron witch of Wyoming; some call
her Catrine, some Esther. Yet I was chaste--till he took me--chaste as
an Iroquois maid. Thus has he wrought with me. Teach me to forgive him!"
And this the child of Catrine Montour? This that bestial creature they
described to me as some slim, fierce temptress of the forests?
"Listen," I said gently; "if you are wedded by a magistrate, you are
his wife; yet if that magistrate falsely witnesses against you, you can
not prove it. I would give all I have to prove your marriage. Do you
understand?"
She looked at me, uncomprehending.
"The woman I love is the woman he now claims as wife," I said calmly.
Then, in that strange place, alone there together in the dim light, she
lying full length on the floor, her hands clasped on my knees, told me
all. And there, together, we took counsel how to bring this man to
judgment--not the Almighty's ultimate punishment, not even that stern
retribution which an outraged world might exact, but a merciful
penance--the public confession of the tie that bound him to this young
girl. For, among the Iroquois, an unchaste woman is so rare that when a
maiden commits the fault she is like a leper until death releases her
from her awful isolation.
Together, too, we searched the littered papers on the floor, piece by
piece, bit by bit, but all in vain. And while kneeling there I heard a
stealthy step behind me, and looked back over my shoulder, to see the
Oneida, Little Otter, peering in at us, eyeballs fairly starting from
his painted face. Lyn Montour eyed him silently, and without
expression, but I laughed to see how surely he had followed me as I had
expected; and motioned him away to await my coming.
It was, I should judge, nearly five o'clock when we descended by the
open stairway to the ground floor. I held the window wide; she placed
her hands on the sill and leaped lightly to the grass. I followed.
Presently the lilac thicket parted and the tall Oneida appeared,
leading my horse. One keen, cunning glance he gave at the girl, then,
impassive, stood bolt upright beside my horse. He was superb, stripped
naked to clout and moccasin, head shaved, body oiled and most
elaborately painted; and on his broad breast glimmered the Wolf lined
in sapphire-blue. When the long roll of the dead thundered through the
council-house, his name was the fourth to be called--Shononses. And
never was chief of the Oneida nation more worthy to lift the antlers
that no grave must ever cover while the Long House endures.
"Has my brother learned news of the gathering in the north?" I asked,
studying the painted symbols on his face and body.
"The council sits at dawn," he replied quietly.
"At dawn!" I exclaimed. "Why, we have no time, then----"
"There is time, brother. There is always time to die."
"To--die!" I looked at him, startled. Did he, then, expect no mercy at
the council? He raised his eyes to me, smiling. There was nothing of
fear, nothing of boastfulness, even, in attitude or glance. His dignity
appalled me, for I knew what it meant. And, suddenly, the full
significance of his paint flashed upon me.
"You think there is no chance for us?" I repeated.
"None, brother."
"And yet you go?"
"And you, brother?"
"I am ordered; I am pledged to take such chances. But you need not go,
Little Otter. See, I free you now. Leave me, brother. I desire it."
"Shononses will stay," he said impassively. "Let the Long House learn
how the Oneidas die."
I shuddered and looked again at his paint. It was inevitable; no
orders, no commands, no argument could now move him. He understood that
he was about to die, and he had prepared himself. All I could hope for
was that he had mistaken the temper of the council; that the insolence
of a revolted nation daring to present a sachem at the Federal-Council
might be overlooked--might be condoned, even applauded by those who
cherished in their dark hearts, locked, the splendid humanity of the
ancient traditions. But there was no knowing, no prophesying what
action a house divided might take, what attitude a people maddened by
dissensions, wrought to frenzy by fraternal conflict, might assume. God
knows the white man's strife was barbarous enough, brother murdering
brother beneath the natal roof. What, then, might be looked for from
the fierce, proud people whose Confederacy was steadily crumbling
beneath our touch; whose crops and forests and villages had gone
roaring up into flames as the vengeance of Sullivan, with his Rangers,
his Continentals, and his Oneidas, passed over their lands in fire!
"Where sits the council?" I asked soberly.
"At the Dead-Water."
It was an all-night journey by the Fish House-trails, for we dared not
strike the road, with Sir John's white demons outlying from the
confluence to Frenchman's creek.
I looked at my horse. Little Otter had strapped ammunition and
provisions to the saddle, leaving room for a rider. I turned to Lyn
Montour; she laid her hands on my shoulders, and I swung her up astride
the saddle.
"Now," I said briefly; and we filed away into the north, the Oneida
leading at a slow trot.
I shall never forget the gloom, the bitter misery of that dark trail
where specters ever stared at me as I journeyed, where ghosts arose in
every trail--pale wraiths of her I loved, calling me back to love
again. And "Lost, lost, lost!" wept the little brooks we crossed, all
sobbing, whispering her name.
What an end of all--to die now, leaving life's work unfinished, life's
desire unsatisfied--all that I loved unprotected and alone on earth.
What an end to it all--and I had done nothing for the cause, nothing
except the furtive, obscure work which others shrank from! And now,
skulking to certain death, was denied me even the poor solace of an
honored memory. Here in this shaggy desolation no ray of glory might
penetrate to gild my last hour with a hero's halo; contempt must be my
reward if I failed. I must die amid the scornful laughter of Iroquois
women, the shrill taunts of children, the jeers of renegade white men,
who pay a thief more honor at the cross-roads gallows than they pay a
convicted spy. Why, I might not even hope for the stern and dignified
justice that the Oneida awaited--an iron justice that respected the
victim it destroyed; for he came openly as a sachem of a disobedient
nation in revolt, daring to justify his nation and his clan. But I was
to act if not to speak a lie; I was to present myself as a sleek
non-partizan, symbolizing only a nobility of the great Wolf clan. And if
any man accused me as a spy, and if suspicion became conviction, the
horrors of my degradation would be inconceivable. Yet, plying once more
my abhorred trade, I could only obey, hope against hope, and strive to
play the man to the end, knowing what failure meant, knowing, too, what
my reward for success might be--a low-voiced "Thank you" in secret, a
grasp of the hands behind locked doors--a sum of money pressed on me
slyly--that hurt most of all--to put it away with a smile, and keep my
temper. Good God! Does a Renault serve his country for money! Why,
why, can they not understand, and spare me that!--the wages of the
wretched trade!
Darkness had long since infolded us; we had slackened to a walk, moving
forward between impervious walls of blackness. And always on the
curtain of the inky shadow I saw Elsin's pallid face gazing upon me,
until the vision grew so real that I could have cried out in my
anguish, reeling forward, on, ever on, through a blackness thick as the
very shadows of the pit that hides lost souls!
At midnight we halted for an hour. The Oneida ate calmly; Lyn Montour
tasted the parched corn, and drank at an unseen spring that bubbled a
drear lament amid the rocks. Then we descended into the Drowned Lands,
feeling our spongy trail between osier, alder, and willow. Once, very
far away, I saw a light, pale as a star, low shining on the marsh. It
was the Fish House, and we were near our journey's end--perhaps the end
of all journeys, save that last swift trail upward among those thousand
stars!
It was near to dawn when we came out upon the marsh; and above, I heard
the whir and whimpering rush of wild ducks passing, the waking call of
birds, twittering all around us in the darkness; the low undertone of
the black water flowing to the Sacandaga.
Over the quaking marsh we passed, keeping the trodden trail, now
wading, now ankle-deep in cranberry, now up to our knees in moss, now
lost in the high marsh-grass, on, on, through birch hummocks, willows,
stunted hemlocks and tamaracks, then on firm ground once more, with the
oak-mast under foot, and the white dawn silvering the east, and my
horse breathing steam as he toiled on.
Suddenly I was aware of a dark figure moving through the marsh,
parallel, and close to me. The Oneida stopped, stared, then drew his
blanket around him and sat down at the foot of a great oak.
We had arrived at Thendara! Now, all around us in the dim glade, tall
forms moved--spectral shapes of shadowy substance that drifted hither
and thither, passing, repassing, melting into the gloom around, until I
could scarce tell them from the shreds of marsh fog that rose and
floated through the trees around us.
Slowly the heavens turned to palest gold, then to saffron. All about us
shadowy throngs arose to face the rising sun. A moment of intense
stillness, then a far, faint cry, "Koue!" And the glittering edge of
the sun appeared above the wooded heights. Blinding level rays fell on
the painted faces of the sachems of the Long House, advancing to the
forest's edge; the Oneida strode forward, head erect, and I, with a
sign to the girl at my side, followed.
As we walked through the long, dead grass, I, watching sidewise, noted
the absence of the Senecas. Was it for them the condolence? Suddenly it
struck me that to our side of the circle belonged the duty of the first
rites. Who would speak? Not the Oneidas, for there was none, except
Little Otter and myself. Who then? The Cayugas?
I shot a side glance among the slowly moving forms. Ah! that was it! A
Cayuga sachem led the march.
The circle was already forming. I saw the Senecas now; I saw all the
sachems seating themselves in a cleared space where a birch fire
smoldered, sweetening the keen morning air with its writhing, aromatic
smoke; I saw the Oneida cross proudly to his place on our side; and I
seated myself beside him, raising my eyes to the towering figure of
Tahtootahoo, the chief sachem and ensign of the great Bear Clan of the
Onondaga nation, who stood beside the Cayuga spokesman in whispered
conference.
To and fro strode the Cayuga, heavy head bent; to and fro, pacing the
circle like a stupefied panther. Once his luminous eyes gleamed on
mine, shifted blankly to the Oneida, and thence along the motionless
circle of painted faces. Mohawk, Seneca, Onondaga were there, forming
half the circle; Oneida, Cayuga, and Tuscarora welded it to a ring. I
glanced fearfully from ensign to ensign, but saw no Delaware present;
and my heart leaped with hope. Walter Butler had lied to me; the
Lenni-Lenape had never sat at this rite; his mongrel clan had no voice
here. He had lied.
The pipe had been lighted and was passing in grave silence. I received
it from a Tuscarora, used it, and handed it to the Oneida, watching the
chief sachem of the Senecas as he arose to deliver his brief address of
welcome. He spoke in the Seneca dialect, and so low that I could
understand him only with greatest difficulty, learning nothing except
that a Seneca Bear was to be raised up to replace a dead chief slain at
Sharon.
Then a very old sachem arose and made a sign which was the symbol of
travel. We touched hands and waited, understanding the form prescribed.
Alas, the mourning Senecas had no longer a town to invite us to; the
rite must be concluded where we sat; we must be content with the sky
for the roof which had fallen in on the Long House, the tall oaks for
the lodge-poles, the east and west for the doors broken down by the
invasion.
Solemnly the names of the score and three legendary towns were recited,
first those of the Wolf, next of the Tortoise, then of the Bear; and I
saw my Wolf-brethren of the four classes of the Mohawks and Cayugas
staring at me as I rose when they did and seated myself at the calling
of my towns. And, by heaven! I noted, too, that the Tuscaroras of the
Grey Wolf and the Yellow Wolf knew their places, and rose only after we
were seated. Except for the Onondaga Tortoise, a cleft clan awaits the
pleasure of its betters. Even a Delaware should know that much, but
Walter Butler was ever a liar, for it is not true that the Anowara or
Tortoise is the noble clan, nor yet the Ocquari. It is the Wolf, the
Oquacho Clan; and the chiefs of the Wolf come first of all!
Suddenly the sonorous voice of the Seneca broke the silence,
pronouncing the opening words of the most sacred rite of the Iroquois
people:
"Now to-day I have been greatly startled by your voice coming
through the forest to this opening----"
The deep, solemn tones of the ancient chant fell on the silence like the
notes of a sad bell. It was, then, to be a double rite. Which nation
among the younger brothers mourned a chief? I looked at the Oneida
beside me; his proud smile softened. Then I understood. Good God! They
were mourning him, him, as though he were already dead!
The Seneca's voice was sounding in my ears: "Now, therefore, you who
are our friends of the Wolf Clan----" I scarcely heard him. Presently
the "Salute" rolled forth from the council; they were intoning the
"Karenna."
I laid my hand on the Oneida's wrist; his pulse was calm, nor did it
quicken by a beat as the long roll of the dead was called:
    "Continue to listen,
    Thou who wert ruler,
        Hiawatha!
    Continue to listen,
    Thou who wert ruler:
    That was the roll of you--
    You who began it--
    You who completed
    The Great League!--
    Continue to listen,
    Thou who wert ruler:
    That was the roll of you----"
The deep cadence of the chanting grew to a thunderous sound; name after
name of the ancient dead was called, and the thrilling response
swelled, culminating in a hollow shout. Then a pause, and the solemn
tones of a single voice intoning the final words of gloom.
For ten full minutes there was not a sound except the faint snapping of
the smoking birch twigs. Then up rose the chief sachem of the Cayugas,
cast aside his blanket, faced the circle, dark, lean arm outstretched;
and from his lips flowed the beautiful opening words of the Younger
Nations:
    "Yo o-nen o-nen wen-ni-teh onen----"
    "Now--now this day--now I come to your door where you mourn....
    I will enter your door and come before the ashes and mourn with you
    there. And these words will I speak to comfort you!"
The music of the voice thrilled me:
    "To the warriors, to the women, and also to the children; and
    also to the little ones creeping on the ground, and also to those
    still tied to the cradle-board.... This we say, we three
    brothers....
    "Now another thing we will say, we younger brothers. You mourn.
    I will clear the sky for you so that you shall not behold a cloud.
    And also I give the sun to shine upon you, so that you can look
    peacefully upon it when it goes down. You shall see it when it is
    going. Yea, ye shall look peacefully upon it when it goes
    down....
    "Now another thing we say, we younger brothers. If any one
    should fall, then the antlers shall be left on the grave....
    "Now another thing we say, we younger brothers. We will gird the
    belt on you with the quiver, and the next death will receive the
    quiver whenever you shall know that there is death among us, when
    the fire is made and the smoke is rising. This we say and do, we
    three brothers.
    "Now I have finished. Now show me the man!"
Slowly the Oneida rose from my side and crossed the circle. Every eye
was on him; he smiled as he halted, sweeping the throng with a tranquil
glance. Then, drawing his blanket about him he stepped from the
sanctuary of the council-ring out into the forest; and after him glided
a Mohawk warrior, with face painted black, in token of his terrific
office.
A dead silence fell upon the council.
The pulse was drumming in ears and throat when I arose; and, as the
Mohawk executioner slipped noiselessly past me, I seized him by the
clout-belt, and, summoning every atom of strength, hurled him headlong
at my feet, so that he lay stunned and like one dead.
A roar of astonishment greeted me; a score of voices cried out savagely
on my violation of the fire.
"It is you who violate it!" I answered, trembling with fury; "you who
dare pronounce the sentence of death without consulting the four
classes of the Oneida!"
A Mohawk sachem arose, casting his scarlet robes at his feet, and
pointed at me, hissing: "Where are the Oneida classes? I dare you to
tell us where the ensigns hide! Where are they? Speak!"
"Here!" I said, tearing my cape open. "Read that sign, O Canienga! I
answer for the four classes of my nation, and I say that Oneida shall
go free! Now let him who dare accuse me stand forth. It is a Wolf of
Tharon who has spoken!"
Absolute silence greeted me. I had risked all on the hazard.
The executioner had staggered to his feet again, and now stood outside
the circle leaning against a young oak-tree, half stunned, mechanically
rubbing the twigs and dead leaves from the sticky black paint that
masked his visage. I wheeled on him and bade him remain where he was
until the council's will was made known; then I walked into the circle;
and when they cried out that I had no franchise, I laughed at them,
challenging them to deny me my right to stand here for the entire
Oneida nation.
For there was nothing now to do but to carry the desperate enterprise
through or perish. I dared not stop to consider; to attempt to remember
precedents. I turned on the Mohawks haughtily, demanding that privilege
which even they could not refuse; I claimed clan-brotherhood from every
Wolf in the Long House; and when the council accorded it, I spoke:
"Now I say to you, O you wise men and sachems, that this Oneida shall
not die, because the four classes speak through my mouth! Who is there
to give me the lie? Why are your eight score Oneidas absent--the eight
score who still remain in the Long House? Surely, brothers, there are
sachems among them? Why are they not here? Do you fear they might not
agree to the punishment of the Oneida nation?"
I folded my arms and stared at the Mohawks.
"Clan ties are close, national ties closer, but strongest and closest of
all, the six iron links that form the Great League! Why do you punish
now? How can you punish now? Is it well to break the oldest League law
to punish those who have broken the law of the League?"
A Mohawk sachem answered in a dozen stinging words that the League
itself was broken; but ere he could finish I stopped him with a
gesture.
Then, summoning all my powers, I burst out into a passionate protest,
denying that the Great League was broken, glorying in its endurance,
calling on every nation to uphold it. And instantly, although not a
muscle moved nor a word was uttered, I felt that I had the council with
me, that my passion was swaying them, that what I asserted they
believed. I laughed at the neutrality of the Tuscaroras, at the
half-hearted attitude of the Onondagas; I made light of the rebellion
of the greater portion of the Oneida nation.
"It is a passing fancy, a whim. The battle-breeze from this white man's
war has risen to a tempest, unroofing the Long House, scattering you
