concussion troubled his eyes so that he was not certain that she was
there until she bent close over him, looking down at him in silence.
"I thought of you--when I was falling," he explained vaguely--"only of
you."
The color came into her face; but her eyes were steady. She set the
flaring dip on the bureau and came back to the bed. "We thought of you,
too," she said.
His restless hand, fumbling the quilt, closed on hers; his eyes were
shut, but his lips moved, and she bent nearer to catch his words:
"We noncombatants get into heaps of trouble--don't we?"
"Yes," she whispered, smiling; "but the worst is over now."
"There is worse coming."
"What?"
"We march--to-morrow. I shall never see you again."
After a silence she strove gently to release her hand; but his held it;
and after a long while, as he seemed to be asleep, she sat down on the
bed's edge, moving very softly lest he awaken. All the tenderness of
innocence was in her gaze, as she laid her other hand over his and left
it there, even after he stirred and his unclosing eyes met hers.
"Celia!" called the boy, from the darkened stairway, "there's a medical
officer here."
"Bring him," she said. She rose, her lingering fingers still in his,
looking down at him all the while; their hands parted, and she moved
backward slowly, her young eyes always on his.
The medical officer passed her, stepping quickly to the bedside, stopped
short, hesitated, and bending, opened the clotted shirt, placing a
steady hand over the heart.
The next moment he straightened up, pulled the sheet over the
bandmaster's face, and turned on his heel, nodding curtly to the girl
as he passed out.
When he had gone, she walked slowly to the bed and drew the sheet from
the bandmaster's face.
And as she stood there, dry-eyed, mute, from the dusky garden came the
whispering cry of the widow bird, calling, calling to the dead that
answer never more.
PART TWO
WHAT SHE BECAME
II
SPECIAL MESSENGER
On the third day the pursuit had become so hot, so unerring, that she
dared no longer follow the rutty cart road. Toward sundown she wheeled
her big bony roan into a cow path which twisted through alders for a
mile or two, emerging at length on a vast stretch of rolling country,
where rounded hills glimmered golden in the rays of the declining sun.
Tall underbrush flanked the slopes; little streams ran darkling through
the thickets; the ground was moist, even on the ridges; and she could
not hope to cover the deep imprint of her horse's feet.
She drew bridle, listening, her dark eyes fixed on the setting sun.
There was no sound save the breathing of her horse, the far sweet
trailing song of a spotted sparrow, the undertones of some hidden rill
welling up through matted tangles of vine and fern and long wild
grasses.
Sitting her worn saddle, sensitive face partly turned, she listened, her
eyes sweeping the bit of open ground behind her. Nothing moved there.
Presently she slipped off one gauntlet, fumbled in her corsage, drew out
a crumpled paper, and spread it flat. It was a map. With one finger she
traced her road, bending in her saddle, eyebrows gathering in
perplexity. Back and forth moved the finger, now hovering here and there
in hesitation, now lifted to her lips in silent uncertainty. Twice she
turned her head, intensely alert, but there was no sound save the cawing
of crows winging across the deepening crimson in the west.
At last she folded the map and thrust it into the bosom of her
mud-splashed habit; then, looping up the skirt of her kirtle, she
dismounted, leading her horse straight into the oak scrub and on through
a dim mile of woodland, always descending, until the clear rushing music
of a stream warned her, and she came out along the thicket's edge into a
grassy vale among the hills.
A cabin stood there, blue smoke lazily rising from the chimney; a hen or
two sat huddled on the shafts of an ancient buckboard standing by the
door. In the clear, saffron-tinted evening light some ducks sailed and
steered about the surface of a muddy puddle by the barn, sousing their
heads, wriggling their tails contentedly.
As she walked toward the shanty, leading her horse, an old man appeared
at the open doorway, milking stool under one gaunt arm, tin pail
dangling from the other. Astonished, he regarded the girl steadily,
answering her low, quick greeting with a nod of his unkempt gray head.
"How far is the pike?" she asked.
"It might be six mile," he said, staring.
"Is there a wood road?"
He nodded.
"Where does it lead?"
"It leads just now," he replied grimly, "into a hell's mint o' rebels.
What's your business in these parts, ma'am?"
Her business was to trust no one, yet there had been occasions when she
had been forced to such a risk. This was one. She looked around at the
house, the dismantled buckboard tenanted by roosting chickens, the ducks
in the puddle, the narrow strip of pasture fringing the darkening woods.
She looked into his weather-ravaged visage, searching the small eyes
that twinkled at her intently out of a mass of wrinkles.
"Are you a Union man?" she asked.
His face hardened; a slow color crept into the skin above his sharp
cheek bones. "What's that to you?" he demanded.
"Here in Pennsylvania we expect to find Union sentiments. Besides, you
just now spoke of rebels----"
"Yes, an' I'll say it again," he repeated doggedly; "the Pennsylvany
line is crawlin' with rebels, an' they'll butt into our cavalry before
morning."
She laughed, stepping nearer, the muddy skirt of her habit lifted.
"I must get to Reynolds's corps to-night," she said confidingly. "I came
through the lines three days ago; their cavalry have followed me ever
since. I can't shake them off; they'll be here by morning--as soon as
there's light enough to trace my horse."
She looked back at the blue woods thoughtfully, patting her horse's
sleek neck.
He followed her glance, then his narrowing eyes focused on her as she
turned her head toward him again.
"What name?" he asked harshly, hand to his large ear.
She smiled, raising her riding whip in quaint salute; and in a low voice
she named herself demurely.
There was a long silence.
"Gosh!" he muttered, fascinated gaze never leaving her; "to think that
you are that there gal! I heard tell you was young, an' then I heard
tell you was old an' fat, ma'am. I guess there ain't many has seen you
to take notice. I guess you must be hard run to even tell me who ye be?"
She said quietly: "I think they mean to get me this time. Is there a
clear road anywhere? Even if I leave my horse and travel afoot?"
"Is it a hangin' matter?" he asked.
She shrugged her shoulders.
Presently he said: "The hull blame country's crawlin' with rebel
cavalry. I was to Mink Creek, an' they was passin' on the pike, wagons
an' guns as fur as I could see. They levied on Swamp Holler at sunup;
they was on every road along the State line. There ain't no road nor cow
path clear that way."
"And none the other way," she said. "Can't you help me?"
He looked at her gravely, then his small eyes swept the limited
landscape.
"A hangin' matter," he mused, scratching his gray head reflectively.
"An' if they ketch you here, I guess I'll go to Libby, too. Hey?"
He passed his labor-worn hand over his eyes, pressing the lids, and
stood so, minute after minute, buried in thought.
"Waal," he said, dropping his hand and blinking in the ruddy glow from
the west, "I guess I ain't done nothin' fur the Union yet, but I'm
a-goin' to now, miss."
He looked around once more, his eyes resting on familiar scenery, then
he set down milking stool and pail and shuffled out to where her horse
stood.
"Guess I'll hev to hitch your hoss up to that there buckboard," he
drawled. "My old nag is dead two year since. You go in, miss, an' dress
in them clothes a-hangin' onto that peg by the bed," he added, with an
effort. "Use 'em easy; they was hers."
She entered the single room of the cabin, where stove, table, chair, and
bed were the only furniture. A single cheap print gown and a sunbonnet
hung from a nail at the bed's foot, and she reached up and unhooked the
garment. It was ragged but clean, and the bonnet freshly ironed.
Through the window she saw the old man unsaddling her horse and fitting
him with rusty harness. She closed the cabin door, drew the curtain at
the window, and began to unbutton her riding jacket. As her clothing
fell from her, garment after garment, that desperate look came into her
pale young face again, and she drew from her pocket a heavy army
revolver and laid it on the chair beside her. There was scarce light
enough left to see by in the room. She sat down, dragging off her
spurred boots, stripping the fine silk stockings from her feet, then
rose and drew on the faded print gown.
Now she needed more light, so she opened the door wide and pushed aside
the curtain. A fragment of cracked mirror was nailed to the door. She
faced it, rapidly undoing the glossy masses of her hair; then lifting
her gown, she buckled the army belt underneath, slipped the revolver
into it, smoothed out the calico, and crossed the floor to the bed
again, at the foot of which a pair of woman's coarse, low shoes stood on
the carpetless floor. Into these she slipped her naked feet.
He was waiting for her when she came out into the yellow evening light,
squatting there in his buckboard, reins sagging.
"There's kindlin' to last a week," he said, "the ax is in the barn, an'
ye'll find a bin full o' corn meal there an' a side o' bacon in the
cellar. Them hens," he added wistfully "is Dominickers. She was fond
o' them--an' the Chiny ducks, too."
"I'll be kind to them," she said.
He rested his lean jaw in one huge hand, musing, dim-eyed, silent. Far
away a cow bell tinkled, and he turned his head, peering out across the
tangled pasture lot.
"We called our caow Jinny," he said. "She's saucy and likes to plague
folks. But I don't never chase her; no, ma'am. You jest set there by
them pasture bars, kinder foxin' that you ain't thinkin' o' nothin',
and Jinny she'll come along purty soon."
The girl nodded.
"Waal," he muttered, rousing up, "I guess it's time to go." He looked at
her, his eyes resting upon the clothing of his dead wife.
"You see," he said, "I've give all I've got to the Union. Now, ma'am,
what shall I tell our boys if I git through?"
In a low, clear voice she gave him the message to Reynolds, repeating it
slowly until he nodded his comprehension.
"If they turn you back," she said, "and if they follow you here,
remember I'm your daughter."
He nodded again. "My Cynthy."
"Cynthia?"
"Yaas, 'm. Cynthy was her name, you see; James is mine, endin' in
Gray. I'll come back when I can. I guess there's vittles to spare an'
garden sass----"
He passed his great cracked knuckles over his face again, digging
hastily into the corners of his eyes, then leaned forward and shook the
rusty reins.
"Git up!" he said thoughtfully, and the ancient buckboard creaked away
into the thickening twilight.
She watched him from the door, lingering there, listening to the creak
of the wheels long after he had disappeared. She was deadly tired--too
tired to eat, too tired to think--yet there was more to be done before
she closed her eyes. The blanket on the bed she spread upon the floor,
laid in it her saddle and bridle, boots, papers, map, and clothing, and
made a bundle; then slinging it on her slender back, she carried it up
the ladder to the loft under the roof.
Ten minutes later she lay on the bed below, the back of one hand across
her closed eyes, breathing deeply as a sleeping child--the most
notorious spy in all America, the famous "Special Messenger," carrying
locked under her smooth young breast a secret the consequence of which
no man could dare to dream of.
                 *       *       *       *       *
Dawn silvering the east aroused her. Cockcrow, ducks quacking, the
lowing of the cow, the swelling melody of wild birds--these were the
sounds that filled her waking ears.
Motionless there on the bed in the dim room, delicate bare arms
outstretched, hair tumbled over brow and shoulder, she lay, lost in
fearless retrospection--absolutely fearless, for courage was hers
without effort; peril exhilarated like wine, without reaction; every
nerve and contour of her body was instinct with daring, and only the
languor of her dark eyes misled the judgment of those she had to deal
with.
Presently she sat up in bed, yawned lightly, tapping her red lips with
the tips of her fingers; then, drawing her revolver from beneath the
pillow, she examined the cylinder, replaced the weapon, and sprang out
of bed, stretching her arms, a faint smile hovering on her face.
The water in the stream was cold, but not too cold for her, nor were the
coarse towels too rough, sending the blood racing through her from head
to foot.
Her toilet made, she lighted the fire in the cracked stove, set a pot of
water boiling, and went out to the doorstep, calling the feathered flock
around her, stirring their meal in a great pan the while her eyes roamed
about the open spaces of meadow and pasture for a sign of those who
surely must trace her here.
Her breakfast was soon over--an ash cake, a new egg from the barn, a
bowl of last night's creamy milk. She ate slowly, seated by the window,
raising her head at intervals to watch the forest's edge.
Nobody came; the first pink sunbeams fell level over the pasture; dew
sparkled on grass and foliage; birds flitted across her line of vision;
the stream sang steadily, flashing in the morning radiance.
One by one the ducks stretched, flapped their snowy wings, wiggled their
fat tails, and waddled solemnly down to the water; hens wandered
pensively here and there, pecking at morsels that attracted them; the
tinkle of the cow bell sounded pleasantly from a near willow thicket.
She washed her dishes, set the scant furniture in place, made up the bed
with the clean sheet spread the night before, and swept the floor.
On the table she had discovered, carefully folded up, the greater
portion of a stocking, knitting needles still sticking in it, the ball
of gray yarn attached. But she could not endure to sit there; she must
have more space to watch for what she knew was coming. Her hair she
twisted up as best she might, set the pink sunbonnet on her head,
smoothed out the worn print dress, which was not long enough to hide her
slim bare ankles, and went out, taking her knitting with her.
Upon the hill along the edges of the pasture where the woods cast a
luminous shadow she found a comfortable seat in the sun-dried grasses,
and here she curled up, examining the knitting in her hands, eyes lifted
every moment to steal a glance around the sunlit solitude.
An hour crept by, marked by the sun in mounting splendor; the sweet
scent of drying grass and fern filled her lungs; the birds' choral
thrilled her with the loveliness of life. A little Southern song
trembled on her lips, and her hushed voice murmuring was soft as the
wild bees' humming:
    "Ah, who could couple thought of war and crime
    With such a blessed time?
    Who, in the west wind's aromatic breath,
    Could hear the call of Death?"
The gentle Southern poet's flowing rhythm was echoed by the distant
stream:
    " ... A fragrant breeze comes floating by,
    And brings--you know not why--
    A feeling as when eager crowds await
    Before a palace gate
    Some wondrous pageant----"
She lifted her eyes, fixing them upon the willow thicket below, where
the green tops swayed as though furrowed by a sudden wind; and watching
calmly, her lips whispered on, following the quaint rhythm:
    "And yet no sooner shall the Spring awake
    The voice of wood and brake
    Than she shall rouse--for all her tranquil charms--
    A million men to arms."
The willow tops were tossing violently. She watched them, murmuring:
    "Oh! standing on this desecrated mold,
    Methinks that I behold,
    Lifting her bloody daisies up to God,
    Spring--kneeling on the sod,
    And calling with the voice of all her rills
    Upon the ancient hills
    To fall and crush the tyrants and the slaves
    Who turn her meads to graves."
Her whisper ceased; she sat, lips parted, eyes fastened on the willows.
Suddenly a horseman broke through the thicket, then another, another,
carbines slung, sabres jingling, rider following rider at a canter,
sitting their horses superbly--the graceful, reckless, matchless cavalry
under whose glittering gray curtain the most magnificent army that the
South ever saw was moving straight into the heart of the Union.
Fascinated, she watched an officer dismount, advance to the house, enter
the open doorway, and disappear. Minute after minute passed; the
troopers quietly sat their saddles; the frightened chickens ventured
back, roaming curiously about these strange horses that stood there
stamping, whisking their tails, tossing impatient heads in the sunshine.
Presently the officer reappeared and walked straight to the barn, a
trooper dismounting to follow him. They remained in the barn for a few
moments only, then hurried out again, heads raised, scanning the low
circling hills. Ah! Now they caught sight of her! She saw the officer
come swinging up the hillside, buttons, spurs, and sword hilt glittering
in the sun; she watched his coming with a calm almost terrible in its
breathless concentration. Nearer, nearer he came, mounting the easy
slope with a quick, boyish swing; and now he had halted, slouch hat
aloft; and she heard his pleasant, youthful voice:
"I reckon you haven't seen a stranger pass this way, ma'am, have you?"
"There was a lady came last night," she answered innocently.
"That's the one!" he said, in his quick, eager voice. "Can you tell me
where she went?"
"She said she was going west."
"Has she gone?"
"She left the house when I did," answered the girl simply.
"Riding!" he exclaimed. "She came on a hoss, I reckon?"
"Yes."
"And she rode west?"
"I saw her going west," she nodded, resuming her knitting.
The officer turned toward the troopers below, drew out a handkerchief
and whipped the air with it for a second or two, then made a sweeping
motion with his arm, and drawing his sabre struck it downward four
times.
Instantly the knot of troopers fell apart, scattering out and spurring
westward in diverging lines; the officer watched them until the last
horse had disappeared, then he lazily sheathed his sabre, unbuckled a
field glass, adjusted it, and seated himself on the grass beside her.
"Have you lived here long?" he asked pleasantly, setting the glass to
his eye and carefully readjusting the lens.
"No."
"Your father is living, is he not?"
She did not reply.
"I reckon Gilson's command met him a piece back in the scrub, driving a
wagon and a fine horse."
She said nothing; her steady fingers worked the needles, and presently
he heard her softly counting the stitches as she turned the heel.
"He said we'd find his 'Cynthy' here," observed the youthful officer,
lowering his glass. "Are you Cynthia Gray, ma'am?"
"He named me Cynthia," she said, with a smile.
He plucked a blade of grass, and placing it between his white teeth,
gazed at her so steadily that she dropped a stitch, recovered it, and
presently he saw her lips resuming the silent count. He reseated himself
on the grass, laying his field glass beside him.
"I reckon your folk are all Yankee," he ventured softly.
She nodded.
"Are you afraid of us? Do you hate us, ma'am?"
She shook her head, stealing a glance at him from her lovely eyes. If
that was part of her profession, she had learned it well; for he laughed
and stretched out, resting easily on one elbow, looking up at her
admiringly under her faded sunbonnet.
"Are you ever lonely here?" he inquired gravely.
Again her dark eyes rested on him shyly, but she shook her head in
silence.
"Never lonely without anybody to talk to?" he persisted, removing his
slouched army hat and passing his hands over his forehead.
"What have I to say to anybody?" she asked coquettishly.
A little breeze sprang up, stirring his curly hair and fluttering the
dangling strings of her sunbonnet. He lay at full length there, a
slender, athletic figure in his faded gray uniform, idly pulling the
grass up to twist and braid into a thin green rope.
The strange exhilaration that danger had brought had now subsided; she
glanced at him indifferently, noting the well-shaped head, the boyish
outlines of face and figure. He was no older than she--and not very wise
for his years.
Presently, very far away, the dulled report of a carbine sounded,
stirring a deadened echo among the hills.
"What's that?" she exclaimed.
"Yank, I reckon," he drawled, rising to his feet and fixing his field
glass steadily on the hills beyond.
"Are you going to have a battle here?" she asked.
He laughed. "Oh, no, Miss Cynthia. That's only bushwhacking."
"But--but where are they shooting?"
He pointed to the west. "There's Yankee cavalry loafing in the hills. I
reckon we'll gobble 'em, too. But don't you worry, Miss Cynthia," he
added gallantly. "I shall be here to-night, and by sunrise there won't
be a soldier within ten miles of you."
"Within ten miles," she murmured; "ten miles is too near. I--I think I
will go back to the house."
He looked down at her; she raised her dark eyes to him; then he bowed
and gallantly held out both hands, and she laid her hands in his,
suffering him to lift her to her feet.
The brief contact set the color mounting to his sunburnt temples; it had
been a long while since he had touched a young girl's hand.
"I wonder," she said, "whether you would care to share my dinner?"
She spoke naturally, curiously; all idea of danger was over; she was
free to follow her own instincts, which were amiable. Besides, the boy
was a gentleman.
"If it wouldn't be too much to ask--too inconvenient--" He hesitated,
hat in hand, handsome face brightening.
"No; I want you to come," she answered simply, and took his hand in
hers.
A deeper color swept his face as they descended the gentle slope
together, she amused and quietly diverted by his shyness, and thinking
how she meant to give this boyish rebel a better dinner than he had had
for many a long mile.
And she did, he aiding her with the vegetables, she mixing johnnycake
for the entire squad, slicing the bacon, and setting the coffee to boil.
Toward midday the scouting squad returned, to find their officer
shelling peas on the cabin steps, and a young girl, sleeves at her
shoulders, stirring something very vigorously in a large black
kettle--something that exhaled an odor which made the lank troopers lick
their gaunt lips in furtive hope.
The sergeant of the troop reported; the officer nodded and waved the
horsemen away to the barn, where they were presently seen squatting
patiently in a row, sniffing the aroma that floated from the cabin door.
"Did your men find the lady?" she asked, looking out at him where he
sat, busy with the peas.
"No, Miss Cynthia. But if she went west she's run into the whole
Confederate cavalry. Our business is to see she doesn't double back
here."
"Why do you follow her?"
"Ah, Miss Cynthia," he said gravely, "she is that 'Special Messenger'
who has done us more damage than a whole Yankee army corps. We've got
to stop her this time--and I reckon we will."
The girl stirred the soup, salted it, peppered it, lifted the pewter
spoon and tasted it. Presently she called for the peas.
About two o'clock that afternoon a row of half-famished Confederate
cavalrymen sat devouring the best dinner they had eaten in months. There
was potato soup, there was johnnycake, smoking hot coffee, crisp slices
of fragrant bacon, an egg apiece, and a vegetable stew. Trooper after
trooper licked fingers, spoon, and pannikin, loosening leather belts
with gratified sighs; the pickets came cantering in when the relief,
stuffed to repletion, took their places, carbine on thigh.
Flushed from the heat of the stove, arms still bared, the young hostess
sat at table with the officer in command, and watched him in sympathy as
he ate.
She herself ate little, tasting a morsel here and there, drinking at
times from the cup of milk beside her.
"I declare, Miss Cynthia," he said, again and again, "this is the finest
banquet, ma'am, that I ever sat down to."
She only thought, "The boy was starving!" and the indulgent smile
deepened as she sat there watching him, chin resting on her linked
hands.
At last he was satisfied, and a little ashamed, too, of his appetite,
but she told him it was a pleasure to cook for him, and sent him off to
the barn, where presently she spied him propped up in the loft window, a
map spread on his knees, and his field glass tucked under one arm.
And now she had leisure to think again, and she leaned back in her chair
by the window, bared arms folded, ankles crossed, frowning in
meditation.
She must go; the back trail was clear now. But she needed her own
clothing and a horse. Where could she find a horse?
Hour after hour she sat there. He had cantered off into the woods long
since; and all through the long afternoon she sat there scheming,
pondering, a veiled sparkle playing under her half-closed lids. She saw
him returning in the last lingering sun rays, leading his saddled horse
down to the brook, and stand there, one arm flung across the crupper,
while the horse drank and shook his thoroughbred head and lipped the
tender foliage that overhung the water. There was the horse she
required! She must have him.
A few minutes later, bridle over one arm, the young officer came
sauntering up to the doorstep. He was pale, but he smiled when he saw
her, and his weather-beaten hat swept the grass in salute as she came to
the door and looked down at him, hands clasped behind her slender back.
"You look dreadfully tired," she said gently. "Don't you ever sleep?"
He had been forty-eight hours in the saddle, but he only laughed a gay
denial of fatigue.
She descended the steps, walked over to the horse, and patted neck and
shoulder, scanning limb and chest and flank. The horse would do!
"Will you hitch your horse and come in?" she asked sweetly.
"Thank you, ma'am." He passed the bridle through the hitching ring at
the door, and, hat in hand, followed her into the cabin. His boots
dragged a little, but he straightened up, and when she had seated
herself, he sank into a chair, closing his sunken eyes for a moment,
only to open them smiling, and lean forward on the rough table, folding
his arms under him.
"You have been very good to us, Miss Cynthia," he said. "My men want me
to say so."
"Your men are welcome," she answered, resting her cheek on her hand.
There was a long silence, broken by her: "You are dying for sleep. Why
do you deny it? You may lie down on my bed if you wish."
He protested, thanking her, but said he would be glad to sleep in the
hay if she permitted; and he rose, steadying himself by the back of his
chair.
"I always sleep bridle in hand," he said. "A barn floor is luxury for my
horse and me."
That would not do. The horse must remain. She must have that horse!
"I will watch your horse," she said. "Please lie down there. I really
wish it."
"Why, ma'am, I should never venture----"
She looked at him; her heart laughed with content. Here was an easy way
for stern necessity.
"Sleep soundly," she said, with a gay smile; and before he could
interpose, she had slipped out and shut the door behind her.
The evening was calm; the last traces of color were fading from the
zenith. Pacing the circle of the cabin clearing, she counted the
videttes--one in the western pasture, one sitting his saddle in the
forest road to the east, and a horseman to the south, scarcely visible
in the gathering twilight. She passed the barnyard, head lifted
pensively, carefully counting the horses tethered there. Twelve! Then
there was no guard for the northern cattle path--the trail over which
she and they had come!
Now walking slowly back to the cabin, she dropped her slippers and
mounted the steps on bare feet, quietly opening the door. At first in
the dim light she could see nothing, then her keen ear caught the quiet
sound of his breathing, and she stole over to the bed. He lay there
asleep.
Now seconds meant eternity, perhaps; she mounted the ladder to the
attic, tiptoed over the loose boards, felt around for her packet, and
loosened the blanket.
By sense of touch alone she dressed, belting in the habit with her
girdle, listening, every sense alert. But her hand never shook, her
fingers were deft and steady, fastening button and buckle, looping up
her skirt, strapping the revolver to her girdle. She folded map and
papers noiselessly, tucking them into her bosom; then, carrying her
spurred boots, she crept across the boards again, and descended the
ladder without a sound.
The fading light from the window fell upon the bed where he lay; and she
smiled almost tenderly as she stole by him, he looked so young lying
there, his curly head pillowed on his arms.
Another step and she was beside him; another; she stopped short, and her
heart seemed to cease at the same instant. Was she deceived? Were his
eyes wide open?
Suddenly he sat bolt-upright in the bed, and at the same instant she
bent and struck him a stunning blow with the butt of her revolver.
Breathless, motionless, she saw him fall back and lie there without a
quiver; presently she leaned over him, tore open his jacket and shirt,
and laid her steady hand upon his heart. For a moment she remained
there, looking down into his face; then with a sob she bent and kissed
him on the lips.
                 *       *       *       *       *
At midnight, as she was riding out of the hill scrub, a mounted vidette
hailed her on the Gettysburg pike, holding her there while horseman
after horseman galloped up, and the officer of the guard came cantering
across the fields at the far summons.
A lantern glimmered, flared up; there was a laugh, the sound of a dozen
horses backing, a low voice: "Pass! Special Messenger for headquarters!"
Then the lantern-light flashed and went out; shadowy horsemen wheeled
away east and west, trotting silently to posts across the sod.
Far away among the hills the Special Messenger was riding through the
night, head bent, tight-lipped, her dark eyes wet with tears.
III
ABSOLUTION
Just before daylight the unshaven sentinels at headquarters halted her;
a lank corporal arrived, swinging a lighted lantern, which threw a
yellow radiance over horse and rider. Then she dismounted.
Mud smeared her riding jacket; boots and skirt were clotted with it; so
was the single army spur. Her horse stretched a glossy, sweating neck
and rolled wisely-suspicious eyes at the dazzling light. On the gray
saddle cloth glimmered three gilt letters, C. S. A.
"What name, ma'am?" repeated the corporal, coming closer with lifted
lantern, and passing an inquiring thumb over the ominous letters
embroidered on the saddle cloth.
"No name," she said. "They will understand--inside there."
"That your hoss, ma'am?"
"It seems to be."
"Swap him with a Johnny?"
"No; took him from a Johnny."
"Shucks!" said the corporal, examining the gilt letters. Then, looking
around at her:
"Wa'll, the ginrall, he's some busy."
"Please say that his messenger is here."
"Orders is formuel, ma'am. I dassent----"
She pronounced a word under her breath.
"Hey?"
She nodded.
"Tain't her?" demanded the corporal incredulously.
She nodded again. The corporal's lantern and jaw dropped in unison.
"Speak low," she said, smiling.
He leaned toward her; she drew nearer, inclining her pretty, disheveled
head with its disordered braids curling into witchlocks on her
shoulders.
"'Tain't the Special Messenger, ma'am, is it?" he inquired hoarsely.
"The boys is tellin' how you was ketched down to----"
She made him a sign for silence as the officer of the guard came up--an
ill-tempered, heavily-bandaged young man.
"What the ----" he began, but, seeing a woman's muddy skirt in the
lantern light, checked his speech.
The corporal whispered in his ear; both stared. "I guess it's all
right," said the officer. "Won't you come in? The general is asleep;
he's got half an hour more, but I'll wake him if you say so."
"I can wait half an hour."
"Take her horse," said the officer briefly, then led the way up the
steps of a white porch buried under trumpet vines in heavy bloom.
The door stood open, so did every window on the ground floor, for the
July night was hot. A sentry stood inside the wide hall, resting on his
rifle, sleeves rolled to his elbows, cap pushed back on his flushed
young forehead.
There was a candle burning in the room on the right; an old artillery
officer leaned over the center table, asleep, round, red face buried in
his arms, sabre tucked snugly between his legs, like the tail of a
sleeping dog; an aide-de-camp slept heavily on a mahogany sofa, jacket
unbuttoned, showing the white, powerful muscles of his chest, all
glistening with perspiration. Beside the open window sat a thin figure
in the uniform of a signal officer, and at first when the Special
Messenger looked at him she thought he also was asleep.
Then, as though her entrance had awakened him, he straightened up,
passed one long hand over his face, looked at her through the
candlelight, and rose with a grace too unconscious not to have been
inherited.
The bandaged officer of the guard made a slovenly gesture, half salute,
half indicative: "The Messenger," he announced, and, half turning on his
heel as he left the room, "our signal officer, Captain West," in
deference to a convention almost forgotten.
Captain West drew forward an armchair; the Special Messenger sank into
its tufted depths and stripped the gauntlets from her sun-tanned
hands--narrow hands, smooth as a child's, now wearily coiling up the
lustrous braids which sagged to her shoulders under the felt riding
hat. And all the while, from beneath level brows, her dark, distrait
eyes were wandering from the signal officer to the sleeping major of
artillery, to the aide snoring on the sofa, to the trumpet vines hanging
motionless outside the open window. But all she really saw was Captain
West.
He appeared somewhat young and thin, his blond hair and mustache were
burned hay-color. He was adjusting eyeglasses to a narrow, well-cut
