their not alarming or hurting him. She had herself now, for weeks and
weeks, and all unwinkingly, traced the extension of this pious effort;
but her perfect success in giving no sign--she did herself THAT
credit--would have been an achievement quite wasted if Mrs. Verver
should make with him those mistakes of proportion, one set of them too
abruptly, too incoherently designed to correct another set, that she had
made with his daughter. However, if she HAD been worse, poor woman, who
should say that her husband would, to a certainty, have been better?
One groped noiselessly among such questions, and it was actually not
even definite for the Princess that her own Amerigo, left alone with her
in town, had arrived at the golden mean of non-precautionary gallantry
which would tend, by his calculation, to brush private criticism from
its last perching-place. The truth was, in this connection, that she
had different sorts of terrors, and there were hours when it came to
her that these days were a prolonged repetition of that night-drive, of
weeks before, from the other house to their own, when he had tried to
charm her, by his sovereign personal power, into some collapse that
would commit her to a repudiation of consistency. She was never alone
with him, it was to be said, without her having sooner or later to ask
herself what had already become of her consistency; yet, at the same
time, so long as she breathed no charge, she kept hold of a remnant of
appearance that could save her from attack. Attack, real attack, from
him, as he would conduct it was what she above all dreaded; she was so
far from sure that under that experience she mightn’t drop into some
depth of weakness, mightn’t show him some shortest way with her that he
would know how to use again. Therefore, since she had given him, as yet,
no moment’s pretext for pretending to her that she had either lost faith
or suffered by a feather’s weight in happiness, she left him, it was
easy to reason, with an immense advantage for all waiting and all
tension. She wished him, for the present, to “make up” to her for
nothing. Who could say to what making-up might lead, into what
consenting or pretending or destroying blindness it might plunge her?
She loved him too helplessly, still, to dare to open the door, by an
inch, to his treating her as if either of them had wronged the other.
Something or somebody--and who, at this, which of them all?--would
inevitably, would in the gust of momentary selfishness, be sacrificed
to that; whereas what she intelligently needed was to know where she was
going. Knowledge, knowledge, was a fascination as well as a fear; and
a part, precisely, of the strangeness of this juncture was the way her
apprehension that he would break out to her with some merely general
profession was mixed with her dire need to forgive him, to reassure him,
to respond to him, on no ground that she didn’t fully measure. To do
these things it must be clear to her what they were FOR; but to act in
that light was, by the same effect, to learn, horribly, what the other
things had been. He might tell her only what he wanted, only what would
work upon her by the beauty of his appeal; and the result of the direct
appeal of ANY beauty in him would be her helpless submission to
his terms. All her temporary safety, her hand-to-mouth success,
accordingly, was in his neither perceiving nor divining this, thanks to
such means as she could take to prevent him; take, literally from hour
to hour, during these days of more unbroken exposure. From hour to hour
she fairly expected some sign of his having decided on a jump. “Ah yes,
it HAS been as you think; I’ve strayed away, I’ve fancied myself free,
given myself in other quantities, with larger generosities, because I
thought you were different--different from what I now see. But it was
only, only, because I didn’t know--and you must admit that you gave
me scarce reason enough. Reason enough, I mean, to keep clear of my
mistake; to which I confess, for which I’ll do exquisite penance, which
you can help me now, I too beautifully feel, to get completely over.”
That was what, while she watched herself, she potentially heard him
bring out; and while she carried to an end another day, another sequence
and yet another of their hours together, without his producing it, she
felt herself occupied with him beyond even the intensity of surrender.
She was keeping her head, for a reason, for a cause; and the labour of
this detachment, with the labour of her keeping the pitch of it down,
held them together in the steel hoop of an intimacy compared with which
artless passion would have been but a beating of the air. Her greatest
danger, or at least her greatest motive for care, was the obsession of
the thought that, if he actually did suspect, the fruit of his attention
to her couldn’t help being a sense of the growth of her importance.
Taking the measure, with him, as she had taken it with her father, of
the prescribed reach of her hypocrisy, she saw how it would have to
stretch even to her seeking to prove that she was NOT, all the same,
important. A single touch from him--oh, she should know it in case of
its coming!--any brush of his hand, of his lips, of his voice, inspired
by recognition of her probable interest as distinct from pity for her
virtual gloom, would hand her over to him bound hand and foot. Therefore
to be free, to be free to act, other than abjectly, for her father,
she must conceal from him the validity that, like a microscopic insect
pushing a grain of sand, she was taking on even for herself. She could
keep it up with a change in sight, but she couldn’t keep it up forever;
so that, really, one extraordinary effect of their week of untempered
confrontation, which bristled with new marks, was to make her reach
out, in thought, to their customary companions and calculate the kind
of relief that rejoining them would bring. She was learning, almost from
minute to minute, to be a mistress of shades since, always, when there
were possibilities enough of intimacy, there were also, by that fact, in
intercourse, possibilities of iridescence; but she was working against
an adversary who was a master of shades too, and on whom, if she didn’t
look out, she should presently have imposed a consciousness of the
nature of their struggle. To feel him in fact, to think of his feeling
himself, her adversary in things of this fineness--to see him at all,
in short, brave a name that would represent him as in opposition--
was already to be nearly reduced to a visible smothering of her cry of
alarm. Should he guess they were having, in their so occult manner,
a HIGH fight, and that it was she, all the while, in her supposed
stupidity, who had made it high and was keeping it high--in the event of
his doing this before they could leave town she should verily be lost.
The possible respite for her at Fawns would come from the fact that
observation, in him, there, would inevitably find some of its directness
diverted. This would be the case if only because the remarkable strain
of her father’s placidity might be thought of as likely to claim some
larger part of his attention. Besides which there would be always
Charlotte herself to draw him off. Charlotte would help him again,
doubtless, to study anything, right or left, that might be symptomatic;
but Maggie could see that this very fact might perhaps contribute, in
its degree, to protect the secret of her own fermentation. It is not
even incredible that she may have discovered the gleam of a comfort that
was to broaden in the conceivable effect on the Prince’s spirit, on his
nerves, on his finer irritability, of some of the very airs and aspects,
the light graces themselves, of Mrs. Verver’s too perfect competence.
What it would most come to, after all, she said to herself, was a
renewal for him of the privilege of watching that lady watch her. Very
well, then: with the elements after all so mixed in him, how long would
he go on enjoying mere spectatorship of that act? For she had by
this time made up her mind that in Charlotte’s company he deferred to
Charlotte’s easier art of mounting guard. Wouldn’t he get tired--to put
it only at that--of seeing her always on the rampart, erect and elegant,
with her lace-flounced parasol now folded and now shouldered, march to
and fro against a gold-coloured east or west? Maggie had gone far, truly
for a view of the question of this particular reaction, and she was not
incapable of pulling herself up with the rebuke that she counted her
chickens before they were hatched. How sure she should have to be of
so many things before she might thus find a weariness in Amerigo’s
expression and a logic in his weariness!
One of her dissimulated arts for meeting their tension, meanwhile,
was to interweave Mrs. Assingham as plausibly as possible with the
undulations of their surface, to bring it about that she should join
them, of an afternoon, when they drove together or if they went to look
at things--looking at things being almost as much a feature of their
life as if they were bazaar-opening royalties. Then there were such
combinations, later in the day, as her attendance on them, and the
Colonel’s as well, for such whimsical matters as visits to the opera
no matter who was singing, and sudden outbreaks of curiosity about
the British drama. The good couple from Cadogan Place could always
unprotestingly dine with them and “go on” afterwards to such publicities
as the Princess cultivated the boldness of now perversely preferring.
It may be said of her that, during these passages, she plucked her
sensations by the way, detached, nervously, the small wild blossoms
of her dim forest, so that she could smile over them at least with the
spacious appearance, for her companions, for her husband above all, of
bravely, of altogether frivolously, going a-maying. She had her intense,
her smothered excitements, some of which were almost inspirations; she
had in particular the extravagant, positively at moments the amused,
sense of using her friend to the topmost notch, accompanied with the
high luxury of not having to explain. Never, no never, should she have
to explain to Fanny Assingham again--who, poor woman, on her own side,
would be charged, it might be forever, with that privilege of the higher
ingenuity. She put it all off on Fanny, and the dear thing herself might
henceforth appraise the quantity. More and more magnificent now in
her blameless egoism, Maggie asked no questions of her, and thus only
signified the greatness of the opportunity she gave her. She didn’t care
for what devotions, what dinners of their own the Assinghams might have
been “booked”; that was a detail, and she could think without wincing of
the ruptures and rearrangements to which her service condemned them. It
all fell in beautifully, moreover; so that, as hard, at this time, in
spite of her fever, as a little pointed diamond, the Princess showed
something of the glitter of consciously possessing the constructive, the
creative hand. She had but to have the fancy of presenting herself, of
presenting her husband, in a certain high and convenient manner, to make
it natural they should go about with their gentleman and their lady. To
what else but this, exactly, had Charlotte, during so many weeks of the
earlier season, worked her up?--herself assuming and discharging, so
far as might be, the character and office of one of those revolving
subordinate presences that float in the wake of greatness.
The precedent was therefore established and the group normally
constituted. Mrs. Assingham, meanwhile, at table, on the stairs, in
the carriage or the opera-box, might--with her constant overflow of
expression, for that matter, and its singularly resident character where
men in especial were concerned--look across at Amerigo in whatever sense
she liked: it was not of that Maggie proposed to be afraid. She might
warn him, she might rebuke him, she might reassure him, she might--if it
were impossible not to--absolutely make love to him; even this was open
to her, as a matter simply between them, if it would help her to answer
for the impeccability he had guaranteed. And Maggie desired in fact
only to strike her as acknowledging the efficacy of her aid when she
mentioned to her one evening a small project for the morrow, privately
entertained--the idea, irresistible, intense, of going to pay, at the
Museum, a visit to Mr. Crichton. Mr. Crichton, as Mrs. Assingham could
easily remember, was the most accomplished and obliging of public
functionaries, whom every one knew and who knew every one--who had from
the first, in particular, lent himself freely, and for the love of art
and history, to becoming one of the steadier lights of Mr. Verver’s
adventurous path. The custodian of one of the richest departments of
the great national collection of precious things, he could feel for the
sincere private collector and urge him on his way even when condemned
to be present at his capture of trophies sacrificed by the country to
parliamentary thrift. He carried his amiability to the point of saying
that, since London, under pettifogging views, had to miss, from time to
time, its rarest opportunities, he was almost consoled to see such lost
causes invariably wander at last, one by one, with the tormenting tinkle
of their silver bells, into the wondrous, the already famous fold beyond
the Mississippi. There was a charm in his “almosts” that was not to
be resisted, especially after Mr. Verver and Maggie had grown sure--or
almost, again--of enjoying the monopoly of them; and on this basis of
envy changed to sympathy by the more familiar view of the father and the
daughter, Mr. Crichton had at both houses, though especially in Eaton
Square, learned to fill out the responsive and suggestive character. It
was at his invitation, Fanny well recalled, that Maggie, one day, long
before, and under her own attendance precisely, had, for the glory of
the name she bore, paid a visit to one of the ampler shrines of the
supreme exhibitory temple, an alcove of shelves charged with the
gold-and-brown, gold-and-ivory, of old Italian bindings and consecrated
to the records of the Prince’s race. It had been an impression that
penetrated, that remained; yet Maggie had sighed, ever so prettily, at
its having to be so superficial. She was to go back some day, to dive
deeper, to linger and taste; in spite of which, however, Mrs. Assingham
could not recollect perceiving that the visit had been repeated. This
second occasion had given way, for a long time, in her happy life, to
other occasions--all testifying, in their degree, to the quality of her
husband’s blood, its rich mixture and its many remarkable references;
after which, no doubt, the charming piety involved had grown, on still
further grounds, bewildered and faint.
It now appeared, none the less, that some renewed conversation with Mr.
Crichton had breathed on the faintness revivingly, and Maggie mentioned
her purpose as a conception of her very own, to the success of which
she designed to devote her morning. Visits of gracious ladies, under his
protection, lighted up rosily, for this perhaps most flower-loving and
honey-sipping member of the great Bloomsbury hive, its packed passages
and cells; and though not sworn of the province toward which his friend
had found herself, according to her appeal to him, yearning again,
nothing was easier for him than to put her in relation with the
presiding urbanities. So it had been settled, Maggie said to Mrs.
Assingham, and she was to dispense with Amerigo’s company. Fanny was to
remember later on that she had at first taken this last fact for one of
the finer notes of her young woman’s detachment, imagined she must be
going alone because of the shade of irony that, in these ambiguous days,
her husband’s personal presence might be felt to confer, practically, on
any tribute to his transmitted significance. Then as, the next
moment, she felt it clear that so much plotted freedom was virtually
a refinement of reflection, an impulse to commemorate afresh whatever
might still survive of pride and hope, her sense of ambiguity happily
fell and she congratulated her companion on having anything so exquisite
to do and on being so exquisitely in the humour to do it. After the
occasion had come and gone she was confirmed in her optimism; she made
out, in the evening, that the hour spent among the projected lights, the
annals and illustrations, the parchments and portraits, the emblazoned
volumes and the murmured commentary, had been for the Princess enlarging
and inspiring. Maggie had said to her some days before, very sweetly but
very firmly, “Invite us to dine, please, for Friday, and have any one
you like or you can--it doesn’t in the least matter whom;” and the pair
in Cadogan Place had bent to this mandate with a docility not in the
least ruffled by all that it took for granted.
It provided for an evening--this had been Maggie’s view; and she lived
up to her view, in her friend’s eyes, by treating the occasion, more or
less explicitly, as new and strange. The good Assinghams had feasted in
fact at the two other boards on a scale so disproportionate to the scant
solicitations of their own that it was easy to make a joke of seeing how
they fed at home, how they met, themselves, the question of giving to
eat. Maggie dined with them, in short, and arrived at making her husband
appear to dine, much in the manner of a pair of young sovereigns who
have, in the frolic humour of the golden years of reigns, proposed
themselves to a pair of faithfully-serving subjects. She showed an
interest in their arrangements, an inquiring tenderness almost for their
economies; so that her hostess not unnaturally, as they might have
said, put it all down--the tone and the freedom of which she set the
example--to the effect wrought in her afresh by one of the lessons
learned, in the morning, at the altar of the past. Hadn’t she picked it
up, from an anecdote or two offered again to her attention, that there
were, for princesses of such a line, more ways than one of being a
heroine? Maggie’s way to-night was to surprise them all, truly, by
the extravagance of her affability. She was doubtless not positively
boisterous; yet, though Mrs. Assingham, as a bland critic, had never
doubted her being graceful, she had never seen her put so much of it
into being what might have been called assertive. It was all a tune
to which Fanny’s heart could privately palpitate: her guest was happy,
happy as a consequence of something that had occurred, but she was
making the Prince not lose a ripple of her laugh, though not perhaps
always enabling him to find it absolutely not foolish. Foolish, in
public, beyond a certain point, he was scarce the man to brook his
wife’s being thought to be; so that there hovered before their friend
the possibility of some subsequent scene between them, in the carriage
or at home, of slightly sarcastic inquiry, of promptly invited
explanation; a scene that, according as Maggie should play her part
in it, might or might not precipitate developments. What made these
appearances practically thrilling, meanwhile, was this mystery--a
mystery, it was clear, to Amerigo himself--of the incident or the
influence that had so peculiarly determined them.
The lady of Cadogan Place was to read deeper, however, within
three days, and the page was turned for her on the eve of her young
confidant’s leaving London. The awaited migration to Fawns was to take
place on the morrow, and it was known meanwhile to Mrs. Assingham that
their party of four were to dine that night, at the American Embassy,
with another and a larger party; so that the elder woman had a sense
of surprise on receiving from the younger, under date of six o’clock,
a telegram requesting her immediate attendance. “Please come to me
at once; dress early, if necessary, so that we shall have time: the
carriage, ordered for us, will take you back first.” Mrs. Assingham, on
quick deliberation, dressed, though not perhaps with full lucidity, and
by seven o’clock was in Portland Place, where her friend, “upstairs”
 and described to her on her arrival as herself engaged in dressing,
instantly received her. She knew on the spot, poor Fanny, as she was
afterwards to declare to the Colonel, that her feared crisis had popped
up as at the touch of a spring, that her impossible hour was before her.
Her impossible hour was the hour of its coming out that she had known
of old so much more than she had ever said; and she had often put it to
herself, in apprehension, she tried to think even in preparation, that
she should recognise the approach of her doom by a consciousness akin to
that of the blowing open of a window on some night of the highest wind
and the lowest thermometer. It would be all in vain to have crouched so
long by the fire; the glass would have been smashed, the icy air would
fill the place. If the air in Maggie’s room then, on her going up, was
not, as yet, quite the polar blast she had expected, it was distinctly,
none the less, such an atmosphere as they had not hitherto breathed
together. The Princess, she perceived, was completely dressed--that
business was over; it added indeed to the effect of her importantly
awaiting the assistance she had summoned, of her showing a deck
cleared, so to speak, for action. Her maid had already left her, and
she presented herself, in the large, clear room, where everything was
admirable, but where nothing was out of place, as, for the first time in
her life rather “bedizened.” Was it that she had put on too many things,
overcharged herself with jewels, wore in particular more of them than
usual, and bigger ones, in her hair?--a question her visitor presently
answered by attributing this appearance largely to the bright red spot,
red as some monstrous ruby, that burned in either of her cheeks. These
two items of her aspect had, promptly enough, their own light for
Mrs. Assingham, who made out by it that nothing more pathetic could be
imagined than the refuge and disguise her agitation had instinctively
asked of the arts of dress, multiplied to extravagance, almost to
incoherence. She had had, visibly, her idea--that of not betraying
herself by inattentions into which she had never yet fallen, and she
stood there circled about and furnished forth, as always, in a manner
that testified to her perfect little personal processes. It had ever
been her sign that she was, for all occasions, FOUND ready, without
loose ends or exposed accessories or unremoved superfluities; a
suggestion of the swept and garnished, in her whole splendid, yet
thereby more or less encumbered and embroidered setting, that reflected
her small still passion for order and symmetry, for objects with their
backs to the walls, and spoke even of some probable reference, in her
American blood, to dusting and polishing New England grandmothers. If
her apartment was “princely,” in the clearness of the lingering day,
she looked as if she had been carried there prepared, all attired and
decorated, like some holy image in a procession, and left, precisely,
to show what wonder she could work under pressure. Her friend felt--how
could she not?--as the truly pious priest might feel when confronted,
behind the altar, before the festa, with his miraculous Madonna. Such
an occasion would be grave, in general, with all the gravity of what he
might look for. But the gravity to-night would be of the rarest; what he
might look for would depend so on what he could give.
                            XXXIII
“Something very strange has happened, and I think you ought to know it.”
Maggie spoke this indeed without extravagance, yet with the effect of
making her guest measure anew the force of her appeal. It was their
definite understanding: whatever Fanny knew Fanny’s faith would provide
for. And she knew, accordingly, at the end of five minutes, what the
extraordinary, in the late occurrence, had consisted of, and how it had
all come of Maggie’s achieved hour, under Mr. Crichton’s protection, at
the Museum. He had desired, Mr. Crichton, with characteristic kindness,
after the wonderful show, after offered luncheon at his incorporated
lodge hard by, to see her safely home; especially on his noting, in
attending her to the great steps, that she had dismissed her carriage;
which she had done, really, just for the harmless amusement of taking
her way alone. She had known she should find herself, as the consequence
of such an hour, in a sort of exalted state, under the influence of
which a walk through the London streets would be exactly what would suit
her best; an independent ramble, impressed, excited, contented, with
nothing to mind and nobody to talk to, and shop-windows in plenty
to look at if she liked: a low taste, of the essence, it was to be
supposed, of her nature, that she had of late, for so many reasons, been
unable to gratify. She had taken her leave, with her thanks--she knew
her way quite enough; it being also sufficiently the case that she had
even a shy hope of not going too straight. To wander a little wild was
what would truly amuse her; so that, keeping clear of Oxford Street and
cultivating an impression as of parts she didn’t know, she had ended
with what she had more or less had been fancying, an encounter with
three or four shops--an old bookseller’s, an old printmonger’s, a couple
of places with dim antiquities in the window--that were not as so many
of the other shops, those in Sloane Street, say; a hollow parade which
had long since ceased to beguile. There had remained with her moreover
an allusion of Charlotte’s, of some months before--seed dropped into
her imagination in the form of a casual speech about there being in
Bloomsbury such “funny little fascinating” places and even sometimes
such unexpected finds. There could perhaps have been no stronger mark
than this sense of well-nigh romantic opportunity--no livelier sign of
the impression made on her, and always so long retained, so watchfully
nursed, by any observation of Charlotte’s, however lightly thrown off.
And then she had felt, somehow, more at her ease than for months and
months before; she didn’t know why, but her time at the Museum, oddly,
had done it; it was as if she hadn’t come into so many noble and
beautiful associations, nor secured them also for her boy, secured them
even for her father, only to see them turn to vanity and doubt, turn
possibly to something still worse. “I believed in him again as much as
ever, and I felt how I believed in him,” she said with bright, fixed
eyes; “I felt it in the streets as I walked along, and it was as if that
helped me and lifted me up, my being off by myself there, not having,
for the moment, to wonder and watch; having, on the contrary, almost
nothing on my mind.”
It was so much as if everything would come out right that she had fallen
to thinking of her father’s birthday, had given herself this as a reason
for trying what she could pick up for it. They would keep it at Fawns,
where they had kept it before--since it would be the twenty-first of the
month; and she mightn’t have another chance of making sure of something
to offer him. There was always the impossibility, of course, of finding
him anything, the least bit “good,” that he wouldn’t already, long ago,
in his rummagings, have seen himself--and only not to think a quarter
good enough; this, however, was an old story, and one could not have had
any fun with him but for his sweet theory that the individual gift, the
friendship’s offering, was, by a rigorous law of nature, a foredoomed
aberration, and that the more it was so the more it showed, and the more
one cherished it for showing, how friendly it had been. The infirmity
of art was the candour of affection, the grossness of pedigree the
refinement of sympathy; the ugliest objects, in fact, as a general
thing, were the bravest, the tenderest mementos, and, as such, figured
in glass cases apart, worthy doubtless of the home, but not worthy of
the temple--dedicated to the grimacing, not to the clear-faced, gods.
She herself, naturally, through the past years, had come to be much
represented in those receptacles; against the thick, locked panes of
which she still liked to flatten her nose, finding in its place, each
time, everything she had on successive anniversaries tried to believe he
might pretend, at her suggestion, to be put off with, or at least think
curious. She was now ready to try it again: they had always, with
his pleasure in her pretence and her pleasure in his, with the funny
betrayal of the sacrifice to domestic manners on either side, played
the game so happily. To this end, on her way home, she had loitered
everywhere; quite too deludedly among the old books and the old
prints, which had yielded nothing to her purpose, but with a strange
inconsequence in one of the other shops, that of a small antiquarian,
a queer little foreign man, who had shown her a number of things,
shown her finally something that, struck with it as rather a rarity and
thinking it would, compared to some of her ventures, quite superlatively
do, she had bought--bought really, when it came to that, for a price.
“It appears now it won’t do at all,” said Maggie, “something has
happened since that puts it quite out of the question. I had only my day
of satisfaction in it, but I feel, at the same time, as I keep it here
before me, that I wouldn’t have missed it for the world.”
She had talked, from the first of her friend’s entrances coherently
enough, even with a small quaver that overstated her calm; but she held
her breath every few seconds, as if for deliberation and to prove she
didn’t pant--all of which marked for Fanny the depth of her commotion:
her reference to her thought about her father, about her chance to
pick up something that might divert him, her mention, in fine, of his
fortitude under presents, having meanwhile, naturally, it should be
said, much less an amplitude of insistence on the speaker’s lips than a
power to produce on the part of the listener herself the prompt
response and full comprehension of memory and sympathy, of old amused
observation. The picture was filled out by the latter’s fond fancy. But
Maggie was at any rate under arms; she knew what she was doing and
had already her plan--a plan for making, for allowing, as yet, “no
difference”; in accordance with which she would still dine out, and
not with red eyes, nor convulsed features, nor neglected items of
appearance, nor anything that would raise a question. Yet there was some
knowledge that, exactly to this support of her not breaking down, she
desired, she required, possession of; and, with the sinister rise
and fall of lightning unaccompanied by thunder, it played before Mrs.
Assingham’s eyes that she herself should have, at whatever risk or
whatever cost, to supply her with the stuff of her need. All our
friend’s instinct was to hold off from this till she should see what the
ground would bear; she would take no step nearer unless INTELLIGIBLY to
meet her, and, awkward though it might be to hover there only pale and
distorted, with mere imbecilities of vagueness, there was a quality of
bald help in the fact of not as yet guessing what such an ominous start
could lead to. She caught, however, after a second’s thought, at the
Princess’s allusion to her lost reassurance.
“You mean you were so at your ease on Monday--the night you dined with
us?”
“I was very happy then,” said Maggie.
“Yes--we thought you so gay and so brilliant.” Fanny felt it feeble, but
she went on. “We were so glad you were happy.”
Maggie stood a moment, at first only looking at her. “You thought me all
right, eh?”
“Surely, dearest; we thought you all right.”
“Well, I daresay it was natural; but in point of fact I never was more
wrong in my life. For, all the while, if you please, this was brewing.”
Mrs. Assingham indulged, as nearly as possible to luxury, her vagueness.
“‘This’--?”
“THAT!” replied the Princess, whose eyes, her companion now saw, had
turned to an object on the chimney-piece of the room, of which, among
so many precious objects--the Ververs, wherever they might be, always
revelled peculiarly in matchless old mantel ornaments--her visitor had
not taken heed.
“Do you mean the gilt cup?”
“I mean the gilt cup.”
The piece now recognised by Fanny as new to her own vision was a
capacious bowl, of old-looking, rather strikingly yellow gold, mounted,
by a short stem, on an ample foot, which held a central position above
the fire-place, where, to allow it the better to show, a clearance
had been made of other objects, notably of the Louis-Seize clock that
accompanied the candelabra. This latter trophy ticked at present on the
marble slab of a commode that exactly matched it in splendour and style.
Mrs. Assingham took it, the bowl, as a fine thing; but the question was
obviously not of its intrinsic value, and she kept off from it, admiring
it at a distance. “But what has that to do--?”
“It has everything. You’ll see.” With which again, however, for
the moment, Maggie attached to her strange wide eyes. “He knew her
before--before I had ever seen him.”
“‘He’ knew--?” But Fanny, while she cast about her for the links she
missed, could only echo it.
“Amerigo knew Charlotte--more than I ever dreamed.”
Fanny felt then it was stare for stare. “But surely you always knew they
had met.”
“I didn’t understand. I knew too little. Don’t you see what I mean?” the
Princess asked.
Mrs. Assingham wondered, during these instants, how much she even now
knew; it had taken a minute to perceive how gently she was speaking.
With that perception of its being no challenge of wrath, no heat of
the deceived soul, but only a free exposure of the completeness of past
ignorance, inviting derision even if it must, the elder woman felt,
first, a strange, barely credible relief: she drew in, as if it had been
the warm summer scent of a flower, the sweet certainty of not meeting,
any way she should turn, any consequence of judgment. She shouldn’t be
judged--save by herself; which was her own wretched business. The next
moment, however, at all events, she blushed, within, for her immediate
cowardice: she had thought of herself, thought of “getting off,” before
so much as thinking--that is of pitifully seeing--that she was in
presence of an appeal that was ALL an appeal, that utterly accepted its
necessity. “In a general way, dear child, yes. But not--a--in connexion
with what you’ve been telling me.”
“They were intimate, you see. Intimate,” said the Princess.
Fanny continued to face her, taking from her excited eyes this history,
so dim and faint for all her anxious emphasis, of the far-away other
time. “There’s always the question of what one considers--!”
“What one considers intimate? Well, I know what I consider intimate now.
Too intimate,” said Maggie, “to let me know anything about it.”
It was quiet--yes; but not too quiet for Fanny Assingham’s capacity to
wince. “Only compatible with letting ME, you mean?” She had asked it
after a pause, but turning again to the new ornament of the chimney
and wondering, even while she took relief from it, at this gap in her
experience. “But here are things, my dear, of which my ignorance is
perfect.”
“They went about together--they’re known to have done it. And I don’t
mean only before--I mean after.”
“After?” said Fanny Assingham.
“Before we were married--yes; but after we were engaged.”
“Ah, I’ve known nothing about that!” And she said it with a braver
assurance--clutching, with comfort, at something that was apparently new
to her.
“That bowl,” Maggie went on, “is, so strangely--too strangely, almost,
to believe at this time of day--the proof. They were together all the
while--up to the very eve of our marriage. Don’t you remember how just
before that she came back, so unexpectedly, from America?”
The question had for Mrs. Assingham--and whether all consciously
or not--the oddest pathos of simplicity. “Oh yes, dear, of course I
remember how she came back from America--and how she stayed with US, and
what view one had of it.”
Maggie’s eyes still, all the time, pressed and penetrated; so that,
during a moment, just here, she might have given the little flare, have
made the little pounce, of asking what then “one’s” view had been. To
the small flash of this eruption Fanny stood, for her minute, wittingly
exposed; but she saw it as quickly cease to threaten--quite saw the
Princess, even though in all her pain, refuse, in the interest of their
strange and exalted bargain, to take advantage of the opportunity
for planting the stab of reproach, the opportunity thus coming all of
itself. She saw her--or she believed she saw her--look at her chance
for straight denunciation, look at it and then pass it by; and she felt
herself, with this fact, hushed well-nigh to awe at the lucid higher
intention that no distress could confound and that no discovery--since
it was, however obscurely, a case of “discovery”--could make less
needful. These seconds were brief--they rapidly passed; but they
lasted long enough to renew our friend’s sense of her own extraordinary
undertaking, the function again imposed on her, the answerability again
drilled into her, by this intensity of intimation. She was reminded of
the terms on which she was let off--her quantity of release having made
its sufficient show in that recall of her relation to Charlotte’s
old reappearance; and deep within the whole impression glowed--ah, so
inspiringly when it came to that! her steady view, clear from the first,
of the beauty of her companion’s motive. It was like a fresh sacrifice
for a larger conquest “Only see me through now, do it in the face of
this and in spite of it, and I leave you a hand of which the freedom
isn’t to be said!” The aggravation of fear--or call it, apparently, of
knowledge--had jumped straight into its place as an aggravation above
all for her father; the effect of this being but to quicken to passion
her reasons for making his protectedness, or in other words the forms
of his ignorance, still the law of her attitude and the key to her
solution. She kept as tight hold of these reasons and these forms, in
her confirmed horror, as the rider of a plunging horse grasps his seat
with his knees; and she might absolutely have been putting it to her
guest that she believed she could stay on if they should only “meet”
 nothing more. Though ignorant still of what she had definitely met Fanny
yearned, within, over her spirit; and so, no word about it said, passed,
through mere pitying eyes, a vow to walk ahead and, at crossroads, with
a lantern for the darkness and wavings away for unadvised traffic, look
out for alarms. There was accordingly no wait in Maggie’s reply. “They
spent together hours--spent at least a morning--the certainty of which
has come back to me now, but that I didn’t dream of it at the time. That
cup there has turned witness--by the most wonderful of chances. That’s
why, since it has been here, I’ve stood it out for my husband to see;
put it where it would meet him, almost immediately, if he should come
into the room. I’ve wanted it to meet him,” she went on, “and I’ve
wanted him to meet it, and to be myself present at the meeting. But that
hasn’t taken place as yet; often as he has lately been in the way of
coming to see me here--yes, in particular lately--he hasn’t showed
to-day.” It was with her managed quietness, more and more, that she
talked--an achieved coherence that helped her, evidently, to hear and
to watch herself; there was support, and thereby an awful harmony, but
which meant a further guidance, in the facts she could add together.
“It’s quite as if he had an instinct--something that has warned him off
or made him uneasy. He doesn’t quite know, naturally, what has happened,
but guesses, with his beautiful cleverness, that something has, and
isn’t in a hurry to be confronted with it. So, in his vague fear, he
keeps off.”
“But being meanwhile in the house--?”
“I’ve no idea--not having seen him to-day, by exception, since before
luncheon. He spoke to me then,” the Princess freely explained, “of a
ballot, of great importance, at a club--for somebody, some personal
friend, I think, who’s coming up and is supposed to be in danger. To
make an effort for him he thought he had better lunch there. You see the
efforts he can make”--for which Maggie found a smile that went to her
friend’s heart. “He’s in so many ways the kindest of men. But it was
hours ago.”
Mrs. Assingham thought. “The more danger then of his coming in and
