He felt that no tempest could be fierce 
enough to flush the imagination that tormented 
him. It seemed to him that he would 
have offered up his soul if he could have been 
born without sensitiveness — like that big- 
eared fellow for instance. He was lacerated, 
and he must be healed. He pushed on me- 
chanically. The blue cars passed him. Be- 
fore he was aware of it, he had reached the 
group of stately elms at the corner of his 
father's street. He had tramped six miles. 
As he turned in at the long avenue, his dog 
— a fine St. Bernard — leaped upon him with 
boisterous caresses. He was so absorbed that 
he did not return them, and the dog, droop- 
ing, followed him wistfully. 
Olin fitted his latch-key with trembling 
hand, and went into his father's house. The 
dog remained on the porch. Afterwards he 
remembered that he must have shut the door 
in Barry's face. 
" Why, my son ! " his mother called from 
somewhere, " I didn't expect you until night." 
Olin murmured something unintelligibly, 
tossed off his dripping hat, and went upstairs 
to his own room. Then he locked the door, 
and there he remained until night. His mo- 
ther came up and knocked gently. 
" I am sorry, mother," he pleaded, " I 
can't see you now. Please let me alone." 
His sister, who was a very modern girl, 
came and whistled like a boy through the key- 
hole. 
" Go away, Jess," he said, " don't bother 
me." 
These were women, and easy to manage. 
The boy reflected that his father and brother 
were yet to come home, and that with them 
he must absolutely reckon. 
At dinner time nothing had been heard 
from him. His troubled mother, with the pa- 
thetic patience of her sex, had watched for 
the light in his windows, but these were still 
dark. She could contain her anxiety no longer, 
 
and he heard the rustle of her skirts at his 
door. She knocked timidly. 
"Dear Olin," she said, "let me come in." 
He rose at once and admitted her. The 
room was dark, except for the glow of the 
open fire. She saw his wet coat sprawled on 
a chair before him. He had returned to the 
lounge on which he had evidently been lying 
all the afternoon. His bright-colored bath- 
blanket was drawn over him. 
His mother sat down on the edge of the 
couch, and took one of his hands in both of 
hers. 
" You 're feverish," she said. " You have 
taken cold. What is the matter, Olin? Tell 
me all about it." 
" Mother ! " cried the young man, sitting 
up sharply against the pillows of the couch, 
" I can't go back to that medical school. I 
never can. I am going into business. I hate 
them both ! " 
His mother was silent for so long that he 
repeated his phrase mechanically : " I never 
can!" 
" I am sure, my son, that you must have a 
good reason for this unexpected decision," 
replied Mrs. Steele, with an agitation of which 
she gave no evidence whatever. She had an 
unobtrusive, well-bred voice, but it was as 
monotonous as a metronome. 
" Reason ! " Olin exploded, " I should think 
I had ! " 
He was about to tell the whole story, when 
there was a tramping in the hall outside his 
door. His father and brother came into the 
room, led by the sister to whom he had denied 
entrance. With a twist of his fingers, Mr. 
Steele turned up a light. 
" What 's the matter here ? " he cried. 
"Are you sick, Olin? I thought this was 
your night for being in ? " 
"I am not going back, sir," replied Olin 
manfully. He got to his feet and faced the 
most formidable obstacle that a young man can 
meet or conquer — the opposition of his entire 
family. In a few blazing words he told his story. 
His sister interrupted it now and then with 
girlish outcries (these were ejaculations rather 
of incredulity than of sympathy) and his 
mother visibly winced. But the two men 
exchanged glances, and it was Olin's elder 
brother who spoke first : 
 
" I assure you, Oily," he said, " you 'll get 
over that, very soou. You must have beeu a 
little out of order. I felt so, once." 
" You felt so once, and you don't feel so 
any longer," persisted Olin, " and that 's my 
very point. I don't mean to get where you 
are. Since you've been teaching biology 
you 're not the same fellow you used to be, 
Dick. You can do anything and not turn a 
hair." 
" I am sure," said the girl, with a hard lift- 
ing of the eyelids that was quite natural to 
her, " that it can't be as bad as you think." 
" Oh, do be still, Jess," said Olin testily. 
" You can be squeamish in any business 
you undertake, you know, Olin," observed his 
father. Mr. Steele spoke gravely and not un- 
kindly. " I understand," he proceeded, " that 
the medical profession is the noblest in the 
world. I should be disappointed if you aban- 
doned it. How is it, Dick ? " He turned to 
his oldest son. " Are these things really as 
bad as Olin thinks ? I don't remember that 
you ever mentioned it ? " 
" Science to-day is based upon such ex- 
periments," replied the young professor of 
biology firmly. " Modern medical science is 
founded upon the rock of comparative physiology,
and it 's no use Olin's beating his head 
agrainst it." 
" Are you sure, my dear," asked Mrs. Steele 
feebly, "that Olin is entirely wrong?" 
The young professor flushed. "I should 
think I ought to know," he said. 
Richard Steele, senior, stood thoughtfully 
silent. His commercial importance was enviable, 
and his social position was that which 
his wife, whose family was as influential as 
his fortune, had brought him. But it must 
be admitted that he felt himself at a loss in a 
biological or pathological direction. If it had 
been Assam Pekoe, or Young Hyson — but 
bacteria and antisepsis were out of his line. 
The tea merchant looked from one of his 
highly educated sons to the other in a per- 
plexity which he would on no account have 
acknowledged. When he spoke, he did so 
slowly and seriously. 
" I have told you what I think, now, Olin. 
But you are old enough to judge for yourself. 
Take what time you need to decide 
this matter to your satisfaction. Isn't dinner 
ready, my dear ? " He turned to his wife 
with a courtly smile. 
Oliu stood at bay before the four people 
whom he loved best in the world. The two 
gentlemen and the ladies were in dinner dress. 
Standing there in his shirt-sleeves, with that 
ridiculous bathrobe over his shoulders, he felt 
himself at the distinct disadvantage which 
external trifles may create. His purpose had 
not wavered, but the power to express it had 
weakened. 
" I 've told you how I feel," he said des- 
perately. Instinctively his eyes sought his 
mother's. Hers answered him with an 
ineffectual sympathy. 
" Don't you want me to send Tibbs up with 
your dinner ? " she asked affectionately. 
" Thank you, Mummy, dear, I am not dry 
yet. You see it will take so long to dress." 
The girl had already gone downstairs. 
The two gentlemen followed. The lad's mo- 
ther lingered for a moment. She put her 
arm around his neck, and laid her cheek to 
his. 
" Was it a very pretty kitty, dear ? " she 
whispered. 
 
The boy put his head upon her shoulder 
and began to sob. 
" Oh, mother — it was so small. Oh, 
mother, mother ! It was damnable ! " 
Now they had all gone away — except 
Tibbs, who brought up the dinner and set the 
tray down on the little table by the lounge, 
as if he were serving a sick person. 
Olin tried to eat, but could not. At every 
effort some disturbing memory of the morning's
experience or the afternoon's emotion 
prevented his healthy young appetite. He 
flung himself back upon the lounge, and lay 
there, face down, in the pillows. He was torn 
by the first great moral conflict of his life. 
It seemed to him almost like a living thing, 
some savage thing that had been endowed 
with intelligence, but not with mercy. It was 
to this excited and exhausted lad as if he 
could feel its claws upon his heart. In the 
actual sense of the word he writhed beneath it. 
"I won't ! " he cried. " I will not go back 
to that — I never can. I never will ! " 
While he lay there wrestling with his angels, 
something tried the closed door. A slight 
 
push, a bumping scratch, and a long whine 
pleaded for admission. Olin opened the door 
at once, and the St. Bernard came pant- 
ing in. 
" Why, Barry," he said, " I 'm glad to see 
you. I'm afraid I was rather uncivil to you, 
too, when I came home — out there. . . . 
How it did storm, Barry ! — And how it 
storms now ! " 
The dog lifted serious ears towards the 
window, which shook beneath the malignant 
rain. 
Downstairs Olin's sister was singing at the 
piano — some foolish thing. The smoke of 
his father's cigar and his brother's came up 
through the closed door. 
" We 've got to have it out alone, Barry," 
said Olin aloud. " They can't understand, 
Barry, can they ? " 
Olin put his arms about the big dog, and 
looked rather piteously into his eyes. Barry 
kissed his master, but with dignity. In the 
drawing-room the girl had left the piano, but 
while Olin sat with his arms about Barry's 
neck another hand brushed the keys, and 
the low strains of a fine rendering of Tenny 
son's great prelude breathed through the 
house. 
" That 's mother, Barry," said Olin. " Jess 
never plays anything sacred." 
His mother did not sing ; she was not 
young enough ; but she played delicately and 
well. The young man's memory fitted the 
words to the chords by which, he thought, 
she seemed to be trying to speak to him. 
" Strong Son of God, immortal Love ! " 
Olin respected the religion of his mother, 
and he listened, not without reverence. 
" There 's something in it, Barry," he said. 
" Some time I 'll make up my mind how 
much. Come, Barry ! Say, Barry, what shall 
we do ? " 
Barry observed him solemnly. 
CHAPTER II 
If there were one thing more than any other 
to which Miss Lauriat cultivated a rohust ob- 
jection, it was colored teas ; and this one was 
yellow. 
" Orange corset covers on the electric bulbs, 
and lemon petticoats on the lamps," she 
thought. " Ochre bonnets on the candles, and 
corn-satin sashes on the tables ! This is no 
place for me — I am going." 
She had already sacrificed to this occasion 
an hour of her impatient young life ; she felt 
that she had better uses for it. So far, she 
had seen only the too familiar faces of her social
system. The astronomy was old, and it 
had become wearisome. She sought her hostess 
to take her leave. A gentleman, evidently 
bent on the same errand, retreated a step or 
two, to give her precedence. 
" Wait a minute, Miriam," said the lady, 
"before you go I must present" — She turned 
to the hesitating man, and introduced him with 
 
that indifference to the personal cognomen 
which is characteristic of social elocution. 
The two accepted their fate resignedly. 
"Do you like these colored things, Dr. 
Reel ? " began Miss Lauriat promptly. 
"Candidly," replied the young man, "I 
don't think pink teas are the final expression 
of existence." 
" But this one is yellow." 
" Is it ? " He looked at the decorations with 
the unseeing gaze of a man whose color-blindness 
is not that of the optic nerve. " I thought 
they were always pink." 
Miss Lauriat laughed merrily. 
" Is the palette of your life couleur de rose? 
Fortunate man ! " 
A scarcely perceptible change of expression 
replied to her. 
" Do you know," she said promptly, " I was 
just going." 
" So was I," he returned, looking straight 
at her, " but even a man may change his mind." 
Miss Lauriat was a tall girl, so that her 
eyes were quite on a level with those of the 
young man. She answered his look with the 
amused indifference with which she was accustomed
to receive admiration. Her air of dis- 
tinction was enhanced by her clinging black 
dress (according to the code, she should have 
ceased to " mourn " for her father some time 
ago), through whose sleeves and high yoke of 
lace her throat and arms gleamed faintly. Her 
hair was black, but her eyes, though dark, were 
blue. Her expression was at once earnest and 
playful. She was a woman of twenty-seven ; but 
she had kept a certain girlish look of which 
she herself was unconscious. 
The two talked for a little, as people do at 
such functions, drifting as they did so leisurely 
towards the door. Beneath the inevitable persiflage
each discerned a certain seriousness in 
the other. 
" Now, Dr. Peel," she said at last, " I really 
must go. I have an important engagement." 
"A blue tea, I suppose, this time?" His 
eyes mocked while his mouth smiled. 
" They make it in an earthen teapot where 
I am going, and steep it all day, and drink it 
out of a bowl — with condensed milk." 
" That seems somehow familiar," said the 
doctor. " Perhaps we are going to the same 
place." 
 
"Who are you?" asked the young lady 
outright, " and what do you do ? " 
"For one thing," replied the physician 
lightly, "I am a member of the Board of 
Health. This is my last day in that illustrious 
position — which I have resigned. I go out 
of office to-morrow. By the way," he added, 
with the air of a man who wanted to escape 
the topic, " I think my father used to know 
yours." 
" Oh, we 're all in the same set, I suppose," 
replied the young lady indifferently. She did 
not ask any questions. He flushed slightly at 
this obvious omission, bowed, and left her. 
Her carriage was waiting, and she made her 
way to it as quickly as she could. As she 
gathered up her short train and stepped in, 
she hesitated. 
"I'll tell you in a minute, Matthew; I 
haven't quite made up my mind. How late is 
it?" She glanced at the carriage clock. "I 
think there 's time. I must see Dan. How is 
it about taking the horses down that alley ? 
Do you think they 're equal to it? " 
" They was snowballed into highsterics 
last time," replied the coachman cautiously. 
 
" But I don't suppose you 're dressed for 
walkin', Miss?" 
Miss Lauriat glanced at her thin, long dress, 
over which she had closely folded her carriage 
cloak. 
" I 'm afraid I 'm not," she said. " If you 
think you can manage — No ! Drive home 
first. I can get ready while you 're turning 
around. It is not dark yet, you see. We 
can't have Dan evicted for a few dollars' rent 
— can we, Matthew ? " 
" You 're the only friend the gossoon 's 
got," said Matthew, with his forefinger at his 
hat. He drove rapidly ; Miss Lauriat's house 
was but two blocks removed, in fact, from the 
yellow tea ; and within five minutes she was 
running up her own steps with the girlish 
energy of her perfect health and absorption 
in subjects outside of herself. In the vestibule
the parlor-maid offered information : Mr. 
Surbridge was in the library — him and Mrs. 
Jeffries. 
" Don't tell them I 've been in, Maggie," 
said the young lady hurriedly. " It 's a busi- 
ness call, and they won't need me till I get 
back. If they ask — say I 've had to go right 
 
out again, and Auntie will please invite Mr. 
Surbridge to stay to dinner. I 'll be back in 
twenty — no, in twenty-five minutes." 
She changed her dress with the deft swiftness
of a young lady who is independent of 
her maid, — making a pretty transformation 
from chiffon and lace to broadcloth and furs, 
— ran downstairs quietly, and Matthew 
whirled her away. 
It was the middle of March, and still light. 
One of the heavy snowstorms characteristic 
of the month — swiftly coming and as swiftly 
flowing — had exasperated the city with a 
foot of now grimy slush. Miss Lauriat, with 
the sense of color which was strong in her, 
thought of country fields and lawns where 
the deep blue light, never seen on sea or 
land, answered to the eye that loved it, and 
knew when to seek it. It could be found only 
in late snow-falls, or after sundown. In the 
east side of the town, whither Matthew was 
driving, the streets were not cleared, and the 
horses soon began to put their noses down and 
drag. The man stopped them at the head of 
a black alley. Driving the wheels upon the 
sidewalk, he let the young lady out. Matthew 
 
had the resigned expression of a coachman 
whose mistress is hopelessly given over to 
philanthropy. He was quite used to this sort 
of thing. 
" I shall be gone fifteen minutes,' said the 
young lady. " Wait for me just here." 
She picked her way more quickly than 
daintily down the filthy street. (It went by the 
name of Blind Alley.) She did so with the 
ease of one who was quite accustomed to it. 
Here and there she was recognized with the 
sullen respect or the servile flattery of people 
who have to be benefited against their wills. 
She stopped before a large wooden building, 
recently painted, well-ordered, and conspicuous 
among its neighbors for a front door that shut, 
light in the entries, unbroken windows, and fire- 
escapes. As she put her foot upon the lowest 
step the door opened, there was a penetrating 
hospital whiff, and a gentleman followed. 
" You can't come in here," said a deep 
voice gruffly. " Nobody can. I 'm going to 
station a policeman at the door to keep every 
one in — and every one out." 
As the speaker stood with his back against 
the closed door, he suddenly lifted his hat. 
 
" You ! I beg- your pardon ; I did not re- 
cognize you." 
" What are you doing in my house, Dr. 
Beal ? " Miss Lauriat let the words out slowly 
and haughtily. She ascended the steps, and 
would have brushed by him. But he faced 
her with his hand upon the latch. 
" There is a case of diphtheria here. I 'm 
going to have the card up immediately." 
" I can't believe it ! " cried Miss Lauriat 
hotly. " I know every family in the building. 
I keep them very clean. The sanitary conditions 
are excellent. It is impossible. I 've got 
to see one of my tenants immediately. My 
agent was going to evict him — Please stand 
aside, sir. I am going in." 
" The Board of Health has taken posses- 
sion of your tenement, madam, and I am very 
sorry, but I must insist." 
" So must I," she retorted. " The house is 
mine." 
" But the responsibility is mine," he 
flashed, reddening. " You cannot come in." 
It was now a duel between the citizen and 
the state, and the girl yielded perforce. 
" I am sorry to have to use my authority," 
 
continued the physician in a different tone. 
" The laws, you know, are strict ; and life," 
he hesitated, " is precious." 
" Oh, I suppose you can't help yourself," 
replied Miss Lauriat, not very graciously. 
She took a sudden step or two backwards and 
lifted her face towards the windows, most of 
which were crowded with weeping women and 
angry men. 
" You poor people ! " she cried, " I can't 
help it, and you know I can't. I would if I 
could. I would do anything. Who is it that 's 
sick ? Where is Dan Badger ? I must speak 
with Dan." 
Her upturned throat, showing white 
through the hurrying twilight, rose from her 
furs like a carving by Canova set upon velvet. 
Her impassioned face, fired by the beauty of 
selflessness and pity, swam before the doc- 
tor's eyes. It puzzled him as much as it 
thrilled him. 
A woman's voice, shrill and sobbing, came 
down from above. " It 's Cady's Molly — 
Dan 's right behind you, Miss. lie 's lucky. 
He 's outside. I wish 't we was ! " 
" I won't forget you," Miss Lauriat called 
 
up in her rich, generous voice. " I 'll see the 
doctors. I 'll send a nurse. I 'll do all I can. 
Perhaps there isn't anything in it after all. 
It may not he diphtheria at all ! Perhaps it 's 
only a sore throat." 
The doctor smiled at this unconscious insult 
to his profession and his office ; but the 
tenants were comforted. 
" Here I be, Miss," said a plaintive voice 
behind her. 
" Oh, Dan ! " The young lady turned 
quickly. An undersized, crippled lad, leaning 
on one crutch, stood in the muddy snow, 
watching her like a dog. " So Mr. Smithers 
was going to turn you out, was he ? Why 
didn't you pay your rent?" 
" Couldn't," said Dan patiently. " Trixy 's 
been sick with a cough." 
"Where is Trixy now?" 
" Gone to market for supper — acrosst the 
alley. I 'm a watchin'." 
Still with his back to the door, the doctor 
silently observed the scene. He was waiting 
for his assistant to come back with an officer. 
" You can't go back there, Dan," said the 
lady ruefully. " This gentleman won't let 
 
you. Somebody's sick inside. What will you 
do?" 
"We'll get in somewheres," said Dan 
sweetly ; " there 's places. Don't you fret, 
Miss Laurie." 
" Oh, I can't have that sort of thing," said 
Miss Lauriat decidedly. " You and Trixy 
come to the coach house this evening. We 'll 
put you up, somehow." 
The officer arrived at this moment, and the 
physician gave way, escaping from his uncom- 
fortable position with evident embarrassment. 
As Miss Lauriat turned to go back through 
the darkening alley, he joined her timidly. 
She noticed that he kept as wide a space between 
them as the narrow and now freezing" 
sidewalk permitted. 
" I am really very sorry," he observed with 
a touch of something like humility which sat 
awkwardly upon his dogmatic manner, " that 
I was forced to annoy you so." 
" It does not signify," answered Miss Lau- 
riat, without cordiality. He did not reply, and 
they had walked in silence and constraint for 
some twenty paces, when something whirred 
through the air, and the young lady stopped 
 
and staggered. A big chunk of half-frozen 
slush, shot from an angry hand in the quarantined 
building, and aimed at the retreating 
Board of Health, had missed, and hit the 
girl. A tiny trickle of blood stirred over her 
soft cheek. 
" Oh, damn them ! " cried the doctor be- 
tween his ground teeth, — "I beg your par- 
don ! — Where are you hurt ? " 
" Nowhere, I think," replied Miss Lauriat 
quickly. " Really, it is nothing — just a 
scratch. It's only my ear — a little. They 
didn't mean to. You know they didn't. Oh, 
how sorry they will be ! " 
She put up her soft handkerchief, and 
brushed away the warm stain on her face. 
" Get out of this as fast as you can ! " 
commanded the doctor savagely. He hurried 
her along. " It 's no place for you, anyhow," 
he persisted. " Why do you come here ? what 
do you do it for ? " 
They had now come in sight of the car- 
riage, where Matthew, in his robes, cape, and 
cap, sat like an Esquimau in a fur bag. 
Something in this little touch of ease and 
luxury caused the doctor to draw his breath 
 
with quick relief. At least she was now quite 
safe, — and really not hurt ; no, plainly not 
hurt, as she said. Meant to hurl an ugly 
blow upon the Board of Health, the missile 
had cost the lady but a scratch. 
"What do I do it for?" repeated Miss 
Lauriat, without looking at him. " I doubt if 
I could make you understand why, Dr. Reel." 
She put her gray-gloved hand upon the 
open carriage door. His eyes, which were 
not of a warm tint, scrutinized her in chill 
perplexity. 
" Pardon me, Miss Lauriat," observed the 
young man, " since you are not hurt — are 
you quite sure ? " 
" Perfectly." 
" And you do not need any help, profes- 
sional or any kind ? And you do not wish me 
to accompany you home ? — I can ride out- 
side — I would not expose you to the least 
risk, of course." 
" It is quite unnecessary, thank you, Dr. 
Deal." 
" Then allow me to say," protested the 
young man, " that my name is not Deal. 
Neither is it Beal, nor was it ever Peel. And 
 
I particularly object to being called Dr. Reel. 
My name, at your service, is Steele." 
" Thank you, Dr. Steele," repeated Miss 
Lauriat, laughing heartily. "I will try to 
remember." 
Laughing too, he bowed and left her. As 
he turned, standing bareheaded before her, 
she began at once talking to Matthew. 
