ground six miles square at the entrance of the Chicago 
river was set aside for the building of a fort where 
there had once been a French trading post. It was a 
stockade with block houses, to be one of the chain for 
outposts of defence for the trade growing of more im 
portance every year. Down here came Captain Whist 
ler and his son and the two wives from Detroit, with 
the company for work and for defence, and bravely 
they went at their task. On the north side was the 
sally port or passage leading from the parade ground 
to the river, to be used as an escape in time of emer 
gency. There were no horses or oxen and the men 
hauled the wood. There were Indian outbreaks now 
and then, but the little colony increased and all about 
the fort clustered a settlement. 
And so it remained for about nine years. The 
women had learned to be as brave as the men, as 
fearless too. Then came the sudden and unexpected 
orders from Detroit to evacuate the fort, as Detroit 
was to be surrendered to the English. There had been 
numerous Indian raids on other forts. 
The Pottawattamies had been very good friends 
with the soldiers and the dwellers about. But when 
they heard that General Hull had ordered that the 
property in the fort was to be distributed among the 
Indians they secretly joined the marauding bands, 
though they promised a safe-conduct to those within. 
Captain Wells ordered the whiskey to be poured into 
the river, and the powder to be destroyed, knowing the 
liquor would make fiends of the savages. So one 
August day they started, women, children and wagons, 
guarded by the soldiers; but when they had gone a 
mile or so from the fort, they found themselves almost 
surrounded by Indians, the remnants of various tribes 
that had not moved to the reservation, and the Potto- 
wattamies joining them, the dreadful massacre oc 
curred. A number were carried prisoners to St. 
Joseph. 
Mrs. Heald, who had brought with her from Ken 
tucky, on her marriage, a beautiful mare, which had 
aroused the envy of two Indian chiefs, who had made 
several attempts to steal it, rode out of the fort, but as 
soon as the raid was made she was forced to dismount 
and see her favorite in the hands of the savages, and 
she was led back to the fort a prisoner, while her hus 
band was killed and treated with cruel indignity. 
Then the Indians took possession of the fort and held 
pandemonium for a few days. Afterward the Indians 
went off to attack Fort Wayne. 
We rambled about the fort that had been rebuilt 
later on, and was now being evacuated for the second 
time, the victories over the rambling bands of Indians 
having made the country quite secure. Ruth Gaynor 
had heard of massacres in her native State not less 
cruel. 
"But Mrs. Heald and her beautiful horse?" she 
queried with pathos in both eyes and voice. 
 
"No money could buy it back. Some Indian chief 
thought too highly of his four-footed prisoner to give 
it up. Mrs. Heald, badly wounded, for she had 
fought bravely for her freedom, was left for a few 
days with an Indian trader at St. Joseph's and was 
finally permitted to return to Louisville. Some of the 
prisoners were taken up to Michigan and given their 
liberty on the recapture of Detroit. The fort was set 
on fire and made a heap of ruins. Several of the pris 
oners returned, but for a long while the station was 
well-nigh deserted by immigrants." 
It looked deserted now. A drooping flag waved 
over it, but there was no glitter of arms or soldiery 
tread of sentinels. Business was taking the place of 
picturesque romance. 
"You know," Ruth said in an awed voice, "there are 
stories of ghosts appearing. Did no one ever see Mrs. 
Heald on her beautiful horse riding out, or around?" 
It was growing toward night now, and the drifting 
clouds had obscured the sunset. The lake stretched 
off weird and dark. We had climbed some steps and 
now we looked and listened and then glanced at each 
other. The spirited form of the woman who had 
fought for her life should have appeared. 
"Come, we must go home," I said. I was conscious 
of a curious impression stealing over me. 
"I should like to see her," Ruth said longingly. "I 
do not think I should be a bit afraid." 
I took her hand and helped her down. "We will 
come again," I said, "but mother will wonder what has 
become of us." 
CHAPTER III 
THROUGH THE WINTER 
THE workmen were just leaving off when we reached 
the place that was to be home for the Little Girl, and 
where she was to spend many happy days. To-mor 
row they were to raise the framework. There was 
no eight-hour day or discussion at that period. I 
gathered an armful of blocks and made the fire. We 
broiled slices of ham and had some excellent bread, in 
the making of which my mother excelled. Mr. Gay- 
nor was much interested in Fort Dearborn, and 
strong in his denunciation of General Hull delivering 
up Detroit, as it had inspired the Indians with hopes 
of re-conquest of many of the posts. But heroic 
Anthony Wayne had soon turned the tide. 
"I thought you were going to stay all night," ex 
claimed my mother rather tartly, "or that ther' had 
been a new Indian raid and you had lost your head 
piece. Ther' ain't much sense in it, 'pears like, but 
you'd look rather queer without it." 
I only laughed a little. It was the best way of re 
storing her to good humor. The men were nearly 
 
always off playing cards. Dan was nineteen, a fine 
strapping fellow, good looking too, and a great hand 
for argument. A little one between Dan and myself 
had died. 
Mother went to the vendue and bought some neces 
sary furnishings for the new house. Meanwhile the 
frame had been raised, the near neighbors turning out 
to help. Mr. Gaynor's being a Yankee went rather 
against him, but the fact that he had some cash to pay 
out evened up matters. He treated generously to 
whiskey they were steady drinkers in those days 
and could stand a good deal. He was very abstemious 
I learned afterward. 
Mother also found an old colored woman, half a 
century seemed to age the negroes then, and Aunt 
Becky had grandchildren grown up. She was quite a 
famous cook, and at the rush times at the taverns, holi 
days and political gatherings cooked for the feasts. 
Any of them would have employed her all the time, but 
working steady was her aversion. She was persuaded, 
however, to go for two or three hours a day, until 
better, or steadier, help could be obtained. 
I dropped in at the warehouse and found to my 
great joy that I had secured the position. 
"Now you've only got to carry yourself straight and 
keep a civil tongue in your head," said my father, "and 
you'll get a good business insight that'll make your 
fortune some day, if you have brains enough; and 
you keep out of taverns and cards and let whiskey 
alone until you get ballast enough not to run aground." 
There was, I suppose, a good deal of dissipation in 
those days, but men were strong and hardy too. 
Quarrels were not infrequent and occasionally had a 
desperate ending. But there were some admirable 
homes, and mothers who left a strong moral impress 
on their families. The living had a certain fine sim 
plicity if it was not so intellectual. 
I liked my new place very much. I was general 
factotum, to be sure, with occasionally an over- 
measure of hard words. Mr. Harris always stood my 
friend. He soon found that I was ready at figures and 
had what he called ideas ; my mother's homely name 
for it was "gumption." Mr. Gaynor used the word 
also. 
Did any one then, with all the boasting and brag 
ging, imagine that in half a century Chicago would 
spring into wonderful prominence, outstripping older 
towns with a vivid maturity, be burned to ashes, rise 
again and lift itself not only out of ashes but out of 
the slough, and if it could not be a city set on a hill, 
still become marvellous in its advancement of all 
kinds? I thought then that Eagle fleet of vessels was 
simply astonishing with the freights they carried 
across the lake. Men were fighting then for a canal, a 
clear waterway to the Mississippi without any por 
tage. 
I liked to hear Mr. Harris's reminiscences of the 
town. LeVasseur & Hubbard opened the first dry- 
goods store about 1820. Mr. LeVasseur was a fine 
man and did a good deal of trading with the Indians 
for furs, and had several outlying posts. Mr. Hub- 
bard was a very public-spirited and ambitious citizen. 
 
Then for years he coasted up and down the lake in 
Canadian bateaux, commonly known as Mackinaw 
boats. Some years before this he had erected a large 
brick building on LaSalle Street, often termed Hub- 
bard's folly, where beef and pork were packed for the 
outlying trade. His faith in the town was undaunted 
by the numerous mishaps, and he was Commissioner 
of the Illinois and Michigan canal, and turned the first 
shovel of dirt on the nation's birthday, July fourth, 
though it languished for several years. 
I went early and often stayed late, but ran away at 
noon to see how it fared with the Little Girl, though I 
found my mother was taking a useful oversight of 
her. The house went along as if by magic. I can 
recall our reading a few fairy stories later on about 
palaces springing up in a night, and she laughingly 
said "That was the way with our old house, do you 
remember ?" 
The main room had a wide fireplace, the smaller one 
beside it was for Ruth, and here stood her cot and a 
rude dressing-table and bureau, which was simply a 
large box shelved, with a curtain drawn before it. 
Then the old log house was patched up and made into 
a comfortable kitchen. There was plenty of scrubby 
pine for firewood when one could get nothing better. 
Mother's vendue furniture comprised a large table, 
with leaves supported with a brace and let down when 
not in use, a cot, a bedstead set up in the best room, 
quite a fashion then, several chair frames that could 
be new seated and various kitchen utensils with some 
dishes. 
Mr. Gaynor was a "handy" man, an ingenious 
Yankee. In a couple of months he was in great de 
mand, and his odd jobs supplied the family living, 
for money being a scarce commodity, barter was much 
in favor. He was very shrewd at bargain making, but 
he had a pleasant, half-whimsical way with him that 
made and kept friends. 
There were several schools now, though it did not 
need a very old resident to remember the first one 
opened at the end of Mr. Kinzie's garden, where the 
children spelled in concert out of the book found in a 
tea chest, and learned arithmetic orally. Then Mr. 
Watkins taught boys in a room off the postoffice, or 
rather the building used for that and sundry other 
purposes. 
A Miss Chappel with her friend, Mary Barrows, 
came from Mackinaw and opened a school for girls 
and young children. Afterward Miss Chappel mar 
ried the Presbyterian minister, Reverend Mr. Porter, 
but she still took a warm interest in education. Miss 
Barrows went on with the school. 
We were Methodists, though for some years every 
denomination had been represented. A veteran 
Methodist preacher, Rev. Jesse Walker, had succeeded 
in building a small frame church at Clark and North 
Water streets. The women were the most regular 
church goers. The children were fond of the Sunday 
School, for a large part of the exercises consisted in 
singing. 
Mr. Gaynor was pleased to have Ruth go. Big 
boys were apt to stray off, but I was very regular now, 
 
and often walked home with the Little Girl, and on 
these occasions we had fine fun cooking supper. Then 
we would sit before the fire and talk or read. Books 
were not very abundant. Mr. Gaynor had an old 
Bible, the "Pilgrim's Progress," a copy of "The Lady 
of the Lake," and a few old school books. The "Pil 
grim's Progress" we found very entertaining. To us 
it was real travels, and the characters absolute people. 
Ruth came over to the house often on Saturday, as 
Miss Barrows kept that day for herself. She learned 
to cook, to sew and began to spin a little. She knew 
how to knit, except that she did not quite understand 
shaping a stocking. 
The boys were rather rough and shy at first, but 
after a little they quite adored her, and hunted up 
curious things for presents. Homer was a jolly sort 
of lad, Ben rather gentle, but Chris rough and tor 
menting. I used to envy them the Saturdays. 
Winter set in early. What tremendous winds scur 
ried across the lake, beating up great waves, or rushed 
down from the north and sometimes threatened to 
drown us out ! Navigation had to be given up mostly ; 
we had not then learned what fetters and warders to 
put on the inland sea. 
And then the snow! The great drifts blowing in 
from the prairies, the roads trodden down as solid as 
stone, the sledges and rude sort of sleighs, the jingle 
of bells for those who were lucky enough to own any. 
Part of the time the Little Girl could not venture out, 
though Ben often brought her home on his sled. 
"But it is all so beautiful," she said, looking over 
the wide prairie one Sunday. "Norman, what is over 
beyond the Mississippi?" 
"Mountains and mountains." 
Some hardy explorers had gone out, but we knew 
nothing of the western coast then. 
"And then?" with gentle insistence. 
"The Pacific Coast." 
"The Delectable Mountains and the beautiful land 
where the shepherds are feeding their flocks, and 
where there are vineyards and gardens and flowers of 
every hue and fragrance. It is the Promised Land, 
Norman. Some day you and I will start and travel 
it will take weeks and weeks, and we shall be 
filled with delight at its loveliness. We will start 
quite by ourselves, and keep our secret until we do 
go." 
She looked gravely inspired as her eyes turned 
westward over the wastes of snow. 
Years afterward we were to go to the beautiful 
land and wander among orange groves and vines and 
figs and such flowers as we had not dreamed of then, 
but the name of the country was California. 
I put my arm over her shoulder. How fair she was, 
and her sapphire eyes shone with a kind of unearthly 
light. Now and then there came over me a strange 
sort of fear as if sometime she might vanish away to 
an unknown world and I be left alone. 
"You are cold," I said; "come in doors." 
The great log had burned in twain and now broke 
with a crash, sending up myriad sparks while the red 
coals seemed to pulsate like living things. I stirred 
 
them up, brought the ends together, and the next 
moment we had a magnificent blaze. 
"Oh, let us pop some corn," she cried. She was 
down to earth again. "Yes, it does feel lovely here by 
the fire. I'll go for the corn." 
But I thrust down my arm in the great box and 
brought up two ears, so that I could shell one with the 
other. Mr. Gaynor, with the aid of the blacksmith, 
had made a tolerable popper. I drew out the coals 
and then shelled a handful. She held it and shook it 
from time to time, and we laughed at the snapping 
and bouncing. We took off the lid. It wasn't just the 
kind of corn to turn inside out, like a white rose, but 
some of it was very soft and velvety. I liked the 
really roasted grains the best. She, girl-like, preferred 
the more delicate ones. So we laughed and ate our 
fill until we were thirsty. 
"Oh," she began suddenly, "let us read 'The Lady 
of the Lake.' " 
I did not think I was very fond of verse. It sug 
gested the hymn book that I looked over now and 
then, and that always left an uncomfortable feeling in 
my mind. 
She hunted up the book, and bringing a small stand 
near the fire lighted the candle. We had made the blaze 
of the pine torch standing up in the corner do duty 
until then. 
"I am going to read," she began. "I liked it so much 
one day. But you must sit up very straight and not 
go to sleep. This first part about the Harp of the 
North, I don't care for, so I'll begin here. 
" 'The stag at eve had drunk his fill, 
Where danced the moon on Monan's rill ' " 
Then she suddenly paused, 'This is all in Scotland. 
Do you know where Scotland is ?" 
"It is north of England." 
"We haven't liked England over well. Grand 
mother Marvin used to talk about the War of 1812, for 
grandfather was a sailor and was killed. And there 
was all the Revolution. Do you think we will ever 
fight England again?" 
"If we do we'll lick her again," I said with boyish 
American grit. 
"I shouldn't mind war against the Indians," she 
said slowly. "And I do hope England will stay over 
the other side of the ocean, and Norman," hesitat 
ingly, "did you ever see a real deer?" 
"Why, yes. That's where they get venison steak." 
"Oh, now, I will begin again." 
She read very clearly and with the appreciation that 
gives the listener an insight into the real meaning. I 
could not have gone to sleep. The chase stirred all my 
blood, but I was glad the deer escaped. The lovely 
lake among the mountains, the maiden in her skiff, the 
encounter, the guidance, the enchanted hall, the wel 
come to the unknown knight of Snowdoun, and the 
promise of the song. Why, I remembered lines of it 
and said myself to sleep with them. 
"That is the end of the first canto. Next Sunday 
night you shall read. It sounds like music, doesn't 
it?" closing the old book. 
"Yes," I assented. It still rang in my ears. 
 
There was a shuffling and stamping at the door. 
Mr. Gaynor beat out his old hat on the post. 
"Jerusalem! The old woman's feather bed has 
burst open this time, I guess. Why, you can't see 
your hand before you. I've been in snows before, but 
this is about the worst old tougher I ever encountered. 
Norme " he had taken up the familiar name "thank 
your stars you are this near the warehouse, if, indeed, 
you can get there at all to-morrow morning. But I 
don't suppose there'll be much trade," with a short 
chuckle. 
I knew that was an invitation to stay all night. I 
had stayed twice before in a pouring rain. 
"Oh, let's see !" Ruth sprang up. 
But as she opened the door a swirl of snow flew 
nearly across the room, and she staggered. 
It took both of us to shut the door and then we put 
up the bar. For a few moments it was a primitive 
cyclone. Ruth brushed the snow out of her hair and 
eyes and laughed. Mr. Gaynor stirred up the fire. 
"I hope you're satisfied. You saw the snow," he 
said jocosely. 
The wind swept about with a murderous howl as 
only a western prairie wind can. A flock of wolves 
could not have equalled it in the shrieks. Then there 
would be a long bay like that of some great hound, or 
a mocking whistle as if the fiends were abroad. We 
really could not talk. Mr. Gaynor helped himself 
liberally to roasted corn. 
Presently it died down and was solemnly still. The 
Yankee clock on the corner shelf in the best room 
John Gaynor could not have lived without that 
struck nine. 
"Time to be coverin' up fires," he said. "Sis, you 
run to bed. Want to see the snow again?" 
"Yes, I do," with laughing persistence. 
He opened the door cautiously. The great white 
sheet was like a wall. You could not see it stir at first, 
but there was a muffled sound in the air, an indescriba 
ble sound almost like the echo of music miles and miles 
away. 
"It is wonderful !" the Little Girl said, her eyes like 
a clear midnight sky. "It is a strange world, terrible 
sometimes, too." 
"Better spread that wolf skin over your bed," her 
father advised as he returned her good-night. 
I crawled over to the back part of John Gaynor's 
bed, though there was a great mound of feathers be 
tween us. People were hale and hearty in those days, 
if they did sleep half buried in feathers. But it 
seemed to me all night long that I heard the 
melody of the little girl's voice in the sweetest of 
cadences. 
It was the first big snow of the season and now it 
was mid December. One had to begin at once to dig 
out window shutters and doors, but as the doors 
opened on the inside they were more manageable. It 
was still gray and cold and one had to be muffled up 
to the eyes. We shovelled a path out to the road, then 
threw it this way and that until it was a decent level 
and hammered it down with a shovel. Then we took 
the back to the pigpen. We heard the grunts, so they 
 
were not frozen. Indeed they had a tolerably warm 
home provided for them. 
Ruth made pancakes. Mr. Gaynor had quite a large 
round ring of iron that one put on the coals. The pan 
stood on the top of this; a good big pan it was, and 
the batter was poured out of the pitcher. Ruth liked 
small, dainty cakes, her father enjoyed them about as 
big as a dinner plate. He had a curious knack of 
turning them without flopping. He liked them quite 
thick as well, so he baked several first. 
"Those little fellows ain't a mouthful for a good- 
sized man!'' he declared. "'Twould keep you eating 
all day." 
We had fried pork besides, and it was wonderfully 
good. There was "long sweetenin', ' a thick sort of 
molasses. Sometimes we had a kind of maple sugar 
syrup. Ruth and I baked, and then we sat down to 
eat, and told over the funny sayings that we could 
recall. It was very jolly. 
The wood was piled up in a sort of lean-to at the 
side of the house, so I brought in a supply of that. 
We went out in the street again and a few pedestrians 
were snowballing each other. A sort of drag with 
four oxen came along to break the road a little. The 
town looked like a nest of small white beehives. The 
snow had blown off the trees, and they stood bare and 
black against the sky, the finer branches as if traced 
by a pencil. 
I thought I would venture down to the warehouse, 
but I had not gone far when I met one of the clerks, 
who reported everything "stiller'n the grave," so I 
turned about. We played high low Jack, and then I 
took up "fox and geese" with Ruth, who couldn't see 
why I should beat whether I was fox or geese. So to 
her great delight I let her pen up the poor fox, while 
her father sat by and smoked his corn cob pipe. Then 
we shelled a lot of corn, and had a late dinner of fried 
chicken, at which Mr. Gaynor tried his hand, and it 
was excellent. I thought I should like to see my 
father undertake to cook! 
Afterward I declared I must go home. 
"Oh, why do you?" asked Ruth pleadingly. 
"I don't want to wear my welcome out, I want to 
come again." 
"He ain't likely to, is he, Sis? Seems to me his 
folks might spare one boy when they have so many. 
Let's toss up a cent to see which one. This is for 
Homer." 
"But I don't want Homer," with pretty petulance. 
"Ben or Chris ?" He was twirling the penny in his 
fingers. 
"I don't want any boy but Norman." 
"And up at Hubbard's they have a mortgage on 
him. They're trying to teach him how many black 
beans make five." 
Ruth knitted her pretty forehead, then said disdain 
fully, "As if he didn't know !" 
"Well, then, if a pig can eat a bushel of corn in 
twenty-four hours, how much fat will it put on his 
bones? This is a matter of great importance to Mr. 
Gurdon Hubbard. I think he has offered a prize for 
its solution," and he winked at me. 
 
"A pig couldn't eat it," she said; "he would be a 
hog." 
We both laughed at that. 
"Now, young fellow, if you get lost in the snow, 
don't blame us. We've given you fair warning. 'Tain't 
likely the house will blow over, seeing as it stood the 
gale of last night. And, reely, I don't believe it will 
rain to-night and loosen the underpinning, and there's 
enough to eat." 
In spite of this friendliness I had to tear myself 
away. But I did get stuck in more than one pile of 
snow and twice had to fight my way through showers 
of snowballs. 
We never saw clear ground again until March. 
There was not much business doing and the men 
gathered in the warm taverns to play cards and swap 
stories and demolish political candidates, and praise or 
blame Old Hickory, as the President was termed who 
had fought his country's battles and served her for 
nearly eight years in the highest civil capacity. That 
the country would go to ruin without him was surely 
predicted ; that he had brought her to the verge of ruin 
the other side claimed. 
Every few days I was at the Gaynors', but the Little 
Girl had given up school. She knit stockings, she 
sewed and cooked, and we both concluded "The Lady 
of the Lake" was the loveliest of all lovely stories. 
CHAPTER IV 
A POLITICAL DIFFERENCE 
SPRING came at last, though some of us almost longed 
for the frozen paths when we sank inches deep in the 
mud. We really were a city now and had a mayor 
about whom there was still some contention. He had 
been elected by the small majority. There were many 
citizens who objected to this step and even then 
aldermen were looked upon with some suspicion. 
Where was the money to come from for all the im 
provements planned ? We were going along comforta 
bly, why not let well enough alone? 
There were a few sidewalks, but the streets were a 
terror until they settled a little. The wind helped; 
there were times when it swept from the prairies and 
brought the inspiration of the far west, the promise of 
what could be done shortly, visions of acres of wheat 
fields that were to be powerful rivals to peltries and 
furs. 
It was absolutely funny sometimes to hear the old 
men talk who gathered about the wharf or strolled 
round the warehouse, which was stretching out as well 
 
as running over. We, engaged in the heart of things, 
had our hands full, and were not likely to "creak in 
the j'ints" for lack of exercise. 
"This 'ere Hubbard 'lows he knows most every 
thin'," old Hiram Green would say, "'sif the Lord had 
gin him a kind of far-off sight and called him into 
council t' settle things. Ther's some freighting but he 
didn't diskiver it. Fore he was born things come down 
from Detroit an' Canady. 'N I've hearn tell that some 
old Frenchman talked this canal business long time 
ago. Ther's nothin' new under the sun Solomon said 
so an' 'though I don't hold altogether to Solomon, he 
had a clear head there. Canal 'll never be built more'n 
I be made over. Sho now ! Country was good enough 
forty year ago, when you could get your livin' huntin' 
and fishin' and were livin' neighborly round the block 
house." 
"Ye ferget the Injun raids," said Abe Byers. "Had 
to git yer scalp fasten'd on tight every mornin' er cut 
yer hair short. An' what's livin' wuth if yer ain't im- 
provin'? We want a good clear run to the Missis- 
sip" 
"An' be holpen them ther' towns all along the river. 
Ther's Saint Louis an' Kasky an' Cahooky an' down to 
Noo Orleens, all them ther' places to the east that are 
braggin' theirselves up, and we'm goin' to be jest a 
sort o' isthmus between this and that," balancing his 
hands one way and the other. "All they want is er 
right o' way jest to tromp thro' us, to buy things down 
yender and sell 'em up ther'," nodding his head. "An' 
who gits the money? I declar' to man I ain't seen a 
dollar in so long that I'm 'feared I should drop dead 
if one kem my way." 
"We can't spare you yit, Hi' Green, so we ain't goin' 
to put that ther' kind o' sacrifice in your way," laughed 
a good-natured man. "Some day when you're 'bout 
a hundred they'll be writin' a story of Chicago, 
an' they'll want to know these 'ere old facts. So 
you jes' keep 'em safely stored in that brain of 
yourn." 
"Can't many remember furder back?" returned the 
old man, somewhat mollified. "I've hearn granpop 
tell 'bout that old black fellow thet come from some 
o' the islands down 'bout Gulf o' Mexico with his 
injun wife when ther' were only a few tradin' cabins, 
an' ther' land was free for anybody who could give a 
string o' beads to an Injun." 
"Beads won't pass muster now, and I wonder if 
Pierre Menard didn't feel sick afterward when he 
found what a good bargain he had unloaded on John 
Kinzie. The Kinzie tribe will be rich enough pres 
ently." 
"An' then'll come a flood er a fire and swoop down 
on everything." 
"But the land can't be burned up, and it isn't giner- 
ally drowned out. Prairie sand can lick up a good 
deal of water." 
I had been half listening to the rambling disputa 
tions, and now I turned from my rough desk by the 
window, which was simply a board with four legs, the 
