service in the ranks for years, because they could not pass an easy
examination. But was all that so very terrible after all, in the light
of the duty that faced him?
The woman had saved his life, had carried him in her arms, had tended
him like a child, had stolen food to keep him alive, had faced
starvation for him when she had got him to the hospital, had nursed
him--had loved him, had given him all she had, and she would have died
for him, if there had been need. Now, she was giving him something more,
for she was refusing to be his wife because she was sure that sooner or
later she must be a burden to him, and that her birth would be a
reproach to his children. No woman could do more for a man than she had
done. She had been his salvation and his good angel; when she had found
out that the life in Paris that amused her was killing him, she had
brought him back to himself, she had made him at last fit and able to
face those who would have destroyed him. She had loved him like a
woman, she had obeyed him and served him like a devoted servant, she had
watched over him like a faithful dog; and he had given her nothing in
return for all that, not one thing that deserved to be counted. Perhaps
he had not even really loved her; most surely his love had been far less
large and true and devoted than hers, and he felt that it was so. The
reparation he was determined to make was not really for her honesty's
sake; it was to be an attempt at repaying a debt that was weighing upon
his conscience like a debt of honour.
That was it. He felt that unless he could in some way repay her for what
she had done, his man's honour would not be satisfied. That was very
well, in its way, but it was not love. It was as if he had said to
himself, "I cannot love her as she loves me, but I can at least marry
her; and that is better than nothing, and has the merit of being morally
right."
She had told him that if she still made him happy he would not talk of
marriage. The brutal truth shamed him, now that he knew it from her own
lips. It was not the whole truth, but it was a great part of it. If he
was happy with her now, when there was nothing to disturb them, it was
by force of habit, it was because her beauty appealed to him, it was
because her touch was dearer to him than her heart's devotion. Now that
he was a grown man, he knew well enough that he craved something else
which poor Regina could never give him.
For he felt the want of companionship. Those who have lost what is most
worth having, whether by death or by their own fault, or by the other's,
miss the companionship of love more than anything else, when the pain of
the first wrench is dulled and the heart's blood is staunched, and the
dreadful bodily loneliness comes only in dreams. Then the longing for
the old sweet intercourse of thought and word makes itself felt and is
very hard to bear, though it is not sharp like the first wound; and it
comes again and again for years, and perhaps for ever.
But where there is no true companionship while love lasts, there is
something lacking, and such love cannot live long. Men seem to want it
more than women do; and women, seeing that men want something, often
fancy they want flattery, and natter the men they love till they disgust
them; and then the end comes suddenly, much to the astonishment of those
women.
Regina was too womanly not to feel that Marcello was in real need of
something which she had not, and could never have. She had known it from
the first, and had almost told him so. She gave what was hers to give,
as long as he wanted it; when he wanted it no more, she meant to leave
him, and it would make no difference what became of her afterwards.
When she had finished speaking, Marcello was very miserable, because he
could find no answer to what she had said, and he felt that she had no
right to say it at all. His head ached now, from excitement and want of
sleep, and he almost wished that he had put off speaking to Regina about
her marriage. He rested his head in his hand as he sat thinking, and she
came and stood beside him as she had done in the morning in the little
house in Trastevere. But it was not the same now. She hoped that he
would put up his other hand to find hers, without looking at her, as he
often did, but it gripped his knee as if he did not mean to move it, and
he did not raise his head.
She looked up from his bent figure to the window and saw that the light
was reddening with the first tinge of sunset. It would soon be night,
Marcello would go away, and she would be dreadfully lonely. It was not
like being in the little house, knowing that he was near her, in the
great villa on top of the hill, hidden from her only by trees. She was
in a strange place now, and he would be far away, across the Tiber, and
the great dark city would be between her and him.
For an instant her lip quivered, and she thought she was going to cry,
though she had never cried in her life, except for rage and when she had
been a little girl. She shook her handsome head impatiently at the mere
sensation, and held it higher than ever. Then Marcello looked up at
last.
As their eyes met they heard the tinkle of the little bell. Regina at
once left his side to go and open the door. It was not till she had left
the room that Marcello rose, asking himself suddenly why it had not
occurred to him to go himself. He realised that he had always allowed
her to wait on him without question. Yet if she were his wife, he would
not think of letting her do what she was doing now. He would even open
the door of the room for her to go out.
He knew why he had never treated her in that way. She was a peasant
girl, she had been a servant in an inn; it was natural that she should
serve him too. She often brought him his shoes when he was going out,
and she would have put them on for him and laced them if he would have
let her do it. It seemed natural that she should answer the bell and
open the door, as it seemed unnatural that she should ever be his wife.
The thought stung him, and again, he was ashamed.
While these things were passing in his mind, he heard a familiar voice
in the dark entry.
"Signora, you will excuse me," Ercole was saying. "I asked the Professor
and he told me. I beg the favour of a few words."
"Come in," Regina answered, and a moment later they both entered the
sitting-room.
Ercole stood still when he saw Marcello, and began to turn his hat in
his hands, as if it were a rosary, which he generally did when he was
embarrassed. Marcello wondered what the man wanted.
"Were you looking for me?" he asked. "Come in! What is it? Has anything
happened?"
"No, sir, nothing new has happened," answered Ercole.
"What is it, then? Why did you come here?"
Ercole had dressed himself for the occasion in his best clothes. He had
on a snowy shirt and a new keeper's jacket, and his boots were blacked.
Furthermore, he had just been shaved, and his shaggy hair had been cut
rather close. He did not carry his gun about with him in the streets of
Rome, though he felt that it was slightly derogatory to his dignity to
be seen without it, and Nino was not with him, having been temporarily
chained to the wall in the court of the stables at the villa.
He stood still, and looked from Marcello to Regina, and back to Marcello
again.
"It cannot be done," he said suddenly. "It is useless. It cannot be
done."
Without another word he turned abruptly and was going to leave the room,
when Marcello stopped him authoritatively.
"Come here, Ercole!" he cried, as the man was disappearing into the
entry.
"Did you speak to me, sir?" Ercole inquired, stopping in the doorway.
"Yes. Shut the door and come here." Ercole obeyed with evident
reluctance. "Now, then," Marcello continued, "come here and tell me what
you want, and what it is that cannot be done."
"I desire a few words with this lady, and I did not know that you were
here, sir. Therefore I said, it cannot be done. I mean that while you
are here, sir, I cannot speak alone with this lady."
"That is clear," Marcello answered. "You cannot be alone with this lady
while I am in the room. That certainly cannot be done. Why do you wish
to be alone with her? You can speak before me."
"It will not be so easy, sir. I will come at another time."
"No," Marcello answered, not liking his manner. "You will say what you
have to say now, or you will say nothing, for you will not come at
another time. The lady will not let you in, if you come again. Now
speak."
"It will be a little difficult, sir. I would rather speak to the lady
alone."
Regina had stood listening in silence, and looking intently at Ercole's
face.
"Let me speak to him," she said to Marcello. "What is your full name?"
she asked, turning to Ercole again.
"Spalletta Ercole, to serve you," was the prompt answer.
"Spalletta?" Marcello asked in surprise, for strange as it may seem to
any but Italians, it was quite natural that he should never have known
Ercole's family name. "Spalletta? That is your own name, Regina! What a
strange coincidence!"
"Yes," Ercole said. "I know that the young lady's name is Spalletta. It
is for this reason that I desire the favour of a few words with her
alone."
"There is no need," Regina answered. "Since we have the same name, there
is no doubt. I remember your face now, though until last night I had not
seen you since I was a little child. Yes. I know what you have come to
say, and it is quite true."
"What?" asked Marcello with some anxiety.
"This man is my father," Regina said, very quietly.
"Your father!" Marcello made half a step backwards in his surprise.
"Yes. I have told you what he did." She turned to Ercole. "What do you
want of me? Is it money that you want, perhaps?"
Ercole stiffened himself and seemed to grow taller. His black eyes
flashed dangerously, and his heavy eyebrows were suddenly stern and
level, as Regina's were.
"You are your mother's daughter," he said slowly. "Did I take money from
her? I took blood, and when I was tried for it, I was set free. I was
told that it was my right under our law. I do not want money. I have
brought you money. There it is. It will buy you some bread when your
lover turns you into the street!"
He took out his old sheepskin purse with a quick movement, and laughed
harshly as he tossed it at her. Marcello sprang forward and caught him
by the collar, to thrust him out of the room; but Ercole was tough and
wiry, and resisted.
"Will you hinder me from giving money to my daughter?" he asked
fiercely. "It was yours, for you paid it to me; but when I knew, I saved
my wages to give them back, for I will not take your money, sir! Take
your hands from me, sir! I have a right to be here and to speak. Let me
go, I tell you! I am not in your service any longer. I do not eat your
cursed bread. I am this woman's father, and I shall say what I will."
Marcello withdrew his hands and pointed to the door.
"Go!" he said, in a voice of command.
Ercole backed away a little, and then stood still again.
"I have to tell you that I have spent five francs of that money," he
said, speaking to Regina. "But it was spent for you. I found a good
monk, and I gave him the five francs to say three masses for your soul.
The masses were said in August, and now it is November, and you are
still alive!"
"Go!" cried Marcello, understanding, and advancing upon him once more.
"I go," answered Ercole hoarsely. "Let her live, till you are tired of
her, and she dies in a ditch! I told the monk to say the masses for a
female. They will do for the woman who was killed last night. One female
is worth another, and evil befall them all, as many as they are! Why did
the Eternal Father ever create them?"
He had turned before he spoke the last words, and he went out
deliberately, shutting the door behind him. They heard him go out upon
the landing, and they were alone again. Regina leaned back against the
mantelpiece, but Marcello began to walk up and down the room.
"You have seen," she said, in a rather unsteady voice. "Now you know of
what blood I am, and that what I said was true. The son of your mother
cannot marry the daughter of that man."
"What have you to do with him?" Marcello asked sharply, stopping in his
walk.
But Regina only shook her head, and turned away. She knew that she was
right, and that he knew it too, or would know it soon.
"You will never see him again," he said. "Forget that you have seen him
at all!"
Again she shook her head, not looking at him.
"You will not forget," she answered, "and I shall always remember. He
should have killed me, as he meant to do. It would have been the end. It
would have been better, and quicker."
"God forbid!"
"Why? Would it not have been better?"
She came close to him and laid one hand upon his shoulder and gazed into
his eyes. They were full of trouble and pain, and they did not lighten
for her; his brow did not relax and his lips did not part. After a
little while she turned again and went back to the fireplace.
"It would have been better," she said in a low voice. "I knew it this
morning."
There was silence in the room for a while. Marcello stood beside her,
holding her hand in his, and trying to see her face. He was very tender
with her, but there was no thrill in his touch. Something was gone that
would never come back.
"When all this trouble is over," he said at last, "you shall go back to
the little house in Trastevere, and it will be just as it was before."
She raised her head rather proudly, as she answered.
"If that could be, it would be now. You would have taken me in your arms
when he was gone, and you would have kissed my eyes and my hair, and we
should have been happy, just as it was before. But instead, you want to
comfort me, you want to be kind to me, you want to be just to me,
instead of loving me!"
"Regina! I do love you! I do indeed!"
He would have put his arms round her to draw her closer to him, in the
sudden longing to make her think that there was no change in his love,
but she quietly resisted him.
"You have been very good to me, dear," she said, "and I know you will
always be that, whatever comes. And I am always yours, dear, and you are
the master, whenever you choose to come and see me. For I care for
nothing that God has made, except you. But it will never be just as it
used to be."
"It shall!" Marcello tried to put conviction into the words. "It shall!
It shall!"
"It cannot, my heart," she answered. "I used to say that when this came,
I would go away. But I will not do that, unless you bid me to, for I
think you would be sorry, and I should be giving you more pain, and you
have enough. Only leave me a little while alone, dear, for I am very
tired, and it is growing late."
He took her hands and kissed them one after the other, and looked into
her face. His own was very weary.
"Promise me that I shall find you here to-morrow," he said.
"You shall find me," she answered softly.
They parted so, and he left her alone, in the dark, for the glow of the
sunset had faded and the early November evening was closing in.
Old Teresa came and brought a lamp, and drew the curtains, and gave her
a message from Kalmon. If she needed anything she was to send for him,
and he would come at once. She thanked Teresa. It was very kind of the
Professor, but she needed nothing. Not even a fire; no, she hardly ever
felt cold. Teresa brought something to eat, and set the little table for
her. She was not hungry, and she was glad when the good soul was gone.
She could open the windows when she was alone, and look out into the
silent street. There was moonlight now, and it fell across the walls and
trees of the Villa Aurora upon her face. It was a young moon, that would
set before midnight, but it was very clear and bright, and the sky was
infinitely deep and very clear behind it. Regina fancied that if there
were really angels in heaven, she should be able to see them on such a
night.
If she had been in Trastevere she would have gone out to walk up and
down the old paved paths of the little garden, for she could not sleep,
though she was so tired. The lamp disturbed her and she put it out, and
sat down by the window again.
It was very quiet now, for it was past nine o'clock. She heard a step,
and it almost surprised her. A man with a big dog was walking in the
shadow on the other side of the street, and when he was opposite the
house he stood still and looked up at her window. He did not move for
some time, but the dog came out into the moonlight in a leisurely way,
and lay down on the paving stones. All dogs think it is warmer in the
light than in the shadow.
Regina rose, got a long black cloak and a dark veil without lighting a
candle, and put them on. Then she went out.
CHAPTER XXI
Ercole walked on when he saw some one come out of No. 16, for he did not
recognise Regina. She followed him at a distance. Even if he should pass
where there might be many people, she would not lose sight of him easily
because he had his dog with him. She noticed that his canvas bag was
hung over one shoulder and that it seemed to be full, and his gun was
slung over the other. He meant to leave Rome that night on foot. He
walked fast through the new streets in the upper quarter, turned to the
right when he reached the Via Venti Settembre, and went straight on,
past the top of the hill, and along the Quirinal Palace; then down and
on, down and on, through moonlight and shadow, winding streets and
straight, till the Colosseum was in sight. He was going towards the
Porta San Sebastiano to take the road to Ardea.
The air was very clear, and the moonlight made the broad space as bright
as if there were daylight. Regina walked fast, and began to overtake her
father, and the dog turned his head and growled at the tall woman in
black. She came up with Ercole by the ruin of the ancient fountain, and
the dog snarled at her. Ercole stopped and looked at her sharply, and
she raised her veil.
"I have followed you," she said. "We are alone here. We can talk in
peace."
"And what am I to say to you?" Ercole asked, in a low and surly voice.
"What you will, little or much, as you please. You shall speak, and I
will listen. But we can walk on under the trees there. Then nobody can
see us."
Ercole began to go on, and Regina walked on his left side. The dog
sniffed at the hem of her long black cloak. They came under the shade of
the trees, and Ercole stopped again, and turned, facing the reflection
of the moonlight on the vast curve of the Colosseum.
"What do you want of me?" he asked. "Why do you follow me in the night?"
"When you saw that the Signore was with me to-day, you said, 'It cannot
be done.' He is not here now."
She stood quite still, looking at him.
"I understand nothing," he said, in the same surly tone as before.
"You wished to kill me to-day," she answered. "I am here. This is a good
place."
Ercole looked about him instinctively, peering into the shadows under
the trees.
"There is no one," Regina said. "This is a good place."
She had not lifted her veil, but she threw back the collar of her cloak,
and with quick fingers undid the fastenings of her dress, opening it
wide. Rays of moonlight fell through the trees upon her bosom, and it
gleamed like fine ivory newly cut.
"I wait," she said.
She stood motionless before him, expecting the knife, but her father's
hands did not move. His eyes were fixed on hers, though he could not see
them through the veil.
"So he has left you?" he said slowly.
"No. I am waiting."
Not a fold of her cloak stirred as she stood there to die. It seemed a
long time, but his hands did not move. Then he heard the sound of her
voice, very low and sweet, repeating a little prayer, but he only heard
the last words distinctly.
"--now, and in the hour of our death!"
His right hand moved slowly and found something in his pocket, and then
there was the sharp click of a strong spring, and a ray of moonlight
fell upon steel, and her voice was heard again.
"--in the hour of our death. Amen!"
An unearthly sound rent the stillness. The huge dog sat upright on his
haunches, his head thrown up and back, his terrible lower jaw trembling
as he howled, and howled again, waking great echoes where the roar of
wild lions had rung long ago.
Regina started, though she did not move a step; but an unreasoning fear
fell upon Ercole. He could not see her face, as the dark veil hung down.
She was so motionless and fearless; only the dead could be as fearless
of death and as still as she. Her breast was so white; her hands were
like marble hands, parting a black shroud upon it. She was something
risen from the grave to haunt him in that lonely place and drive him
mad; and the appalling howl of the great dog robe deafeningly on the
silence and trembled and died away, and began again.
Ercole's hand relaxed, and the knife fell gleaming at his feet. One
instant more and he turned and fled through the trees, towards San
Gregorio, his dog galloping heavily after him.
Regina's hands fell by her sides, and the folds of her cloak closed
together and hung straight down. She stared into the shadowy distance a
moment after her father, and saw his figure twice in the light where the
trees were wider apart, before he disappeared altogether. She looked
down and saw the knife at her feet, and she picked it up and felt the
point. It was as sharp as a needle, for Ercole had whetted it often
since he had sat by the gate in the early morning last August. It was
wet, for the grass under the trees had not dried since the rain.
She felt the point and edge with her hand, and sighed. It would have
been better to have felt it in her breast, but she would not take her
own life. She was not afraid to do it, and her young hand would have
been strong enough and sure enough to do it quickly. It was not the
thought of the pain that made her close the knife; it was the fear of
hell. Nothing she had done in her life seemed very bad to her, because
it had all been for Marcello. If Ercole had killed her, she thought that
God would have forgiven her after a time. But if she killed herself she
would instantly be seized by devils and thrust into real flames, to
burn for ever, without the slightest chance of forgiveness. She had been
taught that, and she believed it, and the thought of the fire made her
shut the clasp-knife and slip it into her dress with a sigh. It would be
a pity to throw it away, for it seemed to be a good knife, and her
father could not have had it very long.
She fastened her frock under her mantle and went a few steps down the
little slope towards the Colosseum. To go on meant to go home, and she
stopped again. The place was very lonely and peaceful, and the light on
the great walls was quiet and good to see. Though she had stood so
still, waiting to die, and had said her little prayer so calmly, her
brave heart had been beating slow and hard as if it were counting the
seconds before it was to stop; and now it beat fast and softly, and
fluttered a little, so that she felt faint, as even brave people do
after a great danger is past. I have seen hundreds of men together, just
escaped from destruction by earthquake, moving about listlessly with
veiled eyes, yawning as if they were dropping with sleep, and saying
childish things when they spoke at all. Man's body is the part of
himself which he least understands, unless he has spent half his life in
studying its ways. Its many portions can only telegraph to the brain two
words, 'pain' and 'pleasure,' with different degrees of energy; but that
is all. The rest of their language belongs to science.
Regina felt faint and sat down, because there was no reason for making
any effort to go home. Perhaps a cab would pass, returning from some
outlying part of the city, and she would take it. From the place where
she sat she could see one far off, if any came.
She sank down on the wet ground, and drew up her knees and pulled her
cloak round her; and gradually her head bent forward and rested upon her
hands, till she sat there like a figure of grief outlined in black
against the moonlight on the great wall. She had forgotten where she
was, and that there was any time in the world.
Half an hour passed, and the moon sank low, and an hour, and the deadly
white mist began to rise in the shadow round the base of the Colosseum,
and crept up under the trees; and if any one had come upon her then, he
would have seen its dull whiteness crawling round her feet and body, a
hand-breadth above the wet ground. But she did not know; she had
forgotten everything.
Nothing was real any more. She could have believed that her father had
killed her and left her corpse there, strangely sitting, though quite
dead.
Then she knew that the light had gone out; and suddenly she felt her
teeth chatter, and a chill ran through her bones that was bad to feel.
She raised her head and saw that the great walls were dark against the
starry sky, and she rose with an effort, as if her limbs had suddenly
become lead. But she could walk, though it was like walking in sleep.
She did not afterwards remember how she got home, but she had a vague
recollection of having lost her way, and of finding a cab at last, and
then of letting herself into the little apartment in the dark.
When she was next aware of anything it was broad daylight, and she was
lying on her bed, still dressed and wearing her cloak; and Kalmon was
bending over her, his eyes on hers and his fingers on her pulse, while
old Teresa watched her anxiously from the foot of the bed.
"I'm afraid it is a 'perniciosa,'" he said. "Put her to bed while I call
a regular doctor."
Regina looked up at him.
"I have fever, have I not?" she asked quite quietly.
"Yes. You have a little fever," he answered, but his big brown eyes were
very grave.
When Marcello came, an hour later, she did not know him. She stared at
him with wide, unwinking eyes, and there were bright patches of colour
in her cheeks. Already there were hollows in them, too, and at her
temples, for the perniciosa fever is frightfully quick to waste the
body. In the Campagna, where it is worst, men have died of it in less
than four hours after first feeling it upon them. Great men have
discovered wonderful remedies for it, but still it kills.
Kalmon got one of the great men, who was his friend, and they did what
they could. A nursing sister came and was installed. Marcello was
summoned away soon after noon by an official person, who brought a
carriage and said that Corbario was now conscious and able to speak, and
that it was absolutely necessary that Marcello should be confronted
with him, as he might not live another day. It was easier to go than it
would have been if Regina had been conscious, but even so it was very
hard. The nun and Teresa stayed with her.
[Illustration: "SHE SAT THERE LIKE A FIGURE OF GRIEF OUTLINED IN BLACK
AGAINST THE MOONLIGHT ON THE GREAT WALL."]
She said little in her delirium, and nothing that had any meaning for
either of the women. Twice she tried to tear away the linen and lace
from her throat.
"I wait!" she cried each time, and her eyes fixed themselves on the
ceiling, while she held her breath.
The women could not tell what she was waiting for, and they soothed her
as best they could. She seemed to doze after that, and when Marcello
came back she knew him, and took his hand. He sent away the nurses and
sat by the bedside, and she spoke to him in short sentences, faintly. He
bent forward, near the pillow, to catch the words.
She was telling him what she had done last night.
"But you promised that I should find you here to-day!" Marcello said,
with gentle reproach.
"Yes. I did not mean to break my word. But I thought he would do it. It
seemed so easy."
Her voice was weak with the fever, and sank almost to a whisper. He
stroked her hand affectionately, hoping that she would go to sleep; and
so a long time passed. Then Kalmon came in with his friend the great
doctor. They saw that she was not yet any better; the doctor ordered
several things to be done and went away. Kalmon drew Marcello out of the
room.
"You can do nothing," he said. "She has good care, and she is very
strong. Go home and come back in the morning."
"I must stay here," Marcello answered.
"That is out of the question, on account of the Sister of Charity. But
you can send for your things and camp in my rooms downstairs. There is a
good sofa. You can telephone to the villa for what you want."
"Thank you." Marcello's voice dropped and shook. "Will she live?" he
asked.
"I hope so. She is very strong, and it may be only fever."
"What else could it be?"
"Pneumonia."
Marcello bit his lip and closed his eyes as if he were in bodily pain,
and a moment later he turned away and went down to Kalmon's apartment.
The Professor went back to Regina's side, and stood quietly watching
her, with a very sad look in his eyes. She opened hers and saw him, and
she brought one hand to her chest.
"It burns," she said, almost in a whisper, but with a strange sort of
eagerness, as if she were glad.
"I wish I could bear it for you, my poor child," Kalmon answered.
She shook her head, and turned uneasily on the pillow. He did not
understand.
"What is it?" he asked gently. "What can I do for you? Tell me."
"I want to see some one very much. How long shall I live?"
"You will get quite well," said Kalmon, in a reassuring tone. "But you
must be very quiet." Again she moved her burning cheek on the pillow.
"Do you want to see a priest?" asked the Professor, thinking he had
guessed. "Is that it?"
"Yes--there is time for that--some one else--could you? Will you?"
"Yes." Kalmon bent down quickly, for he thought the delirium was coming
again. "Who is it?" he asked.
"Aurora--I mean, the Signorina--can you? Oh, do you think you could?"
"I'll try," Kalmon answered in great surprise.
But now the hoarseness was suddenly gone, and her sweet voice was softly
humming an old song of the hills, forgotten many years, and the
Professor saw that she did not know him any more. He nodded to Teresa,
who was in the room, and went out.
He wondered much at the request, but he remembered that it had been made
in the full belief that he would say nothing of it to Marcello. If she
had been willing that Marcello should know, she would have spoken to
him, rather than to Kalmon. He had seen little enough of Regina, but he
was sure that she could have no bad motive in wishing to see the young
girl. Yet, from a social point of view, it was not exactly an easy thing
to propose, and the Contessa would have a right to be offended at the
mere suggestion that her daughter should speak to "Consalvi's Regina";
and there could not be anything clandestine in the meeting, if Aurora
consented to it. Kalmon was too deeply attached to the Contessa herself
to be willing to risk her displeasure, or, indeed, to do anything of
which she would not approve.
He went to her house by the Forum of Trajan, and he found her at home.
It was late in the afternoon, and the lamp was lighted in the little
drawing-room, which did not seem at all shabby to Kalmon's accustomed
eyes and not very exigent taste. The Contessa was reading an evening
paper before the fire. She put out her hand to the Professor.
"It is a bad business," she said, glancing at the newspaper, which had a
long account of Corbario's arrest and of the murder of his old
accomplice. "Poor Marcello!"
"Poor Marcello! Yes, indeed! I'm sorry for him. There is something more
than is in the papers, and more than I have written to you and told you.
Regina has the perniciosa fever, complicated with pneumonia, and is not
likely to live."
"I am sorry," the Contessa answered. "I am very sorry for her. But after
all, compared with what Marcello has learned about his mother's
death--and other things Corbario did--"
She stopped, implying by her tone that even if Regina died, that would
not be the greatest of Marcello's misfortunes. Besides, she had long
foreseen that the relations of the two could not last, and the simplest
solution, and the happiest one for the poor devoted girl, was that she
should die before her heart was broken. Maddalena dell' Armi had often
wished that her own fate had been as merciful.
"Yes," Kalmon answered. "You are right in that. But Regina has made a
rather strange request. It was very unexpected, and perhaps I did wrong
to tell her that I would do my best to satisfy her. I don't think she
will live, and I felt sorry for her. That is why I came to you. It
concerns Aurora."
"Aurora?" The Contessa was surprised.
"Yes. The girl knows she is dying, and wishes very much to see Aurora
for a moment. I suppose it was weak of me to give her any hope."
The Contessa dropped her newspaper and looked into the fire thoughtfully
before she answered.
"You and I are very good friends," she said. "You would not ask me to do
anything you would not do yourself, would you? If you had a daughter of
Aurora's age, should you let her go and see this poor woman, unless it
were an act of real charity?"
"No," Kalmon answered reluctantly. "I don't think I should."
"Thank you for being so honest," Maddalena answered, and looked at the
fire again.
Some time passed before she spoke again, still watching the flames.
Kalmon sighed, for he was very sorry for Regina.
"On the other hand," the Contessa said at last, "it may be a real
charity. Have you any idea why she wishes to see Aurora?"
"No. I cannot guess."
"I can. At least, I think I can." She paused again. "You know
everything about me," she continued presently. "In the course of years I
have told you all my story. Do you think I am a better woman than
Regina?"
"My dear friend!" cried Kalmon, almost angrily. "How can you suggest--"
She turned her clear, sad eyes to him, and her look cut short his
speech.
"What has her sin been?" she asked gently. "She has loved Marcello. What
was mine? That I loved one man too well. Which is the better woman? She,
the peasant, who knew no better, who found her first love dying, and
saved him, and loved him--knowing no better, and braving the world? Or
I, well born, carefully brought up, a woman of the world, and
married--no matter how--not braving the world at all, but miserably
trying to deceive it, and my husband, and my child? Do you think I was
so much better than poor Regina? Would my own daughter think so if she
could know and understand?"
"If you were not a very good woman now," Kalmon said earnestly, "you
could not say what you are saying."
"Never mind what I am now. I am not as good as you choose to think. If I
were, there would not be a bitter thought left. I should have forgiven
all. Leave out of the question what I am now. Compare me as I was with
Regina as she is. That is how I put it, and I am right."
"Even if you were," Kalmon answered doubtfully, "the situation would be
the same, so far as Aurora is concerned."
"But suppose that this poor woman cannot die in peace unless she has
asked Aurora's pardon and obtained her forgiveness, what then?"
"Her forgiveness? For what?"
"For coming between her and Marcello. Say that, so far as Regina knows,
my daughter is the only human being she has ever injured, what then?"
"Does Aurora love Marcello?" asked Kalmon, instead of answering the
question.
"I think she does. I am almost sure of it."
Kalmon was silent for a while.
"But Marcello," he said at last, "what of him?"
"He has always loved Aurora," the Contessa answered. "Do you blame him
so much for what he has done? Why do you blame some people so easily, my
dear friend, and others not at all? Do you realise what happened to him?
He was virtually taken out of the life he was leading, by a blow that
practically destroyed his memory, and of which the consequences
altogether destroyed his will for some time. He found himself saved and
at the same time loved--no, worshipped--by one of the most beautiful
women in the world. Never mind her birth! She has never looked at any
other man, before or since, and from what I have heard, she never will.
Ah, if all women were like her! Marcello, weak from illness, allowed
himself to be worshipped, and Corbario did the rest. I understand it
all. Do you blame him very much? I don't. With all your strength of
character, you would have done the same at his age! And having taken
what she offered, what could he do, when he grew up and came to himself,
and felt his will again? Could he cast her off, after all she had done
