"It is a charming air castle." 

"But you'll find it the real thing. I am so 
glad to be rich. I should have loved Harlan if 
he had been comparatively poor, but I never 





would marry a very poor man. I do love luxury. 
It was just splendid at the Newells'. We shall 
not be as rich as that, but maybe Harlan will 
begin some business when we are married. Part 
of his money is in a mine and it yields tremen- 
dously. Isn't that a kind of business ?" 

"Why — yes," hesitatingly. 

Then Daisy went on rhapsodizing about her 
lover. Helen could hardly take it in as a real mat- 
ter. It seemed as if something would happen to 
spoil it all, and oh, she prayed with sudden irre- 
pressible fervor that there might not. It would 
kill Daisy. Were other girls as enthusiastic? 
Polly Henderson's chum said Polly was silly over 
her lover. Daisy was full of romance and hope 
and a delicious joy. It was the way some of the 
girls in story books loved. Of course if there 
had been no love there couldn't have been many 
books. Travels — yes there was often a love 
story told in a biography. 

The dusk dropped down while the soft voice 
went purling on, and Marjorie came to announce 
dinner. 

"Fd like to come down if I might in this invalid 
gown. I don't want to be dressed up. Mn 
Hollis wouldn't mind?" coaxingly. 



 

"Why, no, dear. We shall be glad to have 
you join us." 

Daisy was very winsome in her half-invalid 
role. Every one was solicitous about her and 
the pensive sweetness surprised even Helen. 
Afterward she sat in an easy chair and leaned her 
head on her father's shoulder, with Helen on the 
other side, whose hand she held. She seemed to 
draw Mr. Hollis into her circle as well. The 
Newells were church people and most of them 
had gone to an early Christmas service. There 
was a pretty chapel in the neighborhood that two 
or three wealthy families supported. 

Mr. Bell asked for some music presently. Mar- 
jorie and the two young men rose. 

"Come, Helen," exclaimed Willard. 

"Helen belongs to me," interposed Daisy plac- 
ing her hand caressingly on the girl's shoulder. 

"But you have had her all day, and you can 
have her to-morrow." 

"And I want her now. We'll have just the 
four voices with hers," added Marjorie. 

"I'm going to take her upstairs in a few mo- 
ments, I am getting tired. Go and sing without 
her." 

Helen intercepted a beseeching glance from 





Mr. Bell to Willard, who went slowly to the 
parlor. 

Daisy kept up a tender little chat with her 
father, just enough to disturb Helen's enjoyment 
with the singing. So she did not object when 
Daisy rose to retire, although she hated to lose 
the melody of the beautiful old hymns, 

"I want you to read poetry to me," Daisy said 
when she was settled in the bed. "Some of those 
shorter poems of Mrs. Browning's. 'Bertha in 
the Lane' is so beautiful, and so pitiful, too," 

Helen read her to sleep, but they had ceased 
singing, and it was too late to go downstairs. 

Mrs. Bell came to her room and they had a 
tender little talk. 

"I'd like you to be Daisy's adopted sister," she 
said. You see, Annis and Marjorie were near 
together and dear companions, but Daisy, as one 
may say, has had to go outside for friendship, 
and I think it has not always been judicious. 
Two girls growing up in a family learn to con- 
sider each other more. We have spoiled her, 
and now we hardly know how to lead her back. 
And this late episode has rendered her more im- 
perious. She did talk a little once of going to 
college, but the doctor said she was not strong 
enough." 



 

Helen was not experienced enough to comfort, 
though she longed to. And Mrs. Bell had been 
so wise and tender to her. If she had been a 
daughter of the house. 

"But then I wouldn't have been Helen Grant," 
she said to herself afterward. And in spite of 
the various chances and changes she had a strong 
liking for her own personality. 

The trunk was delivered on Monday morning, 
Daisy was quite herself and full of eagerness to 
display its contents. There was her exquisite 
bridesmaid's gown, a filmy creation that looked 
too lovely to wear. 

"It's enchanting enough for my own wedding 
gown," she said with a joyous laugh. "And there 
is my picture hat. I did look just lovely in 
them. And think what a sight fine dresses cost ! 
There's my beautiful bracelet. Oh, dear! what 
a joy it must be to be immensely rich I Well, 
that will come to me, too. Harlan says we must 
be married in the city in one of the fine churches. 
He has rather grand ideas." 

Helen studied his photograph now and then. 
There certainly was not any special indication 
of character or mental strength. Indeed at the 
first glance she had been disappointed. 

"Photographs do not do him justice," Daisy 



said half in apology. "He is always talking and 
laughing, and it is difficult to catch a fine expres- 
sion of such a person. But he is delightful! I 
wish you could see him. And he just suits me." 

Helen was beginning to weary of the iteration, 
and of the possession that was really irksome. 

"I don't know what I shall do when you are 
gone," she moaned. "Oh, if you could stay a 
week longer. Marjorie is full of her own affairs 
and the church, and I know mamma will be say- 
ing little things all the time that will fret me 
awfully. You must write me lovely long letters 
to comfort me, at least once a week." 

"Oh, Daisy, I couldn't. You know how close 
one must study, and there are the letters to Hope. 
All the folks there think I do not write half often 
enough. You will have your lover's letters, and 
then he is to come.'* 

"But I want some one all the time. I wish I 
was rich enough to buy you." 

"I'm not poor enough to be sold," laughed 
Helen. 

"And if papa should put off the engagement! 
Oh, I do want a dear, bosom friend who will 
sympathize with me.'* 

"Don't borrow trouble," was the resolute reply. 

"Helen, you have a real hard side to you and it 



 

seems as if you delighted in turning it to me." 

"Nonsense. I am not a sentimental girl." 

"But you don't love anyone better than you 
do me?" she pleaded. 

"How many girls in school did you love last 
year when I was not there ? And oh, Daisy Bell, 
do you love any one in the wide world better than 
you do me?" 

Then Daisy had to laugh at the mock impas- 
sioned tone. 

But she did like Marjorie very much. How 
different they were. 

Helen was up early Tuesday morning and had 
her breakfast with the two gentlemen, as she was 
to go down in the train. So she had only time 
for a brief good-bye with Daisy, just roused out 
of a sound sleep. She was truly glad it could 
be no more. Mrs. Bell said — "We must take 
up our correspondence again, now each may com- 
fort the other ;" and the girl answered with misty 
eyes and tremulous lips. 

She enjoyed the journey down. She felt as if 
in a fresh atmosphere with the exhaustion swept 
away; as if she had been in the enervating air 
of a green-house. 

Willard was to take her to her train. And as 
they stood saying good-bye he exclaimed impetu- 





ously: "I wish you girls were allowed to write 
to a friend of the other sex. Daisy's letters will 
be full of sentiment that you'll have to answer — " 

"But I shall write to your mother," she hurried 
to answer. She would make no blunder now, 
though she felt the flush in her cheek. 

"I haven't had half a visit. In the summer I 
shall come to Hope to visit you." 

Then he put her on the train. 

Helen felt as if she had been away a month. 
It was a rather lowering day, but as they came 
into Westchester everything looked beautiful to 
her, and a thrill of home joy went through her 
frame. Three or four girls stood on the plat- 
form, and the hearty welcome almost brought 
tears to her eyes. 

"Oh, girls," she cried, "I am so glad to get 
back. What shall we do when we outgrow Al- 
dred House? Will any college walls ever be so 
dear?" 

"Did Daisy return while you were there? We 
saw a glowing account of Miss Duer's wedding 
in a New York paper. Why, it was almost like 
a princess being married, and there was a vague 
suggestion that Miss Bell had captured the 
bride's brother, a millionaire and mine owner," 
and several girls thronged about Helen. 



 

"She is not engaged, at least not quite," and 
Helen flushed with a kind of consciousness that 
she might be betraying confidence. "I think her 
parents do not altogether approve — he is a gay 
young society man, and they counsel a little wait- 
ing." 

"The best time to marry is when you have a 
good chance," said one of the girls sententiously. 
"And the idea of parents not being willing their 
daughters should marry a young man and a for- 
tune. An old man in the case would be open to 
criticism." 

"Girls, just think how the pleasant things of 
life, the little indulgences, always went to Daisy 
Bell. Some one helped her with translations and 
difficult problems, she was excused when she had 
a headache, everybody wanted her to go here 
and there, and they fetched and carried for her. 
She was sweet and winsome, and with that rose- 
pearl complexion and appealing eyes and win- 
some ways she seemed to go to every one's heart 
I went down to her myself." 

"Oh, ever so many of us did." 

"And after school closed I asked myself seri- 
ously what I received in return. She really ab- 
sorbed your affection with a suggestion that you 
suited her better than any one else. I wondered 





if she didn't give those who were admitted to the 
sacred precincts just the same fascinating wel- 
come. She was in a way exclusive, but she did 
like the adoration of the crowd. She promised to 
write to me, and begged me to be sure and tell 
her all about the school this year. I wrote her 
one letter early in vacation and never received 
any answer. 

"I used to wonder if she was a girl for a real 
and lasting friendship. She was very attractive. 
Well, since variety is the spice of life, it would 
make a queer school to have us all dull and 
learned and solemn, and discriminating — " 

"Oh, don't weight our lovely evanescent youth 
with so many heavy qualities! She was a deli- 
cious little body, like a nectarine, and I have 
heard you cannot eat your cake and have it too. 
She gave of her brightest, and we couldn't expect 
winter apple qualities. She's one of the girls 
born for good luck, so I am not surprised that the 
millionaire plum fell to her. We have been lik- 
ened to a garden of girls many a time, and the 
flowers bloom, shed their sweetness and go their 
way. So it is with us. Girls have capacious 
hearts, but not quite like Wordsworth's pedlar." 

A general laugh went round. Helen slipped 
away, eager to rejoin Miss Craven, who seemed 



 

to have a mysteriously softened aspect. She 
looked motherly, with the two girls clinging to 
her skirts, and their faces were transfigured with 
a tender light. 

Helen nodded to the group of girls and left 
them discussing Daisy Bell. 



CHAPTER XIII 

GIRLS AND GIRLS 

Juliet kissed the children and sent them away. 
She and Helen went to their room. 

"You have had a pleasant time, I know. I see 
it in your eyes/' cried Helen, "You have hardly 
missed me." 

"Oh, Helen!" Yet the upbraiding was not 
very severe, for she smiled. 

"I am so glad to get back, oh you don't know I 
And yet I've had a delightful visit. Mrs. Bell is 
the sort of woman who takes you to her heart 
and it keeps warm all the time. And Miss Mar- 
jorie is just lovely; I should like to live in her 
parish went she gets one," laughing. "And the 
father, brother, lover were all of the most enjoy- 
able sort. Willard has developed into a really 
ambitious fellow. And Daisy — but we will talk 
her over afterwards. What has been happening 
here, and to you?" 

"The first thing was sad — well, not altogether. 
You know there has been no hope for my friend 
Mrs. Howard's husband this long time. But he 



was SO anxious to live. However, about two 
months ago he gave up and just grew weaker 
until the end came peacefully. That was early 
in the month. For two weeks she was ill in bed, 
and just sitting up a few hours when she wrote. 
As soon as she is well enough to travel she plans 
to come to Westchester and stay awhile. I am 
to find her a boarding place. I think she cares 
a great deal about me. I was touched by some of 
the things she said. And she wishes so much that 
she had a daughter. I am beginning to think 
girls fill quite a useful place in the economy of 
life. 

There was a shadowy smile in Helen's eyes. 

"You see this was not like anything sudden. 
She has been devoted, and she feels now that her 
work has met every requirement. If her young- 
est son only was a girl! But he is out on the 
Oregon coast, full of adventures. One son is 
married and settled in San Francisco. The other 
one has gone abroad for his firm. So she is 
quite alone." 

Would she want Juliet? Helen wondered. 

"And we have had quite a romance here in 
school. People sometimes say stories are so un- 
real. You have had some queer episodes in your 
life, and think of me who am lord of my fortune 





and little else besides — a miserable paraphrase, 
isn't it ? But do you know I Ve often thought my 
advent in school was something like Miss 
Kent's—" 

"But you are not alike ?" protested Helen. 

"Nearer than you think. A school is like a 
book. You are turning new pages every day 
and there are new developments. I wonder how 
many girls' stories Mrs. Aldred holds in her 
heart? The very day you went away Miss Kent 
had word that her mother was dead. Miss Logan 
told us the story to explain something about her 
friend. Mr. Kent left considerable property tied 
up in this way. Wife and daughter were to 
share the income just alike, the trustee was to 
pay the daughter her share. She went to a 
boarding school one year and on her return 
found her mother so much in debt that she took 
a small district school and taught and studied 
with the old clergyman of the place. Mrs. Kent 
was extravagantly fond of dress, and not pleased 
that she did not have the disposition of the whole 
income. The principal could not be touched; if 
the mother died first it went to the daughter and 
if otherwise to her mother. Last June Mrs. Kent 
married an Englishman and went abroad. Miss 
Kent paid up some debts and found her income 



 

would admit of her coming here, where her only 
friend, Miss Logan, had arranged to take a 
course. And the new Mrs. Burwind had a stroke 
of apoplexy about the middle of the month and 
lived only a few hours. The trustee came up 
with the letter, and it seems the husband thinks 
he ought to have his wife's share, but of course 
he cannot get it. So you see Miss Kent is quite 
an heiress. They both plan to go to college 
together. The income is about a thousand" a 
year," 

"So romances haven't gone out of date," com- 
mented Helen. "And here is a mother who dis- 
proves the tenderness we associate with mother- 
hood." A vague thought of her own mother 
came to Helen and she wondered if she would 
have loved her as she grew older. 

"Miss Logan was really very sweet and friendly 
and delicate in talking of her friend who had 
been always ambitious on educational lines. She 
had pinched and gone in the plainest attire, in- 
deed she had almost come to despise dress because 
her mother used every art to obtain it. The trus- 
tee, Mr. Carter, had to warn several shop-keepers 
not to trust her. And the mother used to say — 
'Just wait until I come into possession of this 
money, you make it fly,' as if she was sure she 



would outlive Elizabeth. Miss Logan admitted 
that she had had a very hard life. And she spent 
the little money she had been saving up for a 
year to study higher branches, on her mother's 
wedding trousseau. Mr. Carter would not ad- 
vance a dollar, and I think he was right. Then 
her mother said she went to England looking like 
some one's servant girl." 

"It's queer," remarked Helen thoughtfully, 
"that so many of the girls eager for education 
have such a struggle to compass it. And they do 
not get honored for their efforts. I think a boy 
would. It isn't fair !" and she glanced up indig- 
nantly as she ended her sentence. 

"I wish there might be a little more kindliness 
among girls. I am sure there is with boys and 
men. But the girls study each other's clothes 
and rate a girl accordingly, though they really 
did not pay much attention to mine. But I was 
diffident and awkward. I still half envy girls 
who walk right into one's heart like Daisy Bell." 

"Miss Kent might have been a little more ap- 
proachable," said Helen. "I tried. And — she 
might have made herself look a little more girlish, 
a little prettier. I think you ought to look as 
well as you can, and your mother and aunts ought 
to allow you to. I don't believe vanity is a bit 



 

worse than the dissatisfaction of faded and out- 
grown frocks children are made to wear. Your 
clothes ought to be so you would not give them 
a second thought" 

"You might not, perhaps. Mrs. Kent would 
give them many thoughts. Anything inharmo- 
nious does fret some people." 

"I don't know but gowns and caps and 'round 
tires like the moon' and 'wimples and crisping 
pins' ought to be made a subject of special study," 
laughed Helen. "Well, I shall renew my efforts 
toward Miss Kent. She must have had a hard, 
unhappy life, and think how delightfully they 
might have spent it together! Oh, why must 
people throw away not only their own chances 
but those of other folks they have no right to! 
Why, that is taking what doesn't belong to you." 

"I never thought of that before. It has a wide 
aspect. It is not just to defraud another of hap- 
piness." 

"And what else has happened at this wonderful 
Aldred House where stories of life are being 
made all the time ?" 

"Two new scholars came yesterday, girls about 
sixteen. One is an orphan and will stay three 
years, her guardian plans; a rather aggressive 
looking girl. The other cried nearly all night 





from homesickness, so she had a home to leave. ' 
The fair was a success, the Christmas celebration 
delightful. Oh, and Mrs. Danforth told me 
Gordon had sent her a check for fifty dollars to 
buy Christmas for the rest of the parson's flock." 

"That was splendid," cried Helen, aflush with 
delight. She wondered why she should be so 
proud to have him remember. 

"It is curious," Juliet said after a pause, "but 
these few days I have felt like being in a real 
home. There was time for interest in so many 
things. One really forgot the school part. Oh, 
and you have not had your letters. How could I 
be so remiss!" 

Uncle Jason had sent her five dollars with his 
dear love. He knew she did not need it, but it 
was all the dearer for that. Nat had written a 
long letter. His violet bed was coming on splen- 
didly, and his young fruit trees were standing the 
cold robustly. The hens were bringing in money 
every week. There was so much interest in 
farming. She had sent him a book of travels and 
he was delighted with it. 

Mrs. Wilmarth had remembered both girls, but 
Helen's letter was especially dear. She was 
learning to be of some use in the world, to minis- 
ter to others as well as to be ministered to. Mrs. 



 

Gilbert had proved such a help. Mr. and Mrs. 
Walters had taken her up warmly. "We are 
making a very little new social atmosphere. Once 
