great harm if I drove the car out myself. I had hoped to find you in so
that I might explain how it had happened, for, of course, Miss Donne
was a little--what shall I say?--a little----'
He hesitated, having hoped that Margaret would help him out. After
waiting two or three seconds, Mrs. Rushmore turned on her.
'Margaret, what were you?' she asked with severity. 'I insist upon
knowing what you were.'
'I'm sure I don't know,' Margaret answered, trying to speak easily, as
if it did not matter much. 'It was very kind of Monsieur Logotheti, at
all events, and I'm much obliged to him.'
'Oh, and pray, what has happened to Mr. Lushington?' inquired Mrs.
Rushmore.
'I was on the wrong side of the road, and the car knocked me off my
bicycle,' added Lushington. 'They kindly stopped to pick me up. They
thought I was hurt.'
'Well--you are,' said Mrs. Rushmore. 'Why don't you get into the
automobile and let Monsieur Logotheti take you home?'
As it was not easy to explain why he preferred walking in his battered
condition, Lushington said nothing. Mrs. Rushmore turned to her groom,
who was English.
'William,' she said, 'you must have a clothes-brush.'
William had one concealed in some mysterious place under the box.
'Clean Mr. Lushington, William,' said the good lady.
'Oh, thank you--no--thanks very much,' protested Lushington.
But William, having been told to clean him, proceeded to do so, gently
and systematically, beginning at his neck and proceeding thence with
bold curving strokes of the brush, as if he were grooming a horse.
Instinctively Lushington turned slowly round on his heels, while he
submitted to the operation, and the others looked on. They had ample
time to note the singular cut of his clothes.
'He used to be always so well dressed!' said Mrs. Rushmore to Margaret
in an audible whisper.
Lushington winced visibly, but as he was not supposed to hear the words
he said nothing. William had worked down to the knees of his trousers,
which he grasped firmly in one hand while he vigorously brushed the
cloth with the other.
'That will do, thank you,' said Lushington, trying to draw back one
captive leg.
But William was inexorable and there was no escape from his hold. He
was an Englishman, and was therefore thorough; he was a servant, and he
therefore thoroughly enjoyed the humour of seeing his betters in a
pickle.
'And now, my dear,' said Mrs. Rushmore to Margaret, 'get in and I'll
take you home. You can explain everything on the way. That's enough,
William. Put away your brush.'
Margaret had no choice, since fate had intervened.
'I'm very much obliged to you,' she said, nodding to Logotheti; 'and I
hope you'll be none the worse,' she added, smiling at Lushington.
Mrs. Rushmore bent her head with dignified disapproval, first to one
and then to the other, and got into the carriage as if she were
mounting the steps of a throne. She further manifested her displeasure
at the whole affair by looking straight before her at the buttons on
the back of the coachman's coat after she had taken her seat. Margaret
got in lightly after her and she scarcely glanced at Logotheti as the
carriage turned; but her eyes lingered a little with an expression that
was almost sad as she met Lushington's. She was conscious of a reaction
of feeling; she was sorry that she had helped to make him suffer, that
she had been amused by his damaged condition and by his general
discomfiture. He had made her respect him in spite of herself, just
when she had thought that she could never respect him again; and
suddenly the deep sympathy for him welled up, which she had taken for
love, and which was as near to love as anything her heart had yet felt
for a man.
She knew, too, that it was really her heart, and nothing else, where he
was concerned. She was human, she was young, she was more alive than
ordinary women, as great singers generally are, and Logotheti's
ruthless masculine vitality stirred her and drew her to him in a way
she did not quite like. His presence disturbed her oddly and she was a
little ashamed of liking the sensation, for she knew quite well that
such feelings had nothing to do with what she called her real self. She
might have hated him and even despised him, but she could never have
been indifferent when he was close to her. Sometimes the mere touch of
his hand at meeting or parting thrilled her and made her feel as if she
were going to blush. But she was never really in sympathy with him as
she was with Lushington.
'And now, Margaret,' said Mrs. Rushmore after a silence that had lasted
a full minute, 'I insist on knowing what all this means.'
Margaret inwardly admitted that Mrs. Rushmore had some right to insist,
but she was a little doubtful herself about the meaning of what had
happened. If it meant anything, it meant that she had been flirting
rather rashly and had got into a scrape. She wondered what the two men
were saying now that they were alone together, and she turned her head
to look over the back of the phaeton, but a turn of the road already
hid the motor car from view.
Meanwhile Mrs. Rushmore's face showed that she still insisted, and
Margaret had to say something. As she was a truthful person it was not
easy to decide what to say, and while she was hesitating Mrs. Rushmore
expressed herself again.
'Margaret,' said she, 'I'm surprised at you. It makes no difference
what you say. I'm surprised.'
The words were spoken with a slow and melancholy intonation that might
have indicated anything but astonishment.
'Yes,' Margaret remarked rather desperately, 'I don't wonder. I suppose
I've been flirting outrageously with them both. But I really could not
foresee that one would run over the other and that you would appear
just at that moment, could I? I'm helpless. I've nothing to say. You
must have flirted when you were young. Try to remember what it was
like, and make allowance for human weakness!'
She laughed nervously and glanced nervously at her companion, but Mrs.
Rushmore's face was like iron.
'Mr. Rushmore,' said the latter, alluding to her departed husband,
'would not have understood such conduct.'
Margaret thought this was very probable, judging from the likenesses of
the late Ransom Rushmore which she had seen. There was one in
particular, an engraving of him when he had been president of some big
company, which had always filled her with a vague uneasiness. In her
thoughts she called him the 'commercial missionary,' and was glad for
his sake and her own that he was safe in heaven, with no present
prospect of getting out.
'I'm sorry,' she said, without much contrition. 'I mean,' she went on,
correcting herself, and with more feeling, 'I'm sorry I've done
anything that you don't like, for you've been ever so good to me.'
'So have other people,' answered the elder woman with an air of mystery
and reproof.
'Oh yes! I know! Everybody has been very kind--especially Madame
Bonanni.'
'Should you be surprised to hear that the individual who bought out Mr.
Moon and made you independent, did it from purely personal motives?'
Margaret turned to her quickly in great surprise.
'What do you mean? I thought it was a company. You said so.'
'In business, one man can be a company, if he owns all the stock,' said
Mrs. Rushmore, sententiously.
'I don't understand those things,' Margaret answered, impatient to know
the truth. 'Who was it?'
'I hardly think I ought to tell you, my dear. I promised not to. But I
will allow you to guess. That's quite different from telling, and I
think you ought to know, because you are under great obligations to
him.'
'You don't mean to say----' Margaret stopped, and the blood rose slowly
in her face.
'You may ask me if it was one of those two gentlemen we have just left
in the road,' said Mrs. Rushmore. 'But mind, I'm not telling you!'
'Monsieur Logotheti!' Margaret leaned back and bit her lip.
'You've made the discovery yourself, Margaret. Remember that I've told
you nothing. I promised not to, but I thought you ought to know.'
'It's an outrage!' cried Margaret, breaking out. 'How did you dare to
take money from him for me?'
Mrs. Rushmore seemed really surprised now, though she did not say she
was.
'My dear!' she exclaimed, 'you would not have had me refuse, would you?
Money is money, you know.'
The good lady's inherited respect for the stuff was discernible in her
tone.
'Money!' Margaret repeated the word with profound contempt and a good
deal of anger.
'Yes, my dear,' retorted Mrs. Rushmore severely. 'Yes, money. It is
because your father and mother spoke of it in that silly, contemptuous
way that they died so poor. And now that you've got it, take my advice
and don't turn up your nose at it.'
'Do you suppose I'll keep it, now that I know where it comes from? I'll
give it back to him to-day!'
'No, you won't,' answered Mrs. Rushmore, with the conviction of
certainty.
'I tell you I will!' Margaret cried. 'I could not sleep to-night if I
knew that I had money in my possession that was given me--given me like
a gift--by a man who wants to marry me! Ugh! It's disgusting!'
'Margaret, this is ridiculous. Monsieur Logotheti came to see me and
explained the whole matter. He said that he had made a very good
bargain and expected to realise a large sum by the transaction. Do you
suppose that such a good man of business would think of making any one
a present of a hundred thousand pounds? You must be mad! A hundred
thousand pounds is a great deal of money, Margaret. Remember that.'
'So much the better for him! I shall give it back to him at once!'
Mrs. Rushmore smiled.
'You can't,' she said. 'You've never even asked me where it is, and
while you are out of your mind, I shall certainly not tell you. You
seem to forget that when I undertook to bring suit against Alvah Moon
you gave me a general power of attorney to manage your affairs. I shall
do whatever is best for you.'
'I don't understand business,' Margaret answered, 'but I'm sure you
have no power to force Monsieur Logotheti's money upon me. I won't take
it.'
'You have taken it and I have given a receipt for it, my dear, so it's
of no use to talk nonsense. The best thing you can do is to give up
this silly idea of going on the stage, and just live like a lady, on
your income.'
'And marry my benefactor, I suppose!' Margaret's eyes flashed. 'That's
what he wants--what you all want--to keep me from singing! He thought
that if he made me independent, I would give it up, and you encouraged
him! I see it now. As for the money itself, until I really have it in
my hands it's not mine; but just as soon as it is I'll give it back to
him, and I'll tell him so to-day.'
The carriage rolled through the pretty woods of Fausses Reposes, and
the sweet spring breeze fanned Margaret's cheeks in the shade. But she
felt fever in her blood and her heart beat fast and angrily as if it
were a conscious creature imprisoned in a cage. She was angry with
herself and with every one else, with Logotheti, with Mrs. Rushmore,
with poor Lushington for making such a fool of himself just when she
was prepared to like him better than ever. She was sure that she had
good cause to hate every one, and she hated accordingly, with a good
will. She wished that she might never spend another hour under Mrs.
Rushmore's roof, that she might never see Logotheti again, that she
were launched in her artistic career, free at last and responsible to
no one for her actions, her words or her thoughts.
But Mrs. Rushmore began to think that she had made a mistake in letting
her know too soon who had bought out Alvah Moon, and she wondered
vaguely why she had betrayed the secret, trying to account for her
action on the ground of some reasonably thought-out argument, which was
quite impossible, of course. So they both maintained a rather hostile
silence during the rest of the homeward drive.
CHAPTER XVI
Until the carriage was out of sight, Logotheti and Lushington stood
still where Margaret had left them. Then Lushington looked at his
adversary coolly for about four seconds, stuck his hands into his
pockets, turned his back and deliberately walked off without a word.
Logotheti was so little prepared for such an abrupt closure that he
stood looking after the Englishman in surprise till the latter had made
a dozen steps.
'I say!' said the Greek, calling after him then and affecting an
exceedingly English tone. 'I say, you know! This won't do.'
Lushington stopped, turned on his heel and faced him from a distance.
'What won't do?' he asked coolly.
Seeing that he came no nearer, Logotheti went forward a little.
'You admitted just now that you had been playing the spy,' said the
Greek, whose temper was getting beyond his control, now that the women
were gone.
'Yes,' said Lushington, 'I've been watching you.'
'I said spying,' answered Logotheti; 'I used the word "spy." Do you
understand?'
'Perfectly.'
'You don't seem to. I'm insulting you. I mean to insult you.'
'Oh!' A faint smile crossed the Englishman's face. 'You want me to send
you a couple of friends and fight a duel with you? I won't do anything
so silly. As I told you before Miss Donne, we don't owe each other
anything to speak of, so we may as well part without calling each other
bad names.'
'If that is your view of it, you had better keep out of my way in
future.' He laid his hand on the car to get in as he spoke.
Lushington's face hardened.
'I shall not take any pains to do that,' he answered. 'On the contrary,
if you go on doing what you have been doing of late, you'll find me
very much in your way.'
Logotheti turned upon him savagely.
'Do you want to marry Miss Donne yourself?' he asked.
Lushington, who was perfectly cool now that no woman was present, was
struck by the words, which contained a fair question, though the tone
was angry and aggressive.
'No,' he answered quietly. 'Do you?'
Logotheti stared at him.
'What the devil did you dare to think that I meant?' he asked. 'It
would give me the greatest satisfaction to break your bones for asking
that!'
Lushington came a step nearer, his hands in his pockets, though his
eyes were rather bright.
'You may try if you like,' he said. 'But I've something more to say,
and I don't think we need fall to fisticuffs on the highroad like a
couple of bargees. I've misunderstood you. If you are going to marry
Miss Donne, I shall keep out of your way altogether. I made a mistake,
because you haven't the reputation of a saint, and when a man of your
fortune runs after a young singer it's not usually with the idea of
marrying her. I'm glad I was wrong.'
Logotheti was too good a judge of men to fancy that Lushington was in
the least afraid of him, or that he spoke from any motive but a fair
and firm conviction; and the Greek himself, with many faults, was too
brave not to be generous. He turned again to get into the car.
'I believe you English take it for granted that every foreigner is a
born scoundrel,' he said with something like a laugh.
'To tell the truth,' Lushington answered, 'I believe we do. But we are
willing to admit that we can be mistaken. Good morning.'
He walked away, and this time Logotheti did not stop him, but got in
and started the car in the opposite direction without looking back. He
was conscious of wishing that he might kill the cool Englishman, and
though his expression betrayed nothing but annoyance a little colour
rose and settled on his cheek-bones; and that bodes no good in the
faces of dark men when they are naturally pale. He reached home, and it
was there still; he changed his clothes, and yet it was not gone; he
drank a cup of coffee and smoked a big cigar, and the faint red spots
were still there, though he seemed absorbed in the book he was reading.
It was not his short interview with Lushington which had so much moved
him, though it had been the first disturbing cause. In men whose
nature, physical and moral, harks back to the savage ancestor, to the
pirate of northern or southern seas, to the Bedouin of the desert, to
the Tartar of Bokhara or the Suliote of Albania, the least bit of a
quarrel stirs up all the blood at once, and the mere thought of a fight
rouses every masculine passion. The silent Scotchman, the stately Arab,
the courtly Turk are far nearer to the fanatic than the quick-tempered
Frenchman or the fiery Italian.
For a long time Constantine Logotheti had been playing at civilisation,
at civilised living and especially at the more or less gentle diversion
of civilised love-making; but he was suddenly tired of it all, because
it had never been quite natural to him, and he grew bodily hungry and
thirsty for what he wanted. The round flushed spots on his cheeks were
the outward signs of something very like a fever which had seized him
within the last two hours. Until then he would hardly have believed
that his magnificent artificial calm could break down, and that he
could wish to get his hands on another man's throat, or take by force
the woman he loved, and drag her away to his own lawless East. He
wondered now why he had not fallen upon Lushington and tried to kill
him in the road. He wondered why, when Margaret had been safe in the
motor car, he had not put the machine at full speed for Havre, where
his yacht was lying. His artificial civilisation had hindered him of
course! It would not check him now, if Lushington were within arm's
length, or if Margaret were in his power. It would be very bad for any
one to come between him and what he wanted so much, just then, that his
throat was dry and he could hear his heart beating as he sat in his
chair. He sat there a long time because he was not sure what he might
do if he allowed himself the liberty of crossing the room. If he did
that, he might write a note, or go to the telephone, or ring for his
secretary, or do one of fifty little things whereby the train of the
inevitable may be started in the doubtful moments of life.
It did not occur to him that he was not the arbiter of his actions in
that moment, free to choose between good and evil, which he, perhaps,
called by other names just then. He probably could not have remembered
a moment in his whole life at which he had not believed himself the
master of his own future, with full power to do this, or that, or to
leave it undone. And now he was quite sure that he was choosing the
part of wisdom in resisting the strong temptation to do something rash,
which made it a physical effort to sit still and keep his eyes on his
book. He held the volume firmly with both hands as if he were clinging
to something fixed which secured him from being made to move against
his will.
One of fate's most amusing tricks is to let us work with might and main
to help her on, while she makes us believe that we are straining every
nerve and muscle to force her back.
If Logotheti had not insisted on sitting still that afternoon nothing
might have happened. If he had gone out, or if he had shut himself up
with his statue, beyond the reach of visitors, his destiny might have
been changed, and one of the most important events of his life might
never have come to pass.
But he sat still with his book, firm as a rock, sure of himself,
convinced that he was doing the best thing, proud of his strength of
mind and his obstinacy, perfectly pharisaical in his contempt of human
weakness, persuaded that no power in earth or heaven could force him to
do or say anything against his mature judgment. He sat in his deep
chair near a window that was half open, his legs stretched straight out
before him, his flashing patent leather feet crossed in a manner which
showed off the most fantastically over-embroidered silk socks, tightly
drawn over his lean but solid ankles.
From the wall behind him the strange face in the encaustic painting
watched him with drooping lids and dewy lips that seemed to quiver; the
ancient woman, ever young, looked as if she knew that he was thinking
of her and that he would not turn round to see her because she was so
like Margaret Donne.
His back was to the picture, but his face was to the door. It opened
softly, he looked up from his book and Margaret was before him, coming
quickly forward. For an instant he did not move, for he was taken
unawares. Behind her, by the door, a man-servant gesticulated
apologies--the lady had pushed by him before he had been able to
announce her. Then another figure appeared, hurrying after Margaret; it
was little Madame De Rosa, out of breath.
Logotheti got up now, and when he was on his feet, Margaret was already
close to him. She was pale and her eyes were bright, and when she spoke
he felt the warmth of her breath in his face. He held out his hand
mechanically, but he hardly noticed that she did not take it.
'I want to speak to you alone,' she said.
Madame De Rosa evidently understood that nothing more was expected of
her for the present, and she sat down and made herself comfortable.
'Will you come with me?' Logotheti asked, controlling his voice.
Margaret nodded; he led the way and they left the room together. Just
outside the door there was a small lift. He turned up the electric
light, and Margaret stepped in; then he followed and worked the lift
himself. In the narrow space there was barely room for two; Logotheti
felt a throbbing in his temples and the red spots on his cheek-bones
grew darker. He could hear and almost feel Margaret's slightest
movement as she stood close behind him while he faced the shut door of
the machine. He did not know why she had come, he did not guess why she
wished to be alone with him, but that was what she had asked, and he
was taking her where they would really be alone together; and it was
not his fault. Why had she come?
When a terrible accident happens to a man, the memory of all his life
may pass before his eyes in the interval of a second or two. I once
knew a man who fell from the flying trapeze in a circus in Berlin,
struck on one of the ropes to which the safety net was laced and broke
most of his bones. He told me that he had never before understood the
meaning of eternity, but that ever afterwards, for him, it meant the
time that had passed after he had missed his hold and before he struck
and was unconscious. He could associate nothing else with the word.
Logotheti remembered, as long as he lived, the interminable interval
between Margaret's request to see him alone, and the noiseless closing
of the sound-proof door when they had entered the upper room, where
Aphrodite stood in the midst and the soft light fell from high windows
that were half-shaded.
Even then, though her anger was hot and her thoughts were chasing one
another furiously, Margaret could not repress an exclamation of
surprise when she first saw the statue facing her in its bare beauty,
like a living thing.
Logotheti laid one hand very lightly upon her arm, and was going to say
something, but she sprang back from his touch as if it burnt her. The
colour deepened in his dark cheeks and his eyes seemed brighter and
nearer together. When a woman comes to a man's house and asks to be
alone with him, she need not play horror because the tips of his
fingers rest on her sleeve for a moment. Why did she come?
Margaret spoke first.
'How did you dare to settle money on me?' she asked, standing back from
him.
Logotheti understood for the first time that she was angry with him,
and that her anger had brought her to his house. The fact did not
impress him much, though he wished she were in a better temper. The
sound of her voice was sweet to him whatever she said.
'Oh?' he ejaculated with a sort of thoughtful interrogation. 'Has she
told you? She had agreed to say nothing about it. How very annoying!'
His sudden calm was exasperating, for Margaret did not know him well
enough to see that below the surface his blood was boiling. She tapped
the blue tiled floor sharply with the toe of her shoe.
'It's outrageous!' she said with energy.
'I quite agree with you. Won't you sit down?' Logotheti looked at the
divan. Margaret half sat upon the arm of a big leathern chair.
'Oh, you agree with me? Will you please explain?'
'I mean, it is outrageous that Mrs. Rushmore should have told you----'
'You're quibbling!' Margaret broke in angrily. 'You know very well what
I mean. It's an outrage that a man should put a woman under an enormous
obligation in spite of herself, without her even knowing it!'
Logotheti had seated himself where he could watch her; the fashion of
dress was close-fitting; his eyes followed the graceful lines of her
figure. If she had not come to drive him mad, why did she take an
attitude which of all others is becoming to well-made women and fatal
to all the rest?
'I'm sorry,' said Logotheti, rather absently and as if her anger did
not affect him in the least, if he even noticed it. 'I happened to want
the invention for a company in which I am interested. You stood in the
way of my having the whole thing, so I was obliged to buy you out. I'm
very sorry that it happened to be you, and that Mrs. Rushmore could not
keep the fact to herself. I knew you wouldn't be pleased if you ever
found it out.'
'I don't believe a word of what you are telling me,' Margaret answered.
'Really not?' Logotheti seemed momentarily interested. 'That's
generally the way when one speaks the truth,' he added, more carelessly
again. 'Nobody believes it.'
His eyes caressed her as he spoke. He was not thinking much of what he
said.
'I've come here to make you take back the money,' Margaret said. 'I
won't keep it another day.'
'Have you come all the way from Versailles again to say that?' asked
Logotheti, laughing.
Again, as she sat on the arm of the big chair, she tapped the dark blue
tiles with the toe of her shoe. The slight movement transmitted itself
through her whole figure, and for an instant each beautiful line and
curve quivered and was very slightly modified. Logotheti saw and drew
his breath sharply between his teeth.
'Yes,' Margaret was saying impatiently. 'When Mrs. Rushmore had told me
the truth, I walked to the station and took the first train. I only
stopped to get Madame De Rosa.'
'She is not a very powerful ally,' observed Logotheti. 'She is probably
asleep in her arm-chair in the drawing-room by this time. Are you still
angry with me? Yes, I believe you are. Please forgive me. I had not the
least idea of offending you, because I trusted that old---- I mean,
because I was so sure that Mrs. Rushmore would never tell.'
'Never mind Mrs. Rushmore,' Margaret said. 'What I will not forgive you
is that you made me take your money without my knowing it. I've been
flirting with you--yes, I confess it! I'm not perfection, and you're
rather amusing sometimes----'
'You are adorable!' Logotheti put in, as a sort of murmuring
parenthesis.
'Don't talk nonsense,' Margaret answered. 'I mean that whatever I may
have said to you I've never given you the right to make me a present of
a hundred thousand pounds. It's the most unparalleled piece of
impertinence I ever heard of.'
'But I've not made you a present of anything. I bought what was yours
without letting you know, that's all.'
'Then give me back what is mine and take your money again.'
'Hm!' Logotheti smiled. 'That would be very like going into a business
partnership with me. Do you wish to do that?'
'What do you mean?'
'You see, I'm the whole company at present. But if you come in with a
third of the stock to your credit, we shall be partners, to all intents
and purposes. We shall have meetings of the board of directors, just
you and I, and we shall decide what to do. It will be rather a queer
sort of board, for of course I shall always do exactly what you wish,
but it's not impossible that we may make money together. Well--on the
whole I have no particular objection to selling you exactly the amount
of stock I bought from you the other day. That's the shape the
transaction takes. I'll do any thing to please you, but I'm quite
willing you should know that I am doing you a favour, as business men
would look at it.'
'A favour!' Margaret slipped from the arm of the chair as she spoke and
stood upright and made a step towards him. 'Do you think I'm a child to
believe such nonsense?'
'In matters of business all women are children. With the possible
exception of Mrs. Rushmore,' he added in a tone of reflection.
'Besides, this is not nonsense.'
'It is!' cried Margaret. 'It is absurd to try and make me believe that
a mere claim set up on the chance of getting something should have
turned out to be worth so much. It has cost Mrs. Rushmore I don't know
how much in lawsuits, and no one ever really believed in it. She fought
for it out of pure kindness of heart, and even the lawyers said she was
very foolish to go on----'
'Will you listen to me?' asked Logotheti, interrupting her. 'I've not
much to say, but it's rather convincing. You probably admit that the
invention is valuable, and that Alvah Moon has made money by it.'
'I should think he had, the old thief!'
'Very well. I happened to want that invention. I've bought several at
different times and have founded companies and sold them. That's a part
of finance, which is a form of game. You deal yourself a hand and then
play it. I made up my mind to play with this particular invention. I
know much more about it than you do; in fact, I understand it
thoroughly. I cabled to my agent in America to buy it, if he could, and
he succeeded. Now please tell me whether you think Mrs. Rushmore,
acting for you, would have withdrawn the suit after the property had
changed hands, merely because I've dined in her house.'
'No,' Margaret was forced to admit. 'No, she would have gone on.'
'Precisely. Now I don't want property of that kind, about which there
is constant litigation. The credit of such property is injured by the
talk there always is about lawsuits. So I went to Mrs. Rushmore and
asked her what she thought your claim was worth, and she told me, and I
gave her a cheque for the money, and she has given me a full release,
as your attorney. If it had been her claim, or Madame De Rosa's or any
one else's, I should have done exactly the same thing. Will you tell me
how I could have acted otherwise in order to get the property into my
hands free of all chance of dispute? Was there any other way?'
Margaret was silent, for she could find no answer.
'There was one other way,' Logotheti continued. 'I could have proposed
that you should go into partnership with me, which is what you yourself
are proposing now. But in the eyes of the world I confess that might
look intimate, to say the least of it. Don't you think so too?'
'You're the most plausible person I ever listened to!' Margaret almost
laughed, though her anger had not subsided.
'Will you leave things as they are and forget all about this business?
What has been done cannot possibly be undone now. Won't you separate me
from it in your thoughts? You can, if you try. You know, I'm two people
in one. So are you. I'm Logotheti the financier, and I'm Logotheti the
man. You are Margaret Donne, and you are Señorita da Cordova, on the
very eve of being famous--and then, I think you are some thing else
which I don't quite understand, but which is like my fate, for I cannot
escape from you, whether I see you, or only dream of you.'
Margaret was silent, and looked at the Aphrodite while she sat on the
arm of the big chair. She might have breathed a little faster if she
had known that the two doors through which she had entered, and which
had closed so silently and surely after her, were as sound-proof as six
feet of earth. She would not have been afraid, for she was fearless and
confident, but her heart would have beaten a little more quickly at the
thought that she was out of hearing of the world, and in the presence
of a man whose eyes looked at her strangely and whose cheeks were
darkly flushed, who was a good deal nearer to the primitive human
animal than most men are, and in whom the main force of nature was
awake and hungry.
'I don't want you to make love to me just now,' she said, swinging her
foot a little as she sat. 'You've done something that has hurt me very
much, and has made me almost wish that I might never see you again
after this time. I wish you could find a way of undoing it--I'm sure
there is a way.'
Unconsciously wise, she had checked his pulse for a moment, and she
looked at him calmly and shook her head. With a sudden and impatient
movement he rose, turned away from her and began to walk up and down at
a little distance, his head bent and his hands behind him.
Though the air in the high room was pure, it was still and hot, for the
late spring afternoon had turned sultry all at once; the fluid of a
near storm was fast condensing to the point of explosion.
The man felt the tension more than the woman just then. It acted on his
state, and made it almost unbearable. His hands were locked behind him
and his fingers twisted each other till they changed colour. He moved
with the short, noiseless steps of a young wild animal measuring its
cage, up and down, up and down, without pause.
'It's this,' Margaret continued, much more gently than she had meant to
speak, 'I don't quite believe you. I'm almost sure you thought that I
would give up the stage if I had enough money to live on without my
work.'
'Yes, I did.' He stopped as if in anger and the words came sharply; but
he was not angry.
'You see!' Margaret answered triumphantly. 'I knew it! What becomes of
your story about the company now?'
She rose also and began to walk. The big leathern arm-chair was between
them; he leaned his elbows on the back of it and watched her, and
compared her hungrily with the Aphrodite.
'All I have told you is true,' he said. 'The business happened to serve
two purposes, that's all. At least, I thought it would, and it was a
pleasure to help you without your knowing it. Why should I be sorry?
That money might as well come to you through me as through anybody
else. You're angry with me. Why? Because I'm too fond of you? It cannot
reasonably be about the money any more--the wretched money! If you
can't keep the filthy stuff--if it won't prevent you from going on the
stage after all--why then, give it away! Throw it away! Lose it, if you
can. But don't come to me with it, for it's the price of a thing I
bought in the way of business and which I won't give up, nor take as a
gift from anybody.'
He spoke in such a harsh tone now that she paused in her short walk and
met his eyes, to see what he meant, over and above what he was saying.
She stood in front of the chair; he was leaning over the back of it,
with his hands together; one hand was slowly kneading the closed fist,
and the veins stood out on both. His voice was hoarse but rather low,
like that of a man who wants water.
The light in the room had a yellowish tinge now, and the window showed
a dull glare where there had been blue sky before. The lurid light got
into Logotheti's eyes, and was ready to flash while Margaret looked at
him. The marble Aphrodite took a creamy, living tint, and the little
shadows that modelled her quivered and deepened.
All at once Margaret knew that there was danger. She could not have
told how she knew it, nor just what the danger was, but she raised her
fair head suddenly, as the stag does when the scent of the hounds comes
down the breeze. Watching her, he saw and understood, and his hands
left each other and closed tightly upon the back of the chair.
'Will you take me back to Madame De Rosa, please?' Margaret asked, and
her voice did not shake.
Before he could answer, a flash of lightning filled the room, vivid as
flame, and almost purple; it flared and danced two or three times
before it went out.
If Logotheti spoke at all, his words were drowned in the crash that
shook the house and rolled away over the city. His eyes never moved
from Margaret's face; she felt that his gaze was fastened on her lips,
as if he would have drawn them to meet his own. She was not exactly
afraid, but she knew that she must get away from him, for he was
stronger than she, and he was like a man going mad. That was what she
would have called it. And it seemed to her that one of two things was
going to happen. Either she would let his lips reach hers, without
resisting, or else she would try to kill him when he came near her. She
did not know which she should do. She was in herself two people; the
one was a human woman, tempted by the mysterious sympathy of flesh and
blood; the other self was a startled maiden caught in a trap and at
bay, without escape.
With the great peal of thunder the Aphrodite trembled from head to
foot, twice, as the vibration ran down the walls of the house to the
