newspaper man, I ’d a done it myself. 

“ ’T was n’t so bad as it might ha’ been. 
Smoking car was about empty, engineer give 
a spring, but, my! did n’t they go to flinders! 
Four killed, and lots of ’em hurt, and there was 
an awful time ! There was an inquest and tes- 
timony ’bout everything. The real truth was 
— telegram was n’t quite soon enough ; but the 
railroad people would n’t allow that. They 
compared watches and wrangled and talked, 
and smoothed matters over for everybody but 
the gov’ner, and he was marched off to jail. 




“Poor Mammy almost broke her heart. She 
was the gov’ner’s second wife. He had some 
sons, I 've heard him say, who_were well-to-do 
men, but they ’d forgot all about him. 
Mammy ’d had three children — Jack, who was 



“ ‘ Went out and fixed the switch ’ ” 


off at sea ; Kitty, who 'd met with an accident 
and was lame ; and me. My name ’s Benjamin 
Franklin Hewes, but for short they always 
call me Ben. Mammy used to read to me on 
Sundays ’bout Joseph an’ his brethren, and 
how the old gov’ner loved Benjamin, and they 

 


found the king’s cup in his sack o’ corn. But 
he come out all right in the end, and I know it 
give Mammy a good deal of faith ’bout me. 

“Well, my gov’ner had a hard time of it. A 
man come and told Mammy that it would be 
better for him to stay in jail awhile till folks 
forgot; so they kept putting off his trial, and 
bime-by they sort o’ let him go with a lecture, 
but it riled the old man awfully. It was the 
dead of winter, and he could n’t do anything 
more at North Lumberton, because, you see, it 
was n’t made plain, and all hands thought him 
to blame. 

“So we come to the city. We managed 
through the summer, but in the fall the gov- 
’ner was taken to his bed. Mother and Kitty 
sewed, but there was n’t much made by that, 
and I was on the lookout for all the odd jobs 
I could find. When a chap begins to go down 
hill seems as if ’t was always freezin’ weather 
and slippery, an’ he slides and slides with 
nothing to catch hold of, till he gets away 




down to the bottom. I see some good chances 
to get established if I ’d had five dollars or so, 
but I never did. And them that ’s regular and 
fortunate sometimes forget how it was with 
themselves in the beginning. 

‘‘Just after Thanksgiving the chap at Mam- 
my’s shop busted. He was owing her five dol- 
lars, and the loss come mighty hard. There 
would n’t be anything more for weeks and 
weeks, for ’t was a dull winter, and people 
began to talk about soup-houses then. 

“ ‘Maybe I might get a few days’ washing,’ 
said Mammy. ‘I ’ll speak to the neighbors 
’round.’ 

“ ‘I don’t know what we are going to do,’ 
put in Kitty. 

“She was a kind of pretty little thing, with 
big brown eyes and yellow hair that curled in 
a slow way and somehow looked like her pale 
face, not being crisp and kinky like some curly 
hair. Now and then I ’ve seen just such a pic- 
ture in a window, with a hungry look about it 

 


as if the poor soul wanted something that 
was n’t meat nor drink. She kept a hankering 
after the little garden we had at Junction, and 
the green fields all about. But it seemed to me 
that she looked peekeder than ever now. 

“I remember, just as if it was yesterday, 
’bout that Sunday before Christmas. I ’d had 
a streak of luck Sat’day night selling in the 
market. 

‘‘ *There ’s the rent,’ says Mammy, when I 
come home. *We must n’t touch a cent of it 
this week, so as to be sure.’ 

“It was cold and stormy on Sunday. I went 
down to the mission-school after dinner, and 
most of the talk was ’bout Christmas, and the 
Lord being born in a manger, and how poor 
and humble he was; and how that every one 
ought to do some good deed at Christmas, if 
never any other time ; and how the Lord took 
these things as sort of birthday gifts to him- 
self, and remembered every one, no matter 
how small it was. I ’d often thought I ’d like 




to be rich and send poor people tons of coal, 
and blankets, and a turkey perhaps, or some- 
thing good; but I knew I never should be. 

“I was telling them all about it in the even- 
ing, and then Kitty and me began to look over 
the pictures in Mammy’s big Bible, that was — 
I don’t know how old. We stopped at ‘Joseph 
being sold by his brethren,’ and Kitty read 
the story over again, and how Joseph forgave 
them when he came to be a great king, and 
brought his father to Egypt so ’s he might n’t 
starve to death. 

“The gov’ner was a layin’ on his bed, and he 
gave a great sigh. 

“ ‘They don’t do so nowadays,’ he said. 
‘They go off and forget. I ’ve three likely sons 
out in the new countries, with flocks, an’ 
herds, an’ wives, an’ children, but it ’s many a 
long year since any of ’em has asked if I was 
alive. An’ I s’pose bime-by Jack will be like 
’em.’ 

“ ‘But Ben won’t,’ said Kitty, softly. ‘He 

will be like this one; won’t you, Ben?’ 




“'You may bet your life on that/ says I. 
'Gov’ner, you cheer up a bit. I 've got a good 
name, and I won’t go back on it. Maybe I ’ll 
see an opening ’tween this and spring, and 
you ’ll come out like a lark some warm day. 
Somehow it seems to me as if this Christmas 
was going to do something for us.’ 

“ 'O,’ said Kitty, with a great glow in her 
eyes, 'if there only was a real Santa Claus ! Or 
if we could have three wishes!’ 

''And then we planned what we would wish 
for, and afterward Mammy asked us to sing. 
Kitty knew some carols, she was a master 
hand to remember, and the gov’ner said he 
did n’t believe it was much better out on the 
plains of Judee where the shepherds kept 
watch. But it was, you know, though it was 
just as well for him to think he had some of 
the very best. 

''On Tuesday, it was, I see one of them 
lucky chances for a little speculation, and I run 
home to Mammy for a few dollars. 




“ ‘O, Ben," she said, ‘I 've just paid it away. 
Mr. McCann came in this morning and asked 
if I had the rent handy. He wanted to use 
some money, and was hard up.’ 

‘It ’s a mean shame !’ and I was mad as a 
hen in a brush fence. ‘He could n’t collect it 
anyhow until the first, and here it ’s only the 
23d. And if I only had two dollars I know I 
could double it to-day and again to-morrow.’ 

“ ‘I ’m so sorry, Ben. But then you might 
a’ lost it, and we ’ve a roof over our heads for 
all January.’ 

“ ‘Well, it can’t be helped,’ and I started off 
again. There was another fellow standing by 
to take the chance. What could I do? The 
ground was frozen up as dry as a chip, and 
there was no boots to black except for the 
reg’lars. I put in a ton of coal, and that was 
every living thing I found to do that day. 

“I ’d had my eye on a paper route for ever so 
long, but it did just seem as if I never could 
get money enough together again for any- 

 


thing. And all the streets were looking gay 
and the stores and markets trimmed up with 
evergreens. How jolly every one seemed! 

“Next day luck was dead against me again. 
Seventy-five cents was all I made. Not a 
stiver for Christmas ! I ’d seen so many things 
I wanted to buy Kitty, and I wanted a chicken 



to make some broth for the gov’ner. I began 
to wonder if it was all true what the man said 
on Sunday. Was there a great Lord up in 
heaven who knew all about cold, and hunger, 
and had no place to lay his head, and was at 
last given up to the cruel Jews to be put to 
death? 

“ ‘That ’s a sight worse than you, Ben 
Hewes,’ I said. And then I ran round looking 
at the gay shop-windows, and listening to the 
fun and laughs, and now and then a church 
bell ringing. If Kitty had been strong enough 
to go with me it would have been quite a little 
Christmas feast. But it was a awful cold 
night. I had an armful of evergreens, for you 




see I did n’t dare spend any of my money 
buying Christmas. I was turning round a cor- 
ner when I saw something huddled up on the 
step like a great dog. If I was rich I should 
have some dogs, I do like ’em so. I went to 
pat the shaggy fellow, but when I put out my 
hand I found it was n’t a dog at all. 

‘‘ ‘Lemme be,’ said the little kid, jerking 
away. ‘I ’m nice and warm in this corner, and 
I was ’most asleep.’ 

“ ‘But you ’ll freeze here,’ I said. ‘You had 
better go to the station-house.’ 

“ ‘No,’ and he began to cry. ‘I run away 
from a peeler. I don’t want to go to the Island. 
I want to get up to the heaven where Betty ’s 
gone, and where the good Lord takes care of 
little boys like me. I have n’t had a mouthful 
all day ’cept the good smell over there, and the 
man kicked me away. Does it take long to 
freeze?’ 

“‘Why, Jemmy Arno, is it you?’ and I 
dragged him out to the light. Sure enough! 

 


And his teeth were chattering as if they ’d 
been strung on wires. 

“The little kid did n’t know me. He blinked 
out of his great black eyes, and then began to 
whimper. I knew where he had lived, and 
this Betty Arno used to keep a peanut stand. 

“ Is Betty dead?’ says I. 

“‘Yes; and the woman turned me out o’ 
doors, and would n’t let me take the box Betty 
gave me. O, dear! I ’m so cold — so cold.’ 

“I thought of what the man said at the mis- 
sion-school. Maybe this was my Christmas! 
If doing for such a little chap was just the same 
as doing for the great Lord, and if He ’d say 
at the last, ‘Ben Hewes, I saw you that Christ- 
mas Eve, when you was too poor to send gifts 
to anybody, taking that half-starved little 
shaver in out of the cold, and I put it down in 
my ’count, and it ’s just as good as a rich man’s 
deed.’ So says I, ‘Come along. Jemmy. I ’ll 
give you a nice warm corner to sleep in, and a 
mouthful of supper. It ’s Christmas Eve, you 
know. Trot up brisk now.’ 







‘‘The poor little chap was crying and talking 
all in one breath, and wanting to sit down on 
every stoop, but I kept him up. ‘Here we are,* 
says I, opening the door. 

“ ‘O Ben, what has kept you so late?* cries 
Kitty; and then in the next breath, ‘What a 
splendid lot of greens.’ 

“ ‘And something else,* says I. ‘Santa 
Claus.’ 

“ ‘Why, Ben !* says Mammy. ‘Where did 
you pick up this poor thing?* 

“ ‘O don’t send me to the station-house nor 
the Island,* cries he, looking frightened out of 
his great eyes. ‘I never stole anything, nor 
sweared, and I *m so cold. O, is it nice and 
warm in heaven? Betty said it was.* 

“ ‘Come to the fire, poor creetur,* says 
Mammy. 

“I told her ’bout Betty Arno and her peanut- 
stand, and how that I had n’t seen her for as 
much as a month, and Jemmy said she was 
dead. And then how I had found him this bit- 



ter cold night, and I wanted to keep him, just 
as if it had been the great Lord. 

“ *And we ’ll have some Christmas after all,’ 
says Kitty, ‘only not like rich folks.’ 

“Mammy was afraid he was froze, so I 
brought in some snow and rubbed his ears, 
and nose, and his hands. Then Mammy 
washed him and set him by the stove to warm 
and dry, and give him a little broth first. My 
eyes! was n’t the kid hungry! If he ’d staid 
out in the cold all night I guess he ’d found a 
short road to heaven sure. 

“ ‘Maybe ’t would a’ been better,’ said 
Mammy. ‘Poor little lambs! I like to think 
God is glad to have them. But we ’ll do the 
best we can, now. Y ou must run out and buy 
us a little dinner for to-morrow, Ben. A bit 
of beef to stew, I guess, and a few potatoes.’ 

“I went down to the butcher’s. He was hard 
run just then, and asked me to take out a 
basket to a customer, and afterward another. 
I picked out what I wanted and he weighed it. 




‘Thirty-five cents/ says he, ‘but if you ’d like 
to change, Ben, I ’ll let you have this chicken. 
The skin ’s broken and it does n’t look quite so 
fair; but it ’s fresh, and a nice plump fellow. 
Call it square for the errands.’ 

“ ‘Thank ’ee,’ says I, ‘and a merry Christ- 
mas in the bargain.’ 

“ ‘Lots of ’em to you, Ben.’ 

“I run off home glad enough, I tell you, 
feeling like a morning star. 

“ ‘Hooray,’ says I, opening the door. ‘Christ- 
mas is begun and no mistake. What do you 
think of that.’ 

“The gov’ner was as pleased as a baby, and 
Mammy laughed with tears in her eyes. Then 
Kitty and I sung some rousing carols. The 
little chap was sound asleep. 

“The baker sent Kitty a cake next day ; and 
altogether it was n’t so bad a Christmas, only 
the little kid, he grew sicker ’n sicker. Gov- 
’ner said we ought to send him to the hospital ; 
but somehow Kitty she took a wonderful fancy 






to him, and Mammy was a master hand at 
nursing. Then, too, during the next week I 
had a streak of luck, and made five dollars, and 
Mammy had a pile of sewing to do for a 
neighbor. 

‘‘ ‘Seems as though the little thing had 
brought us good fortune,’ Kitty said, with a 
bright smile. ‘O, Ben, you ought to hear the 
wonderful things he talks of when the fever ’s 
on him. Gardens, and flowers, and birds, and 
a beautiful house and a papa. Was Betty Amo 
his grandmother, really?’ 

“ T s’pose so,’ I said. ‘He was always a nice 
little chap and did n’t play much with the 
street cubs. P’raps he will tell us all about it 
when he gets well.’ 

“Mammy managed to get the fever broke in 
about two weeks, but he was as weak as a 
baby. He ’d lie there on two chairs, listening to 
Kitty as she sung, and begging her to tell him 
stories. Gov’ner took a queer liking to him as 
well. We did n’t call him anything but Santa 




Claus. One day Kitty told him what he talked 
about when he was sick. 

‘‘ ‘It ’s all true," he said. ‘I used to live in 
the house, my Mammy and I, and she had 
pretty light curls like Kitty, and oh, such beau- 



tiful blue eyes. She used to wear silk dresses 
and had a gold watch and rings, and papa used 
to come and give her heaps of money. But one 
day Mammy took me and went away, and we 
never went back to the splendid house, and 

 


papa did not come any more. She just grew 
whiter and whiter, and when old Betty come 
she went to heaven and left me with granny. 
And that ’s a long, long while ago, when I was 
a little boy.’ 

‘‘Mammy shook her head. ‘I dare say 
there ’s been some sorry work about it. 
There ’s a many sad things in this world.’ 

“ ‘Don’t you believe it ’s true?’ 

“ ‘It ’s true enough,’ said Mammy, with a 
sigh. 

“Times began to get pretty hard with us 
again. Feb’uary was cornin’ on and no rent. 
’T was always paid in advance, you see, or 
else you had to march. Old McCann came in 
and made a row. ‘If you don’t have it to-mor- 
row at twelve, out you go,’ says he. ‘Y ou can 
borrow it of some friend, I know.’ 

“We had a little bread and ’lasses for sup- 
per that night. I made believe I was n’t a bit 
hungry, and kept feeding the little kid, ’cause 
I did n’t know what would happen to him or 




any of us to-morrow. You see, not being 
brought up in the city, I was n’t used to all 
the dodges and ways of getting along. 

‘‘ ‘Well, you took him in and give him a 
good Christmas,’ says Kitty, ‘and we won’t be 
sorry, for he did bring us a little luck. Only 
I can’t bear to think of turning him out again.’ 

“Just then there was a knock at the door. 
I opened it, and two men stood there. 

“‘Is little Jemmy Arno here?’ says one of 
’em. 

“With that he run and hid his head in 
Mammy’s lap. 

“ ‘Oh,’ he screamed, ‘it ’s a peeler; don’t let 
him take me! I won’t go to the Island; I ’ll 
run away and drown.’ 

“ ‘We don’t want anybody to go to the 
Island,’ said the p’liceman. ‘Tell the truth, for 
it ’s all good news, little cove. You ’re about 
the luckiest chap I ever heard tell of.’ 

“ ‘Is this the boy?’ and the other man picked 
Jem up in his arms and turned him to the light. 




‘Oh,’ he says in a kind o’ cryin’ tone, ‘I should 
know them eyes anywhere. My good woman, 
I never can repay you for shelterin’ this little 
boy. He ’s my grandson.’ 

“With that the gov’ner came out and 
dropped in a chair. 

“ ‘Somehow,’ says he, ‘he never seemed like 
a common child. But we must know the truth 
and your claim before you take him away from 
here.’ 

“I declare I was so proud of the gov’ner for 
that speech that I could have cheered. 

“They sat down and talked. I don’t know ’s 
I 've got that story straight in my head to this 
day, but ’t was something like this: The old 
gent’s son married a pretty actress, who was 
Betty Arno’s daughter, but he kept mighty 
still about it to his folks. Somehow after 
awhile they quarrelled, and he told her she 
was n’t his wife. With that she run away, 
taking her little kid, and when she was ’most a 
dying she sent for her mother, old Betty, and 




told her the story, and gave Jem to her, and a 
box of papers. That was more ’n two years 
before. And now Jem’s father was dead, and 
there ’d come a great fortune for him and his 
heirs, which was little Jem here. They ’d 
found where Betty died, and they ’d taken the 
box from the woman who turned Jem out of 
doors, and found letters and a ’stificate which 
proved all about him. And now for a month 
they ’d been hunting up Jem. Mammy ’d told 
a neighbor about my bringing of him home 
a’most starved and frozen, and how sick he ’d 
been, and she happened to see the stir about it 
in a paper, with a reward offered, so she went 
and told the old gent the news. 

“ ‘Jem,’ says he, T ’m your grandfather. 
Your poor papa died a loving you, and sorry 
enough that he ’d ever been so cruel. And 
now you must come home with me, and I ’ll 
try to bring you up to be a good man, and you 
must love me in my old days.’ 

‘‘ ‘Ah,’ says the gov’ner, ‘they don’t always 

do that, unless they ’re like Ben here. I 've 
three likely sons that I have n’t heard from in 
ten years, or more.’ 

‘‘So the old gent thanked Mammy again and 
again, and said so much to me that I was red 
as a beet in the face. But, would you believe, 
the little kid would n’t stir a step with them 
without Kitty, and . Mammy begged ’em to 
wait until to-morrow. 

“Well, they went away after awhile, and we 
talked and cried, even to the gov’ner, who was 
quite knocked up about it. Jem seemed to 
care the least of any one, but then he did n’t 
understand all ’t was goin’ to be to him. 

“But was n’t there a jolly lark the next 
morning ! Old McCann was there ordering us 
out of the house, just as the carriage stopped. 
You should a’ seen his face then. It was as 
good as a picture by Nast. He cooled down 
quicker ’n ’lasses candy in a heap of snow. The 
old gent paid the rent, and told him we did n’t 
want the place any more; and, sure enough, 



