against the big cushions, turning her face away and her shoulder
towards him, there was something in the line of her cheek and of her
neck where it joined the ear, and in the little downy ringlets at the
roots of her hair that stirred his blood, against his will. Also, the
devil came and whispered to his heart that she was his personal
property, as much as his horse, his house and his stores of
merchandise. The laws about slaves were uncertain enough in Italy,
but there was no doubt of the law in Constantinople. The slave
Arethusa, weighing so many talents and minæ, having so many sound
teeth, and other good points, was the absolute property of Carlo Zeno.
He might kill her, if he liked, in any way he chose, and the law would
not call it murder. There would be one slave less, and he would have
thrown away four hundred gold ducats; but that would be all.
She seemed to him the most beautiful creature in the world, and the
devil was not suggesting that he should kill her; not by any means.
For a long time, the man and his slave were silent, and scarcely
moved, and neither of them afterwards forgot those minutes. In their
thoughts each was struggling with what seemed an impossibility, a
something which could never be done. The high-born girl, for the sake
of a mother who was not her mother, and of brothers who were not of
her blood, was resolved to be to the end what she had made herself to
save their lives, the obedient slave of a merchant who had paid gold
for her. It was worse than death, but if she did not die of it, she
must live through it, lest the good she had done should be undone
again.
The man who had the law's own right of life and death over her, and
whose warm young blood her beauty stirred so profoundly, chose to
resist and play that he was not the master after all. His lean face
was calm enough in the quiet lamplight, as it would have been in
raging battle; but within was that he would not care to feel again,
nor perhaps to let others know that he had felt.
At last, wondering at the stillness, half-believing and quite hoping
that he was no longer in the room, Zoë turned her head. His eyes were
on her, but there was something in them that she could not fear.
'Tell me who you are,' he said quietly.
Of all questions she had least expected this one, which seemed so
natural to him. She waited a moment before she spoke.
'Are you dissatisfied, sir?' she asked in a low voice. 'Has the
Bokharian cheated you?'
'No! What a thought!'
'Then you know what I am, and I can tell you nothing more, my lord.
Can a slave have a pedigree?'
'I do not believe that you were born a slave,' said Zeno, leaning
forward a little and looking into her eyes.
After a moment, her lids drooped under his gaze, but she would not
speak.
'Have you nothing to say?' he asked, disappointed at her silence.
Again the temptation seized her to tell him all, since he spoke so
kindly; but still she thought of what might happen to Kyría Agatha.
'I am your bought slave,' she said, almost directly. 'I have nothing
else to tell.'
'But you had a mother?'
'I never knew her.'
'Your father, then?'
'I never knew him.'
Zeno was not always patient, even with women, and there was no reason
why he should be forbearing with his own property.
'I do not believe you,' he said in a tone of annoyance, and he rose
and began to pace the room.
Now it chanced that Zoë had been able to answer his last two questions
quite truthfully, for she had not the least recollection of her own
father and mother, who had died of the plague when she was three
months old.
'I will swear to you on all holy things that it is true,' she said,
watching him.
He made an impatient gesture.
'A slave cannot take an oath,' he answered roughly.
Zoë lifted her beautiful head at once, and her eyes shone; but he did
not see, for he had turned his back on her in his walk, and a moment
later she resumed her former submissive attitude.
Zeno stopped near the door and clapped his hands; the two maids
appeared.
'Bring supper,' he said.
As they went to obey he came back and sat down again beside the divan.
There was just room to place a small table between him and Zoë. The
girls came back and waited on them, but neither spoke. Zeno prepared a
salad himself with ingredients brought ready for making it, and when
it was dressed he helped Zoë to a little of it. She had watched him,
for the Italian custom was new to her and she had never known how a
salad was composed. Zeno poured Greek wine into her glass, a delicate
white goblet from Murano, with faint blue lines round the stem. But
she neither ate nor drank.
'Go,' said Zeno to the maids. 'I will call you.'
The two slipped away noiselessly. Zeno had forgotten his displeasure,
and he felt her presence again.
'You must eat and drink,' he said gently. 'If there is anything you
like, tell me. You shall have it.'
'You are kind,' she answered, but she did not lift her hand. 'I have
no appetite,' she added, after a little pause.
I do not know why no man believes a woman when she says that she is
not hungry. Zeno was annoyed, and by way of showing his displeasure he
himself began to eat more than he wanted. Zoë looked on in silence
while he finished another bird and all the salad he had made. She
would not have been a woman if she had not seen that he felt a little
shy, all at once, as the most fearless and energetic men may before a
woman they do not understand. Then there was a change for the better
in her own state; she breathed more freely, her heart beat more
steadily, the weight that lay like lead on her chest, just below her
throat, was lightened. When a woman sees that a man is shy with her,
she is sure that sooner or later he will turn at her will; and though
she is sometimes mistaken, the chances are that she is right.
Zeno had never been shy before; but now, when he wished to speak, he
could find nothing to say, and Zoë knew it, and would not help him. It
was strange that as her fear subsided she thought him handsomer than
at first sight, in the morning. When he had finished eating, he drank
some wine, set down the glass, and looked at her with an expression
that was meant to show something like anger; for he already regretted
the time--distant five minutes--when she had been afraid of him, and
he had been master of the situation. He drew his brows together, set
his lips, and glared at her, but to his amazement she did not seem
frightened. He had lost the thread, for the time, and she had found
it. She answered his look with one of gentle surprise.
'Have you finished supper already?' she asked sweetly.
A slight flush rose in his brown cheek, as he felt his shyness
increase, but he kept his eyes steadily on her.
'You do not seem to be afraid of me any longer,' he said, by way of
answer.
'Have I anything to fear from you?' she asked, in a trusting tone.
She risked everything on the question, or thought she did. She won.
His face changed and softened, for by appealing to his generosity she
had put him at ease.
'No,' he answered. 'You never were in danger from me. Besides,' he
added, with something like an effort, 'I have not made up my mind what
to do with you.'
Zoë sat up straight, resting one hand on the edge of the little table.
'The truth is,' he went on, 'I did not buy you for myself.'
Zoë made a quick movement in her seat. Then her tender mouth hardened
in a look of contempt.
'So you are only another slave-dealer!' she cried scornfully. But
Zeno laughed at the mere idea, and was glad to laugh. It was a relief.
'No,' he said, 'I am not a slave-dealer. I am a Venetian merchant, I
believe. I have been a soldier, and I came near being a prebendary!'
'A priest!' Zoë's face showed her disgust.
'No, for I never was in orders,' answered Zeno, growing more sure of
himself as she grew more angry. 'But as for you, a friend of mine, a
rich gentleman of Venice, has asked me as a favour to send him the
most beautiful slave to be had in Constantinople for the large price
he named. As a matter of fact----'
But here he was interrupted, for Zoë turned from him and buried her
face in the leathern cushion. Her body shook a little, and Zeno
thought she was crying. She had grown almost used to him, and had
begun to feel that she might have some power over him; and she was
ashamed to own that he attracted her, though she meant to hate him.
But the idea that he had only bought her like a piece of goods, to
pass her on to an unknown man far away, was more than she could bear
at first. Moreover, though the idea of eating sickened her, she was
really weakened by need of food, and she had undergone within
twenty-four hours as much as her nature could bear without breaking
down in some way.
Zeno was distressed, and bent over her, rather awkwardly, anxious to
soothe her. She turned her face to him suddenly, without warning, and
he saw that her eyes were dry and her cheeks flushed.
'Venice is a beautiful city,' he said coaxingly. 'You will be a great
person in my friend's house--he will give you----'
'When are you going to send me? To-morrow?' The girl had mastered
herself a little.
'I have told you that I have not made up my mind about you,' Zeno
answered. 'The money I gave the Bokharian was my own. I may keep you
here after all.'
Zoë detested him in that moment. She longed to insult him, to strike
him, to drive him away. There was something so condescending in what
he said. He would make up his mind about her! He might keep her after
all! He had paid his own money for her! It was not possible that she
could have thought him handsome, that she could have been even
momentarily attracted by his face, his manner, or his voice.
'I hate you!' she cried, shutting her teeth tightly as she spoke.
He was near her, and she drew back from him as far as she could
against the cushions of the divan. He resumed his seat, for he saw how
angry she was. He had purposely spoken as if she were really the slave
she told him that she was, and against the natural instinct which bade
him treat her as his equal.
'Indeed,' he said coldly, and he took a cracked walnut from the table
and began to peel the kernel, 'it is not easy to know what will please
you. You seem horrified at the idea of going to Venice and furious at
the thought of staying here! Of course, there is a third possibility.
I would not send my friend a slave who would be so discontented as to
poison him and his family, and I shall certainly not keep one in my
house who hates me and may take it into her head to cut my throat in
my sleep. The only thing that remains will be to sell you back to the
Bokharian at a loss. Should you like that?'
Zoë felt again that he was her master.
'You made me think you would be kind to me!' she said, and her voice
quavered.
Zeno laughed, for he had been too much annoyed to yield at once to her
appeal.
'That did not prevent you from saying that you hated me, a while ago,'
he answered. 'You must not expect too much Christian virtue of me, for
I am no saint. I never learned to love those that hate me!'
She liked him better now; as he threw back his head a little, looking
at her from under his half-closed lids, she glanced at his brown
throat and she did not think of cutting it, as he had suggested. But
she was angry with herself for passing through so many phases of like
and dislike in so short a time, and for not feeling relief at the
thought of being sent on a long journey, which certainly would mean
safety while it lasted, and perhaps a chance of freedom. She wondered,
too, why she no longer wished to die outright now that she had saved
Kyría Agatha. Her answer to his last speech was humble.
'You made me say it,' she said. 'I am sorry, sir.'
'At least, I have learnt that you would rather stay here than go back
to Rustan Karaboghazji and that gentle wife of his--his red-haired
dove!'
'Anything rather than that!'
Her tone was earnest, for it was the fate she feared most, both for
herself and because she fancied that the dealer would in some way
claim his money from Kyría Agatha. Zeno was apparently satisfied with
her answer, for he looked more kindly at her and was silent for a
time. Again he allowed his eyes to be delighted with her beauty.
'I will not send you back,' he said at last; and he held out his hand
towards her, as if he were giving a promise to an equal.
She was grateful, but she thought that perhaps he was trying to make
her betray her birth. No slave would take the master's hand familiarly
in her own; she knew the ways of slaves, for there had been many in
her adopted father's house, and she touched the tips of Zeno's fingers
with her own and pressed her lips to the back of her own hand when she
withdrew it. The action disconcerted him a little, for it was
performed perfectly, with all the deference of born servitude.
'You were not long in Rustan's house, were you?' he asked, not seeming
to be much interested in the answer, for he hoped to take her
unawares.
If she told the truth, which he knew, he would show surprise and press
her with another question; if she answered with an untruth he should
gain that much knowledge of her character for future use.
Quick-witted, she did neither.
'It pleased my lord to remind me a while ago that a slave's oath is
never to be believed,' she said. 'It is the law that a slave must be
tortured when giving evidence, is it not?'
'I believe it is,' answered Zeno, with a smile. 'But you are quite
safe! I only ask you how long you were in Rustan's house.'
'One night and part of a day,' Zoë answered after a moment.
Zeno pretended surprise.
'So short a time! Then he only bought you yesterday?'
'Yesterday evening.'
'And of whom? Will you tell me that?'
Zoë reflected a moment and then smiled.
'Yes. I will tell you that. He bought me of a lady of Constantinople,
in whose closest intimacy I was brought up. She is just of my own age
and we are much alike.'
'I see,' said Zeno, completely deceived, and speaking almost to
himself. 'Poor girl! The same father, I suppose--hence the----'
Zoë drooped her eyes and looked at the carpet.
'Yes--since you have guessed it, sir. We had the same father, though
we never knew him. He died of the plague when we were a few months
old.'
Zeno was perfectly satisfied with this logical explanation which
entirely explained Zoë's aristocratic beauty, her nobility of manner,
and the delicate rearing that was so apparent in all her ways, as well
as the fearlessness which had made her turn upon him and tell him that
she hated him. The only point he could not understand, was that Zoë
should have smiled. But he thought, as was quite possible, that there
might have been jealousy and even hatred between the mistress and her
slave-born sister, and he would not enquire too closely yet, since all
was so clear to him. Such unnatural doings were not rare in a city
half-filled with slaves. Zoë's mistress had probably sold her in a fit
of anger, or perhaps deliberately and with a cruel purpose, or even
out of avarice, to buy a string of pearls.
The girl did not offer to say more, but she looked away from her owner
and seemed to be thinking of the past, as indeed she was, though it
was so different from that which his imagination was inventing for
her.
He, on his side, peeled another walnut thoughtfully, and looked at her
from time to time, sure that he knew the truth, and wondering what he
ought to do, and above all what he really wished to do. He had
believed her deeply wronged, and had paid a great sum to redress that
wrong, almost without hesitating, because it was his nature to help
any one in distress, and because he, who counted neither life nor limb
when his cause was good, had never counted such stuff as gold in a
like case.
But now, it was all clear. She was a slave, in spite of all
appearances. She had suffered no injustice; her smile had told him
that the change in her life had not been to greater unhappiness. That
she should fear to be sent back to Rustan was only natural; she, who
had no doubt always lived delicately in the great house where she had
been born, must have felt the sordidness and the degradation of the
slave-prison, in spite of the special care she had received in
consideration of her beauty and value. Very likely, too, she had not
much real feeling, in spite of her behaviour; slave women rarely
have.
What should he do with her? He was passionate rather than material or
pleasure-loving; he was consequently an optimist and an idealist where
women were concerned, and was full of a vague belief in the romantic
side of love. He could no more really love a slave-girl than he could
have loved a hired maid, though she might be beautiful beyond
comparison, for he was incapable of attaching himself to beauty alone.
Only his equal could be his mate, and he never could care long or
truly for any creature that was less. At twenty, the youth in him
would have boiled up and over for a week, or a month; but he was
verging on thirty, his thirty years that had been crammed with the
deeds of many a daring man's whole life-time, and his nature had
hardened in a nobler mould than his early youth had promised. He would
not make a plaything of any woman now; and since he would not, he
wondered what he should do with Zoë, now that she was his.
In this mood of uncertainty he rose to leave her, more or less
resolved not to see her again until he had come to some conclusion as
to her future; for in spite of all he still felt himself attracted to
her, and the line of her cheek and throat when her face was
half-turned away was of exquisite beauty. Standing beside her for a
moment, he knew that if ever again in his life he stooped to take a
woman for a toy, lovelessly, stupidly, contemptibly, the plaything
would be this Arethusa whom he had bought of a scoundrelly Bokharian
dealer.
'Good-night,' he said, looking down into her upturned eyes. 'If you
need anything, if you want anything, send for Omobono, and you shall
have it. Good-night, Arethusa.'
It was the first time he had called her by her name, as he knew it. He
did not even hold out his hand. She looked up steadily.
'What shall you do with me?' she asked, very anxiously, surprised by
his sudden leave-taking.
She was so lovely then that he felt a despicable impulse to take her
into his arms, just for her loveliness, and close her sad eyes with
kisses. Instead, he shook his head and turned away.
'I do not know,' he said, half-aloud. He reached the door. 'I do not
know,' he repeated, as if the problem were very hard to solve; and he
went out, not turning back to look at her.
Thus ended the first hour the slave spent with her master; and when he
was gone she felt suddenly exhausted, as if she had fought with her
hands; and strangely enough she knew all at once that she was weak
from want of food, and that the thought of eating no longer disgusted
her. Half-ashamed of herself, she glanced at the door through which
Zeno had disappeared, as if she thought he might come back, and
listened, as though expecting his footstep. Then, not seeing or
hearing anything, she began to eat quickly, and almost ravenously, as
if she were doing something to be a little ashamed of, and she hoped
that the maids would not come in and see her.
She was soon satisfied, for it had been a nervous craving rather than
anything else, and every woman who reads these lines knows precisely
how Zoë felt, or will know one of these days; for in all that belongs
to the instinctive side of life, women are much more alike than men
are; whereas, because they are not led, pushed, or dragged through one
average course of teaching, as most men are, but are left to think and
above all, to guess at truth for themselves, they are much more unlike
in their way of looking at things. This also is the reason why many
gifted men and a good many really learned ones would rather talk to
women than to men; for among men they hear the same things
everlastingly, but women always have something new to say, which is
flattering, pleasant, amusing, or irritating--perhaps, as they choose.
Women have also a sort of mock-humble, wholly appealing way of asking
the great man how it is possible that he can really care to talk with
a poor, ignorant, little woman, when he might be engaged in a
memorable conversation with the other great man, who is talking to the
other poor, ignorant little woman with lovely eyes, on the other side
of the room. In this way we learn that life is full of contradictions.
Zoë slept ten hours without dreaming, and awoke refreshed and rested,
to wonder presently why her mood had changed so much. But Zeno was
restless in the night, and dissatisfied with himself and with what he
had done; when he lay awake he found fault with his impulsive action,
but when he fell asleep for half-an-hour Zoë haunted his dreams. More
than once he got up and walked barefoot on the marble mosaic pavement
of his room, and he threw open the shutters and looked out. The night
was calm and clear, and the air was almost wintry. To the left of
Pera's towering outline the northern constellations shone bright and
cold. Each time he looked he wondered at the slow motion of the Bear;
the seven stars hung above the Pole, for it was springtime, and they
hardly seemed to have moved a handbreadth to their westward sinking in
a whole hour, when he looked again. When morning came his face was a
little paler than usual, and he felt that he was in a bad humour.
Omobono only guessed it from a certain increase of his natural
reserve, but that was enough for the experienced secretary, who was
wonderfully careful not to speak unless Zeno spoke to him, and, above
all, not to mention the existence of the women's apartment upstairs.
On the other hand, although it was a Sunday, he had expected to be
sent by his master to draw the money from the house of Cornèr,
according to Pesaro's letter, of which he had thoroughly mastered the
contents. But the order was not given, and as Zeno was neither
forgetful of details nor slack in matters of business, Omobono began
to wonder what had happened.
On Monday Zeno's mood had not changed, nor did he send for the money,
and the secretary's curiosity grew mightily; on Tuesday it became
almost unbearable. So far as he knew, and he knew most things that
went on in the house, Zeno had only once gone upstairs, when he had
supped with Zoë on Saturday evening, and had remained barely an hour.
Since then he had not even asked after the slave, and no one had seen
her except the two little maids, who came out upon the landing to
receive the meals at regular hours, but never spoke to the
men-servants. The secretary could have asked to see Zoë, to enquire if
she needed anything, and she would certainly have received him; but he
was afraid to do so without orders, and Zeno gave none, and might come
in at the very moment when Omobono was there. The industrious
secretary had fits of abstraction over his letters and accounts, and
stared out of the window, stroking his neatly-trimmed grey beard very
thoughtfully.
On Wednesday, a little before noon, Zoë was sitting in her window, and
she again saw Zeno go down the steps to the water and get into his
skiff. It was always there now, even at dawn, for since there had been
women in the house Zeno had been rowed to another place for his
morning plunge in the Golden Horn. To-day he was dressed with
particular care, Zoë thought, as she caught sight of him, and she did
not draw back from the window, as she had done the first time, but
stayed where she was, and she wished in her heart that he would look
up and see her. He did not even turn as he stepped into the boat, and
she thought he held his head lower than when she had last seen him,
and looked down, and raised his shoulders a little like a person
determined not to look to the right or the left. Then the two men
pulled the skiff away upstream, and she watched it till she could no
longer distinguish it from many others that moved about on the water
in the direction of the palace. She wondered where he went.
He had not been gone ten minutes when a man came to the gate of the
fore-court on the other side of the house, and asked to see the
secretary. He was simply dressed in a clean brown woollen tunic, that
hung almost to the ground. It had wide sleeves, and they hid his
joined hands as he stood waiting, in the attitude monks often take
before a superior, or when reciting prayers before meals. But the man
was not a monk, for he wore a broad belt of dark red leather, in which
he carried a sheathed knife, a Syrian ink-horn, and a small
cylindrical case of hammered brass, which held his reed pens. On his
head he wore a tall felt cap, such as dervishes now wear.
The slave at the door looked at him attentively before admitting him.
There was something unusual in his expression, though his features
were not very marked, and he had the rather pasty complexion that is
so common in the East. His eyes were perhaps a little longer and more
almond-shaped than those of the average Greek or Bokharian, and he
kept them half-closed. His scanty black beard had a few grey hairs in
it. His nostrils curved sharply, but the nose was neither very large
nor markedly aquiline. A commonplace face enough in Constantinople;
but there was something oddly fixed in its expression, that made the
slave feel uncomfortable and yet submissive. Many persons of all
conditions came to the merchant's house on business during the day,
and it was the rule to send them to Omobono. The slave's business was
to keep out thieves, beggars, and suspicious characters; he stood
aside, admitted the visitor to the court which separated the house
from the street, and shut the gate again.
One of the free house-servants, of whom two or three were always
waiting, came forward--a square-shouldered Venetian named Vito, who
had been a sailor and had followed Zeno for years. He enquired the
stranger's name and business.
'I am Gorlias Pietrogliant,' was the answer. 'My business with the
secretary is private.'
The serving-man disappeared, and returned a moment later to conduct
the visitor to the private room of the counting-house on the ground
floor, where Omobono sat behind a high desk covered with papers and
slips of parchment.
Omobono straightened himself on his stool and eyed the newcomer with a
look of enquiry, at the same time drawing from his right arm the half
sleeve of grey cotton which he always put on when he was going to
write long, lest a spot of ink should stain the soft linen wrist-band
which just showed below the tight cuff of his coat. He was a careful
man. He looked at his visitor keenly, till he suddenly became aware
that his scrutiny was returned with a rather disquieting fixedness.
'I am Gorlias Pietrogliant,' said the stranger.
Omobono bent his head politely, and wondered whether he should be able
to repeat such an outlandish name.
'I am Messer Zeno's secretary,' he answered. 'What is your business,
Master Porlias Dietroplant?'
'Gorlias,' corrected the other, quite unmoved. Gorlias Pietrogliant.'
'Master Gorlias--I beg your pardon.'
'I am an astrologer,' observed the visitor, seating himself on a high
stool at Omobono's elbow, and relapsing into silence.
'You are an astrologer,' said the secretary tentatively, after a long
pause, for he did not know what to say.
'Yes, I told you so,' replied Gorlias; and for a few seconds longer it
did not seem to occur to him that there was anything else to be said.
There was something so oddly fixed in his look and so dull in his
voice that Omobono began to fear that he might be a lunatic, which was
indeed, in the secretary's opinion, much the same as an astrologer,
for the Venetians were never great believers in the influence of the
stars. But the visitor soon made him forget his suspicions by reviving
his curiosity.
'The matter which brings me to you is of a very delicate nature,' said
Gorlias, all at once speaking fluently and in a low voice. 'I have
reason to believe that we are interested in the same business.'
'Are we?' asked the secretary in some surprise.
'I think we are. I think we are, by four toes and by five toes!'
'Over the water,' answered Omobono promptly, and hoping to learn more.
'Both salt and fresh,' returned Gorlias. 'By these tokens I shall
trust to your fidelity and discretion.'
  [Illustration: There was something so oddly fixed in his look and so
   dull in his voice that Omobono began to fear that he might be a
   lunatic.]
'Implicitly,' replied the Venetian, who was sure of being discreet,
but wondered what the matter might be to which his fidelity was
pledged beforehand. He inwardly hoped that his visitor was not going
to ask him for money, for he suspected that some awful fate must be in
store for those who refused a service when appealed to by the
mysterious passwords, of which he had now learnt one more.
'Messer Carlo is gone out,' said Gorlias. 'By this time he is in the
house of Messer Sebastian Polo, who wishes to marry him to his
daughter. He will not come home till after dinner.'
Omobono stared at the speaker.
'You know more than I do,' he observed.
'Of course. I am an astrologer. You are in charge of the house and all
it contains, and the servants and slaves are afraid of you because you
have the master's ear, but they love you because you are kind to them.
Therefore, whatever you do is right in their eyes. Upstairs there are
three female slaves; one is Arethusa, the other two are called Yulia
and Lucilla, and wait on her. You see, I know everything. Now, for the
sake of that business in which we are both interested, you must take
me up to their apartment, for I must speak with the one called
Arethusa.'
Omobono wished that Gorlias had asked him for his coat, or his money,
or anything that was his, rather than for such a favour; and he was
about to risk refusing it, whatever the penalty might be, when a
luminous idea revealed itself to him.
'There is only one condition,' he answered, after a moment's thought.
'I must be present while you talk with her.'
'That need not disturb you,' said Gorlias calmly. 'I have seen the
room where she is by virtue of my knowledge of the stars. It has a
small covered balcony with an outer lattice against the sun, on the
south side. There I will talk with Arethusa, while you stand by the
door and watch us. I will draw figures, and appear to explain them to
her, so that the two girl-slaves may think that I have come to amuse
her by setting up her horoscope. Even Messer Carlo could not object to
that, and Arethusa can veil herself, so that I shall not be able to
see her face.'
Omobono reflected a moment, but could now see no good reason for
refusing the request, whereas he saw a prospect of learning something
more about the mystery that interested him. Zoë herself had prompted
him with the second password of the chain, in Rustan's house, and he
was almost sure that in some way she knew the rest, and the meaning of
them all.
The two went up the marble stairs to the second story, and Omobono
tapped at the entrance to the women's apartment. There came a little
pattering of slippered feet, and Lucilla opened the door just enough
to put her head out, for it was not yet time for the mid-day meal, and
she wondered what was wanted.
'Bid your mistress veil herself, my child,' said Omobono. 'Here is a
famous astrologer come to tell her the future, which will help her to
pass the time.'
Lucilla glanced at Gorlias with curiosity and smiled, showing all her
teeth.
'Indeed it is very dull here,' she observed, and disappeared, shutting
the door behind her.
While the two men waited Gorlias produced from the folds of his wide
tunic a big roll of parchment, which he unrolled a foot or two,
displaying a multitude of incomprehensible signs and figures; he also
took out a large brass compass, a sheet of cotton paper from Padua,
also rolled up, and an Arabic almanack with a silver clasp. Omobono
surveyed these preparations with mingled curiosity and sceptical
amusement, till Lucilla opened the door again and ushered both men
into Zoë's presence. The astrologer made cabalistic signs with his
right hand while he advanced, as if he were drawing imaginary figures
in the air with his extended forefinger. Zoë's face was quite
concealed in the double folds of a white gauze veil, but she seemed to
watch him attentively as he came towards her.
CHAPTER VIII
Zoë and the astrologer sat in the covered balcony in full view of the
secretary, who remained near the door, straining his sharp ears in
vain to catch some words of the whispered conversation. The maids had
been dismissed. From time to time Gorlias spoke aloud, pointing with
his compass to different parts of the figure, but what he said only
made it more impossible to guess at what he whispered. Zoë sat almost
motionless, but she had opened the folds of her veil so as to uncover
her mouth, and after her companion had been speaking some time she
bent down and answered in his ear, pretending, however, to point to
the figures on the paper, as if she were asking questions.
The substance of what Gorlias told her was that he and his friends
were interested in a mighty enterprise, and had often tried to sound
Carlo Zeno with regard to helping them to carry it out, but they had
met with no success, for he either did not understand, or he would
not. Messer Sebastian Polo, whose house he frequented, was a timid
man, and was not to be trusted with such a secret; moreover, he was so
extremely anxious to make Zeno marry his daughter, that he would
certainly never allow him to run any risks.
All this he put very clearly, and Omobono might have been surprised
to learn that he had not used any password. Then Zoë bent down to his
ear.
'What is the name of Sebastian Polo's daughter?' she asked.
'Giustina,' whispered the astrologer. 'The sun near to mid-heaven,' he
continued aloud, 'and in trine aspect to Mars, signifies fine horses
and a retinue of servants.' He dropped his voice again. 'She is
thirty, and has had the smallpox,' he whispered.
'The master has only been here once since I came,' said Zoë, bending
to his ear again. 'I have no influence with him.'
Gorlias turned his face towards her in slow surprise.
'Had he not seen you before he bought you, Kokóna Arethusa?' he
enquired.
'Yes, indeed!'
'Oh! I thought that you also might have had the smallpox,' was the
whispered answer.
Zoë could not help laughing a little. The pretty notes, muffled by the
veil, seemed to come from far away. It was the first time she had
laughed naturally since many weeks. The astrologer bent nearer to her
when she was silent again, and spoke aloud, pointing to his figure.
'Venus is in the Seventh House in benign aspect to the Moon,' he said
aloud. 'You will be fortunate in love.' Then he whispered again, 'I
will give you a philtre that has never failed. The next time he
comes----'
Zoë shook her head decidedly, with something that looked like
indignation.
'It is for a good matter, Kokóna,' Gorlias answered. 'If you will
help us, you shall have pearls and diamonds, and gold and liberty.'
'Liberty? How?'
Gorlias thought that he had tempted her with that, at least.
'If you will promise your help with Messer Carlo, I will tell you.'
'How can I promise what is not mine to give?' asked the girl.
The astrologer was not discouraged, and after more talk about the
planets, in a tone loud enough to be heard by the maids if they were
listening at the door, he went on quickly again.
'Messer Carlo is a man who loves adventures, who has led desperate and
forlorn hope to victory, both in Italy and Greece, who has the gift of
the leader, if ever a man had it. Surely, you knew all this.'
'I know he has been a soldier,' Zoë answered, for Zeno had told her
so.
'He also possesses some fortune, and has great connexions in Venice.
Moreover, I can tell you, Kokóna, that this is no small matter. If he
succeeds, he will earn gratitude of the Serene Republic and honour
everywhere.'
'As much as that?' asked Zoë, looking attentively at the astrologer
through her veil. 'How am I to believe you?'
'I thought I had spoken clearly enough,' Gorlias answered, 'but lest
you should doubt my word and promise, take these.'
He had furtively slipped his hand into the bosom of his tunic, and
