Ay yi! Perhaps he will be made a prince when 
he returns to St. Petersburg and all the beautiful 
princesses will want to marry him. Can he remember this poor little California, and even our 
lovely Concha? I doubt! Valgame Dios, I 
doubt! '' 
" Conclia has always been too fortunate, '' said 
IKafaella with a touch of spite, for years of waiting 
liad tried her temper and the sun always freckled 
her nose. The flower of California stood on the 
corridor of the Mission and before the church 
waiting the guest of honor and his escort. A 
mass was to be said in behalf of the departing 
rests; the Juno would sail with the turn of the 
lafternoon tide. Men and women were in their 
gayest finery, an exotic mass of color against 
the rough whitewashed walls, chattering as 
vivaciously as if the burden of their conversation were not regret for the Chamberlain 
and his gay young lieutenants. Concha, alone, 
wore no color; her frock was white, her mantilla black. She stood somewhat apart, but 
although she was pale she commanded her 
eyes to dwell absently on the shifting sand far 
down the valley, her haughty Spanish profile betraying nothing of the despair in her soul. 
' ' Yes, Concha has always been too fortunate, '' 
repeated Eafaella. " Why should she be chosen 
for such a destiny — to go to the Eussian court 
and wear a train ten yards long of red velvet 
embroidered with gold, a white veil spangled with 
gold, a head-dress a foot high set so thick with 
jewels her head will ache for a week — Madre de 
Dios ! And we stay here forever with white walls, 
horsehair furniture, Baja California pearls and 
three silk dresses a year ! " 
" No one in all Kussia will look so grand in 
court dress as our Concliita," said Elena loyally. 
'' But I doubt if it is the dress and the state she 
thinks of losing to-day. She will not talk even 
to me of him — Ay yi ! she grows more reserved 
every day, our Concha ! — except to say she will wed 
him when he returns, and that I know, for did not 
I witness the betrothal ? She only mocks me when 
I beg her to tell me if she loves him, languishes, 
or sings a bar of some one of our beautiful songs 
with ridiculous words. But she does. She did 
not sleep last night. Her room is next to mine. 
No, it is of Rezanov she thinks, and always. 
Those proud silent girls, who jest when others 
would weep and use many words and must die 
without sympathy — they have tragedy in their 
souls, ay yi! And you think she is fortunate? 
True she is beautiful, she is La Favorita, she receives many boxes from Mexico, and she has won 
the love of this Russian. But — I have not dared 
to remind her — I remembered it only yesterday — 
she came into this world on the thirteenth of a 
month, and he into her life but one day before the 
thirteenth of another — new style! True some 
might say that it was an escape, but if he came on 
the twelfth, it was on the thirteenth she hegsm to 
love him — on the night of the ball; of that I am 
sure. ' ' 
Eaf aella shuddered and crossed herself. ' ' Poor 
Concha ! Perhaps in the end she will always stand 
apart like that. Truly she is not as others. I 
have always said it. Thanks be to Mary it was 
Luis that wooed me, not the Russian, for I might 
have been tempted. True his eyes are blue, and 
only the black could win my heart. But the court 
of St. Petersburg! Dios de mi vida! Did I he 
awake at night and think of Concha Argiiello in 
red velvet and jewels all over, I should hate her. 
But no — to-day — I cannot. Two years! Have I 
not waited six? It is eternity when one loves and 
is young. " 
' ' They come, ' ' said Elena. 
The cavalcade was descending the sand hills on 
the left, Rezanov in full uniform between the Co- 
mandante and Luis Argiiello and followed by a 
picked escort of officers from Presidio and Fort. 
The Californians wore full-dress uniform of white 
and scarlet, Don Jose, a blue velvet serape, em- 
broidered in gold with the arms of Spain. 
As they dismounted Eezanov bowed ceremoniously to the party on the corridor, and they 
returned his salutation gravely, suddenly silent. 
He walked directly over to Concha. 
" We will go in together, ' ' he said. ' ' It matters 
nothing what they think. I kneel beside no one 
else.'' 
And Concha, with the air of leading an honored 
guest to the banquet, turned and walked with him 
into the dark little church. 
" Why did you not wear a white mantilla *? ' ' he 
whispered. " I do not like that black thing. ' ' 
' ' I am not a bride. I knew we should kneel to- 
gether — it would have been ridiculous. And I 
could not wear a colored reboso to-day." 
' ' I should have liked to fancy we were here for 
our nuptials. Delusions pass but are none the 
less sweet for that.'' 
They knelt before the altar, the Comandante, 
Dofia Ignacia, Luis, Santiago, Eafaella Sal and 
Elena Castro just behind; the rest of the party, 
their bright garments shimmering vaguely in the 
gloom, as they listed ; and enough fervent prayers 
went up to insure the health and safety of the 
departing guests for all their lives. 
Eezanov, who had much on his mind, stared 
moodily at the altar until Concha, who had bowed 
her head almost to her knees, finished her supplication, when their eyes turned and met simultaneously. For a moment their brains did swim in 
the delusion that the priest with his uplifted hands 
pronounced benediction upon their nuptials, that 
probation was over and union nigh. But Father 
Abella dismissed all with the same blessing, and 
they shivered as they rose and walked slowly down 
the church. 
Dona Ignacia took her husband's arm, and mut- 
tering that she feared a chill, hurried the others 
before her. The priests had gone to the sacristy. 
Before they reached the door Eezanov and Concha 
were alone. 
His hands fell heavily on her shoulders. 
'' Concha,'' he said. "" I shall come back if I 
live. I make no foolish vows, so idle between us. 
There is only one power that can prevent our 
marriage in this church not later than two years 
from to-day. And although I am in the very ful- 
ness of my health and strength, with my work 
but begun, and all my happiness in the future, and 
even to a less sanguine man it would seem that his 
course had many years to run, still have I seen as 
much as any man of the inconsequence of life, of 
the insignificance of the individual, his hopes, ambitions, happiness, and even usefulness, in the 
complicated machinery of natural laws. It may 
be that I shall not come back. But I wish to take 
with me your promise that if I have not returned 
at the end of two years or you have received no 
reason for my detention, you will believe that 
I am dead. There would be but one insupportable 
drop in the bitterness of death, the doubt of your 
faith in my word and my love. Are you too much 
of a woman to curb your imagination in a long 
unbroken silence? " 
" I have learned so much that one lesson more 
is no tax on my faith. And I no longer live in a 
world of little things. I promise you that I shall 
never falter nor doubt.'' 
He bent his head and kissed her for the first 
time without passion, but solemnly, as had their 
nuptials indeed been accomplished, and the greater 
mystery of spiritual union isolated them for a 
moment in that twilight region where the mortal 
part did not enter. 
As they left the church they saw that all the 
Indians of the Mission and neighborhood, in a 
gala of color, had gathered to cheer the Russians 
as they rode away. Concha was to return as 
she had come, beside the carreta of her mother, 
and as Eezanov mounted his horse she stood 
staring with unseeing eyes on the brilliant 
animated scene. Suddenly she heard a suppressed sob, and felt a touch on her skirt. 
She looked round and saw Eosa, kneeling close to 
the church. For a moment she continued to stare, 
hardly comprehending, in the intense concentration of her faculties, that tangible beings, other 
than herself and Eezanov, still moved on the earth. 
Then her mind relaxed. She was normal in a 
normal world once more. She stooped and patted 
the hands clasping her skirts. 
" Poor Eosa! '' she said. " Poor Eosa! '' 
Over the intense green of islands and hills were 
long banners of yellow and purple mist, where the 
wild flowers were lifting their heads. The whole 
quivering bay was as green as the land, but far 
away the mountains of the east were pink. Where 
there was a patch of verdure on the sand hills the 
warm golden red of the poppy flaunted in the sunshine. All nature was in gala attire like the Californians themselves, as the Juno under full sail 
sped through " The Mouth of the Gulf of the Farallones." Fort San Joaquin saluted with seven 
 
guns ; the Juno returned the compliment with nine. 
The Comandante, his family and guests, stood 
on the hill above the fort, cheering, waving sombreros and handkerchiefs. Wind and tide carried 
the ship rapidly out the straits. Eezanov dropped 
the cocked hat he had been waving and raised his 
field-glass. Concha, as ever, stood a little apart. 
As the ship grew smaller and the company turned 
toward the Presidio, she advanced to the edge of 
the bluff. The wind lifted her loosened mantilla, 
billowing it out on one side, and as she stood with 
her hands pressed against her heart, she might, 
save for her empty arms, have been the eidolon of 
the Madonna di San Sisto. In her eyes was the 
same expression of vague arrested horror as she 
looked out on that world of menacing imperfections the blind forces of nature and man had 
created ; her body was instinct with the same nervous leashed impotent energy. 
XXV 
The white rain clouds, rolling as ever like a nervous intruder over the great snow peaks behind 
the steep hills black with forest that rose like a 
wall behind the little settlement of Sitka, parted 
for a moment and the sun, a coy disdainful guest, 
flung a glittering mist over what Nature had intended to be one of the most enchanting spots on 
earth, until, in a fit of ill-temper — with one of the 
gods, no doubt — she gave it to Niobe as a permanent outlet for her discontent. When it does not 
rain at Sitka it pours, and when once in a way she 
draws a deep breath of respite and lifts her grand 
and glorious face to the sun, in pathetic gratitude 
for dear infrequent favor, comes a wild flurry 
of snow or a close white fog from the inland 
waters; and like a great beauty condemned to 
wear a veil through life she can but stare in dumb 
resentment through the folds, consoling herself 
with the knowledge that could the world but see 
it must surely worship. Perhaps, who knows? 
she really is a frozen goddess, condemned to the 
veil for infidelity to him imprisoned in the great 
volcano across the sound — who sends up a column of light once in a way to dazzle her shrouded 
eyes, and failing that batters her with rock and 
stone like any lover of the slums. One day he 
spat forth a rock like a small hill, and big enough 
to dominate the strip of lowland at least, standing 
out on the edge of the island like a guard at the 
gates, and never a part of the alien surface. Between this lofty rock and the forest was the walled 
settlement of New Archangel, that Baranhov, the 
dauntless, had wrested from the bloodthirsty 
Kolosh but a short time since and purposed to 
hold in the interest of the Russian- American Company. His log hut, painted like the other buildings 
with a yellow ochre found in the soil, stood on the 
rock, and his glass swept the forest as often as 
the sea. 
As Rezanov, on the second of July, thirty-one 
days after leaving San Francisco, sailed into the 
harbor with its hundred bits of volcanic woodland 
weeping as ever, he gave a whimsical sigh in 
tribute to the gay and ever-changing beauties of 
the southern land, but was in no mood for sentimental reminiscence. Natives, paddling eagerly 
out to sea in their bidarkas to be the first to bring 
in good news or bad, had given him a report covering the period of his absence that filled him with 
dismay. There had been deaths from scurvy ; one 
of the largest ships belonging to the Company 
had been wrecked and the entire cargo lost; of a 
hunting party of three hundred Aleuts in one hundred and forty bidarka«, which had gone from 
Sitka to Kadiak in November of the preceding 
year, not one had arrived at its destination, and 
there was reason to believe that all had been 
drowned or massacred; and the Eussians and 
Aleuts at Behring's Bay settlement had been exterminated by one of the native tribes. 
But the Juno was received with salvos of artillery from the fort, and cheered by the entire population of the settlement, crowded on the beach. 
Baranhov, looking like a monkey with a mummy's 
head in which only a pair of incomparably shrewd 
eyes still lived, his black wig fastened on his bald 
red-fringed pate with a silk handkerchief tied 
under his chin, «tood, hands on hips, shaking with 
excitement and delight. The bearded long-haired 
priests, in full canonicals of black and gold, were 
beside the Chief-Manager, ready to escort the 
Chamberlain to the chapel at the head of the 
solitary street, where the bells were pealing and a 
mass of thanksgiving was to be said for his safe 
return. 
But it was some time before Eezanov could 
reach the chapel or even exchange salutations with 
Baranhov. As he stepped on shore he was surrounded, almost hustled by the shouting crowd of 
Russians — many of them convicts — Aleuts and 
Sitkans, who knelt at his feet, endeavored to kiss 
his hand, his garments, in their hysterical gratitude for the food he had brought them. For the 
first time he felt reconciled to his departure from 
California, and Concha 's image faded as he looked 
at the tearful faces of the diseased ill-nourished 
wretches who gave their mite of life that he might 
live as became a great noble of the Russian Empire. But although he tingled with pleasure and 
was deeply moved, he by no means swelled with 
vanity, for he was far too clear-sighted to doubt 
he had done more than his duty, or that his duty 
was more than begun. He made them a little 
speech, giving his word they should be properly 
fed hereafter, that he would make the improvement of their condition as well as that of all the 
employees of the Company throughout this vast 
chain of settlements on the Pacific, the chief consideration of his life ; and they believed him and 
followed him to the chapel rejoicing, reconciled 
for once to their lot. 
After the service Eezanov went up to the hut 
of the Chief -Manager, a habitation that leaked 
winter and summer, and was equally deficient in 
light ventilation and order. But Baranhov in the 
sixteen years of his exile had forgotten the bare 
lineaments of comfort, and devoted his days to 
advancing the interests of the Company, his 
nights, save when sleep overcame him, to potations that would have buried an ordinary man 
under Alaskan snows long before. But Baranhov 
had fourteen years more of good service in him, 
and rescued the Company from insolvency again 
and again, nor ever played into the hands of 
marauding foreigners; with brain on fire he was 
shrewder than the soberest. 
He listened with deep satisfaction to the Chamberlain's account of his success with the Calif or- 
nians and his glowing pictures of the country, 
nodding every few moments with emphatic approval. But as the story finished his wonderful 
eyes were two bubbling springs of humor, and 
Eezanov, who knew him well, recrossed his legs 
nervously. 
'' "What is it? " he asked. '' Wiiat have I done 
now? Eemember that you have been in this business for sixteen years, and I one " 
" How many measures of corn did yon say 
yon had bronglit, Excellency? '' 
" Two hundred and ninety-four,'' replied 
Eezanov proudly. 
" A provision that exceeds my most sanguine 
hopes. The only thing that mitigates my satisfaction is that there is not a mill in the settlement 
to grind it." 
Eezanov sprang to his feet with a violent exclamation, his face very red. There was no one 
whose good opinion he valued as he did that of 
this brilliant, dissipated, disinterested old genius ; 
and he felt like a schoolboy. But although he 
started for the door, he recovered half-way, and 
reseating himself joined in the laughter of the 
little man who was rocking back and forth on his 
bench, his weazened leg clasped against his 
shrunken chest. 
" How on earth was I to know all your domestic arrangements ! "he said testily. " God knows 
I found them limited enough last winter, but it 
never occurred to me there was any mysterious 
process involved in converting corn into meal. Is 
it quite useless, then! " 
" Oh, no, we can boil or roast it. It will dispose 
of what teeth we have left, but that will serve the 
good purpose of reminding us always of your excellency's interest in our welfare." 
Eezanov shrugged his shoulders. " Give the 
corn to the natives. It is farinaceous at all events. 
And you can have nothing to say against the flour 
I have brought, and the peas, beans, tallow, butter, 
barley, salt, and salted meats — in all to the value 
of twenty-four thousand Spanish dollars." 
The Chief-Manager's head nodded with the 
vigor and rapidity of a mechanical toy. " It is a 
God-send, a God-send. If you did no more than 
that you would have earned our everlasting gratitude. It will make us over, give us renewed courage in this cursed existence. Are you not going 
to get me out of it ! " 
Eezanov shook his head with a smile. " Literally you are the whole Company. As long as I 
live here you stay — although when I reach St. 
Petersburg I shall see that you receive every possible reward and honor. ' ' 
Baranhov lifted his shoulders to his ears in 
quizzical resignation. " I suppose it matters little where the last few years left me are spent, 
and I can hang the medals on the walls to console 
me when I have rheumatism, and shout my titles 
from the top of the fort when the Kolosh are 
yelling at the barricades. ' ' 
'' You must make yourself more comfortable,' 
said Kezanov emphatically. '' You are wrong to 
carry your honesty and enthusiasm to the point 
of living like the promuschleniki. Take enough of 
their time to build you a comfortable dwelling, and 
I will send you, on my own account, far more substantial rewards than orders and titles. Build a 
big house, for that matter. I shall be here more 
or less — when I am not in California." And he 
told Baranhov of his proposed marriage with the 
daughter of Don Jose Argiiello. 
The Chief -Manager listened to this confidence 
with an even liveher satisfaction than to the list 
of the Juno's cargo. 
' ' We shall have California yet ! " he cried, his 
eyes snapping like live coals under the black 
thatch of wig. " Absorption or the bayonet. It 
matters little. Ten years from now and we will 
have a line of settlements as far south as San 
Diego. My plan was to feel my way down the 
northern coast of California with a colony, which 
should buy a tract of land from the natives and 
engage immediately in otter hunting — somewhere 
between Cape Mendocino and Drake's Bay. The 
Spanish have no settlements above San Francisco 
and are too weak to drive us out. They would 
 
rage and bluster and do nothing. Then quietly 
push forward, building forts and ships. But you 
have taken hold in the grand manner and will 
accomplish in ten years what would have taken 
me fifty. Marry this girl, use your advantage 
over the entire family — whose influence I well 
know — and that great personal power with which 
the Almighty has been so lavish, and you will 
have the whole weakly garrisoned country under 
your foot before they know where they are, and 
the Russian settlers pouring in. Spain cannot 
come to the rescue while this devil Bonaparte is 
alive, and he is young, and like yourself a favorite 
of destiny. Those damned Bostonians inherit the 
grabbing instincts of the too paternal race they 
have just rejected, but there are thousands of 
miles of desert between California and their own 
western outposts, hundreds of savage tribes to 
exterminate. By the time they were in a position to attempt the occupation of California we 
should be so securely entrenched they would either 
let us alone or send troops that would be half dead 
by the time they reached us. As to ships, we 
could soon build enough at Okhotsk and Petropaulovsky for our purpose. For the matter of 
that, if your gifted tongue impressed the Tsar 
with the riches of California there would always 
be war ships on her coast.'' He leaned forward 
and caught the strong shoulders above him in 
hands that looked like a tangle of baked nerves, 
and shook them vigorously. '' You are a great 
boy ! " he said with a sort of quizzical solemnity. 
" A great boy. This damned, God-forsaken, pesti- 
lential, demoralizing, brutalizing factory for en- 
riching a few with the very life blood and vitals 
of thousands that will suffer and starve and never 
be heard of " (all his language cannot be recorded), " will make two or three reputations by 
the way. Mine will be one, although I 'll get nothing else. Shelikov is safe; but you will have a 
monument. Well, God bless you. I grudge you 
nothing. Not even the happiness you deserve and 
are bound to have — for when all is said and done, 
Eezanov, you are a lucky dog, a lucky dog! Any 
man may see that, even when these infernal snows 
have left him with but half an eye. To quarrel 
with a destiny like yours would be as wise as to 
protest because California is warm and fertile, 
while this infernal north is like living in a refrigerator with the deluge to vary the monotony. 
Now let us get drunk ! ' ' 
But Eezanov laughingly extricated himself, and 
sending a message to Davidov and Kliostov to 
come to him immediately, walked toward the tent 
he had ordered erected on the edge of the settlement; only the worst of weather drove him indoors in these half -civilized communities. 
As he was passing the chapel, followed again by 
the employees of the Company, to whom he had 
granted a holiday, he suddenly found his hand 
taken possession of, and looked up to see himself 
confronted by a dissipated-looking person in plain 
clothes. His hand became so limp that it was 
dropped as if it had put forth a sting, and he narrowed his eyes and demanded with a bend of his 
mouth that brought the blood to the face of the 
intruder : 
" And who are you, may I ask? '' 
The man threw back his head defiantly. " I am 
Lieutenant Sookin of the Imperial Navy of Eussia, ' ' he said in a loud defiant tone. 
'''' And I am Chamberlain of the Eussian Court 
and Commander of all America, ' ' replied Eezanov 
coolly. " Now go to your quarters, dress yourself 
in your uniform, and present your report to me 
an hour hence." 
The officer, concentrating in his injected eyes 
all the lively hatred and jealousy of his service 
for the Enssian- American Company in this region 
where it reigned supreme and cared no more for 
the Admiralty than for some native chieftain covered with shells and war-paint, glared at its plenipotentiary as if calling upon his deeper resources 
of insolence ; but the steady contemptuous gaze of 
the man who had dealt with his kind often and 
successfully overcame his sodden spirit and he 
turned sulkily and slouched oif to his quarters to 
console himself with more brandy. Eezanov 
shrugged his shoulders and went on to his tent. 
There was no furniture in it as yet, and he was 
obliged to receive Davidov and Khostov standing, 
but this he preferred. They followed him almost 
immediately, apprehensive and nervous, and before speaking he looked at them for a moment with 
his strong penetrating gaze. He well knew the 
power of his own personality, and that it was immeasurably enhanced by the fact that of all with 
whom he had to do in these benighted regions his 
will alone was never weakened by liquor. These 
young men, clever, high-bred, with an honorable 
record not only in Eussia but in England and 
America, looked upon a hilarious night as the just 
reward of work well done by day. Brandy was 
debited to their account by the " bucket " (a 
bucket being a trifle less than two gallons), and 
they found little fault with life. But it gave a commanding spirit like Eezanov's an advantage which 
they did not underestimate for a moment; and 
they alternately hated and worshipped him. 
" I think you have an inkling of what I am 
going to ask you to do.'' The Chamberlain 
brought out the euphemism with the utmost suavity. ' ' I have made up my mind not to leave the 
indignity to which Eussia was subjected last year 
by Japan without such punishment as it is in my 
power to inflict at present. It was my intention 
to build a flotilla here, but owing to the diseased 
condition and reduced numbers of the employees, 
that was imiDossible, and I shall be obliged to content myself with the Juno and the Avos, whose 
keel, as you know, was laid in November, and is 
no doubt finished long since. These I shall fit 
with armaments in Okhotsk. I shall place the enterprise I have spoken of in your charge, sailing 
with you from Sitka five days hence. From Ok- 
hotsk I desire that you proceed to the Japanese 
settlements in the lower Kurile Islands, take possession of them and bring all stores and as many 
of the inhabitants as the vessels will accommodate, 
to Sitka, where Baranhov will see that they are 
comfortably established on that large island in 
the harbor — which we shall call Japonsky — and 
converted into good servants of the Company. 
The excuse for this enterprise is that those islands 
were formally taken possession of by Shelikov; 
and although abandoned later, the fact remains 
that the Eussian flag was the first to float over 
them. The stores captured may not be worth 
much and the islands are of no particular use to 
us, but it is wise that Japan should have a taste 
of Eussian power; and the consequences may be 
salutary in more ways than one. I hope you will 
do me this great favor, for there is no one of your 
tried probity and skill to whom I can trust so 
delicate an enterprise. I am doing it wholly upon 
my own responsibility, for although I wrote tentatively to the Tsar on this subject before I sailed 
for California, it is not yet time for a reply. 
However, I take the consequences upon my own 
shoulders. You shall not suffer in any way, for 
your orders are to obey mine while you remain 
in these waters." 
He paused a moment, and then suddenly smiled 
into the unresponsive faces before him. He held 
out his hand and shook their limp ones warmly. 
" Let me thank you here for all your inestimable services in the past, and particularly during 
our late hazardous voyages. Be sure that whether you succeed in this enterprise or not, your rewards shall be no less for what you have already 
done, I shall make it a personal matter with the 
Tsar. You shall have promotion and a substantial increase in pay, besides the orders and Imperial thanks you so richly deserve. Lest any- 
thing happen to me on my homeward journey, I 
shall write to St. Petersburg before I leave. ' ' 
The lieutenants, overcome as ever when he 
chose to put forth his full powers, assured him 
of their fidelity and, if with misgivings, vowed to 
mete vengeance to the Japanese. And although 
their misgivings were not unfounded, and they 
paid a high price in suffering and mortification, 
they accomplished their object and in due course 
received the rewards the Chamberlain had promised them. 
They did not retire, and Eezanov, seeing their 
sudden hesitation and embarrassment, felt a sudden thrill of apprehension. 
" What is it? ''he demanded. " What has happened! " 
" Life has moved slowly in Sitka during your 
absence, Excellency," replied Davidov. " There 
lias been little work done on the Avos, It will not 
be finished for a month or six weeks.' 
Then, had the young men been possessed by a 
not infrequent mood, they would have glowed with 
a sense of just satisfaction. Rezanov felt himself 
turn so white that he wheeled about and left the 
tent. A month or six weeks ! And the speed and 
safety of his journey across Siberia depended 
upon his making the greater part of it before the 
heavy autumn rains swelled the rivers and flooded 
the swamps. Winter or summer the journey from 
Okhotsk to St. Petersburg might be made in four 
months; with the wealth and influence at his 
command, possibly in less; but in the deluge 
between he was liable to detentions lasting 
nearly as long again, to say nothing of 
illness caused by inevitable exposure. He stood 
staring at the palisades for many minutes. 
The separation must be long enough, the dangers 
numerous enough if he started within the week, 
but at least he had in a measure accustomed himself to the idea of not seeing Concha again for 
" the best part of two years," and the sanguineness of his temperament had led him to hope that 
the time might be reduced to eighteen months. If 
he delayed too long, only by means of an unprecedented run of good fortune would he reach St. 
Petersburg but a month behind his calculations. 
And the chances were in favor of four, or three 
at the best! Never since the morning that the 
real nature of his feeling for Concha had declared 
itself had he yearned toward her as at that moment; never since the dictum of what she called 
their '' tribunal " had he so rebelled against the 
long delay. And yet he hesitated. To leave 
Japan unpunished for the senseless humiliations 
to which it had subjected Russia in his person was 
not to be thought of, and yet did he leave without 
seeing the Avos finished, the two boats supplied 
with armaments at Okhotsk, and under way before he started across Siberia, he knew it was 
doubtful if the expedition took place before his 
return; in that case might never take place, for 
these two young men might have drifted elsewhere, 
and he knew of no one else to whom he could entrust such a commission. In spite of their idiosyncrasies he could trust them implicitly — up to a 
certain point. That point involved keeping them 
in sight until exactly the right moment and leaving 
nothing to their executive which could be certainly accomplished by himself alone. Did he 
sail five days hence on the Juno one of the officers 
would be exposed for an indeterminate time 
to the temptations of Okhotsk, the ship, perhaps, 
at the mercy of some sudden requirement of the 
Company. His authority was absolute when en- 
forced in person, but it was a proverb west of the 
Ural: '' God reigns and the Tsar is far away.' 
If the Juno were wanted the manager at Okhotsk 
would argue that two years was a period in which 
an ardent servant of the Company could find many 
an excuse to justify its seizure. 
And here in Sitka it was doubtful if the work 
on the Avos proceeded at all. Baranhov was not 
in sympathy with the enterprise against the Japanese, fearing the consequences to himself in the 
event of the Tsar's disapproval, and resenting 
the impressment of the promuschleniki into a service that deprived him of their legitimate work. 
Moreover, although he loved Rezanov personally, 
he had enjoyed supreme power in the wilderness 
too long not to chafe under even the temporary 
assumption of authority by his high-handed 
superior. With the best of intentions Davidov 
could make little headway against the passive resistance of the Chief-Manager, and those intentions would be weakened by the consolations the 
Company so generously afforded. 
The result was hardly open to doubt. If he left 
Sitka before the completion of the Avos, Eussia 
would go unavenged for the present. Or himself! 
Eezanov, sanguine and imaginative as he was, even 
to the point of creating premises to rhyme with 
ends, was very honest fundamentally. He turned 
abruptly on his heel, and calling to the officers that 
he would announce his decision on the morrow, 
ordered the sentry to open the gate and passed 
out of the enclosure. 
He crossed the clearing and entered the forest. 
