lithe filly was equally determined. As an expedient, they finally guided
the animals toward the hull of an ancient wreck; nothing else would have
stopped them.
"How I love it!" said Kate breathlessly, as she slid from the saddle.
"Beauty, you beat him, didn't you!" patting the dripping neck of her
favorite.
They tethered the horses presently, and sat down in the shade of the
hull.
"Nothing like it, is there, girl?"
"I hate automobiles," she answered irrelevantly.
The old, old sea quarreled murmurously at their feet, and the white
gulls sailed hither and thither, sometimes breasting the rollers just as
they were about to topple over into running creamy foam. The man and the
girl seemed perfectly content to remain voiceless. There was no sound
but the song of the sea: the girl dreamed, and the man wondered what her
dream was. Presently he glanced at his watch. He stood up, brushing the
sand from his clothes.
"Half an hour between us and breakfast, Kate. All aboard!"
The night before might have been only an idle dream.
So they took the road back. Only the sea and the gulls saw the tender
kiss.
                   *       *       *       *       *
The pariah sauntered in at two o'clock that afternoon, just as the
family were sitting down to luncheon. He was a revelation. There was
nothing shabby about him now. He wore a new suit, spats, a new straw
hat, and twirled a light bamboo. There was something jaunty and
confident in his air, a bubbling in his eyes; altogether, he was in fine
fettle about something. He cast aside his hat and cane with a flourish.
"Aha! just in time," he said. "Another chair, William."
The butler sent a dubious glance at his master; there was the usual curt
nod and the frown. So grandpa sat down beside Norah, whose usual
effervescence had strangely subsided; he pinched her cheek, and
deliberated between the cold ham and chicken.
"A fine day! A beautiful day! A day of days!" he cried, surrendering to
the appetitious lure of both meats.
Nobody replied to this outburst of exuberance; nobody had the power to.
A strange calm settled over every one. This was altogether a new kind of
grandpa. There was nothing timid or hesitant here, nothing meek and
humble; neither was there that insufferable self-assurance and arrogance
of a disagreeable man. Grandpa's attitude was simply that of an equal,
of a man of the world, of one who is confident of the power he holds in
reserve; that was all. But for all that, he was a sensation of some
magnitude. Carrington was seized with a wild desire to laugh. The truth
came to him like an illumination; but he wisely held his peace.
"There is something in the air to-day that renews youth in old age; eh,
my son?" with a sly wink at Cavenaugh.
Cavenaugh's expression of wonder began to freeze and remained frozen to
the end of the meal. So all the honors of conversation fell to grandpa,
who seemed to relish this new privilege.
"Father," said Cavenaugh, holding back his accumulated wrath, "I want to
see you in my study."
"Immediately, my son. I was just about to make that same request."
Grandpa looked at Kate, then at Carrington. "I suppose you young persons
will invite poor old grandpa to the wedding?"
"Father!" This was altogether too much for patrician blood. Cavenaugh's
face reddened and his fists closed ominously. "You will do me the honor,
father, not to meddle with my private affairs. Kate is my daughter, and
she shall marry the man it pleases me to accept."
Carrington felt this cut dart over grandpa's shoulder. He stirred
uneasily.
"Oh, if that's the way you look at it!" with a comical deprecatory
shrug. Grandpa touched Carrington on the arm. "Young man, do you love
this girl? No false modesty, now; the truth, and nothing but the truth.
Do you love her?"
"With all my heart!" Carrington felt the impulse occult. Something
whispered that his whole future depended upon his answer.
"And you, Kate?"
"I love him, grandpa," bravely.
"That's all I want to know," said grandpa.
Cavenaugh released one of his fists; it fell upon the table and rattled
things generally.
"Am I in my own house?" he bawled.
"That depends," answered grandpa suavely. "You've got to behave
yourself. Now, then, let us repair to the secret chamber of finance. It
is the day of settlement," grimly.
Mrs. Cavenaugh was gently weeping. The dread moment had come, come when
she had been lulled into the belief that it would never come. Kate
understood, and longed to go to her and comfort her; and she trembled
for her father, who knew nothing of the pit that lay at his feet.
Carrington dallied with his fork; he wished he was anywhere in the world
but at the Cavenaugh table. The desire to laugh recurred to him, but he
realized that the inclination was only hysterical.
Cavenaugh was already heading for the study. He was in a fine rage.
Grandpa was close on his heels. At the threshold he turned once more to
Carrington.
"You know your Tempest, young man, I'm sure," he said. "Well, this is
the revolt of Caliban--Caliban uplifted, as it were."
The door closed behind them, and father and son faced each other.
"I'll trouble you for those papers you took from the safe last night,"
said the son heavily.
"Ah, indeed!" said grandpa.
"At once; I have reached the limit of my patience."
"So have I," returned grandpa. "Perhaps you know what these papers are
about?"
"I know nothing whatever, save that they belong to Mr. Carrington. Hand
them over."
Grandpa helped himself to a cigar and sat down. He puffed two or three
times, eyed the lighted end, and sighed with satisfaction.
"If you but knew what they were about, these papers, you would pay a
cool million for their possession. My word, it is a droll situation;
reads like the fourth act in a play. If you have a duke picked out for
Kate, forget him."
"She will never marry Carrington!" Cavenaugh's voice rose in spite of
his effort to control it.
"My son, they will hear you," the pariah warned. He blew a cloud of
smoke into the air and sniffed it. "You never offered me this particular
brand," reproachfully.
"Enjoy it," snapped the other, "for it is the last you will ever smoke
in any house of mine."
"You don't tell me!"
"Those papers, instantly!"
"'Be it known by these presents, et cetera, et cetera,'" said the old
man. He rose suddenly, the banter leaving his lips and eyes, and his jaw
setting hard. "You had better get your check-book handy, my son, for
when I'm through with you, you'll be only too glad to fill out a blank
for fifty thousand. I consider myself quite moderate. This young
Carrington is a mighty shrewd fellow; and I'd rather have him as a
friend than an enemy. He has made out his case so strongly that it will
cost you a pretty penny to escape with a whole skin."
"What are you talking about?"
"The case of the people versus Cavenaugh et al. It concerns the clever
way in which you and your partners slid under the seven per cent.
dividend due your investors; which caused a slump in the price of the
shares, forcing thousands to sell their stock; which you bought back at
a handsome profit. Moloch! The millions you have are not enough; you
must have more. There are about twelve of you in all, not one of you
worth less than three millions. What a beautiful chance for blackmail!"
Cavenaugh stepped back, and his legs, striking a chair, toppled him into
it. His father had become Medusa's head!
"Aha! That jars you some," chuckled grandpa.
It took Cavenaugh some time to recover his voice, and when he did it was
faint and unnatural.
"Is this true?" he gasped.
"It is so true that I'll trouble you for the check now."
"Come, father, this is no time for nonsense." Cavenaugh waved his hand
impatiently. "Let me see the document."
"Hardly. But the moment you place the check in my hands, I shall be
pleased to do so. But there must be no reservation to have payment
stopped."
"I will not give you a single penny!" The mere suggestion of giving up
so large a sum without a struggle seemed preposterous. "Not a penny! And
furthermore, I am through with you for good and all. Shift for yourself
hereafter. Fifty thousand! You make me laugh!"
"I shall make you laugh, my son; but not on the humorous side." The old
man reached out his hand and struck the bell.
"What do you want?" asked Cavenaugh, mystified.
"I want the author of the document. I propose to take the family
skeleton out of the closet and dangle it up and down before the young
man's eyes. You will laugh, I dare say."
Cavenaugh fell back in his chair again. The door opened and William
looked in.
"You rang, sir?" to Cavenaugh fils.
"No, William," said Cavenaugh père affably; "I rang. Call Mr.
Carrington." The butler disappeared. "It is my turn, Henry, and I have
waited a long time, as you very well know. Ha! Sit down, Mr. Carrington,
sit down."
Carrington, who had entered, obeyed readily.
"You left some papers in the dining-room safe last night," began
grandpa.
"I was about to ask you to return them," replied Carrington, with
assumed pleasantry.
The two Cavenaughs looked at each other blankly. Finally grandpa
laughed.
                             [Illustration]
"I told you he was clever!"
"It is true, then," snarled the millionaire, "that you have been
meddling with affairs that in no wise concern you. I warn you that your
case in court will not have a leg to stand on."
"I prefer not to discuss the merits of the case," said Carrington
quietly.
"I have been your host, sir; you have eaten at my table." Cavenaugh, as
he spoke, was not without a certain dignity.
"All of which, recognizing the present situation, I profoundly regret."
"Good!" said grandpa. "Henry, if you had been the general they give you
credit for, you would have offered Mr. Carrington that seventeen
thousand two or three years ago. There is nothing so menacing to
dishonesty as the free lance. Now, listen to me for a space. We'll come
to the documentary evidence all in good time. I spoke of Caliban
uplifted," ironically. "For years I have been treated as a pariah, as a
beast of burden, as a messenger boy, as a go-between to take tricks that
might have soiled my son's delicate hands. Father and son, yes; but in
name only. Blood is thicker than water only when riches and ambition are
not touched in the quick. This dutiful son of mine could easily have
elevated me along with himself; but he would not do so. He was afraid
that people might learn something of my past, which would greatly hinder
his advancement. He prospered, he grew rich and arrogant; he put his
heel on my neck, and I dared not revolt. You wouldn't believe it, would
you, Mr. Carrington, that I was graduated with honors from Oxford
University. I speak three tongues fluently, and have a smattering of a
dozen others; am a doctor of philosophy, an Egyptologist. But I was
indolent and loved good times, and so, you see, it came about that I
fell into evil ways. Formerly, I was a burglar by profession."
He stopped, eying Carrington's stupefaction. The son gnawed his lips
impotently.
"I was a master, after a fashion," resumed the old man, satisfied with
his dénouement. "I committed a dozen splendid burglaries. I never left a
trail behind. The police sought for me, but did not know me either by
name or by sight. This was the sword my son kept over my neck. The
slightest rebellion, and he threatened to expose me. Oh, I know the boy
well enough; he would have done it in those days. Once extradited to
England, thirty years ago, no one would have connected our names. Yet he
was afraid of me; he wasn't sure that at any time the old desire would
spring up renewed. I robbed to gratify my craving for excitement rather
than to fill my purse. I made an unhappy marriage; something Kate nor
Norah shall do while I live. Henry was clever. He made me an allowance
of two hundred a month. And how do you suppose he arranged the payment?
On the first day of the month he placed the cash in a safe in the house,
and changed the combination. If I got the money without being caught it
was mine; otherwise I went hungry. Ingenious idea, wasn't it? For I had
all the excitement, and none of the peril of a real burglary. Henry
forgot, yesterday, that it was the first of the month."
The millionaire found it impossible to remain seated. He rose and paced
the floor, his brows knit, his hands clenched. He was at bay. Carrington
felt as if he were in the midst of some mad dream.
"Sometimes I succeeded in opening the safe; and sometimes, when luck
went against me for two or three months, Norah tipped me the
combination. She dared not do it too often. So the months went on. Once
a month I was permitted to visit my grandchildren. My son grew richer
and richer; for myself, I remained in the valley of humiliation. I had
no chance. I had never met any of my son's friends; he took good care
that I did not; so they were in total darkness as to my existence. But
the ball and chain were knocked off last night. Your papers are, after
all, only an incident. Caliban revolts. Mr. Carrington, my son! Oh, I am
proud of him. I believed the genius for robbery was mine. I am a
veritable tyro beside Henry. Half a dozen millions from the pockets of
the poor at one fell swoop! Where's your Robin Hood and his ilk? But it
isn't called robbery; it is called high finance."
He applied a match to his dead cigar and thoughtfully eyed his son.
"And there is a good joke on me, weaving in and out of all this. I
regularly invested half my allowance in buying shares in my son's
company, to insure my old age. It jarred me when I read the truth last
night. I hate to be outwitted. Henry, sit down; you make me nervous."
"Well, what are you going to do?" asked the son. As he faced his father
there was something lion-like in his expression.
"Sit down, my son, and I will tell you," answered the old man quietly.
He knew that his son was a fighter, and that to win he would have to
strike quick and hard.
Cavenaugh flung himself into his chair. At that moment he did not know
which he hated the most, his father or Carrington.
"First, you will write out that check for fifty thousand."
"Blackmail!"
"Nothing of the sort. For twenty years you have kept your heel on my
neck. I could do nothing; opportunities came and I dared not grasp them;
my genuine ability was allowed to rust. It is simply compensation.
Blackmail? I think not. I could easily force a million from you. But I
am and have been for years an honest man. And heaven knows how well I
have paid for my early transgression," bitterly. "This hour is mine, and
I propose to use it."
"What guaranty have I of your good faith?" fiercely.
"My word," calmly. "I have never yet broken it."
Carrington gazed longingly toward the door. It was horribly
embarrassing. He began to realize that Kate's father would hate him
bitterly indeed, and that his own happiness looked very remote.
Cavenaugh turned to his desk, filled out the blank, and passed it to his
father, who, with scarcely a glance at it, passed it back with a
negative shake of the head.
"The official certifying stamp lies on your desk; use it."
There was no getting around this keen-eyed old man. He knew every point
in the game.
"You will live to regret this," said Cavenaugh, his eyes sparkling with
venom.
"I have many things to regret; principally that fate made me a father."
The old man passed the check over to Carrington. "You're a lawyer; does
that look legal to you?"
Carrington signified that it did.
"Now, then, Henry, you will write down on official paper your
resignation as president and director of the General Trust Company of
America. You will give orders for the restitution of the millions that
were fraudulently added to your capital. I am not the least interested
in what manner the restitutions are made, so long as they are made. I am
now representing the investors. As for your partners, it will be easy
for you to impress them with the necessity of the action."
"And if I refuse?"
"Nothing less than the attorney-general. I intend to make this business
as complete as possible."
Cavenaugh turned again to his desk. He knew his father even as his
father knew him. He wrote hurriedly, the pen sputtering angrily.
"What else?" with a cold fury.
Again the old man gave Carrington the paper.
"It is perfectly intelligible," he said. He began to feel a bit sorry
for Cavenaugh junior.
"Now, those papers," said Cavenaugh sharply.
"I believe they belong to me," interposed Carrington.
Grandpa smiled. "It all depends."
"I could easily force you," suggestively.
Grandpa smiled again. "Of that I haven't the least doubt. Of course,
what I have is only a copy?"
"It is the only copy in existence," replied Carrington anxiously. And
then a flush of shame mantled his cheeks. Where was his legal cunning?
"Ah!" The ejaculation came from Cavenaugh junior.
"There is but one thing more," said grandpa urbanely. "I am determined
that Kate shall be happy. She shall marry Mr. Carrington before the snow
flies. It is an excellent policy to keep valuable secrets in the
family."
"Give your papers to the attorney-general. I'll see you all hanged
before I'll give my consent!" Cavenaugh roared out these words. His
patience had truly reached the limit of endurance.
"Softly, softly!" murmured grandpa.
"I mean it!" con agitata.
"Ah, well; what will be, will be. Son, I came down here yesterday with
altogether a different piece of business in mind. The documents I
discovered last night changed these plans. You own rich oil lands in
Texas; or, rather, you did own them before you sold out to the company.
The land you sold was not, and never had been, legally yours; you owned
not a single tuft of grass. Government land-grab, I believe they call
it. It is not now a question of refunding money; it is a question of
avoiding prison. The supreme court at Washington can not be purchased.
It cost me five hundred, which I could ill afford, to get a copy of the
original transfer. The real owner mistook me for you, son; that is how I
learned. Your consent to this marriage; or, my word for it, I'll put you
where you would have put me, had you dared. Quick! My patience is quite
as tense as yours."
The collapse of Cavenaugh was total. He saw the futility of further
struggle. Ah! and he had believed all these transgressions securely
hidden and forgotten, that the fortress of his millions would protect
him from all attack. Too late he realized that he had gone too far with
his father. There was no mercy in the old man's eyes, and Cavenaugh knew
in his heart that he deserved none.
"Very sensible," said the retired burglar. He folded the check and put
it in his wallet, while his son covered his face with his hands. "Murder
will out, even among the most pious. I know that what has passed between
us will be forgotten by Mr. Carrington. For myself, I shall return to
England. I have always had a horror of dying in this country. Like
father, like son; the parable reads truly. It was in the blood, Mr.
Carrington; it was in the blood. But Henry here went about it in a more
genteel manner." He struck the bell. "William, send Miss Kate here."
William bowed. He recognized the change; grandpa's voice was full of
confident authority.
Kate entered the study shortly after. She had been weeping; her eyes
were red. Seeing her father's bowed head, she sprang to his side like a
lioness.
"What have they been doing to you, father?"
"Nothing but what is just," softly answered her parent. The little dukes
and princes faded away as a dream fades.
"Grandpa ..." she began.
"Child, it is all settled. The hatchet is buried in frozen ground. Your
father consents to your marriage with Mr. Carrington. It has been a
heated argument, but he has come around to my way of thinking. 'All's
right with the world,' as Browning says. Bless you, my children, bless
you!" with tender irony.
"And now, my papers," said Carrington, smiling up at the girl
reassuringly.
"And you still wish to marry me?" asked the girl, her face burning and
her eyes moist.
"I'd marry you if your grandpa was Beelzebub himself!"
"Here's your papers, young man," said grandpa. He passed the envelope
across the table.
"What's this?" cried Carrington.
"It means, my boy," said grandpa, "that blood is thicker than water, and
that I really intended no harm to Henry. And then, besides, I like to
win when all the odds are against me."
Carrington gently turned the envelope upside down. Nothing but burnt
paper fluttered upon the table.
                             TWO CANDIDATES
                                   I
TO begin with, I am going to call things by their real names. At first
glance this statement will give you a shiver of terror, that is, if you
happen to be a maiden lady or a gentleman with reversible cuffs. But
your shivers will be without reason. Prue may read, and modest Prue's
mama; for it isn't going to be a naughty story; on the contrary,
grandma's spring medicines are less harmless. Yet there is a parable to
expound and a moral to point out; but I shall leave these to your own
discernment.
It has always appealed to me as rather a silly custom on a
story-teller's part to invent names for the two great political parties
of the United States; and for my part, I am going to call a Democrat a
Democrat and a Republican a Republican, because these titles are not so
hallowed in our time as to be disguised in print and uttered in a bated
breath. There is fortunately no lèse-majesté in America.
Men inclined toward the evil side of power will be found in all parties,
and always have been. Unlike society, the middle class in politics
usually contains all the evil elements. In politics the citizen becomes
the lowest order, and the statesman the highest; and, thanks to the
common sense of the race, these are largely honest and incorruptible.
When these become disintegrated, a republic falls.
Being a journalist and a philosopher, I look upon both parties with
tolerant contempt. The very nearness of some things disillusions us; and
I have found that only one illusion remains to the newspaper man, and
that is that some day he'll get out of the newspaper business. I vote as
I please, though the family does not know this. The mother is a
Republican and so is the grandmother; and, loving peace in the house, I
dub myself a Republican till that moment when I enter the voting-booth.
Then I become an individual who votes as his common-sense directs.
The influence of woman in politics is no inconsiderable matter.
The great statesman may flatter himself that his greatness is due
to his oratorical powers; but his destiny is often decided at the
breakfast-table. Why four-fifths of the women lean toward Republicanism
is something no mere historian can analyze.
In my town politics had an evil odor. For six years a Democrat had been
mayor, and for six years the town had been plundered. For six years the
Republicans had striven, with might and main, to regain the power ...
and the right to plunder. It did not matter which party ruled, graft
(let us omit the quotation marks) was the tocsin. The citizens were
robbed, openly or covertly, according to the policy of the party in
office. There was no independent paper in town; so, from one month's end
to another it was leaded editorial vituperation. Then Caliban revolted.
An independent party was about to be formed.
The two bosses, however, were equal to the occasion. They immediately
hustled around and secured as candidates for the mayoralty two prominent
young men whose honesty and integrity were unimpeachable. Caliban, as is
his habit, sheathed his sword and went back to his bench, his desk, or
whatever his occupation was.
On the Republican side they nominated a rich young club-man. Now, as you
will readily agree, it is always written large on the political banner
that a man who is rich has no incentive to become a grafter. The public
is ever willing to trust its funds to a millionaire. The Democrats, with
equal cunning, brought forward a brilliant young attorney, whose income
was rather moderate but whose ability and promise were great. The
Democratic organs hailed his nomination with delight.
"We want one of the people to represent us, not one of the privileged
class." You see, there happened to be no rich young Democrat available.
These two candidates were close personal friends. They had been chums
from boyhood and had been graduated from the same college. They belonged
to the same clubs, and were acknowledged to be the best horsemen in
town. As to social prominence, neither had any advantage over the other,
save in the eyes of matrons who possessed marriageable (and extravagant)
daughters. Williard, the Republican nominee, was a handsome chap,
liberal-minded and generous-hearted, without a personal enemy in the
world. I recollect only one fault: he loved the world a little too well.
The opposition organs, during the heat of the campaign, dropped vague
hints regarding dinners to singers and actresses and large stakes in
poker games. Newcomb, his opponent, was not handsome, but he had a fine,
clean-cut, manly face, an intrepid eye, a resolute mouth, and a
tremendous ambition. He lived well within his income, the highest
recommendation that may be paid to a young man of these days.
He threw himself into the fight with all the ardor of which his nature
was capable; whereas Williard was content to let the machine direct his
movements. The truth is, Williard was indifferent whether he became
mayor or not. To him the conflict was a diversion, a new fish to
Lucullus; and when the Democratic organs wrote scathing editorials about
what they termed his profligate career, he would laugh and exhibit the
articles at the club. It was all a huge joke. He made very few speeches,
and at no time could he be forced into the foreign districts. He
complained that his olfactory nerve was too delicately educated. The
leaders swallowed their rancor; there was nothing else for them to do.
In Williard's very lack of ambition lay his strength. Poverty would have
made a great man out of him; but riches have a peculiar way of numbing
the appreciation of the greater and simpler things in life.
Newcomb went everywhere; the Poles hurrahed for him, the Germans, the
Irish, the Huns and the Italians. And he made no promises which he did
not honestly intend to fulfil. To him the fight meant everything; it
meant fame and honor, a comfortable addition to his income, and
Washington as a finality. He would purify the Democrats while he
annihilated the pretensions of the Republicans. He was what historians
call an active dreamer, a man who dreams and then goes forth to
accomplish things. His personality was engaging.
Besides all this (for the secret must be told) Newcomb was in love and
wished to have all these things to lay at the feet of his beloved, even
if she returned them. You will regularly find it to be true that the
single man is far more ambitious than his married brother. The latter
invariably turns over the contract to his wife.
Williard was deeply in love, too, with Senator Gordon's lovely daughter,
and Senator Gordon was that mysterious power which directed the
Republican forces in his section of the state. So you may readily
believe that Newcomb was forced to put up a better fight than Williard,
who stood high in Senator Gordon's favor. The girl and the two young men
had been friends since childhood, and nobody knew whether she cared for
either of them in the way they desired. Everybody in town, who was
anybody, understood the situation; and everybody felt confident that
Williard was most likely to win. The girl never said anything, even to
her intimate friends; but when the subject was brought up, she smiled in
a way that dismissed it.
Such was the political situation at the beginning of the municipal
campaign. There have been like situations in any number of cities which
boast of one hundred thousand inhabitants or more; perhaps in your town,
and yours, and yours. That bugaboo of the politician, reform, brings
around this phenomenon about once in every eight years. For a while the
wicked ones promise to be good, and you will admit that that helps.
It was amusing to follow the newspapers. They vilified each other,
ripped to shreds the character of each candidate, recalled boyhood
escapades and magnified them into frightful crimes, and declared in turn
that the opposition boss should land in the penitentiary if it took all
the type in the composing-rooms to do it. What always strikes me as odd
is that, laughter-loving people that we are, nobody laughs during these
foolish periods. Instead, everybody goes about, straining his conscience
and warping his common-sense into believing these flimsy campaign lies,
these outrageous political roorbacks.
When Williard and Newcomb met at the club, at the Saturday-night
luncheons, they avoided each other tactfully, each secretly longing to
grasp the other's hand and say: "Don't believe a word of it, old boy;
it's all tommy-rot." But policy held them at arm's length. What would
the voters say if they heard that their respective candidates were
hobnobbing at a private club? Newcomb played billiards in the basement
while Williard played a rubber at whist up stairs; and the Saturday
rides out to the country club became obsolete. Only a few cynics saw the
droll side of the situation; and they were confident that when the
election was over the friendship would be renewed all the more strongly
for the tension.
One night, some weeks before the election, Williard dined alone with the
senator at the Gordon home. Betty Gordon was dining elsewhere. With the
cognac and cigars, the senator drew out a slip of paper, scrutinized it
for a space, then handed it to his protégé.
"That's the slate. How do you like it?"
Williard ran his glance up and down the columns. Once he frowned.
"What's the matter?" asked the senator shrewdly.
"I do not like the idea of Matthews for commissioner of public works.
He's a blackleg--there's no getting around that. He practically runs
that faro-bank above his down-town saloon. Can't you put some one else
in his place?"
The senator flipped the ash from the end of his cigar.
"Honestly, my boy, I agree with your objection; but the word is given,
and if we turn him down now, your friend Newcomb will stand a pretty
fair show of being the next mayor."
"You might get a worse one," Williard laughed. "Jack is one of the
finest fellows in the world," loyally.
"Not a bit of doubt; but politically," said the senator, laughing, "he
is a rascal, a man without a particle of character, and all that. But
personally speaking, I would that this town had more like him. Win or
lose, he will always be welcome in this house. But this Matthews matter;
you will have to swallow him or be swallowed."
"He's a rascal."
"Perhaps he is. Once you are elected, however, you can force him out,
and be hanged to him. Just now it would be extremely dangerous. My boy,
politics has strange bed-fellows, as the saying goes. These men are
necessary; to fight them is to cut your own throat. No one knows just
how they get their power; but one morning you will wake up and find them
menacing you, and you have to placate them and toss them sops."
"I might at least have been consulted."
"I appreciated your antagonism beforehand. Politics is a peculiar
business. A man must form about himself a shell as thick as a turtle's,
or his feelings are going to be hurt. Now, if you would like to change
any of these smaller offices, the health department doesn't matter. What
do you say?"
"Oh, if Matthews remains on the slate, I do not care to alter the rest
of it. But I warn you that I shall get rid of him at the earliest
opportunity."
"Just as you like."
The senator smiled covertly. Matthews was one of his henchmen in the
larger matters of state. His name had been the first to appear on the
slate, and the senator was determined that it should remain there. Not
that he had any liking for the man; simply he was one of the wheels
which made the machine run smoothly. The senator knew his power of
persuasion; he knew Williard's easy-going nature; but he also knew that
these easy-going persons are terribly stubborn at times. He was obliged
to hold on to Matthews. The gubernatorial campaign was looming up for
the ensuing year, and the senator was curious to learn the real power
that went with the seal of a governor of a first-class state.
There fell an intermission to the conversation. Williard smoked
thoughtfully. He recalled the years during which he had accepted the
generous hospitality of this house, and the love he held for the host's
daughter. Only since his return from abroad had he learned the strength
of his sentiment. Heretofore he had looked upon the girl as a sister,
jolly, talented, a fine dancer, a daring rider, a good comrade. He had
been out of the country for three years. On his return he had found
Betty Gordon a beautiful woman, and he had silently surrendered. As yet
he had said nothing, but he knew that she knew. Yet he always saw the
shadow of Newcomb, old Jack Newcomb. Well, let the best man win!
"I can find a way to dispose of Matthews," he said finally.
"I dare say."
But Williard did not know the tenacity with which some men cling to
office. The senator did.
Here the servant ushered in two lieutenants of the senator's. One was an
ex-consul and the other was the surveyor of customs, who was not
supposed to dabble in local politics.
"Everything is agreeable to Mr. Williard," the senator answered in reply
to the questioning look of his subordinates. "He vows, however, that he
will shake Matthews as soon as he can get the chance."
The new arrivals laughed.
"We'll put you through, young man," said the ex-consul; "and one of
these fine days we shall send you to France. That's the place for a man
of your wit and wealth."
Williard smiled and lighted a fresh cigar. He did possess the reputation
of being a clever wit, and in his secret heart he would much prefer a
consulate or a secretaryship at the French embassy. He thoroughly
detested this indiscriminate hand-shaking which went with local
politics.
But Matthews stuck in his gorge, and he wondered if Newcomb was going
through any like ordeal, and if Newcomb would submit so readily.... Why
the deuce didn't Betty return? It was almost nine o'clock.
Presently her sunny countenance appeared in the doorway, and Williard
dropped his cigar joyfully and rose. It was worth all the politics in
the world!
"Gentlemen, you will excuse me," he said.
"Go along!" the senator cried jovially. "We can spare you."
As indeed they very well could!
In a minute Williard was in the music-room.
"I really do not know that I ought to shake hands with you, Dick," began
Betty, tossing her hat on the piano. "You have deceived me for years."
"Deceived you! What do you mean?" mightily disturbed.
"Wait a moment." She brought forth a paper. "Sit down in front of me.
This is going to be a court of inquiry, and your sins shall be passed in
review." He obeyed meekly. "Now listen," the girl went on, mischief in
her eyes; "this paper says horrid things about you. It claims that you
have given riotous dinners to actresses and comic-opera singers. I
classify them because I do not think comic-opera singers are actresses."
"Rot!" said Williard, crossing his legs and eying with pleasure the
contours of her face. "Jolly rot!"
"You mustn't say 'jolly' in this country; it's English, and they'll be
accusing you of it."
"Well, bally rot; how will that go?"
"That isn't very pretty, but it will pass. Now, to proceed. They say
that your private life is profligate."
"Oh, come now, Betty!" laughing diffidently.
"They say that you gamble at poker and win and lose huge sums."
"Your father plays poker in Washington; I've seen him."
"He's not on trial; you are. Furthermore," went on the girl, the
twinkle going from her eye, leaving it searching yet unfathomable, "this
editor says that you are only a dummy in this game of politics, and that
once you are mayor, your signature will be all that will be required of
you. That is to say, you will be nothing but a puppet in the hands of
