CHAPTER X 
The blind flapped in the storm, and Mrs. Dane 
left her seat by the window and went out on the 
piazza. The catch proved to be broken, and she 
hunted up nails, hammer, and hatchet and tried to 
effect some amateur repairs. She did this with the 
patience of one who had been accustomed to all 
sorts and conditions of household drudgery and 
to the expedients of poverty for a much longer 
time than, in fact, she had known anything about 
them. It was but a year since the death of her 
father, whose beautiful homestead, claimed by 
wronged and restless creditors, had been promptly 
bought in by his kinsman, Sterling Hart, and ea- 
gerly offered to the homeless daughter. 
" Honor me by occupying it, Cousin Carolyn," 
he had urged. " Please me, and stay." 
But Carolyn had not stayed. She and her hus- 
band were agreed, at least, on that. The preacher 
was not a rich man, and no rent which Dr. Dane's 
uncertain income would permit could decently 
be offered for one of the great houses of the 
East Shore. After one hard winter in the read- 
justed conditions of her old home — stripped of 
 
its servants, and terrified by its fuel bills — Mrs. 
Dane and her husband and child had moved 
across the road into the little white house known 
as the nasturtium cottage. There, Cara had re- 
sumed the struggles of a life whose outward de- 
privations had gradually come to her to seem the 
least and lightest of her perplexities. 
Once, in the blush of her betrothal, she had said 
to Chanceford Dane, " I could starve." This, in 
fact, she would have been capable of doing. She 
would have died for him without a groan ; suffered 
for him without an outcry. She had loved him so 
much that neither dying nor suffering counted 
very much to her. She had believed him worth 
anything that he might cost her in the essence 
and value of a woman's life. There were no pangs 
of body or spirit which for his sake she would 
have refused. Neither variety nor monotony of 
endurance could have vanquished her so long as 
she endured for him. Cara possessed in a degree 
unknown to most women the love genius. She 
had, like other endowed souls, to pay the price of 
her gift. 
This, in a measure, she was beginning to esti- 
mate, but with the merciful vagueness which marks 
the first stage of a woman's disillusion. In a way 
her exquisite sensitiveness might be said to have 
been her protection as well as her betrayal. It 
intervened between her lot and her consciousness 
for a longer time than it could have done had she 
been a ruder or a colder woman. It delayed her 
inexorable fate, because it delayed her acknow- 
ledgment of it to herself. She found it incredible 
to suppose — therefore impossible to admit — that 
her idol had neither deserved nor valued the 
sacrifice of her sweet nature to her ideal of himself ; 
or, indeed, to her ideal of his affection for her. 
She had not offered him a niche, but an altar. 
To suggest to herself that she had misdeified the 
man she loved was to overthrow the religion of 
the system of things. She approached the know- 
ledge of the truth with the slowness which usually 
precedes an abrupt and startling revelation. 
Dane had met the loss of their property with 
the irritability of a pleasure-loving man whose 
early experience of hardship had acquainted him 
with the nature and meaning of poverty. His brief 
draught of luxury had not made it easier, but 
harder, for him to reassume the petty economies 
of a narrow income. Of the two, Carolyn, who had 
never known an ungratified wish, bore their fallen 
fortunes with more cheerfulness and far more 
poise. Dane had learned too well the fatal art of 
spending freely. His struggling practice did not 
meet his needs. He ran up bills which he could 
not pay, and swore because he could not. The 
 
first time that he swore at her, his wife received 
the outburst with the dumb astonishment of a 
doe who has seen its first hunter and met its first 
wound. She accepted her husband's apology in 
trembling silence, but whether she remembered 
or forgot the shock of that shot, he never knew. 
The circumstance eluded her expression as some- 
thing too coarse for it. She puzzled Dane. Her 
reserve annoyed him. The very exquisiteness of 
her, which had charmed him at the first, began to 
irritate him. The rudeness of his early life re- 
turned upon him now and then like an old dye 
that one supposes washed out. He became what 
we call in family phraseology " difficult." It was 
not until the evening of which we speak that it 
occurred to Mrs. Dane that he could be anything 
more. 
She had been watching for him at the front 
windows of their living-room ; patiently, as doc- 
tors' wives do, and without the anxiety of other 
women for the fate of delaying husbands. 
There was no fire on the black hearth, — a 
luxury not to be thought of when the little fur- 
nace was started, — and she had pushed the small 
couch, reserved for the baby's use, near the regis- 
ter, for the night was cold. The child was asleep. 
It was a healthy, happy baby, not too sensitive, as 
the mother perceived with a curious mingling of 
 
regret and satisfaction. Above the white woolen 
afghan which covered the little relaxed figure the 
child's moist hair shone on its forehead. Joyce 
had his father's hair and eyes. Where would the 
inheritance stop? Mrs. Dane had begun to won- 
der, not without anxiety. Blessed is the mother 
who can say : " God grant that my boy repeat his 
father, soul and body ! " 
Carolyn, in her mourning dress, sat by the 
streaming window with both hands pressed to 
the sides of her eyes that she might peer out into 
the street. While she did so, the blind, rebellious 
to her feminine carpentry, slammed again in her 
face and cracked the glass. She ran out once more 
upon the wet piazza. While she stood struggling 
in the wind and splashed by the rain, trying to take 
the blind from its hinges, she saw that her husband 
was driving slowly up the avenue to the stable. It 
was a noisy storm, and she had not heard wheels 
or hoofs ; but the horse (it was her father's) was 
white, and she perceived the dull gleam of him, 
and that he had unexpectedly stopped. 
" Drive right on, Chanceford," she called. " It 's 
only the blind. I can attend to it myself. Dinner 
is all ready for you." 
Dane made no reply, and the horse whinnied 
anxiously. 
" Clyde ? " she called. " Clyde? Where art you?* 
But the dog was not there. Slightly startled, 
Carolyn ran out into the storm, and down the 
terrace, against which the horse had driven one 
wheel of the buggy. This, obstructed by a bush, 
had stuck in the soaked grass. The buggy, which 
a less conscientious horse would have overturned, 
was empty. 
Mrs. Dane clambered over the wheel and drove 
on to the stable. Her first impulse to drive in 
search of her husband had given place to a cold 
and sickening prudence. Without exactly knowing 
why, she thought she had better not assume that 
there had been an accident — not yet ; not too 
soon. 
She ran into the house for her raincoat, came 
out again, went a little way down the sidewalk, and 
scrutinized the storm-beaten road. It was quite de- 
serted. She walked on hurriedly, going faster and 
further than she knew, until she came to the choco- 
late eclair house, where Nannie was lighting the 
gas and drawing the shades. At this point Mrs. 
Dane turned about and came back. She now re- 
membered that Solomon Hops had one of his per- 
sonally conducted rheumatic attacks. These were 
more strenuous than dangerous, and she felt sure 
that the doctor had made this call the last on his 
rounds on his way home. Whatever had happened, 
horse and driver had separated somewhere be- 
 
tween the two houses. Now, she reasoned (more 
calmly than most young wives would), the chances 
were that her husband would be at home before 
her. Her steps quickened to a run. When she 
came opposite the Sterling place, her old home, 
her dog leaped out upon her ; whining and bark- 
ing, he urged her across the street. Against one 
of the great stone pillars which guarded the en- 
trance to the avenue, the figure of a man leaned 
heavily; his crushed felt hat slouched over his face, 
and his head fell forward upon his breast. Clyde 
put his fore paws dutifully, rather than 
affectionately, about the man's waist, and seemed to make 
something like an effort to support him, until Mrs. 
Dane had reached the spot. 
" Oh, are you hurt ? " she cried. Her wet hand 
slid into her husband's. He pushed it off. 
"Where is that horse?" he snarled. "He dragged 
his weight and came home without me. My foot 
caught in the reins somehow, and I had a nasty 
tumble. Solomon will talk about his symptoms all 
night. Only way I can stop him is to put a 
thermometer in his mouth. What are you here for, 
anyhow ? Pity there wasn't an accident. It would 
have given you something to fuss about." 
Carolyn made no answer. She helped him up the 
steps and into the cottage hall, where he stood with 
sodden and evading eyes. She took off his wet coat 
and led him into his office. Neither spoke, and he 
sank down heavily into the office chair. 
" I will bring you a cup of coffee," she said, strug- 
gling for composure ; but her voice shook. It took 
a little time to make the coffee, and the Irish maid 
of all work fretted about it all the while. When 
Mrs. Dane came back to the office she found the 
doctor stretched on the lounge, past speech or 
motion, as unconscious of her presence as he was 
of his disgrace. In all her sheltered life Carolyn 
had never been so near a drunken man. She bent 
over him and touched his reddened cheek with her 
light, white fingers. 
" Dear," she said, " are you sick ? Oh, what can 
I do for you ? Chanceford ! Chanceford ! " 
At this moment the child across the hall waked 
and began to laugh, and then to call : " Mum — 
mumma ? Pup — puppa ? Puppa ? " 
Carolyn stood for a moment irresolute, and then 
she turned away and shut the office door. She 
took the baby, and sat down with him beside the 
cheerless register, and stared at the window where 
the storm was raging. Beyond the anger of the rain 
and wind she could hear the sea upon the cliff — 
the old familiar, mighty roar, mastering every lesser 
sound, as the great master the little sorrows of life. 
For one wild moment it seemed to her that if she 
wrapped the baby up quite well, and ran out with 
 
him, and kissed him once or twice, and slipped off 
into the chasm with him quietly, it would be the 
kindest deed that she could do, or dream of doing, 
by his father's son. But she was a sane woman, and 
she sat still by the register, and laid her cheek upon 
the baby's curls. One great, dry sob tore up from 
some unexplored capacity of anguish within her, 
but she did not cry. Clyde came up and kissed 
her, but she did not notice Clyde. The child 
bubbled on: "Mum — mumma? Pup — puppa? 
Puppa?" 
Dane's was one of the natures which harden 
when they should melt, perhaps thaw when they 
should solidify. The consciousness of error did 
not make him tender. The fact that he had de- 
based himself in the presence of his wife irritated 
him. His Southern pride flared in him, and he 
omitted to express to her his more or less genu- 
ine regret for what had occurred. He found it 
hard to forgive her for having been a witness of his 
weakness. In itself considered, he would have read- 
ily told her that he had taken a cup of afternoon 
tea with Mrs. Marriot — if he had stopped with 
the tea. He felt unwilling to complicate one act- 
ual fault with the appearance of another in Cara's 
mind. He took the refuge of the weak nature, or 
of the weak element in a stronger nature, and as- 
 
sumed a wounded air. His injured silence distanced 
his wife more utterly than any speech or language 
could have done — as he had known that it would. 
Cara, who had rehearsed over and again with her- 
self the difficult scene in which she should try — 
how carefully ! how tenderly ! — to say the right 
thing, the gentle thing, the wifely one, that which 
would forgive without humiliating, and stimulate 
without reproaching, found herself thrown back 
upon the fact that there was to be no scene at all. 
It was scarcely a matter of weeks before she 
perceived that this grave episode in their mutual life 
was not to be material of discussion between 
them. The subject dropped like a blazing coal, 
and scorched the ground on which they stood. 
The smoke of its burning came up and enveloped 
her in a smothering sensation — half astonishment
and half a stifling doubt of her own judgment. 
It seemed to her that she ought to have 
been able to find some way of helping Chanceford ; 
it did not occur to her to rebuke him. But she 
found no way. He held her at the arm's length of 
his temperament. His injured manner gradually 
gave way to his light one — debonair, and smiling, 
as if nothing of consequence had happened. 
The husband and wife began to tread the diverging 
paths between which an important moral 
question has protruded. Carolyn had reached the 
 
point in a wife's experience where, whatever she 
says, or omits to say, upon a sore subject, she is 
conscious of giving offense. She longed 
inexpressibly for some sort of supporting counsel, but 
the dignity of her soul refused to seek it of any 
other mind or heart. She found herself locked 
back upon herself, passionately praying for guid- 
ance which only Heaven could give, and in which 
Heaven seemed to take no visible interest at all. 
She sought the greatest, the supremely precious 
good of human experience — the direction of 
duty. 
It took her some time to understand that this is 
not to be had for the wishing; if it replies to that 
uplifted concentration of the spirit which we call 
prayer, who but the devout shall know ? 
Carolyn soon gave up trying to learn what she 
ought to do for Chanceford, and simply did the 
things she knew she could do. Sometimes he 
seemed to feel sorry for her. Sometimes he was 
kind. At first he did not repeat his fault. But by 
midwinter he was drinking heavily. His practice 
began to suffer, and his temper with it. 
It has been said by those who are experts in the 
subject, that the wife of a drinking man always 
carries in her countenance the evidence of her 
lot. Cara's beautiful face assumed pathetic meta- 
morphoses, passing from stage to stage of the fate 
 
which drives the sensitiveness in and draws the 
hardness out. So gentle was her fibre, so ineffable 
the tenderness of her instincts, that she could not 
harden ; she could only sadden. She developed a 
patient philosophy. 
" The world is full of women," she thought. 
" They all endure the lives which men inflict. 
Many of them must suffer as much as I do; 
some of them must suffer more. I suppose I can 
bear my share." 
Once or twice she pleaded with her husband. 
She never reproached him. But neither her ex- 
pression nor her reserve appeared to touch him. 
She had reached the world-old crisis where a wo- 
man to whom a man has given his wildest wor- 
ship, his most passionate allegiance, learns that 
her influence upon him has retreated from the 
foreground of his consciousness. 
This shock to the heart is as common as the 
marriage bond ; women are apt to forget that it 
means a mutual misery in which a man must 
share in a man's way. She, by reason of her sex, 
will suffer more ; but he, if only because he suffers 
less, will be the more perplexed. 
Dane had passed the point of perplexity, and 
arrived by rapid bounds at that of conscious er- 
ror. He drank all winter, and the spring found 
him a tempted, yielding, and a half-ruined man. 
 
Mrs. Douce Marriot always arrived in Balsam 
Groves upon the first of May; in this particular 
she was no better nor worse than other taxpay- 
ers. For weeks her elaborate place had been in 
the hands of its gardeners and spring cleaners, 
and upon the afternoon of the thirtieth of April 
she slid from her town house to her shore house 
as easily as she put her head under the imported 
carriage dress which her maid held over her per- 
fectly adjusted coiffure. In fact, Mrs. Marriot 
drove out from the city, — the day was so gentle, 
and the horses must be got over the road, — and 
her husband, making one of his rare public ap- 
pearances in her society, sat and smoked the ride 
out beside her. He was a heavy, silent man, ca- 
pable of keeping his own counsel, and that of his 
wife, for whom, in a sense, he cherished an attach- 
ment ; he made it a point not to believe the things 
he heard about her, and it was certain that he had 
never heard the most objectionable. Her manner 
towards him was perfect; she entertained, if she had 
ceased to charm him ; they passed a pleasant evening together in the great blue room of their sum- 
mer home, and the next day he kissed her good-by 
and sailed for somewhere, to return at midsummer. He would cable frequently ; he found it " so 
much cheaper than writing." 
" Douce," he hesitated, with his foot on the step 
 
of the trap, when she drove to the station, " if I 
were you, I 'd go slow with that fellow — you know 
— old Sterling's daughter married him. He isn't 
in it, exactly ; he doesn't trot in your harness ; he 
might take you too seriously — men who have 
married above their station are dull about those 
things, and the wife — she is — " He broke off, 
biting his cigar. " You 'll pardon me, I 'm sure, 
Douce ? " 
" Why, of course, Harry," replied Mrs. Marriot, 
amiably. " And thank you, besides. You know 
I 'm always glad of your advice." 
" Take it or leave it ! " called the husband, laugh- 
ing, as he swung aboard the train. " Only don't say 
I didn't give it." 
Mrs. Marriot kissed her gloved hand to him 
through her dotted lace veil, and sat soberly 
watching the train until it had become a speck 
upon the track. A certain sentimentality overtook 
her, and she put her handkerchief to her eyes. It 
occurred to her that she was very fond of Harry. 
She drove home slowly, and, feeling the need of 
diversion from the circumstance that her husband 
had gone abroad without her, sat down and wrote 
several notes. One of these went to a college boy, 
inviting him to dine ; one to an artist, with whom 
she had appointments for a portrait ; a third to a 
politician, with whom she had decided not to take 
 
an automobile ride ; a fourth acquainted the village doctor with the fact of her return to Balsam, 
and besought his attention to her "picturesque 
neuralgia," which, it seemed, no physician in town 
had shown any capacity whatever for comprehending or treating. 
It was not more than a few days after Mrs. Mar- 
riot had taken up her legal residence in Balsam 
Groves that Mrs. Dane received a peremptory 
summons for the doctor from the case of Solo- 
mon Hops, who, it appeared, had undergone what 
Nannie, sobbing at the telephone, described as 
" some sort of a fit or stroke." 
The doctor's wife (as doctors' wives do in serious 
cases) made eager and sympathetic efforts to notify 
her husband, trying to reach him by wire wher- 
ever she might have a chance of overtaking him ; 
in fact, searching the neighborhood, before she 
remembered having heard him say that Mrs. Mar- 
riot had returned, and her neuralgia with her. But 
Mrs. Marriot's telephone, it seemed, was not yet 
connected for the season, and Mrs. Dane did the 
only other thing that suggested itself. She tossed 
on her long coat, called the little Irish maid to the 
baby, and herself ran over to give the summons 
of Solomon's emergency. 
It was almost twilight, but not quite, and the 
sea, as she hurried up the avenue, called to her 
 
with the change of tone which she had always fan- 
cied it assumed at the coming on of night — as if 
it dropped from the major to the minor key. The 
doctor's buggy stood just outside the stables ; a 
glance told her that. Her mind was quite occupied 
with Nannie and Solomon, and she rang Mrs. 
Marriot's bell abstractedly. 
" Call the doctor," she began. " There is a very 
sick patient." 
Yes, madam. The doctor was in the library with 
Mrs. Marriot. Would Mrs. Dane please step in ? 
The butler waved a stately hand towards the blue 
room. 
" I will turn on the light," he suggested. 
" Oh, don't wait for that ! Don't wait for any- 
thing ! " cried Mrs. Dane. " It is a very sick pa- 
tient. Only say that to the doctor, and mention 
that I am here." 
She stepped into the blue room hurriedly, and 
sat down on the first chair she saw. She had a 
light step, and had, in fact, run over in her slippers. 
The Wilton carpet received her foot without a 
sound. Within the large, high, darkly decorated 
room the twilight had settled heavily. She accus- 
tomed her eyes to the obstruction by degrees, and 
it was — how long? The respite of a moment? — 
before she became aware of the presence of others 
in the room. Two figures, blurred against a shad- 
 
owy sofa, sat unconscious of her. She looked, and 
got to her feet. Her first impulse was to flee ; but 
her second thought and second observation told 
her that it was too late, for the returning steps of 
the butler, padded in his felt slippers, sounded 
across the marble of the hall. 
The doctor and the patient had now advanced 
to meet the wife. In her long coat Carolyn looked 
taller than she was; she stood quite still, and 
silent. 
The servant saved the situation, as the servant 
so often does. He slid from bulb to bulb, and the 
electricity shot all over the great room. The blue 
velvet papering on the high walls scowled at the 
lio-ht; a satin chair somewhere received it more 
cordially, and glittered with it. Mrs. Dane fixed 
her eyes upon the satin chair. She did not glance 
at her husband. She found herself talking about 
Solomon Hops ; telling how ill he was, and what 
Nannie said ; and then she turned. In the door- 
way she looked back. 
Across the long, elaborate room she saw the 
two standing and staring. Mrs. Marriot's expe- 
rienced face had crimsoned, but Dane was blazing 
white. He held his head haughtily. He seemed to 
fling at his wife the spirit of some challenge or 
some defense. 
" It is not personally conducted rheumatism 
 
this time," said Carolyn, quite as if nothing had 
happened. " Solomon is very ill. I tried every- 
where to find you. The telephone was not con- 
nected." 
As if she were the one of those three who 
should explain, who should apologize, she found 
herself uttering these futile words. But she did 
not utter any more. When Dane came out to the 
buggy his wife was not to be seen. 
" This is most unfortunate ! " sighed Mrs. Mar- 
riot, swaying on the piazza in her pale blue gown; 
the dress was spangled here and there, and glit- 
tered before Dane dizzily. He smote her with one 
fierce frown. At that moment he could have struck 
Douce Marriot to the ground. He was seized with 
moral nausea; of her, of himself, of the chance 
which had brought about this fatality. He leaped 
over the wheel, and lashed the white horse down 
the avenue. 
It was late when Dane came home. He ob- 
served that Cara did not come to meet him at the 
door, as she was in the habit of doing, but this he 
had expected. He took off his coat slowly, and 
went into his office with hesitating feet. The room 
was empty, and the house was still. After some 
delay he crossed the hall with evident reluctance, 
and wavered on the threshold of the living-room 
 
where his wife was sitting, with their sleeping 
child. 
She rose as he entered, and both stood regarding 
each other with the consciousness that the 
irremediable had happened. Dane had a defiant 
look. But Cara's face pleaded even then — with 
him, with fate, with the shock under which every 
nerve of her soul and body shook. She was gray 
white, and ghastly — but gentle; how gentle, how 
womanlike, how piteous to see, he could not 
refuse to acknowledge to himself. 
" Well ? " he began, in a tone which his wife had 
long since learned to recognize as one with which 
it was impossible for her to deal. 
" Have you anything to say ? " Carolyn uttered 
the words with a quietness which astonished her- 
self more than it did him. 
Dane tossed back his handsome head. " No. 
Not to any question put in that way. No. I don't 
say I might not have ; but under the circumstances 
— no. I am evidently prejudged. What would be 
the use ? " 
" Very well," said Cara. She tottered, and sank 
back into her chair beside the child. "I must — 
think. I do not know — what — to do." She passed 
her hand confusedly over her eyes. 
" If a man's wife can't trust him, — if she must 
come spying upon him, — that 's reason enough. 
 
I decline to offer any excuses — at present. It 
depends upon circumstances when or whether I 
explain the situation upon which you so
unwarrantably intruded. I say, a man's wife should 
trust him — " 
" Against the evidence of her own senses ? " 
asked Carolyn. A slow, contemptuous curve turned 
her delicate lip. She could not help it, and she did 
not know it. 
" Against any evidence ! " thundered Dane. 
" Until she has heard what he has to say." 
" If there were anything to be said — " returned 
Cara, drearily. 
" That is for me to judge," replied Dane. This 
preposterous answer took away her breath, and 
she sat panting and mute before him. 
On his tempestuous face shame and sorrow 
warred with something like compassion for her, 
but he gave no expression to either. He turned 
on his heel, and made as if to leave the room, but 
lingered. 
" Can I have anything to eat ? " he asked, as if 
nothing had happened. 
" Maggie will wait on you," replied Cara. Her 
chin quivered, but her voice was quite firm. 
" Very well," he said in his turn. He went out 
to the dining-room, and rang for his belated meal. 
Cara did not join him. No further words passed 
 
between them, and when he went upstairs her 
door was locked. 
As it had been with that other offense, Cara 
found herself completely disabled in the moral 
conflict by the offender. Dane assumed his
injured air; and his wife, torn between her sweet 
impulse to be more than generous to him and her 
scathing consciousness that there are things which 
a wife must not overlook because that is the 
easiest way to live, fell back upon a tentative and 
terrible silence. No virago's tongue could have 
scourged Dane as this spiritual dignity did. He 
felt humiliated by the very sight of her, — and 
Dane never could bear to be made uncomfortable. 
Cara attended to his wants politely. But upon the 
frozen misery of her face he dared not dwell. They 
stood upon the opposite sides of a glacier whose 
stealthy current she could not cross, and he would 
not, if indeed he could. Their daily life took on 
the hopeless character which marriage alone, of 
all human relations, may acquire. 
Already they seemed to themselves to have been 
separated for a longer time than they had been 
united. Dane's frowning face darkened day by day, 
and one morning he hurled himself out of the 
house and aboard the first train to the city. He 
returned in the late May twilight, and she heard 
 
his step ring through the hall. He called her 
imperiously. 
"Cara? Cara! I wish to see you — at once, 
please." 
She was putting the baby to bed, but she obeyed 
