'Head her about for Jersey and Carterets, Captain,' said the owner.
'The sea is as flat as a board, and we will land there. You can go on
to the Mediterranean without coaling, can you not?'
The captain said he could coal at Gibraltar, if necessary.
'Then take her to Naples, please, and wait for instructions.'
Baraka understood nothing, but within two minutes she saw that the
yacht was changing her course, for the afternoon sun was all at once
pouring in on the deck, just beyond the end of her chair. She was
satisfied, and nodded her approval.
But she did not speak for a long time, paying no more attention to
Logotheti's gaze than if he had not existed. No people in the world
can remain perfectly motionless so long as Asiatics, perfectly
absorbed in their own thoughts.
To the Greek's art-loving nature it was pure delight to watch her.
Never, since he had first met Margaret Donne, had he seen any woman or
young girl who appealed to his sense of beauty as Baraka did, though
the impression she made on him was wholly different from that he
received when Margaret was near.
The Primadonna was on a large scale, robust, magnificently vital, a
Niké, even a young Hera; and sometimes, especially on the stage, she
was almost insolently handsome, rather than beautiful like Lady Maud.
Baraka was an Artemis, virginal, high-bred; delicately modelled for
grace and speed rather than for reposeful beauty, for motion rather
than for rest. It was true that the singer's walk was something to
dream of and write verses about, but Baraka's swift-gliding step was
that of the Maiden Huntress in the chase, her attitude in rest was the
pose of a watchful Diana, ready to spring up at a sound or a breath, a
figure almost boyish in its elastic vigour, and yet deeply feminine in
meaning.
Baraka once more turned her head without lifting it from the back of
the deck-chair.
'I am hungry and thirsty again,' she said gravely. 'I do not
understand.'
'What will you eat, and what will you drink?' Logotheti asked.
She smiled and shook her head.
'Anything that is good,' she said; 'but what I desire you have not in
your ship. I long for fat quails with Italian rice, and for fig-paste,
and I desire a sherbet made with rose leaves, such as the merchant's
wife and I used to drink at the Kaffedji's by the Galata Bridge, and
sometimes when we went up the Sweet Waters in a caïque on Friday. But
you have not such things on your ship.'
Logotheti smiled.
'You forget that I am myself from Constantinople,' he said. 'It is now
the season for fat quails in Italy, and they are sent alive to London
and Paris, and there are many in my ship, waiting to be eaten. There
is also fig-paste from the Stamboul confectioner near the end of the
Galata Bridge, and preserved rose leaves with which to make a sherbet,
and much ice; and you shall eat and drink the things you like best.
Moreover, if there is anything else you long for, speak.'
'You are scoffing at Baraka!' answered the slim thing in blue serge,
with the air of a displeased fairy princess.
'Not I. You shall see. We will have a table set here between us, with
all the things you desire.'
'Truly? And coffee too? Real coffee? Not the thin mud-broth of the
Franks?'
'Real coffee, in a real fildjan.'
Baraka clapped her small white hands for pleasure.
'You are indeed a very great man!' she cried. 'You are one of the
kings!'
At the sound of the clapping she had made, Logotheti's Greek steward
appeared in a silver-laced blue jacket and a fez.
'He comes because you clapped your hands,' Logotheti said, with a
smile.
Baraka laughed softly.
'We are not in your ship,' she said. 'We are in Constantinople! I am
happy.' The smile faded quickly and her dark lashes drooped. 'It is a
pity,' she added, very low, and her left hand felt the long steel
bodkin through her dress.
The steward knew Turkish, but did not understand all she said in her
own tongue; and besides, his master was already ordering an unusual
luncheon, in Greek, which disturbed even his Eastern faculty of
hearing separately with each ear things said in different languages.
Baraka was busy with her own thoughts again, and paid no more
attention to her companion, until the steward came back after a few
minutes bringing a low round table which he placed between the two
chairs. He disappeared again and returned immediately with a salver on
which there were two small cups of steaming Turkish coffee, each in
its silver filigree stand, and two tall glasses of sherbet, of a
beautiful pale rose colour.
Baraka turned on her chair with a look of pleasure, tasted the light
hot foam of the coffee, and then began to drink slowly with enjoyment
that increased visibly with every sip.
'It is real coffee,' she said, looking up at Logotheti. 'It is made
with the beans of Arabia that are picked out one by one for the
Sheikhs themselves before the coffee is sold to the Indian princes.
The unripe and broken beans that are left are sold to the great Pashas
in Constantinople! And that is all there is of it, for the Persian
merchant explained all to me, and I know. But how you have got the
coffee of the Sheikhs, I know not. You are a very great man.'
'The gates of the pleasant places of this world are all locked, and
the keys are of gold,' observed Logotheti, who could quote Asiatic
proverbs by the dozen, when he liked. 'But the doors of Hades stand
always open,' he added, suddenly following a Greek thought, 'and from
wheresoever men are, the way that leads to them is but one.'
Baraka had tasted the sherbet, which interested her more than his
philosophical reflexions.
'This also is delicious,' she said, 'but in Stamboul even a poor man
may have it for a few paras.'
'And good water from the fountain for nothing,' returned Logotheti.
There was silence again as she leaned back, sufficiently satisfied to
wait another hour for the fat quails, the Italian rice, and the
fig-paste, to which she was looking forward. And the yacht moved on at
her leisurely twelve-knot speed, through the flat calm of the late
summer sea, while an atmosphere of bodily peace and comfort gathered
round Baraka like a delicate mist that hid the future and softened the
past.
By and by, when she had eaten the fat quail and the Italian rice, and
then the fig-paste, and had drunk more sherbet of rose leaves, and
more coffee, but none of these things in any excess, that perfect
peace came upon her which none but Asiatics can feel, and which we
cannot understand; and they call it Kêf, and desire it more than any
other condition of their inner and outer selves; but there is no
translating of that word.
It is the inexplicable state of the cat when it folds its fore-paw in,
and is so quiet and happy that it can hardly purr, but only blinks
mildly once in two or three minutes. Logotheti knew the signs of it,
though he had never really felt it himself, and he knew very well that
its presence has the power to deaden all purpose and active will in
those who enjoy it. The sole object of taking opium is to produce it
artificially, which is never quite possible, for with most
opium-smokers or opium-eaters the state of peace turns into stupor at
the very moment when it is about to become consciously beatific.
He understood that this wonderful barbarian girl, who had shown such
courage, such irresistible energy, such unchanging determination in
the search that had lasted more than two years, was temporarily
paralysed for any purpose of action by the atmosphere with which he
was surrounding her. She would come to herself again, and be as much
awake, as determined, and as brave as ever, but she was quiescent now,
and the mere thought of effort would be really painful. Perhaps no one
who has not lived in Asia can quite understand that.
Logotheti took out his notebook, which had a small calendar with a few
lines for each day in the year, and he began to count days and
calculate dates; for when he had expected to go to Bayreuth with the
Primadonna he had found out all about the performances, and he knew
how long she meant to stay.
His calendar told him that this was the off-day, between the second
and third representations of Parsifal, and that Margaret had her
rooms at the hotel for another week. He would allow two days more for
her to reach Versailles and rest from the journey before she would
wish to see him; and as he thought she had treated him rather badly in
not letting him go with her, because he was not enough of a Wagnerian,
he intended to keep her waiting even a day or two longer, on the
sometimes mistaken theory that it is better to make a woman impatient
than to forestall her wishes before she has had time to change her
mind.
Besides, Van Torp's telegram showed that he was in Bayreuth, and
Logotheti flattered himself that the more Margaret saw of the
American, the more anxious she would be to see her accepted adorer. It
was her own fault, since Logotheti might have been with her instead.
The result of his calculations was that he had at least ten days
before him, and that as he was not at all bored by the little Tartar
lady in blue serge, it was quite useless to put her ashore at
Carterets and take her to Paris by that way. The idea of spending
eight or nine hours alone in a hot and dirty railway carriage, while
she and her maid passed the night in another compartment, was
extremely dreary; and besides, he had not at all made up his mind what
to do with her, and it would probably end in his taking her to his own
house. Margaret would have some right to resent that; but as for the
trip in the yacht, she need never know anything about it. The girl was
really as safe with him as any girl could be with her own brother, and
so long as no one knew that she was with him, nothing else mattered.
Furthermore, he was good enough to be convinced that if she were let
loose in Europe by herself, with plenty of money, boundless courage,
and such a clever courier as Spiro seemed to be, she would certainly
find Kralinsky at last and murder him, regardless of having sworn by
the inviolable water of the Styx. Lastly, he saw that she was at
present in that state of Asiatic peace in which it was perfectly
indifferent to her what happened, provided that she were not
disturbed.
He rose quietly and went aft. Though she was awake she scarcely
noticed that he had left her, and merely opened and shut her eyes
twice, like the happy cat already spoken of. She was not aware that
the yacht changed her course again, though it was pleasant not to have
the reflexion from the sea in her eyes any longer; if Logotheti had
told her that he was heading to seaward of Ushant instead of for
Jersey and Carterets, she would not have understood, nor cared if she
had, and would have been annoyed at being disturbed by the sound of
his voice.
It was pure bliss to lie there without a want, a thought, or a memory.
An imaginative European might fancy that she had waking dreams and
visions in the summer air; that she saw again the small white town,
the foot-hills, the broad pastures below, the vastness of Altai
above, the uncounted flocks, the distant moving herds, the evening
sunlight on the walls of her father's house; or that she lived over
again those mortal hours of imprisonment in the rocky hollow, and
looked into the steel-bright eyes of the man who would not love her
and saw the tall figure of Saäd already dead, bending forward from the
ledge and pitching headlong to the sand.
Not at all. She saw none of these things. She was quiescently
blissful; the mysterious Kêf was on her, and the world stood still in
the lazy enchantment--the yacht was not moving, the sun was not
sinking westwards, her pulse was not beating, she was scarcely
breathing, in her own self she was the very self of peace, motionless
in an immeasurable stillness.
When the sky reddened at evening Logotheti was again in his chair,
reading. She heard six bells struck softly, the first sound she had
noticed in four hours, and she did not know what they meant; perhaps
it was six o'clock alla Franca, as she would have called it; no one
could understand European time, which was one in Constantinople,
another in Paris, and another in England. Besides, it made no
difference what time it was; but Kêf was departing from her--was gone
already, and the world was moving again--not at all in an unpleasant
or disturbing way, but moving nevertheless.
'When shall we reach that place?' she asked lazily, and she turned her
face to Logotheti.
'Allah knows,' he answered gravely, and he laid his book on his knees.
She had been so well used to hearing that answer to all sorts of
questions since she had been a child that she thought nothing of it,
and waited awhile before speaking again. Her eyes studied the man's
face almost unconsciously. He now wore a fez instead of a yachting
cap, and it changed his expression. He no longer looked in the least
like a European. The handsome red felt glowed like blood in the
evening light, and the long black silk tassel hung backwards with a
dashing air. There was something about him that reminded Baraka of
Saäd, and Saäd had been a handsome man, even in her eyes, until the
traveller had come to her father's house with his blue eyes and golden
beard. But Saäd had only seen her unveiled face once, and that was the
last thing he saw when the ball from the Mauser went through his
forehead.
'I mean,' she asked after some time, 'shall we be there to-morrow? or
the next day? I see no land on this side; is there any on the other?'
'No,' Logotheti answered, 'there is no land near. Perhaps, far off, we
might see a small island.'
'Is that the place?' Baraka began to be interested at last.
'The place is far away. You must have patience. All hurry comes from
Satan.'
'I am not impatient,' the girl answered mildly. 'I am glad to rest in
your ship, for I was very tired, more tired than I ever was when I was
a child, and used to climb up the foot-hills to see Altai better. It
is good to be in your ship for a while, and after that, what shall be,
will be. It is Allah that knows.'
'That is the truth,' responded the Greek. 'Allah knows. I said so just
now. But I will tell you what I have decided, if you will listen.'
'I listen.'
'It is better that you should rest several days after all your
weariness, and the man you seek will not run away, for he does not
know you are so near.'
'But he may take another woman,' Baraka objected, growing earnest at
once. 'Perhaps he has already! Then there will be two instead of one.'
'Spiro,' said Logotheti, with perfect truth, 'would as soon kill two
as one, I am sure, for he is a good servant. It will be the same to
him. You call me a great man and a king; I am not a king, for I have
no kingdom, though some kingdoms would like to have as much
ready-money as I. But here, on the ship, I am the master, not only
because it is mine, and because I choose to command, but because the
men are bound by English law to obey me; and if they should refuse and
overpower me, and take my ship where I did not wish to go, the laws of
all nations would give me the right to put them all into prison at
once, for a long time. Therefore when I say, "Go to a certain place,"
they take the ship there, according to their knowledge, for they are
trained to that business and can guide the vessel towards any place in
the world, though they cannot see land till they reach it. Do you
understand all these things?'
'I understand,' Baraka answered, smiling. 'But I am not bound to obey
you, and at least I can beg you to do what I ask, and I think you will
do it.'
Her voice grew suddenly soft, and almost tender, for though she was
only a Tartar girl, and very young and slim, she was a woman. Eve had
not had long experience of talking when she explained to Adam the
properties of apples.
Logotheti answered her smile and her tone.
'I shall do what you ask of me, but I shall do it slowly rather than
quickly, because that will be better for you in the end. If we had
gone on as we were going, we should have got to land to-night, but to
a wretched little town from which we should have had to take a night
train, hot and dirty and dusty, all the way to Paris. That would not
help you to rest, would it?'
'Oh, no! I wish to sleep again in your ship, once, twice, till I
cannot sleep any more. Then you will take me to the place.'
'That is what you shall do. To that end I gave orders this afternoon.'
'You are wise, as well as great,' Baraka said.
She let her feet slip down to the deck, and she sat on the side of the
chair towards Logotheti, looking at her small white tennis-shoes,
which had turned a golden pink in the evening reflexions, and she
thoughtfully settled her serge skirt over her slim yellow silk ankles,
almost as a good many European girls would always do if they did not
so often forget it.
She rose at last, and went and looked over the rail at the violet sea.
It is not often that the Atlantic Ocean is in such a heavenly temper
so near the Bay of Biscay. Logotheti got out of his chair and came and
stood beside her.
'Is this sea always so still?' she asked.
She was gazing at the melting colours, from the dark blue, spattered
with white foam, under the yacht's side, to the deep violet beyond,
and further to the wine-purple and the heliotrope and the horizon
melting up to the eastern sky.
Logotheti told her that such days came very rarely, even in summer,
and that Allah had doubtless sent this one for her especial benefit.
But she only laughed.
'Allah is great, but he does nothing where there are English people,'
she observed, and Logotheti laughed in his turn.
They left the rail and walked slowly forward, side by side, without
speaking; and Logotheti told himself how utterly happy he should be if
Baraka could turn into Margaret and be walking with him there; yet
something answered him that since she was not by his side he was not
to be pitied for the company of a lovely Tartar girl whose language he
could understand and even speak tolerably; and when the first voice
observed rather drily that Margaret would surely think that he ought
to feel very miserable, the second voice told him to take the goods
the gods sent him and be grateful; and this little antiphone of Ormuzd
and Ahriman went on for some time, till it occurred to him to stop the
duo by explaining to Baraka how a European girl would probably slip
her arm, or at least her hand, through the arm of the man with whom
she was walking on the deck of a yacht, because there was generally a
little motion at sea, and she would like to steady herself; and when
there was none, there ought to be, and she would do the same thing by
force of habit. But Baraka looked at such behaviour quite differently.
'That would be a sort of dance,' she said. 'I am not a dancing girl! I
have seen men and women dancing together, both Russians in Samarkand
and other people in France. It is disgusting. I would rather go
unveiled among my own people!'
'Which may Allah forbid!' answered Logotheti devoutly. 'But, as you
say, where there are Englishmen, Allah does nothing; the women go
without veils, and the boys and girls dance together.'
'I have done worse,' said Baraka, 'for I have dressed as a man, and if
a woman did that among my people she would be stoned to death and not
buried. My people will never know what I have done since I got away
from them alive. But he thought he was leaving me there to die!'
'Surely. I cannot see why you wish to marry a man who robbed you and
tried to compass your death! I can understand that you should dream of
killing him, and he deserves to be burnt alive, but why you should
wish to marry him is known to the wisdom of the blessed ones!'
'You never saw him,' Baraka answered with perfect simplicity. 'He is a
beautiful man; his beard is like the rays of the morning sun on a ripe
cornfield. His eyes are bright as an eagle's, but blue as sapphires.
He is much taller and bigger and stronger than you are. Do you not see
why I want him for a husband? Why did he not desire me for his wife?
Am I crooked, am I blinded by the smallpox, or have I six fingers on
both hands and a hump on my shoulder like the Witch of Altai? Was my
portion a cotton shift, one brass bangle and a horn comb for my hair?
I gave him the riches of the world to take me, and he would not! I do
not understand. Am I an evil sight in a man's eyes? Tell me the truth,
for you are a friend!'
'You are good to see,' Logotheti answered, stopping and pretending to
examine her face critically as she stood still and faced him. 'I was
telling you what I thought of you before luncheon, I think, but you
said I spoke "emptiness," so I stopped.'
'I do not desire you to speak for yourself,' returned Baraka. 'I wish
you to speak for any man, since I go about unveiled and any man may
see me. What would they say in the street if they saw me now, as a
woman? That is what I must know, for he is a Frank, and he will judge
me as the Franks judge when he sees me! What will he say?'
'Shall I speak as a Frank? Or as they speak in Constantinople?'
'Speak as he would speak, I pray. But speak the truth.'
'I take Allah to witness that I speak the truth,' Logotheti answered.
'If I had never seen you, and if I were walking in the Great Garden in
London and I met you by the bank of the river, I should say that you
were the prettiest dark girl in England, but that I should like to see
you in a beautiful Feringhi hat and the best frock that could be made
in Paris.'
Baraka's face was troubled, and she looked into his eyes anxiously.
'I understand,' she said. 'Before I meet him I must have more clothes,
many beautiful new dresses. It was shameless, but it was easy to dress
as a man, after I had learned, for it was always the same--the
difference was three buttons--or four buttons, or a high hat or a
little hat; not much. Also the Feringhi men button their garments as
the Musulmans do, the left over the right, but I often see their
women's coats buttoned like a Hindu's. Why is this? Have the women
another religion than the men? It is very strange!'
Logotheti laughed, for he had really never noticed the rather singular
fact which had struck the born Asiatic at once.
'But this woman's dressing is very difficult to learn,' Baraka went
on, leaning back upon the rail with both elbows, and sticking out her
little white shoes close together. 'Without the girl Maggy whom you
have found for me--but her real name is Gula, and she is a good
Musulman--without her, Allah knows what I should do! I could not put
on these things for myself; alone, I cannot take them off. When I was
like a man, buttons! Two, three, four, twenty--what did it matter? All
the same way and soon done! But now, I cannot tell what I am made of.
Allah knows and sees what I am made of. Hooks, eyes, strings, little
bits one way, little bits the other way, like the rigging of
ships--those Turkish ships with many small sails that go up the
Bosphorus, you remember? And it is all behind, as if one had no
front! Gula knows how it is done. But if I were alone, without her
help, Allah is my witness, I would tie the things all round me
decently and sit very still for fear they should come off! That is
what I should do!
The Greek thought her extremely amusing. She punctuated her
explanations with small gestures indicative of her ignorance and
helplessness.
'You will soon grow used to it,' he said. 'But you must get some
pretty things in Paris before you go to meet the man. It would also be
better to let your hair grow long before meeting him, for it is hard
to wear the hats of the Feringhi ladies without hair.'
'I cannot wait so long as that. Only to get pretty dresses, only so
long! I will spend a thousand pounds or two--is that enough? I have
much money in Paris; I can give more.'
'You can get a good many things for a thousand pounds, even in Paris,'
Logotheti answered.
Baraka laughed.
'It will not be what I paid for the first clothes after I ran away,'
she said. 'I did not know then what the stones were worth! A little
ruby to one woman for a shift and an over-tunic, a little ruby to
another for a pair of shoes, a little ruby for a veil and a
head-blanket, all little rubies! For each thing one! I did not know;
the women did not know. But at Samarkand I sold one for money to a
good Persian merchant, and what he gave me was enough for the journey,
for me and the old woman servant I hired there, till we got to
Tiflis; for the Persian merchants everywhere gave me letters from one
to another, and their wives took me in, or I should have been robbed.
That is how I reached Stamboul after many, many months, more than a
year. The Persian merchants are good men. All fear them, because they
are wise in their dealings, but they are honest men. They do not lie,
but they are silent and shake their heads, and you must guess what
they mean; and if you do not guess right, that is your fault, not
theirs. Why should they speak when they can hold their peace? But this
is all emptiness! We must talk of the fine dresses I must buy in
Paris, and of what I must put on my head. The barbers in Paris sell
wigs. I have seen them in the windows, very well made, of all colours,
even of the Khenna colour. I shall wear a wig, so that the beautiful
Feringhi hat will stay on. I shall perhaps wear a Khenna-coloured
wig.'
'I should not advise a wig,' said Logotheti gravely, 'certainly not
one of that dye.'
'You know, and you are a friend. When I feel rested we will go to
Paris, and you shall take me to all the richest shops and tell them in
French what I want. Will you?'
'I shall do all I can to help you,' answered the Greek, wondering what
would happen if his friends met him piloting a lovely barbarian about
between the smartest linendraper's and the most fashionable
dressmaker's establishment in the Rue de la Paix.
They had watched the sun set, and the clear twilight glow was in the
cloudless sky and on the violet sea. Not a sound disturbed the
stillness, except the smooth wash of the water along the yacht's side.
At her leisurely three-quarters speed the engines ran noiselessly and
the twin screws turned well below the water-line in the flat calm. The
watch below was at supper, and the captain was just then working a
sunset amplitude in the chart-room to make quite sure of his deviation
on the new course; for he was a careful navigator, and had a proper
contempt for any master who trusted another man's adjustment of his
compasses.
Baraka drew one end of her veil round her throat and across her mouth
and over to the other side of her face, so that her features were
covered almost as by a real yashmak. The action was well-nigh
unconscious, for until she had left Constantinople she had never gone
with her face uncovered, except for a short time, of necessity, after
she had begun her long journey, almost without clothes to cover her,
not to speak of a veil. But the sensation of being screened from men's
sight came back pleasantly as she stood there; for the Greek was much
more like her own people than the French or English, and he spoke her
language, and to be with him was not like being with Mr. Van Torp, or
walking in the streets of London and Paris.
The veil brought back suddenly the sense of real power that the
Eastern woman has, and of real security in her perpetual disguise,
which every man must respect on pain of being torn to pieces by his
fellows. Reams of trash have been written about the inferior position
of women in the East; but there, more than anywhere else in the world,
they rule and have their will. Their domination there never had a
parallel in Europe but once, and that was in the heyday of the Second
French Empire, when a great nation was almost destroyed to please a
score of smart women.
Veiled as she was, Baraka turned to Logotheti, who started slightly
and then laughed; for he had not been watching her, and the effect of
the improvised yashmak was sudden and striking. He made the Oriental
salutation in three movements, touching his heart, his lips, and his
forehead with his right hand.
'Peace be with you, Hanum Effendim!' he said, as if he were greeting a
Turkish lady who had just appeared beside him.
'Peace, Effendim,' answered Baraka, with a light little laugh; but
after a moment she went on, and her voice had changed. 'It is like
Constantinople,' she said, 'and I am happy here--and it is a pity.'
Logotheti thought he heard her sigh softly behind her veil, and she
drew it still more closely to her face with her little ungloved hand,
and rested one elbow on the rail, gazing out at the twilight glow. In
all his recollections of many seas, Logotheti did not remember such a
clear and peaceful evening; there was a spell on the ocean, and it was
not the sullen, disquieting calm that often comes before a West Indian
cyclone or an ocean storm, but rather that fair sleep that sometimes
falls upon the sea and lasts many days, making men wonder idly whether
the weather will ever break again.
The two dined on deck, with shaded lights, but screened from the
draught of the ship's way. The evening was cool, and the little maid
had dressed Baraka in a way that much disturbed her, for her taper
arms were bare to the elbows, and the pretty little ready-made French
dress was open at her ivory neck, and the skirt fitted so closely that
she almost fancied herself in man's clothes again. But on her head she
would only wear the large veil, confined by a bit of gold cord, and
she drew one fold under her chin, and threw it over the opposite
shoulder, to be quite covered; and she was glad when she felt cold,
and could wrap herself in the wide travelling cloak they had bought
for her, and yet not seem to do anything contrary to the customs of a
real Feringhi lady.
  [Illustration: "The two dined on deck."]
CHAPTER XI
Lady Maud found Mr. Van Torp waiting for her at the Bayreuth station.
'You don't mean to say you've come right through?' he inquired,
looking at her with admiration as he grasped her hand. 'You're as
fresh as paint!'
'That's rather a dangerous thing to say to a woman nowadays,' she
answered in her rippling voice. 'But mine won't come off. How is
Margaret?'
Her tone changed as she asked the question.
'She showed me your letter about Logo,' answered her friend without
heeding the question, and watching her face to see if she were
surprised.
She got into the carriage he had brought, and he stood by the door
waiting for the porter, who was getting her luggage. She had no maid
with her.
'I'm glad you have told me,' she answered, 'though I wish she had not.
You probably think that when I wrote that letter I remembered what you
said to me in London about giving me money for my poor women.'
'No,' said Van Torp thoughtfully, 'I don't believe I do think so. It
was like me to make the offer, Maud. It was like the sort of man I've
been, and you've known me. But it wouldn't have been like you to
accept it. It wasn't exactly low-down of me to say what I did, but
it's so precious like low-down that I wouldn't say it again, and I
suppose I'm sorry. That's all.'
His rough hand was on the side of the little open carriage. She
touched it lightly with her gloved fingers and withdrew them
instantly, for the porter was coming with her not very voluminous
luggage.
'Thank you,' she said quickly. 'I understood, and I understand now.'
They drove slowly up the Bahnhofstrasse, through the dull little town,
that looks so thoroughly conscious of its ancient respectability as
having once been the 'Residenz' of a Duke of Würtemburg, and of its
vast importance as the headquarters of Richard Wagner's
representatives on earth.
'See here,' said Mr. Van Torp. 'I've almost persuaded them all to run
down to Venice, and I want to know why you won't come too?'
'Venice?' Lady Maud was surprised. 'It's as hot as Tophet now, and
full of mosquitoes. Why in the world do you want to take them there?'
'Well,' answered the American, taking plenty of time over the
monosyllable, 'I didn't exactly mean to stay there more than a few
minutes. I've bought a pretty nice yacht since I saw you, and she's
there, eating her head off, and I thought you might all come along
with me on her and go home that way, or somewhere.'
'I had no idea you had a yacht!' Lady Maud smiled. 'What it is to have
the Bank of England in your pocket! Where did you get her, and what
is her name? I love yachts!'
Van Torp explained.
'I forget what she was called,' he said in conclusion, 'but I changed
her name. It's Lancashire Lass now.'
'The dear old mare you rode that night! How nice of you! It's a
horse's name, of course, but that doesn't matter. I'm so glad you
chose it. I shall never forget how you looked when you galloped off
bareback in your evening clothes with no hat!'
'I don't know how I looked,' said Van Torp gravely. 'But I know quite
well how I felt. I felt in a hurry. Now, what I want you to decide
right away is whether you'll come, provided they will--for I don't
suppose you and I could go mooning around in the yacht by ourselves.'
'And I don't suppose,' returned Lady Maud, mimicking him ever so
little, 'that if "they" decide not to come, you will have time for a
long cruise.'
'Now that's not fair,' objected the American. 'I didn't intend to put
it in that way. Anyhow, will you come if they do? That's the point.'
'Really, it depends a little on who "they" are. Do you mean only
Margaret and that nice old friend of hers--Mrs. Patmore, isn't she? I
never met her.'
'Rushmore,' said Van Torp, correcting her.
'It's the same thing,' said Lady Maud vaguely, for she was trying to
make up her mind quickly.
'You don't know her,' replied her friend. 'That's the reason why you
say it's the same thing. Nothing's the same as Mrs. Rushmore.'
'Is she very dreadful?' asked Lady Maud, in some apprehension.
'Dreadful? No! She's very sweet, I think. One of those real,
old-fashioned, well-educated New York ladies, and refined right down
to the ground. There's only one thing----'
He stopped, trying to find words to express the one thing.
'What is it? All you say about her sounds very nice----'
'She's got the celebrity habit.'
'Lions?' suggested Lady Maud, who understood him.
'Yes,' he assented, 'she's a dandy after lions. She likes them for
breakfast, dinner, and tea, with a sandwich thrown in between times.
She likes them to talk to, and to look at, and to tell about. That's
just a habit, I suppose, like chewing gum, but she'll never get over
it at her age. She's got to have a party of some kind every other
minute, even here, or she's uneasy at night. But I'm bound to say,
with all truth, she does it well. She's a perfect lady, and she always
says the right thing and does the right thing. Besides, we're great
friends, she and I. We get on beautifully.'
'You're a celebrity,' observed Lady Maud.
'So's Miss Donne, and a much bigger one. So's Logo, for that matter,
but she doesn't think a great deal of Greeks. You're a sort of
celebrity, too, and she's perfectly delighted you're coming, because
you're "Lady" Maud, and a Russian countess into the bargain. Then
there's that other Russian--not that you're one, but you
understand--Kralinsky is his name, Count Kralinsky. Ever hear that
name?'
'Never. It sounds Polish.'
'He might be anything. Sometimes I'm absolutely sure he's a man I used
to know out West when I was on the ranch, and then again there's
something quite different about him. Something about his legs or his
eyes, I can't tell which. I don't quite make him out. There's one
thing, though. He's the Kralinsky I bought your ruby from in New York
a month ago, and he doesn't deny it, though I don't remember that he
was a Count then. He seemed glad to see me again, but he doesn't seem
to talk much about selling rubies now. Perhaps he's got through that,
as the camel said to the eye of the needle.'
'Eh? What?' Lady Maud laughed.
'Oh, nothing. I guess it's out of the Bible, or something. I'll tell
you all about him by and by. He's going away this afternoon, but he's
promised to join us in Venice for a trip, because Mrs. Rushmore finds
him so attractive. He seems to know everybody intimately, all over the
world. I'd like you to see him. Here we are, and there's Miss Donne
waiting for you on the steps. I wish we'd had a longer ride together.'
They reached the hotel, and Van Torp went off promptly, leaving
Margaret to take Lady Maud upstairs and introduce her to Mrs.
Rushmore.
An hour later the two young women were together in Margaret's room,
while Potts was unpacking for Lady Maud in the one that had been
