vitality dried up and withered in her before she awakens. . . . I don't
know--I really don't. For a girl must have something of the human
about her to attract a man, and be attracted. . . . Not that she need
know anything about love--or even suspect it. But there must be some
response in her, some--some--"

"Deviltry?" suggested Austin.

His pretty wife laughed and dropped one knee over the other, leaning
back to watch him finish his good-night cigarette. After a moment her
face grew grave, and she bent forward.

"Speaking of Rosamund a moment ago reminds me of something else she
wrote--it's about Alixe. Have you heard anything?"

"Not a word," said Austin, with a frank scowl, "and don't want to."

"It's only this--that Alixe is ill. Nobody seems to know what the matter
is; nobody has seen her. But she's at Clifton, with a couple of nurses,
and Rosamund heard rumours that she is very ill indeed. . . . People go
to Clifton for shattered nerves, you know."

"Yes; for bridge-fidgets, neurosis, pip, and the various jumps that
originate in the simpler social circles. What's the particular matter
with her? Too many cocktails? Or a dearth of grand slams?"

"You are brutal, Austin. Besides, I don't know. She's had a perfectly
dreary life with her husband. . . . I--I can't forget how fond I was of
her in spite of what she did to Phil. . . . Besides, I'm beginning to be
certain that it was not entirely her fault."

"What? Do you think Phil--"

"No, no, no! Don't be an utter idiot. All I mean to say is that Alixe
was always nervous and high-strung; odd at times; eccentric--more than
merely eccentric--"

"You mean dippy?"

"Oh, Austin, you're horrid. I mean that there is mental trouble in that
family. You have heard of it as well as I; you know her father died of
it--"

"The usual defence in criminal cases," observed Austin, flicking his
cigarette-end into the grate. "I'm sorry, dear, that Alixe has the
jumps; hope she'll get over 'em. But as for pretending I've any use for
her, I can't and don't and won't. She spoiled life for the best man I
know; she kicked his reputation into a cocked hat, and he, with his
chivalrous Selwyn conscience, let her do it. I did like her once; I
don't like her now, and that's natural and it winds up the matter. Dear
friend, shall we, perhaps, to bed presently our way wend--yess?"

"Yes, dear; but you are not very charitable about Alixe. And I tell
you I've my own ideas about her illness--especially as she is at
Clifton. . . . I wonder where her little beast of a husband is?"

But Austin only yawned and looked at the toes of his slippers, and then
longingly at the pillows.

       

Had Nina known it, the husband of Mrs. Ruthven, whom she had
characterised so vividly, was at that very moment seated in a private
card-room at the Stuyvesant Club with Sanxon Orchil, George Fane, and
Bradley Harmon; and the game had been bridge, as usual, and had gone
very heavily against him.

Several things had gone against Mr. Ruthven recently; for one thing, he
was beginning to realise that he had made a vast mistake in mixing
himself up in any transactions with Neergard.

When he, at Neergard's cynical suggestion, had consented to exploit his
own club--the Siowitha--and had consented to resign from it to do so, he
had every reason to believe that Neergard meant to either mulct them
heavily or buy them out. In either case, having been useful to Neergard,
his profits from the transaction would have been considerable.

But, even while he was absorbed in figuring them up--and he needed the
money, as usual--Neergard coolly informed him of his election to the
club, and Ruthven, thunder-struck, began to perceive the depth of the
underground mole tunnels which Neergard had dug to undermine and capture
the stronghold which had now surrendered to him.

Rage made him ill for a week; but there was nothing to do about it. He
had been treacherous to his club and to his own caste, and Neergard knew
it--and knew perfectly well that Ruthven dared not protest--dared not
even whimper.

Then Neergard began to use Ruthven when he needed him; and he began to
permit himself to win at cards in Ruthven's house--a thing he had not
dared to do before. He also permitted himself more ease and freedom in
that house--a sort of intimacy sans façon--even a certain jocularity.
He also gave himself the privilege of inviting the Ruthvens on board the
Niobrara; and Ruthven went, furious at being forced to stamp with his
open approval an episode which made Neergard a social probability.

How it happened that Rosamund divined something of the situation is not
quite clear; but she always had a delicate nose for anything not
intended for her, and the thing amused her immensely, particularly
because what viciousness had been so long suppressed in Neergard was now
tentatively making itself apparent in his leering ease among women he so
recently feared.

This, also, was gall and wormwood to Ruthven, so long the official
lap-dog of the very small set he kennelled with; and the women of that
set were perverse enough to find Neergard amusing, and his fertility in
contriving new extravagances for them interested these people, whose
only interest had always been centred in themselves.

Meanwhile, Neergard had almost finished with Gerald--he had only one
further use for him; and as his social success became more pronounced
with the people he had crowded in among, he became bolder and more
insolent, no longer at pains to mole-tunnel toward the object desired,
no longer overcareful about his mask. And one day he asked the boy very
plainly why he had never invited him to meet his sister. And he got an
answer that he never forgot.

And all the while Ruthven squirmed under the light but steadily
inflexible pressure of the curb which Neergard had slipped on him so
deftly; he had viewed with indifference Gerald's boyish devotion to his
wife, which was even too open and naïve to be of interest to those who
witnessed it. But he had not counted on Neergard's sudden hatred of
Gerald; and the first token of that hatred fell upon the boy like a
thunderbolt when Neergard whispered to Ruthven, one night at the
Stuyvesant Club, and Ruthven, exasperated, had gone straight home, to
find his wife in tears, and the boy clumsily attempting to comfort her,
both her hands in his.

"Perhaps," said Ruthven coldly, "you have some plausible explanation for
this sort of thing. If you haven't, you'd better trump up one together,
and I'll send you my attorney to hear it. In that event," he added,
"you'd better leave your joint address when you find a more convenient
house than mine."

As a matter of fact, he had really meant nothing more than the threat
and the insult, the situation permitting him a heavier hold upon his
wife and a new grip on Gerald in case he ever needed him; but threat and
insult were very real to the boy, and he knocked Mr. Ruthven flat on his
back--the one thing required to change that gentleman's pretence to
deadly earnest.

Ruthven scrambled to his feet; Gerald did it again; and, after that, Mr.
Ruthven prudently remained prone during the delivery of a terse but
concise opinion of him expressed by Gerald.

After Gerald had gone, Ruthven opened first one eye, then the other,
then his mouth, and finally sat up; and his wife, who had been curiously
observing him, smiled.

"It is strange," she said serenely, "that I never thought of that
method. I wonder why I never thought of it," lazily stretching her firm
young arms and glancing casually at their symmetry and smooth-skinned
strength. "Go into your own quarters," she added, as he rose, shaking
with fury: "I've endured the last brutality I shall ever suffer from
you."

She dropped her folded hands into her lap, gazing coolly at him; but
there was a glitter in her eyes which arrested his first step toward
her.

"I think," she said, "that you mean my ruin. Well, we began it long ago,
and I doubt if I have anything of infamy to learn, thanks to my thorough
schooling as your wife. . . . But knowledge is not necessarily practice,
and it happens that I have not cared to commit the particular
indiscretion so fashionable among the friends you have surrounded me
with. I merely mention this for your information, not because I am
particularly proud of it. It is not anything to be proud of, in my
case--it merely happened so; a matter, perhaps of personal taste,
perhaps because of lack of opportunity; and there is a remote
possibility that belated loyalty to a friend I once betrayed may have
kept me personally chaste in this rotting circus circle you have driven
me around in, harnessed to your vicious caprice, dragging the weight of
your corruption--"

She laughed. "I had no idea that I could be so eloquent, Jack. But my
mind has become curiously clear during the last year--strangely and
unusually limpid and precise. Why, my poor friend, every plot of yours
and of your friends--every underhand attempt to discredit and injure me
has been perfectly apparent to me. You supposed that my headaches, my
outbursts of anger, my wretched nights, passed in tears--and the long,
long days spent kneeling in the ashes of dead memories--all these you
supposed had weakened--perhaps unsettled--my mind. . . . You lie if you
deny it, for you have had doctors watching me for months. . . . You
didn't know I was aware of it, did you? But I was, and I am. . . . And
you told them that my father died of--of brain trouble, you coward!"

Still he stood there, jaw loose, gazing at her as though fascinated; and
she smiled and settled deeper in her chair, framing the gilded
foliations of the back with her beautiful arms.

"We might as well understand one another now," she said languidly. "If
you mean to get rid of me, there is no use in attempting to couple my
name with that of any man; first, because it is untrue, and you not only
know it, but you know you can't prove it. There remains the cowardly
method you have been nerving yourself to attempt, never dreaming that I
was aware of your purpose."

A soft, triumphant little laugh escaped her. There was something almost
childish in her delight at outwitting him, and, very slowly, into his
worn and faded eyes a new expression began to dawn--the flickering stare
of suspicion. And in it the purely personal impression of rage and
necessity of vengeance subsided; he eyed her intently, curiously, and
with a cool persistence which finally began to irritate her.

"What a credulous fool you are," she said, "to build your hopes of a
separation on any possible mental disability of mine."

He stood a moment without answering, then quietly seated himself. The
suspicious glimmer in his faded eyes had become the concentration of a
curiosity almost apprehensive.

"Go on," he said; "what else?"

"What do you mean?"

"You have been saying several things--about doctors whom I have set to
watch you--for a year or more."

"Do you deny it?" she retorted angrily.

"No--no, I do not deny anything. But--who are these doctors--whom you
have noticed?"

"I don't know who they are," she replied impatiently. "I've seen them
often enough--following me on the street, or in public places--watching
me. They are everywhere--you have them well paid, evidently; I suppose
you can afford it. But you are wasting your time."

"You think so?"

"Yes!" she cried in a sudden violence that startled him, "you are
wasting your time! And so am I--talking to you--enduring your personal
affronts and brutal sneers. Sufficient for you that I know my enemies,
and that I am saner, thank God, than any of them!" She flashed a look of
sudden fury at him, and rose from her chair. He also rose with a
promptness that bordered on precipitation.

"For the remainder of the spring and summer," she said, "I shall make my
plans regardless of you. I shall not go to Newport; you are at liberty
to use the house there as you choose. And as for this incident with
Gerald, you had better not pursue it any further. Do you understand?"

He nodded, dropping his hands into his coat-pockets.

"Now you may go," she said coolly.

He went--not, however, to his room, but straight to the house of the
fashionable physician who ministered to wealth with an unction and
success that had permitted him, in summer time, to occupy his own villa
at Newport and dispense further ministrations when requested.

       

On the night of the conjugal conference between Nina Gerard and her
husband--and almost at the same hour--Jack Ruthven, hard hit in the
card-room of the Stuyvesant Club, sat huddled over the table, figuring
up what sort of checks he was to draw to the credit of George Fane and
Sanxon Orchil.

Matters had been going steadily against him for some time--almost
everything, in fact, except the opinions of several physicians in a
matter concerning his wife. For, in that scene between them in early
spring, his wife had put that into his head which had never before been
there--suspicion of her mental soundness.

And now, as he sat there, pencil in hand, adding up the score-cards, he
remembered that he was to interview his attorney that evening at his own
house--a late appointment, but necessary to insure the presence of one
or two physicians at a consultation to definitely decide what course of
action might be taken.

He had not laid eyes on his wife that summer, but for the first time he
had really had her watched during her absence. What she lived on--how
she managed--he had not the least idea, and less concern. All he knew
was that he had contributed nothing, and he was quite certain that her
balance at her own bank had been nonexistent for months.

But any possible additional grounds for putting her away from him that
might arise in a question as to her sources of support no longer
interested him. That line of attack was unnecessary; besides, he had no
suspicion concerning her personal chastity. But Alixe, that evening in
early spring, had unwittingly suggested to him the use of a weapon the
existence of which he had never dreamed of. And he no longer entertained
any doubts of its efficiency as a means of finally ridding him of a wife
whom he had never been able to fully subdue or wholly corrupt, and who,
as a mate for him in his schemes for the pecuniary maintenance of his
household, had proven useless and almost ruinous.

He had not seen her during the summer. In the autumn he had heard of her
conduct at Hitherwood House. And, a week later, to his astonishment, he
learned of her serious illness, and that she had been taken to Clifton.
It was the only satisfactory news he had had of her in months.

So now he sat there at the bridge-table in the private card-room of the
Stuyvesant Club, deftly adding up the score that had gone against him,
but consoled somewhat at the remembrance of his appointment, and of the
probability of an early release from the woman who had been to him only
a source of social mistakes, domestic unhappiness, and financial
disappointment.

When he had finished his figuring he fished out a check-book, detached a
tiny gold fountain-pen from the bunch of seals and knick-knacks on his
watch-chain, and, filling in the checks, passed them over without
comment.

Fane rose, stretching his long neck, gazed about through his spectacles,
like a benevolent saurian, and finally fixed his mild, protruding eyes
upon Orchil.

"There'll be a small game at the Fountain Club," he said, with a grin
which creased his cheeks until his retreating chin almost disappeared
under the thick lower lip.

Orchil twiddled his long, crinkly, pointed moustache and glanced
interrogatively at Harmon; then he yawned, stretched his arms, and rose,
pocketing the check, which Ruthven passed to him, with a careless nod of
thanks.

As they filed out of the card-room into the dim passageway, Orchil
leading, a tall, shadowy figure in evening dress stepped back from the
door of the card-room against the wall to give them right of way, and
Orchil, peering at him without recognition in the dull light, bowed
suavely as he passed, as did Fane, craning his curved neck, and Harmon
also, who followed in his wake.

But when Ruthven came abreast of the figure in the passage and bowed his
way past, a low voice from the courteous unknown, pronouncing his name,
halted him short.

"I want a word with you, Mr. Ruthven," added Selwyn; "that card-room
will suit me, if you please."

But Ruthven, recovering from the shock of Selwyn's voice, started to
pass him without a word.

"I said that I wanted to speak to you!" repeated Selwyn.

Ruthven, deigning no reply, attempted to shove by him; and Selwyn,
placing one hand flat against the other's shoulder, pushed him violently
back into the card-room he had just left, and, stepping in behind him,
closed and locked the door.

"W-what the devil do you mean!" gasped Ruthven, his hard, minutely
shaven face turning a deep red.

"What I say," replied Selwyn; "that I want a word or two with you."

He stood still for a moment, in the centre of the little room, tall,
gaunt of feature, and very pale. The close, smoky atmosphere of the
place evidently annoyed him; he glanced about at the scattered cards,
the empty oval bottles in their silver stands, the half-burned remains
of cigars on the green-topped table. Then he stepped over and opened the
only window.

"Sit down," he said, turning on Ruthven; and he seated himself and
crossed one leg over the other. Ruthven remained standing.

"This--this thing," began Ruthven in a voice made husky and indistinct
through fury, "this ruffianly behaviour amounts to assault."

"As you choose," nodded Selwyn, almost listlessly, "but be quiet; I've
something to think of besides your convenience."

For a few moments he sat silent, thoughtful, narrowing eyes considering
the patterns on the rug at his feet; and Ruthven, weak with rage and
apprehension, was forced to stand there awaiting the pleasure of a man
of whom he had suddenly become horribly afraid.

And at last Selwyn, emerging from his pallid reverie, straightened out,
shaking his broad shoulders as though to free him of that black spectre
perching there.

"Ruthven," he said, "a few years ago you persuaded my wife to leave me;
and I have never punished you. There were two reasons why I did not: the
first was because I did not wish to punish her, and any blow at you
would have reached her heavily. The second reason, subordinate to the
first, is obvious: decent men, in these days, have tacitly agreed to
suspend a violent appeal to the unwritten law as a concession to
civilisation. This second reason, however, depends entirely upon the
first, as you see."

He leaned back in his chair thoughtfully, and recrossed his legs.

"I did not ask you into this room," he said, with a slight smile, "to
complain of the wrong you have committed against me, or to retail to you
the consequences of your act as they may or may not have affected me and
my career; I have--ah--invited you here to explain to you the present
condition of your own domestic affairs"--he looked at Ruthven full in
the face--"to explain them to you, and to lay down for you the course of
conduct which you are to follow."

"By God!--" began Ruthven, stepping back, one hand reaching for the
door-knob; but Selwyn's voice rang out clean and sharp:

"Sit down!"

And, as Ruthven glared at him out of his little eyes:

"You'd better sit down, I think," said Selwyn softly.

Ruthven turned, took two unsteady steps forward, and laid his heavily
ringed hand on the back of a chair. Selwyn smiled, and Ruthven sat down.

"Now," continued Selwyn, "for certain rules of conduct to govern you
during the remainder of your wife's lifetime. . . . And your wife is
ill, Mr. Ruthven--sick of a sickness which may last for a great many
years, or may be terminated in as many days. Did you know it?"

Ruthven snarled.

"Yes, of course you knew it, or you suspected it. Your wife is in a
sanitarium, as you have discovered. She is mentally ill--rational at
times--violent at moments, and for long periods quite docile, gentle,
harmless--content to be talked to, read to, advised, persuaded. But
during the last week a change of a certain nature has occurred
which--which, I am told by competent physicians, not only renders her
case beyond all hope of ultimate recovery, but threatens an earlier
termination than was at first looked for. It is this: your wife has
become like a child again--occupied contentedly and quite happily with
childish things. She has forgotten much; her memory is quite gone. How
much she does remember it is impossible to say."

His head fell; his brooding eyes were fixed again on the rug at his
feet. After a while he looked up.

"It is pitiful, Mr. Ruthven--she is so young--with all her physical
charm and attraction quite unimpaired. But the mind is gone--quite gone,
sir. Some sudden strain--and the tension has been great for years--some
abrupt overdraft upon her mental resource, perhaps; God knows how it
came--from sorrow, from some unkindness too long endured--"

Again he relapsed into his study of the rug; and slowly, warily, Ruthven
lifted his little, inflamed eyes to look at him, then moistened his dry
lips with a thick-coated tongue, and stole a glance at the locked door.

"I understand," said Selwyn, looking up suddenly, "that you are
contemplating proceedings against your wife. Are you?"

Ruthven made no reply.

"Are you?" repeated Selwyn. His face had altered; a dim glimmer played
in his eyes like the reflection of heat lightning at dusk.

"Yes, I am," said Ruthven.

"On the grounds of her mental incapacity?"

"Yes."

"Then, as I understand it, the woman whom you persuaded to break every
law, human and divine, for your sake, you now propose to abandon. Is
that it?"

Ruthven made no reply.

"You propose to publish her pitiable plight to the world by beginning
proceedings; you intend to notify the public of your wife's infirmity by
divorcing her."

"Sane or insane," burst out Ruthven, "she was riding for a fall--and
she's going to get it! What the devil are you talking about? I'm not
accountable to you. I'll do what I please; I'll manage my own affairs--"

"No," said Selwyn, "I'll manage this particular affair. And now I'll
tell you how I'm going to do it. I have in my lodgings--or rather in the
small hall bedroom which I now occupy--an army service revolver, in
fairly good condition. The cylinder was a little stiff this morning when
I looked at it, but I've oiled it with No. 27--an excellent rust solvent
and lubricant, Mr. Ruthven--and now the cylinder spins around in a
manner perfectly trustworthy. So, as I was saying, I have this very
excellent and serviceable weapon, and shall give myself the pleasure of
using it on you if you ever commence any such action for divorce or
separation against your wife. This is final."

Ruthven stared at him as though hypnotised.

"Don't mistake me," added Selwyn, a trifle wearily. "I am not compelling
you to decency for the purpose of punishing you; men never trouble
themselves to punish vermin--they simply exterminate them, or they
retreat and avoid them. I merely mean that you shall never again bring
publicity and shame upon your wife--even though now, mercifully enough,
she has not the faintest idea that you are what a complacent law calls
her husband."

A slow blaze lighted up his eyes, and he got up from his chair.

"You decadent little beast!" he said slowly, "do you suppose that the
dirty accident of your intrusion into an honest man's life could
dissolve the divine compact of wedlock? Soil it--yes; besmirch it,
render it superficially unclean, unfit, nauseous--yes. But neither you
nor your vile code nor the imbecile law you invoked to legalise the
situation really ever deprived me of my irrevocable status and
responsibility. . . . I--even I--was once--for a while--persuaded that
it did; that the laws of the land could do this--could free me from a
faithless wife, and regularise her position in your household. The laws
of the land say so, and I--I said so at last--persuaded because I
desired to be persuaded. . . . It was a lie. My wife, shamed or
unshamed, humbled or unhumbled, true to her marriage vows or false to
them, now legally the wife of another, has never ceased to be my wife.
And it is a higher law that corroborates me--higher than you can
understand--a law unwritten because axiomatic; a law governing the very
foundation of the social fabric, and on which that fabric is absolutely
dependent for its existence intact. But"--with a contemptuous
shrug--"you won't understand; all you can understand is the
gratification of your senses and the fear of something interfering with
that gratification--like death, for instance. Therefore I am satisfied
that you understand enough of what I said to discontinue any legal
proceedings which would tend to discredit, expose, or cast odium on a
young wife very sorely stricken--very, very ill--whom God, in his mercy,
has blinded to the infamy where you have dragged her--under the law of
the land."

He turned on his heel, paced the little room once or twice, then swung
round again:

"Keep your filthy money--wrung from women and boys over card-tables.
Even if some blind, wormlike process of instinct stirred the shame in
you, and you ventured to offer belated aid to the woman who bears your
name, I forbid it--I do not permit you the privilege. Except that she
retains your name--and the moment you attempt to rob her of that I shall
destroy you!--except for that, you have no further relations with
her--nothing to do or undo; no voice as to the disposal of what remains
of her; no power, no will, no influence in her fate. I supplant you; I
take my own again; I reassume a responsibility temporarily taken from
me. And now, I think, you understand!"

He gave him one level and deadly stare; then his pallid features
relaxed, he slowly walked past Ruthven, grave, preoccupied; unlocked the
door, and passed out.

       

His lodgings were not imposing in their furnishings or dimensions--a
very small bedroom in the neighbourhood of Sixth Avenue and Washington
Square--but the heavy and increasing drain on his resources permitted
nothing better now; and what with settling Gerald's complications and
providing two nurses and a private suite at Clifton for Alixe Ruthven,
he had been obliged to sell a number of securities, which reduced his
income to a figure too absurd to worry over.

However, the Government had at last signified its intention of testing
his invention--Chaosite--and there was that chance for better things in
prospect. Also, in time, Gerald would probably be able to return
something of the loans made. But these things did not alleviate present
stringent conditions, nor were they likely to for a long while; and
Selwyn, tired and perplexed, mounted the stairs of his lodging-house and
laid his overcoat on the iron bed, and, divesting himself of the
garments of ceremony as a matter of economy, pulled on an old tweed
shooting-jacket and trousers.

Then, lighting his pipe--cigars being now on the expensive and forbidden
list--he drew a chair to his table and sat down, resting his worn face
between both hands. Truly the world was not going very well with him in
these days.

For some time, now, it had been his custom to face his difficulties here
in the silence of his little bedroom, seated alone at his table, pipe
gripped between his firm teeth, his strong hands framing his face. Here
he would sit for hours, the long day ended, staring steadily at the
blank wall, the gas-jet flickering overhead; and here, slowly,
painfully, with doubt and hesitation, out of the moral confusion in his
weary mind he evolved the theory of personal responsibility.

With narrowing eyes, from which slowly doubt faded, he gazed at duty
with all the calm courage of his race, not at first recognising it as
duty in its new and dreadful guise.

But night after night, patiently perplexed, he retraced his errant
pathway through life, back to the source of doubt and pain; and, once
arrived there, he remained, gazing with impartial eyes upon the ruin two
young souls had wrought of their twin lives; and always, always somehow,
confronting him among the débris, rose the spectre of their deathless
responsibility to one another; and the inexorable life-sentence sounded
ceaselessly in his ears: "For better or for worse--for better or for
worse--till death do us part--till death--till death!"

Dreadful his duty--for man already had dared to sunder them, and he had
acquiesced to save her in the eyes of the world! Dreadful,
indeed--because he knew that he had never loved her, never could love
her! Dreadful--doubly dreadful--for he now knew what love might be; and
it was not what he had believed it when he executed the contract which
must bind him while life endured.

Once, and not long since, he thought that, freed from the sad disgrace
of the shadowy past, he had begun life anew. They told him--and he told
himself--that a man had that right; that a man was no man who stood
stunned and hopeless, confronting the future in fetters of conscience.
And by that token he had accepted the argument as truth--because he
desired to believe it--and he had risen erect and shaken himself free of
the past--as he supposed; as though the past, which becomes part of us,
can be shaken from tired shoulders with the first shudder of revolt!

No; he understood now that the past was part of him--as his limbs and
head and body and mind were part of him. It had to be reckoned
with--what he had done to himself, to the young girl united to him in
bonds indissoluble except in death.

That she had strayed--under man-made laws held guiltless--could not
shatter the tie. That he, blinded by hope, had hoped to remake a life
already made, and had dared to masquerade before his own soul as a man
