it is better attested. A diorite block, found at Susa in 1902, has the
law engraved on it. On the summit, a bas-relief displays the god
disclosing the statutes to the king.
There are other analogies. Sinai was named after Sin, who, though but
a moon-god, was previously held supreme for the reason that, in
primitive Babylonia, the lunar year preceded the solar. The sanctuary
of the moon-god was Ur, of which Abraham was emir. He was more,
perhaps. Sarratu, from which Sarai comes, was the title of the
moon-goddess. In Genesis, Sarai is Abraham's wife. Abraham is a
derivative of Aburamu, which was one of the moon's many names.[22]
[Footnote 22: Sayce: Guifford Lectures.]
Among these, one in particular has since been identified with Jahveh.
In addition, a clay tablet of the age of Khammurabi, now in the
British Museum, has on it:
[Illustration]
That flight of arrows, being interpreted, means: Jave ilu, Jahveh is
god.[23]
[Footnote 23: Delitzch: Babel und Bibel.]
Other texts show that a title of Bel was Mâsu, a word that letter for
letter is the same as the Hebrew Mosheh or Moses.[24]
[Footnote 24: Records of the Past, i. 91.]
It is in this way that Sargon and Khammurabi fuse. Meanwhile the title
Mâsu, or hero, was not confined to Bel. It was given also to Marduk,
the tutelary god of Babylon, from whom local monotheism proceeded.
That monotheism, in appearance relatively modern, actually was
archaic. The Chaldean savants knew of but one really existing god. To
them, all others were his emanations. The deus exsuperantissimus was
represented by a single stroke of the reed, a sign that in its
vagueness left him formless and incommunicable, therefore
unworshipable, hence without a temple, unless Bab-ili, Babylon, the
Gate of God, may be so construed.
The name of the deity, fastidiously concealed from the vulgar, was, in
English, One. Not after, or beneath, or above, but before him, a
trinity swung like a screen. From it, for pendant, another trinity
dangled. From the latter fell a third. Below these glories were the
coruscations of an entire nation of inferior gods. The latter, as well
as the former, all of them, were but the fireworks of One. He alone
was. The rest, like Makhir, were gods of dream. To the savants, that
is; to the magi and seers. To the people the sidereal triads and
planetary divinities throned in the Silver Sky augustly real, equally
august, and in that celestial equality remained, until Khammurabi gave
precedence to Bel, who as Marduk, Bel or Baal Marduk, Lord Marduk,
became supreme.
Before Bel, then, the other gods faded as the Elohim did before
Jahveh, with the possible difference that there were more to
fade--sixty-five thousand, Assurnatsipal, in an inscription, declared.
Over that army Bel-Marduk acquired the title, perhaps significant, of
Bel-Kissat, Lord of Hosts. Yet it was less as a usurper than as an
absorber that the ascension was achieved. Bel but mounted above his
former peers and from the superior height drew their attributes to
himself. It was sacrilege none the less. As such it alienated the
clergy and enraged the plebs. Begun under Khammurabi and completed
under Nabonidos, it was the reason why, during the latter's reign,
orthodox Babylon received Cyrus not as a foe but a friend.
From the spoliation, meanwhile, no nebulousness resulted. Bel was
distinctly anthropomorphic. His earthly plaisance was the Home of the
Height, a seven-floored mountain of masonry, a rainbow pyramid of
enamelled brick. At the top was a dome. There, in a glittering
chamber, on a dazzling couch, he appeared. Elsewhere, in the
vermillion recesses of a neighbouring chapel, that winged bulls
guarded and frescoed monsters adorned, once a year he also appeared,
and, above the mercy seat, on an alabaster throne, sat, or was
supposed to sit, contemplating the tablets of destiny, determining
when men should die.
To the Greeks, the future lay in the lap of the gods. To the
Babylonians the gods alone possessed it, as alone also they possessed
the present and the past. They had all time as all men have their day.
That day was here and it was brief. Death was a descent to Aralû, the
land whence none return, a region of the underworld, called also
Shualû, where the departed were nourished on dust. Dust they were and
to dust they returned.
Extinction was not a punishment or even a reward, it was a law.
Punishment was visited on the transgressor here, as here also the
piety of the righteous was rewarded. When death came, just and unjust
fared alike. The Aryan and Egyptian belief in immortality had no place
in this creed, and consequently it had none either in Israel, where
Sheol was a replica of Shualû. To the Semites of Babylonia and Kanaan,
the gods alone were immortal, and immortal beings would be gods. Man
could not become divine while his deities were still human.
Exceptionally, exceptional beings such as Gilgames and Adra-Khasis
might be translated to the land of the Silver Sky, as Elijah was
translated to heaven, but otherwise the only mortals that could reach
it were kings, for a king, in becoming sovereign, became, ipso
facto, celestial. As such, ages later, Alexander had himself
worshipped, and it was in imitation of his apotheosis that the
subsequent Cæsars declared themselves gods. Yet precisely as the
latter were man-made deities, so the Babylonian Baalim were very
similar to human kings.
For their hunger was cream, oil, dates, the flesh of ewe lambs. For
their nostrils was the perfume of prayers and of psalms; for their
passions the virginity of girls. Originally the first born of men were
also given them, but while, with higher culture, that sacrifice was
abolished, the sacred harlotry, over which Ishtar presided, remained.
Judaism omitted to incorporate that, but in Kanaan, which Babylonia
profoundly influenced, it was general and, though reviled by Israel,
was tempting even, and perhaps particularly, to Solomon.[25]
[Footnote 25: 1 Kings xi. 5. "Solomon went after Ashtoreth."]
The latter's temple was similar to Bel's, from which the Hebraic
ritual, terms of the Law, the Torah itself, may have proceeded, as, it
may be, the Sabbath did also. On a tablet recovered from the library
of Assurbanipal it is written: "The seventh day is a fast day, a lucky
day, a sabbatuv"--literally, a day of rest for the heart.[26]
[Footnote 26: Cuneiform Insc. W. A. ii. 32.]
In Aralû that day never ceased; the dead there, buried, Herodotos
said, in honey, were unresurrectably dead, dead to the earth, dead to
the Silver Sky. Yet though that was an article of faith, through a
paradox profoundly poetic, there was a belief equally general, in
ghosts, in hobgoblins, in men with the faces of ravens, in others with
the bodies of scorpions, and in the post-mortem persistence of girls
that died pure.
These latter, in searching for someone whom they might seduce, must
have afterward wandered into the presence of St. Anthony. Perhaps,
too, it was they who, as succubi, emotionalized the dreams of monks.
Yet, in view of Ishtar, they could not have been very numerous in
Babylon where, however, they had a queen, Lilît, the Lilith of the
Talmud, Adam's vampire wife, who conceived with him shapes of sin.
In these also the Babylonians believed, and naïvely they represented
them in forms so revolting that the sight of their own image alarmed
them away.
From these shapes or, more exactly, from sin itself, it was very
properly held that all diseases came. Medicine consequently was a
branch of religion. The physician was a priest. He asked the patient:
Have you shed your neighbour's blood? Have you approached your
neighbour's wife? Have you stolen your neighbour's garment? Or is it
that you have failed to clothe the naked? According to the responses
he prescribed.[27]
[Footnote 27: IV. R. 50-53. Cf. Delitzch: op. cit.]
But the priest who was a physician was also a wizard. He peeped and
muttered, or, more subtly, provided enchanted philters in which
simples had been dissolved. These devices failing, there was a series
of incantations, the Ritual of the Whispered Charm, in which the
most potent conjuration was the incommunicable name. To that all
things yielded, even the gods.[28] But like the Shem of the Jews, it
was probably never wholly uttered, because, save to the magi, not
wholly known. In the formulæ of the necromancers it is omitted, though
in practice it may have been pronounced.
[Footnote 28: Lenormant: La Magie chez les Chaldéens.]
Even that is doubtful. A knowledge of it conferred powers similar to
those that have been attributed to the Christ, and which the Sadducees
ascribed to his knowledge of the tetragrammation. A knowledge of the
Babylonian Shem was as potent. It served not only men but gods.
Ishtar, for purposes of her own, wanted to get into Aralû. In the
recovered epic of her descent, imperiously she demanded entrance:
  Porter, open thy door.
  Open thy door that I may enter.
  If thou dost not open thy door,
  I will attack it, I will break down the bars,
  I will cause the dead to rise and devour the living.[29]
[Footnote 29: Records of the Past.]
Ishtar was admitted. But Aralû was the land whence none return. Once
in, she could not get out until, ultimately, the incommunicable name
was uttered. The epic says that, in the interim, there was on earth
neither love nor loving. In possible connection with which
incantations have been found, deprecating "the consecrated harlots
with rebellious hearts that have abandoned the holy places."[30]
[Footnote 30: Lenormant: op. cit.]
In addition to the Ritual of the Whispered Charm, there was the
Illumination of Bel, an encyclopædia of astrology in seventy-two
volumes which the suburban library of Borsippa contained. During the
captivity many Jews must have gone there. In the large light halls
they were free to read whatever they liked, religion, history,
science, the romance of all three. The books, catalogued and numbered,
were ranged on shelves. One had but to ask. The service was gratis.
Babylon, then, prismatic and learned, was the most respectable place
on earth. For ten thousand years man had there consulted the stars.
But though respectable, it was also equivocal. During a period equally
long--or brief--the girls of the city had loosed their girdles for
Ishtar and yielded themselves to anyone, stranger or neighbour, that
asked. In the service of the goddess their brothers occasionally
feigned that they too were girls. Meanwhile, from the summit of a
seven-floored pyramid, mortals contemplated the divine.
Beneath was cosmopolis, the golden cup that, in the words of Jeremiah,
made the whole world drunk. Seated immensely on the twin banks of the
Euphrates--banks that bridges above and tunnels beneath
interjoined--Babylon more nearly resembled a walled nation than a
fortified town. Within the gates, in an enclosure ample and noble, a
space that exceeded a hundred square miles, an area sufficient for
Paris quintupled, observatories and palaces rose above the roar of
human tides that swept in waves through the wide boulevards, surged
over the quays, flooded the gardens, eddied through the open-air
lupanar, circled among statues of gods and bulls, poured out of the
hundred gates, or broke against the polychrome walls and seethed back
in the avenues, along which, to the high flourishes of military bands,
passed armed hoplites, merchants in long robes, cloaked bedouins,
Kelts in bearskins, priests in spangled dresses, tiara'd princes,
burdened slaves, kings discrowned, furtive forms--prostitutes,
pederasts, human wolves, vermin, sheep--the flux and reflux of the
gigantic city.
In that ocean, the captive Jews, if captive they were, rolled, lost as
a handful of salt spilt in the sea. Yet, from the depths, a few had
swum up and, filtering adroitly, had reached the dignity of high
place. One was pontiff. Others were viceroys. In addition to being
pontiff, Daniel was chancellor of the realm. Ezra was rector of the
university. As pontiff of a college of wizards, Daniel may have known
the future. As Minister of Wisdom, Ezra may have known, what is quite
as difficult, the past. For the moment there was but the present. Over
it ruled Belshazzar.
Yet, ruler though he was, there were powers potenter than his own:
Baalim, outraged at the elevation of a parvenu god; a priesthood
consequently disaffected; and, without, at the gates, the foe.
It would have been interesting to have assisted at the final festival
when, beneath cyclopean arches, in the sunlight of clustered
candelabra, amid the glitter of gold and white teeth, among the fair
sultanas that were strewn like flowers through the throne-room of the
imperial court, Belshazzar lay, smiling, amused rather than annoyed at
the impudent menace of Cyrus.
Babylon was impregnable. He knew it. But the subtle Jews, the
indignant gods, the alienated priests to whom the Persian was a
redeemer, of these he did not think. Daniel had indeed warned him and,
vaguely, he had promised something which he had since forgot.
Beyond, an orchestra was playing. Further yet, columns upheld a
ceiling so lofty that it was lost. On the adjacent wall was a frieze
of curious and chimerical beasts. Belshazzar was looking at them. In
their dumb stupidity was a suggestion of the foe. The suggestion
amused. Smiling still he raised a cup. Abruptly, before it could reach
his lips, it fell with a clatter on the lapis lazuli of the floor
beneath. Before him, on that wall, beneath those beasts, the
necromancy of the priesthood had projected an armless, fluidic hand
that mounted, descended, tracing with a forefinger the three luminous
hierograms of his doom.
The story, a little drama, was, with the tale concerning
Nebuchadnezzar, that of Daniel, and other novels quite as strange,
evolved long later in the wide leisures of Jerusalem. The fluidic hand
did not appear. Even had it zigzagged there was no Belshazzar to
frighten.
Only the doom was real. Cyrus was clothed with it. To the trumpetings
of heralds and the sheen of angels' wings, triumphantly he came. Then,
presently, by royal decree, the Jews, manumitted and released,
retraced their steps, burdened with spoil; with the lore of two
distinct civilizations, which, fusing in the great square letters of
the Pentateuch, was to become the poetry of all mankind.
Babylon, ultimately, with her goblin gods and harlot goddess, sank
into her own Aralû. Nourished there on dust, Lilît, with the sister
vampires of eternal night, fed on her.
V
JEHOVAH
A camel's-hair tent set in the desert was the first cathedral, the
earliest cloister of latest ideals. Set not in one desert merely but
in two, in the infinite of time as well as in that of space, there was
about it a limitlessness in which the past could sleep, the future
awake, and into which all things, the human, the divine, gods and
romance, could enter.
The human came first. Then the gods. Then romance. The divine was
their triple expansion. It was an after growth, in other lands, that
tears had watered. In the desert it was unimagined. Only the gods had
been conceived.
The gods were many and yet but one. Though plural they were singular.
The subjects of impersonal verbs, they represented the pronoun in such
expressions as: it rains; it thunders. "It" was Elohim. Already among
nomad Semites monotheism had begun. Yet with this distinction. Each
tribe had separate sets of Its that guided, guarded, and scourged.
Omnipresent but not omnipotent, any humiliation to the family that
they had in charge humiliated them. It made them angry, therefore
vindictive, consequently unjust. It may be that they were not very
ethical. Perhaps the bedouins were not either. Man fashions his god in
proportion to his intelligence. That of the nomad was slender. He
lacked, what the Aryan shepherd possessed, the ability for
mythological invention. The defect was due to his speech, which did
not lend itself to the deification of epithets. Even had it done so,
it is probable that his mode of life would have rendered the
paraphernalia of polytheism impossible. People constantly moving from
place to place could not be cumbered with idols. The Elohim were,
therefore, a convenience for travellers and an unidolatrous monotheism
a necessity which the absence of vehicles imposed. On the other hand,
given every facility, it is presumable that the result would have been
the same. Mythology is the mother of poetry. Idolatry is the father of
art. Neither could appeal to a people to whom delicacy was an unknown
god. Had it been known and a fetish, they could not have become the
practical people that they are. Even then they were shrewd. Their
Elohim might alarm but never delude. Israel was uncheatable even in
dream.
Originally emigrants from Arabia, the nomads reached Syria, some
directly, others circuitously, by way of Padan-Aram and across the
Euphrates, whence perhaps their name of Ibrim or Hebrews--Those
from beyond. In the journey Babel and Ur must have detained. These
cities, with their culture relatively deep and their observatories
equally high, became, in after days, a source of legend, of wonder, of
hatred, perhaps of revelation as well.
At the time the nomads had no cosmogony or theories. The Chaldeans had
both. There was a story of creation, another of antediluvian kings and
of the punishment that overtook them. There was also a story of an
emir of Ur, an old man who had benevolently killed an animal instead
of his son. The story, like the others, must have impressed. In after
years the old man became Abraham, a great person, who had conversed
with the Elohim and whose descendants they were.
The story of creation also impressed. It was enlightening and
comprehensible. The parallel theory of spontaneous generation and the
progressive evolution of the species which the magi entertained, they
probably never heard. Even otherwise it was too complex for minds as
yet untutored. The fables alone appealed. Mentally compressed into
portable shape, carried along, handed down, their origin afterward
forgotten, they became the traditions of a nation, which, eminently
conservative, preserved what it found, among other things the name,
perhaps inharmonious, of Jhvh.[31]
[Footnote 31: Renan: Histoire du peuple d'Israël. Kuenen: De Godsdienst
van Israël.]
That name, since found on an inscription of Sargon, appears to have
been the title of a local god of Sinai, whom the nomads may have
identified with Elohim, particularly, perhaps, since he presided over
thunder, the phenomenon that alarmed them most and which, in
consequence, inspired the greatest awe. That awe they put into the
name, the pronunciation of which, like the origin of their traditions,
they afterward forgot. In subsequent rabbinical writings it became
Shem, the Name; Shemhammephoresh, the Revealed Name, uttered but once
a year, on the day of Atonement, by the high priest in the Holy of
Holies. Mention of it by anyone else was deemed a capital offence,
though, permissibly, it might be rendered El Shaddai, the Almighty.
That term the Septuagint translated into [Greek: ho Kyrios], a Greek
form, in the singular, of the Aramaic plural Adonai, which means
Baalim, or sun lords.
That form the Vulgate gave as Dominus and posterior theology as God.
The latter term, common to all Teutonic tongues, has no known meaning.
It designates that which, to the limited intelligence of man, has
been, and must be, incomprehensible. But the original term Jhvh,
which, in the seventeenth century, was developed into Jehovah, yet
which, the vowels being wholly conjectural, might have been developed
into anything else, clearly appealed to wayfarers to whom Chaldean
science was a book that remained closed until Nebuchadnezzar blew
their descendants back into the miraculous Babel of their youth.
Meanwhile, apart from the name--now generally written Jahveh--apart
too from the fables and the enduring detestation which the colossal
city inspired, probably but one other thing impressed, and that was
the observance of the Sabbath. To a people whose public works were
executed by forced labour, such a day was a necessity. To vagrants it
was not, and, though the custom interested, it was not adopted by them
until their existence from nomad had become fixed.
At this latter period they were in Kanaan. Whether in the interval a
tribe, the Beni-Israel, went down into Egypt, is a subject on which
Continental scholarship has its doubts. The early life of the tribe's
leader and legislator is usually associated with Rameses II., a
pharaoh of the XIX. dynasty. But it has been found that incidents
connected with Moses must apparently have occurred, if they occurred
at all, at a period not earlier than the XXVI. dynasty, which
constitutes a minimum difference of seven hundred years. Yet, in view
of the decalogue, with its curious analogy to the negative confession
in the Book of the Dead; in view also of a practice surgical and
possibly hygienic which, customary among the Egyptians, was adopted by
the Jews; in view, further, of ceremonies and symbols peculiarly
Egyptian that were also absorbed, a sojourn in Goshen there may have
been.
The spoiling of the Egyptians, a roguery on which Israel afterward
prided herself, is a trait perhaps too typical to be lightly
dismissed. On the other hand, if Moses were, which is at least
problematic, and if, in addition to being, he was both the nephew of a
pharaoh and the son-in-law of a priest, as such one to whom, in either
quality, the arcana of the creed would be revealed, it becomes curious
that nowhere in the Pentateuch is there any doctrine of a future life.
Of the entire story, it may be that only the journey into the
Sinaiatic peninsula is true, and of that there probably remained but
tradition, on which history was based much later, by writers who had
only surmises concerning the time and circumstances in which it
occurred.
Yet equally with the roguery, Moses may have been. Seen through modern
criticism his figure fades though his name persists. To that name the
Septuagint tried to give an Egyptian flavour. In their version it is
always [Greek: Môusês], a compound derived from the Egyptian mô,
water, and usês, saved from, or Saved-from-the-water.[32] Per contra,
the Hebrew form Mosheh is, as already indicated, the same as the
Babylonian Masû, a term which means at once leader and littérateur, in
addition to being the cognomen of a god.[33]
[Footnote 32: Josephus: Antiq. ii. 9.]
[Footnote 33: Sayce: The Religion of the Babylonians.]
Moses is said to have led his people out of bondage. He was the writer
to whom the Pentateuch has been ascribed. But he was also a prophet.
In Babylon, the god of prophecy was Nebo. It was on Mount Nebo that
Jahveh commanded the prophet of Israel to die. Moreover, the divinity
that had Masû for cognomen was, as is shown by a Babylonian text, the
primitive god of the sun at Nippur, but the sun at noon, at the period
of its greatest effulgence, at the hour when it wars with whatever
opposes, when it wars as Jahveh did, or as the latter may be assumed
to have warred, since Isaiah represented him as a mighty man, roaring
at his enemies, exciting the fury of the fight, marching personally to
the conflict, and, in the Fourth Roll of the Law (Numbers), there is
mention of a book entitled: The Wars of Jahveh.
Whether, then, Moses is but a composite of things Babylonian fused in
an effort to show a link between a god and a people, is conjectural.
But it is also immaterial. The one instructive fact is that, in a
retrospect, the god, immediately after the exodus, became dictator.
Yet even in the later age, when the retrospect was effected,
conceptions were evidently immature. On one occasion the god met
Moses, tried to kill him, but finally let him go. The picture is that
of a personal struggle.[34] Again, the spectacle of his back which he
vouchsafed to Moses is construable only as an arrière-pensée, unless
it be profound philosophy, unless it be taken that the face of God
represents Providence, to see which would be to behold the future,
whereas the back disclosed the past.
[Footnote 34: Exodus iv. 24-26.]
It is, however, hardly probable that that construction occurred to the
editors of the Pentateuch, who, elsewhere, represented Jahveh as a
butcher, insatiable, jealous, vindictive, treacherous, and vain, one
that consigned all nations other than Israel to ruin and whom a poet
represented trampling people in anger, making them drunk with his
fury, and defiling his raiment with blood.[35]
[Footnote 35: Isaiah lxiii. 1-6.]
But in the period related in Exodus, Jahveh was but the tutelary god
of an itinerant tribe that, in its gipsy lack of territorial
possessions, was not even a nation. Like his people he too was a
vagrant. Like them he had no home. Other gods had temples and altars.
He lacked so much as a shrine. In prefigurement of the Wandering Jew,
each day he moved on. The threats of a land that never smiled were
reflected in his face. The sight of him was death. Certainly he was
terrible.
This conception, corrected by later writers, was otherwise revised. In
the interim Jahveh himself was transformed. He became El, the god;
presently El Shaddai, God Almighty. In the ascension former traits
disappeared. He developed into the deity of emphatic right. Morality,
hitherto absent from religion, entered into it. Israel, who perhaps
had been careless, who, like Solomon, had followed Ishtar, became
austere. Thereafter, Judaism, of which Christianity and Muhammadanism
were the after thoughts, was destined to represent almost the sum
total of the human conscience.
But in Kanaan, during the rude beginnings, though Jahveh was jealous,
Ishtar, known locally as Ashtoreth, allured. Conjointly with Baal, the
indigenous term for Bel, circumadjacently she ruled. The propitiatory
rites of these fair gods were debauchery and infanticide, the
loosening of the girdles of girls, the thrusting of children into
fires. It may be that these ceremonies at first amazed the Hebrews.
But conscientiously they adopted them, less perhaps through zeal than
politeness; because, in this curious epoch, on entering a country it
was thought only civil to serve the divinities that were there, in
accordance with the ritual that pleased them.
With the mere mortal inhabitants, Israel was less ceremonious.
Commanded by Jahveh to kill, extermination was but an act of piety. It
was then, perhaps, that the Wars of Jahveh were sung, a pæan that
must have been resonant with cries, with the death-rattle of kingdoms,
with the shouts of the invading host. From the breast-plates of the
chosen, the terror of Sinai gleamed. Men could not see their faces and
live. The moon was their servant. To aid them the sun stood still.
They encroached, they slaughtered, they quelled. In the conquest a
nation was born. From that bloody cradle the God of Humanity came. But
around and about it was vacancy. In emerging from one solitude the
Jews created another. They have never left it. The desert which they
made destined them to be alone on this earth, as their god was to be
solitary in heaven.
Meanwhile there had been no kings in Israel. With the nation royalty
came. David followed Saul. After him was Solomon. It is presumably at
this period that traditions, orally transmitted from a past relatively
remote, were first put in writing. Previously it is conjectural if the
Jews could write. If they could, it is uncertain whether they made any
use of the ability other than in the possible compilation of toledoth,
such as the Book of the Generations of Adam and the Wars of
Jahveh, works that, later, may have served as data for the
Pentateuch. Even then, the compositions must have been crude, and such
rolls as existed may have been lost when Nebuchadnezzar overturned
Jerusalem.
Presumably, it was not until the post-exilic period that, under the
editorship perhaps of Ezra, the definitive edition of the Torah was
produced. This supposition existing texts support. In Genesis (xxxvii.
31) it is written: "These are the kings of Edom before there reigned
any king over the children of Israel." The passage shows, if it shows
anything, that there were, or had been, kings in Israel at the time
when the passage itself was written. It is, therefore, at least
post-Davidic. In Genesis another passage (xlix. 10) says: "The sceptre
shall not pass from Judah until Shiloh come." Judah was the tribe that
became pre-eminent in Israel after the captivity. The passage is
therefore post-exilic, consequently so is Genesis, and obviously the
rest of the Pentateuch as well. Or, if not obviously, perhaps
demonstrably. In II Esdras xiv. 22-48 it is stated that the writer, a
candle of understanding in his heart, and aided by five swift scribes,
recomposed the Law, which, previously burned, was known to none.
The burning referred to is what may, perhaps, be termed religious
fiction. Barring toledoth and related data that may have been lost,
the Law had almost certainly not existed before, and this post-exilic
romance concerning it was evolved in a laudable effort to show its
Mosaic source. What is true of the Law is, in a measure, true of the
Prophets. None of them anterior to Cyrus, all are later than
Alexander. Spiritually very near to Christianity, chronologically they
are neighbourly too. If not divinely inspired, they at least disclosed
the ideal.
Previously the ideal had not perhaps been very apparent. Apart from
secessions, rebellions, concussions, convulsions that deified Hatred
until Jahveh, in the person of Nebuchadnezzar, talked Assyrian, and
then, in the person of Cyrus, talked Zend, the god of Israel, even in
Israel, was not unique. He had a home, his first, the Temple, built
gorgeously by Solomon, where invisibly, mysteriously, perhaps
terribly, beneath the wings of cherubim that rose from the depths of
the Holy of Holies, he dwelled. But the shrine, however ornate, was
not the only one. There were other altars, other gods; the plentiful
sanctuaries of Ashera, of Moloch and of Baal. On the adjacent hilltops
the phallus stood. In the neighbouring groves the kisses of Ishtar
consumed.
The Lady of Girdles was worshipped there not by men and women only,
but by girls with girls; by others too, not in couples, but singly,
girls who in their solitary devotions had instruments for aid.[36]
Religion, as yet, had but the slightest connection with morality, a
circumstance explicable perhaps by the fact that it resumed the
ethnical conscience of a race. Between the altar of El Shaddai and the
shrines of other gods there were many differences, of which geography
was the least. Jahveh, from a tutelary god, had indeed become the
national divinity of a chosen people. But the Moabites were the chosen
people of Chemos; the Ammonites were the chosen people of Rimmon; the
Babylonians were the chosen people of Bel. The title conferred no
distinction. As a consequence, to differentiate Jahveh from all other
gods, and Israel from all other people, to make the one unique and the
other pontiff and shepherd of the nations of the world, became the
dream of anonymous poets, one that prophets, sometimes equally
anonymous, proclaimed. It was the prophets that reviled the false
gods, denounced the abominations of Ishtar, and purified the Israelite
heart. While nothing discernible, or even imaginable, menaced, however
slightly, the great empires of that day, the prophets were the first
to realize that the Orient was dead. When the Christ announced that
the end of the world was at hand, he but reiterated anterior
predictions that presently were fulfilled. A world did end. That of
antiquity ceased to be.
[Footnote 36: Cf. Deut. xxiii. 17, where 'alâmôth (puellæ) is
rendered in the Sapphist sense. Ezekiel xvi. 17. Fecisti tibi
imagines masculinas.]
It was the prophets that foretold it. Gloomy, fanatic, implacable and,
it may be, mad, yet inspired at least by genius which itself, while
madness, is a madness wholly divine, they heralded the future, they
established the past. Abraham they drew from allegory, Moses from
myth. They made them live, and so immortally that one survives in
Islam, the other in words that are a law of grace for all.
If, in visions possibly ecstatic, they beheld heights that lost
themselves in immensity, and saw there an ineffable name seared by
forked flames on a tablet of stone; if that spectacle and the
theophany of it were but poetry, the decalogue is a fact, one so solid
that though ages have gone, though empires have crumbled, though the
customs of man have altered, though the sky itself have changed, still
is obeyed the commandment: Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
From Chemos in Moab, from Rimmon among the Ammonites, no such edict
had come. It felled them. Amon-Râ it tore from the celestial Nile, and
Bel-Marduk from the Silver Sky. The Refaïm hid them in shadows as
surely as they buried there the high and potent lords of Greece and
Rome. These interments, completed by others, the prophets began. For
it was they who, in addition to the command, revealed the commandant,
creator of whatever is: the Being Absolute that abhorred evil, loved
righteousness, punished the transgressor and rewarded the just; El
Shaddai, then really Lord of Hosts.
It may be that already in Israel there had been some prescience of
this. But it lacked the authority of inspired text. The omission was
one that only seers could remedy. It was presumably in these
circumstances that an agreement was imagined which, construed as a
condition of a covenant, assumed to have been made with Abraham, was
further assumed to have been renewed to Moses. The resulting poetry
was enveloped in a romance of which Continental scholarship has
discovered two versions, woven together, perhaps by Ezra, into a
single tale.
"In the beginning Elohim created the heaven and earth." That abrupt
declaration, presented originally in but one of the versions, had
already been pronounced of Indra and also of Ormuzd. The Hebraic
announcement alone prevailed. It emptied the firmament of its
monsters, dislodged the gods from the skies, and enthroned there a
deity at first multiple but subsequently unique. Afterward seraphs and
saints might replace the evaporated imaginings of other creeds; Satan
might create a world of his own and people it with the damned;
theology might evolve from elder faiths a newer trinity and set it
like a diadem in space; angels and archangels might refill the
devastated heavens of the past; none the less, in the light of that
austere pronouncement, for a moment Israel dwelled in contemplation of
the Ideal.
At the time it is probable that the story of the love of the sons of
Jahveh for the daughters of men, together with the pastel of Eden as
it stands to-day, were not contained in existing accounts of that
ideal. These legends, which regarded as legends are obviously false,
but which, construed as allegories, may be profoundly true, were
probably not diffused until after the captivity, when Israel was not
more subtle, that is not possible, but, by reason of her contact with
Persia, more wise.
The origin of evil these myths related but did not explain. Since
then, from no church has there come an adequate explanation of the
malediction under which man is supposed to labour because of the
natural propensities of beings that never were. That explanation these
myths, which orthodoxy has gravely, though sometimes reluctantly,
accepted, both provide and conceal. They date possibly from the
Ormuzdian revelation: "In the beginning was the living Word."
John, or more exactly his homonym, repeated the pronouncement, adding:
"The word was made flesh." But, save for a mention of the glory which
he had before the world was, he omitted to further follow the thought
of Ormuzd, who, in describing paradise to Zarathrustra, likened it, in
every way, to heaven. There the first beings were, exempt from
physical necessities, pure intelligences, naked as the compilers of
Genesis translated, naked and unashamed, but naked and unashamed
because incorporeal, unincarnate and clothed in light, a vestment
which they exchanged for a garment of flesh, coats of skin as it is in
Genesis, when, descended on earth, their intelligence, previously
luminous, swooned in the senses of man.
In Egypt, the harper going out from Amenti sang: "Life is death in a
land of darkness, death is life in a land of light." There perhaps is
the origin of evil. There too perhaps is its cure. But the view
accepted there too is pre-existence and persistence, a doctrine
blasphemous to the Jew as it was to the Assyrian, to whom the gods
alone were immortal, and to whom, in consequence, immortal beings
would be gods. In the creed of both, man was essentially evanescent.
To the Hebrew, he lived a few, brief days and then went down into
silence, where no remembrance is. There, gathered among the Refaïm to
his fathers, he remained forever, unheeded by God.
The conception, passably rationalistic and not impossibly correct,
veiled the beautiful allegory that was latent in the Eden myth. It had
the further defect, or the additional advantage, of eliminating any
theory of future punishment and reward. In lieu of anything of the
kind, there was a doctrine that evil, in producing evil, automatically
punished itself. The doctrine is incontrovertible. But, for corollary,
went the fallacy that virtue is its own reward. Against that idea Job
protested so energetically that mediæval monks were afraid to read
what he wrote. Yet it was perhaps in demonstration of the real
significance of the allegory that a spiritualistic doctrine--always an
impiety to the orthodox--was insinuated by the Pharisees and instilled
by the Christ.
The basis of it rested perhaps partially in the idealism of the
