would have it out with the Wallings, and they might all go on their way
as if nothing had happened.
So Montague made his début in the rôle of knight-errant. He went with
many qualms and misgivings, uncertain how each new person would take
it. The next evening he was promised for a theatre-party with Siegfried
Harvey; and they had supper in a private room at Delmonico's, and there
came Mrs. Winnie, resplendent as an apple tree in early April--and
murmuring with bated breath, "Oh, you dreadful man, what have you been
doing?"
"Have I been poaching on YOUR preserves?" he asked promptly.
"No, not mine," she said, "but--" and then she hesitated.
"On Mr. Duval's?" he asked.
"No," she said, "not his--but everybody else's! He was telling me about
it to-day--there's a most dreadful uproar. He wanted me to try to find
out what you were up to, and who was behind it."
Montague listened, wonderingly. Did Mrs. Winnie mean to imply that her
husband had asked her to try to worm his business secrets out of him?
That was what she seemed to imply. "I told him I never talked business
with my friends," she said. "He can ask you himself, if he chooses. But
what DOES it all mean, anyhow?"
Montague smiled at the naive inconsistency.
"It means nothing," said he, "except that I am trying to get justice
for a client."
"But can you afford to make so many powerful enemies?" she asked.
"I've taken my chances on that," he replied.
Mrs. Winnie answered nothing, but looked at him with wondering
admiration in her eyes. "You arc different from the men about you," she
remarked, after a while-and her tone gave Montague to understand that
there was one person who meant to stand by him.
But Mrs. Winnie Duval was not all Society. Montague was amused to
notice with what suddenness the stream of invitations slacked up; it
was necessary for Alice to give her calling list many revisions.
Freddie Vandam had promised to invite them to his place on Long Island,
and of course that invitation would never come; likewise they would
never again see the palace of the Lester Todds, upon the Jersey
mountain-top.
Oliver put in the next few days in calling upon people to explain his
embarrassing situation. He washed his hands of his brother's affairs,
he said; and his friends might do the same, if they saw fit. With the
Robbie Wallings he had a stormy half hour, about which he thought it
best to say little to the rest of the family. Robbie did not break with
him utterly, because of their Wall Street Alliance; but Mrs. Robbie's
feeling was so bitter, he said, that it would be best if Alice saw
nothing of her for a while. He had a long talk with Alice, and
explained the situation. The girl was utterly dumbfounded, for she was
deeply grateful to Mrs. Robbie, and fond of her as well; and she could
not believe that a friend could be so cruelly unjust to her.
The upshot of the whole situation was a very painful episode. A few
days later Alice met Mrs. Robbie at a reception; and she took the lady
aside, and tried to tell her how distressed and helpless she was. And
the result was that Mrs. Robbie flew into a passion and railed at her,
declaring in the presence of several people that she had sponged upon
her and abused her hospitality! And so poor Alice came home, weeping
and half hysterical.
All of which, of course, was like oil upon a fire; the heavens were
lighted up with the conflagration. The next development was a paragraph
in Society's scandal-sheet--telling with infinite gusto how a certain
ultra-fashionable matron had taken up a family of stranded waifs from a
far State, and introduced them into the best circles, and even gone so
far as to give a magnificent dance in their honour; and how the
discovery had been made that the head of the family had been secretly
preparing an attack upon their business interests; and of the tearing
of hair and gnashing of teeth which had followed--and the violent
quarrel in a public place. The paragraph concluded with the prediction
that the strangers would find themselves the centre of a merry social
war.
Oliver was the first to show them this paper. But lest by any chance
they should miss it, half a dozen unknown friends were good enough to
mail them copies, carefully marked.--And then came Reggie Mann, who as
free-lance and gossip-gatherer sat on the fence and watched the fun;
Reggie wore a thin veil of sympathy over his naked glee, and brought
them the latest reports from all portions of the battle-ground. Thus
they were able to know exactly what everybody was saying about
them--who was amused and who was outraged, and who proposed to drop
them and who to take them up.
Montague listened for a while, but then he got tired of it, and went
for a walk to escape it--but only to run into another trap. It was
dark, and he was strolling down the Avenue, when out of a brilliantly
lighted jewellery shop came Mrs. Billy Alden to her carriage. And she
hailed him with an exclamation.
"You man," she cried, "what have you been doing?"
He tried to laugh it off and escape, but she took him by the arm,
commanding, "Get in here and tell me about it."
So he found himself moving with the slow stream of vehicles on the
Avenue, and with Mrs. Billy gazing at him quizzically and asking him if
he did not feel like a hippopotamus in a frog-pond.
He replied to her raillery by asking her under which flag she stood.
But there was little need to ask that, for anyone who was fighting a
Walling became ipso facto a friend of Mrs. Billy's. She told Montague
that if he felt his social position was imperilled, all he had to do
was to come to her. She would gird on her armour and take the field.
"But tell me how you came to do it," she said.
He answered that there was very little to tell. He had taken up a case
which was obviously just, but having no idea what a storm it would
raise.
Then he noticed that his companion was looking at him sharply. "Do you
really mean that's all there is to it?" she asked.
"Of course I do," said he, perplexed.
"Do you know," was her unexpected response, "I hardly know what to make
of you. I'm afraid to trust you, on account of your brother."
Montague was embarrassed. "I don't know what you mean," he said.
"Everybody thinks there's some trickery in that suit," she answered.
"Oh," said Montague, "I see. Well, they will find out. If it will help
you any to know it, I've been having no end of scenes with my brother."
"I'll believe you," said Mrs. Billy, genially. "But it seems strange
that a man could have been so blind to a situation! I feel quite
ashamed because I didn't help you myself!"
The carriage had stopped at Mrs. Billy's home, and she asked him to
dinner. "There'll be nobody but my brother," she said,--"we're resting
this evening. And I can make up to you for my negligence!"
Montague had no engagement, and so he went in, and saw Mrs. Billy's
mansion, which was decorated in imitation of a Doge's palace, and met
Mr. "Davy" Alden, a mild-mannered little gentleman who obeyed orders
promptly. They had a comfortable dinner of half-a-dozen courses, and
then retired to the drawing-room, where Mrs. Billy sank into a huge
easy chair, with a decanter of whisky and some cracked ice in readiness
beside it. Then from a tray she selected a thick black cigar, and
placidly bit off the end and lighted it, and then settled back at her
ease, and proceeded to tell Montague about New York, and about the
great families who ruled it, and where and how they had got their
money, and who were their allies and who their enemies, and what
particular skeletons were hidden in each of their closets.
It was worth coming a long way to listen to Mrs. Billy tete-a-tete; her
thoughts were vigorous, and her imagery was picturesque. She spoke of
old Dan Waterman, and described him as a wild boar rooting chestnuts.
He was all right, she said, if you didn't come under his tree. And
Montague asked, "Which is his tree?" and she answered, "Any one he
happens to be under at the time."
And then she came to the Wallings. Mrs. Billy had been in on the inside
of that family, and there was nothing she didn't know about it; and she
brought the members up, one by one, and dissected them, and exhibited
them for Montague's benefit. They were typical bourgeois people, she
said. They were burghers. They had never shown the least capacity for
refinement--they ate and drank, and jostled other people out of the
way. The old ones had been boors, and the new ones were cads.
And Mrs. Billy sat and puffed at her cigar. "Do you know the history of
the family?" she asked. "The founder was a rough old ferryman. He
fought his rivals so well that in the end he owned all the boats; and
then some one discovered the idea of buying legislatures and building
railroads, and he went into that. It was a time when they simply
grabbed things--if you ever look into it, you'll find they're making
fortunes to-day out of privileges that the old man simply sat down on
and held. There's a bridge at Albany, for instance, to which they
haven't the slightest right; my brother knows about it--they've given
themselves a contract with their railroad by which they're paid for
every passenger, and their profit every year is greater than the cost
of the bridge. The son was the head of the family when I came in; and I
found that he had it all arranged to leave thirty million dollars to
one of his sons, and only ten million to my husband. I set to work to
change that, I can tell you. I used to go around to see him, and
scratch his back and tickle him and make him feel good. Of course the
family went wild--my, how they hated me! They set old Ellis to work to
keep me off--have you met Judge Ellis?"
"I have," said Montague.
"Well, there's a pussy-footed old hypocrite for you," said Mrs. Billy.
"In those days he was Walling's business lackey--used to pass the money
to the legislators and keep the wheels of the machine greased. One of
the first things I said to the old man was that I didn't ask him to
entertain my butler, and he mustn't ask me to entertain his valet--and
so I forbid Ellis to enter my house. And when I found that he was
trying to get between the old man and me, I flew into a rage and boxed
his ears and chased him out of the room!"
Mrs. Billy paused, and laughed heartily over the recollection. "Of
course that tickled the old man to death," she continued. "The Wallings
never could make out how I managed to get round him as I did; but it
was simply because I was honest with him. They'd come snivelling round,
pretending they were anxious about his health; while I wanted his
money, and I told him so."
The valiant lady turned to the decanter. "Have some Scotch?" she asked,
and poured some for herself, and then went on with her story. "When I
first came to New York," she said, "the rich people's houses were all
alike--all dreary brownstone fronts, sandwiched in on one or two city
lots. I vowed that I would have a house with some room all around
it--and that was the beginning of those palaces that all New York walks
by and stares at. You can hardly believe it now--those houses were a
scandal! But the sensation tickled the old man. I remember one day we
walked up the Avenue to see how they were coming on; and he pointed
with his big stick to the second floor, and asked, 'What's that?' I
answered, 'It's a safe I'm building into the house.' (That was a new
thing, too, in those days.)--'I'm going to keep my money in that,' I
said. 'Bah!' he growled, 'when you're done with this house, you won't
have any money left.'--'I'm planning to make you fill it for me,' I
answered; and do you know, he chuckled all the way home over it!"
Mrs. Billy sat laughing softly to herself. "We had great old battles in
those days," she said. "Among other things, I had to put the Wallings
into Society. They were sneaking round on the outside when I
came--licking people's boots and expecting to be kicked. I said to
myself, I'll put an end to that--we'll have a show-down! So I gave a
ball that made the whole country sit up and gasp--it wouldn't be
noticed particularly nowadays, but then people had never dreamed of
anything so gorgeous. And I made out a list of all the people I wanted
to know in New York, and I said to myself: 'If you come, you're a
friend, and if you don't come, you're an enemy.' And they all came, let
me tell you! And there was never any question about the Wallings being
in Society after that."
Mrs. Billy halted; and Montague remarked, with a smile, that doubtless
she was sorry now that she had done it.
"Oh, no," she answered, with a shrug of her shoulders. "I find that all
I have to do is to be patient--I hate people, and think I'd like to
poison them, but if I only wait long enough, something happens to them
much worse than I ever dreamed of. You'll be revenged on the Robbies
some day."
"I don't want any revenge," Montague answered. "I've no quarrel with
them--I simply wish I hadn't accepted their hospitality. I didn't know
they were such little people. It seems hard to believe it."
Mrs. Billy laughed cynically. "What could you expect?" she said. "They
know there's nothing to them but their money. When that's gone, they're
gone--they could never make any more."
The lady gave a chuckle, and added: "Those words make me think of
Davy's experience when he wanted to go to Congress! Tell him about it,
Davy."
But Mr. Alden did not warm to the subject; he left the tale to his
sister.
"He was a Democrat, you know," said she, "and he went to the boss and
told him he'd like to go to Congress. The answer was that it would cost
him forty thousand dollars, and he kicked at the price. Others didn't
have to put up such sums, he said--why should he? And the old man
growled at him, 'The rest have other things to give. One can deliver
the letter-carriers, another is paid for by a corporation. But what can
you do? What is there to you but your money?'--So Davy paid the
money--didn't you, Davy?" And Davy grinned sheepishly.
"Even so," she went on, "he came off better than poor Devon. They got
fifty thousand out of him, and sold him out, and he never got to
Congress after all! That was just before he concluded that America
wasn't a fit place for a gentleman to live in."
And so Mrs. Billy got started on the Devons! And after that came the
Havens and the Wymans and the Todds--it was midnight before she got
through with them all.
CHAPTER XVIII
The newspapers said nothing more about the Hasbrook suit; but in
financial circles Montague had attained considerable notoriety because
of it. And this was the means of bringing him a number of new cases.
But alas, there were no more fifty-thousand-dollar clients! The first
caller was a destitute widow with a deed which would have entitled her
to the greater part of a large city in Pennsylvania--only unfortunately
the deed was about eighty years old. And then there was a poor old man
who had been hurt in a street-car accident and had been tricked into
signing away his rights; and an indignant citizen who proposed to bring
a hundred suits against the traction trust for transfers refused. All
were contingency cases, with the chances of success exceedingly remote.
And Montague noticed that the people had come to him as a last resort,
having apparently heard of him as a man of altruistic temper.
There was one case which interested him particularly, because it seemed
to fit in so ominously with the grim prognosis of his brother. He
received a call from an elderly gentleman, of very evident refinement
and dignity of manner, who proceeded to unfold to him a most amazing
story. Five or six years ago he had invented a storage-battery, which
was the most efficient known. He had organised a company with three
million dollars' capital to manufacture it, himself taking a third
interest for his patents, and becoming president of the company. Not
long afterward had come a proposal from a group of men who wished to
organize a company to manufacture automobiles; they proposed to form an
alliance which would give them the exclusive use of the battery. But
these men were not people with whom the inventor cared to deal--they
were traction and gas magnates widely known for their unscrupulous
methods. And so he had declined their offer, and set to work instead to
organize an automobile company himself. He had just got under way when
he discovered that his rivals had set to work to take his invention
away from him. A friend who owned another third share in his company
had hypothecated his stock to help form the new company; and now came a
call from the bank for more collateral, and he was obliged to sell out.
And at the next stockholders' meeting it developed that their rivals
had bought it, and likewise more stock in the open market; and they
proceeded to take possession of the company, ousting the former
president--and then making a contract with their automobile company to
furnish the storage-battery at a price which left no profit for the
manufacturers! And so for two years the inventor had not received a
dollar of dividends upon his million dollars' worth of paper; and to
cap the climax, the company had refused to sell the battery to his
automobile company, and so that had gone into bankruptcy, and his
friend was ruined also!
Montague went into the case very carefully, and found that the story
was true. What interested him particularly in it was the fact that he
had met a couple of these financial highwaymen in social life; he had
come to know the son and heir of one of them quite well, at Siegfried
Harvey's. This gilded youth was engaged to be married in a very few
days, and the papers had it that the father-in-law had presented the
bride with a cheque for a million dollars. Montague could not but
wonder if it was the million that had been taken from his client!
There was to be a "bachelor dinner" at the Millionaires' on the night
before the wedding, to which he and Oliver had been invited. As he was
thinking of taking up his case, he went to his brother, saying that he
wished to decline; but Oliver had been getting back his courage day by
day, and declared that it was more important than ever now that he
should hold his ground, and face his enemies--for Alice's sake, if not
for his own. And so Montague went to the dinner, and saw deeper yet
into the history of the stolen millions.
It was a very beautiful affair, in the beginning. There was a large
private dining-room, elaborately decorated, with a string orchestra
concealed in a bower of plants. But there were cocktails even on the
side-board at the doorway; and by the time the guests had got to the
coffee, every one was hilariously drunk. After each toast they would
hurl their glasses over their shoulders. The purpose of a "bachelor
dinner," it appeared, was a farewell to the old days and the boon
companions; so there were sentimental and comic songs which had been
composed for the occasion, and were received with whirlwinds of
laughter.
By listening closely and reading between the lines, one might get quite
a history of the young host's adventurous career. There was a house up
on the West Side; and there was a yacht, with, orgies in every part of
the world. There was the summer night in Newport harbour, when some one
had hit upon the dazzling scheme of freezing twenty-dollar gold pieces
in tiny blocks of ice, to be dropped down the girls' backs! And there
was a banquet in a studio in New York, when a huge pie had been brought
on, from which a half-nude girl had emerged, with a flock of canary
birds about her! Then there was a damsel who had been wont to dance
upon the tops of supper tables, clad in diaphanous costume; and who had
got drunk after a theatre-party, and set out to smash up a Broadway
restaurant. There was a cousin from Chicago, a wild lad, who made a
speciality of this diversion, and whose mistresses were bathed in
champagne.--Apparently there were numberless places in the city where
such orgies were carried on continually; there were private clubs, and
artists' "studios"--there were several allusions to a high tower, which
Montague did not comprehend. Many such matters, however, were explained
to him by an elderly gentleman who sat on his right, and who seemed to
stay sober, no matter how much he drank. Incidentally he gravely
advised Montague to meet one of the young host's mistresses, who was a
"stunning" girl, and was in the market.
Toward morning the festivities changed to a series of wrestling-bouts;
the young men stripped off their clothing and tore the table to pieces,
and piled it out of the way in a corner, smashing most of the crockery
in the process. Between the matches, champagne would be opened by
knocking off the heads of the bottles; and this went on until four
o'clock in the morning, when many of the guests were lying in heaps
upon the floor.
Montague rode home in a cab with the elderly gentleman who had sat next
to him; and on the way he asked if such affairs as this were common.
And his companion, who was a "steel man" from the West, replied by
telling him of some which he had witnessed at home. At Siegfried
Harvey's theatre-party Montague had seen a popular actress in a musical
comedy, which was then the most successful play running in New York.
The house was sold out weeks ahead, and after the matinee you might
observe the street in front of the stage-entrance blocked by people
waiting to see the woman come out. She was lithe and supple, like a
panther, and wore close-fitting gowns to reveal her form. It seemed
that her play must have been built with one purpose in mind, to see how
much lewdness could be put upon a stage without interference by the
police.--And now his companion told him how this woman had been invited
to sing at a banquet given by the magnates of a mighty Trust, and had
gone after midnight to the most exclusive club in the town, and sung
her popular ditty, "Won't you come and play with me?" The merry
magnates had taken the invitation literally--with the result that the
actress had escaped from the room with half her clothing torn off her.
And a little while later an official of this trust had wished to get
rid of his wife and marry a chorus-girl; and when public clamour had
forced the directors to ask him to resign, he had replied by
threatening to tell about this banquet!
The next day--or rather, to be precise, that same morning--Montague and
Alice attended the gorgeous wedding. It was declared by the newspapers
to be the most "important" social event of the week; and it took half a
dozen policemen to hold back the crowds which filled the street. The
ceremony took place at St. Cecilia's, with the stately bishop
officiating, in his purple and scarlet robes. Inside the doors were all
the elect, exquisitely groomed and gowned, and such a medley of
delicious perfumes as not all the vales in Arcady could equal. The
groom had been polished and scrubbed, and looked very handsome, though
somewhat pale; and Montague could not but smile as he observed the best
man, looking so very solemn, and recollected the drunken wrestler of a
few hours before, staggering about in a pale blue undershirt ripped up
the back.
The Montagues knew by this time whom they were to avoid. They were
graciously taken under the wing of Mrs. Eldridge Devon--whose real
estate was not affected by insurance suits; and the next morning they
had the satisfaction of seeing their names in the list of those
present--and even a couple of lines about Alice's costume. (Alice was
always referred to as "Miss Montague"; it was very pleasant to be the
"Miss Montague," and to think of all the other would-be Miss Montagues
in the city, who were thereby haughtily rebuked!) In the "yellow"
papers there were also accounts of the trousseau of the bride, and of
the wonderful gifts which she had received, and of the long honeymoon
which she was to spend in the Mediterranean upon her husband's yacht.
Montague found himself wondering if the ghosts of its former occupants
would not haunt her, and whether she would have been as happy, had she
known as much as he knew.
He found food for a good deal of thought in the memory of this banquet.
Among the things which he had gathered from the songs was a hint that
Oliver, also, had some secrets, which he had not seen fit to tell his
brother. The keeping of young girls was apparently one of the
established customs of the "little brothers of the rich"--and, for that
matter, of many of the big brothers, also. A little later Montague had
a curious glimpse into the life of this "half-world." He had occasion
one evening to call up a certain financier whom he had come to know
quite well-a man of family and a member of the church. There were some
important papers to be signed and sent off by a steamer; and the great
man's secretary said that he would try to find him. A minute or two
later he called up Montague and asked him if he would be good enough to
go to an address uptown. It was a house not far from Riverside Drive;
and Montague went there and found his acquaintance, with several other
prominent men of affairs whom he knew, conversing in a drawing-room
with one of the most charming ladies he had ever met. She was exquisite
to look at, and one of the few people in New York whom he had found
worth listening to. He spent such an enjoyable evening, that when he
was leaving, he remarked to the lady that he would like his cousin
Alice to meet her; and then he noticed that she flushed slightly, and
was embarrassed. Later on he learned to his dismay that the charming
and beautiful lady did not go into Society.
Nor was this at all rare; on the contrary, if one took the trouble to
make inquiries, he would find that such establishments were everywhere
taken for granted. Montague talked about it with Major Venable; and out
of his gossip storehouse the old gentleman drew forth a string of
anecdotes that made one's hair stand on end. There was one all-powerful
magnate, who had a passion for the wife of a great physician; and he
had given a million dollars or so to build a hospital, and had provided
that it should be the finest in the world, and that this physician
should go abroad for three years to study the institutions of Europe!
No conventions counted with this old man--if he saw a woman whom he
wanted, he would ask for her; and women in Society felt that it was an
honour to be his mistress. Not long after this a man who voiced the
anguish of a mighty nation was turned out of several hotels in New York
because he was not married according to the laws of South Dakota; but
this other man would take a woman to any hotel in the city, and no one
would dare oppose him!
And there was another, a great traction king, who kept mistresses in
Chicago and Paris and London, as well as in New York; he had one just
around the corner from his palatial home, and had an underground
passage leading to it. And the Major told with glee how he had shown
this to a friend, and the latter had remarked, "I'm too stout to get
through there."--"I know it," replied the other, "else I shouldn't have
told you!"
And so it went. One of the richest men in New York was a sexual
degenerate, with half a dozen women on his hands all the time; he would
send them cheques, and they would use these to blackmail him. This
man's young wife had been shut up in a closet for twenty-four hours by
her mother to compel her to marry him.--And then there was the charming
tale of how he had gone away upon a mission of state, and had written
long messages full of tender protestations, and given them to a
newspaper correspondent to cable home "to his wife." The correspondent
had thought it such a touching example of conjugal devotion that he
told about it at a dinner-party when he came back; and he was struck by
the sudden silence that fell. "The messages had been sent to a code
address!" chuckled the Major. "And every one at the table knew who had
got them!"
A few days after this, Montague received a telephone message from
Siegfried Harvey, who said that he wanted to see him about a matter of
business. He asked him to lunch at the Noonday Club; and Montague
went--though not without a qualm. For it was in the Fidelity Building,
the enemy's bailiwick: a magnificent structure with halls of white
marble, and a lavish display of bronze. It occurred to Montague that
somewhere in this structure people were at work preparing an answer to
his charges; he wondered what they were saying.
The two had lunch, talking meanwhile about the coming events in
Society, and about politics and wars; and when the coffee was served
and they were alone in the room, Harvey settled his big frame back in
his chair, and began:--
"In the first place," he said, "I must explain that I've something to
say that is devilish hard to get into. I'm so much afraid of your
jumping to a wrong conclusion in the middle of it--I'd like you to
agree to listen for a minute or two before you think at all."
"All right," said Montague, with a smile. "Fire away."
And at once the other became grave. "You've taken a case against this
company," he said. "And Ollie has talked enough to me to make me
understand that you've done a plucky thing, and that you must be
everlastingly sick of hearing from cowardly people who want you to drop
it. I'd be very sorry to be classed with them, for even a moment; and
you must understand at the outset that I haven't a particle of interest
in the company, and that it wouldn't matter to me if I had. I don't try
to use my friends in business, and I don't let money count with me in
my social life. I made up my mind to take the risk of speaking to you
about this case, simply because I happen to know one or two things
about it that I thought you didn't know. And if that's so, you are at a
great disadvantage; but in any case, please understand that I have no
motive but friendship, and so if I am butting in, excuse me."
When Siegfried Harvey talked, he looked straight at one with his clear
blue eyes, and there was no doubting his honesty. "I am very much
obliged to you," said Montague. "Pray tell me what you have to say."
"All right," said the other. "It can be done very quickly. You have
taken a case which involves a great many sacrifices upon your part. And
I wondered if it had ever occurred to you to ask whether you might not
be taken advantage of?"
"How do you mean?" asked Montague.
"Do you know the people who are behind you?" inquired the other. "Do
you know them well enough to be sure what are their motives in the
case?"
Montague hesitated, and thought. "No," he said, "I couldn't say that I
do."
"Then it's just as I thought," replied Harvey. "I've been watching
you--you are an honest man, and you're putting yourself to no end of
trouble from the best of motives. And unless I'm mistaken, you're being
used by men who are not honest, and whom you wouldn't work with if you
knew their purposes."
"What purposes could they have?"
"There are several possibilities. In the first place, it might be a
'strike' suit--somebody who is hoping to be bought off for a big price.
That is what nearly every one thinks is the case. But I don't; I think
it's more likely some one within the company who is trying to put the
administration in a hole."
"Who could that be?" exclaimed Montague, amazed.
"I don't know that. I'm not familiar enough with the situation in the
Fidelity--it's changing all the time. I simply know that there are
factions struggling for the control of it, and hating each other
furiously, and ready to do anything in the world to cripple each other.
You know that their forty millions of surplus gives an enormous power;
I'd rather be able to swing forty millions in the Street than to have
ten millions in my own right. And so the giants are fighting for the
control of those companies; and you can't tell who's in and who's
out--you can never know the real meaning of anything that happens in
the struggle. All that you can be sure of is that the game is crooked
from end to end, and that nothing that happens in it is what it
pretends to be."
Montague listened, half dazed, and feeling as if the ground he stood on
were caving beneath his feet.
"What do you know about those who brought you this case?" asked his
companion, suddenly.
"Not much," he said weakly.
Harvey hesitated a moment. "Understand me, please," he said. "I've no
wish to pry into your affairs, and if you don't care to say any more,
I'll understand it perfectly. But I've heard it said that the man who
started the thing was Ellis."
Montague, in his turn, hesitated; then he said, "That is
correct--between you and me."
"Very good," said Harvey, "and that is what made me suspicious. Do you
know anything about Ellis?"
"I didn't," said the other. "I've heard a little since."
"I can fancy so," said Harvey. "And I can tell you that Ellis is mixed
up in life-insurance matters in all sorts of dubious ways. It seems to
me that you have reason to be most careful where you follow him."
Montague sat with his hands clenched and his brows knitted. His
friend's talk had been like a flash of lightning; it revealed huge
menacing forms in the darkness about him. All the structure of his
hopes seemed to be tottering; his case, that he had worked so hard
over--his fifty thousand dollars that he had been so proud of! Could it
be that he had been tricked, and had made a fool of himself?
"How in the world am I to know?" he cried.
"That is more than I can tell," said his friend. "And for that matter,
I'm not sure that you could do anything now. All that I could do was to
warn you what sort of ground you were treading on, so that you could
watch out for yourself in future."
Montague thanked him heartily for that service; and then he went back
to his office, and spent the rest of the day pondering the matter.
What he had heard had made a vast change in things. Before it
everything had seemed simple; and now nothing was clear. He was
overwhelmed with a sense of the utter futility of his efforts; he was
trying to build a house upon quicksands. There was nowhere a solid spot
upon which he could set his foot. There was nowhere any truth--there
were only contending powers who used the phrases of truth for their own
purposes! And now he saw himself as the world saw him,--a party to a
piece of trickery,--a knave like all the rest. He felt that he had been
tripped up at the first step in his career.
The conclusion of the whole matter was that he took an afternoon train
for Albany; and the next morning he talked the matter out with the
Judge. Montague had realized the need of going slowly, for, after all,
he had no definite ground for suspicion; and so, very tactfully and
cautiously he explained, that it had come to his ears that many people
believed there were interested parties behind the suit of Mr. Hasbrook;
and that this had made him uncomfortable, as he knew nothing whatever
about his client. He had come to ask the Judge's advice in the matter.
No one could have taken the thing more graciously than did the great
man; he was all kindness and tact. In the first place, he said, he had
warned him in advance that enemies would attack him and slander him,
and that all kinds of subtle means would be used to influence him. And
he must understand that these rumours were part of such a campaign; it
made no difference how good a friend had brought them to him--how could
he know who had brought them to that friend?
The Judge ventured to hope that nothing that anyone might say could
influence him to believe that he, the Judge, would have advised him to
do anything improper.
"No," said Montague, "but can you assure me that there are no
interested parties behind Mr. Hasbrook?"
"Interested parties?" asked the other.
"I mean people connected with the Fidelity or other insurance
companies."
"Why, no," said the Judge; "I certainly couldn't assure you of that."
Montague looked surprised. "You mean you don't know?"
"I mean," was the answer, "that I wouldn't feel at liberty to tell,
even if I did know."
And Montague stared at him; he had not been prepared for this frankness.
"It never occurred to me," the other continued, "that that was a matter
which could make any difference to you."
"Why--" began Montague.
"Pray understand me, Mr. Montague," said the Judge. "It seemed to me
that this was obviously a just case, and it seemed so to you. And the
only other matter that I thought you had a right to be assured of was
that it was seriously meant. Of that I felt assured. It did not seem to
me of any importance that there might be interested individuals behind
Mr. Hasbrook. Let us suppose, for instance, that there were some
parties who had been offended by the administration of the Fidelity,
and were anxious to punish it. Could a lawyer be justified in refusing
to take a just case, simply because he knew of such private motives?
Or, let us assume an extreme case--a factional fight within the
company, as you say has been suggested to you. Well, that would be a
case of thieves falling out; and is there any reason why the public
should not reap the advantage of such a situation? The men inside the
company are the ones who would know first what is going on; and if you
saw a chance to use such an advantage in a just fight--would you not do
it?"
So the Judge went on, gracious and plausible--and so subtly and
exquisitely corrupting! Underneath his smoothly flowing sentences
Montague could feel the presence of one fundamental thought; it was
unuttered and even unhinted, but it pervaded the Judge's discourse as a
mood pervades a melody. The young lawyer had got a big fee, and he had
a nice easy case; and as a man of the world, he could not really wish
to pry into it too closely. He had heard gossip, and felt that his
reputation required him to be disturbed; but he had come, simply to be
smoothed down the back and made at ease, and enabled to keep his fee
without losing his good opinion of himself.
Montague quit, because he concluded that it was not worth while to try
to make himself understood. After all, he was in the case now, and
there was nothing to be gained by a breach. Two things he felt that he
had made certain by the interview--first, that his client was a
"dummy," and that it was really a case of thieves falling out; and
