   far South as Palm Beach in January. I happen to have a note from
   him here on my desk in which he asks me whether he may invite you
   to go with him. Isn't it a tactful way of finding out whether you
   would care to be at Palm Beach this winter?
   "So I shall write him that I think you would like to be asked.
   Because, Garry, I do believe that it is all turning out
   naturally, inevitably, as it was meant to turn out from the
   first, and that, some time this winter, there can be no reason
   why you should not see Shiela again.
   "I know this, that Mr. Cardross is very fond of you--that Mrs.
   Cardross is also--that every member of that most wholesome family
   cares a great deal about you.
   "As for their not being very fashionable people, their amiable
   freedom from social pretension, their very simple origin--all
   that, in their case, affects me not at all--where any happiness
   of yours is concerned.
   "I do like old-time folk, and lineage smacking of New
   Amsterdam; but even my harmless snobbishness is now so completely
   out of fashion that nobody cares. You are modern enough to laugh
   at it; I am not; and I still continue faithful to my Classons and
   Cuyps and Vetchens and Suydams; and to all that they stand for in
   Manhattan--the rusty vestiges of by-gone pomp and fussy
   circumstance--the memories that cling to the early lords of the
   manors, the old Patroons, and titled refugees--all this I still
   cling to--even to their shabbiness and stupidity and bad manners.
   "Don't be too bitter in your amusement, for after all, you are
   kin to us; don't be too severe on us; for we are passing, Garry,
   the descendants of Patroon and refugee alike--the Cuyps, the
   Classons, the Van Diemans, the Vetchens, the Suydams--and James
   Wayward is the last of his race, and I am the last of the French
   refugees, and the Malcourts are already ended. Pax!
   "True it begins to look as if the gentleman adventurer stock
   which terminates in the Ascotts and Portlaws might be revived to
   struggle on for another generation; but, Garry, we all, who
   intermarry, are doomed.
   "Louis Malcourt was right; we are destined to perish; Still we
   have left our marks on the nation I care for no other epitaph
   than the names of counties, cities, streets which we have named
   with our names.
   "But you, dear, you are wise in your generation and fortunate to
   love as you love. For, God willing, your race will begin the
   welding of the old and new, the youngest and best of the nation.
   And at the feet of such a race the whole world lies."
       *       *       *       *       *
These letters from Constance Palliser to her nephew continued during the
autumn and early winter while he was at work on that series of public
parks provided for by the metropolis on Long Island.
Once he was obliged to return to Pride's Hall to inspect the progress of
work for Mrs. Ascott; and it happened during his brief stay there that
her engagement was announced.
"I tell you what, Hamil," said Portlaw confidentailly over their cigars,
"I never thought I could win her, never in the world. Besides poor Louis
was opposed to it; but you know when I make up my mind--"
"I know," said Hamil.
"That's it! First, a man must have a mind to make up; then he must have
enough intelligence to make it up."
"Certainly," nodded Hamil.
"I'm glad you understand me," said Portlaw, gratified. "Alida
understands me; why, do you know that, somehow, everything I think of
she seems to agree to; in fact, sometimes--on one or two unimportant
matters, I actually believe that Mrs. Ascott thought of what I thought
of, a few seconds before I thought of it," he ended generously; "but,"
and his expression became slyly portentous, "it would never do to have
her suspect it. I intend to be Caesar in my own house!"
"Exactly," said Hamil solemnly; "and Caesar's wife must have no
suspicions."
       *       *       *       *       *
It was early November before he returned to town. His new suite of
offices in Broad Street hummed with activity, although the lingering
aftermath of the business depression prevented for the time being any
hope of new commissions from private sources.
But fortunately he had enough public work to keep the office busy, and
his dogged personal supervision of it during the racking suspense of
Shiela's illness was his salvation.
Twice a week his aunt wrote him from Sapphire Springs; every day he went
to his outdoor work on Long Island and forced himself to a minute
personal supervision of every detail, never allowing himself a moment's
brooding, never permitting himself to become panic-stricken at the
outlook which varied from one letter to another. For as yet, according
to these same letters, the woman he loved had never once mentioned his
name.
He found little leisure for amusement, even had he been inclined that
way. Night found him very tired; morning brought a hundred self-imposed
and complicated tasks to be accomplished before the advent of another
night.
He lived at his club and wrote to his aunt from there. Sundays were more
difficult to negotiate; he went to St. George's in the morning, read in
the club library until afternoon permitted him to maintain some
semblance of those social duties which no man has a right to entirely
neglect.
Now and then he dined out; once he went to the opera with the O'Haras;
but it nearly did for him, for they sang "Madame Butterfly," and
Farrar's matchless voice and acting tore him to shreds. Only the happy
can endure such tragedy.
And one Sunday, having pondered long that afternoon over the last letter
Malcourt had ever written him, he put on hat and overcoat and went to
Greenlawn Cemetery--a tedious journey through strange avenues and
unknown suburbs, under a wet sky from which occasionally a flake or two
of snow fell through the fine-spun drizzle.
In the cemetery the oaks still bore leaves which were growing while
Malcourt was alive; here and there a beech-tree remained in full autumn
foliage and the grass on the graves was intensely green; but the few
flowers that lifted their stalks were discoloured and shabby; bare
branches interlaced overhead; dead leaves, wet and flattened, stuck to
slab and headstone or left their stained imprints on the tarnished
marble.
He had bought some flowers--violets and lilies--at a florist's near the
cemetery gates. These he laid, awkwardly, at the base of the white slab
from which Malcourt's newly cut name stared at him.
Louis Malcourt lay, as he had wished, next to his father. Also, as he
had desired, a freshly planted tree, bereft now of foliage, rose,
spindling, to balance an older one on the other corner of the plot. His
sister's recently shaped grave lay just beyond. As yet, Bertie had
provided no headstone for the late Lady Tressilvain.
Hamil stood inspecting Malcourt's name, finding it impossible to realise
that he was dead--or for that matter, unable to comprehend death at all.
The newly chiselled letters seemed vaguely instinct with something of
Malcourt's own clean-cut irony; they appeared to challenge him with
their mocking legend of death, daring him, with sly malice, to credit
the inscription.
To look at them became almost an effort, so white and clear they stared
back at him--as though the pallid face of the dead himself, set for ever
in raillery, was on the watch to detect false sentiment and delight in
it. And Hamil's eyes fell uneasily upon the flowers, then lifted. And he
said aloud, unconsciously:
"You are right; it's too late, Malcourt."
There was a shabby, neglected grave in the adjoining plot; he bent over,
gathered up his flowers, and laid them on the slab of somebody aged
ninety-three whose name was blotted out by wet dead leaves. Then he
slowly returned to face Malcourt, and stood musing, gloved hands deep in
his overcoat pockets.
"If I could have understood you--" he began, under his breath, then fell
silent. A few moments later he uncovered.
It was snowing heavily when he turned to leave; and he stood back and
aside, hat in hand, to permit a young woman to pass the iron gateway--a
slim figure in black, heavy veil drawn, arms piled high with lilies. He
knew her at once and she knew him.
"I think you are Mr. Hamil," she said timidly.
"You are Miss Wilming?" he said in his naturally pleasant voice, which
brought old memories crowding upon her and a pale flush to her cheeks.
There was a moment's silence; she dropped some flowers and he recovered
them for her. Then she knelt down in the sleet, unconscious of it, and
laid the flowers on the mound, arranging them with great care, while the
thickening snow pelted her and began to veil the white blossoms on the
grave.
Hamil hesitated after the girl had risen, and, presently, as she did not
stir, he quietly asked if he might be of any use to her.
At first she made no reply, and her gaze remained remote; then, turning:
"Was he your friend?" she asked wistfully.
"I think he meant to be."
"You quarrelled--down there--in the South"--she made a vague gesture
toward the gray horizon. "Do you remember that night, Mr. Hamil?"
"Yes."
"Did you ever become friends again?"
"No.... I think he meant to be.... The fault was probably mine. I
misunderstood."
She said: "I know he cared a great deal for you."
The man was silent.
She turned directly toward him, pale, clear-eyed, and in the poise of
her head a faint touch of pride.
"Please do not misunderstand his friendship for me, then. If you were
his friend I would not need to say this. He was very kind to me, Mr.
Hamil."
"I do not doubt it," said Hamil gravely.
"And you do not mistake, what I say?"
He looked her in the eyes, curious--and, in a moment, convinced.
"No," he said gently.... And, offering his hand: "Men are very ignorant
concerning one another. Women are wiser, I think."
He took the slender black-gloved hand in his.
"Can I be of the least use to you?" he asked.
"You have been," she sighed, "if what I said has taught you to know him
a little better."
       *       *       *       *       *
A week later when the curtain fell on the second act of the new musical
comedy, "The Inca," critics preparing to leave questioned each other
with considerable curiosity concerning this newcomer, Dorothy Wilming,
who had sung so intelligently and made so much out of a subordinate
part.
Nobody seemed to know very much about her; several nice-looking young
girls and exceedingly respectable young men sent her flowers. Afterward
they gathered at the stage entrance, evidently expecting to meet and
congratulate her; but she had slipped away. And while they hunted high
and low, and the last figurante had trotted off under the lamp-lights,
Dolly lay in her own dark room, face among the pillows, sobbing her
heart out for a dead man who had been kind to her for nothing.
       *       *       *       *       *
And, at the same hour, across an ocean, another woman awoke to take up
the ravelled threadings of her life again and, through another day,
remember Louis Malcourt and all that he had left undone for kindness'
sake.
There were others, too, who were not likely to forget him, particularly
those who had received, with some astonishment, a legacy apiece of one
small Chinese gilded idol--images all of the Pa-hsien or of
Kwan-Yin, who rescues souls from hell with the mystic lotus-prayer,
"Om mane padme hum."
But the true Catholicism, which perplexed the eighteen legatees lay in
the paradox of the Mohammedan inscriptions across each lotus written in
Malcourt's hand:
"I direct my face unto Him who hath created.
"Who maketh His messengers with two and three and four pairs of wings.
"And thou shall see them going in procession.
"This is what ye are promised: 'For the last hour will surely come;
there is no doubt thereof; but the greater part of men believe it not.'
"Thus, facing the stars, I go out among them into darkness.
"Say not for me the Sobhat with the ninety-nine; for the hundredth pearl
is the Iman--pearl beyond praise, pearl of the five-score names in
one, more precious than mercy, more priceless than compassion--Iman!
Iman! thy splendid name is Death!"
So lingered the living memory of Malcourt among men--a little
while--longer among women--then faded as shadows die at dusk when the
mala is told for the soul that waits the Rosary of a Thousand Beads.
       *       *       *       *       *
In January the Ariani sailed with her owner aboard; but Hamil was not
with him.
In February Constance Palliser wrote Hamil from Palm Beach:
   "It is too beautiful here and you must come.
   "As for Shiela, I do not even pretend to understand her. I see
   her every day; to-day I lunched with Mrs. Cardross, and Shiela
   was there, apparently perfectly well and entirely her former
   lovely self. Yet she has never yet spoken of you to me; and, I
   learn from Mrs. Cardross, never to anybody as far as she knows.
   "She seems to be in splendid health; I have seen her swimming,
   galloping, playing tennis madly. The usual swarm of devoted youth
   and smitten middle-age is in attendance. She wears neither black
   nor colours; only white; nor does she go to any sort of
   functions. At times, to me, she resembles a scarcely grown girl
   just freed from school and playing hard every minute with every
   atom of heart and soul in her play.
   "Gray has an apology for a polo field and a string of ponies, and
   Shiela plays with the men--a crazy, reckless, headlong game, in
   which every minute my heart is in my mouth for fear somebody will
   cannon into her, or some dreadful swing of a mallet will injure
   her for life.
   "But everybody is so sweet to her--and it is delightful to see
   her with her own family--their pride and tenderness for her, and
   her devotion to them.
   "Mrs. Cardross asked me to-day what I thought might be the effect
   on Shiela if you came. And, dear, I could not answer. Mr.
   Cardross joined us, divining the subject of our furtive confab in
   the patio, and he seemed to think that you ought to come.
   "There is no reason to hesitate in saying that the family would
   be very glad to count you as one of them. Even a little snob like
   myself can see that there is, in this desire of theirs, no motive
   except affection for you and for Shiela; and, in a way, it's
   rather humiliating to recognise that they don't care a fig for
   the social advantage that must, automatically, accrue to the
   House of Cardross through such connections.
   "I never thought that I should so earnestly hope for such an
   alliance for you; but I do, Garry. They are such simple folk with
   all their riches--simple as gentle folk--kind, sincere, utterly
   without self-consciousness, untainted by the sordid social
   ambitions which make so many of the wealthy abhorrent. There is
   no pretence about them, nothing of that uncertainty of self
   mingled with vanity which grows into arrogance or servility as
   the social weather-vane veers with the breeze of fashion. Rather
   flowery that, for an old-fashioned spinster.
   "But, dear, there are other flowers than those of speech eloquent
   in the soft Southern air--flowers everywhere outside my open
   window where I sit writing you.
   "I miss Virginia, but Shiela compensates when she can find time
   from her breathless pleasure chase to give me an hour or two at
   tea-time.
   "And Cecile, too, is very charming, and I know she likes me. Such
   a coquette! She has her own court among the younger set; and from
   her very severe treatment of young Gatewood on all occasions I
   fancy she may be kinder to him one day.
   "Mrs. Carrick is not here this winter, her new baby keeping her
   in town; and Acton, of course, is only too happy to remain with
   her.
   "As for Gray, he is a nice boy--a little slow, a trifle shy and
   retiring and over-studious; but his devotion to Shiela makes me
   love him. And he, too, ventured to ask me whether you were not
   coming down this winter to hunt along the Everglades with him and
   Little Tiger.
   "So, dear, I think perhaps you had better come. It really
   frightens me to give you this advice. I could not endure it if
   anything went wrong--if your coming proved premature.
   "For it is true, Garry, that I love our little Shiela with all my
   aged, priggish, and prejudiced heart, and I should simply expire
   if your happiness, which is bound up in her, were threatened by
   any meddling of mine.
   "Jim Wayward and I discuss the matter every day; I don't know
   what he thinks--he's so obstinate some days--and sometimes he is
   irritable when Gussie Vetchen and Cuyp talk too inanely--bless
   their hearts! I really don't know what I shall do with James
   Wayward. What would you suggest?"
On the heels of this letter went another.
   "Garry, dear, read this and then make up your mind whether to
   come here or not.
   "This morning I was sitting on the Cardrosses' terrace knitting a
   red four-in-hand for Mr. Wayward--he is too snuffy in his
   browns and grays!--and Mrs. Cardross was knitting one for
   Neville, and Cecile was knitting one for Heaven knows who, and
   Shiela, swinging her polo-mallet, sat waiting for her pony--the
   cunning little thing in her boots and breeches!--I mean the girl,
   not the pony, dear--Oh, my, I'm getting involved and you're
   hurrying through this scrawl perfectly furious, trying to find
   out what I'm talking about.
   "Well, then; I forgot for a moment that Shiela was there within
   ear-shot; and eyes on my knitting, I began talking about you to
   Mrs. Cardross; and I had been gossiping away quite innocently for
   almost a minute when I chanced to look up and notice the peculiar
   expressions of Mrs. Cardross and Cecile. They weren't looking at
   me; they were watching Shiela, who had slipped down from the
   parapet where she had been perched and now stood beside my chair
   listening.
   "I hesitated, faltered, but did not make the mistake of stopping
   or changing the subject, but went on gaily telling about your
   work on the new Long Island park system.
   "And as long as I talked she remained motionless beside me. They
   brought around her pony--a new one--but she did not stir.
   "Her mother and sister continued their knitting, asking questions
   about you now and then, apparently taking no notice of her. My
   monologue in praise of you became a triangular discussion; and
   all the while the pony was cutting up the marl drive with
   impatience, and Shiela never stirred.
   "Then Cecile said to me quite naturally: 'I wish Garry were
   here.' And, looking up at Shiela, she added: 'Don't you?'
   "For a second or two there was absolute silence; and then Shiela
   said to me:
   "'Does he know I have been ill?'
   "'Of course,' I said, 'and he knows that you are now perfectly
   well.'
   "She turned slowly to her mother: 'Am I?' she asked.
   "'What, dear?'
   "'Perfectly well.'
   "'Certainly,' replied her mother, laughing; 'well enough to break
   your neck on that horrid, jigging, little pony. If Garry wants to
   see you alive he'd better come pretty soon--'
   "'Come here?'
   "We all looked up at her. Oh, Garry! For a moment something came
   into her eyes that I never want to see there again--and, please
   God, never shall!--a momentary light like a pale afterglow of
   terror.
   "It went as it came; and the colour returned to her face.
   "'Is he coming here?' she asked calmly.
   "'Yes,' I made bold to say.
   "'When?'
   "'In a few days, I hope.'
   "She said nothing more about you, nor did I. A moment later she
   sent away her pony and went indoors.
   "After luncheon I found her lying in the hammock in the patio,
   eyes closed as though asleep. She lay there all the afternoon--an
   unusual thing for her.
   "Toward sundown, as I was entering my chair to go back to the
   hotel, she came out and stood beside the chair looking at me as
   though she was trying to say something. I don't know what it
   might have been, for she never said it, but she bent down and
   laid her cheek against mine for a moment, and drew my head
   around, searching my eyes.
   "I don't know whether I was right or wrong, but I said: 'There is
   no one to compare with you, Shiela, in your new incarnation of
   health and youth. I never before knew you; I don't think you ever
   before knew yourself.'
   "'Not entirely,' she said.
   "'Do you now?'
   "'I think so.... May I ask you something?'
   "I nodded, smiling.
   "'Then--there is only one thing I care for now--to'--she looked
   up toward the house--'to make them contented--to make up to them
   what I can for--for all that I failed in. Do you understand?'
   "'Yes,' I said, 'you sweet thing.' And gave her a little hug,
   adding: 'And that's why I'm going to write a letter to-night--at
   your mother's desire--and my own.'
   "She said nothing more; my chair rolled away; and here's the
   letter that I told her I meant to write.
     "'Now, dear, come if you think best. I don't know of any
     reason why you should not come; if you know of any you must
     act on your own responsibility.'
   "Last winter, believing that she cared for you, I did an
   extraordinary thing--in fact I intimated to her that it was
   agreeable for me to believe you cared for each other. And she
   told me very sweetly that I was in error.
   "So I'm not going to place Constance Palliser in such a position
   again. If there's any chance of her caring for you you ought to
   know it and act accordingly. Personally I think there is and that
   you should take that chance and take it now. But for goodness'
   sake don't act on my advice. I'm a perfect fool to meddle this
   way; besides I'm having troubles of my own which you know nothing
   about.
   "O Garry, dear, if you'll come down I may perhaps have something
   very, very foolish to tell you.
   "Truly there is no idiot like an old one, but--I'm close, I
   think, to being happier than I ever was in all my life. God help
   us both, my dear, dear boy.
                     "Your faithful
                               "CONSTANCE."
       *       *       *       *       *
CHAPTER XXIX
CALYPSO'S GIFT
Two days later as his pretty aunt stood in her chamber shaking out the
chestnut masses of her hair before her mirror, an impatient rapping at
the living-room door sent her maid flying.
"That's Garry," said Constance calmly, belting in her chamber-robe of
silk and twisting up her hair into one heavy lustrous knot.
A moment later they had exchanged salutes and, holding both his hands in
hers, she stood looking at him, golden brown eyes very tender, cheeks
becomingly pink.
"That miserable train is early; it happens once in a century. I meant to
meet you, dear."
"Wayward met me at the station," he said.
There was a silence; under his curious and significant gaze she flushed,
then laughed.
"Wayward said that you had something to tell me," he added....
"Constance, is it--"
"Yes."
"You darling!" he whispered, taking her into his arms. And she laid her
face on his shoulder, crying a little, laughing a little.
"After all these years, Garry--all these years! It is a long time to--to
care for a man--a long, long time.... But there never was any other--not
even through that dreadful period--"
"I know."
"Yes, you know.... I have cared for him since I was a little girl."
They stood a while talking tenderly, intimately of her new happiness and
of the new man, Wayward.
Both knew that he must bear his scars for ever, that youth had died in
him. But they were very confident and happy standing there together in
the sunlight which poured into the room, transfiguring her. And she
truly seemed as lovely, radiant, and youthful as her own young heart,
unsullied, innocent, now, as when it yielded its first love so long ago
amid the rosewood and brocades of the old-time parlour where the sun
fell across the faded roses of the carpet.
"I knew it was so from the way he shook hands," said Hamil, smiling.
"How well he looks, Constance! And as for you--you are a real beauty!"
"You don't think so! But say it, Garry.... And now I think I had
better retire and complete this unceremonious toilet.... And you may
stroll over to pay your respects to Mrs. Cardross in the meanwhile if
you choose."
He looked at her gravely. She nodded. "They all know you are due
to-day."
"Shiela?"
"Yes.... Be careful, Garry; she is very young after all.... I think--if
I were you--I would not even seem conscious that she had been ill--that
anything had happened to interrupt your friendship. She is very
sensitive, very deeply sensible of the dreadful mistake she made, and,
somehow, I think she is a little afraid of you, as though you might
possibly think less of her--Heaven knows what ideas the young conjure to
worry themselves and those they care for!"
She laughed, kissed him and bowed him out; and he went away to bathe and
change into cool clothing of white serge.
Later as he passed through the gardens, a white oleander blossom fell,
and he picked it up and drew it through his coat.
Shadows of palm and palmetto stretched westward across the white shell
road, striping his path; early sunlight crinkled the lagoon; the little
wild ducks steered fearlessly inshore, peering up at him with bright
golden-irised eyes; mullet jumped heavily, tumbling back into the water
with splashes that echoed through the morning stillness.
The stained bronze cannon still poked their ancient and flaring muzzles
out over the lake; farther along crimson hibiscus blossoms blazed from
every hedge; and above him the stately plumes of royal palms hung
motionless, tufting the trunks, which rose with the shaft-like dignity
of slender Egyptian pillars into a cloudless sky.
On he went, along endless hedges of azalea and oleander, past thickets
of Spanish-bayonet, under leaning cocoanut-palms; and at last the huge
banyan-tree rose sprawling across the sky-line, and he saw the white
facades and red-tiled roofs beyond.
All around him now, as the air grew sweet with the breath of orange
blossoms, a subtler scent, delicately persistent, came to him on the
sea-wind; and he remembered it!--the lilac perfume of China-berry in
bloom; Calypso's own immortal fragrance. And, in the brilliant sunshine,
there under green trees with the dome of blue above, unbidden, the
shadows of the past rose up; and once more lantern-lit faces crowded
through the aromatic dark; once more the fountains' haze drifted across
dim lawns; once more he caught the faint, uncertain rustle of her gown
close to him as she passed like a fresh breath through the dusk.
Overhead a little breeze became entangled in the palmetto fronds,
setting them softly clashing together as though a million unseen elfin
hands were welcoming his return; the big black-and-gold butterflies,
beating up against the sudden air current, flapped back to their honeyed
haven in the orange grove; bold, yellow-eyed grackle stared at him from
the grass; a bird like a winged streak of flame flashed through the
jungle and was gone.
And now every breath he drew was quickening his pulses with the sense of
home-coming; he saw the red-bellied woodpeckers sticking like shreds of
checked gingham to the trees, turning their pointed heads incuriously as
he passed; the welling notes of a wren bubbled upward through the
sun-shot azure; high in the vault above an eagle was passing seaward,
silver of tail and crest, winged with bronze; and everywhere on every
side glittered the gold-and-saffron dragon-flies of the South like the
play of sunbeams on a green lagoon.
Under the sapodilla-trees on the lawn two aged, white-clad negro
servants were gathering fruit forbidden them; and at sight of him two
wrinkled black hands furtively wiped two furrowed faces free from
incriminating evidence; two solemn pairs of eyes rolled piously in his
direction.
"Mohnin', suh, Mistuh Hamil."
"Good morning, Jonas; good morning, Archimedes. Mr. Cardross is in the
orange grove, I see."
And, smiling, passed the guilty ones with a humorously threatening shake
of his head.
A black boy, grinning, opened the gate; the quick-stepping figure in
white flannels glanced around at the click of the latch.
"Hamil! Good work! I am glad to see you!"--his firm, sun-burnt hands
closing over Hamil's--"glad all through!"
"Not as glad as I am, Mr. Cardross--"
"Yes, I am. Why didn't you come before? The weather has been heavenly;
everybody wanted you--"
"Everybody?"
"Yes--yes, of course!... Well, look here, Hamil, I've no authority to
discuss that matter; but her mother, I think, has made matters clear to
her--concerning our personal wishes--ah--hum--is that what you're
driving at?"
"Yes.... May I ask her? I came here to ask her."
"We all know that," said Cardross naïvely. "Your aunt is a very fine
woman, Hamil.... I don't see why you shouldn't tell Shiela anything you
want to. We all wish it."
"Thank you," said the younger man. Their hand grip tightened and parted;
shoulder to shoulder they swung into step across the lawn, Cardross
planting his white-shod feet with habitual precision.
His hair and moustache were very white in contrast to the ruddy
sun-burnt skin; and he spoke of his altered appearance with one of his
quick smiles.
"They nearly had me in the panic, Hamil. The Shoshone weathered the
scare by grace of God and my little daughter's generosity. And it came
fast when it came; we were under bare poles, too, and I didn't expect
any cordiality from the Clearing House; but, Hamil, they classed us with
the old-liners, and they acted most decently. As for my little
daughter--well--"
And to his own and Hamil's embarrassment his clear eyes suddenly grew
dim and he walked forward a step or two winking rapidly at the sky.
Gray, bare of arm to the shoulder, booted and bare-headed, loped across
the grass on his polo-pony, mallet at salute. Then he leaned down from
his saddle and greeted Hamil with unspoiled enthusiasm.
"Shiela is practising and wants you to come over when you can and see us
knock the ball about. It's a rotten field, but you can't help that down
here."
And clapping his spurless heels to his pony he saluted and wheeled away
through the hammock.
On the terrace Mrs. Cardross took his hands in her tremulous and pudgy
fingers.
"Are you sure you are perfectly well, Garry? Don't you think it safer to
begin at once with a mild dose of quinine and follow it every three
hours with a--"
"Amy, dear!" murmured her husband, "I am not dreaming of interfering,
but I, personally, never saw a finer specimen of physical health than
this boy you are preparing to--be good to--"
"Neville, you know absolutely nothing sometimes," observed his wife
serenely. Then looking up at the tall young man bending over her chair:
"You won't need as much as you required when you rode into the swamps
every day, but you don't mind my prescribing for you now and then, do
you, Garry?"
"I was going to ask you to do it," he said, looking at Cardross
unblushingly. And at such perfidy the older man turned away with an
unfeigned groan just as Cecile, tennis-bat in hand, came out from the
hall, saw him, dropped the bat, and walked straight into his arms.
"Cecile," observed her mother mildly.
"But I wish to hug him, mother, and he doesn't mind."
Her mother laughed; Hamil, a trifle red, received a straightforward
salute square on the mouth.
"That," she said with calm conviction, "is the most proper and fitting
thing you and I have ever done. Mother, you know it is." And passing her
arm through Hamil's:
"Last night," she said under her breath, "I went into Shiela's room to
say good-night, and--and we both began to cry a little. It was as though
I were giving up my controlling ownership in a dear and familiar
possession; we did not speak of you--I don't remember that we spoke at
all from the time I entered her room to the time I left--which was
fearfully late. But I knew that I was giving up some vague proprietary
right in her--that, to-day, that right would pass to another.... And, if
I kissed you, Garry, it was in recognition of the passing of that right
to you--and happy acquiescence in it, dear--believe me! happy, confident
renunciation and gratitude for what must be."
They had walked together to the southern end of the terrace; below
stretched the splendid forest vista set with pool and fountain; under
the parapet, in the new garden, red and white roses bloomed, and on the
surface of spray-dimmed basins the jagged crimson reflections of
goldfish dappled every unquiet pool.
"Where is the new polo field?" he asked.
She pointed out an unfamiliar path curving west from the tennis-courts,
nodded, smiled, returning the pressure of his hand, and stood watching
him from the parapet until he vanished in the shadow of the trees.
The path was a new one to him, cut during the summer. For a quarter of
a mile it wound through the virgin hammock, suddenly emerging into a
sunny clearing where an old orange grove grown up with tangles of brier
and vine had partly given place to the advance of the jungle.
Something glimmered over there among the trees--a girl, coated and
skirted in snowy white, sitting a pony, and leisurely picking and eating
the great black mulberries that weighted the branches so that they bent
almost to the breaking.
She saw him from a distance, turned in her saddle, lifting her
polo-mallet in recognition; and as he came, pushing his way across the
clearing, almost shoulder-deep through weeds, from which the
silver-spotted butterflies rose in clouds, she stripped off one stained
glove, and held out her hand to him.
"You were so long in coming," she managed to say, calmly, "I thought I'd
ride part way back to meet you; and fell a victim to these mulberries.
Tempted and fell, you see.... Are you well? It is nice to see you."
And as he still retained her slim white hand in both of his:
"What do you think of my new pony?" she asked, forcing a smile. "He's
teaching me the real game.... I left the others when Gray came up; Cuyp,
Phil Gatewood, and some other men are practising. You'll play to-morrow,
won't you? It's such a splendid game." She was talking at random, now,
as though the sound of her own voice were sustaining her with its
nervous informality; and she chattered on in feverish animation,
bridging every threatened silence with gay inconsequences.
"You play polo, of course? Tell me you do."
"You know perfectly well I don't--"
"But you'll try if I ask you?"
He still held her hand imprisoned--that fragrant, listless little hand,
so lifeless, nerveless, unresponsive--as though it were no longer a part
