last person she wished to see just then. But Stradella thought
otherwise.
'No one would laugh at him if he had you assassinated,' he said.
'I am not afraid of that!' Ortensia smiled at the mere idea of such a
thing. 'Why are you standing? Come, bring that chair and sit down beside
me, for we are alone at last!'
He was well used to women's ways, but the ways of grown women of the
world are not those of innocent maidens of seventeen; her perfect
simplicity and fearlessness were quite new to him, and had a wonderful
charm of their own. He drew a chair to the window and sat down close to
her, and afterwards he was glad that he had done as she wished.
It was all very strange, he thought even then. As yet, a love-affair had
mostly meant for him a round of more or less dangerous adventures by
night, such as climbing of balconies, unlocking of forbidden doors with
stolen keys, imprisonment in dark closets and wardrobes, and sometimes
flight in break-neck haste. That had usually been the material side,
whereas now, reckoning up his risks, he had only climbed once to a
loggia at night, and once he had been taken for a thief and chased, and
that was all, excepting the actual escape from Venice, which had been
without danger until now. On the other hand, there had stood to love's
credit, as against those insignificant perils, only two kisses and no
more, exchanged when he had been so drenched with rain that it had been
quite out of the question to put a dripping arm round his lady's waist.
And now, for the first time in his life, he was suddenly alone with an
innocent girl of seventeen who loved him, and whom he loved even to the
point of having carried her off out of her house; he was alone with her,
in her own room, when she had but just risen from sleep, and she was
sitting beside him in the early sunshine, that wove a blaze of glory
round her young beauty, and her soft white hand held his; and he was not
satisfied as she was, but wished it were night instead of day, and
wished the sun were the moon, and that there were sweet silence without
instead of the thousand cries and echoes of a waking Italian city. For
all he had ever known of joy on earth, or ever hoped for, he would not
have wished that Ortensia's face could change into any that had once
been dear to him under the summer moonlight of the south; yet he felt
strangely constrained and awkward, like a schoolboy in love, not knowing
what to do or say in the overwhelming daylight.
'You are not glad, as I am,' Ortensia said after the long silence.
At the sound of her voice he found himself again, and he lifted her hand
and pressed it to his lips.
'I am afraid for you,' he answered. 'When a man has taken the most
precious thing in the whole world, and carries it with him through an
enemy's country, he may well be afraid lest some harm come to it on the
way.'
'But this is not the enemy's country!' laughed Ortensia, too happy to be
serious. 'Are we not a hundred miles from Venice and my uncle?'
'They say the Republic has long arms, love, and the Senator can count on
every one of the Ten to help him. The law cannot touch us merely for
having run away together, it is true, but what if he invents a crime?
What if he swears that we have robbed him? The Pope's Government will
not harbour thieves nor shelter criminals against the justice of Venice!
We should be arrested and given up, that is all, and then sent back!
This is what I fear much more than that he should have us tracked and
murdered by assassins, as many Venetians would do in this civilised
age!'
'But we have taken nothing,' Ortensia objected, quite unable to be
afraid of anything while her hand was in his. 'How can he accuse us of
robbing him? Pina and I have a comb and piece of soap between us! As for
money, she may have a little small change, for all I know, but I have
nothing.'
'I have a good deal,' Stradella answered; 'quite enough to justify such
an accusation as that. But, after all, nothing can hinder such a thing,
if it is going to be. I dare say you are right--it is my anxiety for you
that makes me think of everything that might happen.'
'Nothing will happen,' Ortensia said softly, 'nothing will happen to
part us!'
Still holding his hand, she gazed into his eyes with an expression of
ecstatic happiness, and she could not have found another word, even if
she had needed speech; then suddenly her bare arm circled his neck like
a flash of white light, for he was very close to her, and she took him
unawares and kissed him first.
She laid her head upon his breast a moment later, and he pressed her to
him and buried his face in her sweet auburn hair. His heart overflowed
in many soft and loving words.
The door opened while he was speaking, and both started and sat upright,
expecting to see Pina, and ashamed to be surprised even by her. Then
Ortensia uttered a sharp cry and Stradella sprang to his feet.
Two big men in rusty black and long boots had entered the room, and were
advancing. They were broad-shouldered men, of a determined bearing, with
sinister faces, and both wore swords and kept their slouch hats on their
heads. Stradella was unarmed, and could only stand before Ortensia,
awaiting their onset, for he had not a doubt but that they were Bravi
sent by Pignaver to murder him. To his surprise they stopped before him,
and one of them spoke.
'You had better come quietly with us,' the man said.
Stradella understood at once that the two intruders were sbirri, come to
arrest him, and he was sure that Pignaver had pursued precisely the
course he had explained to Ortensia, and that he was going to be accused
of robbery.
'I am a Sicilian and a Spanish subject,' he said. 'By what right do you
dare to arrest me?'
'We know very well that you are a Sicilian, Master Bartolo,' answered
the man. 'And as for the rest, it is known to you, so come with us and
make no trouble, or it will be the worse for you.'
'My name is not Bartolo!' cried the musician indignantly. 'I am
Alessandro Stradella, the singer.'
'Any one can say that,' replied the man. 'Come along! No nonsense, now!'
'I tell you, I am Stradella----'
But the man glanced at his companion, and the two had him by his arms in
an instant, though he struggled desperately. They were very strong
fellows, and between them could have thrown a horse, and though
Stradella was supple and quick, he was powerless between them.
During the short exchange of words Ortensia had leaned back against the
window-sill in frightened surprise, but when she saw her lover suddenly
pinioned and dragged towards the door, she flew at the sbirri like a
tigress, and buried her fingers in the throat of the nearest, springing
upon him from behind. The fellow shook her off as a bull-terrier would a
rat, and, while keeping his hold on the prisoner with one hand, he
tripped her roughly with his foot and the other, by a common
professional trick, throwing her heavily upon the brick floor. Before
she could rise, the men had got Stradella outside, and as she struggled
to her feet she heard the key turned, and knew that she was locked in.
In wild despair she beat upon the solid panels with her small fists, but
no one answered her. Stradella's man was scouring the town for horses,
and Pina was not within hearing.
Meanwhile the singer had submitted, as soon as he realised that he had
no chance of escape, and that, unless the men were acting a part, he had
been taken for a man called Bartolo, and would be able to explain the
mistake as soon as he was brought before a responsible officer or
magistrate. Indeed, when this view presented itself to him, he was only
anxious to facilitate the course of events as much as possible, and
spoke civilly to his captors, while walking quietly downstairs between
them; but they did not let go of his arms for that reason.
Below, in the arched entrance, the innkeeper was waiting, in
conversation with three other sbirri, dressed and armed much in the same
manner as the two who had made the arrest.
'It is a mistake,' Stradella said to the host. 'I am taken for another
man, and as soon as I have explained who I am, I shall return. I shall
be obliged if you will attend to the wants of the lady and her
serving-woman.'
'Guests who quit the house without paying their score generally leave
their luggage as security,' answered the host with an insulting sneer,
and pointing towards the entrance.
There, to his surprise, Stradella saw two sturdy porters, laden with his
valises, his cloak, and his lute, and evidently waiting to accompany
him.
'What are you doing, you scoundrels?' he cried. 'Put down my things!'
But they only grinned and began to move on, and as he was hurried out of
the door into the square, they jogged across the square at a trot with
their burdens. A few moments later he followed them across the
drawbridge of the castle and in under the great gate where a papal
soldier, armed with halberd and broadsword, was pacing up and down on
guard.
Just as he disappeared, Pina emerged upon the square from a narrow
street at its northern end, and hastened to the entrance of the inn. The
host was standing there, his legs apart, his arms crossed, and his small
black cap on one side of his head. He stopped Pina.
'Your master has changed his lodgings,' he said in a jocular tone, and
pointing with his thumb towards the castle. 'His Excellency the Legate
has just taken him in free.'
Pina understood instantly, and drew back a step in consternation.
'If you mean to stay here, you must pay in advance,' continued the host,
'for your master has taken all the luggage with him. Perhaps he expects
to spend some time with the Legate.'
'But we have no money of our own!' Pina cried in great distress. 'What
are we to do?'
'That is your affair,' answered the innkeeper. 'You have had your
night's lodging from me, and that is all you will get for nothing; so,
unless you can pay, take your mistress somewhere else.'
Pina bent her head, and went upstairs without more words. A quarter of
an hour later she and Ortensia left the inn, with the hoods of their
brown cloaks drawn over their heads. The young girl leaned on her
nurse's arm, and walked unsteadily.
Their worldly possessions, besides the clothes they wore, consisted of a
piece of Castile soap, a comb, and Pina's work-case.
CHAPTER VIII
The Nuncio departed amidst a tremendous clatter of hoofs and rumbling of
wheels, after being accompanied to his coach by the Legate of Ferrara
himself. The second coach was occupied by his chaplains, and a third by
his body-servants; in his own he took only his secretary; each vehicle
carried a part of his voluminous luggage. After the coaches rode the
footmen, mounted on all sorts of beasts, such as could be had, but
wearing good liveries and all well armed. A dozen papal troopers
commanded by a sergeant brought up the rear.
The wizened little Legate bowed to the ground as the noisy procession
started, for though he wore a clerical dress he was only a layman, and
the Nuncio was Archbishop of Kerasund, 'in partibus infidelium,' and
returned the Governor's salutations with a magnificent benediction from
the window of his coach. The papal halberdiers of the castle, all drawn
up in line outside the moat, saluted by laying their long halberds to
the left at a sharp angle.
The Legate put on his three-cornered hat as the escort trotted away
after the coaches, and he stood rubbing his hands and watching the
fast-disappearing procession of travellers, while the guard formed in
double file and awaited his pleasure, ready to follow him in.
He had scarcely reached middle age, but he looked like a dried-up little
old man, with his wrinkled face, his small red eyes, and his withered
hands. No one who did not know him would have taken him to be the
tremendous personage he really was in Ferrara, invested with full powers
to represent his sovereign master, Pope Clement the Tenth; or rather the
Pope's adopted 'nephew,' who was not his nephew at all, Cardinal Paluzzo
Altieri, the real and visible power in Rome. The truth was that the aged
Pontiff was almost bedridden and was scarcely ever seen, and he was only
too glad to be relieved of all care and responsibility.
Monsignor Pelagatti, for that was the Legate's name, was a man of no
distinguished extraction; indeed, it would be more true to say that he
had extracted himself from his original surroundings. For it was by dint
of laudable hard work as well as by virtue of certain useful gifts of
mind and character that he had raised himself above his family to a
really important position. It was commonly said in Rome that his father
had been a highway robber and his mother a washerwoman, and that his
brother was even now a footman in service; but it is quite possible that
the Roman gossips knew more of his people than he did, seeing that he
had declined to have anything to do with his family ever since he had
got his first place as assistant steward in the Paluzzo household,
before that family had been adopted and had received the name of Altieri
from the Pope; and this is all that need be said about his beginnings
for the present.
In due time he went upstairs again, installed himself behind the long
oak table in his office, and took up the business of the day. A brown
wooden crucifix stood before him, and at the foot of it was placed his
large leaden inkstand, well provided with pens, ink, and red sand for
blotting. At each end of the table sat a clerk; of these two, one was an
untidy old man with a weary face and snuff-stained fingers, the other
was a particularly spruce young fellow, with smug pink cheeks and
carefully trimmed nails. The room had one high window to the north, from
which a cold and dreary light fell upon the table and the three men.
The Legate proceeded to transact current business, receiving in turn a
number of officials and citizens who came of their own accord, or were
summoned, for various reasons, mostly connected with the revenue. When
he had dismissed them all, more or less satisfied or dissatisfied, as
the papal interests required, he ordered the officer at the door to send
for the prisoner who had been taken at the inn that morning.
'Let us see this famous Sicilian coiner,' he said, rubbing his hands and
screwing up his little red eyes. 'Bring up his effects, too, and send
for a goldsmith with his touchstone and acids.'
He leaned back in his high chair to wait, and mentally ran over the
questions he meant to ask. The shabby old clerk took snuff, and
sprinkled a liberal quantity of it on his spotted black clothes and on
the edge of the paper before him. His colleague at the other end
occupied himself in improving the point of his quill pen. In the
silence, a huge spotted cat sprang upon the table and calmly seated
itself upright beside the crucifix, facing the Legate, who paid no
attention whatever to it. From time to time it blinked and slowly moved
the yellow tip of its tail.
Presently Stradella was led in by the gaoler and his assistant. On his
wrists there were manacles, joined with each other by a strong chain
which was highly polished by constant use. He was bare-headed, of
course, and he seemed perfectly cool and self-possessed. Immediately
after him, two men entered bringing his luggage, which was set down on
the floor before the table. The cat did not even turn to look at the
people who had entered.
'What is your name?' asked the Legate, eyeing him sharply.
'Alessandro Stradella.'
Instead of writing down the answer the two clerks looked at their
superior for instructions.
'His name is Bartolo,' the Legate said, in a decided tone.
'By your worship's leave, my name is Stradella,' protested the musician.
'You may note that this fellow Bartolo persists in calling himself
Stradella,' said the Legate, looking first at one clerk and then at the
other.
'I am not Bartolo!' cried the musician indignantly. 'I am Alessandro
Stradella, the singer, well known to hundreds of people in Rome.'
'You see how he persists,' answered the Legate with an ironical smile.
'Write down what he says as correctly as you can.'
Stradella saw that it was useless to protest, and that vehemence might
be dangerous.
'By your leave,' he said more quietly, 'if you will loosen my hands and
let me have my lute there, I will prove what I say, by singing and
playing to you.'
'Anybody can sing,' retorted Monsignor Pelagatti with profound contempt,
and without even looking at him. 'Write down that he has insulted this
tribunal by offering to sing to the Legate and his clerks--which low
jesting is contempt of court, and nothing else. The man is either drunk
or insane.'
Stradella was speechless with anger and disgust, and his face grew very
pale.
'Open his effects,' the Legate said, when the clerks' pens stopped
moving.
Two of the sbirri at once unstrapped the valises, and laid out the
contents on the long table on each side of the Legate, neatly and in
order. One of the bags contained clothes and personal effects, but the
other was almost entirely filled with manuscript compositions and a
supply of paper ruled for writing music. It also contained a leathern
pouch stuffed full of gold ducats.
'There we have it!' exclaimed Monsignor Pelagatti. 'Is the goldsmith
come?'
'He is waiting, your worship,' answered the officer at the door.
The goldsmith was ushered in, a grey-haired man, who still stooped when
he had finished his bow to the Legate. The latter ordered him to sit at
the table and test the gold coins one by one.
'This fellow,' said Monsignor Pelagatti, by way of explanation, 'is the
famous Sicilian coiner of counterfeit money, Bartolo. Push the good
ducats towards me, if you find any, and the false coin towards the clerk
at your elbow.'
The goldsmith glanced curiously at Stradella, and then took his small
block of basalt and a stoneware bottle of nitric acid from a leathern
bag he carried, slung on his arm. The spotted cat seemed interested in
these objects, and after having gazed at them placidly for half a
minute, rose with deliberation, walked along the edge of the table, and
sniffed at the stone and the goldsmith's fingers. It then crossed to the
Legate and sat down on his left, surveying the prisoner with apparent
satisfaction.
The Legate's eyes followed with keen interest the operations of the
expert, who took one coin after another from the pouch, rubbed it on the
basalt, poured a drop of acid on the yellow mark made by the gold, and
then examined the wet spot closely to see how the colour changed; and he
shook his head each time and pushed ducat after ducat towards Monsignor
Pelagatti, but not a single one towards the clerk. The Legate's crooked
fingers played absently with the coins as they came to his side,
arranging them in little piles, and the piles in patterns, almost
without glancing at them. The goldsmith worked quickly, but the ducats
were many, for Stradella had supplied himself plentifully with money
before leaving Venice, and had drawn the whole balance of the letter of
credit he had brought with him from the banking-house of Chigi in Rome.
The sbirri and the two clerks eyed the gold longingly. Stradella stood
motionless between his keepers, wondering what would happen next, and
never doubting but that the whole proceeding had been inspired by
Pignaver.
But what had really happened can be explained in a dozen words, and will
show that the sharp little Legate was acting in perfectly good faith.
The truth was that a notorious Sicilian counterfeiter who was described
as a pale young man with black hair, and who went by the name of
Bartolo, was really travelling in the north of Italy, and had been heard
of at Vicenza, whence it was reported that he had set out in haste for
Padua. The spies who were in pursuit of him learned in the latter city
that a dark young man with a pale complexion had hired an extra post for
Rovigo, in a very great hurry, and was spending money liberally, and
after that it had been easy to trace Stradella to the inn at Ferrara.
One of the spies had ridden in before daybreak and had warned the
innkeeper not to let the musician have horses at any price, and had then
given information at the castle, which the Legate had received before
sunrise, for he was an early riser. For the rest, he always followed the
time-honoured custom of considering every prisoner guilty till he was
proved innocent. In his opinion any criminal could call himself a
singer, and could very likely sing, too, if his life depended upon it.
Moreover, a hundred gold Apostolic florins had been offered for the
capture of Bartolo, and the Legate meant to have a share of the prize
money.
By the time the goldsmith had tested all the coins and found these good,
Monsignor Pelagatti had also counted them over several times.
'Three hundred and ninety-one ducats,' he said, dictating to the clerks,
'were found amongst the criminal's possessions, and were confiscated to
the Papal Treasury.'
'But they are all good,' objected Stradella.
'Precisely,' answered the Legate. 'If anything was wanting to prove you
guilty, it was this fact. Could any one but an expert counterfeiter have
in his possession three hundred and ninety-one ducats without a single
false one, in these dishonest days? But a coiner, whose nefarious
business it is to exchange counterfeit coin for genuine, is not to be
deceived like an ordinary person.'
'But I drew the money from an honest bank in Venice----'
'Silence!' cried the Legate in a squeaky voice.
'Silence!' roared the gaolers and the sbirri with one accord, all
looking at the musician together.
The spotted cat rose sleepily at the noise, arched its back and clawed
the oak table, by way of stretching itself.
'The counterfeiter Bartolo is duly committed for trial and will be sent
to Rome in chains with the next convoy of prisoners,' said the Legate,
dictating. 'Till then,' he added, speaking to the officer, 'put him into
one of the cells at the foot of the Lion Tower. He is a criminal of some
note.'
It was worse than useless to attempt any further protest; the gaolers
seized the singer by his arms again, one on each side, and in ten
minutes he was left to his own reflections, locked up in a pitch-dark
cell that smelt like a wet grave. They had brought a lantern with them,
and had shown him a stone seat, long enough to lie down upon, and at one
end of it there was a loose block of sandstone for a pillow, a luxury
which had been provided for a political prisoner who had passed some
months in the cell under the last of the Este marquises, some eighty
years earlier, and which had doubtless been forgotten.
After he had been some time in the dark, Stradella saw that a very
feeble glimmer was visible through a square grated opening which he had
noticed in the door when the gaoler was unlocking it before entering.
Even that would be some comfort, but the unlucky musician was too
utterly overcome to think of anything but Ortensia's danger, and his own
fate sank to insignificance when compared with hers; for he was sure
that Pignaver's agents must have seized her as soon as he himself had
been taken away, and he dared not think of what would happen when they
brought her back to Venice and delivered her up to her uncle. That they
would murder the defenceless girl he did not believe, and besides, it
was much more likely that Pignaver would prefer to torment her to death
at his leisure, after assassinating her lover. Stradella guessed as much
as that from what he knew of the Senator's character.
As for himself, when he was able to reflect soberly after being several
hours alone in the dark, the singer came to the conclusion that he was
in no immediate danger of his life, though he owed his present
imprisonment to his enemy. It looked as if he stood a good chance of
being sent to Rome, as Bartolo the counterfeiter, to be tried; but once
there, he would have no difficulty in obtaining his liberation, for he
was well known to many distinguished persons, including Cardinal Altieri
himself. Pignaver had cleverly cut short his flight in order to take
Ortensia from him, but to accomplish this the Senator had been obliged
to put off the murder he doubtless contemplated. Stradella's life would
probably be attempted in Rome, as soon as he was free, but meanwhile he
could not but admit that the Senator had succeeded in making him
exceedingly uncomfortable, merely from a material point of view. It was
not likely that prisoners were sent to Rome more than once a month, and
the last convoy had perhaps left yesterday. He might have to spend
thirty days in the cell.
As the hours passed he forgot himself again, and thought only of
Ortensia. In his imagination he fancied her already far on her way to
Rovigo in the jolting coach with her captors; in the very coach,
perhaps, in which he had brought her to Ferrara only last night. He
called up her face, and saw it as pale as death; her eyes were half
closed and her lips sharp-drawn with pain. He could hardly bear to think
of her suffering, but not to think of her he could not bear at all.
He did not know how long he had been locked up, when he noticed that the
faint glimmer at the grated hole was almost gone, and suddenly he felt
horribly hungry, in spite of his misery, for it was nearly twenty-four
hours since he had tasted food. The gaolers had brought a little bread
and a jug of water, and had set them down on the ground at one end of
the bench. He felt about till he found them, and he gnawed the tough
crust voraciously, though it tasted of the damp earth on which it had
lain since morning.
After a long time he fell asleep with the stone pillow under his head.
CHAPTER IX
Cucurullo came back to the inn in less than an hour after Pina and
Ortensia had left it. In spite of the asseverations of the innkeeper, he
had found that there were horses to be had in plenty in the city, and
that it was merely a question of choice and of paying well for the
accommodation. He was hastening upstairs to tell this to Stradella when
he was stopped by the host himself, who informed him that Stradella was
imprisoned in the castle, and that the lady and her serving-woman had
just gone away on foot.
'You had better melt away yourself,' the innkeeper concluded in a
confidential tone, 'unless you wish to be clapped into prison too.'
Cucurullo had betrayed no surprise at what the host told him, and he did
not seem inclined to pay any immediate attention to the latter's advice,
though it was distinctly friendly. He was used to that, for few Italians
would care to incur the hatred of a hunch-backed man, who is supposed to
bring good luck to those who treat him well, and to dispose of the
mysterious curses of the Evil Eye for wreaking vengeance on those who
injure him. Cucurullo stood still on the stairs, in deep thought, after
the innkeeper had ceased speaking.
'What is the name of the Legate?' he inquired, looking up at last.
'Pelagatti,' answered the other. 'He is from the South, they say;
though, between you and me, he looks more like a rat than a Christian.
Monsignor Luigi Pelagatti, that is his name.'
Again Cucurullo was silent, apparently more absorbed in his thoughts
than ever.
'Come, come!' cried the innkeeper in an encouraging tone. 'You need not
be so down-hearted! I will have a good meal cooked for you, and if you
need a little ready money for your journey, it is at your disposal. A
clever fellow like you will soon find another place.'
By way of laying in a stock of luck for the day, he patted the deformed
man's hump as he spoke, but he awaited the answer with evident concern,
for it was fortunate to have a hunch-backed man eat and drink in one's
house; a hunch-backed woman, on the contrary, always brought evil with
her, and should be driven from the door.
Cucurullo's reply was not only of favourable omen, but announced a piece
of unexpected good-fortune.
'You are very obliging,' he said, 'and I shall be glad of a mouthful at
noon. As for your kind offer to lend me money, I thank you heartily, but
I am well provided, and wish to pay my master's bill here before
accepting your friendly offer of a dinner. My master always trusts me
with a few ducats to pay his small expenses.'
The innkeeper congratulated himself on having patted the man's hump, for
it was clear that the good luck which at once befell him could be traced
to no other source. He now inwardly cursed his haste in turning
Ortensia and Pina out of the house, since Cucurullo was perhaps in a
position to have paid their score for some time. Of this, however, the
host could not be quite sure, for the serving-man did not show his
purse, but only produced some loose silver from the pocket of his wide
brown breeches.
'I shall charge nothing for the lady's use of the room,' said the
innkeeper magnanimously. 'You came with three horses from Rovigo, I
believe; there is their feed, and the supper of the postillion, who left
in an hour. That is all. Three pauls will pay for everything.'
'You are very obliging,' Cucurullo said again, as he paid the money.
'Your charges are very moderate. Since you act in such a friendly
manner, I will tell you something.'
Thereupon Cucurullo laid one of his large hands gently on the
innkeeper's sleeve, and looked up earnestly into the latter's face; and
when he was very much in earnest, his large blue eyes had a peculiar
expression, which lent great weight to what he said.
'A friendly act deserves a friendly return,' he said, 'for, as we say in
the South, "one hand washes the other and both wash the face." My master
has been arrested by mistake. He is really and truly the famous Maestro
Stradella, and is a great favourite with the Roman Court, for he has
sung to His Holiness himself and often to His Eminence Cardinal Altieri.
Therefore, if any harm comes to him in Ferrara through the ignorance of
Monsignor Pelagatti, there will be trouble for you, since the Legate
will be severely reprimanded, and will make those persons who gave him
wrong information pay for his scolding. As you have shown me kindness, I
tell you these things beforehand, because I know them for certain. Do
you understand?'
The innkeeper not only understood, but began to feel uncomfortable at
the thought of being called to account even for his small share in
Stradella's arrest. As for the spy who had made the mistake, his lot
would not be enviable if he was within the Legate's reach when the error
was discovered.
'Pardon the question, my dear friend,' said the host in an extremely
gentle tone, 'but are you quite sure of these things?'
'Altogether sure,' was the answer. 'I have been in the Maestro's service
since he first began to be famous. He saved my life at the risk of his
own, and I have served him five years come the Feast of Saint John. I
therefore know that he is not a Sicilian counterfeiter! If you have any
means of reaching the Legate, therefore, it would be well to set him
right at once in this matter. He will be the more grateful, or, at
least, the less angry, if my master is detained in prison for a few
hours only.'
The innkeeper saw the wisdom of this, on the supposition that Cucurullo
was speaking the truth, but of that he was not quite sure. It was a bad
world, he reflected, and the counterfeiter might have a clever hunchback
for a servant, with a knack of fixing his eyes as Cucurullo did, and of
putting great earnestness into his tone. So far, the innkeeper had only
done what the law had required of him, except in the matter of turning
out two women who could not pay for their lodging, and in doing this
the law would support him. Monsignor Pelagatti was a tremendous
personage, who ruled the whole Marquisate of Ferrara in the name of the
Pope; he knew his business, or believed he did, and it was absurd to
think that a humble innkeeper and posting-master could influence him to
act upon the mere word of a serving-man.
On the other hand, it was unsafe to doubt a hunchback openly, and it
would be fatal to quarrel with him, because he could cast the spell of
the Evil Eye.
'I shall do my best,' the innkeeper replied, 'and far more readily for
your sake, my dear friend, than for my own, I assure you.'
Cucurullo smiled quietly, and seemed quite satisfied with this answer.
He now went on to ask questions about Ortensia and Pina, but the host
knew nothing, except that they had left the house together, immediately
after the arrest of Stradella. For obvious reasons he said nothing of
his interview with Pina. He declared that they had simply left the inn,
and that he had not hindered them. He had not seen them go out, and
could not tell whether they had turned to the north or the south. He
suggested that since they had gone away at once and without the least
hesitation, they probably had friends in Ferrara to whom they could turn
for protection and help in their difficulty. He was ready, he said, to
help Cucurullo to find them out; he would be only too happy to be of
use.
What he suggested was not unlikely. During the flight from Venice,
Cucurullo had observed Pina closely, and had come to the conclusion that
she was a woman of resources, who had travelled much at some time or
other, and who could hold her tongue. She would certainly think of some
expedient, and would succeed in placing her mistress under some sort of
protection. His own mind always instinctively ran in the direction of an
ecclesiastical solution of any difficulty in life; if he himself were
starving and friendless in a strange city he would knock at the door of
a Franciscan monastery and beg for shelter and work. He therefore
concluded that Pina would naturally have taken Ortensia directly to a
convent, where they would both be cared for; the serving-woman would
take care to be informed of what happened to Stradella, and as soon as
he was let out she would communicate with him.
Moreover, as compared with the fate of the musician, Cucurullo cared
little what became of Ortensia; for his devotion to his master filled
his whole life, whereas the young girl's only claim to his attachment
was that Stradella was in love with her. On the other hand, the pious
serving-man saw in the present separation of the two a special
intervention of Providence for the purpose of keeping the lovers apart
till they could be duly and properly married. From this point of view to
putting Ortensia out of his thoughts altogether was only a step, and he
devoted every energy to the liberation of his master.
Having come to this conclusion in a much shorter time than it has taken
to explain his reasons, he again thanked his new friend, promising to
come back for dinner at noon, and adding that he would go over to the
castle gate and gather such information as he could. He was hindered
from doing so at once, however, by the preparations for the Nuncio's
departure, which has been already described. He mixed with the crowd
that had gathered to see the sight, and waited till some time had
elapsed after the Legate and the guard had gone in before he approached
the drawbridge.
The single sentinel had now returned to his beat, but half-a-dozen of
the halberdiers were loitering about the door of the guard-room within
the deep archway, at some distance from the gate. The sentry stopped
Cucurullo and asked his business.
'I am the servant of the gentleman who has been arrested by mistake at
the inn,' the hunchback answered humbly. 'My master had sent me out on
an errand, and when I came in I learnt the news. So I have come to wait
for him.'
'I am afraid you may wait long,' answered the sentry, with a friendly
glance at Cucurullo's hump; 'but you are welcome to sit in the
guard-room, if you like.'
'Thank you,' Cucurullo answered, and as he passed he felt the soldier's
light touch on his crooked back.
The other halberdiers received him with equal kindness, and there was
not one of them who did not believe that he would have a stroke of luck
before night, if he could by any means touch the magic hump without
offending its possessor. Cucurullo took off his hat civilly as he
stopped before them.
'Good-morning, gentlemen,' he said. 'The sentinel was kind enough to say
that I might wait here for my master, who has been arrested by mistake
and will soon come out.'
'And welcome!' cried the sergeant on duty, who had lost money at play on
the previous evening.
'At your service! Pray sit down! Bring out a chair!'
The men all spoke together, and gathered closely round Cucurullo to
touch his hump, so that he almost disappeared amongst them. Then they
got a chair from the guard-room and made him sit down at his ease, and
some remained standing beside him while others sat on the end of the
stone seat that ran along the wall. He thanked them warmly, and at once
entered into conversation, asking for news of Stradella, and explaining
the strange mistake that had led to his arrest. In a few minutes he had
learned that his master was in all likelihood at that very moment before
the Legate.
'And what sort of person is his worship, the Governor?' asked Cucurullo,
anxious for information, and lowering his voice.
The sergeant was a jolly, red-faced, merry-eyed man from the March of
Ancona, and he laughed before he answered.
'We used to call him Pontius Pilate, because he does not know what truth
is,' he said, 'but we gave that up because he never washes his hands!'
Cucurullo smiled at the rough jest, but he looked curiously at the
speaker.
'I see that you are familiar with the Scriptures, sir,' observed the
hunchback.
'I come by the knowledge honestly,' answered the soldier. 'I did not
steal it! My father, bless his soul, was killed in battle, and so my
mother tried to make a priest of me. Eh? You see me as I am! This is the
kind of priest my mother made! Neither more nor less than a poor
sergeant of halberdiers. But a little of the Latin stuck to me, for
