her. About her throat was a string of 
pearls. One hand that lay invitingly on the 
table was covered with gems. But from it 
the pretty gestures had gone, from her face 
the smiles had passed. She looked virginal 
and sad, a sort of melancholy angel, only 
much better dressed than angels usually are. 
Through her half -closed eyes she watched 
him. There had been her visits to de Dol's, 
he was thinking, but that was her affair. 
"In what way?" he asked. 
"Well, you see, don't you know, every 
body says the duel was on my ac 
count." 
That alsoWelden considered. It seemed 
logical enough. On a certain night Sally 
had abandoned her husband. Within thirty- 
six hours he and that husband had fought. 
Their reasons for fighting no one, save them 
selves, Sally and Maud could possibly know. 
Clearly it was logical enough and yet insufficient to warrant the full measure of the 
Invitation. 
"Mrs. Cawtree wrote to me," Sally resumed, "and Fanny Solferino and my 
mother. My mother was very violent. My 
mother said that I had disgraced her. She 
declared that no decent person would ever 
receive me, unless 
Sally paused. Like the lady whom she 
 
was quoting, she sometimes embroidered 
the truth. 
"Unless " she presently continued, and 
paused again. 
But, as Welden manifested no interest in 
the proviso, she prodded him. 
"I don't like to tell you." 
Then, seeing that Welden had no inten 
tion of urging her, she took her courage in 
her jewelled hand. 
"Unless you marry me." 
Welden had been occupied with the logic 
of her previous statement, but the unobtrusive modesty of this announcement surprised 
him from it. 
He removed his cigar. "I had an idea 
that you were married already." 
Into the melancholy of Sally's face there 
crept a smile. "I was," she answered. "I 
am no longer." 
"Ah," said Welden. "Is Malakoff dead?" 
But now the smile in Sally's face deepened. It burrowed under the melancholy 
and tossed it aside. She laughed. 
"No, divorced. It was so amusing too. 
Shall I ten you about it? Shall I? Well, 
after I put in the petition, the judge had us 
both see him in private. Ridgeway told me 
he would. It appears that in divorce cases 
here the judge takes a sort of fatherly attitude and tries to get the parties to make 
up and, if you will believe me, he did try. 
He was so nice about it, too, that you would 
have thought he was my aunt and Malakoff 
was so rude you would have thought he was 
my mother. But the judge was really very 
nice. And so civil! Dear me, his mouth 
was just full of madame la duchesse and 
monsieur de due. Later on, in the decree, he fined his monsieur le due a hundred francs. 
Don't you think it was amusing?" 
Welden shrugged his shoulders. After 
the duel it had been grievous to him that he 
had not killed the man. Now he did not 
 
care. During the race he had tried to kill 
himself. There too he had failed. But that 
also was a matter of indifference. Before 
either race or duel he had been obsessed by 
the vision of a pillowed head. It had gone. 
Though he had failed with Malakoff and 
failed with himself, he had thoroughly assassinated that. 
"Don't you think it was amusing?" Sally 
repeated. 
"You certainly have not been idle," Weiden replied. "What were the grounds?" 
Sally made a gesture. Though there are 
things that men do, there are women who do 
not mention them. 
Welden nodded. "Who was the co?" 
"Who?" cried Sally. "Have you forgotten already? Don't you remember the night 
of the Fourth of July?" 
Welden nodded again and knocked the 
ashes from his cigar. "You are no longer, 
then, madame la duchesse." 
Smilingly Sally stood up. She moved 
from the table, dropped him a curtsy and 
sweetly, yet simply, replied: 
"I am Sally Kandy again, and yours if 
you will have me." 
"Thank you," said Welden, quite as 
though he had been offered another cup of 
coffee. "Thank you. But did not this Ridge- 
way tell you about the Court of Cassation? 
Malakoff has six months in which to appeal. 
Of course he will do nothing of the kind. 
None the less, in the interim, any marriage 
of yours would be bigamous." 
At that last word Sally flushed and sat 
down. It is possible that she had misconstrued its meaning. 
"What a dreadful expression," she ex 
claimed. "I am sure I never should think 
of anything so horrid. But, in the interim, 
as you call it, what is there to prevent us 
from going to South Africa or, better still, 
to the East?" 
 
At the door came a rap. Harris entered, 
busying himself with the cloth. Welden got 
up and limped to the window. 
In the park without, leaves were falling, 
falling from branch to branch; falling slow 
ly, as with regret; falling undecidedly with 
precaution. In their faint rustle was a 
sound such as the steps of fate may make 
when approaching furtively, a-tiptoe. 
The hesitancy of it filtered into Welden's 
thoughts. Usually, he knew what he had to 
do and did it. But illness plays strange 
tricks and destiny plays others. After all, 
he told himself, eventually there would be 
someone else. Perhaps as well then Sally 
as another. At least she would serve to show 
to Maud how indifferent he was to her. Even 
otherwise, how should it matter? How should 
anything matter any more? 
He turned. Harris had gone. Sally 
through her half -closed eyes, was watching 
him. 
"Very good," he said. "We will go to the 
Orient since you wish it." 
With a feline twist of the tongue SalJy 
moistened her lips. She had the sensation 
of being lifted lightly in the air. It was the 
last fence. She had reached the post a winner. 
Alone in his room that night Welden still 
heard the leaves. They fell slowly, solemnly, burying the past beneath their slender 
weight, raising between him and it a veil, 
tenuous and aerial. Higher it rose, higher 
still, ever higher until, sinking again, it en 
veloped memory in it. 
A fortnight later Welden and Sally, at- 
tended by their servants, embarked from 
Southampton on a voyage that took them 
first to India, where they loitered, then to 
Hong Kong, where they were married and 
finally to White Peacocks. 
There the journey ended. There, for one 
of them, eternity began. 
"Well, William, how are you? Is Miss 
Barhyte at home?" 
"Yes, sir, Miss Barhyte has just come in. 
I hope I see you very well, sir. It's a long 
time, sir " 
Taking Welden's hat and stick, the servant showed him into the library, which apparently, was unaltered. The cushions on 
the sofa were as colourful as before. Oppo 
site, the piano stood, and from the walls powdered heads looked down. But, from the 
table, the Sicilians had gone. In place of 
Greek poetry there was now a book of 
French verse. Otherwise the room was quite 
as it had been the year previous and, apart 
from a black band on the sleeve of his grey 
coat, Welden himself was unchanged. There 
was the same smile in his eyes, the same glint 
in his hair, the same appearance of suppleness and strength. 
He had opened the book and was loitering 
in its languors when William reappeared. 
"I am sorry, sir. I made a mistake. Miss 
Barhyte is not at home." 
The mistake must have been anticipated. 
Welden manifested no surprise. 
"Is the general in?" he asked, his eyes still 
on the book. 
"No, sir. The general is not at home 
either." 
But now Welden put the book aside and 
nodded. 
"Give him my compliments and say that 
I will wait on him at nine to-night. How is 
he?" 
 
"Pretty well, sir." The man moved out 
through the reception room to the marble 
of the hall, where he handed Welden his hat 
and stick. "That was a nasty accident he 
had last summer. He limps a little still. 
Yes, sir." 
Opening the door, he held it open until 
Welden reached the street. 
Welden sauntered on. Five days previous 
he had left Santa Barbara. It was but an 
hour or two before that he had reached New 
York. In his head he could still feel the motion of the cars. That would pass, he told 
himself, as all things do. It would pass, as 
would also pass a girl's disinclination to be 
at home. 
He sauntered on, turned into Fifth ave 
nue, and sauntered up. At once, a man whom 
he knew stopped him, buttonholed, ques 
tioned, platitudinised. From passing traps 
and motors, women bowed, two other men 
joined him and, at the curb, a withered creature tossed from a barrel-organ a strain of 
Italian love. 
The men annoyed him. It wearied him 
to talk about what had happened. It wearied him as much to be told about stocks. Pretexting a pretext he hailed a hansom and 
sailed away. 
Presently, at the Plaza, where he had put 
up, it was comforting to find that his luggage had arrived. After the philistinism of 
the West, it was agreeable to be lodged in 
an artistic inn. After the horrors of a transcontinental trip, it was a pleasure to dress 
at ease. After the convict fare of the Limited, food properly served was a relief. After a tragedy, a change of air is good for the 
nerves. 
Welden, as he sat at table that evening, 
his recent mourning indicated in his shirt by 
two small black studs, considered momen 
tarily these minor gifts of the minor gods. 
But he had work ahead of him and, at five 
 
minutes to nine, hailing a hansom, he sailed 
back to Madison avenue. 
At a door there, as he rang, a melody of 
Beethoven's which was being played within, 
ceased abruptly. The door opened and Wil 
liam, after taking his hat and coat, showed 
him into the dining-room where, before a 
wide table, the general sat, looking, as perhaps a general should, very fierce. 
"William," he ordered, "close the door be 
hind you." 
Then, rising, he turned at Welden. 
"Had you left your address this after 
noon, I would have warned you not to call 
here. Your conduct has been dastardly. 
Dastardly! God bless my soul, there is no 
other word for it." 
He paused, removed his glasses and shook 
them. 
"After an accident which I experienced 
and Maud had joined me at Frascati's, you 
picked a quarrel with Malakoff , induced the 
duchess to obtain a divorce and married the 
lady, married her, God bless my soul, when 
you were engaged to my daughter and to 
day, your wife barely cold in her grave, you 
have the impudence to come here. Damn 
me, sir, if I had acted as you have I would 
have come expecting the cowhide." 
As the tirade proceeded the general's voice 
mounted to the diapason of a roar. At its 
conclusion he stamped a foot. 
"Yes, damn me, the cowhide." 
Immediately, but without heat, Welden 
took it up. 
"From no other man living would I en 
dure for an instant that expression, nor yet 
the one which preceded it. But you are 
right, right, that is, from your point of view. 
It would be dastardly, and it would be the 
cowhide I should expect, if I had acted as 
you say I have, intentionally." 
"Intentionally," the general shouted. 
"Intentionally" 
 
He would have run on but Welden cut in. 
"When your daughter left Deauville I 
was on my way to Paris. She wrote me of 
your accident, telling me she was going to 
you at once, and asking me to join you both 
at Frascati's " 
"Damn me, sir, this is ancient history." 
Welden nodded. "Yes, to you and to 
your daughter. But not to me. The letter 
which your daughter wrote at Deauville on 
the morning of the Fourth of July, I received less than a fortnight since at Santa 
Barbara." 
"Even so what of it? They were not 
dumb at the Malakoff's, I suppose. They 
all knew of it. Anyone could have told 
you." 
"General, not only no one told me that 
your daughter had gone, but I was led to believe that she was still there and did not wish 
to see me." 
"Stuff and nonsense! Do you mean to say 
that you are a born fool? How could any 
one gammon you with such rubbish?" 
There are explanations which explain 
nothing. Unhesitatingly Welden advanced 
one. 
"For the very reason you have given. Because I was a fool. But however much of a 
fool I may have been I am not a knave. 
Your daughter will appreciate that." 
General Barhyte reached forward and 
touched a bell. 
"Never," he answered. "I shall not allow 
you to see her and even if I did, she would 
refuse to do so." 
The servant entered. 
"William, the door for this gentleman." 
He turned his back, took up an evening 
paper and sat down. To him Welden had 
apparently ceased to exist. 
But Welden was thoroughly alive. Preceded by William, he passed into the drawing room and on to the hall. There, after 
 
getting his hat and coat, instead of going 
out, he turned into the reception room and 
went through it to the library beyond. 
At the piano, a sheet of music before her, 
was a girl who, as he entered, turned slowly 
and slowly arose. 
Welden, his hat in his hand, his coat on 
his arm, looked at her. Unlike the room, she 
had altered. The allurement of her face, the 
caress which she had exhaled, the charm of 
manner which always she had conveyed, 
these emanations were absent. In place of 
allurement was blankness ; in lieu of the caress was rigidity; instead of the charm, a 
chill. In her eyes and about her mouth was 
an expression of distant inquiry, an air of 
saying: Who are you and what do you 
want? 
Welden, prepared for the situation, began 
methodically at its demolition. 
"Maud, there has been that between us 
which I know you will come to believe justifies me in disregarding any instructions you 
may have given, your father's orders as well. 
When I returned the sapphire 
Insecure in her intrenchments the girl let 
fire. "It was your right to do so. It was 
a right which I had given you and expressly 
stipulated that you should use. In return 
ing it you said everything there was to be 
said. There can be nothing to add to 
it." 
"When I returned the sapphire," Welden 
continued, "it was because I thought you 
wished it." 
"You may or may not have been mistaken, 
but you cannot possibly have been as mis 
taken in me as I have been in you." 
"When I returned the sapphire," Welden 
persisted, "it was because I believed I had 
seen you in Malakoff's arms." 
For a second, with diligent disdain, the 
girl considered him. Then at once, after the 
fashion which royalty has devised to signify 
 
that a conversation is at an end, she moved 
back. 
Welden had been prepared for that also. 
"Do you recall our last night together?" 
At the memory evoked, the girl coloured 
and the disdain mounting with the flush, in 
creased, accentuated by the wantonness of 
the question. 
"Forgive me for referring to it," Welden 
added. "But that night when I entered your 
room, the disposition of it was such that I 
saw at first but your head. The next night 
I saw you as before, with this difference 
however, Malakoff was with you with you 
I say, for it was but recently I learned that 
that night you were at Frascati's and that 
your room was occupied by a Mme. Oppensheim, a person whom I did not know ex 
isted." 
On the music stool behind her the girl sank 
down. The flush had gone from her face but 
the disdain remained. 
"Do you know of her?" Welden asked. 
Maud, without unbending, bent a little; 
"She reached the villa as I was leaving it." 
"Then you are aware of the resemblance 
between you. Her hair is precisely the colour of yours. Now do me this favour; put 
yourself in my place. Had you seen me as 
I thought I saw you, would you not have 
acted as I did?" 
The girl straightened herself. "No," she 
answered shortly. 
"Do you mean that it would not have affected your relations with me?" 
"I mean nothing of the kind." 
"Without indiscretion, may I ask then 
what you do mean?" 
"Because I happened to fancy that you 
were volage, I myself would not have be 
come so." 
"Forgive me, Maud, I do not quite follow 
you." 
"Nor can I allow you, nor do I wish to. 
 
Admitting your delusion, one by the way 
which must have been almost self-evident, 
the slightest effort on your part would have 
corrected it." 
"Maud, believe me, I had no oppor 
tunity." 
"I do believe you, your opportunity lay 
elsewhere." 
"No," Welden protested, "it did not. 
Moreover, the opportunity to which you refer came months later, and though utilised 
then, it was only for the wretchedest and 
therefore the most human of reasons, in or 
der that I might at least be revenged." 
"On Malakoff ?" the girl tauntingly threw 
at him. 
"Damn me, sir," some one was angrily 
calling, "when I instructed my servant to 
show you the door " 
Welden turned. Before him the general 
stood. Immediately Maud interposed her 
self between them. 
"Father," she said, pushing him as she 
spoke, toward the adjoining room, "go in 
there, I must speak to you." 
"You told me," the old man remonstrated, 
trying vainly to resist. "You told me " 
"I have not a doubt of it," Maud, pushing 
still, replied. "But I told you also never to 
believe a word a woman said." 
The door closed suddenly. Welden could 
at last put down his hat and coat. He had 
not, he knew, demolished all the intrenchments, but in view of the girl's defence of 
him, he f elfthat he had sapped their base. 
He was quite in error. None the less, in 
a few moments, when Maud-issued unaccompanied from the conflict in the outer room, 
her parliamentaries there may have suggest 
ed a temporary truce. She stopped at the 
table, took up the book of verse, looked at 
it, replaced it and with tolerable irrelevance 
remarked : 
"That was very terrible about Sally. 
 
Have you any suspicion who did it?" 
"No," Welden answered. "None what 
ever." 
"I ought, I suppose, to condole with you, 
but I cannot. Neither of you I think be 
haved very well. She knew about Mme. Oppensheim even if, as you say, you did not. It 
was because of her that she got the decree. 
Everybody knew that. It was not in the 
papers, but it was common talk. Were you 
deaf at the time?" 
"Partially," Welden replied. "At Chan- 
tilly I made rather a mess of it." 
Of that mess the girl had been informed. 
At the time and since she had thought it not 
unmerited. What she did not know and 
what she never learned was the fact that the 
mess was intentional. For there are some 
things that some men do not talk about. 
Even otherwise, there are times and seasons 
when any compliment, however unique, falls 
flat. 
"Afterward," Welden resumed, "it was 
quite a bit before I was about." 
"But when you were, did you not hear?" 
"When I was, Sally told me that it was 
you who were the co." 
Maud lifted her hands. "She told you 
that! She told you that I was the co-respondent!" 
"In so many words." 
"When did you learn that I was not?" 
"The other day at Santa Barbara. It 
came about rather oddly. We were on the 
lawn, the wind was blowing, it disarranged 
her hair. Her hair, if you will notice. She 
wanted a barrette. There was no one within 
call. She asked me to get it. It was in some 
case, in some bag. She told me where and 
where the keys were. She was very explicit 
about it all. But I misunderstood. I opened 
the wrong bag or the wrong box. In it I 
found a letter addressed to me. I know it 
by heart. July the Fourth, Villa Portugaise. Dearest: They have just wired me 
from Frascati's that my father has been 
injured. I am going over on the noon 
boat. Join me there to-morrow. Mille 
baisers, M. " 
"She had concealed it!" 
"Evidently." 
"What did you do?" 
Welden made a gesture. At the time 
when he found the letter his mind had shot 
backward. Facts and incidents trivial in 
themselves and long since forgotten, mount 
ed from those cellars of memory where what 
ever we do or say or see is noted, registered, 
catalogued and preserved. In a sort of retrograde vision the madness of a night returned. He beheld the silent villa and Sally, 
her hand on his arm, saying: "Don t." He 
recalled the singularity of her attitude; the 
avid movement with which, when in the hall 
below, she had taken and concealed the note ; 
her subsequent eagerness to have him fight; 
her stupid insistence that he should tell no 
one why ; her speeches and answers at Chantilly: and suddenly a curtain rose. He saw, 
if not the truth, at least the lie. 
"What did you do?" Maud repeated. 
"I went to her and asked whom Malakoff 
had been entertaining that evening. It was 
a little before I could get her to admit that 
it was not you. Finally she acknowledged 
that it was Mme. Oppensheim." 
Again Maud lifted her hands. "It is in 
credible!" 
"Yes, particularly as from the start she 
quite played on my mistake, at first, I suppose, in order to have me kill Malakoff and 
later on, perhaps, because she felt compro 
mised by the duel." 
Maud considered these premises and then 
supplied the deduction. 
"That is why she asked you to marry her." 
"I did not say that." 
"No, men never do say such things but 
 
sometimes women infer them. How long 
afterward did she die?" 
"The same night, or rather the next morn 
ing." 
Maud considered that also, but more 
longly. 
"Don't you see," she said at last, "were 
these things known, you would be suspected, 
arrested perhaps?" 
"Naturally. If ever a man had a motive 
I had one. On the night when I went to the 
room which you had occupied and saw what 
I took to be you, Sally was at my elbow. She 
had come to surprise Malakoff , and finding 
me there and divining my error, took advantage of us both. I am sorry now for Mala 
koff. I intended to kill him. He knew it, 
knew the reason, knew that it was all a mis 
take. But, bounder that he is, he could not 
like an ordinary cad come to me with an ex 
planation." 
"No," said Maud. "Men never explain 
and women always do. None the less 
"None the less," Welden ran on, "though 
I can be sorry for him, I cannot be for Sally. 
What happened to her was the judgment of 
God." 
That verdict Maud examined and at once 
indorsed. 
"Yes, for with a word she could have set 
you straight." 
Welden nodded. "It has been a tragedy 
of errors. Yet, of course, if the police at 
Santa Barbara had so much as an inkling 
of it, I would be in jail there now. They 
suspect me as it is, I think." 
"But I read that you offered a reward." 
"Yes, and it was then I felt that I was 
suspected." 
Maud looked that over also, but without 
seeming to get the point of it. 
"Surely they could not fancy that you 
would offer a reward for your own convic 
tion?" 
"No, but they could readily fancy that I 
offered it to divert suspicion, for that is precisely what a bungler would have done." 
Welden paused. Presently he added: 
"I did not realise that until afterward." 
At this, Maud, who had remained at the 
table, crossed the room and seated herself 
on the sofa. Welden took a seat beside her. 
"What do you propose to do now?" She 
asked. 
"Beg you to marry me." 
The girl shook her head. "You need not. 
I have no intention of it." 
"For the same reason as before?" 
"Partly. But for others also." 
It was now Welden's turn to consider 
things. While he was at it, she helped him. 
"It is not that I cannot forgive you," she 
explained. "But I have so long regarded 
you as unforgivable that I cannot immediately forget. Besides, that you should 
have suspected me is one thing, but that you 
should have consoled yourself is quite an 
other." 
"Consoled!" retorted Welden. "The word 
does not fit. I had no relations with Sally." 
Maud turned and looked at him. She had 
never known him to lie, but she was not credulous and Sally, whatever her demonism, 
had been a very pretty woman. 
"That's as may be," she answered. "The 
point is you hurt me and meant to. I think 
I could not have done that to you." 
For a second she hesitated, her hands ly 
ing interclasped in her lap. She opened 
them and slowly added: 
"But I am quite sure I could have done 
a little harm to her." 
"The little harm has been done," Welden 
remarked. 
But that Maud could not have found her 
self quite able to concede. 
"By another," she answered, "and incompletely." 
 
In what manner the harm could have been 
