THE STIRRED “NEST AMONG THE OAKS”—A CRUCIAL CRISIS


                        “CHARLOTTE C. H., April 12th, 1857.

    “MY STILL-REMEMBERED FRIEND,—It is a raw, cloudy Sunday
    afternoon; Mr. Terhune is suffering somewhat from a cold,
    and is, moreover, fatigued by the labors of the day. I
    have persuaded him to take a siesta on the lounge. Even my
    birds are quiet under the drowsy influence of the weather,
    and only the fire and clock interrupt the stillness of my
    pleasant chamber....

    “I have been on the point several times of writing to you
    (despite your broken promise of last September), begging
    you to visit us during the summer. Need I say how happy we
    should be to see you in our Home?

    “It is a sweet word to my ear, a sweet place to my heart,
    for a happier was never granted to mortals. I do not say
    this as a matter of course. You should know me too well than
    to suppose that. It comes up freely—joyously—from a brimming
    heart. My only fear is lest my cup should be too full, for
    what more could I ask at the hands of the Giver of mercies?
    I have a dear little home, furnished in accordance with
    my own taste; delightful society, and an abundance of it;
    perfect health, having scarcely seen a sick day since my
    marriage—and the best husband that lives upon the globe....

    “This is a large and flourishing church, demanding much hard
    work on his part; but he is young and strong, and he loves
    his profession. We visit constantly together, and here end
    my out-of-door ‘pastoral duties.’ Within doors, my aim is
    to make home bright; to guard my husband from annoyance and
    intrusion during study-hours; to entertain him when he is
    weary, and to listen sympathizingly to all that interests
    him. I shall never be a model ‘minister’s wife.’ I knew that
    from the first, so I have never attempted to play the rôle.
    Fortunately, it is not expected, much less demanded.

    “We shall make a flying visit to Richmond in May. After
    that, we shall be at home, off and on, certainly until
    September. Our cottage parsonage—the ‘little nest among the
    oaks,’ as Alice calls it—is ever ready to receive you, and
    so are our hearts.

    “Were my other and very much better half awake, he would
    join me in love and good wishes, for I have taught him to
    know and to love you all.”

A year after my marriage, the friend of my childhood and the intimate
correspondent of my girl-life, was married to Rev. William Campbell,
the pastor of “Mount Carmel,” the pretty country church in which my
forebears and contemporaries had worshipped for generations, the church
for which my great-grandfather gave the land; in which he was the first
ordained elder, and in which my beloved “Cousin Joe” (“Uncle Archie”)
had succeeded him in the same office. In Mount Carmel I had taken my
first Communion, and here the new wife of the pastor was to be welcomed
into full fellowship with her husband’s flock in November. My husband
was invited by Mr. Campbell to take the service on that day, and I was
warmly pressed to accompany him.

                        “CHARLOTTE C. H., November 8th, 1857.

    “MY OWN DEAR FRIEND,—A fact overlooked by Mr. Terhune and
    myself, occurred to me a little while ago—viz., that
    there is only a semi-weekly mail to Smithville. Therefore,
    to insure your reception of this in season at Montrose, it
    should go from this place to-morrow. It was Mr. Terhune’s
    intention to drop a line to Mr. Campbell to-night; but I
    have begged that I might write to you instead.

    “I have many and bright hopes for you. Hopes, not ‘as
    lovely as baseless,’ but founded upon a knowledge of your
    character and that of him whom God has given you as your
    other and stronger self. When I rejoiced in your union, it
    was with sincere and full delight. You have a mate worthy of
    you—one whom you love, and who loves you. What more does the
    woman’s heart crave? You have chosen wisely, and happiness,
    such as you have never known before, must follow.

    “Will you not come up and see us this winter? Nothing would
    give me more pleasure than to see you in our dear little
    home.

    “Mr. Terhune is very anxious that I should accompany him
    to Powhatan, but I dare not suffer my mind to dwell upon a
    project so charming. He cannot, all at once, get used to
    visiting without me, but in the crib, over in the corner,
    lies an insurmountable obstacle—tiny to view, but which may
    not be set aside.

    “I wish you could see my noble boy, who will be two months
    old to-morrow! He is very pretty, says the infallible
    ‘Everybody.’ To us, he is passing dear. Already he
    recognizes us and frolics by the half-hour with us,
    laughing and cooing—the sweetest music that ever sounded
    through our hearts and home. Nothing but the extreme
    inconvenience attendant upon travelling and visiting with so
    young a child, prevents me from accompanying the Reverend
    gentleman....

    “I have no advice to give you except that you shall be
    yourself, instead of following the kind suggestions of
    any Mrs. Grundy who has an ideal pattern of the ‘Minister’s
    Wife’ ready for you to copy. I am confident that you will be
    ‘helpmeet’ for the man, and since he will ask no more, his
    parish has no right to do it.

    “My warm regards to Mr. Campbell. When I see him I will
    congratulate him. You would not deliver the messages I would
    send to him. ‘Eddie’ sends a kiss to ‘Auntie Effie.’”

In folding, almost reverently, the time-dyed letter and laying
it beside the rest in the box at the bottom of which I found the
sallowed “P.P.C.” card, date of “September 2, 1856,” I feel as if I
were shutting the door and turning the key upon that far-away time;
bidding farewell to a state of society that seems, by contrast with
the complex interests of To-day, pastoral in simplicity. In reviewing
the setting and scenes of my early history, I am reading a quaint
chronicle, inhaling an atmosphere redolent of spices beloved of our
granddames, and foreign to their descendants.

It is not I who have told the story, but the girl from provinces that
are no more on earth than if they had never been. The Spirit of that
Past is the narrator. I sit with her by the open “chimney-piece,”
packed as far as arms can reach with blazing hickory logs; as she
talks, the imagery of a yet older day comes to my tongue. We knew our
Bibles “by heart” in both senses of the term, then, and believed in the
spiritual symbolism of that perfervid love-Canticle—the song of the
Royal Preacher. I find myself whispering certain musical phrases while
the tale goes on, and the story-teller’s face grows more rapt:

    “Thy lips drop as the honey-comb; honey and milk are under
    thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments is like the smell
    of Lebanon;

    “Thy plants are an orchard of pomegranates with pleasant
    fruits; camphire, with spikenard;

    “Spikenard and saffron; calamus and cinnamon.”

It is not a mystic love-chant, or a dreamy jargon, that I recite under
my breath. The sadly few (more sad and few with each year) who recall
with me the days that are no more—and forever—will feel what I cannot
put into words.

Soon after the dawn of the year 1858, we had news of the death of my
husband’s youngest sister, a bright, engaging matron, of whom I had
grown very fond in my visits to her New Jersey home. The happy wife of
a man who adored her, and the mother of a beautiful boy, she had but
one unfulfilled wish on earth. When a baby-girl was put into her arms,
she confessed this, and that now she could ask nothing more of heaven.
The coveted gift cost her her life.

In March, my dearest friend, Mary Ragland, paid a long-promised visit
to the “nest among the oaks.” She had not been strong all winter. She
was never robust. I brought her up from town, in joyous confidence that
the climate that had kept me well and vigorous would brace her up to
concert pitch. For a few weeks she seemed to justify that belief. Then
the languor and slow fever returned. She faded before our incredulous
eyes as a flower droops on the stem. She had no pain, and so slight
was the rise in temperature that made her thirsty by night, that we
would not have detected it had she not mentioned casually at breakfast
that she arose to get a drink of water, and chanced to see, through
the window, a lunar rainbow. This led to the discovery that she
always arose two or three times each night to quench her thirst. It
was characteristic that she saw the rainbow, and was eager to report
it next day. Beautiful things floated to her by some law of natural
attraction. She never took to her bed. To the last, she averred,
laughingly, that she was “only lazy and languid.” She “would be all
right very soon.”

As a sort of low delirium overtook her senses, her fantasies were all
of fair and lovely sights and sweet sounds. She asked me “where I
got the chain of pearls I was wearing, and why she had never seen it
before?” She exclaimed at the beauty of garlands of flowers wreathing
pictures and window-cornices, invisible to our eyes. Music—a passion of
her life—was a solace in the fearful restlessness of the dying hours.
She would have us sing to her—first one, then the other, for an hour at
a time—lying peacefully attent, with that unearthly radiance upon her
face that never left it until the coffin-lid shut it from our sight,
and joining in, when a favorite hymn was sung, with the rich contralto
which was her “part” in our family concerts.

“She is singing herself away,” said my husband, at twilight on the
ninth of May—my mother’s birthday.

At nine o’clock that evening the swan-song was hushed.

We carried her down to Richmond, the next day but one.

I have said elsewhere that it is not given to one to have two perfect,
all-satisfying, friendships this side of the Land that is all Love. She
had gladdened our cottage for little over a month. It was never quite
the same after she flew heavenward. Nor was my life.

To everybody else, it seemed that the “stirring” of the nest began
during the visit we paid to Northern friends that summer.

Our vacation was longer than usual. It could not be gay, for our
mourning garments expressed but inadequately the gloom from which our
spirits could not escape, with the memory of two bereavements fresh in
the minds of all.

It was during this sojourn with the relatives, whose adoption of me had
been frankly affectionate from the beginning of our association, that
I learned of the desire of my father-in-law to have his son removed
nearer to the rest of the family. The old Judge was proud and fond of
the boy, and Virginia was a long distance away from New York—to him,
and other loyal Middle Statesmen, as truly the Hub of Civilization as
Boston to the born Bostonian. Moreover, the Village Church at Charlotte
Court-House was a country charge, although eminently respectable in
character, and honorable in all things pertaining to church traditions.
Other men as young, and, in the father’s opinion, inferior in talent
and education, were called to city parishes. “It was not right for
Edward to bury himself in the backwoods until such time as he would be
too near the dead line, with respect to age, to hope for preferment.”

All this and more of the like purport fell upon unheeding ears,
when addressed to me. I had but one answer to make, after listening
respectfully to argument and appeal:

“I promised Edward, of my own free will and accord, before our
marriage, that I would never attempt to sway his judgment in anything
relating to his profession. Least of all, would I cast the weight of
what influence I might have into either scale, if he were called upon
to make a change of pastorate. He must do as he thinks best.”

More than one church had made overtures to the rising man, and his
kindred were hanging eagerly upon his decision. The initial “stir” had
been given. It was a positive relief when we turned our faces southward.

The nest was full that autumn. My husband’s widower brother-in-law,
crushed by his late bereavement, and compelled to resign the home
in which his wife had taken just pride; helpless, as only a man of
strictly domestic tastes can be in such circumstances, abandoned his
profession of the law, and resolved to study divinity. My brother
Herbert turned his back upon a promising business career, and made
the same resolution. Both men were rusty in Latin and Greek, and
neither knew anything of Hebrew. My husband—ever generous to a fault
in the expenditure of his own time and strength in the service of
others—rashly offered to “coach” them for a few months. I think they
believed him, when he represented that Latin was mere play to him, and
that an hour or two a day would be an advantage to him in refreshing
his recollection of other dead languages.

Alice and I bemoaned ourselves, in confidence and privily, over the
loss of the quietly-happy evenings when we sewed or crocheted, while
the third person of the trio read aloud, as few other men could
read—according to our notion. We grudged sharing the merry chats over
the little round table with those who were not quite au fait to all
our mots de famille, and did not invariably sympathize with our
judgment of people and things. Mr. Frazee was one of the most genial of
men—good through and through, and as kind of heart as he was engaging
in manner. My brother was a fine young fellow, and his sisters loved
him dearly. It was ungracious, ungenerous, and all the other “uns” in
the English language, to regret the former order of every-day life. We
berated ourselves soundly, at each of our secret conferences, and kept
on doing it. Home was still passing lovely, but the stirring went on.

Is everything—moral, spiritual, and physical—epidemic? I put the
question to myself when, less than a week after the arrival of an
invitation to become the leader of the Third Presbyterian Church in
Richmond, Virginia, and before a definite answer was returned, the mail
brought an important document, portentous with signatures and seals
official, requesting Rev. Edward Payson Terhune to assume the pastorate
of the First Reformed Church in Newark, New Jersey.

Here was a crucial test of my voluntary pledge never, by word, look,
or deed, to let my husband suspect the trend of my inclinations with
respect to any proposed change of clerical relations!

For, as I am at liberty now to confess, I wanted to go to Richmond
horribly! Family, friends, ties of early association, strengthened
by nearly fifteen years of residence at the formative period of life;
the solicitations of parents, brothers, sisters, and true and tried
intimates, who wrote to say how delighted they were at the prospect
of having me “back home”—tugged at my heartstrings until I needed
Spartan firmness of will and stoical reticence, to hold me fast to my
vow. Meanwhile, letters bearing Northern postmarks were fluttering
down upon the one whose must be, not the casting vote alone, but the
responsibility of the decision of what he felt was one of the most
momentous problems he was ever to face. Fortunately, neither of us
knew then the full gravity of the crisis.

Looking back from the top of the hill, I see so clearly the working out
of a benign and merciful design in what was then perplexity, puzzle,
and pain, that I cannot say whether humility or devout gratitude has
the ascendancy in my thoughts. Especially is this true when I reflect
that strength was vouchsafed to me to hold my peace, even from what I
conceived was “good,” when my husband brought both calls to me, after
four days of anxious deliberation, and bade me speak one word in favor
of, or against, either.

Side by side, they lay upon my table, and with them a paper upon which
he had set down, clearly and fairly, the pros and cons of each.

He read these aloud, slowly and emphatically, then looked up at me.

“I am in a sore strait! Can you help me?”

In my heart I thought I could, and that right speedily. With my tongue
I said: “No one has a right to say a word. It is a matter between God
and yourself.”

He took up the papers silently, and went to the study. And I prayed,
with strong crying and tears, that God would send us to Richmond.

An hour later he came back. The light of a settled purpose was in his
face. All he said was:

“I have decided to go to Newark. We will talk it over to-morrow
morning.”

He slept soundly that night, for the first time in a week. So did not
I!




XXXVI

MIGRATION NORTHWARD—ACCLIMATION—ALBERT EDWARD, PRINCE OF WALES, IN NEW
YORK—POLITICAL PORTENTS


ONE who had known my husband well for fifty years, wrote of him soon
after his translation: “More than any other man I ever knew, he had a
genius for friendship.”

This testimony is amply supported by the fact that he kept, to his
journey’s end, the friends whose loving confidence he gained during
the five years of his Charlotte pastorate. Those who loved him in his
youth loved him to the end—or so many of them as remained to see the
beautiful close of his long day.

We left our Parsonage home and the parish, which was our first love,
laden with proofs of the deep affection inspired by devoted service in
behalf of a united constituency, and the rare personal gifts of the man
who suffered, in the parting, a wrench as sharp as that which made the
separation a grief to each member of the flock he was leaving. It was a
just tribute to his integrity of purpose and conscientiousness that the
purity of his motives in deciding upon the step were never questioned.
Leading men in the church said openly that they could not have hoped to
keep him, after his talents and his ability to fill worthily a wider
field were recognized in the world outlying this section of the Great
Vineyard. They had foreseen that the parting must come, and that before
long. He was a growing man, and the sphere they offered was narrow.

It was in no spirit of Christian philosophy that I dismantled the nest
among the oaks, and packed my Lares and Penates with a fair show of
cheerfulness. Inly, I was in high revolt for a full week after the die
was cast. The final acceptance of the inevitable, and the steadfast
setting of my face Northward, ensued upon the persuasion that the one
and only thing for a sensible, God-fearing woman to do was to make the
very best of what no human power could avert.

It is a family saying, based upon the assertion of my eldest daughter,
that “if mother were set down in the middle of the Desert of Sahara,
and made to comprehend that she must spend the rest of her days there,
she would, within ten minutes, begin to expatiate upon the many
advantages of a dry climate as a residential region.”

By the time we stayed our flight in Richmond, where we spent our
Christmas, I took from the worn and harassed man of the hour the burden
of explanation and defence of the reasons for tearing ourselves up
by the roots and transplanting the tender vine into what some of our
best wishers called, “alien soil.” I had worked myself into an honest
defender of the Middle States in contradistinction to “Yankee land,”
before we departed, bag, baggage, and baby, for the new home.

Mr. Terhune had preached twice in Newark, in December, after formally
accepting the call. We removed to that city in February of 1859.

With the Saharan spirit in full flow, I met the welcoming “people”;
settled in the house we bought in a pleasant quarter of the
growing city—then claiming a population of less than seventy-five
thousand—installed white servants; received and returned calls, and
was, for the first time in my life, homesick at heart for three months.

In the recollection of the eighteen years that succeeded that period of
blind rebellion against the gentle leading which was, for us, wisdom
and loving-kindness throughout, I write down the confession in shame
and confusion of face, and abasement of soul.

I stay the course of the narrative at this point to record, devoutly
and gratefully, that never had pastor and pastor’s wife, in any section
of our land, a parish in which “pleasant places” did more richly
abound. I would write down, yet more emphatically and thankfully, the
amazing fact that, in the dozen-and-a-half years of my dwelling among
them, I never had a word of unkind criticism of myself and my ways; not
a remark that could wound or offend was ever addressed to me.

I wish I might have that last paragraph engraved in golden capitals and
set to the everlasting credit of that Ideal Parish! To this hour, I
turn instinctively in times of joy and of sorrow, as to members of the
true household of faith, to the comparatively small band of the once
large congregation who are left alive upon the earth.

For eighteen years I walked up the central aisle of the church, as
I might tread the halls and chambers of my father’s house in that
far Southern town, with the consciousness that we were surrounded by
an atmosphere of affectionate appreciation, at once comforting and
invigorating.

All this—and I understate, rather than exaggerate, the real state of
circumstance and feeling I am trying to depict—was the more surprising,
because I went to this people young, and with little experience as a
clergyman’s wife. In Charlotte, I had, as we have seen, done no “church
work.” I was petted and made much of, in consideration of my position
as the wife of the idolized pastor, and my newness to the duties of
country housekeeping and the nursery. In Newark, I was gradually to
discover that I could not shirk certain obligations connected with
parish and city charities. The logic of events—never the monitions of
friends and parishioners—opened my eyes to the truth. When, at length,
I took charge of a girls’ Bible Class, and, some years after, worked
up the Infant Class from tens to hundreds, there was much expression
of unfeigned gratification and eager rallying to my help, not an
intimation of relief that I “had, at last, seen my way clear to the
performance of what everybody else had expected of a minister’s wife.”

I have never had a higher compliment than was paid me by the
invitation, a dozen years back, to address the Alumni of Union
Theological Seminary in New York City upon the subject of “Ministers’
Wives.”

I took occasion, in the presence of that grave and reverend assembly of
distinguished theologues, to pay a brief tribute, as strong as words
could make it, to that Ideal Parish. I could not withhold it then. I
cannot keep it back now. I believe my experience in this regard to be
highly exceptional. More’s the pity and the shame!

Five children were born to us in those happy, busy years. Each was
adopted lovingly by the people, so far as prideful affection and
generous deeds implied adoption. We were all of one family.

Returning to the direct line of my narrative—the spring of 1860 found
us well, at work, and contented. I had good servants, kindly neighbors,
and a growing host of congenial acquaintances. Our proximity to New
York was an important factor in the lives of both of us, bringing us,
as it did, within easy reach of the best libraries and shops in the
country, and putting numberless means of entertainment and education at
our very door. There were two babies by now—healthy, happy, bright—in
every way thoroughly satisfactory specimens of infant humanity. In
the matter of children’s nurses, I have been extraordinarily blessed
among American women. In the twenty-one years separating the birth of
our elder boy from the day when the younger was released from nursery
government, I had but three of these indispensable comforts. Two
married after years of faithful service; the third retired upon an
invalid’s pension. All were Irish by birth. After much experience in,
and more observation of, the Domestic Service of these United States,
I incline to believe that, as a rule, we draw our best material from
Celtic emigrant stock.

So smoothly ran the sands of life that I recall but one striking
incident in the early part of 1860. That was the visit of the Prince of
Wales to this country. We witnessed the passage of the long procession
that received and escorted him up-town, to his quarters at the, then,
new and fashionable hostelry—the Fifth Avenue Hotel. My husband went
down to the Battery to see the princeling’s review of the regiments
drawn up in line before him, as he rode from end to end of the
parade-ground.

Joining us at the window, from which we had a splendid view of the
pageant, the critic, who was an accomplished horseman, reported
disdainfully that “the boy was exceedingly awkward. He had no seat to
speak of, leaning forward, until his weak chin was nearly on a line
with the horse’s ears, and sticking his feet out stiffly on each side.”

Our impression of the imperial youth was not more agreeable. He sat
back in the open coach, “hunched” together in an ungainly heap, looking
neither to the right nor the left, evincing no consciousness of the
existence of the shouting throngs that lined the pavements ten deep,
other than by raising, with the lifeless precision of a mechanical toy,
the cocked hat he wore as part of the uniform of a British colonel.

There was a big ball the next night, at which gowns of fabulous prices
were sported, and reported by the newspapers, and Albert Edward flitted
on to his mother’s dominions of Canada, leaving not a ripple in the
ocean of local and national happenings.

That ocean was stilling and darkening with the brooding of a
threatening storm. Newspapers bristled with portents and denunciations;
demagogues bellowed themselves hoarse in parks and from stumps;
torchlight processions displayed new and startling features.

“So much for so little!” sighed I, upon our return from a lookout
at the nearest corner, commanding long miles of marching men. “It
was ingenious and amusing; but what a deal of drilling those embryo
patriots must have gone through to do it so well! And for what? The
President will be elected, as other Presidents have been, and as maybe
a hundred others will be, and there the farce will end. Does it pay to
amuse themselves so very hard?”

“If we could be sure that it would end there!” answered my husband,
with unexpected gravity. “The sky is red and lowering in the South.
Between politicians, and the freedom of the press to play with all
sorts of explosives, there is no telling what the rabble may do.”

I looked up, startled.

“You are not in earnest? The good Ship of State has been driving
straight on to the rocks ever since I can recollect, and she has not
struck yet. Think of the Clay and Polk campaign!”

“Child’s play compared with the fight that is on now!” was the curt
retort.

Something—I know not what—in his manner moved me to put a leading
question.

“Have you made up your mind how you will vote?”

“Yes.”

“A month ago, you said you had not.”

“A good deal has happened in that month.”

It was not like him to be sententious with me, but I pushed the subject.

“I have never interfered with your political opinions, as you know,
and I don’t care to vote, myself; but if I had a vote, I should be in
no doubt where to cast it. Lovers of peace and concord should unite
upon Bell and Everett. That party seems to me to represent the sanest
element in this mammoth muddle.”

He smiled.

“To say nothing of your fondness for Mr. Everett. A charming gentleman,
I grant. But the helm of state is not to be in his hands. Even,
supposing”—grave again, and sighing slightly—“that they are strong
enough to hold it in a storm.”

There was a boding pause. Then I spoke, and unadvisedly:

“I ask no questions that I think you would not care to answer. But I
do hope you are not thinking of voting for Abraham Lincoln? Think of
him in the White House! Mr. Buchanan may be weak—and a Democrat. I
heard father say, as the one drop of comfort he could express from his
election: ‘At any rate, he is a gentleman by birth and breeding.’ Mr.
Lincoln is low-born, and has no pretensions to breeding.”

“Then, if I should be so far lost to the proprieties as to vote for
him, I would better not let either of you know.” And he glanced
teasingly at Alice, who had just entered the room.

“I could never respect you if you did!” she said, spiritedly. “I am
persuaded better things of you.”

A teasing rejoinder was all she got out of him. The matter was never
brought up again by any of us. When Election Day came, I was too proud
to seem inquisitive. But in my inmost soul I was assured that reticence
boded no good to my hope of one gallant gentleman’s vote for Bell and
Everett.

Months afterward, when we were once again of one mind with respect to
the nation’s peril and the nation’s need, he told me that he had kept
his own counsel, not only because the truth might grieve me, but that
party feeling ran so high in his church he thought it best not to
intimate to any one how he meant to vote.

“And, like Harry Percy’s wife, I could be trusted not to tell what I
did not know?” said I.

“You might have been catechised,” he admitted. “There are times when
the Know-nothing policy is the safest.”




XXXVII

THE PANIC OF ’61—A VIRGINIA VACATION—MUTTERINGS OF COMING STORM


BAYARD TAYLOR said to me once of a publishing house, “An honest firm,
but one that has an incorrigible habit of failing!”

The habit was epidemic in the first half of 1861. Among others who
caught the trick were my publishers. Like a thunderbolt came the
announcement, when I was expecting my February semi-annual remittance
of fat royalties: “We regret to inform you that we have been compelled
to succumb to the stringency of the times.”

The political heavens were black with storm-clouds, and, as was
inevitable then, and is now, the monetary market shut its jaws tightly
upon everything within reach. We could not reasonably have expected
immunity, but we had. We had never known the pinch of financial
“difficulties.” Prudent salaried men are the last to feel hard times,
if their wage is paid regularly. I had three books in the hands of the
“failing” firm. All were “good sellers,” and I had come to look upon
royalties as my husband regarded his salary, as a sure and certain
source of revenue.

We had other and what appeared to us graver anxieties. My sister Alice
had passed the winter with us, and the climate had told unhappily upon
her throat. My husband had not escaped injury from the pernicious
sea-fogs and the malarial marshes, over which the breath of the
