didn’t want to stay. So I wrote to Aunt Emma. 
She was very good about taking me and 
thought after more study I could get a better 
position. I am glad that I came and I mean 
to do my best. I suppose I could go in a store 
at Barnford, but I know only one girl in that 
place. She likes it ever so much. But it 
seems better to stay here with Aunt Emma. 
They all said that I made a very good teacher 
and were sorry to have me go. I don’t believe 
the young woman will like it over much.” 
It was a commonplace, rather pitiful story. 
Lilian Firth fancied her life wrecked. She 
was one of the girls who could be perfectly 
content with a home and husband of her own. 
He need not be very high up in the intellectual 
round, she had no strong leanings that way 
herself. 
Then Helen recalled Miss Trevor of her 
freshman year. There was a girl who had 
put love and home above the opportunities of 
advancement. She was a different kind of 
girl, but this one might be roused to attempt 
something. 
“ I suppose you think me a silly thing to care 
so much about — about what I have lost. I 
told Aunt Emma, and she said that five years 
from this time I shall be glad and thankful 
that I didn’t marry him. She thought my 
mother had thrown herself away. She was 
very pretty, too, Aunt Emma says. But some- 
how I can’t get over all the hopes and the love, 
and in five years I shall be cjuite an old maid. 
I’m sure that Miss Parker must be near forty. 
And Miss Jaynes isn’t young.” 
“ There are a great many fine and happy 
single women nowadays.” 
Miss Firth was dabbing her eyes. Helen 
felt truly sorry for her and could understand 
how great a sorrow it had been ; but she hardly 
knew how to sympathize with her. A man 
won from his allegiance by a little personal 
advancement was really not worth a girl’s re- 
 
gret. And Mrs. Stirling was minded to be 
very good to her. 
There had been a week of school now. 
Helen felt weary and stole off by herself, turn- 
ing to the north, and was soon lost in a clump 
of woods. There was a winding path and it 
led down to the river. Up above Westfield it 
was navigable only for smaller craft, and here 
was a bridge for driving and pedestrians. It 
looked so peaceful and smiling, lighted by the 
afternoon sunshine. 
“ I do not believe there is anything to be 
afraid of," she reflected. “ I want to get 
away from the thought of school. It has been 
a trying week. Mr. Underwood seems to let 
me severely alone." 
She hardly knew whether to be pleased or 
not. 
Mr. Underwood was amazed at the order 
she had brought out of chaos. He had been 
very busy as well, getting scholars into the 
traces after the long vacation. And she had 
seemed quite sufficient for the task. But a 
word of friendly commendation would have 
done her so much good! 
After she had crossed the bridge she kept 
along by the river road. Blue chicory was 
still showing blooms and the wood asters were 
beginning to come out. Here were patches of 
the old-time Bouncing Bet in deep as well as 
pale pink. Minor small flowers were throw- 
ing out bloom, blackberry branches were bright 
with autumnal crimson already. Here and 
there a maple showed a limb of gorgeous color- 
ing. There was a trickle of a stream, the road 
had been bridged over. A pretty runlet came 
crookedly down the elevation, turned this 
side and that by stones, fretting around them, 
leaping, dancing, laughing almost like some 
living thing. Why, it was quite a fairy spot, 
and she smiled herself, it appealed so to her. 
Here were some dainty wild flowers quite new 
to her, and she gathered them for examina- 
tion. 
The girls were pouring into the dear old col- 
lege now, and she longed to be among them, 
only life could not be all pleasure and 
gratification if you meant to do anything with it. 
Why, it had been several weeks since she had 
heard from Leslie. She hoped all things were 
going well with her, but why not ? Mr. Morse 
could be trusted to the uttermost. And did 
Miss Carr like her new position? Oh, what 
delightful days and weeks those had been ! 
She sat down on a great stone and lived them 
over. A squirrel came and peered at her out 
of his flashing, beady eyes, and far in the still 
woods the thrushes were answering one an- 
other. She clasped her arms about her knees 
and took it all in, — just rested. What a nook 
of refuge it was! How all the cares and per- 
plexities fell away ! 
A vehicle of some sort went crunching 
along. She did not look up, but the occupant 
glanced out and held in the horses that came to 
a standstill. She was startled — no, she would 
not stir nor look. But the driver sprang out. 
“ Miss Grant, are you lost like the babes in 
the wood?” said a familiar voice. 
“ Oh, Mr. Hildreth ! There isn’t but one 
of me. And I have only to walk down a little 
distance and cross the bridge when I shall be 
safe in the very shadow of the school that I 
ran away from.” 
“ Were you disgusted?” 
She kept along by the river road.
She laughed wholesomely. 
“ That is rather too strong a word, hardly 
fair to my scholars. I was tired of the whirl 
and didn’t want to speak to any one. Then I 
wanted to see what was over here. I thought 
I would take a walk, but instead this small 
stream and the great stone wooed me, so I sat 
down and dreamed.” 
“ Did you come alone ? ” in quick inquiry. 
“ Why — yes.” Had she been venturesome? 
“ I wanted the solitude.” 
“ Women and girls go berrying. But you 
are not used to the country,” in a light tone of 
solicitude. 
“ Nor the ways, perhaps. I truly do not 
want to do ‘ anything reprehensible.’ ” She 
rose then. “ Perhaps I had better retrace my 
steps. But I am a country girl of the fearless 
kind. And I have quite recovered my right 
mind, my placid temper.” 
“ Has it been pretty hard ? And such sum- 
mer weather! I was coming in this evening 
to see how you endured it.” 
“ There has been a great deal of confusion 
getting pupils in their right places and listening 
$ 
to what was done at Newton and Glendale. 
The two-year pupils seem to be endued 
with all wisdom. But we shall get settled 
presently.” 
“ I am going up to Rossmore. Let me take 
you along. It is a beautiful drive; a little late 
perhaps, but it is not far. And we can talk at 
our leisure.” 
She hesitated, but he took hold of her arm 
and led her to the carriage and helped her in, 
and the horses started up. 
“ What is Rossmore ? ” she asked with a lit- 
tle wonder. 
“ A sort of — well, hamlet. I like the old 
English term. Three or four hundred people. 
A church, a chapel, a schoolhouse, a drug 
store, a country store, a baseball ground, — oh, 
and a blacksmith shop. The rest in residences 
— men, women, and children. Am I not good 
in description ? ” 
“ Terse and concise,” with amusement in 
her tone. 
“ And at six, or a little before, the smith is 
to pay me some borrowed money.” 
She flushed deeply. “ I did not mean to 
inquire what was taking you there. Pardon 
me.” 
“ I think you did not. This is a very good, 
upright man. But I have more time than he 
has, and he asked me to come. And now let 
me satisfy my curiosity about school matters. 
How has it gone this week? Mr. Underwood 
said last evening you had really worked won- 
ders in getting things into shape.” 
“ Did he say that? You and he are warm 
friends.” Her face flushed with pleasure. 
“ Quite old friends, with a good deal of 
respect for each other. And I dare say you 
were a little homesick.” 
“ For my cloistered walls. That is poetical. 
I can understand how men love to spend years 
in the familiar precincts. Some day I may 
return and take up the new sciences and dis- 
coveries. But now I am getting fitted into 
my place here.” 
“ The young lady at Mrs. Stirling’s is not 
going to bore you, I hope.” 
“ Oh, no ! They are both very nice and 
thoughtful.” Then after a pause, “ I suppose 
you know the Eastmans ? ” 
“ Very well. The father is a fine man. 
They are about the richest people in town. I 
wish they had half a dozen children instead of 
that one. Only sons are apt to come to grief. 
I wish they had sent him to some of those 
semi-military schools. You haven’t had 
trouble with him already? ” 
“ No, though I scent it afar off. He seems 
to have quite ruled the school at Glendale by 
his talk. And he expects to take his own way 
in his studies.” 
“ Mr. Underwood had some trouble with 
him two years ago. He can study if he 
chooses.” 
“ He doesn’t seem well up in Latin and his 
German is something fearful. I am afraid I 
am telling tales out of school. But it is a mis- 
take to let your scholars consider themselves 
proficient when they have the merest smatter- 
ing of any study.” 
“ If there is any trouble turn him over to 
Mr. Underwood.” 
“ I do not want Mr. Underwood to think I 
am deficient in discipline. But I have had no 
experience with large boys, you know. I have 
heard this is frequently the way with a new 
teacher; they try her mettle,” with a faint 
smile. 
“ Such boys need a man for everything. On 
the other hand, we have so many more girls 
than boys that a woman seems the proper 
thing. Oh, I wonder if I have given you a 
burden that is too heavy.” 
“Why, no! no! And some of them seem 
most eager to learn. There is a fine scholar in 
a little lame boy, Allen Millard. I’ve taken a 
great fancy to him. And some of the boys are 
very chivalrous. What are the outside amuse- 
ments ? ” 
“ I suppose there will be a baseball club.” 
“And isn’t there a tennis court? We girls 
did almost everything. Shall I startle you by 
saying we had running contests, leaping, jump- 
ing, basketball, outdoor exercise as well as the 
gymnasium ? ” and there was a touch of daring 
amusement in her tone. 
“ You are a good exponent of the regimen,” 
and she colored under the gaze that seemed 
almost examination, yet was in no wise 
presuming. 
“ Here we are. I will fasten the horses so 
you will not be run away with. Do you ride ? 
You can drive, of course?” 
“ Yes, we even learned to ride at college. 
We had theories about cooking, though I be- 
lieve there is to be a branch for that. But most 
of us could mend and darn in case we were re- 
duced to that for an occupation, or married,” 
raising laughing eyes. 
It did not take long to transact his business 
in a satisfactory manner, and Mr. Hildreth re- 
joined her. 
“ Now we will take a spin,” he said, “ and 
cross the upper bridge.” 
The sky was aflame with the glory of a 
brilliant sunset that fairly gilded the trees. 
And the dew, though scarcely perceptible, filled 
the air with innumerable fragrances. Helen’s 
pulse grew buoyant, and the perplexities van- 
ished. After crossing the bridge they went 
on to the upper road, the back road in the town 
parlance. They came down then to Milford 
Street, and at the gate he paused. 
“ You have given me a most delightful 
afternoon, and I thank you very much. 
Don’t disturb yourself,” and she sprang 
out lightly. 
“ It has been a great pleasure to me. And 
if there comes any trouble I beg most earnestly 
that you will let me know. I feel to a degree 
answerable for your comfort. Good-evening.” 
She went around to the side gate where a 
porch ran across the end of the dining-room, 
and a door opened into it. 
“Oh, Miss Grant! We thought maybe you 
had gone home with Mrs. Underwood to dinner. 
She was asking for you.” 
“Was she? I took a walk; crossed the 
bridge to see what was on the other side.” 
“ It’s rather late to be out alone. Still I 
must say we are very free from tramps. We 
had a workhouse two or three years ago and 
after that the gentry gave us a wide berth. 
But the other side belongs to a different 
county and we cannot answer for that.” 
Helen felt her face flush. Was her ride 
quite within the bounds of propriety, she won- 
dered. It had been so unexpected, and she 
felt so entirely friendly with Mr. Hildreth. 
Lilian was in the kitchen helping her aunt, as 
 
the domestic had gone home to spend the night 
with her sick mother. 
“ I do not know that it was quite good judg- 
ment,’ Helen replied gravely. “ But, you see, 
I was brought up in the country and used to 
going about without a thought. It makes a 
person rather fearless. Oh, I hope you were 
not anxious ! ” 
“ We thought you at the Underwoods’, of 
course.” 
Helen wondered if it was quite right to 
allow the matter to rest that way. Yet she 
was not supposed to give an account of her 
comings and goings. She was a young woman 
quite on her own responsibility. Still she did 
not want to give cause for any foolish gossip. 
But Mr. Hildreth was delightful in that 
elderly, sensible fashion, like the professors. 
A young lad could be proffered the run of the 
house, the acquaintanceship with the books. 
She could almost envy the imaginary young 
lad. 
“ Supper is all ready,” announced the niece. 
Helen ran upstairs and laid off her hat; she 
longed to put on a fresh shirtwaist, but she 
would not keep Mrs. Stirling waiting, and she 
had seen the omelet brought in. They kept to 
the old-fashioned midday dinner, but there 
was always some tidbit for supper. 
“ Oh, Miss Grant, are you not glad the 
school week has ended?” asked Lilian. “It 
has seemed such a long week.” 
“ A short week to me. I haven’t made 
the progress I meant to or thought quite pos- 
sible. And I want us all to start in next week 
in good earnest and accomplish something.” 
Lilian sighed. “ It is going to be hard 
work. Do you think the Latin will be of any 
service to me? I do not believe half the 
teachers study it.” 
“ You see the high school course is laid out 
partly for college entrance and the higher edu- 
cation. It helps in various ways in training 
the mind. You are very good in some 
branches. When you get into the regular 
groove you will not find it so hard.” 
“ I should never teach it.” 
“Why not take the kindergarten course? 
And there are other things — office work, 
stenography, typewriting, bookkeeping.” 
“ I like school-teaching because you have 
your Saturdays. And there is the long vaca- 
tion, the being with other people.” 
“ And as you have taken it up, Lilian,” said 
her aunt, “ I would go on. I shall be glad to 
have you here, so you need not worry about a 
home. And educated people do rank a little 
higher in the social scale, though that should 
not be the highest incentive,” smiling a little. 
“ Try it for a year,” subjoined Helen. 
“ I’m glad Miss Parker is not my teacher. 
She looks as if she might be quite cross. Miss 
Jaynes is very pleasant,” Lilian remarked after 
a while. 
Miss Jaynes was the assistant. A round, 
rosy, smiling girl of four or five and twenty, 
with an easy, attractive manner. Helen 
thought she should like her as well. 
They were just through supper when a lad 
came with a note for Miss Grant. 
Mrs. Underwood wished her to come to 
luncheon the next day and meet Miss Parker. 
Just a plain informal matter, to talk “ shop ” a 
little. 
Helen returned an acceptance. They had a 
pleasant, quiet evening, she comfortably en- 
sconced in the corner of the commodious sofa, 
while Mrs. Stirling talked of the changes in 
Westfield since her coming and the legends 
that had grown up around some of the old set- 
tlers. The Stirlings had been among these, 
nearly two hundred years before. She had a 
very pleasant voice, and though tinctured with 
some formalisms was really an interesting 
talker. 
CHAPTER IV 
MISS PARKER 
The Underwoods lived in a pretty cottage 
not far from the school, but some distance be- 
low Milford Street. Helen was ushered into 
the parlor by the hostess, who looked really 
very girlish in her white gown much be- 
ruffled. 
“Of course you have met Miss Parker, but 
I thought it would be nice to take a meal to- 
gether. You see I dispense with a maid. They 
are a good deal of vexation and awfully ex- 
pensive nowadays. We take our dinner out at 
night, it saves a great deal of planning. Break- 
fast and lunch I don’t mind, ours are rather 
simple affairs. Saturday is my guest day, as 
I have a woman all the morning.” 
“ That must make the wheels of housekeep- 
ing run very smoothly,” said Helen. “ I ad- 
mire the plan.” 
“ Only if your guest was a busy housekeeper 
herself ” remarked Miss Parker. “ For 
us who have Saturdays off it is very con- 
venient.” 
“ But, you see, I don’t give big dinners and 
all that. It may be selfish to plan your life 
with direct reference to your own convenience, 
but why shouldn't one? You have to live your 
own life, no friend can live it for you. I 
always stay at home one day in the week un- 
less something special occurs, so my friends 
know just when to find me. The other days 
I am at liberty to go out.” 
“ One would not fancy you so methodical,” 
commented Miss Parker. 
She did not look like it with her merry face 
and her gay voice, and a certain offhand air. 
Now she laughed lightly. 
“ I’ve been trained into it. Mr. Underwood 
likes a settled routine. You know just where 
to find yourself. I did protest at first, but I 
found it was a real saving of nervous force, 
And perhaps it will keep me young. I should 
hate to wear out before my time.” 
“ It is fortunate that you can take life 
yO HELEN GRANT, TEACHER 
this way. Now if you were the school- 
teacher ” 
“Ah! You see I had no grand ideas of 
renovating the world in those youthful days. 
I wanted a home and a pleasant life, a husband 
not too exigent. Miss Grant, is this heresy to 
your thinking? ” 
Helen smiled. “ It sounds very pleasant,” 
she said. 
“What is pleasant?” Mr. Underwood 
entered the room and shook hands first with 
Helen, as she was nearest. “ If it is the past 
week, you are made of excellent material.” 
“ Indeed it is not,” protested his wife. “ I 
was airing my ideas of setting out with the 
ordinary aim, not demanding too much, and 
working with all your mind and heart to get 
the thing you merit.” 
“ I suppose, then, Miss Grant agreed with 
you.” 
“ Every one may not have the same aim or 
be satisfied with the same — shall we call it 
destiny ? But I think it a good plan to set out 
earnestly for some particular thing.” 
“ In my case it was the husband.” 
She looked up at him with a merry glint in 
her eyes. 
“ And you see how well she succeeded.’ 
“ I shall advise them to go and do like- 
wise.” 
“ I don’t know how I would manage with- 
out Miss Parker. But if the man was admir- 
able in every respect ” 
“ They are not all admirable,” Miss Parker 
returned rather shortly, with a touch of 
disgust. 
“ The banquet waits,” announced Mrs. Un- 
derwood at a signal from her impromptu maid. 
“ I sent word to Miss Grant that you would 
talk shop. It won’t bore me at all. I know 
you must want to compare notes.” 
Mr. Underwood seated the ladies. The 
dainty oysters at each place looked tempting. 
“ Did you find it very severe, Miss Grant ? 
I looked for you to offer a word of condolence, 
but you disappeared so suddenly. And no 
one seemed to know where you had gone.” 
Helen flushed a little at the thought of her 
escapade, if indeed it was that. 
“ Why,” hesitatingly, “ I had not counted 
 
on tranquil seas and smooth sailing. We were 
all strangers and I had to learn, or at least 
make allowance for their ways and training of 
which I knew next to nothing.” 
“ And the heat was enough to drive one 
half crazy,” added Miss Parker. “ I don’t 
know that we ever had such a bad begin- 
ning. There were five new children from 
over the river, but I sincerely wish they had 
not been granted the privilege. I do not be- 
lieve they can keep their standing.” 
“ Scholarship is not very high over there,” 
nodded Mr. Underwood. “ There is a Miss 
Winters, Georgia Winters, who graduated and 
has spent a year in a private school. Can you 
recall her, Miss Grant?” 
Helen thought a moment. “ My mind is 
not quite a directory yet,” she returned laugh- 
ingly. 
“ A tall girl, with rather pretty chestnut hair 
that just missed being red. Her mother con- 
siders her a very fine scholar, quite proficient 
in Latin and French.” 
“ Oh ! I think I can recall her. She must 
be sixteen at least.” 
“ Yes. Her mother thought a year in the 
high school would enable her to graduate.’’ 
“ The first form in Latin is going to be 
rather full,” began Helen dryly. “ Un- 
less ” 
“ They must be rated according to their 
attainments. We cannot begin by lowering 
oar standard. And you will not be able to 
find their exact places at once.” 
“ And how do you like boys?” asked Miss 
Parker. 
Helen flushed. “ I have known a good 
many and grew up with some of them.” 
“ But a woman’s college must be very dif- 
ferent from — well, a public school.” 
Miss Parker had a little soreness of heart. 
She wished she had been able to fill the place. 
There had been no room for college in her 
busy life. She had taught eighteen years, 
working up from a primary grade in the larger 
town of Camden. She had been here eight 
years. Mr. Underwood soon learned her 
capabilities and had her promoted. Last year 
she could have been principal in a smaller 
school but there was no higher salary. She 
 
liked to work with Mr. Underwood, and he 
thoroughly appreciated her. She was a fine 
disciplinarian, an excellent teacher. 
“ I should like to see you at the head of this 
new school,” he had said to her, ‘‘but I 
should miss you tremendously. We pull to- 
gether so harmoniously, we fall so into each 
other’s methods. But they have decided upon 
a graduate fresh from college. I suppose it is 
needed. We go in for the higher things now- 
adays, and we do want to turn out first-class 
scholarship.” 
“ Yes, I should be proud to fill such a posi- 
tion. But I couldn’t construe a page of Latin 
or write an hexameter, and I have just a smat- 
tering of several ’ologies. I had a vague idea 
once that I would study up in the higher 
branches, but I guess my knowledge will suf- 
fice me. When I get sufficient money saved 
I shall retire,” with an abrupt and rather 
scornful laugh, “ or some inconsolable wid- 
ower may take pity on me and offer me a 
home.” 
Marcia Parker’s sad little romance had 
leaked out. Some friend who had known her 
 
told it to her credit. There had been a par- 
tially paralyzed mother and an old father, and 
two brothers who felt free to marry as soon 
as they were in any position to support a wife. 
She had struggled along until the old father 
dropped out of life. For years a lover had 
waited and then his ardor cooled. A bright 
young girl had captured him. Marcia had come 
to Westfield with her mother to get away 
from the gossip and the sympathy that grated 
horribly on her nerves. Three years after 
Mr. Underwood came she found herself free 
from care, and had met with honest apprecia- 
tion in her work. Now she kept two rooms 
and took her meals with the family, truly glad 
of the relief from housekeeping. 
Miss Grant’s credentials had been of so high 
an order there could be no question as to her 
capabilities. Mr. Hildreth was too wise a 
man to arouse any opposition by undue praise. 
“ She is very young for the position,” the 
principal said, in a tone of surprise. But she 
had been asked and accepted. 
Miss Parker was more than surprised at 
the meeting. She had fancied her six or seven 
and twenty, with her post-graduate course and 
her high endorsement. This was what came 
of a free and untrammeled early womanhood. 
A certain jealousy tore her heart that she had 
trained to a grudging acceptance of fate. Not 
so much of the girl, bright, eager, glowing 
with health and courage, as all the events and 
prosperity that had made it possible for her to 
achieve so much in youth. 
“ She will never do ! ” she had said to Mr. 
Underwood on the second day. “ The big 
boys will run over her. It isn’t altogether 
knowledge, — some experience is needed.” 
But by Friday she had changed her mind a 
little, though a certain disbelief still held 
sway. 
Mrs. Underwood had planned the luncheon. 
She was curious to see more of Miss Grant. 
“ Why, yes,” answered Helen after a mo- 
