They were Welsh, they told us, and they were speak- 
ing their language to right and left of us, while 
they were so courteous to us in English. It was 
quite like a church fair in some American village, 
where, however, it could not have had the advantage 
of a ruined Norman castle for its scene, and where 
it would not have provided a range for target prac- 
tice with air-guns, or grounds for running and 
jumping. 

The place was filled with people young and old who 
were quietly amusing themselves and were more taken 
up with the fair than with the castle. I must myself 
comparatively slight the castle in the present study of 
people rather than places, though I may note that if 
there is any more interesting ruin in the world, I am 
satisfied with this which it surpasses. Besides its 
beauty, what strikes one most is its perfect adapta- 
tion to the original purpose of palace and fortress 
for which the Normans planned their strongholds in 
Wales. The architect built not only with a constant 
instinct of beauty, but with unsurpassable science and 
skill. The skill and the science have gone the way of 
the need of them, but the beauty remains indelible 

 

and as eternal as the hunger for it in the human soul. 
Conway castle is not all a ruin, even as a fortress, how- 
ever. Great part of it still challenges decay, and is 
so entire in its outward shape that it has inspired the 
railway running under its shoulder to attempt a con- 
formity of style in the bridge approaching it, but with- 
out enabling it to an equal effect of grandeur. One 
would as soon the bridge had not tried. 

All Conway is worthy, within its ancient walls, of 
as much devotion as one can render it in the rain, 
which begins as soon as you leave the castle. The 
walls climb from the waters to the hills, and the streets 
wander up and down and seem to the stranger mainly 
to seek that beautiful old Tudor house, Plas Mawr, 
which like the castle is without rival in its kind. It 
was full of reeking and streaming sight-seers, among 
whom one could easily find one's self incommoded 
without feeling one's self a part of the incommoda- 
tion, but in spite of them there was the assurance of 
comfort as well as splendor in the noble old mansion, 
such as the Elizabethan houses so successfully studied. 
In the dining-room a corner of the mantel has its sand- 
stone deeply worn away, and a much-elbowed architect, 
who was taking measurements of the chimney, agreed 
that this carf was the effect of the host or the butler 
flying to the place and sharpening his knife for 
whatever haunch of venison or round of beef was 
toward. It was a fine memento of the domestic past, 
and there was a secret chamber where the refugees of 
this cause or that in other times were lodged in great 
discomfort. Besides, there was a ghost which was 
fairly crowded out of its accustomed quarters, where 
so far from being able to walk, it would have had 
much ado to stand upright by flattening itself against 
the wall. 

 



VI 



In fact, there was not much more room that day 
in the PI as Mawr, than in the Smallest House in the 
World, which is the next chiefest attraction of Con- 
way. This, too, was crammed with damp enthusiasts, 
passionately eager to sign their names in the guest-book. 
They scarcely left space in the sitting-room of ten by 
twelve feet for the merry old hostess selling photo- 
graphs and ironically inviting her visitors' guests to a 
glimpse of the chamber overhead, or so much of it as 
the bed allowed to be seen. She seemed not to be- 
lieve in her abode as a practicable tenement, and could 
not be got to say that she actually lived in it; as to 
why it was built so small she was equally vague. But 
there it was, to like or to leave, and there, not far off, 
was the " briny beach " where the Walrus and the 
Carpenter walked together, 

" And wept like anything to see 
Such quantities of sand." 

For it was in Conway, as history or tradition is, that 
Through the Looking-Glass was written. 

There are very few places in those storied British 
Isles which are not hallowed by some association with 
literature; but I suppose that Llandudno is as exempt 
as any can be, and I will not try to invoke any dear 
and honored shade from its doubtful obscurity. We 
once varied the even tenor of our days there by driv- 
ing to Penmaenmawr, and wreaking our love of literary 
associations so far as we might by connecting the place 
with the memory of Gladstone, who was literary as well 
as political. We thought with him that Penmaenmawr 



was " the most charming watering-place in Wales," and 
as you drive into the place, the eye of faith will detect 
the house, on the right, in which he spent many happy 
summers. We contented ourselves with driving direct 
to the principal hotel, where I know not what kept us 
from placing ourselves for life. We had tea and jam 
on the pretty lawn, and the society of a large company 
of wasps of the yellow- jacket variety, which must have 
been true Welsh wasps, as peaceful as they were musi- 
cal, and no interloping Scotch or Irish, for they did 
not offer to attack us, but confined themselves alto- 
gether to our jam : to be sure, we thought best to leave 
it to them. 

It is said that the- purple year is not purpler at any 
point on the southernmost shores of England than it 
is at Llandudno. In proof of the mildness of its win- 
ter climate, the presence of many sorts of tender ever- 
greens is alleged, and the persistence of flowers in 
blooming from Christmas to Easter. But those who 
have known the deceitful habits of flowers on the 
Riviera, where they bloom in any but an arctic de- 
gree of cold, will not perhaps hurry to Llandudno 
much later than November. All the way to Penmaen- 
mawr the flowers showed us what they could do in 
summer, whether in field or garden, and there was one 
beautiful hill on which immense sweeps and slopes of 
yellow gorse and purple heather boldly stretched sepa- 
rately, or mingled their dyes in the fearlessness of na- 
ture when she spurns the canons of art. I suppose 
there is no upholsterer or paperhanger who would advise 
mixing or matching yellow and purple in the decora- 
tion of a room, but here the outdoor effect rapt the 
eye in a transport of delight. It was indeed a day 
when almost any arrangement of colors would have 
pleased. 

 



VII 

It is not easy in that much summer-resorted region 
to get at the country in other than its wilder moods; 
it is either town or mountain; but now and then one 
found one's self among harvest-fields, where the yield 
of wheat and oats was far heavier than with us, either 
because the soil was richer or the tilth thorougher. 
The farms indeed looked very fertile, and the farm- 
houses very alluringly clean and neat, at least on the 
outside. They were not gray, as in the West of Eng- 
land, or brick as in the Southeast, but were of stone 
whitewashed, and the roofs were of slate, and not 
thatch or tile. As I have noted, they were not so 
much gathered into villages as in England, and again, 
as I have noted, it is out of such houses that the 
farmers' boys and girls go to the co-educational col- 
leges of the Welsh University. It is still the prefer- 
ence of the farmers that their sons should be educated 
for the ministry, which in that country of multiplied 
dissents has pulpits for every color of contrary-minded- 
ness, as well as livings of the not yet disestablished 
English Church. It is not indeed the English Church 
in speech. The Welsh will have their service and their 
sermon in their own tongue, and when an Oxford or 
Cambridge man is given a Welsh living, he must do 
what he can to conform to the popular demand. It is 
said that in one case, where the incumbent long held 
out against the parish, he compromised by reading the 
service in Welsh with the English pronunciation. But 
the Welsh churches are now supplied with Welsh-speak- 
ing clergy, though whether it is well for the Welsh to 
cling so strongly to their ancient speech is doubted by 
many Welshmen. These hold that it cramps and 



dwarfs the national genius; but in the mean time in 
Ireland the national genius, long enlarged to our uni- 
versal English, offers the strange spectacle of an en- 
deavor to climb back into its Gaelic shell. 

I do not know whether an incident of my experience 
in coming from Chester to Llandudno is to be offered 
as an illustration of Welsh manners or of English man- 
ners. A woman of the middle rank, certainly below 
gentlewoman, but very personable and well dressed, got 
into our carriage where there was no seat for her. She 
was no longer young, but she was not so old as the 
American who offered her his seat. She refused it, 
but consented to sit on the hand-bag and rug which he 
arranged for her, and so remained till she left the 
train, while a half-grown boy and several young men 
kept their countenances and their places, not apparent- 
ly dreaming of offering her a seat, or if they thought 
of her at all, thought she was well punished for let- 
ting the guard crowd her in upon us. By her stature 
and complexion she was undoubtedly Welsh, and these 
youth from theirs were as undoubtedly English. Per- 
haps, then, the incident had better be offered as an 
illustration of Welsh and English manners combined. 




NOTHING is so individual in any man as the peculiar 
blend of characteristics which he has inherited from 
his racial ancestries. The Englishman, who leaves the 
stamp of the most distinct personality upon others, is 
the most mixed, the most various, the most relative of 
all men. He is not English except as he is Welsh, 
Dutch, and Norman, with " a little Latin and less 
Greek " from his earliest visitors and invaders. This 
conception of him will indefinitely simplify the study 
of his nature if it is made in the spirit of the frank 
superficiality which I propose to myself. After the 
most careful scrutiny which I shall he able to give 
him, he will remain, for every future American, the 
contradiction, the anomaly, the mystery which I ex- 
pect to leave him. 



No error of the Englishman's latest invader is com- 
moner than the notion, which perhaps soonest suggests 
itself, that he is a sort of American, tardily arriving 
at our kind of consciousness, with the disadvantages of 
an alien environment, after apparently hopeless arrest 
in unfriendly conditions. The reverse may much more 
easily be true; we may be a sort of Englishmen, and 
the Englishman, if he comes to us and abides with us, 
may become a sort of American. But that is the af- 

 

fair of a possible future, and the actual Englishman 
is certainly not yet any sort of American, unless, in- 
deed, for good and for bad, he is a better sort of Bos- 
tonian. He does not even speak the American lan- 
guage, whatever outlandish accent he uses in speaking 
his own. It may be said, rather too largely, too loose- 
ly, that the more cultivated he is, the more he will 
speak like a cultivated American, until you come to 
the King, or the Royal Family, with whom a strong 
German accent is reported to prevail. The English- 
man may write American, if he is a very good writer, 
but in no case does he spell American. He prefers, as 
far as he remembers it, the Norman spelling, and, the 
Conqueror having said " geole" the Conquered print 
" gaol," which the American invader must pronounce 
" jail," not " gayol." 

The mere mention of the Royal Family advances us 
to the most marked of all the superficial English char- 
acteristics; or, perhaps, loyalty is not superficial, but 
is truly of the blood and bone, and not reasoned prin- 
ciple, but a passion induced by the general volition. 
Whatever it is, it is one of the most explicitly as well 
as the most tacitly pervasive of the English idiosyn- 
crasies. A few years ago say, fifteen or twenty it 
was scarcely known in its present form. It was not 
known at all with many in the time of the latest and 
worst of the Georges, or the time of the happy-go-lucky 
sailor William ; in the earlier time of Victoria, it was 
a chivalrous devotion among the classes, and with the 
masses an affection which almost no other sovereign 
has inspired. I should not be going farther than some 
Englishmen if I said that her personal character saved 
the monarchy; when she died there was not a vestige 
of the republican dream which had remained from a 

sentiment for " the free peoples of antiquity " rather 


than from the Commonwealth. Democracy had in- 
deed effected itself in a wide - spread socialism, but 
the kingship was safe in the hearts of the Queen's 
subjects when the Prince of Wales, who was the first 
of them, went about praising loyalty as prime among 
the civic virtues and duties. The notion took the gen- 
eral fancy, and met with an acceptance in which the old 
superstition of kings by divine right was resuscitated 
with the vulgar. One of the vulgar lately said to an 
American woman who owned that we did not yield an 
equal personal fealty to all our Presidents, " Oh yes, 
but you know that it is only your people that choose 
the President, but God gave us the King." Nothing 
could be opposed to a belief so simple, as in the churches 
of the eldest faith the humble worshipper could not well 
be told that the picture or the statue of his adoration 
was not itself sacred. In fact, it is not going too far, 
at least for a very adventurous spirit, to say that loyalty 
with the English is a sort of religious principle. What 
is with us more or less a joke, sometimes bad, sometimes 
good, namely, our allegiance to the powers that be in 
the person of the Chief Magistrate, is with them a 
most serious thing, at which no man may smile with- 
out loss. 

I was so far from wishing myself to smile at it, that 
I darkled most respectfully about it, without the cour- 
age to inquire directly into the mystery. If it was 
often on my tongue to ask, " What is loyalty ? How 
did you come by it ? Why are you loyal ?" I felt that 
it would be embarrassing when it would not be offen- 
sive, and I should vainly plead in excuse that this 
property of theirs mystified me the more because it 
seemed absolutely left out of the American nature. I 
perceived that in the English it was not less really pres- 
ent because it was mixed, or used to be mixed, with 

 

scandal that the alien can do no more than hint at. 
That sort of abuse has long ceased, and if one were 
now to censure the King, or any of the Royal Family, 
it would be felt to be rather ill bred, and quite unfair, 
since royalty is in no position, to reply to criticism. 
Even the Socialists would think it ill-mannered, though 
in their hearts, if not in their sleeves, they must all the 
while be smiling at the notion of anything sacred in the 
Sovereign. 



Loyalty, like so many other things in England, is a 
convention to which the alien will tacitly conform in 
the measure of his good taste or his good sense. It is 
not his affair, and in the mean time it is a most curious 
and interesting spectacle; but it is not more remark- 
able, perhaps, than the perfect acquiescence in the 
aristocratic forms of society which hedge the King 
with their divinity. We think that family counts 
for much with ourselves, in New England or in Vir- 
ginia; but it counts for nothing at all in comparison 
with the face value at which it is current in England. 
We think we are subject to our plutocracy, when we 
are very much out of humor or out of heart, in some 
such measure as the commoners of England are subject 
to the aristocracy; but that is nonsense. A very rich 
man with us is all the more ridiculous for his more 
millions; he becomes a byword if not a hissing; he is 
the meat of the paragrapher, the awful example of the 
preacher; his money is found to smell of his methods. 
But in England, the greater a nobleman is, the greater 
his honor. The American mother who imagines marry- 
ing her daughter to an English duke, cannot even im- 
agine an English duke say, like him of Devonshire, 



or him of Northumberland, or him of Norfolk with 
the social power and state which wait upon him in his 
duchy and in the whole realm; and so is it in degree 
down to the latest and lowest of the baronets, and of 
those yet humbler men who have been knighted for 
their merits and services in medicine, in literature, 
in art. The greater and greatest nobles are estab- 
lished in a fear which is very like what the fear of 
God used to be when the common people feared Him; 
and, though they are potent political magnates, they 
mainly rule as the King himself does, through the 
secular reverence of those beneath them for their titles 
and the visible images of their state. They are wealthy 
men, of course, with so much substance that, when one 
now and then attempts to waste it, he can hardly do 
so; but their wealth alone would not establish them in 
the popular regard. His wealth does no such effect for 
Mr. Astor in England; and mere money, though it is 
much desired by all, is no more venerated in the per- 
son of its possessor than it is with us. It is ancestry, 
it is the uncontested primacy of families first in their 
place, time out of mind, that lays its resistless hold 
upon the fancy and bows the spirit before it. By 
means of this comes the sovereign effect in the political 
as well as the social state; for, though the people vote 
into or out of power those who vote other people into 
or out of the administration, it is always or so nearly 
always that the exception proves the rule family that 
rules, from the King down to the least attache of the 
most unimportant embassy. No doubt many of the 
English are restive under the fact; and, if one had 
asked their mind about it, one might have found them 
frank enough ; but, never asking it, it was with amuse- 
ment that I heard said once, as if such a thing had 

never occurred to anybody before, " Yes, isn't it strange 

 

that those few families should keep it all among them- 
selves !" It was a slender female voice, lifted by a 
young girl with an air of pensive surprise, as at a 
curious usage of some realm of faery. 





England is in fact, to the American, always a realm 
of faery, in its political and social constitution. It 
must be owned, concerning the government by family, 
that it certainly seems to work well. That justifies it, so 
far as the exclusion of the immense majority from the 
administration of their own affairs can be justified by 
anything; though I hold that the worst form of graft 
in office is hardly less justifiable: that is, at least, one 
of the people picking their pockets. But it is the uni- 
versal make-believe behind all the practical virtue of 
the state that constitutes the English monarchy a realm 
of faery. The whole population, both the great and 
the small, by a common effort of the will, agree that 
there is a man or a woman of a certain line who can 
rightfully inherit the primacy amongst them, and can 
be dedicated through this right to live the life of a god, 
to be so worshipped and flattered, so cockered about 
with every form of moral and material flummery, that 
he or she may well be more than human not to be made 
a fool of. Then, by a like prodigious stroke of voli- 
tion, the inhabitants of the enchanted island universal- 
ly agree that there is a class of them which can be 
called out of their names in some sort of title, be- 
stowed by some ancestral or actual prince, and can 
forthwith be something different from the rest, who 
shall thenceforth do them reverence, them and their 
heirs and assigns, forever. By this amusing process, 



the realm of faery is constituted, a thing which could 
not have any existence in nature, yet by its existence 
in fancy becomes the most absolute of human facts. 

It is not surprising that, in the conditions which 
ensue, snobbishness should abound; the surprising 
thing would be if it did not abound. Even with our- 
selves, who by a seven years' struggle burst the faery 
dream a century ago, that least erected spirit rears its 
loathly head from the dust at times, and in our polite 
press we can read much if we otherwise see nothing 
of its subtle influence. But no evil is without its com- 
pensating good, and the good of English snobbishness 
is that it has reduced loyalty, whether to the prince or 
to the patrician, from a political to a social significance. 
That is, it does so with the upper classes; with the 
lower, loyalty finds expression in an unparalleled pa- 
triotism. An Englishman of the humble or the humbler 
life may know very well that he is not much in him- 
self ; but he believes that England stands for him, and 
that royalty and nobility stand for England. Both of 
these, there, are surrounded by an atmosphere of rev- 
erence wholly inconceivable to the natives of a country 
where there are only millionaires to revere. 



IV 

The most curious thing is that the persons in the 
faery dream seem to believe it as devoutly as the sim- 
plest and humblest of the dreamers. The persons in 
the dream apparently take themselves as seriously as if 
there were or could be in reality kings and lords. They 
could not, of course, do so if they were recently dream- 
ed, as they were, say, in the Erance of the Third Em- 
pire. There, one fancies, these figments must have 

 

always been smiling in each other's faces when they 
were hy themselves. But the faery dream holds solidly 
in England because it is such a very old dream. Be- 
sides, the dream does not interfere with the realities; 
it even honors them. If a man does any great thing 
in England, the chief figure of the faery dream recog- 
nizes his deed, stoops to him, lifts him up among the 
other figures, and makes him part of the dream forever. 
After that he has standing, such as no man may have 
with us for more than that psychological moment, when 
all the papers cry him up, and then everybody tries to 
forget him. But, better than this, the dream has the 
effect, if it has not the fact, of securing every man in 
his place, so long as he keeps to it. Xowhere else in 
the world is there so much personal independence, with- 
out aggression, as in England. There is apparently 
nothing of it in Germany; in Italy, every one is so 
courteous and kind that there is no question of it ; in the 
French Republic and in our own, it exists in an excess 
that is molestive and invasive ; in England alone does it 
strike the observer as being of exactly the just measure. 
Very likely the observer is mistaken, and in the pres- 
ent case he will not insist. After all, even the surface 
indications in such matters are slight and few. But 
what I noted was that, though the simple and humble 
have to go to the wall, and for the most part go to it 
unkicking, in England they were, on their level, re- 
spectfully and patiently entreated. At a railroad junc- 
tion one evening, when there was a great hurrying up 
stairs and down, and a mad seeking of wrong trains 
by right people, the company's servants who were tak- 
ing tickets, and directing passengers this way and that, 
were patiently kind with futile old men and women, 
who came up, in the midst of their torment, and pes- 
tered them with questions as to the time when trains 



that had not arrived would leave after they did arrive. 
I shuddered to think what would have at least verbally 
happened to such inquirers with us; but, there, not 
only their lives but their feelings were safe, and they 
could go away with such self-respect as they had quite 
intact. 



In no country less good-hearted than England could 
anything so wrong-headed as the English baggage sys- 
tem be suffered. But, there, passengers of all kinds 
help the porters to sort their trunks from other people's 
trunks, on arrival at their stations, and apparently 
think it no hardship. The porters, who do not seem 
especially inspired persons, have a sort of guiding in- 
stinct in the matter, and wonderfully seldom fail to 
get the things together for the cab, or to get them off 
the cab, and, duly labelled, into the luggage-van. Once, 
at a great junction, my porter seemed to have missed 
my train, and after vain but not unconsidered appeals 
to the guard, I had to start without it. At the next 
station, the company telegraphed back at its own cost 
the voluminous message of my anxiety and indignation, 
and I was assured that the next train would bring my 
valise from Crewe to Edinburgh. When I arrived at 
Edinburgh, I casually mentioned my trouble to a guard 
whom I had not seen before. He asked how the bags 
were marked, and then he said they had come with us. 
My porter had run with them to my train, but in 
despair of getting to my car with his burden, had put 
them into the last luggage-van, and all I had to do was 
now to identify them at my journey's end. 

Why one does not, guiltily or guiltlessly, claim other 
people's baggage, I do not know; but apparently it is 

 

not the custom. Perhaps in this, the deference for any 
one within his rights, peculiar to the faery dream, oper- 
ates the security of the respective owners of baggage 
that could otherwise easily be the general prey. While 
I saw constant regard paid for personal rights, I saw 
only one case in which they were offensively asserted. 
This was in starting from York for London, when we 
attempted to take possession of a compartment we had 
paid for from the nearest junction, in order to make 
certain of it. We found it in the keeping of a gentle- 
man who had turned it from a non - smoking into a 
smoking compartment, and bestrewn it with his cigar 
ashes. When told by the porters that we had engaged 
the compartment, he refused to stir, and said that he 
had paid for his seat, and he should not leave it till 
he was provided with another. In vain they besought 
him to consider our hard case, in being kept out of our 
own, and promised him another place as good as the 
one he held. He said that he would not believe it till 
he saw it, and as he would not go to see it, and it could 
not be brought to him, there appeared little chance of 
our getting rid of him. I thought it best to let him 
and the porters fight it out among themselves. When 
a force of guards appeared, they were equally inef- 
fective against the intruder, who could not, or did not, 
say that he did not know the compartment was engaged. 
Suddenly, for no reason, except that he had sufficiently 
stood, or sat, upon his rights, he rose, and the others 
precipitated themselves upon his hand-baggage, mainly 
composed of fishing-tackle, such as a gentleman carries 
who has been asked to somebody's fishing, and bore it 
away to another part of the train. They left one piece 
behind, and the porter who came back for it was radi- 
antly smiling, as if the struggle had been an agreeable 

exercise, and he spoke of his antagonist without the 

 

least exasperation; evidently, lie regarded him as one 
who had justly defended himself from corporate ag- 
gression; his sympathies were with him rather than 
with us, perhaps because we had not so vigorously as- 
serted ourselves. 

