"What on earth is the matter with me?" she said, half aloud, to herself.
During these last two months, and apparently apropos of nothing at all,
an unaccustomed sense of depression sometimes crept upon her.
At first she disregarded it as the purely physical lassitude of spring,
but now it was beginning to disquiet her. Once a hazy suspicion took
shape--hastily dismissed--that some sense, some temporarily suppressed
desire was troubling her. The same idea had awakened again that evening
on the terrace when the faint odour from the decanter attracted her. And
again she suspected, and shrank away into herself, shocked, frightened,
surprised, yet still defiantly incredulous.
Yet her suspicions had been correct. It was habit, disturbed by the
tardiness of accustomed tribute, that stirred at moments, demanding
recognition.
Since that night in early spring when fear and horror of herself had
suddenly checked a custom which she had hitherto supposed to be nothing
worse than foolish, twice--at times inadvertently, at times
deliberately--she had sought relief from sleepless nervousness and this
new depression in the old and apparently harmless manner of her
girlhood. For weeks now she had exercised little control of herself,
feeling immune, yet it scared her a little to recognise again in herself
the restless premonitions of desire. For here, in the sunshine of the
forest-bordered highway, that same dull uneasiness was stirring once
more.
It was true, other things had stirred her to uneasiness that morning--an
indefinable impression concerning Kathleen--a definite one which
concerned Rosalie Dysart and Duane, and which began to exasperate her.
All her elasticity was gone now; tired without reason, she plodded on
along the road in her little white shoes, head bent, brown eyes
brooding, striving to fix her wandering thoughts on Duane Mallett to
fight down the threatening murmurs of a peril still scarcely
comprehended.
"Anyway," she said half aloud, "even if I ever could care for him, I
dare not let myself do it with this absurd inclination always
threatening me."
She had said it! Scarcely yet understanding the purport of her own
words, yet electrified, glaringly enlightened by them, she halted. A
confused sense that something vital had occurred in her life stilled her
heart and her breathing together.
After a moment she straightened up and walked forward, turned across the
lawn and into the syringa-bordered drive.
There was nobody in the terrace except Bunbury Gray in a brilliant
waistcoat, who sat smoking a very large faïence pipe and reading a
sporting magazine. He got up with alacrity when he saw her, fetched her
a big wicker chair, evidently inclined to let her divert him.
"Oh, I'm not going to," she observed, sinking into the cushions. For a
moment she felt rather limp, then a quiver passed through her,
tightening the relaxed nerves.
"Bunbury," she said, "do you know any men who ever get tired of idleness
and clothes and their neighbours' wives?"
"Sure," he said, surprised, "I get tired of those things all right. I've
got enough of this tailor, for example," looking at his trousers. "I'm
tired of idleness, too. Shall we do something and forget the cut of my
clothes?"
"What do you do when you tire of people and things?"
"Change partners or go away. That's easy."
"You can't change yourself--or go away from yourself."
"But I don't get tired of myself," he explained in astonishment. She
regarded him curiously from the depths of her wicker chair.
"Bunbury, do you remember when we were engaged?"
He grinned. "Rather. I wouldn't mind being it again."
"Engaged?"
"Sure thing. Will you take me on again, Geraldine?"
"I thought you cared for Sylvia Quest."
"I do, but I can stop it."
She still regarded him with brown-eyed curiosity.
"Didn't you really tire of our engagement?"
"You did. You said that my tailor is the vital part of me."
She laughed. "Well, you are only a carefully groomed combination of
New York good form and good nature, aren't you?"
"I don't know. That's rather rough, isn't it? Or do you really mean it
that way?"
"No, Bunny dear. I only mean that you're like the others. All the men I
know are about the same sort. You all wear too many ties and waistcoats;
you are, and say, and do too many kinds of fashionable things. You play
too much tennis, drink too many pegs, gamble too much, ride and drive
too much. You all have too much and too many--if you understand that!
You ask too much and you give too little; you say too much which means
too little. Is there none among you who knows something that amounts to
something, and how to say it and do it?"
"What the deuce are you driving at, Geraldine?" he asked, bewildered.
"I'm just tired and irritable, Bunny, and I'm taking it out on you....
Because you were always kind--and even when foolish you were often
considerate.... That's a new waistcoat, isn't it?"
"Well--I don't--know," he began, perplexed and suspicious, but she cut
him short with a light little laugh and reached out to pat his hand.
"Don't mind me. You know I like you.... I'm only bored with your
species. What do you do when you don't know what to do, Bunny?"
"Take a peg," he said, brightening up. "Do you--shall I call
somebody----"
"No, please."
She extended her slim limbs and crossed her feet. Lying still there in
the sunshine, arms crooked behind her head, she gazed straight out
ahead. Light breezes lifted her soft bright hair; the same zephyrs bore
from tennis courts on the east the far laughter and calling of the
unseen players.
"Who are they?" she inquired.
"The Pink 'uns, Naïda, and Jack Dysart. There's ten up on every set," he
added, "and I've side obligations with Rosalie and Duane. Take you on if
you like; odds are on the Pink 'uns. Or I'll get a lump of sugar and we
can play 'Fly Loo.'"
"No, thanks."
A few moments later she said:
"Do you know, somehow, recently, the forest world--all this pretty place
of lakes and trees--" waving her arm toward the horizon--"seems to be
tarnished with the hard living and empty thinking of the people I have
brought into it.... I include myself. The region is redolent of money
and the things it buys. I had a better time before I had any or heard
about it."
"Why, you've always had it----"
"But I didn't know it. I'd like to give mine away and do something for a
living."
"Oh, every girl has that notion once in a lifetime."
"Have they?" she asked.
"Sure. It's hysteria. I had it myself once. But I found I could keep
busy enough doing nothing without presenting my income to the
Senegambians and spending life in a Wall Street office. Of course if I
had a pretty fancy for the artistic and useful--as Duane Mallett has--I
suppose I'd get busy and paint things and sell 'em by the perspiration
of my brow----"
She said disdainfully: "If you were never any busier than Duane, you
wouldn't be very busy."
"I don't know. Duane seems to keep at it, even here, doesn't he?"
She looked up in surprise: "Duane hasn't done any work since he's been
here, has he?"
"Didn't you know? What do you suppose he's about every morning?"
"He's about--Rosalie," she said coolly. "I've never seen any colour box
or easel in their outfit."
"Oh, he keeps his traps at Hurryon Lodge. He's made a lot of sketches. I
saw several at the Lodge. And he's doing a big canvas of Rosalie down
there, too."
"At Hurryon Lodge?"
"Yes. Miller lets them have the garret for a studio."
"I didn't know that," she said slowly.
"Didn't you? People are rather catty about it."
"Catty?"
Sheer surprise silenced her for a while, then hurt curiosity drove her
to questions; but little Bunbury didn't know much more about the matter,
merely shrugging his shoulders and saying: "It's casual but it's all
right."
Later the tennis players, sunburned and perspiring, came swinging up
from the courts on their way to the showers. Bunbury began to settle his
obligations; Naïda and the Pink 'uns went indoors; Jack Dysart,
handsome, dishevelled, sat down beside Geraldine, fastening his sleeves.
"I lost twice twenty," he observed. "Bunny is in fifty, I believe. Duane
and Rosalie lose."
"Is that all you care about the game?" she asked with a note of contempt
in her voice.
"Oh, it's good for one's health," he said.
"So is confession, but there's no sport in it. Tell me, Mr. Dysart,
don't you play any game for it's own sake?"
"Two, mademoiselle," he said politely.
"What two?"
"Chess is one."
"What is the other?"
"Love," he replied, smiling at her so blandly that she laughed. Then she
thought of Rosalie, and it was on the tip of her tongue to say something
impudent. But "Do you do that game very well?" was all she said.
"Would you care to judge how well I do it?"
"As umpire? Yes, if you like."
He said: "We will umpire our own game, Miss Seagrave."
"Oh, we couldn't do that, could we? We couldn't play and umpire, too."
Suddenly the thought of Duane and Rosalie turned her bitter and she
said:
"We'll have two perfectly disinterested umpires. I choose your wife for
one. Whom do you choose?"
Over his handsome face the slightest muscular change passed, but far
from wincing he nodded coolly.
"One umpire is enough," he said. "When our game is well on you may ask
Rosalie to judge how well I've done it--if you care to."
The bright smile she wore changed. Her face was now only a lovely
dark-eyed mask, behind which her thoughts had suddenly begun
racing--wild little thoughts, all tumult and confusion, all trembling,
too, with some scarcely understood hurt lashing them to recklessness.
"We'll have two umpires," she insisted, scarcely knowing what she said.
"I'll choose Duane for the second. He and Rosalie ought to be able to
agree on the result of our game."
Dysart turned his head away leisurely, then looked around again
unsmiling.
"Two umpires? Soit! But that means you consent to play."
"Play?"
"Certainly."
"With you?"
"With me."
"I'll consider it.... Do you know we have been talking utter nonsense?"
"That's part of the game."
"Oh, then--do you assume that the--the game has already begun?"
"It usually opens that way, I believe."
"And where does it end, Mr. Dysart?"
"That is for you to say," he replied in a lower voice.
"Oh! And what are the rules?"
"The player who first falls really in love loses. There are no stakes.
We play as sportsmen--for the game's sake. Is it understood?"
She hesitated, smiling, a little excited, a little interested in the way
he put things.
At that same moment, across the lawn, Rosalie and Duane strolled into
view. She saw them, and with a nervous movement, almost involuntary, she
turned her back on them.
Neither she nor Dysart spoke. She gazed very steadily at the horizon, as
though there were sounds beyond the green world's rim. A few seconds
later a shadow fell over the terrace at her feet--two shadows
intermingled. She saw them on the grass at her feet, then quietly lifted
her head.
"We caught no trout," said Rosalie, sitting down on the arm of the chair
that Duane drew forward. "I fussed about in that canoe until Duane came
along, and then we went in swimming."
"Swimming?" repeated Geraldine, dumfounded.
Rosalie balanced herself serenely on her chair-arm.
"Oh, we often do that."
"Swim--where?"
"Why across the Gray Water, child!"
"But--there are no bath houses----"
Rosalie laughed outright.
"Quite Arcadian, isn't it? Duane has the forest on one side of the Gray
Water for a dressing-room, and I the forest on the other side. Then we
swim out and shake hands in the middle. Our bathing dresses are drying
on Miller's lawn. Please do tell me somebody is scandalised. I've done
my best to brighten up this house party."
Dysart, really discountenanced, but not showing it, lighted a cigarette
and asked pleasantly if the water was agreeable.
"It's magnificent," said Duane; "it was like diving into a lake of iced
Apollinaris. Geraldine, why on earth don't you build some bath houses on
the Gray Waters?"
Perhaps she had not heard his question. She began to talk very
animatedly to Rosalie about several matters of no consequence. Dysart
rose, stretched his sunburned arms with over-elaborate ease, tossed away
his cigarette, picked up his tennis bat, and said: "See you at luncheon.
Are you coming, Rosalie?"
"In a moment, Jack." She went on talking inconsequences to Geraldine;
her husband waited, exchanging a remark or two with Duane in his easy,
self-possessed fashion.
"Dear," said Rosalie at last to Geraldine, "I must run away and dry my
hair. How did we come out at tennis, Jack?"
"All to the bad," he replied serenely, and nodding to Geraldine and
Duane he entered the house, his young wife strolling beside him and
twisting up her wet hair.
Duane seated himself and crossed his lank legs, ready for an amiable
chat before he retired to dress for luncheon; but Geraldine did not even
look toward him. She was lying deep in the chair, apparently relaxed and
limp; but every nerve in her was at tension, every delicate muscle taut
and rigid, and in her heart was anger unutterable, and close, very close
to the lids which shadowed with their long fringe the brown eyes'
velvet, were tears.
"What have you been up to all the morning?" he asked. "Did you try the
fishing?"
"Yes."
"Anything doing?"
"No."
"I thought they wouldn't rise. It's too clear and hot. That's why I
didn't keep on with Kathleen and Scott. Two are enough on bright water.
Don't you think so?"
She said nothing.
"Besides," he added, "I knew you had old Grandcourt running close at
heel and that made four rods on Hurryon. So what was the use of my
joining in?"
She made no reply.
"You didn't mind, did you?" he asked carelessly.
"No."
"Oh, all right," he nodded, not feeling much relieved.
The strange blind anger still possessed her. She lay there immobile,
expressionless, enduring it, not trying even to think why; yet her anger
was rising against him, and it surged, receded helplessly, flushed her
veins again till they tingled. But her lids remained closed; the lashes
rested softly on the curve of her cheeks; not a tremor touched her face.
"I am wondering whether you are feeling all right," he ventured
uneasily, conscious of the tension between them.
With an effort she took command of herself.
"The sun was rather hot. It's a headache; I walked back by the road."
"With the faithful one?"
"No," she said evenly, "Mr. Grandcourt remained to fish."
"He went to worship and remained to fish," said Duane, laughing. The
girl lifted her face to look at him--a white little face so strange that
the humour died out in his eyes.
"He's a good deal of a man," she said. "It's one of my few pleasant
memories of this year--Mr. Grandcourt's niceness to me--and to all
women."
She set her elbow on the chair's edge and rested her cheek in her
hollowed hand. Her gaze had become remote once more.
"I didn't know you took him so seriously," he said in a low voice. "I'm
sorry, Geraldine."
All her composure had returned. She lifted her eyes insolently.
"Sorry for what?"
"For speaking as I did."
"Oh, I don't mind. I thought you might be sorry for yourself."
"Myself?"
"And your neighbour's wife," she added.
"Well, what about myself and my neighbour's wife?"
"I'm not familiar with such matters." Her face did not change, but the
burning anger suddenly welled up in her again. "I don't know anything
about such affairs, but if you think I ought to I might try to learn."
She laughed and leaned back into the depths of her chair. "You and I are
such intimate friends it's a shame I shouldn't understand and sympathise
with what most interests you."
He remained silent, gazing down at his shadow on the grass, hands
clasped loosely between his knees. She strove to study him calmly; her
mind was chaos; only the desire to hurt him persisted, rendered sterile
by the confused tumult of her thoughts.
Presently, looking up:
"Do you doubt that things are not right between--my neighbour's
wife--and me?" he inquired.
"The matter doesn't interest me."
"Doesn't it?"
"No."
"Then I have misunderstood you. What is the matter that does interest
you, Geraldine?"
She made no reply.
He said, carelessly good-humoured: "I like women. It's curious that they
know it instinctively, because when they're bored or lonely they drift
toward me.... Lonely women are always adrift, Geraldine. There seems to
be some current that sets in toward me; it catches them and they drift
in, linger, and drift on. I seem to be the first port they anchor in....
Then a day comes when they are gone--drifting on at hazard through the
years----"
"Wiser for their experience at Port Mallett?"
"Perhaps. But not sadder, I think."
"A woman adrift has no regrets," she said with contempt.
"Wrong. A woman who is in love has none."
"That is what I mean. The hospitality of Port Mallett ought to leave
them with no regrets."
He laughed. "But they are not loved," he said. "They know it. That's why
they drift on."
She turned on him white and tremulous.
"Haven't you even the excuse of caring for her?"
"Who?"
"A neighbour's wife--who comes drifting into your hospitable haven!"
"I don't pretend to love her, if that is what you mean," he said
pleasantly.
"Then you make her believe it--and that's dastardly!"
"Oh, no. Women don't love unless made love to. You've only read that in
books."
She said a little breathlessly: "You are right. I know men and women
only through books. It's time I learned for myself."
CHAPTER VII
TOGETHER
The end of June and of the house party at Roya-Neh was now near at hand,
and both were to close with a moonlight fête and dance in the forest,
invitations having been sent to distant neighbours who had been
entertaining similar gatherings at Iron Hill and Cloudy Mountain--the
Grays, Beekmans, Ellises, and Grandcourts.
Silks and satins, shoe buckles and powdered hair usually mark the high
tide of imaginative originality among this sort of people. So it was to
be the inevitable Louis XVI fête--or as near to it as attenuated,
artistic intelligence could manage, and they altered Duane's very clever
and correct sketches to suit themselves, careless of anachronism, and
sent the dainty water-colour drawings to town in order that those who
sweat and sew in the perfumed ateliers of Fifth Avenue might use them as
models.
"The fun--if there's any in dressing up--ought to lie in making your own
costumes," observed Duane. But nobody displayed any inclination to do
so. And now, on hurry orders, the sewers in the hot Fifth Avenue
ateliers sewed faster. Silken and satin costumes, paste jewelry and
property small-swords were arriving by express; maids flew about the
house at Roya-Neh, trying on, fussing with lace and ribbon, bodice and
flowered pannier, altering, retrimming, adjusting. Their mistresses met
in one another's bedrooms for mysterious confabs over head-dress and
coiffure, lace scarf, and petticoat.
As for the men, they surreptitiously tried on their embroidered coats
and breeches, admired themselves in secrecy, and let it go at that,
returning with embarrassed relief to cards, tennis, and the various
forms of amiable idleness to which they were accustomed. Only Englishmen
can masquerade seriously.
Later, however, the men were compelled to pay some semblance of
attention to the general preparations, assemble their foot-gear,
head-gear, stars, orders, sashes, swords, and try them on for Duane
Mallett--to that young man's unconcealed dissatisfaction.
"You certainly resemble a scratch opera chorus," he observed after
passing in review the sheepish line-up in his room. "Delancy, you're the
limit as a Black Mousquetier--and, by the way, there weren't any in the
reign of Louis XVI, so perhaps that evens up matters. Dysart is the only
man who looks the real thing--or would if he'd remove that monocle. As
for Bunny and the Pink 'un, they ought to be in vaudeville singing
la-la-la."
"That's really a compliment to our legs," observed Reggie Wye to Bunbury
Gray, flourishing his property sword and gracefully performing a pas
seul à la Gênée.
Dysart, who had been sullen all day, regarded them morosely.
Scott Seagrave, in his conventional abbé's costume of black and white,
excessively bored, stood by the window trying to catch a glimpse of the
lake to see whether any decent fish were breaking, while Scott walked
around him critically, not much edified by his costume or the way he
wore it.
"You're a sad and self-conscious-looking bunch," he concluded. "Scott, I
suppose you'll insist on wearing your mustache and eyeglasses."
"You bet," said Scott simply.
"All right. And kindly beat it. I want to try on my own plumage in
peace."
So the costumed ones trooped off to their own quarters with the
half-ashamed smirk usually worn by the American male who has persuaded
himself to frivolity. Delancy Grandcourt tramped away down the hall
banging his big sword, jingling his spurs, and flapping his loose boots.
The Pink 'un and Bunbury Gray slunk off into obscurity, and Scott
wandered back through the long hall until a black-and-red tiger moth
attracted his attention, and he forgot his annoying appearance in
frantic efforts to capture the brilliant moth.
Dysart, who had been left alone with Duane in the latter's room,
contemplated himself sullenly in the mirror while Duane, seated on the
window sill, waited for him to go.
"You think I ought to eliminate my eye-glass?" asked Dysart, still
inspecting himself.
"Yes, in deference to the conventional prejudice of the times. Nobody
wore 'em at that period."
"You seem to be a stickler for convention--of the Louis XVI sort more
than for the XIX century variety," remarked Dysart with a sneer.
Duane looked up from his bored contemplation of the rug.
"You think I'm unconventional?" he asked with a smile.
"I believe I suggested something of the sort to my wife the other day."
"Ah," said Duane blandly, "does she agree with you, Dysart?"
"No doubt she does, because your tendencies toward the unconventional
have been the subject of unpleasant comment recently."
"By some of your débutante conquests? You mustn't believe all they tell
you."
"My own eyes and ears are competent witnesses. Do you understand me
now?"
"No. Neither do you. Don't rely on such witnesses, Dysart; they lack
character to corroborate them. Ask your wife to confirm me--if you ever
find time enough to ask her anything."
"That's a damned impudent thing to say," returned Dysart, staring at
him. A dull red stained his face, then faded.
Duane's eyebrows went up--just a shade--yet so insolently that the other
stepped forward, the corners of his mouth white and twitching.
"I can speak more plainly," he said. "If you can't appreciate a pleasant
hint I can easily accommodate you with the alternative."
There was silence for a moment.
"Dysart," said Duane, "what chance do you think you'd have in landing
the--alternative?"
"That concerns me," said Dysart; and the pinched muscles around the
mouth grew whiter and the man looked suddenly older. Duane had never
before noticed how gray his temples were growing.
He said in a voice under perfect control: "You're right; the chances you
care to take with me concern yourself. As for your ill-humour, I suppose
I have earned it by being attentive to your wife. What is it you wish;
that my hitherto very harmless attentions should cease?"
"Yes," said Dysart, and his square jaw quivered.
"Well, they won't. It takes the sort of man you are to strike classical
attitudes. And, absurd as the paradox appears--and even taking into
consideration your notorious indifference to your wife and your rather
silly reputation as a débutante chaser--I do believe, Dysart, that, deep
inside of you somewhere, there is enough latent decency to have inspired
this resentment toward me--a resentment perfectly natural in any man who
acts squarely toward his wife--but rather far fetched in your case."
Dysart, pallid, menacing, laid his hand on a chair.
The other laughed.
"As bad as that?" he asked contemptuously. "Don't do it, Dysart; it
isn't in your line. You're only a good-looking, popular, dancing man;
all your deviltry is in your legs, and I'd be obliged if they'd
presently waft you out of my room."
"I suppose," said Dysart unsteadily, "that you would make yourself
noisily ridiculous if I knocked your blackguard head off."
"It's only in novels that people are knocked down successfully and
artistically," admitted the other. "In everyday life they resent it.
Yes--if you do anything hysterical there will be some sort of a
disgraceful noise, I suppose. It's shoot or suit in these unromantic
days, Dysart, otherwise the newspapers laugh at you."
Dysart's well-shaped fists relaxed, the chair dropped, but even when he
let it go murder danced in his eyes.
"Yes," he said, "it's shoot or a suit in these days; you're perfectly
right, Mallett. And we'll let it go at that for the present."
He stood a moment, straight, handsome, his clearly stencilled eyebrows
knitted, watching Duane. Whatever in the man's face and figure was
usually colourless, unaccented, irresolute, disappeared as he glared
rigidly at the other.
For there is no resentment like the resentment of the neglectful, no
jealousy like the jealousy of the faithless.
"To resume, in plain English," he said, "keep away from my wife,
Mallett. You comprehend that, don't you?"
"Perfectly. Now get out!"
Dysart hesitated for the fraction of a second longer, as though perhaps
expecting further reply, then turned on his heel and walked out.
Later, while Duane was examining his own costume preparatory to trying
it on, Scott Seagrave's spectacled and freckled visage protruded into
the room. He knocked as an after-thought.
"Rosalie sent me. She's dressed in all her gimcracks and wants your
expert opinion. I've got to go----"
"Where is she?"
"In her room. I'm going out to the hatchery with Kathleen----"
"Come and see Rosalie with me, first," said Duane, passing his arm
through Scott's and steering him down the sunny corridor.
When they knocked, Mrs. Dysart admitted them, revealing herself in full
costume, painted and powdered, the blinds pulled down, and the electric
lights burning behind their rosy shades.
"It's my final dress rehearsal," she explained. "Mr. Mallett, is my
hair sufficiently à la Lamballe to suit you?"
"Yes, it is. You're a perfect little porcelain figurette! There's not an
anachronism in you or your make-up. How did you do it?"
"I merely stuck like grim death to your sketches," she said demurely.
Scott eyed her without particular interest. "Very corking," he said
vaguely, "but I've got to go down to the hatchery with Kathleen, so you
won't mind if I leave----"
He closed the door behind him before anybody could speak. Duane moved
toward the door.
"It's a charming costume," he said, "and most charmingly worn; your hair
is exactly right--not too much powder, you know----"
"Where shall I put my patch? Here?"
"Higher."
"Here?"
He came back to the centre of the room where she stood.
"Here," he said, indenting the firm, cool ivory skin with one finger,
"and here. Wear two."
"And my rings--do you think that my fingers are overloaded?" She held
out her fascinating smooth little hands. He supported them on his
upturned palms and examined the gems critically.
They talked for a few moments about the rings, then: "Thank you so
much," she said, with a carelessly friendly pressure. "How about my
shoes? Are the buckles of the period?"
One of her hands encountered his at hazard, lingered, dropped, the
fingers still linked lightly in his. She bent over, knees straight, and
lifted the hem of her petticoat, displaying her Louis XVI footwear.
"Shoes and buckles are all right," he said; "faultless, true to the
period--very fascinating.... I've got to go--one or two things to
do----"
They examined the shoes for some time in silence; still bending over she
turned her dainty head and looked around and up at him. There was a
moment's pause, then he kissed her.
"I was afraid you'd do that--some day," she said, straightening up and
stepping back one pace, so that their linked hands now hung pendant
between them.
"I was sure of it, too," he said. "Now I think I'd better go--as all
things are en règle, even the kiss, which was classical--pure--Louis
XVI.... Besides, Scott was idiot enough to shut the door. That's Louis
XVI, too, but too much realism is never artistic."
"We could open the door again--if that's why you're running away from
me."
"What's the use?"
She glanced at the door and then calmly seated herself.
"Do you think that we are together too much?" she asked.
"Hasn't your husband made similar observations?" he replied, laughing.
"It isn't for him to make them."
"Hasn't he objected?"
"He has suddenly and unaccountably become disagreeable enough to make me
wish he had some real grounds for his excitement!" she said coolly, and
closed her teeth with a little click. She added, between them: "I'm
inclined to give him something real to howl about."
He said: "You're adrift. Do you know it?"
"Certainly I know it. Are you prepared to offer salvage? I'm past the
need of a pilot."
He smiled. "You haven't drifted very far yet--only as far as Mallett
Harbour. That's usually the first port--for derelicts. Anchors are
dropped rather frequently there--but, Rosalie, there's no safe mooring
except in the home port."
Her pretty, flushed face grew very serious as she looked up
questioningly.
"Isn't there an anchorage near you, Duane? Are you quite sure?"
"Why, no, dear, I'm not sure. But let me tell you something: it isn't in
me to love again. And that isn't square to you."
After a silence she repeated: "Again? Have you been in love?"
"Yes."
"Are you embittered? I thought only callow fledglings moped."
"If I were embittered I'd offer free anchorage to all comers. That's the
fledgling idea--when blighted--be a 'deevil among the weemin,'" he said,
laughing.
"You have that hospitable reputation now," she persisted, unsmiling.
"Have I? Judge for yourself then--because no woman I ever knew cares
anything for me now."
"You mean that if any of them had anything intimate to remember they'd
never remain indifferent?"
"Well--yes."
"They'd either hate you or remember you with a certain tenderness."
"Is that what happens?" he asked, amused.
"I think so," she said thoughtfully.... "As for what you said, you are
right, Duane; I am adrift.... You--or a man like you could easily board
me--take me in tow. I'm quite sure that something about me signals a
pilot; and that keen eyes and bitter tongues have noted it. And I don't
care. Nor do I know yet what my capabilities for evil are.... Do you
care to--find out?"
"It wouldn't be a square deal to you, Rosalie."
"And--if I don't care whether it's a square deal or not?"
"Why, dear," he said, covering her nervous, pretty hand with both of
his, "I'd break your heart in a week."
He laughed, dropped her fingers, stepped back to the door, and, laying
his hand on the knob, said evenly:
"That husband of yours is not the sort of man I particularly take to,
but I believe he's about the average if you'd care to make him so."
She coloured with surprise. Then something in her scornful eyes inspired
him with sudden intuition.
"As a matter of fact," he said lightly, "you care for him still."
"I can very easily prove the contrary," she said, walking slowly up to
him, close, closer, until the slight tremor of contact halted her and
her soft, irregular breath touched his face.
"What a girl like you needs," he laughed, taking her into his arms, "is
a man to hold her this way--every now and then, and"--he kissed
her--"tell her she is incomparable--which I cannot truthfully tell you,
dear." He released her at arms' length.
"I don't know whose fault it is," he went on: "I don't know whether he
still really cares for you in spite of his weak peregrinations to other
shrines; but you still care for him. And it's up to you to make him
what he can be--the average husband. There are only two kinds, Rosalie,
the average and the bad."
She looked straight into his eyes, but the deep, mantling colour belied
her audacity.
"Do you know," she said, "that we haven't--lived together for two
years?"
"I don't want to know such things," he said gently.
"Well, you do know now. I--am--very much alone. You see I have already
become capable of saying anything--and of doing it, too."
There came a reckless glimmer into her eyes; she set her teeth--a trick
of hers; the fresh lips parted slightly under her rapid breathing.
"Do you think," she said unevenly, "that I'm going on all my life like
this--without anything more than the passing friendship of men to
balance the example he sets me?"
"No, I think something is bound to happen, Rosalie. May I suggest what
ought to happen?"
