ridiculous alibi! Granice offered Mr. Hewson a cigar, and lighting one
himself--to prove his coolness--began again to tell his story.
He was conscious, as he proceeded, of telling it better than ever
before. Practice helped, no doubt; and his listener’s detached,
impartial attitude helped still more. He could see that Hewson, at
least, had not decided in advance to disbelieve him, and the sense of
being trusted made him more lucid and more consecutive. Yes, this time
his words would certainly carry conviction...
V
DESPAIRINGLY, Granice gazed up and down the shabby street. Beside him
stood a young man with bright prominent eyes, a smooth but not too
smoothly-shaven face, and an Irish smile. The young man’s nimble glance
followed Granice’s.
“Sure of the number, are you?” he asked briskly.
“Oh, yes--it was 104.”
“Well, then, the new building has swallowed it up--that’s certain.”
He tilted his head back and surveyed the half-finished front of a brick
and limestone flat-house that reared its flimsy elegance above a row of
tottering tenements and stables.
“Dead sure?” he repeated.
“Yes,” said Granice, discouraged. “And even if I hadn’t been, I know the
garage was just opposite Leffler’s over there.” He pointed across the
street to a tumble-down stable with a blotched sign on which the words
“Livery and Boarding” were still faintly discernible.
The young man dashed across to the opposite pavement. “Well, that’s
something--may get a clue there. Leffler’s--same name there, anyhow. You
remember that name?”
“Yes--distinctly.”
Granice had felt a return of confidence since he had enlisted the
interest of the Explorer’s “smartest” reporter. If there were moments
when he hardly believed his own story, there were others when it
seemed impossible that every one should not believe it; and young Peter
McCarren, peering, listening, questioning, jotting down notes, inspired
him with an exquisite sense of security. McCarren had fastened on the
case at once, “like a leech,” as he phrased it--jumped at it, thrilled
to it, and settled down to “draw the last drop of fact from it, and
had not let go till he had.” No one else had treated Granice in that
way--even Allonby’s detective had not taken a single note. And though
a week had elapsed since the visit of that authorized official,
nothing had been heard from the District Attorney’s office: Allonby had
apparently dropped the matter again. But McCarren wasn’t going to drop
it--not he! He positively hung on Granice’s footsteps. They had spent
the greater part of the previous day together, and now they were off
again, running down clues.
But at Leffler’s they got none, after all. Leffler’s was no longer
a stable. It was condemned to demolition, and in the respite between
sentence and execution it had become a vague place of storage, a
hospital for broken-down carriages and carts, presided over by a
blear-eyed old woman who knew nothing of Flood’s garage across
the way--did not even remember what had stood there before the new
flat-house began to rise.
“Well--we may run Leffler down somewhere; I’ve seen harder jobs done,”
 said McCarren, cheerfully noting down the name.
As they walked back toward Sixth Avenue he added, in a less sanguine
tone: “I’d undertake now to put the thing through if you could only put
me on the track of that cyanide.”
Granice’s heart sank. Yes--there was the weak spot; he had felt it from
the first! But he still hoped to convince McCarren that his case was
strong enough without it; and he urged the reporter to come back to his
rooms and sum up the facts with him again.
“Sorry, Mr. Granice, but I’m due at the office now. Besides, it’d be
no use till I get some fresh stuff to work on. Suppose I call you up
tomorrow or next day?”
He plunged into a trolley and left Granice gazing desolately after him.
Two days later he reappeared at the apartment, a shade less jaunty in
demeanor.
“Well, Mr. Granice, the stars in their courses are against you, as the
bard says. Can’t get a trace of Flood, or of Leffler either. And you say
you bought the motor through Flood, and sold it through him, too?”
“Yes,” said Granice wearily.
“Who bought it, do you know?”
Granice wrinkled his brows. “Why, Flood--yes, Flood himself. I sold it
back to him three months later.”
“Flood? The devil! And I’ve ransacked the town for Flood. That kind of
business disappears as if the earth had swallowed it.”
Granice, discouraged, kept silence.
“That brings us back to the poison,” McCarren continued, his note-book
out. “Just go over that again, will you?”
And Granice went over it again. It had all been so simple at the
time--and he had been so clever in covering up his traces! As soon as he
decided on poison he looked about for an acquaintance who manufactured
chemicals; and there was Jim Dawes, a Harvard classmate, in the dyeing
business--just the man. But at the last moment it occurred to him that
suspicion might turn toward so obvious an opportunity, and he decided
on a more tortuous course. Another friend, Carrick Venn, a student of
medicine whom irremediable ill-health had kept from the practice of
his profession, amused his leisure with experiments in physics, for the
exercise of which he had set up a simple laboratory. Granice had the
habit of dropping in to smoke a cigar with him on Sunday afternoons, and
the friends generally sat in Venn’s work-shop, at the back of the old
family house in Stuyvesant Square. Off this work-shop was the cupboard
of supplies, with its row of deadly bottles. Carrick Venn was an
original, a man of restless curious tastes, and his place, on a Sunday,
was often full of visitors: a cheerful crowd of journalists, scribblers,
painters, experimenters in divers forms of expression. Coming and going
among so many, it was easy enough to pass unperceived; and one afternoon
Granice, arriving before Venn had returned home, found himself alone in
the work-shop, and quickly slipping into the cupboard, transferred the
drug to his pocket.
But that had happened ten years ago; and Venn, poor fellow, was long
since dead of his dragging ailment. His old father was dead, too, the
house in Stuyvesant Square had been turned into a boarding-house, and
the shifting life of New York had passed its rapid sponge over every
trace of their obscure little history. Even the optimistic McCarren
seemed to acknowledge the hopelessness of seeking for proof in that
direction.
“And there’s the third door slammed in our faces.” He shut his
note-book, and throwing back his head, rested his bright inquisitive
eyes on Granice’s furrowed face.
“Look here, Mr. Granice--you see the weak spot, don’t you?”
The other made a despairing motion. “I see so many!”
“Yes: but the one that weakens all the others. Why the deuce do you want
this thing known? Why do you want to put your head into the noose?”
Granice looked at him hopelessly, trying to take the measure of his
quick light irreverent mind. No one so full of a cheerful animal life
would believe in the craving for death as a sufficient motive; and
Granice racked his brain for one more convincing. But suddenly he saw
the reporter’s face soften, and melt to a naive sentimentalism.
“Mr. Granice--has the memory of it always haunted you?”
Granice stared a moment, and then leapt at the opening. “That’s it--the
memory of it ... always ...”
McCarren nodded vehemently. “Dogged your steps, eh? Wouldn’t let you
sleep? The time came when you had to make a clean breast of it?”
“I had to. Can’t you understand?”
The reporter struck his fist on the table. “God, sir! I don’t suppose
there’s a human being with a drop of warm blood in him that can’t
picture the deadly horrors of remorse--”
The Celtic imagination was aflame, and Granice mutely thanked him for
the word. What neither Ascham nor Denver would accept as a conceivable
motive the Irish reporter seized on as the most adequate; and, as he
said, once one could find a convincing motive, the difficulties of the
case became so many incentives to effort.
“Remorse--remorse,” he repeated, rolling the word under his tongue
with an accent that was a clue to the psychology of the popular drama;
and Granice, perversely, said to himself: “If I could only have struck
that note I should have been running in six theatres at once.”
He saw that from that moment McCarren’s professional zeal would be
fanned by emotional curiosity; and he profited by the fact to propose
that they should dine together, and go on afterward to some music-hall
or theatre. It was becoming necessary to Granice to feel himself an
object of pre-occupation, to find himself in another mind. He took a
kind of gray penumbral pleasure in riveting McCarren’s attention on his
case; and to feign the grimaces of moral anguish became a passionately
engrossing game. He had not entered a theatre for months; but he sat out
the meaningless performance in rigid tolerance, sustained by the sense
of the reporter’s observation.
Between the acts, McCarren amused him with anecdotes about the audience:
he knew every one by sight, and could lift the curtain from every
physiognomy. Granice listened indulgently. He had lost all interest in
his kind, but he knew that he was himself the real centre of McCarren’s
attention, and that every word the latter spoke had an indirect bearing
on his own problem.
“See that fellow over there--the little dried-up man in the third
row, pulling his moustache? His memoirs would be worth publishing,”
 McCarren said suddenly in the last entr’acte.
Granice, following his glance, recognized the detective from Allonby’s
office. For a moment he had the thrilling sense that he was being
shadowed.
“Caesar, if he could talk--!” McCarren continued. “Know who he is, of
course? Dr. John B. Stell, the biggest alienist in the country--”
Granice, with a start, bent again between the heads in front of him.
“That man--the fourth from the aisle? You’re mistaken. That’s not Dr.
Stell.”
McCarren laughed. “Well, I guess I’ve been in court enough to know Stell
when I see him. He testifies in nearly all the big cases where they
plead insanity.”
A cold shiver ran down Granice’s spine, but he repeated obstinately:
“That’s not Dr. Stell.”
“Not Stell? Why, man, I know him. Look--here he comes. If it isn’t
Stell, he won’t speak to me.”
The little dried-up man was moving slowly up the aisle. As he neared
McCarren he made a slight gesture of recognition.
“How’do, Doctor Stell? Pretty slim show, ain’t it?” the reporter
cheerfully flung out at him. And Mr. J. B. Hewson, with a nod of
amicable assent, passed on.
Granice sat benumbed. He knew he had not been mistaken--the man who
had just passed was the same man whom Allonby had sent to see him:
a physician disguised as a detective. Allonby, then, had thought him
insane, like the others--had regarded his confession as the maundering
of a maniac. The discovery froze Granice with horror--he seemed to see
the mad-house gaping for him.
“Isn’t there a man a good deal like him--a detective named J. B.
Hewson?”
But he knew in advance what McCarren’s answer would be. “Hewson? J.
B. Hewson? Never heard of him. But that was J. B. Stell fast enough--I
guess he can be trusted to know himself, and you saw he answered to his
name.”
VI
SOME days passed before Granice could obtain a word with the District
Attorney: he began to think that Allonby avoided him.
But when they were face to face Allonby’s jovial countenance showed
no sign of embarrassment. He waved his visitor to a chair, and leaned
across his desk with the encouraging smile of a consulting physician.
Granice broke out at once: “That detective you sent me the other day--”
Allonby raised a deprecating hand.
“--I know: it was Stell the alienist. Why did you do that, Allonby?”
The other’s face did not lose its composure. “Because I looked up your
story first--and there’s nothing in it.”
“Nothing in it?” Granice furiously interposed.
“Absolutely nothing. If there is, why the deuce don’t you bring me
proofs? I know you’ve been talking to Peter Ascham, and to Denver, and
to that little ferret McCarren of the Explorer. Have any of them been
able to make out a case for you? No. Well, what am I to do?”
Granice’s lips began to tremble. “Why did you play me that trick?”
“About Stell? I had to, my dear fellow: it’s part of my business. Stell
is a detective, if you come to that--every doctor is.”
The trembling of Granice’s lips increased, communicating itself in a
long quiver to his facial muscles. He forced a laugh through his dry
throat. “Well--and what did he detect?”
“In you? Oh, he thinks it’s overwork--overwork and too much smoking. If
you look in on him some day at his office he’ll show you the record of
hundreds of cases like yours, and advise you what treatment to follow.
It’s one of the commonest forms of hallucination. Have a cigar, all the
same.”
“But, Allonby, I killed that man!”
The District Attorney’s large hand, outstretched on his desk, had an
almost imperceptible gesture, and a moment later, as if an answer to the
call of an electric bell, a clerk looked in from the outer office.
“Sorry, my dear fellow--lot of people waiting. Drop in on Stell some
morning,” Allonby said, shaking hands.
McCarren had to own himself beaten: there was absolutely no flaw in the
alibi. And since his duty to his journal obviously forbade his wasting
time on insoluble mysteries, he ceased to frequent Granice, who dropped
back into a deeper isolation. For a day or two after his visit to
Allonby he continued to live in dread of Dr. Stell. Why might not
Allonby have deceived him as to the alienist’s diagnosis? What if he
were really being shadowed, not by a police agent but by a mad-doctor?
To have the truth out, he suddenly determined to call on Dr. Stell.
The physician received him kindly, and reverted without embarrassment
to the conditions of their previous meeting. “We have to do that
occasionally, Mr. Granice; it’s one of our methods. And you had given
Allonby a fright.”
Granice was silent. He would have liked to reaffirm his guilt, to
produce the fresh arguments which had occurred to him since his last
talk with the physician; but he feared his eagerness might be taken
for a symptom of derangement, and he affected to smile away Dr. Stell’s
allusion.
“You think, then, it’s a case of brain-fag--nothing more?”
“Nothing more. And I should advise you to knock off tobacco. You smoke a
good deal, don’t you?”
He developed his treatment, recommending massage, gymnastics, travel, or
any form of diversion that did not--that in short--
Granice interrupted him impatiently. “Oh, I loathe all that--and I’m
sick of travelling.”
“H’m. Then some larger interest--politics, reform, philanthropy?
Something to take you out of yourself.”
“Yes. I understand,” said Granice wearily.
“Above all, don’t lose heart. I see hundreds of cases like yours,” the
doctor added cheerfully from the threshold.
On the doorstep Granice stood still and laughed. Hundreds of cases like
his--the case of a man who had committed a murder, who confessed his
guilt, and whom no one would believe! Why, there had never been a case
like it in the world. What a good figure Stell would have made in a
play: the great alienist who couldn’t read a man’s mind any better than
that!
Granice saw huge comic opportunities in the type.
But as he walked away, his fears dispelled, the sense of listlessness
returned on him. For the first time since his avowal to Peter Ascham
he found himself without an occupation, and understood that he had been
carried through the past weeks only by the necessity of constant action.
Now his life had once more become a stagnant backwater, and as he stood
on the street corner watching the tides of traffic sweep by, he asked
himself despairingly how much longer he could endure to float about in
the sluggish circle of his consciousness.
The thought of self-destruction recurred to him; but again his flesh
recoiled. He yearned for death from other hands, but he could never take
it from his own. And, aside from his insuperable physical reluctance,
another motive restrained him. He was possessed by the dogged desire
to establish the truth of his story. He refused to be swept aside as
an irresponsible dreamer--even if he had to kill himself in the end,
he would not do so before proving to society that he had deserved death
from it.
He began to write long letters to the papers; but after the first had
been published and commented on, public curiosity was quelled by a
brief statement from the District Attorney’s office, and the rest of his
communications remained unprinted. Ascham came to see him, and begged
him to travel. Robert Denver dropped in, and tried to joke him out of
his delusion; till Granice, mistrustful of their motives, began to dread
the reappearance of Dr. Stell, and set a guard on his lips. But the
words he kept back engendered others and still others in his brain.
His inner self became a humming factory of arguments, and he spent long
hours reciting and writing down elaborate statements of his crime,
which he constantly retouched and developed. Then gradually his activity
languished under the lack of an audience, the sense of being buried
beneath deepening drifts of indifference. In a passion of resentment he
swore that he would prove himself a murderer, even if he had to commit
another crime to do it; and for a sleepless night or two the thought
flamed red on his darkness. But daylight dispelled it. The determining
impulse was lacking and he hated too promiscuously to choose his
victim... So he was thrown back on the unavailing struggle to impose
the truth of his story. As fast as one channel closed on him he tried to
pierce another through the sliding sands of incredulity. But every issue
seemed blocked, and the whole human race leagued together to cheat one
man of the right to die.
Thus viewed, the situation became so monstrous that he lost his last
shred of self-restraint in contemplating it. What if he were really
the victim of some mocking experiment, the centre of a ring of
holiday-makers jeering at a poor creature in its blind dashes against
the solid walls of consciousness? But, no--men were not so uniformly
cruel: there were flaws in the close surface of their indifference,
cracks of weakness and pity here and there...
Granice began to think that his mistake lay in having appealed to
persons more or less familiar with his past, and to whom the visible
conformities of his life seemed a final disproof of its one fierce
secret deviation. The general tendency was to take for the whole of life
the slit seen between the blinders of habit: and in his walk down that
narrow vista Granice cut a correct enough figure. To a vision free to
follow his whole orbit his story would be more intelligible: it would
be easier to convince a chance idler in the street than the trained
intelligence hampered by a sense of his antecedents. This idea shot up
in him with the tropic luxuriance of each new seed of thought, and he
began to walk the streets, and to frequent out-of-the-way chop-houses
and bars in his search for the impartial stranger to whom he should
disclose himself.
At first every face looked encouragement; but at the crucial moment he
always held back. So much was at stake, and it was so essential that
his first choice should be decisive. He dreaded stupidity, timidity,
intolerance. The imaginative eye, the furrowed brow, were what he
sought. He must reveal himself only to a heart versed in the tortuous
motions of the human will; and he began to hate the dull benevolence
of the average face. Once or twice, obscurely, allusively, he made a
beginning--once sitting down at a man’s side in a basement chop-house,
another day approaching a lounger on an east-side wharf. But in both
cases the premonition of failure checked him on the brink of avowal. His
dread of being taken for a man in the clutch of a fixed idea gave him an
unnatural keenness in reading the expression of his interlocutors, and
he had provided himself in advance with a series of verbal alternatives,
trap-doors of evasion from the first dart of ridicule or suspicion.
He passed the greater part of the day in the streets, coming home at
irregular hours, dreading the silence and orderliness of his apartment,
and the critical scrutiny of Flint. His real life was spent in a
world so remote from this familiar setting that he sometimes had the
mysterious sense of a living metempsychosis, a furtive passage from one
identity to another--yet the other as unescapably himself!
One humiliation he was spared: the desire to live never revived in
him. Not for a moment was he tempted to a shabby pact with existing
conditions. He wanted to die, wanted it with the fixed unwavering desire
which alone attains its end. And still the end eluded him! It would not
always, of course--he had full faith in the dark star of his destiny.
And he could prove it best by repeating his story, persistently and
indefatigably, pouring it into indifferent ears, hammering it into dull
brains, till at last it kindled a spark, and some one of the careless
millions paused, listened, believed...
It was a mild March day, and he had been loitering on the west-side
docks, looking at faces. He was becoming an expert in physiognomies: his
eagerness no longer made rash darts and awkward recoils. He knew now the
face he needed, as clearly as if it had come to him in a vision; and
not till he found it would he speak. As he walked eastward through the
shabby reeking streets he had a premonition that he should find it that
morning. Perhaps it was the promise of spring in the air--certainly he
felt calmer than for many days...
He turned into Washington Square, struck across it obliquely, and walked
up University Place. Its heterogeneous passers always allured him--they
were less hurried than in Broadway, less enclosed and classified than in
Fifth Avenue. He walked slowly, watching for his face.
At Union Square he felt a sudden relapse into discouragement, like a
votary who has watched too long for a sign from the altar. Perhaps,
after all, he should never find his face... The air was languid, and
he felt tired. He walked between the bald grass-plots and the twisted
trees, making for an empty seat. Presently he passed a bench on which a
girl sat alone, and something as definite as the twitch of a cord made
him stop before her. He had never dreamed of telling his story to a
girl, had hardly looked at the women’s faces as they passed. His case
was man’s work: how could a woman help him? But this girl’s face was
extraordinary--quiet and wide as a clear evening sky. It suggested a
hundred images of space, distance, mystery, like ships he had seen, as
a boy, quietly berthed by a familiar wharf, but with the breath of far
seas and strange harbours in their shrouds... Certainly this girl would
understand. He went up to her quietly, lifting his hat, observing the
forms--wishing her to see at once that he was “a gentleman.”
“I am a stranger to you,” he began, sitting down beside her, “but your
face is so extremely intelligent that I feel... I feel it is the face
I’ve waited for ... looked for everywhere; and I want to tell you--”
The girl’s eyes widened: she rose to her feet. She was escaping him!
In his dismay he ran a few steps after her, and caught her roughly by
the arm.
“Here--wait--listen! Oh, don’t scream, you fool!” he shouted out.
He felt a hand on his own arm; turned and confronted a policeman.
Instantly he understood that he was being arrested, and something hard
within him was loosened and ran to tears.
“Ah, you know--you know I’m guilty!”
He was conscious that a crowd was forming, and that the girl’s
frightened face had disappeared. But what did he care about her face? It
was the policeman who had really understood him. He turned and followed,
the crowd at his heels...
VII
IN the charming place in which he found himself there were so many
sympathetic faces that he felt more than ever convinced of the certainty
of making himself heard.
It was a bad blow, at first, to find that he had not been arrested
for murder; but Ascham, who had come to him at once, explained that he
needed rest, and the time to “review” his statements; it appeared that
reiteration had made them a little confused and contradictory. To
this end he had willingly acquiesced in his removal to a large quiet
establishment, with an open space and trees about it, where he had
found a number of intelligent companions, some, like himself, engaged
in preparing or reviewing statements of their cases, and others ready to
lend an interested ear to his own recital.
For a time he was content to let himself go on the tranquil current of
this existence; but although his auditors gave him for the most part
an encouraging attention, which, in some, went the length of really
brilliant and helpful suggestion, he gradually felt a recurrence of his
old doubts. Either his hearers were not sincere, or else they had
less power to aid him than they boasted. His interminable conferences
resulted in nothing, and as the benefit of the long rest made itself
felt, it produced an increased mental lucidity which rendered inaction
more and more unbearable. At length he discovered that on certain days
visitors from the outer world were admitted to his retreat; and he wrote
out long and logically constructed relations of his crime, and furtively
slipped them into the hands of these messengers of hope.
This occupation gave him a fresh lease of patience, and he now lived
only to watch for the visitors’ days, and scan the faces that swept by
him like stars seen and lost in the rifts of a hurrying sky.
Mostly, these faces were strange and less intelligent than those of his
companions. But they represented his last means of access to the world,
a kind of subterranean channel on which he could set his “statements”
 afloat, like paper boats which the mysterious current might sweep out
into the open seas of life.
One day, however, his attention was arrested by a familiar contour,
a pair of bright prominent eyes, and a chin insufficiently shaved. He
sprang up and stood in the path of Peter McCarren.
The journalist looked at him doubtfully, then held out his hand with a
startled deprecating, “Why--?”
“You didn’t know me? I’m so changed?” Granice faltered, feeling the
rebound of the other’s wonder.
“Why, no; but you’re looking quieter--smoothed out,” McCarren smiled.
“Yes: that’s what I’m here for--to rest. And I’ve taken the opportunity
to write out a clearer statement--”
Granice’s hand shook so that he could hardly draw the folded paper from
his pocket. As he did so he noticed that the reporter was accompanied by
a tall man with grave compassionate eyes. It came to Granice in a wild
thrill of conviction that this was the face he had waited for...
“Perhaps your friend--he is your friend?--would glance over it--or
I could put the case in a few words if you have time?” Granice’s voice
shook like his hand. If this chance escaped him he felt that his last
hope was gone. McCarren and the stranger looked at each other, and the
former glanced at his watch.
“I’m sorry we can’t stay and talk it over now, Mr. Granice; but my
friend has an engagement, and we’re rather pressed--”
Granice continued to proffer the paper. “I’m sorry--I think I could have
explained. But you’ll take this, at any rate?”
The stranger looked at him gently. “Certainly--I’ll take it.” He had his
hand out. “Good-bye.”
“Good-bye,” Granice echoed.
He stood watching the two men move away from him through the long light
hall; and as he watched them a tear ran down his face. But as soon as
they were out of sight he turned and walked hastily toward his room,
beginning to hope again, already planning a new statement.
Outside the building the two men stood still, and the journalist’s
companion looked up curiously at the long monotonous rows of barred
windows.
“So that was Granice?”
“Yes--that was Granice, poor devil,” said McCarren.
“Strange case! I suppose there’s never been one just like it? He’s still
absolutely convinced that he committed that murder?”
“Absolutely. Yes.”
The stranger reflected. “And there was no conceivable ground for the
idea? No one could make out how it started? A quiet conventional sort of
fellow like that--where do you suppose he got such a delusion? Did you
ever get the least clue to it?”
McCarren stood still, his hands in his pockets, his head cocked up in
contemplation of the barred windows. Then he turned his bright hard gaze
on his companion.
“That was the queer part of it. I’ve never spoken of it--but I did get
a clue.”
“By Jove! That’s interesting. What was it?”
McCarren formed his red lips into a whistle. “Why--that it wasn’t a
delusion.”
He produced his effect--the other turned on him with a pallid stare.
“He murdered the man all right. I tumbled on the truth by the merest
accident, when I’d pretty nearly chucked the whole job.”
“He murdered him--murdered his cousin?”
“Sure as you live. Only don’t split on me. It’s about the queerest
business I ever ran into... Do about it? Why, what was I to do? I
couldn’t hang the poor devil, could I? Lord, but I was glad when they
collared him, and had him stowed away safe in there!”
The tall man listened with a grave face, grasping Granice’s statement in
his hand.
“Here--take this; it makes me sick,” he said abruptly, thrusting the
paper at the reporter; and the two men turned and walked in silence to
the gates.
HIS FATHER’S SON
I
AFTER his wife’s death Mason Grew took the momentous step of selling out
his business and moving from Wingfield, Connecticut, to Brooklyn.
For years he had secretly nursed the hope of such a change, but had
never dared to suggest it to Mrs. Grew, a woman of immutable habits.
Mr. Grew himself was attached to Wingfield, where he had grown up,
prospered, and become what the local press described as “prominent.”
 He was attached to his ugly brick house with sandstone trimmings and
a cast-iron area-railing neatly sanded to match; to the similar row of
houses across the street, the “trolley” wires forming a kind of aerial
pathway between, and the sprawling vista closed by the steeple of the
church which he and his wife had always attended, and where their only
child had been baptized.
It was hard to snap all these threads of association, visual and
sentimental; yet still harder, now that he was alone, to live so far
from his boy. Ronald Grew was practising law in New York, and there
was no more chance of returning to live at Wingfield than of a river’s
flowing inland from the sea. Therefore to be near him his father must
move; and it was characteristic of Mr. Grew, and of the situation
generally, that the translation, when it took place, was to Brooklyn,
and not to New York.
“Why you bury yourself in that hole I can’t think,” had been Ronald’s
comment; and Mr. Grew simply replied that rents were lower in Brooklyn,
and that he had heard of a house that would suit him. In reality he had
said to himself--being the only recipient of his own confidences--that
if he went to New York he might be on the boy’s mind; whereas, if
he lived in Brooklyn, Ronald would always have a good excuse for not
popping over to see him every other day. The sociological isolation of
Brooklyn, combined with its geographical nearness, presented in fact the
precise conditions for Mr. Grew’s case. He wanted to be near enough to
New York to go there often, to feel under his feet the same pavement
that Ronald trod, to sit now and then in the same theatres, and find
on his breakfast-table the journals which, with increasing frequency,
inserted Ronald’s name in the sacred bounds of the society column. It
had always been a trial to Mr. Grew to have to wait twenty-four hours to
read that “among those present was Mr. Ronald Grew.” Now he had it
with his coffee, and left it on the breakfast-table to the perusal of a
“hired girl” cosmopolitan enough to do it justice. In such ways Brooklyn
attested the advantages of its propinquity to New York, while remaining,
as regards Ronald’s duty to his father, as remote and inaccessible as
Wingfield.
It was not that Ronald shirked his filial obligations, but rather
because of his heavy sense of them, that Mr. Grew so persistently sought
to minimize and lighten them. It was he who insisted, to Ronald, on the
immense difficulty of getting from New York to Brooklyn.
“Any way you look at it, it makes a big hole in the day; and there’s not
much use in the ragged rim left. You say you’re dining out next Sunday?
Then I forbid you to come over here for lunch. Do you understand me,
sir? You disobey at the risk of your father’s malediction! Where did you
say you were dining? With the Waltham Bankshires again? Why, that’s
the second time in three weeks, ain’t it? Big blow-out, I suppose? Gold
plate and orchids--opera singers in afterward? Well, you’d be in a nice
box if there was a fog on the river, and you got hung up half-way over.
That’d be a handsome return for the attention Mrs. Bankshire has shown
you--singling out a whipper-snapper like you twice in three weeks!
(What’s the daughter’s name--Daisy?) No, sir--don’t you come fooling
round here next Sunday, or I’ll set the dogs on you. And you wouldn’t
find me in anyhow, come to think of it. I’m lunching out myself, as it
happens--yes sir, lunching out. Is there anything especially comic in
my lunching out? I don’t often do it, you say? Well, that’s no reason
why I never should. Who with? Why, with--with old Dr. Bleaker: Dr.
Eliphalet Bleaker. No, you wouldn’t know about him--he’s only an old
friend of your mother’s and mine.”
Gradually Ronald’s insistence became less difficult to overcome. With
his customary sweetness and tact (as Mr. Grew put it) he began to
“take the hint,” to give in to “the old gentleman’s” growing desire for
solitude.
“I’m set in my ways, Ronny, that’s about the size of it; I like to
go tick-ticking along like a clock. I always did. And when you come
bouncing in I never feel sure there’s enough for dinner--or that I
haven’t sent Maria out for the evening. And I don’t want the neighbors
to see me opening my own door to my son. That’s the kind of cringing
snob I am. Don’t give me away, will you? I want ‘em to think I keep four
or five powdered flunkeys in the hall day and night--same as the lobby
of one of those Fifth Avenue hotels. And if you pop over when you’re not
expected, how am I going to keep up the bluff?”
Ronald yielded after the proper amount of resistance--his intuitive
sense, in every social transaction, of the proper amount of force to be
expended, was one of the qualities his father most admired in him. Mr.
Grew’s perceptions in this line were probably more acute than his son
suspected. The souls of short thick-set men, with chubby features,
mutton-chop whiskers, and pale eyes peering between folds of fat like
almond kernels in half-split shells--souls thus encased do not reveal
themselves to the casual scrutiny as delicate emotional instruments.
But in spite of the dense disguise in which he walked Mr. Grew vibrated
exquisitely in response to every imaginative appeal; and his son Ronald
was perpetually stimulating and feeding his imagination.
Ronald in fact constituted his father’s one escape from the impenetrable
element of mediocrity which had always hemmed him in. To a man so
enamoured of beauty, and so little qualified to add to its sum total,
it was a wonderful privilege to have bestowed on the world such a being.
Ronald’s resemblance to Mr. Grew’s early conception of what he himself
would have liked to look might have put new life into the discredited
theory of pre-natal influences. At any rate, if the young man owed his
beauty, his distinction and his winning manner to the dreams of one of
his parents, it was certainly to those of Mr. Grew, who, while outwardly
devoting his life to the manufacture and dissemination of Grew’s Secure
Suspender Buckle, moved in an enchanted inward world peopled with all
the figures of romance. In this high company Mr. Grew cut as brilliant
a figure as any of its noble phantoms; and to see his vision of himself
suddenly projected on the outer world in the shape of a brilliant
popular conquering son, seemed, in retrospect, to give to that image a
belated objective reality. There were even moments when, forgetting his
physiognomy, Mr. Grew said to himself that if he’d had “half a chance”
 he might have done as well as Ronald; but this only fortified his
resolve that Ronald should do infinitely better.
Ronald’s ability to do well almost equalled his gift of looking well.
Mr. Grew constantly affirmed to himself that the boy was “not a genius”;
but, barring this slight deficiency, he was almost everything that
a parent could wish. Even at Harvard he had managed to be several
desirable things at once--writing poetry in the college magazine,
playing delightfully “by ear,” acquitting himself honorably in his
studies, and yet holding his own in the fashionable sporting set that
formed, as it were, the gateway of the temple of Society. Mr. Grew’s
idealism did not preclude the frank desire that his son should pass
through that gateway; but the wish was not prompted by material
considerations. It was Mr. Grew’s notion that, in the rough and hurrying
current of a new civilization, the little pools of leisure and enjoyment
