Fitzgerald found himself alone with Ferraud again.  There was going to
be no dissembling; he was going to speak frankly.
"You have evidently discovered it.  Yes, I love Miss Killigrew, well
enough to die for her."
"Zut!  She will be as safe as in her own house.  Had Breitmann not
gone to-night, had any of us stopped him, I could not say.  Unless you
tell her, she will never know that she stood in danger.  Don't you
understand?  If I marred one move these men intend to make, if I showed
a single card, they would defeat me for the time; for they would make
new plans of which I should not have the least idea.  You comprehend?"
Fitzgerald nodded.
"It all lies in the hollow of my hand.  Breitmann made one mistake; he
should have pushed me off the boat, into the dark.  He knows that I
know.  And there he confuses me.  But, I repeat, he is not vicious,
only mad."
"Where will it be?"
"It will not be;" and M. Ferraud smiled as he livened up the burnt
wick of his candle.
"Treachery on the part of the drivers?  Oh, don't you see that you can
trust me wholly?"
"Well, it will be like this;" and reluctantly the secret agent outlined
his plan.  "Now, go to bed and sleep, for you and I shall need some to
draw upon during the next three or four days.  Hunting for buried
treasures was never a junketing.  The admiral will tell you that.  At
dawn!"  Then he added whimsically: "I trust we haven't disturbed the
royal family below."
"Hang the royal family!"
"Their own parliament, or Reichstag, will arrange for that!" and the
little man laughed.
Dawn came soon enough, yellow and airless.
"My dear," said Mrs. Coldfield, "I really wish you wouldn't go."
"But Laura and Miss von Mitter insist on going.  I can't back out now,"
protested Coldfield.  "What are you worried about?  Brigands,
gun-shots, and all that?"
"He will be a desperate man."
"To steal a chest full of money is one thing; to shoot a man is
another.  Besides, the admiral will go if he has to go alone; and I
can't desert him."
"Very well.  You will have to take me to Baden for nervous prostration."
"Humph!  Baden; that'll mean about two-thousand in fresh gowns from
Vienna or Paris.  All right; I'm game.  But, no nerves, no Baden."
"Go, if you will; but do take care of yourself; and let the admiral
go first, when there's any sign of danger."
Coldfield chuckled.  "I'll get behind him every time I think of it."
"Kiss me.  They are waiting for you.  And be careful."
It was only a little brave comedy.  She knew this husband and partner
of hers, hard-headed at times, but full of loyalty and courage; and she
was confident that if danger arose the chances were he would be getting
in front instead of behind the admiral.  A pang touched her heart as
she saw him spring into the carriage.
The admiral had argued himself hoarse about Laura's going; but he had
to give in when she threatened to hire a carriage on her own account
and follow.  Thus, Coldfield went because he was loyal to his friends;
Laura, because she would not leave her father; Hildegarde, because to
remain without knowing what was happening would have driven her mad; M.
Ferraud, because it was a trick in the game; and Cathewe and
Fitzgerald, because they loved hazard, because they were going with the
women they loved.  The admiral alone went for the motive apparent to
all: to lay hands on the scoundrel who had betrayed his confidence.
So the journey into the mountains began.  In none of the admiral's
documents was it explained why the old Frenchman had hidden the
treasure so far inland, when at any moment a call might have been made
on it.  Ferraud put forward the supposition that they had been watched.
As for hiding it in Corsica at all, every one understood that it was a
matter of sentiment.
Fitzgerald keenly inspected the drivers, but found them of the ordinary
breed, in velveteens, red-sashes, and soft felt hats.  As they made the
noon stop, one thing struck him as peculiar.  The driver of the
provision carriage had little or nothing to do with his companions.
"That is because he is mine," explained M. Ferraud in a whisper.
They were all capable horsemen, and on this journey spared their horses
only when absolutely necessary.  The great American signori were in a
hurry.  They arrived at Carghese at five in the afternoon.  The admiral
was for pushing on, driving all night.  He stormed, but the drivers
were obdurate.  At Carghese they would remain till sunrise; that was
final.  Besides, it was not safe at night, without moonshine, for many
a mile of the road lipping tremendous precipices was without curb or
parapet.  Not a foot till dawn.
In the little auberge, dignified but not improved by the name of
Hôtel de France, there was room only for the two women and the older
men.  Fitzgerald and Cathewe had to bunk the best they could in a
tenement at the upper end of the town; two cots in a single room,
carpetless and ovenlike for the heat.
Cathewe opened his rug-bag and spread out a rug in front of his cot,
for he wasn't fond at any time of dirty, bare boards under his feet.
He began to undress, silently, puffing his pipe as one unconscious of
the deed.  Cathewe looked old.  Fitzgerald hadn't noticed the change
before; but it certainly was a fact that his face was thinner than when
they put out to sea.  Cathewe, his pipe still between his teeth,
absently drew his shirt over his head.  The pipe fell to the rug and he
stamped out the coals, grumbling.
"You'll set yourself afire one of these fine days," laughed Fitzgerald
from his side of the room.
"I'm safe enough, Jack, you can't set fire to ashes, and that's about
all I amount to."  Cathewe got into his pajamas and sat upon the bed.
"Jack, I thought I knew something about this fellow Breitmann; but it
seems I've something to learn."
The younger man said nothing.
"Was that yarn of Ferraud's fact or tommy-rot?"
"Fact."
"The great-grandson of Napoleon!  Here!  Nothing will ever surprise me
again.  But why didn't he lay the matter before Killigrew, like a man?"
Fitzgerald patted and poked the wool-filled pillow, but without
success.  It remained as hard and as uninviting as ever.  "I've thought
it over, Arthur.  I'd have done the same as Breitmann," as if reluctant
to give his due to the missing man.
"But why didn't this butterfly man tell the admiral all?"
"He had excellent reasons.  He's a secret agent, and has the idea that
Breitmann wants to go into France and make an emperor of himself."
"Do men dream of such things to-day, let alone try to enact them?"
incredulously.
"Breitmann's an example."
"Are you taking his part?"
"No, damn him!  May I ask you a pertinent question?"
"Yes."
"Did he know Miss von Mitter very well in Munich?"
"He did."
"Was he quite square?"
"I am beginning to believe that he was something between a cad and a
scoundrel."
"Did you know that among her forebears on her mother's side was the
Abbe Fanu, who left among other things the diagram of the chimney?"
"So that was it?"  Cathewe's jaws hardened.
Fitzgerald understood.  Poor old Cathewe!
"Most women are fools!" said Cathewe, as if reading his friend's
thought.  "Pick out all the brutes in history; they were always better
loved than decent men.  Why?  God knows!  Well, good night;" and
Cathewe blew out his candle.
So did Fitzgerald; but it was long before he fell asleep.  He was
straining his ears for the sound of a carriage coming down from Evisa.
But none came.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE PINES OF AITONE
Before sun-up they were on the way again.  They circled through
magnificent gorges now, of deep red and salmon tinted granite,
storm-worn, strangely hollowed out, as if some Titan's hand had been at
work; and always the sudden disappearance and reappearance of the blue
Mediterranean.
The two young women rode in the same carriage.  Occasionally the men
got down out of theirs and walked on either side of them.  Whenever an
abrupt turn showed forward, Fitzgerald put his hand in his pocket.
From whichever way it came, he, at least, was not going to be found
unprepared.  Sometimes, when he heard M. Ferraud's laughter drift back
from the admiral's carriage, he longed to throttle the aggravating
little man.  Yet, his admiration of him was genuine.  What a chap to
have wandered round with, in the old days!  He began to realize what
Frenchmen must have been a hundred years gone.  And the strongest point
in his armor was his humanity; he wished no one ill.  Gradually the
weight on Fitzgerald's shoulders lightened.  If M. Ferraud could laugh,
why not he?
"Isn't that view lovely!" exclaimed Laura, as the Capo di Rosso
glowed in the sun with all the beauty of a fabulous ruby.  "Are you
afraid at all, Hildegarde?"
"No, Laura; I am only sad.  I wish we were safely on the yacht.  Yes,
yes; I am afraid, of something I know not what."
"I never dreamed that he could be dishonest.  He was a gentleman,
somewhere in his past.  I do not quite understand it all.  The money
does not interest my father so much as the mere sport of finding it.
You know it was agreed to divide, his share among the officers and
seamen, and the balance to our guests.  It would have been such fun."
And the woman who knew everything must perforce remain silent.  With
what eloquence she could have defended him!
"Do you think we shall find it?" wistfully.
"No, Laura."
"How can he find his way back without passing us?"
"For a desperate man who has thrown his all on this one chance, he will
find a hundred ways of returning."
A carriage came round one of the pinnacled calenches.  It was empty.
M. Ferraud casually noted the number.  He was not surprised.  He had
been waiting for this same vehicle.  It was Breitmann's, but the man
driving it was not the man who had driven it out of Ajaccio.  He was an
Evisan.  A small butterfly fluttered alongside.  M. Ferraud jumped out
and swooped with his hat.  He decided not to impart his discovery to
the others.  He was assured that the man from Evisa knew absolutely
nothing, and that to question him would be a waste of time.  At this
very moment it was not unlikely that Breitmann and his confederate were
crossing the mountains; perhaps with three or four sturdy donkeys,
their panniers packed with precious metal.  And the dupe would go
straight to his fellow-conspirators and share his millions.  Curious
old world!
They saw Evisa at sunset, one of the seven glories of the earth.  The
little village rests on the side of a mountain, nearly three-thousand
feet above the sea, the sea itself lying miles away to the west,
V-shaped between two enormous shafts of burning granite.  Even the
admiral forgot his smoldering wrath.
The hotel was neat and cool, and all the cook had to do was to furnish
dishes and hot water for tea.  There was very little jesting, and what
there was of it fell to the lot of Coldfield and the Frenchman.  The
spirit in them all was tense.  Given his way, the admiral would have
gone out that very night with lanterns.
"Folly!  To find a given point in an unknown forest at night;
impossible!  Am I not right, Mr. Cathewe?  Of course.  Breitmann's man
knew Aïtone from his youth.  Suppose," continued M. Ferraud, "that we
spend two days here?"
"What?  Give him all the leeway?"  The admiral was amazed that M.
Ferraud could suggest such a stupidity.  "No.  In the morning we make
the search.  If there's nothing there we'll return at once."
M. Ferraud spoke to the young woman who waited on the table.  "Please
find Carlo, the driver, and bring him here."
Ten minutes later Carlo came in, hat in hand, curious.
"Carlo," began the Frenchman, leaning on his elbows, his sharp eyes
boring into the mild brown ones of the Corsican, "we shall not return
to Carghese to-morrow but the day after."
"Not return to-morrow?" cried Carlo dismayed.
"Ah, but the signore does not understand.  We are engaged day after
to-morrow to carry a party to Bonifacio.  We have promised.  We must
return to-morrow."
Fitzgerald saw the drift and bent forward.  The admiral fumed because
his Italian was an indifferent article.
"But," pursued M. Ferraud, "we will pay you twenty francs the day, just
the same."
"We are promised." Carlo shrugged and spread his hands, but the glitter
in his questioner's eyes disquieted him.
"What's this about?" growled the admiral.
"The man says he must take us back to-morrow, or leave us, as he has
promised to return to Ajaccio to carry a party to Bonifacio," M.
Ferraud explained.
"Then, if we don't go to-morrow it means a week in this forsaken hole?"
"It is possible."  M. Ferraud turned to Carlo once more.  "We will make
it fifty francs per day."
"Impossible, signore!"
"Then you will return to-morrow without us."
Carlo's face hardened.  "But--"
"Come outside with me," said M. Ferraud in a tone which brooked no
further argument.
The two stepped out into the hall, and when the Frenchman came back his
face was animated.
"Mr. Ferraud," said the admiral icily, "my daughter has informed me
what passed between you.  I must say that you have taken a deal upon
yourself."
"Mr. Ferraud is right," put in Fitzgerald.
"You, too?"
"Yes.  I think the time has come, for Mr. Ferraud to offer full
explanations."
The butterfly-hunter resumed his chair.  "They will remain or carry us
on to Corte.  From there we can take the train back to Ajaccio, saving
a day and a half.  Admiral, I have a confession to make.  It will
surprise you, and I offer you my apologies at once."  He paused.  He
loved moments like this, when he could resort to the dramatic in
perfect security.  "I was the man in the chimney."
The admiral gasped.  Laura dropped her hands to the table.  Cathewe sat
back stiffly.  Coldfield stared.  Hildegarde shaded her face with the
newspaper through which she had been idly glancing.
"Patience!" as the admiral made as though to press back his chair.
"Mr. Fitzgerald knew from the beginning.  Is that not true?"
"It is, Mr. Ferraud.  Go on."
"Breitmann is the great-grandson of Napoleon.  By this time he is
traveling over some mountain pass, with his inheritance snug under his
hand.  You will ask, why all these subterfuges, this dodging in and
out?  Thus.  Could I have found the secret of the chimney--I worked
from memory--none of us would be here, and one of the great
conspiracies of the time would have been nipped in the bud.  What do
you think?  Breitmann proposes to go into France with the torch of
anarchy in his hand; and if he does, he will be shot.  He proposes to
divide this money among his companions, who, with their pockets full of
gold, will desert him the day he touches France.  Do you recollect the
scar on his temple?  It was not made by a saber; it is the mark of a
bullet.  He received it while a correspondent in the Balkans.  Well, it
left a mark on his brain also.  That is to say, he is conscious of what
he does but not why he does it.  He is a sane man with an obsession.
This wound, together with the result of Germany's brutal policy toward
him and France's indifference, has made him a kind of monomaniac.  You
will ask why I, an accredited agent in the employ of France, have not
stepped in and arrested him.  My evidence might bring him to trial, but
it would never convict him.  Once liberated, he would begin all over
again, meaning that I also would have to start in at a new beginning.
So I have let him proceed to the end, and in doing so I shall save him
in spite of himself.  You see, I have a bit of sentiment."
Hildegarde could have reached over and kissed his hand.
"Why didn't he tell this to me?" cried the admiral.  "Why didn't he
tell me?  I would have helped him."
"To his death, perhaps," grimly.  "For the money was only a means, not
an end.  The great-grandson of Napoleon: well, he will never rise from
his obscurity.  And sometime, when the clouds lift from his brain, he
will remember me.  I have seen in your American cottages the motto
hanging on the walls--God Bless Our Home.  Mr. Breitmann will place
my photograph beside it and smoke his cigarette in peace."
And this whimsical turn caused even the admiral to struggle with a
smile.  He was a square, generous old sailor.  He stretched his hand
across the table.  M. Ferraud took it, but with a shade of doubt.
"You are a good man, Mr. Ferraud.  I'm terribly disappointed.  All my
life I have been goose-chasing for treasures, and this one I had set my
heart on.  You've gone about it the best you could.  If you had told me
from the start there wouldn't have been any fun."
"That is it," eagerly assented M. Ferraud.  "Why should I spoil your
innocent pleasure?  For a month you have lived in a fine adventure, and
no harm has befallen.  And when you return to America, you will have an
unrivaled story to tell; but, I do not think you will ever tell all of
it.  He will have paid in wretchedness and humiliation for his
inheritance.  And who has a better right to it?  Every coin may
represent a sacrifice, a deprivation, and those who gave it freely,
gave it to the blood.  Is it sometimes that you laugh at French
sentiment?"
"Not in Frenchmen like you," said the admiral gravely.
"Good!  To men of heart what matters the tongue?"
"Poor young man!" sighed Laura.  "I am glad he has found it.  Didn't I
wish him to have it?"
"And you knew all this?" said Cathewe into the ear of the woman he
loved.
Thinly the word came through her lips: "Yes."
Cathewe's chin sank into his collar and he stared at the crumbs on the
cloth.
"But what meant this argument with the drivers?" asked Coldfield.
"Yes!  I had forgotten that," supplemented the sailor.
"On the way back to Carghese, we should have been stopped.  We were to
be quietly but effectively suppressed till our Napoleon set sail for
Marseilles."  M. Ferraud bowed.  He had no more to add.
The admiral shook his head.  He had come to Corsica as one might go to
a picnic; and here he had almost toppled over into a gulf!
The significance of the swift glance which was exchanged between M.
Ferraud and Fitzgerald was not translatable to Laura, who alone caught
it in its transit.  An idea took possession of her, but this idea had
nothing to do with the glance, which she forgot almost instantly.
Woman has a way with a man; she leads him whither she desires, and
never is he any the wiser.  She will throw obstacles in his way, or she
will tear down walls that rise up before him; she will make a mile out
of a rod, or turn a mountain into a mole-hill: and none but the Cumaean
Sibyl could tell why.  And as Laura was of the disposition to walk down
by the cemetery, to take a final view of the sea before it melted into
the sky, what was more natural than that Fitzgerald should follow her?
They walked on in the peace of twilight, unmindful of the curiosity of
the villagers or of the play of children about their feet.  The two
were strangely silent; but to him it seemed that she must presently
hear the thunder of his insurgent heart.  At length she paused, gazing
toward the sea upon which the purples of night were rapidly deepening.
"And if I had not made that wager!" he said, following aloud his train
of thought.
"And if I had not bought that statuette!" picking up the thread.  If
she had laughed, nothing might have happened.  But her voice was low
and sweet and ruminating.
The dam of his reserve broke, and the great current of life rushed over
his lips, to happiness or to misery, whichever it was to be.
"I love you, and I can no more help telling you than I can help
breathing.  I have tried not to speak, I have so little to offer.  I
have been lonely so long.  I did not mean to tell you here; but I've
done it."  He ceased, terrified.  His voice had diminished down to a
mere whisper, and finally refused to work at all.
Still she stared out to sea.
He found his voice again.  "So there isn't any hope?  There is some one
else?"  He was very miserable.
"Had there been, I should have stopped you at once."
"But . . . !"
"Do you wish a more definite answer . . . John?"  And only then did she
turn her head.
"Yes!" his courage coming back full and strong.  "I want you to tell me
you love me, and while my arms are round you like this!  May I kiss
you?"
"No other man save my father shall."
"Ah, I haven't done anything to deserve this!"
"No?"
"I'm not even a third-rate hero."
"No?" with gentle raillery.
"Say you love me!"
"Amo, ama, amiamo . . ."
"In English; I have never heard it in English."
"So," pushing back from him, "you have heard it in Italian?"
"Laura, I didn't mean that!  There was never any one else.  Say it!"
So she said it softly; she repeated it, as though the utterance was as
sweet to her lips as it was to his ears.  And then, for the first time,
she became supine in his arms.  With his cheek touching the hair on her
brow, they together watched but did not see the final conquest of the
day.
"And I have had the courage to ask you to be my wife?"  It was
wonderful.
Napoleon, his hunted great-grandson, the treasure, all these had ceased
to exist.
"John, when you lay in the corridor the other night, and I thought you
were dying, I kissed you."  Her arm tightened as did his.  "Will you
promise never to tell if I confess a secret?"
"I promise."
"You never would have had the courage to propose if I hadn't
deliberately brought you here for that purpose.  It was I who proposed
to you."
"I'm afraid I don't quite get that," doubtfully.
"Then we'll let the subject rest where it is.  You might bring it up in
after years."  Her laughter was happy.
He raised his eyes reverently toward heaven.  She would never know that
she had stood in danger.
"But your father!" with a note of sudden alarm.  And all the worldly
sides to the dream burst upon him.
"Father is only the 'company,' John."
And so the admiral himself admitted when, an hour later, Fitzgerald put
the affair before him, briefly and frankly.
"It is all her concern, my son, and only part of mine.  My part is to
see that you keep in order.  I don't know; I rather expected it.  Of
course," said the admiral, shifting his cigar, "there's a business end
to it.  I'm a rich man, but Laura isn't worth a cent, in money.  Young
men generally get the wrong idea, that daughters of wealthy parents
must also be wealthy."  He was glad to hear the young man laugh.  It
was a good sign.
"My earnings and my income amount to about seven-thousand a year; and
with an object in view I can earn more.  She says that will be plenty."
"She's a sensible girl; that ought to do to start on.  But let there be
no nonsense about money.  Laura's happiness; that's the only thing
worth considering.  I used to be afraid that she might bring a duke
home."  It was too dark for Fitzgerald to see the twinkle in the eyes
of his future father-in-law.  "If worst comes to worst, why, you can be
my private secretary.  The job is open at present," dryly.  "I've been
watching you; and I'm not afraid of your father's son.  Where's it to
be?"
"We haven't talked that over yet."
The admiral drew him down to the space beside him on the parapet and
offered the second greatest gift in his possession: one of his selected
perfectos.
The course of true love does not always run so smoothly.  A short
distance up the road Cathewe was grimly fighting for his happiness.
"Hildegarde, forget him.  Must he spoil both our lives?  Come with me,
be my wife.  I will make any and all sacrifices toward your
contentment."
"Have we not threshed this all out before, my friend?" sadly.  "Do not
ask me to forget him rather let me ask you to forget me."
"He will never be loyal to any one but himself.  He is selfish to the
core.  Has he not proved it?"  Where were the words he needed for this
last defense?  Where his arguments to convince her?  He was losing; in
his soul he knew it.  If his love for her was strong, hers for this
outcast was no less.  "I have never wished the death of any man, but if
he should die . . . !"
She interrupted him, her hands extended as in pleading.  Never had he
seen a woman's face so sad, "Arthur, I have more faith in you than in
any other man, and I prize your friendship above all other things.  But
who can say must to the heart?  Not you, not I!  Have I not fought
it?  Have I not striven to forget, to trample out this fire?  Have you
yourself not tried to banish me from your heart?  Have you succeeded?
Do you remember that night in Munich?  My voice broke, miserably, and
my public career was ruined.  What caused it?  A note from him, saying
that he had tired of the role and was leaving.  It was not my love he
wanted after all; a slip of paper, which at any time would have been
his for the asking.  Arthur, my friend, when you go from me presently
it will be with loathing.  That night you went to his room . . . he
lied to you."
"About what?"
"I mean, if I can not be his wife, I can not in honor be any man's.
God pity me, but must I make it plainer?"
Here, he believed, was his last throw.  "Have I not told you that
nothing mattered, nothing at all save that I love you?"
"I can not argue more," wearily.
"He will tire of you again," desperately.
"I know it.  But in my heart something speaks that he will need me; and
when he does I shall go to him."
"God in heaven! to be loved like that!"
Scarcely realizing the violence of his action, he crushed her to his
heart, roughly, and kissed her face, her eyes, her hair.  She did not
struggle.  It was all over in a moment.  Then he released her and
turned away toward the dusty road.  She was not angry.  She understood.
It was the farewell of the one man who had loved her in honor.
Presently he seemed to dissolve into the shadows, and she knew that out
of her life he had gone for ever.
CHAPTER XXV
THE DUPE
The next morning Fitzgerald found Cathewe's note under his plate.  He
opened it with a sense of disaster.
"MY DEAR OLD JACK:
I'm off.  Found a pony and shall jog to Ajaccio by the route we came.
Please take my luggage back to the Grand Hotel, and I'll pick it up.
And have my trunk sent ashore, too.  I shan't go back to America with
the admiral, bless his kindly old heart!  I'm off to Mombassa.  Always
keep a shooting-kit there for emergencies.  I suppose you'll
understand.  Be kind to her, and help her in any way you can.  I hope I
shan't run into Breitmann.  I should kill him out of hand.  Happiness
to you, my boy.  And maybe I'll ship you a trophy for the wedding.
Explain my departure in any way you please.
            "CATHEWE."
The reader folded the note and stowed it away.  Somehow, the bloom was
gone from things.  He was very fond of Cathewe, kindly, gentle, brave,
and chivalrous.  What was the matter with the woman, anyhow?  How to
explain?  The simplest way would be to state that Cathewe had gone back
to Ajaccio.  The why and wherefore should be left to the imagination.
But, oddly enough, no one asked a second question.  They accepted
Cathewe's defection without verbal comment.  What they thought was of
no immediate consequence.  Fitzgerald was gloomy till that moment when
Laura joined him.  To her, of course, he explained the situation.
Neither she nor Hildegarde cared to go up to the forest.  They would
find nothing but a hole.  And indeed, when the men returned from the
pines, weary, dusty, and dissatisfied, they declared that they had
gone, not with the expectation of finding anything, but to certify a
fact.
M. Ferraud was now in a great hurry.  Forty miles to Corte; night or
not, they must make the town.  There was no dissention; the spell of
the little man was upon them all.
Hildegarde rode alone, in the middle carriage.  Such had been her
desire.  She did not touch her supper.  And when, late at night, they
entered the gates of Corte and stepped down before the hotel lights,
Laura observed that Hildegarde's face was streaked by the passage of
many burning tears.  She longed to comfort her, but the older woman
held aloof.
Men rarely note these things, and when they do it has to be forced upon
them.  Fitzgerald, genuine in his regret for Cathewe, was otherwise at
peace with the world.  He alone of them all had found a treasure, the
incomparable treasure of a woman's love.
Racing his horses all through the night, scouring for fresh ones at
dawn and finding them, and away again, climbing, turning, climbing
round this pass, over that bridge, through this cut, thus flew
Breitmann, the passion of haste upon him.  By this tremendous pace he
succeeded in arriving at Evisa before the admiral had covered half the
distance to Carghese.
How clear and keen his mind was as on he rolled!  A thousand places
wove themselves to the parent-stem.  He even laughed aloud, sending a
shiver up the spine of the driver, who was certain his old padrone
was mad.  The face of Laura drifted past him as in a dream, and then
again, that of the other woman.  No, no; he regretted nothing,
absolutely nothing.  But he had been a fool there; he had wasted time
and lent himself to a despicable intrigue.  For all that he outcried
it, there was a touch of shame on his cheeks when he remembered that,
had he asked, she would have given him that scrap of paper the first
hour of their meeting.  Somewhere in Hildegarde von Mitter lay dormant
the spirit of heroes.  He had made a mistake.
Two millions of shining money, gold, silver, and English notes!  And he
laughed again as he recalled M. Ferraud, caught in a trap.  He was
clever, but not clever enough.  What a stroke!  To make prisoners of
the party on their return, to carry the girl away into the mountains!
Would any of them think of treasures, of conspiracies, with her as a
hostage?  He thought not.  In the hue and cry for her, these elements
in the game would fall to a minor place.  Well he knew M. Ferraud: he
would call to heaven for the safety of Laura.  Love her?  Yes!  She was
the one woman.  But men did not make captives of women and obtain their
love.  He knew the futility of such coercion.  He had committed two or
three scoundrelly acts, but never would he or could he sink to such a
level.  No.  He meant no harm at all.  Frighten her, perhaps, and
terrorize the others; and mayhap take a kiss as he left her to the
coming of her friends.  Nothing more serious than that.
Two millions in gold and silver and English notes!  He would have his
revenge, for all these years of struggle and failure; for the cold and
callous policies of state which had driven him to this piece of
roguery, on their heads be it.  Two thousand in Marseilles, ready at
his beck and call, a thousand more in Avignon, in Lyons, in Dijon, and
so on up to Paris, the Paris he had cursed one night from under his
mansard.  In a week he would have them shaking in their boots.  The
unemployed, the idlers, thieves, his to a man.  If he saw his own death
at the end, little he cared.  He would have one great moment, pay off
the score, France as well as Germany.  He would at least live to see
them harrying each other's throats.  To declare to France that he was
only Germany's tool, put forward for the sole purpose of destroying
peace in the midst of a great military crisis.  He had other papers,
and the prying little Frenchman had never seen those; clever forgeries,
bearing the signature of certain great German personages.  These should
they find at the selected moment.  Let them rip one another's throats,
the dogs!  Two million of francs, enough to purchase a hundred thousand
men.
"Ah, my great-grandsire, if spirits have eyes, yours will see something
presently.  And that poor little devil of a secret agent thinks I want
a crown on my head!  There was a time . . . Curse these infernal
headaches!"
On, on; hurry, hurry.  The driver was faithful, a sometime brigand and
later a harbor boatman; and of all his confederates this one was the
only man he dared trust on an errand of this kind.
Evisa.  They did not pause.  They ate their supper on the way.  With
three Sardinian donkeys, strong and patient little brutes, with
lanterns and shovels and sacks, the two fared into the pines.  Aïtone
was all familiar ground to the Corsican who, in younger days, had taken
his illegal tithe from these hills.  They found the range soon enough,
but made a dozen mistakes in measurements; and it was long toward
midnight, when the oil of the lanterns ran low, that their shovels bore
down into the precious pocket.  The earth flew.  They worked like
madmen, with nervous energy and power of will; and when the chest
finally came into sight, rotten with age and the soak of earth, they
fell back against a tree, on the verge of collapse.  The hair was damp
on their foreheads, their breath came harshly, almost in sobs.
Suddenly Breitmann fell upon his knees and laughed hysterically,
plunged his blistered hands into the shining heap.  It played through
his fingers in little musical cascades.  He rose.
"Pietro, you have been faithful to me.  Put your two hands in there."
"I, padrone?" stupefied.
"Go on!  Go on!  As much as your two hands can hold is yours.  Dig them
in deep, man, dig them in deep!"
With a cry Pietro dropped and burrowed into the gold and silver.  A
dozen times he started to withdraw his hands, but they trembled so that
some of the coins would slip and fall.  At last, with one desperate
plunge, the money running down toward his elbows, he turned aside and
let fall his burden on the new earth outside the shallow pit.  He
rolled beside it, done for, in a fainting state.  Breitmann laughed
wildly.
"Come, come; we have no time.  Put it into your pockets."
"But, padrone, I have not counted it!" naively.
"To-morrow, when we make camp for breakfast.  Let us hurry."
Quickly Pietro stuffed his pockets.  Jabbering in his patois, swearing
so many candles to the Virgin for this night's work.  Then began the
loading of the sacks, and these were finally dumped into the
donkey-panniers.
"Now, Pietro, the shortest cut to Ajaccio.  First, your hand on your
amulet, and oath never to reveal what has happened."
Pietro swore solemnly.  "I am ready now, padrone!"
"Lead on, then," replied Breitmann.  Impulsively he raised his hands
high above his head.  "Mine, all mine!"
He wiped his face and hands, pulled his cap down firmly, lighted a
cigarette, struck the rear donkey, and the hazardous journey began.
Seven men, more or less young, with a genial air of dissipation about
their eyes and a varied degree of recklessness lurking at the corners of
their mouths; seven men sat round a table in a house in the Rue St.
Charles.  They had been eating and drinking rather luxuriously for
Ajaccio.  The Rue St. Charles is neither spacious nor elegant as a
thoroughfare, but at that point where it turns into the Place Letitia
it is quiet and unfrequented at night.  A film of tobacco smoke wavered
in and out among the guttering candles and streamed round the empty and
part empty champagne bottles.  At the head of the table sat Breitmann,
still pale and weary from his Herculean labors.  His face was immobile,
but his eyes were lively.
"To-morrow," said Breitmann, "we leave for France.  On board the moneys
will be equally divided.  Then, for the work."  His voice was cold,
authoritative.
"Two millions!" mused Picard, from behind a fresh cloud of smoke.  He
