every detail of her features and her costume, and 
to see the play of laughter about her mouth and 
eyes. 
But then came the butler announcing luncheon ; 
and Samuel rose in a panic. He had a sudden 
vision of himself being asked to the table, to sit 
under Miss Wygant's merciless survey. " I 
think I'd better go now," he said. 
"All right," said yoimg Lockman. "Will 
you come to-morrow morning, and we'll fix 
things up?" 
" I'll come," said Samuel. 
" What are you going to do with him? '* asked 
the girl. 
" He Kkes to take care of horses," said Lock- 
man. 
" No," exclaimed the other promptly, " that 
won't do." 
" Why not? " asked he. 
" Because, Bertie, you don't want to make 
a stable boy out of him. He has too many 
possibihties. For one thing, he's good look- 
ing." 
Samuel flushed scarlet and dropped his eyes. 
He felt again that penetrating gaze. 
" All right," said Lockman. " What can you 
suggest? " 
" I don't know, I'm sure. But something de- 
cent." 
" He doesn't know enough to be a house ser- 
vant, Glad " 
" No — but something outside. Couldn't he 
learn gardening? Are you fond of flowers, Sam- 
uel? " 
" Yes, ma'am," said Samuel quickly. 
" Well, then, make a gardener out of him," 
said Miss Wygant; and that settled Samuel's 
destiny. 
The boy took his departure and went home, 
almost running in his excitement. He was trans- 
ported into a distant heaven of bliss; he had been 
seated among the gods — he was to dwell there 
forever after! 
His new patron had given him a five-dollar 
bill; and before he reached the Stedman home he 
stopped in a grocery store and loaded up his 
arms with bundles. And then, seized by a sud- 
den thought, he went into a notion store and set 
down his bundles and purchased a clean, white 
linen collar, and a necktie of royal purple and 
brilliant green — already tied, so that it would al- 
ways be perfect in shape. 
Then he went into the Stedmans, and the 
widow and the youngest children sat round and 
listened open-eyed to his tale. And then came 
Sophie, and he had to tell it all over again. 
The girl's eyes opened wide with excitement 
when he came to the end of his recital. " Miss 
Wygant!" she exclaimed. "Miss Gladys Wy- 
gant? " 
" Yes," said Samuel. " You've heard of her? " 
"I've seen herl" exclaimed Sophie eagerly. 
"Twice!" 
" You don't mean it," he said. 
" Yes. Once she came to our church festival 
at Christmas." 
" Does she belong to your church? " 
" It's the mission. Great folks like her wouldn't 
want us in the church with them. She goes to 
St. Matthew's, you know — up there on the hill. 
But she came to the festival at the mission and 
helped to give out the presents. And she was 
dressed all in red — something filmy and soft, like 
you'd see in a dream. And, oh, Samuel — she was 
so beautiful! She had a rose in her hair — and 
such a sweet perfvmie — you could hardly bear it! 
And she stood there and smiled at all the children 
and gave them the presents. She gave me mine, 
and it was like seeing a princess. I wanted to 
fall down and kiss her feet." 
" Yes," said Samuel understandingly. 
" And to think that you've met her! " cried So- 
phie in ecstasy. " And talked with her ! Oh, how 
could you do it? " 
" I— I don't think I did it very well," said 
Samuel. 
" What did you say to her? " 
" I don't remember much of it." 
" I never heard her voice," said Sophie. " She 
was talking, the other time I saw her, but the 
machinery drowned it out. That was in the mill 
— she came there with some other people and 
walked about, looking at everything. We were 
all so excited. You know, her father owns the 
mill." 
" No, I didn't know it," replied Samuel. 
" He owns all sorts of things in Lockmanville. 
They're very, very rich. And she's his only 
daughter, and so beautiful — everybody worships 
her. I've got two pictures of her that were in 
the newspapers once. Come — you must see them." 
And so the two rushed upstairs; and over the 
bed were two faded newspaper clippings, one 
showing Miss Gladys in an evening gown, and 
the other in dimity en princesse, with a bunch of 
roses in her arms. 
" Did you ever see anything so lovely? " asked 
the girl. " I made her my fairy godmother. 
And she used to say such lovely things to me. 
She must be very kind, you know — no one could 
be so beautiful who wasn't very, very good and 
kind." 
" No," said Samuel. " She must be, I'm sure." 
And then a sudden idea came to him. " So- 
phie!" he exclaimed — "she said I was good 
looking! I wonder if I am." 
And Sophie shot a quick glance at him. " Why, 
of course you are!" she cried. "You stupid 
boy!" 
Samuel went to the cracked mirror which hung 
upon the wall and looked at himself with new 
and wondering interest. 
" Don't you see how fine and strong you are? " 
said Sophie. " And what a bright color you've 
got?" 
" I never thought of it," said he, and recollected 
the green and purple necktie. 
" And to think that you've talked with her! " 
exclaimed Sophie, turning back to the pictures; 
and she added in a sudden burst of generosity, 
" I tell you what I'll do, Samuel — I'll give you 
these, and you can put them in your room! " 
" You mustn't do that ! " he protested. 
But the girl insisted. "No, no I I know them 
by heart, so it won't make any diflFerence. And 
they'll mean so much more to you, because you've 
really met her !" 
CHAPTER X 
SAMUEL' presented himself the next morn- 
ing and was turned over to the head gar- 
dener and duly installed as an assistant. " Let 
me know how you're getting along," was young 
Lockman's last word to him. " And if there's 
anything else I can do for you come and tell me." 
" Thank you very much, sir," said the boy 
gratefully; but without realizing how these magic 
words, pronounced in the gardener's hearing, 
would make him a privileged character about the 
place — an object of mingled deference and envy 
to the other servants. 
It was a little world all in itself, the " Fair- 
view " menage. Without counting the stable 
hands, and the employees of the different farms, 
it took no less than twenty-three people to min- 
ister to the personal wants of Bertie Lockman. 
And they were divided into ranks and classes, 
with a rigid code of etiquette, upon which they 
insisted with vehemence. A housekeeper's as- 
sistant looked with infinite scorn upon a kitchen 
maid, and there had to be no less than four din- 
ing rooms for the various classes of servants who 
would not eat at the same table. All this was 
very puzzling to the stranger; but after a while 
he came to see how the system had grown up. It 
was just like a court; and the privileged beings 
who waited upon the sovereign necessarily were 
esteemed according to the importance of the ser- 
vice they performed for him and the access which 
they attained to his person. 
A good many of these servants were foreign- 
ers, and Samuel was pained to discover that they 
were for the most part without any ennobling 
conception of their calling. They were much 
given to gluttony and drinking; and there was an 
imthinkable amovmt of scandal and backbiting 
and jealousy. But it was only by degrees that 
he realized this, for he had one great motive in 
common with them — they were all possessed with 
a sense of the greatness of the Lockmans, and 
none of them wanted anything better than to talk 
for hours about the family and its wealth and 
power, and the habits and tastes of its members 
and their friends. 
It was Katie Reilly, a bright little Irish dam- 
sel, the housekeeper's sewing girl, who first cap- 
tured Samuel with her smile ; she carried him off 
for a walk, in spite of the efforts of the second 
parlor maid, and Samuel drank up eagerly the 
stream of gossip which poured from her lips. 
Master Albert — that was what they all called him 
— was said to have an income of over seven him- 
dred thousand dollars a year. What he did with 
such a sum no one could imagine; he had lived 
quite alone since his father's death. The house 
had always been run by Miss Aiu-elia, old Mr. 
Lockman's sister, a lady with the lumbago and a 
terrible temper; but she had died a couple of years 
ago. Mr. Lockman had taken great interest in 
his stock farm, but very little in his house; and 
Master Albert took even less, spending most of 
his time in New York. Consequently everything 
was at sixes and sevens, and he was being robbed 
most terribly. But in spite of all his relatives' 
suggestions, he would not have anyone to come 
and live with him. 
Master Albert was still a minor, and his affairs 
were managed by Mr. Hickman, the family law- 
yer, and also by his uncle, Mr. Wygant. The 
latter was a manufacturer and capitalist — also 
a great scholar, so Katie said. It was he Samuel 
had seen that afternoon in the automobile, a tall 
and very proud-looking man with an iron-gray 
mustache. He lived in the big white house just 
after you climbed the ridge ; and Miss Gladys was 
his only daughter. She had been old Mr. Lock- 
man's favorite niece, and he had left her a great 
deal of money. People were always planning 
a match between her and Master Albert, but that 
always made Miss Gladys very angry. They 
both declared they were not in love with each 
other, and Katie was inclined to think this was 
true. Miss Gladys had been away to a rich board- 
ing school, and she wanted to visit some friends 
at Newport; but her father wanted her to stay 
with him, and that made her discontented. She 
was very beautiful, and everybody was her slave. 
"But oh, I tell you, when she's angry I" said 
Katie with a shake of her head. 
This little Irish girl was a rare find for Sam- 
uel, because her brother was the "fellow " to Miss 
Gladys's maid, and so there was nothing she could 
not tell Samuel about his divinity. He learned 
about Miss Gladys's beautiful party dresses, and 
about her wonderful riding horse, and about her 
skill at tennis, and even her fondness for chocolate 
fudge. Miss Gladys had been to Paris the sum- 
mer before; and her family had a camp in the 
Adirondacks, and they went there every August 
in an automobile and flew about on a mountain 
lake in a motor-boat the shape of a knife blade. 
Katie wanted to talk about Samuel a part of 
the time, and even, perhaps, about herself; but 
Samuel plied her with questions about Miss 
Wygant. 
He had her two pictures folded away in his 
vest pocket ; and all the time that he trimmed the 
hedges he listened for the sound of her horse's 
hoofs or for the chug of her motor. And then, 
one blissful morning, when he was carrying in 
an armful of roses for the housekeeper, he ran 
full upon her in the hall. 
His heart leaped so that it hurt him; and in- 
stead of passing straight on, as he should have 
done, he stood stock still, and almost spilled his 
roses on the floor. 
Miss Gladys's face lighted with pleasure. 
" Why, it's Samuel! " she exclaimed. 
" Yes, Miss Gladys," said he. 
" And how do you like your position? " 
"Very well. Miss Gladys," he replied; and 
then, feeling the inadequacy of this, he added with 
fervor, " I'm so happy I can't tell you." 
" I'm very glad to hear it," she said. " And 
I'm sure you fill it very well." 
" I've done the hest I can. Miss Gladys," said 
he. 
There was a moment's pause. " You find there 
is a good deal to learn? " she inquired. 
" Yes," he answered. " But you see, it's about 
flowers, and I was always interested in flowers." 
And again there was a pause; and then sud- 
denly Miss Wygant flung a question at him — . 
" Samuel, why do you look at me like that? " 
Samuel was almost knocked over. 
"Why— why— " he gasped. "Miss Gladys I 
I don't !" 
" Ah! " she said, " but you do." 
Poor Samuel was in an agony of horror. " I 
— I — really — " he stammered. " I didn't mean 
it — I wouldn't for the world " 
He stopped, utterly at a loss; and Miss Wy- 
gant kept her merciless gaze upon him. " Am 
I so very beautiful? " she asked. 
This startled Samuel into lifting his eyes. He 
stared at her, transfixed; and at last he whispered, 
faintly, " Yes." 
" Tell me about it," she said, and her look shook 
him to the depths of his soul. 
He stood there, trembling; he could feel the 
blood pouring in a warm flood about his throat 
and neck. " Tell me," she said again. 
" You — you are more beautiful than anyone 
I have ever seen," he panted. 
" You are not used to women, Samuel! " 
" No," said he. " I'm just a country boy." 
She stood waiting for him to continue. " The 
girls there " — he whispered — " they are pretty —  
but you — you " 
And then suddenly the words came to him. 
" You are like a princess ! " he cried. 
" Ah, if you ever find yom* tongue! " she said 
with a smile; and then after a pause she added, 
" You don't know how different you are, Sam- 
uel." 
" Different? " he echoed. 
" Yes. You are so fresh — so young. You 
would do anything for me, wouldn't you? " 
« Yes," he said. 
" You'd risk your life for me, as you did for 
[Bertie? " 
And Samuel answered her with fervor that left 
no room for doubt, 
" I wish there was a chance," she laughed. 
" But there's only this dull every-day roimd! " 
There was a pause; the boy dropped his eyes 
and stood trembling. 
"Where are you going with the roses?" she 
asked. 
" I'm to take them to the housekeeper." 
" Let me have one." 
She took one from the bimch, and he stood 
watching while she pinned it to her dress. " You 
may bring me some, now and then," she said 
with one of her marvelous smiles. " Don't for- 
get." And then, as she went on, she touched 
him upon the hand. 
At the touch of her warm, living fingers such 
a thrill passed through the boy as made him reel. 
It was something blind and elemental, outside of 
anything that he had dreamed of in his life. She 
went on down the hall and left him there, and he 
had to lean against a table for support. 
And all that day he was in a daze — with bursts 
of rapture sweeping over him. She was inter- 
ested in him! She had smiled upon him! She 
had touched his hand! 
He went home that evening, on purpose to tell 
Sophie; and the two of them talked about it for 
hours. He told the story over and over again. 
And Sophie listened, with her eyes shining and 
her hands clasped in an ecstasy of delight. 
" Oh, Samuel ! " she whispered. " I knew it — 
I knew she'd appreciate you! She was so beau- 
tiful — I knew she must be kind and good I " 
CHAPTER XI 
A WEEK passed, and Samuel did not see his 
divinity again. He lived upon the memory 
of their brief interview, and while he trimmed 
the hedges he was dreaming the most extrav- 
agant dreams of rescues and perilous escapes. 
For the first time he began to find that his work 
was tedious; it offered so few possibihties of ro- 
mance! If only he had been her chauffeur, now! 
Or the guide who escorted her in her tramps 
about the wilderness ! Or the man who ran the 
wonderful motor-boat that was shaped like a 
knife blade! 
Samuel continued to ponder, and was greatly 
worried lest the commonplace should ingulf him. 
So little he dreamed how near was a change ! 
Bertie Lockman had been away for a few days, 
visiting some friends, and he came back unex- 
pectedly one afternoon. Samuel knew that he 
had not been expected, for always there were 
great bunches of fllowers to be placed in his room. 
The gardener happened to be away at the time 
the motor arrived, and so Samuel upon his own 
responsibility cut the flowers and took them into 
the house. He left them in the housekeeper's 
workroom, and then set out to find that func- 
tionary, and tell her what he had done. So, in 
the entrance to the dining room, he stumbled up- 
on his young master, giving some orders to 
Peters, the butler. 
As an humble gardener's boy, Samuel should 
have stepped back and vanished. Instead he came 
forward, and Bertie smiled pleasantly and said, 
" Hello, Samuel." 
" Good afternoon. Master Albert," said Sam- 
uel. 
" And how do you like your work? " the other 
asked. 
" I like it very well, sir," he replied; and then 
added apologetically, " I was bringing some 
flowers." 
The master turned to speak to Peters again J 
and Samuel turned to retire. But at that instant 
there came the sound of a motor in front of the 
house. 
"Hello," said Bertie. "Who's that?" and 
turned to look through the entrance hall. Peters 
went forward to the door; and so Samuel was left 
standing and watching. 
A big red touring car had drawn up in front 
of the piazza. It was filled with young people, 
waving their hands and shouting, " Bertie! Oh, 
Bertie!" 
The other appeared to be startled. "Well, 
I'll be damned! " he muttered as he went to meet 
them. 
Of course Samuel had no business whatever to 
stand there. He should have fled in trepida- 
tion. But he, as a privileged person, had not 
yet been drilled into a realization of his " place." 
And they were such marvelous creatures — these 
people of the upper world — and he was so de- 
voured with the desire to know about them. 
There were two young men in the motor, of 
about his master's age, and nearly as goodly to 
look at. And there were four young women, of 
a quite extraordinary sort. They were beautiful, 
all of them — nearly as beautiful as Miss Gladys ; 
and perhaps it was only the automobile costumes, 
but they struck one as even more alarmingly 
complex. 
They were airy, ethereal creatures, with deli- 
cate peachblow complexions, and very small 
hands and feet. They seemed to favor all kinds 
of fluffy and flimsy things ; they were explosions 
of all the colors of the springtime. There were 
leaves and flowers and fruits and birds in their 
hats ; and there were elaborate filmy veils to hold 
the hats on. They descended from the motor, and 
Samuel had glimpses of ribbons and ruffles, of 
shapely ankles and daintily shppered feet. They 
came in the midst of a breeze of merriment, with 
laughter and bantering and little cries of all sorts. 
" You don't seem very glad to see us, Bertie I " 
one said. 
" Cheer up, old chap — nobody'll tell on us ! " 
cried one of the young men. 
" And we'll be good and go home early! " 
added another of the girls. 
One of the party Samuel noticed particularly, 
because she looked more serious, and hung back 
a little. She was smaller than the others, a 
study in pink and white ; her dress and hat were 
trinamed with pink ribbons, and she had the most 
marvelously pink cheeks and lips, and the most 
exquisite features Samuel had ever seen in his 
life. 
Now suddenly she ran to yoimg Lockman and 
flung her arms about his neck. 
"Bertie," she exclaimed, "it's my fault. I 
made them come! I wanted to see you so badly I 
You aren't mad with us, are you? " 
" No," said Bertie, " I'm not mad." 
"Well, then, be glad!" cried the girl, and 
kissed him again. " Be a good boy — do! " 
"All right," said Bertie feebly. "I'll be 
good. Belle." 
" We wanted to surprise you," added one of 
the yoimg fellows. 
"You surprised me all right," said Bertie — 
a reply which all of them seemed to find highly 
amusing, for they laughed uproariously. 
" He doesn't ask us in," said one of the 
girls. " Come on, Dolly — let's see this house of 
his." 
And so the party poured in. Samuel waited 
just long enough to catch the rustle of innumer- 
able garments, and a medley of perfumes which 
might have been blown from all the gardens of 
the East. Then he turned and fled to the regions 
below. 
One of the young men, he learned from the 
talk in the servants' hall, was Jack Holliday, the 
youngest son of the railroad magnate; it was his 
sister who was engaged to marry the Enghsh 
duke. The other boy was the heir of a great lum- 
ber king from the West, and though he was only 
twenty he had got himself involved in a divorce 
scandal with some actor people. Who the young 
ladies were no one seemed to know, but there were 
half -whispered remarks about them, the signifi- 
cance of which was qxiite lost upon Samuel. 
Presently the word came that the party was 
to stay to dinner. And then instantly the whole 
household sprang into activity. Above stairs 
everything would move with the smoothness of 
clockwork; but downstairs in the servants' quar- 
ters it was a serious matter that an elaborate ban- 
quet for seven people had to be got ready in a 
couple of hours. Even Samuel was pressed into 
service at odd jobs — something for which he was 
very glad, as it gave him a chance to remain in 
the midst of events. 
So it happened that he savr Peters emerging 
from the wine cellar, followed by a man with a 
huge basket full of bottles. And this set Samuel 
to pondering hard, the while he scraped away at 
a bowl of potatoes. It was the one thing which 
had disconcerted him in the Ufe of this upper 
world — the obvious part that drinking played in 
it. There were always decanters of liquor upon 
the buffet in the dining room; and liquor was 
served to guests upon any and every pretext. 
And the women drank as freely as the men — 
even Miss Gladys drank, a thing which was sim- 
ply appalling to Samuel. 
Of course, these were privileged people, and 
they knew what they wanted to do. But could 
it be right for anyone to drink? As in the case of 
suicide, Samuel found his moral convictions be- 
ginning to waver. Perhaps it was that drink did 
not aifect these higher beings as it did ordinary 
people! Or perhaps what they drank was some- 
thing that cheered without inebriating! Certain 
it was that the servants got drunk; and Samuel 
had seen that they took the stuff from the de- 
canters used by the guests. 
It was something over which he labored with 
great pain of soul. But, of course, all his hesi- 
tations and sophistries were for the benefit of his 
master — that it could be right for Samuel him- 
self to touch liquor was something that could not 
by any chance enter his mind. 
The dinner had begun; and Samuel went on 
several errands to the room below the butler's 
pantry, and so from the dumb-waiter shafts he 
could hear the sounds of laughter and conversa- 
tion. And more wine went up — it was evidently 
a very merry party. The meal was protracted 
for two or three hours, and the noise grew louder 
and louder. They were shouting so that one could 
hear them all over the house. They were singing 
songs — wild rollicking choruses which were very 
wonderful to listen to, and yet terribly disturbing 
to Samuel. These fortunate successful ones — he 
would grant them the right to any happiness — 
it was to be expected that they should dwell in 
perpetual merriment and delight. But he could 
hear the champagne corks popping every few 
minutes. And could it be right for them to 
drink! 
It grew late, and still the revelry went on. A 
thimderstorm had come up and was raging out- 
side. The servants who were not at work, had 
gone to bed, but there was no sleep for Samuel; 
he continued to prowl about, restless and tor- 
mented. The whole house was now deserted, save 
for the party in the dining room ; and so he crept 
up, by one of the rear stairways, and crouched in 
a doorway, where he could listen to the wild up- 
roar. 
He had been there perhaps ten minutes. He 
could hear the singing and yelling, though he 
could not make out the words because of the noise 
of the elements. But then suddenly, above all the 
confusion, he heard a woman's shrieks, piercing 
and shrill ; and he started up and sprang into the 
hall. Whether they were cries of anger, or of 
fear, or of pain, Samuel could not be certain; 
but he knew that they were not cries of enjoy- 
ment. 
He stood trembling. There rose a babel of 
shouts, and then again came the woman's voice 
— " No, no — you shan't, I say! " 
" Sit down, you fool! " Samuel heard Bertie 
Lockman shout. 
And then came another woman's voice — " Shut 
up and mind your business! " 
" I'll tear your eyes out, you devil! " shrilled 
the first voice, and there followed a string of 
furious curses. The other woman replied in kind, 
and Samuel made out that there was some kind 
of a quarrel, and that some of the party wanted 
to interfere, and that others wanted it to go on. 
All were whooping and shrieking uproariously, 
and the two women yelled like hyenas. 
It was like the nightmare sounds he had heard 
from his cell in the police station, and Samuel 
 
listened appalled. There came a crash of break- 
ing glass ; and then suddenly, in the midst of the 
confusion, he heard his young master cry, " Get 
out of here I " — and the dining room door was 
flung open, and the uproar burst full upon 
him. 
A terrible sight met his eyes. It was the beau- 
tiful and radiant creature who had kissed Bertie 
Lockman; her face was now flushed with drink 
and distorted with rage — her hair disheveled and 
her aspect wild; and she was screaming in the 
voice which had first startled Samuel. Bertie had 
grappled with her and was trying to push her 
out of the room, while she fought frantically, and 
screamed : " Let me go ! Let me go ! " 
"Get out of here, I say!" cried Bertie, "I 
mean it now." 
" I won't ! Let me be! " exclaimed the girl. 
" Hurrah ! " shouted the others, crowding be- 
hind them. Young Holliday was dancing about, 
waving a bottle and yelling like a maniac, " Go 
it, Bertie ! Give it to him. Belle ! " 
" This is the end of it! " cried Bertie. " I'm 
through with you. And you get out of here! " 
" I won't!  won't! " screamed the girl again 
and again. " Help! " And she fltmg one arm 
about his neck and caught at the doorway. 
