at her quietly and loved her and wanted to hurt her because 
she cried. 
" We must go away, dear," Bess said, as soon as she could 
speak. " I 've been thinking about it all the afternoon." 
" Where ? " Celia asked it coldly, without real interest. 
" I don't know yet. I 've been thinking. We could do 
 
one thing anyway." She looked at Celia now timidly, knoiwr- 
ing how she would take it. " We could go back to the 
tavern." 
" Where you worked? " 
" Yes." She took a little sip of courage at being even 
hearkened to. " I could do the cooking. They 'd take me on 
again. They'd be glad — and you could board." Celia was 
looking at her with an unmoved face, and Bess plucked up 
heart to continue. " Mrs. Ramsay won't stay long. She 's 
fretting about her children. I 've seen it. Maybe she 'd be 
better at home. She could do a little here and there and not 
think so much about herself." 
" You want to get back," said Celia bitterly. 
"I ?" 
" Yes. You 're homesick for the tavern, the boarders, your 
work." 
The last word was hard to utter. It projected an infini- 
tude of servile tasks, and Bess, even, was abhorrent to her 
for the moment because she could endure them. Bess sat 
now regardless of covering her tear-stained face, hands clasped 
about her knees, looking sadly past her sister. 
" No," she said, " no. I 'd done with the place pretty 
soon after you took me away from it. I don't want to go 
back to it. But it 's the only place there is." 
A momentary curiosity qualified Celia's look. 
" What do you like ? " she asked. " Where do you want 
to stay ? " 
A soft radiance beamed from Bess. It made her face into 
a glowing wonder. 
" Here," she said softly, as if to her inner mind. " Oh, 
there 's no place like here." 
"This house?" 
"This house, this town." 
 
She looked like a creature fallen in love, but Celia, study- 
ing her, judged that it must be, incredible as it seemed, with 
the place. Bess was thinking only of Winterbourne, how kind 
he was, how safe everything was with him, the smallest and 
the biggest, because he was just kind and allowed you to be 
free. Celia's face had hardened again from its momentary 
breaking. 
" Then what do you want to go away for ? " she asked. 
"We must," said Bess. The look of grief had come 
again. "We've done — " She stopped, and Celia went on 
for her, — 
" Don't say we 've done. We haven't done anything. 
I 've told lies, you mean." 
Bess, tongue-tied by nature, found it impossible to show 
her that with the tie between them and the love between 
them, their loneliness of kin, the sin of one was the other's 
sin also, and they must stand or fall together. 
"And what about?" said Celia, in scorn. "An ear- 
trumpet ! I said I hadn't it when I had. An ear-trumpet 
was not to be found for half an hour when nobody particu- 
larly wanted it, and I was asked if I had it, and I said 
no." 
In the confusion of her mind, the strain of her anger, 
and because she needed food, it was all unmeasured folly 
to her. It seemed foolish that Tim had wanted it, foolish 
in her to have taken it for him, to have denied she had it. 
The thought uppermost in her mind was that Tim was a 
fool, and he had been allowed by a silly destiny to bring 
about this upheaval. She was angry to the bottom of her 
consciousness. That she could not altogether have ex- 
plained. But the world seemed now her enemy. Bess was 
speaking at last. She had thought of some things so long 
that now they came fluently. 
 
" It isn't what we 've done to-day. It 's all that led to it." 
" Led to what? Mislaying an ear-trumpet? " 
Bess looked at her in an agony. She wished Celia would 
understand and she need not say it. 
" Why, we owe them everything," she said. " They 
brought you up." 
Celia's face seemed to harden again. 
"Well," she returned. "What then?" 
Bess had it all thought out. 
" They 've been so square with us. They 've made you 
a lady. Just think, Celia, you 're a lady." She spoke as if 
the word even were incredible. 
" Don't say I 'm a lady in that tone," Celia bade her 
harshly, " as if it was so astonishing to be a lady. Aren't 
you a lady ? " 
" Oh, no," said Bess, with a perfect simplicity. " I can't 
even speak good grammar. I've worked too hard. But 
you 're a lady, Celia. Oh, you 're lovely ! " 
She rocked back and forth in an ecstasy of pity and ad- 
miration, and sorrow over the mischance that had made her 
sister look so soiled to her. Celia was plucking up a little 
spirit. Somebody still admired her, it appeared, and on 
that she could thrive meagrely. Blame seemed to slay her. 
But Bess. knocked down the fair fabric she had erected. 
"And it's all no good," she said, "no good. If we do 
things like that, we 're low and mean. I wish we 'd died 
before it." 
"Things like what? Saying things — " 
Bess nodded, not looking at her. 
" Saying they 're so when they 're not. Mother wouldn't 
have done it," she grieved. "The way the old woman 
spoke of ner ! She was sweet. Father wouldn't have done 
it, either." 
 
"Why do you say he wouldn't? What do we know 
about him ? " 
Bess put up her head a little in Celia's own way. 
" We know one thing. The folks there told me. There 
was a little bound girl, and the &mily that had her didn't 
treat her well, and the neighbors didn't dare to make any fuss 
about it because they were afraid the man would burn their 
barns. But father did it. He had it brought into court, 
and he stood up and faced it. I know that about him." 
" Well," said Celia. Then she laughed a little, but there 
was no mirth in it. " So I 'm the black sheep. I am a dis- 
grace to you." 
Bess wrung her hands in a spontaneous action of grief. 
" How can you ! " she said. " You are the prettiest — the 
dearest — it 's only because you must n't, Celia, you mustn't 
say what isn't true." 
Celia suddenly looked sick and pale. She had resolved 
to eat no more in that house; but her healthy young body 
cried for food. Yet what could she do?. If she went away, 
as she intended doing, it was her enemy's money she must 
go on. But that, she reflected, in another moment, could 
be paid back. The food also might be, in some fashion. 
"Could I have a glass of milk?" she asked humbly, and 
Bess gave a little cry, the articulate sound a mother might 
make in hastening to her young. 
" I'll bring it to you here," she said, and hurried out. 
Celia made no objection to that. It was too hard, she 
knew, to leave the room and meet Catherine's insjstent 
eyes. Bess came back with her kind little tray, and Celia 
ate, hungrily and with a careful determination to prime her- 
self for action. 
" There," said she at the end, " run away now. I 'm going 
out. I 'm going to walk a little. When I come back — " but 
 
there she stopped. It was suddenly evident to her that she 
was going to lie again. 
" Couldn't I go with you ? " Bess had hesitated. 
" No. I want to think." 
Was that, too, a lie ? she wondered suddenly. Her mind 
was beginning to torment her. 
Bess went heavily away down the stairs, and Celia, listen- 
ing, heard her going on to the kitchen with her tray. Celia 
pinned on her hat hastily and took her little bag. After a 
moment's listening she slipped down the front stairs and 
noiselessly out at the door. Walking down the path and 
along the street, she felt with a sick heart that something 
dreadful in its definiteness had been done. She had taken 
upon herself exile from Bess, who had not cast her off, but 
from whom she had parted when it was evident that her 
sister was ashamed of her. And hurrying on, her head held 
high to meet the bright day before which she was deter- 
mined to own no shame, she saw Lovell coming, driving fast, 
with his hat off, and that alert, delighted look she called to 
his face already overspreading it. She would have passed 
him, but he had driven to the curb. 
"Can't I take you somewhere?" he asked. 
She shook her head, essaying a smile. He was out of the 
wagon and beside her. 
"What is it, Celia? " he was asking warmly. 
Celia felt her eyes filling with tears. He seemed, by his 
admiring love, to be reinstating her on old grounds. He, at 
least, did not find her a disgrace. 
" I 'm going away," she said. 
"Where?" 
"To Boston." 
" When are you coming back ? " 
" I 'm not coming." 
 
"Celia!" 
The sun, she saw, would fail out of his heaven. She nodded 
over her shoulder at the house. 
" I have left them." 
Lovell stood still a moment, enraged she found with what 
must have been her wrongs, and that consoled her slightly. 
" Get in," he said then. "We'll drive a little, and I'll take 
you to the station if you've got to go." 
It was a tone she felt obliged to hear, and she stepped into 
the wagon, he following her. They went rather fast until 
they were out of the street, and Lovell turned into a leafy 
road skirting the back of the station and drew the horse to 
a walk. 
"Now," said he, "what is it?" 
She felt uneasily that she had never heard this tone in 
him. He had been the suppliant bringing tribute to his dear. 
This almost made it seem as if here was some one else to 
reckon with. Something must be said, and she offered 
weakly, — 
"They are not to blame." 
" You don't mean they 'vc turned you out ? " 
" I chose to go." 
" Not Winterbourne — Winterbourne wouldn't do a thing 
like that." 
" They don't know I am going. I decided upon it my- 
self." 
"Your sister? Is she going? " 
" No. Bess isn't going." 
" What does this mean, Celia ? " said Lovell, in a tone of 
resolution. " You 've got to tell me." 
How could she tell him ? Could she say, " I said I hadn't 
an ear-trumpet when I had?" The puerile folly of it. He would 
lift his face to heaven and laugh with an uncontrolled shout- 
 
ing like Winterbourne's own. But the ear-trumpet was not 
it. That was the last silly cue that brought on all the other 
tragedy about her, Catherine's sickened looks and that un- 
bearable sad plea from Bess. It was what had gone before. It 
was the ill way they evidently believed her life was tending. 
" I am not what they thought," she said, and it sounded 
as if she said it haughtily. 
Lovell looked upon her frowningly, wondering, she saw, 
not in the least intending to accept anything less than the 
clean fact. 
" But that's ridiculous," said he. " They 've known you all 
your life. People don't turn us out for sentimental reasons. 
Guess again ! " 
He was laughing, and the bright day made it seem for 
the moment as if she might at least smile a little ; but the 
thought of Bess and her grief dried her throat anew. 
" I 'm going to sec Winterbourne about this," he said, with 
energy. " It 's a fancy you 've got up. I never heard of any- 
thing more intangible." 
" No," said Celia. "It 's not intangible. It's true. I 'm go- 
ing away, and if you see Mr. Winterbourne, if you see any 
of them to talk about it, I shall go away from you." 
" Then," said Lovell, " if you are going away, you must 
come to me. We must be married now, short off. The house 
isn't begun even, but you could wait for that. You could stand 
my little shanty, knowing you were going to have the other." 
He was the adoring lover. Her heart gave a cry of tri- 
umph. She must seem to him very nice indeed. In that light he 
looked very nice to her, a companion, a vindicator. But was 
it true, her brooding mind insisted on putting in here, that 
she could claim vindication ? Or was she what Bess thought 
her? Pondering it, she answered absently, — 
" No, not that." 
 
"Not that? It's the only thing. What arc you going to 
do in Boston ? " 
She did not know. 
" Have you any money ? " He asked it as if it were the 
most ordinary thing to ask, with a simplicity that made it 
delicate. 
"A little." 
" A little won't do. You must let me give you some."
"No! no!" 
That, he saw, was definite, and it settled the case for 
him. 
"Then you will stay here. You will let me drive you 
back home, and you will be ready to-morrow morning and 
I'll come and marry you." 
" Why, no ! " she said, " why, no ! " 
"Yes. Have your hat on, dearest, and we'll walk out of 
the house after it 's over. I 'll ask no questions either of you 
or the family. It's a complication — a misunderstanding — 
some folly, I haven't a doubt; but we must tackle it and 
ignore it and live it down. And I 'm the gainer, if it drives 
you to me." 
His very air was of gay certainties. This was what life had 
done for him. He had had his own complications to live down 
and had done it in the wrong way, so retrospect declared. 
He would never be again on the craven's side. 
" No," said Celia, " no." 
" I shall come," he asserted, " at ten to-morrow. You will 
be ready for me." 
" I can't be married in that house," she flung out desper- 
ately. 
He considered. Courting lads and lasses were always 
driving or walking away to the minister and coming home 
man- and wife. It was conformable enough to the standard 
 
of Clyde. But for his only and unapproachcd lady it would 
not do. She must have the sanction of roofs and covenants. 
" Yes," said he, " you must be ready for me at ten. I 
shall be there." 
Celia felt, with a mingling of terror and surprise, that she 
had never been faced by a will so strong. Lovell himself 
was riding bareback on the joy of dominating circumstance. 
No more Theocritus for him until the hand of age began to 
press him down, inch by gentle inch. This was life, life. He 
turned, and they drove slowly back again, past the station, 
and Celia saw she was not to go. She hardly knew what she 
wished. The sheer passion of an hour before, when anger 
was the spur to action, had gone, and she knew, if she threw 
herself capriciously out into the world, there was nothing for 
her to do there. 
"Will you — " she began. They were nearing Winter- 
bourne's again, and her teeth seemed to shut convulsively 
upon the words — " will you — if I do it, will you be good to 
my sister ? Will you let her come to me ? " 
He looked round at her. 
"Good to your sister? How can you ask me? She shall 
live with you. I shan't rule you, dear. I 'm ruling you now 
because it's best — but not after." 
He got out and held up his hands to her. But she did 
not move, and he saw she looked most miserable. Her eyes 
were interrogating his. Bess had come to the door, and stood 
there awaiting them. Celia knew that, and something in Bess 
seemed to constrain her in what she had to say: — 
" If I should tell you what the trouble was, you wouldn't 
— want me." 
Lovell felt surprise, uneasiness at the pain she was un- 
dergoing, but he forbade his eyes to flinch. 
" Yes," he said. " I should want you whatever it was." 
 
" If it was my fault — " she began, as if she were making 
dreary confession before Bess, who stood on the steps un- 
consciously impelling her. 
" If it was your fault. Come, jump out. I 've got a lot to 
do before to-morrow." 
" If I were a person to disgrace you — " 
" Jump out," he bade her even gayly now. " You and I 
aren't going to talk this over. We 're going to begin to live. 
There 's a new world created, and it 's ours." 
There spoke the poet in him, irrepressibly, though he had 
bade himself now take every exigency like a man only be- 
cause nothing was better than to be a man. 
Celia did step down from the wagon, and not seeing, went 
up the path where Bess awaited her, and Lovell turned 
away. He drove rapidly now, and to Celia's hearing the sound 
was of a part with his peremptory words. Bess came down 
a step to meet her and touched her dress humbly, as if she 
must make sure of her and dared not offer a caress. 
" I was afraid," she said. " I saw your little bag was gone." 
Celia's harshness toward her — the harshness of hurt love 
— was melted. She felt gentle and very tired, and it was 
restful to her to have escaped that surge of passions. 
" Come upstairs," she said. " I 've got to talk to you." 
In her own room, while Bess waited, eager to do a service, 
she languidly took off her hat and gloves, and then turned 
to regard her sister. She did not want to sit. That seemed 
to begin an interview from which she might not easily es- 
cape. 
" Bess," she said, " Mr. Lovell is coming here to-morrow. 
He is going to marry me." 
Bess looked at her a moment. 
" Sit down, dear," she said then, soothingly. " No, you 
lie down. You 're all tired out." 
 
Celia saw she had not understood. But she could not 
argue it. 
"It will be at ten," she said drearily. " Could you help 
me drag in my trunks from the back hall f I must do my 
packing." 
Now Bess believed it, but she was confounded by the 
pace the world was making. 
" Celia," she implored, " what is it ? What 's set you off 
to do a thing like that? O Celia, not to get away from 
here?" 
Celia felt that the way to attain silence was to give a rea- 
son. It was impossible to enter into talk. 
" We have been engaged to be married for — " She was 
about to say " for a long time," and then that frightened 
consciousness told her here were lies again. " We are to be 
married," she ended. " Come, let 's get the trunks." 
There was no way but to agree. She was keyed to a point 
where she could have dragged them in alone, and Bess 
helped her, working noiselessly, and then stood by in frozen 
misery while Celia folded delicate things and packed them 
with a care. It was not the part of Bess to dally while work 
went on, and presently she too began folding and laying 
cleverly. The task was an anguish to her. She had some- 
times thought, in a shy, hidden way, of Celia's marrying. 
Celia was so beautiful that the most wonderful lot of all 
seemed decreed for her, and now here the dewy moment had 
come and they were making ready for it as if destiny were 
behind. But she could not speak. Once the tears came, but 
she wiped them away lest they touch her sister's clothes 
and make an omen. When they had finished and Celia 
shut down the last lid, she looked at Bess, and aware of the 
trouble of it all, yet now not much moved by it, said imperi- 
ously, though in a quiet way, — 
 
" One thing. You must not speak of it." 
" Not speak of it ? Not to her ? " 
"No." 
" But, Celia, I must speak to him." 
" No. If they are here when I go downstairs, they can be 
told. They can be there if they like. I would have gone 
away, but — " She was about to say that Lovell had for- 
bidden it, but she could not use his name. He seemed to 
belong to her and yet was alien to her. "It wouldn't be fair 
to them." 
"But this isn't fair to them. It's their house. O Celia, 
we couldn't use it so and not tell them." 
Celia stood a moment thinking bitterly. Was this another 
point, her outraged vanity asked her, where she was dense 
to the propriety of life ? Was Bess, who always counselled 
the unselfish thing, more gently bred than she ? 
" Very well," she said. " Tell them then. But don't tell her 
till morning. She 'd have things to eat. She 'd talk with me. 
And tell him that. Tell him I won't be talked to." 
Bess, without a look at her, because she seemed to herself 
now to have helped bring this incredible destiny about, and 
she would plague her sister no more, was softly going. But 
Celia came after her, with a little rush, and threw passionate 
arms about her. 
" You can live with me," she whispered, in her fierce devo- 
tion to the tie of blood, " if you 're willing to. He says so." 
They kissed, and Bess dared the question some one, she 
felt, must ask. 
"O Celia, do you like him? Enough, Celia, do you like 
him well enough ? " 
" You 're to live with me," Celia threw at her. " There ! 
go, and I'll lie down." 
 
XXXI 
WINTERBOURNE, after such an afternoon in 
the city as he had not had for years, and loathed 
at any period of his life, came home aglow all 
over at the pleasure of it. Gregory had insisted on dropping 
in at a vaudeville where a girl with a sweet voice sang a top- 
ical song charmingly. Winterbourne hated topical songs and 
close theatres, but it seemed to him he could spend more 
time than that in alien pursuits at Gregory's side, watching 
him bathe himself in life. Then, when Gregory cpuld escape 
the seductions of the world of sound, they retired to his 
library in the quiet house whence women-folk had fled to 
the country, and sat down at a table for a stiff business talk, 
while Winterbourne drew models and explained and learned 
to know the promoter, the man to whom affairs were an open 
book. The upshot of it was that Gregory would take hold 
of pan-pipes and disseminate it with an enthusiasm to make 
it earn its way. Winterbourne liked him. There was some- 
thing that tickled his sense of fun in Gregory's baby like de- 
bauch among the things of sense, a hard nut like him. 
He came home in abounding good-humor, yet bent on 
one task, this concerning Tim. He would have been pre- 
pared to find Bess waiting for him with some simple comfort 
or other, or even Celia, picturesquely affectionate, or per- 
haps his wife, risen from her bed of languor to resuscitate 
romance ; but what he did meet knocked him into an unex- 
pected flurry. He entered his own sitting-room and halted 
at the vision there, — Mrs. Ramsay clothed in her perfect 
mind, rather majestic, so that you might laugh a little at her 
 
if you would, seeing how she recalled the intellectual ladies of 
a long-past day, the tinge of old-fashioned grandiosity, but 
very direct and purposeful. 
She began at once. She had been waiting for him. 
" Mr. Winterbourne, I have recovered the use of my 
speech." 
" I am delighted, Mrs. Ramsay." He put his hat and stick 
away — he was a more careful man in these days, having 
found Bess setting his confusions in order — and sank into 
his chair. " You 've had a nasty time." 
" During my stay," said Mrs. Ramsay, in her careful Eng- 
lish, " for which I shall never cease to be grateful, I have 
been endeavoring to make a certain statement to you. But 
my tongue would not serve me. Now I have command of 
it. Mr. Winterbourne, my son Timothy possessed himself 
of your ear-trumpet. He — stole it." 
Winterbourne felt like groaning. He had come home at 
peace with all the world, knowing that the only task left him 
was castigating Timothy for Timothy's good, and here was 
the ear-trumpet cropping up again. But he rose bravely to 
the assault. 
" Don't mention it, Mrs. Ramsay. I'll settle that with 
Tim when I get round to it." 
She sat majestically and now shook her head. 
" No, Mr. Winterbourne. For the sake of Timothy we 
must go into it very thoroughly. When my boy told me 
he was about to patent an invention, I thought he had de- 
vised something unaided. Then I found he had in some 
way possessed himself of — something that belonged to 
you." 
Winterbourne remembered the day in the arbor, and 
thought he could explain the way. But chiefly was he anxious 
to escape more parleying. 
 
" It docsn't matter, Mrs, Ramsay," he said kindly. 
But then at once it became apparent to him that she felt 
disgraced in her child, that she had felt it all these weeks, 
and that she was suffering with shame, and his heart grew at 
once compassionate toward her; she seemed to him some- 
thing to be protected, like one of her own children. She had 
passed into that changed estate where we are, because we 
suffer, again like little children. She was not storming bat- 
tlements now, and disturbing his ears with the whanging of 
her steel on steel. She was the normal woman, and he could 
see how Ramsay had very naturally loved her. 
" Something," she said, " must be done for my son. I have 
not spoken to his father. We have not talked about the 
children very much." 
Immediately he saw that she, absentee as she had been 
from her own household, had wished to save Ramsay, also an 
absentee, to the end that he should pursue his figuring in 
peace. 
" You are a man of the world," she continued. " Timothy 
has tried to do a disgraceful thing." 
" The reason he didn't do it," Winterbourne found him- 
self saying bluntly, " is the way he took to do it. The 
boy — " he was ending, " the boy 's a fool," but he quali- 
fied, " The boy 's not used to business." 
" No. But he must be punished. I should like to have 
you prescribe the form of punishment. I should wish to 
know you had administered it.'' 
Winterbourne nodded. He thought of his stout stick. 
That seemed to fit a culprit of Tim's calibre. But now 
he was getting uneasy with this majestic lady, whose pose 
seemed almost to cry out for the turban of Mrs. Hannah 
More. He wished she would go to bed. 
"All right, Mrs. Ramsay," said he. "I'll sec to Tim." 
 
She rose. He saw she was trembling, and knew the inter- 
view had cost her something. 
" I cannot express my gratitude to your household," she 
was saying. " As for that sweet girl who has devoted herself 
to me, I shall probably never be able to repay her in this 
world. If there is a world to come, as I am fully convinced, 
I hope she will there be recompensed. I shall go home to- 
morrow." 
Winterbourne's heart leaped for joy. 
" Do you think you are quite able ? " he inquired hypo- 
critically. 
" I am rested," said Mrs. Ramsay, " sufficiently to go on. 
And my children need me." 
She shook hands with him in a definitive way, and Winter- 
bourne, shuddering at the possibilities of her, rhetorical and 
pugnacious, watched her go. And then, as if she had been 
waiting, Bess came to him from the dining-room, and he was 
horrified at the change in her. 
" What is it, child ? " said he. 
She stopped at a distance from him. and drooped her head 
against the mantel, holding by it with one hand. 
" Celia is going to be married," she said in a low voice, 
"to-morrow morning. She and Mr. Lovell." 
Winterbourne started out of his wonder. He thought only 
of Lovell, and in the instant knew how undesirable Celia 
seemed to him because he felt merely that Lovell must be 
saved. 
" I'll go down and see him," said he, 
" No," said Bess, " no." She said it quietly, yet he was 
stayed by the commandingness of it " Let it be as it is. If 
you are willing to have her married here, in this room, — 
that will be all we can do." 
" Does my wife know ? " 
 
"It would spoil her night. I thought I 'd tell her in the 
morning." 
" But he must n't," Winterbourne was saying, really to 
himself, " he mustn't do a thing like that." 
" Please let them," said Bess simply. 
It was all she could say. It was evident to her that Celia 
must go on. The only point now was to have it done in an 
ordered calm. Winterbourne looked at her a while, her evi- 
dent grief, her drooping pose, and yet the inflexibility of her 
when she had made up her mind. 
" Bess," he said, at length, " I wish you hadn't been 
dragged into all this. We 're not very happy here. I wish 
you didn't have to grow under our shadow." 
She was always amazing him. Now she lifted her head, and 
her face glowed all over in that lovely color. 
" Oh, don't be sorry," she said, in a voice of exquisite 
emotion. " I 'm not. I 'm glad. If I never had come, I never 
should have seen you." 
As he looked at her, she seemed to him the most sacred 
and the purest thing born into this complex life. She loved 
him. She was devoted to him. She joyously confessed it ; yet 
it was a love all honor, all restraint. He doubted, in this prob- 
ing of its meaning, whether, if he were willing to sully the 
spring of life for her, it could even be turned into the mud- 
died pool of desires forbidden. But something had to be said, 
and none of them should be the base brood of sentiment 
gone wrong. 
" You had to come, child, didn't you ? " he said, in the 
kind voice she loved. " You had to help us out of the holes 
we were in, Mrs. Ramsay and all." 
She smiled at him, and for the moment it seemed as if she 
had forgotten Celia. 
" Well," said Winterbourne, " you 're my well-beloved 
 
daughter, and what you say goes. Celia shall be married in 
this room, and I'll black my shoes and brush my hair. And 
now I 'm going out. Don't sit up for me." 
Her alarm was instantly awake. 
" You 're not going to Mr. Lovell's ? " 
" No, child. I 'm going to see Tim Ramsay. I 've got an 
errand to him. Good-night, kid." 
" Do you want your stick? " she asked, out of her instinct 
of service. 
"Yes," said Wintcrbourne grimly, " I want it very particu- 
larly. Good-night." 
When he was gone, Bess looked about the room with an 
incredulous gaze, as if a thing like marriage could not enter 
there so unannounced, crowned, and to the music of heart- 
beats. Then the most remarkable thing she had ever known 
befell her. Dwight Hunter, in his best clothes, she had time 
to notice, opened the door, came in, and stood there waiting. 
He was very handsome, very well equipped for another life 
than sweeping kitchens, a superb young man. Hunter had 
always come near to putting himself wrong with her because 
