it now as simple enough. “Good as he is in all ways, he’s so best of
all about showing the house and its contents that I haven’t even thought
necessary to write him that I’m introducing Breckenridge.”
“I should have been happy to introduce him,” Lady Sandgate just
quavered--“if I had at all known he wanted it.”
Her companion weighed the difference between them and appeared to
pronounce it a trifle he didn’t care a fig for. “I surrender you that
privilege then--of presenting him to his host--if I’ve seemed to you
to snatch it from you.” To which Lord John added, as with liberality
unrestricted, “But I’ve been taking him about to see what’s worth
while--as only last week to Lady Lappington’s Longhi.”
This revelation, though so casual in its form, fairly drew from Lady
Sandgate, as she took it in, an interrogative wail. “Her Longhi?”
“Why, don’t you know her great Venetian family group, the
What-do-you-call-’ems?--seven full-length figures, each one a gem, for
which he paid her her price before he left the house.”
She could but make it more richly resound--almost stricken, lost in her
wistful thought: “Seven full-length figures? Her price?”
“Eight thousand--slap down. Bender knows,” said Lord John, “what he
wants.”
“And does he want only”--her wonder grew and grew--
“What-do-you-call-’ems’?”
“He most usually wants what he can’t have.” Lord John made scarce more
of it than that. “But, awfully hard up as I fancy her, Lady Lappington
went at him.”
It determined in his friend a boldly critical attitude. “How
horrible--at the rate things are leaving us!” But this was far from the
end of her interest. “And is that the way he pays?”
“Before he leaves the house?” Lord John lived it amusedly over. “Well,
she took care of that.”
“How incredibly vulgar!” It all had, however, for Lady Sandgate, still
other connections--which might have attenuated Lady Lappington’s
case, though she didn’t glance at this. “He makes the most scandalous
eyes--the ruffian!--at my great-grandmother.” And then as richly to
enlighten any blankness: “My tremendous Lawrence, don’t you know?--in
her wedding-dress, down to her knees; with such extraordinarily
speaking eyes, such lovely arms and hands, such wonderful flesh-tints:
universally considered the masterpiece of the artist.”
Lord John seemed to look a moment not so much at the image evoked, in
which he wasn’t interested, as at certain possibilities lurking behind
it. “And are you going to sell the masterpiece of the artist?”
She held her head high. “I’ve indignantly refused--for all his pressing
me so hard.”
“Yet that’s what he nevertheless pursues you to-day to keep up?”
The question had a little the ring of those of which the occupant of a
witness-box is mostly the subject, but Lady Sandgate was so far as this
went an imperturbable witness. “I need hardly fear it perhaps if--in
the light of what you tell me of your arrangement with him--his pursuit
becomes, where I am concerned, a figure of speech.”
“Oh,” Lord John returned, “he kills two birds with one stone--he sees
both Sir Joshua and you.”
This version of the case had its effect, for the moment, on his fair
associate. “Does he want to buy their pride and glory?”
The young man, however, struck on his own side, became at first but the
bright reflector of her thought. “Is that wonder for sale?”
She closed her eyes as with the shudder of hearing such words. “Not,
surely, by any monstrous chance! Fancy dear, proud Theign------!”
“I can’t fancy him--no!” And Lord John appeared to renounce the effort.
“But a cat may look at a king and a sharp funny Yankee at anything.”
These things might be, Lady Sandgate’s face and gesture apparently
signified; but another question diverted her. “You’re clearly a
wonderful showman, but do you mind my asking you whether you’re on such
an occasion a--well, a closely interested one?”
“‘Interested’?” he echoed; though it wasn’t to gain time, he showed, for
he would in that case have taken more. “To the extent, you mean, of my
little percentage?” And then as in silence she but kept a slightly grim
smile on him: “Why do you ask if--with your high delicacy about your
great-grandmother--you’ve nothing to place?”
It took her a minute to say, while her fine eye only rolled; but when
she spoke that organ boldly rested and the truth vividly appeared.
“I ask because people like you, Lord John, strike me as dangerous to
the--how shall I name it?--the common weal; and because of my general
strong feeling that we don’t want any more of our national treasures
(for I regard my great-grandmother as national) to be scattered about
the world.”
“There’s much in this country and age,” he replied in an off-hand
manner, “to be said about that,” The present, however, was not the
time to say it all; so he said something else instead, accompanying it
with a smile that signified sufficiency. “To my friends, I need scarcely
remark to you, I’m all the friend.”
She had meanwhile seen the butler reappear by the door that opened to
the terrace, and though the high, bleak, impersonal approach of this
functionary was ever, and more and more at every step, a process to defy
interpretation, long practice evidently now enabled her to suggest, as
she turned again to her fellow-visitor a reading of it. “It’s the friend
then clearly who’s wanted in the park.”
She might, by the way Banks looked at her, have snatched from his hand
a missive addressed to another; though while he addressed himself to her
companion he allowed for her indecorum sufficiently to take it up where
she had left it. “By her ladyship, my lord, who sends to hope you’ll
join them below the terrace.”
“Ah, Grace hopes,” said Lady Sandgate for the young man’s encouragement.
“There you are!”
Lord John took up the motor-cap he had lain down on coming in. “I rush
to Lady Grace, but don’t demoralise Bender!” And he went forth to the
terrace and the gardens.
Banks looked about as for some further exercise of his high function.
“Will you have tea, my lady?”
This appeared to strike her as premature. “Oh, thanks--when they all
come in.”
“They’ll scarcely all, my lady”--he indicated respectfully that he
knew what he was talking about. “There’s tea in her ladyship’s tent;
but,” he qualified, “it has also been ordered for the saloon.”
“Ah then,” she said cheerfully, “Mr. Bender will be glad--!” And she
became, with this, aware of the approach of another visitor. Banks
considered, up and down, the gentleman ushered in, at the left, by the
footman who had received him at the main entrance to the house. “Here
he must be, my lady.” With which he retired to the spacious opposite
quarter, where he vanished, while the footman, his own office performed,
retreated as he had come, and Lady Sandgate, all hospitality, received
the many-sided author of her specious telegram, of Lord John’s
irritating confidence and of Lady Lappington’s massive cheque.
II
Having greeted him with an explicitly gracious welcome and both hands
out, she had at once gone on: “You’ll of course have tea?--in the
saloon.”
But his mechanism seemed of the type that has to expand and revolve
before sounding. “Why; the very first thing?”
She only desired, as her laugh showed, to accommodate. “Ah, have it the
last if you like!”
“You see your English teas--!” he pleaded as he looked about him, so
immediately and frankly interested in the place and its contents that
his friend could only have taken this for the very glance with which he
must have swept Lady Lappington’s inferior scene.
“They’re too much for you?”
“Well, they’re too many. I think I’ve had two or three on the road--at
any rate my man did. I like to do business before--” But his sequence
dropped as his eye caught some object across the wealth of space.
She divertedly picked it up. “Before tea, Mr. Bender?”
“Before everything, Lady Sandgate.” He was immensely genial, but a
queer, quaint, rough-edged distinctness somehow kept it safe--for
himself.
“Then you’ve come to do business?” Her appeal and her emphasis melted
as into a caress--which, however, spent itself on his large high person
as he consented, with less of demonstration but more of attention, to
look down upon her. She could therefore but reinforce it by an intenser
note. “To tell me you will treat?”
Mr. Bender had six feet of stature and an air as of having received
benefits at the hands of fortune. Substantial, powerful, easy, he shone
as with a glorious cleanness, a supplied and equipped and appointed
sanity and security; aids to action that might have figured a pair of
very ample wings--wide pinions for the present conveniently folded, but
that he would certainly on occasion agitate for great efforts and spread
for great flights. These things would have made him quite an admirable,
even a worshipful, image of full-blown life and character, had not
the affirmation and the emphasis halted in one important particular.
Fortune, felicity, nature, the perverse or interfering old fairy at his
cradle-side--whatever the ministering power might have been--had simply
overlooked and neglected his vast wholly-shaven face, which thus showed
not so much for perfunctorily scamped as for not treated, as for neither
formed nor fondled nor finished, at all. Nothing seemed to have been
done for it but what the razor and the sponge, the tooth-brush and
the looking-glass could officiously do; it had in short resisted
any possibly finer attrition at the hands of fifty years of offered
experience. It had developed on the lines, if lines they could be
called, of the mere scoured and polished and initialled “mug” rather
than to any effect of a composed physiognomy; though we must at the
same time add that its wearer carried this featureless disk as with the
warranted confidence that might have attended a warning headlight or
a glaring motor-lamp. The object, however one named it, showed you at
least where he was, and most often that he was straight upon you. It
was fearlessly and resistingly across the path of his advance that Lady
Sandgate had thrown herself, and indeed with such success that he
soon connected her demonstration with a particular motive. “For your
grandmother, Lady Sandgate?” he then returned.
“For my grandmother’s mother, Mr. Bender--the most beautiful woman
of her time and the greatest of all Lawrences, no matter whose; as you
quite acknowledged, you know, in our talk in Bruton Street.”
Mr. Bender bethought himself further--yet drawing it out; as if the
familiar fact of his being “made up to” had never had such special
softness and warmth of pressure. “Do you want very, very much----?”
She had already caught him up. “‘Very, very much’ for her? Well, Mr.
Bender,” she smilingly replied, “I think I should like her full value.”
“I mean”--he kindly discriminated--“do you want so badly to work her
off?”
“It would be an intense convenience to me--so much so that your telegram
made me at once fondly hope you’d be arriving to conclude.”
Such measure of response as he had good-naturedly given her was the
mere frayed edge of a mastering detachment, the copious, impatient range
elsewhere of his true attention. Somehow, however, he still seemed kind
even while, turning his back upon her, he moved off to look at one of
the several, the famous Dedborough pictures--stray specimens, by every
presumption, lost a little in the whole bright bigness. “‘Conclude’?” he
echoed as he approached a significantly small canvas. “You ladies want
to get there before the road’s so much as laid or the country’s safe! Do
you know what this here is?” he at once went on.
“Oh, you can’t have that!” she cried as with full authority--“and
you must really understand that you can’t have everything. You mustn’t
expect to ravage Dedborough.”
He had his nose meanwhile close to the picture. “I guess it’s a bogus
Cuyp--but I know Lord Theign has things. He won’t do business?”
“He’s not in the least, and can never be, in my tight place,” Lady
Sandgate replied; “but he’s as proud as he’s kind, dear man, and
as solid as he’s proud; so that if you came down under a different
impression--!” Well, she could only exhale the folly of his error with
an unction that represented, whatever he might think of it, all her
competence to answer for their host.
He scarce thought of it enough, on any side, however, to be diverted
from prior dispositions. “I came on an understanding that I should find
my friend Lord John, and that Lord Theign would, on his introduction,
kindly let me look round. But being before lunch in Bruton Street I
knocked at your door----”
“For another look,” she quickly interposed, “at my Lawrence?”
“For another look at you, Lady Sandgate--your great-grandmother wasn’t
required. Informed you were here, and struck with the coincidence of my
being myself presently due,” he went on, “I despatched you my wire, on
coming away, just to keep up your spirits.”
“You don’t keep them up, you depress them to anguish,” she almost
passionately protested, “when you don’t tell me you’ll treat!”
He paused in his preoccupation, his perambulation, conscious evidently
of no reluctance that was worth a scene with so charming and so hungry
a woman. “Well, if it’s a question of your otherwise suffering torments,
may I have another interview with the old lady?”
“Dear Mr. Bender, she’s in the flower of her youth; she only yearns for
interviews, and you may have,” Lady Sandgate earnestly declared, “as
many as you like.”
“Oh, you must be there to protect me!”
“Then as soon as I return----!”
“Well,”--it clearly cost him little to say--“I’ll come right round.”
She joyously registered the vow. “Only meanwhile then, please, never a
word!”
“Never a word, certainly. But where all this time,” Mr. Bender asked,
“is Lord John?”
Lady Sandgate, as he spoke, found her eyes meeting those of a young
woman who, presenting herself from without, stood framed in the doorway
to the terrace; a slight fair grave young woman, of middle, stature and
simply dressed, whose brow showed clear even under the heavy shade of
a large hat surmounted with big black bows and feathers. Her eyes
had vaguely questioned those of her elder, who at once replied to the
gentleman forming the subject of their inquiry: “Lady Grace must know.”
 At this the young woman came forward, and Lady Sandgate introduced the
visitor. “My dear Grace, this is Mr. Breckenridge Bender.”
The younger daughter of the house might have arrived in preoccupation,
but she had urbanity to spare. “Of whom Lord John has told me,” she
returned, “and whom I’m glad to see. Lord John,” she explained to his
waiting friend, “is detained a moment in the park, open to-day to a big
Temperance school-feast, where our party is mostly gathered; so that if
you care to go out--!” She gave him in fine his choice.
But this was clearly a thing that, in the conditions, Mr. Bender wasn’t
the man to take precipitately; though his big useful smile disguised his
prudence. “Are there any pictures in the park?”
Lady Grace’s facial response represented less humour perhaps, but more
play. “We find our park itself rather a picture.”
Mr. Bender’s own levity at any rate persisted. “With a big Temperance
school-feast?”
“Mr. Bender’s a great judge of pictures,” Lady Sandgate said as to
forestall any impression of excessive freedom.
“Will there be more tea?” he pursued, almost presuming on this.
It showed Lady Grace for comparatively candid and literal. “Oh, there’ll
be plenty of tea.”
This appeared to determine Mr. Bender. “Well, Lady Grace, I’m after
pictures, but I take them ‘neat.’ May I go right round here?”
“Perhaps, love,” Lady Sandgate at once said, “you’ll let me show him.”
“A moment, dear”--Lady Grace gently demurred. “Do go round,” she
conformably added to Mr. Bender; “take your ease and your time.
Everything’s open and visible, and, with our whole company dispersed,
you’ll have the place to yourself.”
He rose, in his genial mass, to the opportunity. “I’ll be in
clover--sure!” But present to him was the richest corner of the pasture,
which he could fluently enough name. “And I’ll find ‘The Beautiful
Duchess of Waterbridge’?”
She indicated, off to the right, where a stately perspective opened, the
quarter of the saloon to which we have seen Mr. Banks retire. “At the
very end of those rooms.”
He had wide eyes for the vista. “About thirty in a row, hey?” And he was
already off. “I’ll work right through!”
III
Left with her friend, Lady Grace had a prompt question. “Lord John
warned me he was ‘funny’--but you already know him?”
There might have been a sense of embarrassment in the way in which, as
to gain time, Lady Sandgate pointed, instead of answering, to the small
picture pronounced upon by Mr. Bender. “He thinks your little Cuyp a
fraud.”
“That one?” Lady Grace could but stare. “The wretch!” However, she made,
without alarm, no more of it; she returned to her previous question.
“You’ve met him before?”
“Just a little--in town. Being ‘after pictures’” Lady Sandgate
explained, “he has been after my great-grandmother.”
“She,” said Lady Grace with amusement, “must have found him funny! But
he can clearly take care of himself, while Kitty takes care of Lord
John, and while you, if you’ll be so good, go back to support father--in
the hour of his triumph: which he wants you so much to witness that
he complains of your desertion and goes so far as to speak of you as
sneaking away.”
Lady Sandgate, with a slight flush, turned it over. “I delight in
his triumph, and whatever I do is at least above board; but if it’s a
question of support, aren’t you yourself failing him quite as much?”
This had, however, no effect on the girl’s confidence. “Ah, my dear, I’m
not at all the same thing, and as I’m the person in the world he least
misses--” Well, such a fact spoke for itself.
“You’ve been free to return and wait for Lord John?”--that was the
sense in which the elder woman appeared to prefer to understand it as
speaking.
The tone of it, none the less, led her companion immediately, though
very quietly, to correct her. “I’ve not come back to wait for Lord
John.”
“Then he hasn’t told you--if you’ve talked--with what idea he has come?”
Lady Grace had for a further correction the same shade of detachment.
“Kitty has told me--what it suits her to pretend to suppose.”
“And Kitty’s pretensions and suppositions always go with what
happens--at the moment, among all her wonderful happenings--to suit
her?”
Lady Grace let that question answer itself--she took the case up further
on. “What I can’t make out is why this should so suit her!”
“And what I can’t!” said Lady Sandgate without gross honesty and
turning away after having watched the girl a moment. She nevertheless
presently faced her again to follow this speculation up. “Do you like
him enough to risk the chance of Kitty’s being for once right?”
Lady Grace gave it a thought--with which she moved away. “I don’t know
how much I like him!”
“Nor how little!” cried her friend, who evidently found amusement in the
tone of it. “And you’re not disposed to take the time to find out? He’s
at least better than the others.”
“The ‘others’?”--Lady Grace was blank for them.
“The others of his set.”
“Oh, his set! That wouldn’t be difficult--by what I imagine of some of
them. But he means well enough,” the girl added; “he’s very charming and
does me great honour.”
It determined in her companion, about to leave her, another brief
arrest. “Then may I tell your father?”
This in turn brought about in Lady Grace an immediate drop of the
subject. “Tell my father, please, that I’m expecting Mr. Crimble; of
whom I’ve spoken to him even if he doesn’t remember, and who bicycles
this afternoon ten miles over from where he’s staying--with some people
we don’t know--to look at the pictures, about which he’s awfully keen.”
Lady Sandgate took it in. “Ah, like Mr. Bender?”
“No, not at all, I think, like Mr. Bender.”
This appeared to move in the elder woman some deeper thought “May I ask
then--if one’s to meet him--who he is?”
“Oh, father knows--or ought to--that I sat next him, in London, a month
ago, at dinner, and that he then told me he was working, tooth and
nail, at what he called the wonderful modern science of
Connoisseurship--which is upsetting, as perhaps you’re not aware, all
the old-fashioned canons of art-criticism, everything we’ve stupidly
thought right and held dear; that he was to spend Easter in these parts,
and that he should like greatly to be allowed some day to come over and
make acquaintance with our things. I told him,” Lady Grace wound
up, “that nothing would be easier; a note from him arrived before
dinner----”
Lady Sandgate jumped the rest “And it’s for him you’ve come in.”
“It’s for him I’ve come in,” the girl assented with serenity.
“Very good--though he sounds most detrimental! But will you first just
tell me this--whether when you sent in ten minutes ago for Lord John
to come out to you it was wholly of your own movement?” And she followed
it up as her young friend appeared to hesitate. “Was it because you knew
why he had arrived?”
The young friend hesitated still. “‘Why ‘?”
“So particularly to speak to you.”
“Since he was expected and mightn’t know where I was,” Lady Grace said
after an instant, “I wanted naturally to be civil to him.”
“And had he time there to tell you,” Lady Sand-gate asked, “how very
civil he wants to be to you?”
“No, only to tell me that his friend--who’s off there--was coming; for
Kitty at once appropriated him and was still in possession when I came
away.” Then, as deciding at last on perfect frankness, Lady Grace went
on: “If you want to know, I sent for news of him because Kitty insisted
on my doing so; saying, so very oddly and quite in her own way, that she
herself didn’t wish to ‘appear in it.’ She had done nothing but say to
me for an hour, rather worryingly, what you’ve just said--that it’s
me he’s what, like Mr. Bender, she calls ‘after’; but as soon as
he appeared she pounced on him, and I left him--I assure you quite
resignedly--in her hands.”
“She wants”--it was easy for Lady Sandgate to remark--“to talk of you to
him.”
“I don’t know what she wants,” the girl replied as with rather a tired
patience; “Kitty wants so many things at once. She always wants money,
in quantities, to begin with--and all to throw so horribly away; so that
whenever I see her ‘in’ so very deep with any one I always imagine her
appealing for some new tip as to how it’s to be come by.”
“Kitty’s an abyss, I grant you, and with my disinterested devotion to
your father--in requital of all his kindness to me since Lord Sandgate’s
death and since your mother’s--I can never be too grateful to you, my
dear, for your being so different a creature. But what is she going to
gain financially,” Lady Sand-gate pursued with a strong emphasis on
her adverb, “by working up our friend’s confidence in your listening to
him--if you are to listen?”
“I haven’t in the least engaged to listen,” said Lady Grace--“it will
depend on the music he makes!” But she added with light cynicism:
“Perhaps she’s to gain a commission!”
“On his fairly getting you?” And then as the girl assented by silence:
“Is he in a position to pay her one?” Lady Sandgate asked.
“I dare say the Duchess is!”
“But do you see the Duchess producing money--with all that Kitty, as
we’re not ignorant, owes her? Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds!”--Lady
Sandgate piled them up.
Her young friend’s gesture checked it. “Ah, don’t tell me how many--it’s
too sad and too ugly and too wrong!” To which, however, Lady Grace
added: “But perhaps that will be just her way!” And then as her
companion seemed for the moment not quite to follow: “By letting Kitty
off her debt.”
“You mean that Kitty goes free if Lord John wins your promise?”
“Kitty goes free.”
“She has her creditor’s release?”
“For every shilling.”
“And if he only fails?”
“Why then of course,” said now quite lucid Lady Grace, “she throws
herself more than ever on poor father.”
“Poor father indeed!”--Lady Sandgate richly sighed it
It appeared even to create in the younger woman a sense of excess.
“Yes--but he after all and in spite of everything adores her.”
“To the point, you mean”--for Lady Sandgate could clearly but
wonder--“of really sacrificing you?”
The weight of Lady Grace’s charming deep eyes on her face made her
pause while, at some length, she gave back this look and the interchange
determined in the girl a grave appeal. “You think I should be
sacrificed if I married him?”
Lady Sandgate replied, though with an equal emphasis, indirectly.
“Could you marry him?”
Lady Grace waited a moment “Do you mean for Kitty?”
“For himself even--if they should convince you, among them, that he
cares for you.”
Lady Grace had another delay. “Well, he’s his awful mother’s son.”
“Yes--but you wouldn’t marry his mother.”
“No--but I should only be the more uncomfortably and intimately
conscious of her.”
“Even when,” Lady Sandgate optimistically put it, “she so markedly likes
you?”
This determined in the girl a fine impatience. “She doesn’t ‘like’ me,
she only wants me--which is a very different thing; wants me for
my father’s so particularly beautiful position, and my mother’s so
supremely great people, and for everything we have been and have done,
and still are and still have: except of course poor not-at-all-model
Kitty.”
To this luminous account of the matter Lady Sand-gate turned as to a
genial sun-burst. “I see indeed--for the general immaculate connection.”
The words had no note of irony, but Lady Grace, in her great
seriousness, glanced with deprecation at the possibility. “Well, we
haven’t had false notes. We’ve scarcely even had bad moments.”
“Yes, you’ve been beatific!”--Lady Sandgate enviously, quite ruefully,
felt it. But any further treatment of the question was checked by the
re-entrance of the footman--a demonstration explained by the concomitant
appearance of a young man in eyeglasses and with the ends of his
trousers clipped together as for cycling. “This must be your friend,”
 she had only time to say to the daughter of the house; with which, alert
and reminded of how she was awaited elsewhere, she retreated before her
companion’s visitor, who had come in with his guide from the vestibule.
She passed away to the terrace and the gardens, Mr. Hugh Crimble’s
announced name ringing in her ears--to some effect that we are as yet
not qualified to discern.
IV
Lady Grace had turned to meet Mr. Hugh Crimble, whose pleasure in at
once finding her lighted his keen countenance and broke into easy words.
“So awfully kind of you--in the midst of the great doings I noticed--to
have found a beautiful minute for me.”
“I left the great doings, which are almost over, to every one’s relief,
I think,” the girl returned, “so that your precious time shouldn’t be
taken to hunt for me.”
It was clearly for him, on this bright answer, as if her white hand
were holding out the perfect flower of felicity. “You came in from your
revels on purpose--with the same charity you showed me from that first
moment?” They stood smiling at each other as in an exchange of sympathy
already confessed--and even as if finding that their relation had grown
during the lapse of contact; she recognising the effect of what they had
originally felt as bravely as he might name it. What the fine, slightly
long oval of her essentially quiet face--quiet in spite of certain vague
depths of reference to forces of the strong high order, forces involved
and implanted, yet also rather spent in the process--kept in range
from under her redundant black hat was the strength of expression, the
directness of communication, that her guest appeared to borrow from
the unframed and unattached nippers unceasingly perched, by their
mere ground-glass rims, as she remembered, on the bony bridge of his
indescribably authoritative (since it was at the same time decidedly
inquisitive) young nose. She must, however, also have embraced in this
contemplation, she must more or less again have interpreted, his main
physiognomic mark, the degree to which his clean jaw was underhung
and his lower lip protruded; a lapse of regularity made evident by a
suppression of beard and moustache as complete as that practised by Mr.
Bender--though without the appearance consequent in the latter’s case,
that of the flagrantly vain appeal in the countenance for some other
exhibition of a history, of a process of production, than this so
superficial one. With the interested and interesting girl sufficiently
under our attention while we thus try to evoke her, we may even make out
some wonder in her as to why the so perceptibly protrusive lower lip of
this acquaintance of an hour or two should positively have contributed
to his being handsome instead of much more logically interfering with
it. We might in fact in such a case even have followed her into another
and no less refined a speculation--the question of whether the surest
seat of his good looks mightn’t after all be his high, fair, if somewhat
narrow, forehead, crowned with short crisp brown hair and which, after
a fashion of its own, predominated without overhanging. He spoke after
they had stood just face to face almost long enough for awkwardness. “I
haven’t forgotten one item of your kindness to me on that rather bleak
occasion.”
“Bleak do you call it?” she laughed. “Why I found it, rather,
tropical--‘lush.’ My neighbour on the other side wanted to talk to me of
the White City.”
“Then you made it doubtless bleak for him, let us say. I couldn’t
let you alone, I remember, about this--it was like a shipwrecked
signal to a sail on the horizon.” “This” obviously meant for the young
man exactly what surrounded him; he had begun, like Mr. Bender, to be
conscious of a thick solicitation of the eye--and much more
than he, doubtless, of a tug at the imagination; and he
broke--characteristically, you would have been sure--into a great free
gaiety of recognition.
“Oh, we’ve nothing particular in the hall,” Lady Grace amiably objected.
“Nothing, I see, but Claudes and Cuyps! I’m an ogre,” he said--“before a
new and rare feast!”
She happily took up his figure. “Then won’t you begin--as a first
course--with tea after your ride? If the other, that is--for there has
been an ogre before you--has left any.”
“Some tea, with pleasure”--he looked all his longing; “though when you
talk of a fellow-feaster I should have supposed that, on such a day
as this especially, you’d find yourselves running a continuous table
d’hôte.”
“Ah, we can’t work sports in our gallery and saloon--the banging or
whacking and shoving amusements that are all most people care for;
unless, perhaps,” Lady Grace went on, “your own peculiar one, as I
understand you, of playing football with the old benighted traditions
and attributions you everywhere meet: in fact I think you said the old
idiotic superstitions.”
Hugh Crimble went more than half-way to meet this description of his
fondest activity; he indeed even beckoned it on. “The names and stories
and styles--the so often vain legend, not to be too invidious--of author
or subject or school?” But he had a drop, no less, as from the sense of a
cause sometimes lost. “Ah, that’s a game at which we all can play!”
“Though scarcely,” Lady Grace suggested, “at which we all can score.”
The words appeared indeed to take meaning from his growing impression
of the place and its charm--of the number of objects, treasures of art,
that pressed for appreciation of their importance. “Certainly,” he said,
“no one can ever have scored much on sacred spots of this order--which
express so the grand impunity of their pride, their claims, their
assurance!”
“We’ve had great luck,” she granted--“as I’ve just been reminded;
but ever since those terrible things you told me in town--about the
tremendous tricks of the whirligig of time and the aesthetic fools’
paradise in which so many of us live--I’ve gone about with my heart in
my mouth. Who knows that while I talk Mr. Bender mayn’t be pulling us to
pieces?”
Hugh Crimble had a shudder of remembrance. “Mr. Bender?”
“The rich American who’s going round.”
It gave him a sharper shock. “The wretch who bagged Lady Lappington’s
Longhi?”
Lady Grace showed surprise. “Is he a wretch?”
Her visitor but asked to be extravagant. “Rather--the scoundrel. He
offered his infernal eight thousand down.”
“Oh, I thought you meant he had played some trick!”
“I wish he had--he could then have been collared.”
“Well,” Lady Grace peacefully smiled, “it’s no use his offering us
eight thousand--or eighteen or even eighty!”
Hugh Crimble stared as at the odd superfluity of this reassurance,
almost crude on exquisite lips and contradicting an imputation no one
would have indecently made. “Gracious goodness, I hope not! The man
surely doesn’t suppose you’d traffic.”
She might, while she still smiled at him, have been fairly enjoying the
friendly horror she produced. “I don’t quite know what he supposes. But
people have trafficked; people do; people are trafficking all round.”
“Ah,” Hugh Crimble cried, “that’s what deprives me of my rest and, as
a lover of our vast and beneficent art-wealth, poisons my waking hours.
That art-wealth is at the mercy of a leak there appears no means of
stopping.” She had tapped a spring in him, clearly, and the consequent
flood might almost at any moment become copious. “Precious things are
going out of our distracted country at a quicker rate than the very
quickest--a century and more ago--of their ever coming in.”
She was sharply struck, but was also unmistakably a person in whom
stirred thought soon found connections and relations. “Well, I suppose
our art-wealth came in--save for those awkward Elgin Marbles!--mainly
by purchase too, didn’t it? We ourselves largely took it away from
somewhere, didn’t we? We didn’t grow it all.”
“We grew some of the loveliest flowers--and on the whole to-day the most
exposed.” He had been pulled up but for an instant. “Great Gainsboroughs
and Sir Joshuas and Romneys and Sargents, great Turners and Constables
and old Cromes and Brabazons, form, you’ll recognise, a vast garden in
themselves. What have we ever for instance more successfully grown than
your splendid ‘Duchess of Waterbridge’?”
The girl showed herself ready at once to recognise under his eloquence
anything he would. “Yes--it’s our Sir Joshua, I believe, that Mr. Bender
has proclaimed himself particularly ‘after.’”
It brought a cloud to her friend’s face. “Then he’ll be capable of
anything.”
“Of anything, no doubt, but of making my father capable--! And you
haven’t at any rate,” she said, “so much as seen the picture.”
“I beg your pardon--I saw it at the Guildhall three years ago; and am
almost afraid of getting again, with a fresh sense of its beauty, a
livelier sense of its danger.”
Lady Grace, however, was so far from fear that she could even afford
pity. “Poor baffled Mr. Bender!”
“Oh, rich and confident Mr. Bender!” Crimble cried. “Once given his
money, his confidence is a horrid engine in itself--there’s the rub!
I dare say”--the young man saw it all--“he has brought his poisonous
cheque.”
She gave it her less exasperated wonder. “One has heard of that, but
only in the case of some particularly pushing dealer.”
“And Mr. Bender, to do him justice, isn’t a particularly pushing
dealer?”
“No,” Lady Grace judiciously returned; “I think he’s not a dealer at
all, but just what you a moment ago spoke of yourself as being.”
He gave a glance at his possibly wild recent past. “A fond true lover?”
“As we all were in our lucky time--when we rum-aged Italy and Spain.”
He appeared to recognise this complication--of Bender’s voracious
integrity; but only to push it away. “Well, I don’t know whether the
best lovers are, or ever were, the best buyers--but I feel to-day that
they’re the best keepers.”
The breath of his emphasis blew, as her eyes showed, on the girl’s
dimmer fire. “It’s as if it were suddenly in the air that you’ve brought
us some light or some help--that you may do something really good for
us.”
“Do you mean ‘mark down,’ as they say at the shops, all your greatest
claims?”
His chord of sensibility had trembled all gratefully into derision, and
not to seem to swagger he had put his possible virtue at its lowest.
