one another as children in a fairy-world. They had 
suddenly become man and woman fighting the age- 
long duel of sex. They would talk about the question ; 
and the more they talked about it, the more it came 
to dominate the thoughts of both of them ; and this 
broke down the barriers between them Thyrsis be- 
came bolder, and more open in his speech. He lost his 
awe of her maidenhood and her innocence he wooed 
her, he lured her on; he rejoiced in his power to agi- 
tate her, to startle her, to speak to her about secret 
things. He would clasp her in his arms and shower 
his kisses upon her; and she would yield to him, almost 
fainting with bliss and then shrink from him in sud- 
den alarm. 
Then he would go out into the night and battle again 
with the wintry winds. That frightened shrinking of 
hers puzzled him. Everything was so strange to him ; 
and how could he be sure what was right? He wanted 
to do what was right, with all his soul he wanted it; 
if he were to do wrong, or to make her think less of 
him, he could never forgive himself all his life. But 
then would come the wild surge of his longing, and his 
man's power would cry out within him. It was his 
business to overcome her shrinking, to compel her to 
yield. The question of the doctor rang in his ears as 
a taunt "Why are you a man ?" Why was he a man ? 
9. IN the end these emotions reached a point 
where Thyrsis could no longer bear them. They were 
a torment to him, they deprived him of all rest and 
sleep. One afternoon he had held her a long time in 
his arms, and it hurt him ; he turned away, and put his 
hands to his forehead. "Dearest," he cried, "I can't 
stand this any longer !" 
"Why ?" she asked. "What do you mean ?" 
"I mean it's just tearing me to pieces !" 
She stared at him in fright. "Thyrsis!" she ex- 
claimed. "You are unhappy !" 
 
He sunk down upon the bed and hid his face in his 
arms. "Yes," he whispered, "I am unhappy !" 
And so, all at once, he broke down her resistance. 
What had swayed him had been the thought of her suf- 
fering; and the thought of his suffering now conquered 
her. 
I Only she did not take days to debate it. She fled 
to him instantly, and wrapped her arms about him. 
"Thyrsis," she whispered, "listen to me! I had no 
idea of that !" 
"No, sweetheart," he said. "I'm sorry I'm ashamed 
of myself r 
"No, no!" she cried, vehemently. "Don't say that! 
I love you, Thyrsis ! I love you, heart and soul !" 
He turned and gazed at her with his haggard eyes. 
"I will do anything for you," she rushed on. "You 
shall have me ! I will be your wife !" 
Then, however, as he clasped her to him, there came 
once more the shrinking. "Only give me a little time, 
dear," she whispered. "Let me get used to it. Let it 
come naturally." 
But the only way he could have given her time would 
have been to go away. Here he was, in her room with 
every reminder of her about him, with every incitement 
to his desire. And he had but two things to choose 
between to go out and walk and think about her, or to 
come home and sit with her and talk about their love. 
They had their supper, and then again she was in his 
arms. He told her about this trouble he showed how 
the love of her was consuming him. Far into the night 
they sat talking, and he poured out his heart to her, 
he bore her with him to the mountain-tops of his de- 
sire. He took down a book of Spenser's, and read her 
the "Epithalamium" ; he read her Shelley's "Epip- 
sychidion," which they both loved. All the power of 
Thyrsis' genius was turned now to passion, and the 
hidden forces of him were revealed as never had they 
been revealed to her before. He became eloquent; he 
talked to her as he had lived with himself; he awed 
her and frightened her, as he had that evening upon the 
hill-top. Then at last, as the tide of his feeling swept 
him away again, he clasped her to him tightly, and hid 
his face in her neck. "I love you! Oh, I love you!" 
he cried. 
She had sunk back and closed her eyes. "My 
Thyrsis !" she whispered. 
"You love me?" he asked. "You are quite sure?" 
"I am quite sure!" she said. 
He kissed her ; again and again he kissed her, until 
he had made sure of her desire. Then suddenly, -he 
began with trembling fingers to unfasten the neck of 
her dress. 
For a moment she did not comprehend what he meant. 
Then she gave a start. "Thyrsis !" she cried. 
And she sprang up, staring at him with fright in 
her eyes. 
"What is it?" he asked. 
"Thyrsis !" she gasped. "What what were you go- 
ing to do?" 
And at her question, shame swept over him. He was 
horrified at himself. How could he find words to tell 
her what he had been going to do? 
He turned away with a moan, and put his hands over 
his face. "Oh God, I can't stand this !" he exclaimed. 
Suddenly he went to his hat and coat. "I must go 
out !" he said. 
"What do you mean?" cried Corydon. 
 
"I mean I've got to go somewhere !" he replied. "I 
can't stand it I can't stay here." 
"Thyrsis.!" she cried, wildly. And she sprang to him 
and flung her arms about him. "No, no !" she cried. 
"No !" 
"But what am I to do?" 
"Wait ! Wait !" 
And she pressed him tightly to her. "Thyrsis !" she 
whispered. "Can't you understand? Don't be so 
stupid, dear !" 
"Stupid !" 
"Yes, sweetheart can't you see? I'm only a child! 
And it's so strange! It frightens me! Try to realize 
how I feel !" 
"But what am I to do?" 
"Do? Why you must make me, Thyrsis!" And as 
she said this she hid her face upon his shoulder and 
sobbed. "You are a man, Thyrsis, you are a man, and 
I am only a girl ! Do what you want to ! Don't pay 
any attention to me !" 
And those words to Thyrsis were like the crashing 
of a peal of thunder. He clutched her to him, with a 
force that crushed her, that made her cry out. The 
soul of the cave-man awoke in him he lifted his mate 
in his arms and bore her away to a secret place. 
"Put down the light," she whispered, and he did this. 
And then again he began to unfasten her dress. 
She submitted at first, she let him have his way. 
But later, when his hands touched the soft garment on 
her bosom, he felt a sharp tremor pass through her. 
"Thyrsis !" she whispered. 
"What is it?" he asked. 
"Wait dear, wait !" 
"Why wait ?" he cried. 
"Just a moment please, dear !" 
But he answered her "No ! Not a moment ! No !" 
She clung to him, trembling, pleading. "Please, 
dearest, please! I'm afraid, Thyrsis." 
But nothing could stop him now. She was his his 
to do what he pleased with ! And he would bend her to 
his will! The voice of his manhood shouted aloud to 
him now, and it was like the clashing of wild cymbals 
in his soul. 
He went on with what he was doing. She shrunk 
away from him, but he followed her, he held her fast. 
Then she began to sob "Oh Thyrsis, wait spare 
me ! I can't bear it ! No, Thyrsis no !" 
But he answered her, "Be still! I love you! You 
are mine." And for every sob and every shudder and 
every moan of fear he had but one response "I love 
you! You are mine!" 
He knew that he loved her now and he knew what 
his love meant. Before this they had been strangers ; 
but now he would penetrate to the secret places, to the 
holy of holies of her being. 
Never in all his life had Thyrsis known woman. To 
him woman had been the supreme mystery of life, a 
creature of awe and sacredness not to be handled, 
scarcely even to be thought about. Now the awful ban 
was lifted, the barriers were down ; what had been hid- 
den was revealed, what had been forbidden was per- 
mitted. So all the chained desire of a lifetime drove 
him on ; it was almost more than he could bear. The 
touch of her warm breasts, the faint perfume of her 
clothing, the pressure of her soft, white limbs these 
things set every nerve of him a-tremble, they turned 
a madness loose in him. A blinding whirl of emotion 
seized him, he was like a leaf swept away in a gale; 
 
his words came now in wild sobs, "I love you! I love 
you !" 
So with quivering fingers he stripped her before him ; 
and she crouched there, cowering and weeping. He took 
her in his arms ; and that clasp there was no misunder- 
standing, for all the mastery of his will was in it. Nor 
did she try to resist him she lay still, but shaking like 
a leaf, and choking with sobs. And so it was that he 
wreaked his will upon her. 
10. AND then came the reaction the most awful 
experience of his life. Thyrsis was sitting upon the 
bed, and staring in front of him, dazed. He was ex- 
hausted, faint, shuddering with horror. "Oh, my God, 
my God !" he whispered. 
What had he done? Corydon, the gentle and pure 
she had trusted herself to him, and how had he treated 
her? He had tortured her, he had defiled her! Oh, it 
was sickening ; brutal, like a butchery ! He sunk down 
in a heap, moaning, "My God ! I can't bear it ! I can't 
bear it!" 
And then a strange thing happened the strangest 
of all strange things ! An unforeseeable, an unimagin- 
able thing! 
Corydon had started up, and was listening ; and now 
suddenly he felt her arms stealing about him. 
"Thyrsis!" she whispered. "Thyrsis!" 
"Oh, what shall I do ?" he sobbed. 
"What's the matter?" 
"Oh, it was so horrible! horrible!" 
"Thyrsis !" she panted, swiftly. "Don't say that !" 
"How could I have done it?" he rushed on. "What 
a monster I am !" 
"No! no!" she cried. "You don't understand, 
Thyrsis! I love you! Don't you know that I love 
you?" 
And she tightened her clasp about him, she stole into 
his arms again. "Forgive me !" she whispered. "Please, 
please forgive me, Thyrsis !" 
He stared at her, dazed. "Forgive ?
"I had no right to behave like that!" she cried. "I 
was afraid I couldn't control myself. But oh, Thyrsis, 
I love you !" 
And she pressed herself upon him convulsively ; she 
was troubled no longer. "Yes !" she panted. "Yes ! 
I don't mind it any more ! I am yours ! I am yours ! 
You may do whatever you please to me, Thyrsis I 
love you !" 
She covered him with kisses his face, his neck, his 
body. She drew him down to her again, whispering 
in ecstasy, "My husband!" 
He was lost in amazement. Could this be Corydon, 
the gentle and shrinking? No, she was gone; and in 
her stead this creature of desire tumultuous and 
abandoned! She was like some passion-goddess out of 
the East, shameless and terrible and destroying! She 
was like a tigress of the jungle, calling in the night 
for its mate. She locked him fast in her arms she 
was swept away in a whirlwind of emotion, as he had 
been swept before. And all her being rose up in one 
song of exultation "Mine! Mine! Mine! Mine!" 
"Ah, Thyrsis !" she cried. "My Thyrsis ! I belong 
to you now ! You can never escape me now ! You can 
never leave me my love, my love !" 
And as Thyrsis listened to this song, his passion 
died. Reason awoke again, and a cold fear struck into 
his heart! What was the meaning of this? 
 
Long hours afterward, as she lay, half-asleep, in his 
arms, she felt him give a sudden start and shudder. 
"What is it?" she asked. 
"Nothing," he said "I just happened to think of 
something. Something that frightened me." 
"What was it?" 
"I was thinking, dear suppose I should become 
domestic!" 
BOOK VI 
She had been reading in the little cabin, and a hush 
had fallen upon them. 
Yes, thou art gone! And round me too the night 
In ever-nearing circle weaves her shade." 
"Gone!" she said, and smiled sadly. 'Where is he 
gone?" 
And she turned the page and read again 
"But Thy r sis -nevermore we swains shall see; 
See him come back, and cut a smoother reed, 
And blow a strain the world at last shall heed 
For Time, not Corydon, hath conquered theei" 
Then, after a pause, she added, "How often I have 
remembered those words! And how pitiful they are, 
when I remember them!" 
1. IT was a tiny cupboard of a room in a tene- 
ment. They sat upon their bed to eat, and they hid 
their soiled dishes beneath it. Dirty children screamed 
upon the avenue in front, and frowsy-headed women 
and wolfish men caroused in the saloon below. Yet here 
there came to them the angel with the flame-tipped 
wings, and here they dreamed their dream of wonder. 
In the glory of their new-found passion all life be- 
came transfigured to them ; they discovered new mean- 
ing in the most trivial actions. There was no corner so 
obscure that they might not come upon the young god 
hidden ; they might touch his warm, tender flesh, and 
hear his silvery laughter, and thrill with the wonder of 
his presence. They spoke a new language, full of fire 
and color; they read new meanings in each other's 
eyes. The slightest touch of hand upon hand, or of 
lips to lips, was enough to dissolve them in tenderness 
and delight. 
They rejoiced in the marvel of each other's being 
in the glory of their bodies, newly revealed. To Thyrsis 
especially this was life's last miracle, a discovery so 
fraught with bliss as to be a continual torment. The 
incitements that were hidden in the softness and the 
odor of unbound and tumbled hair; the exquisiteness 
of maiden breasts, moulded of marble., rosy-tipped ; the 
soft contour of snowy limbs, the rhythmic play of mov- 
ing muscles to dwell amid these things, to possess 
them, was suddenly to discover in reality what before 
had only existed in the realm of painting and sculpture. 
 
Corydon also, in the glow of his delight, of his 
rapture and his ravening desire, discovered anew the 
wonder of herself, and came to a new consciousness of 
her beauty. She would stand and gaze before her, with 
her hands upon her breasts, and her head flung back, 
and her eyes closed in ecstasy, so that he might come 
to her and kiss her might kiss her again and again, 
might touch her with his lover's hands and clasp her 
with his lover's arms. 
In most of these things she was his teacher. For 
Corydon was one person, in body, mind and soul; in 
her there were no disharmonies, no warring elements. 
His friend the doctor had set forth his idea of "a good 
woman" ; but Corydon's goodness proved to be after 
no such pattern. Now that she was his, she was his ; 
she belonged to him, she was a part of him, and there 
could be no thought of a secret shame, of any reserves 
or hesitations. Her body was herself, and it was joy 
to her; it was joy the more, because she could give it 
for love; and she sought for new ways to utter the 
completeness of her giving. 
She was like a little child about it so free, so spon- 
taneous, so genuine; Thyrsis marvelled at her utter 
naturalness. For himself, in the midst of these things, 
there was always a sense of the strange and the ter- 
rible, a sense of penetrating to forbidden mysteries ; 
but Corydon laughed in the sunlight of utter bliss and 
she laughed most at him, when she found that her 
simple language had startled him. 
For the maiden* out of ancient Greece was now be- 
come a lover ! And so she was revealed to Thyrsis > 
she who might have marched in the Panathenaic proces- 
sions, with one of the sacred vessels in her hands, or run 
in the Attic games, bare-limbed and fearless. So he 
learned to think of her, smging in the myrtle groves 
of Mount Hymettus, or walking naked in the moon- 
light in Arcadian meadows. 
So he thought of her all through her life, whenever 
a moment of joy came to her whenever, for instance, 
she found her way to the water. They had dressed her 
in long skirts and put her in a drawing-room but 
Corydon had got to the water in spite of them; and 
all that any Nereid had ever known, that she had 
known from the time the waves first kissed her feet. 
And so it was also with love ; she was born to be 
a priestess of love's religion. She had waited for this 
hour that she might take his hand, and lead him into 
the temple, and teach him the ritual. It was a ministry 
that she entered upon with the joy of all her being. 
"Ah, let me teach you how to love !" she would cry. "Ah, 
let me teach you how to love!" 
Love was to her an utter blending of two selves, the 
losing of one's personality in another's ; it meant the 
forgetting of one's self, and all the ends of self. And 
Thyrsis marvelled at the glory that came upon her, 
at each new rapture she discovered. All the language 
of lovers was known to her, all the songs of lovers 
were upon her lips: 
"Du bist mir ewig, 
Bist mir immer 
Erb und Eigen 
Ein und All !" 
Such was her woman's gift : precious beyond all treas- 
ures of earth, and given without price or question. 
And Thyrsis trembled as he realized it ; he lived upon his 
knees before her, and floods of tenderness welled up in 
 
his heart. How utterly she trusted him, how com- 
pletely she belonged to him ! And what could he do to 
show himself worthy of it this most wonderful dream 
of his life come true 
"If someone should give me a heart to keep, 
With love for the golden key!" 
Yet, amid all these raptures, Thyrsis was haunted 
by ghosts of doubt. Would he be able to do what his 
heart  yearned to do? Love meant so much to her 
and could it mean that much to him? Why could it 
not be to him the complete thing it was to her why 
must he argue and wonder and fear? 
For Thyrsis' ancestors had not dallied in Arcadian 
meadows. They had come from the wilds of Palestine 
and the deserts of Northern Africa ; they had argued 
and wondered and feared in Gothic cloisters, in New 
England meeting-houses ; and the shadow of their souls 
hung over him still. He could not love love as Corydon 
loved it, he could not trust it as she trusted it. It could 
never seem to him the utterly natural thing there was 
always a fear of pollution, a hint of satiety, a thrill of 
shame. Directly the first fires of passion had spent 
themselves, these anxieties came to him; he remembered 
how in his virgin youth he had thought of passion as 
of something strange and uncomfortable, even gro- 
tesque, suggesting too closely a kinship with the ani- 
mals. So he noticed that his feelings always waned 
before Corydon's. She wished him to linger love 
meant so much to her ! 
Then too, the code of passion was all unknown to 
him. What was right and what was wrong? When 
should one yield to desire, and when should one re- 
strain it? To Corydon such questions never came to 
her there was no such possibility as excess ; she was 
complete and perfect, and nature told her. If there 
were temptations and restraints and regrets, they were 
for Thyrsis ; and he had to keep them for his own 
secret, he could ask no help from her. For he discov- 
ered immediately that with his proud imperiousness, he 
could not endure to have Corydon refuse herself to him. 
So this laid a new burden upon him, an appalling one. 
For were they not always together her lips always 
calling him, the impulse towards her always with him? 
There was another circumstance the means they had 
to take to prevent the consequences of their love. From 
the very first, Thyrsis had shrunk from the thought of 
this ; but it was only later that he realized how much it 
repelled him. It offended all his sense of economy and 
purpose ; it was something done, and at the same time 
undone and so it had in it the essence of all futility 
and wrongness. It took from passion its meaning and 
its excuse ; and yet he could not say this to Corydon ; 
and he knew also that he could no longer do without 
her. He was bound bound fast! And every hour 
his chains would become tighter; what was now spon- 
taneous joy would become a habit a thing like eating 
and sleeping, a new and humiliating necessity of the 
flesh! 
2. SUCH were their problems. They might have 
solved them all, perhaps had they only had time. But 
others came crowding upon them, others still more in- 
sistent and perplexing. The world was pressing them, 
jealous of their dream of delight. 
Their little fund of money was gone, and so Thyrsis 
went back to his hack-work. All day he sat by the 
 
window and slaved at it, while Corydon lay upon the 
bed and read, or wandered about the park by herself. 
Thyrsis' burden was twice as heavy now, for he had to 
earn for two; and when in the ecstasies of love she 
cried out to him that she was his forever, the cruel 
mockery of circumstance translated this to mean that 
he would forever have to earn for two ! 
He wrote more book-reviews, and peddled them about ; 
sometimes he was forced to exchange them for books 
he reviewed, and then to sell the books for twenty or 
thirty cents apiece. He wrote up some ideas for po- 
litical cartoons, and got three dollars for one of them. 
He wrote a parody upon a popular poem, and got six 
dollars for that. He met a college friend, just re- 
turned from a trip in the Andes, and he patiently col- 
lected the material for a narrative, and sold it to a 
minor magazine for fifteen dollars. 
And meanwhile he toiled furiously at another pot- 
boiler, a tale of Hessians and Tories and a red-cheeked 
and irresistible revolutionary heroine, to fill the insa- 
tiable maw of the readers of the "Treasure Chest." On 
one occasion, when everything went wrong, Corydon took 
the half-dozen solid silver coffee-spoons and the heavy 
gold-plated berry-spoon which had constituted her out- 
fit of wedding-presents, and sold them to a nearby 
jeweler for two dollars and a quarter. 
But through all this bitter struggle they looked for- 
ward to a glorious ending. In April the book would 
be out and then they would be free! They would go 
away to the country perhaps to the little cabin of 
last summer ! Ah, how they dreamed of that cabin, how 
they hungered for it ! They pictured it, covered in 
snow, with the ice-bound brook in front of it both 
the cabin and the brook asleep, and dreaming of the 
spring-time. 
Thyrsis was dreaming of it also, with tears in his 
eyes v and a mighty passion in his heart; for his new 
book was calling to him he had to fight hard to keep 
it from taking possession of his thoughts and driving 
the pot-boilers out of the temple. 
There came the joyful excitement of reading the 
proofs of his book ; also of inspecting the cover-de- 
sign, and the sample of the paper, and the "dummy". 
And then it was two weeks from now ! Then it was 
only ten days then only one week. And finally the 
raptures of the first sample copy ! 
It was time the publishers had begun to advertise it, 
and Thyrsis went to see Mr. Taylor about the matter. 
Mr. Taylor was vague in his replies. Then came publi- 
cation-day, and still no advertisements ; and Thyrsis 
called again, and insisted and expostulated, and learned 
to his consternation that they were not going to ad- 
vertise it ; the season was a bad one, the firm had met 
with unexpected expenses, and so on. When Thyrsis re- 
minded them of their promises, and threatened and 
stormed, Mr. Taylor informed him quietly that there 
was nothing in the contract about advertising. 
So Thyrsis went home, and tried to forget his rage 
in the work of disposing of his hundred copies. He 
had prepared himself for the possibility of everything 
else failing, but here he had a plan whereby he felt that 
his deliverance was assured. He had made up a list 
of a hundred of the best-known men of letters in the 
country college presidents and professors, editors and 
clergymen, novelists and poets and critics ; and he had 
done more hack-work, and earned the twenty dollars 
it would take to send to each of them a copy of the 
 
book, together with his manifesto, and a little type- 
written note. This, he felt, would make certain of the 
book's being read ; and once let the book be read by the 
real leaders of the country's thought, and his siege 
would be at an end! 
So the packages went to the post-office, freighted with 
the burden of his hopes and longings. And two or three 
times a week Thyrsis went to see his publishers, and 
find out how the book was going. He was never able to 
ascertain just what they were doing with it, or how 
they expected to sell it; Mr. Taylor would tell him 
vaguely that it was doing fairly well the season was 
"slow", and he must give the book time to "catch on". 
And then came the reviews. A clipping-bureau had 
written, offering to furnish them at five cents apiece ; 
and this was moderate, considering that there were only 
a dozen altogether. Most of these were from unim- 
portant out-of-town papers, whose book-reviews are 
written by the high-school nieces and the elderly maiden- 
aunts of the publishers. Of the metropolitan news- 
papers and literary organs, only three noticed the book 
at all; and two of these gave perfunctory mention, 
evidently made up from the publisher's statement on 
the cover. 
The third writer had connected the book with the 
interview in the "Morning Howl", and he wrote a bur- 
lesque review of it, in which he hailed it as the "Great 
American Novel". His method was to retell the story, 
quoting the most highly-wrought passages, with just 
enough comment to keep it in the vein of farce. To 
Thyrsis this mockery came like a blast of fire in the 
face; he did not know that it was the regular method 
of the newspaper a method by means of which it had 
made itself known as the cleverest and most readable 
paper in the country. 
3. ALL this was the harder for him, because it 
came at a black and spectral hour of his life. It was 
not enough that the book was falling flat, and that 
all their hopes were collapsing; a new and most terrible 
calamity befell them. For three months now they had 
been dissolved in the bliss of their young dream of 
love; and now suddenly had come a thunderbolt, split- 
ting the darkness about them, and revealing the grim 
hand of Fate closing down ! 
For several years of her life Corydon had carried a 
trying burden once each month she would have to lie 
down for three or four days and be a semi-invalid. And 
last month this had not happened; the time had come 
and gone, and she was as well as ever. She had told 
Thyrsis about it, and how it disturbed her; it might 
mean nothing, it had happened several times before to 
her; but then again it might mean that she had con- 
ceived. 
The idea had been too frightful to contemplate, 
however, and they had put it aside. It was not possible 
the doctor had told them how to prevent it; he had 
told them that "everybody" did it, and that they could 
feel safe. 
But now came the second month; and Corydon, filled 
with a vague terror, waited for the day. And horrible 
beyond all telling the day came and went once more! 
And two days came three days ! And so finally Cory- 
don went to see the doctor. 
When she came home again, and entered the room, 
Thyrsis saw it all in her face, without her uttering a 
 
word. He went sick, all at once; and Corydon sank 
down upon the bed. 
"Well?" he asked, in a hoarse voice. 
"It's true," she said. 
"And what did he say?" 
"He said he said I was in splendid shape, and that 
I would have a fine baby !" 
And Thyrsis stared at her, and then suddenly burst 
into wild laughter, and hid his head in his arms. Such 
was their mood that she could not feel sure whether 
he was laughing or crying. 
Now, indeed, they were facing the reality of life. All 
the problems with which they had ever wrestled were 
'as child's play to this problem; they could sit and read 
the deadly terror in each other's eyes. Corydon's lip 
was trembling, and her face was white and drawn and 
old. So swiftly had fled her young dream of joy! 
"Thyrsis," she said, in a low voice, "it means ruin!" 
"Yes," he answered. 
And she clenched her hands tightly. "I will kill 
myself first !" she whispered. "I will not drag you 
down !" 
He made no reply. 
"Listen, Thyrsis," she went on. "There is only one 
thing to be thought of. I must get rid of it." 
"Get rid of it?" he echoed. "How?" 
"I don't know," she said. "But women often do it." 
"I've heard of it," he replied. "But isn't it danger- 
ous ?" 
"I don't know," she said, "and I don't care." 
There was a pause. 
"Why don't you ask the doctor?" he inquired. 
"The doctor? There was no use us asking him, 
Thyrsis." 
"Why not?" 
"Because he doesn't understand. He likes babies. 
That's his business." 
They argued this. But in the end Thyrsis resolved 
