
"She of the Ephesians—yes.  She was great, wasn’t she?  Did you ever
hear of the fly who said, ’I lie on my back in space, balancing the
world on my six legs’?  The fly was quite right; there’s no top or
bottom point to this sphere—or to your logic, Jim."

He smiled quietly.

"Did you ever hear of that Chinese goddess of the lotus, Kwan-Yin,
who, from her blossom throne in the Happy Isles, rescues lost souls?"

"With how many incarnations are you going to endow me, Jim?"

"Do you think I am endowing you with anything you do not already
possess?"

"What do I possess?" she laughed; "blue eyes and a fair skin and a heart
as mercenary as a Persian pussy’s.  Warmed in the sunshine of life, I
radiate purrs; but I’m a slit-eyed opportunist in storm and stress."

After a moment he said:

"What are your plans when Silvette marries?"

"I suppose I’ll marry somebody," she said, thinking of Wallace for the
first time.  "Old age alone doesn’t attract me; in fact, I’ve been
hedging already," she added.

"Hedging?"

"Practically; I’ve told a man I’d marry him if it suited me to do so
some day; but, meanwhile, he must consider himself padlocked. Isn’t that
a nice, thrifty, feminine contract?"

"Are you serious?"

"Entirely."

"Who is he?"

She glanced at him uncertainly.

"I think you’ve heard me speak of him, Jim."

"Wallace?"

"That is the youth."

"Are you in love with him?"

"Oh, more than that, Jim.  I like him."

"Enough to marry him?"

"Not at present....  But you never can tell.  I await the event.  I
haven’t anything else to do."

He nodded, smiling.

"I rather imagined him to be the sort of man you’d come to care for....
I’ve heard one or two men speak of him recently."

"You mean that you made inquiries?"

A tint of red touched the city pallor of his skin.

"Yes, I took that, liberty."

"It was a friendly one.  The reports were excellent, of course."

"Excellent.  He must be a good deal of a man."

Her eyes were fixed on him, expressionless, considering.  The slightest
smile edged her lips.

"He is young—and nice....  I don’t know how much of a man he may
become....  I know nothing about him, and haven’t studied him very
minutely yet."

"You will—before you marry him."

"I may not....  A girl often misuses a microscope.  I think I have,
frequently.  Do you remember King Gama’s song?—

    "’And interested motives
    I’m delighted to detect!’


"No, Jim; my snooping days are about over.  Dissection wearies; the
clinic is a bore. I’m beginning to be content with the surface of
things; I’m tending toward impressionism and the elimination of
detail—toward the blessed serenity of stupidity.  There is rest, there."

"Rest," he repeated, smiling.  "Of what are you already tired?"

"I am tired of intelligence.  It’s too exacting. It forms a liaison with
conscience, and affronts inclination.  I’m tired of rule and precept
with which an occult and inborn tyranny shackles me.  I’m tired of more
than that—but isn’t that sufficient to fatigue a girl?"

"Heavy chains," he said, looking at the figures on the carpet, tracing
them with an incurious eye.

"So I think I’ll file away a few links."

"You can’t."

He rose, walked to the window, drew the curtain, and looked out at the
November stars. Limpid, inexorable, the countless eyes of the night met
his.  Whatever message they held for him he seemed to understand it,
for, presently he came quietly back to her.

"Yes," he said, "it’s a good game, after all.  The main thing is to get
into it and stay there—in medeas res—squarely."  He looked up,
smiling.  "Your superb interference put me there.  Why do you deny it?"

"Does it please you that I should not deny it?"

"Yes, Diana."

"Then I affirm and deny nothing—which makes me sufficient of a nonentity
to suit you, I hope."

"I am suited."

A moment later the bell rang, and Silvette and Jack, followed by Mr.
Rivett, came laughing through the hall and into the little parlor.

"Jim!  At last!" cried Silvette, giving him both hands.

"How are you, cousin!  How are you, Mr. Rivett! Hello, Jack!" he said as
they surrounded him with lively greetings.

"How goes it?" inquired Mr. Rivett dryly.

"First rate."

"Did you see McMillan in Pittsburgh?"

"By jove, I did!  He was tremendously interesting—and exceedingly
cordial to me."

Mr. Rivett nodded.  He might have said that he kept McMillan in his vest
pocket, but he only stared at Edgerton through his big, round glasses.

They all had supper together, later; Jack and Silvette bubbled
enthusiasm over the play and the splendid cast; Dineen came in and
talked business to Rivett in casual undertones; Diana and Edgerton were
quieter, even inclined to silence.

Meanwhile Jack was consulting Silvette about theater plans for the
following evening, and Edgerton said that he would return from business
in time to join them.

"You’ll be in Jersey, won’t you?" asked Rivett.

"Yes."

"Well, try to get back in time to dress and join us at dinner."

"I don’t believe I can do that."

Rivett looked at him.  "Try," he said briefly.

But Edgerton said aside to Diana:

"I can’t get back to the studio before eight.... By the way, you have a
key, you know, if you wish to go there at any time."

"Thank you, Jim.  I may look in to-morrow sometime.  I want to see—"
She flushed, and hesitated; then calmly: "We left two trunks there, you
know."

He nodded.  "Go and rummage.  The janitor has orders.  He has taken
splendid care of that big white cat of yours.  You’ll find everything in
order, and quite comfortable."

So he made his adieux and went his way; and Mr. Dineen followed, and
Jack and his father retired to their suite, and Silvette and Diana went
to theirs.

"Little sister," whispered Silvette, leaning over Diana’s pillow, where
she lay, eyes closed; "are you any happier than you were this morning?"

"Yes."

"Very much?"

"Very much."

And that was all.  Silvette looked down at the white face and closed
eyes, sighed, and extinguished the night light.

The eyes of happiness close only in sleep, or in the arms of the best
beloved.


Silvette’s excited heart began to sing with the first ray of the morning
sun.  Also she arose, dressed, and breakfasted with her equally reckless
affianced, which showed that theirs was a hopeless case, and a recent
one.

Dineen came and took Rivett away.  Diana tasted a grape fruit in bed,
and lay thinking until noon brought luncheon and her maid pro tem.

Jack and Silvette, unable to persuade her, drifted off somewhere into
the sparkling confusion of the metropolis, promising to return and take
her for a drive through the Park.

About five o’clock she summoned her maid.

"Please say that I have gone to the studio apartment to get some things
from my trunks," she said; and wrote out the address in case either Mr.
Rivett or Mr. Dineen wished to communicate with her.

Then, in furs, walking skirt and veil, and her tired little heart
already outstripping her feet, she went out into the sunset world upon
the pilgrimage so long desired, so long and wistfully deferred.

Her pulse beat fast as she entered his street. The sight of the house
filled her with sudden trepidation, but she knew that he was not there.
She had nearly three hours alone before her, unless the others,
returning to find her note, might telephone and interrupt her.

Her key turned smoothly in the lock; she crossed the threshold, holding
her breath.

A dull, mellow light filled the studio.  In the stillness a faint
fragrance of tobacco hung in the air.  Step by step she advanced,
looking at each familiar object as she came to it and passed it—pausing
to lay a gloved hand on the sofa where, ages ago, two very young people
sat, touching with lingering fingers the empty silver bowl which once,
on a summer day, had been almost hidden under a fragrant load of
peonies.

Something behind her—and it was not a sound—made her turn.  The white
cat sat looking at her with no recognition in its solemn eyes; and when
she moved forward, hand outstretched in wistful appeal, it calmly
retreated into the demi light of the bedroom beyond.

The well of desolation was filling fast now; she sank into a wide chair
by the tea table and, lifting her veil, touched her eyes with her
handkerchief.  Then, disciplined, controlled, she lay back looking into
the bedroom where she and her sister had slept and awakened through
those three magic days which even Fate allowed before foreclosing on her
destiny forever.

Pink bars of sunlight slanted on the wall, warming the painted armor of
a forgotten dead man—forgotten no more than some among the living.  A
great lady, painted in her jewels, seemed to flush and smile as a rosy
bar crept across her cheek.  Doubtless she, too, had loved before she
died.

The girl extended her arm listlessly along the upholstered arm of her
chair, and looked at her white-gloved hand.

In the hollow of that hand she had once held Love, and had smilingly
released it.  Out of that little palm Love had flown far beyond her ken;
and there was no returning for that winged thing.

Then, very quietly, she bowed her head, eyes sheltered by her hand, and
remained so, motionless, for a long while.

The outer bell had sounded twice before she realized that it was the
bell of the apartment.  Dazed, she rose, stood a moment collecting
herself, then walked to the door and opened it.

Colonel Curmew stepped jauntily in.

So astonished was she that she scarcely understood what he was about
before they both were on the studio threshold—she instinctively
retreating, he advancing, wreathed in a smile so remarkable that it
fascinated her.

"What an odd thing of you to do," she said, still confused by the
suddenness of his invasion, groping instinctively for the reason.

"You left word at the Plaza; I understood," he said, his eyes fairly
popping at her, then palely roving around the place.



"So this is your apartment?" he said. "What a discreet and charming
little nest!"

"I think you don’t understand," she said; "this is Mr. Edgerton’s
apartment."

He looked at her oddly, then burst into laughter.

"You clever girl!" he chuckled.

"What!" she said, bewildered.

But he only smirked at her.

"Look here, little girl," he said, "suppose you begin to make your eyes
behave, and come down to actualities.  You know what I want; I know
what you want.  We’ve been wasting time all summer.  I’m no fool;
neither are you, as you show by selecting this nice, little nook for a
good, sensible talk."

She only stared at him, thinking he had gone mad, and he laughed and
twirled his mustache.

"Nix for the baby stare," he said reprovingly. "I tell you I know what a
girl like you wants—privacy, discretion, and the usual ... And I’ve
got it, little girl—wads of it!"

The grotesqueness of the dream seemed to make her stupid; she tried to
find some sense and reason in what this man was saying to her, strove to
comprehend him, his visit, his words.

"Are you asking me to—marry you," she said, confused.

"Marry you!" he repeated, his expressive features suddenly blank, then
jocular again.

"Then—what——"

And, suddenly staring into the sinister smirk, she comprehended, and
turned ashy white.

Even he could not mistake the genuineness of that white horror.

"You—you d-don’t understand," he stammered, his effrontery shaken....
"I—perhaps I didn’t understand you, either....  But I thought—I
supposed——"

His top hat fell clattering on the floor; he stooped and picked it up,
lifting a redder and more impudent countenance to confront her.

"After all," he said with a sneer, "I had a right to think you knew what
you were about—a girl, alone, who lives on her wits."

He hesitated, malignant now, writhing internally under her pallid
contempt.

"By God!" he said, "you’re nothing better than any other hired woman!  I
helped hire you myself."  And added, between his teeth: "You little
clawing cat!  I know damned well you’re an adventuress, but your game is
beyond me——"

He swung insolently on his heel, and found himself looking straight into
the eyes of Jacob Rivett.

"Go out!" said Mr. Rivett in a low voice.

The colonel stared at him, confounded.

"Go out!" repeated Rivett softly.

The colonel, flushed and utterly discountenanced, started toward the
door.  Mr. Rivett followed him out into the hall, closing the door
behind him.

Diana stood stock still, as though turned to stone.  There had been a
crash outside; then, in rather rapid but irregular succession, a series
of thuds.  It was Colonel Curmew’s impact with wall and floor; Mr.
Dineen had been patiently knocking him down until that battered and
half-senseless warrior took the count.  Then one careful and heavy kick
sent him down the first of the flights of stairs, and a moment later
Diana heard the door bell.

She opened; Mr. Rivett walked in slowly, as though abstracted; Mr.
Dineen came behind, straightening his scarf-pin.

"You left the door ajar, so we walked in," observed Rivett, ignoring his
previous entrance.  He strolled about, glancing up at the pictures and
tapestries.  Then his manner changed.

"Well, my dear," he said briskly, "Mr. Dineen and I stopped at the
hotel, and your maid told us you had come here to get things out of your
trunks.  So, if you’ve finished rummaging, the car is below, and Jack
and Silvette are waiting tea for us at the St. Regis."

"Thank you," she said in a low voice.

"Had you rather not come?"

"I had rather not—if you don’t mind."

He walked over to her, took both her hands, and looked into her eyes.

"I am at your service, my dear," he said.

"I know it....  My heart will always be in yours."

His face grew grimmer.

"I guess we understand each other, child.... Next to my own—Silvette—and
you.... Shall the car wait for you?"

"I will walk back."

"Dinner at seven," he said, releasing her hands.

She nodded, forcing a smile.

"At seven," she repeated, offering her hand to Mr. Dineen, who squeezed
it shamelessly while unfeigned admiration transfigured his broad face.

So they left her there in the studio, standing in the dusk, head held
high, and in her eyes that dauntless courage that remains though lips
quiver and the hot tears sting the straining throat.

Cautiously, lest self-control slip the leash, she reseated herself and
lay back in the chair, closing her eyes.  Whatever battle raged within
her was fought out there in darkness and in silence.  She lay
motionless, never stirring save for the slow clenching and relaxing of
her fingers; and at last even that ceased.

Then the steel nerves and iron will that had mastered the storm and
soothed it, turned traitor, tricking her, furtively relaxing in the wake
of exhaustion.

In the dark the white cat stole in, hesitated, looked at her; then,
satisfied, stretched out on a Persian rug in front of her.

Long ago all sound had ceased in her ears; her heart beat quietly, her
breath came and went as evenly and softly as the respiration of a
sleeping child.

Through the tall windows the starlight touched her; at her feet the
white cat dozed, dreaming of nothing.

Confused, the brilliancy of electric light in her eyes, Diana found
herself sitting bolt upright, clutching the arms of her chair, and
staring at a dark figure which leaned over her—a man, laughing, still
amazed, still a little incredulous.

"Jim!" she faltered.

"Certainly.  What do you mean by going to sleep in my favorite chair?"

"Oh, dear!  Oh, Jim!" she wailed, dropping back helplessly into the
depths of the chair, "I must be perfectly crazy to do such a thing!
What time is it?  I came in here to—to get something"—she pressed her
hands to her temples—"to find—to look—  Oh, I don’t know what I’m
talking about!"

Her hands dropped; she gazed hopelessly up at him.

"Did you ever hear of such a perfect fool?" she said.  "What time is
it?—if you think I can bear the information."

"It’s only eight."

"Eight!  Jim, dear, will you go to that telephone and inform Mr.
Rivett that I have not been run over, murdered, or arrested?"

He went over and telephoned, adding: "Don’t wait for either of us.
Leave the tickets on Diana’s dresser.  We’ll be along pretty soon."

"What did you mean, Jim?" she asked, struggling with her veil.

"It’s so late," he said, "that you’d better wait for me to get into my
jeans, and then I’ll take you over and you can get into yours, and then
we’ll dine together, and go in for the last act if we have time."

"I’ve spoiled your evening," she said.

"Do you think so?"

"Oh, I know it.  Did Mr. Rivett think me an utter lunatic?"

"He didn’t say so over the wire."

"What did he say, Jim?"

"Nothing that meant anything."

"Tell me!"

"All he said was for me to take care of you. You perceive the irony,
don’t you?"

"Irony?" she repeated, looking at him.

"Why?  Aren’t you capable of doing it?"

"Do you need anybody to look after you?" he asked, smiling.

Slowly she lifted her eyes to his; his smile died out.  Never had he
looked into such a desolate face.

"What is it?" he said, astonished; "what on earth is the matter, Diana?
Has anything happened?"

"Nothing—unusual—I suppose."

"You are not ill, are you?"

The tears were slowly blinding her, and she turned her head, standing
so, fighting for self-mastery.

"Diana——"

She motioned him to silence.  He stood it as long as he could, then
stepped over beside her and touched her arm.

"Tell me, dear?" he said under his breath.

She strove to speak—could not, yet; motioned him aside, but he would
have none of such commands.

"You took my troubles on your slender shoulders," he said; "may I not
help you to carry one or two of yours?" ... And, as she made no answer:
"Dear, if you have not loved me, you have done for me, perhaps, even
more than love might have done."

She had dried her eyes; now she turned to him quietly.

"It was love....  But don’t mistake it, Jim....  It was a love that
asked for nothing that it had not—desired nothing that you had not
already given....  I thought it best to tell you—because—it is a world
of men; and women—sometimes—are held—lightly in it——"

Her lip quivered, but she, somehow, managed to meet his eyes and smile.

"All that happened long ago, Jim."

"Did love—die?"

"Yours," she said, smiling.  "I slew it very neatly for you."

"I mean yours, Diana?"

"Mine?  Why, I gave you something better than that," she began gaily.
Then her face altered; she fell silent, watching him—at first
incredulous, then a little dazed.

"Didn’t you know that I loved you?" he said.

"You mean—last summer....  Yes."

"Now!  Didn’t you know it?"

"I—no."

Far in the chaos of her brain she heard his words echoing, reëchoing in
confused reiteration.

He was saying, slowly: "There has never been a moment since that day
that my life has not been yours—that you have not possessed my heart, my
mind, filled them, owned them, overwhelmingly inspired me with love and
adoration for you alone.  What I am, and will be, I am, and shall be by
grace of you.

"But gratitude is not the love of man for woman; it is not even part of
it; it is a separate passion—a shrine by itself.  I worship you there in
my own fashion.

"But you, Diana—Japonette—"  He flung one arm around her body.  She
placed a firm hand on his wrist as though to break the clasp, looked at
him, and began to tremble.

"Can you love me, Japonette?"

"Can you?"

"Yes."

Her hand tightened over his wrist as he drew her close, crushing her to
him.  She looked up blindly into his eyes as he kissed her; then her
lids unclosed and her silent lips moved, forming his name.


They neither dressed for the theater nor went to it.  They dined
together at an outrageous hour in an unfashionable haunt of his.

Silvette, Jack, Mr. Rivett, and Mr. Dineen found them at supper in the
little parlor when they arrived from the play.

"Di!" cried Silvette, "what on earth has possessed you and Jim?"

Her voice failed her at sight of her sister’s face.

"That!" she exclaimed; "has that happened? Darling!  My little Di—my
little, little girl!" she murmured, dropping on her knees beside her.

Mr. Dineen looked foolishly at Mr. Rivett.

"Say it later, John," whispered Mr. Rivett dryly.  "We’ll go downstairs
for a while."

"You won’t!" said Diana, turning laughingly on them.  "You will wish us
happiness, and drink to it, too."  She rose, flushed and radiant.
Silvette sprang to her feet and kissed her; Jack seized her with
determination, and made no ceremony about it.

Then Diana walked straight up to Mr. Rivett, and held out both hands;
and the little man kissed her grimly.

Mr. Dineen’s blue eye sparkled; she looked at the big, jolly Irishman,
audaciously delighted.

"What man has done, man may do," she said.

"Faith, I’ll see if a woman can do it, too!" he said, saluting her with
