"Shall I tell you?"
"Please."
"I'll take a tumble in your estimation if I tell you."
"I don't think you will. Try it anyway."
"Very well then. Somebody told me."
"And you let me bet with you! And you bet on a certainty!"
"I did."
"Oh!" she exclaimed reproachfully, "is that good sportsmanship, Mr.
Quarren?"
"No; very bad. And that was why I didn't take the forfeit. Now you
understand."
She sat considering him, the champagne breaking in her glass.
"Yes, I do understand now. A good sportsman couldn't take a forfeit
which he won betting on a certainty.... That wasn't a real wager, was
it?"
"No, it wasn't."
"If it had been, I--I don't suppose you'd have let me go."
"Indeed not!"
They laughed, watching each other, curiously.
"Which ought to teach me never again to make any such highly original
and sporting wagers," she said. "Anyway, you were perfectly nice about
it. Of course you couldn't very well have been otherwise. Tell me, did
you really suppose me to be attractive? You couldn't judge. How could
you--under that mask?"
"Do you think that your mouth could have possibly belonged to any other
kind of a face except your own?" he said coolly.
"Is my mouth unusual?"
"Very."
"How is it unusual?"
"I haven't analysed the matter, but it is somehow so indescribable that
I guessed very easily what the other features must be."
"Oh, flattery! Oh, impudence! Do you remember when Falstaff said that
the lion could always recognise the true prince? Shame on you, Mr.
Quarren. You are not only a very adroit flatterer but a perfectly good
sportsman after all--and the most gifted tormentor I ever knew in all my
life. And I like you fine!" She laughed, and made a quick little
gesture, partly arrested as he met her more than half way, touching the
rim of his glass to hers. "To our friendship," he said.
"Our friendship," she repeated, gaily, "if the gods speed it."
"--And--its consequences," he added. "Don't forget those."
"What are they likely to be?"
"Who knows? That's the gamble! But let us recognise all kinds of
possibilities, and drink to them, too. Shall we?"
"What do you mean by the consequences of friendship?" she repeated,
hesitating.
"That is the interesting thing about a new friendship," he explained.
"Nobody can ever predict what the consequences are to be. Are you afraid
to drink to the sporting chances, hazards, accidents, and possibilities
of our new friendship, Mrs. Leeds? That is a perfectly good sporting
proposition."
She considered him, interested, her eyes full of smiling curiosity,
perfectly conscious of the swift challenge of his lifted glass.
[Illustration: "'To our new friendship, Monsieur Harlequin!' she said
lightly."]
After a few seconds' hesitation she struck the ringing rim of her glass
against his:
"To our new friendship, Monsieur Harlequin!" she said lightly--"with
every sporting chance, worldly hazard, and heavenly possibility in it!"
For the first time the smile faded from his face, and something in his
altered features arrested her glass at her very lips.
"How suddenly serious you seem," she said. "Have I said anything?"
He drained his glass; after a second she tasted hers, looked at him,
finished it, still watching him.
"Really," she said; "you made me feel for a moment as though you and I
were performing a solemn rite. That was a new phase of you to me--that
exceedingly sudden and youthful gravity."
He remained silent. Into his mind, just for a second, and while in the
act of setting the glass to his lips, there had flashed a flicker of
pale clairvoyance. It seemed to illumine something within him which he
had never believed in--another self.
For that single instant he caught a glimpse of it, then it faded like a
spark in a confused dream.
He raised his head and looked gravely across at Strelsa Leeds; and
level-eyed, smiling, inquisitive, she returned his gaze.
Could this brief contact with her have evoked in him a far-buried
something which had never before given sign of existence? And could it
have been anything resembling aspiration that had glimmered so palely
out of an ordered and sordid commonplace personality which, with all
its talent for frivolity, he had accepted as his own?
Without reason a slight flush came into his cheeks.
"Why do you regard me so owlishly?" she asked, amused. "I repeat that
you made me feel as though we were performing a sort of solemn rite when
we drank our toast."
"You couldn't feel that way with such a thoroughly frivolous man as I
am. Could you?"
"I'm rather frivolous myself," she admitted, laughing. "I really can't
imagine why you made me feel so serious--or why you looked as though you
were. I've no talent for solemnity. Have you?"
"I don't think so," he said. "What a terrible din everybody is making!
How hot and stifling it is here--with all those cloying gardenias.... A
man said, this evening, that this sort of thing makes for anarchy....
It's rather beastly of me to sit here criticising my host's
magnificence.... Do you know--it's curious, too--but I wish that, for
the next hour or two, you and I were somewhere alone under a good wide
sky--where there was no noise. It's an odd idea, isn't it, Mrs. Leeds.
And probably you don't share it with me."
She remained silent, thoughtful, her violet-gray eyes humorously
considering him.
"How do you know I don't?" she said at last. "I'm not enamoured of
noise, either."
"There's another thing," he went on, smiling--"it's rather curious,
too--but somehow I've a sort of a vague idea that I've a lot of things
to talk to you about. It's odd, isn't it?"
"Well you know," she reminded him, "you couldn't very well have a lot
of things to talk to me about considering the fact that we've known each
other only an hour or so."
"It doesn't seem logical.... And yet, there's that inexplicable
sensation of being on the verge of fairly bursting into millions of
words for your benefit--words which all my life have been bottled up in
me, accumulating, waiting for this opportunity."
They both were laughing, yet already a slight tension threatened
both--had menaced them, vaguely, from the very first. It seemed to
impend ever so slightly, like a margin of faintest shadow edging
sunlight; yet it was always there.
"I haven't time for millions of words this evening," she said. "Won't
some remain fresh and sparkling and epigrammatic until--until----"
"To-morrow? They'll possibly keep that long."
"I didn't say to-morrow."
"I did."
"I'm perfectly aware of the subtle suggestion and subtler flattery, Mr.
Quarren."
"Then, may I see you to-morrow?"
"Utterly impossible--pitiably hopeless. You see I am frank about the
heart-rending disappointment it is to me--and must be to you. But after
I am awake I am in the hands of Mrs. Lannis. And there's no room for you
in that pretty cradle."
"The next day, then?"
"We're going to Florida for three weeks."
"You?"
"Molly and Jim and I."
"Palm Beach?"
"Ultimately."
"And then?"
"Oh! Have you the effrontery to tell me to my face that you'll be in the
same mind about me three weeks hence?"
"I have."
"Do you expect me to believe you?"
"I don't know--what to expect--of you, of myself," he said so quietly
that she looked up quickly.
"Mr. Quarren! Are you a sentimental man? I had mentally absolved you
from that preconception of mine--among other apparently unmerited
ideas concerning you."
"I suppose you'll arise and flee if I tell you that you're different
from other women," he said.
"You wouldn't be such an idiot as to tell me that, would you?"
"I might be. I'm just beginning to realise my capacity for imbecility.
You're different in this way anyhow; no woman ever before induced me to
pull a solemn countenance."
"I don't induce you! I ask you not to."
"I try not to; but, somehow, there's something so--so real about
you----"
"Are you accustomed to foregather with the disembodied?"
"I'm beginning to think that my world is rather thickly populated with
ghosts--phantoms of a more real world."
He looked at her soberly; she had thought him younger than he now
seemed. A slight irritation silenced her for a moment, then,
impatiently:
"You speak cynically and I dislike it. What reason have you to express
world-weary sentiments?--you who are young, who probably have never
known real sorrow, deep unhappiness! I have little patience with a
morbid view of anything, Mr. Quarren. I merely warn you--in the event of
your ever desiring to obtain my good graces."
"I do desire them."
"Then be yourself."
"I don't know what I am. I thought I knew. Your advent has disorganised
both my complacency and my resignation."
"What do you mean?"
"Must I answer?"
"Of course!" she said, laughing.
"Then--the Harlequin who followed you up those stairs, never came down
again."
"Oh!" she said, unenlightened.
"I'm wondering who it was who came down out of that balcony in the wake
of the golden dancer," he added.
"You and I--you very absurd young man. What are you trying to say?"
"I--wonder," he said, smiling, "what I am trying to say."
CHAPTER III
Sunshine illuminated the rose-silk curtains of Mrs. Leeds's bedroom with
parallel slats of light and cast a frail and tremulous net of gold
across her bed. The sparrows in the Japanese ivy seemed to be unusually
boisterous, and their persistent metallic chatter disturbed Strelsa who
presently unclosed her gray eyes upon her own reflected features in the
wall-glass opposite.
Face still flushed with slumber, she lay there considering her mirrored
features with humorous, sleepy eyes; then she sat up, stretched her
arms, yawned, patted her red lips with her palm, pressed her knuckles
over her eyelids, and presently slipped out of bed. Her bath was ready;
so was her maid.
A little later, cross-legged on the bed once more, she sat sipping her
chocolate and studying the morning papers with an interest and
satisfaction unjaded.
Coupled with the naïve curiosity of a kitten remained her unspoiled
capacity for pleasure, and the interest of a child in a world unfolding
daily in a sequence of miracles under her intent and delighted eyes.
Bare of throat and arm and shoulder, the lustrous hair shadowing her
face, she now appeared unexpectedly frail, even thin, as though the
fuller curves of the mould in which she was being formed had not yet
been filled up.
Fully dressed, gown and furs lent to her something of a youthful
maturity which was entirely deceptive; for here, in bed, the golden
daylight revealed childish contours accented so delicately that they
seemed almost sexless. And in her intent gray eyes and in her
undeveloped mind was all that completed the bodily and mental
harmony--youth unawakened as yet except to a confused memory of
pain--and the dreamy and passionless unconsciousness of an unusually
late adolescence.
At twenty-four Strelsa still looked upon her morning chocolate with a
healthy appetite; and the excitement of seeing her own name and picture
in the daily press had as yet lost none of its delightful thrill.
All the morning papers reported the Wycherlys' house-warming with
cloying detail. And she adored it. What paragraphs particularly
concerned herself, her capable maid had enclosed in inky brackets. These
Strelsa read first of all, warm with pleasure at every stereotyped
tribute to her loveliness.
The comments she perused were of all sorts, even the ungrammatical sort,
but she read them all with profound interest, and loved every one, even
the most fulsome. For life, and its kinder experience, was just
beginning for her after a shabby childhood, a lonely girlhood, and a
marriage unspeakable, the memory of which already had become to her as
vaguely poignant as the dull recollection of a nightmare.
So her appetite for kindness, even the newspaper variety, was keen and
not at all discriminating; and the reaction from two years'
solitude--two years of endurance, of shrinking from public comment--had
developed in her a fierce longing for pleasure and for play-fellows.
Her fellow-men had responded with an enthusiasm which still surprised
her delightfully at moments.
       *       *       *       *       *
The clever Swedish maid now removed the four-legged tray from her knees;
Strelsa, propped on her pillows, was still intent on her newspapers,
satisfying a natural curiosity concerning what the world thought about
her costume of the night before, her beauty, herself, and the people she
knew. At last, agreeably satiated, she lowered the newspaper and lay
back, dreamy-eyed, faintly smiling, lost in pleasant retrospection.
Had she really appeared as charming last night as these exceedingly kind
New York newspapers pretended? Did this jolly world really consider her
so beautiful? She wished to believe it. She tried to. Perhaps it was
really true--because all these daily paragraphs, which had begun with
her advent into certain New York sets, must really have been founded on
something unusual about her.
And it could not be her fortune which continued to inspire such
journalistic loyalty and devotion, because she had none--scarcely enough
money in fact to manage with, dress with, pay her servants, and maintain
her pretty little house in the East Eighties.
It could not be her wit; she had no more than the average American girl.
Nor was there anything else in her--neither her cultivation,
attainments, nor talents--to entitle her to distinction. So apparently
it must be her beauty that evoked paragraphs which had already made her
a fashion in the metropolis--was making her a cult--even perhaps a
notoriety.
[Illustration: "Strelsa, propped on her pillows, was still intent on her
newspapers."]
Because those people who had personally known Reginald Leeds, were
exceedingly curious concerning this young girl who had been a nobody, as
far as New York was concerned, until her name became legally coupled
with the name of one of the richest and most dissipated scions of an old
and honourable New York family.
The public which had read with characteristic eagerness all about the
miserable finish of Reginald Leeds, found its abominable curiosity
piqued by his youthful widow's appearance in town.
It is the newspapers' business to give the public what it wants--at
least that appears to be the popular impression; and so they gave the
public all it wanted about Strelsa Leeds, in daily chunks. And then
some. Which, in the beginning, she shrank from, horrified, frightened,
astonished--because, in the beginning, every mention of her name was
coupled with a glossary in full explanation of who she was, entailing a
condensed review of a sordid story which, for two years, she had striven
to obliterate from her mind. But these post-mortems lasted only a week
or so. Except for a sporadic eruption of the case in a provincial paper
now and then, which somebody always thoughtfully sent to her, the press
finally let the tragedy alone, contenting its intellectual public with
daily chronicles of young Mrs. Leeds's social activities.
A million boarding houses throughout the land, read about her beauty
with avidity; and fat old women in soiled pink wrappers began to mention
her intimately to each other as "Strelsa Leeds"--the first hall-mark of
social fame--and there was loud discussion, in a million humble homes,
about the fashionable men who were paying her marked attention; and the
chances she had for bagging earls and dukes were maintained and
combated, below stairs and above, with an eagerness, envy, and
back-stairs knowledge truly and profoundly democratic.
       *       *       *       *       *
Her morning mail had begun to assume almost fashionable proportions, but
she could not yet reconcile herself to the idea of even such a clever
maid as her own assuming power of social secretary. So she still read
and answered all her letters--or rather neglected to notice the
majority, which invested her with a kind of awe to some and made others
furious and unwillingly respectful.
Letters, bills, notes, invitations, advertisements were scattered over
the bedclothes as she lay there, thinking over the pleasures and
excitement of last night's folly--thinking of Quarren, among others, and
of the swift intimacy that had sprung up between them--like a
witch-flower over night--thinking of her imprudence, and of the cold
displeasure of Barent Van Dyne who, toward daylight, had found her
almost nose to nose with Quarren, absorbed in exchanging with that young
man ideas and perfectly futile notions about everything on top, inside,
and underneath the habitable globe.
She blushed as she remembered her flimsy excuses to Van Dyne--she had
the grace to blush over that memory--and how any of the dignity incident
to the occasion had been all Van Dyne's--and how, as she took his
irreproachable arm and parted ceremoniously with Quarren, she had
imprudently extended her hand behind her as her escort bore her away--a
childish impulse--the innocent coquetry of a village belle--she
flushed again at the recollection--and at the memory of Quarren's lips
on her finger-tips--and how her hand had closed on the gardenia he
pressed into it----
She turned her head on the pillow; the flower she had taken from him lay
beside her on her night table, limp, discoloured, malodorous; and she
picked it up, daintily, and flung it into the fireplace.
At the same moment the telephone rang downstairs in the library.
Presently her maid knocked, announcing Mr. Quarren on the wire.
"I'm not at home," said Strelsa, surprised, or rather trying to feel a
certain astonishment. What really surprised her was that she felt none.
Her maid was already closing the door behind her when Strelsa said:
"Wait a moment, Freda." And, after thinking, she smiled to herself and
added: "You may set my transmitter on the table beside me, and hang up
the receiver in the library.... Be sure to hang it up at once."
Then, sitting up in bed, she unhooked the receiver and set it to her
ear.
"Mr. Quarren," she began coldly, and without preliminary amenities,
"have you any possible excuse for awaking me at such an unearthly hour
as mid-day?"
"Good Lord," he exclaimed contritely, "did I do that?"
She had no more passion for the exact truth than the average woman, and
she quibbled:
"Do you think I would say so if it were not true?" she demanded.
"No, of course not----"
"Well, then!" An indignant pause. "But," she added honestly, "I was not
exactly what you might call asleep, although it practically amounts to
the same thing. I was reposing.... Are you feeling quite fit this
morning?" she added demurely.
"I'd be all right if I could see you----"
"You can't! What an idea!"
"Why not? What are you going to do?"
"There's no particular reason why I should detail my daily duties,
obligations, and engagements to you; is there?--But I'm an unusually
kind-hearted person, and not easily offended by people's
inquisitiveness. So I'll overlook your bad manners. First, then, I am
lunching at the Province Club, then I am going to a matinée at the
Casino, afterward dropping in for tea at the Sprowls, dining at the
Calderas, going to the Opera with the Vernons, and afterward, with them,
to a dance at the Van Dynes.... So, will you kindly inform me where
you enter the scene?"
She could hear him laugh over the telephone.
"What are you doing just now?" he asked.
"I am seated upon my innocent nocturnal couch, draped in exceedingly
intimate attire, conversing over the telephone with the original Paul
Pry."
"Could anything induce you to array yourself more conventionally,
receive me, and let me take you to your luncheon at the Province Club?"
"But I don't wish to see you."
"Is that perfectly true?"
"Perfectly. I've just thrown your gardenia into the fireplace. Doesn't
that prove it?"
"Oh, no. Because it's too early, yet, for either of us to treasure such
things----"
"What horrid impertinence!"
"Isn't it! But your heavenly gift of humour will transform my impudence
into a harmless and diverting sincerity. Please let me see you, Mrs.
Leeds--just for a few moments."
"Why?"
"Because you are going South and there are three restless weeks ahead of
me----"
This time he could hear her clear, far laughter:
"What has my going to Florida to do with your restlessness?"
"Your very question irrevocably links cause and effect----"
"Don't be absurd, Mr. Quarren!"
"Absurdity is the badge of all our Guild----"
"What Guild do you belong to?"
"The associated order of ardent suitors----"
"Mr. Quarren! You are becoming ridiculous; do you know it?"
"No, I don't realise it, but they say all the rest of the world
considers suitors ridiculous----"
"Do you expect me to listen to such nonsense at such an hour in the
morning?"
"It's half past twelve; and my weak solution of nonsense is suitable to
the time of day----"
"Am I to understand that the solution becomes stronger as the day
advances?"
"Exactly; the solution becomes so concentrated and powerful that traces
of common-sense begin to appear----"
"I didn't notice any last night."
"Van Dyne interfered."
"Poor Mr. Van Dyne. If you'd been civil to him he might have asked you
to the dance to-night--if I had suggested it. But you were horridly
rude."
"I? Rude?"
"You're not going to be rude enough to say it was I who behaved badly to
him, are you? Oh, the shocking vanity of man! No doubt you are thinking
that it was I who, serpent-like, whispered temptation into your innocent
ear, and drew you away into a corner, and shoved palms in front of us,
and brought silver and fine linen, and rare fruits and sparkling wines;
and paid shameless court with an intelligent weather-eye always on the
watch for a flouted and justly indignant cavalier!"
"Yes," he said, "you did all those things. And now you're trying to
evade the results."
"What are the results?"
"A partly demented young man clamouring to see you at high-noon while
the cold cruel cause of his lunacy looks on and laughs."
"I'm afraid that young man must continue to clamour," she said,
immensely amused at the picture he drew. "How far away is he at this
moment?"
"In the Legation, a blithering wreck."
"Why not in his office frantically immersed in vast business enterprises
and cataclysmic speculations?"
"I'm rather afraid that if business immerses him too completely he will
be found drowned some day."
"You promised--said that you were going to begin a vigorous campaign,"
she reminded him reproachfully. "I asked it of you; and you agreed."
"I am beginning life anew--or trying to--by seeking the perennial source
of daily spiritual and mundane inspiration----"
"Why won't you be serious?"
"I am. Were you not the source of my new inspiration? Last night did
something or other to me--I am not yet perfectly sure what it was. I
want to see you to be sure--if only for a--moment--merely to satisfy
myself that you are real----"
"Will one moment be enough?"
"Certainly."
"One second--or half a one?"
"Plenty."
"Very well--if you promise not to expect or ask for more than that----"
"That is terribly nice of you!"
"It is, overwhelmingly. But really I don't know whether I am nice or
merely weak-minded. Because I've lingered here gossiping so long with
you that I've simply got to fly like a mad creature about my dressing.
Good-bye----"
"Shall I come up immediately?"
"Of course not! I expect to be dressing for hours and
hours--figuratively speaking.... Perhaps you might start in ten minutes
if you are coming in a taxi."
"You are an angel----"
"That is not telephone vernacular.... And perhaps you had better be
prompt, because Mrs. Lannis is coming for me--that is, if you have
anything to--to say--that----"
She flushed up, annoyed at her own stupidity, then felt grateful to him
as he answered lightly:
"Of course; she might misunderstand our informality. Shall I see you in
half an hour?"
"If I can manage it," she said.
She managed it, somehow. At first, really indifferent, and not very
much amused, the talk with him had gradually aroused in her the same
interest and pleasurable curiosity that she had experienced in
exchanging badinage with him the night before. Now she really wanted to
see him, and she took enough trouble about it to set her deft maid
flying about her offices.
First a fragrant precursor of his advent arrived in the shape of a great
bunch of winter violets; and her maid fastened them to her black fox
muff. Then the distant door-bell sounded; and in an extraordinarily
short space of time, wearing her pretty fur hat, her boa, and carrying a
muff that matched both, with his violets pinned to it, she entered the
dim drawing-room, halting just beyond the threshold.
"Are you not ashamed," she said, severely, "to come battering at my door
at this hour of the day?"
"Abjectly."
They exchanged a brief handshake; she seated herself on the arm of a
sofa; he stood before the unlighted fireplace, looking at her with a
half smiling half curious air which made her laugh outright.
"Bien! C'est moi, monsieur," she said. "Me voici! C'est moi-même!"
"I believe you are real after all," he admitted.
"Do I seem different?"
"Yes--and no."
"How am I different?"
"Well, somehow, last night, I got the notion that you were younger,
thinner--and not very real----"
"Are you presuming to criticise my appearance last night?" she asked
with mock indignation. "Because if you are, I proudly refer you to the
enlightened metropolitan morning press."
"I read all about you," he said, smiling.
"I am glad you did. You will doubtless now be inclined to treat me with
the respect due to my years and experience."
"I believe," he said, "that your gown and hat and furs make a charming
difference----"
"How perfectly horrid of you! I thought you admired my costume last
night!"
"Oh, Lord," he said--"you were sufficiently charming last night. But
now, in your fluffy furs, you seem rather taller--less slender
perhaps--and tremendously fetching----"
"Say that my clothes improve me, and that in reality I'm a horrid, thin
little beast!" she exclaimed, laughing. "I know I am, but I haven't
finished growing yet. Really that's the truth, Mr. Quarren. Would you
believe that I have grown an inch since last spring?"
"I believe it," he said, "but would you mind stopping now? You are
exactly right."
"You know I'm thin and flat as a board!"
"You're perfect!"
"It's too late to say that to me----"
"It is too early to say more."
"Let's don't talk about myself, please."
"It has become the only subject in the world that interests me----"
"Please, Mr. Quarren! Are you actually attempting to be silly at this
hour of the day? The wise inanities of midnight sound perilously flat in
the sunshine--flatter than the flattest champagne, which no
bread-crumbs can galvanise into a single bubble. Tell me, why did you
wish to see me this morning. I mean the real reason? Was it merely to
find out whether I was weak-minded enough to receive you?"
He looked at her, smiling:
"I wanted to see whether you were as real and genuine and wholesome and
unspoiled and--and friendly as I thought you were last night."
"Am I?"
"More so."
"Are you so sure about my friendliness?"
"I want to believe in it," he said. "It means a lot to me already."
"Believe in it then, you very badly spoiled young man," she said,
stretching out her hand to him impulsively. "I do like you.... And now I
think you had better go--unless you want to see Mrs. Lannis."
Retaining her hand for a second he said:
"Before you leave town will you let me ask you a question?"
"I am leaving to-morrow. You'll have to ask it now."
Their hands fell apart; he seemed doubtful, and she awaited his
question, smilingly. And as he made no sign of asking she said:
"You have my permission to ask it. Is it a very impertinent question?"
"Very."
"How impertinent is it?" she inquired curiously.
"Unpardonably personal."
After a silence she laughed.
"Last night," she said, "you told me that I would probably forget you
unless I had something unpardonable to forgive you. Isn't this a good
opportunity to leave your unpardonable imprint upon my insulted
memory?"
"Excellent," he said. "This is my outrageous question: are you engaged
to be married?"
For a full minute she remained silent in her intense displeasure. After
the first swift glance of surprise her gray eyes had dropped, and she
sat on the gilded arm of the sofa, studying the floor covering--an
ancient Saraband rug, with the inevitable and monotonous river-loop
symbol covering its old-rose ground in uninteresting repetition. After a
while she lifted her head and met his gaze, quietly.
"I am trying to believe that you did not mean to be offensive," she
said. "And now that I have a shadow of a reason to pardon you, I shall
probably do so, ultimately."
"But you won't answer me?" he said, reddening.
"Of course not. Are we on any such footing of intimacy--even of
friendship, Mr. Quarren?"
"No. But you are going away--and my reason for speaking--" He checked
himself; his reasons were impossible; there was no extenuation to be
found in them, no adequate explanation for them, or for his attitude
toward this young girl which had crystallised over night--over a
sleepless, thrilling night--dazzling him with its wonder and its truth
and its purity in the clean rays of the morning sun.
She watched his expression as it changed, troubled, uncertain how to
regard him, now.
"It isn't very much like you, to ask me such a question," she said.
"Before I met you, you thought me one kind of a man; after I met you,
you thought me another. Have I turned out to be a third kind?"
"N-no."
"Would I turn into the first kind if I ask you again to answer my
question?"
She gave him a swift, expressionless glance:
"I want to like you; I'm trying to, Mr. Quarren. Won't you let me?"
"I want to have the right to like you, too--perhaps more than you will
care to have me----"
"Please don't speak that way--I don't know what you mean, anyway----"
"That is why I asked you the question--to find out whether I had a right
to----"
"Right!" she repeated. "What right? What do you mean? What have you
misinterpreted in me that has given you any rights as far as I am
concerned? Did you misunderstand our few hours of masked acquaintance--a
few moments of perfectly innocent imprudence?--my overlooking certain
conventions and listening to you at the telephone this morning--my
receiving you here at this silly hour? What has given you any right to
say anything to me, Mr. Quarren--to hint of the possibility of anything
serious--for the future--or at any time whatever?"
"I have no right," he said, wincing.
"Indeed you have not!" she rejoined warmly, flushed and affronted. "I am
glad that is perfectly clear to you."
"No right at all," he repeated--"except the personal privilege of
recognising what is cleanest and sweetest and most admirable and most
unspoiled in life; the right to care for it without knowing exactly
why--the desire to be part of it--as have all men who are awakened
out of trivial dreams when such a woman as you crosses their limited and
foolish horizon."
She sat staring at him, struggling to comprehend what he was saying,
perfectly unable to believe, nor even wishing to, yet painfully
attentive to his every word.
"Mr. Quarren," she said, "I was hurt. I imagined presumption where there
was none. But I am afraid you are romantic and impulsive to an amazing
degree. Yet, both romance and impulse have a place and a reason, not
undignified, in human intercourse."--She felt rather superior in turning
this phrase, and looked on him a little more kindly----
"If the compliment which you have left me to infer is purely a romantic
one, it is nevertheless unwarranted--and, forgive me, unacceptable. The
trouble is----"
She paused to recover her wits and her breath; but he took the latter
away again as he said:
"I am in love with you; that is the trouble, Mrs. Leeds. And I really
have no business to say so until I amount to something."
"You have no business to say so anyway after one single evening's
acquaintance!" she retorted hotly.
"Oh, that! If love were a matter of time and convention--like five
o'clock tea!--but it isn't, you know. It isn't the brevity of our
acquaintance that worries me; it's what I am--and what you
are--and--and the long, long road I have to travel before I am worth
your lightest consideration--I never was in love before. Forgive my
crudeness. I'm only conscious of the--hopelessness of it all."
Breathless, confused, incredulous, she sat there staring at
him--listening to and watching this tall, quiet, cool young fellow who
was telling her such incomprehensible things in a manner that began to
fascinate her. With an effort she collected herself, shook off the
almost eerie interest that was already beginning to obsess her, and
stood up, flushed but composed.
"Shall we not say any more about it?" she said quietly. "Because there
is nothing more to say, Mr. Quarren--except--thank you for--for feeling
