married to a consumptive." 
The other protested in consternation. 
He did not look like a consumptive; she 
did not beheve that he was a consumptive. 
She was willing to take her chances. She 
loved him, and she was not afraid. But 
George insisted — 'he was sure that he ought 
not to marry for six months. 
"Did the doctor advise that?" asked 
Henriette. 
"No," he replied, "but I made up my 
mind after talking to him that I must do 
the fair and honorable thing. I beg you 
to forgive me, and to beheve that I know 
best." 
George stood firmly by this position, and 
so in the end she had to give way. It 
did not seem quite modest in her to con- 
tinue persisting. 
 
George volunteered to write a letter to 
her father; and he hoped this would 
settle the matter without further dis- 
cussion. But in this he was disappointed. 
There had to be a long correspondence 
with long arguments and protestations 
from Henriette's father and from his own 
mother. It seemed such a singular whim. 
Everybody persisted in diagnosing his symp- 
toms, in questioning him about what the 
doctor had said, who the doctor was, how 
he had come to consult him — all of which, 
of course, was very embarrassing to George, 
who could not see why they had to make 
such a fuss. He took to cultivating a 
consumptive look, as well as he could 
imagine it; he took to coughing as he went 
about the house — and it was all he could 
do to keep from laughing, as he saw the 
look of dismay on his poor mother's face. 
After all, however, he told himself that he 
was not deceiving her, for the disease he 
had was quite as serious as tuberculosis. 
It was very painful and very trying. 
But there was nothing that could be done 
about it; the marriage had been put off 
 
for six months, and in the meantime he 
and Henriette had to control their impa- 
tience and make the best of their situation. 
Six months was a long time; but what if it 
had been three or four years, as the other 
doctor had demanded? That would have 
been a veritable sentence of death. 
George, as we have seen, was conscien- 
tious, and regular and careful in his habits. 
He took the medicine which the new 
doctor prescribed for him; and day by 
day he watched, and to his great rehef 
saw the troublesome symptoms gradu- 
ally disappearing. He began to take 
heart, and to look forward to life with his 
former buoyancy. He had had a bad 
scare, but now everything was going to 
be all right. 
Three or four months passed, and the 
doctor told him he was cured. He really 
was cured, so far as he could see. He was 
sorry, now, that he had asked for so long 
a delay from Henriette; but the new date 
for the wedding had been announced, and 
it would be awkward to change it again. 
George told himself that he was being 
 
"extra careful.' and he was repaid for the 
inconvenience by the feehng of virtue 
derived from the delay. He was relieved 
that he did not have to cough any more, 
or to invent any more tales of his interviews 
with the imaginary lung-specialist. Some- 
times he had guilty feelings because of 
all the lying he had had to do; but he told 
himself that it was for Henriette's sake. 
She loved him as much as he loved her. 
She would have suffered needless agonies 
had she known the truth; she would never 
have got over it — so it would have been a 
crime to tell her. 
He really loved her devotedly, thoroughly. 
From the beginning he had thought 
as much of her mental sufferings as he 
had of any physical harm that the dread 
disease might do to him. How could he 
possibly persuade himseK to give her up, 
when he knew that the separation would 
break her heart and ruin her whole life? 
No; obviously, in such a dilemma, it 
was his duty to use his own best judg- 
ment, and get himself cured as quickly 
as possible. After that he would be true 
 
to her, he would take no more chances of a 
loathsome disease. 
The secret he was hiding made him feel 
humble — made him unusually gentle in 
his attitude towards the girl. He was a 
perfect lover, and she was ravished with 
happiness. She thought that all his suf- 
ferings were because of his love for her, 
and the delay which he had imposed out 
of his excess of conscientiousness. So 
she loved him more and more, and never 
was there a happier bride than Henriette 
Loches, when at last the great day arrived. 
They went to the Riviera for their 
honeymoon, and then returned to live in 
the home which had belonged to George's 
father. The investment in the notary's 
practice had proven a good one, and so 
life held out every promise for the young 
couple. They were divinely happy. 
After a while, the bride communicated 
to her husband the tidings that she was 
expecting a child. Then it seemed to 
George that the cup of his earthly bliss was 
full. His ailment had slipped far into the 
background of his thoughts, like an evil 
 
dream which he had forgotten. He put 
away the medicines in the bottom of his 
trunk and dismissed the whole matter 
from his mind. Henriette was well — a very- 
picture of health, as every one agreed. 
The doctor had never seen a more prom- 
ising young mother, he declared, and Ma- 
dame Dupont, the elder, bloomed with fresh 
life and joy as she attended her daughter- 
in-law. 
Henriette went for the summer to her 
father's place in the provinces, which she 
and George had visited before their mar- 
riage. They drove out one day to the 
farm where they had stopped. The 
farmer's wife had a week-old baby, the 
sight of which made Henriette 's heart leap 
with delight. He was such a very healthy 
baby that George conceived the idea that 
this would be the woman to nurse his own 
child, in case Henriette herself should not 
be able to do it. 
They came back to the city, and there 
the baby was born. As George paced the 
floor, waiting for the news, the memory 
of his evil dreams came back to him. 
 
He remembered all the dreadful mon- 
strosities of which he had read — infants 
that were bom of syphilitic parents. His 
heart stood still when the nurse came into 
the room to tell him the tidings. 
But it was all right; of course it was all 
right! He had been a fool, he told him- 
self, as he stood in the darkened room and 
gazed at the wonderful little mite of life 
which was the fruit of his love. It was a 
perfect child, the doctor said — a Httle 
small, to be sure, but that was a defect 
which would soon be remedied. George 
kneeled by the bedside and kissed the 
hand of his wife, and went out of the room 
feeling as if he had escaped from a tomb. 
All went well, and after a couple of 
weeks Henriette was about the house again, 
laughing all day and singing with joy. 
But the baby did not gain quite as rapidly 
as the doctor had hoped, and it was de- 
cided that the country air would be better 
for her. So George and his mother paid a 
visit to the farm in the country, and ar- 
ranged that the country woman should 
put her own child to nurse elsewhere and 
 
should become the foster-mother of little 
Gervaise. 
George paid a good price for the service, 
far more than would have been necessary, 
for the simple country woman was de- 
lighted with the idea of taking care of the 
grandchild of the deputy of her district. 
George came home and told his wife about 
this and had a merry time as he pictured 
the woman boasting about it to the travelers 
who stopped at her door. ''Yes, ma'am, 
a great piece of luck IVe got, ma'am. 
IVe got the daughter of the daughter of 
our deputy — at your service, ma'am. My! 
but she is as fat as our little caK — and so 
clever! She understands everything. A 
great piece of luck for me, ma'am. She's 
the daughter of the daughter of our deputy!" 
Henriette was vastly entertained, discover- 
ing in her husband a new talent, that of 
an actor. 
As for George's mother, she was hardly 
to be persuaded from staying in the country 
with the child. She went once a week, 
and sometimes twice a week, to make sure 
that all went well. Henriette and she 
[  
lived with the child's picture before them; 
they spent their time sewing on caps and 
underwear — all covered with laces and 
frills and pink and blue ribbons. Every 
day, when George came home from his 
work, he found some new article completed, 
and was ravished by the scent of some new 
kind of sachet powder. What a lucky man 
he was! 
You would think he must have been 
the happiest man in the whole city of Paris. 
But George, alas, had to pay the penalty 
for his early sins. There was, for instance, 
the deception he had practiced upon his 
friend, away back in the early days. Now 
he had friends of his own, and he could 
not keep these friends from visiting him; 
and so he was unquiet with the fear that 
some one of them might play upon him the 
same vile trick. Even in the midst of his 
radiant happiness, when he knew that 
Henriette was hanging upon his every word, 
trembling with deHght when she heard his 
latchkey in the door — still he could not 
drive away the horrible thought that per- 
haps all this might be deception. 
 
There was his friend, Gustave, for exam- 
ple. He had been a friend of Henriette's 
before her marriage; he had even been in 
love with her at one time. And now he 
came sometimes to the house — once or 
twice when George was away! What did 
that mean? George wondered. He brooded 
over it all day, but dared not drop any 
hint to Henriette. But he took to setting 
little traps to catch her; for instance, he 
would call her up on the telephone, dis- 
guising his voice. '' Hello! hello! Is that 
you, Madame Dupont?'' And when she 
answered, ''It is I, sir," all unsuspecting, 
he would inquire, ''Is George there?" 
"No, sir," she replied. "Who is this 
speaking?" 
He answered, "It is I, Gustave. How 
are you this morning?" He wanted to see 
what she would answer. Would she per- 
haps say, "Very well, Gustave. How are 
you?" — in a tone which would betray too 
great intimacy! 
But Henriette was a sharp young person. 
The tone did not sound like Gustave's. 
She asked in bewilderment, "What?" And 
then again, "What?" 
 
So, at last, George, afraid that his trick 
might be suspected, had to burst out 
laughing, and turn it into a joke. But 
when he came home and teased his wife 
about it, the laugh was not all on his side. 
Henriette had guessed the real meaning of 
his joke! She did not really mind — she 
took his jealousy as a sign of his love, and 
was pleased with it. It is not until a third 
party comes upon the scene that jealousy 
begins to be annoying. 
So she had a merry time teasing George. 
''You are a great fellow! You have no 
idea how well I understand you — and after 
only a year of marriage!" 
''You know me?" said the husband, 
curiously. (It is always so fascinating 
when anybody thinks she know us better 
than we know ourselves!) ''Tell me, 
what do you think about me?" 
'' You are restless," said Henriette. ''You 
are suspicious. You pass your time putting 
flies in your milk, and inventing wise 
schemes to get them out." 
''Oh, you think that, do you?" said 
George, pleased to be talked about. 
 
''I am not annoyed.' she answered. 
''You have always been that way — and I 
know that it's because at bottom you are 
timid and disposed to suffer. And then, 
too, perhaps you have reasons for not 
having confidence in a wife's intimate 
friends — 'lady-killer that you are!" 
George found this rather embarrassing; 
but he dared not show it, so he laughed 
gayly. ''I don't know what you mean," 
he said — ''upon my word I don't. But 
it is a trick I would not advise every- 
body to try." 
There were other embarrassing moments, 
caused by George's having things to con- 
ceal. There was, for instance, the matter 
of the six months' delay in the marriage — 
about which Henriette would never stop 
talking. She begrudged the time, because 
she had got the idea that Httle Gervaise 
was six months younger than she otherwise 
would have been. ''That shows your 
timidity again," she would say. ''The 
idea of your having imagined yourself a 
consumptive!" 
Poor George had to defend himself. ''I 
 
didn't tell you half the truth, because I 
was afraid of upsetting you. It seemed 
I had the beginning of chronic bronchitis. 
I felt it quite keenly whenever I took a 
breath, a deep breath — 'look, like this. 
Yes — 'I felt — 'here and there, on each side 
of the chest, a heaviness — a difficulty — '' 
''The idea of taking six months to cure 
you of a thing like that!'' exclaimed 
Henriette. ''And making our baby six 
months younger than she ought to be!" 
"But," laughed George, "that means 
that we shall have her so much the longer! 
She will get married six months later!" 
"Oh, dear me," responded the other, 
"let us not talk about such things! I 
am already worried, thinking she will get 
married some day." 
"For my part," said George, "I see my- 
self mounting with her on my arm the 
staircase of the Madeleine." 
"Why the Madeleine?" exclaimed his 
wife. "Such a very magnificent church!" 
"I don't know — 'I see her under her 
white veil, and myself all dressed up, and 
with an order." 
I 
 
''With an order !'' laughed Henriette. 
''What do you expect to do to win an 
order?'' 
"I don't know that — 'but I see myself 
with it. Explain it as you will, I see my- 
self with an order. I see it all, exactly 
as if I were there — 'the Swiss guard with 
his white stockings and the halbard, and 
the little milliner's assistants and the 
scullion hned up staring." 
"It is far off — all that," said Henriette. 
"I don't like to talk of it. I prefer her 
as a baby. I want her to grow up — 'but 
then I change my mind and think I don't. 
I know your mother doesn't. Do you 
know, I don't beheve she ever thinks 
about anything but her little Gervaise." 
"I believe you," said the father. "The 
child can certainly boast of having a grand- 
mother who loves her." 
"Also, I adore your mother," declared 
Henriette. "She makes me forget my 
misfortune in not having my own mother. 
She is so good!" 
''We are all like that in our family," 
put in George. 
 
"Really!" laughed the wife. "Well, 
anyhow — 'the last time that we went down 
in the country with her — 'you had gone 
out, I don't know where you had gone — " 
"To see the sixteenth-century chest," 
suggested the other. 
"Oh, yes," laughed Henriette; "your 
famous chest!" (You must excuse this 
little family chatter of theirs — 'they were 
so much in love with each other!) 
"Don't let's talk about that," objected 
George. "You were saying — ?" 
"You were not there. The nurse was 
out at mass, I think — " 
"Or at the wine merchant's! Go on, 
go on." 
"Well, I was in the Httle room, and 
mother dear thought she was all alone 
with Gervaise. I was listening; she was 
talking to the baby — all sorts of nonsense, 
pretty Httle words — stupid, if you like, 
but tender. I wanted to laugh, and at 
the same time I wanted to weep." 
"Perhaps she called her 'my dear little 
Savior'?" 
" Exactly ! Did you hear her?" 
 
"No — 'but that is what she used to call 
me when I was little." 
"It was that day she swore that the 
little one had recognized her, and laughed!" 
"Oh, yes!" 
"And then another time, when I went 
into her room — smother's room — she didn't 
hear me because the door was open, but I 
saw her. She was in ecstasy before the 
little boots which the baby wore at baptism 
— 'you know?" 
"Yes, yes." 
"Listen, then. She had taken them 
and she was embracing them!" 
"And what did you say then?" 
"Nothing; I stole out very softly, and 
I sent across the threshold a great kiss to 
the dear grandmother!" 
Henriette sat for a moment in thought. 
"It didn't take her very long," she re- 
marked, "today when she got the letter 
from the nurse. I imagine that she caught 
the eight-fifty-nine train!" 
"And yet," laughed George, "it was 
really nothing at all." 
"Oh no," said his wife. "Yet after all, 
 
perhaps she was right — and perhaps I 
ought to have gone with her." 
''How charming you are, my poor Hen- 
riette! You beheve everything you are 
told. I, for my part, divined right away 
the truth. The nurse was simply playing 
a game on us; she wanted a raise. Will 
you bet? Come, I'll bet you something. 
What would you hke to bet? You don't 
want to? Come, I'll bet you a lovely 
necklace — 'you know, with a big pearl." 
''No," said Henriette, who had suddenly 
lost her mood of gayety. ''I should be 
too much afraid of winning." 
''Stop!" laughed her husband. ''Don't 
you believe I love her as much as you 
love her' — 'my little duck? Do you know 
how old she is? I mean her exact age?" 
Henriette sat knitting her brows, trying 
to figure. 
"Ah!" he exploded. "You see you 
don't know! She is ninety-one days and 
eight hours! Ha, ha! Imagine when she 
will be able to walk all alone. Then we will 
take her back with us; we must wait at 
least six months." Then, too late, poor 
 
George realized that he had spoken the 
fatal phrase again. 
''If only you hadn't put off our marriage, 
she would be able to walk now.' said 
Henriette. 
He rose suddenly. ''Come.' he said, 
"didn't you say you had to dress and pay 
some calls?" 
Henriette laughed, but took the hint. 
"Run along, little wife," he said. "I 
have a lot of work to do in the meantime. 
You won't be down-stairs before I shall 
have my nose buried in my papers. Bye- 
bye." 
"Bye-bye," said Henriette. But they 
paused to exchange a dozen or so kisses 
before she went away to dress. 
Then George lighted a cigarette and 
stretched himseK out in the big arm- 
chair. He seemed restless; he seemed to 
be disturbed about something. Could it 
be that he had not been so much at ease as 
he had pretended to be, since the letter had 
come from the baby's nurse? Madame 
Dupont had gone by the earliest train 
that morning. She had promised to tele- 
 
graph at once — 'but she had not done so, 
and now it was late afternoon. 
George got up and wandered about. He 
looked at himself in the glass for a mo- 
ment; then he went back to the chair 
and pulled up another to put his feet 
upon. He puffed away at his cigarette 
until he was calmer. But then suddenly 
he heard the rustle of a dress behind him, 
and glanced about, and started up with an 
exclamation, "Mother!'' 
Madame Dupont stood in the doorway. 
She did not speak. Her veil was thrown 
back and George noted instantly the look 
of agitation upon her countenance. 
''WOiat's the matter?'' he cried. ''We 
didn't get any telegram from you; we 
were not expecting you till tomorrow." 
Still his mother did not speak. 
''Henriette was just going out," he 
exclaimed, nervously; "I had better call 
her." 
''No!" said his mother quickly. Her 
voice was low and trembling. "I did not 
want Henriette to be here when I arrived." 
"But what's the matter?" cried George. 
 
Again there was a silence before the 
reply came. He read something terrible 
in the mother's manner, and he found him- 
self trembling violently. 
"I have brought back the child and the 
nurse.' said Madame Dupont. 
'' What ! Is the Httle one sick?'' 
''Yes." 
''What's the matter with her?" 
''Nothing dangerous — 'for the moment, 
at least." 
''We must send and get the doctor!" 
cried George. 
"I have just come from the doctor's," 
was the reply. "He said it was necessary 
to take our child from the nurse and bring 
her up on the bottle." 
Again there was a pause. George could 
hardly bring himself to ask the next 
question. Try as he would, he could 
not keep his voice from weakening. "Well, 
now, what is her trouble?" ' | 
The mother did not answer. She stood 
staring before her. At last she said, 
faintly, "I don't know." 
"You didn't ask?" 
 
''I asked. But it was not to our own 
doctor that I went.' 
''Ah!" whispered George. For nearly 
a minute neither of them spoke. ''Why?'' 
he inquired at last. 
"Because — 'he — 'the nurse's doctor — had 
frightened me so — " 
"Truly?" 
"Yes. It is a disease — " Again she 
stopped. 
George cried, in a voice of agony, "And 
then?" 
"Then I asked him if the matter was so 
grave that I could not be satisfied with our 
ordinary doctor." 
"And what did he answer?" 
"He said that if we had the means 
it would really be better to consult a 
specialist." 
George looked at his mother again. He 
was able to do it, because she was not 
looking at him. He clenched his hands 
and got himseK together. "And — 'where 
did he send you?" 
His mother fumbled in her hand bag 
and drew out a visiting card. "Here," 
she said. 
 
And George looked at the card. It was 
all he could do to keep himself from tot- 
tering. It was the card of the doctor 
whom he had first consulted about his 
trouble ! The specialist in venereal diseases ! 
CHAPTER IV 
IT was all George could do to control 
his voice. ''You — 'you went to see 
him?'' he stammered. 
''Yes.' said his mother. "You know 
him?'' 
"No, no," he answered. "Or — that is — 
I have met him, I think. I don't know." 
And then to himself, "My God!" 
There was a silence. "He is coming to 
talk to you," said the mother, at last. 
George was hardly able to speak. "Then 
he is very much disturbed?" 
"No, but he wants to talk to you." 
"To me?" 
"Yes. When the doctor saw the nurse 
he said, 'Madame, it is impossible for me 
to continue to attend this child unless I 
have had this very day a conversation with 
the father.' So I said 'Very well,' and he 
said he would come at once." 
 
George turned away, and put his hands 
to his forehead. ' ' My poor little daughter !" 
he whispered to himself. 
''Yes.' said the mother, her voice break- 
ing, ''she is, indeed, a poor httle daughter!" 
A silence fell; for what could words avail 
in such a situation? Hearing the door open, 
Madame Dupont started, for her nerves 
were all a-quiver with the strain she had 
been under. A servant came in and spoke 
