words, when this leathern girth I wear around my body carries a red
wampum which all may see and read--my war axe and my knife?"
I raised my right arm slowly, and drew with my forefinger a great
circle in the air around us:
"Brother! Listen attentively! Since a Sagamore has read the belt I
yesterday delivered, the day-sun has circled us where we now stand. It
is another day, O Roya-neh! In yonder fireplace new ashes whiten, new
embers redden. We have slept (touching my eyelids and then laying my
right hand lightly over his); we have eaten (again touching his lips
and then my own); and now--now here--now, in this place and on this
day, I have returned to the Mohican fire--the Fire of Tamanund! Now I
am seated (touching both knees). Now my ears are open. Let the Sagamore
of the Mohicans answer my belt delivered! I have spoken, O Roya-neh!"
For a full five minutes of intense silence I knew that my bold appeal
was being balanced in the scales by one of a people to whom tradition
is a religion. One scale was weighted with the immemorial customs and
usages of a great and proud people; the other with a white man's subtle
and flattering recognition of these customs, conveyed in metaphor,
which all Indians adore, and appealing to imagination--an appeal to
which no Huron, no Iroquois, no Algonquin, is ever deaf.
In the breathless silence of suspense the irritable, high-pitched voice
of Colonel Sheldon came to my ears. It seemed that after all he had
sent out a few troopers and that one had just returned to report a
large body of horsemen which had passed the Bedford road at a gallop,
apparently headed for Ridgefield. But I scarcely noted what was being
discussed in the further end of the hall, so intent was I on the
Sagamore's reply--if, indeed, he meant to answer me at all. I could
even feel Boyd's body quivering with suppressed excitement as our
elbows chanced to come in contact; as for me, I scarce made out to
control myself at all, and any nether lip was nearly bitten through ere
the Mohican lifted his symmetrical head and looked me full and honestly
in the eyes.
"Brother," he said, in a curiously hushed voice, "on this day I come to
you here, at this fire, to acquaint you with my answer; answering my
brother's words of yesterday."
I could hear Boyd's deep breath of profound relief. "Thank God!" I
thought.
The Sagamore spoke again, very quietly:
"Brother, the road is dark to Catharines-town. There are no stars
there, no moon, no sun--only a bloody mist in the forest. For to that
dreadful empire of the Iroquois only blind trails lead. And from them
ghosts of the Long House arise and stand. Only a thick darkness is
there--an endless gloom to which the Mohican hatchets long, long ago
dispatched the severed souls they struck! In every trail they stand,
these ghosts of the Kanonsi, Seneca, Cayuga, Onondaga--ghosts of the
Tuscarora. The Mohawk beasts who wear the guise of men are there.
Mayaro spits upon them! And upon their League! And upon their Atotarho
the Siwanois spit!"
Suddenly his arm shot out and he grasped the hilt of my knife, drew it
from my belt, and then slowly returned it. I drew his knife and
rendered it again.
"Brother," he said, "I have this day heard your voice coming to me out
of the Northland! I have read the message on the belt you bore and
wear; your voice has not lied to my ears; your message is clear as
running springs to my eyes. I can see through to their pleasant depths.
No snake lies hidden under them. So now--now, I say--if my brother's
sight is dimmed on the trail to Catharines-town, Mayaro will teach him
how to see under the night-sun as owls see, so that behind us, the
steps of many men shall not stumble, and the darkness of the Long House
shall become redder than dawn, lighted by the flames of a thousand
rifles!
"Brother! A Sagamore never lies. I have drawn my brother's knife!
Brother, I have spoken!"
And so it was done in that house and in the dark of dawn. Boyd silently
gave him his hands, and so did I; then Boyd led him aside with a slight
motion of dismissal to me.
As I walked toward the front door, which was now striding open, I saw
Major Tallmadge go out ahead of me, run to the mounting-block, and
climb into his saddle. Colonel Sheldon followed him to the doorway, and
called after him:
"Take a dozen men with you, and meet Colonel Moylan! A dozen will be
sufficient, Major!"
Then he turned back into the house, saying to Major Lockwood and Mr.
Hunt he was positive that the large body of dragoons in rapid motion,
which had been seen and reported by one of our videttes a few minutes
since, could be no other than Moylan's expected regiment; and that he
would mount his own men presently and draw them up in front of the
Meeting House.
The rain had now nearly ceased; a cloudy, greyish horizon became
visible, and the dim light spreading from a watery sky made objects
dimly discernible out of doors.
I hastened back to the shed where I had left the strange maid swathed
in her scarlet cape; and found her there, slowly pacing the trampled
sod before it.
As I came up with her, she said:
"Why are the light dragoons riding on the Bedford road? Is aught amiss?"
"A very large body of horse has passed our videttes, making toward
Ridgefield. Colonel Sheldon thinks it must be Moylan's regiment."
"Do you?"
"It may be so."
"And if it be the leather-caps?"
"Then we must find ourselves in a sorry pickle."
As I spoke, the little bugle-horn of Sheldon's Horse blew boots and
saddles, and four score dragoons scrambled into their saddles down by
the barns, and came riding up the sloppy road, their horses slipping
badly and floundering through the puddles and across the stream, where,
led by a captain, the whole troop took the Meeting House road at a
stiff canter.
We watched them out of sight, then she said:
"I have awaited your pleasure, Mr. Loskiel. Pray, in what further
manner can I be of service to--my country?"
"I have come back to tell you," said I, "that you can be of no further
use. Our errand to the Sagamore has now ended, and most happily. You
have served your country better than you can ever understand. I have
come to say so, and to thank you with--with a heart--very full."
"Have I then done well?" she asked slowly.
"Indeed you have!" I replied, with such a warmth of feeling that it
surprised myself.
"Then why may I not understand this thing that I have done--for my
country?"
"I wish I might tell you."
"May you not?"
"No, I dare not."
She bit her lip, gazing at nothing over the ragged collar of her cape,
and stood so, musing. And after a while she seemed to come to herself,
wearily, and she cast a tragic upward glance at me. Then, dropping her
eyes, and with the slightest inclination of her head, not looking at me
at all, she started across the trampled grass.
"Wait----" I was by her side again in the same breath.
"Well, sir?" And she confronted me with cool mien and lifted brows.
Under them her grey eyes hinted of a disdain which I had seen in them
more than once.
"May I not suitably express my gratitude to you?" I said.
"You have already done so."
"I have tried to do so properly, but it is not easy for me to say how
grateful to you we men of the Northland are--how deeply we must ever
remain in your debt. Yet--I will attempt to express our thanks--if you
care to listen."
After a pause: "Then--if there is nothing more to say--"
"There is, I tell you. Will you not listen?"
"I have been thanked--suitably.... I will say adieu, sir."
"Would you--would you so far favour me as to make known to me your
name?" I said, stammering a little.
"Lois is my name," she said indifferently.
"No more than that?"
"No more than that."
How it was now going with me I did not clearly understand, but it
appeared to be my instinct not to let her slip away into the world
without something more friendly said--some truer gratitude
expressed--some warmth.
"Lois," I said very gravely, "what we Americans give to our country
demands no ignoble reward. Therefore, I offer none of any sort. Yet,
because you have been a good comrade to me--and because now we are
about to go our different ways into the world before us--I ask of you
two things. May I do so?"
After a moment, looking away from me across the meadow:
"Ask," she said.
"Then the first is--will you take my hand in adieu--and let us part as
good soldiers part?"
Still gazing absently across the meadow, she extended her hand. I
retained it for a moment, then released it. Her arm fell inert by her
side, but mine tingled to the shoulder.
"And one more thing," I said, while this strange and curious reluctance
to let her go was now steadily invading me.
"Yes?"
"Will you wear a comrade's token--in memory of an hour or two with him?"
"What!"
She spoke with a quick intake of breath and her grey eyes were on me
now, piercing me to the roots of speech and motive.
I wore a heavy ring beaten out of gold; Guy Johnson gave it. This I
took from my trembling finger, scarce knowing why I was doing it at
all, and stooping and lifting her little, wind-roughened hand, put it
on the first finger I encountered--blindly, now, and clumsily past all
belief, my hand was shaking so absurdly.
If my face were now as red as it was hot, hers, on the contrary, had
become very strange and still and white. For a moment I seemed to read
distrust, scorn, even hatred, in her level stare, and something of
fear, too, in every quickening breath that moved the scarlet mantle on
her breast. Then, in a flash, she had turned her back on me and was
standing there in the grey dawn, with both hands over her face,
straight and still as a young pine. But my ring was shining on her
finger.
Emotion of a nature to which I was an utter stranger was meddling with
my breath and pulses, now checking, now speeding both so that I stood
with mind disconcerted in a silly sort of daze.
At length I gathered sufficient composure to step to her side again.
"Once more, little comrade, good-bye," I said. "This ends it all."
Again she turned her shoulder to me, but I heard her low reply:
"Good-bye--Mr. Loskiel."
And so it ended.
A moment later I found myself walking aimlessly across the grass in no
particular direction. Three times I turned in my tracks to watch her.
Then she disappeared beyond the brookside willows.
I remember now that I had turned and was walking slowly back to where
our horses stood, moving listlessly through the freshly mowed meadow
between drenched haystacks--the first I had seen that year--and God
alone knows where were my thoughts a-gypsying, when, very far away, I
heard a gun-shot.
At first I could perceive nothing, then on the distant Bedford road I
saw one of our dragoons running his horse and bending low in his saddle.
Another dragoon appeared, riding a diable--and a dozen more behind
these; and on their heels a-galloping, a great body of red-jacketed
horsemen--hundreds of them--the foremost shooting from their saddles,
the great mass of them swinging their heavy cutlasses and spurring
furiously after our flying men.
I had seen far more than was necessary, and I ran for my horse. Other
officers came running, too--Sheldon, Thomas, Lockwood, and my
Lieutenant Boyd.
As we clutched bridle and stirrup and popped upward into out saddles,
it seemed that the red-coats must cut us off, but we spurred out of the
meadow into the Meeting House road, and Boyd cried furiously in my ear:
"See what this damned Sheldon has done for us now! God! What disgrace
is ours!"
I saw Colonel Sheldon presently, pale as death, and heard him exclaim:
"Oh, Christ! I shall be broke for this! I shall be broke!"
I made out to say to Boyd:
"The enemy are coming in hundreds, sir, and we have scarce four score
men mounted by the Meeting House."
"They'll never stand, either," he panted. "But if they do we'll see
this matter to an end."
"Our orders?" I asked.
"Damn our orders," said he. "We'll see this matter to an end."
We rode hard, but already some of Tallmadge's terror-stricken patrol
were overhauling us, and the clangor of the British cavalry broke
louder and louder on our ears as we came in sight of the Meeting House.
Sheldon's four score troopers heard the uproar of the coming storm,
wavered, broke, and whirled their horses about into a most disorderly
flight along the Stamford road. Everybody ran--there was no other
choice for officers and men--and close on our heels came pelting the
17th British Dragoons, the Hussars, and Mounted Yagers of the Legion;
and behind these galloped their mounted infantry.
A mad anxiety to get away from this terrible and overwhelming force
thundering on our heels under full charge possessed us all, I think,
and this paramount necessity held shame and fury in abeyance. There was
nothing on earth for us to do but to ride and try to keep our horses
from falling headlong on the rocky, slippery road; for it was now a
very hell of trampling horsemen, riding frantically knee against knee,
buffeted, driven, crowded, crushed, slipping; and trooper after trooper
went down with a crash under the terrible hoofs, horse and rider
battered instantly into eternity.
For full three-quarters of a mile they ran us full speed, and we drove
on headlong; then at the junction of the New Canaan road our horsemen
separated, and I found myself riding in the rear beside Boyd and Jack
Mount once more. Turning to look back, I perceived the Legion Cavalry
were slowing to a trot to rest their hard-blown horses; and gradually
our men did the same. But the Hussars continued to come on, and we
continued our retreat, matching our speed to theirs.
They let drive at us once with their heavy pistols, and we in the rear
returned their fire, emptying one saddle and knocking two horses into
the roadside bushes.
Then they ran us hard again, and strove to flank us, but the rocky
country was too stiff for their riders, and they could not make out to
cut us off or attain our flanks.
"What a disgrace! What a disgrace!" was all Boyd found to say; and I
knew he meant the shameful surprise, not the retreat of our eighty
light horsemen before the thundering charge of their heavy hundreds.
Our troopers did not seem really frightened; they now jogged along
doggedly, but coolly enough. We had with us on the New Canaan road some
twenty light dragoons, not including Boyd, myself, and Jack Mount--one
captain, one cornet and a trumpeter lad, the remainder being rank and
file, and several mounted militiamen.
The captain, riding in the rear with us, was ever twisting his hatless
head to scowl back at the Hussars; and he talked continually in a loud,
confident voice to reassure his men.
"They're dropping off by tens and twenties," he said. "If they keep to
that habit we'll give 'em a charge. Wait till the odds lessen. Steady
there, boys! This cattle chase is not ended. We'll fetch 'em a crack
yet. We'll get a chance at their mounted infantry yet. All in God's
time, boys. Never doubt it."
The bugle-horns of the Legion were now sounding their derisive,
fox-hunting calls, and behind us we could hear the far laughter and
shouting: "Yoicks! Forrard! Stole away--stole away!"
My cheeks began to burn; Boyd gnawed his lips continually, and I saw
our dragoons turning angrily in their saddles as they understood the
insult of the British trumpets.
Half a mile farther on there ran a sandy, narrow cross road into the
woods on either side of us.
The captain drew bridle, stood up in his stirrups, and looked back. For
some time, now, the taunting trumpets had not jeered us, and the
pursuit seemed to have slackened after nearly three hard miles of
running. But they still followed us, though it was some minutes before
their red jackets came bobbing up again over the sandy crest of the
hill behind us.
All our men who had been looking back were now wheeled; and we divided,
half backing into the sandy road to the right, half taking the
left-hand road under command of Lieutenant Boyd.
"They are not too many," said the dragoon captain coolly, beckoning to
his little bugle-horn.
Willows hid us until their advanced troopers were close to where we
sat--so close that one of our excited dragoons, spurring suddenly
forward into the main road, beat down a Hussar's guard, flung his arms
around him, and tore him from his saddle. Both fell from their horses
and began to fight fisticuffs in the sandy ditch.
We charged instantly, and the enemy ran for it, our troopers raising
the view halloo in their turn and whipping out their sabres. And all
the way back to the Stamford road we ran them, and so excited became
our dragoons that we could scarce hold them when we came in sight once
more of the British main body now reforming under the rolling smoke of
Poundridge village, which they had set on fire.
But further advance was madness, even when the remainder of our light
troop came cantering down the Stamford road to rejoin us and watch the
burning town, for we could now muster but two score and ten riders,
having lost nearly thirty dead or missing.
A dozen of Captain Fancher's militia came up, sober farmers of the
village that lay below us buried in smoke; and our dragoons listened to
the tales of these men, some of whom had been in the village when the
onset came, and had remained there, skulking about to pick off the
enemy until their main forces returned.
"Tarleton was in a great rage, I warrant you," said one big, raw-boned
militiaman. "He rode up to Major Lockwood's house with his dragoons,
and says he: 'Burn me this arch rebel's nest!' And the next minute the
Yagers were running in and out, setting fire to the curtains and
lighting bundles of hay in every room. And I saw the Major's lady stand
there on her doorstep and demand the reason for such barbarity--the
house already afire behind her. Mrs. Hunt and the servants came out
with the children in their arms. And, 'By God, madam,' says Tarleton,
'when shots are fired at my men from houses by the inhabitants of any
town in America, I'll burn the town and hang the men if I can get 'em.'
Some Hussars came up, driving before them the Major's fine herd of
imported cattle--and a troop of his brood mares--the same he has so
often had to hide in the Rock Hills. 'Stand clear, madam!' bawls
Tarleton. 'I'll suffer nothing to be removed from that house!' At this
the Major's lady gives one long look after her children, which Betsy
Hunt and the blacks are carrying through the orchard; then she calmly
enters the burning house and comes out again with a big silver platter
and a load of linen from the dining-room in her arms. And at that a
trooper draws his sabre and strikes her with the flat o' the
blade--God, what a blow!--so that the lady falls to her knees and the
heavy silver platter rolls out on the grass and the fine linen is in
the mud. I saw her blacks lift her and get her off through the orchard.
I sneaked out of the brook willows, took a long shot at the beast who
struck her, and then pulled foot."
There was a shacked silence among the officers who had gathered to
listen. Until this moment our white enemies had offered no violence to
ladies. So this brutality toward the Major's lady astounded us.
Somebody said in a low voice:
"They've fired the church, now."
Major Lockwood's house was also burning furiously, as also were his
barns and stables, his sheds, and the new, unfinished barracks. We
could see it all very plainly from the hilltop where we had gathered.
"Alsop Hunt was taken," said a militiaman. "They robbed him of his
watch and purse, damning him for a rebel broad-brim. He's off to the
Provost, I fear."
"They took Mr. Reed, too," said another. "They had a dozen neighbours
under guard when I left."
Sheldon, looking like death, sat his saddle a little apart. No one
spoke to him. For even a deeper disgrace had now befallen the dragoons
in the loss of their standard left behind in Lockwood's house.
"What a pitiful mess!" whispered Boyd. "Is there nothing to be done but
sit here and see the red beasts yonder sack the town?"
Before I could answer, I caught the sound of distant firing on the
Lewisboro road. Colonel Thomas reared stiffly in his saddle, and:
"Those are my own men!" he said loudly, "or I lie like a Tory!"
A hill half a mile north of us suddenly became dark with men; we saw
the glitter of their muskets, saw the long belt of white smoke encircle
them, saw red-jacketed men run out of a farmhouse, mount, and gallop
toward the burning town.
Along the road below us a column of Continental infantry appeared on
the run, cheering us with their hats.
A roar from our dragoons answered them; our bugle-horn spoke, and I saw
Major Tallmadge, with a trumpeter at his back, rein in while the
troopers were reforming and calling off amid a whirlwind of rearing
horses and excited men.
Below in the village, the British had heard and perfectly understood
the volley from Thomas's regiment, and the cavalry and mounted infantry
of the Legion were assembling in the smoke, and already beginning a
rapid retreat by the Bedford road.
As Boyd and I went clattering down the hill, we saw Major Lockwood with
Thomas's men, and we rode up to him. He passed his sword to the left
hand, and leaning across in his saddle, exchanged a grip with us. His
face was ghastly.
"I know--I know," he said hurriedly. "I have seen my wife and children.
My wife is not badly injured. All are in safety. Thank you, gentlemen."
We wheeled our horses and fell in beside our infantry, now pressing
forward on a heavy run, so that Colonel Thomas and Major Lockwood had
to canter their horses.
Firing instantly broke out as we entered the smoky zone where the
houses were burning. Into it, an our left, galloped Sheldon's light
dragoons, who, having but five muskets in the command, went at the
Yagers with naked sabres; and suddenly found themselves in touch with
the entire Legion cavalry, who set up a Loud bawling:
"Surrender, you damned rebels! Pull up, there! Halt!"
I saw a trooper, one Jared Hoyt, split the skull of a pursuing British
dragoon straight across the mouth with a back-handed stroke, as he
escaped from the melee; and another, one John Buckhout, duck his head
as a dragoon fired at him, and, still ducking and loudly cursing the
fellow, rejoin us as we sheered off from the masses of red-jacketed
riders, wheeled, and went at the mounted Yagers, who did not stand our
charge.
There was much smoke, and the thick, suffocating gloom was lighted only
by streaming sparks, so that in the confusion and explosion of muskets
it was difficult to manoeuvre successfully and at the same time keep
clear of Tarleton's overwhelming main body.
This body was now in full but orderly retreat, driving with it cattle,
horses, and some two dozen prisoners, mostly peaceable inhabitants who
had taken no part in the affair. Also, they had a wagon piled with the
helmets, weapons, and accoutrements of Sheldon's dead riders; and one
of their Hussars bore Sheldon's captured standard in his stirrup.
To charge this mass of men was not possible with the two score horsemen
left us; and they retreated faster than our militia and Continentals
could travel. So all we could do was to hang on their rear and let
drive at them from our saddles.
As far as we rode with them, we saw a dozen of their riders fall either
dead or wounded from their horses, and saw their comrades lift them
into one of the wagons. Also we saw our dragoons and militia take three
prisoners and three horses before we finally turned bridle after our
last long shot at their rear guard.
For our business here lay not in this affair, and Boyd had disobeyed
his orders in not avoiding all fighting. He knew well enough that the
bullets from our three rifles were of little consequence to our country
compared to the safe accomplishment of our mission hither, and our safe
return with the Siwanois. Fortune had connived at our disobedience, for
no one of us bore so much as a scratch, though all three of us might
very easily have been done to death in the mad flight from the Meeting
House, amid that plunging hell of horsemen.
Fortune, too, hung to our stirrup leathers as we trotted into
Poundridge, for, among a throng of village folk who stood gazing at the
smoking ashes of the Lockwood house, we saw our Siwanois standing,
tall, impassive, wrapped in his blanket.
And late that afternoon we rode out of the half-ruined village,
northward. Our saddle-bags were full; our animals rested; and, beside
us, strode the Sagamore, fully armed and accoutred, lock braided, body
oiled and painted for war--truly a terrific shape in the falling dusk.
On the naked breast of this Mohican warrior of the Siwanois clan, which
is called by the Delawares "The Clan of the Magic Wolf," outlined in
scarlet, I saw the emblem of his own international clan--as I
supposed--a bear.
And of a sudden, within me, vaguely, something stirred--some faint
memory, as though I had once before beheld that symbol on a dark and
naked breast, outlined in scarlet. Where had I seen it before? At Guy
Park? At Johnson Hall? Fort Johnson? Butlersbury? Somewhere I had seen
that symbol, and in that same paint. Yes, it might easily have been.
Every nation of the Confederacy possessed a clan that wore the bear.
And yet--and yet--this bear seemed somehow different--and yet
familiar--strangely familiar to me--but in a manner which awoke within
me an unrest as subtle as it was curious.
I drew bridle, and as the Sagamore came up, I said uneasily:
"Brother, and ensign of the great bear clan of many nations, why is the
symbol that you wear familiar to me--and yet so strangely unfamiliar?"
He shot a glance of lightning intelligence at me, then instantly his
features became smoothly composed and blank again.
"Has my brother never before seen the Spirit Bear?" he asked coldly.
"Is that a clan, Mayaro?"
"Among the Siwanois only." "That is strange," I muttered. "I have never
before seen a Siwanois. Where could I have seen a Siwanois? Where?"
But he only shook his head.
Boyd and Mount had pricked forward; I still lingered by the Mohican.
And presently I said:
"That was a brave little maid who bore our message to you."
He made no answer.
"I have been wondering," I continued carelessly, "whether she has no
friends--so poor she seems--so sad and friendless, Have you any
knowledge of her?"
The Indian glanced at me warily, "My brother Loskiel should ask these
questions of the maid herself."
"But I shall never see her again, Sagamore. How can I ask her, then?"
The Indian remained silent. And, perhaps because I vaguely entertained
some future hope of loosening his tongue in her regard, I now said
nothing more concerning her, deeming that best. But I was still
thinking of her as I rode northward through the deepening dusk.
A great weariness possessed me, no doubt fatigue from the day's
excitement and anxiety. Also, for some hours, that curious
battle-hunger had been gnawing at my belly so that I had liked to
starve there in my saddle ere Boyd gave the signal to off-saddle for
the night.
CHAPTER IV
A TRYST
Above the White Plains the territory was supposed to be our own. Below,
seventeen thousand red-coats held the city of New York; and their
partisans, irregulars, militia, refugee-corps, and Legion-horsemen,
harried the lines. Yet, except the enemy's cruisers which sometimes
strayed far up the Hudson, like impudent hawks circling within the very
home-yard, we saw nothing of red-rag or leather-cap north of our lines,
save only once, when Lieutenant-Colonel Simcoe nearly caught us.
His Excellency's army lay in position all around us, now, from West
Point down the river; and our light-horsemen patrolled as far south as
the unhappy country from which we had retired through the smoke of
Bedford's burning farms and the blaze of church and manor at
Poundridge. That hilly strip was then our southern frontier, bravely
defended by Thomas and Lockwood, shamefully neglected by Sheldon, as we
had seen. For which he was broke, poor devil, and a better man set
there to watch the red fox Tarleton, to harry Emmeriek, and to throw
the fear o' God into that headlong blockhead, Simcoe, a brave man, but
so possessed by hatred for "Mr." Washington that every move he made was
like a goaded bull--his halts merely the bewilderment of baffled fury,
his charges blind and bellowing.
I know how he conducted, not from hearsay alone, but because at sunrise
on our second day northward, before we struck the river-road, we had
like to have had a brush with him, his flankers running afoul of us not
far beyond a fortified post heavily held by our Continentals.
It was the glimpse of cannon and levelled bayonets that bewildered him;
and his bawling charge sheered wide o' the shabby Continental
battle-line, through which we galloped into safety, our Indian sticking
to my crupper like a tree-cat with every claw. And I remember still the
grim laughter that greeted us from those unshaven, powder-blackened
ranks, and how they laughed, too, as they fired by platoons at the far
glimmer of Simcoe's helmets through the chestnut trees.
And in the meantime, all the while, even from the very first evening
when we off-saddled in the rocky Westchester woods and made our first
flying-camp, I had become uneasy concerning the Siwanois--uncertain
concerning his loyalty to the very verge of suspicion.
I said nothing of this to Lieutenant Boyd, having nothing definite to
communicate. Nor did I even hint my suspicions, because distrust in the
mind of such a man as Boyd would be very difficult to eradicate, and
the slightest mishandling of our delicate situation might alienate the
Sagamore forever.
Yet, of one thing I had become almost convinced: the Siwanois, while we
slept, met and held communication with somebody outside our camp.
On the first night this had happened; for, awaking and missing the
Sagamore, who had been left on guard, I lay a-watching under my
blanket, and when he came in to the fire once more, it seemed to me
that far in the woods I heard the faint sound of another person
retiring stealthily through the tell-tale bushes that choke all second
growth hereabouts.
On the second day we crossed to the other side of the Hudson in flat
boats, with our horses. But on that night it was the same, I feigning
sleep when it came time for the Siwanois to relieve the man on guard.
And once again, after he had silently inspected us all, the Sagamore
stole away into leafy depths, but halted as before within earshot
still. And once again some nascent sense within me seemed to become
aware of another human being somewhere moving in the woods outside our
fire.
How I divined it I do not know, because this time I could hear no sound
in the starry obscurity of the Western Catskills, save only those
familiar forest sounds which never cease by night--unseen stirrings of
sleeping birds, the ruffle, of feathers, the sudden rustle of some
furry thing alarmed, the scratchings and pickings in rotting windfalls,
the whisper of some falling leaf severed by insects or relaxing its
brief clasp of the mother stem in the precocity of a maturity premature.
Yet, so strong now had become my suspicions that I was already
preparing to unroll my blanket, rise, and creep after the Siwanois,
when his light and rapid footfall sounded on the leaves close to my
head; and, as before, while again I feigned sleep, far in the thicket
somebody moved, cautiously retreating into tangled depths. But whether
I really heard or only guessed, I do not know down to this very day.
On the third night it rained and we made a bark hut. Perhaps the
Siwanois did his talking with this unseen visitor while away in
pretense of peeling bark, for he did not creep abroad that night. But,
somehow, I knew he had kept some tryst.
Now, on this fourth day, and our journey drawing to its end, I resolved
to follow the Siwanois if he stirred from our fire, and discover for
myself with what manner of visitor he held these stealthy councils.
During the long day's march I lagged and watched and listened in vain
for any follower along our route. Sometimes I even played at flanker,
sometimes rode far on ahead, and, at times, stuck to the Indian hour
after hour, seeming not to watch him, but with every sense alert to
surprise some glance, some significant movement, some cunning and
treacherous signal, to convince me that the forest had eyes that marked
us, and ears which heard us, and that the Siwanois knew it, and aided
and abetted under our very gaze.
But I had seen him do nothing that indicated him to be in secret
communication with anybody. He marked neither tree nor stone, nor leaf
nor moss, as far as I could see; dropped nothing, made no sound at all
save when he gravely answered some observation that we offered. Once,
even, I found a pretext to go back on the trail, searching to find some
sign he might have left behind him: and had my journey for my pains.
Now, had this same Indian been an Iroquois I might have formed some
reasonable judgment concerning his capacity for treachery; but I had
seen few Delawares in my life, and had never heard them speak at all,
save to boast in their cups of Uncas, Tamanund, and Miontonomoh. As for
a Siwanois Mohican, this Sagamore of the Magic Clan was the first of
his tribe and ensign that I had ever beheld. And with every motive and
every interest and desire in the world to believe him honest--and even
in my secret heart believing him to be so--yet I could not close eyes
and ears to what so stealthily was passing in the midnight woods around
me. And truly it was duty, nor any motive baser, that set me after him
that starlit night, when, as before, being on guard, he left the fire
about midnight: and I out of my blanket and after him in a trice.
The day was the 7th of July, a Wednesday, I remember, as I had writ it
in my journal, my habit being to set down every evening, or as near the
date as convenient, a few words which briefly recorded the day's events.
The night before we had camped in the woods along the Catskill road
leading toward Cobus-kill; this night, being fine and warm, we made
open camp along a stream, within a few miles' journey of the Middle
Fort; and, soupaan being eaten, let the coals die and whiten into
ashes. This, partly because we needed not the warmth, partly from
precaution. For although on the open roads our troops in detachments
were now concentrating, moving on Otsego Lake and the upper waters of
the Delaware and Susquehanna, this was no friendly country, and we knew
it. So the less firelight, the snugger we might lie in case of some
stray scalping party from the west or north.
Now, as I say, no sooner did the Siwanois leave his post and go
a-roving than I went after him, with infinite precaution; and I flatter
myself that I made no more noise on the brookside moss than the
moon-cast shadow of a flying cloud. Guy Johnson was no skilful
woodsman, but his Indians were; and of them I learned my craft. And
scout detail in Morgan's Rifles, too, was a rare school to finish any
man and match him with the best who ran the woods.
Too near his heels I dared not venture, as long as his tall form passed
like a shadow against the white light that the stars let in through the
forest cleft, where ran the noisy stream. But presently he turned off,
and for a moment I thought to lose him in the utter blackness of the
primeval trees. And surely would have had I not seen close to me a vast
and smoothly slanting ledge of rock which the stars shining on made
silvery, and on which no tree could grow, scarce even a tuft of fern,
so like a floor it lay in a wide oval amid the forest gloom.
Somewhere upon that dim and sparkling esplanade the Siwanois had now
seated himself. For a while, straining my eyes where I lay flat among
the taller fringing ferns, I could just make out a blot in the greyness
where he sat upright, like a watching catamount under the stars.
Then, across the dimness, another blot moved to join him; and I felt my
hair stir as chilling certainty shocked from me my lingering hope that
I had been mistaken.
Faintly--oh, scarce audible at all--the murmur of two voices came to me
there where I lay under the misty lustre of the stars. Nearer, nearer I
crept, nearer, nearer, until I lay flat as a shadow there, stark on the
shelf of rock. And, as though they had heard me, and as if to spite me,
their voices sank to whispers. Yet, I knew of a certainty that I had
neither been observed nor heard.
Hushed voices, whispers, undertones as soft as summer night winds--that
