"Paul.  I have had my suspicions that your name was not Warrington.
But tell me nothing more.  What good would it do?  I did not read that
man's letter.  I merely noted your name and his.  You doubtless knew
him somewhere in the past."
"Might there not be danger in your kindness to me?"
"In what way?"
"A man under a cloud is often reckless and desperate.  There is always
an invisible demon calling out to him: What's the use of being good?
You are the first woman of your station who has treated me as a human
being; I do not say as an equal.  You have given me back some of my
self-respect.  It throws my world upside down.  It's a heady wine for
an abstemious man.  Don't you realize that you are a beautiful woman?"
She looked up into his eyes quickly, but she saw nothing there
indicating flattery, only a somber gravity.
"I should be silly to deny it.  I know that had I been a frump, the
colonel would not have snubbed me.  I wonder why it is that in life
beauty in a woman is always looked upon with suspicion?"
"Envy provokes that."
She resumed her inclination against the rail again.  "After Singapore
it is probable that we shall not meet again.  I admit, in my world, I
could not walk upon this free and easy ground.  I should have to ask
about your antecedents, what you have done, all about you, in fact.
Then, we should sit in judgment."
"And condemn me, off-hand.  That would be perfectly right."
"But I might be one of the dissenting judges."
"That is because you are one woman in a thousand."
"No; I simply have a mind of my own, and often prefer to be guided by
it.  I am not a sheep."
Silence.  The lap-lap of the water, the long slow rise and fall, and
the dartling flying-fish apparently claimed their attention.
But Warrington saw nothing save the danger, the danger to himself and
to her.  At any moment he might fling his arms around her, without his
having the power to resist.  She called to him as nothing in the world
had called before.  But she trusted him, and because of this he
resolutely throttled the recurring desires.  She was right.  He had
scorned what she had termed as woman's instinct.  She had read him with
a degree of accuracy.  In the eyes of God he was a good man, a
dependable man; but he was not impossibly good.  He was human enough to
want her, human enough to appreciate the danger in which she stood of
him.  He was determined not to fail her.  When she went back to her own
world she would carry an unsullied memory of him.  But, before God, he
should not have her.
"Why did you do that?" she asked whimsically.
"Do what?"
"Shut your jaws with a snap."
"I was not conscious of the act."
"But you were thinking strongly about something."
"I was.  Tell me about the man who looks like me."  His gaze roved out
to sea, to the white islands of vapor low-lying in the east.  "In what
respect does he resemble me?"
"His hair is yellow, his eyes are blue, and he smiles the same way you
do."
He felt the lump rise and swell in his throat.
"If you stood before a mirror you would see him.  But there the
resemblance ends."
"You say that sadly.  Why?"
"Did I?  Well, perhaps I was thinking strongly, too."
"Is he a man who does things?" a note of strained curiosity in his
tones.  Ten years!
"In what way do you mean?"
"Does he work in the world, does he invent, build, finance?"
Mayhap her eyes deceived her, but the tan on his face seemed less brown
than yellow.
"No; Mr. Ellison is a collector of paintings, of rugs, of rare old
books and china.  He's a bit detached, as dreamers usually are.  He has
written a book of exquisite verses. . . .  You are smiling," she broke
off suddenly, her eyes filling with cold lights.
"A thousand pardons!  The thought was going through my head how unlike
we are indeed.  I can hardly tell one master from another, all old
books look alike to me, and the same with china.  I know something
about rugs; but I couldn't write a jingle if it was to save me from
hanging."
"Do you invent, build, finance?"  A bit of a gulf had opened up between
them.  Elsa might not be prepared to marry Arthur, but she certainly
would not tolerate a covert sneer in regard to his accomplishments.
Quietly and with dignity he answered: "I have built bridges in my time
over which trains are passing at this moment.  I have fought torrents,
and floods, and hurricanes, and myself.  I have done a man's work.  I
had a future, they said.  But here I am, a subject of your pity."
She instantly relented.  "But you are young.  You can begin again."
"Not in the sense you mean."
"And yet, you tell me you are going back home."
"Like a thief in the night," bitterly.
XI
THE BLUE FEATHER
Elsa toyed with her emeralds, apparently searching for some flaw.  Like
a thief in the night was a phrase that rang unpleasantly in her ears.
Her remarkable interest in the man was neither to be denied nor
ignored.  In fact, drawing her first by the resemblance to the man she
wanted to love but could not, and then by the mystery that he had
thrown about his past simply by guarding it closely, it would have been
far more remarkable if she had not been deeply interested in him.  But
to-night she paused for a moment.  A little doubt, like one of those
oblique flaws that obscured the clarity of the green stones, appeared.
She had always been more or less indifferent to public opinion, but it
had been a careless thoughtless indifference; it had not possessed the
insolent twist of the past fortnight.  To receive the cut direct from a
man whose pomposity and mental density had excited her wit and
amusement, surprised her even if it did not hurt.  It had rudely
awakened her to the fact that her independence might be leading her
into a labyrinth.  She was compelled to admit that at home she would
have avoided Warrington, no matter how deeply sorry she might have
been.  His insistent warning against himself, however, served to arouse
nothing more than a subtle obstinacy to do just as she pleased.  And it
pleased her to talk to him; it pleased her to trifle with the unknown
danger.
Something new had been born in her.  All her life she had gone about
calmly and aloofly, her head in the clouds, her feet on mountain-tops.
She had never done anything to arouse discussion in other women.
Perhaps such a situation had never confronted her until lately.  She
had always looked forth upon life through the lenses of mild cynicism.
So long as she was rich she might, with impunity, be as indiscreet as
she pleased.  Her money would plead forgiveness and toleration. . . .
Elsa shrugged.  But shrugs do not dismiss problems.  She could have
laughed.  To have come all this way to solve a riddle, only to find a
second more confusing than the first!
Like a thief in the night.  She did not care to know what he had done,
not half so much as to learn what he had been.  Peculations of some
order; of this she was reasonably sure.  So why seek for details, when
these might be sordid?
Singapore would see the end, and she would become her normal self again.
She clasped the necklace around her lovely throat.  She was dressing
for dinner, really dressing.  An impish mood filled her with the
irrepressible desire to shine in all her splendor to-night.  Covertly
she would watch the eyes of mediocrity widen.  Hitherto they had seen
her in the simple white of travel.  To-night they should behold the
woman who had been notable among the beauties in Paris, Vienna, Rome,
London; who had not married a duke simply because his title could not
have added to the security of her position, socially or financially;
who was twenty-five years of age and perfectly content to wait until
she met the man who would set to flight all the doubt which kept her
heart unruly and unsettled.
Into the little mirror above the wash-stand she peered, with smiling
and approving eyes.  Never had she looked better.  There was unusual
color in her cheeks and the clarity of her eyes spoke illuminatingly of
superb health.  The tan on her face was not made noticeable in contrast
by her shoulders and arms, old ivory in tint and as smooth and glossy
as ancient Carrara.
"You lovely creature!" murmured Martha, touching an arm with her lips.
"Am I really lovely?"
"You would be adorable if you had a heart."
"Perhaps I have one.  Who knows?"
"You are foolish to dress like this."  Martha finished the hooking of
Elsa's waist.
"And why?"
"In the first place there's nobody worth the trouble; and nobody but a
duchess or a . . ."  Martha paused embarrassedly.
"Or a what?  An improper person?"  Elsa laughed.  "My dear Martha, your
comparisons are faulty.  I know but two duchesses in this wide world
who are not dowdies, and one of them is an American.  An improper
person is generally the most proper, outside her peculiar environments.
Can't you suggest something else?"
Martha searched but found no suitable reply.  One thing she felt
keenly, a feverish impatience for the boat to reach Singapore where
Elsa's folly must surely end.  She believed that she saw more clearly
into the future than Elsa.  Some one would talk, and in that strange
inscrutable fashion scandal has of reaching the ends of the earth, the
story would eventually arrive home; and there, for all the professions
of friendship, it would find admittance.  No door is latched when
scandal knocks.  Over here they were very far from home, and it was
natural that Elsa should view her conduct leniently.  Martha readily
appreciated that it was all harmless, to be expressed by a single word,
whim.  But Martha herself never acted upon impulse; she first
questioned what the world would say.  So run the sheep.
For years Martha had discharged her duties, if mechanically yet with a
sense of pleasure and serenity.  At this moment she was as one pushed
unexpectedly to the brink of a precipice, over which the slightest
misstep would topple her.  The world was out of joint.  Shockingly bad
wishes flitted through her head.  Each wish aimed at the disposal,
imaginary of course, of Warrington: by falling overboard, by being
seized with one of the numerous plagues, by having a deadly fracas with
one of those stealthy Lascars.
"I wish we had gone to Italy," she remarked finally.
"It would not have served my purpose in the least.  I should have been
dancing and playing bridge and going to operas.  I should have had no
time for thinking."
"Thinking!"  Martha elevated her brows with an air that implied that
she greatly doubted this statement.
"Yes, thinking.  It is not necessary that I should mope and shut myself
up in a cell, Martha, in order to think.  I have finally come to the
end of my doubts, if that will gratify you.  From now on you may rely
upon one thing, to a certainty."
Martha hesitated to put the question.
"I am not going to marry Arthur.  He is charming, graceful,
accomplished; but I want a man.  I should not be happy with him.  I can
twist him too easily around my finger.  I admit that he exercises over
me a certain indefinable fascination; but when he is out of sight it
amounts to the sum of all this doddering and doubting.  It is probable
that I shall make an admirable old maid.  Wisdom has its disadvantages.
I might be very happy with Arthur, were I not so wise."  She smiled
again at the reflection in the mirror.  "Now, let us go and astonish
the natives."
There was a mild flutter of eyelids as she sat down beside Warrington
and began to chatter to him in Italian.  He made a brave show of
following her, but became hopelessly lost after a few minutes.  Elsa
spoke fluently; twelve years had elapsed since his last visit to Italy.
He admitted his confusion, and thereafter it was only occasionally that
she brought the tongue into the conversation.  This diversion, which
she employed mainly to annoy her neighbors, was, in truth, the very
worst thing she could have done.  They no longer conjectured; they
assumed.
Warrington was too strongly dazzled by her beauty to-night to be
mentally keen or to be observing as was his habit.  He never spoke to
his neighbor; he had eyes for none but Elsa, under whose spell he knew
that he would remain while he lived.  He was nothing to her; he readily
understood.  She was restless and lonely, and he amused her.  So be it.
He believed that there could not be an unhappier, more unfortunate man
than himself.  To have been betrayed by the one he had loved, second to
but one, and to have this knowledge thrust upon him after all these
years, was evil enough; but the nadir of his misfortunes had been
reached by the appearance of this unreadable young woman.  Of what use
to warn her against himself, or against the possible, nay, probable
misconstruction that would be given their unusual friendship?  Craig
would not be idle with his tales.  And why had she put on all this
finery to-night?  To subjugate him?
"You are not listening to a word I am saying!"
"I beg your pardon!  But I warned you that my Italian was rusty."  He
pulled himself together.
"But I have been rattling away in English!"
"And I have been wool-gathering."
"Not at all complimentary to me."
"It is because I am very unhappy; it is because Tantalus and I are
brothers."
"You should have the will to throw off these moods."
"My moods, as you call them, are not like hats and coats."
"I wish I could make you forget."
"On the contrary, the sight of you makes memory all the keener."
He had never spoken like that before.  It rather subdued her, made her
regret that she had surrendered to a vanity that was without aim or
direction.  Farthest from her thought was conquest of the man.  She did
not wish to hurt him.  She was not a coquette.
After dinner he did not suggest the usual promenade.  Instead, he
excused himself and went below.
They arrived at Penang early Monday morning.  Elsa decided that
Warrington should take her and Martha on a personally conducted tour of
the pretty town.  As they left for shore he produced a small beautiful
blue feather; he gave it to Elsa with the compliments of Rajah; and she
stuck it in the pugree of her helmet.
"This is not from the dove of peace."
"Its arch-enemy, rather," he laughed.  "I wish I had the ability to get
as furious as that bird.  It might do me a world of good."
"How long is it since you were here?"
"Four years," he answered without enthusiasm.  He would not have come
ashore at all but for the fact that Elsa had ordered the expedition.
There was no inclination to explore the shops; so they hired a landau
and rode about town, climbed up to the quaint temple in the hills, and
made a tour of the botanical gardens.
"Isn't it delicious!" murmured Elsa, taking in deep breaths of the warm
spice-laden air.  Since her visit to the wonderful gardens at Kandy in
Ceylon, she had found a new interest in plants and trees.
She thoroughly enjoyed the few hours on land, even to the powwow
Warrington had with the unscrupulous driver, who, at the journey's end,
substituted one price for another, despite his original bargain.  It
was only a matter of two shillings, but Warrington stood firm.  It had
of necessity become a habit with him to haggle and then to stand firm
upon the bargain made.  There had been times when half an hour's
haggling had meant breakfast or no breakfast.  It never entered into
his mind what Elsa's point of view might be.  The average woman would
have called him over-thrifty.  All this noise over two shillings!  But
to Elsa it was only the opening of another door into this strange man's
character.  What others would have accepted as penuriousness she
recognized as a sense of well-balanced justice.  Most men, she had
found, were afflicted with the vanity of spending, and permitted
themselves to be imposed on rather than have others think that money
meant anything to them.  Arthur would have paid the difference at once
rather than have stood on the pier wrangling.  As they waited for the
tender that was to convey them back to the ship, Elsa observed a
powerful middle-aged man, gray-haired, hawk-faced, steel-eyed, watching
her companion intently.  Then his boring gaze traveled over her, from
her canvas-shoes to her helmet.  There was something so baldly
appraising in the look that a flush of anger surged into her cheeks.
The man turned and said something to his companion, who shrugged and
smiled.  Impatiently Elsa tugged at Warrington's sleeve.
"Who is that man over there by the railing?" she asked in a very low
voice.  "He looks as if he knew you."
"Knew me?" Warrington echoed.  The moment he had been dreading had
come.  Some one who knew him!  He turned his head slowly, and Elsa, who
had not dropped her hand, could feel the muscles of his arm stiffen
under the sleeve.  He held the stranger's eye defiantly for a space.
The latter laughed insolently if silently.  It was more for Elsa's sake
than for his own that Warrington allowed the other to stare him down.
Alone, he would have surrendered to the Berserk rage that urged him to
leap across the intervening space and annihilate the man, to crush him
with his bare hands until he screamed for the mercy he had always
denied others.  The flame passed, leaving him as cold as ashes.  "I
shall tell you who he is later; not here."
For the second time since that night on the Irrawaddy, Elsa recorded a
disagreeable sensation.  It proved to be transitory, but at the time it
served to establish a stronger doubt in regard to her independence, so
justifiable in her own eyes.  It might be insidiously leading her too
far away from the stepping-off place.  The unspoken words in those
hateful eyes!  The man knew Warrington, knew him perhaps as a
malefactor, and judged his associates accordingly.  She thus readily
saw the place she occupied in the man's estimation.  She experienced a
shiver of dread as she observed that he stepped on board the tender.
She even heard him call back to his friend to expect him in from
Singapore during the second week in March.  But the dread went away,
and pride and anger grew instead.  All the way back to the ship she
held her chin in the air, and from time to time her nostrils dilated.
That look!  If she had been nearer she was certain that she would have
struck him across the face.
"There will be no one up in the bow," said Warrington.  "Will you go up
there with me?"
After a moment's hesitation, she nodded.
The Lascars, busy with the anchor-chains, demurred; but a word and a
gesture from the Sahib who had turned the hose on a drunken man
convinced them that the two would not be in the way.  A clatter of
steel against steel presently followed, the windlass whined and
rattled, and Elsa saw the anchor rise slowly from the deeps, bringing
up a blur of muddy water; and blobs of pale clay dripped from the
anchor-flukes.  A moment after she felt the old familiar throb under
her feet, and the ship moved slowly out of the bay.
"Do you know that that man came aboard?"
"I know it."  The wide half-circle of cocoanut palms grew denser and
lower as they drew away.  "This is the story.  It's got to be told.  I
should have avoided it if it had been possible.  He is the owner of the
plantation.  Oh, I rather expected something like this.  It's my run of
luck.  I was just recovering from the fever.  God knows how he found
out, but he did.  It was during the rains.  He told me to get out that
night.  Didn't care whether I died on the road or not.  I should have
but for my boy James.  The man sent along with us a poor discarded
woman, of whom he had grown tired.  She died when we reached town.  I
had hardly any money.  He refused to pay me for the last two months,
about fifty pounds.  There was no redress for me.  There was no
possible way I could get back at him.  Miss Chetwood, I took money that
did not belong to me.  It went over gaming-tables.  Craig.  I ran away.
Craig knows and this man Mallow knows.  Can you not see the wisdom of
giving me a wide berth?"
"Oh, I am sorry!" she cried.
"Thanks.  But you see: I am an outcast.  To-night, not a soul on board
will be in ignorance of who I am and what I have done.  Trust Craig and
Mallow for that.  Thursday we shall be in Singapore.  You must not
speak to me again.  Give them to understand that you have found me out,
that I imposed on your kindness."
"That I will not do."
"Act as you please.  There are empty chairs at the second-class table,
among the natives.  And now, good-by.  The happiest hours in ten long
years are due to you."  He took off his helmet and stepped aside for
her to pass.  She held out her hand, but he shook his head.  "Don't
make it harder for me."
"Mr. Warrington, I am not a child!"
"To me you have been the Angel of Kindness; and the light in your face
I shall always see.  Please go now."
"Very well."  A new and unaccountable pain filled her throat and forced
her to carry her head high.  "I can find my way back to the other deck."
He saw her disappear down the first ladder, reappear up the other,
mingle with the passengers and vanish.  He then went forward to the
prow and stared down at the water, wondering if it held rest or pain or
what.
XII
THE GAME OF GOSSIP
During the concluding days of the voyage Elsa had her meals served on
deck.  She kept Martha with her continually, promenaded only early in
the morning and at night while the other passengers were at dinner.
This left a clear deck.  She walked quickly, her arm in Martha's,
literally propelling her along, never spoke unless spoken to, and then
answered in monosyllables.  Her thoughts flew to a thousand and one
things: home, her father, episodes from school-life; toward anything
and everywhere like a land-bird lost at sea, futilely and vainly in the
endeavor to shut out the portrait of the broken man.  In the midst of
some imaginary journey to the Sabine Hills she would find herself
asking: What was he doing, of what was he thinking, where would he go
and what would he do?  She hated night which, no longer offering sleep,
provided nothing in lieu of it, and compelled her to remain in the
stuffy cabin.  She was afraid.
Early Wednesday morning she passed Craig and Mallow; but the two had
wit enough to step aside for her and to speak only with their eyes.
She filled Craig with unadulterated fear.  Never had he met a woman
such as this one.  He warned Mallow at the beginning, without
explaining in detail, that she was fearless and dangerous.  And, of
course, Mallow laughed and dragged along the gambler whenever he found
a chance to see Elsa at close range.
"There's a woman.  Gad! that beach-comber has taste."
"I tell you to look out for her," Craig warned again.  "I know what I'm
talking about."
"What's she done; slapped your face?"
"That kind of woman doesn't slap.  Damn it, Mallow, she rammed a
hat-pin into me, if you will know!  Keep out of her way."
Mallow whistled.  "Oho!  You probably acted like a fool.  Drinking?"
Craig nodded affirmatively.
"Thought so.  Even a Yokohama bar-maid will fight shy of a boozer.  I'm
going to meet her when we get to Singapore, or my name's not Mallow."
Craig laughed with malice.  "I hope she sticks the pin into your
throat.  It will take some of the brag out of you.  Think because
you've got picturesque gray hair and are as strong as a bull, that all
the women are just pining for you.  Say, let's go aft and hunt up the
chap.  I understand he's taken up quarters in the second-cabin."
"Doesn't want to run into me.  All right; come on.  We'll stir him up a
little and have some fun."
They found Warrington up in the stern, sitting on the deck, surrounded
by squatting Lascars, some Chinamen and a solitary white man, the chief
engineer's assistant.  The center of interest was Rajah, who was
performing his tricks.  Among these was one that the bird rarely could
be made to perform, the threading of beads.  He despised this act as it
entailed the putting of a blunt needle in his beak.  He flung it aside
each time Warrington handed it to him.  But ever his master patiently
returned it.  At length, recognizing that the affair might be prolonged
indefinitely, Rajah put two beads on the thread and tossed it aside.
The Lascars jabbered, the Chinamen grinned, and the chief engineer's
assistant swore approvingly.
"How much'll you take for him?"
"He's not for sale," answered Warrington.
The parrot shrilled and waddled back to his cage.
"Fine business for a whole man!"
Warrington looked up to meet the cynical eyes of Mallow.  He took out
his cutty and fired it.  Otherwise he did not move nor let his gaze
swerve.  Mallow, towering above him, could scarcely resist the
temptation to stir his enemy with the toe of his boot.  His hatred for
Warrington was not wholly due to his brutal treatment of him.  Mallow
always took pleasure in dominating those under him by fear.  Warrington
had done his work well.  He had always recognized Mallow as his
employer, but in no other capacity: he had never offered to smoke a
pipe with him, or to take a hand at cards, or split a bottle.  It had
not been done offensively; but in this attitude Mallow had recognized
his manager's disapproval of him, an inner consciousness of superiority
in birth and education.  He had with supreme satisfaction ordered him
off the plantation that memorable night.  Weak as the man had been in
body, there had been no indication of weakness in spirit.
Occultly Warrington read the desire in the other's eyes.  "I shouldn't
do it, Mallow," he said.  "I shouldn't.  Nothing would please me better
than to have a good excuse to chuck you over the rail.  Upon a time you
had the best of me.  I was a sick man then.  I'm in tolerable good
health at present."
"You crow, I could break you like a pipe-stem."
Mallow rammed his hands into his coat pockets, scowling contemptuously.
He weighed fully twenty pounds more than Warrington.
Crow!  Warrington shrugged.  In the East crow is a rough synonym for
thief.  "You're at liberty to return to your diggings forward with that
impression," he replied coolly.  "When we get to Singapore," rising
slowly to his height until his eyes were level with Mallow's, "when we
get to Singapore, I'm going to ask you for that fifty pounds, earned in
honest labor."
"And if I decline to pay?" truculently.
"We'll talk that over when we reach port.  Now," roughly, "get out.
There won't be any baiting done to-day, thank you."
The chief engineer's assistant, a stocky, muscular young Scot, stepped
forward.  He knew Mallow.  "If there is, Mr. Warrington, I'm willing to
have a try at losing my job."
"Cockalorem!" jeered Mallow.  Craig touched his sleeve, but he threw
off the hand roughly.  He was one of the best rough and tumble fighters
in the Straits Settlements.  "You thieving beach-comber, I don't want
to mess up the deck with you, but I'll cut your comb for you when we
get to port."
Warrington laughed insolently and picked up the parrot-cage.  "I'll
bring the comb.  In fact, I always carry it."  Not a word to Craig, not
a glance in his direction.  Warrington stepped to the companionway and
went below.
The chief engineer's assistant, whistling Bide Awee, sauntered
forward.
Craig could not resist grinning at Mallow's discomfiture.  "Wouldn't
break, eh?"
"Shut your mouth!  The sneaking dock-walloper, I'll take the starch out
of him when we land!  Always had that high and mighty air.  Wants folks
to think he's a gentleman."
"He was once," said Craig.  "No use giving you advice; but he's not a
healthy individual to bait.  I'm no kitten when it comes to scrapping;
but I haven't any desire to mix things with him."  The fury of the man
who had given him the ducking was still vivid.  He had been handled as
a terrier handles a rat.
"Bah!"
"Bah as much as you please.  I picked you out of the gutter one night
in Rangoon, after roughing it with half a dozen Chinamen, and saved
your wad.  I've not your reach or height, but I can lay about some.
He'll kill you.  And why not?  He wouldn't be any worse off than he is."
"I tell you he's yellow.  And with a hundred-thousand in his clothes,
he'll be yellower still."
A hundred thousand.  Craig frowned and gazed out to sea.  He had
forgotten all about the windfall.  "Let's go and have a peg," he
suggested surlily.
Immediately upon obtaining her rooms at Raffles Hotel in Singapore (and
leaving Martha there to await the arrival of the luggage, an imposing
collection of trunks and boxes and kit-bags), Elsa went down to the
American Consulate, which had its offices in the rear of the hotel.
She walked through the outer office and stood silently at the
consul-general's elbow, waiting for him to look up.  She was dressed in
white, and in the pugree of her helmet was the one touch of color,
Rajah's blue feather.  With a smile she watched the stubby pen crawl
over some papers, ending at length with a flourish, dignified and
characteristic.  The consul-general turned his head.  His kindly face
had the settled expression of indulgent inquiry.  The expression
changed swiftly into one of delight.
"Elsa Chetwood!" he cried, seizing her hands.  "Well, well!  I am glad
to see you.  Missed you when you passed through to Ceylon.  Good
gracious, what a beautiful woman you've turned out to be!  Sit down,
sit down!"  He pushed her into a chair.  "Well, well!  When I saw you
last you were nineteen."
"What a frightful memory you have!  And I was going to my first ball.
You used the same adjective."
"Is there a better one?  I'll use it if there is.  You've arrived just
in time.  I am giving a little dinner to the consuls and their wives
to-night, and you will add just the right touch; for we are all a
little gray at the temples and some of us are a trifle bald.  You see,
I've an old friend from India in town to-day, and I've asked him, too.
Your appearance evens up matters."
"Oh; then I'm just a filler-in!"
"Heavens, no!  You're the most important person of the lot, though
Colonel Knowlton . . ."
"Colonel Knowlton!" exclaimed Elsa.
"That's so, by George!  Stupid of me.  You came down on the same boat.
Fine!  You know each other."
Elsa straightened her lips with some difficulty.  She possessed the
enviable faculty of instantly forming in her mind pictures of coming
events.  The little swelling veins in the colonel's nose were as plain
to her mind's eye as if he really stood before her.  "Have him take me
in to dinner," she suggested.
"Just what I was thinking of," declared the unsuspecting man.  "If any
one can draw out the colonel, it will be you."
"I'll do my best." Elsa's mind was full of rollicking malice.
Contemplatively he said: "So you've been doing the Orient alone?  You
are like your father in that way.  He was never afraid of anything.
Your mental make-up, too, I'll wager is like his.  Finest man in the
world."
"Wasn't he?  How I wish he could have always been with me!  We were
such good comrades.  They do say I am like father.  But why is it,
every one seems appalled that I should travel over here without male
escort?"
"The answer lies in your mirror, Elsa.  Your old nurse Martha is no
real protection."
"Are men so bad, then?"
"They are less restrained.  The heat, the tremendous distances, the
lack of amusements, are perhaps responsible.  The most difficult thing
in the world to amuse is man.  By the way, here's a packet of letters
for you."
"Thanks."  Elsa played with the packet, somberly eying the
superscriptions.  The old disorder came back into her mind.  Three of
the letters were from Arthur.  She dreaded to open them.
"Now, I'll expect you to come to the apartments and have tea at five."
"Be glad to.  Only, don't have any one else.  I just want to visit and
talk as I used to."
"I promise not to invite anybody."
"I must be going, then.  I'm not sure of my tickets to Hongkong."
"Go straight to the German Lloyd office.  The next P. & O. boat is
booked full.  Don't bother to go to Cook's.  Everybody's on the way
home now.  Go right to the office.  I'll have my boy show you the way.
Chong!" he called.  A bright-eyed young Chinese came in quickly and
silently from the other room.  "Show lady German Lloyd office.  All
same quick."
"All light.  Lady come."
"Until tea."
In the outer office she paused for a moment or so to look at the
magazines and weeklies from home.  The Chinese boy, grinning
pleasantly, peered curiously at Elsa's beautiful hands.  She heard some
one enter, and quite naturally glanced up.  The newcomer was Mallow.
He stared at her, smiled familiarly and lifted his helmet.
Elsa, with cold unflickering eyes, offered his greeting no recognition
whatever.  The man felt that she was looking through him, inside of
him, searching out all the dark comers of his soul.  He dropped his
gaze, confused.  Then Elsa calmly turned to the boy.
"Come, Chong."
There was something in the manner of her exit that infinitely puzzled
him.  It was the insolence of the well-bred, but he did not know it.
To offset his chagrin and confusion, he put on his helmet and passed
into the private office.  She was out of his range of understanding.
Mallow was an American by birth but had grown up in the Orient,
hardily.  In his youth he had been beaten and trampled upon, and now
that he had become rich in copra (the dried kernels of cocoanuts from
which oil is made), he in his turn beat and trampled.  It was the only
law he knew.  He was without refinement, never having come into contact
with that state of being long enough to fall under its influence.  He
was a shrewd bargainer; and any who respected him did so for two
reasons, his strength and his wallet.  Such flattery sufficed his
needs.  He was unmarried; by inclination, perhaps, rather than by
failure to find an agreeable mate.  There were many women in Penang and
Singapore who would have snapped him up, had the opportunity offered,
despite the fact that they knew his history tolerably well.
Ordinarily, when in Penang and Singapore, he behaved himself, drank
circumspectly and shunned promiscuous companions.  But when he did
drink heartily, he was a man to beware of.
He hailed the consul-general cordially and offered him one of his
really choice cigars, which was accepted.
"I say, who was that young woman who just went out?"
The consul-general laid down the cigar.  The question itself was
harmless enough; it was Mallow's way of clothing it he resented.
"Why?" he asked.
"She's a stunner.  Just curious if you knew her, that's all.  We came
down on the same boat.  Hanged if I shouldn't like to meet her."
"You met her on board?"
"I can't say that.  Rather uppish on the steamer.  But, do you know
her?" eagerly.
"I do.  More than that, I have always known her.  She is the daughter
of the late General Chetwood, one of the greatest civil-engineers of
our time.  When he died he left her several millions.  She is a
remarkable young woman, a famous beauty, known favorably in European
courts, and I can't begin to tell you how many other accomplishments
she has."
"Well, stump me!" returned Mallow.  "Is that all straight?"
"Every word of it," with a chilliness that did not escape a man even so
impervious as Mallow.
"Is she a free-thinker?"
"What the devil is that?  What do you mean?"
"Only this, if she's all you say she is, why does she pick out an
absconder for a friend, a chap who dare not show his fiz in the States?
I heard the tale from a man once employed in his office back in New
York.  A beach-comber, a dock-walloper, if there ever was one."
"Mallow, you'll have to explain that instantly."
"Hold your horses, my friend.  What I'm telling you is on the level.
She's been hobnobbing with the fellow all the way down from the
Irrawaddy, so I'm told.  Never spoke to any one else.  Made him sit at
her side at table and jabbered Italian at him, as if she didn't want
others to know what she was talking about.  I know the man.  Fired him
