ward whenever you can, and I shall beg for 
quite a visit from her.” 


“That will suit me. I feel that I have 
grown a little rusty and want to look into some 
new methods. What a wonderful city it is! 
It quite shames a country doctor.” 

suppose so,” smiling. '‘You should come 
in often. Mr. Warren will be home presently 
and glad to meet you. Will you excuse me a 
few moments? This is my eldest daughter, 
Edith.” 

"And can’t the others come?” asked Ma- 
rilla. 

'Why, yes, if you like.” 

Dr. Richards was used to children. He 
thought he liked girls the best, and this was 
an attractive circle. How Marilla was en- 
joying it. Her eyes quivered with flashes of 
pleasure. Yes, children needed other chil- 
dren to start the real flow of delight through 
their veins, and his little Cinderella did not 
suffer by comparison. 

Mr. Warren came in and welcomed his 
guest cordially, looking over the little girl 
about whom they had speculated. She was 
very attractive just now, with her face of 
sunshine and her eyes with their starry look 
under the long curling lashes. 





The men had to discuss the queer unex- 
pected fortune. The Warrens had been no- 
tified nearly a year before. 

"But I hadn't much faith in it” laughed 
Mr. Warren. "My wife had really forgotten 
her family lineage, and we should hardly have 
claimed the Schermerhorns. There's so much 
red tape in these matters and by the time the 
expenses are paid, there’s little left for the 
heirs, but this turns out better than I supposed, 
considering the many descendants the old 
man had. I can’t complain of the lawyers.” 

"And we were very glad to find Marion’s 
child, though I wish I had known it when her 
mother died. Do you want to keep her at 
Newton?” 

think Miss Armitage has some claims,” 
he returned. 

“And I feel as if we ought to make up for 
our negligence.” 

The children were in a little huddle on the 
corner of the sofa. What was Newton like? 
A real city? 

“Why there are some beautiful long streets 
and stores and churches and a park and rows 
of houses built together like this, and schools 
and trolleys — ” 



"Why it must be a city then?'' said Edith. 
"Has it a mayor and a city hall and a post- 
office?’’ 

‘'It has a mayor and a postoffice and a court 
house. Mr. Borden used to talk of going 
there.” 

"It is a very old town,” explained the guar- 
dian, ' 'dating farther back than the Revolu- 
tion, yet it was not much of a business center 
until the last thirty years; but it is very pretty 
and rather aristocratic.” 

"Children,” said their mother, "go and make 
yourselves ready for dinner.” 

"What lovely curly hair,” exclaimed May, 
half in envy. wish mine curled.” 

"But you have two such beautiful braids.” 
"Jessie’s curled a little but it was so thin 
mother kept cutting it. Dear me! You 
wouldn’t catch me soaping and brushing the 
curl out of it if mine curled,” declared May. 

They had a rather merry time at dinner and 
the children did not seem a bit afraid to talk, 
though they were not aggressive. But Dr. 
Richards thought his little ward compared 
very favorably with the others. Her dainti- 
ness suggested Miss Armitage, he fancied. 




They sat a long while over their dessert of 
fruit and nuts, and then the guest said he 
would have to go as he wanted to attend a 
lecture by an eminent surgeon. He would be 
in tomorrow morning. 

“I thought I would take Marilla out shop- 
ping with me. Come in to dinner again 
and spend the whole evening.’’ 

Dr. Richards promised to. 

The others went up to the sitting room. 
Mr. Warren took possession of the big Morris 
chair, May had one knee, Jessie the other and 
Edith seated herself on the broad aim and 
placed her arm over her father’s shoulder. 
They always exacted an hour of their father 
and he gave it with the utmost fondness. 

"And here is a place for you, little Marilla,” 
he said. "Now the chair is full. I’ve won- 
dered sometimes if Edith wouldn’t tip us 
over.’' 

'I'd have to be as fat as Auntie Belle to do 
that,’’ she laughed, ‘'and now papa I want 
Marilla to tell you about a queer Home she 
was put in where they wouldn’t let the little 
girls have dolls nor playthings, and they 
made dollies out of clothes pins and had to 
hide them.” 



"That was cruel to little girls. Why they 
have dolls by right and no one should prevent 
them. Didn't you play any?’’ 

"Oh yes, out of doors, tag and Uncle John 
and Scotland’s burning, and Lady Jane, and 
Ring around a Rosy; and then in summer you 
had to pull weeds in the garden. When it 
rained you had to march in doors, but if you 
tried to dance a little you had to go and sit 
down. Oh, they were very strict.” 

"And what else did you do?” 

"All the bigger girls made the beds and 
twice a week brushed up the floors, and every 
little while you went in the kitchen for a week 
and helped with the cooking so you would 
know how to work. When you were twelve 
they bound you out and you had to stay until 
you were eighteen.” 

''But didn’t you study any? 

"Oh, yes, there was school every day.” 

"And did you get bound-out?” 

"Yes.” She flushed a little. 

"But you did not stay?” 

"Oh, tell papa about the babies,” cried 

Edith. 




"And did you ever notice the Campbelhs 
soup little girl with her round eyes?" 

'Who gets fat on eating soup? Yes,' and 
he laughed. 

"They looked something like that,' said 
Marilla. "They were so fat and they had such 
round eyes, and you could make them laugh 
so easily. I went to take care of them and 
amuse them, but they were so good, they 
hardly ever cried, and I used to ride them 
round — they had such a beautiful wagon! 
But sometimes it seemed so heavy, it had to 
be big, you know, and then there was Jack. 
He wasn't very good, but after awhile he went 
to kindergarten." 

"But how did you get away if you were 
bound?" 

She told the story very simply and how a 
lovely lady took her in and she was ill a long 
while, and she knew this was a fairy god- 
mother, so she always called her that, 
because'’ — 

"Because what?" 

"It was a curious dream I had. Bridget 
said it was a dream ; but it seemed so real, and 
I was Cinderella.'' 



"Oh, do tell us!’ they pleaded. 

am afraid it’s silly,” and she flushed. 

‘'Cinderella is lovely, and did you see the 
Prince?” 

They all looked so eager that she was per- 
suaded. So she began by sitting in the corner 
of the kitchen and they listened as if they were 
enchanted. She was so vivid it seemed as if 
her face was transfigured. Mrs. Warren 
dropped her sewing and bent forward. 

Edith drew a long breath and squeezed the 
new cousin’s hand. "Oh” she cried, "it’s 
lovelier than the real Cinderella, and you 
danced with the Prince? Can you dance — 
truly?” 

"Oh, yes, after that, I used to dance for 
Bridget. Mrs. Johnson wouldn't let you, she 
thought it wicked. It’s queer how people 
think about things, and I danced for the ba- 
bies. Mrs. Borden and her sister went to 
dancing parties; they didn t think it wrong. 
It’s so beautiful.” 

"Our cousins Isabel and Charlie Firth go to 
dancing school. Mother thinks I may go next 
winter. They are teaching it in some schools.” 

"Children,” said Mrs. Warren, ''do you 



know what time it is? You must go to bed. 
Marilla you have betwitched us all. And 
papa will have hardly time to read his paper. 
Come. Marilla will not run away, so you can 
have her tomorrow night." 

Mr. Warren kissed all the little girls and 
they trooped off. 

'You may sleep on the lounge in my room, 
Edith, and give Marilla your bed, I can't send 
her up stairs alone, and now you must not say 
a word after your prayers for I know she is 
clear tired out.'' 

They were generally very good children to 
mind. Their mother left them with a good- 
night kiss. Mr. Warren had rolled his chair 
nearer the center table and taken up his 
paper. 

"Mother, he exclaimed, 'That Marilla is an 
unusual child. How beautifully she describes 
everything, but the sweetest trait about her 
in her utter lack of bitterness. Most chil- 
dren would have been sharp and disparaging 
about Mrs. Johnson, but she never uttered a 
bitter word. It really was wonderful. I 
hope that Dr. Richards will give her a first- 
class education, and I’d like to see that fairy 



godmother. Marilla needs good care, she 
isn't very strong, but there is happiness in 
every pulse of her small body. I wish we could 
keep her.’’ 

The next morning the children had to kiss 
her half a dozen times before they went to 
school, and make her promise over and over 
again that she would not let Dr. Richards 
take her home. While Mrs. Warren was do- 
ing up her morning’s work Marilla wrote her 
letter to Miss Armitage, who smiled over the 
thrill of delight that ran through it. Aunt 
Grace was so sweet and lovely and she couldn’t 
describe the girls for she didn’t know any 
words that were beautiful enough and good 
enough to apply to them. Jessie was a real 
little beauty with the most wonderful eyes 
that were like brown velvet and sunshine, and 
she didn’t know father’s could be so sweet as 
Uncle Warren. Maybe Mr. Borden would 
love the twins that way when they grew older. 
They might be prettier then. But her dear 
fairy godmother lived in her mind all the 
time, she wanted her to see and hear every- 
thing. There would be so much to tell her 
that she couldn’t write. 




It was a wonderful day to Marilla. Such 
splendid stores and gowns that were fit for 
queens. Such beautiful dishes and jewelry, 
such stacks of books; and, oh, such dolls holding 
out their hands with a pleading look in their 
eyes. She could hardly tear herself away. 
Was she too big to have a doll? 

Then they went into a cozy place and had a 
dainty lunch, only it did seem as if Marilla 
was too happy to eat. If fairy godmother 
were only here! 

Afterward they went to the Eden Musee. 
You had to ride from place to place; why, it was 
full of strange people who never stirred. They 
could not be dead! What was the matter 
with them? The wonder in her eyes made 
Mrs. Warren smile. Some were funny, too; 
you wanted to laugh with them. Marilla sat 
down in perfect despair as if she had gone to 
some strange country. 

don't see how they can make them just 
like folks, she said. "You feel almost sure 
they are going to speak to you.'' 

A very tired little girl it was who came home, 
but it was such a pleasant, happy tired she 
didn't mind. It wasn't like dragging the 



heavy babies around. Aunt Grace made her 
lie down on the lounge and the girls gathered 
round her talking it over. They had been 
several times. 

Then Dr. Richards came in and they had 
such a delightful time. Why the whole 
world of pleasure was fairy land when you 
come to think of it. "And there’s the Hippo- 
drome,' said Edith. 'Oh mother don’t you 
believe father could take us on Saturday?” 

''And couldn’t I go, too?” 

The doctor asked in such a whimsical tone 
that they all laughed. Jessie sidled up to 
him, she was well so she need not be afraid of 
a doctor. She was very sweet but she wasn’t 
quite Cinderella. 

What a fine evening they had! It seemed 
as if they must have known each other for 
years. Bits of Marilla’s life came out un- 
consciously; the doing for others without 
thinking of herself that really did glorify it. 
Unwittingly she showed more of it to Dr. 
Richards than she had ever before in her grat- 
itude. Under the children’s questions some 
of the trials came out. 

Every morning she wrote to Miss Armitage 




out of her full heart, and the lady understood 
how she would thrive in natural companion- 
ship. Almost she felt as if she ought to yield 
her to these relatives, but she wanted her. It 
was strange how she had left her impress every- 
where yet she was a very modest little girl, 
demanding nothing, taking all favors with a 
gratitude that was fascinating. Jane re- 
hearsed so many pretty sayings and missed 
her everywhere. Bridget came around to 
hear whether the story of the fortune was 
absolutely true. The Bordens could harldy 
believe it. Mr. John Borden wished they had 
not let her go quite so soon. "She certainly 
was a nice child,’’ he said. 

They went to the great stores and to Central 
Park, and Marilla overflowed with happiness. 
Why it was like the fairy dream, and she 
wished the girls at the Home could have some 
of it, or could find a fairy godmother. There 
were so many things to interest the doctor. 
How the days did slip away and all the time 
Marilla grew sweeter, dearer; but at last he 
said they must go home. 

"Oh, how can we let you go?” cried Edith. 
''Why I do believe you came from fairy land 


yourself; but now you’ll come and visit us 
often.” 

"And you can come to Newton. Fairy 
godmother has such a lovely house, and she 
is so sweet. You will like her.” 

Oh, the child ought not be on sufferance 
but have the genial freedom of a home of her 
very own where she could live over the child- 
hood she had missed and learn the glad in- 
spiration of youth. 

What did Miss Armitage mean to do for 
her? Yes, she wanted her; why there would 
be a great loss in life without her, but she no 
longer needed charity. She could not do 
everything for her ; as she had planned . Would 
she share a divided interest? 

Dr. Richards heart yearned over her, covet- 
ed her. Marilla had crept in and taken pos- 
session of his inmost soul. It was not likely 
there would be any other occupant. For he 
had never seen any sign of relenting on Miss 
Armitage’s part. They were excellent friends. 
Neither overstepped the prescribed bounds, 
and he must have something to love and to 
cherish. 

But he had to tear himself away presently. 




and he carried her with him in his heart, and 
the next morning he dropped in and had her 
all to himself. Mrs. Warren had gone to the 
dressmakers. 

"Oh,’ Marilla said with a long sigh of de- 
light, "how lovely it is to have sisters! and — 
and a father! If I couldn't have but one I 
think I'd take the father. Isn’t Mr. Warren 
just splendid and sweet and charming? There’s 
a book of poems at Miss Armitage’s that has 
one such beautiful thing — 'The Children’s 
Hour.’ And they have it here. The hour 
after dinner if there are no visitors belongs to 
the children. The smaller ones take posses- 
sion of his lap and Edith sits on the arm of the 
chair. I sat on the other,” and she laughed 
with such a happy sound. "And they tell 
him everything, what they have read and 
studied, and the little troubles and differences 
and perplexities, and he listens and explains 
and laughs with them when it is funny, and 
everything is so nice. I didn’t suppose fath- 
ers could be so dear and sweet, but I never 
knew any real father except Mr. Borden, and 
Jack was a torment. He wanted to pound 
and bang and wrinkle up things and ask silly 



questions. Maybe the twins will be different, 
and perhaps he will love girls the best.’ 

"And you would like to have a father?" 
There was a subtle sweetness in his tone. 

She drew a long breath, he felt the heart 
quiver irregularly, the little heart that would 
need careful watching the next few years, that 
so far had been worked pretty hard. 

"Oh, so much!'’ There was an exquisite 
longing and a sound as of a prayer, "butyou 
know I’d want some one I could love.” 

She was ready to give, not take all. 

"Marilla, would I do?” 

She raised her head and looked at him out 
of longing, pleading eyes that turned joyous 
like a sudden glowing sunrise. 

"Oh!” she cried, "Oh!” 

But the wonderful satisfying intonation 
would have moved any heart. 

"And I want a little girl,” he continued. 

shall never have one of my very own;” — 
it is the way a man thinks when he knows he 
cannot have the woman he would choose for 
the mother of his children. 

She was silent. He saw the shining tears 
beading the curly lashes. She was sorry for 
him. 





"And if you could be my little girl — ” 

"Oh, if I might and the longing freighted 
her tone. 'If I could be good enough — if I 
could love you enough, Oh, I would try. I 
should be so happy. To have a father of one's 
own!” 

"Children are sometimes adopted.” 

"Yes, they were at Bethany Home, but 
they had to be very pretty, I’m not — very.” 

"But I love you because you are you, I don’t 
want you changed any way. I want a daugh- 
ter to be a companion as I grow older, to read 
to me, to confide in me, to come to me in any 
trouble, to make a real home, for a man alone 
cannot do that, and to love me very, very 
dearly.” 

have always loved you,” she said simply. 
Then after a moment — 'Would I live with 
you?” 

"Yes, when I have found a pretty home, 
and you will make friends and have them 
visit you, and we will take journeys and have 
pleasures like the Warrens.” 

"Oh! How good you are!” in a tone of 
tremulous joy. There was a little twinge of 
conscience in both hearts concerning Miss 



Armitage. He salved his, thinking if she had 
wanted to she might have made some proffer 
of adoption. Marilla hardly knew how to 
choose between them. If they could both go 
and live in Loraine place! 

see Lorimer this afternoon. You have 
to apply to the legislature, and you will have 
your name changed to Richards. Maybe the 
judge or some will one question you whether 
you are willing to take me for a father, since 
you are old enough to choose, and there are 
several formalities, but the thing is often done, 
and you will be mine, mine,’’ pressing her to 
his heart in rapture. 

am so glad.” Every pulse throbbed 
with joy. 

He yielded to the subtle satisfaction and 
kissed the sweet mouth. Oh, he must get 
her strong and well and give her a lovely, 
long life! Like a vision he could see her 
growing sweeter and dearer every year, mak- 
ing life blossom with her love. 

Then Mrs. Warren returned and the girls 
came home to lunch, having a merry time 
talking over the Hippodrome. 

"Nearly every Saturday papa takes us 




somewhere,' said May. "There are some 
beautiful plays for children and concerts and 
