
"She doesn't know anything about it!" exclaimed Lady Alene Innesly. The
tint of excitement glowed in her cheeks. Her lilac-tinted eyes burned
with a soft, blue fire.




X


Slowly as a partly paralysed crab, Smith raised himself to a sitting
posture and looked over his shoulder into the loveliest face that he had
ever beheld, except on the paper wrappers of his own books.

"I'm sorry," said the Lady Alene. "Shouldn't I have spoken?"

The smoke and turmoil of battle still confused Smith's brain;
visualisation of wall and tower and crowns and ermines made the Lady
Alene's fresh, wholesome beauty very unreal to him for a moment or two.

When his eyes found their focus and his mind returned to actuality, he
climbed to his feet, hat in hand, and made his manners to her. Then,
tumbling books and pads from the other camp-chair, he reseated himself
with a half smiling, half shamed glance at her, and a "May I?" to which
she responded, "Please! And might I talk to you for a few moments?"

Smith shot a keen glance at the book on her knees. Resignation and pride
altered his features, but when again he looked at the Lady Alene he
experienced a pleasure in his resignation which hitherto no curious
tourist, no enterprising reporter had ever aroused. Smilingly he
composed himself for the impending interview.

"Until now," said the girl earnestly, "I think I have not been entirely
convinced by your novels. Somehow or other I could not bring myself to
comprehend the amazing realism of your plots. But now I understand the
basis of great and fundamental truth on which you build so plausibly
your splendid novels of love and life."

"What?" said Smith.

"To see you," she continued, "constructing the scenes of which later you
are to write, has been a wonderful revelation to me. It has been a
privilege the importance of which I can scarcely estimate. Your devotion
to the details of your art, your endless patience, your almost austere
absorption in truth and realism, have not only astounded me but have
entirely convinced me. The greatest thing in the world is Truth. Now I
realise it!"

She made a pretty gesture of enthusiasm:

"What a wonderful nation of young men is yours, Mr. Smith! What
qualities! What fearlessness--initiative--idealism--daring--! What
invention, what recklessness, what romance----"

Her voice failed her; she sat with lips parted, a soft glow in her
cheeks, gazing upon Smith with fascinated eyes. And Smith gazed back at
her without a word.

"I don't believe," she said, "that in all England there exists a single
man capable even of conceiving the career for which so many young
Americans seem to be equipped."

After a moment Smith said very quietly:

"I am sorry, but do you know I don't quite understand you?"

"I mean," she said, "that you Americans have a capacity for conceiving,
understanding, and performing everything you write about."

"Why do you think so?" asked Smith, a trifle red.

"Because if Englishmen could understand and do such things, our
novelists would write about them. They never write about them. But you
Americans do. You write thousands of most delightful novels about young
men who do things unheard of, undreamed of, in England. Therefore, it is
very clear to me that you Americans are quite capable of doing what you
write about, and what your readers so ardently admire."

"I see," said Smith calmly. His ear-tips still burned.

"No doubt," said the girl, "many of the astonishing things you Americans
write about are really done. Many astounding episodes in fiction are of
not uncommon occurrence in real life."

"What kind of episodes?" asked Smith gravely.

"Why, any of them you write about. They all are astonishing enough. For
example, your young men do not seem to know what fear is."

"No," said Smith, "they don't."

"And when they love," said the girl, "nothing can stop them."

"Nothing."

"Nothing!" she repeated, the soft glow coming into her cheeks again.
"--Nothing! Neither rank nor wealth nor political considerations nor
family prejudices, nor even the military!"

Smith bit his lip in silence. He had heard of irony; never had he
dreamed it could be so crushing: he had heard of sarcasm; but the quiet
sarcasm of this unknown young girl was annihilating him. Critics had
carved him in his time; but the fine mincemeat which this pretty
stranger was making of him promised to leave nothing more either to
carve or to roast.

"Do you mind my talking to you?" she asked, noting the strained
expression of his features.

"No," he said, "go ahead."

"Because if I am tiring you----"

He said he was not tired.

"--or if it bores you to discuss your art with a foreigner who so truly
admires it----"

He shot a glance at her, then forced a laugh.

"I am not offended," he said. "What paper do you represent?"

"I?" she said, bewildered.

"Yes. You are a newspaper woman, are you not?"

"Do you mean a reporter?"

"Naturally."

"No," she said very seriously, "I am not a reporter. What an odd idea!"

"Do you think it odd?"

"Why, yes. Do not many admirers of your works express their pleasure in
them to you?"

He studied her lovely face coolly and in detail--the dainty arch of the
questioning eyebrows, the sensitive curve of the mouth, the clear, sweet
eyes. Could it be possible that such candour masked irony? Could all
this be the very essence of the art of acting, concealing the most
murderous sarcasm ever dreamed of by a terrified author?

And suddenly his face went red all over, and he understood that the
essence of this young girl was a candour so utterly free of
self-consciousness--a frankness so absolutely truthful, that the
simplicity of her had been a miracle too exquisite for him to
comprehend.

"You do like what I write!" he exclaimed.

Her blue eyes widened: "Of course I do," she said, amazed. "Didn't you
understand me?"

"No," he said, cooling his burning face in the rising sea-wind. "I
thought you were laughing at me."

"I'm sorry if I was stupid," she said.

"I was stupid."

"You!" She laughed a little.

The sinking sun peered through the palm forest behind them and flung a
beam of blinding light at her.

"Am I interrupting your work, Mr. Smith? I mean, I know I am, but----"

"Please don't go away."

"Thank you.... I have noticed what agreeable manners you Americans have
in novels. Naturally you are even more kindly and polite in real life."

"Have you met many Americans?"

"No, only you. In the beginning I did not feel interested in Americans."

"Why?"

"The young men all seemed to resemble one another," she said frankly,
"like Chinese. But now that I really know an American I am intensely
interested."

"You notice no Mongolian monotony in me?" he inquired gravely.

"Oh, no----" She coloured; then discovering that he was laughing, she
laughed, too, rather faintly.

"That was a joke, wasn't it?" she said.

"Yes, that was a joke."

"Because," she said, "there is no Mongolian uniformity about you. On
the contrary, you remind me in every way of one of your own heroes."

"Oh, really now!" he protested; but she insisted with serious
enthusiasm.

"You are the counterpart of the hero in this book," she repeated,
resting one hand lightly on the volume under her elbow. "You wear white
flannels, you are tall, well built, straight, with very regular
features and a fasci---- a smile," she corrected herself calmly, "which
one naturally associates with your features."

"Also," she continued, "your voice is cultivated and modulated with just
enough of the American accent to make it piquantly agreeable. And what
you say is fasci---- is well expressed and interesting. Therefore, as I
have said, to me you resemble one of your own heroes."

There was enough hot colour in his face to make it boyishly bashful.

"And you appear to be as modest as one of your own heroes," she added,
studying him. "That is truly delightful."

"But really, I am nothing like any of my heroes," he explained, terribly
embarrassed.

"Why do you say that, Mr. Smith?"

"Because it's true. I don't even resemble 'em superficially."

She made a quick, graceful gesture: "Why do you say that, when here you
are before me, the exact and exciting counterpart of the reckless and
fasci---- the reckless and interesting men you write about?"

He said nothing. She closed the parasol and considered him in silence
for a moment or two. Then:

"And I have no doubt that you are capable of doing the very things that
your heroes do so adroitly and so charmingly."

"What, for example?" he asked, reddening to his temples.

"Reconstructing armies, for instance."

"Filibustering?"

"Is that what it is called?"

"It's called that in the countries south of the United States."

"Well, would you not be capable of overturning a government and of
reconstructing the army, Mr. Smith?"

"Capable?"

"Yes."

"Well," he said cautiously, "if it was the thing I wanted to do, perhaps
I might have a try at it."

"I knew it," she exclaimed triumphantly.

"But," he explained, "I never desired to overturn any government."

"You probably have never seen any that you thought worth while
overturning."

Her confident rejoinder perplexed him and he remained silent.

"Also," she continued, still more confidently, "I am certain that if you
were in love, no obstacles would prove too great for you to surmount.
Would they?"

"Really," he said, "I don't know. I'm not very enterprising."

"That is the answer of a delightfully modest man. Your own hero would
return me such an answer, Mr. Smith. But I--and your heroine
also--understand you--I mean your hero."

"Do you?" he asked gravely.

"Certainly. I, as well as your heroine, understand that no obstacles
could check you if you loved her--neither political considerations,
diplomatic exigencies, family prejudices, nor her own rank, no matter
what it might be. Is not that true?"

Eager, enthusiastic, impersonally but warmly interested, she leaned a
little toward him, intent on his reply.

He looked into the lovely, flushed face in silence for a while. Then:

"Yes," he said, "it is true. If I loved, nothing could check me
except----" he shrugged.

"Death?" She nodded, fascinated.

He nodded. He had meant to say the police.

She said exultantly: "I knew it, Mr. Smith! I was certain that you are
the living embodiment of your own heroes! The moment I set eyes on you
playing in the sand with your lead soldiers, I was sure of it!"

Thrilled, she considered him, her soft eyes brilliant with undisguised
admiration.

"I wish I could actually see it!" she said under her breath.

"See what?"

"See you, in real life, as one of your own heroes--doing some of the
things they do so cleverly, so winningly--careless of convention,
reckless of consequences, oblivious to all considerations except only
the affair in hand. That," she said excitedly, "would be glorious, and
well worth a trip to the States!"

"How far," he asked, "have you read in that book of mine?"

"In this book?" She opened it, impulsively, ran over the pages,
hesitated, stopped.

"He was--was kissing the Balkan Princess," she said. "I left them--in
statu quo."

"I see.... Did he do that well?"

"I--suppose so."

"Have you no opinion?"

"I think he did it--very--thoroughly, Mr. Smith."

"It ought to be done thoroughly if done at all," he said reflectively.

"Otherwise," she nodded, "it would be offensive."

"To the reader?"

"To her, too. Wouldn't it?"

"You know better than I."

"No, I don't know. A nice girl can not imagine herself being
kissed--except under very extraordinary circumstances, and by a very
extraordinary man.... Such a man as you have drawn in this book."

"Had you been that Balkan Princess, what would you have done?" he asked,
rather pale.

"I?" she said, startled.

"Yes, you."

She sat considering, blue eyes lost in candid reverie. Then the faintest
smile curved her lips; she looked up at Smith with winning simplicity.

"In your story, Mr. Smith, does the Balkan Princess return his kiss?"

"Not in that chapter."

"I think I would have returned it--in that--chapter." Then, for the
first time, she blushed.

The naïve avowal set the heart and intellect of Mr. Smith afire. But he
only dropped his well-shaped head and didn't look at her. Which was
rather nice of him.

"Romance," he said after a moment or two, "is all well enough. But real
life is stranger than fiction."

"Not in the British Isles," she said with decision. "It is tea and
curates and kennels and stables--as our writers depict it."

"No, you are mistaken! Everywhere it is stranger than fiction," he
insisted--"more surprising, more charming, more wonderful. Even here in
America--here in Florida--here on this tiny point of sand jutting into
the Atlantic, life is more beautiful, more miraculous than any fiction
ever written."

"Why do you say that?" she asked.

"I am afraid I can't tell you why I say it."

"Why can't you tell me?"

"Only in books could what I might have to tell you be logically
told--and listened to----"

"Only in books? But books in America reflect actual life," she said.
"Therefore, you can tell me what you have to tell. Can't you?"

"Can I?" he asked.

"Yes...." Far in the inmost recesses of her calm and maiden heart
something stirred, and her breath ceased for a second.... Innocent, not
comprehending why her breath missed, she looked at him with the
question still in her blue eyes.

"Shall I tell you why real life is stranger than fiction?" he asked
unsteadily.

"Tell me--yes--if----"

"It is stranger," he said, "because it is often more headlong and
romantic. Shall we take ourselves, for example?"

"You and me?"

"Yes. To illustrate what I mean."

She inclined her head, her eyes fixed on his.

"Very well," he said. "Even in the most skillfully constructed
story--supposing that you and I were hero and heroine--no author would
have the impudence to make us avow our love within a few minutes of our
first meeting."

"No," she said.

"In the first chapter," he continued, "certain known methods of
construction are usually followed. Time is essential--the lapse of time.
How to handle it cleverly is a novelist's business. But even the most
skillful novelist would scarcely dare make me, for example, tell you
that I am in love with you. Would he?"

"No," she said.

"And in real life, even if a man does fall in love so suddenly, he does
not usually say so, does he?" he asked.

"No," she said.

"But he does fall in love sometimes more suddenly than in fiction. And
occasionally he declares himself. In real life this actually happens.
And that is stranger than any fiction. Isn't it?"

"Yes," she said.

"One kind of fiction," he continued very unsteadily, "is that in which,
when he falls in love--he doesn't say so--I mean in such a case as
ours--supposing I had already fallen in love with you. I could not say
so to you. No man could say it to any girl. He remains mute. He observes
very formally every convention. He smiles, hat in hand, as the girl
passes out of his life forever.... Doesn't he? And that is one kind of
fiction--the tragic kind."

She had been looking down at the book in her lap. After a moment she
lifted her troubled eyes to his.

"I do--not know what men do--in real life," she said. "What would they
do in the--other kind of fiction?"

"In the other kind of fiction there would be another chapter."

"Yes.... You mean that for us there is only this one chapter."

"Only one chapter."

"Or--might it not be called a short story, Mr. Smith?"

"Yes--one kind of short story."

"Which kind?"

"The kind that ends unhappily."

"But this one is not going to end unhappily, is it?"

"You are about to walk out of the story when it ends."

"Yes--but----" She bit her lip, flushed and perplexed, already
dreadfully confused between the personal and the impersonal--between
fact and fancy.

"You see," he said, "the short story which deals with--love--can end
only as ours is going to end--or the contrary."

"How is ours going to end?" she asked with candid curiosity.

"It must be constructed very carefully," he said, "because this is
realism."

"You must be very skillful, too," she said. "I do not see how you are to
avoid----"

"What?"

"A--an--unhappy--ending."

He looked gravely at his sand castle. "No," he said, "I don't see how it
can be avoided."

After a long silence she murmured, half to herself:

"Still, this is America--after all."

He shrugged, still studying his sand castle.

"I wish I had somebody to help me work it out," he said, half to
himself.

"A collaborator?"

"Yes."

"I'm so sorry that I could not be useful."

"Would you try?"

"What is the use? I am utterly unskilled and inexperienced."

"I'd be very glad to have you try," he repeated.




XI


After a moment she rose, went over and knelt down in the sand before the
miniature city, studying the situation. All she could see of the lead
hero in the bowler hat were his legs protruding from the drain.

"Is this battery of artillery still shelling him?" she inquired, looking
over her shoulder at Smith.

He went over and dropped on his knees beside her.

"You see," he explained, "our hero is still under water."

"All this time!" she exclaimed in consternation. "He'll drown, won't
he?"

"He'll drown unless he can crawl into that drain."

"Then he must crawl into it immediately," she said with decision.

So he of the bowler was marched along a series of pegs indicating the
subterranean drain, and set down in the court of the castle.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed the Lady Alene. "We can't leave him here! They
will know him by his bowler hat!"

"No," said Smith gloomily, "we can't leave him here. But what can we do?
If he runs out they'll fire at him by platoons."

"Couldn't they miss him?" pleaded the girl.

"I'm afraid not. He has already lived through several showers of
bullets."

"But he can't die here!--here under the very eyes of the Princess!"
she insisted.

"Then," said Smith, "the Princess will have to pull him through. It's up
to her now."

The girl knelt there in excited silence, studying the problem intently.

It was bad business. The battlements bristled with bayonets; outside,
cavalry, infantry, artillery were massed to destroy the gentleman in the
bowler hat.

Presently the flush deepened on the girl's cheeks; she took the bowler
hat between her gloved fingers and set its owner in the middle of the
moat again.

"Doesn't he crawl into the drain?" asked Smith anxiously.

"No. But the soldiers in the castle think he does. So," she continued
with animation, "the brutal commander rushes downstairs, seizes a
candle, and enters the drain from the castle court with about a thousand
soldiers!"

"But----"

"With about ten thousand soldiers!" she repeated firmly. "And no
sooner--no sooner--does their brutal and cowardly commander enter that
drain with his lighted candle than the Princess runs downstairs, seizes
a hatchet, severs the gas main with a single blow, and pokes the end of
the pipe into the drain!"

"B-but----" stammered Smith, "I think----"

"Oh, please wait! You don't understand what is coming."

"What is coming?" ventured Smith timidly, instinctively closing both
ears with his fingers.

"Bang!" said Lady Alene triumphantly. And struck the city of sand with
her small, gloved hand.

After a silence, still kneeling there, they turned and looked at each
other through the red sunset light.

"The explosion of gas killed them both," said Smith, in an awed voice.

"No."

"What?"

"No. The explosion killed everybody in the city except those two young
lovers," she said.

"But why?"

"Because!"

"By what logic----"
