who would look one of her millionaire "Papas" 
in the eye and tell him what was what with so 
much decision — it would suddenly occur to the 
great man that if his daughter could be made 
into so capable a woman, he would not care what 
ticket she might vote. 

Then, too, it was testimony to the headway we 
are making; that we are ceasing to be dangerous, 



 

and getting to be picturesque. In these days of 
strenuous social competition, when Manunas are 
almost at their wits' end for some new device, 
when it costs incredible svuns to make no impres- 
sion at all — here was offered a new and inex- 
pensive way of being unique. There could be no 
question that men were getting to like serious 
women; the most amazing subjects were coming 
up at dinner-parties, and you might hear the 
best people speak disrespectfully of their own 
money. Which means that the new Revolution 
will have — not merely its "Egalite Orleans", but 
also some of the ladies of his family! 

I telephoned from Sylvia's house to Mrs. 
Frothingham, who answered, "Wouldn't you like 
Mrs. van Tuiver to hear a speech? I am to 
speak next week at the noon-day Wall Street 
meeting." I passed the question on, and Sylvia 
answered with an exclamation of delight. Would 
a small boy like to attend a circus! 

It was arranged that Sylvia was to take us in 
her car. You may picture me with my grand 
friends — an old speckled hen in the company of 
two golden pheasants. I kept very quiet and let 
them get acquainted — knowing that my cause was 
safe in the hands of one so perfectly tailored as 
Mrs. Frothingham. 

Sylvia expressed her delight at the idea of hear- 
ing a Socialist speech, and her amazement that 
the head of Mrs. Frothingham's should be so 
courageous; and meantime we threaded our way 
through the tangle of trucks and surface-cars on 



 

Broadway, and came to the comer of Wall Street. 
Here Mrs. Frothingham said she would get out 
and walk; it was quite likely that some one might 
recognize Mrs, Douglas van Tuiver, and she ought 
not to be seen arriving with the speaker. Sylvia, 
who would not willingly have committed a breach 
of etiquette towards a bomb-throwing Anarchist, 
protested at this; but Mrs. Frothingham laughed 
good-naturedly, saying that it would be time 
enough for Mrs. van Tuiver to commit herself 
when she knew what she believed. 

The speaking was to be from the steps of the 
Sub-treasury. We made a ditour, and came up 
Broad Street, stopping a little way from the cor- 
ner. These meetings had been held all through 
the summer and fall, so that people had learned 
to expect them; although it lacked some minutes 
of noon, there was already a crowd gathered. A 
group of men stood upon the broad steps, one 
with a red banner, and several others with arm- 
fuls of pamphlets and books. With them was our 
friend, who looked at us and smiled, but gave 
no other sign of recognition. 

Sylvia pushed back the collar of her sable coat, 
and sat erect in her shining blue velvet, her eyes 
and her golden hair shining beneath the small 
brim of a soft velvet hat. As she gazed eagerly 
at the busy throngs of men hurrying about 
this busy comer, she whispered to me, "I haven't 
been so excited since my ddbili party!" 

The crowd increased, imtil it was difficult to 
get through Wall Street. The bell of Old Trinity 



 

was tolling the hour of noon, and the meeting was 
about to begin — when suddenly I heard an excla- 
mation from Sylvia, and turning, saw a well-dressed 
man pushing his way from the office of Morgan 
& Company towards us. Sylvia clutched my hand 
where it lay on the seat of the car, and half gasped, 
"My husband!" 



 



 

Of course I had been anxious to see Douglas 
van Tuiver. I had heard Claire Lepage's account 
of him, and Sylvia's; also I had seen pictures of 
him in the newspapers, and had studied them with 
some care, trying to imagine what sort of person- 
age he might be. I knew that he was twenty- 
four; but the man who came towards us I woiild 
have taken to be forty. His face was sombre, 
with large features and strongly marked lines 
about the mouth; he was tall and thin, and 
moved with decision, betraying no emotion even 
in this moment of surprise. "What are you doing 
here?" were his first words. 

For my part, I was badly "rattled" ; I knew by 
the clutch of Sylvia's hand that she was too. 
But here I got a lesson in the nature of "social 
training". Some of the bright color had faded 
from her face, but she spoke with the utmost 
coolness, the words coming naturally and simply: 
"We can't get through the crowd." And at the 
same time she looked about her, as much as to 
say: "You can see for yom-self." (One of the 
maxims of Lady Dee bad set forth that a lady 
never told a he if she could avoid it.) 

Sylvia's husband looked about, saying, "Why 
don't you call an officer?" He started to follow 
his own suggestion, and I thought then that 
my friend would miss her meeting. But she had 
more nerve than I imagined. 



 

"No," she said. "Please don't." 

"Why not?" Still there was no emotion in the 
cold, grey eyes. 

"Because — I think there's something going on." 

"What of that?" 

"I'm not in a hurry, and I'd like to see." 

He stood for a moment, looking at the crowd. 
Mrs. Frothingham had come forward, evidently 
intending to speak. "What is this, Ferris?" 
he demanded, of the chauffem-. 

"I'm not sm-e, sir," said the man. "I think 
it's a Socialist meeting." (He was, of course, not 
missing the little comedy. I wondered what he 
thought!) 

"A Socialist meeting?" said van Tuiver; then 
to his wife, "You don't want to stay for that!" 

Again Sylvia astonished me, "I'd like to, very 
much," she answered, simply. 

He made no reply. I saw him stare at her, 
and then I saw his glance take me in. I sat in a 
corner, as inconspicuous as I could make myself. 
I wondered whether I was a sempstress or a 
tutor, and whether either of these functionaries 
were introduced, and whether they shook hands 
or not. 

Mrs. Frotiiingham had taken her stand at the 
base of Washington's statue. Had she by any 
chance identified the tall and immaculate gentle- 
man who stood beside the automobile? Before 
she had said three sentences I made sure that she 
had done so; and I was appalled at her audacity. 

"Fellow citizens," she began — "fellow 



 

buccaneers of Wall Street." And when the mild 
laughter had subsided, "What I have to say is 
going to be addressed to one individual among 
you— the American millionaire. I assimie there 
is one present — if no actual millionaire, then surely 
several who are destined to be, and not less than a 
thousand who aspire to be. So hear me, Mr. 
Milhonaire." This with a smile, which gave you 
a sense of her reserve-fund of energy and good 
hmnor. She had the crowd with her from the 
start — all but one. I stole a glance at the milhon- 
aire, and saw that he was not smiling. 

"Won't you get in?" asked his wife; and he 
answered, coldly, "No. I'll wait till you've had 
enough." 

"Last summer I had a curious experience," 
said the speaker. "I was a guest at a tennis- 
match, played upon the grounds of a State insane 
asylum, the players being the doctors of the insti- 
tution. Here, on a beautiful sunshiny afternoon, 
were ladies and gentlemen clad in festive white, 
enjoying a hohday — while in the background stood 
a frowning building with iron-barred gates and 
windows, from which one heard now and then the 
bowlings of maniacs. Some of the less unf ortimate 
of these victims of fate had been let loose, and 
while we played tennis, they chased the balls. 
All afternoon, while I sipped tea and chatted 
and watched the games, I said to myself, 'Here 
is the most perfect simile of our civilization that 
has ever come to me! Some people wear white 
and play tennis all day, while other people chase 



 

the balls, of howl in dungeons in the background!' 
And that is the problem I wish to put before my 
American millionaire — the problem of what I will 
call our lunatic-asylum stage of civilization. Mind 
you, this condition is all very well, so long as we 
can say that the limatics are incurable — that there 
is nothing we can do but shut om* ears to their 
howling, and go ahead with our tennis. But 
suppose the idea were to dawn upon us that it 
is only because we play tennis all day that the 
limatic asylum is crowded — then might not the 
howls grow unendurable to us, and the game lose 
its charm?" 

Stealing glances about me, I saw that several 
people were watching the forty-or-fifty-times-over 
milhonaire; they had evidently recognized him, 
and were enjoying the joke. "Haven't you had 
enough of this?" he suddenly demanded, of his 
wife; and she answered, guilelessly, "No, let's 
wait. I'm interested." 

"Now, listen to me, Mr. American Milhonaire," 
the speaker was contiauing. "You are the one 
who plays tennis; and we, who chase the balls 
for you — we are the lunatics. And my purpose 
today is to prove to you that it is only because 
you play tennis all the day that we have to chase 
balls all the day; and to tell you that some time 
soon we are going to cease to be lunatics, and that 
then you will have to chase your own balls! 
And don't, in your amusement over this illustra- 
tion, lose sight of the serious nature of what I 
am talking about — the horrible economic lunacy 



 

which is known as poverty, and which is respon- 
sible for most of the evils we have in this world 
today — for crime and prostitution, suicide, insan- 
ity and war. My purpose is to show you — not 
by any guess of mine, or any appeals to your faith, 
but by cold business facts which can be understood 
in Wall Street, that this economic limacy is one 
which can be cured; that we have the remedy in 
our hands, and lack nothing but the intelligence 
to apply it." 



 



 

I DO not want to bore you with a Socialist 
speech. I only want to give you an idea of the 
trap into which Mr. Douglas van Tuiver had been 
drawn. He stood there, rigidly aloof while the 
speaker went on to explain the basic facts of 
wealth-production in modem society. She quoted 
from Kropotkin — "'Fields, Factories and Work- 
shops,' on sale at this meeting for a quarter!" 
— showing how by modern intensive farming — 
no matter of theory, but methods which were in 
commercial use in himdreds of places — it would 
be possible to feed the entire population of the 
globe from the soil of the British Isles alone. 
She showed by the bulletins of the United States 
government how the machine process had increased 
the productive power of the individual laborer 
ten, twenty, a himdred fold. So vast was man's 
power of producing wealth today — and yet the 
laborer Hved in dire want just as in the days of 
crude hand-industry! 

So she came back to her millionaire, upon whom 
this evil rested. He was the master of the machine, 
for whose profit the laborer had to produce. He 
could only employ the laborer to produce what 
could be sold at a profit; and so the stream of 
prosperity was choked at its source. "It is you, 
Mr. Millionaire, who are to blame for poverty; 
it is because so many millions of dollars must 




be paid to you in profits that so many millions 
of men must live in want. In other words, pre- 
cisely as I declared at the outset, it is your playing 
tennis which is responsible for the lunatics chas- 
ing the balls!" 

I wish that I might give some sense of the 
speaker's mastery of this situation, and the extent 
to which she had communicated her good-humor 
to the crowd. You heard ripple after ripple of 
laughter, you saw everywhere about you eager 
faces, following every turn of the aiinnent. No 
one could resist the contagion of interest — save 
only the American millionaire! He stood impas- 
sive, never once smiling, never once betraying 
a trace of feeling. Venturing to watch him more 
closely, however, I could see the stem lines deepen- 
ing about his mouth, and his long, lean face grow- 
ing more set. 

The speaker had outlined the remedy — a change 
from the system of production for profit to one of 
production for use. She went on to explain how 
the change was coming; the lunatic-classes were 
beginning to doubt the divine nature of the 
rules of the asylimi, and they were preparing to 
mutiny, and take possession of the place. And 
here I saw that Sylvia's hiisband had reached his 
limit. He turned to her. "Haven't you had 
enou of this?" 

"Why, no," she began. "If you don't 
mind " 

"I do mind very much," he said, abruptly. 
"I think you are committing a breach of taste 



 

to stay here, and I would be greatly obliged if you 
would leave." 

And without really waiting for Sylvia's reply 
he directed, "Back out of here, Ferris." 

The chauffeur cranked up, and sounded his 
horn — which naturally had the effect of disturbing 
the meeting. People supposed we were going 
to try to get through the crowd ahead — and there 
was no place where anyone could move. But 
van Tuiver went to the rear of the car, saying, in 
a voice of quiet authority: "A httle room here, 
please." And so, foot by foot, we backed away 
from the meeting, and when we had got clear of 
the throng, the master of the car stepped in, and 
we turned and made our way down Broad Street. 

And now I was to get a lesson in the aristocratic 
ideal. Of course van Tuiver was angry; I believe 
he even siispected his wife of having known of the 
meeting. I supposed he woidd ask some ques- 
tions; I supposed that at least he would express 
his opinion of the speech, his disgust that a woman 
of education should make such a spectacle of her- 
self. Such husbands as I had been familiar with 
had never hesitated to vent their feelings under 
such circmnstances. But from Douglas van 
Tuiver there came — not a word ! He sat, perfectly 
straight, staring before him, like a sphinx; and 
Sylvia, after one or two swift glances at him, began 
to gossip cheerfully about her plans for the day- 
nursery for working-women! 

So for a few blocks, until suddenly she leaned 
forward. "Stop here, Ferris." And then, turn- 



 

ing to me, "Here is the American Trust Com- 
pany." 

"The American Trust Company?" I echoed, 
in my dumb stupidity. 

"Yes — that is where the check is payable," 
said Sylvia, and gave me a pinch. 

And so I comprehended, and gathered up my 
belongings and got out. She shook my hand 
warmly, and her husband raised his hat in a very 
formal salute, after which the car sped on up the 
street. I stood staring after it, in somewhat the 
state of mind of any humble rustic who may have 
been present when Ehjah was borne into the 
heavens by the chariot of fire! 



 



 

Sylvia had been something less than polite 
to me ; and so I had not been home more than an 
hour before there came a messenger-boy with a 
note. By way of reassming her, I promised to 
come to see her the next morning; and when I 
did, and saw her lovely face so full of concern, 
I forgot entirely her worldly greatness, and did 
what I had longed to do from the beginning- 
put my arms about her and kissed her. 

"My dear girl," I protested, "I don't want 
to be a bxirden in your life — I want to help 
you!" 

"But," she exclaimed, "what must you have 
thought " 

"I thought I had made a lucky escape!" I 
laughed. 

She was proud — proud as an Indian ; it was hard 
for her to make admissions about her husband. 
But then— we were hke two errant school-girls, 
who had been caught in an escapade! "I don't 
know what I'm going to do about him," she said, 
with a wry smile. "He really won't listen — I 
can't make any impression on him." 

"Did he guess that you'd come there on pur- 
pose?" I asked. 

"I told him," she answered. 

"Yon told himV 

"I'd meant to keep it secret — I wouldn't have 



 

minded telling him a fib about a little thing. 
But he made it so very serious!" 

I could understand that it must have been 
serious after the telling. I waited for her to add 
what news she chose. 

"It seems," she said, "that my husband has a 
cousin, a pupil at Mrs. Frothingham's. You 
can imagine!" 

"I can imagine Mrs. Frothingham may lose 
a pupil." 

"No — my husband says his Uncle Archibald 
always was a fool. But how can anyone be so 
narrow! He seemed to take Mrs. Frothingham 
as a personal affront." 

This was the most definite bit of vexation 
against her husband that she had ever let me see. 
I decided to turn it into a jest. "Mrs. Frothing- 
ham will be glad to know she was understood," 
I said. 

"But seriously — why can't men have open minds 
about politics and money?" She went on, in a 
worried voice. "I knew he was like this when I 
met him at Harvard. He was living in his own 
house, aloof from the poorer men — the men who 
were most worth while, it seemed to me. And 
when I told him of the bad effect he was having 
on these men, and on his own character as well, 
he said he would do whatever I asked — he even 
gave up his house and went to live in a dormitory. 
So I thought I had some influence on him. But 
now, here is the same thing again — only I find 
that one can't take a stand against one's husband. 



 

At least, he doesn't admit the right." She 
hesitated. "It doesn't seem loyal to talk about 
it." 

"My dear girl," I said, with an impulse of can- 
dor, "there isn't much you can tell me about 
that problem. My own marriage went to pieces 
on that rock." 

I saw a look of surprise upon her face. "I 
haven't told you my story yet," I said. "Some 
day I will — when you feel you know me well 
enough for us to exchange confidences." 

There was more than a hint of invitation in 
this. After a silence, she said, "One's instinct 
is to hide one's troubles." 

"Sylvia," I answered, "let me tell you about 
us. You must realize that you've been a wonder- 
ful person to me; you belong to a world I never 
had anything to do with, and never expected to 
get a glimpse of. It's the wickedness of our 
class-civillzation that hiunan beings can't be just 
human beings to each other — a king can hardly 
have a friend. Even after I've overcome the 
impulse I have to be awed by your luxury and your 
grandness, I'm conscious of the fact that everybody 
else is awed by them. If I so much as mention 
that I've met you, I see people start and stare at 
me — instantly I become a personage. It makes 
me angry, because I want to know you." 

She was gazing at me, not sayiag a word. I 
went on: "I'd never have thought it possible 
for anyone to be in your position, and be real and 
straight and human; but I realize that you have 



 

managed to work that miracle. So I want to love 
you and help you — in every way I know how. 
But you must imderstand, I can't ask for your 
confidence, as I could for any other woman's. 
There is too much vulgar curiosity about the 
rich and great — and I can't pretend to be unaware 
of that hatefulness, I can't help shrinking from it. 
So all I can say is — if you need me, if you ever 
need a real friend, why, here I am; you may be 
sure I understand, and won't tell your secrets to 
anyone else." 

With a little mist of tears in her eyes, Sylvia 
put out her hand and touched mine. And so we 
went into a chamber alone together, and shut the 
cold and suspicious world outside. 



 



 

We knew each other well enough now to dis- 
cuss the topic which has been the favorite 
of women since we sat in the doorways of caves, 
and pounded wild graia in stone naortars: the 
question of our lords, who had gone hunting, 
and who might be pleased to beat us on their 
return. I learned all that Sylvia had been 
taught on the subject of the male animal; I opened 
that amazing unwritten volume of woman tradi- 
tions, the maxims of Lady Dee Lysle. 

Sylvia's maternal great-aimt had been a great 
lady out of a great age — and incidentally a grim 
and grizzled veteran of the sex-war. Her philos- 
ophy started from a recognition of the physical 
and economic inferiority of woman, as complete 
as any window-smashing suffragette could have 
