
"Tell me your story," urged Kathlyn kindly.  "Be not afraid of these
men.  I shall make you my lady in waiting . . . so long as I am queen,"
with a searching glance at Umballa's face.  She learned nothing from
the half smile there.

Pundita's narrative was rather long but not uninteresting.  She had
learned English from the old white priest who had died during the last
plague.  She was of high caste; and far back in the days of the Great
Mogul in Delhi her forebears had ruled here; but strife and rebellion
had driven them forth.  In order that her immediate forebear might
return to their native state and dwell in peace they had waived all
possible rights of accession.  They had found her husband standing over
a dead man in the bazaars.  He was innocent.

Umballa smoothed his chin.  Pundita had not told her queen how he,
Umballa, had made the accusation, after having been refused money by
Ramabai.  He secretly admired the diplomacy of the young woman.  He did
not at this moment care to push his enmity too far.  As a matter of
fact, he no longer cared about her; at least, not since his arrival at
the Hare wild animal farm in California.

"Where is this man Ramabai confined?" demanded Kathlyn.

"In the murderers' pit in the elephant arena."

"Send and bring him here.  I am certain that he is innocent."

So they brought in Ramabai in chains.  Behind him came a Nautch girl,
at whom Umballa gazed puzzledly.  What part had she in this affair?  He
soon found out.

"Who are you?" he asked.

"I am Lalla Ghori, and I live over the shoemaker, Lal Singh, in the
Kashmir Gate bazaar.  I dance."

"And why are you here?"

"I saw the murder.  Ramabai is innocent.  He came upon the scene only
after the murderer had fled.  They were fighting about me," naively.
"I was afraid to tell till now."

"Knock off those chains," said Kathlyn.  Of Pundita she asked: "Does
he, too, speak English?"

"Yes, heaven born."

"Then for the present he shall become my bodyguard.  You shall both
remain here in the palace."

"Ah, Your Majesty!" interposed Umballa.  Pundita he did not mind, but
he objected to Ramabai, secretly knowing him to be a revolutionist,
extremely popular with the people and the near-by ryots (farmers), to
whom he loaned money upon reasonable terms.

"If I am queen, I will it," said Kathlyn firmly.  "If I am only a
prisoner, end the farce at once."

"Your majesty's word is law," and Umballa bowed, hiding as best he
could his irritation.

The next afternoon he began to enact the subtle plans he had formed
regarding Kathlyn.  He brought her certain documents and petitions to
sign and went over them carefully with her.  Once, as she returned a
document, he caught her hand and kissed it.  She withdrew it roughly,
flaming with anger.  He spread his hands apologetically.  He was on
fire for her, but he possessed admirable control.  He had the right to
come and go; as regent he could enter the zenana without being
accompanied by the council.  But, thereafter, when he arrived with the
day's business she contrived to have Pundita near and Ramabai within
call.  On the sixth day he cast all discretion to the winds and seized
her violently in his arms.  And, though she defended her lips, her
cheeks and neck were defiled.  She stepped back; the hidden dagger
flashed.

"A step nearer," she cried, low voiced, "and I will strike."

Umballa recoiled.  This was no longer Sa'adi's houri but the young
woman who had mastered the lion in the railway train.  Rage supplanted
the passion in his heart.  Since she would not bend, she should break.
As her arm sank he sprang forward like a cat and seized her wrist.  He
was not gentle.  The dagger tinkled as it struck the marble floor.  He
stooped for it.

"Since you will not bend, break!" he said, and left the chamber, cold
with fury.

Kathlyn sank weakly upon her pillows as Pundita ran to her side.

"What shall I do, Pundita?"

"God knows, Mem-sahib!"

"Are you a Christian?"

"Yes."

And so they comforted each other.



There was a garden in the palace grounds, lovely indeed.  A fountain
tinkled and fat carp swam about in the fluted marble basin.  There were
trellises of flowers, too.  Persian roses, despite the fact that it was
still winter.  It was called the garden of brides.

Kathlyn, attended by Pundita, awaited there the coming of Umballa and
the council.  Her heart ached with bitterness and she could not think
clearly.  The impression that all this was some dreadful nightmare
recurred to her vividly.  What terrors awaited her she knew not nor
could conceive.  Marry that smiling demon?--for something occult told
her that he was a demon.  No; she was ready to die . . .  And but a
little while ago she had been working happily in the outdoor studio;
the pet leopard sprawled at her feet; from the bungalow she heard the
nightingale voice of Winnie, soaring in some aria of Verdi's; her
father was dozing on the veranda.  Out of that, into this!  It was
incredible.  From time to time she brushed her forehead, bewildered.

In this mood, bordering on the hysterical (which is sometimes but a
step to supreme courage), Durga Ram, so-called Umballa, and the council
found her.  The face of the former was cold, his eyes steady and
expressionless.

"Has your majesty decided?" asked the eldest of the council.

"Yes," quietly.

"And your decision is?"

"No, absolutely and finally.  There is no reason why I should obey any
of your laws; but there is a good reason why all of you shall some day
be punished for this outrage."

"Outrage!  To be made queen of Allaha?"  The spokesman for the council
stamped his foot in wrath.

"Think!" said Umballa.

"I have thought.  Let us have no more of this cat-and-mouse play.  I
refuse to marry you.  I'd much prefer any beggar in the street.  There
is nothing more to be said."

"There are worse things than marriage."

"What manner of indignities have you arranged for me?"  Her voice was
firm, but the veins in her throat beat so hardily that they stifled her.

Said the spokesman of the council: "We have found a precedent.  We find
that one hundred and ninety years ago a like case confused the council
of that day.  They finally agreed that she must submit to two ordeals
with wild beasts of the jungle.  If she survived she was to be
permitted to rule without hindrance.  It would be a matter for the gods
to decide."

"Are you really human beings?" asked Kathlyn, her lips dry.  "Can you
possibly commit such a dreadful crime against one who has never harmed
you, who asks for nothing but the freedom to leave this country?"

Pundita secretly caught Kathlyn's hand and pressed it.

"Once more!" said Umballa, his compassion touched for the first time.
But he had gone too far; for the safety of his own head he must go on.

"I am ready!"

The four men salaamed gravely.  They turned, the flowing yellow robes
of the council fluttering in the wind, the sun lighting with green and
red fires the hilt of Umballa's sword.  Not one of them but would have
emptied his private coffers to undo what he had done.  It was too late.
Already a priest had announced the ordeals to the swarming populace.
You feed a tiger to pacify him; you give a populace a spectacle.

That night Umballa did not rest particularly well.  But he became
determined upon one thing: no actual harm should befall Kathlyn.  He
would have a marksman hidden near by in both ordeals.  What a woman!
She was a queen, and he knew that he would go through all the hells of
Hind to call her his.  Long ere this he would have looted the treasure
chests and swept her up on his racing elephant had he dared.  Sa'adi's
houri!

A thousand times he heard it through the night:

"I am ready!"




CHAPTER IV

HOW TIME MOVES

Meantime Lal Singh was hurrying on a racing camel toward the railway,
toward Simla, more than a thousand miles away.  He was happy.  Here was
the long delayed opportunity for the hand of the British Raj: a captive
white woman.  What better excuse was needed?  There would be armed Sikhs
and Gurhas and Tommies near Rawal Pindi.  Ai! how time moved, how fate
twisted!  How the finest built castle in schemes came clattering down!
At the very moment when he had secretly worked upon the king to throw
himself into the protecting arms of the British Raj--assassinated!  The
council?  Umballa?  Some outsider, made mad by oppression?  The egg of
Brahma was strangely hatched--this curious old world!

Ahmed remained hidden in the bazaars, to await the ordeals.  Nothing
should harm his mistress; he was ready now and at all times to lay down
his life for her; in this the British Raj came second.  He had sent a
courier to Bruce Sahib's bungalow, but the man had returned to report
that it was still unoccupied.

And while he bit his nails in futile wrath and smoked till his tongue
grew bitter, some miles away there was much confusion in the jungle by
the water.  Tents were being set up, native bearers and coolies were
running to and fro, building fires, carrying water, hobbling the pack
elephants.  Wandering in and out of this animated scene was a young man,
clean shaven, deeply tanned, with blue eyes which were direct, small
pupiled, yet kindly.  Presently he called to one of the head men.

"Ali, you might send three or four men on to the bungalow to clean up
things.  We shall make it tomorrow.  It's but two hours' ride, but
there's no hurry; and besides there's a herd of elephants behind us
somewhere.  They've come up far for this time of year."

"Any news worth while?"

"Yes, Sahib."

Ali made a gesture; it signified a great many things.

"Bruce Sahib will not believe."

"Believe what?" said Bruce, emptying his pipe against his heel.

"There is a white queen in the city."

"What?  What bally nonsense is this?"

"It is only what I've been told, Sahib.  Hare Sahib is dead."

Bruce let his pipe slip through his fingers.  "Hare?  Good lord!"

"Yes, Sahib.  But that is not all.  It seems the king went mad after we
went to Africa.  You remember how Hare Sahib saved him from the leopard?
Well, he made Hare Sahib his heir.  He had that right; the law of the
childless king has always read so in Allaha.  The white queen is Hare
Sahib's daughter."

Bruce leaned against a tent pole.  "Am I dreaming or are you?" he gasped.

"It is what they tell me, Sahib.  I know it not as a fact."

"The king dead, Hare dead, and his daughter on the throne!  How did she
get here?  And what the devil is a chap to do?"  Bruce stooped and
recovered his pipe and swore softly.  "Ali, if this is true, then it's
some devil work; and I'll wager my shooting eye that that sleek scoundrel
Umballa, as they call him, is at the bottom of it.  A white woman, good
old Hare's daughter.  I'll look into this.  It's the nineteenth century,
Ali, and white women are not made rulers over the brown, not of their own
free will.  Find out all you can and report to me," and Bruce dismissed
his servant and fell to pacing before his tent.

The native who had spread this astounding news in Bruce's camp was
already hastening back to the city, some fourteen miles away.  He had
been a bheestee (water carrier) to the house of Ramabai up to the young
banker's incarceration.  To him, then, he carried the news that a white
hunter had arrived outside the city--"Bruce Sahib has returned!"

Ramabai lost no time in taking this news to Kathlyn.

"Ramabai, I have saved your life; save mine.  Go at once to him and tell
him that I am a prisoner but am called a queen; tell him I am Colonel
Hare's daughter, she who traveled with him on the same ship from Hongkong
to Singapore.  Go!  Tell him all, the death of my father and Umballa's
treachery.  Hasten!"

Bruce was eating his simple evening meal when Ramabai arrived.

"Bruce Sahib?"

"Yes.  Your face is familiar."

"You have been twice to my bank.  I am Ramabai."

"I remember.  But what are you doing here?"

"I have come for aid, Sahib, aid for a young woman, white like yourself."

"Then it is true?  Go ahead and let me have all the facts.  She is Hare
Sahib's daughter; Ali told me that.  Precious rigmarole of some sort.
The facts!"

"She is also the young lady who traveled in the same boat from Hongkong
to Singapore."  Ramabai paused to see the effect of this information.

Bruce lowered his fork slowly.  The din about him dwindled away into
nothing.  He was again leaning over the rail, watching the
phosphorescence trail away, a shoulder barely touching his: one of the
few women who had ever stirred him after the first glance.  In God's
name, why hadn't she said something?  Why hadn't she told him she was
Colonel Hare's daughter?  How was he to know?  (For Hare, queerly enough,
had never shown his young friend the photographs of his daughters.)
Perhaps he had been at fault; he, too, had scarcely stirred from his
shell.  And where was that scoundrel Rao?

"I shall enter the city as soon as I can settle my bungalow.  This rather
knocks me out."

"No, Sahib; don't wait: come back with me!"  Quickly he outlined the
desperate straits in which Kathlyn stood.  "To-morrow may be too late."

"Ali!" called Bruce, rising.

"Yes, Sahib."

"The Pasha.  No questions.  Give him water.  Use the hunting howdah.
Both guns and plenty of cartridges.  That's all."  The young man ran into
his sleeping tent and presently came forth with a pair of ugly looking
Colts; for this was before the days of the convenient automatics.  "All
aboard, Ramabai!"  Bruce laughed; the sound was as hard and metallic as
the click of the cartridge belt as he slung it round his waist; but it
was music to Ramabai's ears.  "Trust me.  There shan't be any ordeals;
not so you would notice it. . . .  Great God!  A white woman, one of my
kind! . . .  All right, Ali; quick work.  Thanks!"

"There will be many pitfalls, Sahib," said Ramabai.

"Indeed!"

"I have some influence with the populace, but Umballa has the army, paid
for.  The priests and the council are back of him.  And, after all, the
priests are most to be feared.  They can always sway the people through
fear."

Bruce laughed again.  "Either Kathlyn Hare will be free to-morrow or
Umballa and the council meat for the jackals . . . or I shall be," he
added, in afterthought.  "Now, do not speak till I speak.  I wish to
think, for I've got to act quickly; I can't make any mistakes when I get
there."

Far away a brown figure in clout and drab turban watched the young man.
When he saw the elephant with the hunting howdah he knew that he had the
information for which his master had detailed him to follow, night and
day, the young banker Ramabai.  The white hunter was coming hot-foot to
the city.  He turned and ran.  Running was his business; he was as
tireless as a camel and could run twenty and thirty miles at a stretch.
The soles of his feet were as tough as elephant's hide.  Thus he reached
the city an hour before Bruce and Ramabai.

When Bruce and the native banker arrived at the gate coolies stood about
with torches.  Suddenly beyond the gate half a regiment drew up.  The
officer in charge raised his hand warningly.

"The white hunter is Bruce Sahib?"

"Yes."  Bruce spoke the dialects with passable fluency.

"Good.  The Sahib will be pleased to dismount."

"I am on my way to the palace."

"That is impossible, Sahib."  At a sign from the officer the troopers
extended their guns at half aim.  It was a necessary precaution.  These
white sahibs were generally a mad people and were quick to shoot.
"Please dismount, Sahib.  It is the orders."

Bruce's mahout, who was a Rajput Mohammedan, turned his head to learn
what his master had to say.  Bruce, pale under his tan, nodded.  The
mahout reached down with his silver tipped goad and touched the elephant
on the knee.  The big brute slowly and ponderously kneeled.  Bruce
stepped out of the howdah, followed by Ramabai, who saw that in some
unaccountable manner they had been betrayed.  He was sick at heart.

Two troopers stepped forward and took possession of the rifles which were
slung on each side of the howdah.  Bruce accepted the situation
philosophically; argument or protest was futile.  Next they took away his
cartridge belt.  He trembled for a moment with apprehension, but the
troopers did not search him further; and he thanked God for the wisdom
which had made him strap his revolvers under his armpits.

"What now?" he demanded.

"The Sahib will be given his guns and ammunition the hour he starts back
to camp."

"And in the meantime?"

"The Sahib is free to come and go about the city so long as he does not
approach the palace.  If he is found in the vicinity of the zenana he
will be arrested and imprisoned."

"This is all very high-handed."

"Sahib, there is no British Raj here.  The orders of the regent and the
council are final.  Submit."

"Very well."

"Ramabai!"

Ramabai stepped forward.  By a kind of clairvoyance he saw what was
coming.

"Ramabai, the orders are that you shall retire to your house and remain
there till further orders."

"I am the queen's body-guard."

"Ai!  Well said!  But I do not take my orders from the queen--yet.  Obey.
The Sahib may accompany you if he wishes; there are no orders against
that.  The Sahib's elephant will be lodged in the royal stables; the
mahout will see that he is fed and watered."

"We have been betrayed," said Ramabai.  "I know not how."

"You were followed.  A moment," said Bruce, turning to the officer.  "I
have a servant by the name of Rao.  I believe he acted as bearer to the
young lady at the palace.  What has become of him?"

The officer smiled and shook his head.

"Rao is a prisoner, then," thought the young man.  "That black scoundrel
Umballa is at least thorough."  Aloud he said: "We shall go at once to
your house, Ramabai."

And all through the night they planned and planned, but not knowing where
the first ordeal was to take place, nor the hour, they found themselves
going round in a circle, getting nowhere.  To a man of action like Bruce
it was maddening.  He walked out of the house into the garden and back
again at least a dozen times, always to find Ramabai with his head held
despairingly in his hands.  Another time Bruce opened the door to the
street; two troopers squatted on each side of the threshold.  Umballa was
in earnest.  The rear gate was also guarded.  How to get Ramabai out,
that was the problem.

He slept a little before dawn, and was aroused by voices below.  He
listened.

"I am Jawahir Lal, the water carrier.  Each day at dawn I water the
garden of Ramabai to pay a debt."

Bruce looked toward Ramabai, who slept the sleep of the profoundly
wearied.  A bheestee, perhaps a messenger.

"Go around to the rear gate, which can be opened," said the trooper.

Bruce went to the window overlooking the garden.  He saw the water
carrier enter through the bamboo gate, heard the water slosh about
jerkily as the bheestee emptied his goatskin.  He watched the man
curiously; saw him drop the skin and tiptoe toward the house, glance to
right and left alertly.  Then he disappeared.  Presently at the head of
the stairs Bruce heard a whisper--"Ramabai!"

"Who is it?" Bruce whispered in the dialect.

"Ahmed."

Ahmed.  Who was Ahmed?

Bruce shook Ramabai.  "Ahmed is here.  Who is he?" he asked softly.

"Ahmed?" drowsily.  Then, wide awake enough: "Ahmed?  He was Hare Sahib's
head animal man.  Where is he?"

"Hush!  Not so loud.  Come up, Ahmed; I am Bruce.  Let us speak in
English."

"Good!"  Ahmed came into the chamber.  "To see Bruce Sahib is good.
To-morrow my master's daughter is to be carried into the jungle.  The
Mem-sahib is to be tied inside a tiger trap, bait for the cat.  That is
the first ordeal."

"Shaitan!" murmured Ramabai.

"Go on, Ahmed."

"The cage will be set near the old peepul tree, not far from the south
gate.  Now, you, Sahib, and you, Ramabai, must hide somewhere near.  It
is the law that if she escapes the ordeal from unexpected sources she is
free, at least till the second ordeal.  I know not what that is at
present or when it is to take place.  The troops will be there, and the
populace, the council, the priest and Umballa.  I shall have two swift
camels near the clump of bamboo.  I may not be there, but some one will.
She must be hurried off before the confusion dies away.  Must, Sahib.
There must be no second ordeal."

"But how am I to get out of here?" asked Ramabai.  "Guards all about, and
doubtless bidden to shoot if I stir!"

"Tch!  Tch!" clicked Ahmed.  He unwound his dirty turban and slipped out
of the ragged shirtlike frock.  "These and the water skin below.  A
bheestee entered, a bheestee goes out.  What is simpler than that?  It is
not light enough for the soldiers to notice.  There is food and water
here.  Trust me to elude those bhang-guzzlers outside.  Am I a ryot, a
farmer, to twist naught but bullocks' tails?"

"Ahmed," said Bruce, holding out his hand, "you're a man."

"Thanks, Sahib," dryly.  "But hasten!  At dawn to-morrow, or late
to-night, Ramabai returns with a full water skin.  The Mem-sahib must at
least stand the ordeal of terror, for she is guarded too well.  Yet, if
they were not going to bind her, I should not worry.  She has animal
magic in her eye, in her voice.  I have seen wild beasts grow still when
she spoke.  Who knows?  Now, I sleep."

Bruce and Ramabai had no difficulty in passing the guards.  The white
hunter was free to come and go, and the sleepy soldiers saw the water
skin which Ramabai threw carelessly over his head.  They sat down against
the wall again and replenished the dung fire.  Bruce and Ramabai wisely
made a wide detour to the peepul tree, which they climbed, disturbing the
apes and the parrakeets.

Somewhere near eight o'clock they heard the creaking of wheels and a
murmur of voices.  Shortly into their range of vision drew a pair of
bullocks, pulling a tiger trap toward the clearing.  This cage was of
stout wood with iron bars.  The rear of the cage was solid; the front had
a falling door.  The whole structure rested upon low wheels, and there
was a drop platform which rested upon the ground.  An iron ring was
attached to the rear wall, and to this was generally tied a kid, the
bleating of which lured the tiger for which the trap was laid.  The
moment the brute touched the bait the falling door slid down, imprisoning
the prowler.

When Bruce saw this damnable thing he understood, and he shook with
horror and voiceless rage.  He caught Ramabai by the arm so savagely that
a low cry came from the brown man's lips.

"Patience, Sahib!" he warned.  "Without you what will the Mem-sahib do?
They will tie her in that and liberate a tiger.  The rest lies with you,
Sahib."

"Ramabai, as God hears me, some one shall pay for this! . . .  The
nineteenth century, and I am wide awake!  I may not be able to kill the
brute with these revolvers, but I'll stop him, even if I have to use my
bare hands. . . .  Kathlyn Hare!"

"Hush!" again warned Ramabai, hugging his perch.

Later by half an hour Bruce witnessed a spectacle such as few white men,
happily for their reason, are permitted to see.  Kathlyn, in her royal
robes (for ordeals of this character were ceremonials), a necklace of
wonderful emeralds about her throat, stepped from her palanquin and stood
waiting.  From other vehicles and conveyances stepped Umballa, the
council and the yellow robed priests.  Troops also appeared, and behind
them the eager expectant populace.  They were to be amused.  There were
many of them, however, who hoped that a miracle would happen.

"Ramabai," whispered Bruce, "she is as beautiful as a dream.  If I had
only known!  Well, there's going to be a miracle.  See how straight she
stands; not a sign of fear in her face.  There's a woman . . . a woman
for me!" he added under his breath.

He saw the bejeweled turban of Umballa bend toward the girl, and it was
hard to resist taking a pot at the man.  Kathlyn shook her head.
Thereupon she was led to the trap, her hands bound and the rope round her
waist attached securely to the ring.

Ah, they talked about it that night in the surging bazaars, in the
palace, wherever two persons came together: how the white hunter had
appeared from nowhere, rushed toward the trap as the tiger approached,
entered and dropped the door, blazed away at the beast, who turned tail
and limped off into the jungle.  Ai!  It was a sight for eyes.  They
could laugh behind Umballa's back, the gutter born, the iron heeled
upstart; they could riddle (confidentially) the council with rude jests.
The law was the law; and none, not even the priests in their shaven polls
and yellow robes, might slip beyond the law as it read.  The first ordeal
was over.  Nor, as the law read, could they lay hands upon this brave
young man.  Ai! it was good.  Umballa must look elsewhere for his chief
wife; the Mem-sahib would not adorn his zenana.  It was more than good,
for now there would be a second ordeal; more amusement, perhaps another
miracle.  True, they had taken away the pistols of the white Sahib, but
he had his hands.

"Thank you," Kathlyn had said.  "Somehow I knew you would come."  And
what she had seen in his eyes had made her tremble visibly for the first
time that day.

She was conducted back to the palace.  The populace howled and cheered
about her palanquin to the very gates.  Not in many a big rain had they
had such excitement.

The fury in Umballa's heart might have disquieted Bruce had he known of
its existence.

Kathlyn, arriving in her chamber, flung herself down upon her cushions
and lay there like one dead, nor would she be comforted by the worshiping
Pundita.  Bruce had saved her this time, but it was not possible that he
could repeat the feat.

Having convinced Umballa and the council that she would not marry her
persecutor, the council announced to the populace that on the next fete
day the queen would confront the lions in the elephant arena.  What could
one man do against such odds?  Lions brought from the far Nubian deserts,
fierce, untamable.

That night there was  a conference between Bruce, Ahmed and Ramabai.

"They have taken my guns away, and God knows I can't do the impossible.
Where the devil were your camels, Ahmed?"

"Umballa has his spies, Ramabai," said Ahmed, smiling, as he got into his
bheestee rags, which Ramabai had surrendered willingly enough: "Ramabai,
