above the woods. 
She waited. At last she concluded that there 
were to be no more balloons. Then a sudden 
fear assailed her lest she had waited too long 
to investigate; and she sprang to her feet, 
hurried over the single plank used as a foot 
bridge, and sped down through the alders. 
Here and there a pheasant ran headlong 
across her path; a rabbit or two scuttled 
through the ferns. Nearing the hazel copse 
she slackened speed and advanced with cau 
tion, scanning the thicket ahead. 
Suddenly, on the ground in front of her, 
she caught sight of a small iron cylinder. Evi 
dently it had rolled down there from the slope 
above. 
Very gingerly she approached and picked it 
up. It was not very heavy, not too big for 
her skirt pocket. 
As she slipped it into the pocket of her 
blue woolen peasant-skirt, her quick eye caught 
a movement among the hazel bushes on the 
hillside to her right. She sank to the ground 
and lay huddled there. 
CHAPTER XXV 
 
Down the slope, through the thicket, came a 
man. She could see his legs only. He wore 
dust-coloured breeches and tan puttees, like 
Sticky Smith's and Kid Glenn s, only he wore 
no big, clanking Mexican spurs. 
The man passed in front of her, his burly 
body barely visible through the leaves, but 
not his features. 
She rose, turned, ran over the moss, hur 
ried through the ferns of the warren, retracing 
her steps, and arrived breathless at the lavoir. 
And scarcely had she dropped to her knees 
and seized soap and paddle, than a squat, 
bronzed, powerfully built young man appeared 
on the opposite bank of the stream, stepping 
briskly out of the bushes. 
He did not notice her at first. He looked 
about for a place to jump, found one, leaped 
safely across, and came on at a swinging stride 
across the meadow. 
The girl, bending above the water, suddenly 
struck sharply with her paddle. 
Instantly the man halted in his tracks, knee 
deep in clover. 
Maryette, apparently unconscious of his pres 
ence, continued to soap and scrub and slap her 
wash, singing in her clear, untrained voice of 
a child the chansonette she had made that 
morning. But out of the corner of her eyes 
she kept him in view saw him come saunter 
ing forward as though reassured, became 
aware that he had approached very near, was 
standing behind her. 
Turning presently, where she knelt, to pick 
up another soiled garment, she suddenly en 
countered his dark gaze; and her start and 
slight exclamation were entirely genuine. 
"Mon Dieu!" she said, with offended empha 
sis, "one does not approach people that way, 
without a word!" 
"Did I frighten mademoiselle?" he asked, 
in recognizable French, but with an accent 
 
unpleasantly familiar to her. "If I did, I am 
very sorry and I offer mademoiselle a thou 
sand excuses and apologies." 
The girl, kneeling there in the clover, 
flashed a smile at him over her shoulder. 
The quick colour reddened his face and pow 
erful neck. The girl had been right; her 
smile had been an answer that he was not 
going to ignore. 
"What a pretty spot for a lavoir" he said, 
stepping to the edge of the pool; "and what 
a pretty girl to adorn it!" 
Maryette tossed her head: 
"Be pleased to pass your way, monsieur. 
Do you not perceive that I am busy?" 
"It is not impossible to exchange a polite 
word or two when people are busy, is it, 
mademoiselle?" he asked, laughing and show 
ing a white and perfect set of teeth under a 
short, dark mustache. 
She continued to wring out her wash; but 
there was now a slight smile on her lips. 
"May I not say who I am?" he asked per 
suasively. "May I not venture to speak?" 
"Mon dieu, monsieur, there is liberty of 
speech for all in France. That blackbird 
might be glad to know your name if you 
choose to tell him." 
"But I ask your permission to speak to 
you!" There seemed to be no sense of hu 
mour in this young man. 
She laughed: 
"I am not curious to hear who you are! 
. . . But if it affords you any relief to ex 
plain to the west wind what your name may 
be " She ended with a disdainful shrug. 
After a moment she lifted her pretty eyes 
to his lovely, provocative, tormenting eyes. 
But they were studying the stranger closely. 
He was a powerfully built, dark-skinned 
young man in the familiar khaki of the Ameri 
can muleteers, wearing their insignia, their 
cap, their holster and belt, and an extra 
pouch or wallet, loaded evidently with some 
thing heavy. 
She said, coolly: 
"You must be one of the new Yankee mule 
teers who came with that beautiful new herd 
of mules." 
He laughed: 
S
 
"Yes, I'm an American muleteer. My name 
is Charles Braun. I came over in the last 
transport." 
"Yon know Steek?" 
"Who?" 
"Steek! Monsieur Steekee Smeete?" 
"Sticky Smith!" 
"Mais oui?" 
"I've met him/ he replied curtly. 
"And Monsieur Keed Glenn f 
"I've met Kid Glenn, too. Why?" 
"They are friends of mine very intimate 
friends. Of course," she added, nose up- 
tilted, "if they are not also your friends, any 
acquaintance with me will be very difficult 
for you, Monsieur Braun." 
He laughed easily and seated himself on 
the grass beside her; and, as he sat down, a 
metallic clinking sounded in his wallet. 
"Tenez" she remarked, "you carry old iron 
and bottles about with you, I notice." 
"Snaffles, curbs and stirrup irons," he replied carelessly. And in the girl's heart there 
leaped the swift, fierce flame of certainty in 
suspicion. 
"Why do you bring all that ironmongery 
down here?" she inquired, with frankly child 
ish curiosity, leisurely wringing out her linen. 
"A mule got away from the corral. I've 
been wandering around in the bushes trying 
to find him," he explained, so naturally and 
in such a friendly voice that she raised her 
eyes to look again at this young gallant who 
lingered here at the lavoir for the sake of her 
beaux yeux. 
Could this dark-eyed, smiling youth be a 
Hun spy? His smooth, boyish features, his 
crisp short hair and tiny mustache shading 
lips a trifle too red and overfull did not dis 
please her. In his way he was handsome. 
His voice, too, was attractive, gaily per 
suasive, but it was his pronunciation of the 
letters c and'd which had instantly set her 
on her guard. 
Seated on the bank near her, his roving 
eyes full of bold curiosity bent on her from 
time to time, his idle fingers plaiting a little 
wreath out of long-stemmed clover and bou- 
tons'd or, he appeared merely an intrusive, 
irresponsible young fellow willing to amuse 
himself with a few moments rustic courtship 
here before he continued on his way. 
"You are exceedingly pretty," he said. 
"Will you tell me your name in exchange for 
mine ?" 
"Maryette Courtray." 
"Oh," he exclaimed in quick recognition; 
"you are bell-mistress in Sainte Lesse, then! 
You are the celebrated carillonnette ! I have 
heard about you. I suspected that you might 
be the little mistress of Sainte Lesse bells, be 
cause you wear the Legion " He nodded his 
handsome head toward the decoration on her 
blouse. 
"And to think," he added effusively, "that 
it is just a mere slip of a girl who was deco 
rated for bravery by France!" 
She smiled at him with all the beguilingly 
bete innocence of the young when flattered: 
"You are too amiable, monsieur. I really 
do not understand why they gave me the 
Legion. To encourage all French children, 
perhaps because I really am a dreadful cow 
ard." She tapped the holster on her thigh 
and gazed at him quite guilelessly out of wide 
and trustful eyes. "You see? I dare not 
even come here to wash my clothes unless I 
carry this in case some Boche comes prowl 
ing." 
"Whose pistol is it?" he asked. 
"The weapon belongs to Monsieur Steek. 
"When I come to wash here I borrow it." 
"Are you the sweetheart of Monsieur 
Steek?" he inquired, mimicking her pronun 
ciation of "Stick," and at the same time fixing 
his dark eyes boldly and expressively on hers. 
"Does a young girl of my age have sweet 
hearts?" she demanded scornfully. 
"If she hasn't had one, it's time," he returned, staring hard at her with a persistent 
and fixed smile that had become almost 
offensive. 
"Oh, la!" she exclaimed with a shrug of her 
youthful shoulders. "Perhaps you think I 
have time for such foolishness what with 
housework to do and washing, and caring for 
my father, and my duties in the belfry every 
day!" 
"Youth passes swiftly, belle Maryette." 
 
"Imitate him, beau monsieur, and swiftly 
pass your way!" 
"L amour est doux, petite Marie!" 
"Je m en moquel" 
He rose, smiling confidently, dropped on his 
knees beside her, and rolled back his cuffs. 
"Come," he said, "I'll help you wash. We 
two should finish quickly." 
"I am in no haste." 
"But it will give you an hour's leisure, belle 
Maryette." 
"Why should I wish for leisure, beau mon 
sieur?" 
"I shall try to instruct you why, when we 
have our hour together." 
"Do you mean to pay court to me?" 
"I am doing that now. My ardent court 
ship will already be accomplished, so that we 
need not waste our hour together!" He be 
gan to laugh and wring out the linen. 
"Monsieur," she expostulated smilingly, 
"your apropos disturbs me. Have you the 
assurance to believe that you already appeal 
to my heart!" 
"Have I not appealed to it a little, Mary- 
ette?" 
The girl averted her head coquettishly. 
For a few minutes they scrubbed away there 
together, side by side on their knees above 
the rim of the pool. Then, without warning, 
his hot, red lips burned her neck. Her 
swift recoil was also a shudder; her face 
flushed. 
"Don't do that!" she said sharply, straight 
ening up in the grass where she was kneeling. 
"You are so adorable !" he pleaded in a low, 
tense voice. 
There was a long silence. She had moved 
aside and away from him on her knees; her 
head remained turned, too, and her features 
were set as though carven out of rosy marble. 
She was summoning every atom of resolu 
tion, every particle of courage to do what she 
must do. Every fibre in her revolted with 
the effort; but she steeled herself, and at last 
the forced smile was stamped on her lips, and 
she dared turn her head and meet his burn 
ing gaze. 
"You frighten me," she said and her un- 
 
steady voice was convincing. "A young girl 
is not courted so abruptly." 
"Forgive me," lie murmured. "I could not 
help myself your neck is so fragrant, so 
childlike " 
"Then you should treat me as you would a 
child!" she retorted pettishly. "Amuse me, 
if you aspire to any comradeship with me. 
Your behaviour does not amuse me at all." 
"We shall become comrades," he said confi 
dently, "and you shall be sufficiently amused." 
"It requires time for two people to become 
comrades." 
"Will you give me an hour this evening?" 
"What? A rendezvous?" she exclaimed, 
laughing. 
"Yes." 
"You mean somewhere alone with you?" 
"Will you, Maryette?" 
"But why? I am not yet old enough for 
such foolishness. It would not amuse me at 
all to be alone with you for an hour." She 
pouted and shrugged and absently plucked a 
hollow stem from the sedge. 
"It would amuse me much more to sit here 
and blow bubbles," she added, clearing the 
stem with a quick breath and soaping the 
end of it. 
Then, with tormenting malice, she let her 
eyes rest sideways on him while she plunged 
the hollow stem into the water, withdrew it, 
dripping, and deliberately blew an enormous 
golden bubble from the end. 
"Look!" she cried, detaching the bubble, ap 
parently enchanted to see it float upward. "Is 
it not beautiful, my fairy balloon?" 
On her knees there beside the basin she 
blew bubble after bubble, detaching each with 
a slight movement of her wrist, and laughing 
delightedly to see them mount into the sun 
shine. 
"You are a child," he said, worrying his red 
underlip with his teeth. "You're a baby, after 
all." 
She said: 
"Very well, then, children require toys to 
amuse them, not sighs and kisses and bold, 
brown eyes to frighten and perplex them. 
Have you any toys to amuse me if I give you 
an hour with me?" 
 
"Maryette, I can easily teach you " 
"No! Will you bring me a toy to amuse 
me? a clay pipe to blow bubbles? I adore 
bubbles." 
"If I promise to amuse you, will you give 
me an hour?" he asked. 
"How can I?" she demanded with sudden 
caprice. "I have my wash to finish; then I 
have to see that my father has his soup ; then 
I must attend to customers at the inn, go up 
to the belfry, oil the machinery, play the 
carillon later, wind the drum for the 
night " 
"I shall come to you in the tower after the 
angelus," he said eagerly. 
"I shall be too busy " 
"After the carillon, then! Promise, Mary 
ette!" 
"And sit up there alone with you in the 
dark for an hour? Ma foi! How amusing!" 
She laughed in pretty derision. "I shall not 
even be able to blow bubbles !" 
Watching her pouting face intently, he said : 
"Suppose I bring some toy balloons for you 
to fly from the clock tower? Would that 
&gt; 
amuse you you beautiful, perverse child?" 
"Little toy balloons 1" she echoed, enchanted. 
"What pleasure to set them afloat from the 
belfry I Do you really promise to bring me 
some little toy balloons to fly?" 
"Yes. But you must promise not to speak 
about it to anybody." 
"Wliy?" 
"Because the gendarmes wouldn't let us fly 
any balloons." 
"You mean that they might think me a 
spy?" she inquired naively. 
"Or me," he rejoined with a light laugh. 
"So we shall have to be very discreet and go 
cautiously about our sport. And it ought to 
be great fun, Maryette, to sail balloons out 
over the German trenches. We'll tie a mes 
sage to every one! Shall we, little comrade?" 
She clapped her hands. 
"That will enrage the Boches!" she cried. 
"You won't forget to bring the balloons?" 
"After the carillon," he nodded, staring at 
her intently. 
"Half past ten," she said; "not one minute 
earlier. I cannot be disturbed when playing. 
Do you understand! Do you promise?" 
"Yes," he said, "I promise not to bother 
you before half past ten." 
"Very well. Now let me do my washing 
here in peace." 
She was still scrubbing her linen when he 
went reluctantly away across the meadow 
toward Sainte Lesse. And when she finally 
stood up, swung the basket to her head, and 
left the meadow, the sun hung low behind 
Sainte Lesse "Wood and a rose and violet glow 
possessed the world. 
At the White Doe Inn she flew feverishly 
about her duties, aiding the ancient peasant 
woman with the simple preparations for din 
ner, giving her father his soup and helping 
him to bed, swallowing a mouthful herself as 
she hastened to finish her household tasks. 
Kid Glenn came in as usual for an aperi 
tif while she was gathering up her wooden 
gloves. 
"Did a mule stray today from your cor 
ral?" she asked, filling his glass for him. 
"No," he said 
"Are you sure?" 
"Dead certain. Why!" 
"Do you know one of the new muleteers 
named Braun!" 
"I know Tiim by sight." 
"Keed!" she said, going up to him and plac 
ing both hands on his broad shoulders; "I 
play the carillon after the angelus. Bring 
Steek to the bell-tower half an hour after you 
hear the carillon end. You will hear it end; 
you will hear the quarter hour strike pres 
ently. Half an hour later, after the third 
quarter hour strikes, you shall arrive. Bring 
pistols. Do you promise?" 
"Sure! What's the row, Maryette?" 
"I don't know yet. I think we shall find a 
spy in the tower." 
"mere?" 
"In the belfry, parbleul And you and 
Steek shall come up the stairs and you shall 
wait in the dark, there where the keyboard 
is, and where you see all the wires lead 
ing upward. You shall listen attentively, and 
I will be on the landing above, among my 
bells. And when you hear me cry out to you, 
then you shall come running with pistols!" 
"For heaven's sake " 
"Is it understood? Give me your word, 
Keed!" 
"Sure! " 
"Allans! Assez!" she whispered excitedly. 
"Make prisoner any man you see there! 
any man! You understand!" 
"You bet!" 
Any man!" she repeated slowly, "even if 
he wears the same uniform you wear." 
There was a silence. Then: 
"By God!" said Glenn under his breath. 
"You suspect?" 
"Yes. And if it is one of our German- 
American muleteers, we'll lynch him!" he 
whispered in a white rage. 
But Maryette shook her head. 
"No," she said in a dull, even voice, "let the 
gendarmerie take him in charge. Spy or sus 
pect, he must have his chance. That is the 
law in France." 
"You don't give rats a chance, do you!" 
"I give everything its chance," she said 
simply. "And so does my country." 
She drew the automatic pistol from her 
holster, examined it, raised her eyes gravely 
to the American beside her: 
"This is terrible for me," she added, in a 
low but steady voice. "If it were not for 
my country " She made a grave gesture, 
turned, and went slowly out through the 
arched stone passage into the main street of 
the town. A few minutes later the angelus 
sounded sweetly over the woods and meadows 
of Sainte Lesse. 
At ten, as the last stroke of the hour ended, 
there came a charming, intimate little mur 
mur of awakening bells; it grew sweeter, 
clearer, filling the starry sky, growing, ex 
quisitely increasing in limpid, transparent vol 
ume, sweeping through the high, dim belfry 
like a great wind from Paradise carrying 
Heaven's own music out over the darkened 
earth. 
All Sainte Lesse came to its doorways to 
listen to the playing of their beloved Carillon- 
 
nette; the bell-music ebbed and swelled under 
the stars; the ancient Flemish masterpiece, 
written by some carillonneur whose bones had 
long been dust, became magnificently vital 
again under the enchanted hands of the little 
mistress of the bells. 
In fifteen minutes the carillon ended; a 
slight pause followed, then the quarter hour 
struck. 
With the last stroke of the bell, the girl 
drew off her wooden gloves, laid them on the 
keyboard, turned slowly in her seat, listening. 
A slight sound coming from the spiral stair 
case of stone set her heart beating violently. 
Had the suspected man violated his word? 
She drew the automatic pistol from her hol 
ster, rose, and stole up to the stone platform 
overhead, where, rising tier on tier into the 
darkness, the great carillon of Sainte Lesse 
loomed overhead. 
She listened uneasily. Had the man lied? 
It seemed to her as though her hammering 
heart must burst from her bosom with the 
terrible suspense of the moment. 
Suddenly a shadowy form appeared at the 
3-
head of the stairs, reaching the platform at 
one bound. And her heart seemed to stop as 
she realized that this man had arrived too 
early for her friends to be of any use to her. 
He had lied to her. And now she must take 
him unaided, or kill him there in the starlight 
under the looming bells. 
"Maryette!" he called. She did not stir. 
"Maryette!" he whispered. "Where are 
you, little sweetheart? Forgive me, I could 
not wait any longer. I adore you 
All at once he discovered her standing mo 
tionless in the shadow of the great bell Bay 
ard sprang toward her, eager, ardent, tri 
umphant. 
"Maryette," he whispered, "I love you! I 
shall teach you what a lover is 
Suddenly he caught a glimpse of her face; 
the terrible expression in her eyes checked 
him. 
"What has happened?" he asked, bewil 
dered. And then he caught sight of the pistol 
in her hand. 
"What's that for?" he demanded harshly. 
"Are you afraid to love me? Do you think 
 
I'm the kind of lover to stop for a thing like 
that " 
She said, in a low, distinct voice: 
"Don't move! Put up both hands in 
stantly!" 
"What!" he snapped out, like the crack of 
a lash. 
"I know who you are. You're a Boche and 
no Yankee! Turn your back and raise your 
arms !" 
For a moment they looked at each other. 
"I think," she said, steadily, "you had bet 
ter explain your gas cylinders and balloons 
to the gendarmes at the Poste." 
"No," he said, "I'll explain them, to you, 
now! " 
"If you touch your pistol, I fire! " 
But already he had whipped out his pistol; 
and she fired instantly, smashing his right 
hand to pulp. 
"You damned hell-cat!" he screamed, 
stretching out his shattered hand in an agony 
of impotent fury. Blood rained from it on 
the stone flags. Suddenly he started toward 
her. 
"Don't stir!" she whispered. "Turn your 
back and raise both arms!" 
His face became ghastly. 
"Let me go, in God's name!" he burst out 
in a strangled voice. "Don't send me before 
a firing squad! Listen to me, little comrade 
. I surrender myself to your mercy 
"Then keep away from me! Keep your 
distance!" she cried, retreating. He followed, 
fawning : 
"Listen! We were such good com 
rades 
"Don't come any nearer to me!" she called 
out sharply; but he still shuffled toward her, 
whimpering, drenched in blood, both hands 
uplifted. 
"Kamerad!" he whined, "Kamerad " and 
suddenly launched a kick at her. 
She just avoided it, springing behind the 
bell Bayard; and he rushed at her and struck 
with both uplifted arms, showering her with 
blood, but not quite reaching her. 
In the darkness among the beams and the 
deep shadows of the bells she could hear him 
hunting for her, breathing heavily and mak- 
ing ferocious, inarticulate noises, as she 
swung herself up onto the first beam above 
and continued to crawl upward. 
"Where are you, little fool?" he cried at 
length. "I have business with you before I 
cut your throat that smooth, white throat of 
yours that I kissed down there by the lavoir!" 
There was no sound from her. 
He went back toward the stairs and began 
hunting about in the starlight for his pistol; 
but there was no parapet on the bell platform, 
and he probably concluded that it had fallen 
over the edge of the tower into the street. 
Supporting his wounded hand, he stood 
glaring blankly about him, and his bloodshot 
eyes presently fell on the door to the stairs. 
But he must have realized that flight would 
be useless for him if he left this girl alive in 
her bell-tower, ready to alarm the town the 
moment he ran for the stairs. 
With his left hand he fumbled under his 
tunic and disengaged a heavy trench knife 
from its sheath. The loss of blood was mak 
ing his legs a trifle unsteady, but he pulled 
himself together and moved stealthily under 
the shadows of beam and bell until he came 
to the spot he selected. And there he lay 
down, the hilt of the knife in his left hand, 
the blade concealed by his opened tunic. 
His heavy groans at last had their effect 
