
    In case anything should go wrong with me give the enclosed note
    to my mother. Please see to it that everything I have goes to
    her. My will is in my box in our safe at the office. It is all
    quite clear. There should be no trouble.

    I expressed my trunk to your care in Luxembourg. You wrote me
    that you had received it and placed it in storage to await my
    leisurely arrival. In case of accident to me send it to my
    mother.

    About the business, my share in any deals now on should go to my
    brother. After that if you care to take George in when he comes
    out of Harvard it would gratify his mother and me.

    He's all to the good, you know. But don't do this if the
    business does not warrant it. Don't do it out of sentiment,
    Harry. If he promises to be of use, and if you have no other man
    in view, and if, as I say, business conditions warrant such an
    association with a view to eventual partnership, then if you
    care to take in George it will be all right.

    He has sufficient capital, as you know. He lacks only the
    business experience. And he is intelligent and quick and it
    won't take him long.

    But if you prefer somebody else don't hesitate. George is
    perfectly able to take care of his mother and himself.

    This is all, I think. I'm sorry about the August fishing on the
    Black Erenz. It is a lovely stream and full of trout. All
    Luxembourg is lovely; it is a story-book country--a real land of
    romance. I wish I might have seen it again. Never were such
    forests, such silver streams, such golden glades, such
    wild-flowers--never such hills, such meadows, such skies.

    Well--if I come back to you, I come back. If not--good-bye, old
    fellow--with all it implies between friends of many years.

    Say to your kind friends, the Courlands, who so graciously
    invited you to bring me with you to Lesse Forest, that I shall
    not be able to accept their delightful hospitality, and that my
    inability to do so must remain to me a regret as long as I live.
    (These guns are thundering enough to crack the very sky! I
    really wish I could hear some band playing "Tipperary.")

    Good-bye for a while--or indefinitely. Good luck to you.

                                                       KERVYN GUILD.

"Is that quite acceptable to you?" asked Guild of the young Death's Head
hussar beside him.

"Quite acceptable," replied the officer politely. "But what is there
remarkable in anybody drinking six quarts of beer?"

Guild laughed: "Here is the note that I desire to enclose with it, if I
may do so." And he wrote:

    DEAREST:

    You must not grieve too much. You have George. It could not be
    avoided, honourably. He and I are good Americans; we are,
    perhaps, something else, too. But what the Book of Gold holds it
    never releases; what is written there is never expunged. George
    must do what I did when the time comes. I would have done
    more--was meaning to--was on my way. Destiny has ordered it
    otherwise.

    While I live I think always of you. And it shall be so until the
    last.

    This letter is to be sent to you by Harry Darrel only in the
    event of my death.

    There's a good chance for me. But if things go wrong, then,
    good-bye, dearest.

                                                             KERVYN.

    P. S.

    Tell George that it's up to him, now.
                                                            K.

He held out the letter cheerfully to the hussar, but the latter had read
it, and he merely nodded in respectful silence. So Guild folded it,
sealed it in an envelope, wrote on it, "For my Mother in case of my
death," and inclosed it in his letter to Darrel.

"Any time you are ready now," he said, rising from the little enameled
iron table under the arbour.

The hussar rose, clanking, and set a whistle to his lips. Then, turning:
"I shall have yet one more glass of beer," he said blandly, but his eyes
twinkled.

The grey car rolled up in a few moments. Over it at a vast height
something soared in hawk-like circles. It may have been a hawk. There
was no telling at such a height.

So they drove off again amid the world-shaking din of the guns
paralleling the allied lines toward the west. Ostend lay somewhere in
that direction, the channel flowed beyond; beyond that crouched
England--where bands were playing "Tipperary"--and where, perhaps, a
young girl was listening to that new battle song of which the young
hussar beside him had never even heard.

As the grey car hummed westward over the Belgian road, Guild thought of
these things while the whole world about him was shaking with the
earthquake of the guns.

"Karen," he repeated under his breath, "Karen Girard."

After a while sentinels began to halt them every few rods. The chauffeur
unrolled two white flags and set them in sockets on either side of the
hood. The hussar beside him produced a letter from his grey
despatch-pouch.

"General von Reiter's orders," he said briefly. "You are to read them
now and return the letter to me before the enemies' parlementaire
answers our flag."

Guild took the envelope, tore it open, and read:

    Orders received since our interview make it impossible for me to
    tell you where to find me on your return.

    My country place in Silesia is apparently out of the question at
    present as a residence for the person you are expected to bring
    back with you. The inclosed clipping from a Danish newspaper
    will explain why. Therefore you will sail from London on
    Wednesday or Sunday, taking a Holland liner. You will land at
    Amsterdam, go by rail through Utrecht, Helmond, Halen,
    Maastricht. You will be expected there. If I am not there you
    will remain over night.

    If you return from your journey alone and unsuccessful you
    will surrender yourself as prisoner to the nearest German post
    and ask the officer in charge to telegraph me.

    If you return successful you shall be permitted at Eijsden to
    continue your journey with the person you bring with you, across
    the Luxembourg border to Trois Fontaines, which is just beyond
    the Grand Duchy frontier; and you shall then deliver the person
    in question to the housekeeper of the hunting lodge, Marie
    Bergner. The lodge is called Quellenheim, and it belongs to me.
    If I am not there you must remain there over night. In the
    morning if you do not hear from me, you are at liberty to go
    where you please, and your engagements vis-à-vis to me are
    cancelled.

                                              VON REITER, Maj-Gen'l.

The inclosed newspaper clipping had been translated into French and
written out in long-hand. The translation read as follows:

    Russia's invasion of East Prussia, Posen and Silesia has sent a
    wave of panic over the eastern provinces of the German Empire,
    if reports from Copenhagen and Stockholm are to be credited.
    These reports are chiefly significant as indicating that the
    Russian advance is progressing more rapidly than has been
    asserted even by despatches from Petrograd.

    A correspondent of the Daily Telegraph reports from Stockholm
    that the whole of eastern Germany is upset by the menace of
    Cossack raids. He hears that a diplomatic despatch from Vienna
    contains information that the civilian inhabitants of
    Koenigsberg, East Prussia, and Breslau, in Silesia, are
    abandoning their homes and that only the military will remain in
    these strongholds.

    From Copenhagen it is reported, allegedly from German sources,
    that Silesia expects devastation by fire and sword and that the
    wealthy Prussian landholders, whose immense estates cover
    Silesia, are leading the exodus toward the west. The military
    authorities have done everything possible to check the panic,
    fearing its hurtful influence on Germany's prospects, but have
    been unable to reassure the inhabitants. Many of these have seen
    bands of Cossacks who have penetrated a few miles over the
    border and their warnings have spread like a forest fire.

For a long while the young man studied the letter, reading and
re-reading it, until, closing his eyes, he could repeat it word for
word.

And when he was letter perfect he nodded and handed back the letter to
the hussar, who pouched it.

A moment later the car ran in among a horde of mounted Uhlans, and one
of their officers came galloping up alongside of the machine.

He and the hussar whispered together for a few minutes, then an Uhlan
was summoned, a white cloth tied to his lance-shaft, and away he went on
his powerful horse, the white flag snapping in the wind. Behind him
cantered an Uhlan trumpeter.

Toward sunset the grey automobile rolled west out into open country. A
vast flat plain stretched to the horizon, where the sunset flamed
scarlet and rose.

But it was almost dusk before from somewhere across the plain came the
faint strains of military music.

The hussar's immature mustache bristled. "British!" he remarked. "Gott
in Himmel, what barbarous music!"

Guild said nothing. They were playing "Tipperary."

And now, through the late rays of the afterglow, an Uhlan trumpeter,
sitting his horse on the road ahead, set his trumpet to his lips and
sounded the parley again. Far, silvery, from the misty southwest, a
British bugle answered.

Guild strained his eyes. Nothing moved on the plain. But, at a nod to
the chauffeur from the hussar, the great grey automobile rolled forward,
the two Uhlans walking their horses on either side.

Suddenly, east and west as far as the eye could see, trenches in endless
parallels cut the plain, swarming with myriads and myriads of men in
misty grey.

The next moment the hussar had passed a black silk handkerchief over
Guild's eyes and was tying it rather tightly.




                               CHAPTER IV

                               BAD DREAMS


His first night in London was like a bad dream to him. Lying half awake
on his bed, doggedly, tenaciously awaiting the sleep he needed, at
intervals even on its vision-haunted borderland, but never drifting
across it, he remained always darkly conscious of his errand and of his
sinister predicament.

The ineffaceable scenes of the last three days obsessed him; his mind
seemed to be unable to free itself. The quieter he lay, the more grimly
determined he became that sleep should blot out these tragic memories
for a few hours at least, the more bewildering grew the confusion in his
haunted mind. Continually new details were evoked by his treacherous and
insurgent memory--trifles terrible in their minor significance--the
frightened boy against the wall snivelling against his ragged
shirt-sleeve--the sprawling attitudes of the dead men in the dusty
grass--and how, after a few moments, a mangled arm moved, blindly
groping--and what quieted it.

Incidents, the petty details of sounds, of odours, of things irrelevant,
multiplied and possessed him--the thin gold-rimmed spectacles on the
Burgomaster's nose and the honest, incredulous eyes which gazed through
them at him when he announced checkmate in three moves.

Did that tranquil episode happen years ago in another and calmer
life?--or a few hours ago in this?

He heard again the startling and ominous sounds of raiding cavalry even
before they had become visible in the misty street--the flat slapping
gallop of the Uhlan's horses on the paved way, the tinkling clash of
broken glass. Again the thick, sour, animal-like stench of the unwashed
infantry seemed to assail and sicken him to the verge of faintness; and,
half awake, he saw a world of fog set thick with human faces utterly
detached from limbs and bodies--thousands and thousands of faces
watching him out of thousands and thousands of little pig-like eyes.

His nerves finally drove him into motion and he swung himself out of bed
and walked to the window.

His hotel was the Berkeley, and he looked out across Piccadilly into a
silent, sad, unlighted city of shadows. Only a single line of lighted
lamps outlined the broad thoroughfare. Crimson sparks twinkled here and
there--the lights of cabs.

The great darkened Ritz towered opposite, Devonshire House squatted
behind its grilles and shadowy walls on the right, and beyond the great
dark thoroughfare stretched away into the night, melancholy, deserted
save for the slight stirring of a policeman here and there or the
passage of an automobile running in silence without lights.

He had been standing by the window for ten minutes or so, a lighted
cigarette between his lips, both hands dropped into the pocket of his
pyjamas, when he became aware of a slight sound--a very slight
one--behind him.

He turned around and his eyes fell upon the knob of the door. Whether or
not it was turning he could not determine in the dusk of the room. The
only light in it came through his windows from the starry August
night-sky.

After a moment he walked toward the door, bare-footed across the velvet
carpet, halted, fixed his eyes on the door knob.

After a moment it began to turn again, almost imperceptibly. And, in
him, every over-wrought nerve tightened to its full tension till he
quivered. Slowly, discreetly, noiselessly the knob continued to turn.
The door was not locked. Presently it began to open, the merest fraction
of an inch at a time; then, abruptly but stealthily, it began to close
again, as though the unseen intruder had caught sight of him, and Guild
stepped forward swiftly and jerked the door wide open.

There was only the darkened hallway there, and a servant with a tray who
said very coolly, "Thanky, sir," and entered the room.

"What-do-you-want?" asked Guild unsteadily.

"You ordered whiskey and soda for eleven o'clock, sir."

"I did not. Why do you try to enter my room without knocking?"

"I understood your orders were not to disturb you but to place the tray
on the night-table beside your bed, sir."

Guild regarded him steadily. The servant, clean-shaven, typical,
encountered the young man's gaze respectfully and with no more
disturbance than seemed natural under the circumstances of a not unusual
blunder.

Guild's nerves relaxed and he drew a deep, quiet breath.

"Somebody has made a mistake," he said. "I ordered nothing. And,
hereafter, anybody coming to my door will knock. Is that plain?"

"Perfectly, sir."

"Have the goodness to make it very plain to the management."

"I'm sorry, sir----"

"You understand, now?"

"Certainly, sir."

"Very well.... And, by the way, who on this corridor is likely to have
ordered that whiskey?"

"Sir?"

"Somebody ordered it, I suppose?"

"Very likely the gentleman next door, sir----"

"All right," said Guild quietly. "Try the door while I stand here and
look on."

"Very good, sir."

With equanimity unimpaired the waiter stepped to the next door on the
corridor, placed his tray flat on the palm of his left hand, and, with
his right hand, began to turn the knob, using, apparently, every
precaution to make no noise.

But he was not successful; the glassware on his tray suddenly gave out a
clear, tinkling clash, and, at the same moment the bedroom door opened
from within and a man in evening dress appeared dimly framed by the
doorway.

"Sorry, sir," said the waiter, "your whiskey, sir----"

He stepped inside the room and the door closed behind him. Guild quietly
waited. Presently the waiter reappeared without the tray.

"Come here," motioned Guild.

The waiter said: "Yes, sir," in a natural voice. Doubtless the man next
door could hear it, too.

Guild, annoyed, lowered his own voice: "Who is the gentleman in the next
room?"

"A Mr. Vane, sir."

"From where?"

"I don't know, sir."

"What is he, English?"

"Yes sir, I believe so."

"You don't happen to know his business, do you?"

"No, sir."

"I ask--it's merely curiosity. Wait a moment." He turned, picked up a
sovereign from a heap of coins on his night-table and gave it to the
waiter.

"No need to repeat to anybody what I have asked you."

"Oh, no, sir----"

"All right. Listen very attentively to what I tell you. When I arrived
here this afternoon I desired the management to hire for my use a
powerful and absolutely reliable touring car and a chauffeur. I
mentioned the Edmeston Agency and a Mr. Louis Grätz.

"Half an hour later the management informed me that they had secured
such a car for me from Mr. Louis Grätz at the Edmeston Agency; that I
was permitted sufficient gasoline to take me from here to Westheath,
back here again, and then to the docks of the Holland Steamship Company
next Sunday.

"I've changed my mind. Tomorrow is Wednesday and a steamer sails from
Fresh Wharf for Amsterdam. Tell the management that I'll take that
steamer and that I want them to telephone the Edmeston Agency to have
the car here at six o'clock tomorrow morning."

"Very good, sir."

"Go down and tell them now. Ask them to confirm the change of orders by
telephone."

"Very good, sir."

A quarter of an hour later the bell tinkled in his room: "Are you there,
sir? Thank you, sir. The car is to be here at six o'clock. What time
would you breakfast, Mr. Guild?"

"Five. Have it served here, please."

"Thank you, sir."

Guild went back to bed. Another detail bothered him now. If the man next
door had ordered whiskey and soda for eleven, to be placed on the
night-table beside the bed, why was he up and dressed and ready to open
the door when the jingle of glassware awaited him?

Still there might be various natural explanations. Guild thought of
several, but none of them suited him.

He began to feel dull and sleepy. That is the last he remembered, except
that his sleep was disturbed by vaguely menacing dreams, until he awoke
in the grey light of early morning, scarcely refreshed, and heard the
waiter knocking. He rose, unlocked his door, and let him in with his
tray.

When the waiter went out again Guild relocked his door, turned on his
bath, took it red hot and then icy. And, thoroughly awake, now, he
returned to his room, breakfasted, dressed, rang for his account, and a
few minutes later descended in the lift to find his car and chauffeur
waiting, and the tall, many-medalled porter at salute by the door.

"Westheath," he said to the smiling chauffeur. "Go as fast as you dare
and by the direct route."

The chauffeur touched his peaked cap. He seemed an ideal chauffeur,
neat, alert, smiling, well turned out in fact as the magnificent and
powerful touring car which had been as thoroughly and minutely groomed
as a race-horse or a debutante.

When the car rolled out into Piccadilly the waiter who had mistaken the
order for whiskey, watched it from the dining-room windows. Several
floors above, the man who had occupied the next bedroom also watched the
departure of the car. When it was out of sight the man whose name was
Vane went to the telephone and called 150 Fenchurch Street, E. C. It was
the office of the Holland Steamship Company.

And the waiter who had entered the room unannounced, stood listening to
the conversation over the wire, and finally took the transmitter himself
for further conversation while Vane stood by listening, one hand resting
familiarly on the waiter's shoulder.

After the waiter had hung up the receiver, Vane walked to the window,
stood a moment looking out, then came slowly back.

"Gwynn," he said to the waiter, "this man, Guild, seems to be harmless.
He's known at the American Embassy. He's an American in the real estate
business in New York. It's true that Dart telegraphed from Ostend that
Guild came to our lines in a German military automobile under a white
flag. But he told a straight story. I'll run out to Westheath, and if
his business there is clean and above-board, I think we can give him a
clean bill of health."

Gwynn said, slowly: "I don't like the way he questioned me last night.
Besides, a sovereign is too much even for an American."

"He might have been afraid of robbery."

"He was afraid of something."

"Very well. We've passage on the boat if necessary. I'll go out to
Westheath anyway. If I don't care for what he is doing out there we can
hold him on the dock."

"Another thing," mused Gwynn. "The Edmeston Agency may be quite all
right, but the man's name is Grätz."

"He's been under scrutiny. He seems to be all right."

"All the same--his name is all wrong. What was that chauffeur's name?"

"Bush."

"Busch?"

"He spells it without a c. I saw his signature on the Agency rolls."

"Have you his history?"

"He's Canadian. I've sent for it."

"You'll find that his father spelled his name with a c," remarked
Gwynn, gloomily. But Vane only laughed.

"I'm off," he said. "Stick around where I can get you on the telephone
if necessary. But I don't think it will be necessary."

"I do," muttered Gwynn.




                               CHAPTER V

                                 KAREN


The journey was the usual one through interminable London streets
alternately respectable and squalid; and straight ahead through equally
interminable suburbs with their endless "terraces," semi-detached and
detached villas, and here and there a fine old house behind neglected
garden walls, making its last forlorn stand against the all-destroying
inroad of the London jungle.

There had been a heavy haze in London, but no fog. In the country,
however, beyond the last outstretched suburban tentacle of the inky
octopus the morning sun glimmered low through a golden smother,
promising a glimpse of blue sky.

To Guild, one "heath" has always resembled another, and now, as they
passed through the country at high speed, there seemed to him very
little difference between the several named points which marked his
progress toward Westheath. Hedges alternated with ivy-covered walls on
either side of a wide, fine road; trees were splendid as usual, sheep
fat, cattle sleek. Here and there a common or heath glimmered
bewitchingly where sunlight fell among the whins; birds winged their
way, waters glimmered, and the clean, singing August wind of England
blew steadily in his face strangely reviving within him some ancient,
forgotten, pre-natal wistfulness. Maybe it came from his American
mother's English mother.

Near two villages and once on the open highway policemen leisurely
signalled the chauffeur to stop, and came sauntering around to the
tonneau to question Guild as to his origin, his business, and his
destination; quiet, dignified, civil, respectable men they seemed to be
in their night cloaks and their always smart and business-like helmets
and uniforms.

All seemed satisfied, but all politely suggested that passports were now
becoming fashionable in England. And Guild thanked them pleasantly and
drove on.

"Bush," he said to his chauffeur, "this spy scare was ridiculed by the
newspapers, but it looks to me as though it were being taken rather
seriously after all."

"It is, sir."

"I understand that about thirty thousand German and Austrian reservists
have been arrested in England since war began?"

"I hear so, sir."

"I suppose the country really is swarming with spies. The paper
yesterday said that there was still a great and serious leakage of
military information out of England. One paper, yesterday afternoon,
reported that a number of spies had already been shot in the Tower."

"I have heard so, sir," said the chauffeur smilingly.

He was a blond, good-looking young fellow. Always his lips seemed to
rest in pleasant curves as though his reveries were agreeable.

A few hideously modern detached villas were passed, then hedges, walls,
a wood, a modern bridge.

"How near are we to Westheath now?" asked Guild, leaning forward in his
seat.

"We are there, sir." And the smiling chauffeur slowed the car to a
standstill at a cross-roads where furze and broom grew rankly over the
heath and a few rather tawdry villas appeared among the trees beyond.

Guild looked at his watch. It was only a little after seven, an
unearthly hour for a call upon any young girl, not to mention one to
whom he was personally unknown.

A policeman still wearing his waterproof night cloak, came leisurely
across to learn what was wanted.

"I am looking for the villa of Miss Girard--Miss Karen Girard,"
explained Guild.

"Hyacinth Villa, Number 169. Take the road to the right. It is the only
house."

"Thank you."

