have peered into the sea.
He kept these treasures in an ornamented iron-chest, old, battered, of
simple mechanism.  It had been his father's and his father's father's;
it had been in the family since the days of the Peacock Throne, and
most of the jewels besides.  Night and day the chest was guarded.  It
lay upon an ancient Ispahan rug, in the center of the bedroom, which no
hotel servant was permitted to enter.  His five servants saw to it that
all his wants were properly attended to, that no indignity to his high
caste might be offered: as having his food prepared by pariah hands in
the hotel kitchens, foul hands to make his bed.  He was thoroughly
religious; the gods of his fathers were his in all their ramifications;
he wore the Brahmin thread about his neck.
He was unique among Indian princes.  An Oxford graduate, he
persistently and consistently clung to the elaborate costumes of his
native state.  And when he condescended to visit any one, it was
invariably stipulated that he should be permitted to bring along his
habits, his costumes and his retinue.  In his suite or apartments he
was the barbarian; in the drawing-room, in the ballroom, in the
dining-room (where he ate nothing), he was the suave, the courteous,
the educated Oriental.  He drank no wines, made his own cigarettes, and
never offered his hand to any one, not even to the handsome women who
admired his beautiful skin and his magnificent ropes of pearls.
Some one had entered the bedroom, overpowered the guard, and looted the
bag containing the emeralds.  The prince, the lightest of sleepers, had
slept through it all.  He had awakened with a violent headache, as had
four of his servants.  The big Rajput who had stood watch was in the
hospital, still unconscious.
All the way from San Francisco the police had been waiting for such a
catastrophe.  The newspapers had taken up and published broadcast the
story of the prince's pastime.  Naturally enough, there was not a crook
in all America who was not waiting for a possible chance.  Ten
emeralds, weighing from six to ten carats each; a fortune, even if
broken up.
Haggerty laid aside the newspaper and gravely finished his ham and eggs.
"I'll take a peek int' this, Milly," he said to his wife.  "We've been
waiting for this t' happen.  A million dollars in jools in a chest y'
could open with a can-opener.  Queer ginks, these Hindus.  We see lots
o' fakers, but this one is the real article.  Mebbe a reward.  All
right; little ol' Haggerty can use th' money.  I may not be home t'
supper."
"Anything more about Mr. Crawford's valet?"
Haggerty scowled.  "Not a line.  I've been living in gambling joints,
but no sign of him.  He gambled in th' ol' days; some time 'r other
he'll wander in somewhere an' try t' copper th' king.  No sign of him
round Crawford's ol' place.  But I'll get him; it's a hunch.  By-by!"
Later, the detective was conducted into the Maharajah's reception-room.
The prince, in his soft drawling English (far more erudite and polished
than Haggerty's, if not so direct), explained the situation, omitting
no detail.  He would give two thousand five hundred for the recovery of
the stones.
"At what are they valued?"
"By your customs appraisers, forty thousand.  To me they are priceless."
"Six t' ten carats?  Why, they're worth more than that."
The prince smiled.  "That was for the public."
"I'll take a look int' your bedroom," said Haggerty, rising.
"Oh, no; that is not at all necessary," protested the prince.
"How d' you suppose I'm going t' find out who done it, or how it was
done, then?" demanded Haggerty, bewildered.
A swift oriental gesture.
The hotel manager soothed Haggerty by explaining that the prince's
caste would not permit an alien to touch anything in the bedroom while
it contained the prince's belongings.
"Well, wouldn't that get your goat!" exploded Haggerty.  "That lets me
out.  You'll have to get a clairyvoint."
The prince suggested that he be given another suite.  His servants
would remove his belongings.  He promised that nothing else should be
touched.
"How long'll it take you?"
"An hour."
"All right," assented Haggerty.  "Who's got th' suite across th' hall?"
he asked of the manager, as they left the prince.
"Lord Monckton.  He and his valet left this morning for Bar Harbor.
Back Tuesday.  A house-party of Fifth Avenue people."
"Uhuh."  Haggerty tugged at his mustache.  "I might look around in
there while I'm waiting for his Majesty t' change.  Did y'ever hear th'
likes?  Bug-house."
"But he pays a hundred the day, Haggerty.  I'll let you privately into
Lord Monckton's suite.  But you'll waste your time."
"Sure he left this morning?"
"I'll phone the office and make sure. . . .  Lord Monckton left shortly
after midnight.  His man followed early this morning.  Lord Monckton
went by his host's yacht.  But the man followed by rail."
"What's his man look like?"
"Slim and very dark, and very quiet."
"Well, I'll take a look."
The manager was right.  Haggerty had his trouble for nothing.  There
was no clue whatever in Lord Monckton's suite.  There was no paper in
the waste-baskets, in the fireplace; the blotters on the writing-desk
were spotless.  Some clothes were hanging in the closets, but these
revealed only their fashionable maker's name.  In the reception-room,
on a table, a pack of cards lay spread out in an unfinished game of
solitaire.  All the small baggage had been taken for the journey.
Truth to tell, Haggerty had not expected to find anything; he had not
cared to sit idly twiddling his thumbs while the Maharajah vacated his
rooms.
In the bathroom (Lord Monckton's) he found two objects which aroused
his silent derision: a bottle of brilliantine and an ointment made of
walnut-juice.  Probably this Lord Monckton was a la-de-dah chap.  Bah!
Once in the prince's vacated bedroom Haggerty went to work with classic
thoroughness.  Not a square foot of the room escaped his vigilant eye.
The thief had not entered by the windows; he had come into the room by
the door which gave to the corridor.  He stood on a chair and examined
the transom sill.  The dust was undisturbed.  He inspected the keyhole;
sniffed; stood up, bent and sniffed again.  It was an odor totally
unknown to him.  He stuffed the corner of his fresh handkerchief into
the keyhole, drew it out and sniffed that.  Barely perceptible.  He
wrapped the corner into the heart of the handkerchief, and put it back
into his pocket.  Some powerful narcotic had been forced into the room
through the keyhole.  This would account for the prince's headache.
These Orientals were as bad as the Dutch; they never opened their
windows for fresh air.
Beyond this faint, mysterious odor there was nothing else.  The first
step would be to ascertain whether this narcotic was occidental or
oriental.
"Nothing doing yet," he confessed to the anxious manager.  "But there
ain't any cause for you t' worry.  You're not responsible for jools not
left in th' office."
"That isn't the idea.  It's having the thing happen in this hotel.
We'll add another five hundred if you succeed.  Not in ten years has
there been so much as a spoon missing.  What do you think about it?"
"Big case.  I'll be back in a little while.  Don't tell th' reporters
anything."
Haggerty was on his way to a near-by chemist whom he knew, when he
espied Crawford in his electric, stalled in a jam at Forty-second and
Broadway.  He had not seen the archeologist since his return from
Europe.
"Hey, Mr. Crawford!" Haggerty bawled, putting his head into the window.
"Why, Haggerty, how are you?  Can I give you a lift?"
"If it won't trouble you."
"Not at all.  Pretty hot weather."
"For my business.  Wish I could run off t' th' seashore like you folks.
Heard o' th' Maharajah's emeralds?"
"Yes.  You're on that case?"
"Trying t' get on it.  Looks blank jus' now.  Clever bit o' work;
something new.  But I've got news for you, though.  Your man Mason is
back here again.  I thought I wouldn't say nothing t' you till I put my
hand on his shoulder."
"I'm sorry.  I had hoped that the unfortunate devil would have had
sense to remain abroad."
"Then you knew he was over there?"--quickly.  "See him?"
"No.  I shall never feel anything but sorry for him.  You can not live
with a man as I did, for ten years, and not regret his misstep."
"Oh, I understand your side.  But that man was a born crook, an' th'
cleverest I ever run up against.  For all you know, he may have been
back of a lot o' tricks Central never got hold of.  I'll bet that each
time that you went over with him, he took loot an' disposed of it.  I
may be pig-headed sometimes, but I'm dead sure o' this.  Wait some day
an' see.  Say, take a whiff o' this an' tell me what y' think it is."
Haggerty produced the handkerchief.
"I don't smell anything," said Crawford.
Haggerty seized the handkerchief and sniffed, gently, then violently.
All he could smell was reminiscent of washtubs.  The mysterious odor
was gone.
CHAPTER XIV
This is not a story of the Maharajah's emeralds; only a knot in the
landing-net of which I have already spoken.  I may add with equal
frankness that Haggerty, upon his own initiative, never proceeded an
inch beyond the keyhole episode.  It was one of his many failures; for,
unlike the great fictional detectives who never fail, Haggerty was
human, and did.  It is only fair to add, however, that when he failed
only rarely did any one else succeed.  If ever criminal investigation
was a man's calling, it was Haggerty's.  He had infinite patience, the
heart of a lion and the strength of a gorilla.  Had he been highly
educated, as a detective he would have been a fizzle; his mind would
have been concerned with variant lofty thoughts, and the sordid would
have repelled him: and all crimes are painted on a background of
sordidness.  In one thing Haggerty stood among his peers and topped
many of them; in his long record there was not one instance of his
arresting an innocent man.
So Haggerty had his failures; there are geniuses on both sides of the
law; and the pariah-dog is always just a bit quicker mentally than the
thoroughbred hound who hunts him; indeed, to save his hide he has to be.
Nearly every great fact is like a well-balanced kite; it has for its
tail a whimsy.  Haggerty, on a certain day, received twenty-five
hundred dollars from the Hindu prince and five hundred more from the
hotel management.  The detective bore up under the strain with stoic
complacency.  "The Blind Madonna of the Pagan--Chance" always had her
hand upon his shoulder.
Kitty went to Bar Harbor, her mother to visit friends in Orange.
Thomas walked with a straight spine always; but it stiffened to think
that, without knowing a solitary item about his past, they trusted him
with the run of the house.  The first day there was work to do; the
second day, a little less; the third, nothing at all.  So he moped
about the great house, lonesome as a forgotten dog.  He wrote a sonnet
on being lonesome, tore it up and flung the scraps into the
waste-basket.  Once, he seated himself at the piano and picked out with
clumsy forefinger Walking Down the Old Kent Road.  Kitty could play.
Often in the mornings, while at his desk, he had heard her; and oddly
enough, he seemed to sense her moods by what she played.  (That's the
poet.)  When she played Chopin or Chaminade she went about gaily all
the day; when she played Beethoven, Grieg or Bach, Thomas felt the
presence of shadows.
There was a magnificent library, mostly editions de luxe.  Thomas
smiled over the many uncut volumes.  True, Dickens, Dumas and Stevenson
were tolerably well-thumbed; but the host of thinkers and poets and
dramatists and theologians, in their hand-tooled Levant . . . !  Away
in an obscure corner (because of its cheap binding) he came across a
set of Lamb.  He took out a volume at random and glanced at the
fly-leaf--"Kitty Killigrew, Smith College."  Then he went into the body
of the book.  It was copiously marked and annotated.  There was
something so intimate in the touch of the book that he felt he was
committing a sacrilege, looking as it were into Kitty's soul.  Most men
would have gone through the set.  Thomas put the book away.  Thou fool,
indeed!  What a hash he had made of his affairs!
He saw Killigrew at breakfast only.  The merchant preferred his club in
the absence of his family.
Early in the afternoon of the fourth day, Thomas received a telephone
call from Killigrew.
"Hello!  That you, Webb?"
"Yes.  Who is it?"
"Killigrew.  Got anything to do to-night?"
"No, Mr. Killigrew."
"You know where my club is, don't you?"
"Yes."
"Well, be there at seven for dinner.  Tell the butler and the
housekeeper.  Mr. Crawford has a box to the fight to-night, and he
thought perhaps you'd like to go along with us."
"A boxing-match?"
"Ten rounds, light-weights; and fast boys, too.  Both Irish."
"Really, I shall be glad to go."
"Webb?"
"Yes."
"Never use that word 'really' to me.  It's un-Irish."
Thomas heard a chuckle before the receiver at the other end clicked on
the hook.  What a father this hearty, kindly, humorous Irishman would
have made for a son!
In London Thomas' amusements had been divided into three classes.
During the season he went to the opera twice, to the music-halls once a
month, to a boxing-match whenever he could spare the shillings.  He
belonged to a workingmen's club not far from where he lived; an empty
warehouse, converted into a hall, with a platform in the center, from
which the fervid (and often misinformed) socialists harangued; and in
one corner was a fair gymnasium.  Every fortnight, for the sum of a
crown a head, three or four amateur bouts were arranged.  Thomas rarely
missed these exhibitions; he seriously considered it a part of his
self-acquired education.  What Englishman lives who does not?  Brains
and brawn make a man (or a country) invincible.
At seven promptly Thomas called at the club and asked for Mr.
Killigrew.  He was shown into the grill, where he was pleasantly
greeted by his host and Crawford and introduced to a young man about
his own age, a Mr. Forbes.  Thomas, dressed in his new stag-coat, felt
that he was getting along famously.  He had some doubt in regard to his
straw hat, however, till, after dinner, he saw that his companions were
wearing their Panamas.
Forbes, the artist, had reached that blasé period when, only upon rare
occasions, did he feel disposed to enlarge his acquaintance.  But this
fresh-skinned young Britisher went to his heart at once, a kindred
soul, and he adopted him forthwith.  He and Thomas paired off and
talked "fight" all the way to the boxing club.
There was a great crowd pressing about the entrance.  There were eddies
of turbulent spirits.  A crowd in America is unlike any other.  It is
full of meanness, rowdyism, petty malice.  A big fellow, smelling of
bad whisky, shouldered Killigrew aside, roughly.  Killigrew's Irish
blood flamed.
"Here!  Look where you're going!" he cried.
The man reached back and jammed Killigrew's hat down over his eyes.
Killigrew stumbled and fell, and Crawford and Forbes surged to his
rescue from the trampling feet.  Thomas, however, caught the ruffian's
right wrist, jammed it scientifically against the man's chest, took him
by the throat and bore him back, savagely and relentlessly.  The crowd,
packed as it was, gave ground.  With an oath the man struck.  Thomas
struck back, accurately.  Instantly the circle widened.  A fight
outside was always more interesting than one inside the ropes.  A blow
ripped open Thomas' shirt.  It became a slam-bang affair.  Thomas
knocked his man down just as a burly policeman arrived.  Naturally, he
caught hold of Thomas and called for assistance.  The wrong man first
is the invariable rule of the New York police.
"Milligan!" shouted Killigrew, as he sighted one of the club's
promoters.
Milligan recognized his millionaire patron and pushed to his side.
After due explanations, Thomas was liberated and the real culprit was
forced swearing through the press toward the patrol-wagon, always near
on such nights.  Eventually the four gained Crawford's box.  Aside from
a cut lip and a torn shirt, Thomas was uninjured.  If his
fairy-godmother had prearranged this fisticuff, she could not have done
anything better so far as Killigrew was concerned.
"Thomas," he said, as the main bout was being staged, the chairs and
water-pails and paraphernalia changed to fresh corners, "I'll remember
that turn.  If you're not Irish, it's no fault of yours.  I wish you
knew something about coffee."
"I enjoy drinking it," Thomas replied, smiling humorously.
Ever after the merchant-prince treated Thomas like a son; the kind of a
boy he had always wanted and could not have.  And only once again did
he doubt; and he longed to throttle the man who brought into light what
appeared to be the most damnable evidence of Thomas' perfidy.
CHAPTER XV
We chaps who write have magic carpets.
Whiz!
A marble balcony, overlooking the sea, which shimmered under the light
of the summer moon.  Lord Henry Monckton and Kitty leaned over the
baluster and silently watched the rush of the rollers landward and the
slink of them back to the sea.
For three days Kitty had wondered whether she liked or disliked Lord
Monckton.  The fact that he was the man who had bumped into Thomas that
night at the theater may have had something to do with her doddering.
He might at least have helped Thomas in recovering his hat.  Dark,
full-bearded, slender, with hands like a woman's, quiet of manner yet
affable, he was the most picturesque person at the cottage.  But there
was always something smoldering in those sleepy eyes of his that
suggested to Kitty a mockery.  It was not that recognizable mockery of
all those visiting Englishmen who held themselves complacently superior
to their generous American hosts.  It was as though he were silently
laughing at all he saw, at all which happened about him, as if he stood
in the midst of some huge joke which he alone was capable of
understanding: so Kitty weighed him.
He did not seem to care particularly for women; he never hovered about
them, offering little favors and courtesies; rather, he let them come
to him.  Nor did he care for dancing.  But he was always ready to make
up a table at bridge; and a shrewd capable player he was, too.
The music in the ballroom stopped.
"Will you be so good, Miss Killigrew, as to tell me why you Americans
call a palace like this--a cottage?"  Lord Monckton's voice was
pleasing, with only a slight accent.
"I'm sure I do not know.  If it were mine, I'd call it a villa."
"Quite properly."
"Do you like Americans?"
"I have no preference for any people.  I prefer individuals.  I had
much rather talk to an enlightened Chinaman than to an unenlightened
white man."
"I am afraid you are what they call blasé."
"Perhaps I am not quite at ease yet.  I was buffeted about a deal in
the old days."
Lord Monckton dropped back into the wicker chair, in the deep shadow.
Kitty did not move.  She wondered what Thomas was doing.  (Thomas was
rubbing ointment on his raw knuckles.)
"I am very fond of the sea," remarked Lord Monckton.  "I have seen some
odd parts of it.  Every man has his Odyssey, his Aeneid."
Aeneid.  It seemed to Kitty that her body had turned that instant into
marble as cold as that under her palms.
The coal of the man's cigar glowed intermittently.  She could see
nothing else.
Aeneid--Enid.
CHAPTER XVI
Thomas slammed the ball with a force which carried it far over the wire
backstop.
"You must not drive them so hard, Mr. Webb; at least, not up.  Drive
them down.  Try it again."
Tennis looked so easy from the sidelines that Thomas believed all he
had to do was to hit the ball whenever he saw it within reach; but
after a few experiments he accepted the fact that every game required a
certain talent, quite as distinct as that needed to sell green neckties
(old stock) when the prevailing fashion was polka-dot blue.  How he
loathed Thomas Webb.  How he loathed the impulse which had catapulted
him into this mad whirligig!  Why had not fate left him in peace; if
not satisfied with his lot, at least resigned?  And now must come this
confrontation, the inevitable!  No poor rat in a trap could have felt
more harassed.  Mentally, he went round and round in circles, but he
could find no exit.  There is no file to saw the bars of circumstance.
That the lithe young figure on the other side of the net, here, there,
backward and forward, alert, accurate, bubbling with energy . . .
Once, a mad rollicking impulse seized and urged him to vault the net
and take her in his arms and hold her still for a moment.  But he knew.
She was using him as an athlete uses a trainer before a real contest.
There was something more behind his stroke than mere awkwardness.  It
was downright savagery.  Generally when a man is in anger or despair he
longs to smash things; and these inoffensive tennis-balls were to
Thomas a gift of the gods.  Each time one sailed away over the
backstop, it was like the pop of a safety-valve; it averted an
explosion.
"That will be enough!" cried Kitty, as the last of a dozen balls sailed
toward the distant stables.
The tennis-courts were sunken and round them ran a parapet of lawn,
crisp and green, with marble benches opposite the posts, generally used
as judges' stands.  Upon one of these Kitty sat down and began to fan
herself.  Thomas walked over and sat down beside her.  The slight
gesture of her hand had been a command.
It was early morning, before breakfast; still and warm and breathless,
a forerunner of a long hot summer day.  A few hundred yards to the
south lay the sea, shimmering as it sprawled lazily upon the tawny
sands.
The propinquity of a pretty girl and a lonely young man has founded
more than one story.
"You'll be enjoying the game, once you learn it."
"Do you think I ever will?" asked Thomas.  He bent forward and began
tapping the clay with his racket.  How to run away!
Kitty, as she looked down at his head, knew that there were a dozen
absurd wishes in her heart, none of which could possibly ever become
facts.  He was so different from the self-assertive young men she knew,
with their silly flirtations, their inane small-talk, their capacity
for Scotch whisky and long hours.  For days she had studied him as
through microscopic lenses; his guilelessness was real.  It just simply
could not be; her ears had deceived her that memorable foggy night in
London.  And yet, always in the dark his voice was that of one of the
two men who had talked near her cab.  Who was he?  Not a single corner
of the veil had he yet lifted, and here it was, the middle of August;
and except for the week at Bar Harbor she had been with him day by day,
laid she knew not how many traps, over which he had stepped serenely,
warily or unconsciously she could not tell which.  It made her heart
ache; for, manly and simple as he appeared, honest as he seemed, he was
either a rogue or the dupe of one, which was almost as bad.  But to-day
she was determined to learn which he was.
"What have you done with the romance?"
"I have put it away in the bottom of my trunk.  The seventh rejection
convinces me that I am not a story-teller."
He had a desperate longing to tell her all, then and there.  It was too
late.  He would be arrested as a smuggler, turned out of the house as
an impostor.
"Don't give up so easily.  There are still ninety-three other editors
waiting to read it."
"I have my doubts.  Still, it was a pleasant pastime."  He sat back and
stared at the sea.  He must go this day; he must invent some way of
leaving.
Then came the Machiavellian way; only, he managed as usual to execute
it in his blundering English style.  Without warning he dropped his
racket, caught Kitty in his arms tightly and roughly, kissed her cheek,
rose, and strode swiftly across the courts, into the villa.  It was
done.  He could go now; he knew very well he had to go.
His subsequent actions were methodical enough; a shower, a thorough
rub-down, and then into his workaday clothes.  He packed his trunk and
hand-luggage, overlooked nothing that was his, and went down into the
living-room where he knew he would find Killigrew with the morning
papers.  He felt oddly light-headed; but he had no time to analyze the
cause.
"Good morning, Thomas," greeted the master of the house cordially.
"I am leaving, Mr. Killigrew.  Will you be kind enough to let me have
the use of the motor to the station?"
"Leaving!  What's happened?  What's the matter?  Young man, what the
devil's this about?"
"I am sorry, sir, but I have insulted Miss Killigrew."
"Insulted Kitty?"  Killigrew sprang up.
"Just a moment, sir," warned Thomas.  The tense, short but powerful
figure of Kitty's father was not at that moment an agreeable thing to
look at; and Thomas knew that those knotted hands were rising toward
his throat.  "Do not misinterpret me, sir.  I took Miss Kitty in my
arms and kissed her."
"You--kissed--Kitty?"  Killigrew fell back into his chair, limp.  For a
moment there had been black murder in his heart; now he wondered
whether to weep or laugh.  The reaction was too sudden to admit of
coherent thought.  "You kissed Kitty?" he repeated mechanically.
"Yes, sir."
"What did she do?"
"I did not wait to learn, sir."
Killigrew got up and walked the length of the room several times, his
chin in his collar, his hands clasped behind his back, under his
coat-tails.  The fifth passage carried him out on to the veranda.  He
kept on going and disappeared among the lilac hedges.
Thomas thought he understood this action, that his inference was
perfectly logical; Killigrew, rather than strike the man who had so
gratuitously insulted his daughter, had preferred to run away.  (I
know; for a long time I, too, believed Thomas the most colossal ass
since Dobson.)  Thomas gazed mournfully about the room.  It was all
over.  He had burned his bridges.  It had been so pleasant, so
homelike; and he had begun to love these unpretentious people as if
they had been his very own.
Except that which had been expended on clothes, Thomas had most of his
salary.  It would carry him along till he found something else to do.
To get away, immediately, was the main idea; he had found a door to the
trap.  (The chamois-bag lay in his trunk, forgotten.)
"Your breakfast is ready, sir," announced the grave butler.
So Thomas ate his chops and potatoes and toast and drank his tea, alone.
And Killigrew, blinking tears, leaned against the stout branches of the
lilacs and buried his teeth in his coat-sleeve.  He was as near
apoplexy as he was ever to come.
CHAPTER XVII
Meantime Kitty sat on the bench, stunned.  Never before in all her life
had such a thing happened.  True, young men had at times attempted to
kiss her, but not in this fashion.  A rough embrace, a kiss on her cheek,
and he had gone.  Not a word, not a sign of apology.  She could not have
been more astounded had a thunder-bolt struck at her feet, nor more
bereft of action.  She must have sat there fully ten minutes without
movement.  From Thomas, the guileless, this!  What did it mean?  She
could not understand.  Had he instantly begged forgiveness, had he made
protestations of sentiment, a glimmering would have been hers.  Nothing;
he had kissed her and walked away: as he might have kissed Celeste, and
had, for all she knew!
When the numbing sense of astonishment passed away, it left her cold with
anger.  Kitty was a dignified young lady, and she would not tolerate such
an affront from any man alive.  It was more than an affront; it was a
dire catastrophe.  What should she do now?  What would become of all her
wonderfully maneuvered plans?
She went directly to her room and flung herself upon the bed, bewildered
and unhappy.  And there Killigrew found her.  He was a wise old man,
deeply versed in humanity, having passed his way up through all sorts and
conditions of it to his present peaceful state.
"Kittibudget, what the deuce is all this about? . . .  You've been
crying!"
"Supposing I have?"--came muffled from the pillows.
"What have you been doing to Thomas?"
"I?" she shot back, sitting up, her eyes blazing.  "He kissed me, dad, as
he probably kisses his English barmaids."
"Kitty, girl, you're as pretty as a primrose.  I don't think Thomas was
really accountable."
"Are you defending him?"--blankly.
"No.  The strange part of it is, I don't think Thomas wants to be
defended.  A few minutes ago he came to me and told me what he had done.
He is leaving."
The anger went out of her eyes, snuffed--candle-wise.  "Leaving?"
"Leaving.  He asked me for the motor to the station."
"Leaving!  Well, that's about the only possible thing he could do, under
the circumstances.  He has a good excuse."  Excuse!  Kitty's nimble mind
reached out and touched Thomas' Machiavellian inspiration.
"Hang it, Kitty, I had to run out into the lilacs to laugh!  Can't this
be smoothed over some way?  I like that boy; I don't care if he is a
Britisher and sometimes as simple as a fool.  When I think of the other
light-headed duffers who call themselves gentlemen . . .  Pah!  They
drink my whiskies, smoke my cigars, and dub me an old Mick behind my
back.  They run around with silly chorus-girls and play poker till
sun-up, and never do an honest day's work.  It takes a brave man to come
to me and frankly say that he has insulted my daughter."
"He said that?"  Behind her lips Kitty was already smiling.  "You are
acting very strangely, dad."
"I know.  Ordinarily I'd have taken him by the collar and hustled him
into the road.  And if it had been one of those young bachelors who are
coming down to-night, I'd have done it.  I like Thomas; and I don't think
he kissed you either to affront or to insult you."
"Indeed!"--icily.
"I dare say I stole a kiss or two in my day."
"Does mother know it?"
"Back in the old country, when I was a lad.  It's a normal impulse.
There isn't a young man alive who can look upon a pretty girl's face
without wishing to kiss it.  I don't believe Thomas will repeat the
offense.  The trouble, girl, is this--you've been living in a false
atmosphere, where people hide all their generous impulses because to be
natural is not fashionable."
"I marvel at you more and more.  Is it generous, then, to kiss a girl
without so much as by your leave?  If he had been sorry, if he had
apologized, I might overlook the deed.  But he kissed me and walked away.
Do you realize what such an action means to any young woman with pride?
Very well, if he apologizes he may stay; but no longer on the basis of
friendship.  It must be purely business.  When my guests arrive I shall
not consider it necessary to ask him to join any of our amusements."
"Poor devil!  He'll have to pay for that kiss."
"Next, I suppose you'll be wanting me to marry him!" Kitty volleyed.  But
she wasn't half so angry as she pretended.
"What?  Thomas?"
"Ah, that's different, isn't it?  There, there; I've promised to overlook
the offense on condition that he apologize and keep his place.  I have
always said that you'd rather have a man about than me."
"Well, perhaps I could understand a man better."
"Go down to breakfast.  I hear mother moving about.  I'll ring for what I
need.  I must bathe and dress.  Some of the people will motor in for
lunch."
Killigrew, subdued and mystified, went in search of Thomas and discovered
him in almost the exact spot he had left him; for Thomas, having
breakfasted, had returned to the living-room to await the motor.
"Thomas, when Kitty comes down, apologize.  And remember this, that you
can't kiss a pretty girl just because you happen to want to."
"But, Mr. Killigrew, I didn't want to!" said Thomas.
"Well, I'll be tinker-dammed!"
"I mean . . .  Really, sir, it is better that I should return at once to
the city.  I'm a rotter."
"Don't be a fool!  Take your grips back to your room, and don't let's
have any more nonsense.  Finish up that report from Brazil; and if you
handle it right, I'll take you into the office where you'll be away from
the women folks."
Thomas' heart went down in despair.
"Mrs. Killigrew can find another secretary for the bureau.  I shan't say
a word to her, and I'll see that Kitty doesn't.  You've had your
breakfast.  Go and finish up that report.  Williams," Killigrew called to
the second man, "take Mr. Webb's grips up to his rooms.  I'll see you
later, Thomas," and Killigrew made off for the breakfast-room, where he
chuckled at odd times, much to his wife's curiosity.  But he shook his
head when she quizzed him.
"You agree with me, Molly, don't you, that Kitty shall marry when and
where she pleases?"
"Certainly, Daniel.  I don't believe in ready-made matches."
"No more do I.  Molly, old girl, I've slathers of money.  I could quit
now; but I'm healthy and can't play all day.  Got to work some of the
time.  Every one around here shall do as they please.  And,"--slyly--"if
Kitty should want to marry Thomas . . ."
"Thomas?"
"Anything against the idea?"
"But Thomas couldn't take care of Kitty."
"H'm."
"And Kitty wouldn't marry a man who couldn't."
"Some truth In that.  At present Thomas couldn't support an idea.  But
there's makings in the boy, give a man time and nothing else to do.
There's one thing, though; Thomas seems to have the gift of picking out
the chaff when it comes to men.  A man who can spot a man is worth
something to somebody.  Where Thomas' niche is, however, I can't tell to
date.  He'll never get on socially; he has too much regard for other
people's feelings."
"And no tact."
"A poor man needs a good deal of that."  Killigrew began paring his
fourth chop-bone.  He hadn't enjoyed himself so much in months.  Thomas
had kissed Kitty and hadn't wanted to!
It would take a philosopher to dig up the reason for that; or rather a
clairvoyant, since philosophers dealt only with logical sequences, and
there was nothing logical to Killigrew's mind in Thomas kissing Kitty
when he hadn't wanted to!
CHAPTER XVIII
Sugar, coffee and spices.  Thomas dipped his pen into the inkwell and
went to work.  Were all American fathers mad?  To condone an affront
like this!  He could not understand these Americans.  He had approached
Killigrew with far more courage than the latter suspected.  Thomas had
read that here men still shot each other on slight provocation.  Sugar,
coffee and spices. . . .  Sao Paulo and valorization committee . . .
10,000,000 bags.  What should he do?  Whither should he turn?  To have
offered that affront . . . for nothing!  Kitty, whom he revered above
all women save one, his mother! . . .  Sugar, coffee and spices.  Rio
number seven, 7 1/2 to 13 1/2 cents.  Leaks in the roasting
business. . . .  Apologize?  On his knees, if need be.  Caught like a
rat in a trap; done for; at the end of his rope.  Why hadn't he taken
to his heels when he had had the chance?  Gone at once to New York and
sent for his belongings? . . .  Sugar, coffee and spices. . . .  The
pen slipped from his fingers, and he laid his head on his arms.
Monumental ass!
Up suddenly, alert eyed.  There was a telephone-booth in the hall.
This he sought noiselessly.  He remained hidden in the booth for as
long as twenty minutes.  Then he emerged, wiping the perspiration from
