Halkett leaped, dragged open the gate; Warner swung his horse and drove
through and out into a swampy meadow set with wild flowers and bushes
and slender saplings.

The wheels of the cart cut through the spongy sod and sank almost to the
hubs, but Warner used his whip and Halkett, taking the horse by the
head, ran forward beside the swaying cart.  Right across their path
flowed a deep, narrow stream, partly invisible between reeds and tufts
of swamp weed; Warner turned the vehicle with difficulty, urged his
nervous horse across a cattle bridge which had been fashioned out of a
few loose planks, and drove up on firmer ground among tall ferns and
willow bushes.

"Pull up those planks!" he shouted back to Halkett, guiding his horse
with difficulty; and Halkett ran back, lifted the mossy, half rotted
planks, and threw them up among the bushes.

A grey touring car which had halted on the highway outside the hedge had
now turned after them through the gate; and already the driver was
having a bad time of it in the swampy meadow.

As Halkett lifted the last plank that spanned the brook, one of three
men in the tonneau of the car stood up and fired a revolver at him; and
another of the men, seated beside him, also fired deliberately, resting
his elbow on the side of the stalled car to steady his aim, and
supporting the revolver with his left hand under the barrel.

Halkett ran back to where the cart stood, partly concealed among the
ferns and bushes; Warner, holding whip and reins in one hand, passed him
an automatic revolver and drew out the other weapon for his own use.

"This is rottenly ungrateful of me," said the Englishman.  "I’ve
certainly involved you now!"

"It’s all right; I’m enjoying it!  Now, Halkett, their car is badly
mired.  There is another gate to that hedge a few hundred yards below.
If you’ll just lay those planks in the cart, we’ll drive along the hard
ground here and make another bridge below."

Halkett picked up the wet and muddy planks, one by one, and placed them
crossways in the cart.  Then, at a nod from Warner, he climbed up and
the cart started slowly south, winding cautiously in and out among the
bushes.

When they had driven a little distance, the men in the car across the
brook caught sight of them; the driver left his wheel and sprang out;
and from either door of the tonneau the three other men followed,
revolvers lifted.  There was no shouting; not a word spoken; not a sound
except the hard, dry crack of the pistols.

"I don’t know," said Warner coolly, "whether this horse will stand our
fire, but if they cross the stream we’ll have to begin shooting....
We’d better begin now anyway, I think."  He drew rein, turned in his
seat, and fired two shots in quick succession.  The horse started, and,
instantly checked, stood trembling but behaving well enough.

Another shot from Halkett brought the running men to a halt.  Warner
drove on immediately; three of the men started to follow on a run, but
half a dozen rapid shots brought them to a dead stop again.  And again
the dogcart jolted slowly forward.

One of the men made a furious gesture, turned, and ran back to the
mud-stalled car; two of the others followed to aid him to extricate the
machine; the fourth man, skulking along the stream, continued to advance
as the dogcart drove on.

Warner, driving carefully, shoved with his foot a box of clips toward
the dashboard; Halkett reloaded both automatics.  Presently the cart
turned east, descending the hard slope toward the stream again; and the
man who had followed them along the swampy brook immediately opened
fire.

Halkett and Warner sprang out; the former shouldered the planks and ran
forward; the latter, holding his nervous horse by the head, fired at the
man among the reeds as he advanced toward the stream.

It seemed odd that so many bullets could fly and hit nothing; Halkett
heard them whining over his head; the horse heard them too and
threatened to become unmanageable.  Far up the stream the three other
men were laboring frantically to disengage the grey automobile; the man
across the creek, routed out of the reeds by the stream of bullets
directed at him, was running now to get out of range.  Evidently his
automatic was empty, for it merely swung in his hand as he ran.

But what occupied Warner was the course the man was taking, straight for
the lower gate in the hedge.

"Jump in!" he called to Halkett.  "We can’t wait for the other planks!"
The Englishman swung up beside him; the whip whistled and the horse, now
thoroughly frightened, bounded forward down the slope and took the
improvised bridge at a single leap. For one moment it looked like a
general smash, but the cart stood it, and, after a perilous second,
righted itself.

Straight at the closed gate drove Warner, whipping his horse into a dead
run; crashed through the flimsy pickets, slashed mercilessly with his
whip at the man who pluckily stripped off his coat and strove to make
the horse swerve into the hedge, as a toreador waves his cloak at a
charging bull.

Halkett could have shot the man; but he merely turned his weapon on him
as they dashed out into the highroad once more, and tore away due south
through the rose and golden glory of the sunset.

The horse ran a flat mile before Warner chose to ease him down; the
summer wind whistled in their ears; the last glow faded from the
purpling zenith; the crimson streak on the river surface, which had run
parallel on their left like level and jagged lightning, glimmered to a
pallid ochre tint; and the flying mist of trees and bushes which had
fled past like an endless rush of phantoms now took shape and substance
once more above the rising veil of river mist.

Warner’s tense features were flushed with excitement. As he gradually
eased in his horse he was smiling.

"Well, what do you know about this performance of ours, Halkett?" he
inquired rather breathlessly. "Can you beat it in the movies?"

"I’m wondering what I’ve let you in for," said the Englishman very
seriously.

"I’ll tell you," laughed Warner; "you’ve let me in for a last glimpse of
my youth—the days when everything went and every chance for mischief was
gratefully seized—the days when I was a subject of the only real
democracy on earth—the Latin Quarter—the days that dawn no more,
Halkett.  This is the last gleam from their afterglow.  Nosce tempus!
But the sun has set at last, Halkett, and the last haymaker is going
home."

"It would not have been very amusing if one of those bullets had knocked
you off your seat," remarked Halkett.

"But they didn’t, old chap!" returned Warner heartily.  "It was a good
mix-up—exciting, harmless, and beneficial.  I feel years younger.
Respectability is a good, warm coat for the winter of life; but one
feels its weight in Indian summer."

Halkett smiled but shook his head:

"No good hunting trouble.  You’ve only to turn around any time to find
it sniffing in your tracks."

"You don’t understand.  For years I’ve worked very steadily, very
seriously.  I’ve painted, studied, read; I’ve made a living by selling
some pictures, by royalties on the reproduction of pictures, by teaching
a summer class of girls.  After a while, you know, one goes stale with
respectability.  I went out to the East and saw the Balkan fighting.  It
helped some.  I made some sketches last year in Mexico.  That helped.

"But there’s an exhilaration about lawbreaking—or in aiding and abetting
a lawbreaker—that has the rest beaten to a batter.  Today’s misdeeds
mean a new lease of life to me, Halkett."

The Englishman laughed.  He was still cradling the two automatics on his
knees; now, with a careless glance behind him, he leaned forward and
replaced them in their respective holsters.

"For a rather celebrated and weighty member of the social structure," he
remarked, "there is a good deal of the boy left in you."

"When that dies in a man," returned Warner lightly, "creative and
constructive work end.  The child who built with blocks, the youth who
built airier castles, is truly dead.  And so is the man he has become."

"Do you think so?"

"I know it.  The same intellectual and physical restlessness drives one
to create and construct, which, as a boy, drove one into active and
constructive mischief. When the day dawns wherein creating no longer
appeals to me, then I am old indeed, Halkett, and the overcoat of
respectability will suit me the year round....  I’m very glad that I
have found it oppressive this July day.  By the way, what day does it
happen to be?"

Halkett said:

"It happens to be the last day of July.  I have an idea that several
billion other people are destined to remember these last few days of
July, 1914, as long as they live."

"Why?" inquired the American curiously.

"Because, within these last few days, Austria has declared war on
Servia, Russia has already ordered partial mobilization, Germany has
sent her an ultimatum, and will back it up tomorrow."

"What!  How do you know?"

"You don’t mean to ask me that, do you?" said Halkett pleasantly.

"No, of course not——"  Warner gazed straight ahead of him as he drove;
his altered features had become gravely expressionless.  After a moment
he said:

"I can’t comprehend it.  Servia had agreed to everything demanded—except
that one item which she offered to arbitrate.  I can’t understand it."

Halkett said calmly:

"It is not difficult to understand.  A telegram has been suppressed—the
only telegram which could now prevent war."  He removed his straw hat,
took from the lining a strip of semi-transparent paper, and read aloud
the minute handwriting:


"The German government has published several telegrams which the Emperor
of Russia exchanged with Emperor William.  Among these telegrams,
nevertheless, is one which was not published—a dispatch from His Russian
Majesty, dated July 29, 1914, containing a proposition to submit the
Austro-Servian conflict to The Hague Tribunal.

"This has an appearance of a desire in Germany to pass over in silence
the attempt to prevent the approaching collision.  In view of this, the
Minister of Foreign Affairs is authorized to publish the telegram
mentioned, of which this is the text:

"’Thanks for your conciliatory and friendly telegram. Inasmuch as the
official message presented today by your ambassador to my minister was
conveyed in a very different tone, I beg you to explain this divergency.
It would be right to give over the Austro-Servian problem to The Hague
Conference.  I trust in your wisdom and friendship.’"


"Where did you get that?" asked Warner bluntly.

"This morning at the Boule d’Argent.  A friend was kind enough to leave
it for me in a note," he added blandly.

"Do you believe it to be authentic?"

"Unfortunately, I can not question its truth."

"You think that the German government——"

"Without any doubt at all, Warner.  For her The Day is about to dawn at
last.  Her Joshua has halted the course of the sun long enough to suit
himself.  It is scheduled to rise tomorrow."

"Do you mean war?"

"I do."

"Where?"

"Well, here, in France—to mention one place."

"In France!"

"Surely, surely!"

"Invasion?"

"Exactly."

"From which way?"

Halkett shrugged:

"Does anybody now believe it will come by way of the Barrier Forts?  The
human race never has been partial to cross-country traveling; only ants
prefer it."

"You think it will come by the flank—through Belgium?"

"Ask yourself, Warner.  Is there an easier way for it to come?"

"But the treaties?"

"Nulla salus bello; necessitas no habet legem."

"Nothing dishonorable is ever necessary."

"Ah!  If nations could only agree upon the definition of that word
’honor’!  There’d be fewer wars, my friend."

"You think, if France follows Russia’s example and mobilizes, that
Germany will strike through Belgium?"

"I’m sure of it."

"What about England, then?" asked Warner bluntly.

But Halkett remained silent; and he did not repeat the question.

"After all," he said, presently, "this entire business is incredible.
Diplomacy will find a way out of it."  And, after a moment’s silence:
"You don’t think so?"

"No."

Presently Halkett turned and looked back through the gathering dusk.

"I wonder," he said, "whether they’ll get their car out tonight?"

"They’ll have to go back to Ausone for aid," said Warner.

"Do you still mean to put me up at Saïs?"

"Certainly.  You don’t expect your friends back there to assault the
inn, do you?"

"No," said Halkett, laughing.  "They don’t do things that way just yet."

Warner snapped his whip, caught the curling lash, let it free, twirled
it, and, snapped it again, whistling cheerfully a gay air from his
student days—a tune he had not thought of before in years.

"I believe," he said, frankly hopeful, "that you and I are going to have
another little party with those fellows before this matter is ended."

"I’m sure of it," said Halkett quietly.

A few moments later Warner, still whistling his joyous air, pointed
toward a cluster of tiny lights far ahead in the dark valley.

"Saïs," he said; and resumed his song blithely:

    "Gai, gai, mariez-vous!
      C’est un usage
      Fort sage.
    Gai, gai, mariez-vous,
    Le mariage est si doux!—"


"Like a bird it is!" he added ironically.

"By the way, you’re not married, are you?" inquired Halkett uneasily.

"Oh, Lord!  No!  Why the unmerited suspicion?"

"Nothing much.  I just thought that after getting you into this scrape I
shouldn’t dare face your wife."

Then they both laughed heartily.  They were already on excellent terms.
Already acquaintance was becoming an unembarrassed friendship.

Warner flourished his whip and continued to laugh:

"I have no serious use for women.  To me the normal and healthy woman is
as naïve as the domestic and blameless cat, whose first ambition is for
a mate, whose second is to be permanently and agreeably protected, and
whose ultimate aim is to acquire a warm basket by the fireside and fill
it full of kittens! ... No; I’m not married.  Don’t worry, Halkett."

He whistled another bar of his lively song:

"Women?  Ha!  By the way, I’ve a bunch of them here in Saïs, all
painting away like the devil and all, no doubt laying plans for that
fireside basket.  It’s the only thing a woman ever really thinks about,
no matter what else she pretends to be busy with.  I suppose it’s
natural; also, it’s natural for some men to shy wide of such things.
I’m one of those men.  So, Halkett, as long as you live, you need never
be afraid of offending any wife of mine!"

"Your sentiments," said Halkett, mockingly serious, "merely reveal
another bond between us.  I thank God frequently that I am a bachelor."

"Good," said Warner with emphasis.  And he chanted gayly, as he drove,
"Gai, gai, marions-nous—" in a very agreeable baritone voice, while the
lights of Saïs grew nearer and brighter among the trees below.

"I never saw a girl worth the loss of my liberty," he remarked.  "Did
you, Halkett?  And," he continued, "to be tied up to a mentally
deficient appendage with only inferior intellectual resources, and no
business or professional occupation—to be tied fast to something that
sits about to be entertained, and that does nothing except nourish
itself and clothe itself, and have babies!—It’s unthinkable, isn’t it?"

"It’s pretty awful....  Of course if a woman came along who combined
looks and intellect and professional self-sufficiency——"

"You don’t find them combined.  Take a slant at my class.  That’s the
only sort who even pretend to anything except vacuous idleness.  There
are no Portias, Halkett.  There never were.  If there were, I’d take a
chance myself, I think.  But a man who marries the young girl of today
has on his hands an utterly useless incubus.  No wonder he sometimes
makes experiments elsewhere.  No wonder he becomes a rainbow chaser. But
he’s like a caged squirrel in a wheel; the more he runs around looking
for consolation the less progress he makes.

"No, Halkett, this whole marriage business is a pitiable fizzle.  Until
both parties to a marriage contract are financially independent,
intellectually self-sufficient, and properly equipped to earn their own
livings by a business or a trade or a profession—and until, if a mistake
has been made, escape from an ignoble partnership is made legally
easy—marriage will remain the sickly, sentimental, pious fraud which a
combination of ignorance, superstition, custom, and orthodoxy have made
it.

"I’m rather eloquent on marriage, don’t you think so?"

"Superbly!" said Halkett, laughing.  "But, do you know, Warner, your
very eloquence betrays the fact that you have thought as much about it
as the unfortunate sex you have so eloquently indicted."

"What’s that?" demanded Warner wrathfully.

"I’m sorry to say it, but you are exactly the sort of man to fall with a
tremendous flop."

"If ever I fall——"

"You fell temporarily this afternoon."

"With that painted, grey-eyed——"

"Certainly, with the girl Philippa.  Come, old chap, you were out with
her a long while!  What did you two talk about?  Love?"

"No, you idiot——"

"You didn’t even mention the word ’love’?  Be honest, old chap!"

Warner began to speak, checked himself.

"Didn’t you or she even mention the subject?" persisted Halkett with
malicious delight.

But Warner was too angry to speak, and the Englishman’s laughter rang
out boyishly under the stars. To look at them one would scarcely believe
they had been a target for bullets within the hour.

"You don’t suppose," began Warner, "that——"

"No, no!" cried Halkett.  "—Not with that girl. I’m merely proving my
point.  You’re too eloquent concerning women not to have spent a good
deal of time in speculating about them.  You even speculated concerning
Philippa.  The man who mourns the scarcity of Portias wouldn’t be likely
to care for one if he met her.  You’re just the man to fall in love with
everything you denounce in a girl.  And I have no doubt I shall live to
witness that sorrowful spectacle."

Warner had to laugh.

"You are rather a terrifying psychologist," he said. "You almost make me
believe I have a streak of romance in me."

"Oh, we all have that, Warner.  We call it by other names—cleverness,
logic, astuteness, intelligence—but we all have it in us, and it is
revealed in every man who marries a woman for love....  Believe me, no
normal man ever lived who was not, at some brief moment in his life, in
love with some woman.  Maybe he ignored it and it never came again;
maybe he strangled it and went on about more serious business; maybe it
died a natural but early death.  But once, before he died, he must have
had a faint, brief glimpse of it.  And that was the naissance of the
latent germ of romance in him—ephemeral, perhaps, but inevitably to be
born before it died."

Warner waved his whip and snapped it maliciously:

"So you have been in love, have you?"

"Why?  Because I, also, am suspiciously eloquent?"

"That’s the reason—according to you."

Halkett smiled slightly.

"Perhaps I have been," he said....  "Hello!  Is this your inn?" as they
drew up before the lighted windows of a two-story building standing
close to the left-hand edge of the highway, under the stars.

"Here we are at the Golden Peach," nodded Warner, as the door opened and
a smiling peasant lad came out with a: "Bon soir, Monsieur Warner!  Bon
soir, messieurs!"  And he took the horse’s head while they descended.


That night, lying awake on his bed in the Inn of the Golden Peach,
Halkett heard the heavy rush of a southbound automobile passing under
his window with the speed of an express train.

And he wondered whether the spongy morass by the little brook still held
the long, grey touring car imprisoned.

He got up, went to his window and leaned out.  Far away down the road
the tail lamps of the machine twinkled, dwindled to sparks, and were
engulfed in the invisible.

"More trouble south of me," he thought.  But he returned to his bed and
lay there, tranquil in the knowledge that when he started south alone on
the morrow the envelope would not be on his person.

After a while he rose again, walked to the door connecting his room with
Warner’s, and opened it cautiously.

"I’m awake," said Warner in a low voice.

"Did you hear that car?"

"Yes.  Was it the one that chased us?"

"I only guess so.  Listen, Warner!  When I go south tomorrow, what are
you going to do with that envelope until I send a man back for it?"

"I’ve thought it all out, old chap.  I shall take one of my new
canvases, lay the envelope on it, cover envelope and canvas with a
quarter of an inch of Chinese White, and when the enamel is dry I shall
paint on it.  By the way, did you do your telephoning to your
satisfaction?"

"Entirely, thank you."

"You got your man?"

"I did," said Halkett.  "He’s on his way here now. Good night.  I’ll
sleep like a fox, old chap!"

"Good night," said Warner cheerily, enamored with his invention for the
safety of the envelope, as well as with the entire adventure.

That night, while they both slept, far away southward, on a lonely road
in the Vosges, the car which had rushed by under their windows was now
drawn up on the edge of the road.

Four men sat in it, waiting.

Just as dawn broke, what they awaited came up out of the south—a far,
faint rattle announced it, growing rapidly louder; and a motor cyclist,
riding without lights, shot out of the grey obscurity, trailing a
comet’s tail of dust.

Head-on he came, like a streak, caught sight suddenly of the motionless
car and of four men standing up in it, ducked and flattened out over his
handlebars as four revolvers poured forth streams of fire.

Motor cycle and rider swerved into the ditch with a crash; the latter,
swaying wide in his saddle, was hurled a hundred feet further through
the air, landing among the wild flowers on the bank above.

He was the man to whom Halkett had telephoned.

He seemed to be very young—an Englishman—with blood on his fair hair,
and his blue eyes partly open.

They searched him thoroughly; and when they could find nothing more they
lifted him between two of them; two others carried the wrecked motor
cycle out across the fields toward the slope of a wooded mountain.

After ten minutes or so, two of the men returned to the car, drew a
couple of short, intrenching spades from the tool box, and went away
again across the fields toward the misty woods.

A throstle in a thorn bush had been singing all the while.




                              *CHAPTER V*


Halkett had not slept well; all night long in the garden under his
window the nightingales had been very noisy.  When he slept, sinister
dreams had assailed him; cocks crowed at sunrise, cowbells tinkled,
outside his drawn blinds a refreshed and garrulous world was awakening;
and the happy tumult awoke him, too.

He was bathed, shaved, and dressed, and downstairs before Warner awoke
at all; and he began to rove about the place which, by daylight, did not
look at all like what he had imagined it to be the night before.

The Inn of the Golden Peach was one of those cream-tinted stucco houses
built into and around a series of haphazard garden walls which inclosed
flower and fruit gardens, cow-barns and stables.  Its roof and wall
copings were covered with red tiles, weather-faded to a salmon tint; two
incredible climbing rosebushes nearly covered the front with delicate,
salmon-pink blossoms, and, in the rear, flowers bloomed along
stone-edged borders—masses of white clove pinks, rockets, poppies,
heliotrope, reseda, portulaca, and pansies—a careless riot of color,
apparently, yet set with that instinctive good taste which seldom fails
in France and is common alike to aristocrat and peasant.

Beyond the strawberry beds were fruit trees, peach, cherry, plum, and
apricot—the cherries hanging ripe and deeply crimson among dark green
leaves, the apricots already golden, peaches and plums delicately
painted with a bloom which promised approaching maturity.

Everywhere the grass grew thick and intensely green, though it was not
very neatly kept; water ran out of a stone trough and made a dancing
little rivulet over a bed of artificially set stones among which grew
ferns. Beyond stood a trellised summerhouse, with iron tables and chairs
painted green.

On the edge of the watering trough, Halkett seated himself in the sun.
An immaculate tiger cat sat on the garden walk a few paces away,
polishing her countenance with the velvet side of one forepaw, and
occasionally polishing the paw with a delicate pink tongue.

Once or twice she looked at Halkett without any apparent interest; now
and then she glanced up with more interest at the side of the house
where, under the kitchen door, in a big basket-cage, a jay hopped about,
making a scuffling noise among his cracked maize and rye straw.

However, the cat proved entirely susceptible to flattery, responded
graciously to polite advances, and presently relapsed into a purring
doze on his knee.

It was very still in the garden, too early even for butterflies to be
abroad.  The kitchen door remained closed; smoke had just begun to rise
from one chimney.

