whole box into the fire! I shall tell Bob never to get cigarettes with
tobacco in them after this. Won't you have one of the chocolates? Or a
mallow? I feel as if I should never want to eat anything again. Where
was I?" She rests her cheek against the side of her chair cushion, and
speaks with closed eyes, in a weak murmur. Mr. Ashley watches her at
first with anxiety, then with a gradual change of countenance until a
gleam of intelligence steals into his look of compassion.
Ashley: "You asked me to throw the cigarettes into the fire. But I
want you to let me keep them."
Miss Ramsey, with wide-flung eyes: "You? You said you wouldn't
smoke."
Ashley, laughing: "May I change my mind? One talks better." He
lights a cigarette. "And, Miss Ramsey, I believe I will have a
cocktail, after all."
Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley!"
Ashley, without noting her protest: "I had forgotten that I had a
corkscrew in my pocket-knife. Don't trouble yourself to ring for one."
He produces the knife and opens the bottle; then, as Miss Ramsey rises
and stands aghast, he pours out a glass and offers it to her, with
mock devotion. As she shakes her head and recoils: "Oh! I thought you
liked cocktails. They are very good after cigarettes--very reviving.
But if you won't--" He tosses off the cocktail and sets down the
glass, smacking his lips. "Tell your brother I commend his taste--in
cocktails and"--puffing his cigarette--"tobacco. Poison for poison,
let me offer you one of my cigarettes. They're milder than these."
He puts his hand to his breast pocket.
Miss Ramsey, with nervous shrinking: "No--"
Ashley: "It's just as well. I find that I hadn't brought mine with
me." After a moment: "You are so unconventional, so fearless, that I
should like your notion of the problem in a book I've just been
reading. Why should the mere fact that a man is married to one woman
prevent his being in love with another, or half a dozen others; or
vice versa?"
Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley, do you wish to insult me?"
Ashley: "Dear me, no! But put the case a little differently. Suppose
a couple are merely engaged. Does that fact imply that neither has a
right to a change of mind, or to be fancy free to make another
choice?"
Miss Ramsey, indignantly: "Yes, it does. They are as sacredly bound
to each other as if they were married, and if they are false to each
other the girl is a wretch, and the man is a villain! And if you think
anything I have said can excuse you for breaking your engagement, or
that I don't consider you the wickedest person in the world, and the
most barefaced hypocrite, and--and--I don't know what--you are very
much mistaken."
Ashley: "What in the world are you talking about?"
Miss Ramsey: "I am talking about you and your shameless perfidy."
Ashley: "My shameless perf-- I don't understand! I came here
to tell you that I love you--"
Miss Ramsey: "How dare you! To speak to me of that, when-- Or
perhaps you have broken with her, and think you are free to hoodwink
some other poor creature. But you will find that you have chosen the
wrong person. And it's no excuse for you her being a little--a
little--not so bright as some girls, and not so good-looking. Oh, it's
enough to make any girl loathe her own looks! You mustn't suppose you
can come here red-handed--yes, it's the same as a murder, and any true
girl would say so--and tell me you care for me. No, Walter Ashley, I
haven't fallen so low as that, though I have the disgrace of your
acquaintance. And I hope--I hope--if you don't like my smoking, and
offering you cocktails, and talking the way I have, it will be a
lesson to you. And yes!--I will say it! If it will add to your
misery to know that I did respect you very much, and thought
everything--very highly--of you, and might have answered you very
differently before, when you were free to tell me that--now
I have nothing but the utmost abhorrence--and--disapproval of you.
And--and-- Oh, I don't see how you can be so hateful!" She hides her
face in her hands and rushes from the room, overturning several chairs
in her course toward the door. Ashley remains staring after her, while
a succession of impetuous rings make themselves heard from the street
door. There is a sound of opening it, and then a flutter of skirts and
anxieties, and Miss Garnett comes running into the room.
                                  VI
                       MISS GARNETT, MR. ASHLEY
Miss Garnett, to the maid hovering in the doorway: "Yes, I must have
left it here, for I never missed it till I went to pay my fare in the
motor-bus, and tried to think whether I had the exact dime, and if I
hadn't whether the conductor would change a five-dollar bill or not,
and then it rushed into my mind that I had left my purse somewhere,
and I knew I hadn't been anywhere else." She runs from the mantel to
the writing-desk in the corner, and then to the sofa, where, peering
under the tea-table, she finds her purse on the shelf. "Oh, here it
is, Nora, just where I put it when we began to talk, and I must have
gone out and left it. I--" She starts with a little shriek, in
encountering Ashley. "Oh, Mr. Ashley! What a fright you gave me! I was
just looking for my purse that I missed when I went to pay my fare in
the motor-bus, and was wondering whether I had the exact dime, or the
conductor could change a five-dollar bill, and--" She discovers, or
affects to discover, something strange in his manner. "What--what is
the matter, Mr. Ashley?"
Ashley: "I shall be glad to have you tell me--or any one."
Miss Garnett: "I don't understand. Has Isobel--"
Ashley: "Miss Garnett, did you know I was engaged?"
Miss Garnett: "Why, yes; I was just going to congrat--"
Ashley: "Well, don't, unless you can tell me whom I am engaged to."
Miss Garnett: "Why, aren't you engaged to Emily Fray?"
Ashley: "Not the least in the world."
Miss Garnett, in despair: "Then what have I done? Oh, what a
fatal, fatal scrape!" With a ray of returning hope: "But she told me
herself that she was engaged! And you were together so much, last
summer!" Desperately: "Then if she isn't engaged to you, whom is she
engaged to?"
Ashley: "On general principles, I shouldn't know, but in this
particular instance I happen to know that she is engaged to Owen
Brooks. They were a great deal more together last summer."
Miss Garnett, with conviction: "So they were!" With returning doubt:
"But why didn't she say so?"
Ashley: "I can't tell you; she may have had her reasons, or she may
not. Can you possibly tell me, in return for my ignorance, why the
fact of her engagement should involve me in the strange way it seems
to have done with Miss Ramsey?"
Miss Garnett, with a burst of involuntary candor: "Why, I did
that. Or, no! What's she been doing?"
Ashley: "Really, Miss Garnett--"
Miss Garnett: "How can I tell you anything, if you don't tell me
everything? You wouldn't wish me to betray confidence?"
Ashley: "No, certainly not. What was the confidence?"
Miss Garnett: "Well-- But I shall have to know first what she's been
doing. You must see that yourself, Mr. Ashley." He is silent. "Has
she--has Isobel--been behaving--well, out of character?"
Ashley: "Very much indeed."
Miss Garnett: "I expected she would." She fetches a thoughtful sigh,
and for her greater emotional convenience she sinks into an easy-chair
and leans forward. "Oh dear! It is a scrape." Suddenly and
imperatively: "Tell me exactly what she did, if you hope for any help
whatever."
Ashley: "Why, she offered me a cocktail--"
Miss Garnett: "Oh, how good! I didn't suppose she would dare! Well?"
Ashley: "And she smoked cigarettes--"
Miss Garnett: "How perfectly divine! And what else?"
Ashley, coldly: "May I ask why you admire Miss Ramsey's behaving out
of character so much? I think the smoking made her rather faint, and--"
Miss Garnett: "She would have let it kill her! Never tell me that
girls have no moral courage!"
Ashley: "But what--what was the meaning of it all?"
Miss Garnett, thoughtfully: "I suppose if I got her in for it, I
ought to get her out, even if I betray confidence."
Ashley: "It depends upon the confidence. What is it?"
Miss Garnett: "Why-- But you're sure it's my duty?"
Ashley: "If you care what I think of her--"
Miss Garnett: "Oh, Mr. Ashley, you mustn't think it strange of
Isobel, on my bended knees you mustn't! Why, don't you see? She was
just doing it to disgust you!"
Ashley: "Disgust me?"
Miss Garnett: "Yes, and drive you back to Emily Fray."
Ashley: "Drive me ba--"
Miss Garnett: "If she thought you were engaged to Emily, when you
were coming here all the time, and she wasn't quite sure that she
hated to have you, don't you see it would be her duty to sacrifice
herself, and-- Oh, I suppose she's heard everything up there, and--"
She catches herself up and runs out of the room, leaving Ashley to
await the retarded descent of skirts which he hears on the stairs
after the crash of the street door has announced Miss Garnett's
escape. He stands with his back to the mantel, and faces Miss Ramsey
as she enters the room.
                                 VII
                         MISS RAMSEY, ASHLEY
Miss Ramsey, with the effect of cold surprise: "Mr. Ashley? I
thought I heard-- Wasn't Miss Garnett--"
Ashley: "She was. Did you think it was the street door closing on
me?"
Miss Ramsey: "How should I know?" Then, courageously: "No, I didn't
think it was. Why do you ask?" She moves uneasily about the room, with
an air of studied inattention.
Ashley: "Because if you did, I can put you in the right, though I
can't restore Miss Garnett's presence by my absence."
Miss Ramsey: "You're rather--enigmatical." A ring is heard; the maid
pauses at the doorway. "I'm not at home, Nora." To Mr. Ashley: "It
seems to be very close--"
Ashley: "It's my having been smoking."
Miss Ramsey: "Your having?" She goes to the window and tries to
lift it.
Ashley: "Let me." He follows her to the window, where he stands
beside her.
Miss Ramsey: "Now, she's seen me! And you here with me. Of course--"
Ashley: "I shouldn't mind. But I'm so sorry if--and I will go."
Miss Ramsey: "You can't go now--till she's round the corner. She'll
keep looking back, and she'll think I made you."
Ashley: "But haven't you? Aren't you sending me back to Miss Fray to
tell her that I must keep my engagement, though I care nothing for
her, and care all the world for you? Isn't that what you want me to
do?"
Miss Ramsey: "But you're not engaged to her! You just--"
Ashley: "Just what?"
Miss Ramsey, desperately: "You wish me to disgrace myself forever in
your eyes. Well, I will; what does it matter now? I heard you telling
Esther you were not engaged. I overheard you."
Ashley: "I fancied you must."
Miss Ramsey: "I tried to overhear! I eavesdropped! I wish you to
know that."
Ashley: "And what do you wish me to do about it?"
Miss Ramsey: "I should think any self-respecting person would know.
I'm not a self-respecting person." Her wandering gaze seems to fall
for the first time upon the tray with the cocktails and glasses and
cigarettes; she flies at the bell-button and presses it impetuously.
As the maid appears: "Take these things away, Nora, please!" To Ashley
when the maid has left the room: "Don't be afraid to say what you
think of me!"
Ashley: "I think all the world of you. But I should merely like to
ask--"
Miss Ramsey: "Oh, you can ask anything of me now!"
Ashley, with palpable insincerity: "I should like to ask why you
don't respect yourself?"
Miss Ramsey: "Was that what you were going to ask? I know it wasn't.
But I will tell you. Because I have been a fool."
Ashley: "Thank you. Now I will tell you what I was really going to
ask. Why did you wish to drive me back to Miss Fray when you knew that
I would be false to her a thousand times if I could only once be true
to you?"
Miss Ramsey: "Now you are insulting me! And that is just the
point. You may be a very clever lawyer, Mr. Ashley, and everybody says
you are--very able, and talented, and all that, but you can't get
round that point. You may torture any meaning you please out of my
words, but I shall always say you brought it on yourself."
Ashley: "Brought what on?"
Miss Ramsey: "Mr. Ashley! I won't be cross-questioned."
Ashley: "Was that why you smoked, and poured cocktails out of an
unopened bottle? Was it because you wished me to hate you, and
remember my duty, and go back to Miss Fray? Well, it was a dead
failure. It made me love you more than ever. I am a fool too, as you
call it."
Miss Ramsey: "Say anything you please. I have given you the right. I
shall not resent it. Go on."
Ashley: "I should only repeat myself. You must have known how much I
care for you, Isobel. Do you mind my calling you Isobel?"
Miss Ramsey: "Not in the least if you wish to humiliate me by it. I
should like you to trample on me in every way you can."
Ashley: "Trample on you? I would rather be run over by a
steam-roller than tread on the least of your outlying feelings,
dearest. Do you mind my saying dearest?"
Miss Ramsey: "I have told you that you can say anything you like. I
deserve it. But oh, if you have a spark of pity--"
Ashley: "I'm a perfect conflagration of compassion, darling. Do you
object to darling?"
Miss Ramsey, with starting tears: "It doesn't matter now." She has
let her lovely length trail into the corner of the sofa, where she
desperately reclines, supporting her elbow on the arm of it, and
resting her drooping head on her hand. He draws a hassock up in front
of her, and sits on it.
Ashley: "This represents kneeling at your feet. One doesn't do it
literally any more, you know."
Miss Ramsey, in a hollow voice: "I should despise you if you did,
and"--deeply murmurous--"I don't wish to despise you."
Ashley: "No, I understand that. You merely wish me to despise
you. But why?"
Miss Ramsey, nervously: "You know."
Ashley: "But I don't know--Isobel, dearest, darling, if you will
allow me to express myself so fully. How should I know?"
Miss Ramsey: "I've told you."
Ashley: "May I take your hand? For good-by!" He possesses himself of
it. "It seems to go along with those expressions."
Miss Ramsey, self-contemptuously: "Oh yes."
Ashley: "Thank you. Where were we?"
Miss Ramsey, sitting up and recovering her hand: "You were saying
good-by--"
Ashley: "Was I? But not before I had told you that I knew you were
doing all that for my best good, and I wish--I wish you could have
seen how exemplary you looked when you were trying to pour a cocktail
out of a corked bottle, between your remarks on passionate fiction and
puffs of the insidious cigarette! When the venomous tobacco began to
get in its deadly work, and you turned pale and reeled a little, and
called for air, it made me mentally vow to go back to Miss Fray
instantly, whether I was engaged to her or not, and cut out poor old
Brooks--"
Miss Ramsey: "Was it Mr. Brooks? I didn't hear the name exactly."
Ashley: "When I was telling Miss Garnett? I ought to have spoken
louder, but I wasn't sure at the time you were listening. Though as
you were saying, what does it matter now?"
Miss Ramsey: "Did I say that?"
Ashley: "Words to that effect. And they have made me feel how
unworthy of you I am. I'm not heroic--by nature. But I could be, if
you made me--by art--"
Miss Ramsey, springing to her feet indignantly: "Now, you are
ridiculing me--you are making fun of me."
Ashley, gathering himself up from his hassock with difficulty, and
confronting her: "Do I look like a man who would dare to make fun of
you? I am half a head shorter than you, and in moral grandeur you
overtop me so that I would always have to wear a high hat when I was
with you."
Miss Ramsey, thoughtfully: "Plenty of girls are that way, now. But
if you are ashamed of my being tall--" Flashingly, and with starting
tears.
Ashley: "Ashamed! I can always look up to you, you can always stoop
to me!" He stretches his arms toward her.
Miss Ramsey, recoiling bewildered: "Wait! We haven't got to that
yet."
Ashley: "Oh, Isobel--dearest--darling! We've got past it! We're on
the home stretch, now."
                                 XIX
                      THE NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS
                              A MORALITY
                                  I
                    MR. AND MRS. CLARENCE FOUNTAIN
Mrs. Clarence Fountain, backing into the room, and closing the door
noiselessly before looking round: "Oh, you poor thing! I can see that
you are dead, at the first glance. I'm dead myself, for that matter."
She is speaking to her husband, who clings with one hand to the
chimney-piece, and supports his back with the other; from this hand a
little girl's long stocking lumpily dangles; Mrs. Fountain, turning
round, observes it. "Not finished yet? But I don't wonder! I wonder
you've even begun. Well, now, I will take hold with you." In token
of the aid she is going to give, Mrs. Fountain sinks into a chair and
rolls a distracted eye over the littered and tumbled room. "It's worse
than I thought it would be. You ought to have smoothed the papers out
and laid them in a pile as fast as you unwrapped the things; that is
the way I always do; and wound the strings up and put them one side.
Then you wouldn't have had to wade round in them. I suppose I oughtn't
to have left it to you, but if I had let you put the children to bed
you know you'd have told them stories and kept them all night over
their prayers. And as it was each of them wanted to put in a special
Christmas clause; I know what kind of Christmas clause I should have
put in if I'd been frank! I'm not sure it's right to keep up the
deception. One comfort, the oldest ones don't believe in it any more
than we do. Dear! I did think at one time this afternoon I should have
to be brought home in an ambulance; it would have been a convenience,
with all the packages. I simply marvel at their delivery wagons
getting them here."
Fountain, coming to the table, where she sits, and taking up one of
the toys with which it is strewn: "They haven't all of them."
Mrs. Fountain: "What do you mean by all of them?"
Fountain: "I mean half." He takes up a mechanical locomotive and
stuffs it into the stocking he holds.
Mrs. Fountain, staying his hand: "What are you doing? Putting
Jimmy's engine into Susy's stocking! She'll be perfectly insulted when
she finds it, for she'll know you weren't paying the least attention,
and you can't blame Santa Claus for it with her. If that's what
you've been doing with the other stockings-- But there aren't any
others. Don't tell me you've just begun! Well, I could simply cry."
Fountain, dropping into the chair on the other side of the table,
under the shelter of a tall Christmas tree standing on it: "Do you
call unwrapping a whole car-load of truck and getting it sorted, just
beginning? I've been slaving here from the dawn of time, and I had to
have some leisure for the ghosts of my own Christmases when I was
little. I didn't have to wade round in the wrappings of my presents in
those days. But it isn't the sad memories that take it out of you;
it's the happy ones. I've never had a ghastlier half-hour than I've
just spent in the humiliating multiplicity of these gifts. All the old
birthdays and wedding-days and Fourth of Julys and home-comings and
children's christenings I've ever had came trooping back. There
oughtn't to be any gay anniversaries; they should be forbidden by law.
If I could only have recalled a few dangerous fevers and funerals!"
Mrs. Fountain: "Clarence! Don't say such a thing; you'll be punished
for it. I know how you suffer from those gloomy feelings, and I pity
you. You ought to bear up against them. If I gave way! You must
think about something cheerful in the future when the happiness of the
past afflicts you, and set one against the other; life isn't all a
vale of tears. You must keep your mind fixed on the work before you. I
don't believe it's the number of the packages here that's broken you
down. It's the shopping that's worn you out; I'm sure I'm a mere
thread. And I had been at it from immediately after breakfast; and I
lunched in one of the stores with ten thousand suburbans who had come
pouring in with the first of their unnatural trains: I did hope I
should have some of the places to myself; but they were every one
jammed. And you came up from your office about four, perfectly fresh."
Fountain: "Fresh! Yes, quite dewy from a day's fight with the beasts
at Ephesus on the eve of Christmas week."
Mrs. Fountain: "Well, don't be cynical, Clarence, on this, of all
nights of the year. You know how sorry I always am for what you have
to go through down there, and I suppose it's worse, as you say, at
this season than any other time of year. It's the terrible
concentration of everything just before Christmas that makes it so
killing. I really don't know which of the places was the worst; the
big department stores or the separate places for jewelry and toys and
books and stationery and antiques; they were all alike, and all
maddening. And the rain outside, and everybody coming in reeking;
though I don't believe that sunshine would have been any better;
there'd have been more of them. I declare, it made my heart ache for
those poor creatures behind the counters, and I don't know whether I
suffered most for them when they kept up a ghastly cheerfulness in
their attention or were simply insulting in their indifference. I know
they must be all dead by this time. 'Going up?' 'Going down?'
'Ca-ish!' 'Here, boy!' I believe it will ring in my ears as long as I
live. And the whiz of those overhead wire things, and having to wait
ages for your change, and then drag your tatters out of the stores
into the streets! If I hadn't had you with me at the last I should
certainly have dropped."
Fountain: "Yes, and what had become of your good resolutions about
doing all your Christmas shopping in July?"
Mrs. Fountain: "My good resolutions? Really, Clarence, sometimes
if it were not cruelty to animals I should like to hit you. My good--
You know that you suggested that plan, and it wasn't even original
with you. The papers have been talking about it for years; but when
you brought it up as such a new idea, I fell in with it to please you--"
Fountain: "Now, look out, Lucy!"
Mrs. Fountain: "Yes, to please you, and to help you forget the
Christmas worry, just as I've been doing to-night. You never spare
me."
Fountain: "Stick to the record. Why didn't you do your Christmas
shopping in July?"
Mrs. Fountain: "Why didn't I? Did you expect me to do my Christmas
shopping down at Sculpin Beach, where I spent the whole time from the
middle of June till the middle of September? Why didn't you do the
Christmas shopping in July? You had the stores under your nose here
from the beginning till the end of summer, with nothing in the world
to hinder you, and not a chick or a child to look after."
Fountain: "Oh, I like that. You think I was leading a life of
complete leisure here, with the thermometer among the nineties
nine-tenths of the time?"
Mrs. Fountain: "I only know you were bragging in all your letters
about your bath and your club, and the folly of any one going away
from the cool, comfortable town in the summer. I suppose you'll say
that was to keep me from feeling badly at leaving you. When it was
only for the children's sake! I will let you take them the next time."
Fountain: "While you look after my office? And you think the stores
are full of Christmas things in July, I suppose."
Mrs. Fountain: "I never thought so; and now I hope you see the folly
of that idea. No, Clarence. We must be logical in everything. You
can't get rid of Christmas shopping at Christmas-time."
Fountain, shouting wrathfully: "Then I say get rid of Christmas!"
                                  II
              MR. FRANK WATKINS, MRS. FOUNTAIN, FOUNTAIN
Watkins, opening the door for himself and struggling into the room
with an armful of parcels: "I'm with you there, Clarence. Christmas is
at the root of Christmas shopping, and Christmas giving, and all the
rest of it. Oh, you needn't be afraid, Lucy. I didn't hear any
epithets; just caught the drift of your argument through the keyhole.
I've been kicking at the door ever since you began. Where shall I dump
these things?"
Mrs. Fountain: "Oh, you poor boy! Here--anywhere--on the floor--on
the sofa--on the table." She clears several spaces and helps Watkins
unload. "Clarence! I'm surprised at you. What are you thinking of?"
Fountain: "I'm thinking that if this goes on, I'll let somebody else
arrange the presents."
Watkins: "If I saw a man coming into my house with a load like this
to-night, I'd throw him into the street. But living in a ninth-story
flat like you, it might hurt him."
Mrs. Fountain, reading the inscriptions on the packages: "'For Benny
from his uncle Frank.' Oh, how sweet of you, Frank! And here's a kiss
for his uncle Frank." She embraces him with as little interruption as
possible. "'From Uncle Frank to Jim.' Oh, I know what that is!" She
feels the package over. "And this is for 'Susy from her aunt Sue.' Oh,
I knew she would remember her namesake. 'For Maggie. Merry Christmas
from Mrs. Watkins.' 'Bridget, with Mrs. Watkins's best wishes for a
Merry Christmas.' Both the girls! But it's like Sue; she never forgets
anybody. And what's this for Clarence? I must know! Not a
bath-gown?" Undoing it: "I simply must see it. Blue! His very
color!" Holding it up: "From you, Frank?" He nods. "Clarence!"
Watkins: "If Fountain tries to kiss me, I'll--"
Fountain: "I wouldn't kiss you for a dozen bath-gowns." Lifting it
up from the floor where Mrs. Fountain has dropped it: "It is rather
nice."
Watkins: "Don't overwhelm me."
Mrs. Fountain, dancing about with a long, soft roll in her hand: "Oh,
oh, oh! She saw me gloating on it at Shumaker's! I do wonder if it
is."
Fountain, reaching for it: "Why, open it--"
Mrs. Fountain: "You dare! No, it shall be opened the very last thing
in the morning, now, to punish you! How is poor Sue? I saw her
literally dropping by the way at Shumaker's."
Watkins, making for the door: "Well, she must have got up again. I
left her registering a vow that if ever she lived to see another
Christmas she would leave the country months before the shopping
began. She called down maledictions on all the recipients of her gifts
and wished them the worst harm that can befall the wicked."
Mrs. Fountain: "Poor Sue! She simply lives to do people good, and I
can understand exactly how she feels toward them. I'll be round bright
and early to-morrow to thank her. Why do you go?"
Watkins: "Well, I can't stay here all night, and I'd better let you
and Clarence finish up." He escapes from her detaining embrace and
runs out.
                                 III
                       MRS. FOUNTAIN, FOUNTAIN
Mrs. Fountain, intent upon her roll: "How funny he is! I wonder if
he did hear anything but our scolding voices? Where were we?"
Fountain: "I had just called you a serpent."
Mrs. Fountain, with amusement: "No, really?" Feeling the parcel: "If
it's that Spanish lace scarf I can tell her it was machine lace. I saw
it at the first glance. But poor Sue has no taste. I suppose I must
stand it. But I can't bear to think what she's given the girls and
children. She means well. Did you really say serpent, Clarence? You
never called me just that before."
Fountain: "No, but you called me a laughing hyena, and said I
scoffed at everything sacred."
Mrs. Fountain: "I can't remember using the word hyena, exactly,
though I do think the way you talk about Christmas is dreadful. But I
take back the laughing hyena."
Fountain: "And I take back the serpent. I meant dove, anyway. But
it's this Christmas-time when a man gets so tired he doesn't know
what he's saying."
Mrs. Fountain: "Well, you're good, anyway, dearest, whatever you
say; and now I'm going to help you arrange the things. I suppose
there'll be lots more to-morrow, but we must get rid of these now.
Don't you wish nobody would do anything for us? Just the
children--dear little souls! I don't believe but what we can make Jim
and Susy believe in Santa Claus again; Benny is firm in the faith; he
put him into his prayer. I declare, his sweetness almost broke my
heart." At a knock: "Who's that, I wonder? Come in! Oh, it's you,
Maggie. Well?"
                                  IV
                  THE FOUNTAINS, FOUNTAIN'S SISTERS
Maggie: "It's Mr. Fountain's sisters just telephoned up."
Mrs. Fountain: "Have them come up at once, Maggie, of course." As
Maggie goes out: "Another interruption! If it's going to keep on like
this! Shouldn't you have thought they might have sent their
presents?"
Fountain: "I thought something like it in Frank's case; but I didn't
say it."
Mrs. Fountain: "And I don't know why I say it, now. It's because
I'm so tired I don't know what I am saying. Do forgive me! It's this
terrible Christmas spirit that gets into me. But now you'll see how
nice I can be to them." At a tap on the door: "Come in! Come in!
Don't mind our being in all this mess. So darling of you to come! You
can help cheer Clarence up; you know his Christmas Eve dumps." She
runs to them and clasps them in her arms with several half-open
packages dangling from her hands and contrasting their disarray with
the neatness of their silk-ribboned and tissue-papered parcels which
their embrace makes meet at her back. "Minnie! Aggie! To lug here,
when you ought to be at home in bed dying of fatigue! But it's just
like you, both of you. Did you ever see anything like the stores
to-day? Do sit down, or swoon on the floor, or anything. Let me have
those wretched bundles which are simply killing you." She looks at the
different packages. "'For Benny from Grandpa.' 'For a good girl, from
Susy's grandmother.' 'Jim, from Aunt Minnie and Aunt Aggie.' 'Lucy,
with love from Aggie and Minnie.' And Clarence! What hearts you have
got! Well, I always say there never were such thoughtful girls, and
you always show such taste and such originality. I long to get at the
things." She keeps fingering the large bundle marked with her
husband's name. "Not--not--a--"
Minnie: "Yes, a bath-robe. Unless you give him a cigar-case it's
about the only thing you can give a man."
Aggie: "Minnie thought of it and I chose it. Blue, because it's his
color. Try it on, Clarence, and if it's too long--"
Mrs. Fountain: "Yes, do, dear! Let's see you with it on." While the
girls are fussily opening the robe, she manages to push her brother's
gift behind the door. Then, without looking round at her husband. "It
isn't a bit too long. Just the very--" Looking: "Well, it can easily
be taken up at the hem. I can do it to-morrow." She abandons him to
his awkward isolation while she chatters on with his sisters. "Sit
down; I insist! Don't think of going. Did you see that frightful pack
of people when the cab horse fell down in front of Shumaker's?"
Minnie: "See it?"
Aggie: "We were in the midst of it! I wonder we ever got out alive.
It's enough to make you wish never to see another Christmas as long as
you live."
Minnie: "A great many won't live. There will be more grippe, and
more pneumonia, and more appendicitis from those jams of people in the
stores!"
Aggie: "The germs must have been swarming."
Fountain: "Lucy was black with them when we got home."
Mrs. Fountain: "Don't pay the slightest attention to him, girls.
He'll probably be the first to sneeze himself."
Minnie: "I don't know about sneezing. I shall only be too glad if I
don't have nervous prostration from it."
Aggie: "I'm glad we got our motor-car just in time. Any one that
goes in the trolleys now will take their life in their hand." The
girls rise and move toward the door. "Well, we must go on now. We're
making a regular round; you can't trust the delivery wagons at a time
like this. Good-by. Merry Christmas to the children. They're fast
asleep by this time, I suppose."
Minnie: "I only wish I was!"
Mrs. Fountain: "I believe you, Minnie. Good-by. Good night. Good
night, Aggie. Clarence, go to the elevator with them! Or no, he can't
in that ridiculous bath-gown!" Turning to Fountain as the door closes:
"Now I've done it."
                                  V
                       MRS. FOUNTAIN, FOUNTAIN
Fountain: "It isn't a thing you could have wished to phrase that
way, exactly."
Mrs. Fountain: "And you made me do it. Never thanking them, or
anything, and standing there like I don't know what, and leaving the
talk all to me. And now, making me lose my temper again, when I wanted
to be so nice to you. Well, it is no use trying, and from this on I
won't. Clarence!" She has opened the parcel addressed to herself and
now stands transfixed with joy and wonder. "See what the girls have
given me! The very necklace I've been longing for at Planets', and
denying myself for the last fortnight! Well, never will I say your
sisters are mean again."
Fountain: "You ought to have said that to them."
Mrs. Fountain: "It quite reconciles one to Christmas. What? Oh, that
was rather nasty. You know I didn't mean it. I was so excited I
didn't know what I was saying. I'm sure nobody ever got on better with
sisters-in-law, and that shows my tact; if I do make a slip, now and
then, I can always get out of it. They will understand. Do you think
it was very nice of them to flaunt their new motor in my face? But of
course anything your family does is perfect, and always was, though
I must say this necklace is sweet of them. I wonder they had the
taste." A tap on the door is heard. "Come in, Maggie!" Sotto voce.
"Take it off." She snatches his bath-robe and tosses it behind the
door.
                                  VI
                     WILBUR HAZARD, THE FOUNTAINS
Hazard: "I suppose I can come in, even if I'm not Maggie. Catch,
Fountain." He tosses a large bundle to Fountain. "It's huge, but it
isn't hefty." He turns to go out again.
Mrs. Fountain: "Oh, oh, oh! Don't go! Come in and help us. What have
you brought Clarence! May I feel?"
Hazard: "You can look, if you like. I'm rather proud of it. There's
only one other thing you can give a man, and I said, 'No, not a
cigar-case. Fountain smokes enough already, but if a bath-robe can
induce him to wash--'" He goes out.
Mrs. Fountain, screaming after him through the open door: "Oh, how
good! Come back and see it on him." She throws the bath-robe over
Fountain's shoulders.
Hazard, looking in again: "Perfect fit, just as the Jew said, and
the very color for Fountain." He vanishes, shutting the door behind
him.
                                 VII
                       MRS. FOUNTAIN, FOUNTAIN
Mrs. Fountain: "How coarse! Well, my dear, I don't know where you
picked up your bachelor friends. I hope this is the last of them."
Fountain: "Hazard's the only one who has survived your rigorous
