understanding.
"I don't say you came back to make trouble," Reardon went on, pursued
now by the irritated certainty that he had adopted a course and had got
to justify it. "But you're making it."
"How am I making it?"
"Why, you're making her damned uncomfortable."
"Who?"
Reardon had boggled over the name. He hardly liked to say Esther again,
since it had been ill-received, and he certainly wouldn't say "your
wife". But he had to choose and did it at a jump.
"Esther," he said, fixing upon that as the least offensive to himself.
"How am I making my wife uncomfortable?" Jeff inquired.
"Why, here you are," Reardon blundered, "almost within a stone's throw.
She can't even go into the street without running a chance of meeting
you."
Jeff threw back his head and laughed.
"No," he said, "she can't, that's a fact. She can't go into the street
without running the risk of meeting me. But if you hadn't told me,
Reardon, I give you my word I shouldn't have thought of the risk she
runs. No, I shouldn't have thought of it."
Reardon drew a long breath. He had, it seemed to him, after all done
wisely. The note of human brotherhood came back into his voice, even an
implication that presently it might be actually soothing.
"Well, now you do see, you'll agree with me. You can't annoy a woman.
You can't keep her in a state of apprehension."
Jeff had risen, and Reardon, too, got on his feet. Jeff seemed to be
considering, and very gravely, and Reardon, frowning, watched him.
"No," said Jeff. "No. Certainly you can't annoy a woman." He turned upon
Reardon, but with no suggestion of resentment. "What makes you think I
should annoy her?"
"Why, it isn't what you'd wilfully do." Now that the danger of violence
was over, Reardon felt that he could meet his man with a perfect
reasonableness, and tell him what nobody else was likely to. "It's your
being here. She can't help going back. She remembers how things used to
be. And then she gets apprehensive."
"How they used to be," Jeff repeated thoughtfully. He sounded stupid
standing there and able, apparently, to do nothing better than repeat.
"How was that? How do you understand they used to be?"
Reardon lost patience. You could afford to, evidently, with so numb an
antagonist.
"Why, you know," he said. "You remember how things used to be."
Jeff looked full at him now, and there was a curious brightness in his
eyes.
"I don't," he said. "I should have said I did, but now I hear you talk I
give you my word I don't. You'll have to tell me."
"She never blamed you," said Reardon expansively. He was beginning to
pity Jeff, the incredible density of him, and he spoke incautiously.
"She understood the reasons for it. You were having your business
worries and you were harassed and nervous. Of course she understood. But
that didn't prevent her from being afraid of you."
"Afraid of me!" Jeff took a step forward and put one hand on a pillar of
the porch. The action looked almost as if he feared to trust himself,
finding some weakness in his legs to match this assault upon the heart.
"Esther afraid of me?"
Reardon, feeling more and more benevolent, dilated visibly.
"Most natural thing in the world. You can see how it would be. I suppose
her mind keeps harking back, going over things, you know; and here you
are on the same street, as you might say."
"No," said Jeff, stupidly, as if that were the case in point, "it isn't
the same street."
He withdrew his hand from the pillar now with a decisiveness that
indicated he had got to depend on his muscles at once, and started down
the steps. Reardon made an indeterminate movement after him and called
out something; but Jeff did not halt. He went along the driveway, past
the proudly correct shrubs and brilliant turf and into the street. He
had but the one purpose of getting to Esther as soon as possible. As he
strode along, he compassed in memory all the seasons of passion from
full bloom to withering since he saw her last. When he went away from
her to fulfil his sentence, he had felt that identity with her a man
must recognise for a wife passionately beloved. He had left her in a
state of nervous collapse, an ignoble, querulous breakdown, due, he had
to explain to himself, to her nature, delicately strung. There was
nothing heroic about the way she had taken his downfall. But the
exquisite music of her, he further tutored himself, was not set to
martial strains. She was the loveliness of the twilight, of the evening
star. And then, when his days had fallen into a pallid sequence, she had
kept silence. It was as if there had been no wife, no Esther. At first
he made wild appeals to her, to his father for the assurance that she
was living even. Then one day in the autumn when he was watching a pale
ray of sunshine that looked as if it had been strained through sorrow
before it got to him, the verdict, so far as his understanding went, was
inwardly pronounced. His mind had been working on the cruel problem and
gave him, unsought, the answer. That was what she meant to do: to
separate her lot from his. There never would be an Esther any more.
There never had been the Esther that made the music of his strong belief
in her.
At first he could have dashed himself against the walls in the impotence
of having such bereavement to bear with none of the natural outlets to
assauge it. Then beneficent healing passions came to his aid, though
not, he knew, the spiritual ones. He descended upon scorn, and finally a
cold acceptance of what she was. And then she seemed to have died, and
in the inexorable sameness of the days and nights he dismissed her
memory, and he meditated upon life and what might be made of it by men
who had still the power to make. But now hurrying to her along the quiet
street, one clarifying word explained her, and, unreasoningly, brought
back his love. She had been afraid--afraid of him who would, in the old
phrase, have, in any sense, laid down his life for her: not less
willingly, the honourable name he bore among honourable men. A sense of
renewal and bourgeoning was upon him, that feeling of waking from a
dream and finding the beloved is, after all, alive. The old simple words
came back to him that used to come in prison when they dropped molten
anguish upon his heart:
    --"After long grief and pain,
    To find the arms of my true love
    Round me once again."
At least, if he was never to feel the soft rapture of his love's
acceptance, he might find she still lived in her beauty, and any
possible life would be too short to teach her not to be afraid. He
reached the house quickly and, with the haste of his courage, went up
the steps and tried the latch. In Addington nearly every house was open
to the neighbourly hand. But of late Esther had taken to keeping her
bolt slipped. It had dated from the day Lydia made hostile entrance.
Finding he could not walk in unannounced, he stood for a moment, his
intention blank. It did not seem to him he could be named conventionally
to Esther, who was afraid of him. And then, by a hazard, Esther, who had
not been out for days, and yet had heard of nobody's meeting him abroad,
longed for the air and threw wide the door. There she was, by a
God-given chance. It was like predestined welcome, a confirming of his
hardihood. In spite of the sudden blight and shadow on her face,
instinctive recoil that meant, he knew, the closing of the door, he
grasped her hands, both her soft white hands, and seemed, to his
anguished mind, to be dragging himself in by them, and even in the face
of that look of hers was over the threshold and had closed the door.
"Esther," he said. "Esther, dear!"
The last word he had never expected to use to her, to any woman again.
Still she regarded him with that horrified aversion, not amazement, he
saw. It was as if she had perhaps expected him, had anticipated this
very moment, and yet was not ready, because, such was her hard case, no
ingenuity could possibly prepare her for it. This he saw, and it ran on
in a confirming horrible sequence from Reardon's speech.
"Esther!" he repeated. He was still holding her hands and feeling they
had no possibility of escape from each other, she in the weakness of her
fear and he in passionate ruth. "Are you afraid of me?"
That was her cue.
"Yes," she whispered.
"Were you always, dear?" he went on, carried by the tide of his
despairing love. (Or was it love? It seemed to him like love, for he had
not felt emotion such as this through the dry pangs of his isolation.)
"Years ago, when we were together--why, you weren't afraid then?"
"Oh, yes, I was," she said. Now that she could translate his emotion in
any degree, she felt the humility of his mind toward her, and began to
taste her own ascendancy. He was suing to her in some form, and the
instinct which, having something to give may yet withhold it, fed her
sense of power.
"Why, we were happy," said Jeffrey, in an agony of wonder. "That's been
my only comfort when I knew we couldn't be happy now. I made you happy,
dear."
And since he hung, in a fevered anticipation, upon her answer, she could
reply, still from that sense of being the arbitress of his peace:
"I never was happy, at the last. I was afraid."
He dropped her hands.
"What of?" he said to himself stupidly. "In God's name, what of?"
The breaking of his grasp had released also some daring in her. They
were still by the door, but he was between her and the stairs. He caught
the glance of calculation, and instinct told him if he lost her now he
should never get speech of her again.
"Don't," he said. "Don't go."
Again he laid a hand upon her wrist, and anger came into her face
instead of that first candid horror. She had heard something, a step
upstairs, and to that she cried: "Aunt Patricia!" three times, in a
piercing entreaty.
It was not Madame Beattie who came to the stair-head and looked down; it
was Rhoda Knox. After the glance she went away, though in no haste, and
summoned Madame Beattie, who appeared in a silk negligee of black and
white swirls like witch's fires and, after one indifferent look, called
jovially:
"Hullo, Jeff!"
But she came down the stairs and Esther, seeing his marauding entry
turned into something like a visit under social sanction, beat upon his
wrist with her other hand and cried two hot tears of angry impotence.
"For heaven's sake, Esther," Madame Beattie remarked, at the foot of the
stairs, "what are you acting like this for? You look like a child in a
tantrum."
Esther ceased to be in a tantrum. She had a sense of the beautiful, and
not even before these two invaders would she make herself unfitting. She
addressed Madame Beattie in a tone indicating her determination not to
speak to Jeff again.
"Tell him to let me go."
Jeff answered. Passion now had turned him cold, but he was relentless, a
man embarked on a design to which he cannot see the purpose or the end,
but who means to sail straight on.
"Esther," he said, "I'm going to see you now, for ten minutes, for half
an hour. You may keep your aunt here if you like, but if you run away
from me I shall follow you. But you won't run away. You'll stay right
here."
He dropped her wrist.
"Oh, come into the library," said Madame Beattie. "I can't stand. My
knees are creaking. Come, Esther, ask your husband in."
Madame Beattie, billowing along in the witch-patterned silk and clicking
on prodigiously high heels and Esther with her head haughtily up, led
the way, and Jeff, following them, sat down as soon as they had given
him leave by doing it, and looked about the room with a faint foolish
curiosity to note whether it, too, had changed. Madame Beattie thrust
out a pretty foot, and Esther, perched on the piano stool, looked
rigidly down at her trembling hands. She was very pale. Suddenly she
recovered herself, and turned to Madame Beattie.
"He had just come," she said. "He came in. I didn't ask him to. He had
not--" a little note like fright or triumph beat into her voice--"he had
not--kissed me."
She turned to him as if for a confirmation he could not in honesty
refuse her, and Madame Beattie burst into a laugh, one of perfect
acceptance of things as they are, human frailties among the first.
"Esther," she said, "you're a little fool. If you want a divorce what do
you give yourself away for? Your counsel wouldn't let you."
The whole implication was astounding to Jeff; but the only thing he
could fix definitely was the concrete possibility that she had counsel.
"Who is your counsel, Esther?" he asked her.
But Esther had gone farther than discretion bade.
"I am not obliged to say," she answered, with a stubbornness equal to
his own, whatever that might prove. "I am not obliged to say anything.
But I do think I have a right to ask you to tell Aunt Patricia that I
have not taken you back, in any sense whatever. Not--not condoned."
She slipped on the word and he guessed that it had been used to her and
that although she considered it of some value, she had not technically
taken it in.
"What had you to condone in me, Esther?" he asked her gently. Suddenly
she seemed to him most pathetic in her wilful folly. She had always
been, she would always be, he knew, a creature who ruled through her
weakness, found it an asset, traded on it perhaps, and whereas once this
had seemed to him enchanting, now, in the face of ill-fortune it looked
pitifully inadequate and base.
"I was afraid of you," she insisted. "I am now."
"Well!" said Jeff. He found himself smiling at Madame Beattie, and she
was answering his smile. Perhaps it was rather the conventional tribute
on his part, to conceal that he might easily have thrown himself back in
his chair behind the shelter of his hands, or gone down in any upheaval
of primal emotions; and perhaps he saw in her answer, if not sympathy,
for she was too impersonal for that, a candid understanding of the
little scene and an appreciation of its dramatic quality. "Then," said
he, after his monosyllable, "there is nothing left me but to go." When
he had risen, he stood looking down at his wife's beautiful dusky head.
Incredible to think it had ever lain on his breast, or that the fact of
its cherishing there made no difference to her embryo heart! A tinge of
irony came into his voice. "And I am willing to assure Madame Beattie,"
he proceeded, "in the way of evidence, that you have not in any sense
taken me back, nor have you condoned anything I may have done."
As he was opening the outer door, in a confusion of mind that
communicated itself disturbingly to his eyes and ears, he seemed to hear
Madame Beattie adjuring Esther ruthlessly not to be a fool.
"Why, he's a man, you little fool," he heard her say, not with passion
but a negligent scorn ample enough to cover all the failings of their
common sex. "He's more of a man than he was when he went into that
hideous place. And after all, who sent him there?"
Jeff walked out and closed the door behind him with an exaggerated care.
It hardly seemed as if he had the right, except in a salutary
humbleness, even to touch a door which shut in Esther to the gods of
home. He went back to his father's house, and there was Lydia singing as
she dusted the library. He walked in blindly not knowing whether she was
alone; but here was a face and a voice, and his heart was sore. Lydia,
at sight of him, laid down her cloth and came to meet him. Neither did
she think whether they were alone, though she did remember afterward
that Farvie had gone into the orchard for his walk. Seeing Jeff's face,
she knew some mortal hurt was at work within him, and like a child, she
went to him, and Jeff put his face down on her cheek, and his cheek, she
felt, was wet. And so they stood, their arms about each other, and
Lydia's heart beat in such a sick tumult of rage and sorrow that it
seemed to her she could not stand so and uphold the heavy weight of his
grief. In a minute she whispered to him:
"Have you seen her?"
"Yes."
"Was she--cruel?"
"Don't! don't!" Jeff said, in a broken voice.
"Do you love her?" she went on, in an inexorable fierceness.
"No! no! no!" And then a voice that did not seem to be his and yet was
his, came from him and overthrew all his old traditions of what he had
been and what he must therefore be: "I only love you."
Then, Lydia knew, when she thought of it afterward, in a burning wonder,
they kissed, and their tears and the kiss seemed as one, a bond against
the woman who had been cruel to him and an eternal pact between
themselves. And on the severing of the kiss, terrible to her in her
innocence, she flung herself away from him and ran upstairs. Her flight
was noiseless, as if now no one must know, but he heard the shutting of
a door and the sound of a turning key.
XII
That night Anne was wakened from her sleep by a wisp of a figure that
came slipping to her bedside, announced only by the cautious breathing
of her name:
"Anne! Anne!" her sister was whispering close to her cheek.
"Why, Lyd," said Anne, "what is it?"
The figure was kneeling now, and Anne tried to rise on her elbow to
invite Lydia in beside her. But Lydia put a hand on her shoulder and
held her still.
"Whisper," she said, and then was silent so long that Anne, waiting and
hearing her breathe, stared at her in the dark and wondered at her.
"What is it, lovey?" she asked at length, and Lydia's breathing hurried
into sobs, and she said Anne's name again, and then, getting a little
control of herself, asked the question that had brought her.
"Anne, when people kiss you, is it different if they are men?"
Now Anne did rise and turned the clothes back, but Lydia still knelt and
shivered.
"You've been having bad dreams," said Anne. "Come in here, lovey, and
Anne'll sing 'Lord Rendal.'"
"I mean," said Lydia, from her knees, "could anybody kiss me, except
Farvie, and not have it like Farvie--I mean have it terrible--and I kiss
him back--and--Anne, what would it mean?"
"That's a nightmare," said Anne. "Now you've got all cool and waked up,
you run back to bed, unless you'll get in here."
Lydia put a fevered little hand upon her.
"Anne, you must tell me," she said, catching her breath. "Not a
nightmare, a real kiss, and neither of us wanting to kiss anybody, and
still doing it and not being sorry. Being glad."
She sounded so like herself in one of her fiercenesses that Anne at last
believed she was wholly awake and felt a terror of her own.
"Who was it, Lydia?" she asked sternly. "Who is it you are thinking
about?"
"Nobody," said Lydia, in a sudden curt withdrawal. She rose to her feet.
"Yes, it was a nightmare."
She padded out of the room and softly closed the door, and Anne, left
sitting there, felt unreasoning alarm. She had a moment's determination
to follow her, and then she lay down again and thought achingly of Lydia
who was grown up and was yet a child. And still, Anne knew, she had to
come to woman's destiny. Lydia was so compact of sweetnesses that she
would be courted and married, and who was Anne, to know how to marry her
rightly? So she slept, after a troubled interval; but Lydia lay awake
and stared the darkness through as if it held new paths to her desire.
What was her desire? She did not know, save that it had all to do with
Jeff. He had been cruelly used. He must not be so dealt with any more.
Her passion for his well-being, germinating and growing through the
years she had not seen him, had come to flower in a hot resolve that he
should be happy now. And in some way, some headlong, resistless way, she
knew she was to make his happiness, and yet in her allegiance to him
there was trouble and pain. He had made her into a new creature. The
kiss had done it.
He would not, Lydia thought, have kissed her if it were wrong, and yet
the kiss was different from all others and she must never tell. Nor must
it come again. She was plighted to him, not as to a man free to love
her, but to his well-being; and it was all most sacred and not to be
undone. She was exalted and she was shuddering with a formless sense of
the earth sway upon her. She had ever been healthy-minded as a child;
even the pure imaginings of love had not beguiled her. But now something
had come out of the earth or the air and called to her, and she had
answered; and because it was so inevitable it was right--yet right for
only him to know. Who else could understand?
XIII
Lydia did not think she dreaded seeing him next morning. The fabric they
had begun to weave together looked too splendid for covering trivial
little fears like that. Or was it strong enough to cover anything? Yet
when he came into the room where they were at breakfast she could not
look at him with the same unwavering eyes. She had, strangely, and sadly
too, the knowledge of life. But if she had looked at him she would have
seen how he was changed. He had pulled himself together. Whether what
happened or what might happen had tutored him, he was on guard,
ready--for himself most of all. And after breakfast where Anne and the
colonel had contributed the mild commonplaces useful at least in
breaking such constraints, he followed the colonel into the library and
sat down with him. The colonel, from his chair by the window, regarded
his son in a fond approval. Even to his eyes where Jeff was always a
grateful visitant, the more so now after he had been so poignantly
desired, he was this morning the more manly and altogether fit. But Jeff
was not going to ingratiate himself.
"Father," said he, "I've got to get out."
Trouble of a wistful sort sprang into the colonel's face. But he spoke
with a reasonable mildness, desirous chiefly of meeting his boy half
way.
"You said so. But not yet, I hope."
"At once," said Jeffrey. "I am going at once. To-day perhaps. To-morrow
anyway. I've simply got to get away."
The colonel, rather impatiently, because his voice would tremble, asked
as Lydia had done:
"Have you seen Esther?"
This Jeff found unreasonably irritating. Bitter as the sight of her had
been and unspeakable her repudiation, he felt to-day as if they did not
pertain. The thing that did pertain with a biting force was to remove
himself before innocent young sisterly girls idealised him to their
harm. But he answered, and not too ungraciously:
"Yes, I've seen Esther. But that's nothing to do with it. Esther
is--what she's always been. Only I've got to get away."
The colonel, from long brooding over him, had a patience comparable only
to a mother's. He was bitterly hurt. He could not understand. But he
could at least attain the only grace possible and pretend to understand.
So he answered with a perfect gentleness:
"I see, Jeff, I see. But I wish you could find it possible to put it
off--till the end of the week, say."
"Very well," said Jeff, in a curt concession, "the end of this week."
He got up and went out of the room and the house, and the colonel,
turning to look, saw him striding down the slope to the river. Then the
elder man's hands began to tremble, and he sat pathetically subject to
the seizure. Anne, if she had found him, would have known the name of
the thing that had settled upon him. She would have called it a nervous
chill. But to him it was one of the little ways of his predestined mate,
old age. And presently, sitting there ignominiously shuddering, he began
to be amused at himself, for he had a pretty sense of humour, and to
understand himself better than he had before. Face to face with this
ironic weakness, he saw beyond the physiologic aspect of it, the more
deeply into his soul. The colonel had been perfectly sure that he had
taken exquisite care of himself, these last years, because he desired to
see his son again, and also because Jeff, while suffering penalty, must
be spared the pain of bereavement. So he had formed a habit, and now it
was his master. He had learned self-preservation, but at what a cost!
Where were the sharp sweet pangs of life that had been used to assail
him before he anchored in this calm? Daring was a lost word to him. Was
it true he was to have no more stormy risings of hot life, no more
passions of just rage or even righteous hate, because he had taught
himself to rule his blood? Now when his heart ached in anticipatory
warning over his son's going, why must he think of ways to be calm, as
if being calm were the aim of man? Laboriously he had learned how not to
waste himself, and the negation of life which is old age and then death
had fallen upon him. He laughed a little, bitterly, and Anne, coming to
find him as she did from time to time, to make sure he was comfortable,
smiled, hearing it, and asked:
"What is it, Farvie?"
He looked up into her kind face as if it were strange to him. At that
moment he and life were having it out together. Even womanly sweetness
could not come between.
"Anne," said he, "I'm an old man."
"Oh, no, Farvie!" She was smoothing his shoulder with her slender hand.
"No!"
But even she could not deny it. To her youth, he knew, he must seem old.
Yet her service, her fostering love, had only made him older. She had
copied his own attitude. She had helped him not to die, and yet to sink
into the ambling pace of these defended years.
"Damn it, Anne!" he said, with suddenly frowning brow, and now she
started. She had never heard an outbreak from courtly Farvie. "I wish
I'd been more of a man."
She did not understand him, and her eyes questioned whether he was ill.
He read the query. That was it, he thought impotently. They had all
three of them been possessed by that, the fear that he was going to be
ill.
"Yes," he said, "I wish I'd been more of a man. I should be more of a
man now."
She slipped away out of the room. He thought he had frightened her. But
in a moment she was back with some whiskey, hot, in a glass. The colonel
wanted to order her off and swear his nerves would be as taut without
it. But how could he? There was the same traitorous trembling in his
legs, and he put out his hand and took the glass, and thanked her. The
thanks sounded like the courteous, kind father she knew; but when she
had carried the glass into the kitchen she stood a moment, her hand on
the table, and thought, the lines of trouble on her forehead: what had
been the matter with him?
Jeff, when he got out of the house, walked in a savage hurry down to the
end of the lot, and there, feeling no more at ease with himself, skirted
along the bank bordered by inlets filled with weedy loveliness, and came
to the lower end of the town where the cotton mills were. He glanced up
at them as he struck into the street past their office entrance, and
wondered what the stock was quoted at now, and whether an influx of
foreigners had displaced the old workmen. It had looked likely before he
went away. But he had no interest in it. He had no interest in
Addington, he thought: only in the sad case of Lydia thrown up against
the tumultuous horde of his released emotions and hurt by them and
charmed by them and, his remorseful judgment told him, insulted by
them. He could not, even that morning, have told how he felt about
Lydia, or whether he had any feeling at all, save a proper gratitude for
her tenderness to his father. But he had found her in his path, when his
hurt soul was crying out to all fostering womanhood to save him from the
ravening claw of woman's cruelty. She had felt his need, and they had
looked at each other with eyes that pierced defences. And then,
incarnate sympathy, tender youth, she had rested in his arms, and in the
generosity of her giving and the exquisiteness of the gift, he had been
swept into that current where there is no staying except by an anguish
of denial. It was chaos within him. He did not think of his allegiance
to Esther, nor was he passionately desirous, with his whole mind, of
love for this new Lydia. He was in a whirl of emotion, and hated life
where you could never really right yourself, once you were wrong.
He kept on outside the town, and presently walked with exhilaration
because nobody knew him and he was free, and the day was of an exquisite
beauty, the topmost flower of the waxing spring. The road was marked by
elms, aisled and vaulted, and birds called enchantingly. He was able to
lay aside cool knowledge of the fight whereby all things live and, such
was the desire of his mind, to partake of pleasure, to regard them as
poets do and children and pitiful women: the birds as lumps of free
delight, winged particles of joy. The song-birds were keen participants
of sport, killing to eat, and bigger birds were killing them. But
because they sang and their feathers were newly painted, he let himself
ignore that open scandal and loved them for an angel choir.
Coming to another village, though he knew it perfectly he assumed it was
undiscovered land, and beyond it lay in a field and dozed, his hat over
his eyes, and learned how blessed it is to be alone in freedom, even
afar from Lydias and Esthers. Healing had not begun in him until that
day. Here were none to sympathise, none to summon him to new relations
or recall the old. The earth had taken him back to her bosom, to cherish
gravely, if with no actual tenderness, that he might be of the more use
to her. If he did not that afternoon hear the grass growing, at least
something rose from the mould that nourished it, into his eyes and ears
and mouth and the pores of his skin, and helped him on to health. At
five he remembered his father, who had begged him not to go away, got up
and turned back on his steps. Now he was hungry and bought rolls and
cheese at a little shop, and walked on eating them. The dusk came, and
only the robin seemed of unabated spirit, flying to topmost twigs, and
giving the evening call, the cry that was, he thought, "grief! grief!"
and the following notes like a sob.
Jeffrey came into Addington by another road, one that would take him
into town along the upland, and now he lingered purposely and chose
indirect ways because, although it was unlikely that any one would know
him, he shrank from the prospect of demanding eyes. At nine o'clock even
he was no farther than the old circus ground, and, nearing it, he heard,
through the evening stillness, a voice, loud, sharp, forensic. It was
hauntingly familiar to him, a voice he might not know at the moment, yet
one that had at least belonged to some part of his Addington life. The
response it brought from him, in assaulted nerves and repugnant ears,
was entirely distasteful. Whatever the voice was, he had at some time
hated it. Why it was continuing on that lifted note he could not guess.
With a little twitch of the lips, the sign of a grim amusement, he
thought this might even be an orator, some wardroom Demosthenes,
practising against the lonely curtain of the night.
"You have no country," the voice was bastinadoing the air. "And you
don't need one. Your country is the whole earth and it belongs to you."
Jeff halted a rod before the nearer entrance to the field. He had
suddenly the sense of presences. The nerves on his skin told him
humanity was near. He went on, with an uncalculated noiselessness, for
the moment loomed important, and since what humanity was there was
silent--all but that one hateful voice--he, approaching in ignorance,
must be still. The voice, in its strident passion, rose again.
"The country for a man to serve is the country that serves him. The
country that serves him is the one without a king. Has this country a
king? It has a thousand kings and a million more that want to be. How
many kings do you want to reign over you? How many are you going to
accept? It is in your hands."
It ceased, and another voice, lower but full of a suppressed passion,
took up the tale, though in a foreign tongue. Jeff knew the first one
now: Weedon Moore's. He read at once the difference between Moore's
voice and this that followed. Moore's had been imploring in its
assertiveness, the desire to convince. The other, in the strange
language, carried belief and sorrow even. It also longed to convince,
but out of an inner passion hot as the flame of love or grief. The moon,
riding superbly, and coming that minute out of her cloud, unveiled the
scene. An automobile had halted on a slight elevation and in it stood
Moore and a taller man gesticulating as he spoke. And about them, like a
pulsing carpet lifted and stirred by a breeze of feeling, were the men
Jeff's instinct had smelled out. They were packed into a mass. And they
were silent. Weedon Moore began again.
"Kill out this superstition of a country. Kill it out, I say. Kill out
this idea of going back to dead men for rules to live by. The dead are
dead. Their Bibles and their laws are dead. There's more life in one of
you men that has tasted it through living and suffering and being
oppressed than there is in any ten of their kings and prophets. They are
dead, I tell you. We are alive. It was their earth while they lived on
it. It's our earth to-day."
Jeff was edging nearer, skirting the high fence, and while he did it,
the warm voice of the other man took up the exposition, and now Jeff
understood that he was Moore's interpreter. By the time he had finished,
Jeff was at the thin edge of the crowd behind the car, and though one or
two men turned as he moved and glanced at him, he seemed to rouse no
uneasiness. Here, nearer them in the moonlight, he saw what they were:
workmen, foreign evidently, with bared throats and loosely worn hair,
some, their caps pushed back, others without hats at all, seeking, it
seemed, coolness in this too warm adjuration.
"Their symbol," said Moore, "is the flag. They carry it into foreign
lands. Why? For what they call religion? No. For money--money--money.
When the flag waves in a new country, blood begins to flow, the blood of
the industrial slave. Down with the flag. Our symbol is the sword."
The voice of the interpreter, in an added passion, throbbed upon the
climbing period. Moore had moved him and, forgetful of himself, he was
dramatically ready to pass his ardour on. Jeff also forgot himself. He
clove like a wedge through the thin line before him, and leaped on the
running-board.
"You fool," he heard himself yelling at Moore, who in the insecurity of
his tubbiness was jarred and almost overturned, "you're robbing them of
their country. You're taking away the thing that keeps them from
falling down on all-fours and going back to brute beasts. My God, Moore,
you're a traitor! You ought to be shot."
He had surprised them. They did not even hustle him, but there were
interrogatory syllables directed to the interpreter. Moore recovered
himself. He gave a sharp sound of distaste, and then, assuming his
civilised habit, said to Jeff in a voice of specious courtesy, yet, Jeff
knew, a voice of hate:
"These are mill operatives, Blake, labourers. They know what labour is.
They know what capitalists are. Do you want me to tell 'em who you are?"
Who you are? Jeff knew what it meant. Did he want Moore to tell them
that he was a capitalist found out and punished?
"Tell and be damned," he said. "See here!" He was addressing the
interpreter. "You understand English. Fair play. Do you take me? Fair
play is what English men and American men work for and fight for. It's
fair play to give me a chance to speak, and for you to tell these poor
devils what I say. Will you?"
The man nodded. His white teeth gleamed in the moonlight. Jeff fancied
his eyes gleamed, too. He was a swarthy creature and round his neck was
knotted a handkerchief, vivid red. Jeff, with a movement of the arm,
crowded Moore aside. Moore submitted. Used, as he was, to being swept
out of the way, all the energies that might have been remonstrant in him
had combined in a controlling calm to serve him until the day when he
should be no longer ousted. Jeff spoke, and threw his voice, he hoped,
to the outskirts of the crowd, ingenuously forgetting it was not lungs
he wanted but a bare knowledge of foreign tongues.
"This man," said he, "tells you you've no country. Don't you let him
lie to you. Here's your country under your feet. If you can't love it
enough to die for it, go back to your own country, the one you were born
in, and love that, for God's sake." He judged he had said enough to be
carried in the interpreter's memory, and turned upon him. "Go on," said
he imperatively. "Say it."
But even then he had no idea what the man would do. The atmosphere about
them was not thrilling in responsive sympathy. Silence had waited upon
Moore, and this, Jeff could not help feeling, was silence of a different
species. But the interpreter did, slowly and cautiously, it seemed,
convey his words. At least Jeff hoped he was conveying them. When his
voice ceased, Jeff took up the thread.
"He tells you you've no country. He says your country is the world.
You're not big enough to need the whole world for your country. I'm not
big enough. Only a few of them are, the prophets and the great dead men
he thinks so little of. Dig up a tract of ground and call it your
country and make it grow and bloom and have good laws--why, you fools!"
His patience broke. "You fools, you're being done. You're being led away
and played upon. A man's country isn't the spot where he can get the
best money to put into his belly. His country is his country, just as
his mother is his mother. He can worship the Virgin Mary, but he loves
his mother best."
Whether the name hit them like blasphemy, whether the interpreter caught
fire from it or Moore gave a signal, he could not tell. But suddenly he
was being hustled. He was pulled down from the car with a gentle yet
relentless force, was conscious that he was being removed and must
submit. There were sounds now, the quick syllables of the southern
