stinks like a star's dressing room. And I married one! And I'm
through. I want to get my breath and I'm getting it."
Stull's white features betrayed merely the morbid suffering of
indigestion; he said nothing and sucked his cigar.
"I'm through," repeated Brandes. "I want a home and a wife--the kind
that even a fly cop won't pinch on sight--the kind of little thing
that's over there in that old shack. Whatever I am, I don't want a
wife like me--nor kids, either."
Stull remained sullenly unresponsive.
"Call her a hick if you like. All right, I want that kind."
No comment from Stull, who was looking at the wrecked car.
"Understand, Ben?"
"I tell you I don't know whether I do or not!"
"Well, what don't you understand?"
"Nothin'.... Well, then, your falling for a kid like that, first crack
out o' the box. I'm honest; I don't understand it."
"She hit me that way--so help me God!"
"And you're on the level?"
"Absolutely, Ben."
"What about the old guy and the mother? Take 'em to live with you?"
"If she wants 'em."
Stull stared at him in uneasy astonishment:
"All right, Eddie. Only don't act foolish till Minna passes you up.
And get out of here or you will. If you're on the level, as you say
you are, you've got to mark time for a good long while yet----"
"Why?"
"You don't have to ask me that, do you?"
"Yes, I do. Why? I want to marry her, I tell you. I mean to. I'm
taking no chances that some hick will do it while I'm away. I'm going
to stay right here."
"And when the new car comes?"
"I'll keep her humming between here and Saratoga."
"And then what?"
Brandes' greenish eyes rested on the car and he smoked in silence for
a while. Then:
"Listen, Ben. I'm a busy man. I got to be back in town and I got to
have a wedding trip too. You know me, Ben. You know what I mean.
That's me. When I do a thing I do it. Maybe I make plenty of mistakes.
Hell! I'd rather make 'em than sit pat and do nothing!"
"You're crazy."
"Don't bet on it, Ben. I know what I want. I'm going to make money.
Things are going big with me----"
"You tinhorn! You always say that!"
"Watch me. I bet you I make a killing at Saratoga! I bet you I make
good with Morris Stein! I bet you the first show I put on goes big! I
bet----"
"Ah, can it!"
"Wait! I bet you I marry that little girl in two weeks and she stands
for it when I tell her later we'd better get married again!"
"Say! Talk sense!"
"I am."
"What'll they do to you if your wife makes a holler?"
"Who ever heard of her or me in the East?"
"You want to take a chance like that?"
"I'll fix it. I haven't got time to wait for Minna to shake me loose.
Besides, she's in Seattle. I'll fix it so she doesn't hear until she
gets her freedom. I'll get a license right here. I guess I'll use your
name----"
"What!" yelled Stull.
"Shut your face!" retorted Brandes. "What do you think you're going to
do, squeal?"
"You think I'm going to stand for that?"
"Well, then, I won't use your name. I'll use my own. Why not? I mean
honest. It's dead level. I'll remarry her. I want her, I tell you. I
want a wedding trip, too, before I go back----"
"With the first rehearsal called for September fifteenth! What's the
matter with you? Do you think Stein is going to stand for----"
"You'll be on hand," said Brandes pleasantly. "I'm going to Paris
for four weeks--two weeks there, two on the ocean----"
"You----"
"Save your voice, Ben. That's settled."
Stull turned upon him a dead white visage distorted with fury:
"I hope she throws you out!" he said breathlessly. "You talk about
being on the level! Every level's crooked with you. You don't know
what square means; a square has got more than four corners for you! Go
on! Stick around. I don't give a damn what you do. Go on and do it.
But I quit right here."
Both knew that the threat was empty. As a shadow clings to a man's
heels, as a lost soul haunts its slayer, as damnation stalks the
damned, so had Stull followed Brandes; and would follow to the end.
Why? Neither knew. It seemed to be their destiny, surviving
everything--their bitter quarrels, the injustice and tyranny of
Brandes, his contempt and ridicule sometimes--enduring through
adversity, even penury, through good and bad days, through abundance
and through want, through shame and disgrace, through trickery,
treachery, and triumph--nothing had ever broken the occult bond which
linked these two. And neither understood why, but both seemed to be
vaguely conscious that neither was entirely complete without the
other.
"Ben," said Brandes affably, "I'm going to walk over to Gayfield. Want
to come?"
They went off, together.
CHAPTER VII
OBSESSION
By the end of the week Brandes had done much to efface any unpleasant
impression he had made on Ruhannah Carew.
The girl had never before had to do with any mature man. She was
therefore at a disadvantage in every way, and her total lack of
experience emphasised the odds.
Nobody had ever before pointedly preferred her, paid her undivided
attention; no man had ever sought her, conversed with her, deferred to
her, interested himself in her. It was entirely new to her, this
attention which Brandes paid her. Nor could she make any comparisons
between this man and other men, because she knew no other men. He was
an entirely novel experience to her; he had made himself interesting,
had proved amusing, considerate, kind, generous, and apparently
interested in what interested her. And if his unfeigned preference for
her society disturbed and perplexed her, his assiduous civilities
toward her father and mother were gradually winning from her far more
than anything he had done for her.
His white-faced, odd little friend had gone; he himself had taken
quarters at the Gayfield House, where a car like the wrecked one was
stabled for his use.
He had already taken her father and mother and herself everywhere
within motoring distance; he had accompanied them to church; he
escorted her to the movies; he walked with her in the August evenings
after supper, rowed her about on the pond, fished from the bridge,
told her strange stories in the moonlight on the verandah, her father
and mother interested and attentive.
For the career of Mr. Eddie Brandes was capable of furnishing material
for interesting stories if carefully edited, and related with
discretion and circumspection. He had been many things to many
men--and to several women--he had been a tinhorn gambler in the
Southwest, a miner in Alaska, a saloon keeper in Wyoming, a fight
promoter in Arizona. He had travelled profitably on popular ocean
liners until requested to desist; Auteuil, Neuilly, Vincennes, and
Longchamps knew him as tout, bookie, and, when fitfully prosperous, as
a plunger. Epsom knew him once as a welcher; and knew him no more.
He had taken a comic opera company through the wheat-belt--one way; he
had led a burlesque troupe into Arizona and had traded it there for a
hotel.
"When Eddie wants to talk," Stull used to say, "that smoke,
Othello, hasn't got nothing on him."
However, Brandes seldom chose to talk. This was one of his rare
garrulous occasions; and, with careful self-censorship, he was making
an endless series of wonder-tales out of the episodes and faits
divers common to the experience of such as he.
So, of moving accidents by flood and field this man had a store, and
he contrived to make them artistically innocuous and perfectly fit for
family consumption.
Further, two of his friends motored over from Saratoga to see him,
were brought to supper at the Carews'; and they gave him a clean bill
of moral health. They were, respectively, "Doc" Curfoot--suave haunter
of Peacock Alley and gentleman "capper"--whom Brandes introduced as
the celebrated specialist, Doctor Elbert Curfoot--and Captain Harman
Quint, partner in "Quint's" celebrated temple of chance--introduced as
the distinguished navigating officer which he appeared to be. The
steering for their common craft, however, was the duty of the eminent
Doc.
They spent the evening on the verandah with the family; and it was
quite wonderful what a fine fellow each turned out to be--information
confidentially imparted to the Reverend Mr. Carew by each of the three
distinguished gentlemen in turn.
Doc Curfoot, whose business included the ability to talk convincingly
on any topic, took the Reverend Mr. Carew's measure and chose
literature; and his suave critique presently became an interesting
monologue listened to in silence by those around him.
Brandes had said, "Put me in right, Doc," and Doc was accomplishing
it, partly to oblige Brandes, partly for practice. His agreeable voice
so nicely pitched, so delightfully persuasive, recapitulating all the
commonplaces and cant phrases concerning the literature of the day,
penetrated gratefully the intellectual isolation of these humble
gentlepeople, and won very easily their innocent esteem. With the
Reverend Mr. Carew Doc discussed such topics as the influence on
fiction of the ethical ideal. With Mrs. Carew Captain Quint exchanged
reminiscences of travel on distant seas. Brandes attempted to maintain
low-voiced conversation with Rue, who responded in diffident
monosyllables to his advances.
                 
Brandes walked down to their car with them after they had taken their
leave.
"What's the idea, Eddie?" inquired Doc Curfoot, pausing before the
smart little speeder.
"It's straight."
"Oh," said Doc, softly, betraying no surprise--about the only thing he
never betrayed. "Anything in it for you, Eddie?"
"Yes. A good girl. The kind you read about. Isn't that enough?"
"Minna chucked you?" inquired Captain Quint.
"She'll get her decree in two or three months. Then I'll have a home.
And everything that you and I are keeps out of that home, Cap. See?"
"Certainly," said Quint. "Quite right, Eddie."
Doc Curfoot climbed in and took the wheel; Quint followed him.
"Say," he said in his pleasant, guarded voice, "watch out that Minna
don't double-cross you, Eddie."
"How?"
"--Or shoot you up. She's some schutzen-fest, you know, when she
turns loose----"
"Ah, I tell you she wants the divorce. Abe Grittlefeld's crazy about
her. He'll get Abe Gordon to star her on Broadway; and that's enough
for her. Besides, she'll marry Maxy Venem when she can afford to keep
him."
"You never understood Minna Minti."
"Well, who ever understood any German?" demanded Brandes. "She's one
of those sour-blooded, silent Dutch women that make me ache."
Doc pushed the self-starter; there came a click, a low humming.
Brandes' face cleared and he held out his square-shaped hand:
"You fellows," he said, "have put me right with the old folks here.
I'll do the same for you some day. Don't talk about this little girl
and me, that's all."
"All the same," repeated Doc, "don't take any chances with Minna.
She's on to you, and she's got a rotten Dutch disposition."
"That's right, Doc. And say, Harman,"--to Quint--"tell Ben he's doing
fine. Tell him to send me what's mine, because I'll want it very soon
now. I'm going to take a month off and then I'm going to show Stein
how a theatre can be run."
"Eddie," said Quint, "it's a good thing to think big, but it's a damn
poor thing to talk big. Cut out the talk and you'll be a big man some
day."
The graceful car moved forward into the moonlight; his two friends
waved an airy adieu; and Brandes went slowly back to the dark verandah
where sat a young girl, pitifully immature in mind and body--and two
old people little less innocent for all their experience in the ranks
of Christ, for all the wounds that scarred them both in the over-sea
service which had broken them forever.
"A very handsome and distinguished gentleman, your friend Dr.
Curfoot," said the Reverend Mr. Carew. "I imagine his practice in New
York is not only fashionable but extensive."
"Both," said Brandes.
"I assume so. He seems to be intimately acquainted with people whose
names for generations have figured prominently in the social columns
of the New York press."
"Oh, yes, Curfoot and Quint know them all."
Which was true enough. They had to. One must know people from whom one
accepts promissory notes to liquidate those little affairs peculiar to
the temple of chance. And New York's best furnished the neophytes for
these rites.
"I thought Captain Quint very interesting," ventured Ruhannah. "He
seems to have sailed over the entire globe."
"Naval men are always delightful," said her mother. And, laying her
hand on her husband's arm in the dark: "Do you remember, Wilbour, how
kind the officers from the cruiser Oneida were when the rescue party
took us aboard?"
"God sent the Oneida to us," said her husband dreamily. "I thought
it was the end of the world for us--for you and me and baby Rue--that
dreadful flight from the mission to the sea."
His bony fingers tightened over his wife's toilworn hand. In the long
grass along the creek fireflies sparkled, and their elfin lanterns,
waning, glowing, drifted high in the calm August night.
The Reverend Mr. Carew gathered his crutches; the night was a trifle
damp for him; besides, he desired to read. Brandes, as always, rose to
aid him. His wife followed.
"Don't stay out long, Rue," she said in the doorway.
"No, mother."
Brandes came back. Departing from his custom, he did not light a
cigar, but sat in silence, his narrow eyes trying to see Ruhannah in
the darkness. But she was only a delicate shadow shape to him,
scarcely detached from the darkness that enveloped her.
He meant to speak to her then. And suddenly found he could not,
realised, all at once, that he lacked the courage.
This was the more amazing and disturbing to him because he could not
remember the time or occasion when the knack of fluent speech had ever
failed him.
He had never foreseen such a situation; it had never occurred to him
that he would find the slightest difficulty in saying easily and
gracefully what he had determined to say to this young girl.
Now he sat there silent, disturbed, nervous, and tongue-tied. At first
he did not quite comprehend what was making him afraid. After a long
while he understood that it was some sort of fear of her--fear of her
refusal, fear of losing her, fear that she might have--in some occult
way--divined what he really was, that she might have heard things
concerning him, his wife, his career. The idea turned him cold.
And all at once he realised how terribly in earnest he had become; how
deeply involved; how vital this young girl had become to him.
Never before had he really wanted anything as compared to this desire
of his for her. He was understanding, too, in a confused way, that
such a girl and such a home for him as she could make was going not
only to give him the happiness he expected, but that it also meant
betterment for himself--straighter living, perhaps straighter
thinking--the birth of something resembling self-respect, perhaps even
aspiration--or at least the aspiration toward that respect from others
which honest living dare demand.
He wanted her; he wanted her now; he wanted to marry her whether or
not he had the legal right; he wanted to go away for a month with her,
and then return and work for her, for them both--build up a fortune
and a good reputation with Stein's backing and Stein's theatre--stand
well with honest men, stand well with himself, stand always, with
her, for everything a man should be.
If she loved him she would forgive him and quietly remarry him as soon
as Minna kicked him loose. He was confident he could make her happy,
make her love him if once he could find courage to speak--if once he
could win her. And suddenly the only possible way to go about it
occurred to him.
His voice was a trifle husky and unsteady from the nervous tension
when he at last broke the silence:
"Miss Rue," he said, "I have a word to say to your father and mother.
Would you wait here until I come back?"
"I think I had better go in, too----"
"Please don't."
"Why?" She stopped short, instinctively, but not surmising.
"You will wait, then?" he asked.
"I was going in.... But I'll sit here a little while."
He rose and went in, rather blindly.
                 
Ruhannah, dreaming there deep in her splint armchair, slim feet
crossed, watched the fireflies sailing over the alders. Sometimes she
thought of Brandes, pleasantly, sometimes of other matters. Once the
memory of her drive home through the wintry moonlight with young
Neeland occurred to her, and the reminiscence was vaguely agreeable.
Listless, a trifle sleepy, dreamily watching the fireflies, the
ceaseless noise of the creek in her ears, inconsequential thoughts
flitted through her brain--the vague, aimless, guiltless thoughts of a
young and unstained mind.
She was nearly asleep when Brandes came back, and she looked up at
him where he stood beside her porch chair in the darkness.
"Miss Rue," he said, "I have told your father and mother that I am in
love with you and want to make you my wife."
The girl lay there speechless, astounded.
CHAPTER VIII
A CHANGE IMPENDS
The racing season at Saratoga drew toward its close, and Brandes had
appeared there only twice in person, both times with a very young
girl.
"If you got to bring her here to the races, can't you get her some
clothes?" whispered Stull in his ear. "That get-up of hers is
something fierce."
Late hours, hot weather, indiscreet nourishment, and the feverish
anxiety incident to betting other people's money had told on Stull.
His eyes were like two smears of charcoal on his pasty face; sourly he
went about the business which Brandes should have attended to, nursing
resentment--although he was doing better than Brandes had hoped to
do.
Their joint commission from his winnings began to assume considerable
proportions; at track and club and hotel people were beginning to turn
and stare when the little man with the face of a sick circus clown
appeared, always alone, greeting with pallid indifference his
acquaintances, ignoring overtures, noticing neither sport, nor
fashion, nor political importance, nor yet the fair and frail whose
curiosity and envy he was gradually arousing.
Obsequiousness from club, hotel, and racing officials made no
impression on him; he went about his business alone, sullen,
preoccupied, deathly pale, asking no information, requesting no
favours, conferring with nobody, doing no whispering and enduring
none.
After a little study of that white, sardonic, impossible face, people
who would have been glad to make use of him became discouraged. And
those who first had recognised him in Saratoga found, at the end of
the racing month, nothing to add to their general identification of
him as "Ben Stull, partner of Eddie Brandes--Western sports."
                 
Stull, whispering in Brandes' ear again, where he sat beside him in
the grand stand, added to his earlier comment on Ruhannah's
appearance:
"Why don't you fix her up, Eddie? It looks like you been robbing a
country school."
Brandes' slow, greenish eyes marked sleepily the distant dust, where
Mr. Sanford's Nick Stoner was leading a brilliant field, steadily
overhauling the favourite, Deborah Glenn.
"When the time comes for me to fix her up," he said between thin lips
which scarcely moved, "she'll look like Washington Square in May--not
like Fifth Avenue and Broadway."
Nick Stoner continued to lead. Stull's eyes resembled two holes burnt
in a sheet; Brandes yawned. They were plunging the limit on the
Sanford favourite.
As for Ruhannah, she sat with slender gloved hands tightly clasped,
lips parted, intent, fascinated with the sunlit beauty of the scene.
Brandes looked at her, and his heavy, expressionless features altered
subtly:
"Some running!" he said.
A breathless nod was her response. All around them repressed
excitement was breaking out; men stood up and shouted; women rose, and
the club house seemed suddenly to blossom like a magic garden of
wind-tossed flowers.
Through the increasing cheering Stull looked on without a sign of
emotion, although affluence or ruin, in the Sanford colours, sat
astride the golden roan.
Suddenly Ruhannah stood up, one hand pressed to the ill-fitting blue
serge over her wildly beating heart. Brandes rose beside her. Not a
muscle in his features moved.
                 
"Gawd!" whispered Stull in his ear, as they were leaving.
"Some killing, Ben!" nodded Brandes in his low, deliberate voice. His
heavy, round face was deeply flushed; Fortune, the noisy wanton, had
flung both arms around his neck. But his slow eyes were continually
turned on the slim young girl whom he was teaching to walk beside him
without taking his arm.
"Ain't she on to us?" Stull had enquired. And Brandes' reply was
correct; Ruhannah never dreamed that it made a penny's difference to
Brandes whether Nick Stoner won or whether it was Deborah Glenn which
the wild-voiced throng saluted.
                 
They did not remain in Saratoga for dinner. They took Stull back to
his hotel on the rumble of the runabout, Brandes remarking that he
thought he should need a chauffeur before long and suggesting that
Stull look about Saratoga for a likely one.
Halted in the crush before the United States Hotel, Stull decided to
descend there. Several men in the passing crowds bowed to Brandes;
one, Norton Smawley, known to the fraternity as "Parson" Smawley, came
out to the curb to shake hands. Brandes introduced him to Rue as
"Parson" Smawley--whether with some sinister future purpose already
beginning to take shape in his round, heavy head, or whether a
perverted sense of humour prompted him to give Rue the idea that she
had been in godly company, it is difficult to determine.
He added that Miss Carew was the daughter of a clergyman and a
missionary. And the Parson took his cue. At any rate Rue, leaning from
her seat, listened to the persuasive and finely modulated voice of
Parson Smawley with pleasure, and found his sleek, graceful presence
and courtly manners most agreeable. There were no such persons in
Gayfield.
She hoped, shyly, that if he were in Gayfield he would call on her
father. Once in a very long while clergymen called on her father, and
their rare visits remained a pleasure to the lonely invalid for
months.
The Parson promised to call, very gravely. It would not have
embarrassed him to do so; it was his business in life to have a
sufficient knowledge of every man's business to enable him to converse
convincingly with anybody.
He took polished leave of her; took leave of Brandes with the faintest
flutter of one eyelid, as though he understood Brandes' game. Which he
did not; nor did Brandes himself, entirely.
                 
They had thirty miles to go in the runabout. So they would not remain
to dinner. Besides, Brandes did not care to make himself conspicuous
in public just then. Too many people knew more or less about him--the
sort of people who might possibly be in communication with his wife.
There was no use slapping chance in the face. Two quiet visits to the
races with Ruhannah was enough for the present. Even those two visits
were scarcely discreet. It was time to go.
Stull and Brandes stood consulting together beside the runabout; Rue
sat in the machine watching the press of carriages and automobiles on
Broadway, and the thronged sidewalks along which brilliant, animated
crowds were pouring.
"I'm not coming again, Ben," said Brandes, dropping his voice. "No use
to hunt the limelight just now. You can't tell what some of these
people might do. I'll take no chances that some fresh guy might try to
start something."
"Stir up Minna?" Stull's lips merely formed the question, and his eyes
watched Ruhannah.
"They couldn't. What would she care? All the same, I play safe, Ben.
Well, be good. Better send me mine on pay day. I'll need it."
Stull's face grew sourer:
"Can't you wait till she gets her decree?"
"And lose a month off? No."
"It's all coming your way, Eddie. Stay wise and play safe. Don't start
anything now----"
"It's safe. If I don't take September off I wait a year for
my--honeymoon. And I won't. See?"
They both looked cautiously at Ruhannah, who sat motionless, absorbed
in the turmoil of vehicles and people.
Brandes' face slowly reddened; he dropped one hand on Stull's shoulder
and said, between thin lips that scarcely moved:
"She's all I'm interested in. You don't think much of her, Ben. She
isn't painted. She isn't dolled up the way you like 'em. But there
isn't anything else that matters very much to me. All I want in the
world is sitting in that runabout, looking out of her kid eyes at a
thousand or two people who ain't worth the pair of run-down shoes
she's wearing."
But Stull's expression remained sardonic and unconvinced.
So Brandes got into his car and took the wheel; and Stull watched them
threading a tortuous path through the traffic tangle of Broadway.
They sped past the great hotels, along crowded sidewalks, along the
park, and out into an endless stretch of highway where hundreds of
other cars were travelling in the same direction.
"Did you have a good time?" he inquired, shifting his cigar and
keeping his narrow eyes on the road.
"Yes; it was beautiful--exciting."
"Some horse, Nick Stoner! Some race, eh?"
"I was so excited--with everybody standing up and shouting. And such
beautiful horses--and such pretty women in their wonderful dresses!
I--I never knew there were such things."
He swung the car, sent it rushing past a lumbering limousine, slowed a
little, gripped his cigar between his teeth, and watched the road,
both hands on the wheel.
Yes, things were coming his way--coming faster and faster all the
while. He had waited many years for this--for material fortune--for
that chance which every gambler waits to seize when the psychological
second ticks out. But he never had expected that the chance was to
include a very young girl in a country-made dress and hat.
As they sped westward the freshening wind from distant pine woods
whipped their cheeks; north, blue hills and bluer mountains beyond
took fairy shape against the sky; and over all spread the tremendous
heavens where fleets of white clouds sailed the uncharted wastes, and
other fleets glimmered beyond the edges of the world, hull down, on
vast horizons.
"I want to make you happy," said Brandes in his low, even voice. It
was, perhaps, the most honest statement he had ever uttered.
Ruhannah remained silent, her eyes riveted on the far horizon.
                 
It was a week later, one hot evening, that he telegraphed to Stull in
Saratoga:
"Find me a chauffeur who will be willing to go abroad. I'll give you
twenty-four hours to get him here."
The next morning he called up Stull on the telephone from the drug
store in Gayfield:
"Get my wire, Ben?"
"Yes. But I----"
"Wait. Here's a postscript. I also want Parson Smawley. I want him to
get a car and come over to the Gayfield House. Tell him I count on
him. And he's to wear black and a white tie."
"Yes. But about that chauffeur you want----"
"Don't argue. Have him here. Have the Parson, also. Tell him to bring
a white tie. Understand?"
"Oh, yes, I understand you, Eddie! You don't want anything of me, do
you! Go out and get that combination? Just like that! What'll I do?
Step into the street and whistle?"
"It's up to you. Get busy."
"As usual," retorted Stull in an acrid voice. "All the same. I'm
telling you there ain't a chauffeur you'd have in Saratoga. Who handed
you that dope?"
"Try. I need the chauffeur part of the combine, anyway. If he won't
go abroad, I'll leave him in town. Get a wiggle on, Ben. How's
things?"
"All right. We had War-axe and Lady Johnson. Some killing, eh? That
stable is winning all along. We've got Adriutha and Queen Esther
today. The Ocean Belle skate is scratched. Doc and Cap and me is thick
with the Legislature outfit. We'll trim 'em tonight. How are you
feeling, Eddie?"
"Never better. I'll call you up in the morning. Ding-dong!"
"Wait! Are you really going abroad?" shouted Stull.
But Brandes had already hung up.
He walked leisurely back to Brookhollow through the sunshine. He had
never been as happy in all his life.
CHAPTER IX
NONRESISTANCE
"Long distance calling you, Mr. Stull. One moment, please.... Here's
your party," concluded the operator.
Stull, huddled sleepily on his bed, picked up the transmitter from the
table beside him with a frightful yawn.
"Who is it?" he inquired sourly.
"It's me--Ben!"
"Say, Eddie, have a heart, will you! I need the sleep----"
Brandes' voice was almost jovial:
"Wake up, you poor tout! It's nearly noon----"
"Well, wasn't I singing hymns with Doc and Cap till breakfast time?
And believe me, we trimmed the Senator's bunch! They've got their
transportation back to Albany, and that's about all----"
"Careful what you say. I'm talking from the Gayfield House. The Parson
got here all right. He's just left. He'll tell you about things.
Listen, Ben, the chauffeur you sent me from Saratoga got here last
evening, too. I went out with him and he drives all right. Did you
look him up?"
"Now, how could I look him up when you gave me only a day to get him
for you?"
"Did he have references?"
"Sure, a wad of them. But I couldn't verify them."
"Who is he?"
"I forget his name. You ought to know it by now."
"How did you get him?"
"Left word at the desk. An hour later he came to my room with a couple
of bums. I told him about the job. I told him you wanted a chauffeur
willing to go abroad. He said he was all that and then some. So I sent
him on. Anything you don't fancy about him?"
"Nothing, I guess. He seems all right. Only I like to know about a
man----"
"How can I find out if you don't give me time?"
"All right, Ben. I guess he'll do. By the way, I'm starting for town
in ten minutes."
"What's the idea?"
"Ask the Parson. Have you any other news except that you killed that
Albany bunch of grafters?"
"No.... Yes! But it ain't good news. I was going to call you soon as
I waked up----"
"What's the trouble?"
"There ain't any trouble--yet. But a certain party has showed up
here--a very smooth young man whose business is hunting trouble. Get
me?"
After a silence Stull repeated:
"Get me, Eddie?"
"No."
"Listen. A certain slippery party----"
"Who, damn it? Talk out. I'm in a hurry."
"Very well, then. Maxy Venem is here!"
The name of his wife's disbarred attorney sent a chill over Brandes.
"What's he doing in Saratoga?" he demanded.
"I'm trying to find out. He was to the races yesterday. He seen Doc.
Of course Doc hadn't laid eyes on you for a year. Oh, no, indeed!
Heard you was somewhere South, down and out. I don't guess Maxy was
fooled none. What we done here in Saratoga is growing too big to hush
up----"
"What we've done? Whad'ye mean, we? I told you to work by yourself
quietly, Ben, and keep me out of it."
"That's what I done. Didn't I circulate the news that you and me had
quit partnership? And even then you wouldn't take my advice. Oh, no.
You must show up here at the track with a young lady----"
"How long has Maxy Venem been in Saratoga?" snapped Brandes.
"He told Doc he just come, but Cap found out he'd been here a week.
All I hope is he didn't see you with the Brookhollow party----"
"Do you think he did?"
"Listen, Eddie. Max is a smooth guy----"
"Find out what he knows! Do you hear?"
"Who? Me? Me try to make Maxy Venem talk? That snake? If he isn't on
to you now, that would be enough to put him wise. Act like you had
sense, Eddie. Call that other matter off and slide for town----"
"I can't, Ben."
"You got to!"
"I can't, I tell you."
"You're nutty in the head! Don't you suppose that Max is wise to what
I've been doing here? And don't you suppose he knows damn well that
you're back of whatever I do? If you ain't crazy you'll call that
party off for a while."
Brandes' even voice over the telephone sounded a trifle unnatural,
almost hoarse:
"I can't call it off. It's done."
"What's done?"
"What I told you I was going to do."
"That!"
"The Parson married us."
"Oh!"
"Wait! Parson Smawley married us, in church, assisted by the local
dominie. I didn't count on the dominie. It was her father's idea. He
butted in."
