kinds, to go as prizes in the games, and they were marshaled with fine
and showy effect upon the table. He said:
“Examine them at your leisure while I get mother to touch up the kite
with her iron if it isn’t dry enough yet.”
Then he tripped out and went clattering down-stairs, whistling.
We did not look at the things; we couldn’t take any interest in
anything but the clock. We sat staring at it in silence, listening
to the ticking, and every time the minute-hand jumped we nodded
recognition--one minute fewer to cover in the race for life or for
death. Finally Seppi drew a deep breath and said:
“Two minutes to ten. Seven minutes more and he will pass the
death-point. Theodor, he is going to be saved! He’s going to--”
“Hush! I’m on needles. Watch the clock and keep still.”
Five minutes more. We were panting with the strain and the excitement.
Another three minutes, and there was a footstep on the stair.
“Saved!” And we jumped up and faced the door.
The old mother entered, bringing the kite. “Isn’t it a beauty?” she
said. “And, dear me, how he has slaved over it--ever since daylight,
I think, and only finished it awhile before you came.” She stood it
against the wall, and stepped back to take a view of it. “He drew the
pictures his own self, and I think they are very good. The church
isn’t so very good, I’ll have to admit, but look at the bridge--any one
can recognize the bridge in a minute. He asked me to bring it up....
Dear me! it’s seven minutes past ten, and I--”
“But where is he?”
“He? Oh, he’ll be here soon; he’s gone out a minute.”
“Gone out?”
“Yes. Just as he came down-stairs little Lisa’s mother came in and said
the child had wandered off somewhere, and as she was a little uneasy I
told Nikolaus to never mind about his father’s orders--go and look her
up.... Why, how white you two do look! I do believe you are sick. Sit
down; I’ll fetch something. That cake has disagreed with you. It is a
little heavy, but I thought--”
She disappeared without finishing her sentence, and we hurried at once
to the back window and looked toward the river. There was a great crowd
at the other end of the bridge, and people were flying toward that
point from every direction.
“Oh, it is all over--poor Nikolaus! Why, oh, why did she let him get
out of the house!”
“Come away,” said Seppi, half sobbing, “come quick--we can’t bear to
meet her; in five minutes she will know.”
But we were not to escape. She came upon us at the foot of the stairs,
with her cordials in her hands, and made us come in and sit down and
take the medicine. Then she watched the effect, and it did not satisfy
her; so she made us wait longer, and kept upbraiding herself for giving
us the unwholesome cake.
Presently the thing happened which we were dreading. There was a sound
of tramping and scraping outside, and a crowd came solemnly in, with
heads uncovered, and laid the two drowned bodies on the bed.
“Oh, my God!” that poor mother cried out, and fell on her knees, and
put her arms about her dead boy and began to cover the wet face with
kisses. “Oh, it was I that sent him, and I have been his death. If I
had obeyed, and kept him in the house, this would not have happened.
And I am rightly punished; I was cruel to him last night, and him
begging me, his own mother, to be his friend.”
And so she went on and on, and all the women cried, and pitied her, and
tried to comfort her, but she could not forgive herself and could not
be comforted, and kept on saying if she had not sent him out he would
be alive and well now, and she was the cause of his death.
It shows how foolish people are when they blame themselves for anything
they have done. Satan knows, and he said nothing happens that your
first act hasn’t arranged to happen and made inevitable; and so, of
your own motion you can’t ever alter the scheme or do a thing that
will break a link. Next we heard screams, and Frau Brandt came wildly
plowing and plunging through the crowd with her dress in disorder and
hair flying loose, and flung herself upon her dead child with moans and
kisses and pleadings and endearments; and by and by she rose up almost
exhausted with her outpourings of passionate emotion, and clenched her
fist and lifted it toward the sky, and her tear-drenched face grew hard
and resentful, and she said:
“For nearly two weeks I have had dreams and presentiments and warnings
that death was going to strike what was most precious to me, and
day and night and night and day I have groveled in the dirt before
Him praying Him to have pity on my innocent child and save it from
harm--and here is His answer!”
Why, He had saved it from harm--but she did not know.
She wiped the tears from her eyes and cheeks, and stood awhile gazing
down at the child and caressing its face and its hair with her hand;
then she spoke again in that bitter tone: “But in His hard heart is no
compassion. I will never pray again.”
  [Illustration: THERE WAS A SOUND OF TRAMPING OUTSIDE AND THE
                 CROWD CAME SOLEMNLY IN]
She gathered her dead child to her bosom and strode away, the crowd
falling back to let her pass, and smitten dumb by the awful words they
had heard. Ah, that poor woman! It is as Satan said, we do not know
good fortune from bad, and are always mistaking the one for the other.
Many a time since then I have heard people pray to God to spare the
life of sick persons, but I have never done it.
Both funerals took place at the same time in our little church next
day. Everybody was there, including the party guests. Satan was there,
too; which was proper, for it was on account of his efforts that
the funerals had happened. Nikolaus had departed this life without
absolution, and a collection was taken up for masses, to get him out
of purgatory. Only two-thirds of the required money was gathered, and
the parents were going to try to borrow the rest, but Satan furnished
it. He told us privately that there was no purgatory, but he had
contributed in order that Nikolaus’s parents and their friends might be
saved from worry and distress. We thought it very good of him, but he
said money did not cost him anything.
At the graveyard the body of little Lisa was seized for debt by a
carpenter to whom the mother owed fifty groschen for work done the year
before. She had never been able to pay this, and was not able now. The
carpenter took the corpse home and kept it four days in his cellar,
the mother weeping and imploring about his house all the time; then he
buried it in his brother’s cattle-yard, without religious ceremonies.
It drove the mother wild with grief and shame, and she forsook her work
and went daily about the town, cursing the carpenter and blaspheming
the laws of the emperor and the church, and it was pitiful to see.
Seppi asked Satan to interfere, but he said the carpenter and the rest
were members of the human race and were acting quite neatly for that
species of animal. He would interfere if he found a horse acting in
such a way, and we must inform him when we came across that kind of
horse doing that kind of a human thing, so that he could stop it. We
believed this was sarcasm, for of course there wasn’t any such horse.
But after a few days we found that we could not abide that poor woman’s
distress, so we begged Satan to examine her several possible careers,
and see if he could not change her, to her profit, to a new one. He
said the longest of her careers as they now stood gave her forty-two
years to live, and her shortest one twenty-nine, and that both were
charged with grief and hunger and cold and pain. The only improvement
he could make would be to enable her to skip a certain three minutes
from now; and he asked us if he should do it. This was such a short
time to decide in that we went to pieces with nervous excitement, and
before we could pull ourselves together and ask for particulars he said
the time would be up in a few more seconds; so then we gasped out, “Do
it!”
“It is done,” he said; “she was going around a corner; I have turned
her back; it has changed her career.”
“Then what will happen, Satan?”
“It is happening now. She is having words with Fischer, the weaver. In
his anger Fischer will straightway do what he would not have done but
for this accident. He was present when she stood over her child’s body
and uttered those blasphemies.”
“What will he do?”
“He is doing it now--betraying her. In three days she will go to the
stake.”
We could not speak; we were frozen with horror, for if we had not
meddled with her career she would have been spared this awful fate.
Satan noticed these thoughts, and said:
“What you are thinking is strictly human-like--that is to say, foolish.
The woman is advantaged. Die when she might, she would go to heaven. By
this prompt death she gets twenty-nine years more of heaven than she is
entitled to, and escapes twenty-nine years of misery here.”
A moment before we were bitterly making up our minds that we would
ask no more favors of Satan for friends of ours, for he did not seem
to know any way to do a person a kindness but by killing him; but the
whole aspect of the case was changed now, and we were glad of what we
had done and full of happiness in the thought of it.
After a little I began to feel troubled about Fischer, and asked,
timidly, “Does this episode change Fischer’s life-scheme, Satan?”
“Change it? Why, certainly. And radically. If he had not met Frau
Brandt awhile ago he would die next year, thirty-four years of age.
Now he will live to be ninety, and have a pretty prosperous and
comfortable life of it, as human lives go.”
We felt a great joy and pride in what we had done for Fischer, and were
expecting Satan to sympathize with this feeling; but he showed no sign,
and this made us uneasy. We waited for him to speak, but he didn’t; so,
to assuage our solicitude we had to ask him if there was any defect in
Fischer’s good luck. Satan considered the question a moment, then said,
with some hesitation:
“Well, the fact is, it is a delicate point. Under his several former
possible life-careers he was going to heaven.”
We were aghast. “Oh, Satan! and under this one--”
“There, don’t be so distressed. You were sincerely trying to do him a
kindness; let that comfort you.”
“Oh, dear, dear, that cannot comfort us. You ought to have told us what
we were doing, then we wouldn’t have acted so.”
But it made no impression on him. He had never felt a pain or a sorrow,
and did not know what they were, in any really informing way. He had no
knowledge of them except theoretically--that is to say, intellectually.
And of course that is no good. One can never get any but a loose and
ignorant notion of such things except by experience. We tried our best
to make him comprehend the awful thing that had been done and how we
were compromised by it, but he couldn’t seem to get hold of it. He said
he did not think it important where Fischer went to; in heaven he
would not be missed, there were “plenty there.” We tried to make him
see that he was missing the point entirely; that Fischer, and not other
people, was the proper one to decide about the importance of it; but it
all went for nothing; he said he did not care for Fischer--there were
plenty more Fischers.
The next minute Fischer went by on the other side of the way, and it
made us sick and faint to see him, remembering the doom that was upon
him, and we the cause of it. And how unconscious he was that anything
had happened to him! You could see by his elastic step and his alert
manner that he was well satisfied with himself for doing that hard
turn for poor Frau Brandt. He kept glancing back over his shoulder
expectantly. And, sure enough, pretty soon Frau Brandt followed after,
in charge of the officers and wearing jingling chains. A mob was in her
wake, jeering and shouting, “Blasphemer and heretic!” and some among
them were neighbors and friends of her happier days. Some were trying
to strike her, and the officers were not taking as much trouble as they
might to keep them from it.
“Oh, stop them, Satan!” It was out before we remembered that he
could not interrupt them for a moment without changing their whole
after-lives. He puffed a little puff toward them with his lips and they
began to reel and stagger and grab at the empty air; then they broke
apart and fled in every direction, shrieking, as if in intolerable
pain. He had crushed a rib of each of them with that little puff. We
could not help asking if their life-chart was changed.
“Yes, entirely. Some have gained years, some have lost them. Some few
will profit in various ways by the change, but only that few.”
We did not ask if we had brought poor Fischer’s luck to any of them.
We did not wish to know. We fully believed in Satan’s desire to do
us kindnesses, but we were losing confidence in his judgment. It
was at this time that our growing anxiety to have him look over our
life-charts and suggest improvements began to fade out and give place
to other interests.
For a day or two the whole village was a chattering turmoil over Frau
Brandt’s case and over the mysterious calamity that had overtaken the
mob, and at her trial the place was crowded. She was easily convicted
of her blasphemies, for she uttered those terrible words again and said
she would not take them back. When warned that she was imperiling her
life, she said they could take it in welcome, she did not want it, she
would rather live with the professional devils in perdition than with
these imitators in the village. They accused her of breaking all those
ribs by witchcraft, and asked her if she was not a witch? She answered
scornfully:
“No. If I had that power would any of you holy hypocrites be alive five
minutes? No; I would strike you all dead. Pronounce your sentence and
let me go; I am tired of your society.”
So they found her guilty, and she was excommunicated and cut off
from the joys of heaven and doomed to the fires of hell; then she
was clothed in a coarse robe and delivered to the secular arm, and
conducted to the market-place, the bell solemnly tolling the while. We
saw her chained to the stake, and saw the first thin film of blue smoke
rise on the still air. Then her hard face softened, and she looked upon
the packed crowd in front of her and said, with gentleness:
“We played together once, in long-agone days when we were innocent
little creatures. For the sake of that, I forgive you.”
We went away then, and did not see the fires consume her, but we heard
the shrieks, although we put our fingers in our ears. When they ceased
we knew she was in heaven, notwithstanding the excommunication; and we
were glad of her death and not sorry that we had brought it about.
One day, a little while after this, Satan appeared again. We were
always watching out for him, for life was never very stagnant when he
was by. He came upon us at that place in the woods where we had first
met him. Being boys, we wanted to be entertained; we asked him to do a
show for us.
“Very well,” he said; “would you like to see a history of the progress
of the human race?--its development of that product which it calls
civilization?”
We said we should.
So, with a thought, he turned the place into the Garden of Eden, and
we saw Abel praying by his altar; then Cain came walking toward him
with his club, and did not seem to see us, and would have stepped on my
foot if I had not drawn it in. He spoke to his brother in a language
which we did not understand; then he grew violent and threatening, and
we knew what was going to happen, and turned away our heads for the
moment; but we heard the crash of the blows and heard the shrieks and
the groans; then there was silence, and we saw Abel lying in his blood
and gasping out his life, and Cain standing over him and looking down
at him, vengeful and unrepentant.
Then the vision vanished, and was followed by a long series of unknown
wars, murders, and massacres. Next we had the Flood, and the Ark
tossing around in the stormy waters, with lofty mountains in the
distance showing veiled and dim through the rain. Satan said:
“The progress of your race was not satisfactory. It is to have another
chance now.”
The scene changed, and we saw Noah overcome with wine.
Next, we had Sodom and Gomorrah, and “the attempt to discover two or
three respectable persons there,” as Satan described it. Next, Lot and
his daughters in the cave.
Next came the Hebraic wars, and we saw the victims massacre the
survivors and their cattle, and save the young girls alive and
distribute them around.
Next we had Jael; and saw her slip into the tent and drive the nail
into the temple of her sleeping guest; and we were so close that when
the blood gushed out it trickled in a little, red stream to our feet,
and we could have stained our hands in it if we had wanted to.
Next we had Egyptian wars, Greek wars, Roman wars, hideous drenchings
of the earth with blood; and we saw the treacheries of the Romans
toward the Carthaginians, and the sickening spectacle of the massacre
of those brave people. Also we saw Cæsar invade Britain--“not that
those barbarians had done him any harm, but because he wanted their
land, and desired to confer the blessings of civilization upon their
widows and orphans,” as Satan explained.
Next, Christianity was born. Then ages of Europe passed in review
before us, and we saw Christianity and Civilization march hand in hand
through those ages, “leaving famine and death and desolation in their
wake, and other signs of the progress of the human race,” as Satan
observed.
And always we had wars, and more wars, and still other wars--all over
Europe, all over the world. “Sometimes in the private interest of royal
families,” Satan said, “sometimes to crush a weak nation; but never a
war started by the aggressor for any clean purpose--there is no such
war in the history of the race.”
“Now,” said Satan, “you have seen your progress down to the present,
and you must confess that it is wonderful--in its way. We must now
exhibit the future.”
He showed us slaughters more terrible in their destruction of life,
more devastating in their engines of war, than any we had seen.
“You perceive,” he said, “that you have made continual progress. Cain
did his murder with a club; the Hebrews did their murders with javelins
and swords; the Greeks and Romans added protective armor and the fine
arts of military organization and generalship; the Christian has added
guns and gunpowder; a few centuries from now he will have so greatly
improved the deadly effectiveness of his weapons of slaughter that all
men will confess that without Christian civilization war must have
remained a poor and trifling thing to the end of time.”
Then he began to laugh in the most unfeeling way, and make fun of the
human race, although he knew that what he had been saying shamed us and
wounded us. No one but an angel could have acted so; but suffering is
nothing to them; they do not know what it is, except by hearsay.
More than once Seppi and I had tried in a humble and diffident way to
convert him, and as he had remained silent we had taken his silence
as a sort of encouragement; necessarily, then, this talk of his was a
disappointment to us, for it showed that we had made no deep impression
upon him. The thought made us sad, and we knew then how the missionary
must feel when he has been cherishing a glad hope and has seen it
blighted. We kept our grief to ourselves, knowing that this was not the
time to continue our work.
Satan laughed his unkind laugh to a finish; then he said: “It is a
remarkable progress. In five or six thousand years five or six high
civilizations have risen, flourished, commanded the wonder of the
world, then faded out and disappeared; and not one of them except the
latest ever invented any sweeping and adequate way to kill people.
They all did their best--to kill being the chiefest ambition of the
human race and the earliest incident in its history--but only the
Christian civilization has scored a triumph to be proud of. Two or
three centuries from now it will be recognized that all the competent
killers are Christians; then the pagan world will go to school to the
Christian--not to acquire his religion, but his guns. The Turk and the
Chinaman will buy those to kill missionaries and converts with.”
By this time his theater was at work again, and before our eyes nation
after nation drifted by, during two or three centuries, a mighty
procession, an endless procession, raging, struggling, wallowing
through seas of blood, smothered in battle-smoke through which the
flags glinted and the red jets from the cannon darted; and always we
heard the thunder of the guns and the cries of the dying.
“And what does it amount to?” said Satan, with his evil chuckle.
“Nothing at all. You gain nothing; you always come out where you went
in. For a million years the race has gone on monotonously propagating
itself and monotonously reperforming this dull nonsense--to what end?
No wisdom can guess! Who gets a profit out of it? Nobody but a parcel
of usurping little monarchs and nobilities who despise you; would feel
defiled if you touched them; would shut the door in your face if you
proposed to call; whom you slave for, fight for, die for, and are not
ashamed of it, but proud; whose existence is a perpetual insult to you
and you are afraid to resent it; who are mendicants supported by your
alms, yet assume toward you the airs of benefactor toward beggar; who
address you in the language of master to slave, and are answered in
the language of slave to master; who are worshiped by you with your
mouth, while in your heart--if you have one--you despise yourselves
for it. The first man was a hypocrite and a coward, qualities which
have not yet failed in his line; it is the foundation upon which all
civilizations have been built. Drink to their perpetuation! Drink to
their augmentation! Drink to--” Then he saw by our faces how much we
were hurt, and he cut his sentence short and stopped chuckling, and
his manner changed. He said, gently: “No, we will drink one another’s
health, and let civilization go. The wine which has flown to our hands
out of space by desire is earthly, and good enough for that other
toast; but throw away the glasses; we will drink this one in wine which
has not visited this world before.”
We obeyed, and reached up and received the new cups as they descended.
They were shapely and beautiful goblets, but they were not made of any
material that we were acquainted with. They seemed to be in motion,
they seemed to be alive; and certainly the colors in them were in
motion. They were very brilliant and sparkling, and of every tint, and
they were never still, but flowed to and fro in rich tides which met
and broke and flashed out dainty explosions of enchanting color. I
think it was most like opals washing about in waves and flashing out
their splendid fires. But there is nothing to compare the wine with.
We drank it, and felt a strange and witching ecstasy as of heaven go
stealing through us, and Seppi’s eyes filled and he said, worshipingly:
“We shall be there some day, and then--”
He glanced furtively at Satan, and I think he hoped Satan would say,
“Yes, you will be there some day,” but Satan seemed to be thinking
about something else, and said nothing. This made me feel ghastly,
for I knew he had heard; nothing, spoken or unspoken, ever escaped
him. Poor Seppi looked distressed, and did not finish his remark. The
goblets rose and clove their way into the sky, a triplet of radiant
sundogs, and disappeared. Why didn’t they stay? It seemed a bad sign,
and depressed me. Should I ever see mine again? Would Seppi ever see
his?
CHAPTER IX
It was wonderful, the mastery Satan had over time and distance. For
him they did not exist. He called them human inventions, and said they
were artificialities. We often went to the most distant parts of the
globe with him, and stayed weeks and months, and yet were gone only
a fraction of a second, as a rule. You could prove it by the clock.
One day when our people were in such awful distress because the witch
commission were afraid to proceed against the astrologer and Father
Peter’s household, or against any, indeed, but the poor and the
friendless, they lost patience and took to witch-hunting on their own
score, and began to chase a born lady who was known to have the habit
of curing people by devilish arts, such as bathing them, washing them,
and nourishing them instead of bleeding them and purging them through
the ministrations of a barber-surgeon in the proper way. She came
flying down, with the howling and cursing mob after her, and tried to
take refuge in houses, but the doors were shut in her face. They chased
her more than half an hour, we following to see it, and at last she
was exhausted and fell, and they caught her. They dragged her to a
tree and threw a rope over the limb, and began to make a noose in it,
some holding her, meantime, and she crying and begging, and her young
daughter looking on and weeping, but afraid to say or do anything.
They hanged the lady, and I threw a stone at her, although in my heart
I was sorry for her; but all were throwing stones and each was watching
his neighbor, and if I had not done as the others did it would have
been noticed and spoken of. Satan burst out laughing.
All that were near by turned upon him, astonished and not pleased.
It was an ill time to laugh, for his free and scoffing ways and his
supernatural music had brought him under suspicion all over the town
and turned many privately against him. The big blacksmith called
attention to him now, raising his voice so that all should hear, and
said:
“What are you laughing at? Answer! Moreover, please explain to the
company why you threw no stone.”
“Are you sure I did not throw a stone?”
“Yes. You needn’t try to get out of it; I had my eye on you.”
“And I--I noticed you!” shouted two others.
“Three witnesses,” said Satan: “Mueller, the blacksmith; Klein, the
butcher’s man; Pfeiffer, the weaver’s journeyman. Three very ordinary
liars. Are there any more?”
“Never mind whether there are others or not, and never mind about what
you consider us--three’s enough to settle your matter for you. You’ll
prove that you threw a stone, or it shall go hard with you.”
“That’s so!” shouted the crowd, and surged up as closely as they could
to the center of interest.
“And first you will answer that other question,” cried the blacksmith,
pleased with himself for being mouthpiece to the public and hero of the
occasion. “What are you laughing at?”
Satan smiled and answered, pleasantly: “To see three cowards stoning a
dying lady when they were so near death themselves.”
You could see the superstitious crowd shrink and catch their breath,
under the sudden shock. The blacksmith, with a show of bravado, said:
“Pooh! What do you know about it?”
“I? Everything. By profession I am a fortune-teller, and I read the
hands of you three--and some others--when you lifted them to stone the
woman. One of you will die to-morrow week; another of you will die
to-night; the third has but five minutes to live--and yonder is the
clock!”
It made a sensation. The faces of the crowd blanched, and turned
mechanically toward the clock. The butcher and the weaver seemed
smitten with an illness, but the blacksmith braced up and said, with
spirit:
“It is not long to wait for prediction number one. If it fails, young
master, you will not live a whole minute after, I promise you that.”
No one said anything; all watched the clock in a deep stillness which
was impressive. When four and a half minutes were gone the blacksmith
gave a sudden gasp and clapped his hand upon his heart, saying, “Give
me breath! Give me room!” and began to sink down. The crowd surged
back, no one offering to support him, and he fell lumbering to the
ground and was dead. The people stared at him, then at Satan, then at
one another; and their lips moved, but no words came. Then Satan said:
“Three saw that I threw no stone. Perhaps there are others; let them
speak.”
It struck a kind of panic into them, and, although no one answered
him, many began to violently accuse one another, saying, “You said he
didn’t throw,” and getting for reply, “It is a lie, and I will make you
eat it!” And so in a moment they were in a raging and noisy turmoil,
and beating and banging one another; and in the midst was the only
indifferent one--the dead lady hanging from her rope, her troubles
forgotten, her spirit at peace.
So we walked away, and I was not at ease, but was saying to myself, “He
told them he was laughing at them, but it was a lie--he was laughing at
me.”
That made him laugh again, and he said, “Yes, I was laughing at you,
because, in fear of what others might report about you, you stoned the
woman when your heart revolted at the act--but I was laughing at the
others, too.”
“Why?”
“Because their case was yours.”
“How is that?”
“Well, there were sixty-eight people there, and sixty-two of them had
no more desire to throw a stone than you had.”
“Satan!”
“Oh, it’s true. I know your race. It is made up of sheep. It is
governed by minorities, seldom or never by majorities. It suppresses
its feelings and its beliefs and follows the handful that makes the
most noise. Sometimes the noisy handful is right, sometimes wrong;
but no matter, the crowd follows it. The vast majority of the race,
whether savage or civilized, are secretly kind-hearted and shrink
from inflicting pain, but in the presence of the aggressive and
pitiless minority they don’t dare to assert themselves. Think of it!
One kind-hearted creature spies upon another, and sees to it that
he loyally helps in iniquities which revolt both of them. Speaking
as an expert, I know that ninety-nine out of a hundred of your race
were strongly against the killing of witches when that foolishness
was first agitated by a handful of pious lunatics in the long ago.
And I know that even to-day, after ages of transmitted prejudice and
silly teaching, only one person in twenty puts any real heart into the
harrying of a witch. And yet apparently everybody hates witches and
wants them killed. Some day a handful will rise up on the other side
and make the most noise--perhaps even a single daring man with a big
voice and a determined front will do it--and in a week all the sheep
will wheel and follow him, and witch-hunting will come to a sudden end.
“Monarchies, aristocracies, and religions are all based upon that large
defect in your race--the individual’s distrust of his neighbor, and his
desire, for safety’s or comfort’s sake, to stand well in his neighbor’s
eye. These institutions will always remain, and always flourish, and
always oppress you, affront you, and degrade you, because you will
always be and remain slaves of minorities. There was never a country
where the majority of the people were in their secret hearts loyal to
any of these institutions.”
I did not like to hear our race called sheep, and said I did not think
they were.
“Still, it is true, lamb,” said Satan. “Look at you in war--what mutton
you are, and how ridiculous!”
“In war? How?”
“There has never been a just one, never an honorable one--on the part
of the instigator of the war. I can see a million years ahead, and
this rule will never change in so many as half a dozen instances. The
loud little handful--as usual--will shout for the war. The pulpit
will--warily and cautiously--object--at first; the great, big, dull
bulk of the nation will rub its sleepy eyes and try to make out why
there should be a war, and will say, earnestly and indignantly, “It is
unjust and dishonorable, and there is no necessity for it.” Then the
handful will shout louder. A few fair men on the other side will argue
and reason against the war with speech and pen, and at first will have
a hearing and be applauded; but it will not last long; those others
will outshout them, and presently the anti-war audiences will thin
out and lose popularity. Before long you will see this curious thing:
the speakers stoned from the platform, and free speech strangled by
hordes of furious men who in their secret hearts are still at one with
those stoned speakers--as earlier--but do not dare to say so. And now
the whole nation--pulpit and all--will take up the war-cry, and shout
itself hoarse, and mob any honest man who ventures to open his mouth;
and presently such mouths will cease to open. Next the statesmen will
invent cheap lies, putting the blame upon the nation that is attacked,
and every man will be glad of those conscience-soothing falsities, and
will diligently study them, and refuse to examine any refutations of
them; and thus he will by and by convince himself that the war is just,
and will thank God for the better sleep he enjoys after this process of
grotesque self-deception.”
CHAPTER X
Days and days went by now, and no Satan. It was dull without him. But
the astrologer, who had returned from his excursion to the moon, went
about the village, braving public opinion, and getting a stone in
the middle of his back now and then when some witch-hater got a safe
chance to throw it and dodge out of sight. Meantime two influences had
been working well for Marget. That Satan, who was quite indifferent
to her, had stopped going to her house after a visit or two had hurt
her pride, and she had set herself the task of banishing him from her
heart. Reports of Wilhelm Meidling’s dissipation brought to her from
time to time by old Ursula had touched her with remorse, jealousy of
Satan being the cause of it; and so now, these two matters working upon
her together, she was getting a good profit out of the combination--her
interest in Satan was steadily cooling, her interest in Wilhelm as
steadily warming. All that was needed to complete her conversion
was that Wilhelm should brace up and do something that should cause
favorable talk and incline the public toward him again.
The opportunity came now. Marget sent and asked him to defend her
uncle in the approaching trial, and he was greatly pleased, and
stopped drinking and began his preparations with diligence. With more
diligence than hope, in fact, for it was not a promising case. He had
many interviews in his office with Seppi and me, and threshed out our
testimony pretty thoroughly, thinking to find some valuable grains
among the chaff, but the harvest was poor, of course.
If Satan would only come! That was my constant thought. He could
invent some way to win the case; for he had said it would be won, so
he necessarily knew how it could be done. But the days dragged on, and
still he did not come. Of course I did not doubt that it would win,
and that Father Peter would be happy for the rest of his life, since
Satan had said so; yet I knew I should be much more comfortable if he
would come and tell us how to manage it. It was getting high time for
Father Peter to have a saving change toward happiness, for by general
report he was worn out with his imprisonment and the ignominy that was
burdening him, and was like to die of his miseries unless he got relief
soon.
At last the trial came on, and the people gathered from all around to
witness it; among them many strangers from considerable distances. Yes,
everybody was there except the accused. He was too feeble in body for
the strain. But Marget was present, and keeping up her hope and her
spirit the best she could. The money was present, too. It was emptied
on the table, and was handled and caressed and examined by such as were
privileged.
The astrologer was put in the witness-box. He had on his best hat and
robe for the occasion.
 Question.  You claim that this money is yours?
 Answer.  I do.
 Q.  How did you come by it?
 A.  I found the bag in the road when I was returning from a journey.
 Q.  When?
 A.  More than two years ago.
 Q.  What did you do with it?
 A.  I brought it home and hid it in a secret place in my observatory,
intending to find the owner if I could.
 Q.  You endeavored to find him?
 A.  I made diligent inquiry during several months, but nothing came of
it.
 Q.  And then?
 A.  I thought it not worth while to look further, and was minded to
use the money in finishing the wing of the foundling-asylum connected
with the priory and nunnery. So I took it out of its hiding-place and
counted it to see if any of it was missing. And then--
 Q.  Why do you stop? Proceed.
 A.  I am sorry to have to say this, but just as I had finished and
was restoring the bag to its place, I looked up and there stood Father
Peter behind me.
Several murmured, “That looks bad,” but others answered, “Ah, but he is
such a liar!”
 Q.  That made you uneasy?
 A.  No; I thought nothing of it at the time, for Father Peter often
came to me unannounced to ask for a little help in his need.
Marget blushed crimson at hearing her uncle falsely and impudently
charged with begging, especially from one he had always denounced as a
fraud, and was going to speak, but remembered herself in time and held
her peace.
 Q.  Proceed.
 A.  In the end I was afraid to contribute the money to the
