Edward, he'll have trouble, for I know Mrs. Zamboni's 
emotional nature. She'll follow him about everywhere — " 
" Hal, that creature is insane ! " And Edward looked 
about him nervously, as if he thought the Slavish widow 
might appear suddenly in the hotel lobby to demonstrate 
her emotional nature. 
" No," replied Hal, " it's just one of those differences in 
national customs." And suddenly Hal's face gave way. 
He began to laugh ; he laughed, perhaps more loudly than 
good form permitted. 
Edward was much annoyed. There were people in the 
lobby, and they were staring at him. " Cut it out, Hal ! " 
he exclaimed. " Your fool jokes bore me ! " But never- 
theless, Hal could see uncertainty in his brother's face. 
Edward recognised those widow's weeds. And how could 
he be sure about the " national customs " of that grotesque 
creature who had pinched him in the ribs on the street ? 
" Cut it out ! " he cried again. 
Hal, changing his voice suddenly to the Zamboni key, 
 
exclaimed : " Mister, I got eight children I got to feed, 
and I don't got no more man, and I don't find no new man 
for old woman like me ! " 
So at last the truth in its full enormity began to dawn 
upon Edward. His consternation and disgust poured 
themselves out; and Hal listened, his laughter dying. 
" Edward," he said, " you don't take me seriously even 
yet!" 
" Good God ! " cried the other. " I believe you're really 
insane ! " 
" You were up there, Edward ! You heard what I said 
to those poor devils ! And you actually thought I'd go ofi 
with you and forget about them ! " 
Edward ignored this. " You're really insane! " he re- 
peated. " You'll get yourself killed, in spite of all I can 
do!" 
But Hal only laughed. "Not a chance of it! You 
should have seen the tea-party manners of the camp- 
marshal ! " 
 Edward would have endeavoured to carry his 
brother away forthwith, but there was no train until late 
at night ; so Hal went upstairs, where he found Moylan and 
Hartman with Mary Burke and Mrs. Zamboni, all eager 
to hear his story. As the members of the committee, 
who had been out to supper, came straggling in, the story 
was told again, and yet again. They were almost as much 
delighted as the men in Keminitsky's. If only all strikes 
that had to be called off could be called off as neatly as 
that! 
Between these outbursts of satisfaction, they discussed 
their future. Moylan was going back to Western City, 
Hartman to his office in Sheridan, from which he would 
arrange to send new organisers into North Valley. No 
doubt Cartwright would turn off many men — those who 
 
had made themselves conspicuous during the strike, those 
who continued to talk union out loud. But such men 
would have to be replaced, and the union knew through 
what agencies the company got its hands. The North 
Valley miners would find themselves mysteriously provided 
with union literature in their various languages ; it would 
be slipped under their pillows, or into their dinner-pails, or 
the pockets of their coats while they were at work. 
Also there was propaganda to be carried on among those 
who were turned away ; so that, wherever they went, they 
would take the message of unionism. There had been a 
sympathetic outburst in Barela, Hal learned — starting 
quite spontaneously that morning, when the men heard 
what had happened at North Valley. A score of workers 
had been fired, and more would probably follow in the 
morning. Here was a job for the members of the kid- 
napped committee ; Tim Kafferty, for example — would he 
care to stay in Pedro for a week or two, to meet such men, 
and give them literature and arguments ? 
This offer was welcome; for life looked desolate to 
the Irish boy at this moment. He was out of a job, his 
father was a wreck, his family destitute and helpless. 
They would have to leave their home, of course; there 
would be no place for any Kafferty in North Valley. 
Where they would go, God only knew ; Tim would become 
a wanderer, living away from his people, starving himself 
and sending home his pitiful savings. 
Hal was watching the boy, and reading these thoughts. 
He, Hal Warner, would play the god out of a machine in 
this case, and in several others equally pitiful. He had 
the right to sign his father's name to checks, a privilege 
which he believed he could retain, even while under- 
taking the role of Haroun al Kaschid in a mine-disaster. 
But what about the mine-disasters and abortive strikes 
where there did not happen to be any Haroun al Kaschid 
at hand ? What about those people, right in North Valley, 
 
who did not happen to have told Hal of their affairs ? He 
perceived that it was only by turning his back and running 
that he would escape from his adventure with any portion 
of his self-possession. Truly, this fair-seeming and won- 
derful civilisation was like the floor of a charnel-house or a 
field of battle ; anywhere one drove a spade beneath its sur- 
face, he uncovered horrors, sights for the eyes and stenches 
for the nostrils that caused him to turn sick ! 
There was Rusick, for example ; he had a wife and two 
children, and not a dollar in the world. In the year and 
more that he had worked, faithfully and persistently, to get 
out coal for Peter Harrigan, he had never once been able 
to get ahead of his bill for the necessities of life at Old 
Peter's store. All his belongings in the world could be 
carried in a bundle on his back, and whether he ever saw 
these again would depend upon the whim of old Peter's 
camp-marshal and guards. Rusick would take to the road, 
with a ticket purchased by the union. Perhaps he would 
find a job and perhaps not ; in any case, the best he could 
hope for in life was to work for some other Harrigan, and 
run into debt at some other company-store. 
There was Hobianish, a Serbian, and Hernandez, a 
Mexican, of whom the same things were true, except that 
one had four children and the other six. Bill Wauchope 
had only a wife — their babies had died, thank heaven, he 
said. He did not seem to have been much moved by Jim 
Moylan's pleadings ; he was down and out ; he would take 
to the road, and beat his way to the East and back to 
England. They called this a free country! By God, if 
he were to tell what had happened to him, he could not get 
an English miner to believe it ! 
Hal gave these men his real name and address, and made 
them promise to let him know how they got along. He 
would help a little, he said ; in his mind he was figuring 
how much he ought to do. How far shall a man go in re- 
lieving the starvation about him, before he can enjoy his 
 
meals in a well-appointed club? What casuist will work 
out this problem — telling him the percentage he shall re- 
lieve of the starvation he happens personally to know about, 
the percentage of that which he sees on the streets, the per- 
centage of that about which he reads in government reports 
on the rise in the cost of living. To what extent is he per- 
mitted to close his eyes, as he walks along the streets on 
his way to the club ? To what extent is he permitted to 
avoid reading government reports before going out to 
dinner-dances with his fiancee? Problems such as these 
the masters of the higher mathematics have neglected to 
solve ; the wise men of the academies and the holy men of 
the churches have likewise failed to work out the formulas ; 
and Hal, trying to obtain them by his crude mental arith- 
metic, found no satisfaction in the results. 
 Hal wanted a chance to talk to Mary Burke ; they 
had had no intimate talk since the meeting with Jessie 
Arthur, and now he was going away, for a long time. He 
wanted to find out what plans Mary had for the future, and 
— more important yet — what was her state of mind. If 
he had been able to lift this girl from despair, his summer 
course in practical sociology had not been all a failure ! 
He asked her to go with him to say good-bye to John 
Edstrom, whom he had not seen since their unceremonious 
parting at MacKellar's, when Hal had fled to Percy Harri- 
gan's train. Downstairs in the lobby Hal explained his 
errand to his waiting brother, who made no comment, but 
merely remarked that he would follow, if Hal had no ob- 
jection. He did not care to make the acquaintance of the 
Hibernian Joan of Arc, and would not come close enough 
to interfere with Hal's conversation with the lady ; but he 
wished to do what he could for his brother's protection. 
So there set out a moon-light procession — first Hal and 
 
Mary, then Edward, and then Edward's dinner-table com- 
panion, the " hardware-drummer ! " 
Hal was embarrassed in beginning his farewell talk with 
Mary. He had no idea how she felt towards him, and he 
admitted with a guilty pang that he was a little afraid to 
find out ! He thought it best to be cheerful, so he started 
to tell her how fine he thought her conduct during the 
strike. But she did not respond to his remarks, and at 
last he realised that she was labouring with some thoughts 
of her own. 
" There's somethin' I got to say to ye ! " she began, sud- 
denly. " A couple of days ago I knew how I meant to say 
it, but now I don't." 
" Well ' he laughed, " say it as you meant to." 
" No ; 'twas bitter — and now I'm on my knees before 
ye." 
" Not that I want you to be bitter," said Hal, still laugh- 
ing, " but it's I that ought to be on my knees before you. 
I didn't accomplish anything, you know." 
" Ye did all ye could — and more than the rest of us. 
I want ye to know I'll never forget it. But I want ye to 
hear the other thing, too ! " 
She walked on, staring before her, doubling up her hands 
in agitation. "Well?" said he, still trying to keep a 
cheerful tone. 
" Ye remember that day just after the explosion ? Ye 
remember what I said about — about goin' away with 
ye? I take it back." 
" Oh, of course ! " said he, quickly. " You were dis- 
tracted, Mary — you didn't know what you were saying." 
" No, no f That's not it ! But I've changed my mind ; 
I don't mean to throw meself away." 
" I told you you'd see it that way," he said. " No man 
is worth it." 
" Ah, lad ! " said she. " 'Tis the fine soothin' tongue ye 
 
have — but I'd rather ye knew the truth. 'Tis that I've 
seen the other girl ; and I hate her ! " 
They walked for a bit in silence. Hal had sense 
enough to realise that here was a difficult subject. " I 
don't want to be a prig, Mary," he said gently; " but you'll 
change your mind about that, too. You'll not hate her; 
you'll be sorry for her." 
She laughed — a raw, harsh laugh. " What kind of a 
joke is that ? " 
" I know — it may seem like one. But it'll come to you 
some day. You have a wonderful thing to live and fight 
for ; while she " — he hesitated a moment, for he was not 
sure of his own ideas on this subject — " she has so many 
things to learn; and she may never learn them. She'll 
miss some fine things." 
" I know one of the fine things she does not mean to 
miss," said Mary, grimly; "that's Mr. Hal Warner." 
Then, after they had walked again in silence : " I want ye 
to understand me, Mr. Warner — " 
" Ah, Mary ! " he pleaded. " Don't treat me that wsTy ! 
I'm Joe." 
" All right," she said, " Joe ye shall be. 'Twill remind 
ye of a pretty adventure — bein' a workin' man for a few 
weeks. Well, that's a part of what I have to tell ye. I've 
got my pride, even if I'm only a poor miner's (laughter ; 
and the other day I found out me place." 
" How do you mean ? " he asked. 
" Ye don't understand ? Honest ? " 
" No, honest," he said. 
" Ye're stupid with women, Joe. Ye didn't see what 
the girl did to me ! 'Twas some kind of a bug I was to her. 
She was not sure if I was the kind that bites, but she took 
no chances — she threw me off, like that." And Mary 
snapped her hand, as one does when troubled with a bug. 
" Ah, now ! " pleaded Hal. " You're not being fair ! " 
 
" I'm bein' just as fair as I've got it in me to be, Joe. 
I been off and had it all out. I can see this much — 'tis 
not her fault, maybe — 'tis her class ; 'tis all of ye — the 
very best of ye, even yeself , Joe Smith I " 
" Yes," he replied, " Tim Eafferty said that." 
" Tim said too much — but a part of it was true. Ye 
think ye've come here and been one of us workin' people. 
But don't your own sense tell you the difference, as if it 
was a canyon a million miles across — between a poor igno- 
rant creature in a minin' camp, and a rich man's daugh- 
ter, a lady? Ye'd tell me not to be ashamed of poverty; 
but would ye ever put me by the side of her — for all your 
fine feelin's of friendship for them that's beneath ye? 
Didn't ye show that at the Minettis' ? " 
"But don't you see, Mary — " He made an effort to 
laugh. " I got used to obeying Jessie I I knew her a long 
time before I knew you." 
" Ah, Joe ! Ye've a kind heart, and a pleasant way of 
speakin'. But wouldn't it interest ye to know the real 
truth ? Ye said ye'd come out here to learn the truth ! " 
And Hal answered, in a low voice, " Yes," and did not 
interrupt again. 
 Mary's voice had dropped low, and Hal thought 
how rich and warm it was when she was deeply moved. 
She went on: 
" I lived all me life in minin' camps, Joe Smith, and I 
seen men robbed and beaten, and women cryin' and childer 
hungry. I seen the company, like some great wicked beast 
that eat them up. But I never knew why, or what it 
meant — till that day, there at the Minettis'. I'd read 
about fine ladies in books, ye see ; but I'd never been spoke 
to by one, I'd never had to swallow one, as ye might say. 
But there I did — and all at once I seemed to know where 
the money goes that's wrung out of the miners. I saw why 
 
people were robbin' us, grindin' the life out of us — for 
fine ladies like that, to keep them so shinin' and soft! 
'Twould not have been so bad, if she'd not come just then, 
with all the men and boys dyin' down in the pits — dyin' 
for that soft, white skin, and those soft, white hands, and 
all those silky things she swished round in. My God, Joe 
— d'ye know what she seemed to me like ? Like a smooth, 
sleek cat that has just eat up a whole nest full of baby mice, 
and has the blood of them all over her cheeks ! " 
Mary paused, breathing hard. Hal kept silence, and 
she went on again : " I had it out with meself , Joe ! I 
don't want ye to think I'm any better than I am, and I 
asked meself this question — Is it for the men in the pits 
that ye hate her with such black murder ? Or is it for the 
one man ye want, and that she's got ? And I knew the an- 
swer to that ! But then I asked meself another question, 
too — Would ye be like her if ye could? Would ye do 
what she's doin' right now — would ye have it on your 
soul ? And as God hears me, Joe, 'tis the truth I speak — 
I'd not do it ! No, not for the love of any man that ever 
walked on this earth ! " 
She had lifted her clenched fist as she spoke. She let 
it fall again, and strode on, not even glancing at him. 
" Ye might try a thousand years, Joe, and ye'd not realise 
the feelin's that come to me there at the Minettis'. The 
shame of it — not what she done to me, but what she made 
me in me own eyes I Me, the daughter of a drunken old 
miner, and her — I don't know what her father is, but 
she's some sort of princess, and she knows it. And that's 
the thing that counts, Joe ! 'Tis not that she has so much 
money, and so many fine things; that she knows how to 
talk, and I don't, and that her voice is sweet, and mine is 
ugly, when I'm ragin' as I am now. No — 'tis that she's 
so sure! That's the word I found to say it ; she's sure — 
sure — sure! She has the fine things, she's always had 
them, she has a right to have them ! And I have a right 
 
to nothin' but trouble, I'm hunted all day by misery and 
fear, I've lost even the roof over me head I Joe, ye know 
I've got some temper — I'm not easy to beat down ; but 
when I'd got through bein' taught me place, I went off and 
hid meself , I ground me face in the dirt, for the black rage 
of it ! I said to meself, 'Tis true ! There's somethin' in 
her better than me! She's some kind of finer creature. 
— Look at these hands ! " She held them out in the 
moonlight, with a swift, passionate gesture. " So she's a 
right to her man, and I'm a fool to have ever raised me 
eyes to him ! I have to see him go away, and crawl back 
into me leaky old shack I Yes, that's the truth! And 
when I point it out to the man, what d'ye think he says ? 
Why, he tells me gently and kindly that I ought to be 
sorry for her ! Christ ! did ye ever hear the like of that ? " 
There was a long silence. Hal could not have said any- 
thing now, if he had wished to. He knew that this was 
what he had come to seek ! This was the naked soul of the 
class-war ! 
" Now," concluded Mary, with clenched hands, and a 
voice that corresponded, " now, I've had it out. I'm no 
slave; I've just as good a right to life as any lady. I 
know I'll never have it, of course; I'll never wear good 
clothes, nor live in a decent home, nor have the man I 
want ; but I'll know that I've done somethin' to help free 
the workin' people from the shame that's put on them. 
That's what the strike done for me, Joe! The strike 
showed me the way. We're beat this time, but somehow it 
hasn't made the difference ye might think. I'm goin' to 
make more strikes before I quit, and they won't all of them 
be beat ! " 
She stopped speaking; and Hal walked beside her, 
stirred by a conflict of emotions. His vision of her was 
indeed true ; she would make more strikes ! He was glad 
and proud of that ; but then came the thought that while 
 
she, a girl, was going on with the bitter war, he, a man, 
would be eating grilled beefsteaks at the club ! 
" Mary," he said, " I'm ashamed of myself — " 
" That's not it, Joe ! Ye've no call to be asEamed. 
Ye can't help it where ye were born — " 
" Perhaps not, Mary. But when a man knows he's 
never paid for any of the things he's enjoyed all his life, 
surely the least he can do is to be ashamed, I hope you'll 
try not to hate me as you do the others." 
" I never hated ye, Joe ! Not for one moment ! I tell 
ye fair and true, I love ye as much as ever. I can say it, 
because I'd not have ye now ; I've seen the other girl, and 
I know ye'd never be satisfied with me. I don't know if I 
ought to say it, but I'm thinkin' ye'll not be altogether satis- 
fied with her, either. Ye'll be unhappy either way — 
God help ye ! " 
The girl had read deeply into his soul in this last 
speech ; so deeply that Hal could not trust himself to an- 
swer. They were passing a street-lamp, and she looked 
at him, for the first time since they had started on their 
walk, and saw harassment in his face. A sudden tender- 
ness came into her voice. " Joe," she said ; " ye're lookin' 
bad. 'Tis good ye're goin' away from this place ! " 
He tried to smile, but the effort was feeble. 
" Joe," she went on, " ye asked me to be your friend. 
Well, I'll be that ! " And she held out the big, rough 
hand. 
He took it. " We'll not forget each other, Mary," he 
said. There was a catch in his voice. 
" Sure, lad ! " she exclaimed. " We'll make another 
strike some day, just like we did at North Valley I " 
Hal pressed the big hand ; but then suddenly, remember- 
ing his brother stalking solemnly in the rear, he relin- 
quished the clasp, and failed to say all the fine things he 
had in his mind. He called himself a rebel, but not 
enough to be sentimental before Edward ! 
 
 They came to the house where John Edstrom was 
staying. The labouring man's wife opened the door. In 
answer to Hal's question, she said, " The old gentleman's 
pretty bad." 
" What's the matter with him ? " 
" Didn't you know he was hurt ? " 
"No. How?" 
" They beat him up, sir. Broke his arm, and nearly 
broke his head." 
Hal and Mary exclaimed in chorus, "Who did it? 
When ? " 
" We don't know who did it. It was four nights ago." 
Hal realised it must have happened while he was 
escaping from MacKellar's. "Have you had a doctor 
for him ? " 
" Yes, sir ; but we can't do much, because my man is 
out of work, and I have the children and the boarders to 
look after." 
Hal and Mary ran upstairs. Their old friend lay in 
darkness, but he recognised their voices and greeted them 
with a feeble cry. The woman brought a lamp, and they 
saw him lying on his back, his head done up in bandages, 
and one arm bound in splints. He looked really desper- 
ately bad, his kindly old eyes deep-sunken and haggard, 
and his face — Hal remembered what Jeff Cotton had 
called him, " that dough-faced old preacher ! " 
They got the story of what had happened at the time of 
Hal's flight to Percy's train. Edstrom had shouted a 
warning to the fugitives, and set out to run after them; 
when one of the mine-guards, running past him, had 
fetched him a blow over the eye, knocking him down. He 
had struck his head upon the pavement, and lain there un- 
conscious for many hours. When finally some one had 
come upon him, and summoned a policeman, they had gone 
through his pockets, and found the address of this place 
where he was staying written on a scrap of paper. That 
 
was all there was to the story — except that Edstrom had 
refrained from sending to MacKellar for help, because he 
had felt sure they were all working to get the mine open, 
and he did not feel he had the right to put his troubles 
upon them. 
Hal listened to the old man's feeble statements, and 
there came back to him a surge of that fury which his 
North Valley experience had generated in him. It was 
foolish, perhaps ; for to knock down an old man who had 
been making trouble was a comparatively slight exercise of 
the functions of a mine-guard. But to Hal it seemed the 
most characteristic of all the outrages he had seen ; it was 
an expression of the company's utter blindness to all that 
was best in life. This old man, who was so gentle, so pa- 
tient, who had suffered so much, and not learned to hate, 
who had kept his faith so true! What did his faith 
mean to the thugs of the General Fuel Company ? What 
had his philosophy availed him, his saintliness, his hopes 
for mankind? They had fetched him one swipe as they 
passed him, and left him lying — alive or dead, it was all 
the same. 
Hal had got some satisfaction out of his little adventure 
in widowhood, and some out of Mary's self-victory; but 
here, listening to the old man's whispered story, his satis- 
faction died. He realised again the grim truth about his 
summer's experience — that the issue of it had been de- 
feat. Utter, unqualified defeat! He had caused the 
bosses a momentary chagrin; but it would not take them 
many hours to realise that he had really done them a 
service in calling off the strike for them. They would start 
the wheels of industry again, and the workers would be 
just where they had been before Joe Smith came to be 
stableman and buddy among them. What was all the talk 
about solidarity, about hope for the future ; what would it 
amount to in the long run, the daily rolling of the wheels of 
industry? The workers of North Valley would have ex- 
 
actly the right they had always had — the right to be slaves, 
and if they did not care for that, the right to be martyrs! 
Mary sat holding the old man's hand and whispering 
words of passionate sympathy, while Hal got up and paced 
the tiny attic, all ablaze with anger. He resolved sud- 
denly that he would not go back to Western City ; he would 
stay here, and get an honest lawyer to come, and set out to 
punish the men who were guilty of this outrage. He 
would test out the law to the limit ; if necessary, he would 
begin a political fight, to put an end to coal-company rule 
in this community. He would find some one to write up 
these conditions, he would raise the money and publish a 
paper to make them known! Before his surging wrath 
had spent itself, Hal Warner had actually come out as a 
candidate for governor, and was overturning the Republi- 
can machine — all because an unidentified coal-company 
detective had knocked a dough-faced old miner into the 
gutter and broken his arm ! 
 In the end, of course, Hal had to come down to 
practical matters. He sat by the bed and told the old man 
tactfully that his brother had come to see him and had 
given him some money. This brother had plenty of 
money, so Edstrom could be taken to the hospital ; or, if he 
preferred, Mary could stay near here and take care of 
him. They turned to the landlady, who had been stand- 
ing in the doorway; she had three boarders in her little 
home, it seemed, but if Mary could share a bed with the 
landlady's two children, they might make out. In spite 
of Hal's protest, Mary accepted this oiler; he saw what 
was in her mind — she would take some of his money, 
because of old Edstrom's need, but she would take just as 
little as she possibly could. 
John Edstrom of course knew nothing of events since his 
injury, so Hal told him the story briefly — though without 
 
mentioning the transformation which had taken place in 
the miner's buddy. He told about the part Mary had 
played in the strike ; trying to entertain the poor old man, 
he told how he had seen her mounted upon a snow-white 
horse, and wearing a robe of white, soft and lustrous, like 
Joan of Arc, or the leader of a suffrage parade. 
" Sure," said Mary, " he's forever callin' attention to 
this old dress ! " 
Hal looked; she was wearing the same blue calico. 
" There's something mysterious about that dress," said he. 
" It's one of those that you read about in fairy-stories, that 
forever patch themselves, and keep themselves new and 
starchy. A body only needs one dress like that ! " 
" Sure, lad," she answered. " There's no fairies in 
coal-camps — unless 'tis meself, that washes it at night, 
and dries it over the stove, and irons it next mornin'." 
She said this with unwavering cheerfulness; but even 
the old miner lying in pain on the cot could realise the 
tragedy of a young girl's having only one old dress in her 
love-hunting season. He looked at the young couple, and 
saw their evident interest in each other ; after the fashion 
of the old, he was disposed to help along the romance. 
" She may need some orange blossoms," he ventured, 
feebly. 
" Go along with ye ! " laughed Mary, still unwavering. 
" Sure," put in Hal, with hasty gallantry, " 'tis a blos- 
som she is herself! A rose in a mining-camp — and 
there's a dispute about her in the poetry-books. One tells 
you to leave her on her stalk, and another says to gather ye 
rosebuds while ye may, old time is still a-flying! " 
" Ye're mixm* me up," said Mary. " A while back I 
was ridin' on a white horse." 
" I remember," said Old Edstrom, " not so far back, yon 
were an ant, Mary." 
Her face became grave. To jest about her personal 
tragedy was one thing, to jest about the strike was an- 
 
other. " Yes, I remember. Ye said I'd stay in the 
line ! Ye were wiser than me, Mr. Edstrom." 
" That's one of the things that come with being old, 
Mary." He moved his gnarled old hand toward hers. 
" You're going on, now ? " he asked. " You're a unionist 
now, Mary $ " 
" I am that ! " she answered, promptly, her grey eyes 
shining. 
" There's a saying," said he — " once a striker, always 
a striker. Find a way to get some education for your- 
self, Mary, and when the big strike comes you'll be one of 
those the miners look to. I'll not be here, I know — the 
young people must take my place." 
" I'll do my part," she answered. Her voice was low; 
it was a kind of benediction the old man was giving her. 
The woman had gone downstairs to attend to her chil- 
dren ; she came back now to say that there was a gentleman 
at the door, who wanted to know when his brother was 
coming. Hal remembered suddenly — Edward had been 
pacing up and down all this while, with no company but a 
" hardware drummer ! " The younger brother's resolve to 
stay in Pedro had already begun to weaken somewhat, and 
now it weakened still further ; he realised that life is com- 
plex, that duties conflict ! He assured the old miner again 
of his ability to see that he did not suffer from want, and 
then he bade him farewell for a while. 
He started out, and Mary went as far as the head of the 
stairway with him. He took the girl's big, rough hand in 
his — this time with no one to see. " Mary," he said, " I 
want you to know that nothing will make me forget you; 
and nothing will make me forget the miners." 
" Ah, Joe ! " she cried. " Don't let them win ye away 
from us ! We need ye so bad ! " 
" I'm going back home for a while," he answered, " but 
you can be sure that no matter what happens in my life, 
I'm going to fight for the working people. When the big 
strike comes, as we know it's coming in this coal-country, 
I'll be here to do my share." 
" Sure lad," she said, looking him bravely in the eye, 
"and good-bye to ye, Joe Smith." Her eyes did not 
waver; but Hal noted a catch in her voice, and he found 
himself with an impulse to take her in his arms. It was 
very puzzling. He knew he loved Jessie Arthur; he re- 
membered the question Mary had once asked him — could 
he be in love with two girls at the same time ? It was not 
in accord with any moral code that had been impressed 
upon him, but apparently he could ! 
 He went out to the street, where hie brother was 
pacing up and down in a ferment. The " hardware 
drummer" had made another effort to start a conversa- 
tion, and had been told to go to hell — no less ! 
"Well, are you through now?" Edward demanded, 
taking out his irritation on Hal. 
" Yes," replied the other. " I suppose so." He real- 
ised that Edward would not be concerned about Edstrom's 
broken arm. 
" Then, for God's sake, get some clothes on and let's 
have some food." 
" All right," said Hal. But his answer was listless, 
and the other looked at him sharply. Even by the moon- 
light Edward could see the lines in the face of his younger 
brother, and the hollows around his eyes. For the first 
time he realised how deeply these experiences were cut- 
ting into the boy's soul. " You poor kid ! " he exclaimed, 
with sudden feeling. But Hal did not answer; he did 
not want sympathy, he did not want anything! 
Edward made a gesture of despair. " God knows, I 
don't know what to do for you ! " 
They started back to the hotel, and on the way Edward 
cast about in his mind for a harmless subject of conver- 
 
sation. He mentioned that he had foreseen the shutting 
up of the stores, and had purchased an outfit for his 
brother. There was no need to thank him, he added 
