cause she was unfair to make so terrible an appeal. And 
he heard himself saying over and over, as he held her 
tighter and felt her stragglings less : 
" Say it, then ! say it ! " 
But what did he want her to say? Some way, he knew, 
she must bind herself to him, so that he could go and 
make his fortune and feel safe about her while he was 
gone. And suddenly a sickness came over him. He hated 
himself. He seemed to himself more vile and brutal than 
he had felt the day he shot the oriole to try the gun 
Larry had lent him. And Ellen was talking now, in a 
high hysterical voice, and like him she was saying one 
thing over and over : 
" If you kiss me, I never'll forgive you as long as I 
live, never, never." The " never " was the word she kept 
repeating. He opened his arms and let her go so sud- 
denly that she staggered and then went on her knees on 
the violet bank where her bimch of flowers had fallen. 
And Hugh heard himself saying: 
" I don't want to kiss you," and, to his horrified 
shame, turned about and leaned against a tree and began 
to cry. 
That was the way Larry Greene, going across to the 
high road and turning aside when he heard the girls 
voice, saw him, and these were the words he heard him 
say. Larry stood there a minute and watched them out 
of his keen black eyes. He read the boy's misery very 
well, though he could not know that Hugh was really 
crying from a wild despairing sense that she ought to 
have understood. She could have made it all perfectly 
plain and pleasant between them if she had not been so 
stupid and so hatefuL Larry stood there a moment 
and then, when the girl came to her feet, wiping her 
face anyhow with her apron and now clinging to the vio- 
lets, he slipped away through the bushes because he knew 
it would stamp her with everlasting shame to know a 
man had seen her misery. Hugh had managed to rub off 
his own tears ; he turned upon her and spoke gruffly, with 
a large carelessness: 
"You needn't act like that. Anybody'd think — " 
there he paused. 
What anybody would think he did not know. Deep in 
his stricken heart was his consciousness of having sinned 
and spoiled the day, perhaps the world. If she would 
laugh out now, he thought, and act as if he'd been silly 
and that was all — this he thought as we wonder if we 
may not wake in the midst of some dire misery and find 
it only a dream — why, then he could laugh, too. But he 
knew also that Ellen was not that kind of girl and that 
because she was not, he wanted to bind her all the more, 
so that he might never lose her. It was as Important 
to make sure she was his as it would be to keep his own 
mother from wandering off in an erratic star course, to 
leave him desolate. But Ellen did not look at him. 
There they stood with the trampled violet bank between 
them, for a minute — two — three — and then she turned 
away. He called her name, and she did not answer, and 
he started after her, stricken, like a dog beaten and 
bent on forgiveness. And now she did turn on him, her 
face quivering and her voice also, when she spoke. 
 
"If you come one step after me," she told him, "I 
never'll speak to you again as long as I live." 
So he stayed, and she ran through the woods and up 
the lane and home; and when he no longer heard the 
crackling of twigs under her feet, he threw himself down 
on the ground and, with his face in the bruised violets, 
tasted grief. 
When Ellen came over the wall and into the yard her 
mother was at the back door, shading her eyes with her 
hand €Lnd looking for her. Ardelia was somewhat brighter 
to-day because she had been busy, laying away her hus- 
band's clothes, and, truly sad as the task was to her, she 
yet felt her blood moving more equably from the interest 
of it. 
" Where you been? " she said, as Ellen came up to her 
with lagging feet. Ellen felt suddenly tired and dreary ; 
the spring day had paled about her. But when Ardelia 
saw the bunch of violets in her hand she was satisfied. 
She felt benevolently that the child had known how to 
hearten herself after the last solemn days. " Well, ain't 
you got a color ! " she exclaimed admiringly. " You 
must ha' been rimnin'." 
" Mother," said Ellen, " what makes us have anything 
to do with the Neales, just because our land sets into 
theirs?" 
Ardelia stared. 
"Why," said she, "Mary Neale's a nice woman. I 
don't know what you've got against Mary Neale." 
"I haven't got anything," said Ellen. "But Mr. 
Neale wants to buy our place, and — mother, you won't 
sell our place, will you? " 
Ardelia was looking at her keenly. 
" Them Neale boys been plaguin' you? " she asked. 
 
" No," said Ellen, her cheeks burning redder. " I 
ain't afraid o' the Neale boys. Mother, you won't sell 
our place, will you? " 
" If they set out to plague you," said Mrs. Neale 
fiercely, " you give 'em as good as they send. What's put 
it into your head about sellin' the place? " 
" Mr. Neale asked father," said Ellen. " I heard him. 
You won't, mother, will you? " 
" well," said Ardelia, a rather shrewd look in her eyes, 
" I should have to find out what he's likely to give." 
Ardelia had her own ideas of what it was wise to do 
in the matter of money and business. She was an ab- 
sent-minded woman in relation to most of the affairs of 
life. Method and frugality did not seem important to 
her; but occasionally, like a vision of great adventure, 
would strike across her mind the idea of making a hoard 
of money suddenly. Perhaps she was the readier to be- 
lieve in her own resourcefulness because her husband had 
been so lax. She had had wild schemes, at various times, 
for suddenly lifting their squalid fortunes to a height of 
dizzying splendor. Perhaps her novel reading helped 
her paint life a brighter hue. Ellen, who partly imder- 
stood her, looked at her npw in a despairing apprehen- 
sion. Hugh was right, she reasoned, in seeing there was 
danger, though he had behaved like a catamount after- 
ward. 
" Mother — " she began. 
But Ardelia interrupted her with a bright cheerfulness 
born, Ellen knew, of this alluring vision of selling the 
house. 
" Come," said she, " we'll dig a few dandelions for din- 
ner. I'll get us some pans an' knives." 
They went about the yard on their knees, digging the 
dandelions, and occasionally Ellen gave a little sobbing 
 
sigh and Ardelia glanced at her. Ardelia had still a feel- 
ing that the Neale boys might have been plaguing her. 
It was a fine, soft turf with thick grass inhospitable to 
dandelions, and they dug a long time to get their mess. 
The sun, as he rode higher, warmed them consolingly. 
It was yet near enough the banished cold to make spring 
sunshine an imwonted bliss, and they felt its kindliness 
creeping through their veins and giving them, if not joy- 
ance, a measure of content. A little after eleven Thomas 
Neale drove by, home early from market. He did not 
look at them. He always drove sitting tall, and staring 
ahead. But Ardelia rose and stretched herself and looked 
after hinu Ellen glanced up at her and then came also 
to her feet. 
" Mother," she said, " you won't sell it, will you? " 
But Ardelia did not seem to hear. 
" You go down sullar," she said, " an' bring up a mite 
o' that pork Mary Neale sent in. She said not to men- 
tion it; so you be careful" 
That night Hugh was lounging about the orchard, ex- 
amining a tree trunk here and there. You would have 
said he was hunting for insect pests, but really he was 
keeping an eye on the little house and wondering if Ellen 
would ever come into the yard and perhaps throw a neigh- 
borly word to him. She never had signaled him. She 
never would, he believed, but he was sick with the thought 
that she was justly "mad." Ben, coming up the lane, 
was calling to him, and Hugh sauntered that way because 
it would take him nearer the little house. 
" He wants you," said Ben, when he was near enough to 
speak with caution. 
"Larry?" 
" Yes. I been down there to borrow a fish-hook. He 
wants you to-night, same's he said." 
" All right. Byme-by." 
" Go ahead now. He —  " he," at this point, was 
Thomas Neale — " he was in the sitting-room when I went. 
Squire Greene's come over. It's sump'n' about land." 
Hugh also judged it might be safe to disappear while 
his father's mind was elsewhere. He took to the lane and, 
after a dallying walk, because he could not snatch his 
thoughts away from Ellen, brought up at the little dark 
house where Larry sat by the window, smoking. Hugh 
walked in and took his chair without a word. Sometimes 
their intercourse was as wordless as that of two Indians. 
But in a few minutes Larry took the pipe out of his mouth 
and spoke harshly what he had meant to offer plausibly. 
Hugh, what the devil do you mean, trying to throw 
a girl over your shoulder and carry her off, like a savage? 
You're not a cave man. I'm not either, or I should have 
hit you over the head with a club." 
Hugh sat still, hot with rage. For the moment he had 
no shame. Anger had swallowed it up. Chiefly he was 
conscious of the injustice of the world. It was impossible 
for him to untangle the threads that had made him fling 
his arms about Ellen, if that was what Larry meant by 
being a cave man. He was still obstinately conscious that 
he hadn't wanted to, and if she had said something she 
easily might have said, he would have been only too re- 
lieved to abandon the struggle — a dare, it seemed to be 
— and let her go. But this he was not ready to tell 
Larry, who was wandering on in a meditative way, not 
perhaps so kindly as usual, but as if he had made up his 
mind to say a certain thing. 
" Boys go through a lot," he was saying, " because they 
have to find out everything by themselves. I don't know 
why- I'm damned if I know why. But it seems to be so." 
There was something resentful, querulous, in his manner, 
as if he were tempted to save Hugh the path of misery that 
came by ignorance. But he evidently relinquished that 
and ended : " Anyhow, if you want to please a girl, don't 
knock her down before you tell her so." 
His voice grew suddenly hostile and Hugh thought he, 
too, was going to offer to break every bone in his body. 
And, out of the depths of the injustice where he floundered, 
Hugh spoke growlingly: 
" I don't want to please 'em." 
"That's right," said Larry. "Let 'em alone." He 
had knocked out his pipe as if he didn't mean to smoke 
again; but now he began filling it, pushing down the 
tobacco in the bowl with an angry haste. " You know," 
 
he said as he lighted it, a word or two between puflPs, " it's 
too hard. Everything's too hard. We make all our 
mistakes before our mothers' milk is out of us. See here, 
Hugh, what do you know about me? " 
Hugh had cooled appreciably, and the sudden introspec- 
tive change in the man's attack brought his curiosity to 
the fore. Larry had never talked to him about anything 
but fiddles. 
"I don't know anything," he said, yet aware that he 
had been told a good many things, or had picked them up 
when elders were off their guard. 
"Don't lie," said Larry. "You've been told things. 
If you hadn't, what do you run away for, to come down 
here. You've been told I'm no good. Brother Abial's a 
respectable man. I'm not like Brother Abial. So I'm 
bad. Brother Abial settled down on the old place and 
married and makes more money every year, and I'm a kind 
of a hermit and live alone and keep a bottle in the cup- 
board. What do they say now, bad or crazy.?* Which 
is it?" 
" Both," said Hugh. 
"Both? That's worse than I thought. Well, which 
do you say? " 
" I don't say either," said Hugh miserably. It had been 
a hard day for him. " I meant, some folks say one thing, 
some another." 
" Let them say it," said Larry. He took out his pipe, 
and sat looking from the window, his white strong teeth 
set hard and his lips drawn slightly back from them. " I'll 
tell you what I am. I'm a New England Puritan, more 
righteous than any of 'em. I'm so righteous that I've 
gone to the devil altogether. I was so righteous I wouldn't 
tell my father a lie when he was dying and he wanted me 
to promise to give up Clara Morse — " 
 
" Why," broke in Hugh, " that's the squire's wife." 
" So my father left the place away from me, and Abial 
settled down there, and he married Clara. He knew 
f ather'd rather sink the old place in a frog pond than have 
a Morse reign over it. But he didn't care. And if I'd 
promised father and broken it, same as he did, I should 
have been living there with Clara Morse myself." 
He laughed, in a scornful way, and Hugh thought it 
seemed as if he did not consider it desirable after all to 
have married Clara Morse. 
" So what did I do? " inquired Larry. " I bought this 
house, and I settled down here to live like a pig and mad 
Brother Abial. That was because I was so righteous. 
Don't you see? An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a 
tooth. Brother Abial had got the old place away from 
me, and I came here to be a thorn in Brother Abial's 
side." 
Hugh could not speak. He felt a sort of terror. 
Larry, as he was now, he had never seen. 
"Whatever you do," said Larry, puffing away, in an 
unstinted absorption in his pipe, " don't quarrel with your 
brother." 
"Ben?" said Hugh, innocent that such a thing could 
be. " No. 'Course not." 
"There's nothing bitterer," said Larry. "Nothing. 
You can fight with a stranger and come off best man, and 
shake hands again. But if you fight with your brother, 
it poisons you through and through. I don't know what 
I sent for you for," he added. " I had some kind of idea 
you were growing up and I'd got to talk to you and save 
you from things. But that's all I can think of. Don't 
you quarrel with your brother, unless you want to get 
warped and twisted out of recognition, and don't you 
plague little girls. Hullo ! Ellen, that you ? 
Ellen had appeared at the open door with a parcel in 
her hands, a loaf of bread rolled up in a towel. She had 
been running through the woods because sometimes the 
path was black to her and she wanted to get home before 
dark; and she had reached the door too quickly to see in 
advance whether Larry was alone. If she had seen, she 
might have taken her loaf away into the wood recesses and 
waited with it until Hugh had gone. Hugh, at sight of 
her, felt the choking of the heart and the miserable sick- 
ness that comes when we have destroyed our own house 
of life which might as well have been left standing in the 
airs of peace. If only he had not done that strange thing 
he had not meant to do, Ellen would say " Hullo " to him 
and he would say " Hullo " to her. Neither of them 
would necessarily have anything to say after that, nor 
need they look at each other again; but the world would 
be left in its fairness and decency. Now Ellen stood there 
in the doorway, the red in her cheeks from running and 
her breath coming quickly, and she did not seem to see him 
at all. 
" Here's your bread, Mr. Greene," she said. " Shall I 
put it in the jar? " 
" Yes," said Larry, " yes, Ellen. You were a good girl 
to bring it. Put it in the jar." 
While she did it and then, with deft touches did a little 
picking up about the room, Larry was silent, smoking, his 
eyes half closed in luxurious content. 
"Wait a minute," he said, when she had finished her 
hurried tasks. " Here, I'll light the lantern." 
He took it down from its nail beside the chimney, and 
lighted it. Ellen waited, not guessing why. He had 
always known she could run through the woods in the dark. 
" You take the lantern," he said to Hugh. And then to 
Ellen, " Hugh's going home with you." 
 
Hugh was instantly on his feet, and snatched the lan- 
tern. He was all a glow of relief and eagerness. Larry 
had guessed right. The thing he could do to give the boy 
back his self-respect was to trust him to protect a girl, 
not to plague her. But Ellen seemed to have turned sud- 
denly to a little woman, a lady, indeed, all icy self- 
possession. 
" Fm not afraid, Mr. Greene," she said. " I don't want 
anybody to go home with me." 
" 'Course you're not afraid," said Larry. " But you 
might stub your toe over a root. Go along, both of you. 
I want to read my paper." 
So Ellen, with her head up, walked out into the night, 
and Hugh, his sudden relief gone, miserably followed her. 
Neither of them ever knew that Larry, too, was following 
at a distance. He had them on his mind. They were both 
intimately dear to him. He meant to understand Hugh 
thoroughly in this matter of plaguing a girl. Ellen walk- 
ing resolutely, rather slowly now, her head still up, went 
along the wood path, and Hugh, with the lantern, followed. 
When they came to the big boulder where there were tall 
pines on both sides and where he knew, if they stopped, 
they could find ivories even by feeling in the dark, the 
absurdity of it came over him and he called to her : 
" Say, you let me go ahead. The lantern don't do you 
any good back here." 
Ellen did not answer. Once she did stumble over a 
root, yet, Hugh angrily thought, she knew that root by 
heart. Instantly she recovered herself and he called: 
" Look here ! you let me go ahead." 
She did not answer, and he was the angrier because here 
the path was wide enough for him to pass her, and yet 
inexplicably he dared not. Something in her dauntless 
back seemed to have imposed a foolish distance between 
them. If he quickened his steps would she begin to run, 
and then would he have that horrible feeling that she 
thought he was pursuing her? When they were near the 
entrance to the lane he called to her miserably : 
" Ellen, you let me go by you, so you can see your way." 
Larry, listening, thought he was crying, and turned back 
at ease. Ellen, too, thought he was crying, and she was 
glad. A feeling of proper dignity rose in her, now that 
things were on the right basis. When she entered the lane, 
she did quicken her pace a little. If she had been alone, 
it was here she would have begun to run ; but like Hugh she 
was afraid, not of pursuit but a possible triumph in his 
mind. As she reached the head of the lane, she turned her 
head slightly, in acute listening. It seemed to her he was 
not following, and the slender lantern rays were less 
effectual. Where he put the lantern out and where he 
dropped off altogether she did not know. She mounted the 
wall with dignity and crossed her own yard to the kitchen 
where mother yawningly awaited her. 
"Wa'n't it dark comin' through the woods?" asked 
Ardelia. 
" Yes,'' said Ellen, " kinder dark." 
" I might ha' come an' met you," said Ardelia. 
But Ellen was glad she had not. 
Hugh slipped into the barn and set the lantern in a 
corner behind the highest mow where he and Ben kept a 
hidey-hole. Father was a little cautious of climbing. He 
had a rheumatic knee. But Hugh considered it undesir- 
able for father to see the lantern and ask whose it was and 
how he had happened to be at Larry Greene's and what he 
wanted of a lantern anyway. Then he went into the house, 
and stumbled into a talk between his father and Squire 
Greene. Neither man turned about or in any way recog- 
 
nized him as he came in, and he knew it was not the place 
for him and hurried through the room into the kitchen. 
But he carried the picture of them in his mind, sitting one 
at one end of the hearth and one at the other, as if it had 
been a winter night, though the bricks were cold and the 
world alive with airs of spring. But the two big chairs 
of the room were here by the fireplace, and these were men 
who chose the conventionally dignified place. As Hugh 
went out, he heard the conclusion of a sentence and after- 
ward snatches of talk that made him wonder why men were 
always trying to buy and sell. He was beginning to be 
disturbed by the implication that things could not always 
remain as he was born to them. It gave him a shock of 
surprise, indeed of oflFense, to think property he was used 
to considering " ours " could pass into other hands. 
" Anyways," Squire Greene was saying, " I could have 
gone to your sister first. Only I judged it best to come 
to you." 
He was a man of fifty, with the look of an older genera- 
tion. When he was young, those who had seen his fa- 
ther, old Squire Greene, walk with dignity about the 
neighborhood, said this son was his very image. That 
was why they had begun to call him squire when he in- 
herited the old house, though the title, in its first signifi- 
cance, died with an elder time. He was a thin man, erect, 
with cold blue eyes and a mouth shut tight in firmness 
or in pride. You would expect from that face a discreet 
wariness, neither compassion nor the warmer faults and 
virtues. He lacked mental distinction, yet he longed, with 
a meager craving known only, in its tenacity, to Larry, 
for the renown of public office. He saw himself, with an 
unappeasable longing, at the state capital, saw bundles 
of mail coming to him, reports, newspapers, because he 
 
was Abial Greene, Representative. Yet be had never 
come within hopeful distance of his goal. Nobody in his 
own township voted for a cold, hard man who did nothing 
for the public welfare and had no grace even to promise 
speciously. 
While the two men talked together, Hugh could read 
offense in his father's voice. 
" Tabitha," he was saying, " does own the wood lot, 
but she's no desire to sell." 
" A spinster," said Squire Greene, " can't be expected to 
feel as a married woman does, not when it comes to land." 
" I don't know why she can't," said Neale aggressively, 
" I've got two boys." 
" Well," said Squire Greene, " they ain't her boys." 
He, like his brother Larry, had gone to the Academy of 
their day, but he used homely speech among the men he 
lived and worked with. Perhaps now he could not have 
been at ease in any other : yet he saw himself rising, at the 
capital, to address the House. 
" That's neither here nor there," said Neale. " She'll 
leave 'em what she's got." 
" You don't know whether she will or not," said Squire 
Greene. He was moved to what he felt to be a justifiable 
resentment because he was withstood. " A good many 
women'd ruther have the money in hand an' spend it durin' 
their lifetime." 
He wished he had not* come to Neale. Tabitha, he 
thought contemptuously, he might have persuaded, a poor 
bivery thing. Neale, he had felt, was the block in his path 
and so he had meant to influence him first. But it had 
been ill-judged. 
" Tabitha has a home with me," Neale was saying, and 
Squire Greene came in on the word, as if to forestall any 
credit to fraternal bounty. 
 
"Your father so specified in his will, — her home an' 
the wood lot." 
" Be that as it may,'' Neale said obstinately, " Tabitha 
never'll sell." 
There was silence between them for a minute, a long 
minute it seemed to Hugh. Then the squire pushed his 
chair back and got on his feet. 
« well," said he, " I guess I'll be goin'." 
Neale too got up and followed him to the door. Hugh 
was excited to find they exchanged no more words, not on 
the state of the weather or the imminence of planting. 
Neale shut the door. 
" Boys ! " he called. 
"Yes, sir," said Hugh. He made haste from the 
kitchen and stood before his father just as Neale was about 
to moimt the stairs. 
" You get to bed," said Neale. " You can tell Ben. 
He's out there in the kitchen. I won't have you bangein' 
round after eight o'clock. I sent your mother off early. 
There's a hard day tomorrer." 
Hugh went back into the kitchen and waited until he 
heard his father's feet on the stairs. Then he spoke into 
the darkness. 
"You there?" 
"Yes," said Ben. "I've been listening. Ain't it 
funny? Squire Greene wants to buy the wood lot and 
father wants to buy Ellen's house. And he — " "he" 
meant father here — "he's mad as a hen because Squire 
Greene wants to. Say, do you s'pose Aunt Tab knows the 
wood lot's hers? " 
" 'Course she knows it," said Hugh. " Come, we've got 
to go to bed." 
They went up the back stairs, without speaking. When 
they reached Aunt Tab's door, Ben caught at his brother's 
 
arm and halted him while he scratched slightly on a paneL 
The door opened softly, and Aunt Tab stood there in 
garments known as a short-gown and petticoat, her hair 
done up in an encircling row of curl papers. A bright 
kitchen lamp, with a piece of red flannel floating in the 
oil to give a pleasant color, stood on a small table, and on 
the bed were spread her cards. She had been telling for- 
tunes. When she saw the boys, she stepped back; they 
went in and she softly closed the door. 
" Say, Aunt Tab,'' said Ben, in the whisper which was 
the rule of nocturnal visits after father had gone to bed, 
or had ordered them to go, " d'you know you owned the 
pine lot? '' 
" Owned the pine lot? " repeated Aunt Tab. " Why, 
no, I dunno's I did. Yes, I did, too. Father left it to 
me." 
"Well," said Ben, with an air of great importance, 
" Sqiiire Greene wants to buy it. It's worth a lot o' 
money. Pine lumber's high." 
A worried frown came on her forehead. 
" Why," said she, " I dunno's I want to sell. D'your 
father want I should? " 
" No," said Ben. " He told Squire Greene you 
wouldn't." 
" I never should know how to carry it out," said Aunt 
Tab, " buyin' an' sellin' land. That's men's work. Any- 
ways, if it's worth anything I'd ruther give it to you boys." 
" That's what he told him," said Ben, " he " again mean- 
ing father. "How's the cards come out?" 
An instant delight ran into her face. It made her in- 
credibly pathetic. 
" Why," said she, " mebbe that was it. I dreamt of a 
letter. It's a kind of a letter, ain't it, findin' out it's a 
good piece o' property for you boys? " 
 
Ben lifted an admonitory finger, and opened the door. 
Aunt Tab nodded her good-night, and they stepped softly 
into their chamber. 
" Say,'' remarked Ben, as they were throwing off their 
clothes, " that was an awful whopper mother got off, 
waVtit?" 
"When?" asked Hugh, waking from his dream of 
Ellen's stiffened back and his own humiliation. 
" When she told him she'd asked Ardelia Brock about 
selling. She'd laid it onto us well, if we'd told it." 
VI 
Within the week Thomas Neale went himself to sec 
Ardelia " on a matter of business," he told her, as she met 
him at the door. Ardelia had seen him coming and taken 
off her apron in haste. She put up her head a little and 
primmed her mouth. These were the poor pale petals left 
from the rose of her youth, not to be displayed, as then, 
to please, in any facile sense, but to buy her way with the 
man who had come to bargain. It was all quite uncon- 
scious. Ardelia had no belief that Neale could be moved 
by her old-time coquetry, but she used what weapon she 
had. She had appeared before him in her scanty calico 
and thin piteousness, and Neale felt an instant distaste for 
her. He usually avoided looking at her, the obstructive 
tenant of the land he coveted ; but now he had to face this 
welcoming parade and he inwardly repudiated it. He was 
as far as age from youth in appraising woman's claims ; 
but it did seem to him the female ought to be a wholesome, 
modest creature. And Ardelia was odious to him. 
" Won't you come in? " she asked, not with the civil in- 
difference of Bromley, but effusively even. 
" No," said Neale roughly. This was the tone he would 
have taken with his wife, if she had ignored the bounds of 
decorum, and he felt it was a man's part to use it to any 
woman who overstepped. But with the word he bethought 
him that this was no way to buy and sell. You had to 
conciliate. " Yes," he said unwillingly, " I'll step in a 
minute." 
He followed her into the sitting-room, with a sense of 
awkward repugnance for his task. He had not entered 
the house for years, and now here he was, unworthily, be- 
cause he wanted to buy. Ardelia drew forward an arm- 
chair and herself took the little rocker by the window. 
She sat there and faced him intrepidly. Neale knew that, 
in acceptance of the situation, she was braver than he. 
" We're havin' a nice spell o' weather," said she, " for 
the time o' year." 
He sat frowning at the floor, his big hands on his 
knees. To this conventional approach he made no 
answer, but began abruptly from his own point. 
" I s'pose you know what I've come for." 
" Well ! " said Ardelia tentatively. She could not guess 
whether it would further her cause to meet him with 
full knowledge, or to play indifference and coyness. 
He was frowning more openly now, and Ardelia took an 
instant's excursion from the matter in hand to think how 
hard a lot was Mary Neale's to live under the blackness 
of that brow. 
" You thinkin'," he asked, forcing himself to confront 
her eyes, " of sellin' your place? " 
" Why, no," said Ardelia. " I guess Ellie 'n' I might as 
well stay right along here. I don't see what better we 
could do." 
" If you sold," said he, " you'd have the money in hand, 
an' you could go where you like." It was difficult for him 
to summon words of that complexion. He was not used 
to persuading. " If you stay here, where be ye? " 
" Well," said Ardelia, " be that as it may, so long's we 
stay here we've got a roof over our heads." 
" I should think two women folks could go off, if they 
had a little money in their pockets, an' take a room some- 
wheres, some thicker settled place. You could find some- 
thin' to do. Your girl's old enough to work." 
 
Ardelia was a silly woman from many aspects, but she 
did feel satirically the value of this. A bloodless crea- 
ture toward the world, she was a passionate mother; and 
