termined of the non-collapse of the latter, his 
good effect from the meeting quite rather, and 
the duration of him determined to end of Book 2. 
After Book 2 he is no more. Scene 3 of Book 2 
then can only be, for Gray, with Rosanna; that 
scene having functions to be exercised with no 
 
more delay at all, by what I make out, and being 
put in, straight, then and there, that we may 
have the support of it. I by the same token see 
Book 3 now as functional entirely for the en- 
counter of Gray with the two other women and, 
for the first time, with Davey; and also as pre- 
paring the appearance of Horton Vint, though not 
producing it. I see him, in fact, I think, as intro- 
duced independently of his first appearance to 
Gray, see it as a matter of his relation with Cissy, 
and as lighting up what I immediately want of 
their situation. In fact don't I see this as Hor- 
ton's "Act" altogether, as I shall have seen and 
treated Book i as Rosanna's, and Book 2 as 
Gray's. By the blest operation this time of my 
Dramatic principle, my law of successive Aspects, 
each treated from its own centre, as, though with 
qualifications, The Awkward Age, I have the 
great help of flexibility and variety; my persons 
in turn, or at least the three or four foremost, 
having control, as it were, of the Act and Aspect, 
and so making it his or making it hers. This of 
course with the great inevitable and desirable 
preponderance, in the Series, of Gray's particular 
weight. But I seem to make out, to a certainty, 
at least another "Act" for Rosanna and prob- 
ably another for Horton; though perhaps not more 
than one, all to herself, for Cissy. I say at least 
another for Horton on account of my desire to 
give Gray as affecting Horton, only less than I 
 
want to give Horton as affecting Gray. It is true 
that I get Gray as affecting Horton more or less 
in Book 3, but as the situation developes it will 
make new needs, determinations and possibili- 
ties. All this for feeling my way and making 
things come, more and more come. I want an 
Aspect under control of Davey, at all events — 
this I seem pretty definitely to feel; but things 
will only come too much. At all events, to re- 
treat, remount, a little there are my 3 first Books 
sufficiently started without my having as yet 
exactly noted the absolutely fundamental ante- 
cedents. But before I do this, even, I memorise 
that Gray's Scene with Rosanna for 3 of Book 2 
shall be by her coming over to Mr. Betterman's 
house herself that evening, all frankly and di- 
rectly, to see him there; not by his going over to 
her. And I seem to want it evening; the sum- 
mer night outside, with their moving about on 
the Terrace and above the sea etc. Withal, by 
the same token, I want such interesting things 
between them from immediately after the pro- 
mulgation of Mr. Betterman's Will; I want that, 
but of course can easily get it, so far as anything 
is easy, in Book 4, the function of which is to 
present Gray as face to face with the situation 
so created for him. This is obviously, of course, 
one of Gray's Aspects, and the next will desirably 
be, I dare say too; can only be, so far as I can 
now tell, when I consider that the Book being my 
 
Fourth, only Six of the Ten which I most devoutly 
desire to limit the thing to then remain for my 
full evolution on the momentum by that time 
imparted. Certainly, at all events, the Situation 
leaves Newport, to come to life, its full life, in 
New York, where I seem to see it as going on to 
the end, unless I manage to treat myself to some 
happy and helpful mise-en-scene or exploitation 
of my memory of (say) California. The action 
entirely of American localisation, as goes without 
saying, yet making me thus kind of hanker, for 
dear "amusement's" sake, to decorate the thing 
with a bit of a picture of some American Some- 
where that is not either Newport or N.Y. I even 
ask myself whether Boston wouldn't serve for 
this garniture, serve with a narrower economy 
than "dragging in" California. I kind of want 
to drag in Boston a little, feeling it as naturally 
and thriftily workable. But these are details 
which will only too much come; and I seem to 
see already how my action, however tightly 
packed down, will strain my Ten Books, most 
blessedly, to cracking. That is exactly what I 
want, the tight packing and the beautifully audi- 
ble cracking; the most magnificent masterly little 
vivid economy, with a beauty of its own equal 
to the beauty of the donnee itself, that ever was. 
However, what the devil are, exactly, the little 
fundamentals in the past ? Fix them, focus them 
hard; they need only be perfectly conceivable, 
 
but they must be of the most lucid sharpness. I 
want to have it that for Gray, and essentially for 
Rosanna, it's a renewal of an early, almost, or 
even quite positively, childish beginning; and for 
Gray it's the same with Horton Vint — the im- 
pression of Horton already existing in him, a 
very strong and "dazzled" one, made in the 
quite young time, though in a short compass of 
days, weeks, possibly months, or whatever, and 
having lasted on (always for Gray) after a fashion 
that makes virtually a sort of relation already 
established, small as it ostensibly is. Such his 
relation with Rosanna, such his relation with 
Horton — but for his relation with Cissy ? 
Do I want that to be also a renewal, the residuum 
of an old impression, or a fresh thing altogether ? 
What strikes me prima facie is that it's better to 
have two such pre-established origins for the 
affair than three; the only question is does that 
sort of connection more complicate or more simr 
plify for that with Cissy? It more simplifies if 
I see myself wanting to give, by my plan, the full 
effect of a revolution in her, a revolution marked 
the more by the germ of the relation being thrown 
back, marked the more, that is, in the sense of; 
the shade of perfidy, treachery, the shade of the 
particular element and image that is of the es- 
sence, so far as she is concerned, of my action., 
How this exactly works I must in a moment go 
into — hammer it out clear; but meanwhile there 
 
are these other fundamentals. Gray then is the 
son of his uncle's half-sister, not sister (on the 
whole, I think); whose dissociation from her rich 
brother, before he was anything like so rich, must 
have followed upon her marrying a man with 
whom he, Mr. Betterman, was on some peculiarly 
bad terms resulting from a business difference or 
quarrel of one of those rancorous kinds that such 
lives (as Mr. Betterman's) are plentifully be- 
strewn with. The husband has been his victim, 
and he hasn't hated him, or objected to him for 
a brother-in-law, any the less for that. The 
objected-to brother-in-law has at all events died 
early, and the young wife, with her boy, her scant 
means, her disconnection from any advantage 
to her represented by her half-brother, has be- 
taken herself to Europe; where the rest of that 
history has been enacted. I see the young hus- 
band, Gray's father, himself Graham Fielder the 
elder or whatever, as dying early, but probably 
dying in Europe, through some catastrophe to be 
determined, two or three years after their going 
there. This is better than his dying at home, 
for removal of everything from nearness to Mr. 
Betterman. Betterman has been married and has 
had children, a son and a daughter, this is indis- 
pensable, for diminution of the fact of paucity of 
children; but he has lost successively these be- 
longings — there is nothing over strange in it; the 
death of his son, at 1 6 or 1 8 or thereabouts, hav- 
 
ing occurred a few years, neither too few nor too 
many, before my beginning, and having been the 
sorest fact of his life. Well then, young Mrs. 
Fielder or whoever, becomes thus in Europe an 
early widow, with her little boy, and there, after 
no long time, marries again, marries an alien, a 
European of some nationality to be determined, 
but probably an Englishman; which completes 
the effect of alienation from her brother — easily 
conceivable and representable as "in his way," 
disliking this union; and indeed as having made 
known to her, across the sea, that if she will for- 
bear from it (this when he first hears of it and 
before it has taken place) and will come back to 
America with her boy, he will "forgive" her and 
do for her over there what he can. The great fact 
is that she declines this condition, the giving up 
of her new fiance, and thereby declines an advan- 
tage that may, or might have, become great for 
her boy. Not so great then — Betterman not then 
so rich. But in fine — With which I cry Eureka, 
eureka; I have found what I want for Rosanna's 
connection, though it will have to make Rosanna 
a little older than Gray, 2 or 3 or 3 or 4 years, 
instead of same age. I see Gray's mother at any 
rate, with her small means, in one of the smaller 
foreign cities, Florence or Dresden, probably the 
latter, and also see there Rosanna and her mother, 
this preceding by no long time the latter's death. 
Mrs. Gaw has come abroad with her daughter, 
 
for advantages, in the American way, while the 
husband and father is immersed in business cares 
at home; and when the two couples, mother and 
son, and mother and daughter, meet in a natural 
way, a connection is more or less prepared by the 
fact of Mr. Gaw having had the business associa- 
tion with Mrs. Fielder's half-brother, Mr. Better- 
man, at home, even though the considerably vio- 
lent rupture or split between the two men will 
have already taken place. Mrs. Gaw is a very 
good simple, a bewildered and pathetic rich 
woman, in delicate health, and is sympathetic to 
Gray's mother, on whom she more or less throws 
herself for comfort and support, and Gray and 
Rosanna, Rosanna with a governess and all the 
facilities and accessories natural to wealth, while 
the boy's conditions are much leaner and plainer 
— the two, I say, fraternise and are good friends; 
he figuring to Rosanna (say he is about 13, while 
she is 16) as a tremendously initiated and in- 
formed little polyglot European, knowing France, 
Germany, Italy etc. from the first. It is at this 
juncture that Mrs. Fielder's second marriage has 
come into view, or the question and the appear- 
ance of it; and that, very simultaneously, the 
proposal has come over from her half-brother on 
some rumour of it reaching him. As already 
mentioned, Betterman proposes to her that if she 
will come back to America with her boy, and not 
enter upon the union that threatens, and which 
 
must have particular elements in it of a nature 
to displease and irritate him, he will look after 
them both, educate the boy at home, do some- 
thing substantial for them. Mrs. Fielder takes 
her American friend into her confidence in every 
way, introduces to her the man who desires to 
marry her, whom Rosanna sees and with whom 
the boy himself has made great friends, so that 
the dilemma of the poor lady becomes a great and 
lively interest to them all; the pretendant himself 
forming also a very good relation with the Ameri- 
can mother and daughter, the friends of his friend, 
and putting to Mrs. Gaw very eagerly the possi- 
bility of her throwing her weight into the scale in 
his favour. Her meeting, that is Mrs. Fielder's 
meeting, the proposition from New York involves 
absolutely her breaking off with him; and he is 
very much in love with her, likes the boy, and, 
though he doesn't want to stand in the latter's 
light, has hopes that he won't be quite thrown 
over. The engagement in fact, with the marriage 
near at hand, must be an existing reality. It is 
for Mrs. Fielder something of a dilemma; but she 
is very fond of her honourable suitor, and her in- 
clinations go strongly to sticking to him. She 
takes the boy himself into her confidence, young 
as he is, — perhaps I can afford him a year or two 
more — make him 15, say; in which case Rosanna 
becomes 18, and the subsequent chronology is 
thereby affected. It isn't, I must remember, as 
 
a young man in his very first youth, at all, that I 
want Gray, or see him, with the opening of the 
story at Newport. On the contrary all the pro- 
prieties, elements of interest, convenience etc., 
are promoted by his being not less than 30. I 
don't see why I shouldn't make him 33, with 
Rosanna thus two years older, not three. If he 
is17, it will be old enough 
for each, without being too old, I think, for Gray. 
18 years will thus have elapsed from the crisis at 
Florence or wherever to the arrival at Newport. 
I want that time, I think, I can do with it very 
well for what I see of elements operative for him; 
and a period of some length moreover is required 
for bringing the two old men at Newport to a 
proper pitch of antiquity. Mr. Betterman dies 
very much in the fulness of years, and as Rosan- 
na's parent is to pass away soon after Iwant him 
to have come to the end. If Gray is 15, however, 
I mustn't make his mother too mature to inspire 
the devotion of her friend; at the same time that 
there must have been years enough for her to 
have lived awhile with her first husband and lost 
him. Of course this first episode may have been 
very brief — there is nothing to prevent that. If 
she had married at 20 she will then be, say, about 
36 or so at the time of the crisis, and this will be 
quite all right for the question of her second mar- 
riage. Say she lives a considerable number of 
years after this, in great happiness, her marriage 
 
having taken place; I in fact require her to do so, 
for I want Gray to have had reasons fairly strong 
for his not having been back to America in the 
interval. I may put it that he has, even, been 
back for a very short time, on some matter con- 
nected with his mother's interests, or his own, or 
whatever; but I complicate the case thereby and 
have to deal somehow with the question of whether 
or no he has then seen Mr. Betterman. No, I 
don't want him to have been back, and can't do 
with it; keep this simple and workable. All I am 
doing here is just to fix a little his chronology. 
Say he has been intending to go over at about 
25, when his mother's death takes place, about 10 
years after her second marriage. Say then, as is 
very conceivable, that his- stepfather, with whom 
he , has become great friends, then requires and 
appeals to his care and interest in a way that 
keeps him on arid on till the latter's death takes 
place just previous to Mr. Betterman's sending 
for him. This gives me quite sufficiently what I 
want of the previous order of things; but doesn't 
give me yet the fact about Rosanna's connec- 
tion in her young history which I require. I see 
accordingly what has happened in Florence or 
Dresden as something of this kind: that Mrs. 
Fielder, having put it to her boy that he shall 
decide, if he can, about what they shall do, she 
lets Mrs. Gaw, who was at this juncture in con- 
stant intercourse with her, know that she has 
 
done so — Mrs. Gaw and Rosanna being, together, 
exceedingly interested about her, and Rosanna 
extremely interested, in a young dim friendly 
way, about Gray; very much as if he were the 
younger brother she hasn't got, and whom, or 
an older, she would have given anything to have. 
Rosanna hates Mr. Betterman, who has, as she 
understands and believes, in some iniquitous 
business way, wronged or swindled her father; 
and isn't at all for what he has proposed to the 
Fielders. In addition she is infatuated with 
Europe, makes everything of being there, dreams, 
or would dream, of staying on if she could, and 
has already in germ, in her mind, those feelings 
about the dreadful American money-world of 
which she figures as the embodiment or expres- 
sion in the eventual situation. She knows thus 
that 'the boy has had, practically, the decision 
laid upon him, and with the whole case with all 
its elements and possibilities before her she takes 
upon herself to act upon him, influence and de- 
termine him. She wouldn't have him accept 
Mr. Betterman's cruel proposition, as she de- 
clares she sees it, for the world. She proceeds 
with him as she would in fact with a younger 
brother: there is a passage to be alluded to with 
a later actuality, which figures for her in memory 
as her creation of a responsibility; her very con- 
siderably passionate, and thereby meddlesome, in- 
tervention. I see some long beautiful walk or 
 
stroll, some visit to some charming old place or 
things — and Florence is here indicated — during 
which she puts it all to him, and from which he, 
much inspired and affected by her, comes back 
to say to his mother that he doesn't want what is 
offered — at any such price as she will have to 
pay. I see this occasion as really having settled 
it — and Rosanna's having always felt and known 
that it did. She and her mother separate then 
from the others; Mrs. Fielder communicates her 
refusal, sticks to her friend, marries him shortly 
afterwards, and her subsequent years take the 
form I have noted. The American mother and 
daughter go back across the sea; the mother in 
time dies etc. I see also how much better it is 
to have sufficient time for these various deaths 
to happen. But the point is that the sense of 
responsibility, begetting gradually a considerable, 
a deepening force of reflection, and even somewhat 
of remorse, as to all that it has meant, is what 
has taken place for Rosanna in proportion as, 
by the sequence of events and the happening of 
many things, Mr. Betterman has grown into an 
apparently very rich old man with no natural 
heir. His losses, his bereavements, I have al- 
ready alluded to, and a considerable relaxation 
of her original feeling about him in the light of 
more knowledge and of other things that have 
happened. In the light, for instance, of her now 
mature sense of what her father's career has been 
 
and of all that his great ferocious fortune, as she 
believes it to be, represents of rapacity, of finan- 
cial cruelty, of consummate special ability etc. 
She has kept to some extent in touch with Gray, 
so far that is as knowing about his life and gen- 
eral situation are concerned; but the element of 
compunction in her itself, and the sense of what 
she may perhaps have deprived him of in the 
way of a great material advantage, may be very 
well seen, I think, as keeping her shy and back- 
ward in respect to following him up or remaining 
in intercourse. It isn't likely, for the American 
truth of things, that she hasn't been back to Eu- 
rope again, more than once, whether before or 
after her mother's death; but what I can easily 
and even interestingly see is that on whatever 
occasion of being there she has yet not tried to 
meet him again. She knows that neither he nor 
his stepfather are at all well off, she has a good 
many general impressions and has tried to get 
knowledge of them, without directly appealing 
for it to themselves, whenever she can. Thus it 
is, to state things very simply, that, on hearing 
of the stepfather's death, during the Newport 
summer, she has got at Mr. Betterman and spoken 
to him about Gray; she has found him accessible 
to what she wants to say, and has perceived 
above all what a pull it gives her to be able to 
work, in her appeal, the fact, quite vivid in the 
fulness of time to the old man himself indeed, 
 
that the young man, so nearly, after all, related 
to him, and over there in Europe all these years, 
is about the only person, who could get at him 
in any way, who hasn't ever asked anything of 
him or tried to get something out of him. Not 
only this, but he and his mother, in the time, 
are the only ones who ever refused a proffered 
advantage. I think I must make it that Ro- 
sanna finds that she can really tell her story to 
Mr. Betterman, can make a confidant of him 
and so interest him only the more. She feels 
that he likes her, and this a good deal on account 
of her enormous difference from her father. But 
I need only put it here quite simply: she does 
interest him, she does move him, and it is as a 
consequence of her appeal that he sends for Gray 
and that Gray comes. What I must above all 
take care of is the fact that she has represented 
him to the old man as probably knowing less 
about money, having had less to do with it, having 
moved in a world entirely outside of it, in a de- 
gree utterly unlike anyone and everyone whom 
Mr. Betterman has ever seen. 
But I have got it all, I needn't develop; what 
I want now independently is the beginning, quite 
back in the early years, of some relation on Gray's 
part with Horton Vint, and some effect, which I 
think I really must find right, of Horton's having 
done something for him, in their boyish time, 
something important and gallant, rather showy, 
 
but at all events really of moment, N which has 
always been present to Gray. This I must find 
— it need present no difficulty; with something 
in the general way of their having been at school 
together — in Switzerland, with the service ren- 
dered in Switzerland, say on a holiday cours 
among the mountains, when Horty has fished 
Gray out of a hole, I don't mean quite a crevasse, 
but something like, or come to his aid in a tight 
place of some sort, and at his own no small risk, 
to bring him to safety. In fine it's something 
like having saved his life, though that has a tire- 
some little old romantic and conventional note. 
However I will make the thing right and give it 
the right nuance; remember that it is all al- 
lusional only now and a matter of reference on 
Gray's part. What must have further happened, 
I think, is that Horty has been in Europe again, 
in much later years, after College, indeed only 
a very few years previous, and has met Gray 
again and they have renewed together; to the 
effect of his apprehension of Gray's (to him) 
utterly queer and helpless and unbusinesslike, 
unfinancial, type; and of Gray's great admiration 
of everything of the opposite sort in him — com- 
bined, that is, with other very attractive (as 
they appear) qualities. He has made Gray think 
a lot about the wonderful American world that 
he himself long ago cut so loose from, and of 
which Horty is all redolent and reverberant; 
 
and I think must have told him, most naturally 
told him, of what happened in the far off time 
in Florence. Only when, then, was the passage 
of their being at school, or, better still, with the 
Swiss pasteur, or private tutor, together? If 
it was before the episode in Florence they were 
rather younger than I seem to see them; if it 
was after they were rather older. Yet I don't 
at all see why it should not have been just after 
— this perfectly natural at 16 for Gray, at 17 for 
Horty; both thoroughly natural ages for being 
with the pasteur, and for the incident afterwards; 
Gray going very naturally to the pasteur, whom 
in fact he may have been with already before, 
during the first year of his mother's new mar- 
riage. That provides for the matter well enough, 
and I've only to see it to possess it; and gives 
a basis for their taking up together somehow 
when they meet, wherever I may put it, in the 
aftertime. There are forms of life for Gray and 
his stepfather to be focussed as the right ones — 
•Horty sees this pair together somewhere; and 
nothing is more arrangeable, though I don't 
think I want to show the latter as having dangled 
and dawdled about Italy only; and on the other 
hand do see that Gray's occupation, and main 
interest, other than that of looking after his elder 
companions, must be conceived and presented 
for him. Again no difficulty, however, with the 
right imagination of it. Horty goes back to 
 
America; the, 3 or 4, or at the most 4 or 5, years 
elapse, so that it is with that comparative fresh- 
ness of mutual remembrance that the two men 
meet again. What I do see as definite is that 
Horty has had up to the time of Gray's return 
no sort of relation whatever with Mr. Better- 
man or his affairs, or any point of the question 
with which the action begins at Newport. He 
is on the other hand in relation with Cissy; and 
there are things I have got to account for in his 
actual situation. Why is he without money, 
with his interest in the getting of it etc. ? But 
that is a question exactly of interest — I mean 
to which the answer may afford the greatest. 
And settle about the degree of his apprehension 
of, relation to, designs on, or general lively con- 
sciousness of Rosanna. Important the fact that 
the enormous extent of her father's fortune is 
known only after his death, and is larger even 
than was supposed; though it is to be remem- 
bered that in American financial conditions, with 
the immense public activity of money there taking 
place, these things are gauged in advance and by 
the general knowledge, or speculative measure, as 
the oldfashioned private fortune couldn't be. 
But I am here up against the very nodus of my 
history, the facts of Horty's connection with the 
affairs that come into being for Gray under his 
uncle's Will; the whole mechanism, in fine, of 
this part of the action, the situation so created 
 
and its consequences. Enormous difficulty of 
pretending to show various things here as with 
a business vision, in my total absence of business 
initiation; so that of course my idea has been 
from the first not to show them with a business 
vision, but in some other way altogether; this 
will take much threshing out, but it is the very 
basis of the matter, the core of the subject, and 
I shall worry it through with patience. But I 
must get it, plan it, utterly right in advance, and 
this is what takes the doing. The other doing, 
the use of it when schemed, is comparatively 
easy. What strikes me first of all is that the 
amount of money that Gray comes in for must, 
for reasons I needn't waste time in stating, so 
obvious are they, be no such huge one, by the 
New York measure, as in many another case: 
it's a tremendous lot of money for Gray, from 
his point of view and in relation to his needs or 
experience. Thus the case is that if Mr. Gaw's 
accumulations or whatever have distinctly sur- 
passed expectation, the other old man's have 
fallen much below it — or at least have been known 
to be no such great affair anyhow. Various ques- 
tions come up for me here, though there is no 
impossibility of settling them if taken one by 
one. The whole point is of course that Mr. Bet- 
terman has been a ruthless operator or whatever, 
and with doings Davey Bradham is able to give 
Gray so dark an account of; therefore if the 
 
mass of money of the acquisition of which such 
a picture can be made is not pretty big, the force 
of the picture falls a good deal to the ground. 
The difficulty in that event, in view of the big- 
ness, is that the conception of any act on Hor- 
ton's part that amounts to a swindle practised 
on Gray to such a tremendous tune is neither a 
desirable nor a possible one. As one presses and 
presses light breaks — there are so many ways in 
which one begins little by little to wonder if one 
may not turn it about. There is the way in the 
first place of lowering the pitch altogether of 
the quantities concerned for either men. I see 
that from the moment ill-gotten money is con- 
cerned the essence of my subject stands firm 
whatever the amount of the same — whatever the 
amounts in either case. I haven't proposed from 
the first at all to be definite, in the least, about 
financial details or mysteries — I need hardly say; 
and have even seen myself absolutely not stating 
or formulating at all the figure of the property 
accruing to Gray. I haven't the least need of 
that, and can make the absence of it in fact a 
positively good and happy effect. That is an 
immense gain for my freedom of conduct; and 
in fine there glimmers upon me, there glimmers 
upon me ! The idea, which was vaguely my 
first, of the absolute theft practised upon Gray 
by Horty, and which Gray's large appeal to his 
cleverness and knowledge, and large trust in his 
 
competence, his own being nil-— this theft ac- 
cepted and condoned by Gray as a manner of 
washing his own hands of the use of the damnosa 
hereditas — this thinkable enough in respect to 
