example?"
"I haven’t the least idea."
"It wouldn’t affect you one way or the other, then?"
"It ought not to—provided you are always nice to me."
"That," he exclaimed, "is a cold-blooded, fishy creed!"
"That’s the creed of tolerance, Jim."
"All right.  Live up to it, then.  And I’ll try to, too," he added
drily.  "Because, sometimes when you’re off, God knows where, with
Grismer, I feel lonely enough to drift with the first attractive girl I
come across."
"Why don’t you?" she asked, flushing slightly.
"The reason I haven’t," he said, "is because I’m in love with you."
She was standing with head bent, but now she looked up quickly.
"You adorable infant," she laughed.  "What a child you really are, after
all!  Come," she added mischievously, "let’s kiss like good children and
let the gods occupy themselves with our future.  It’s their business,
not ours.  I’m glad you think you’re in love with me. But, Jim, I’m in
love with life.  And you’re such an important part of life that,
naturally, I include you!"
She bent forward and touched his lips with hers, daintily, deftly
avoiding his arms, her eyes gay with malice.
"No," she laughed, "not that, if you please, dear friend!  It rumples
and raises the deuce with my hair and gown.  But we are friends again,
aren’t we, Jim?"
"Yes," he said in a low voice, "—if you can give me no more than
friendship."
"It’s the most wonderful thing in the world!" she insisted.
"You’ve read that somewhere."
"You annoy me, Jim!  It is my own conclusion. There’s nothing finer for
anybody—unless they want children.  And I don’t."
Neither did he.  No young man does.  But what she said struck him as
unpleasantly modern.
He met Grismer here and there in the artistic channels of the city;
often in Stephanie’s studio, frequently in other studios, and
occasionally amid gatherings at restaurants, theatres, art galleries.
At first he had been civil but cool, avoiding any tête-à-tête with his
old school-fellow.  But, little by little, he became aware of several
things which slightly influenced his attitude toward Grismer.
One thing became plain; the man had no intimates. There was not a man
Cleland met who seemed to care very much for Grismer; he seemed to have
no frank and cordial friendships among men, no pals.  Yet, he was
considered clever and amusing where people gathered; he interested men
without evoking their personal sympathy; he interested women intensely
with his unusual good looks and the light, elusive quality of his
intelligence.
Always amiably suave, graceful of movement, alert and considerate of
feminine fancies, moods and caprices, he was welcomed everywhere by them
in the circles which he sauntered into.  But he was merely accepted by
men.
So, in spite of his resentment at what Grismer had done, Cleland felt
slightly sorry for this friendless man. For Grismer’s was a solitary
soul, and Cleland, who had suffered from loneliness enough to understand
it, gradually became conscious of the intense loneliness of this man,
even amid his popularity with women and their sympathetic and
sentimental curiosity concerning him.
But no man seemed to care for closer intimacy with Grismer than a
friendly acquaintanceship offered. There was something about him that
did not seem to attract or invite men’s careless comradeship or
confidence.
"It’s those floating golden specks in his eyes," said Belter, discussing
him one day with Cleland.  "He’s altogether too auriferous and graceful
to be entirely genuine, Cleland—too easy and too damned bland. Poor
beggar; have you noticed how shabby and shiny he’s getting?  I guess
he’s down and out for fair financially."
Cleland had noticed it.  The man’s linen was visibly frayed.  His
clothes, too, betrayed his meagre circumstances, yet he wore them so
well, and there was such a courtly indifference in the man, that the
shabby effect seemed due to a sort of noble carelessness.
Cleland had never called on Grismer.  He had no inclination to do so, no
particular reason except that Grismer had invited him several times.
Yet, an uneasy curiosity lurked within him concerning Grismer’s abode
and whether Stephanie, always serenely unconventional, ever went there.
He didn’t care to think she did, yet, after all, the girl was this man’s
legal wife, and there was no moral law to prevent her going there and
taking up her abode if she were so inclined.
Cleland never asked her if she went there, perhaps dreading her reply.
As far as that was concerned, he could not find any of his friends or
acquaintances who had ever been in Grismer’s lodgings.  Nobody even
seemed to know exactly where they were, except that Grismer lived
somewhere in Bleecker Street and never entertained.
At times, when Stephanie was not to be found, and his unhappy inference
placed her in Grismer’s company, he felt an unworthy inclination to call
on Grismer and find out whether the girl was there.  But the impulse was
a low one, and made him ashamed, and his envy and jealousy disgusted him
with himself.
Besides, his state of mind was painfully confused and uncertain in
regard to Stephanie.  He was in love with her, evidently.  But the utter
lack of sentimental response on her part afforded his love for her no
nourishment.
He traversed the entire scale of emotions.  When he was not with her he
often came to the exasperated conclusion that he could learn to forget
her; when he was with her the idea seemed rather hopeless.
The unfortunate part of it seemed to be that, like his father’s, his was
a single-track heart.  He’d never been in love, unless this was love.
Anyway, Stephanie occupied the single track, and there seemed to be no
switches, no sidings, nothing to clear that track.
He was exceedingly miserable at times.
However, his mind was equipped with a whole terminal full of tracks and
every one was busy in the service of his profession.
For a month, now, he had been installed in his studio-apartment on the
top floor.  He picked up on Fourth and on Madison Avenues enough
preciously rickety furniture to make him comfortable and drive friends
to distraction when they ventured to trust themselves to chair or sofa.
But his writing table and corner-chair were solid and modern, and he had
half a dozen things under construction—a novel, some short stories, some
poems which he modestly mentioned as verses.
Except for the unexplored mazes in which first love had involved him he
was happy—exceedingly happy. But, to a creative mind, happiness born of
self-expression is a weird, uncanny, composite emotion, made up of
ecstatic hope and dolorous despair and well peppered with dread and
confidence, cowardice and courage, rage and tranquillity; and further
seasoned with every devilish doubt and celestial satisfaction that the
heart of a writer is heir to.
In the morning he was certain of himself.  He was the captain of his
destiny; he was the dictator of his inspiration, equipped with the
technical mastery that his obedient thoughts dare not disobey.
By afternoon the demon Doubt had shaken his self-confidence, and Fear
peered at him between every line of his manuscript, and it was a case of
Childe Roland from that time on until the pencil fell from his unnerved
fingers and he rose from his work satiated, half-stunned, not knowing
whether he had done well or meanly.  Vaguely he realized at such moments
that, for such as he, a just appraisal of his own work would never be
possible for him—that he himself would never know; and that what men
said of it—if, indeed, they ever said anything about his work—would
never wholly convince him, never entirely enlighten him as to its value
or its worthlessness.
That is one of the penalties imposed upon the creative mind.  It goes on
producing because it must. Praise stimulates it, blame depresses; but it
never knows the truth.
Toward the end of May, one afternoon, Stephanie came into his studio,
seated herself calmly in his chair, and picked up his manuscript.
"It’s no good," he said, throwing himself on an antique sofa which just
endured the strain and no more.
She read for an hour, her grey eyes never leaving the written pages, her
pretty brows bent inward with the strain of concentration.
He watched her, chin on hand, lying there on the sofa.
But the air was mild and languorous with the promise of the coming
summer; sunshine fell across the wall; the boy dozed, presently, and
after a while lay fast asleep.
She had been gone for some time when he awoke. As he sat up, blinking
through the late afternoon sunshine, a pencilled sheet of yellow
manuscript paper fluttered from his breast to the floor.
Jim, it is fine!  I mean it!  It is a splendid, virile, honest piece of
work.  And it is intensely interesting.  I’m quite mad about it—quite
thrilled that you can do such things.  It’s so masterly, so mature—and I
don’t know where you got your knowledge of that woman, because she is
perfectly feminine and women think and do such things, and her motives
are the motives that animate that sort of woman.
As you lie there asleep you look about eighteen—not much older than when
I used to see you when you came home from school and lay on your sofa
and read Kipling aloud to me. Then I was awed; you were a grown man to
me.  Now you are just a boy again, and I love you dearly, and I’m
going to kiss your hair, very cautiously, before I go downstairs.
I’ve done it.  I’m going now.
STEVE.
                             *CHAPTER XXII*
It happened one day late in May that Cleland, desiring local accuracy of
detail in a chapter of his brand new novel, put on his hat and walked to
Washington Square and across it, south, into the slums.
New leaves graced the trees in the park; spring flowers bloomed around
the fountain, and the grass was rankly fragrant where it had just been
mowed.
But he left the spring freshness behind him when he entered that sad,
dingy, swarming region to the south, where the only clean creature
seemed to be the occasional policeman in his new summer tunic,
sauntering aloof amid the noise and wretchedness and the foul odours
made fouler by the sunshine.
Cleland presently found the squalid street which he wished to describe
in convincing detail, and stood there on the corner in the shelter of a
tobacconist’s awning making preliminary mental notes.  Then, as he
fished out note-book and pencil, intent on professional memoranda, he
saw Grismer.
The man wore shabbier clothes than Cleland had ever before seen him
wear; he was crossing the filthy street at his usual graceful and
leisurely saunter, and he did not see Cleland under the awning.
There was a chop-suey restaurant opposite, a shabby, disreputable,
odoriferous place, doubly repulsive in the pitiless sunshine.  And into
this sauntered Grismer and disappeared.
The slight shock of the episode remained to bother Cleland all the
morning.  He kept thinking of it while trying to work; he could not seem
to put it from his mind and finally threw aside his manuscript, took his
hat and stick, and went out with the intention of lunching.
It was nearly lunch time, but he did not walk toward the cream-coloured
Hotel Rochambeau, with its green awnings and its French flag flying.  He
took the other way, scarcely realizing what he meant to do until he
turned the corner into Bleecker Street.
He found the basement he was in search of presently; two steps down, an
area gate and bell encrusted with rust, and a diseased and homeless cat
dozing there in patient misery.
"You poor devil," he said, offering a cautious caress; but the gaunt
creature struck at him and fled.
He rang.  Jangling echoes resounded from within. Two negro wenches and a
Chinaman surveyed him from adjoining houses.  He could smell a sour
stench from the beer saloon opposite, where a fat German beast was
washing down the sidewalk with a mop.
"Hello, Cleland.  This is very nice of you.  Come in!" said a pleasant
voice behind him, and, as he turned, Grismer, in shabby slippers and
faded dressing-gown, opened the iron wicket.
"I hadn’t called," said Cleland a little stiffly, "—so I thought I’d
drop in for a moment and take you out somewhere to lunch."
Grismer smiled his curious, non-committal smile and ushered him into a
big, whitewashed basement, with a screen barring the further end and
quite bare except for a few bits of furniture, some plaster casts, and
half a dozen revolving tables on which stood unfinished studies in clay
and wax.
Cleland involuntarily glanced about him, then went over and politely
examined the studies in clay.
"I’ve a back yard, too," said Grismer, "where I work in good weather.
The light in here isn’t particularly good."
For the wretchedness of his quarters he made no further apology; he
spoke in his easy, amiable way and entirely without embarrassment,
standing beside Cleland and moving with him from one study to another.
"They’re just as clever as they can be," said Cleland, "—infernally
clever, Grismer.  Are they commissions?"
"I’m sorry to say they are not," replied Grismer with a smile.
"But a man who can do this work ought never to want for commissions,"
insisted Cleland.
"I’m exceedingly glad you like my work," returned Grismer pleasantly,
"but as for orders——" he shrugged—"when I didn’t need them they came to
me.  But, Cleland, when the world learns that a man needs anything it
suddenly discovers that it doesn’t need him! Isn’t it funny," he added
good-humouredly, "that prosperous talent is always in demand, always
turning down work which it has no time to do; but the same talent on its
uppers is universally under deep suspicion?"
He spoke lightly, impersonally, and without the slightest trace of
bitterness.  "Sit down and light one of your own cigarettes," he said.
"I’ve only pipe-tobacco, and you probably wouldn’t care for it."
Cleland seated himself in the depths of a big, threadbare arm-chair.
Grismer said with a smile:
"No use informing you that I’m obliged to live economically.  Models are
expensive; so is material. Therefore, I live where I can afford both,
and a roof to cover them....  And do you know, Cleland, that after all
it doesn’t matter much where one sleeps——" he made a slight gesture
toward the screen at the end of the room.  "I used to think it did until
I had to give up a place of my own full of expensive and beautiful
things.
"But it really doesn’t matter.  The main idea is to be free—free of
debt, free of expensive impedimenta which cause one anxiety, free from
the importunities and restrictions of one’s friends."  He laughed and
dropped one long leg over the other.
"I’ve niggers and Chinamen for neighbours.  They cause me no
inconvenience.  It’s rather agreeable than otherwise to sit here and
work, or lounge about and smoke, wondering whether a commission is
already on its way or whether it has not yet even taken shape in the
brain of some person unknown who is destined by fate some day to
exchange his money for my bronze or marble....  It’s an amusing game,
Cleland, isn’t it?—the whole affair of living, I mean....  Not too
unpleasant, not too agreeable....  But if one’s heart-action were not
involuntary and automatic, do you know, if it lay with me I’d not bother
to keep my heart ticking—I’d be too lazy to wind it up."
He stretched himself out in his chair gracefully, good-humoured,
serenely amused at his own ideas.
"Did you have a good time abroad?" he inquired.
"Yes....  When you get on your feet you ought to go to Paris, Grismer."
"Yes, I know."  He looked humorously at his well-shaped feet stretched
out before him in shabby slippers. "Yes; it’s up to my feet, Cleland.
But they’re a wandering, indifferent couple, inclined to indolence, I
fear....  Is your work getting on?"
"I’m busy....  Yes, I think it’s taking shape."
He looked up at Grismer hesitatingly, frankly troubled. "Grismer, we
were school-mates....  I wouldn’t wish you to think me impertinent——"
"Go ahead, Cleland."
"Are you quite sure?"
"I’m sure of you," returned Grismer, with a singular smile.  "I know
you pretty well, Cleland.  I knew you in school, in college....  We
fought in school.  You were civil to me at Harvard."  He laughed.  "I’ve
always liked you, Cleland—which is more than you can say about me."
Cleland reddened, and Grismer laughed again, lightly and without effort:
"It’s that way sometimes.  I think that you are about the only man I
have ever really liked.  You didn’t know that, did you?"
"No."
"Well, don’t let it worry you," added Grismer, smiling.  "Go on and say
what you were about to say."
"It was—I was merely wondering—whether you’d take it all right if——"  He
began again from another angle: "I’ve a country place—up in the
Berkshires—my father’s old place.  And I thought that a fountain—if
you’d care to design one——"
Grismer had been watching him with that indefinable smile in his golden
eyes, which perplexed men and interested women, but now he rose suddenly
and walked to the barred windows and stood there with his back turned,
gazing out into the area.  After an interval he pivoted on his heels,
sauntered back and seated himself, relighting his pipe.
"All right," he said very quietly.  "I’ll do your fountain."
Cleland drew a breath of relief.  "If you like," he said, "come up with
me to Runner’s Rest in June and look over the garden.  There ought to be
a pool there; there are plenty of springs on the mountain to feed a
fountain by gravity.  I think it would be fine to have a pool and a
fountain in the old garden.  Is it understood that you’ll do it for me?"
"Yes....  I don’t wish to be paid."
"Good Lord!  You and I are professionals, Grismer, not beastly amateurs.
Do you think I’d write for anybody unless I’m paid for it?"
Grismer’s eyes held a curious expression as they rested on him.  Then
his features changed and he smiled and nodded carelessly:
"I’ll do your fountain on your own terms.  Tell me when you are ready."
Cleland rose:
"Won’t you change your mind and lunch with me somewhere?"
"Thanks, no."  Grismer also had risen, and the two men confronted each
other for a moment in silence.
Then Grismer said:
"Cleland, I think you’re the only man in the world for whom I have any
real consideration.  I haven’t much use for men—no delusions.  But it
always has been different about you—even when we fought in school—even
when I used to sneer at you sometimes.... And I want, somehow, to make
you understand that I wish you well; that if it lay with me you should
attain whatever you wish in life; that if attainment depended upon my
stepping aside I’d do it....  That’s all I can say.  Think it over and
try to understand."
Cleland, astonished, looked at him with unconcealed embarrassment.
"You’re very kind," he said, "to feel so generously interested in my
success.  I wish you success, too."
Grismer smiled:
"You don’t understand me after all," he said pleasantly.  "I was
afraid you wouldn’t."
"You are offering me your friendship, as I take it," said Cleland
awkwardly.  "Isn’t that what you meant?"
"Yes.  And other things...."
He laughed with a slight touch of malice in his mirth:
"There’s such a lot yet left unsaid between you and me, which you and I
must say to each other some day. But there’s plenty of time, Cleland....
And I shall be very glad to design and execute a fountain for your
garden."
He offered his hand; Cleland took it, the embarrassed flush still
staining his face.
"Yes," he said, "there is a matter that I wish to talk over with you
some day, Grismer."
"I know....  But I think we had better wait a while....  Because I wish
to answer everything you ask; and for the present I had rather not."
They walked slowly to the area gate and Grismer unlocked it.
"I’m glad you came," he said.  "It’s a bit lonely sometimes....  I have
no friends."
"When you feel that way," said Cleland, "drop in on me."
"Thanks."
And that was all.  Cleland went away through the ill-smelling streets,
crossed the sunny square, and walked thoughtfully back to his own
studio.
"He’s a strange man," he mused, "—he was a strange boy, and he’s grown
into a curious sort of man.... Poor devil....  It’s as though something
inside him is lacking—or has been killed....  But why in God’s name did
Steve marry him unless she was in love with him? ... It must be....  And
his pride won’t let him take her until he can stand on his own feet....
When I dig that pool I’ll dig a pit for my feet.... A grave for a
fool...."
He unlocked his studio and went in.
"I’m done with love," he said aloud to himself.
The jingle of the telephone bell echoed his words and he walked slowly
over to the table and detached the receiver.
"Jim?"
"Is it you, Steve?"
"Yes.  Would you like some tea about five?"
"All right.  I’ve had no lunch and I’ll be hungry."
"You know, Jim, I’m not going to provide a banquet for you.  Why don’t
you go out and take lunch?"
"I forgot it.  I don’t feel like work.  Shall I come down and talk to
you now?"
"I’m going out to take a dancing lesson in a few moments.  I’ll talk to
you while I’m putting on my hat."
He said "All right," took his hat and stick and went downstairs again.
She opened the door for him, offering him her cool, slim hand, then she
opened a hat-box and lifted from it a hat.
"I believe I’ll join the Russian ballet," she said.  "I do dance very
nicely.  You should hear what the ballet master says.  And Miss Duncan
and Miss St. Denis watched me yesterday, and they were very
complimentary and polite."
"Nonsense.  It’s good exercise, but it would be a dog’s life for you to
lead, Steve.  Where is Helen?"
"Out hunting a model for her Pegasus.  She asked me to pose for the
mounted figure, but I haven’t time. I can fancy myself, in a complete
state of nature, scrambling onto some rickety old livery hack——"  She
threw back her head and laughed, then inspected her new hat, and, facing
the studio mirror, pinned it to her chestnut hair.
"Do you like it, Jim?"
"Fine.  You make all hats look well."
"Such a nice, polite boy!  So well brought up!  But unfortunately I
heard you say the same thing to Helen....  Where have you been, Jim?  I
called you up an hour ago."
"I went to see Grismer," he said, coolly ignoring her perverse and
tormenting humour.
"You did?  Bless your dear, generous heart!" cried the girl.  "Do you
know that if it were in me to be sentimental over you, what you did
would start me? Continue to behave like a real man, dear friend, and
I’ll be head over heels in love before I know it!"
"Why?" he asked, conscious again of her gaily derisive mood and not
caring for it.
"Because," she said, "you have acted like a man in calling on Oswald,
and not like a spoiled boy.  You resented Oswald’s marrying me.  You
have been sullen and suspicious and aloof with him since you came back.
I know Oswald better than you do.  I know that he has felt your attitude
keenly, though he never admitted it even to me.
"He is a man of few friends, admired but not well liked; he is
wretchedly poor, fiercely proud, sensitive——"
"What!"
"Did you think he wasn’t?" she asked.  "He is painfully sensitive;
pitiably so.  I think women divine it, and it attracts them."
"He hasn’t the reputation of being very thin-skinned," remarked Cleland
drily.
"The average man who is sensitive would die to conceal it.  You ought to
know that, Jim; it’s your business to dissect people, isn’t it?"
She thrust a second pin through the crown of her hat and adjusted it
deftly.
"Anyway," she said, "you are a nice, polite boy to go to see him, and
you have made me very happy. Good-bye!  I must run——"
"Have you lunched?"
"No, but I’m going to."
"With whom?" he asked incautiously.
"A man."
"You’re usually just going out to lunch or dine with some man," he said
sullenly.
"I like men," she said, smiling at him.
"What you probably mean is that you like admiration."
"I do.  It’s agreeable; it’s sanitary; it’s soothing. It invigorates
one’s self-confidence and self-respect. And it doesn’t disarrange one’s
hair and rumple one’s gown.  Therefore, I prefer the undemonstrative
admiration of a man to the indiscreet demonstrations of a boy."
"Do you mean me?" he asked, furious.
But she ignored the question:
"Boys are funny," she said, swinging her velvet reticule in circles.
"Any girl can upset their equilibrium. All a girl has to do is to look
at a boy sideways—the way Lady Button-eyes looked at you yesterday
afternoon——"
"What!"
"At the Rochambeau.  And you got up and went over and renewed your
friendship with her.  Helen and I saw you."
"I was merely civil," he said.
"So was she.  She fished out a card and wrote on it.  I don’t know
what she wrote."
"She wrote her telephone call.  There isn’t the slightest chance of my
using it."
Stephanie laughed:
"He certainly is the nicest, politest boy in all Manhattan, and sister
is very, very proud of him. Good-bye, James——"
She offered her lips to him audaciously, bending forward on tip-toe,
both hands clasped behind her.  But her grey eyes were bright with
malice.
"Nice, polite boy," she repeated.  "Kiss little sister."
"No," he said gloomily, "I’m fed up on sisterly kisses——"
"You insulting wretch!  Do you mean you won’t? Then you shall——!"
She started toward him, wrath in her eyes, but he caught her wrists and
held her.
"You’re altogether too well satisfied with yourself," he said.  "You’ve
no emotions inside your very lovely person except discreet ones.
Otherwise, you’ve got the devil inside you and it’s getting on my
nerves."
"Jim!  You beast!"
"Yes, I am.  What of it?  Beasts have emotions. Yours have either been
cultivated out of you or you were born without any.  I’m glad I am part
beast.  I’m glad you know it.  The rest of me is human; and the
combination isn’t a very serious menace to civilization. But the sort of
expurgated girl you are is!"
"Don’t you think I’m capable of any deep emotions?" she asked.  The
smile had died on her lips.
"Maybe.  I don’t know."
"Who should, if you don’t?"
He shrugged:
"Your husband, perhaps."
"Jim!  I told you not to call him that!"
"Well, a spade is a spade——"
"Do you mean to be offensive?"
"How can that offend you?"
She released her wrists and shot a curious, inexplicable look at him.
"I don’t understand you," she said.  "You can be so generous and
high-minded and you can be so unkind and insolent to me."
"Insolent?"
"Yes.  You meant it insolently when you spoke of Oswald as my husband.
You’ve done it before, too. Why do you?  Do you really want to hurt me?
Because you know he isn’t my husband except by title. He may never be."
"All right," he said.  "I’m sorry I was offensive. I’m just tired of
this mystery, I suppose.  It’s a hopeless sort of affair for me.  I
can’t make you love me; you’re married, besides.  It’s too much for me—I
can’t cope with it, Steve....  So I won’t ever bother you again with
importunities.  I’ll go my own way."
"Very well," she said in an even voice.
She nodded to him and went out, saying as she passed:
"There’ll be tea at five, if you care for any."  And left him planted.
Which presently enraged him, and he began to pace the studio, pondering
on the cruelty, insensibility and injustice of that devilish sex which
had created man as a convenience.
"The thing to do," he said savagely to himself, "is to exterminate the
last trace of love for her, tear it out, uproot it, trample on it
without remorse——"
The studio bell rang.  He walked to the door and opened it.  A
bewilderingly pretty girl stood there.
"Miss Davis?" she inquired sweetly.  "I have an appointment."
"Come in," said Cleland, the flush of wrath still on his countenance.
The girl entered; he offered her a chair.
"Miss Davis happens to be out at the moment," he said, "but I don’t
believe she’ll be very long."
"Do you mind my waiting?" asked the pretty girl.
"No, I don’t," he said, welcoming diversion.  "Do you mind my being
here?  Or are you going to put me out?"
She looked surprised, then she laughed very delightfully:
"Of course not.  Miss Davis and I have known each other for a long
while, and I owe her a great deal and I am devoted to her.  Do you think
I’d be likely to banish a friend of hers?  Besides, I’m only one of her
models."
"A model?" he repeated.  "How delightful!  I also am a model—of good
behaviour."
They both laughed.
"Does it pay?" she inquired mischievously.
"No, it doesn’t.  I wish I had another job."
"Why not take the one I’ve just left?"
"What was it?"
"I was dancing at the Follies."
"All right.  Will you try me out?"
"With pleasure."
"I’ll turn on that music-box."
The girl laughed her enchanting little laugh, appraised him at a glance,
then turned her pretty head and critically surveyed the studio.
"I believe," she said, "I’m to pose for Miss Davis seated on a winged
horse.  Isn’t that exciting?"
"You’d be delightful on a winged horse," he said.
"Do you think so?"
"I suspect it.  What did you do in the Follies?"
"Nothing very interesting.  Have you seen the Follies?"
"You ought to know I haven’t," he said reproachfully. "Do you suppose I
could have forgotten you?"
She rose and dropped him a Florodora curtsey. They were getting on very
well.  She glanced demurely at the music box.  He jumped up and turned
it on. The battered disc croaked out a tango.
"Shall I take up those rugs?" he inquired.
"What on earth would Miss Davis say if she found us dancing?"
"She isn’t here to say anything.  Shall I?"
"Very well....  I’ll help you."
They dragged the rugs aside.
The studio was all golden with the sun, now, and the brilliant rays
bathed them as she laid her gloved hand in his and his arm encircled her
waist.
She was a wonderful dancer; her supple grace and professional perfection
enchanted him.
From time to time he left her to crank up the music-box; neither of them
tired.  Occasionally she glanced at her jewelled wrist-watch and
ventured to voice her doubts as to the propriety of continuing in the
imminence of Miss Davis’s return.
"Then let’s come up to my studio," he said.  "I’ve a music-phone of
sorts.  We can dance there until you’re tired, and then you can come
down and see Miss Davis."
She demurred: the music-box ran down with a squawk.
"Shall we take one more chance here?" he asked.
"No, it’s too risky....  Shall I run up to your place for just one
little dance?"
"Come on!" he said, taking her hand.
They went out and he closed the door.  Then, hand-in-hand, laughing like
a pair of children, they sped up the stairs and arrived breathless
before his door, which he unlocked.  And in another minute they were
dancing again while a scratched record croaked out a fox-trot.
"I must go," she said, resting one gloved hand on his arm.  "I’d love
to stay but I mustn’t."
"First," he said, "we’ll have tea."
"No!"
But presently they were seated on his desk, a plate of sweet biscuits
between them, their glasses of sherry touching.
"Unknown but fascinating girl," he said gaily, "I drink to your health
and fortune.  Never shall I forget our dance together; never shall I
forget the charming stranger who took tea with me!"
"Nor shall I forget you!—you very nice boy," she said, looking at him
with smiling intentness.
"Would it spoil if we saw each other again?"
"You know that such delightful encounters never bear repetition," she
answered.  "Now I’m going. Farewell!"
She laughed at him, touched her glass with her lips, set it aside, and
slipped to the floor.
"Good-bye!" she said.  He caught her at the door, and she turned and
looked up gravely.
"Don’t spoil it," she whispered, disengaging herself.
So he released her, and she stretched out her hand, smiled at him, and
stepped out.  The music-phone continued to play gaily.
A girl who was coming upstairs saw her as she left Cleland’s studio;
and, as the pretty visitor sped lightly past her, the girl who was
mounting turned and watched her.  Then she resumed her ascent, came
slowly to Cleland’s open door, stood there resting a moment as though
out of breath.
Cleland, replacing the rugs, glanced up and caught sight of Stephanie;
and the quick blood burnt his face.
She came in as though still a trifle weary from the ascent.  Neither
spoke.  She glanced down at the two empty wine glasses on his desk, saw
the decanter, the biscuits and cigarettes.  The music-phone was expiring
raucously.
"Who is that girl?" she asked in an even, colourless voice.
"A girl I met."
"Do you mind telling me her name?"
"I—don’t know it," he said, getting redder.
"Oh.  Shall I enlighten you?"
"Thank you."
"She’s Mary Cliff, of the Follies.  I’ve seen her dance."
"Really," he said carelessly.
Stephanie leaned against the desk, resting one hand on it.  An odd sense
of mental fatigue possessed her; things were not clear in her mind; she
was not very sure of what she was saying:
"I came up to say—that I’m sorry we quarrelled.... I’m sorry now that I
came.  I’m going in a moment....  You’ve already had tea, I see.  So you
won’t care for any more."
After a flushed silence, he said:
"Did you have a successful lesson, Steve?"
"I’ve had two—lessons.  Yes, they were quite—successful."
"You seem tired."
"No."  She turned and walked to the door.  He opened it for her in
silence.
"Good night," she said.
"Good night."
                            *CHAPTER XXIII*
Cleland’s unhappy interpretation of the episode was masculine and
