now that you've seen them ?" 
Ralph stared, for beautifully important as this 
point had been she suddenly made it more so. 
"Why, cousin, I'm here as Molly's true lover 
to marry her, you know, as soon as ever the 
banns can be published and her wedding-gown 
bought: so that what sort of a figure should I 
cut if she wasn't as dear to me as life ? She is 
greater even than I dreamed." 
' 'Greater' ?" She hung again on this 
term as she had done before; but it was as if 
something had happened since then, and she 
now met his idea in time. "Won't it be that 
you'll make her great ? " 
"I hope with all my heart I shall make her 
happy, but she's splendid," Ralph gravely, al 
most sententiously, said, "beyond any power of 
mine to show her off." He clung to his gravity, 
which somehow steadied him so odd it was 
that the sense of her understanding wouldn't be 
abated, which even a particular lapse, he could 
see . 
THE Ambassador does of course think him a 
curious and interesting case of dementia, feels a 
kind of superior responsibility about him accord 
ingly, is really in a manner "fascinated" and 
mystified too; and in short quite naturally and 
inevitably stretches a point to see him, as it were, 
safely home. This he has it on his mind and his 
nerves, on his sense of responsibility, effectively 
to do. But, as naturally, he mustn't acknowledge 
his conviction, even though Ralph invites him 
to; and I get I think what I want by making 
him come down to the street in the cab as from 
curiosity to test his visitor's extraordinary state 
ment, and then plausibly propose or insist on 
getting in with him and tracking him, as it were, 
to his lair: so as to be able to have first-hand 
evidence of his material situation in the event 
of whatever further occupation. It's in the 
street and at the cab door that he makes the 
point of "seeing home," as if then and there 
merely extemporised; and with the advantage 
that I thus seem to get what I remember orig 
inally groping for, having groped for, when I 
broke this off just here so many years ago. I 
gave up taking time to excogitate my missing 
link, my jump or transition from this last ap 
pearance of my young man's in the modern world, 
so to speak, and his coming up again, where we 
next find him, after the dive, in the "old." I 
think I now have quite sufficiently got that transi 
tion I have it perfectly before me. It passes 
between them; Ralph himself, on their way, in 
the cab, or probably better still, outside, on the 
pavement in Mansfield Square and before the 
house, expresses all I want; puts it, that is, to 
his - benevolent friend, that he knows now per 
fectly that on opening the door of the house with 
his latchkey he lets himself into the Past. He 
disappears into the Past, and what he has wanted 
is that his companion shall know he is there; 
shall be able to give that account of him if he is 
missed or wanted; shall also perhaps be able to 
take in all, whatever it is to be, that may yet 
happen, and believe in his experience if he ever 
rises to the surface again with it. This of course 
but clinches the Ambassador's sense of the re 
fined beauty of his mania; though at the same 
time the very law of my procedure here is to 
show what is passing in his excellency's mind 
only through Ralph's detection and interpreta- 
  
tion, Ralph's own expression of it so leaving 
my own exhibition of it to stand over for my 
final chapter, my supreme denoument, when 
Aurora What's-her-name, under a tremendous 
"psychic" anxiety and distress of her own, which 
Jias been growing and growing within her com- 
mensurately with Ralph's own culmination of 
distress and anguish in his drama, which we so 
centrally and interestingly assist at, comes out 
to London for relief and throws herself upon the 
Ambassador with the strange story of her con 
dition, matching and balancing so remarkably 
poor Ralph's own story of the number of months 
before. An essential point is that the time of 
duration of Ralph's plunge or dive is exactly the 
real time that has elapsed for those on the sur 
face some six months being about what I pro 
visionally see. The horrid little old conceit of 
the dream that has only taken half an hour, or 
whatever, any analogy with that, I mean, to be 
utterly avoided. The duration is in short the 
real duration, and I know what I mean when I 
say that everything altogether corresponds. Then 
it is, in the final situation, that we get, by a back 
ward reference or action, the real logic and process 
of the Ambassador's view of how it has seemed 
best to take the thing, and what it has seemed 
best to "do" in connection with his strange 
visitor's exhibition. He gives, he states, what 
has then determined and guided him; and I see 
  
that he states it to Aurora all sufficiently and 
vividly, so that we don't have any clumsiness of 
his going back to it, I mean to his account of 
his own procedure, with Ralph himself when we 
have Ralph at last restored and, as what all that 
has gone on in the interval makes it, saved: 
saved from all the horror of the growing fear 
of not being saved, of being lost, of being in the 
past to stay, heart-breakingly to stay and never 
know his own original precious Present again; 
that horror which his conception of his adventure 
had never reckoned with, and his manner of 
getting saved from which, saved by the sacrifice, 
the self-sacrifice of the creature to whom he con 
fesses, in his anguish of fear, the secret of who 
and what and how etc. he is, constitutes the 
clou and crisis and climax of my action as I see 
it. It will take more working out, which will 
come but too abundantly, I seem to apprehend, 
as I go; but I have the substance of it, I have 
that still, as I had it of old, in my vision, even if 
a trifle rough, of the two sisters, the mother, 
Mrs. So-and-so of Drydown, the brother of that 
period, and whoever or whatever else I may sub- 
ordinately need even to the point very possibly 
of a second young man, the third, that is, in all, 
who is a wooer or suitor of the younger sister 
and, for my full kind of quasi-Turn-of-Screw 
effect, is of a type, a type of the period, entirely 
opposed to that of the brother. I see him, I 
  
have him and his affair, too thoroughly to have 
to waste words on him here. The more I get 
into my drama itself the more magnificent, upon 
my word, I seem to see it and feel it; with such 
a tremendous lot of possibilities in it that I posi 
tively quake in dread of the muchness with which 
they threaten me. The slow growth on the part 
of the others of their fear of Ralph, even in the 
midst of their making much of him, as abnormal, 
as uncanny, as not like those they know of their 
own kind etc., etc.; and his fear just of theirs, 
with his double consciousness, alas, his being 
almost as right as possible for the "period," and 
yet so intimately and secretly wrong; with his 
desire to mitigate so far as he can the malaise 
that he feels himself, do what he will, more and 
more produce. There must be an importance for 
him, I mean about him, in the view of the others; 
and this must be definite and consist of some 
two or three very strong and vivid facts vivid 
that is to the imagination of people of 1820. 
Rather beautiful does it seem to me to have two 
or three of his actual modern facts stick to him 
and operate in this sense that I try to project : not 
ably his "refinement," though he tries to conceal 
it, to dissimulate it; notably his being in 1820 
as "rich" as he is, or was, in 1910 which counts 
for an immense well-offness at the earlier period. 
And then his whole true modern attribute and 
quality, with a distinguished appearance to match 
  
it, and certain things dont il ne peut pas se defaire, 
that are of the modern pitch of material civilisa 
tion, like his perfect and soignees teeth, for ex 
ample, which that undentisted age can't have 
known the like of, and which constitute a part 
of his troubled consciousness of complication. 
He dissimulates, he succeeds, he fits in above all 
because he pleases, pleases at the same time that 
he creates malaise, by not being like them all; 
which it is that gives me what I just above threw 
out this question for, his "importance." With 
out the importance I don't see the situation for 
him at all as I want it, and yet I must bring it 
in on lines of sufficient verisimilitude even though 
while I say this the element so visualised fills me 
with the effect to be got out of it: I mean the 
charm and interest and fineness of that. In short 
once I have the importance, as I say, I have every 
thing: the rest all clusters round it. Yes, the 
more I think of the little man (he must be little) 
who circles about the younger sister, and of whom 
she has an intimate horror he rich, by the way, 
too, and thereby desired by the mother, and 
with a small sort of raffine (of that time) Horace 
Walpole atmosphere about him but in short I 
needn't talk of him thus; I possess him too en 
tirely. I keep missing, at the same time, all the 
while, my fact of putting the essence of what I 
see straight enough thus the postulate of the 
young man from America arriving, coming upon 
  
the scene, somehow designated or arranged for 
in advance as to one or other of the sisters (I 
leave it rough and a little in the air, so to speak, 
for the moment. The just how and just why I 
can dispose of in a page when in closer quarters). 
"he point is that the wrong sister, abetted by 
the mother, pounces on him, as it were it's the 
elder one I see doing this; and it so befalls that 
he is booked, as we say, to marry her, before, 
with all the precautions he has to keep, he can, 
as we also say, turn round. So it is that after 
a little, after the flush of the amusement of his 
extraordinary consciousness having begun a bit 
to abate in the light of the brutalities etc., what 
I call to myself most conveniently his dawning 
anguish glimmers and glimmers; what it means 
to see himself married to the elder sister and locked 
up with her there in that form of the Past. He 
conceals, he successfully does so, his growing 
malaise, all the effort and unrest of which, by the 
by, makes him, he sees, appear to them "clever" 
beyond anything they have ever dreamed of 
(they, also, by the way, must pass for clever, as 
1820 understood it;) and I catch also, parenthet 
ically, at my need for their not being, with all 
their pride of gentility, at all as conveniently 
well-off as they would like, or must require, this 
fact helping greatly the importance for them that 
he is possessed of means that seem to them quite 
blessedly large. The note of their thrift, a cer- 
  
tain hardness of meanness, the nature of their 
economies, the brutality (I keep coming back to 
that) of their various expedients this and that 
and the other Ralph has to take in. Meanwhile 
he is committed to the elder sister and we have 
the effect on her of his importance, his means, 
his cleverness, mixed up with that in him which 
is mystifying to all of them, but which the elder 
sister at first at least sets down to the action and 
the play of a cleverness, a strange cleverness 
from over the sea, such as she has never before 
conceived. She holds on and on to him even 
after the malaise, and his sense of it in them, 
with his still greater sense of it in himself, has 
quite begun, as it were, to rage; with which: oh 
I see somehow such beautiful things that I can 
hardly keep step with myself to expatiate and 
adumbrate coherently enough. Let me just 
nail 2 or 3 things, by 2 or 3 of the roughest sim 
plest strokes, in order to catch and hold them 
fast before I go on. All the while, all the while, 
the younger sister, who is ever so touching, 
charming, really appealing for him all the while, 
all the while. I know what I mean by this suf 
ficiently just to see and note here that the elder 
does after a while break off under the action of 
the malaise, which Ralph is in the extraordinary 
position of having in a way to work against and 
being also, as a means of release to him, grateful 
to. I can't take time to catch at this moment, 
  
but keep it till the next chance, my notation of 
how and where the younger sister, the one who 
really would have been meant for him, the one 
for the sake of whom he would almost really 
swing off backward my notation, I say (after 
a break of dictation) of the origin and growth of 
the special relation between Ralph and herself; 
she being of course the nearest approach and 
in fact it's very much of an approach that I 
have in the whole thing to a Heroine. I seem to 
myself now to have intended somehow, in my 
original view, an accident, a complication, a 
catastrophic perversity or fatality, as it were, 
through which Ralph has addressed himself from 
the first to the elder, the wrong, sister instead 
of the younger, the right and when I try to 
recover what I so long ago had in my head about 
this there glimmers out, there floats shyly back 
to me from afar, the sense of something like this, 
a bit difficult to put, though entirely expressible 
with patience, and that as I catch hold of the 
tip of the tail of it yet again strikes me as adding 
to my action but another admirable twist. Of 
course I am afraid of twists, I mean of their multi 
plying on my hands to the effect of too much 
lengthening and enlarging and sprawling; but 
the bit that I speak of now is surely of the very 
essence of the situation. It connects itself with 
something so interesting and effective, so strong 
and fine, to express from the moment one suc- 
  
cessfully tackles it. "This" then, what I men 
tioned above, is that Ralph has "taken over'   
from the other party to his extraordinary ar 
rangement certain indications that have been 
needed for starting the thing, and which I think 
of him as having, under the operation of the whole 
prodigy, very considerably, very enormously, as 
similated. Enormous, however, as the assimila 
tion may be, it is not absolutely perfect, and 
don't I exactly get out of this wavering margin, 
this occurrence of spots and moments, so to speak, 
where it falls short, just one of those effects of 
underlying distress, of sense of danger, as I com 
prehensively call it, which are of the very finest 
essence of one's general intention ? He knows 
his way so much and so far, knows it wonder 
fully, finds his identity, the one he wears for the 
occasion, extraordinarily easy considering the 
miracle of it all; but the very beauty of the sub 
ject is in the fact of his at the same time watch 
ing himself, watching his success, criticising his 
failure, being both the other man and not the 
other man, being just sufficiently the other, his 
prior, his own, self, not to be able to help living 
in that a bit too. Isn't it a part of what I call 
the beauty that this concomitant, this watchful 
and critical, living in his "own" self inevitably 
grows and grows from a certain moment on ? 
and isn't it for instance quite magnificent that 
one sees this growth of it as inevitably promoted 
more and more by his sense of what I have noted 
as the malaise on the part of the others ? Don't 
I see his divination and perception of that so affect 
and act upon him that little by little he begins 
to live more, to live most, and most uneasily, in 
what I refer to as his own, his prior self, and less, 
uneasily less, in his borrowed, his adventurous, 
that of his tremendous speculation, so to speak 
rather than the other way round as has been 
the case at first. When his own, his original, 
conquers so much of the ground of that, then it 
is that what I have called his anguish gets fuller 
possession of it it being so one thing to "live 
in the Past" with the whole spirit, the whole 
candour of confidence and confidence of candour, 
that he would then have naturally had and a 
totally different thing to find himself living in it 
without those helps to possibility, those deter 
minations of relation, those preponderant right 
instincts and, say, saving divinations. Don't I 
put it at first that he is excited and amused and 
exhilarated by the presence of these latter, by 
the freedom with which he lives and enjoys and 
sees and knows: the exhilaration proceeding 
during the "at first" time, as I put it, by the 
sense, the fairly intoxicating and spell-casting 
consciousness of how the inordinate business is 
going. His sense of success, which there is just 
enough of his critical margin or edge to appreciate, 
to estimate, and thus relate to his former consciousness 
and his whole starting-point, this 
creates for him a part of the success, the success 
with the others, by the very spirit and glamour 
(to them) that it gives him and that keeps up till 
the change I visualise, the inevitable difference, 
to phrase it roughly, begins begins by something 
that happens, something that springs out of the 
very situation itself for portent, for determina 
tion, and which I must work out, or work into, 
exactly the right dramatic identity for. This I 
guarantee; but meanwhile I am ahead of my ar 
gument, and must hark back for a few minutes 
to what I left standing and waiting above that 
"this" which I was there about to follow up. 
At once, withal, I see it in images, which I must 
put as they come, and which make for me thus, 
don't I seem to feel ? one of the first, if not the 
very first passages of my action. An action, an 
action, an action must it thus insuperably be 
as it has moreover so well started with being 
from the first pulse to the last. Ralph, taking 
leave of the Ambassador, the depositary of his 
extraordinary truth and the (as he hopes) secured 
connection with the world he cuts himself loose 
from, dropping as from a balloon thousands of 
feet up in the air, and not really knowing what 
smash or what magically soft concussion awaits 
him Ralph, I say, in entering the house then 
walks at a step straight into 1820 and, closing 
the door behind him, shuts out everything to 
  
which he has hitherto belonged. He is from that 
minute, to his own eyes and all his own faculties, 
the young man in the portrait, the young man 
we have seen advance to him that night of his 
vigil in the drawing-room. This bridge or effec 
tive transition from the visit at the Embassy to 
the central drama is thus found and is as good 
as another for my purpose swift and straight 
and simple and direct; as I have on a foregoing 
page, however, sufficiently stated. Well then, I 
want to make it, within^ his arrival, practically, 
from America to the London family: as to which, 
however, on consideration don't I see myself 
catch a bright betterment by not at all making 
him use a latch-key ? to the fact of which an 
awkwardness and a difficulty would, I seem to 
make out, or do, rather, immediately attach. No, 
no no latch-key but a rat-tat-tat, on his own 
part, at the big brass knocker; having effected 
which he stands there a moment, I think, his 
head very triumphantly high and confident, 
looking from the steps down at the Ambassador 
on the pavement; this latter isolated now, by 
Ralph's having paid and discharged the cab, 
which has driven away, the moment they got 
out. What I glanced at as happening between 
them just thereafter takes place on the pave 
ment, as I have noted, but with this difference, 
I see with a minute's further intensity of focussing, 
that he does well, what I have just stated. Only 
  
I seem to want a dumb passage between the two 
men while the Ambassador just stands, just 
lingers, as if now at last verily spellbound. I 
mustn't forget, by the way, that I have spoken 
of the rain, or that Ralph has, at the Embassy, 
and that his Excellency can't be represented as 
standing there without a vehicle and under his 
umbrella. So it has been constate on their coming 
out of the Embassy that the rain has stopped 
during Ralph's visit, so that it's all the more 
quite over when they reach the square. The 
Ambassador has said, in reference to the cab, 
"Oh I won't keep it I'll walk home; you've 
really made me need to shake myself!" Thereby 
I get him held there for the minute seeing the 
last of Ralph after the latter has knocked and 
before the door is opened. Ralph turns on its 
opening it is held open wide for the moment, 
and as I seem to see this altogether in latish day 
light of a spring, say of a March or April, season, 
it is no lighted interior that is for a moment ex 
hibited, but just such a Bloomsbury entrance 
hall as may very well meet the eye to-day. Within 
then, Ralph arrives; and what for the moment 
I want summarily to mark is simply that the 
elder sister is the first person in the "drama" 
that he sees. She must be handsome, very 
handsomer in an obvious way than the younger; 
not yet at all in sight not in sight, I think, till 
after the three others have been, the mother and 
  
the two young men, who a little announce and 
prepare her. It even may be a little, I think, 
that she is for the time away from home and 
doesn't return till after the situation is otherwise 
started. Well then, here it is that what Ralph 
knows, what he is in possession of and has the 
general preparation for, is so far precarious and, 
so to speak, treacherous, that well, all I want 
to say now is, before I break off, that he takes 
her, takes the elder one, for the right young 
woman. This seems easy so right, in her way, 
does she appear to be. He knows, he has "had 
it," from the 1820 young man, what is expected 
of him in regard to one of the young women; 
how, in what manner and on what terms and by 
what understanding it has come to be expected, 
remaining questions that I shall adequately, not 
to say brilliantly, dispose of. What I seem to 
want is to get the relation between these two 
started on the spot, before any other relation 
whatever takes place for my young man; feeling 
as I do that once it is started I can abundantly 
take care of it. I even ask myself whether I 
mayn't have my hero's very first impression, the 
very first of all, of my second man, as I call him, 
the one other than the brother, who is there for 
the second sister and whom he should perhaps 
do well to find alone in the room when he is in 
troduced, waiting there for the others, the ob 
jects of his call, and constituting Ralph's imme- 
  
diate impression. It is to them, say, that the 
first sister enters so indefeasibly and luminously, 
as it were, do I see my procedure ruled by the 
drama, the quasi-scenic movement, or essential 
march and logic and consistency, at any rate. 
However, I am not pretending in these words, 
in this rough scenario, to go into any but the 
most provisional and general particulars. What 
I want is that my young man should inevitably 
and naturally dazzle, and become aware of it, 
by the very force of his feeling the distinction 
and privilege of the prodigious element that has 
launched him. The others don't in the least 
know what it is in him, but what I want to make 
ressortir from it is that he "does'   the other 
fellow, his ancient prototype, the expected cousin 
from America, with no end of gentility etc. There 
must be at the same time, of course I see, enor 
mous foreshortenings, great compression and 
presentation of picture: I want something of 
this sort to show before, the second daughter 
turns up. Of course such questions as whether 
it was of the period that the elder one, bred as 
girls of that time were bred, would "come down" 
to a couple of "gentlemen visitors" alone, and 
as by a kind of anticipation of our current mo 
dernity of course such a detail as that is a per 
fectly easy thing to handle and make right. At 
the same time withal, in respect to what I said 
just above about the scenic, let me keep before 
  
me how the very essence of all this is to stick as 
fast as possible to the precedent of the "Screw   
in which foreshortening abounded and I didrTt, 
and couldn't, at all hand my subject over to the 
scenic. The present is of course a much larger 
and more complicated affair, lending itself much 
more to the scenic, even in a manner insisting 
on it a little, or a good bit; but I must guard, 
guard and all the while intensely guard, myself, 
none the less or I shall sprawl out over ever so 
much more ground than I shall want, or at all 
need, for my best effect, to cover. If I may but 
look it well in the face that the thing can only 
afford in a very minor degree, not in the least 
in a preponderant one, to express itself scenically, 
it takes very little further thinking to see how 
vital that is, and that the particular effect I want 
most to catch, that of the crescendo of the ma- 
iaisfi^ieally demands and depends upon the non- 
scenic for its full triumph. I grasp this entirely; 
I see how "narrative representation" most per 
mits, most effectively prepares and accompanies, 
my turning of my present screw, and what a 
part picture and image and evoked aspect and 
sense can play for me in that connection. 
I catch, it seems to me, with a certain amount 
of vision already two or three, not to say three 
or four, of my essential hinges or, as I have called 
'em, clous, that mark the turns or steps of the 
action. The first of these is the appearance on 
  
the scene of the second daughter after things 
have got well under way in respect to the first. 
The first is the fullblown flower she mustn't be 
at all too young, by the way; must be going on 
to thirty, say and very little trumpet-blow 
takes place about her, on the part of the others, 
in advance: all pointing to the fact that she's a 
sort of neglected quantity whom nevertheless 
the little Horace Walpole man does appreciate 
and pretend to; under all encouragement from 
the others who think him quite more than good 
enough for her, though not good enough, no, 
for the elder sister. Beware, by the way, of any 
little false step here: don't make the pretender 
in question too too eligible or, in the modern 
lingo, smart; since if this were so Ralph wouldn't 
pass for more desirable. I must keep him a bit 
down, in the right sort of way and degree, in 
comparison with Ralph; bearing in mind at the 
same time that a sort of leading note in it all is 
his, ours, sense of the hard old class rigour govern 
ing the life about him and of which he sees the 
salience at every turn. The reappearance at 
home of the second girl, from wherever she has 
been (expressible in 10 words) at any rate is, as 
it were, my first clou or hinge; a fact, an im 
pression, an apprehension, that immediately 
makes such a difference for Ralph. I forget al 
ready whether I said just above that the H.W. 
man talks to him, takes him into his confidence 
  
about her, even to the point of recognising to 
R. that she doesn't care for his suit and has much 
incurred her mother's, sister's and even brother's 
reprobation by that attitude. Vividness to R. 
of the reign of authority at that time, the much 
harder rule and discipline; and how half terrified 
at what she is doing by hanging back, by resist 
ing, the poor girl herself is all the while. Her 
first relation to him is that of her appealing ex- 
jactly from this rigour; her first impression of 
him and emotion about him, he sees, he gives 
us to see, is that of a sudden this fine young Amer 
ican relation is a person who may side with her, 
may help her, may intervene and back her up 
in not accepting addresses from a person she 
can't get over her dislike of. Yes, that's their 
first basis, and for this appeal Ralph must have 
been prepared by his own sense of the kind of 
uncanny, to put it in a simplified way, little per 
sonage her aspirant is. They come nearer to 
gether on that, they meet on that, they talk, 
they begin to understand each other on that 
very great though Ralph's responsibility in the 
matter, the matter of backing up her refusal, 
may be. It's at any rate the way the real rela 
tion with them, with him his sense of the an 
cient brutality of the others to her, her mother, 
her brother, her sister, stirring finely within him. 
She hasn't dreamed herself, he sees, of any real 
equality of transaction, of relation with him at 
  
all; for if the others are under the dazzle, so much 
the more under it is she. She sees that is he 
