Jimmie Higgins was beside himself with excitement. He 
danced about and waved his cap, he shouted himself hoarse, he 
almost yielded to the impulse to jump upon a pile of lumber 
and make a speech himself. Presently came Comrades Gerrity 
and Mary Allen, who had got wind of the trouble, and had 
loaded a whole edition of the "Worker" into a Ford ; so Jimmie 
turned newsboy, selling these papers, hundreds of them, until 
his pockets were bursting with the weight of pennies and 
nickels. And then he was pressed into service running errands 
for those who were arranging to organise the workers; he car- 
ried bundles of membership-cards and application-blanks, fol- 
lowing a man with a bull voice and a megaphone, who shouted 
in several languages the location of union headquarters, and the 
halls where various foreign language meetings would be held 
that evening. Evidently some one had foreseen the breaking of 
this trouble, and had been at pains to plan ahead. 
Late in the afternoon Jimmie was witness of an exciting 
incident. In one of the shops a number of the men had per- 
sisted in returning to work, and an immense throng of strikers 
had gathered to wait for them. They were afraid to come out, 
but stayed in the building after the quitting-whistle, while 
those outside jeered and hooted, and the bosses telephoned fran- 
tically for aid. The greater part of the Leesville police-force 
was on hand, and in addition, the company had its own guards 
 
and private detectives. But they were needed all over the place. 
You saw them at the various entrances, menacing, but not quite 
so sure of themselves as usual; their hands had a tendency to 
slip back to the bulge on their right hips. 
Jimmie and another fellow had got themselves an empty 
box and were standing on it, leaning against the wall of the 
building and shouting "Ya! Ya!" at every "scab" head that 
showed itself. They saw an automobile come in at the gate, its 
horn honking savagely, causing the crowd to leap to one side or 
the other. The automobile was packed with men, sitting on 
one another's knees, or hanging to the running boards outside. 
There came a second car, loaded in the same fashion. They were 
guards, sent all the way from Hubbardtown; for of course the 
Hubbard Engine Company would help out its rivals in an 
emergency such as this. That was the solidarity of capitalism, 
concerning which the Socialists never wearied of preaching. 
The men leaped from the cars, and spread themselves fan- 
wise in front of the door. They had nightsticks in their hands, 
and grim resolution in their faces; they cried, "Stand back! 
Stand back!" The crowd hooted, but gave slightly, and a few 
minutes later the doors of the building opened, and the first of 
the timid workers emerged. There was a howl, and then from 
somewhere in the throng a stone was thrown. "Arrest that man I" 
shouted a voice, and Jimmie's attention was attracted to the 
owner of this voice a young man who had arrived in the first 
automobile, and was now standing up in the seat, from which 
position he could dominate the throng. "Arrest that man I" he 
shouted again, pointing his finger ; and three of the guards leaped 
into the crowd at the spot indicated. The man who had thrown 
the missile started to run, but he could not go fast in the crowd, 
and in a moment, as it seemed, the guards had him by the 
collar. He tried to jerk away, and they struck him over the 
head, and laid about them to keep the rest of the throng at bay. 
"Take him inside!" the young man in the car kept shouting. 
And one of the guards twisted his hand in the collar of the 
wretched stone-thrower, until he grew purple in the face, and so 
half dragged and half ran him into the building. 
The young man in the car turned toward the crowd which 
was blocking the way to the exit. "Get those men out of the 
way !" he yelled to the guards. "Drive them along God damn 
them, they've got no business in here. ' And so on, with a 
string of dynamic profanity, which stung both guards and 
policemen into action, and made them ply their clubs upon 
the crowd. 
"Do you know who that is?" asked Jimmie's companion on 
the box. "That's Lacey Granitch." 
Jimmie started, experiencing a thrill to the soles of his 
ragged shoes. Lacey Granitch ! In the four years that the little 
machinist had worked for the Empire, he had never caught a 
glimpse of the young lord of Leesville something which may 
easily be believed, for the young lord considered Leesville "a 
hole of a town," and honoured it with his presence only once or 
twice a year. But his spirit brooded over it ; he was to Leesville 
a mythological figure, either of wonder and awe, or of horror, 
according to the temperament of the contemplator. One day 
"Wild Bill" had arisen in the local, and held aloft a page from 
the "magazine supplement" of one of the metropolitan "yellows." 
There was an account of how Lacey Granitch had broken the 
hearts of seven chorus-girls by running away with an eighth. 
He fairly "ate 'em alive," according to the account; in order 
to give an idea of the atmosphere in which the young hero 
abode, the whirl of delight which was his life, the artist of the 
Sunday supplement had woven round the border of the page 
a maze of feminine ankles and calves in a delirium of lingerie; 
while at the top was a supper-table with champagne-corks pop- 
ping, and a lady clad in inadequate veils dancing amid the 
dishes. 
This had happened while the local was in the midst of an 
acrimonious controversy over "Section Six." Should the Social- 
ist party bar from its membership those who advocated sabotage, 
violence and crime? Young Norwood was pleading for orderly 
methods of social reconstruction; and here stood "Wild Bill," 
ripping to shreds the reputation of the young plutocrat of the 
Empire Shops. "That's what you geezers are sweating for! 
That's why you've got to be good, and not throw monkey- 
wrenches in the machinery so the seven broken-hearted chorus- 
girls can drown their sorrows in champagne!" 
And now here was the hero of all these . romantic escapades, 
forsaking the white lights of Broadway, and coming home to 
help the old man keep his contracts. He stood in the seat of the 
 
automobile, glancing this way and that, swiftly, like a hunter 
on the alert for dangerous game. His dark eyes roamed here 
and there, his proud face was pale with anger, his tall, perfectly 
groomed figure was eloquent of mastership, of command. He 
was imperious as a young Caesar, terrible in his vengeance ; and 
poor Jimmie, watching him, was torn between two contradic- 
tory emotions. He hated him hated him with a deadly and 
abiding hatred. But also he admired him, marvelled at him, 
cringed before him. Lacey was a wanton, a cursing tyrant, a 
brutal snob; but also he was the master, the conqueror, the 
proud, free, rich young aristocrat, for whom all the rest of 
humanity existed. And Jimmie Higgins was a poor little worm 
of a proletarian, with nothing but his labour-power to sell, try- 
ing by sheer force of his will to lift himself out of his slave- 
psychology ! 
There is an old adage that "a cat may look at a king." But 
this can only have been meant to apply to house-cats, cats of the 
palace, accustomed to the etiquette of courts; it cannot have 
been meant for proletarian cats of the gutter, the Jimmie 
Higgins variety of red revolutionary yowlers. Jimmie and his 
companion stood on their perch, shouting "Ya I Ya !" and sud- 
denly the crowd melted away in front of them, exposing them 
to the angry finger of the young master. "Get along now ! Beat 
it ! Quick !" And Jimmie, poor little ragged, stunted Jimmie, 
with bad teeth and toil-deformed hands, wilted before this blast 
of aristocratic wrath, and made haste to hide himself in the 
throng. But it was with blazing soul that he went; every 
instant he imagined himself turning back, defying the angry 
finger, shouting down the imperious voice, even smashing it back 
into the throat from which it came! 
IV 
Jimmie did not even stop for supper. The greater part of 
the night he worked at helping to organise the strikers, and 
all next day he spent arranging Socialist meetings. He 
worked like a man possessed, lifted above the limitations of 
the flesh. For everywhere that day he carried with him the 
image of the proud, free, rich young aristocrat, with his dark 
eyes roaming swiftly, his tall, perfectly groomed figure eloquent 
of mastership, his voice ringing with challenge. Jimmie was 
for the time utterly possessed by hatred ; and he saw about him 
thousands of others sharing the mood and shouting it aloud. 
Every speaker who could be found was turned loose to talk 
till he was hoarse, and in the evening there were to be half a 
dozen street meetings. That was always the way when there 
were strikes ; then the working-man had time to listen and also 
the desire! 
So came the final crisis, when the little machinist had to show 
the stuff he was made of. He was holding aloft the torch at 
the regular meeting-place on the corner of Main and Third 
Streets, and Comrade Gerrity was explaining the strike and the 
ballot as two edges of the sword of labour, when four policemen 
came suddenly round the corner and pushed their way through 
the crowd. "You'll have to stop this I" declared one. 
"Stop?" cried Gerrity. "What do you mean?" 
"There's to be no more street-speaking during the strike," 
"Who says so?" 
"Orders from the Chief' 
"But we've got a permit." 
"All permits revoked. Cut it out." 
"But this is an outrage !" 
"We don't want any argument, young man " 
"But we're within our rights here." 
"Forget it, young feller I" 
Gerrity turned swiftly to the throng. 
"Fellow-citizens' he cried, "we are here in the exercise of 
our rights as American citizens! We are conducting a peace- 
able and orderly political meeting, and we know our rights and 
propose to maintain them. We " 
"Come down off that box, young feller!" commanded the 
officer; and the crowd hooted and booed. 
"Fellow-citizens !" began Gerrity again ; but that was as far 
as he got, for the policeman seized him by the arm and pulled; 
and Gerrity knew the ways of American policemen too well to 
resist. He came down but still talking. "Fellow-citizens " 
"Are you goin' to shut up?" demanded the other, and as 
Gerrity still went on orating, he announced: "You are under 
arrest." 
There were half a dozen Socialists with the party, and this 
was a challenge to the self-respect of every one of them. In an 
instant Comrade Mabel Smith had leaped onto the stand. "FeL- 
low-workers!" she cried. "Is this America, or is it Kussia?" 
"That'll do, lady' said the policeman, as considerately as he 
dared; for Comrade Mabel wore a big picture-hat, and many 
other signs of youth and beauty. 
"I have a right to speak here, and I mean to speak," she de- 
clared. 
"We don't want to have to arrest you, lady " 
"You either have to arrest me, or else allow me to speak." 
"I'm sorry, lady, but it's orders. You are arrested." 
Then came the turn of Comrade Stankewitz. "Vorkingmen, 
it is for the rights of the vorkers ve are here." And so they 
jerked him off. 
And then "Wild Bill." This hundred per cent, middle-of- 
the-road proletarian had been hanging on the outskirts of the 
meeting, having been forbidden by the local to take part in the 
speaking, because of the intemperate nature of his utterances; 
but now, of course, all rules went down, and Bill leaped onto 
the shaking platform. "Are we slaves?" he yelled. "Are we 
dogs ?" And it would seem that the police thought so, for they 
yanked him off the platform, and one of them seized him by 
the wrist and twisted so that his oration ended in a shriek of 
pain. 
Then came Johnny Edge, a shy youth with an armful of 
literature, which he hung onto in spite of police violence; and 
then then there was one more ! 
Poor Jimmie ! He did not in the least want to get arrested, 
and he was terrified at the idea of making even so short a speech 
as was here the order of the night. But of course, his honour 
was at stake, there was no way out. He handed his torch to a 
by-stander, and mounted the scaffold. "Is this a free coun- 
try ?" he cried. "Do we have free speech ?" And Jimmie's first 
effort at oratory ended in a jerk at his coat-tail, which all but 
upset the frail platform upon which he stood. 
There were four policemen, with six prisoners, and a throng 
about them howling with indignation, perhaps ready to become 
violent who could say? The guardians of order had been 
prepared, however. One of them stepped to the corner and blew 
his whistle, and a minute later came the shriek of a siren, and 
round the corner came swinging the city's big patrol-wagon, the 
"Black Maria." The crowd gave way, and one by one the 
prisoners were thrust in. One of them, "Wild Bill," feeling 
himself for a moment released from the grip of his captors, 
raised his voice, shouting through the wire grating of the 
wagon : "I denounce this outrage ! I am a free American " 
And suddenly Jimmie, who was next in the wagon, felt himself 
flung to one side, and a policeman leaped by him, and planted 
his fist with terrific violence full in the orator's mouth. "Wild 
Bill" went down like a bullock under the slaughter-man's axe, 
and the patrol-wagon started up, the cry of its siren drowning 
the protests of the crowd. 
Poor Bill ! He lay across the seat, and Jimmie, who had to 
eit next to him, caught him in his arms and held him. He was 
quivering, with awful motions like a spasm. He made no 
sound, and Jimmie was terrified, thinking that he was dying. 
Before long Jimmie felt a hot wetness stealing over his hands, 
first slimy, then turning sticky. He had to sit there, almost 
fainting with horror; he dared not say anything, for maybe 
the policeman would strike him also. He sat, clutching in his 
arms the shaking body, and whispering under his breath, "Poor 
Bill! Poor Bill !" 
They came to the station-house, and Bill was carried out and 
laid on a bench, and the others were stood up before the desk 
and had their pedigrees taken. Gerrity demanded indignantly 
to be allowed to telephone, and this demand was granted. He 
routed lawyer Norwood from a party, and set him to finding 
bail; and meantime the prisoners were led to cells. 
They had been there only a couple of minutes when there 
'Came floating through the row of steel cages the voice of a 
woman singing. It was Comrade Mabel Smith, in that clear 
sweet voice they had so often listened to on "social evenings" 
:in the local. She was singing the Internationale : 
Arise, ye prisoners of starvation, 
Arise, ye wretched of the earth! 
The sound thrilled them to the very bones, and they joined 
in the chorus with a shout. Then, of course, came the jailer: 
"Shut up!" And then again: "Shut up!" And then a third 
time: "Will ye shut up?" And then came a bucket of water, 
hurled through the cell bars. It hit Jimmie squarely in the 
mouth, and in the words of the poet, "the subsequent proceedings 
interested him no more !" 
About midnight came Lawyer Norwood and Dr. Service. 
Both of these men had protested against the street-speaking at 
this time; but of course, when it came to comrades in trouble, 
they could not resist the appeal to their sympathies. Such is 
the difficulty of entirely respectable and decorous "parlour" 
Socialists, in their dealings with the wayward children of the 
movement, the "impossibilists" and "direct actionists" and other 
sowers of proletarian wild oats. Dr. Service produced a wad 
of bills and bailed out all the prisoners, and delivered himself 
of impressive indignation to the police-sergeant, while waiting 
for an ambulance to carry "Wild Bill" to the hospital. Jimmie 
Higgins, who had always hitherto shouted with the "wild" ones, 
realised suddenly how pleasant it is to have a friend who wears 
black broadcloth, and carries himself like the drum-major of 
a band, and is reputed to be worth a couple of hundred thousand 
dollars. 
Jimmie went home; and there was Lizzie, pacing the floor 
and wringing her hands in anxiety for there had been no way 
to get word to her what had happened. She flung herself into 
his arms, and then recoiled in fright when she discovered that 
he was wet. He told her the story ; and would you believe it 
Lizzie, being a woman, and only in the A-B-C stage of revolu- 
tionary education, actually did not know that it was a glorious 
and heroic adventure to be arrested ! She thought it a disgrace,, 
and tried to persuade him to keep the dreadful secret from the 
neighbourhood ! And when she found that he was not through 
yet, but had to go to court in the morning and be tried, she- 
wept copiously, and woke up Jimmie Junior, and started him to 
bawling. She was only to be pacified when Jimmie Senior 
agreed to take off his wet clothes at once, and drink a cup or 
two of boiling hot tea, and let himself be covered up with blan- 
kets, so that he might not die of pneumonia before he could 
get to court. 
Next morning there was a crowded court-room and a stern 
and solemn judge frowning over his spectacles, and Lawyer 
Norwood making an impassioned defence of the fundamental 
American right of free speech. It was so very thrilling that 
Jimmie could hardly be kept from applauding his own lawyer I 
And then Comrade Dr. Service arose, and in his most impres- 
sive voice gave the professional information that "Wild Bill's" 
nose had been broken, and three of his front teeth knocked out, 
and that he was in the hospital and unable to come to court; 
and all the other prisoners were called upon to testify what 
"Wild Bill" had done to bring this fate upon him. The police- 
man who had struck the blow testified that the prisoner had 
resisted arrest ; a second policeman testified, "I seen the prisoner 
hit him first, your Honour," which caused Comrade Mabel 
Smith to cry out, "Oh, the ungrammatical prevaricator!" 
The upshot of the trial was that each of the defendants 
was fined ten dollars. Comrade Gerrity led off with an indig- 
nant refusal to pay the fine; the rest of them followed suit 
even Comrade Mabel ! This caused evident distress of mind to 
the judge, for Comrade Mabel with her indignant pink cheeks 
and her big picture-hat looked more than ever the lady, and it 
is a fact known even to judges that American jails have not 
been constructed for ladies. The matter was settled by Lawyer 
Norwood paying her fine, in spite of her protests, and her 
demand to be sent to jail. 
VI 
The five men were led away, over the "Bridge of Sighs," as 
it was called, to the city jail, where they had their pedigrees 
taken again, and their pictures and their finger-prints which 
for the first time impressed upon their minds the fact that they 
were dangerous criminals. Their clothes were taken away, and 
shirts and trousers given them, whose faded blue colour seemed 
to have been impregnated with the misery of scores of previous 
wearers. They were led through steel-barred doors, and along 
dark, steel-barred passages to one of the "tanks." A "tank," 
you discovered, was one floor of this four-storied packing box; 
on each side of it were a row of a dozen barred cells, each with 
four bunks, so that the total maximum population which might 
be crowded into the central space of the "tank" was ninety-six ; 
however, this only happened on Monday mornings, when the 
"drunks" had all been brought in, and before the courts had had 
time to sort them out. 
After you had lain down on your bunk for a few minutes, or 
had leaned against the wall of the "tank," you felt an annoy- 
 
ing stinging sensation somewhere on you. You began to rub 
and scratch; before long you would be rubbing and scratching 
in a dozen different places, and then you would observe your 
neighbour watching you with a grin. "Seam-squirrels?" he 
would say ; and he would bid you take off your coat, and engage 
in the popular hunting game of the institution. Jimmie re- 
membered having heard a speaker refer to the city jail as the 
"Leesville Louse-ranch" ; he had thought that a good joke at the 
time, but now it seemed otherwise to him. 
It was splendid to stand up in court and to take your stand 
as a martyr ; but now Jimmie discovered, as many an unfortunate 
has discovered before him, that being a martyr is not the sport 
it is cracked up to be. There were no heroics now, no singing. 
If you even so much as hummed, they took you out and shut 
you up in a dark hole called the "cooler" ! Nor could you read, 
for there was no light in your cell, and perpetual twilight in the 
central gathering place of the "tank." Apparently the only 
things the authorities of Leesville wished you to do were to 
hunt "seam-squirrels," to smoke cigarettes, to "shoot craps," and 
to make the acquaintance of a variety of interesting young 
criminals, so that when you were ready to resume your outside 
life you might decide whether you wanted to be a hold-up man, 
a safe-cracker, a forger, or a second-story operator. 
Jimmie Higgins, of course, brought a different psychology 
from that of the average jail-inmate. Jimmie could do his 
kind of work just as well in jail as anywhere else ; and barring 
the torment of vermin, the diet of bread and thin coffee and ill- 
smelling greasy soup, and the worry about his helpless family 
outside, he really had a happy time making the acquaintance 
of hoboes and pickpockets, and explaining to them the revolu- 
tionary philosophy. A man who went in to remedy social in- 
justice all by himself could never get very far. It was only when 
he realised himself as a member of a class, and stood as a class 
and acted as a class, that he could accomplish a permanent result. 
Some of the workers had discovered this, and had set out to edu- 
cate their fellows. They brought the wondrous message, even ta 
those in jail; holding out to them the vision of a world made 
over in justice and kindness, the co-operative commonwealth 
of labour, in which every man should get what he produced, and 
no man could exploit his fellows. 
VII 
Three days passed, and then one afternoon Jimmie was 
summoned to see a visitor. He could guess who the visitor was, 
and he went with his heart in his throat, and looked through the 
dark mesh of wire, and saw Lizzie standing stout, motherly 
Lizzie, now very pale, and breathing hard, and with tears running 
in little streamlets down her cheeks. Poor Lizzie, with her 
three babies at home, and her plain, ordinary, non-revolutionary 
psychology, which made going to jail a humiliation instead of a 
test of manhood, a badge of distinction ! Jimmie felt a clutch 
in his own throat, and an impulse to tear down the beastly wire 
mesh and clasp the dear motherly soul in his arms. But all he 
could do was to screw his face into a dubious smile. Sure, he 
was having the time of his life in this jail ! He wouldn't have 
missed it for anything ! He had made a Socialist out of "Dead- 
eye Mike," and had got Pete Curley, a fancy "con" man, to 
promise to read "War, What For?" 
There was only one thing which had been troubling him, and 
that was, how his family was making out. They had had prac- 
tically nothing in the house, he knew, and poor Meissner could 
not feed four extra mouths. But Lizzie, also screwing her face 
into a smile, assured him that everything was all right at home, 
there was no need to worry. In the first place, Comrade Dr. 
Service had sent her a piece of paper with his name written on 
it ; it appeared that this was called a check, and the groceryman 
had exchanged it for a five dollar bill. And in the next place 
there was a domestic secret which Lizzie had to confide she had 
put by some money, without letting Jimmie know it. 
"But how?" cried Jimmie, in wonder for he had thought 
he knew all about his household and its expenses. 
So Lizzie explained the trick she had played. Jimmie had 
committed an extravagance, treating her to a new dress out of 
his increased earnings : a gorgeous contrivance of several colours, 
looking like silk, even if it wasn't. Lizzie had stated that the 
cost was fifteen dollars, and he, the dub, had believed it ! The 
truth was she had bought the dress in a second-hand shop for 
three dollars, and had put twelve dollars away for the time of 
the strike ! 
And Jimmie went back to his "tank" shaking his head and 
philosophising : "Gee ! Can you beat these women ?" 
THE strike was over when Jimmie came out of jail; it had 
been settled by the double-barrelled device of raising the 
wages of the men and putting their leaders behind bars. Jimmie 
presented himself at his old place of working, and the boss told 
him to go to hell; so Jimmie went to Hubbardtown, and stood 
in the long line of men waiting at the gate of the engine com- 
pany. Jimmie knew about black-lists, so when his time came 
to be questioned, he said his name was Joe Aronsky, and he had 
last worked in a machine-shop in Pittsburg; he had come to 
Hubbardtown because he had heard of high pay and good treat- 
ment. While he was answering these questions, he noticed a 
man sitting in the corner of the room studying his face, and 
he saw the boss turn and glance in that direction. The man 
shook his head, and the boss said : "Nothin' doinY' So Jimmie 
understood that the Hubbard Engine Company was taking 
measures to keep its shops clear of the agitators from Leesville. 
He spent a couple of days trying other places in his home 
town, but all in vain they had him spotted. At the brewery 
they were slower than elsewhere they took him on for two 
hours. Then they found out his record, and "fired" him; and 
Jimmie "kidded" the boss, saying that they were too late he 
had already given a Socialist leaflet to every man in the room ! 
On Jefferson Street, an out of the way part of the town, was 
a bicycle-shop kept by an old German named Kumme. One of 
the comrades told Jimmie that he wanted a helper, and Jimmie 
went there and got a job at two dollars a day. That was poor 
pay at present prices, but Jimmie liked the place, because his 
boss was a near-Socialist, a pacifist for all countries except 
Germany. He got round it by saying that every nation had 
a right to defend itself; and Germany was the nation which 
had been attacked in this war. A good part of the energies of 
the old man went into proving this to his customers; if there 
were any customers who did not like it, they could go elsewhere. 
Those who came were largely Germans, and so Jimmie was 
kept fully supplied with arguments against the munitions-indus- 
try, which they called a trade in murder, and in favour of the 
programme of "Feed America First." Among those who fre- 
quented the place was Jerry Coleman, who was still on the job, 
and as well supplied with ten dollar bills as ever. He had now 
revealed himself as an organiser for a new propaganda society, 
called "Labour's National Peace Council' Inasmuch as Labour 
and Peace were the phrases upon which Jimmie lived, he saw no 
reason why he should not back this organisation. Coleman 
assured Jimmie he hated the Kaiser, but that the German "peo- 
ple" must be defended. So Jimmie became, without having the 
least idea of it, one of the agencies whereby the Kaiser was sub- 
sidising social discontent in America. 
But Jimmie was more careful now in his agitations. He 
had brought such distress into his home by his jail sentence, 
that he had been forced to make promises to Lizzie. Her 
anxiety for her children could no longer be kept to herself; 
and this caused a certain amount of friction between them, and 
sent Jimmie out grumbling at his lot in life. What was the 
use of trying to educate a woman, who could see no farther than 
her own kitchen-stove ? When you wanted to be a world-saviour, 
to walk tip-toe on the misty mountain-tops of heroism, she 
dragged you down and chained you to the commonplace, taking 
all the zest and fervour out of your soul! The memories of 
"seam-squirrels" and of thin and ill-smelling and greasy soup 
had slipped somewhat into the background of Jimmie's mind, 
and he lived again the sublime hour when he had confronted the 
court and stood for the fundamental rights of an American 
citizen. He wanted to have that act of daring appreciated at 
its true value. Poor, blind, home-keeping Lizzie, who could not 
fufil these deeper needs of her husband's soul ! 
Jimmie had been, so far in his married life, as well domes- 
ticated as could be expected of a proletarian propagandist. He 
had yearned to own a home of his own, and meantime had 
manifested his repressed wish by getting a big packing-box and 
some broken shingles, and building a model play-house for 
 
Jimmie Junior in the back yard. He had even found time on 
his tired and crowded Sundays to start a garden in mid-summer, 
the season when the local was least active. But now, of course, 
the war had come to obsess his mind, driving him to terror for 
the future of humanity, tempting him to martyrdoms and do- 
mestic irritations. 
II 
It was at this critical period in Jimmie's life that there 
appeared in Leesville a vivid young person by the name of 
Evelyn Baskerville. Evelyn was no tired kitchen slave with 
her fluffy brown hair, her pert little dimples, her trim figure, 
her jaunty hat with a turkey-feather stuck on one side of her 
head. Evelyn was a stenographer, and proclaimed herself an 
advanced feminist ; at her first visit she set the local upside down. 
It happened to be "social evening," when all the men smoked, 
and this "free" young thing took a cigarette from her escort 
and puffed it all over the place. This, of course, would not 
have made a stir in great centres of culture such as London 
and Greenwich Village; but in Leesville it was the first time 
that the equality of women had been interpreted to mean that 
the women should adopt the vices of the men. 
Then Evelyn had produced from her handbag some leaflets 
on Birth Control, and proposed that the local should undertake 
their distribution. This was a new subject in Leesville, and 
while the members supposed it was all right, they found it 
embarrassing to have the matter explained too fully in open 
meeting. Evelyn wanted a "birth strike," as the surest means 
of ending the war; she wanted the "Worker" to take up this 
programme, and did not conceal her contempt for reactionaries 
in the movement who still wanted to pretend that babies were 
brought by storks. The delicate subject was finally "tabled," 
and when the meeting adjourned and the members walked home, 
every one was talking about Miss Baskerville the men mostly 
talking with the men, and the women with the women. 
Pretty soon it became evident that the vivid and dashing 
young person was setting her cap for Comrade Gerrity, the 
organiser. As Gerrity was an eligible young bachelor, that was 
all right. But then, a little later, it began to be suspected that 
she had designs upon Comrade Claudel, the Belgian jeweller. 
Doubtless she had a right to make her choice between them ; but 
some of the women were of the opinion that she took too long 
to choose; and finally one or two malicious ones began to say 
that she had no intention of choosing she wanted both. 
And then fell a thunderbolt into Jimmie's life. It was just 
after his arrest, when fame still clung to him; and after the 
meeting Comrade Baskerville came up and engaged him in con- 
versation. How did it feel to be a jailbird? When he told 
her that it felt fine, she bade him not be too proud she had 
served thirty days for picketing in a shirt-waist strike ! As she 
looked at him, her pretty brown eyes sparkled with mischief, 
and her wicked little dimples lost no curtain-calls. Poor, hum- 
ble Jimmie was stirred to his shoe-tips, for he had never before 
received the attentions of such a fascinating creature unless 
perchance it had been to sell her a newspaper, or to beg the price 
of a sandwich in his hobo days. Here was one of the wonderful 
things about the Socialist movement, that it broke down the 
barriers of class, and gave you exciting glimpses of higher worlds 
of culture and charm! 
Comrade Baskerville continued to flash her dimples and her 
wit at Jimmie, despite the fact that Comrade Gerrity and Com- 
rade Claudel and several other moths were hovering about the 
candle-flame, and all the women in the local watching out of 
the corners of their eyes. Finally, to Jimmie's unutterable 
consternation, the vivid young goddess of Liberty inquired, 
"Wouldn't you like to walk home with me, Comrade Higgins ?" 
He stammered, "Yes"; and they went out, the young goddess 
plying him with questions about conditions in the jail, and 
displaying most convincing erudition on the subject of the eco- 
nomic aspects of criminology at the same time seeming entirely 
oblivious to the hoverings of the other moths, and the disgust of 
the unemancipated ladies of Local Leesville. 
They walked down the street together, and first Comrade 
Baskerville shivered with horror at the "seam-squirrels," and 
then exclaimed with delight over the conversion of "Dead-eye 
Mike" to Socialism, and then made merry over the singing of the 
Internationale in the police-station. Had she discovered a 
"character" in this seemingly insignificant little machinist ? At 
 
any rate, she plied him with questions about his past life and 
his ideas. When he told her of his starved and neglected child- 
hood, she murmured sympathetically, and it seemed to the 
fascinated Jimmie that here was a woman who understood in- 
stinctively all the cravings of his soul. She laid her hand on 
his arm, and it was as if an angel were touching him strange 
little thrills ran like currents of electricity all over him. 
Yes, Comrade Baskerville could appreciate his sufferings, 
because she had suffered too. She had had a step-mother, and 
had run away from home at an early age, and fought her own 
way. That was why she stood so firmly for woman's emancipa- 
tion she knew the slavery of her sex through bitter experience. 
There were many men who believed in sex-equality as a matter 
of words, but had no real conception of it in action; as for 
the women well, you might see right here in the local the 
most narrow, bourgeois ideas dominating their minds. Jimmie 
did not know what ideas Comrade Baskerville meant, but he 
knew that her voice was musical and full of quick changes that 
made him shiver. 
He was supposed to be taking her home ; but he had no idea 
where she lived, and apparently she had no idea either, for they 
just wandered on and on, talking about all the wonderful new 
ideas that were stirring the minds of men and women. Did 
Comrade Higgins believe in trial marriages? Comrade Hig- 
gins had never heard of this wild idea before, but he listened, 
and bravely concealed his dismay. What about the children? 
The eager feminist answered there need not be any children. 
