Preoccupied with his own thoughts, he nodded:
"That's fine," he said. "Now, trot along to Selinda, and when you're
fixed up you can have the run of the place to yourself."
"Could I have my slippers?" She was very shy even about her bare feet
when she was not actually posing.
He found her slippers for her, laid them beside the lounge, and
strolled away. Westmore rang a moment later, but when he blew in like
a noisy breeze Dulcie had disappeared.
"My little model toppled over," said Barres, taking his visitor's
outstretched hand and wincing under the grip. "I shall cut out work
while this weather lasts."
Westmore turned toward the Arethusa, laughed at the visible influence
of Manship.
"All the same, Garry," he said, "there's a lot in your running nymph.
It's nice; it's knowing."
"That is pleasant to hear from a sculptor."
"Sculptor? Sometimes I feel like a sculpin--prickly heat, you know."
He laughed heartily at his own witticism, slapped Barres on the
shoulder, lighted a pipe, and flung himself on the couch recently
vacated by Dulcie.
"This damned war," he said, "takes the native gaiety out of a
man--takes the laughter out of life. Over two years of it now, Garry;
and it's as though the sun is slowly growing dimmer every day."
"I know," nodded Barres.
"Sure you feel it. Everybody does. By God, I have periods of sickness
when the illustrated London periodicals arrive, and I see those dead
men pictured there--such fine, clean fellows--our own kind--half of
them just kids!--well, it hurts me to look at them, and, for the sheer
pain of it, I'm always inclined to shirk and turn that page quickly.
But I say to myself, 'Jim, they're dead fighting Christ's own battle,
and the least you can do is to read their names and ages, and look
upon their faces.'... And I do it."
"So do I," nodded Barres, sombrely gazing at the carpet.
After a silence, Westmore said:
"Well, the Boche has taken his medicine and canned Tirpitz--the wild
swine that he is. So I don't suppose we'll get mixed up in it."
"The Hun is a great liar," remarked Barres. "There's no telling."
"Are you going to Plattsburg again this year?" enquired Westmore.
"I don't know. Are you?"
"In the autumn, perhaps.... Garry, it's discouraging. Do you realise
what a gigantic task we have ahead of us if the Hun ever succeeds in
kicking us into this war? And what a gigantic mess we've made of two
years' inactivity?"
Barres, pondering, scowled at his own thoughts.
"And now," continued the other, "the Guard is off to the border, and
here we are, stripped clean, with the city lousy with Germans and
every species of Hun deviltry hatching out fires and explosions and
disloyal propaganda from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Lakes
to the Gulf!
"A fine mess!--no troops, nothing to arm them with, no modern
artillery, no preparations; the Boche growing more insolent, more
murderous, but slyer; a row on with Mexico, another brewing with
Japan, all Europe and Great Britain regarding us with contempt--I ask
you, can you beat it, Garry? Are there any lower depths for us?--any
sub-cellars of iniquity into which we can tumble, like the basket of
jelly-fish we seem to be!"
"It's a nightmare," said Barres. "Since Liège and the Lusitania,
it's been a bad dream getting worse. We'll have to wake, you know. If
we don't, we're of no more substance than the dream itself:--we are
the dream, and we'll end like one."
"I'm going to wait a bit longer," said Westmore restlessly, "and if
there's nothing doing, it's me for the other side."
"For me, too, Jim."
"Is it a bargain?"
"Certainly.... I'd rather go under my own flag, of course.... We'll
see how this Boche backdown turns out. I don't think it will last. I
believe the Huns have been stirring up the Mexicans. It wouldn't
surprise me if they were at the bottom of the Japanese menace. But
what angers me is to think that we have received with innocent
hospitality these hundreds of thousands of Huns in America, and that
now, all over the land, this vast, acclimated nest of snakes rises
hissing at us, menacing us with their filthy fangs!"
"Thank God our police is still half Irish," growled Westmore, puffing
at his pipe. "These dirty swine might try to rush the city if war
comes while the Guard is away."
"They're doing enough damage as it is," said Barres, "with their
traitorous press, their pacifists, their agents everywhere inciting
labour to strike, teaching disorganisation, combining commercially,
directing blackmail, bomb outrages, incendiaries, and infesting the
Republic with a plague of spies----"
The studio bell rang sharply. Barres, who stood near the door, opened
it.
"Thessa!" he exclaimed, astonished and delighted.
XV
BLACKMAIL
She came in swiftly, stirring the sultry stillness of the studio with
a little breeze from her gown, faintly fragrant.
"Garry, dear!--" She gave him both her hands and looked at him; and he
saw the pink tint of excitement in her cheeks and her dark eyes
brilliant.
"Thessa, this is charming of you----"
"No! I came----" She cast a swift glance around her, beheld Westmore,
gave him one hand as he came forward.
"How do you do?" she said, almost breathlessly, plainly controlling
some inward excitement.
But Westmore retained her hand and laid the other over it.
"You said you'd come to the Ritz----"
"I'm sorry.... I have been--bothered--with matters--affairs----"
"You are bothered now," he said. "If you have something to say to
Garry, I'll go about my business.... Only I'm sorry it's not your
business, too."
He released her hand and reached for the door-knob: her dark eyes were
resting on him with a strained, intent expression. On impulse she
thrust out her arm and closed the door, which he had begun to open.
"Please--Mr. Westmore.... I do want to see you. I'm trying to think
clearly--" She turned and looked at Barres.
"Is it serious?" he said in a low voice.
"I--suppose so.... Garry, I wish to--to come here ... and stay."
"What!"
She nodded.
"Is it all right?"
"All right," he replied pleasantly, bewildered and almost inclined to
laugh.
She said in a low, tense voice.
"I'm really in trouble, Garry. I told you once that the word was not
in my vocabulary.... I've had to include it."
"I'm so sorry! Tell me all about----"
He checked himself: she turned to Westmore--a deeper flush came into
her cheeks--then she said gravely:
"I scarcely know Mr. Westmore, but if he is like you, Garry--your
sort--perhaps he----"
"He'd do anything for you, Thessa, if you'll let him. Have you
confidence in me?"
"You know I have."
"Then you can have the same confidence in Jim. I suggest it because I
have a hazy idea what your trouble is. And if you came to ask advice,
then I think that you'll get double value if you include Jim Westmore
in your confidence."
She stood silent and with heightened colour for a moment, then her
expression became humorous, and, partly turning, she put out her
gloved hand behind her and took hold of Westmore's sleeve. It was at
once an appeal and an impulsive admission of her confidence in this
young man whom she had liked from the beginning, and who must be
trustworthy because he was the friend of Garret Barres.
"I'm scared half to death," she remarked, without a quaver in her
voice, but her smile had now become forced, and a quick, uneven little
sigh escaped her as she passed her arms through Barres' and
Westmore's, and, moving across the carpet between them, suffered
herself to be installed among the Chinese cushions upon the lounge by
the open window.
In her distractingly pretty summer hat and gown, and with her white
gloves and gold-mesh purse in her lap--her fresh, engaging face and
daintily rounded figure--Thessalie Dunois seemed no more mature, no
more experienced in worldly wisdom, than the charming young girls one
passes on Fifth Avenue on a golden morning in early spring.
But Westmore, looking into her dark eyes, divined, perhaps, something
less inexperienced, less happy in their lovely, haunted depths. And,
troubled by he knew not what, he waited in silence for her to speak.
Barres said to her:
"You are being annoyed, Thessa, dear. I gather that much from what has
already happened. Can Jim and I do anything?"
"I don't know.... It's come to a point where I--I'm afraid--to be
alone."
Her gaze fell; she sat brooding for a few moments, then, with a quick
intake of breath:
"It humiliates me to come to you. Would you believe that of me, Garry,
that it has come to a point where I am actually afraid to be alone? I
thought I had plenty of what the world calls courage."
"You have!"
"I had. I don't know what's become of it--what has happened to
me.... I don't want to tell you more than I have to----"
"Tell us as much as you think necessary," said Barres, watching her.
"Thank you.... Well, then, some years ago I earned the enmity of a
man. And, through him, a European Government blacklisted me. It was a
terrible thing. I did not fully appreciate what it meant at the time."
She turned to Westmore in her pretty, impulsive way: "This European
Government, of which I speak, believes me to be the agent of another
foreign government--believes that I betrayed its interests. This man
whom I offended, to punish me and to cover his own treachery,
furnished evidence which would have convicted me of treachery and
espionage."
The excited colour began to dye her cheeks again; she stretched out
one arm in appeal to Westmore:
"Please believe me! I am no spy. I never was. I was too young, too
stupid, too innocent in such matters to know what this man was
about--that he had very cleverly implicated me in this abhorrent
matter. Do you believe me, Mr. Westmore?"
"Of course I do!" he said with a fervour not, perhaps, necessary. "If
you'll be kind enough to point out that gentleman----"
"Wait, Jim," interposed Barres, nodding to Thessalie to proceed.
She had been looking at Westmore, apparently much interested in his
ardour, but she came to herself when Barres interrupted, and sat
silent again as though searching her mind concerning what further she
might say. Slowly the forced smile curved her lips again. She said:
"I don't know just what that enraged European Government might have
done to me had I been arrested, because I ran away ... and came
here.... But the man whom I offended discovered where I was and never
for a day even have his agents ceased to watch me, annoy me----"
There was a quick break in her voice; she set her lips in silence
until the moment's emotion had passed, then, turning to Westmore with
winning dignity: "I am a dancer and singer--an entertainer of sorts,
by profession. I----"
"Tell Westmore a little more, Thessa," said Barres.
"If you think it necessary."
"I'll tell him. Miss Dunois was the most celebrated entertainer in
Europe when this happened. Since she came here the man she has
mentioned has, somehow, managed to interfere and spoil every business
arrangement which she has attempted." He looked at Thessa. "I don't
know whether, if Thessalie had cared to use the name under which she
was known all over Europe----"
"I didn't dare, Garry. I thought that, if some manager would only give
me a chance I could make a new name for myself. But wherever I went I
was dogged, and every arrangement was spoiled.... I had my jewels....
You remember some of them, Garry. I gave those away--I think I told
you why. But I had other jewels--unset diamonds given to my mother
by Prince Haledine. Well, I sold them and invested the money.... And
my income is all I have--quite a tiny income, Mr. Westmore, but
enough. Only I could have done very well here, I think, if I had not
been interfered with."
"Thessa," said Barres, "why not tell us both a little more? We're
devoted to you."
The girl lifted her dark eyes, and unconsciously they were turned to
Westmore. And in that young man's vigorous, virile personality perhaps
she recognised something refreshing, subtlely compelling, for, still
looking at him, she began to speak quite naturally of things which
had long been locked within her lonely heart:
"I was scarcely more than a child when General Count Klingenkampf
killed my father. The Grand Duke Cyril hushed it up.
"I had several thousand roubles. I had--trouble with the Grand
Duke.... He annoyed me ... as some men annoy a woman.... And when I
put him in his place he insulted the memory of my mother because she
was a Georgian.... I slapped his face with a whip.... And then I had
to run away."
She drew a quick, uneven breath, smiling at Westmore from whose intent
gaze her own dark eyes never wandered.
"My father had been a French officer before he took service in
Russia," she said. "I was educated in Alsace and then in England. Then
my father sent for me and I returned to St. Peters--I mean Petrograd.
And because I loved dancing my father obtained permission for me to
study at the Imperial school. Also, I had it in me to sing, and I had
excellent instruction.
"And because I did such things in my own way, sometimes my father
permitted me to entertain at the gay gatherings patronised by the
Grand Duke Cyril."
She smiled in reminiscence, and her gaze became remote for a moment.
Then, coming back, she lifted her eyes once more to Westmore's:
"I ran away from Cyril and went to Constantinople, where Von-der-Goltz
Pasha and others whom I had met at the Grand Duke's parties, when
little more than a child, were stationed. I entertained at the German
Embassy, and at the Yildiz Palace.... I was successful. And my success
brought me opportunities--of the wrong kind. Do you understand?"
Westmore nodded.
"So," she continued, with a slight movement of disdain, "I didn't
quite see how I was to get to Paris all alone and begin a serious
career. And one evening I entertained at the German Embassy--tell me,
do you know Constantinople?"
"No."
"Well, it is nothing except a vast mass of gossip and intrigue. One
breakfasts on rumours, lunches on secrets, and dines on scandals. And
my maid told me enough that day to make certain matters quite clear to
me.
"And so I entertained at the Embassy.... Afterward it was no surprise
when his Excellency whispered to me that an honest career was assured
me if I chose, and that I might be honestly launched in Paris without
paying the price which I would not pay.
"Later I was not surprised, either, when Ferez Bey, a friend of my
father, and a man I had known since childhood, presented me
to--to----" She glanced at Barres; he nodded; she concluded to name
the man: "--the Count d'Eblis, a Senator of France, and owner of the
newspaper called Le Mot d'Ordre."
After a silence she stole another glance at Barres; a smile hovered on
her lips. He, also, smiled; for he, too, was thinking of that moonlit
way they travelled together on a night in June so long ago.
Her glance asked:
"Is it necessary to tell Mr. Westmore this?"
He shook his head very slightly.
"Well," she went on, her eyes reverting again to Westmore, "the Count
d'Eblis, it appeared, had fallen in love with me at first sight.... In
the beginning he misunderstood me.... When he realised that I would
endure no nonsense from any man he proved to be sufficiently
infatuated with me to offer me marriage."
She shrugged:
"At that age one man resembled another to me. Marriage was a
convention, a desirable business arrangement. The Count was in a
position to launch me into a career. Careers begin in Paris. And I
knew enough to realise that a girl has to pay in one way or another
for such an opportunity. So I said that I would marry him if I came to
care enough for him. Which merely meant that if he were ordinarily
polite and considerate and companionable I would ultimately become his
wife.
"That was the arrangement. And it caused much trouble. Because I was
a--" she smiled at Barres, "--a success from the first moment. And
d'Eblis immediately began to be abominably jealous and unreasonable.
Again and again he broke his promise and tried to interfere with my
career. He annoyed me constantly by coming to my hotel at inopportune
moments; he made silly scenes if I ventured to have any friends or if
I spoke twice to the same man; he distrusted me--he and Ferez Bey, who
had taken service with him. Together they humiliated me, made my life
miserable by their distrust.
"I warned d'Eblis that his absurd jealousy and unkindness would not
advance him in my interest. And for a while he seemed to become
more reasonable. In fact, he apparently became sane again, and I had
even consented to our betrothal, when, by accident, I discovered
that he and Ferez were having me followed everywhere I went. And
that very night was to have been a gay one--a party in honour of our
betrothal--the night I discovered what he and Ferez had been doing
to me.
"I was so hurt, so incensed, that--" She cast an involuntary glance at
Barres; he made a slight movement of negation, and she concluded her
sentence calmly: "--I quarrelled with d'Eblis.... There was a very
dreadful scene. And it transpired that he had sold a preponderating
interest in Le Mot d'Ordre to Ferez Bey, who was operating the paper
in German interests through orders directly from Berlin. And d'Eblis
thought I knew this and that I meant to threaten him, perhaps
blackmail him, to shield some mythical lover with whom, he declared, I
had become involved, and who was betraying him to the British
Ambassador."
She drew a deep, long breath:
"Is it necessary for me to say that there was not a particle of truth
in his hysterical accusations?--that I was utterly astounded? But my
amazement became anger and then sheer terror when I learned from his
own lips that he had cunningly involved me in his transactions with
Ferez and with Berlin. So cunningly, so cleverly, so seriously had he
managed to compromise me as a German agent that he had a mass of
evidence against me sufficient to have had me court-martialled and
shot had it been in time of war.
"To me the situation seemed hopeless. I never would be believed by the
French Government. Horror of arrest overwhelmed me. In a panic I took
my unset jewels and fled to Belgium. And then I came here."
She paused, trembling a little at the memory of it all. Then:
"The agents of d'Eblis and Ferez discovered me and have given me no
peace. I do not appeal to the police because that would stir up secret
agents of the French Government. But it has come now to a place
where--where I don't know what to do.... And so--being afraid at
last--I am here to--to ask--advice----"
She waited to control her voice, then opened her gold-mesh bag and
drew from it a letter.
"Three weeks ago I received this," she said. "I ignored it. Two weeks
ago, as I opened the door of my room to go out, a shot was fired at
me, and I heard somebody running down stairs.... I was badly scared.
But I went out and did my shopping, and then I went to the writing
room of a hotel and wrote to Garry.... Somebody watching me must have
seen me write it, because an attempt was made to steal the letter. A
man wearing a handkerchief over his face tried to snatch it out of the
hands of Dulcie Soane. But he got only half of the letter.
"And when I got home that same evening I found that my room had been
ransacked.... That was why I did not go to meet you at the Ritz; I was
too upset. Besides, I was busy moving my quarters.... But it was no
use. Last night I was awakened by hearing somebody working at the lock
of my bedroom. And I sat up till morning with a pistol in my hand....
And--I don't think I had better live entirely alone--until it is
safer. Do you, Garry?"
"I should think not!" said Westmore, turning red with anger.
"Did you wish us to see that letter?" asked Barres.
She handed it to him. It was typewritten; and he read it aloud,
leisurely and very distinctly, pausing now and then to give full
weight to some particularly significant and sinister sentence:
  "MADEMOISELLE:
  "For two years and more it has been repeatedly intimated to you
  that your presence in America is not desirable to certain people,
  except under certain conditions, which conditions you refuse to
  consider.
  "You have impudently ignored these intimations.
  "Now, you are beginning to meddle. Therefore, this warning is sent
  to you: Mind your business and cease your meddling!
  "Moreover, you are invited to leave the United States at your
  early convenience.
  "France, England, Russia, and Italy are closed to you. Without
  doubt you understand that. Also, doubtless you have no desire to
  venture into Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, or Turkey. Scandinavia
  remains open to you, and practically no other country except
  Spain, because we do not permit you to go to Mexico or to Central
  or South America. Do you comprehend? We do not permit it.
  "Therefore, hold your tongue and control your furor scribendi
  while in New York. And make arrangements to take the next Danish
  steamer for Christiania.
  "This is a friendly warning. For if you are still here in the
  United States two weeks after you have received this letter, other
  measures will be taken in your regard which will effectually
  dispose of your troublesome presence.
  "The necessity which forces us to radical action in this affair is
  regrettable, but entirely your own fault.
  "You have, from time to time during the last two years, received
  from us overtures of an amicable nature. You have been approached
  with discretion and have been offered every necessary guarantee to
  cover an understanding with us.
  "You have treated our advances with frivolity and contempt. And
  what have you gained by your defiance?
  "Our patience and good nature has reached its limits. We shall ask
  nothing further of you; we deliver you our orders hereafter. And
  our orders are to leave New York immediately.
  "Yet, even now, at the eleventh hour, it may not be too late for
  us to come to some understanding if you change your attitude
  entirely and show a proper willingness to negotiate with us in all
  good faith.
  "But that must be accomplished within the two weeks' grace given
  you before you depart.
  "You know how to proceed. If you try to play us false you had
  better not have been born. If you deal honestly with us your
  troubles are over.
  "This is final.
  "THE WATCHER."
XVI
THE WATCHER
"The Watcher," repeated Barres, studying the typewritten signature for
a moment longer. Then he looked at Westmore: "What do you think of
that, Jim?"
Westmore, naturally short tempered, became very red, got to his feet,
and began striding about the studio as though some sudden blaze of
inward anger were driving him into violent motion.
"The thing to do," he said, "is to catch this 'Watcher' fellow and
beat him up. That's the way to deal with blackmailers--catch 'em and
beat 'em up--vermin of this sort--this blackmailing fraternity!--I
haven't anything to do; I'll take the job!"
"We'd better talk it over first," suggested Barres. "There seem to be
several ways of going about it. One way, of course, is to turn
detective and follow Thessa around town. And, as you say, spot any man
who dogs her and beat him up very thoroughly. That's your way, Jim.
But Thessa, unfortunately, doesn't desire to be featured, and you
can't go about beating up people in the streets of New York without
inviting publicity."
Westmore came back and stood near Thessalie, who looked up at him from
her seat on the Chinese couch with visible interest:
"Mr. Westmore?"
"Yes?"
"Garry is quite right about the way I feel. I don't want notoriety. I
can't afford it. It would mean stirring up every French Government
agent here in New York. And if America should ever declare war on
Germany and become an ally of France, then your own Secret Service
here would instantly arrest me and probably send me to France to stand
trial."
She bent her pretty head, adding in a quiet voice:
"Extradition would bring a very swift end to my career. With the lying
evidence against me and a Senator of France to corroborate it by
perjury--ask yourselves, gentlemen, how long it would take a military
court to send me to the parade in the nearest caserne!"
"Do you mean they'd shoot you?" demanded Westmore, aghast.
"Any court-martial to-day would turn me over to a firing squad!"
"You see," said Barres, turning to Westmore, "this is a much more
serious matter than a case of ordinary blackmail."
"Why not go to our own Secret Service authorities and lay the entire
business before them?" asked Westmore excitedly.
But Thessalie shook her head:
"The evidence against me in Paris is overwhelming. My dossier alone,
as it now stands, would surely condemn me without corroborative
evidence. Your people here would never believe in me if the French
Government forwarded to them a copy of my dossier from the secret
archives in Paris. As for my own Government----" She merely shrugged.
Barres, much troubled, glanced from Thessalie to Westmore.
"It's rather a rotten situation," he said. "There must be, of course,
some sensible way to tackle it, though I don't quite see it yet. But
one thing is very plain to me: Thessa ought to remain here with us for
the present. Don't you think so, Jim?"
"How can I, Garry?" she asked. "You have only one room, and I couldn't
turn you out----"
"I can arrange that," interposed Westmore, turning eagerly to Barres
with a significant gesture toward the door at the end of the studio.
"There's the solution, isn't it?"
"Certainly," agreed Barres; and to Thessalie, in explanation:
"Westmore's two bedrooms adjoin my studio--beyond that wall. We have
merely to unlock those folding doors and throw his apartment into
mine, making one long suite of rooms. Then you may have my room and
I'll take his spare room."
She still hesitated.
"I am very grateful, Garry, and I admit that I am becoming almost
afraid to remain entirely alone, but----"
"Send for your effects," he insisted cheerfully. "Aristocrates will
move my stuff into Westmore's spare room. Then you shall take my
quarters and be comfortable and well guarded with Aristocrates and
Selinda on one side of you, and Jim and myself just across the
studio." He cast a sombre glance at Westmore: "I suppose those rats
will ultimately trail her to this place."
Westmore turned to Thessalie:
"Where are your effects?" he asked.
She smiled forlornly:
"I gave up my lodgings this morning, packed everything, and came here,
rather scared." A little flush came over her face and she lifted her
dark eyes and met Westmore's intent gaze. "You are very kind," she
said. "My trunks are at the Grand Central Station--if you desire to
make up my disconcerted mind for me. Do you really want me to come
here and stay a few days?"
Westmore suppressed himself no longer:
"I won't let you go!" he said. "I'm worried sick about you!" And to
Barres, who sat slightly amazed at his friend's warmth:
"Do you suppose any of those dirty dogs have traced the trunks?"
Thessalie said:
"I've never yet been able to conceal anything from them."
"Probably, then," said Barres, "they have traced your luggage and are
watching it."
"Give me your checks, anyway," said Westmore. "I'll go at once and get
your baggage and bring it here. If they're watching for you it will
jolt them to see a man on the job."
Barres nodded approval; Thessalie opened her purse and handed Westmore
the checks.
"You both are so kind," she murmured. "I have not felt so sheltered,
so secure in many, many months."
Westmore, extremely red again, controlled his emotions--whatever they
were--with a visible effort:
"Don't worry for one moment," he said. "Garry and I are going to
settle this outrageous business for you. Now, I'm off to find your
trunks. And if you could give me a description of any of these fellows
who follow you about----"
"Please--you are not to beat up anybody!" she reminded him, with a
troubled smile.
"I'll remember. I promise you not to."
Barres said:
"I think one of them is a tall, bony, one-eyed man, who has been
hanging around here pretending to peddle artists' materials."
Thessalie made a quick gesture of assent and of caution:
"Yes! His name is Max Freund. I have found it impossible to conceal my
whereabouts from him. This man, with only one eye, appears to be a
friend of the superintendent, Soane. I am not certain that Soane
himself is employed by this gang of blackmailers, but I believe that
his one-eyed friend may pay him for any scraps of information
concerning me."
"Then we had better keep an eye on Soane," growled Westmore. "He's no
good; he'll take graft from anybody."
"Where is his daughter, Dulcie?" asked Thessalie. "Is she not your
model, Garry?"
"Yes. She's in my room now, lying down. This morning it was pretty hot
in here, and Dulcie fainted on the model stand."
"The poor child!" exclaimed Thessalie impulsively. "Could I go in and
see her?"
"Why, yes, if you like," he replied, surprised at her warm-hearted
interest. He added, as Thessalie rose: "She is really all right again.
But go in if you like. And you might tell Dulcie she can have her
lunch in there if she wants it; but if she's going to dress she ought
to be about it, because it's getting on toward the luncheon hour."
So Thessalie went swiftly away down the corridor to knock at the door
of the bedroom, and Barres walked out with Westmore as far as the
stairs.
"Jim," he said very soberly, "this whole business looks ugly to me.
Thessa seems to be seriously entangled in the meshes of some
blackmailing spider who is sewing her up tight."
"It's probably a tighter web than we realise," growled Westmore. "It
looks to me as though Miss Dunois has been caught in the main net of
German intrigue. And that the big spider in Berlin did the spinning."
"That's certainly what it looks like," admitted the other in a grave
voice. "I don't believe that this is merely a local matter--an affair
of petty, personal vengeance: I believe that the Hun is actually
afraid of her--afraid of the evidence she might be able to furnish
against certain traitors in Paris."
Westmore nodded gloomily:
"I'm pretty sure of it, too. They've tried, apparently, to win her
over. They've tried, also, to drive her out of this country. Now, they
mean to force her out, or perhaps kill her! Good God! Garry, did you
ever hear of such filthy impudence as this entire German propaganda in
America?"
"Go and get her trunks," said Barres, deeply worried. "By the time you
fetch 'em back here, lunch will be ready. Afterward, we'd all better
get together and talk over this unpleasant situation."
Westmore glanced at his watch, turned and went swinging away in his
quick, energetic stride. Barres walked slowly back to the studio.
There was nobody there. Thessalie had not yet returned from her visit
to Dulcie Soane.
The Prophet, however, came in presently, his tail politely hoisted. An
agreeable aroma from the kitchen had doubtless allured him; he made an
amicable remark to Barres, suffered himself to be caressed, then
sprang to the carved table--his favourite vantage point for
observation--and gazed solemnly toward the dining-room.
For half an hour or more, Barres fussed and pottered about in the
rather aimless manner of all artists, shifting canvases and stacking
them against the wall, twirling his wax Arethusa around to inspect her
from every possible and impossible angle, using clouds of fixitive on
such charcoal studies as required it, scraping away meditatively at a
too long neglected palette.
He was already frankly concerned about Thessalie, and the more he
considered her situation the keener grew his apprehension.
Yet he, like all his fellow Americans, had not yet actually persuaded
himself to believe in spies.
Of course he read about them and their machinations in the daily
papers; the spy scare was already well developed in New York; yet, to
him and to the great majority of his fellow countrymen, people who
made a profession of such a dramatic business seemed unreal--abstract
types, not concrete examples of the human race--and he could not
believe in them--could neither visualise such people nor realise that
they existed outside melodrama or the covers of a best-seller.
There is an incredulity which knows yet refuses to believe in its own
knowledge. It is very American and it represented the paradoxical
state of mind of this deeply worried young man, as he stood there in
the studio, scraping away mechanically at his crusted palette.
Then, as he turned to lay it aside, through the open studio door he
saw a strange, bespectacled man looking in at him intently.
An unpleasant shock passed through him, and his instinct started him
toward the open door to close it.
"Excuse," said he of the thick spectacles; and Barres stopped short:
"Well, what is it?" he asked sharply.
The man, who was well dressed and powerfully built, squinted through
his spectacles out of little, inflamed and pig-like eyes.
"Miss Dunois iss here?" he enquired politely. "I haff a message----"
"What is your name?"
"Excuse, please. My name iss not personally known to Miss Dunois----"
"Then what is your business with Miss Dunois?"
"Excuse, please. It iss of a delicacy--of a nature quite private, iff
you please."
Barres inspected him in hostile silence for a moment, then came to a
swift conclusion.
"Very well. Step inside," he said briefly.
"I thank you, I will wait here----"
"Step inside!" snapped Barres.
Startled into silence, the man only blinked at him. Under the other's
searching, suspicious gaze, the small, pig-like eyes were now shifting
uneasily; then, as Barres took an abrupt step forward, the man shrank
away and stammered out something about a letter which he was to
deliver to Miss Dunois in private.
"You say you have a letter for Miss Dunois?" demanded Barres, now
determined to get hold of him.
"I am instructed to giff it myself to her in private, all alone----"
"Give it to me!"
"I am instruc----"
