We went into the empty house; she showed us our rooms.
"Luncheon will be served in half an hour, Messieurs," she said in her
cheerful and surprisingly agreeable voice, through which a hidden vein
of laughter seemed to run.
After she had gone Smith came through the connecting door into my room,
drying his sunburned countenance on a towel.
"I didn’t suppose she was so young," he said. "She’s very young, isn’t
she?"
"Do you mean she’s too young to cook decently?"
"No.  I mean—I mean that she just seems rather young.  I merely noticed
it."
"Oh," said I without interest.  But he lingered about, buttoning his
collar.
"You know," he remarked, "she wouldn’t be so bad looking if you’d take
her and scrub her."
"I’ve no intention of doing it," I retorted.
"Of course," he explained, peevishly, "I didn’t mean that you,
personally, should perform ablutions upon her.  I merely meant——"
"Sure," said I frivolously; "take this cake of soap and chase her into
the fountain out there."
"All the same," he added, "if she’d wash her face and fix her hair and
stand up straight she’d have—er—elements."
"Elements of what?" I asked, continuing to unpack my suitcase and
arrange the contents upon my dresser.  Comb and brushes I laid on the
left; other toilet articles upon the right; in the drawers I placed my
underwear and linen and private papers.
Then I took the photograph which I had purchased in Berne and stood it
up against the mirror over my dresser.  Smith came over and looked at it
with more interest than he had usually displayed.
It was the first photograph of any woman I had ever purchased.  Copies
were sold all over Europe. It seemed to be very popular and cost two
francs fifty unframed.  I had resisted it in every shop window between
London and Paris.  I nearly fell for it in Geneva.  I did fall in Berne.
It was called "The Laughing Girl," and I saw it in a shop window the day
of my arrival in Berne.  And I could no more get it out of my mind than
I could forget an unknown charming face in a crowded street that met my
gaze with a shy, faint smile of provocation.  I went back to that shop
and bought the photograph labeled "The Laughing Girl."  It traveled with
me.  It had become as necessary to me as my razor or toothbrush.
As I placed it on the center of my dresser tilted back against the
looking-glass, for the first time since it had been in my possession an
odd and totally new sense of having seen the original of the picture
somewhere—or having seen somebody who resembled it—came into my mind.
"As a matter of fact," remarked Smith, tying his tie before my mirror,
"that red-haired girl of yours downstairs bears a curious resemblance to
your lady-love’s photograph."
"Good Lord!" I exclaimed, intensely annoyed. Because the same
distasteful idea had also occurred to me.
                                  *II*
                              *AL FRESCO*
Our luncheon was a delicious surprise.  It was served to us on a rustic
table and upon a fresh white cloth, out by the fountain.  We had a
fragrant omelette, a cool light wine, some seductive bread and butter, a
big wooden bowlful of mountain strawberries, a pitcher of cream, and a
bit of dreamy cheese with our coffee.  The old gods feasted no more
luxuriously.
Smith, fed to repletion, gazed sleepily but sentimentally at the
vanishing skirts of my red-headed Hebe who had perpetrated this miracle
in our behalf.
"Didn’t I tell you she’d prove to be pretty under all that soot?" he
said.  "I like that girl.  She’s a peach."
In point of fact her transfiguration had mildly amazed me.  She had
scrubbed herself and twisted up her hair, revealing an unsuspected
whiteness of neck. She wore a spotless cotton dress and a white apron
over it; the slouch of the slattern had disappeared and in its place was
the rather indolent, unhurried, and supple grace of a lazy young thing
who has never been obliged to hustle for a living.
"I wonder what her name is?" mused Smith.  "She deserves a pretty name
like Amaryllis——"
"Don’t try to get gay and call her that," said I, setting fire to a
cigarette.  "Mind your business, anyway."
"But we ought to know what she calls herself. Suppose we wanted her in a
hurry?  Suppose the house caught fire!  Suppose she fell into the
fountain!  Shall I go to the pantry and ask her what her name is?  It
will save you the trouble," he added, rising.
"I’ll attend to all the business details of this establishment," said
I, coldly.  Which discouraged him; and he re-seated himself in silence.
To mitigate the snub, I offered him a cigar which he took without
apparent gratitude.  But Shandon Smith never nursed his wrath; and
presently he affably reverted to the subject:
"O’Ryan," he remarked, leaning back in his chair and expelling
successive smoke rings at the Bec de l’Empereur across the valley, "that
red-haired girl of yours is a mystery to me.  I find no explanation for
her.  I can not reconcile her extreme youth with her miraculous
virtuosity as a cook.  I cannot coordinate the elements of perfect
symmetry which characterize her person with the bench show points of a
useful peasant.  She’s not formed like a ’grade’; she reveals pedigree.
Now I dare say you look upon her as an ordinary every-day, wage-earning
pot-wrestler.  Don’t you?"
"I do."
"You don’t consider her symmetrical?"
"I am," said I, "scarcely likely to notice pulchritude below stairs."
Smith laughed:
"For that matter she dwells upstairs in the garret, I believe.  I saw
her going up.  I’m astonished that you don’t think her pretty because
she looks like that photograph on your dresser."
What he said again annoyed me,—the more so because, since her ablutions,
the girl did somehow or other remind me even more than before of that
lovely, beguiling creature in my photograph.  And why on earth there
should be any resemblance at all between that laughing young aristocrat
in her jewels and silken negligée and my slatternly maid-of-all-work—why
the one should even remotely suggest to us the other—was to me
inexplicable and unpleasant.
"Smith," I said, "you are a sentimental and romantic young man.  You
shyly fall in love several times a day when material is plenty.  You
have the valuable gift of creative imagination.  Why not employ it
commercially to augment your income?"
"You mean by writing best sellers?"
"I do.  You are fitted for the job."
"O’Ryan," he said, "it would be wasted time. Newspapers are to-day the
best sellers.  Reality has knocked romance clean over the ropes.  Look
at this war?  Look at the plain, unvarnished facts which history has
been recording during the last four years. Has Romance ever dared
appropriate such astounding material for any volume of fiction ever
written?"
I admitted that fiction had become a back number in the glare of daily
facts.
"It certainly has," he said.  "Every day that we live—every hour—yes,
every minute that your watch ticks off—events are happening such as the
wildest imagination of a genius could not create.  You can prove it for
yourself, O’Ryan.  Try to read the most exciting work of fiction, or the
cleverest, the most realistic, the most subtle romance ever written. And
when you’ve yawned your bally head off over the mockery of things
actual, just pick up the daily paper."
He was quite right.
"I tell you," he went on, "there’s more romance, more excitement, more
mystery, more tragedy, more comedy, more humanity, more truth in any
single edition of any French, English, Italian, or American daily paper
published in these times than there is in all the fiction ever
produced."
"Very true," I said.  "Romance is dead to-day. Reality reigns alone."
"Then why snub me when I say that your red-headed maid is a real enigma
and an actual mystery? She might be anything in such times as these.
She might be a great lady; she might be a scullion.  Have you noticed
how white and fine and slim her hands are?"
"I notice they’re clean," said I cautiously.
He laughed at me in frank derision, obstinately interested and intent
upon building up a real romance around my maid-of-all-work.  His gayety
and his youth amused me.  I was a year his senior and I felt my age.
The world was hollow; I had learned that much.
"Her whole make-up seems to me suspiciously like camouflage," he said,
"her flat-heeled slippers, for example!  She has a distractingly pretty
ankle, and have you happened to notice her eyes, O’Ryan?"
In point of fact I had noticed them.  They were gray and had black
lashes.  But I was not going to give Smith the satisfaction of admitting
that I had noticed my housemaid’s eyes.
"Her eyes," continued Smith, "are like those wide young eyes in that
pretty photograph of yours.  So is her mouth with its charmingly full
width and the hint of laughter in its upcurled childish corners——"
"Nonsense!——"
"Not at all.  Not at all!  And all you’ve got to do is to put a bunch of
jewels on her fingers and a thin, shimmery silk thing showing her
slender throat and shoulders, and then some; and then you can fix her
hair like the girl’s hair in your photograph, and hand her a guitar, and
drop one of her knees over the other, and hang a slipper to the little
naked foot that swings above its shadow on the floor——"
"I shall do none of those things," said I.  "And I’ll tell you some
more, Smith: I believe it’s your devilish and irresponsible chatter
which has put the unpleasant idea into my head that my red-headed
domestic resembles that photograph upstairs.  I don’t like the idea.
And I’d be much obliged if you wouldn’t mention it again."
"All right," he said cheerfully.
But what he had said about this resemblance left me not only vaguely
uncomfortable, but also troubled by a sort of indefinite curiosity
concerning my cook. I desired to take another look at her immediately.
After a while I threw aside my cigarette: "I’m going into the pantry,"
said I, "to discuss business with my housekeeper.  Here’s the key to the
wine-cellar. There’s more of that Moselle there, I understand."
And I started toward the house, leaving him to twiddle his thumbs and
stare at the Bec de l’Empereur.  Or he could vary this program by
smoking his head off if he chose.  Or investigate the wine-cellar.  But
my cook he could not flirt with as long as I was on the job.
He seemed to be a very nice fellow in his way, but he had put a lot of
nonsense into my head by his random talk.
Yet he was certainly an agreeable young man.  I had first met him in
Berne—that hot-bed of international intrigue, where every other person
is a conspirator and every other a boche.
Now Smith’s papers and passport revealed him as a Norwegian; his reason
for being in Switzerland a purely commercial one.  He had arrived in
Berne, he told me, with a proposition to lay before the Federal
Government.  This was a colossal scheme to reforest parts of Switzerland
with millions and millions of Norway pines and hardwoods—a stupendous
enterprise, but apparently feasible and financially attractive.
So far, however, he had made little headway.  But somewhere in the back
of my head I had a lively suspicion that Shandon Smith was no more a
Norwegian than was I; and that he could tell a very interesting story
about those papers and passports of his if he cared to.  I had lived too
long in New York not to recognize a New Yorker no matter what his papers
showed.
Anyway we seemed to attract each other and during my enforced and
bothersome sojourn in Berne we became companionable to the edge of
friendship.
And when I told him about my ridiculous inheritance and the trouble I
was having in trying to get rid of it, he offered to come up here with
me and keep me company while the Swiss Government was making up its
composite mind about his offer to reforest such cantons as required it.
That is how we came to be here in Schwindlewald together.  I was to stay
until the prescribed time elapsed when I should be allowed by law to
sell the place: he was willing to remain with me until his offer to the
Swiss Government had been either accepted or rejected.
I had begun to like Smith very much.  We were on those terms of easy and
insulting badinage which marks the frontier between acquaintances and
friends.
Now as I entered the house I turned on the threshold and glanced back to
see what Smith was doing. His hat was off; the Alpine breeze was
ruffling his crisp, blond hair.  He sat at ease beside the fountain, a
fresh cigar balanced between his fingers, a cork-screw in the other
hand.  Beside him on the grass stood a row of bottles of light Moselle.
He had investigated the cellar.  And as I watched what appeared to me a
perfectly characteristic type of American from Manhattan Island, his
voice came across the grass to me, lifted in careless song:—
    —"My girl’s a corker,
      She’s a New Yorker,
      She plays the races,
      Knows the sporty places
      Uptown, downtown,
      Always wears a nifty gown."—
"Yes," said I to myself, "you’re a Norwegian—aye don’ t’ank!" which is
good Norwegian for "I don’t think."
And I smiled subtly upon Smith as he drew the first cork from the first
bottle of that liquid sunshine called Château Varenn, and with which one
may spend a long and intimate afternoon without fear of consequences.
As I entered the house his careless song came to me on the summer wind:
    "My girl’s a corker,
    She’s a New Yorker——"
"Such a saga," said I to myself, "could be sung only by that sort of
Viking.  Now why the deuce is that young man in Switzerland?"
But it didn’t matter to me, so I continued along the wide hallway toward
the kitchen in the rear.
                                 *III*
                            *IN THE CELLAR*
She was peeling potatoes in the kitchen when I entered;—she did it as
daintily, as leisurely as though she were a young princess preparing
pomegranates—But this sort of simile wouldn’t do and I promptly pulled
myself together, frowning.
Hearing me she looked up with a rather sweet confused little smile as
though aroused from thoughts intimate but remote.  Doubtless she was
thinking of some peasant suitor somewhere—some strapping, yodling,
ham-fisted, bull-necked mountaineer——
"I have come to confer with you on business," said I, forestalling with
a courteous gesture any intention she might have had to arise out of
deference to my presence.  I admit I observed no such intention. On the
contrary she remained undisturbed, continuing leisurely her culinary
occupation, and regarding me with that engaging little half-smile which
seemed to be a permanent part of her expression—I pulled myself
together.
"My child," said I pleasantly, "what is your name?"
"Thusis," she replied.
"Thusis?  Quite unusual,—hum-hum—quite exotic.  And then—hum-hum!—what
is the remainder of your name, Thusis?"
"There isn’t any more, Monsieur."
"Only Thusis?"
"Only Thusis."
"You’re—hum-hum!—very young, aren’t you, Thusis?"
"Yes, I am."
"You cook very well."
"Thank you."
"Well, Thusis," I said, "I suppose when Mr. Schmitz engaged you to come
up here, he told you what are the conditions and what vexatious problems
confront me."
"Yes, he did tell me."
"Very well; that saves explanations.  It is evident, of course, that if
I am expected to board and feed any riff-raff tourist who comes to
Schwindlewald I must engage more servants."
"Oh, yes, you’ll have to."
"Well, where the deuce am I to find them?  Haven’t you any friends who
would perhaps like to work here?"
"I have a sister," she said.
"Can you get her to come?"
"Yes."
"That’s fine.  She can do the rooms.  Could you get another girl to wait
on table?"
"I have a friend who is a very good cook——"
"You’re good enough!——"
"Oh, no!" she demurred, with her enchanting smile, "but my friend,
Josephine Vannis, is an excellent cook.  Besides I had rather wait on
table—with Monsieur’s permission."
I said regretfully, remembering the omelette, "Very well, Thusis.  Now I
also need a farmer."
"I know a young man.  His name is Raoul Despres."
"Fine!  And I want to buy some cows and goats and chickens——"
"Raoul will cheerfully purchase what stock Monsieur requires."
"Thusis, you are quite wonderful."
"Thank you," she said, lifting her dark-fringed gray eyes, the odd
little half-smile in the curling corners of her lips.  It was
extraordinary how the girl made me think of my photograph upstairs.
"What is your sister’s name?" I inquired—hoping I was not consciously
making conversation as an excuse to linger in my cook’s kitchen.
"Her name is Clelia."
"Clelia?  Thusis?  Very unusual names—hum-hum!—and nothing else—no
family name.  Well—well!"
"Oh, there was a family name of sorts.  It doesn’t matter; we never use
it."  And she laughed.
It was not what she said—not the sudden charm of her fresh young
laughter that surprised me; it was her effortless slipping from French
into English—and English more perfect than one expects from even the
philologetically versatile Swiss.
"Are you?" I asked curiously.
"What, Mr. O’Ryan?"
"Swiss?"
Thusis laughed and considered me out of her dark-fringed eyes.
"We are Venetians—very far back.  In those remote days, I believe, my
family had many servants. That, perhaps, is why my sister and I make
such good ones—if I may venture to say so.  You see we know by
inheritance what a good servant ought to be."
The subtle charm of this young girl began to trouble me; her soft, white
symmetry, the indolent and youthful grace of her, and the disturbing
resemblance between her and my photograph all were making me vaguely
uneasy.
"Thusis," I said, "you understand of course that if I am short of
servants you’ll have to pitch in and help the others."
"Of course," she replied simply.
"What do you know how to do?"
"I understand horses and cattle."
"Can you milk?"
"Yes.  I can also make butter and cheese, pitch hay, cultivate the
garden, preserve vegetables, wash, iron, do plain and fancy sewing——"
I suppose the expression of my face checked her. We both laughed.
"Doubtless," I said, "you also play the piano and sing."
"Yes, I—believe so."
"You speak French, German, English—and what else?"
"Italian," she admitted.
"In other words you have not only an education but several
accomplishments."
"Yes.  But in adversity one must work at whatever offers.  Necessitas
non habet legem," she added demurely.  That was too much for my
curiosity.
"Who are you, Thusis?" I exclaimed.
"Your maid-of-all-work," she said gravely—a reproof that made me redden
in the realization of my own inquisitiveness.  And I resolved never
again to pry into her affairs which were none of my bally business as
long as she made a good servant.
"I’m sorry," said I.  "I’ll respect your privacy hereafter.  So get your
sister and the other girl and the man you say is a good farmer——"
"I told them in Berne that you’d need them.  They ought to arrive this
evening."
"Thusis," I said warmly, "you’re a wonder.  Go ahead and run my
establishment if you are willing. You know how things are done in this
country.  You also know that I don’t care a rap about this place and
that I’m only here marking time until the Swiss Government permits me to
sell out and get out."
"Do you wish to leave the entire responsibility of this place to me, Mr.
O’Ryan?"
"You bet I do!  How about it, Thusis?  Will you run this joint and look
out for any stray tourists and keep the accounts and wait on table?  And
play the piano between times, and sing, and converse in four
languages——"
We both were laughing now.  I asked her to name her monthly compensation
and she mentioned such a modest salary that I was ashamed to offer it.
But she refused more, explaining that the Swiss law regulated such
things.
So that subject being settled and her potatoes pared and set to soak,
she picked up a youthful onion with the careless grace of a queen
selecting a favorite pearl.
"I hope you will like my soup to-night," said this paragon of servants.
I was for a moment conscious of a naïve desire to sit there in the
kitchen and converse with her—perhaps even read aloud to her to relieve
the tedium of her routine.  Then waking up to the fact that I had no
further business in that kitchen, I arose and got myself out.
Smith, lolling in his chair by the fountain with half a dozen empty
Moselle bottles in a row on the grass beside his chair, was finishing
another Norse Saga as I approached:
    —The farmer then to that young man did say:
    "O treat my daughter kindly,
    Don’t you do her any harm,
    And I will leave you in my will
    My house and barn and farm;—
    My hay in mows,
    My pigs and cows,
    My wood-lot on the hill,
    And all the little chick-uns in the ga-arden!"
    The city guy he laffed to scorn
      What that old man did say:
    "Before I bump you on the bean
      Go chase yourself away.
    Beat it! you bum blackmailing yap!
    I never kissed your daughter’s map
    Nor thought of getting gay!
    I’m here on my vacation
    And I ain’t done any harm,
    I do not want your daughter, Bill,
    Nor house and barn and farm,
    Nor hay in mows
    Nor pigs and cows
    Nor wood-lot on the hill.
    Nor all them little chick-uns in the ga-arden!"
    Them crool words no sooner said
    Than Jessie fetched a sob:
    "I’ll shoot you up unless we’re wed!"
    Sez she—"You prune-fed slob!
    Get busy with the parson——"
Here Smith caught sight of me and ceased his saga.
"Yes," I said, "you’re a Norwegian all right. Three cheers for King
Haakon!"
"You speak in parables, O’Ryan."
"You behave in parabolics.  I don’t care.  I like you.  I shall call you
Shan."
"Your companionship also is very agreeable to me, Michael.  Sit down and
have one on yourself."
We exchanged bows and I seated myself.
"By the way," I remarked carelessly, "her name is Thusis."  And I filled
my glass and took a squint at its color.  Not that I knew anything about
Moselle.
"What else is her name?" he inquired.
"She declines to answer further.  Thusis seems to be her limit."
"I told you she was a mystery!" he exclaimed with lively interest.
"What else did she say to you, Michael?"
"Her sister is coming to-night.  Also a lady-friend named Josephine
Vannis; and a farmer of sorts called Raoul Despres."
"Take it from me," said Smith, "that if truth is stranger than fiction
in these days, this red-haired girl called Thusis is no more Swiss than
you are!"
"No more of a peasant than you are a Norwegian," I nodded.
"And whoinhell," he inquired, keeping his countenance, "ever heard of a
South American named O’Ryan?"
"It’s a matter of Chilean history, old top."
"Oh, yes, I know.  But the essence of the affair is that an Irish family
named O’Ryan have, for several generations, merely been visiting in
Chili.  Now one of ’em’s in Switzerland as close to the big shindy as he
can get without getting into it.  And, the question is this: how long
before he pulls a brick and starts in?"
"Chili is neutral——"
"Ireland isn’t.  Sinn Fein or Fusiliers—which, Michael?"
"Don’t talk nonsense," said I, virtuously.  "I’m no fighter.  There’s no
violence in me.  If I saw a fight I’d walk the other way.  There’s none
of that kind of Irish blood in me."
"No.  And all your family in the army or navy. And you practically a
Yankee——"
I stared at him and whistled the Chilean anthem.
"That’s my reply," said I.  "Yours is:
    "My girl’s a corker,
    She’s a New Yorker——"
"What piffle you talk, you poor prune," said this typical Norwegian.
So we filled our glasses to our respective countries, and another round
to that jolly flag which bears more stars and stripes than the Chilean
ensign.
It being my turn to investigate the cellar I went. Down there in one of
the alleys between bins and casks I saw Thusis moving with a lighted
candle—a startling and charming apparition.
What she might be doing down there I could not guess, and she was so
disturbingly pretty that I didn’t think it best to go over and inquire.
Maybe she was counting the bottles of Moselle to keep reproachful tabs
on us; maybe she was after vinegar. No; I realized then for the first
time that the girl was far too pretty for any man to encounter her by
candle-light with impunity.
She did not see me—wouldn’t have noticed me at all in the dim light had
not my bunch of bottles clinked—both hands being loaded, and a couple of
extra ones under each arm.
The sound startled her apparently; she turned quite white in the
candle-light and stood rigid, listening, one hand pressing her breast.
"It is I, Thusis," I said.  "Did I frighten you?"
She denied it rather faintly.  She was distractingly pretty in her
breathless attitude of a scared child.
I ought to have said something cheerful and matter of fact, and gone out
of the cellar with my cargo of bottles.  Instead I went over to her and
looked at her—a silly, dangerous proceeding. "Thusis," I said, "I would
not frighten you for one million dollars!"
Realizing suddenly the magnitude of the sum I mentioned I pulled myself
together, conscious that I could easily make an ass of myself.
So, resolutely expelling from voice and manner any trace of sex
consciousness, I said in the spirit of our best American novelists:
"Permit me, Thusis, to recommend a small glass of this very excellent
Moselle.  Sipped judiciously and in moderation the tonic qualities are
considered valuable as a nourishment to the tissues and nerves."
"Thank you," she said, slightly bewildered.
So I knocked off the neck of the bottle in medieval fashion—which wasted
its contents because she was afraid of swallowing glass, and said so
decidedly.  I then noticed a row of corkscrews hanging on a beam, and
she, at the same moment, discovered a tasting porringer of antique
silver under one of the casks.
She picked it up naïvely and polished it with a corner of her apron.
Then she looked inquiringly at me.
So I drew the cork and filled her porringer.
"It is delicious Moselle," she said.  "Is it Château Varenn?"
"It is.  How did you guess?"
"I once tasted some."
"Another of your accomplishments," said I, laughing. She laughed too,
but blushed a little at her expert knowledge of Moselle.
"I have rather a keen sense of taste and a good memory," she explained
lightly; and she sipped her Moselle looking at me over the rim of the
silver porringer—a perilous proceeding for me.
"Thusis," said I.
"Yes, Monsieur O’Ryan."
"Did you ever, by chance, see that photograph they sell all over Europe
called ’The Laughing Girl’?"
Her dark-fringed eyes regarded me steadily over the cup’s silver edge:
"Yes," she said, "I’ve seen it."
"Do you think that b-b-beautiful c-creature resembles you?"
"Do you?" she inquired coolly, and lowered the cup.  There ensued a
little silence during which I became vaguely aware of my danger.  I kept
repeating to myself: "Try to recollect that your grandfather was an
Admiral."
After a moment she smiled: "Thank you for the tonic, Monsieur.  I feel
better; but I am afraid it was a presumption for me to drink in your
presence.... And no cup to offer you."
"I’ll use yours," said I, taking it.  She was still smiling.  I began to
feel that I ought to pull myself together and invoke the Admiral more
earnestly. But when I remembered him he bored me.  And yet, could it be
possible that an O’Ryan was drinking Moselle in his own cellar with his
cook?  In no extravagance of nightmare had I ever evoked such a
cataclysmic scene.  I have dreamed awful dreams in the course of my
life:—such grotesqueries as, for example, finding myself on Fifth Avenue
clothed only in a too brief undershirt.  I have dreamed that I was
wedded to a large Ethiopian who persisted in embracing me passionately
in public.  Other horrors I have dreamed after dining incautiously, but
never, never, had I dreamed of reveling in cellars with my own cook!
A slight perspiration bedewed my brow;—I said in a strained and tenor
voice not my own, but over-modulated and quite sexless: "Thusis, I am
gratified that the slight medicinal tonic of which you have partaken in
moderation has restored you to your normal condition of mental and
bodily vigor.  I trust that the natural alarm you experienced at
encountering me in the dark, has now sufficiently subsided to enable you
to return to your culinary duties. Allow me to suggest an omelette for
luncheon.... I thank you."
The girl’s bewildered eyes rested on me so sweetly, so inquiringly, that
I knew I must pull myself together at once or never.  But when I evoked
the image of that damned Admiral he was grinning.
"Thusis," I said hoarsely, "you do look like that girl in my photograph.
I—I can’t help it—b-but you do!"
At that her perplexed expression altered swiftly and that bewitching
smile flashed in her gray eyes.
"Good heavens," I exclaimed, "you look more like her than ever when you
smile!  Don’t you know you do?"
Instantly the hidden laughter lurking in the curled corners of her mouth
rippled prettily into music.
"Oh, Lord," I said, "you are ’The Laughing Girl’ or her twin sister!"
"And you," she laughed, "are so much funnier than you realize,—so
delightfully young to be so in earnest!  You consider the world a very,
very serious place of residence,—don’t you, Mr. O’Ryan?  And life a most
sober affair.  And I am afraid that you also consider yourself quite the
most ponderous proposition upon this tottering old planet.  Don’t you?"
Horrified at her levity I tried to grasp the amazing fact that my cook
was poking fun at me.  I could not compass the idea.  All I seemed to
realize was that I stood in my cellar confronting a slender laughing
stranger by candle-light—an amazingly pretty girl who threatened most
utterly to bewitch me.
"I’m sorry!—are you offended?" she asked, still laughing, and her
dark-fringed eyes very brilliant with mischief.—"Are you very angry at
me, Mr. O’Ryan?"
"Why do you think so?" I asked, wincing at her mirth.
"Because I suppose I know what you are thinking."
"What am I thinking?"
"You’re very, very angry with me and with yourself. You are saying to
yourself in pained amazement that you have no business in a cellar
exchanging persiflage with a presumptuous servant!  You are chagrined,
mortified!  You are astonished at yourself—astounded that the solemn,
dignified, distinguished Cabalero Don Michael O’Ryan y Santiago de Chile
y Manhattanos——"
I turned red with surprise and wrath—and then slightly dizzy with the
delicious effrontery of her beauty which daring had suddenly made
dazzling in the candle-light.
For a minute my brain resembled a pin-wheel; then I pulled myself
together, but not with the aid of the Admiral.  No!  The Admiral made me
sick. In my sudden rush of exhilaration I derided him.
"Thusis," said I, when I recovered power of speech, "there’s just one
thing to do with you, and that is to kiss you for your impudence."
"Your own cook!  Oh, shocking!  Oh, Señor!  Oh Don Michael——"
—"And I’m going to do it!——" said I solemnly.
"Remember the seriousness of life!" she warned me, retreating a step or
two as I set all my bottles upon the ground.  "Remember the life-long
degradation entailed by such an undignified proceeding, Don Michael."
That was too much.  She saw trouble coming, turned to escape what she
had unloosed: and I caught her near the cellar stairs.
Then, under the lifted candle, I saw her face pale a little, change,
then a flush stain the white skin to her throat.
"Don’t do that," she said, still smiling, but in a quiet and very
different voice.  "I invited it by my silly attitude;—I know it
perfectly well.  But you won’t do it—will you, Mr. O’Ryan?"
"You deserve it, Thusis."
"I know I do.  But don’t."
My arms slipped from her.  I released her.  She was still smiling
faintly.
"Thank you," she said.  "I’m sorry I offered you provocation.  I don’t
know why you seem to tempt me to—to laugh at you a little—not unkindly.
But you are so very young to be so solemn——"
"I tell you I will kiss you if you repeat that remark again!"
It was on the tip of her tongue to retort that I dared not: I saw
defiance in her brilliant eyes. Something in mine, perhaps, made her
prudent; for she suddenly slipped past me and fled up the stairs.
Half way up she turned and looked back.  There was an odd silence for a
full minute.  Then she lifted the candle in mocking salute:
"I defy you," she said, "to tell Mr. Smith what you’ve been about down
here in the cellar with your cook!"  I said nothing.  She mounted the
stairs, her head turned toward me, watching me.  And, on the top step:
"Try always to remember," she called back softly, "that the world is a
very, very solemn and serious planet for a ponderous young man to live
in!"
I don’t remember how long after that it was before I picked up my
bottles and went out to the fountain where Smith sat awaiting me.  I
don’t know what he saw in my face to arouse his suspicion.
"You’ve been in the kitchen again!" he exclaimed.
I placed the bottles on the grass without noticing the accusation.
"What was it this time—business as usual?" he inquired sarcastically.
"I have not been in the kitchen," said I, "although I did transact a
little business with my cook."  I did not add:—"business of making an
outrageous ass of myself."
As I drew the first cork I was conscious of Smith’s silent and offensive
scrutiny.  And very gradually my ears revealed my burning guilt under
his delighted gaze.
Calm, but exasperated, I lifted my brimming glass and bowed politely to
