have run very smooth and, knowing that Lennox was otherwise interested,
she took up with Paliser out of pique.
Pique! he repeated. But no, that is not Cassy Cara either. She----
Like a thread snapped suddenly, the novelist's meditations ceased. On
the wall before him the dragons alighted, the mask awoke. Between them a
canvas was emerging. Dim, shadowy, uncertain, it hesitated, wavered,
advanced.
Then, as it hung unsupported in the air--far too unsupported, he
presently thought--he looked it over.
To apparitions he was accustomed. They were part of his equipment.
Unsummoned, without incantations they came, sent, one might think, by
the muse whom he derided, but more naturally and very simply produced by
the machinery in his brain.
Now, as he examined the canvas, its imprecision diminished, the shadows
passed, the obscurity lifted, the penumbra brightened, outlines defined
themselves, the colouring appeared, a colouring, after the manner of
Rembrandt, composed of darkness in which there is light and which, as
such, reveals.
Jones stood up, turned around and sat down again as gamblers, disquieted
by their luck, will do.
Before him still the picture floated. He disavowed it, disowned it. Yet
there it was, the child of his fancy, the first-born of the morning, the
fruit of his concentrated thought, and as, surprisedly, he considered
it, it took on such semblances of legitimacy, that the disavowals
ceased. Then, slowly disintegrating, its consistence lessened. It was
departing, vaporously as it had come. Jones waved at it, omitting out of
sheer abstraction to say Au revoir, yet omitting also, and through equal
modesty, to say Eureka!
He pressed a button. Instantly, as though sprung from a trap, his
servant appeared.
"Get Mr. Lennox on the telephone."
The minutes lengthened. Finally the servant reappeared.
"Mr. Lennox is not at home, sir. His man says he's gone to Centre
Street. He's been arrested. Mr. Lennox has been arrested. Yes, sir."
Pausing, the servant cocked an ear and added: "They're calling extras,
sir. Would you wish one?"
Circuitously, through the open door, the cat, her tail in the air,
approached and wowed.
Jones leaned over and tickled her in the stomach. The cat hopped up on
him. He put a finger to his forehead, held it there, removed it and
looked at the man.
"In war-time, with the price of everything going up, it is a criminal
waste of money to buy an extra--particularly when you know what isn't in
it."
"Yes, sir."
Jones motioned. "Look through the old newspapers. Among the March issues
there is one that has an article entitled 'The Matter of Ziegler.' Let
me have it."
The cat, now on his shoulder, purred profusely in his ear. Raising a
hand, he tickled her again.
"Mimi-Meow, this Matter of Ziegler may interest us very much and after
we have looked it over, I will attend to our friend von Lennox, who
seems to have become a Hun."
XXIX
Already over the picked-up codfish, flapjacks, Hamburg steaks and
cognate enticements on which the Bronx and Harlem breakfasts, the news
of it had buttered the toast, flavoured the coffee, added a sweetness to
this April day and provided a cocktail to people who did not know
Paliser from the Pierrot in the moon. That he was spectacularly wealthy
was a tid-bit, that he had been killed at the Metropolitan was a
delight, the war news was nothing to the fact that the party with the
stiletto had escaped "unbeknownst." These people were unacquainted with
Paliser. But here was a young man with an opera-box of his own, and
think of that! Here was the mythological monster that the Knickerbocker
has become. Here was the heir to unearned and untold increments. These
attributes made him as delectable to the majority who did not know him,
as he had become to the privileged few who did.
Elsewhere, and particularly in and about fashion's final citadel which
the Plaza is, solemn imbeciles viewed the matter vehemently. "Young
Paliser! Why, there is no better blood in town! By Jove, I believe we
are related!"
Or else: "That's M. P.'s son, isn't it? Yes, here it is. I never met the
old cock but I heard of him long before we came East. A damned outrage,
that's what I call it."
Or again: "Dear me, what is the world coming to? What a blessing it is
we were not there. They might have come and murdered us all!"
Adjacently, in clubland, old men with one foot in the grave and the
other on Broadway, exchanged reminiscences of the nights when social New
York was a small and early family party and M. P. led the ball, and at a
pace so klinking that he danced beyond the favours of the cotillon--the
german as it, the cotillon, was then lovingly called--into assemblies,
certainly less select, but certainly, too, more gay, and had horrified
scrumptious sedateness with the uproar of his orgies.
The indicated obituaries followed. "Well, at any rate, they didn't
murder him for it." "The son now, a chip of the old block, eh?" "Nothing
of the kind, a quiet young prig." "The papers say----" "Damn the papers,
they never know anything." "You mean they don't print what they do
know." "I mean they don't give us the woman. For it was a woman. I'll
eat my hat it was a woman." "Let's have lunch instead."
Generally, for the moment, that was the verdict, one in which the police
had already collaborated. But what woman? And, assuming the woman,
whence had she come? Where had she gone?--problems, momentarily
insoluble but which investigations, then in progress, would probably
decide.
At the great white house on upper Fifth Avenue, the servants knew only
that they knew nothing. Nothing at all. Already coached, they were sure
and unshakable in their knowledge of that. A Mr. Harvey--from
Headquarters--could not budge them an inch. Not one!
The night before, at the first intelligence of it, M. P. came nearer to
giving up the ghost than is commonly advisable. Suffocation seized him.
An incubus within was pushing his life-springs out. So can emotion and
an impaired digestion affect a father. The emotion was not caused by
grief. It was fear. For weeks, for months, during the tedium and terror
of the trial, his name, Paliser, would top the page! It had topped it
before, very often, but that was years ago. Then he had not cared. Then
the wine of youth still bubbled. No, he had not cared. But that was long
ago. Since then the wine of youth had gone, spilled in those orgies
which he had survived, yet, in the survival, abandoned more and more to
solitude and making him seek, what the solitary ever do seek,
inconspicuousness. For years he had courted obscurity as imbeciles court
fame. And now!
If only the boy had had the decency to die of pneumonia!
It was then the incubus gripped him. For a second he saw the visage,
infinitely consoling, that Death can display and possibly, but for an
immediate drug, there too would have echoed the Terra addio!
He was then in white velvet. A preparation of menthe, dripping from a
phial, spotted it green. He did not notice. At the moment the spasm had
him. Then as that clicked and passed, he looked in the expressionless
face of the butler who had told him.
The spasm had shaken him into a chair.
The room, an oblong, was furnished after a fashion of long ago. The
daised bed was ascended by low, wide steps. Beyond stood a table of
lapis-lazuli. A mantel of the same material was surmounted by a mirror
framed in jasper. Beneath the mirror, a fire burned dimly. The lights
too were dim. They were diffused by tall wax candles that stood shaded
in high gold sticks. On the table there were three of them.
The chair was near this table, at which M. P. had been occupied very
laboriously, in doing nothing, a task that he performed in preparation
for the bed, which was always ready for him, and for sleep, which seldom
was. There he had been told. It had shaken him to his feet, shaken
apoplexy at him and shaken him back in the chair.
Now, as he looked at the servant's wooden mask, for a moment he relived
an age, not a pleasant one either and of which this blow, had he known
it, was perhaps the karma. He did not know it. He knew nothing of karma.
None the less, with that curious intuition which the great crises
induce, he too divined the woman and wished to God that he had kept his
hands off, wished that he had not interfered and told Monty to put her
in a flat and be damned to her! It was she, he could have sworn it. At
once, precisely as he wished he had let her alone, he hoped and quite as
fervently that she had covered her tracks, that there would be no trial,
nothing but inept conjectures and that forgetfulness in which all
things, good and bad, lose their way.
The futility of wishing passed. The time for action had come. He
motioned. "Is Benny here?"
"He left this noon, sir."
"Did he say anything?"
The butler did not know whether to lie or not, but seeing no personal
advantage in either course, he hedged. "Very little, sir."
That little, the old man weighed. A little is often enough. It may be
too much.
"He spoke about a girl, eh?"
"He said a lady was stopping there. Yes, sir."
"What else?"
The butler shuffled. "He said she was very pretty, sir."
"Go on, Canlon."
"Well, sir, it seems there was a joke about it. The young lady thought
she was married."
"How was that?"
"I'm not supposed to know, sir. But from what was let on, Benny was
rigged out as a dominie and it made 'em laugh."
The old man ran his head out like a turtle. "Damnation, what has that to
do with it?"
"Why, sir, he pretended to marry her."
"Benny did?"
"Yes, sir."
"He pretended that she was his wife."
"No, sir, he pretended to marry her to Mr. Monty."
"Good God!" the old man muttered and sank back. The blackness was
blacker than any black he had entered. In days gone by, he had agreeably
shocked New York with the splendid uproar of his orgies. He had left
undone those things which he ought to have done and done those things
which he should have avoided. He had been whatever you like--or
dislike--but never had he been dishonest. Little that would avail him
now. If this turpitude were published, it would be said that he had
fathered it. At the prospect, he felt the incubus returning. In a moment
it would have him and, spillingly, he drank the green drug.
The agony receded, but the nightmare confronted him. He grappled with
it.
"The coat I had on at dinner. There is a card-case in the pocket. Give
it to me."
Probably it was all very useless. Probably no matter what he contrived,
the police would ferret her out. There was just one chance though which,
properly taken, might save the situation.
The card-case, pale damask, lined with pale silk, the man brought him.
He put it on the table.
"Canlon!"
"Yes, sir."
"Benny said nothing."
"Very good, sir."
"I have a few hundred for you here, between eight and nine, I think."
"Thank you, sir."
"To-morrow there will be more."
"I am sure I am very grateful, sir."
"Don't interrupt me. Recently my son returned from Cuba. Occasionally he
went visiting. Where he went, he did not tell you. That is all you know.
You know nothing else. You heard nothing. Nobody here heard anything.
Nobody, in this house, knows anything at all. You understand?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then see to it. The police will come. You must be at the door. You know
now what to say. They will want a word with me. I am too prostrated to
see anybody."
"Thank you, sir."
"Telephone to the Place. Get Benny. Repeat my orders. Say I will do as
well by him as I shall by you."
"Thank you, sir."
"Take the money. You may have the case also."
"I thank you, sir."
"Tell Peters to fetch me some brandy. The 1810. That will do."
Presently, when the police did come and, several hours later, in the
person of Mr. Harvey, came again, they came upon the barriers, invisible
and unscalable, which ignorance, properly paid, can erect. With an empty
bag, Mr. Harvey made off; not far, however, a few squares below to the
Athenæum Club.
There, the hall-porter succeeded in being magnificent The strange and
early visitor he rebuked. It was not customary for members to be
murdered!
A badge, carelessly disclosed, disconcerted him. For a second only.
However unusual a member might be, no information could be supplied
concerning him. There was another rule, equally strict. Strangers were
not admitted. Though, whether the rule applied to a bull, he was
uncertain. Momentarily, the hall-porter, previously magnificent, became
an unhappy man. Misery is fertile. A compromise surprised him.
He crooked a thumb. "Here! Go 'round by the back way and ask for Mr.
Johnson--he's one of the captains."
From the steps, in the slanting rays of the morning sun, he saw him off.
But the gaiety of the eager rays that charged the air with little gold
motes, did not cheer him. The lustre of his office was tarnished. A
member had been murdered! It was most unusual.
Meanwhile, down the area steps, a hostile and hasty youth in
shirt-sleeves and a slashed waistcoat barred the way. The barring was
brief. The badge and a smile demolished it. Within, beneath a low
ceiling, at a long table, other youths, equally slashed but less
hostile, were at breakfast.
Affably, the intruder raised a hand. "Gentlemen, don't let me disturb
you. I'm just having a look-in on Mr. Johnson."
Mr. Johnson did not breakfast with slashed young men; it would have been
subversive to discipline, and it was negligently, through a lateral
entrance, that presently he appeared. In evening clothes on this early
morning, he surveyed his visitor, a big fellow with a slight moustache,
an easy way and a missing front tooth, who went straight at it.
"Pleased to meet you, Mr. Johnson. My name's Harvey. It's about young
Paliser. There may be something in it for you. I'm from Headquarters."
The captain coughed. "It's awful. I can't tell you anything though. He
wasn't here often. Doubt if I've seen him in a week." He looked about.
The slashed youths were edging up. "Come in here."
In an adjoining room, he took a chair, waved politely at another,
coughed again and resumed. "You say there may be something in it for
me?"
Mr. Harvey sat down. "Cert. There'll be a reward--a big one."
The captain turned it over. "It is as much as my place is worth, but
last evening one of the members was talking fierce about him."
"Yes, so I heard," said Mr. Harvey, who had heard nothing of the kind
and who, not for an instant, had expected to tumble on a fierce-talking
member. "I heard his name too. It's--er----"
"Lennox," the captain put in.
"Lennox, yes, that's it, and just to see how my account tallies with
yours, what did he say?"
"He said he'd do for him. I could have laughed."
"It was funny, I laughed myself, and about a woman, wasn't it?"
"I don't know. But he was engaged to be married. I saw it in the
papers."
"And this young Paliser butted in?"
"I couldn't say. But he threw up his business and sat around and last
night he was going to do for him."
"At the opera?"
"He was talking random-like. He had just had a B. and S. I didn't hear
anything about the opera. He wasn't got up for it. Just a business suit.
But, Lord bless you, he didn't do it. He isn't that kind. Nice,
free-handed feller."
"No, of course not. I wouldn't believe it, not if you told me so. Let me
see. Where did I hear he lives?"
"I don't rightly know. Somewhere in the neighbourhood."
"So I thought and his first name is?"
"I've forgotten. Hold on! Keith! That's it. Keith Lennox. Are you going
to see him? P'raps he can set you straight."
"P'raps he can."
"But don't let on about me, my friend."
"Not on your life," replied his friend, who added: "Where's your hat?"
"My hat!" Mr. Johnson surprisedly exclaimed.
Affably that friend of his nodded. "Ever been to Headquarters? Well,
you're going there now!"
Then, presently, the captain and his friend ascended a stairway, down
which, a few hours later, hoarse voices came.
"Extra! Extra!"
XXX
At the Athenæum, that afternoon, members gathered together, buttonholed
each other, talked it over and so importantly that, if you had not known
better, you might have thought the war a minor event. It gave one rather
a clear idea of the parochialism of clubland. But then, to discuss the
affairs of people who never heard of you is, essentially, a social act.
Meanwhile the shouted extras had told of Lennox' arrest. The evening
papers supplied the evidence.
In them you read that Lennox had said he would "do" for Paliser, that in
his possession had been found a stiletto, an opera-check, together with
a will, and that, when apprehended, he had been effecting what is called
a getaway.
There you had the threat, the instrument, the opportunity and what more
could you ask, except the motive? As for the rest, it was damning. On
that point foregathering members agreed--with one exception.
In a seated group was Jones. His neighbours alarmed him. They belonged,
he thought, to a very dangerous class, to a class which a sociologist
defined as the most dangerous of all--to the stupid. According to them,
Lennox was not merely guilty, he was worse. He had besplattered the club
with the blood of a man who, hang it all, whether you liked him or not,
was also a member. The Athenæum would become a byword. Already, no
doubt, it was known as the Assassin's. Et cetera and so forth.
The group thinned, increased, thinned again, scattered.
Jones, alone with a survivor, addressed him. "How is my handsome friend
to-day?"
Verelst turned impatiently. "In no mood for jesting. I ought to have
hurried him off. Now he is in jail."
Jones lit a cigarette. "There are honest men everywhere, even in jail,
perhaps particularly in jail. Whom has he, do you know?"
"To defend him? Dunwoodie. Ogston told me. Ogston says----"
"I daresay he does. His remarks are always very poignant."
"But look here. Before the arrest was known, Ogston was in this room
telling everybody that, last night, he gave Lennox a seat in Paliser's
box. He will have to testify to it. He can't help himself."
"Perhaps I can help him though. I was with Lennox at the time."
"You were? That's awkward. You may have to corroborate him."
"I certainly shall. I have the seat."
"What?"
"Lennox dropped the ticket. After he had gone, I found it on the floor.
It is in my shop now."
"Well, well!" Verelst astoundedly exclaimed. "But, here, hold on. The
papers say he had a return check."
Jones flicked his ashes. "I have one or two myself. Probably you have.
Even otherwise return checks tell no tales, or rather no dates."
"I never thought of that."
"Think of it now, then."
"Yes, but confound it, there is the stiletto."
"As you say, there it is and I wish it were here. It is mine."
Verelst adjusted his glasses. "What are you talking about?"
"The war," Jones answered. "What else? In my shop last evening, Lennox
was drawing his will. In gathering up the sheets, the knife must have
got among them and, without knowing it, he carried it off. This morning
I missed it. The loss affected me profoundly. It is an old friend."
"You don't tell me."
"Don't I? I'll go so far as to lay you another basket of pippins that
the police can't produce another like it. On the blade is inscribed
Penetrabo--which is an endearing device."
"But see here," Verelst excitedly exclaimed. "You must tell Dunwoodie.
You----" In sheer astonishment he broke off.
Innocently Jones surveyed him. "You think it important as all that?"
"Important? Important isn't the word."
With the same air of innocence, Jones nodded. "I thought it wasn't the
word. I should have said trivial."
"But----"
Wickedly Jones laughed. "If you feel reckless enough to go another
basket of pippins, I will wager that if I tell Dunwoodie anything--and
mind the 'if'--he will agree that the paper-cutter is of no
consequence--except to its lawful owner, who wants it back."
"But tell me----"
"Anything you like. For the moment, though, tell me something."
"What?"
Jones blew a ring of smoke. "Do you happen to know whether Paliser had
anything?"
"What on earth has that to do with it?"
Jones blew another ring. "I had an idea that his mother might have left
him something. You knew her, didn't you? Any way, you still know M. P.
Did he ever say anything about it?"
"He did not need to. It was in the papers. He made over to him the
Splendor, the Place, and some Wall Street and lower Broadway property
that has been part of the Paliser estate since the year One."
"What is it all worth?" Jones asked. "Ten or twenty million?"
"Thirty, I should say. Perhaps more. But what has it to do with Lennox?"
Negligently Jones flicked his ashes. "Well, it changes the subject. I
can't talk about the same thing all the time. It is too fatiguing."
As he spoke, he stood up.
Verelst put out a hand. "Dunwoodie is sure to look in. Where are you off
to?"
Jones smiled at him. "I am going to gaze in a window where there are
pippins on view."
"Go to the devil!" said Verelst, who also got up.
Fabulists tell strange tales. It is their business to tell them. Jones
had no intention of looking at pippins. What he had in mind was fruit of
another variety. It was some distance away. Before he could make an
appreciable move toward it, Verelst, who had turned from him, turned
back.
"There!"
Beyond, through the high-arched entrance, a man was limping. He had the
battered face of an old bulldog and the rumpled clothes of a young
ruffian.
"There's Dunwoodie!"
Verelst, a hand on Jones' elbow, propelled him toward the lawyer, who
gratified them with the look, very baleful and equally famous, with
which he was said to reverse the Bench.
But Verelst, afraid of nothing except damp sheets, stretched a hand.
"You know Ten Eyck Jones. He has something very important to tell you."
"Yes," said Jones. "In March, on the eighth or ninth, I have forgotten
which, but it must be in the 'Law Journal,' a decision was rendered----"
He got no farther. Other members, crowding about, were questioning,
surmising, eager for a detail, a prediction, an obiter dictum, for
anything they could take away and repeat concerning the murder, in which
all knew that the great man was to appear.
But Dunwoodie was making himself heard, and not gently either. It was as
though already he was at the district attorney's throat.
"Where is the evidence? Where is it? Where is the evidence? There is not
a shred, not a scintilla. On the absence of facts adduced, I shall
maintain what I assert until the last armed Court of Appeals expires.
Hum! Ha!"
Fiercely he turned on Jones. "What were you saying, sir?"
Before Jones could reply, Verelst cut in. "The stiletto is his. He has
the opera-ticket. He----"
"Imbeciles tell each other that great men think alike," Jones,
interrupting, remarked at Dunwoodie. "I merely happened to be
forestalling your views, when a recent decision occurred to me and----"
Jones' remarks were lost, drowned by others, by questions, exclamations,
the drivel that amazement creates.
"But, I say----" "Tell me this----" "No evidence!" "The stiletto his!"
"How did Lennox get it?" "Then what about----"
Dunwoodie, fastening on Jones, roared at him. "You tell me the
instrument is yours?"
Jones patted his chin. "I did not, but I will."
"How do you know, sir?"
"It has a little love message on it."
"Hum! Ha!" Dunwoodie barked. "Come to my office to-morrow. Come before
ten."
Dreamily Jones tilted his hat. "I am not up before ten. Where do you
live? In the Roaring Forties?"
But, in the mounting clamour, the answer, if answer there were, was
submerged. Jones went out to the street, entered a taxi, gave an address
and sailed away, up and across the Park, along the Riverside and into
the longest thoroughfare--caravan routes excepted--on the planet.
On a corner was a drug-shop, where anything was to be had, even to
umbrellas and, from a sign that hung there, apparently a notary public
also. Opposite was a saloon, the Ladies Entrance horribly hospitable.
Jones' trained eye--the eye of a novelist--gathered these things which
it dropped in that bag which the subconscious is. Meanwhile the car,
scattering children, tooted, turned and stopped before a leprous door.
In the hall, a girl of twelve, with the face of a seraph, and the voice
of a fiend, was shrieking at a switchboard. Jones fearing, if he
addressed her, that she might curse him, went on and up, higher, still
higher, and began to feel quite birdlike. On the successive landings
were doors and he wondered what tragedies, what comedies, what aims,
lofty, mean or merely diabolic, they concealed. They were all labelled
with names, Hun or Hebrew, usually both. But one name differed. It
caressed.
There he rang.
When it opened, a strawberry mouth opened also. "Oh!" Cassy's blue eyes
were red. There was fright in them. "It is horrible! Tell me, do you
think it was he?"
Jones removed his hat. "I know it was not."
That mouth opened again, opened for breath, opened with relief. Gasping,
she stared. "Thank God! I was afraid----But are you sure? It was I who
told him--I thought it my fault. It was killing me. Tell me. Are you
really sure?"
Jones motioned. "His lawyer is. I have just seen him."
"He is! Thank God then! Thank God! And my father! It has made him ill.
He liked him so! I am going for medicine now. Will you go in and speak
to him?"
She turned and called. "It is Mr. Jones--a friend of Mr. Lennox." She
turned again. "I will be back in a minute."
Beyond, in the room with the piano and the painted warrior, the musician
lay on a sofa, bundled in a rug. There was not much space on the sofa,
yet, as Jones entered, he seemed to recede. Then, cavernously, he spoke.
"Forgive me for not rising. This business has been too much for me. Sit
down."
Jones put his hat on the table and drew a chair. "I am sorry it has
upset you. It amounts to nothing."
Perplexedly the musician repeated it. "Nothing?"
"I was referring to our friend Lennox."
"You call his arrest nothing?"
"Well, everything is relative. It may seem unusual to be held without
bail and yet, if we all were, it would be commonplace."
The musician plucked at the rug. "I suppose everybody thinks he did it?"
"Everybody, no. I don't think so and I am sure your daughter doesn't."
"I wish she would hurry."
"Nor do you."
"No, I don't think so."
"I doubt if the police do either."
"After jailing him!"
Jones, who had been taking in the room, the piano, the portrait, the
table, sketched a gesture.
"We are all in jail. The opinion of the world is a prison, our own ideas
are another. We are doubly jailed, and very justly. We are depraved
animals. We think, or think we think, and what we think others have
thought for us and, as a rule, erroneously."
From a phonograph somewhere, in some adjacent den, there floated a tenor
aria, the Bella figlia del amore, pierced suddenly and beautifully by
a contralto's rich voice.
Jones turned. "That's Caruso. I don't know who the Maddelena is. Do you
remember Campanini?"
"Yes, I remember him. He was a better actor than Caruso."
"And so ugly that he was good-looking. Caruso is becoming uneven."
Vaguely the musician considered the novelist. "You think so?"
"It rather looked that way last night."
Angelo Cara plucked again at the rug.
"But," Jones continued, "in the 'Terra addio' he made up for it. What an
enchantment that duo is!"
The musician's hand moved from the rug to his face. "You were there
then?"
I was this morning, thought Jones, but he said: "How sinful Rigoletto is
by comparison to Aïda--by comparison I mean to the last act."
The other duo now had become a quartette. The voices of Gilda and
Rigoletto were fusing with those of the figlia and the duke.
The musician appeared to be listening. His sunken eyes were lifted.
Slowly he turned them on Jones.
"You didn't see anything, did you?"
"Last night? I did not see Lennox, if that is what you mean, or
Paliser--except for a moment, during the crypt scene."
Chokingly the musician drew breath. In the effort he gasped. "Then you
know."
"Yes, I know."
The rug rose and fell. It was as though there were a wave beneath it.
With an air of detachment, Jones added: "Paliser turned to see who was
there. A sword-cane told him."
The musician's lips twitched, his face had contracted, his hand now was
on his breast. "I wish Cassy would hurry. She's gone for amyl."
"Is it far?"
"The corner. Are you going to do anything?"
Jones shook his head. "I don't need to."
The sunken eyes were upon him. "Why do you say that?"
"You are an honest man."
The sunken eyes wavered. "At least I never supposed they would arrest
Lennox. How could I?"
"No one could have supposed it. Besides, in your own conscience you were
justified, were you not?"
"You know about that, too?"
"Yes, I know about that."
The Rigoletto disc now had been replaced by another, one from which a
voice brayed, a voice nasal, jocular, felonious.
"That beast ought to be shot," Jones added.
The musician raised himself a little. "You don't misjudge her, do you?"
Jones, annoyed at the swill tossed about, had turned from him. He turned
back. "Believe me, Mr. Cara, there is no one for whom I have a higher
respect."
A spasm seized the musician. For a moment, save for the effort at
breath, he was silent. Then feebly he said: "I wish she would hurry."
"Can I do anything?"
"Yes, tell me. Do you condemn me?"
The novelist hesitated. "There are no human scales for any soul. Though,
to be sure----"
"What?"
"It might have been avoided. As it is, they will suspect her."
"Cassy?"
"Naturally. They can't hold Lennox on a paper-cutter--that belongs to
me, and a few empty words said in my presence and which, if necessary, I
did not hear. They can't hold him on that. But when they learn, as they
will, the circumstances of your daughter's misadventure, they will
arrest her."
"Merciful God!"
The jeopardy to her, a jeopardy previously undiscerned, but which then
shaken at him, instantly took shape, twisted his mouth into the
appalling grimace that mediæval art gave to the damned.
"And you don't want that," Jones remotely resumed.
"Want it!" Galvanised by the shock, the musician sat suddenly up. "Last
night, after I got back, I slept like a log. This morning, I felt if I
had not done it, I would still have it to do and that satisfied me. But
afterwards, when I learned about Lennox, it threw me here. Now----My
God!"
He fell back.
The poor devil is done for, thought Jones, who, wondering whether he
could get it over in time, leaned forward.
"Mr. Cara, don't you think you had best make it plain sailing for
everybody, and let me draw up a declaration?"
The disc now had run out. The grunt of the beast was stilled. From
beyond came the quick click of a key. Almost at once Cassy appeared.
She hurried to her father. "There were people ahead of me. They took
forever. Has Mr. Jones told you? Mr. Lennox did not do it."
Breaking a tube in a handkerchief, she was administering the amyl and
Jones wondered whether she could then suspect. But her face was turned
from him, he could not read it, and realising that, in any event, she
must be spared the next act, he cast about for an excuse to get her
away. At once, remembering the notary, he produced him.
"Your father wants me to draw a paper on which his signature should be
attested. If I am not asking too much, would you mind going back to the
druggist for the notary whose sign I saw there?"
Cassy turned from her father. "A paper? What paper?"
Bravely Jones lied. "A will."
Cassy looked from one to the other. "The poor dear often has these
attacks. He will be better soon--now that he knows. Won't you, daddy?"
Angelo Cara's eyes had in them an expression infinitely tender, equally
vacant. It was as though, in thinking of her, he was thinking too of
something else. Though, as Jones afterward decided, he probably was not
thinking at all.
Cassy exclaimed at him. "Besides, what have you--except me?"
"Everybody has to make a will," Jones, lying again, put in. "There has
been a new law passed. The eternal revenue collector requires it."
Cassy smoothed the rug, put the handkerchief on the table, opened a
drawer, got out some paper, a pen, a bottle of ink.
In a moment she had gone.
Jones seated himself at the table. "Forgive me for asking, but may I
assume that you believe in God, a life hereafter and in the rewards and
punishments which, we are told, await us?"
The musician closed his eyes.
"Thank you," said Jones, who began to write:
     I, Angelo Cara, being in full possession of my senses and conscious
     of the immanence of death, do solemnly swear to the truth of this
     my dying declaration, which, I also solemnly swear, is made by me
     without any collusion with Keith Lennox. First; I firmly believe in
     God, in a life hereafter, and in future rewards and punishments.
     Second; I alone am guilty of the murder of Montagu Paliser, Jr.,
     whom I killed without aid or accomplices and without the privity or
     knowledge of any other person.
Jones, wishing that in his law-school days he had crammed less and
studied more, looked up.
"I cannot compliment you on your pen, Mr. Cara. But then, pen and ink
always seem so emphatic. Personally, I prefer a pencil. Writing with a
pencil is like talking in a whisper."
