"I see," said Cunningham, gravely.
"So?"
"Get that necklace back for me and I will give you a hundred gold."
"Five hundred."
"You saw what happened last night."
"Oh, you will not beat in my head," Ling Foo declared, easily. "What is
there about this string of beads that makes it worth a hundred gold--and
life worth nothing?"
"Very well," said Cunningham, resignedly. "I am a secret agent of the
British Government. That string of glass beads is the key to a code
relating to the uprisings in India. The loss of it will cost a great deal
of money and time. Bring it back here this afternoon, and I will pay down
five hundred gold."
"I agree," replied Ling Foo, tossing his pipe into the alcove. "But no one
must follow me. I do not trust you. There is nothing to prevent you from
robbing me in the street and refusing to pay me. And where will you get
five hundred gold? Gold has vanished. Even the leaf has all but
disappeared."
Cunningham dipped his hand into a pocket, and magically a dozen double
eagles rolled and vibrated upon the counter, sending into Ling Foo's ears
that music so peculiar to gold. Many days had gone by since he had set his
gaze upon the yellow metal. His hand reached down--only to feel--but not
so quickly as the white hand, which scooped up the coin trickily, with the
skill of a prestidigitator.
"Five hundred gold, then. But are you sure you can get the beads back?"
Ling Foo smiled.
"I have a way. I will meet you in the lobby of the Astor House at five";
and he bowed with Oriental courtesy.
"Agreed. All aboveboard, remember, or you will feel the iron hand of the
British Government."
Ling Foo doubted that, but he kept this doubt to himself.
"I warn you, I shall go armed. You will bring the gold to the Astor House.
If I see you after I depart----"
"Lord love you, once that code key is in my hands you can go to heaven or
the devil, as you please! We live in rough times, Ling Foo."
"So we do. There is a stain on the floor, about where you stand. It is the
blood of a white man."
"What would you, when a comrade attempts to deceive you?"
"At five in the lobby of the Astor House. Good day," concluded Ling Foo,
fingering the buttons on his counting rack.
Cunningham limped out into the cold sunshine. Ling Foo shook his head. So
like a boy's, that face! He shuddered slightly. He knew that a savage
devil lay ready behind that handsome mask--he had seen it last night. But
five hundred gold--for a string of glass beads!
Ling Foo was an honest man. He would pay you cash for cash in a bargain.
If he overcharged you that was your fault, but he never sold you
imitations on the basis that you would not know the difference. If he sold
you a Ming jar--for twice what it was worth in the great marts--experts
would tell you that it was Ming. He had some jade of superior quality--the
translucent deep apple-green. He never carried it about; he never even
spoke of it unless he was sure that the prospective customer was wealthy.
His safe was in a corner of his workshop. An American yegg would have
laughed at it, opened it as easily as a ripe peach; but in this district
it was absolute security. Ling Foo was obliged to keep a safe, for often
he had valuable pearls to take care of, sometimes to put new vigour in
dying lustre, sometimes to peel a pearl on the chance that under the dull
skin lay the gem.
He trotted to the front door and locked it; then he trotted into his
workshop, planning. If the glass beads were worth five hundred, wasn't it
likely they would be worth a thousand? If this man who limped had stuck to
the hundred Ling Foo knew that he would have surrendered eventually. But
the ease with which the stranger made the jump from one to five convinced
Ling Foo that there could be no harm in boosting five to ten. If there was
a taint of crookedness anywhere, that would be on the other side. Ling Foo
knew where the beads were, and he would transfer them for one thousand
gold. Smart business, nothing more than that. He had the whip hand.
Out of his safe he took a blackwood box, beautifully carved, Cantonese.
Headbands, earrings, rings, charms, necklaces, tomb ornaments, some of
them royal, all of them nearly as ancient as the hills of Kwanlun, from
which most of them had been quarried--jade. He trickled them from palm to
palm and one by one returned the objects to the box. In the end he
retained two strings of beads so alike that it was difficult to discern
any difference. One was Kwanlun jade, royal loot; the other was a copy in
Nanshan stone. The first was priceless, worth what any fool collector was
ready to pay; the copy was worth perhaps a hundred gold. Held to the
light, there was a subtle difference; but only an expert could have told
you what this difference was. The royal jade did not catch the light so
strongly as the copy; the touch of human warmth had slightly dulled the
stone.
Ling Foo transferred the copy to a purse he wore attached to his belt
under the blue jacket. The young woman would never be able to resist the
jade. She would return the glass instantly. A thousand gold, less the cost
of the jade! Good business!
But for once his Oriental astuteness overreached, as has been seen. And to
add to his discomfiture, he never again saw the copy of the Kwanlun,
representing the virtue of the favourite wife.
                   *       *       *       *       *
"I am an honest man," he said. "The tombs of my ancestors are not
neglected. When I say I could not get it I speak the truth. But I believe
I can get it later."
"How?" asked Cunningham. They were in the office, or bureau, of the Astor
House, which the manager had turned over to them for the moment.
"Remember, the arm of the British Government is long."
Ling Foo shrugged.
"Being an honest man, I do not fear. She would have given it to me but for
that officer. He knew something about jade."
Cunningham nodded.
"Conceivably he would." He jingled the gold in his pocket. "How do you
purpose to get the beads?"
"Go to the lady's room late. I left the jade with her. Alone, she will not
resist. I saw it in her eyes. But it will be difficult."
"I see. For you to get into the hotel late. I'll arrange that with the
manager. You will be coming to my room. What floor is her room on?"
"The third."
"The same as mine. That falls nicely. Return then at half after ten. You
will come to my room for the gold."
Ling Foo saw his thousand shrink to the original five hundred, but there
was no help for it. At half after ten he knocked on the panel of Jane's
door and waited. He knocked again; still the summons was not answered. The
third assault was emphatic. Ling Foo heard footsteps, but behind him. He
turned. The meddling young officer was striding toward him.
"What are you doing here?" Dennison demanded.
His own appearance in the corridor at this hour might have been
subjectable to inquiry. He had left Jane at nine. He had seen her to the
lift. Perhaps he had walked the Bund for an hour or two, but worriedly.
The thought of the arrival in Shanghai of his father and the rogue
Cunningham convinced him that some queer game was afoot, and that it
hinged somehow upon those beads.
There was no sighing in regard to his father, for the past that was. An
astonishing but purely accidental meeting; to-morrow each would go his
separate way again. All that was a closed page. He had long ago readjusted
his outlook on the basis that reconciliation was hopeless.
A sudden impulse spun him on his heel, and he hurried back to the Astor.
The hour did not matter, or the possibility that Jane might be abed. He
would ask permission to become the temporary custodian of the beads. What
were they, to have brought his father across the Pacific--if indeed they
had? Anyhow, he would end his own anxiety in regard to Jane by assuming
the risks, if any, himself.
No one questioned him; his uniform was a passport that required no visé.
Ling Foo eyed him blandly.
"I am leaving for the province in the morning, so I had to come for my
jade to-night. But the young lady is not in her room."
"She must be!" cried Dennison, alarmed. "Miss Norman?" he called, beating
on the door.
No sound answered from within. Dennison pondered for a moment. Ling Foo
also pondered--apprehensively. He suspected that some misfortune had
befallen the young woman, for her kind did not go prowling alone round
Shanghai at night. Slue-Foot! Should he utter his suspicion to this
American officer? But if it should become a police affair! Bitterly he
arraigned himself for disclosing his hand to Slue-Foot. That demon had
forestalled him. No doubt by now he had the beads. Ten thousand devils
pursue him!
Dennison struck his hands together, and by and by a sleepy Chinese boy
came scuffling along the corridor.
"Talkee manager come topside," said Dennison. When the manager arrived,
perturbed, Dennison explained the situation.
"Will you open the door?"
The manager agreed to do that. The bedroom was empty. The bed had not been
touched. But there was no evidence that the occupant did not intend to
return.
"We shall leave everything just as it is," said Dennison, authoritatively.
"I am her friend. If she does not return by one o'clock I shall notify the
police and have the young lady's belongings transferred to the American
consulate. She is under the full protection of the United States
Government. You will find out if any saw her leave the hotel, and what the
time was. Stay here in the doorway while I look about."
He saw the jade necklace reposing in the soap dish, and in an ironical
mood he decided not to announce the discovery to the Chinaman. Let him pay
for his cupidity. In some mysterious manner he had got his yellow claws on
those infernal beads, and the rogue Cunningham had gone to him with a
substantial bribe. So let the pigtail wail for his jade.
On the dresser he saw a sheet of paper partly opened. Beside it lay a torn
envelope. Dennison's heart lost a beat. The handwriting was his father's!
CHAPTER VII
Jane had gone to meet his father. How to secrete this note without being
observed by either the manager or the Chinaman? An accident came to his
aid. Someone in the corridor banged a door violently, and as the manager's
head and Ling Foo's jerked about, Dennison stuffed the note into a
pocket.
A trap! Dennison wasn't alarmed--he was only furious. Jane had walked into
a trap. She had worn those accursed beads when his father had approached
her by the bookstall that afternoon. The note had attacked her curiosity
from a perfectly normal angle. Dennison had absorbed enough of the note's
contents to understand how readily Jane had walked into the trap.
Very well. He would wait in the lobby until one; then if Jane had not
returned he would lay the plans of a counter-attack, and it would be a
rough one. Of course no bodily harm would befall Jane, but she would
probably be harried and bullied out of those beads. But would she? It was
not unlikely that she would become a pretty handful, once she learned she
had been tricked. If she balked him, how would the father act? The old
boy was ruthless when he particularly wanted something.
If anything should happen to her--an event unlooked for, accidental, over
which his father would have no control--this note would bring the old boy
into a peck of trouble; and Dennison was loyal enough not to wish this to
happen. And yet it would be only just to make the father pay once for his
high-handedness. That would be droll--to see his father in the dock,
himself as a witness against him! Here was the germ of a tiptop drama.
But all this worry was doubtless being wasted upon mere supposition. Jane
might turn over the beads without bargaining, provided the father had any
legal right to them, which Dennison strongly doubted.
He approached Ling Foo and seized him roughly by the arm.
"What do you know about these glass beads?"
Ling Foo elevated a shoulder and let it fall.
"Nothing, except that the man who owns them demands that I recover them."
"And who is this man?"
"I don't know his name."
"That won't pass. You tell me who he is or I'll turn you over to the
police."
"I am an honest man," replied Ling Foo with dignity. He appealed to the
manager.
"I have known Ling Foo a long time, sir. He is perfectly honest."
Ling Foo nodded. He knew that this recommendation, honest as it was, would
have weight with the American.
"But you have some appointment with this man. Where is that to be? I
demand to know that."
Ling Foo saw his jade vanish along with his rainbow gold. His early
suppositions had been correct.
Those were devil beads, and evil befell any who touched them.
Silently he cursed the soldier's ancestors half a thousand years back. If
the white fool hadn't meddled in the parlour that afternoon!
"Come with me," he said, finally.
The game was played out; the counters had gone back to the basket. He had
no desire to come into contact with police officials. Only it was as
bitter as the gall of chicken, and he purposed to lessen his own
discomfort by making the lame man share it. Oriental humour.
Dennison and the hotel manager followed him curiously. At the end of the
corridor Ling Foo stopped and knocked on a door. It was opened
immediately.
"Ah! Oh!"
The inflections touched Dennison's sense of humour, and he smiled. A
greeting with a snap-back of dismay.
"I'm not surprised," he said. "I had a suspicion I'd find you in this
somewhere."
"Find me in what?" asked Cunningham, his poise recovered. He, too, began
to smile. "Won't you come in?"
"What about these glass beads?"
"Glass beads? Oh, yes. But why?"
"I fancy you'd better come out into the clear, Cunningham," said Dennison,
grimly.
"You wish to know about those beads? Very well, I'll explain, because
something has happened--I know not what. You all look so infernally
serious. Those beads are a key to a code. The British Government is keenly
anxious to recover this key. In the hands of certain Hindus those beads
would constitute bad medicine."
Ling Foo spread his hands relievedly.
"That is the story. I was to receive five hundred gold for their
recovery."
"A code key," said Dennison, musing.
He knew Cunningham was lying. Anthony Cleigh wasn't the man to run across
half the world for a British code key. On the other hand, perhaps it would
be wise to let the hotel manager and the Chinaman continue in the belief
that the affair concerned a British code.
"If I did not know you tolerably well----"
"My dear captain, you don't know me at all," interrupted Cunningham. "Have
you got the beads?"
"I have not. I doubt if you will ever lay eyes on them again."
Something flashed across the handsome face. Ling Foo alone recognized it.
He had glimpsed it, this expression, outside his window the night before.
He recalled the dark stain on the floor of his shop, and he also
recollected a saying of Confucius relative to greed. He wished he was back
in his shop, well out of this muddle. The jade could go, valuable as it
was. With his hands tucked in his sleeves he waited.
Dennison turned upon the manager. He wanted to be alone with Cunningham.
"Go down and make inquiries, and take this Chinaman with you. I'll be with
you shortly." As soon as the two were out of the way Dennison said:
"Cunningham, the lady who wore those beads at dinner to-night has gone out
alone, wearing them. If I find that you are anywhere back of this
venture--if she does not return shortly--I will break you as I would a
churchwarden pipe."
Cunningham appeared genuinely taken aback.
"She went out alone?"
"Yes."
"Have you notified the police?"
"Not yet. I'm giving her until one; then I shall start something."
"Something tells me," said Cunningham, easily, "that Miss Norman is in no
danger. But she would never have gone out if I had been in the lobby. If
she has not returned by one call me. Any assistance I can give will be
given gladly. Women ought never to be mixed up in affairs such as this
one, on this side of the world. Tell your father that he ought to know by
this time that he is no match for me."
"What do you mean by that?"
"Innocent! You know very well what I mean. If you hadn't a suspicion of
what has happened you would be roaring up and down the corridors with the
police. You run true to the breed. It's a good one, I'll admit. But your
father will regret this night's work."
"Perhaps. Here, read this."
Dennison extended the note. Cunningham, his brows bent, ran through the
missive.
  MISS NORMAN: Will you do me the honour to meet me at the bridgehead
  at half-past nine--practically at once? My son and I are not on
  friendly terms. Still, I am his father, and I'd like to hear what he
  has been doing over here. I will have a limousine, and we can ride
  out on the Bubbling Well Road while we talk.
                                                     ANTHONY CLEIGH.
"Didn't know," said Cunningham, returning the note, "that you two were at
odds. But this is a devil of a mix-up, if it's what I think."
"What do you think?"
"That he's abducted her--carried her off to the yacht."
"He's no fool," was the son's defense.
"He isn't, eh? Lord love you, sonny, your father and I are the two biggest
fools on all God's earth!"
The door closed sharply in Dennison's face and the key rasped in the
lock.
For a space Dennison did not stir. Why should he wish to protect his
father? Between his father and this handsome rogue there was small choice.
The old boy made such rogues possible. But supposing Cleigh had wished
really to quiz Jane? To find out something about these seven years, lean
and hard, with stretches of idleness and stretches of furious labour,
loneliness? Well, the father would learn that in all these seven years the
son had never faltered from the high level he had set for his conduct.
That was a stout staff to lean on--he had the right to look all men
squarely in the eye.
He had been educated to inherit millions; he had not been educated to
support himself by work in a world that specialized. He had in these seven
years been a jeweller's clerk, an auctioneer in a salesroom; he had
travelled from Baluchistan to Damascus with carpet caravans, but he had
never forged ahead financially. Generally the end of a job had been the
end of his resources. One fact the thought of which never failed to buck
him up--he had never traded on his father's name.
Then had come the war. He had returned to America, trained, and they had
assigned him to Russia. But that had not been without its reward--he had
met Jane.
In a New York bank, to his credit, was the sum of twenty thousand dollars,
at compound interest for seven years, ready to answer to the scratch of a
pen, but he had sworn he would never touch a dollar of it. Never before
had the thought of it risen so strongly to tempt him. His for the mere
scratch of a pen!
In the lobby he found the manager pacing nervously, while Ling Foo sat
patiently and inscrutably.
"Why do you wait?" inquired Dennison, irritably.
"The lady has some jade of mine," returned Ling Foo, placidly. "It was a
grave mistake."
"What was?"
"That you interfered this afternoon. The lady would be in her room at this
hour. The devil beads would not be casting a spell on us."
"Devil beads, eh?"
Ling Foo shrugged and ran his hands into his sleeves. Somewhere along the
banks of the Whangpoo or the Yang-tse would be the body of an unknown, but
Ling Foo's lips were locked quite as securely as the dead man's. Devil
beads they were.
"When did the man upstairs leave the beads with you?"
"Last night."
"For what reason?"
"He will tell you. It is none of my affair now." And that was all Dennison
could dig out of Ling Foo.
Jane Norman did not return at one o'clock; in fact, she never returned to
the Astor House. Dennison waited until three; then he went back to the
Palace, and Ling Foo to his shop and oblivion.
Dennison decided that he did not want the police in the affair. In that
event there would be a lot of publicity, followed by the kind of talk that
stuck. He was confident that he could handle the affair alone. So he
invented a white lie, and nobody questioned it because of his uniform.
Miss Norman had found friends, and shortly she would send for her effects;
but until that time she desired the consulate to take charge. Under the
eyes of the relieved hotel manager and an indifferent clerk from the
consulate the following morning Dennison packed Jane's belongings and
conveyed them to the consulate, which was hard by. Next he proceeded to
the water front and engaged a motor boat. At eleven o'clock he drew up
alongside the Wanderer II.
"Hey, there!" shouted a seaman. "Sheer off! Orders to receive no
visitors!"
Dennison began to mount, ignoring the order. It was a confusing situation
for the sailor. If he threw this officer into the yellow water--as
certainly he would have thrown a civilian--Uncle Sam might jump on his
back and ride him to clink. Against this was the old man, the very devil
for obedience to his orders. If he pushed this lad over, the clink; if he
let him by, the old man's foot. And while the worried seaman was reaching
for water with one hand and wind with the other, as the saying goes,
Dennison thrust him roughly aside, crossed the deck to the main
companionway, and thundered down into the salon.
CHAPTER VIII
Cleigh sat before a card table; he was playing Chinese Canfield. He looked
up, but he neither rose nor dropped the half-spent deck of cards he held
in his hand. The bronzed face, the hard agate blue of the eyes that met
his own, the utter absence of visible agitation, took the wind out of
Dennison's sails and left him all a-shiver, like a sloop coming about on a
fresh tack. He had made his entrance stormily enough, but now the hot
words stuffed his throat to choking.
Cleigh was thirty years older than his son; he was a finished master of
sentimental emotions; he could keep all his thoughts out of his
countenance when he so willed. But powerful as his will was, in this
instance it failed to reach down into his heart; and that thumped against
his ribs rather painfully. The boy!
Dennison, aware that he stood close to the ridiculous, broke the spell and
advanced.
"I have come for Miss Norman," he said.
Cleigh scrutinized the cards and shifted one.
"I found your note to her. I've a launch. I don't know what the game is,
but I'm going to take Miss Norman back with me if I have to break in every
door on board!"
Cleigh stood up. As he did so Dodge, the Texan appeared in the doorway to
the dining salon. Dennison saw the blue barrel of a revolver.
"A gunman, eh? All right. Let's see if he'll shoot," said the son, walking
deliberately toward Dodge.
"No, Dodge!" Cleigh called out as the Texan, raised the revolver. "You may
go."
Dodge, a good deal astonished, backed out. Once more father and son stared
at each other.
"Better call it off," advised the son. "You can't hold Miss Norman--and I
can make a serious charge. Bring her at once, or I'll go for her. And the
Lord help the woodwork if I start!"
But even as he uttered the threat Dennison heard a sound behind. He
turned, but not soon enough. In a second he was on the floor, three husky
seamen mauling him. They had their hands full for a while, but in the end
they conquered.
"What next, sir?" asked one of the sailors, breathing hard.
"Tie him up and lock him in Cabin Two."
The first order was executed. After Dennison's arms and ankles were bound
the men stood him up.
"Are you really my father?"
Cleigh returned to his cards and shuffled them for a new deal.
"Don't untie him. He might walk through the partition. He will have the
freedom of the deck when we are out of the delta."
Dennison was thereupon carried to Cabin Two, and deposited upon the
stationary bed. He began to laugh. There was a sardonic note in this
laughter, like that which greets you when you recount some incredible
tale. His old cabin!
The men shook their heads, as if confronted by something so unusual that
it wasn't worth while to speculate upon it. The old man's son! They went
out, locking the door. By this time Dennison's laughter had reached the
level of shouting, but only he knew how near it was to tears--wrathful,
murderous, miserable tears! He fought his bonds terrifically for a moment,
then relaxed.
For seven years he had been hugging the hope that when he and his father
met blood would tell, and that their differences would vanish in a strong
handclasp; and here he lay, trussed hand and foot, in his old cabin, not a
crack in that granite lump his father called a heart!
A childish thought! Some day to take that twenty thousand with accrued
interest, ride up to the door, step inside, dump the silver on that old
red Samarkand, and depart--forever.
Where was she? This side of the passage or the other?
"Miss Norman?" he called.
"Yes?" came almost instantly from the cabin aft.
"This is Captain Dennison. I'm tied up and lying on the bed. Can you hear
me distinctly?"
"Yes. Your father has made a prisoner of you? Of all the inhuman acts! You
came in search of me?"
"Naturally. Have you those infernal beads?"
"No."
Dennison twisted about until he had his shoulders against the brass rail
of the bed head.
"What happened?"
"It was a trick. It was not to talk about you--he wanted the beads, and
that made me furious."
"Were you hurt in the struggle?"
"There wasn't any. I really don't know what possessed me. Perhaps I was a
bit hypnotized. Perhaps I was curious. Perhaps I wanted--some excitement.
On my word, I don't know just what happened. Anyhow, here I am--in a
dinner gown, bound for Hong-Kong, so he says. He offered me ten thousand
for the beads, and my freedom, if I would promise not to report his
high-handedness; and I haven't uttered a sound."
"Heaven on earth, why didn't you accept his offer?"
A moment of silence.
"In the first place, I haven't the beads. In the second place, I want to
make him all the trouble I possibly can. Now that he has me, he doesn't
know what to do with me. Hoist by his own petard. Do you want the truth?
Well, I'm not worried in the least. I feel as if I'd been invited to some
splendiferous picnic."
"That's foolish," he remonstrated.
"Of course it is. But it's the sort of foolishness I've been aching for
all my life. I knew something was going to happen. I broke my hand mirror
night before last. Two times seven years' bad luck. Now he has me, I'll
wager he's half frightened out of his wits. But what made you think of the
yacht?"
"We forced the door of your room, and I found the note. Has he told you
what makes those infernal beads so precious?"
"No. I can't figure that out."
"No more can I. Did he threaten you?"
"Yes. Would I enter the launch peacefully, or would he have to carry me? I
didn't want my gown spoiled--it's the only decent one I have. I'm not
afraid. It isn't as though he were a stranger. Being your father, he would
never stoop to any indignity. But he'll find he has caught a tartar. I
had an idea you'd find me."
"Well, I have. But you won't get to Hong-Kong. The minute he liberates me
I'll sneak into the wireless room and bring the destroyers. I didn't
notify the police from a bit of foolish sentiment. I didn't quite want you
mixed up in the story. I had your things conveyed to the consulate."
"My story--which few men would believe. I've thought of that. Are you
smoking?"
"Smoking, with my hands tied behind my back? Not so you'd notice it."
"I smell tobacco smoke--a good cigar, too."
"Then someone is in the passage listening."
Silence. Anthony Cleigh eyed his perfecto rather ruefully and tiptoed back
to the salon. Hoist by his own petard. He was beginning to wonder. Cleigh
was a man who rarely regretted an act, but in the clear light of day he
was beginning to have his doubts regarding this one. A mere feather on the
wrong side of the scale, and the British destroyers would be atop of him
like a flock of kites. Abduction! Cut down to bedrock, he had laid himself
open to that. He ran his fingers through his cowlicks. But drat the woman!
why had she accepted the situation so docilely? Since midnight not a sound
out of her, not a wail, not a sob. Now he had her, he couldn't let her
go. She was right there.
There was one man in the crew Cleigh had begun to dislike intensely, and
he had been manoeuvring ever since Honolulu to find a legitimate excuse to
give the man his papers. Something about the fellow suggested covert
insolence; he had the air of a beachcomber who had unexpectedly fallen
into a soft berth, and it had gone to his head. He had been standing watch
at the ladder head, and against positive orders he had permitted a visitor
to pass him. To Cleigh this was the handle he had been hunting for. He
summoned the man.
"Get your duffle," said Cleigh.
"What's that, sir?"
"Get your stuff. You're through. You had positive orders, and you let a
man by."
"But his uniform fussed me, sir. I didn't know just how to act."
"Get your stuff! Mr. Cleve will give you your pay. My orders are absolute.
Off with you!"
The sailor sullenly obeyed. He found the first officer alone in the chart
house.
"The boss has sent me for my pay, Mr. Cleve. I'm fired." Flint grinned
amiably.
"Fired? Well, well," said Cleve, "that's certainly tough luck--all this
way from home. I'll have to pay you in Federal Reserve bills. The old man
has the gold."
"Federal Reserve it is. Forty-six dollars in Uncle Samuels."
The first officer solemnly counted out the sum and laid it on the palm of
the discharged man.
"Tough world."
"Oh, I'm not worrying! I'll bet you this forty-six against ten that I've
another job before midnight."
Mr. Cleve grinned.
"Always looking for sure-thing bets! Better hail that bumboat with the
vegetables to row you into town. The old man'll dump you over by hand if
he finds you here between now and sundown."
"I'll try the launch there. Tell the lad his fare ain't goin' back to
Shanghai. Of course it makes it a bit inconvenient, packing and unpacking;
but I guess I can live through it. But what about the woman?"
Cleve plucked at his chin.
"Messes up the show a bit. Pippin, though. I like 'em when they walk
straight and look straight like this one. Notice her hair? You never tame
that sort beyond parlour manners. But I don't like her on board here, or
the young fellow, either. Don't know him, but he's likely to bust the
yacht wide open if he gets loose."
"Well, so long, Mary! Know what my first move'll be?"
"A bottle somewhere. But mind your step! Don't monkey with the stuff
beyond normal. You know what I mean."
"Sure! Only a peg or two, after all this psalm-singing!"
"I know, Flint. But this game is no joke. You know what happened in town?
Morrissy was near croaked."
Flint's face lost some of its gayety.
"Oh, I know how to handle the stuff! See you later."
                   *       *       *       *       *
Cleigh decided to see what the girl's temper was, so he entered the
passage on the full soles of his shoes. He knocked on her door.
"Miss Norman?"
"Well?"
That was a good sign; she was ready to talk.
"I have come to repeat that offer."
"Mr. Cleigh, I have nothing to say so long as the key is on the wrong side
of the door."
Cleigh heard a chuckle from Cabin Two.
"Very well," he said. "Remember, I offered you liberty conditionally. If
you suffer inconveniences after to-night you will have only yourself to
thank."
"Have you calculated that some day you will have to let me go?"
"Yes, I have calculated on that."
"And that I shall go to the nearest authorities and report this action?"
"If you will think a moment," said Cleigh, his tone monotonously level,
"you will dismiss that plan for two reasons: First, that no one will
believe you; second, that no one will want to believe you. That's as near
as I care to put it. Your imagination will grasp it."
"Instantly!" cried the girl, hotly. "I knew you to be cold and hard, but I
did not believe you were a scoundrel--having known your son!"
"I have no son."
"Oh, yes, you have!"
"I disowned him. He is absolutely nothing to me."
"I do not believe that," came back through the cabin door.
"Nevertheless, it is the truth. The queer part is, I've tried to resurrect
the father instinct, and can't. I've tried to go round the wall--over it.
I might just as well try to climb the Upper Himalayas."
In Cabin Two the son stared at the white ceiling. It seemed to him that
all his vitals had been wrenched out of him, leaving him hollow, empty. He
knew his father's voice; it rang with truth.
"I offer you ten thousand."
"The key is still on the outside."
"I'm afraid to trust you."
"We understand each other perfectly," said Jane, ironically.
The son smiled. The sense of emptiness vanished, and there came into his
blood a warmth as sweet as it was strong. Jane Norman, angel of mercy. He
heard his father speaking again:
"Since you will have it so, you will go to Hong-Kong?"
"To Patagonia if you wish! You cannot scare me by threatening me with
travel on a private yacht. I had the beads, it is true; but at this moment
I haven't the slightest idea where they are; and if I had I should not
tell you. I refuse to buy my liberty; you will have to give it to me
without conditions."
"I'm sorry I haven't anything on board in shape of women's clothes, but
I'll send for your stuff if you wish."
"That is the single consideration you have shown me. My belongings are at
the American consulate, and I should be glad to have them."
"You will find paper and ink in the escritoire. Write me an order and I
promise to attend to the matter personally."
"And search through everything at your leisure!"
Cleigh blushed, and he heard his son chuckle again. He had certainly
caught a tartar--possibly two. With a twisted smile he recalled the old
yarn of the hunter who caught the bear by the tail. Willing to let go, and
daring not!
"Still I agree," continued the girl. "I want my own familiar things--if I
must take this forced voyage. But mark me, Mr. Cleigh, you will pay some
day! I'm not the clinging kind, and I shall fight you tooth and nail from
the first hour of my freedom. I'm not without friends."
"Never in this world!" came resonantly from Cabin Two.
Cleigh longed to get away. There was a rumbling and a threatening inside
of him that needed space--Gargantuan laughter. Not the clinging kind, this
girl! And the boy, walking straight at Dodge's villainous revolver! Why,
he would need the whole crew behind him when he liberated these two! But
he knew that the laughter striving for articulation was not the kind heard
in Elysian fields!
CHAPTER IX
"If you will write the order I will execute it at once. The consulate
