Paris--if it please you to recollect----"

"You are as surely Viscount Stormont as is Billy Alexander, here, Lord
Stirling--and as I am Lady Johnson," she said earnestly. "What do you
care if your titles be disputed by a doddering committee on privileges
in the House of Lords? What difference does it make if usurpers wear
your honours as long as you know these same stolen titles are your own?"

"A pair o' peers sans peerage," quoth Billy Alexander, with that
boyish grin I loved to see.

"I care nothing," said I, still smiling, "but Billy Alexander
does--pardon!--my Lord Stirling, I should say."

Said he: "Sure I am Lord Stirling and no one else; and shall wear my
title however they dispute it who deny me my proper seat in their rotten
House of Lords!"

"I think you are very surely the true Lord Stirling," said I, "but I, on
the other hand, most certainly am not a Stormont Murray. My name is John
Drogue; and if I be truly also Viscount Stormont, it troubles me not at
all, for my ambition is to be only American and to let the Stormonts
glitter as they please and where."

Lady Johnson came close to me and laid both hands upon my shoulders.

"Jack," she pleaded, "be true to us. Be true to your gentle blood. Be
true to your proper caste. God knows the King will have a very instant
need of his gentlemen in America before we three see another summer here
in County Tryon."

I made no reply. What could I say to her? And, indeed, the matter of the
Stormont Viscounty was distasteful, stale, and wearisome to me, and I
cared absolutely nothing about it, though the landed gentry of Tryon
were ever at pains to place me where I belonged,--if some were
right,--and where I did not belong if others were righter still.

For Lady Johnson, like many of her caste, believed that the second
Viscount Stormont died without issue,--which was true,--and that the
third Viscount had a son,--which is debatable.

At any rate, David Murray became the fourth Viscount, and the claims of
my remote ancestor went a-glimmering for so many years that, in 1705, we
resumed our family name of the Northesks, which is Drogue; and in this
natural manner it became my proper name. God knows I found it good
enough to eat and sleep with, so that my Lord Stormont's capers in Paris
never disturbed my dreams. Thank Heaven for that, too; and it was a sad
day for my Lord Stormont when he tried to bully Benjamin Franklin; for
the whole world is not yet done a-laughing at him.

No, I have no desire to claim a Viscounty which our witty Franklin has
made ridiculous with a single shaft of satire from his bristling
repertoire.

Thinking now of this, and reddening a little at the thought,--for no
Stormont even of remotest kinship to the family can truly relish Mr.
Franklin's sauce, though it dressed an undoubted goose,--I become far
more than reconciled to the decision rendered in the House of Lords.

       

Two people who had come from the house, and who were advancing slowly
toward us across the clipped grass, now engaged our full attention.

The one we perceived to be Sir John Johnson himself; the other his
lady's school friend and intimate companion, Claudia Swift, the toast of
the British Army and of all respectable young Tories; and the
"Sacharissa" of those verses made by the new and lively Adjutant
General, Major André, who was then a captain.

For, though very young, our lovely Sacharissa had murdered many a
gallant's peace of mind, leaving a trail of hearts bled white from New
York to Boston, and from that afflicted city to Albany; where, it was
whispered, her bright and merciless eyes had made the sad young Patroon
much sadder, and his offered manor a more melancholy abode than usual.

She gave us, now, her dimpled hand to kiss. And, to Lady Johnson: "My
dear," she said very tenderly, "how pale you seem! God sends us
affliction as a precious gift and we must accept it with meekness,"
letting her eyes rest absently the while on Lord Stirling, and then on
me.

Our Sacharissa might babble of meekness if she chose, but that virtue
was not lodged within her, God knows,--nor many other virtues either.

Billy Alexander, old enough to be her parent, nevertheless had been her
victim; and I also. It was our opinion that we had recovered. But, to be
honest with myself, I could not avoid admitting that I had been very
desperate sick o' love, and that even yet, at times----But no matter:
others, stricken as deep as I, know well that Claudia Swift was not a
maid that any man might easily forget, or, indeed, dismiss at will from
his mind as long as she remained in his vicinity.

"Are you well, Billy, since we last met?" she asked Lord Stirling in
that sweet, hesitating way of hers. And to me: "You have grown thin,
Jack. Have you been in health?"

I said that I had been monstrous busy with my new glebe in the Sacandaga
patent, and had swung an axe there with the best o' them until an
express from Sir William summoned me to return to aid him with the
Iroquois at the council-fire. At which explaining of my silence the jade
smiled.

When I mentioned the Sacandaga patent and the glebe I had had of Sir
William on too generous terms--he making all arrangements with Major
Jelles Fonda through Mr. Lafferty--Sir John, who had been standing
silent beside us, looked up at me in that cold and stealthy way of his.

"Do you mean your parcel at Fonda's Bush?" he inquired.

"Yes; I am clearing it."

"Why?"

"So that my land shall grow Indian corn, pardie!"

"Why clear it now?" he persisted in his deadened voice.

I could have answered very naturally that the land was of no value to
anybody unless cleared of forest. But of course he knew this, too; so I
did not evade the slyer intent of his question.

"I am clearing my land at Fonda's Bush," said I, "because, God willing,
I mean to occupy it in proper person."

"And when, sir, is it your design to do this thing?"

"Do what, sir? Clear my glebe?"

"Remove thither--in proper person, Mr. Drogue?"

"As soon as may be, Sir John."

At that Lady Johnson gave me a quick look and Claudia said: "What! Would
you bury yourself alive in that wilderness, Jack Drogue?"

I smiled. "But I must hew out for myself a career in the world some day,
Sacharissa. So why not begin now?"

"Then in Heaven's name," she exclaimed impatiently, "go somewhere among
men and not among the wild beasts of the forest! Why, a young man is
like to perish of loneliness in such a spot; is he not, Sir John?"

Sir John's inscrutable gaze remained fixed on me.

"In such times as these," said he, "it is better that men like ourselves
continue to live together.... To await events.... And master them....
And afterward, each to his vocation and his own tastes.... It is my
desire that you remain at the Hall," he added, looking steadily at me.

"I must decline, Sir John."

"Why?"

"I have already told you why."

"If your present position is irksome to you," he said, "you have merely
to name a deputy and feel entirely at liberty to pursue your pleasure.
Or--you are at least the Laird of Northesk if you are nothing greater.
There is a commission in my Highlanders--if you desire it.... And your
salary, of course, continues also."

He looked hard at me: "Augmented by--half," he added in his slow, cold
voice. "And this, with your income, should properly maintain a young man
of your age and quality."

I had been Brent-Meester to Sir William, for lack of other employment;
and had been glad to take the important office, loving as I do the open
air. Also the addition of a salary to my slender means had been
acceptable. But it was one matter to serve Sir William as Brent-Meester,
and another to serve Sir John in any capacity whatsoever. And as for the
remainder of the family,--Guy Johnson and Colonel Claus--and their
intimates the Butlers, I had now had more than enough of them, having
endured these uncongenial people only because I had loved Sir William.
Yet, for his father's sake, I now spoke to Sir John politely, using him
most kindly because I both liked and pitied his lady, too.

Said I: "My desire is to become a Tryon County farmer, Sir John; and to
that end I happily became possessed of the parcel at Fonda's Bush. For
that reason I am clearing it. And so I must beg of you to accept my
resignation as Brent-Meester at the Hall, for I mean to start as soon as
convenient to occupy my glebe."

There was a silence; Sacharissa gazed at me in pity, astonishment, and
unfeigned horror; Lady Johnson gave me an odd, unhappy look; and Billy
Alexander a meaning one, half grin.

Then Sir John's slow and heavy voice invaded the momentary silence: "As
my father's Brent-Meester, only an Indian or a Forest Runner knows the
wilderness as do you. And we shall have great need of such forest
knowledge as you possess, Mr. Drogue."

I think we all understood the Baronet's meaning.

I considered a moment, then replied very quietly that in time of stress
no just cause would find me skulking to avoid duty.

I think my manner and tone, as well as what I said, combined to stop Sir
John's mouth. For nobody could question such respectable sentiments
unless, indeed, a quarrel was meant.

But Sir John Johnson, in his way, was as slow to mortal quarrel as was I
in mine. And whatever suspicion of me he might nurse in his secret mind
he now made no outward sign of it.

Also, other people were coming across the grass to join us; and
presently grave greetings were exchanged in sober voices suitable to the
occasion when a considerable company of ladies and gentlemen are
gathered at a house of mourning.

Turning away, I noticed Mr. Duncan and the Highland officers at the
magazine, all wearing their black badges of respect and a knot of crape
on the basket-hilts of their claymores; and young Walter Butler, still
stiff in his bandages, gazing up at the June sky out of melancholy eyes,
like a damned man striving to see God.

Sir John had now given his arm to his lady. His left hand rested on his
sword-hilt--the same left hand he had offered to poor Claire Putnam--and
to which the child still clung, they said.

Claudia turned from Billy Alexander and came toward me. Her face was
serious, but I saw the devil looking out of her blue eyes.

Nature had given this maid most lovely proportions--that charming
slenderness which is plumply moulded--and she stood straight, and
tall enough, too, to meet on a level the love-sick gaze of any
stout young man she had bedevilled; and she wore a most bewitching
countenance--short-nosed, red-lipped, a skin as white as a water-lily,
and thick soft hair as black as night, which she wore unpowdered--the
dangerous jade!

"Jack," says she in honeyed tones, "are you truly designing to become a
hermit?"

"Oh, no," said I, smilingly, "only a farmer, Claudia."

"Why?"

"Because I am a poor man and must feed and clothe myself."

"There is a commission from Sir John in the Scotch regiment----"

"I'm Scotch enough without that," said I.

"Jack?"

"Yes, Madam?"

"Are you a little angry with me?"

"No," said I, feeling uncomfortable and concluding to beware of her, for
she stood now close to me, and the scent of her warm breath troubled me.

"Why are you angry with me, Jack?" she asked sorrowfully. And took one
step nearer.

"I am not," said I.

"Am--am I driving you into the wilderness?" she inquired.

"That, also, is absurd," I replied impatiently. "No woman could ever
boast of driving me, though some may once have led me."

"Oh, I feared that I had sapped, perhaps, your faith in women, John."

I forced a laugh: "Why, Claudia? Because I lately--and vainly--was
enamoured of you?"

"Lately?"

"Yes. I did love you, once."

"Did love?" she breathed. "Do you not love me any more, Jack?"

"I think not," said I, very cheerfully.

"And why? Sure I used you kindly, Jack. Did I not so?"

"You conducted as is the privilege of maid with man, Sacharissa," said I
uneasily. "And that is all I have to say."

"How so did I conduct, Jack?"

"Sweetly--to my undoing."

"Try me again," she said, looking up at me, and the devil in her eyes.

But already I was becoming sensible of the ever-living enchantment of
this young thing, so wise in stratagems and spoils of Love, and I chose
to leave my scalp hang drying at her lodge door beside the scanter pol
of Billy Alexander.

For God knows this vixen-virgin spared neither young nor old, but shot
them through and through at sight with those heavenly darts from her
twin eyes.

And no man, so far, could boast of obtaining from Mistress Swift the
least token or any serious guerdon that his quest might lead him by a
single step toward Hymen's altar, but only to that cruel arena where all
her victims agonized under the mocking sweetness of her smile, and her
pretty, down-turned and merciless thumbs--the little Vestal villain!

"No, Claudia," quoth I, "you have taken my bow and spear, and shorn me
of my thatch like any Mohawk. No; I go to Fonda's Bush----" I smiled,
"--to heal, perhaps, my heart, as you say; but, anyhow, to consult my
soul, and armour it in a wilderness."

"A hermit!" she exclaimed scornfully, "--and afeard of a maid armed only
with two matched eyes, a nose, a mouth and thirty teeth!"

"Afeard of a monster more frightful than that," said I, laughing.

"Of what monster, John Drogue?"

"Of that red monster that is surely, surely creeping northward to
surprise and rend us all," said I in a low voice. "And so I shall retire
to question my secret soul, and arm it cap-à-pie as God directs."

She was looking at me intently. After a silence she said:

"I do love you; and Billy Alexander; and all gay and brave young men
whose unstained swords hedge the women of County Tryon from this same
red monster that you mention." And watched me to see how I swallowed
this.

I said warily: "Surely, Claudia, all women command our swords ... no
matter which cause we espouse."

"Jack!"

"I hear you, Claudia."

But, "Oh, my God!" she breathed; and put her hands to her face. A moment
she stood so, then, eyes still covered by one hand, extended the other
to me. I kissed it lightly; then kissed it again.

"Do you leave us, Jack?"

I understood.

"It is you who leave me, Claudia."

She, too, understood. It was my first confession that all was not right
betwixt my conscience and my King. For that was the only thing I was
certain about concerning her: she never betrayed a confidence, whatever
else she did. And so I made plain to her where my heart and honour
lay--not with the King's men in this coming struggle--but with my own
people.

I think she knew, too, that I had never before confessed as much to any
living soul, for she took her other hand from her eyes and looked at me
as though something had happened in which she took a sorrowful pride.

Then I kissed her hand for the third time, and let it free. And, going:

"God be with you," she said with a slight smile; "you are my dear
friend, John Drogue."

At the Hall porch she turned, the mischief glimmering in her eyes:
"--And so is Billy Alexander," quoth she.

So she went into the darkened Hall.

       

It was many months before I saw our Sacharissa again--not until Major
André had made many another verse for many another inamorata, and his
soldier-actors had played more than one of his farces in besieged Boston
to the loud orchestra of His Excellency's rebel cannon.




CHAPTER III

THE POT BOILS


Sir William died on the 24th of June in the year 1774; which was the
twentieth year of my life.

On the day after he was buried in Saint John's Church in Johnstown,
which he had built, I left the Hall for Fonda's Bush, which was a
wilderness and which lay some nine miles distant in the Mohawk country,
along the little river called Kennyetto.

I speak of Fonda's Bush as a wilderness; but it was not entirely so,
because already old Henry Stoner, the trapper who wore two gold rings in
his ears, had built him a house near the Kennyetto and had taken up his
abode there with his stalwart and handsome sons, Nicholas and John, and
a little daughter, Barbara.

Besides this family, who were the pioneers in that vast forest where the
three patents[2] met, others now began settling upon the pretty little
river in the wilderness, which made a thousand and most amazing windings
through the Bush of Major Fonda.

[Footnote 2: The Three Patents were Sacandaga, Kayaderosseras, and
Stones.]

There came, now, to the Kennyetto, the family of one De Silver; also the
numerous families of John Homan, and Elias Cady; then the Salisburys,
Putnams, Bowmans, and Helmers arrived. And Benjamin De Luysnes followed
with Joseph Scott where the Frenchman, De Golyer, had built a house and
a mill on the trout brook north of us. There was also a dour Scotchman
come thither--a grim and decent man with long, thin shanks under his
kilts, who roved the Bush like a weird and presently went away again.

But before he took himself elsewhere he marked some gigantic trees with
his axe and tied a rag of tartan to a branch.

And, "Fonda's Bush is no name," quoth he. "Where a McIntyre sets his
mark he returns to set his foot. And where he sets foot shall be called
Broadalbin, or I am a great liar!"

And he went away, God knows where. But what he said has become true; for
when again he set his foot among the dead ashes of Fonda's Bush, it
became Broadalbin. And the clans came with him, too; and they peppered
the wilderness with their Scottish names,--Perth, Galway, Scotch Bush,
Scotch Church, Broadalbin,--but my memory runs too fast, like a young
hound giving tongue where the scent grows hotter!--for the quarry is not
yet in sight, nor like to be for many a bloody day, alas!----

       

There was a forest road to the Bush, passable for waggons, and used
sometimes by Sir William when he went a-fishing in the Kennyetto.

It was by this road I travelled thither, well-horsed, and had borrowed
the farm oxen to carry all my worldly goods.

I had clothing, a clock, some books, bedding of my own, and sufficient
pewter.

I had my own rifle, a fowling piece, two pistols, and sufficient
ammunition.

And with these, and, as I say, well horsed, I rode out of Johnstown on a
June morning, all alone, my heart still heavy with grief for Sir
William, and deeply troubled for my country.

For the provinces, now, were slowly kindling, warmed with those pure
flames that purge the human soul; and already the fire had caught and
was burning fiercely in Massachusetts Bay, where John Hancock fed the
flames, daintily, cleverly, with all the circumstance, impudence, and
grace of your veritable macaroni who will not let an inferior outdo him
in a bow, but who is sometimes insolent to kings.

Well, I was for the forest, now, to wrest from a sunless land a mouthful
o' corn to stop the stomach's mutiny.

And if the Northland caught fire some day--well, I was as inflammable as
the next man, who will not suffer violation of house or land or honour.

       

As Brent-Meester to Sir William, my duties took me everywhere. I knew
old man Stoner, and Nick had become already my warm friend, though I was
now a grown man of more than twenty and he still of boy's age. Yet, in
many ways, he seemed more mature than I.

I think Nick Stoner was the most mischievous lad I ever knew--and
admired. He sometimes said the same of me, though I was not, I think, by
nature, designed for a scapegrace. However, two years in the wilderness
will undermine the grace of saint or sinner in some degree. And if, when
during those two hard years I went to Johnstown for a breath of
civilization--or to Schenectady, or, rarely, to Albany--I frequented a
few good taverns, there was little harm done, and nothing malicious.

True, disputes with Tories sometimes led to blows, and mayhap some
Albany watchman's Dutch noddle needed vinegar to soothe the flamms
drummed upon it by a stout stick or ramrod resembling mine.

True, the humming ale at the Admiral Warren Tavern may sometimes have
made my own young noddle hum, and Nick Stoner's, too; but there came no
harm of it, unless there be harm in bussing a fresh and rosy wench or
two; or singing loudly in the tap-room and timing each catch to the
hammering of our empty leather jacks on long hickory tables wet with
malt.

But why so sad, brother Broadbrim? Youth is not to be denied. No! And
youth that sets its sinews against an iron wilderness to conquer
it,--youth that wields its puny axe against giant trees,--youth that
pulls with the oxen to uproot enormous stumps so that when the sun is
let in there will be a soil to grow corn enough to defy
starvation,--youth that toils from sun-up to dark, hewing, burning,
sawing, delving, plowing, harrowing day after day, month after month,
pausing only to kill the wild meat craved or snatch a fish from some
forest fount,--such youth cannot be decently denied, brother Broadbrim!

But if Nick and I were truly as graceless as some stiff-necked folk
pretended, always there was laughter in our scrapes, even when hot blood
boiled at the Admiral Warren, and Tory and Rebel drummed one another's
hides to the outrage of law and order and the mortification of His
Majesty's magistrates in County Tryon.

Even in Fonda's Bush the universal fire had begun to smoulder; the names
Rebel and Tory were whispered; the families of Philip Helmer and Elias
Cady talked very loudly of the King and of Sir John, and how a hempen
rope was the fittest cravat for such Boston men as bragged too freely.

But what most of all was in my thoughts, as I swung my axe there in the
immemorial twilight of the woods, concerned the Indians of the great
Iroquois Confederacy.

What would these savages do when the storm broke? What would happen to
this frontier? What would happen to the solitary settlers, to such
hamlets as Fonda's Bush, to Johnstown, to Schenectady--nay, to Albany
itself?

Sir William was no more. Guy Johnson had become his Majesty's
Superintendent for Indian affairs. He was most violently a King's man--a
member of the most important family in all the Northland, and master of
six separate nations of savages, which formed the Iroquois Confederacy.

What would Guy Johnson do with the warriors of these six nations that
bordered our New York frontier?

Always these questions were seething in my mind as I swung my axe or
plowed or harrowed. I thought about them as I sat at eventide by the
door of my new log house. I considered them as I lay abed, watching the
moonlight crawl across the puncheon floor.

       

As Brent-Meester to Sir William, I knew Indians, and how to conduct when
I encountered them in the forest, in their own castles, or when they
visited the Hall.

I had no love for them and no dislike, but treated them always with the
consideration due from one white man to another.

I was not conscious of making any friends among them, nor of making any
enemies either. To me they were a natural part of the wilderness, like
the trees, rivers, hills, and wild game, belonging there and not
wantonly to be molested.

Others thought differently; trappers, forest runners, coureurs-du-bois
often hated them, and lost no opportunity to display their animosity or
to do them a harm.

But it was not in me to feel that way toward any living creature whom
God had fashioned in His own image if not in His own colour. And who is
so sure, even concerning the complexion of the Most High?

Also, Sir William's kindly example affected my sentiments toward these
red men of the forest. I learned enough of their language to suit my
requirements; I was courteous to their men, young and old; and
considerate toward their women. Otherwise, I remained indifferent.

       

Now, during these first two years of my life in Fonda's Bush, events in
the outer world were piling higher than those black thunder-clouds that
roll up behind the Mayfield hills and climb toward mid-heaven. Already
the dull glare of lightning lit them redly, though the thunder was, as
yet, inaudible.

In April of my first year in Fonda's Bush a runner came to the Kennyetto
with the news of Lexington, and carried it up and down the wilderness
from the great Vlaie and Maxon Ridge to Frenchman's Creek and Fonda's
Bush.

This news came to us just as we learned that our Continental Congress
was about to reassemble; and it left our settlement very still and
sober, and a loaded rifle within reach of every man who went grimly
about his spring plowing.

But the news of open rebellion in Massachusetts Bay madded our Tory
gentry of County Tryon; and they became further so enraged when the
Continental Congress met that they contrived a counter demonstration,
and, indeed, seized upon a pretty opportunity to carry it with a high
hand.

For there was a Court holden in Johnstown, and a great concourse of
Tryon loyalists; and our Tory hatch-mischiefs did by arts and guile and
persuasions obtain signatures from the majority of the Grand Jurors and
the County Magistracy.

Which, when known and flaunted in the faces of the plainer folk of Tryon
County, presently produced in all that slow, deep anger with which it is
not well to trifle--neither safe for kings nor lesser fry.

In the five districts, committees were appointed to discuss what was to
be the attitude of our own people and to erect a liberty pole in every
hamlet.

The Mohawk district began this business, which, I think, was truly the
beginning of the Revolution in the great Province of New York. The
Canajoharie district, the Palatine, the Flatts, the Kingsland followed.

And, at the Mohawk district meeting, who should arrive but Sir John,
unannounced, uninvited; and with him the entire company of Tory
big-wigs--Colonels Claus, Guy Johnson, and John Butler, and a heavily
armed escort from the Hall.

Then Guy Johnson climbed up onto a high stoop and began to harangue our
unarmed people, warning them of offending Majesty, abusing them for
dolts and knaves and traitors to their King, until Jacob Sammons, unable
to stomach such abuse, shook his fist at the Intendant. And, said he:
