Young Dwight sprang to his feet and stood over Mrs. 
Crroome with his charming deferential manner, but he 
had far too much tact to offer assistance as she rose 
heavily from her chair. 
"Are you really going to give me breakfast? I am 
sure I could not get any elsewhere." 
"We are only too happy. Your coming has been a 
real God-send. Will you give me your arm ? This morning — not the earthquake but those dreadful fires — has 
quite upset me." 
He escorted her into the dark old house with glowing 
eyes. He had seen so little of the world that he was 
still very young at thirty and his nature was sanguine, 
but he had never dared to dream of even difSeult access 
to this most exclusive home in San Francisco. Its gloom, 
its tastelessness, relieved only by the splendid Italian 
pieces, but served to accentuate its aristocratic aloofness 
from those superb but too recently furnished mansions 
of which he knew so little outside of their ballrooms. 
And he was breakfasting with the sequestered Mrs. 
Oroome and the loveliest girl he had ever seen, at seven 
o 'clock in the morning. 
He looked about eagerly as they entered the dining- 
room. It was long and narrow with a bow window at 
 
the end. The furniture was black walnut ; twa immense 
sideboards were built into the walls. It looked Ballinger, 
and it was. 
It was heavily paneled ; the walls above were tinted a 
pale buff and set with cracked oil paintings of men in 
the uniforms of several generations. The ceiling was 
frescoed with fish and fowl. There had been a massive 
bronze chandelier over the table. It now lay on the 
floor, but as James had turned off the gas in the meter 
while the earthquake was still in progress the air of the 
large sunny room was untainted, and the vdndows were 
open. 
The breakfast was smoked but not uneatable and the 
strong coffee raised even Mrs. Groome 's wavering spirits. 
They were all talking gayly when James entered ab- 
ruptly. He was very pale. 
"City's doomed, ma'am. Thirty fires broke out simultaneous, and the wind blowing from the southeast. A 
chimney fell on the fire-chief's bed and he can't live. 
People runnin' round like their heads was cut off and 
thousands pouring out of the city — over to Oakland and 
Berkeley. Lootin' was awful and General Funston has 
ordered out the troops. Pipes broken and not a drop of 
water. They're goin' to dynamite, but only the 
fire-chief knew how. Everybody says the whole city'll go. 
Doomed, that's what it is. Better let me tell Mike to 
harness up and drive you down to San Mateo. ' ' 
Mrs. Groome had also turned pale, but she cut a piece 
of bacon with resolution in every finger of her large-veined hands. 
"I do not believe it, and I shall not run— like those 
people south of Market Street. I shall stay until the last 
minute at all events. The roads at least cannot bum." 
"This house ought to be safe enough, ma'am, standin' 
quite alone on this hill as it does; but it's a question of 
food. We never keep much of anything in the house, 
beyond what's needed for the week, and the California 
Market's right in the fire zone. And the smoke will be 
something terrible when the fire gets closer. ' ' 
"I shall stay in my own house. There are grocery 
stores and butcher shops in Fillmore Street. Go and 
 
buy all you can." She handed him a buneh of keys. 
"You will find money in my escritoire. Tell the maids 
to fill the bathtubs while there is any water left in the 
mains. You may go if you are frightened, but I stay 
here." 
"Very well, and you needn't have said that, ma'am. 
I've been in this family, man and boy, Ballinger and 
Groome, for fifty -two years, and you know I'd never 
desert you. But no doubt those hussies in the kitchen 
will, with a lot of others. A lot of stoves have already 
been set up in the streets out here and ladies are cookin' 
their own breakfasts. ' ' 
' ' Forgive me, James. I know you will never leave me. 
And if the others do we shall get along. Miss Alexina 
is not a bad cook." And she heroically swallowed the 
bacon. 
IV 
James departed and she turned to Dwight, who was on 
his feet. 
"You are not going?" 
"I think I must, Mrs. Groome. There may be something I can do down there. AU able-bodied men will be 
needed, I fancy." 
"But you'll come back and see us?" cried Alexina. 
"Indeed I will. I'll report regularly." 
He thanked Mrs. Groome for her hospitality and she 
invited him to take pot luck with her at dinner time. 
After he had gone Alexina exclaimed rapturously : 
"Oh, you do like him, don't you, mommy dear?" 
And Mrs. Groome was pleased to reply, "He has perfect manners and certainly has the right ideas about 
things. I could do no less than ask him to dinner if he 
is going to take the trouble to bring us the news." 
 
THAT was a uniqae and vivid day for young Alexina 
Groome, whose disposition was to look upon life as 
drama and asked only that it shift its scenes often and 
be consistently entertaining and picturesque. 
Never, so James told her, since her Grandmother Ballinger's reign, had there been such life and movement in 
the old house. AU Mrs. Groome 's intimate friends and 
many of Alexina 's came to it, some to make kindly inquiries, others to beg them to leave the city, many to 
gossip and exchange experiences of that fateful morning; 
a few from Rincon Hill and the old ladies' fashionable 
boarding-house district to claim shelter until they could 
make their way to relatives out of town. 
Mrs. Groome welcomed her friends not only with the 
more spontaneous hospitality of an older time but in that 
spirit of brotherhood that every disaster seems to release, however temporarily. Brotherhood is unquestion- 
ably an instinct of the soul, an inheritance from that 
sunrise era when mutual interdependence was as imperative as it was automatic. The complexities of civilization have overlaid it, and almost but not wholly replaced 
it by national and individual selfishness. But the world 
as yet is only about one-third civilized. Centuries hence 
a unified civilization may complete the circle, but human nature and progress must act and react a thousand 
times before the earthly millenium ; and it cannot be hastened by dreamers and fanatics. 
All Mrs. Groome 's spare rooms were placed at the 
service of her friends, and cots were bought in the humble 
Fillmore Street shops and put up iu the billiard room, 
the double parlors, the library and the upper hall. Some 
forty people would sleep under the old Ballinger roof 
that night — dynamite permitting. Mrs. Groome was 
firm in her determination not to flee, and as James and 
Mike were there to watch, she had graciously given a 
 
number of the gloomy refugees from the lower regions 
permission to camp in the outhouses and grounds. 
Alexina spent the greater part of the day with Aileen 
Lawton, Olive Baseom, and Sibyl Thomdyke, out of 
doors, fascinated by the spectacle of the burning city. 
The valley beyond Market Street, and the lower business district, were a rolling mass of smoke parting about 
pillars of fire, shot with a million glittering sparks when 
a great building was dynamited. All the windows in 
those sections of the city as yet beyond the path of the 
fire were open, for although closed windows might have 
shut out the torrid atmosphere, the explosions would have 
shattered them. 
"Oh, dear," sighed Olive Baseom, "there goes my 
building. The smoke lifted for a moment and I saw the 
flames spouting out of the windows. A cool million and 
uninsured. We thought Class A buildings were safe 
from any sort of fire. " 
' ' Heavens ! ' ' exclaimed Alexina naively, ' ' I wish I had 
a million-dollar building down in that furnace. It must 
be a great sensation to watch a million dollars go up in 
sparks." 
"I hope your mother hasn't any buildings down in 
the business district," said Aileen anxiously. "I've 
heard dad talk about her ground rents. She'll get those 
agaiii soon enough. I fancy the old tradition survives 
in this town and they'll begin to draw the plans for 
the new city before the fire is out. It used to bum down 
regularly in the fifties, dad says. ' ' 
"I don't fancy we have much of anything," said 
Alexina cheerfully. ' ' I think mother has only a life interest in a part of father's estate, and I heard her tell 
Maria once that she intended to leave me all she had of 
her own, this place and a few thousand a year in bonds 
and some flats that are probably burning up right now. 
I gathered from the conversation that father didn't have 
much left when he died and that it was understood 
 
mother was to look out for me. I believe he gave a look 
to the others when he was wealthy. ' ' 
"Good Lord!" Aileen sighed heavily. "It won't pa: 
your dressmakers' bills, what with taxes and all. I won' 
be much better off. We'll have to marry Eex Roberts or
Bob Cheever or Frank Bascom — unless he's going up 
smoke too, Olive dear. But there are a few others." 
Alexina shook ' her head. Her color could not rise
higher for her face was crimson from the heat ; like the 
others she had a wet handkerchief on her head. ' ' There 
is not a grain of romance in one of them," she an 
nounced. ' ' Curious that the sons of the rich nearly all 
ways have round faces, no particular features, and a ten 
dency to bulge. I intend to have a romance — old style
— good old style — before the vogue of the middle-class 
realists. There's nothing in life but youth and you only
have it once. I'm going to have a romance that mean 
falling wildly, unreasonably, uncalculatingly in love. ' ' 
"You anticipate my adjectives," said Aileen drily 
"Although not all. But let that pass. I 'd like to know 
where you expect to find the opposite lead, as they say 
on the stage. Our men are not such a bad sort, even th 
richest — with  a few exceptions, of course. They ma; 
hit it up at week-ends, generally at the country clubs 
but they're better than the last generation because their 
fathers have more sense. I'll bet they 're all down there 
now fighting the fire with the vim of their grandfathers. . . . But romantic ! Good Lord ! I'll marry one of
them all right and glad of the chance — after I 've had my 
fling. I'm in no hurry. I'd have outgrown my illusions in any ease by that time, only Nature did the trie 
by not giving me any. ' ' 
"Don't you believe there isn't a man in all San Fran 
ciseo able to inspire romance." If Alexina could no 
blush her dark gray eyes could sparkle and melt. "All 
the men we meet don't belong to that rich group." 
' ' Bunch, darling. Where — will you give us the point 
er? — are to be found the romantic knights of San Fran 
ciseo? 'Frisco as those tiresome Eastern people call it.
Makes me sick to think they are even now pitying ' poo 
'Frisco.' Well? — I could beat my brains and not call 
one to mind. ' ' 
 
"Oh!" 
"What does that mean, Alex Groome? "When you 
roll up your eyes like that you look like a love-sick tomato." 
"Mortimer Dwight was most devoted last night," said 
Sibyl Thomdyke. "She danced with him at least eight 
times. ' ' 
' ' You must have sat out alone to know what I was doing, ' ' Alexina began hotly, but Aileen sprang at her and 
gripped her shoulders. 
"Don't tell me that you are interested in that cheap 
skate. Alexina Groome ! You ! ' ' 
"He's not a cheap skate. I despise your cheap slang." 
"He's a rank nobody." 
"You mean he isn't rich. Or his family didn't belong. "What do you suppose I care? I'm not a snob." 
"He is. A climbing, ingenuous, empty-headed snob." 
"You are a snob. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself." 
"I've a right to be a snob if I choose, and he hasn't. 
My snobbery is the right sort : the ' I will maintain ' kind. 
He'd give all the hair on his head to have the right to 
that sort of snobbery. His is" (she chanted in a high 
light maddening voice) : "Oh, God, let me climb. Yank 
me up into the paradise of San Francisco society. Burlingame, Alta, Menlo Park, Atherton, Belvidere, San 
Rafael. Oh, God, it's awful to be a nobody, not to be 
in the same class with these rich fellers, not to belong 
to the Pacific-Union Club, not to have polo ponies, not 
to belong to smart golf clubs, to the Burlingame Club. 
Not to get clothes from New York and London " 
"You keep quiet," shrieked Alexina, who with difficulty refrained from substituting: "You shut up." She 
flung off Aileen 's hands. "What do you know about 
him? He doesn 't like you. " 
"Never had a chance to find out." 
"What can you know about him, then?" 
' ' Think I 'm blind ? Think I 'm deaf ? Don 't I know 
everything that goes on in this town? Isn't sizing-up 
my long suit? And he's as dull as — as a fish without 
salt. I sat next to him at a dinner, and all he could 
talk about was the people he 'd met — our sort, of course. 
 
And he was dull even at that. He's all manners and 
bluff " 
' ' You eouldn 't draw him out. He talked to me. " 
"What about? I 'm really interested to know. Everybody says the same thing. They fall for his dancing 
and manners, and — well, yes — I'll admit it — for his looks. 
He even looks like a gentleman. But all the girls say 
he bores 'em stiff. They have to talk their heads off. 
What did he say to you that was so frantically interesting?" 
"Well, of course — we danced most of the time." 
' ' That 's just it. He 's inherited the shell of some able 
old ancestor and not a bit of the skull furniture. Nature 
often plays tricks like that. But I could forgive him for 
being dull if he weren't such a damn snob." 
"You shan't call him names. If he wants to be one 
of us, and life was so unkind as to — to — well, birth him 
on the outside, I'm sure that's no crime." 
"Snobbery," said Miss Thorndyke, who was intellectual at the moment and cultivating the phrase, "is 
merely a rather ingenuous form of aspiration. I can't 
see that it varies except in kind from other forms of ambition. And without ambition there would be no prog- 
ress. " 
"Oh, can it," sneered Judge Lawton's daughter. 
"You're all wrong, anyhow. Snobbery leads to the 
rocks much oftener than to high achievement. I've 
heard dad say so, and you won't venture to assert that 
he doesn't know. It bears about the same relation to 
progress that grafting does to legitimate profits. Anyhow, it makes me sick, and I'm not going to have Alex 
falling in love with a poor fish " 
"Fish?" Alexina's voice rose above a fresh detonation. "You dare — and you think I'm going to ask you 
whom I shall fall in love with? Fish? What do you 
call those other shrimps who don 't think of anything but 
drinking and sport, whether they attend to business or 
not?their fathers make them, anyhow. And you want 
to marry one of them! They're fish, if you like." 
The two girls were glaring at each other. Gray eyes 
were blazing, green eyes snapping. Two sets of white 
 
even teeth were bared. They looked like a couple of 
belligerent puppies. Another moment and they would 
have forgotten the sacred traditions of their class and 
flown at each other's hair. But Miss Bascom interposed. 
Even the loss of her uninsured million did not ruffle 
her, for she had another in Government and railroad 
bonds, and full confidence in her brother, who was an 
admirable business man, and not in the least dissipated. 
"Come, come," she said. "It's much too hot to fight. 
Dwight is not good enough for Alex — from a worldly 
point of view, I mean, ' ' as Alexina made a movement in 
her direction. ' ' We should none of us marry out of our 
class. It never works, somehow. But Mr. Dwight is 
really quite all right otherwise. I like him very much, 
Alex darling, and I don't mind his being an outsider in 
the least — so long as he doesn't try to marry one of us. 
He's too good-looking, and his heels are fairly inspired. 
No one questions the fact that he is an honorable and 
worthy young man, working like a real man to earn his 
living. It isn't at all as if he were an adventurer. He 
has never struck me as being more of a snob than most 
people, and I don't see why I haven't thought to ask 
him down to San Mateo for a week-end. ' ' 
"You'll certainly have a friend for life if you do," 
said AUeen satirically. "Fall ia love with him yourself 
if you choose. You can afford it. ' ' 
"No fear. I've made up my mind. I'm going to 
marry a French marquis. ' ' 
"What?" Even Alexina forgot Mortimer Dwight. 
"Who is he? Where did you meet him?" 
"I haven't met him yet. But I shall. I'm going to 
Paris next winter to visit my aunt, and I'll find one 
You get anything in this world you go for hard enough 
To be a French marquise is the most romantic thing in 
the world. ' ' 
"Why not Elton Gwynne? It's an open secret that 
he's an English marquis. Or that young Gathbroke 
Lady Victoria brought last night?" 
" He 's a younger son, and he never looked at any one 
but Alex. And Isabel Otis has preempted Mr. Gwynne. 
And, I adore France and don't care about England." 
 
"Well, that is romantic if you like ! " cried Aileen, her 
green eyes daneiag. "You have my best wishes. Doesn't 
it make your Geary Street knight look cheap — he boards 
somewhere down on Geary Street." 
"No, it doesn't! And I 'm a good American. French 
marquis, indeed! Mr. Dwight comes of the best old 
American stock in New Tork. He told mother so. I'd 
spit on any old decadent European title." 
"I wish your mother could hear you. So — he's been 
getting round her, has he ? Where on earth did he meet 
her?" 
Alexina, with sulky triumph, reported Mr. Dwight 's 
early visit and the favorable impression he had made. 
Aileen groaned. ' ' That 's just the one thing she would 
fall for in a rank outsider — superlative manners. His 
being poor is rather in his favor. I'll put a flea in her 
ear " 
"You dare!" 
Aileen lifted her shoulders. "Well, as a matter of 
fact I can't. Tattling just isn't in my line. But if I 
can queer him with you I will." 
"I won't talk about him any more." Alexina drew 
herself up with immense dignity. She had the advan- 
tage of Aileen not only in inches but in a natural repose 
of manner. The eminent Judge Lawton's only child, 
upon whom, possibly, he may have lavished too much 
education, had a thin nervous little body that was seldom in repose, and her face, with its keen irregular fea- 
tures and brilliant green eyes, shifted its surface impressions as rapidly as a cinematograph. Olive Bas- 
com had soft blue eyes and abundant brown hair, and 
Sibyl Thorndyke had learned to hold her long black 
eyes half closed, and had the black hair and rich complexion of a Creole great-grandmother. Alexina was admittedly the " beauty of the bunch. ' ' Nevertheless, Miss 
Lawton had informed her doting parent before this, her 
first season, was half over, that she was vivid enough to 
hold her own with the best of them. The boys said she 
was a live wire and she preferred that high specialization to the tameness of mere beauty. 
 
IV 
Said Alexina : ' ' Sibyl, what are you going to do with 
your young life ? Shall you marry an English duke or 
a New York millionaire ? ' ' 
But Miss Thorndyke smiled mysteriously. She was not 
as frank as the other girls, although by no means as 
opaque as she imagined. 
Aileen laughed. "Oh, don't ask her. Doubt if she 
knows. To-day she 's all for beiag intellectual and reading those damn dull Russian novelists. To-morrow she 
may be setting up as an odalisque. It would suit her 
style better." 
Miss Thorndyke 's face was also crimson from the heat, 
but she would not have flushed had it been the day before. She was not subject to sudden reflexes. 
"Your satire is always a bit clumsy, dear," she said 
sweetly. ' ' The odalisque is not your role at all events. ' ' 
' ' I don 't go in for roles. ' ' 
And the four girls wrangled and dreamed and planned, 
while a city burnt beneath them; some three hundred 
million dollars flamed out, lives were ruined, exterminated, altered; and Labor sat on the hills and smiled 
cynically at the tremendous impetus the earth had 
handed them on that morning of April eighteenth, nineteen hundred and six. 
They were too young to know or to care. When the 
imagination is trying its wings it is undismayed even 
by a world at war. 
CHAPTER V 
THAT night Alexina knew that romance had surely 
come to her. She shared her room with three old 
ladies who slept fitfully between blasts of dynamite. But 
she sat at the window with no desire for oblivion. 
On the lawn paced a young man with a rifle in the 
 
crook of his arm. He was tall and young and very gallant of bearing; no less a person than Mortimer Dwight, 
who had been sworn in that morning as a member of the 
Citizens ' Patrol, and at his own request detailed to keep 
watch over the house of Mrs. Groome. 
He had not been able to pay his promised visits during 
the day but had arrived at seven o'clock, dining beside 
Mrs. Abbott, and surrounded by old ladies whose names 
were as historic as Mrs. Groome 's. The cook had deserted after the second heavy shock, and, with her ward- 
robe in a pillow case, had tramped to the farthest confines of the Presidio. It was not fear alone that induced 
her flight. There was a rumor that the Government 
would feed the city, and why should not a hard-working 
woman enjoy a month or two of sheer idleness ? Let the 
quality cook for themselves. It would do them good. 
James and the housemaid had cooked the dinner, and 
Alexina and her friends waited on the table. Then the 
girls, to Alexina 's relief, went home to inquire after their 
families, and she accompanied Mr. Dwight while he explored every corner of the grounds to make sure that no 
potential thieves lurked in the heavy shadows cast by 
the trees. 
He had been very alert and thorough and Alexina 
admired him consumedly. There was no question but 
that he was one of those men — Aileen called it the one 
hundred per cent male — upon whose clear brain and 
strong arm a woman might depend even in the midst of 
an infuriated mob. He had an opportunity that comes 
to few aspiring young men born into the world 's unblest 
millions, and if he made the most of it he was equally 
assured that he was acting in strict accord with the instincts and characteristics that had descended upon him 
by the grace of God. 
There was no physical cowardice in him; and if he 
would have preferred a life of ease and splendor, he had 
no illusions regarding the amount of "hustling" necessary to carry him to the goal of his desires and ambitions — unless he made a lucky strike. He played the 
 
stock market in a small way and made a few hundred 
dollars now and then. 
He would have been glad to marry a wealthy girl, Olive 
Baseom, by preference, for he had an inner urge to the 
short cut, but he had found these spoiled daughters of 
San Francisco unresponsive . . . and then, suddenly, he 
had fallen in love with Alexina Groome. 
His past was green and prophylactic. He was moral 
both by inheritance and necessity, and his parents, people of fair intelligence, if rather ineffective, stem principles, and good old average ideals, had taken their re- 
sponsibilities toward their two children very seriously. 
People who talked with young Dwight might not find 
him resourceful in conversation but they were deeply 
impressed with his manners and principles. The younger 
men, with the exception of Bob Cheever, who respected 
his capacity for work, did not take to him; principally, 
no doubt, he reflected with some bitterness, because he 
was not "their sort." 
He never admitted to himself that he was a snob, for 
something deep and still unfaced in his consciousness, 
bade him see as little fault in himself as possible, forbade him to admit the contingency of a failure, impelled 
him to call such weaknesses as the fortunate condemned 
by some one of those interchangeable terms with which 
the lexicons are so generous. 
But if he would not face the word snob he told him- 
self proudly that he was ambitious; and why should he 
not aspire to the best society ? "Was he not entitled to it by 
birth ? His family may not have been prominent to excess 
in Utica, but it was indisputably ' ' old. ' ' However, he assured himself that the chief reason for his determination 
to mingle with the social elect of San Francisco was not 
so much a tribute to his ancestors, or even the insistence 
of youth for the decent pleasures of that brief period, 
but because of the opportunities to make those friends 
indispensable to every young man forced to cut his own 
way through life. Even if his good conscience had compelled him to admit that he was a snob he would have 
reminded it there was no harm in snobbery anyway. It 
was the most amiable of the vices. But he thought too 
 
well of himself for any such admission, and his mind 
had not been trained to fish, even in shallow waters. 
Nor did he admit that if the lovely Miss Groome had 
been a stenographer he would not have looked at her. 
He would indeed have turned his face resolutely in the 
other direction if she had happened to sit in his employer's office. Fate forbade him a marriage of that 
sort, and dalliance with an inferior was forbidden both 
by his morals and his social integrity. 
But that Alexina Groome should be beautiful, as exaltedly born as only a San Franciscan of the old stock 
might be, with a determinate income, howevermodest, with 
a background of friendly males, as substantial financially 
as socially, who would be sure to give a new member of 
the family a leg-up (he liked the atmosphere and flavor 
of the lighter English novels), and, above all, responsive, 
seemed to him a direct reward for the circumspect life 
he had lived and his fidelity to his chosen upward path. 
He was free to fall in love as profoundly as was in 
him, and during that early hour of the agitated night, 
with that pit of hell roaring below to the steady undertone of a thousand tramping feet, he felt, despite the 
fact that all business was moribund for the present and 
his savings were in the hot vaults of a dynamited bank, 
that he was a supremely fortunate young man. 
Moreover, this disaster furnished a steady topic for 
conversation. He was aware that he contributed little 
froth and less substance to a dinner table, that, in short, 
he did not keep up his end. Although he assured himself that small talk was beneath a man of serious purpose, and that no one could acquire it anyhow in society 
unless addicted to sport, still there had been times when 
he was painfully aware that a dinner partner or some 
bright charming creature whose invitation to call he had 
accepted, looked politely bored or chattered desperately 
to cover the silences into which he abruptly relapsed; 
 
when, "for the life of him he had not been able to think 
of a thing to say. " 
Then, briefly, he had felt a bitter rebellion at fate for 
having denied liim the gift of a lively and supple mind, 
as well as those numberless worldly benefits lavished on 
men far less deserving than he. 
He felt dull and depressed after such revelations and 
sometimes considered attending evening lectures at the 
University of California with his sister. But for this 
form of mental exertion he had no taste, keenly as he 
applied himself to his work during the hours of business ; 
and he assured himself that such knowledge would do 
him no good anyway. It did not seem to be prevalent in 
society. If he had been a brilliant hand at bridge or 
poker, the inner fortifications of society would have gone 
down before him, but his courage did not run to card 
gambling with wealthy idlers who set their own pace. 
On the stock market he could step warily and no one the 
wiser. It would have horrified him to be called a piker, 
for his instincts were really lavish, and the economical 
habit an achievement in which he took a resentful pride. 
 
On this evening he had talked almost incessantly to 
Alexina, and she, in the vocabulary of her years find set, 
had thought him frantically interesting as he described 
the immediate command of the city assumed by General 
Funston, the efforts of the Committee of Fifty, formed 
early that morning by leading citizens, to help preserve 
order and to give assistance to the refugees; of rich 
young men, and middle-aged citizens who had not spent 
an afternoon away from their club window for ten years, 
carrying dynamite in their cars through the very flames ; 
of wild and terrible episodes he had witnessed or heard 
of during the day. 
His brain was hot from the mental and physical atmosphere of the perishing city, the unique excitement of 
the day : when he had felt as if snatched from his quiet 
pasture by the roots ; and by the extraordinary good fortune that had delivered this perfect girl and her formidable parent almost into his hands. Under his sternly 
controlled exterior his spirits sang wildly that his luck 
had turned, and dazzling visions of swift success and 
fulfillment of all ambitions snapped on and off in his 
stimulated brain. 
Alexina thought him not only immoderately fascinating in his appeal to her own imperious youth, but the 
most interesting life partner that a romantic maiden 
with secret intellectual promptings could demand. Her 
brilliant long eyes melted and flashed, her soft unformed 
mouth wore a constant alluring smile. 
A declaration trembled on his tongue, but he felt that 
he would be taking an unfair advantage and restrained 
himself. Besides, he wished to win Mrs. Groome completely to his side, to say nothing of the still more alarming because more worldly Mrs. Abbott. SJie was a snob, 
if you like ! 
At nine o'clock, after he had given the inmates of the 
house and outbuildings stern orders not to light a candle 
or lamp under any circumstances — such was the emergency law — he bade Alexina a gallant good-night, and 
betook himself to the lawn within the grove of sighing 
eucalyptus trees, to pace up and down, his rifle in his 
arm, his eyes alert, and quite aware of the admiring 
young princess at the casement above. 
He did his work very thoroughly, visiting outhouses 
at intervals and sharply inspecting the weary occupants, 
as well as the prostrate forms under the trees. They 
were all far too tired and apprehensive to dream of 
breaking into the house that had given them hospitality, 
even had they been villains, which they were not. 
But they did not resent his inspection; rather they 
felt a sense of security in this watching manly figure 
with the gun, for they were rather afraid of villains 
themselves: it was reported that many looters had been 
stood against hissing walls and shot by the stern orders 
of General Funston. They asked their more immediate 
protector questions as to the progress of the fire, which 
he answered curtly, as befitted his office. 
 
CHAPTBE VI 
ly/TES ABBOTT entered Alexina's room and caught 
her hanging out of the window. She had motored 
up to the city during the afternoon, and, after a vain 
attempt to persuade her mother to go down at once to 
Alta, had concluded to remain over night. The spectacle was the most horrifyingly interesting she had ever 
witnessed in her temperate life, and her self-denying 
Aunt Clara was in charge of the children. Her husband 
had driven himself to town as soon as he heard of the 
fire and been sworn in a member of the Committee of 
Fifty. 
' ' Darling, ' ' she said firmly to the sister who was little 
older than her first-born, "I want to have a talk with 
you. Come into papa's old dressing-room. I had a cot 
put there, and as there is no room for another I am quite 
alone. ' ' 
Alexina followed with lagging feet. She had always 
given her elder sister the same surface obedience that 
she gave her mother. It "saved trouble." But life had 
changed so since morning that she was in no mood to 
keep up the role of "little sister," sweet and malleable 
and innocent as a Ballinger-Groome at the age of 
eighteen should be. 
 
She dropped on the floor and embraced her knees with 
her arms. Mrs. Abbott seated herself in as dignified an 
attitude as was possible on the edge of the cot. Even 
the rocking-chairs had been taken down to the dining- 
room. 
"Well?" queried Alexina, pretending to stifle a yawn. 
""What is it? I am too sleepy to think." 
"Sleepy? You looked sleepy with your eyes like 
saucers watching that young man." 
"Everybody that can is watching the fire " 
 
"Don't quibble, Alexins. You are naturally a truthful child. Do you mean to tell me you were not watching Mr. Dwight ? " 
"Well, if I say yes, it is not because I care a hang 
about living up to my reputation, but because I don't 
care whether you know it or not. ' ' 
"That is very naughty " 
"Stop talking to me as if I were a child." 
"You are excited, darling, and no wonder." 
