by her parents or guardians.
CHAPTER XXXVI
LOVE VERSUS LUST
     (Discusses the sex impulse, its use and misuse; when it should be
     followed and when repressed.)
We have considered the sex disorders of our age and their causes. We
have now to grope our way towards a basis of sanity and health in these
vital matters.
Consider man, as Metchnikoff describes him, with his overplus of sex
energy. From early youth he is besieged by impulses and desires, and as
a rule is left entirely uninstructed on the subject, having to pick up
his ideas from the conversation of older lads, who have nothing but
misinformation and perversions to give him. Nearly all these older lads
declare and believe that it is necessary to gratify the sex impulse,
that physically it is harmful not to do so. I have even heard physicians
and trainers maintain that idea. Opposed to them are the official
moralists and preachers of religion, who declare that to follow the sex
impulse, except when officially sanctioned by the church, is to commit
sin.
At different times in my life I have talked with all kinds of people,
young and old, men and women, doctors and clergymen, teachers and
trainers of athletes, and a few wise and loving mothers who have talked
with their own boys and other boys. As a result I have come to agree
with neither side in the debate. I believe that there is a distinction
which must be drawn, and I ask you to consider it carefully, and bear it
in mind in all that I say on the problem of happiness and health in sex.
I believe that a normal man is one being, manifesting himself in various
aspects, physical, emotional, intellectual. I believe that all these
aspects of human activity go normally together, and cannot normally be
separated, and that the separation of them is a perversion and source of
harm. I believe that the sex impulse, as it normally manifests itself,
and would manifest itself in a man if he were living a normal life, is
an impulse which includes every aspect of the man's being. It is not
merely physical desire and emotional excitement; it is intellectual
curiosity, a deep and intense interest, not merely in the body, but in
the mind and heart and personality of the woman.
I appreciate that there is opportunity for controversy here. As a matter
of psychology, it is not easy to separate instinct from experience, to
state whether a certain impulse is innate or acquired. Some may argue
that savages know nothing about idealism in sex, neither do those modern
savages whom we breed in city slums; some may make the same assertion
concerning a great mass of loutish and sensual youths. We have got so
far from health and soundness that it is hard to be sure what is
"normal" and what is "ideal." But without going into metaphysics, I
think we can reasonably make the following statement concerning the sex
impulse at its first appearance in the average healthy youth in
civilized societies; that this impulse, going to the roots of the being,
affecting every atom of energy and every faculty, is accompanied, not
merely by happiness, but by sympathetic delight in the happiness of the
woman, by interest in the woman, by desire to be with her, to stay with
her and share her life and protect her from harm. In what I have to say
about the subject from now on, I shall describe this condition of being
and feeling by the word "love."
But now suppose that men should, for some reason or other, evolve a set
of religious ideas which denied love, and repudiated love, and called it
a sin and a humiliation; or suppose there should be an economic
condition which made love a peril, so that the young couple which
yielded to love would be in danger of starvation, or of seeing their
children starve. Suppose there should be evolved classes of men and
women, held by society in a condition of permanent semi-starvation;
then, under such conditions, the impulse to love would become a trap and
a source of terror. Then the energies of a great many men would be
devoted to suppressing love and strangling it in themselves; then the
intellectual and spiritual sanctions of love would be withdrawn, the
beauty and charm and joy would go out of it, and it would become a
starving beggar at the gates, or a thief skulking in the night-time, or
an assassin with a dagger and club. In other words, sex would become all
the horror that it is today, in the form of purchased vice, and more
highly purchased marriage, and secret shame, and obscure innuendo. So we
should have what is, in a civilized man, a perversion, the possibility
of love which is physical alone; a purely animal thing in a being who is
not purely animal, but is body, mind and spirit all together. So it
would be possible for pitiful, unhappy man, driven by the blind urge of
nature, to conceive of desiring a woman only in the body, and with no
care about what she felt, or what she thought, or what became of her
afterwards.
That purely physical sex desire I will indicate in our future
discussions by the only convenient word that I can find, which is lust.
The word has religious implications, so I explain that I use it in my
own meaning, as above. There is a great deal of what the churches call
lust, which I call true and honest love; on the other hand, in Christian
churches today, there are celebrated innumerable marriages between
innocent young girls and mature men of property, which I describe as
legalized and consecrated lust.
We are now in position to make a fundamental distinction. I assert the
proposition that there does not exist, in any man, at any time of his
life, or in any condition of his health, a necessity for yielding to the
impulses of lust; and I say that no man can yield to them without
degrading his nature and injuring himself, not merely morally, but
mentally, and in the long run physically. I assert that it is the duty
of every man, at all times and under all circumstances, to resist the
impulses of lust, to suppress and destroy them in his nature, by
whatever expenditure of will power and moral effort may be required.
I know physicians who maintain the unpopular thesis that serious damage
may be done to the physical organism of both man and woman by the long
continued suppression of the sex-life. Let me make plain that I am not
disagreeing with such men. I do not deny that repression of the sex-life
may do harm. What I do deny is that it does any harm to repress a
physical desire which is unaccompanied by the higher elements of sex;
that is to say, by affection, admiration, and unselfish concern for the
sex-partner and her welfare. When I advise a man to resist and suppress
and destroy the impulse toward lust in his nature, I am not telling him
to live a sexless life. I am telling him that if he represses lust, then
love will come; whereas, if he yields to lust, then love may never come,
he may make himself incapable of love, incapable of feeling it or of
trusting it, or of inspiring it in a woman. And I say that if, on the
other hand, he resists lust, he will pour all the energies of his being
into the channels of affection and idealism. Instead of having his
thoughts diverted by every passing female form, his energies will become
concentrated upon the search for one woman who appeals to him in
permanent and useful ways. We may be sure that nature has not made men
and women incompatible, but on the contrary, has provided for
fulfillment of the desires of both. The man will find some woman who is
looking for the thing which he has to offer--that is, love.
And now, what about the suppression of love? Here I am willing to go as
far as any physician could desire, and possibly farther. Speaking
generally, and concerning normal adult human beings, I say that the
suppression of love is a crime against nature and life. I say that long
continued and systematic suppression of love exercises a devastating
effect, not merely upon the body, but upon the mind and all the energies
of the being. I say that the doctrine of the suppression of love, no
matter by whom it is preached, is an affront to nature and to life, and
an insult to the creator of life. I say that it is the duty of all men
and women, not merely to assert their own right to love, but to devote
their energies to a war upon whatever ideas and conventions and laws in
society deny the love-right.
The belief that long continued suppression of love does grave harm has
been strongly reinforced in the last few years by the discovery of
psycho-analysis, a science which enables us to explore our unconscious
minds, and lay bare the secrets of nature's psychic workshop. These
revelations have made plain that sex plays an even more important part
in our mental lives than we realized. Sex feeling manifests itself, not
merely in grown people, but in the tiniest infants; in these latter it
has of course no object in the opposite sex, but the physical sensations
are there, and some of their outward manifestations; and as the infant
grows, and realizes the outside world, the feelings come to center upon
others, the parents first of all. These manifestations must be guided,
and sometimes repressed; but if this is done violently, by means of
terror, the consequences may be very harmful--the wrong impulses or the
terrors may survive as a "complex" in the unconscious mind, and cause a
long chain of nervous disorders and physical weaknesses in the adult.
These things are no matter of guesswork, they have been proven as
thoroughly as any scientific discovery, and are used in a new technic of
healing. Of course, as with every new theory, there are unbalanced
people who carry it to extremes. There are fanatics of Freudianism who
talk as if everything in the human unconsciousness were sex; but that
need not blind us to the importance of these new discoveries, and the
confirmation they bring to the thesis that sane and normal love, wisely
guided by common sense and reasoned knowledge, is at a certain period of
life a vital necessity to every sound human being.
CHAPTER XXXVII
CELIBACY VERSUS CHASTITY
     (The ideal of the repression of the sex impulse, as against the
     ideal of its guidance and cultivation.)
There are two words which we need in this discussion, and as they are
generally used loosely, they must now be defined precisely. The two
words are celibacy and chastity. We define celibacy as the permanent and
systematic suppression of love. We define chastity, on the other hand,
as the permanent and systematic suppression of lust. Chastity, as the
word is here used, is not a denial of love, but a preparing for it; it
is the practice and the ideal, necessary especially in the young, of
consecrating their beings to the search for love, and to becoming worthy
for love. In that sense we regard chastity as one of the most essential
of virtues in the young. It is widely taught today, but ineffectively,
because unintelligently and without discrimination; because, in other
words, it is confused with celibacy, which is a perversion of life, and
one of humanity's intellectual and moral diseases.
The origin of the ideal of celibacy is easy to understand. At a certain
stage in human development the eyes of the mind are opened, and to some
man comes a revelation of the life of altruism and sympathetic
imagination. To use the common phrase, the man discovers his spiritual
nature. But under the conditions then prevailing, all the world outside
him is in a conspiracy to strangle that nature, to drag it down and
trample it into the mire. One of the most powerful of these destructive
agencies, as it seems to the man, is sex. By means of sex he is laid
hold upon by strange and terrible creatures who do not understand his
higher vision, but seek only to prey upon him, and use him for their
convenience. At the worst they rob him of everything, money, health,
time and reputation; at best, they saddle him and bridle him, they put
him in harness and set him to dragging a heavy load. In the words of a
wise old man of the world, Francis Bacon, "He who marries and has
children gives hostages to fortune." In a world wherein war, pestilence,
and famine held sway, the man of family had but slight chance of
surviving as a philosopher or prophet or saint. Discovering in himself a
deep-rooted and overwhelming impulse to fall into this snare, he
imagined a devil working in his heart; so he fled away to the desert,
and hid in a cave, and starved himself, and lashed himself with whips,
and allowed worms and lice to devour his body, in the effort to destroy
in himself the impulse of sex.
So the world had monasteries, and a religious culture, not of much use,
but better than nothing; and so we still have in the world celibate
priesthoods, and what is more dangerous to our social health, we have
the old, degraded notions of the essential vileness of the sex
relationship--notions permeating all our thought, our literature, our
social conventions and laws, making it impossible for us to attain true
wisdom and health and happiness in love.
I say the ideal of celibacy is an intellectual and moral disease; it is
a violation of nature, and nature devotes all her energies to breaking
it down, and she always succeeds. There never has been a celibate
religious order, no matter how noble its origin and how strict its
discipline, which has not sooner or later become a breeding place of
loathsome unnatural vices. And sooner or later the ideal begins to
weaken, and common sense to take its place, and so we read in history
about popes who had sons, and we see about us priests who have "nieces"
and attractive servant girls. Make the acquaintance of any police
sergeant in any big city of America, and get him to chatting on friendly
terms, and you will discover that it is a common experience for the
police in their raids upon brothels to catch the representatives of
celibate religious orders. As one old-timer in the "Tenderloin" of New
York said to me, "Of course, we don't make any trouble for the good
fathers." Nor was this merely because the old sergeant was an Irishman
and a Catholic; it was because deep down in his heart he knew, as every
man knows, that the craving of a man for the society and companionship
of a woman is an overwhelming craving, which will break down every
barrier that society may set against it.
There is another form of celibacy which is not based upon religious
ideas, but is economic in its origin, and purely selfish in its nature.
It is unorganized and unreasoned, and is known as "bachelorhood"; it has
as its complements the institutions of old maidenhood and of
prostitution. Both forms of celibacy, the religious and the economic,
are entirely incompatible with chastity, which is only possible where
love is recognized and honored. Chastity is a preparation for love; and
if you forbid love, whether by law, or by social convention, or by
economic strangling, you at once make chastity a Utopian dream. You may
preach it from your pulpits until you are black in the face; you may
call out your Billy Sundays to rave, and dance, and go into convulsions;
you may threaten hell-fire and brimstone until you throw whole audiences
into spasms--but you will never make them chaste. On the contrary,
strange and horrible as it may seem, those very excitements will turn
into sexual excitements before your eyes! So subtle is our ancient
mother nature, and so determined to have her own way!
The abominable old ideal of celibacy, with its hatred of womanhood, its
distrust of happiness, its terror of devils, is not yet dead in the
world. It is in our very bones, and is forever appearing in new and
supposed to be modern forms. Take a man like Tolstoi, who gained
enormous influence, not merely in Russia, but throughout the world among
people who think themselves liberal--humanitarians, pacifists,
philosophic anarchists. Tolstoi's notions about sex, his teachings and
writings and likewise his behavior toward it, were one continuous
manifestation of disease. All through his youth and middle years, as an
army officer, popular novelist, and darling of the aristocracy, his life
was one of license, and the attitude toward women he thus acquired, he
never got out of his thoughts to his last day. Gorky, meeting him in his
old age, reports his conversation as unpleasantly obscene, and his whole
attitude toward women one of furtive and unwholesome slyness.
But Tolstoi was in other ways a great soul, one of the great moral
consciences of humanity. He looked about him at a world gone mad with
greed and hate, and he made convulsive efforts to reform his own spirit
and escape the power of evil. As regards sex, his thought took the form
of ancient Christian celibacy. Man must repudiate the physical side of
sex, he must learn to feel toward women a "pure" affection, the
relationship of brother and sister. In his novel, "Resurrection,"
Tolstoi portrays a young aristocrat who meets a beautiful peasant girl
and conceives for her such a noble and generous emotion; but gradually
the poison of physical sex-desire steals into his mind, he seduces her,
and she becomes a prostitute. Later in life, when he discovers the crime
he has committed, he humbles himself and follows her into exile, and
wins her to God and goodness by the unselfish and unsexual love which he
should have maintained from the beginning.
It was Tolstoi's teaching that all men should aspire toward this kind of
love, and when it was pointed out to him that if this doctrine were to
be applied universally, the human race would become extinct, his answer
was that there was no reason to fear that, because only a few people
would be good enough and strong enough to follow the right ideal! Here
you see the reincarnation of the old Christian notion that we are
"conceived in sin and born in iniquity." We may be pure and good, and
cease to exist; or we may sin, and let life continue. Some choose to
sin, and these sinners hand down their sinful qualities to the future;
and so virtue and goodness remain what they have always been, a futile
crying out in the wilderness by a few religious prophets, whom God has
sent to call down destruction upon a world which He had made--through
some mistake never satisfactorily explained!
It is easy nowadays to persuade intelligent people to laugh at such a
perverted view of life; but the truth is that this attitude toward sex
is written, not merely into our religious creeds and formulas, but into
most of our laws and social conventions. It is this, which for
convenience I will call the "monkish" view of love, which prevents our
dealing frankly and honestly with its problems, distinguishing between
what is wrong and what is right, and doing anything effective to remedy
the evils of marriage-plus-prostitution. That is why I have tried so
carefully to draw the distinction between what I call love and what I
call lust; between the ideal of celibacy, which is a perversion, and the
idea of chastity, which must form an essential part of any regimen of
true and enduring love.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
THE DEFENSE OF LOVE
     (Discusses passionate love, its sanction, its place in life, and
     its preservation in marriage.)
I have before me as I write a newspaper article by Robert Blatchford, a
great writer and great man. He is dealing with the subject of "Love and
Marriage," and his doctrine is summed up in the following sentences:
"There is a difference between loving a woman and falling in love with
her. The love one falls into is a sweet illusion. But that fragrant
dream does not last. In marriage there are no fairies."
This expresses one of the commonest ideas in the world. Passionate love
is one thing, and marriage is another and different thing, and it is no
more possible to reconcile them than to mix oil and water. Our notions
of "romantic" love took their rise in the Middle Ages, from the songs
and narratives of the troubadours, and this whole tradition was based
upon the glorification of illegitimate and extra-marital love. That
tradition has ruled the world of art ever since, and rules it today. I
do not exaggerate when I say that it is the conventional view of grand
opera and the drama, of moving pictures and novels, that impassioned and
thrilling love is found before marriage, and is found in adultery and in
temptations to adultery, but is never found in marriage. I have a pretty
varied acquaintance with the literature of the world, and I have sat and
thought for quite a while, without being able to recall a single
portrait of life which contradicts this thesis; and certainly anyone
familiar with literature could name ten thousand novels and dramas and
grand operas which support the thesis.
English and American Puritanism have beaten the tradition down to this
extent: the novelist portrays the glories and thrills of young love, and
carries it as far as the altar and the orange blossoms and white ribbons
and showers of rice--and stops. He leaves you to assume that this
delightful rapture continues forever after; but he does not attempt to
show it to you--he would not dare attempt to show it, because the
general experience of men and women in marriage would make him
ridiculous. So he runs away from the issue; if he tells you a story of
married life, it is a story of a "triangle"--the thrills of love
imperiling marriage, and either crushed out, or else wrecking the lives
of the victims. Such is the unanimous testimony of all our arts today,
and I submit it as evidence of the fact that there must be something
vitally wrong with our marriage system.
Personally, I am prepared to go as far as the extreme sex-radical in the
defense of love and the right to love. I believe that love is the most
precious of all the gifts of life. I accept its sanctions and its
authority. I believe that it is to be cherished and obeyed, and not to
be run away from or strangled in the heart. I believe that it is the
voice of nature speaking in the depths of us, and speaking from a wisdom
deeper than we have yet attained, or may attain for many centuries to
come. And when I say love, I do not mean merely affection. I do not mean
merely the habit of living in the same home, which is the basis of
marriage as Blatchford describes it. What I mean is the love of the
poets and the dreamers, the "young love" which is thrill and ecstasy, a
glorification and a transfiguration of the whole of life. I say that,
far from giving up this love for marriage, it is the true purpose of
marriage to preserve this love and perpetuate it.
To save repetition and waste of words, let us agree that from now on
when I use the word love, I mean the passionate love of those who are
"in love." I believe that it is the right of men and women to be "in
love," and that there is no true marriage unless they are "in love," and
stay "in love." I believe that it is possible to apply reason to love,
to learn to understand love and the ways of love, to protect it and keep
it alive in marriage. Blatchford writes the sentence, "Matrimony cannot
be all honeymoon." I answer that assuredly it can be, and if you ask me
how I know, I tell you that I know in the only way we really know
anything--because I have proven it in my own life. I say that if men and
women would recognize the perpetuation of the honeymoon as the purpose
of marriage, and would devote to that end one-hundredth part of the
intelligence and energy they now devote to the killing of their fellow
human beings in war, we might have an end to the wretched "romantic
tradition" which makes the most sacred emotion of the human heart into
a sneak-thief skulking in the darkness, entering our lives by back
alleys and secret stairways--while greed and worldly pomp, dullness and
boredom, parade in by the front entrance.
In the first place, what is love--young love, passionate love, the love
of those who "fall in"? I know a certain lady, well versed in worldly
affairs, who says that it is at once the greatest nonsense and the
deadliest snare in the world. This lady was trained as a "coquette";
she, and all the young ladies she knew, made it their business to cause
men to fall in love with them, and their prestige was based upon their
skill in that art. So to them "love" was a joke, and men "in love" were
victims, whether ridiculous or pitiable. To this I answer that I know
nothing in life that cannot be "faked"; but an imitation has value only
as it resembles something that is real, and that has real value.
I am aware that it is possible for a society to be so corrupted, so
given up to the admiration of imitations, of the paint and powder and
silk-stocking-clad-ankle kind of love, that true and genuine love
interest, with its impulse to self-sacrifice and self-consecration, is
no longer felt or understood. I am aware that in such a society it is
possible for even the very young to be so sophisticated that what they
take to be love is merely vanity, the worship of money, and the grace
and charm which the possession of money confers. I have known girls who
were "head over heels" in love, and thought it was with a man, when
quite clearly they were in love with a dress suit or a social position.
In such a society it is hard to talk about natural emotions, and deep
and abiding and disinterested affections.
Nevertheless, amid all the false conventions, the sham glories and
cowardices of our civilization, there abides in the heart the craving
for true love, and the idea of it leaps continually into flame in the
young. In spite of the ridicule of the elders, in spite of blunders and
tragic failures, in spite of dishonesties and deceptions--nevertheless,
it continues to happen that out of a thousand maidens the youth finds
one whose presence thrills him with a new and terrible emotion, whose
lightest touch makes him shiver, almost makes his knees give way.
If you will recall what I have written about instinct and reason, you
will know that I am not a blind worshipper of our ancient mother
nature. I am not humble in my attitude toward her, but perfectly willing
to say when I know more than she does. On the other hand, when I know
nothing or next to nothing, I am shy of contradicting my ancient mother,
and disposed to give respectful heed to her promptings. One of the
things about which we know almost nothing at present is the subject of
eugenics. We are only at the beginning of trying to find out what
matings produce the best offspring. Meantime, we ought to consider those
indications which nature gives us, just as we consider her advice about
what food to eat and what rest to take.
It is not my idea that science will ever take men and women and marry
them in cold blood, as today we breed our cattle. What I think will
happen is that young men and women will meet one another, as they do at
present, and will find the love impulse awakening; they will then submit
their love to investigation, as to whether they should follow that
impulse, or should wait. In other words, I do not believe that science
will ever do away with the raptures of love, but will make itself the
servant of these raptures, finding out what they mean, and how their
precious essence may be preserved.
I perfectly understand that the begetting of children is not the only
purpose of love. The children have to be reared and trained, which means
that a home has to be founded, and the parents have to learn to
co-operate. They have to have common aims in life, and temperaments
sufficiently harmonious so that they can live in the house together
without tearing each other's eyes out. This means that in any civilized
society all impulses of love have to be subjected to severe criticism. I
intend, before long, to show just how I think parents and guardians
should co-operate with young people in love; to help them to understand
in advance what they are doing, and how it may be possible for them to
make their love permanent and successful. For the moment I merely state,
to avoid any possible misunderstanding, that I am the last person in the
world to favor what is called "blind" love, the unthinking abandonment
to an impulse of sex passion. What I am trying to show is that the
passionate impulse, the passionate excitement of the young couple, is
the material out of which love and marriage are made. Passion is a part
of us, and a fundamental part. If we do not find a place for it in
marriage, it will seek satisfaction outside of marriage, and that means
lying, or the wrecking of the marriage, or both.
Passion is what gives to love and marriage its vitality, its energy, its
drive; in fact, it gives these qualities to the whole character. It is a
vivifying force, transfiguring the personality, and if it is crushed and
repressed, the whole life of that person is distorted. Yet it is a fact
which every physician knows, that millions of women marry and live their
whole lives without ever knowing what passionate gratification is. As a
consequence of this, millions of men take it for granted that there are
"good" women and "bad" women, and that only the latter are interesting.
This, of course, is simply one of the abnormalities caused by the
supplanting of love by money as a motive in marriage. Love becomes a
superfluity and a danger, and all the forces of society, including
institutionalized religion, combine to outlaw it and drive it
underground. Or we might say that they lock it in a dungeon--and that
the supreme delight of all the painters, poets, musicians, dramatists
and novelists of all climes and all periods of history, is to portray
the escape of the "young god" from these imprisonments. The story is
told in six words of an old English ballad: "Love will find out the
way!"
Is it not obvious that there must be something vitally wrong with our
institutions and conventions in matters of sex, when here exists this
eternal war between our moralists and our artists? Why not make up our
minds what we really believe; whether it is true that poets are, as
Shelley said, "the unacknowledged legislators of mankind," or whether
they are, as Plato declared, false teachers and seducers of the young.
If they are the latter, let us have done with them, let us drive them
from the state, together with lovers and all other impassioned persons.
But if, on the other hand, it is truth the poets tell about life, then
let us take the young god out of his dungeon, and bring him into our
homes by the front door, and cast out the false gods of vanity and greed
and worldly prestige which now sit in his place.
CHAPTER XXXIX
BIRTH CONTROL
     (Deals with the prevention of conception as one of the greatest of
     man's discoveries, releasing him from nature's enslavement, and
     placing the keys of life in his hands.)
I assume that you have followed my argument, and are prepared to
consider seriously whether it may be possible to establish love in
marriage as the sex institution of civilized society. If you really wish
to bring such an institution into existence, the first thing you have to
do is to accomplish the social revolution; that is, you must wipe out
class control of society, and prestige based upon money exploitation.
But that is a vast change, and will take time, and meanwhile we have to
live, and wish to live with as little misery as possible. So the
practical question becomes this: Suppose that you, as an individual,
wish to find as much happiness in love as may now be possible, what
counsel have I to offer? If you are young, you wish this advice for
yourself; while if you are mature, you wish it for your children. I will
put my advice under four heads: First, marriage for love; second, birth
control; third, early marriage; fourth, education for marriage.
The first of these we have considered at some length. A part of the
process of social revolution is personal conversion; the giving up by
every individual of the worldly ideal, the surrender of luxury and
self-indulgence, the consecrating of one's life to self education and
the cause of social justice. And do not think that that is an easy
thing, or an unimportant thing, a thing to be taken for granted. On the
contrary, it is something that most of us have to struggle with at every
hour of our lives, because respect for property and worldly conventions
has become one of our deepest instincts; our whole society is poisoned
with it, and I can count on the fingers of one hand the people I have
known in my life who have completely escaped from it. It is not merely a
question of refusing to marry except for love, it is a question of
refusing to love except for honest and worthy qualities. It is a
question of saving our children from the damnable forces of snobbery,
which lay siege to their young minds and destroy the best impulses of
their hearts, while we in our blindness are still thinking of them as
babies.
Of the other three topics that I have suggested, I begin with birth
control, because it is the most fundamental and most important. Without
birth control there can be no freedom, no happiness, no permanence in
love, and there can be no mastery of life. Birth control is one of the
great fundamental achievements of the human reason, as important to the
life of mankind as the discovery of fire or the invention of printing.
Birth control is the deliverance of womankind, and therefore of mankind
also, from the blind and insane fecundity of nature, which created us
animals, and would keep us animals forever if we did not rebel.
Ever since the dawn of history, and probably for long ages before that,
our race has been struggling against this blind insanity of nature.
Poor, bewildered Theodore Roosevelt stormed at what he called "race
suicide," thinking it was some brand new and terrible modern corruption;
but nowhere do we find a primitive tribe, nowhere in history do we find
a race which did not seek to save itself from overgrowth and consequent
starvation. They did not know enough to prevent conception, but they did
the best they could by means of abortion and infanticide. And because
today superstition keeps the priceless knowledge of contraception from
the vast majority of women, these crude, savage methods still prevail,
and we have our million abortions a year in the United States. Assuming
that something near one-fourth our population consists of women capable
of bearing children, we have one woman in twenty-five going through this
agonizing and health-wrecking experience every year. They go through
with it, you understand, regardless of everything--all the moralists and
preachers and priests with their hell fire and brimstone. They go
through with it because we have both marriage without love, and love
without marriage; also because we permit some ten or twenty per cent of
our total population to suffer the pangs of perpetual starvation,
because more than half our farms are mortgaged or occupied by tenants,
and some ten or twenty per cent of our workers are out of jobs all the
time.
Some of our women know about birth control. They are the rich women, who
get what they want in this world. They object to the humiliations and
inconveniences of child bearing, and some of them raise one or two
children, and others of them raise poodle dogs. Also, our middle classes
have found out; our doctors and lawyers and college professors, and
people of that sort. But we deliberately keep the knowledge from our
foreign populations, by the terrors which the church has at its command.
And what is the practical consequence of this procedure? It is that
while all our Anglo-Saxon stock, those who founded our country and
established its institutions, are gradually removing themselves from the
face of the earth, our ignorant and helpless populations, whether in
city slums or on tenant farms, are multiplying like rabbits. Read Jack
London's "The Valley of the Moon" and see what is happening in
California. You will find the same thing happening in any portion of the
United States where you take the trouble to use your own eyes.
Now, I try to repress such impulses toward race prejudice as I find in
myself. I am willing to admit for the sake of this argument that in the
course of time all the races that are now swarming in America,
Portuguese and Japanese and Mexican and French-Canadian and Polish and
Hungarian and Slovakian, are capable of just as high intellectual
development as our ancestors who wrote the Declaration of Independence.
But no one who sees the conditions under which they now live can deny
that it will take a good deal of labor, teaching them and training them,
as well as scrubbing them, to accomplish that result. And what a waste
of energy, what a farce it makes of culture, to take the people who have
already been scrubbed and taught and trained for self-government, and
exterminate them, and raise up others in their place! It seems time that
we gave thought to the fundamental question, whether or not there is
something self-destroying in the very process of culture. Unless we can
answer this we might as well give up our visions and our efforts to lift
the race.
Theodore Roosevelt stormed at birth control for something like ten
years, and it would be interesting if we could know how many Anglo-Saxon
babies he succeeded in bringing into the world by his preachments. If
what he wanted was to correct the balance between native and foreign
births, how much more sensible to have taught birth control to those
poor, pathetic, half-starved and overworked foreign mothers of our slums
and tenant farms! I can wager that for every Anglo-Saxon baby that
Theodore Roosevelt brought into the world by his preachings, he could
have kept out ten thousand foreign slum babies, if only he had lent his
aid to Margaret Sanger!
Ah, but he wanted all the babies to be born, you say! I see before me
the face of a certain devout old Christian lady, known to me, who
settles the question by the Bible quotation, "Be fruitful and multiply."
But what avails it to follow this biblical advice, if we allow one out
of five of the new-born infants to perish from lack of scientific care
before they are two years old? What avails it if we send them to school
hungry, as we do twenty-two per cent of the public school children of
New York City? What avails it if we allow venereal disease to spread, so
that a large percentage of the babies are deformed and miserable? What
avails it if, when they are fully grown, we can think of nothing better
to do with them than to take them by millions at a time and dress them
up in uniforms and send them out to be destroyed by poison gases? Would
it not be the part of common sense to establish universal birth control
for at least a year or two--until we have learned to take care of our
newly born babies, and to feed our school children, and to protect our
youths from vice, and to abolish poverty and war from the earth?
These are the social aspects of birth control. There are also to be
considered what I might call the personal aspects of it. Because young
people do not know about it, and have no way to find out about it, they
dare not marry, and so the amount of vice in the world is increased.
Because married women do not know about it, love is turned to terror,
and marital happiness is wrecked. Because the harmless and proper
methods are not sensibly taught, people use harmful methods, which cause
nervous disorders, and wreck marital happiness, and break up homes.
Thorough and sound knowledge about birth control is just as essential to
happiness in marriage as knowledge of diet is necessary to health, or as
knowledge of economics is necessary to intelligent action as a voter and
citizen. The suppression by law of knowledge of birth control is just as
grave a crime against human life as ever was committed by religious
bigotry in the blackest days of the Spanish Inquisition.
Now this law stands on the statute books of our country, and if I should
so much as hint to you in this book what you need to know, or even where
you can find out about it, I should be liable to five years in jail and
a fine of $5,000, and every person who mailed a copy of this book, or
any advertisement of this book, would be in the same plight. But there
is not yet a law to prohibit agitation against the law, so the first
thing I say to every reader of this book is that they should obtain a
copy of the Birth Control Review, published at 104 Fifth Avenue, New
