"That girl of Clinch's is in real danger if left here alone. But I've
got another job on my hands. Can you keep a watch on her till I return?"
"Can't you tell me a little more, Jim?"
"I will, later. Do you mind helping me out now?"
"All right."
Trooper Stormont swung out of his saddle and led his horse away toward
the stable.
Hal Smith went into the bar where Clinch stood, oiling a rifle.
"G'wan upstairs," he muttered. "I got a private war on. It's me or
Quintana, now."
"You're going after Quintana?" inquired Smith, carelessly.
"I be. And I want you should git your gun and set up by Evie. And I want
you should kill any living human son of a slut that comes botherin'
around this here hotel."
"I'm going after Quintana with you, Mike."
"B'gosh, you ain't. You're a-goin' to keep watch here."
"No. Trooper Stormont has promised to stay with Eve. You'll need every
man to-day, Mike. This isn't a deer drive."
Clinch let his rifle sag across the hollow of his left arm.
"Did you beef to that trooper?" he demanded in his pleasant, misleading
way.
"Do you think I'm crazy?" retorted Smith.
"Well, what the hell----"
"They all know that some man used your girl roughly. That's all I said
to him--'keep an eye on Eve until we can get back.' And I tell you,
Mike, if we drive Star Peak we won't be back till long after sundown."
Clinch growled: "I ain't never asked no favours of no State Trooper----"
"He did you a favour, didn't he? He brought your daughter in."
"Yes, 'n' he'd jail us all if he got anything on us."
"Yes; and he'll shoot to kill if any of Quintana's people come here and
try to break in."
Clinch grunted, peeled off his coat and got into a leather vest
bristling with cartridge loops.
Trooper Stormont came in the back door, carrying his rifle.
"Some rough fellow been bothering your little daughter, Clinch?" he
inquired. "The child was nearly all in when she met me out by Owl
Marsh--clothes half torn off her back, bare-foot and bleeding. She's a
plucky youngster. I'll say so, Clinch. If you think the fellow may come
here to annoy her I'll keep an eye on her till you return."
Clinch went up to Stormont, put his powerful hands on the young fellow's
shoulders.
After a moment's glaring silence: "You look clean. I guess you be,
too. I wanta tell you I'll cut the guts outa any guy that lays the heft
of a single finger onto Eve."
"I'd do so, too, if I were you," said Stormont.
"Would ye? Well, I guess you're a real man, too, even if you're a State
Trooper," growled Clinch. "G'wan up. She's a-nappin'. If she wakes up
you kinda talk pleasant to her. You act kind pleasant and cosy. She
ain't had no ma. You tell her to set snug and ca'm. Then you cook her a
egg if she wants it. There's pie, too. I cal'late to be back by
sundown."
"Nearer morning," remarked Smith.
Stormont shrugged. "I'll stay until you show up, Clinch."
The latter took another rifle from the corner and handed it to Smith
with a loop of ammunition.
"Come on," he grunted.
On the veranda he strode up to the group of sullen, armed men who
regarded his advent in expressionless silence.
Sid Hone was there, and Harvey Chase, and the Hastings boys, and
Cornelius Blommers.
"You fellas comin'?" inquired Clinch.
"Where?" drawled Sid Hone.
"Me an' Hal Smith is cal'kalatin' to drive Star Peak. It ain't a deer,
neither."
There ensued a grim interval. Clinch's wintry smile began to glimmer.
"Booze agents or game protectors? Which?" asked Byron Hastings. "They
both look like deer--if a man gits mad enough."
Clinch's smile became terrifying. "I shell out five hundred dollars for
every deer that's dropped on Star Peak to-day," he said. "And I hope
there won't be no accidents and no mistakin' no stranger for a deer,"
he added, wagging his great, square head.
"Them accidents is liable to happen," remarked Hone, reflectively.
After another pause: "Where's Jake Kloon?" inquired Smith.
Nobody seemed to know.
"He was here when Mike called me into the bar," insisted Smith. "Where'd
he go?"
Then, of a sudden, Clinch recollected the packet which he had kicked
under a veranda chair. It was no longer there.
"Any o' you fellas seen a package here on the pyazza?" demanded Clinch
harshly.
"Jake Kloon, he had somethin'," drawled Chase. "I supposed it was his
lunch. Mebbe 'twas, too."
In the intense stillness Clinch glared into one face after another.
"Boys," he said in his softly modulated voice, "I kinda guess there's a
rat amongst us. I wouldn't like for to be that there rat--no, not for a
billion hundred dollars. No, I wouldn't. Becuz that there rat has bit my
little girlie, Eve,--like that there deer bit her up onto Star Peak....
No, I wouldn't like for to be that there rat. Fer he's a-goin' to die
like a rat, same's that there deer is a-goin' to die like a deer....
Anyone seen which way Jake Kloon went?"
"Now you speak of it," said Byron Hastings, "seems like I noticed Jake
and Earl Leverett down by the woods near the pond. I kinda disremembered
when you asked, but I guess I seen them."
"Sure," said Sid Hone. "Now you mention it, I seen 'em, too. Thinks I to
m'self, they is pickin' them blackberries down to the crick. Yas, I seen
'em."
Clinch tossed his rifle across his left shoulder.
"Rats an' deer," he said pleasantly. "Them's the articles we're lookin'
for. Only for God's sake be careful you don't mistake a man for 'em in
the woods."
One or two men laughed.
       
On the edge of Owl Marsh Clinch halted in the trail, and, as his men
came up, he counted them with a cold eye.
"Here's the runway and this here hazel bush is my station," he said.
"You fellas do the barkin'. You, Sid Hone, and you, Corny, start drivin'
from the west. Harve, you yelp 'em from the north by Lynx Brook. Jim and
Byron, you get twenty minutes to go 'round to the eastward and drive by
the Slide. And you, Hal Smith,"--he looked around--"where 'n hell be
you, Hal?----"
Smith came up from the bog's edge.
"Send 'em out," he said in a low voice. "I've got Jake's tracks in the
bog."
Clinch motioned his beaters to their duty. "Twenty minutes," he reminded
Hone, Chase, and Blommers, "before you start drivin'." And, to the
Hastings boys: "If you shoot, aim low for their bellies. Don't leave no
blood around. Scrape it up. We bury what we get."
He and Smith stood looking after the five slouching figures moving away
toward their blind trails. When all had disappeared:
"Show me Jake's mark," he said calmly.
Smith led him to the edge of the bog, knelt down, drew aside a branch of
witch-hopple. A man's footprint was plainly visible on the mud.
"That's Jake," said Clinch slowly. "I know them half-soled boots o'
hisn." He lifted another branch. "There's another man's track!"
"The other is probably Leverett's."
"Likely. He's got thin feet."
"I think I'd better go after them," said Smith, reflectively.
"They'll plug you, you poor jackass--two o' them like that, and one
a-settin' up to watch out. Hell! Be you tired o' bed an' board?"
Smith smiled: "Don't you worry, Mike."
"Why? You think you're that smart? Jest becuz you stuck up a tourist you
think you're cock o' the North Woods--with them two foxes lyin' out for
to snap you up? Hey? Why, you poor dumb thing, Jake runs Canadian hootch
for a livin' and Leverett's a trap thief! What could you do with a
pair o' foxes like that?"
"Catch 'em," said Smith, coolly. "You mind your business, Mike."
As he shouldered his rifle and started into the marsh, Clinch dropped a
heavy hand on his shoulder; but the young man shook it off.
"Shut up," he said sharply. "You've a private war on your hands. So have
I. I'll take care of my own."
"What's your grievance?" demanded Clinch, surprised.
"Jake Kloon played a dirty trick on me."
"When was that?"
"Not very long ago."
"I hadn't heard," said Clinch.
"Well, you hear it now, don't you? All right. All right; I'm going after
him."
As he started again across the marsh, Clinch called out in a guarded
voice: "Take good care of that packet if you catch them rats. It belongs
to Eve."
"I'll take such good care of it," replied Smith, "that its proper owner
need not worry."
II
The "proper owner" of the packet was, at that moment, on the Atlantic
Ocean, travelling toward the United States.
Four other pretended owners of the Grand Duchess Theodorica's jewels,
totally unconscious of anything impending which might impair their
several titles to the gems, were now gathered together in a wilderness
within a few miles of one another.
José Quintana lay somewhere in the forests with his gang, fiercely
planning the recovery of the treasure of which Clinch had once robbed
him. Clinch squatted on his runway, watching the mountain flank with
murderous eyes. It was no longer the Flaming Jewel which mattered. His
master passion ruled him now. Those who had offered violence to Eve must
be reckoned with first of all. The hand that struck Eve Strayer had
offered mortal insult to Mike Clinch.
As for the third pretender to the Flaming Jewel, Jake Kloon, he was now
travelling in a fox's circle toward Drowned Valley--that shaggy
wilderness of slime and tamarack and depthless bog which touches the
northwest base of Star Peak. He was not hurrying, having no thought of
pursuit. Behind him plodded Leverett, the trap thief, very, very busy
with his own ideas.
To Leverett's repeated requests that Kloon halt and open the packet to
see what it contained, Kloon gruffly refused.
"What do we care what's in it?" he said. "We get ten thousand apiece
over our rifles for it from them guys. Ain't it a good enough job for
you?"
"Maybe we make more if we take what's inside it for ourselves," argued
Leverett. "Let's take a peek, anyway."
"Naw. I don't want no peek nor nothin'. The ten thousand comes too easy.
More might scare us. Let that guy, Quintana, have what's his'n. All I
ask is my rake-off. You allus was a dirty, thieving mink, Earl. Let's
give him his and take ours and git. I'm going to Albany to live. You bet
I don't stay in no woods where Mike Clinch dens."
They plodded on, arguing, toward their rendezvous with Quintana's
outpost on the edge of Drowned Valley.
       
The fourth pretender to the pearls, rubies, and great gem called the
Flaming Jewel, stolen from the young Grand Duchess Theodorica of
Esthonia by José Quintana, was an unconscious pretender, entirely
innocent of the rôle assigned her by Clinch.
For Eve Strayer had never heard where the packet came from or what it
contained. All she knew was that her stepfather had told her that it
belonged to her. And the knowledge left her incurious.
III
Eve slept the sleep of mental and physical exhaustion. Reaction from
fear brings a fatigue more profound than that which follows physical
overstrain. But the healthy mind, like the healthy body, disposes very
thoroughly of toxics which arise from terror and exhaustion.
The girl slept profoundly, calmly. Her bruised young mind and body left
her undisturbed. There was neither restlessness nor fever. Sleep swept
her with its clean, sweet tide, cleansing the superb youth and health of
her with the most wonderful balm in the Divine pharmacy.
She awoke late in the afternoon, opened her flower-blue eyes, and saw
State Trooper Stormont sitting by the window, and gazing out.
Perhaps Eve's confused senses mistook the young man for a vision; for
she lay very still, nor stirred even her little finger.
After a while Stormont glanced around at her. A warm, delicate colour
stained her skin slowly, evenly, from throat to hair.
He got up and came over to the bed.
"How do you feel?" he asked, awkwardly.
"Where is dad?" she managed to inquire in a steady voice.
"He won't be back till late. He asked me to stick around--in case you
needed anything----"
The girl's clear eyes searched his.
"Trooper Stormont?"
"Yes, Eve."
"Dad's gone after Quintana."
"Is he the fellow who misused you?"
"I think so."
"Who is he?"
"I don't know."
"Is he your enemy or your stepfather's?"
But the girl shook her head: "I can't discuss dad's affairs
with--with----"
"With a State Trooper," smiled Stormont. "That's all right, Eve. You
don't have to."
There was a pause; Stormont stood beside the bed, looking down at her
with his diffident, boyish smile. And the girl gazed back straight into
his eyes--eyes she had so often looked into in her dreams.
"I'm to cook you an egg and bring you some pie," he remarked, still
smiling.
"Did dad say I am to stay in bed?"
"That was my inference. Do you feel very lame and sore?"
"My feet burn."
"You poor kid!... Would you let me look at them? I have a first-aid
packet with me."
After a moment she nodded and turned her face on the pillow. He drew
aside the cover a little, knelt down beside the bed.
Then he rose and went downstairs to the kitchen. There was hot water in
the kettle. He fetched it back, bathed her feet, drew out from cut and
scratch the flakes of granite-grit and brier-points that still remained
there.
From his first-aid packet he took a capsule, dissolved it, sterilized
the torn skin, then bandaged both feet with a deliciously cool salve,
and drew the sheets into place.
Eve had not stirred nor spoken. He washed and dried his hands and came
back, drawing his chair nearer to the bedside.
"Sleep, if you feel like it," he said pleasantly.
As she made no sound or movement he bent over to see if she had already
fallen asleep. And noticed that her flushed cheeks were wet with tears.
"Are you suffering?" he asked gently.
"No.... You are so wonderfully kind...."
"Why shouldn't I be kind?" he said, amused and touched by the girl's
emotion.
"I tried to shoot you once. That is why you ought to hate me."
He began to laugh: "Is that what you're thinking about?"
"I--never can--forget----"
"Nonsense. We're quits anyway. Do you remember what I did to you?"
He was thinking of the handcuffs. Then, in her vivid blush he read what
she was thinking. And he remembered his lips on her palms.
He, too, now was blushing brilliantly at memory of that swift, sudden
rush of romantic tenderness which this girl had witnessed that memorable
day on Owl Marsh.
In the hot, uncomfortable silence, neither spoke. He seated himself
after a while. And, after a while, she turned on her pillow part way
toward him.
Somehow they both understood that it was friendship which had subtly
filled the interval that separated them since that amazing day.
"I've often thought of you," he said,--as though they had been
discussing his absence.
No hour of the waking day that she had not thought of him. But she did
not say so now. After a little while:
"Is yours a lonely life?" she asked in a low voice.
"Sometimes. But I love the forest."
"Sometimes," she said, "the forest seems like a trap that I can't
escape. Sometimes I hate it."
"Are you lonely, Eve?"
"As you are. You see I know what the outside world is. I miss it."
"You were in boarding school and college."
"Yes."
"It must be hard for you here at Star Pond."
The girl sighed, unconsciously:
"There are days when I--can scarcely--stand it.... The wilderness would
be more endurable if dad and I were all alone.... But even then----"
"You need young people of your own age,--educated companions----"
"I need the city, Mr. Stormont. I need all it can give: I'm starving for
it. That's all."
She turned on her pillow, and he saw that she was smiling faintly. Her
face bore no trace of the tragic truth she had uttered. But the tragedy
was plain enough to him, even without her passionless words of revolt.
The situation of this young, educated girl, aglow with youth, fettered,
body and mind, to the squalor of Clinch's dump, was perfectly plain to
anybody.
She said, seeing his troubled expression: "I'm sorry I spoke that way."
"I knew how you must feel, anyway."
"It seems ungrateful," she murmured. "I love my step-father."
"You've proven that," he remarked with a dry humour that brought the hot
flush to her face again.
"I must have been crazy that day," she said. "It scares me to remember
what I tried to do.... What a frightful thing--if I had killed
you----How can you forgive me?"
"How can you forgive me, Eve?"
She turned her head: "I do."
"Entirely?"
"Yes."
He said,--a slight emotion noticeable in his voice: "Well, I forgave you
before the darned gun exploded in our hands."
"How could you?" she protested.
"I was thinking all the while that you were acting as I'd have acted if
anything threatened my father."
"Were you thinking of that?"
"Yes,--and also how to get hold of you before you shot me." He began to
laugh.
After a moment she turned her head to look at him, and her smile
glimmered, responsive to his amusement. But she shivered slightly, too.
"How about that egg?" he inquired.
"I can get up----"
"Better keep off your feet. What is there in the pantry? You must be
starved."
"I could eat a little before supper time," she admitted. "I forgot to
take my lunch with me this morning. It is still there in the pantry on
the bread box, wrapped up in brown paper, just as I left it----"
She half rose in bed, supported on one arm, her curly brown-gold hair
framing her face:
"--Two cakes of sugar-milk chocolate in a flat brown packet tied with a
string," she explained, smiling at his amusement.
So he went down to the pantry and discovered the parcel on the bread box
where she had left it that morning before starting for the cache on Owl
Marsh.
He brought it to her, placed both pillows upright behind her, stepped
back gaily to admire the effect. Eve, with her parcel in her hands,
laughed shyly at his comedy.
"Begin on your chocolate," he said. "I'm going back to fix you some
bread and butter and a cup of tea."
When again he had disappeared, the girl, still smiling, began to untie
her packet, unhurriedly, slowly loosening string and wrapping.
Her attention was not fixed on what her slender fingers were about.
She drew from the parcel a flat morocco case with a coat of arms and
crest stamped on it in gold, black, and scarlet.
For a few moments she stared at the object stupidly. The next moment she
heard Stormont's spurred tread on the stairs; and she thrust the morocco
case and the wrapping under the pillows behind her.
She looked up at him in a dazed way when he came in with the tea and
bread. He set the tin tray on her bureau and came over to the bedside.
"Eve," he said, "you look very white and ill. Have you been hurt
somewhere, and haven't you admitted it?"
She seemed unable to speak, and he took both her hands and looked
anxiously into the lovely, pallid features.
After a moment she turned her head and buried her face in the pillow,
trembling now in overwhelming realization of what she had endured for
the sake of two cakes of sugar-milk chocolate hidden under a bush in the
forest.
       
For a long while the girl lay there, the feverish flush of tears on her
partly hidden face, her nervous hands tremulous, restless, now seeking
his, convulsively, now striving to escape his clasp--eloquent, uncertain
little hands that seemed to tell so much and yet were telling him
nothing he could understand.
"Eve, dear," he said, "are you in pain? What is it that has happened to
you? I thought you were all right. You seemed all right----"
"I am," she said in a smothered voice. "You'll stay here with me, won't
you?"
"Of course I will. It's just the reaction. It's all over. You're
relaxing. That's all, dear. You're safe. Nothing can harm you now----"
"Please don't leave me."
After a moment: "I won't leave you.... I wish I might never leave you."
In the tense silence that followed her trembling ceased. Then his heart,
heavy, irregular, began beating so that the startled pulses in her body
awoke, wildly responsive.
Deep emotions, new, unfamiliar, were stirring, awaking, confusing them
both. In a sudden instinct to escape, she turned and partly rose on one
elbow, gazing blindly about her out of tear-marred eyes.
"I want my room to myself," she murmured in a breathless sort of way,
"--I want you to go out, please----"
A boyish flush burnt his face. He got up slowly, took his rifle from
the corner, went out, closing the door, and seated himself on the
stairs.
And there, on guard, sat Trooper Stormont, rigid, unstirring, hour after
hour, facing the first great passion of his life, and stunned by the
impact of its swift and unexpected blow.
       
In her chamber, on the bed's edge, sat Eve Strayer, her deep eyes fixed
on space. Vague emotions, exquisitely recurrent, new born, possessed
her. The whole world, too, all around her seemed to have become misty
and golden and all pulsating with a faint, still rhythm that indefinably
thrilled her pulses to response.
Passion, full-armed, springs flaming from the heart of man. Woman is
slow to burn. And it was the delicate phantom of passion that Eve gazed
upon, there in her unpainted chamber, her sun-tanned fingers linked
listlessly in her lap, her little feet like bruised white flowers
drooping above the floor.
Hour after hour she sat there dreaming, staring at the tinted ghost of
Eros, rose-hued, near-smiling, unreal, impalpable as the dusty sunbeam
that slanted from her window, gilding the boarded floor.
       
Three spectres, gliding near, paused to gaze at State Trooper Stormont,
on guard by the stairs. Then they looked at the closed door of Eve's
chamber.
Then the three spectres, Fate, Chance and Destiny, whispering together,
passed on toward the depths of the sunset forest.
EPISODE FIVE
DROWNED VALLEY
I
The soft, bluish forest shadows had lengthened, and the barred sun-rays,
filtering through, were tinged with a rosy hue before Jake Kloon, the
hootch runner, and Earl Leverett, trap thief, came to Drowned Valley.
They were still a mile distant from the most southern edge of that vast
desolation, but already tamaracks appeared in the beauty of their burnt
gold; little pools glimmered here and there; patches of amber sphagnum
and crimson pitcher-plants became frequent; and once or twice Kloon's
big boots broke through the crust of fallen leaves, soaking him to the
ankles with black silt.
Leverett, always a coward, had pursued his devious and larcenous way
through the world, always in deadly fear of sink holes.
His movements and paths were those of a weasel, preferring always solid
ground; but he lacked the courage of that sinuous little beast, though
he possessed all of its ferocity and far more cunning.
Now trotting lightly and tirelessly in the broad and careless spoor of
Jake Kloon, his narrow, pointed head alert, and every fear-sharpened
instinct tensely observant, the trap-thief continued to meditate murder.
Like all cowards, he had always been inclined to bold and ruthless
action; but inclination was all that ever had happened.
Yet, even in his pitiable misdemeanours he slunk through life in terror
of that strength which never hesitates at violence. In his petty
pilfering he died a hundred deaths for every trapped mink or otter he
filched; he heard the game protector's tread as he slunk from the bagged
trout brook or crawled away, belly dragging, and pockets full of snared
grouse.
Always he had dreamed of the day when, through some sudden bold and
savage stroke, he could deliver himself from a life of fear and live in
a city, grossly, replete with the pleasures of satiation, never again to
see a tree or a lonely lake or the blue peaks which, always, he had
hated because they seemed to spy on him from their sky-blue heights.
They were spying on him now as he moved lightly, furtively at Jake
Kloon's heels, meditating once more that swift, bold stroke which
forever would free him from all care and fear.
He looked at the back of Kloon's massive head. One shot would blow that
skull into fragments, he thought, shivering.
One shot from behind,--and twenty thousand dollars,--or, if it proved a
better deal, the contents of the packet. For, if Quintana's bribery had
dazzled them, what effect might the contents of that secret packet have
if revealed?
Always in his mean and busy brain he was trying to figure to himself
what that packet must contain. And, to make the bribe worth while,
Leverett had concluded that only a solid packet of thousand-dollar bills
could account for the twenty thousand offered.
There might easily be half a million in bills pressed together in that
heavy, flat packet. Bills were absolutely safe plunder. But Kloon had
turned a deaf ear to his suggestions,--Kloon, who never entertained
ambitions beyond his hootch rake-off,--whose miserable imagination
stopped at a wretched percentage, satisfied.
One shot! There was the back of Kloon's bushy head. One shot!--and fear,
which had shadowed him from birth, was at an end forever. Ended, too,
privation,--the bitter rigour of black winters; scorching days; bodily
squalor; ills that such as he endured in a wilderness where, like other
creatures of the wild, men stricken died or recovered by chance alone.
A single shot would settle all problems for him.... But if he missed?
At the mere idea he trembled as he trotted on, trying to tell himself
that he couldn't miss. No use; always the coward's "if" blocked him; and
the coward's rage,--fiercest of all fury,--ravaged him, almost crazing
him with his own impotence.
       
Tamaracks, sphagnum, crimson pitcher-plants grew thicker; wet woods set
with little black pools stretched away on every side.
It was still nearly a mile from Drowned Valley when Jake Kloon halted in
his tracks and seated himself on a narrow ridge of hard ground. And
Leverett came lightly up and, after nosing the whole vicinity, sat down
cautiously where Kloon would have to turn partly around to look at him.
"Where the hell do we meet up with Quintana?" growled Kloon, tearing a
mouthful from a gnawed tobacco plug and shoving the remainder deep into
his trousers pocket.
"We gotta travel a piece, yet.... Say, Jake, be you a man or be you a
poor dumb critter what ain't got no spunk?"
Kloon, chewing on his cud, turned and glanced at him. Then he spat, as
answer.
"If you got the spunk of a chipmunk you and me'll take a peek at that
there packet. I bet you it's thousand-dollar bills--more'n a billion
million dollars, likely."
Kloon's dogged silence continued. Leverett licked his dry lips. His
rifle lay on his knees. Almost imperceptibly he moved it, moved it
again, froze stiff as Kloon spat, then, by infinitesimal degrees,
continued to edge the muzzle toward Kloon.
"Jake?"
"Aw, shut your head," grumbled Kloon disdainfully. "You allus was a
dirty rat--you sneakin' trap robber. Enough's enough. I ain't got no use
for no billion million dollar bills. Ten thousand'll buy me all I
cal'late to need till I'm planted. But you're like a hawg; you ain't
never had enough o' nothin' and you won't never git enough,
neither,--not if you wuz God a'mighty you wouldn't."
"Ten thousand dollars hain't nothin' to a billion million, Jake."
Kloon squirted a stream of tobacco at a pitcher plant and filled the
cup. Diverted and gratified by the accuracy of his aim, he took other
shots at intervals.
Leverett moved the muzzle of his rifle a hair's width to the left,
shivered, moved it again. Under his soggy, sun-tanned skin a
pallor made his visage sickly grey.
"Jake?"
No answer.
"Say, Jake?"
No notice.
"Jake, I wanta take a peek at them bills."
Merely another stream of tobacco soiling the crimson pitcher.
"I'm--I'm desprit. I gotta take a peek. I gotta--gotta----"
Something in Leverett's unsteady voice made Kloon turn his head.
"You gol rammed fool," he said, "what you doin' with your----"
The loud detonation of the rifle punctuated Kloon's inquiry with a final
period. The big, soft-nosed bullet struck him full in the face, spilling
his brains and part of his skull down his back, and knocking him flat as
though he had been clubbed.
Leverett, stunned, sat staring, motionless, clutching the rifle from the
muzzle of which a delicate stain of vapour floated and disappeared
through a rosy bar of sunshine.
In the intense stillness of the place, suddenly the dead man made a
sound; and the trap-robber nearly fainted.
But it was only air escaping from the slowly collapsing lungs; and
Leverett, ashy pale, shaking, got to his feet and leaned heavily against
an oak tree, his eyes never stirring from the sprawling thing on the
ground.
       
If it were a minute or a year he stood there he could never have
reckoned the space of time. The sun's level rays glimmered ruddy through
the woods. A green fly appeared, buzzing about the dead man. Another
zig-zagged through the sunshine, lacing it with streaks of greenish
fire. Others appeared, whirling, gyrating, filling the silence with
their humming. And still Leverett dared not budge, dared not search the
dead and take from it that for which the dead had died.
A little breeze came by and stirred the bushy hair on Kloon's head and
fluttered the ferns around him where he lay.
Two delicate, pure-white butterflies--rare survivors of a native species
driven from civilization into the wilderness by the advent of the
foreign white--fluttered in airy play over the dead man, drifting away
into the woodland at times, yet always returning to wage a fairy combat
above the heap of soiled clothing which once had been a man.
Then, near in the ferns, the withering fronds twitched, and a red
squirrel sprung his startling alarm, squeaking, squealing, chattering
his opinion of murder; and Leverett, shaking with the shock, wiped icy
sweat from his face, laid aside his rifle, and took his first stiff step
toward the dead man.
But as he bent over he changed his mind, turned, reeling a little, then
crept slowly out among the pitcher-plants, searching about him as though
sniffing.
In a few minutes he discovered what he was looking for; took his
bearings; carefully picked his way back over a leafy crust that trembled
under his cautious tread.
He bent over Kloon and, from the left inside coat pocket, he drew the
packet and placed it inside his own flannel shirt.
Then, turning his back to the dead, he squatted down and clutched
Kloon's burly ankles, as a man grasps the handles of a wheelbarrow to
draw it after him.
Dragging, rolling, bumping over roots, Jake Kloon took his last trail
through the wilderness, leaving a redder path than was left by the
setting sun through fern and moss and wastes of pitcher-plants.
Always, as Leverett crept on, pulling the dead behind him, the floor of
the woods trembled slightly, and a black ooze wet the crust of withered
leaves.
At the quaking edge of a little pool of water, Leverett halted. The
water was dark but scarcely an inch deep over its black bed of silt.
Beside this sink hole the trap-thief dropped Kloon. Then he drew his
hunting knife and cut a tall, slim swamp maple. The sapling was about
twenty feet in height. Leverett thrust the butt of it into the pool.
Without any effort he pushed the entire sapling out of sight in the
depthless silt.
He had to manoeuvre very gingerly to dump Kloon into the pool and keep
out of it himself. Finally he managed it.
To his alarm, Kloon did not sink far. He cut another sapling and pushed
the body until only the shoes were visible above the silt.
These, however, were very slowly sinking, now. Bubbles rose, dully
iridescent, floated, broke. Strings of blood hung suspended in the
clouding water.
Leverett went back to the little ridge and covered with dead leaves the
spot where Kloon had lain. There were broken ferns, but he could not
straighten them. And there lay Kloon's rifle.
For a while he hesitated, his habits of economy being ingrained; but he
remembered the packet in his shirt, and he carried the rifle to the
little pool and shoved it, muzzle first, driving it downward, out of
sight.
As he rose from the pool's edge, somebody laid a hand on his shoulder.
That was the most real death that Leverett ever had died.
II
A coward dies many times before Old Man Death really gets him.
The swimming minutes passed; his mind ceased to live for a space. Then,
as through the swirling waters of the last dark whirlpool, a dulled roar
of returning consciousness filled his being.
Somebody was shaking him, shouting at him. Suddenly instinct resumed its
function, and he struggled madly to get away from the edge of the
sink-hole--fought his way, blindly, through tangled undergrowth toward
the hard ridge. No human power could have blocked the frantic creature
thrashing toward solid ground.
But there Quintana held him in his wiry grip.
"Fool! Mule! Crazee fellow! What you do, eh? For why you make jumps like
rabbits! Eh? You expec' Quintana? Yes? Alors!"
Leverett, in a state of collapse, sagged back against an oak tree.
Quintana's nervous grasp fell from his arms and they swung, dangling.
"What you do by that pond-hole? Eh? I come and touch you, and, my
God!--one would think I have stab you. Such an ass!"
The sickly greenish hue changed in Leverett's face as the warmer tide
stirred from its stagnation. He lifted his head and tried to look at
Quintana.
"Where Jake Kloon?" demanded the latter.
