darted out into the street. There she fought 
her way in the wake of a tall stooping man with 
black hair as mercilessly as if she were some 
frantic woman who had risked her all on the 
Stock Exchange. He entered the door of one 
of the tall buildings, and when she reached it 
she heard the sound of footsteps rapidly 
mounting. 
She followed as rapidly. The footsteps 
ceased. When she arrived at the fourth floor 
she knocked on every door in turn. It was 
evidently a building that housed men of the 
dingiest social status. Every man who an- 
swered her peremptory summons looked like a 
derelict. These were mere semblances of 
offices, with unmade beds, sometimes on the 
floor. In some were dreary looking women, 
partners, no doubt, of these forlorn men, whose 
like she sometimes saw down in the street. But 
her breathless search was fruitless. She knew 
that one of the men who grudgingly opened his 
door — looking as if he expected the police — 
was the man she had followed, and she was 
grateful that it was not Masters. 
She went slowly down the rickety staircase 
 
feeling as if she should sink at every step. It 
had been her first ray of hope in two weeks and 
she felt faint and sick under the reaction. 
She found a coupe in Broadway and was 
driven to her lodgings. The maid was waiting 
for her in the doorway, evidently perturbed. 
" There's a strange gentleman upstairs in the 
parlor, ma'am," she said. "Not Mr. Lacey. 
I didn't want to let him in but he would. He 
said — " 
She thrust the girl aside and ran up the steps. 
But when she burst into the parlor the man 
waiting for her was Ralph Holt. 
She dropped into a chair and began to cry 
hysterically. He had dealt with her in that 
state before, and Amanda had lived in Bleecker 
Street for nuny years. She was growing bored 
with the excessive respectability of her place, 
and was delighted to find that her mistress was 
human. Cold water, sal volatile, and hartshorn 
soon restored Madeleine's composure. She 
handed her hat to the woman and was alone 
with Holt. 
" I thought — perhaps you understand — " 
" I understand, all right. I hope you are not 
angry with me for following you." 
 
" I am only too glad to see you. I never 
knew a city could be so big and heartless. I 
have felt like a leaf tossed about in a perpetual 
cold wind. 'When did you arrive? " 
" The day after you did." 
"What? And you — you — have been 
looking for him? " 
"That is what I came for — partly. Yes, 
Lacey and I have combed the town.'' 
Madeleine sprang to her feet. "You've 
found him! I know it! Why don't you 
say so? " 
" Well, we know where he is. But it's no 
place for you." 
" Take me at once. I don't care what it is." 
" But I do. So does Lacey. His plan was 
to shanghai him and sober him up. But — 
well — it is your right to say whether he shall 
do that or not. You wanted to find him yourself. But Five Points is no place for you, and 
I want your permission to carry out Lacey's 
program." 
" What is Five Points? " 
" The worst sink in New York. Just imagine 
the Barbary Coast of San Francisco multiplied 
by two thousand. There is said to be nothing 
worse in London or Paris." 
 
" If you and Mr. Lacey do not take me there 
I shall go alone." 
" Be reasonable." 
" My reason works quite as clearly as if 
my heart were chloroformed. Langdon will 
know, when I track him to a place like that, 
what he means to me." 
" He probably will be in no condition to 
recognize you." 
" I'll make him recognize me. Or if I 
cannot you may use your force then, but he 
shall know later that I went there for him. 
Have you seen him? " 
Holt moved uneasily and looked away. 
" Yes, I have seen him." 
" You need not be so distressed. I shall not 
care what he looks like. I shall see him inside. 
Did you speak to him? " 
"He either did not recognize me or pretended not to." 
" Well, we go now." 
" Won't you think it over? " 
" I prefer your escort to that of a policeman. 
I shall not be so foolish as to go alone." 
" Then we'll come for you at about eleven 
tonight. It would be useless to go look for him 
 
now. People who lead that sort of life sleep in 
the day time. I have not the faintest idea 
where he lives.'' 
"Very well, I shall have to wait, I suppose.'' 
Holt rose. " Lacey and I will come for you, 
and we'll bring with us two of the biggest 
detectives we can find. It's no joke taking a 
woman — a woman like you — Good God! — 
into a sewer like that. Even Lacey and I 
got into trouble twice, but we could take care 
of ourselves. Better dine with me at Del- 
monico's and forget things for a while." 
" I could not eat, nor sit still. Nor do I 
wish to run the risk of meeting my brother; 
or any one else I know. Come for me promptly 
at eleven or you will not find me here." 
XLII 
LANGDON MASTERS awoke from a 
sleep that had lasted all day and glowered 
out upon the room he occupied in Baxter 
Street. It was as wretched as all tenements in 
the Five Points, but it had the distinguishing 
mark of neatness. Drunk as he might be, the 
drab who lived with him knew that he would 
detect dirt and disorder, and that her slender 
hold on his tolerance would be forfeited at 
once. There were too many of her sort in the 
Five Points eager for the position of mistress 
to this man who treated them as a sultan might 
treat the meanest of his concubines, rarely 
throwing them a word, and alternately indulgent and brutal. They regarded him with awe, 
even forgetting to drink when, in certain stages 
of his cups, he entertained by the hour in one 
or other of the groggeries a circle of the most 
abandoned characters in New York — thieves, 
cracksmen, murderers actual or potential, 
" shoxilder-hitters,'' sailors who came ashore to 
 
drink the fieriest rum they could find, prostitutes, dead-beats, degenerates, dcreKcts — with 
a flow of talk that was like the flashing of 
jewels in the gutter* He related the most 
stupendous adventures that had ever befallen 
a mortal. If any one of his audience had 
heard of Munchausen he woxild have dis- 
missed him as a poor imitation of this man who 
would seem to have dropped down into their 
filthy and lawless quarter from a sphere where 
things happened unknown to men on this planet. 
They dimly recognized that he was a fallen 
gentleman, for at long intervals good church- 
men from the foreign territory of Broadway 
or Fifth Avenue came to remonstrate and 
plead. They never came a second time and 
they usually spent the following week in bed. 
But Masters was democratic enough in 
manner; it was evident that he regarded himself as no better than the worst, and nothing 
appeared to be further from his mind than 
reform of them or himself. He had now been 
with them for six months and came and went 
as he pleased. In the beginning his indestructible air of superiority had subtly irritated 
them in spite of his immediate acceptance of 
 
their standards, and there had been two 
attempts to trounce him. But he was apparently made of steel rope, he knew every trick 
of their none too subtle " game," and he had 
knocked out his assailants and won the final 
respect of Five Points. 
And if he was finical about his room he took 
care to be no neater in his dress than his associates. Although he had his hair cut and his 
face shaved he wore old and rough clothes and 
a gray flannel shirt. 
Masters, after his drab had given him a 
cup of strong coffee and a rasher, followed by 
a glass of rum, lost the horrid sensations incident upon the waking moment and looked for- 
ward to the night with a sardonic but not 
discontented grin. He knew that he had 
reached the lowest depths, and if his tough 
frame refused to succumb to the vilest liquor 
he could pour into it, he would probably be 
killed in some general shooting fray, or by one 
of the women he infatuated and cast aside 
when another took his drunken but ever ironic 
fancy. Only a week since the cyprian at 
present engaged in washing his dishes had been 
nearly demolished by the damsel she had superseded. She still wore a livid mark on her cheek 
and a plaster on her head whence a handful 
of hair had been removed by the roots. He 
had stood aloof during the fracas in the dirty 
garish dance house under the sidewalk, laugh- 
ing consumedly; and had awakened the next 
night to find the victor mending her tattered 
finery. She made him an excellent cup of 
coffee, and he had told her curtly that she could 
stay. 
If, in his comparatively sober moments, 
the memory of Madeleine intruded, he cast it 
out with a curse. Not because he blamed her 
for his downfall} he blamed no one but him- 
self} but because any recollection of the past, 
all it had been and promised, was unendurable. 
Whether he had been strong or weak in electing 
to go straight to perdition when Life had 
scourged him, he neither knew nor cared. He 
began to drink on the steamer, determined to 
forget for the present, at least} but the mental 
condition induced was far more agreeable than 
those momenfe of sobriety when he felt as if 
he were in hell with fire in his vitals and cold 
terror of the future in his brain. In New York, 
driven by his pride, he had made one or two 
 
attempts to recover himself, but the writing of 
unsigned editorials on subjects that interested 
him not at all was like wandering in a thirsty 
desert without an oasis in sight — after the 
champagne of his life in San Francisco with 
a future as glittering as its skies at night and 
the daily companionship of a woman whom he 
had believed the fates must give him wholly 
in time. 
He finally renounced self-respect as a game 
not worth the candle. Moreover, the clarity 
of mind necessary to sustained work embraced 
ever the image of Madeleine} what he had 
lost and what he had never possessed. And, 
again, he tormented himself with imaginings 
of her own suffering and despairj alternated 
with visions of Madeleine enthroned, secure, 
impeccable, admired, envied — and with other 
men in love with her! Some depth of insight 
convinced him that she loved him immortally, but he knew her need for mental com- 
panionship, and the thought that she might 
find it, however briefly and barrenly, with 
another man, sent him plunging once more. 
His friends and admirers on the newspaper 
staffs had been loyal, but not only was he 
irritated by their manifest attempts to reclaim 
him, but he grew to hate them as so many accusing reminders of the great gifts he was 
striving to blast out by the roots  and, finding 
it difficult to avoid them, he had, as soon as he 
was put in possession of his small income, 
deliberately transferred himself to the Five 
Points, where they would hardly be likely to 
trace him, certainly not to seek his society. 
And, on the whole, this experience in a degraded and perilous quarter, famous the world 
over as a degree or two worse than any pest-hole 
of its kind, was the most enjoyable of his prolonged debauch. It was only a few yards from 
Broadway, but he had never set foot in that 
magnificent thoroughfare of brown stone and 
white marble, aristocratic business partner of 
Fifth Avenue, since he entered a precinct so 
different from New York, as his former world 
knew it, that he might have been on a convict 
island in the South Seas. 
The past never obtruded itself here. He 
was surrounded by danger and degradation, 
ugliness unmitigated, and a complete indifference to anything in the world but vice, crime, 
liquor and the primitive appetites. 
 
Even the children in the swarming squalid 
streets looked like little old men and women; 
they fought in the gutters for scraps of refuse, 
or stood staring sullenly before them, the cry 
in their emaciated bodies dulled with the poisons of malnutrition; or making quick passes at 
the pocket of a thief. The girls had never 
been young, never worn anything but rags or 
mean finery, the boys were in training for a 
career of crime, the sodden women seemed to 
have no natural affection for the young they 
bore as lust prompted. Men beat their vnvts 
or strumpets with no interference from the 
police. The Sixth Ward was the worst on 
Manhattan, and the police had enough to do 
without wasting their time in this congested 
mass of the city's putrid dregs; who would be 
conferring a favor on the great and splendid 
and envied City of New York if they exterminated one another in a grand final orgy of 
blood and hate. 
The irony in Masters' mind might sleep 
when that proud and contemptuous organ was 
sodden, but it was deathless. When he thought 
at all it was to ccmgratulate himself with a 
laugh that he had found the proper setting for 
 
the final exit of a man whom Life had equipped 
to conquer, and Fate, in her most ironic 
mood, had challenged to battle  with the sting 
; n of death in victory if he won. He had beaten 
^ her at her own game. He had always aimed at 
consummation, the masterpiece j and here, in 
his final degradation, he had accomplished it. 
This morning he laughed aloud, and the 
woman — or girl? — her body was young but 
her scarred face was almost aged — wondered 
if he were going mad at last. There was little 
time lost in the Five Points upon discussion 
of personal peculiarities, but all took for 
granted that this man was half mad and would 
be wholly so before long. 
" Is anything the matter? " she asked timidly, her eye on the door but not daring to 
bolt. 
"Oh, no, nothing! Nothing in all this 
broad and perfect world. Life is a sweet- 
scented garden where all the good are happy 
and all the bad receive their just and and immediate deserts. You are the complete epitome of life, yourself, and I gaze upon you 
with a satisfaction as complete. I wouldn't 
change you for the most silken and secluded 
 
beauty in Bleecker Street, and you may stay 
here for ever. The more hideous you become 
the more pleased I shall be. Aiid you needn't 
be afraid I have gone mad. I am damnably 
sane. And still more damnably soben Go 
out and buy me a bottle of Lethe, and be quick 
about it. This 4s nearly finished." 
" Do you mean rum? " She was reassured, 
somewhat, but he had a fashion of making 
"what passed for her brain feel as if it had been 
churned. 
" Yes, I mean rum, damn you. Clear out." 
He opened an old wallet and threw a handful of bills on the floor. "Go round into 
Broadway and buy yourself a gown of white 
satin and a wreath of lilies for your hair. You 
would be a picture to make the angels weep, 
while I myself wept from pure joy. Get out." 
XLIII 
MADELEINE had forced herself to eat 
a light dinner, and a few minutes be- 
fore eleven she drank a cup of strong coffee; 
but when she entered upon the sights and 
sounds and stenches of Worth Street she nearly 
fainted. 
The night was hot. The narrow crooked 
Streets of the Five Points were lit with gas 
that shone dimly through the grimy panes of 
the lamp posts or through the open doors of 
groggeries and fetid shops. The gutter was a 
sewer. Probably not one of those dehumanized 
creatures ever bathed. Some of the children 
were naked and all looked as if they had been 
dipped in the gutters and tossed out to dry. The 
streets swarmed with them; and with men and 
women between the ages of sixteen and forty. 
One rarely lived longer than that in the Five 
Points. Some were shrieking and fighting, 
others were horribly quiet. Men and women 
lay drunk in the streets or hunched against the 
 
dripping wails, their mouths with blade teeth 
or no teeth hanging loosely, their faces purple 
or pallid. Screams came from one of the tenements, but neither of the two detectives escorting the party turned his head. 
Madeleine had imagined nothing like this. 
Her only acquaintance with vice had been in 
the dens and dives of San Francisco, and she had 
pictured something of the same sort intensified. 
But there was hardly a point of resemblance. 
San Francisco has always had a genius for 
making vice picturesque. The outcasts of the 
rest of the world do their worst and let it go at 
that. Moreover, in San Francisco she had 
never seen poverty. There was work for all, 
there were no beggars, no hxmgry tattered 
children, no congested districts. Vice might be 
an agreeable resource but it was forced on no 
onej and always the atmosphere of its indulgence was gay. She had witnessed scenes of 
riotous drunkenness, but there was something 
debonair about even those bent upon extermination, either of an antagonist or the chandeliers 
and glass-ware, and she had never seen men 
sodden save on the water front. Even then 
they were often grinning. 
 
But this looked like plain Hell to Madeleine, 
or worse. The Hell of the Bible and Dante had 
a lively accompaniment of writhing flames and 
was presumably clean. This might be an 
underground race condemned to a sordid filthy 
and living death for unimaginable crimes of a 
previous existence. Even the children looked 
as if they had come back to Earth with the sins 
of threescore and ten stamped upon their 
weary wicked faces. Madeleine's strong soul 
faltered, and she grasped Holt's arm. 
" Well, you see for yourself," he said unsympathetically. " Better go back and let me 
bring him to you. One of our men can early 
knock him out — " 
" Pm here and I shall go on. I'll stay all 
night if necessary." 
Lacey looked at her with open adoration; he 
had fallen truculently in love with her. If 
Masters no longer loved her he felt quite equal 
to killing him, although with no dreams for 
himself. He hoped that if Masters were too 
far gone for redemption she would recognize 
the fact at once, forget him, and find happiness 
somewhere. He was glad on the whole that 
she had come to Five Points. 
 
" What's the program? '' asked one of the 
detectives, kicking a sprawling form out of the 
way. " Do you know where he hangs out? '' 
" No," said Lacey. " He seems to go where 
fancy leads. We'll have to go from one groggery to another, and then try the dance houses, 
unless they pass the word in time. The police 
are supposed to have closed them, you know." 
" Yes, they have ! " The man's hearty 
Irish laugh startled these wretched creatures, 
unused to laughter, and they forsook their 
apathy or belligerence for a moment to stare. 
"They simply moved to the back, or to the 
cellar. They know we believe in lettin' 'em 
go to the devil their own way. Might as well 
turn in here." 
They entered one of the groggeries. It was 
a large room. The ceiling was low. The walls 
were foul with the accumulations of many 
years, it was long since the tables had been 
washed. The bar, dripping and slimy, looked 
as if about to fall to pieces, and the drinks 
were served in cracked mugs. The bar-tender 
was evidently an ex-prize-fighter, but the loose 
skin, empty of muscle, hung from his bare 
arms in folds. The air was dense with vile 
 
tobacco smoke, adding to the choice assortment 
of stenches imported from without and conferred by Time within. Men and women, boys 
and girls, sat at the tables drinking, or lay on 
the floor. There they would remain until 
their drunken stupor wore off, when they would 
stagger home to begin a new day. A cracked 
fiddle was playing. The younger people and 
some of the older were singing in various keys. 
Many were drinking solemnly as if drinking 
were a ritual. Others were grinning with evident enjoyment and a few were hilarious. 
The party attracted little general attention. 
Investigating travellers, escorted by detectives, had visited the Five Points more than 
once, curious to see in what way it justified its 
reputation for supremacy over the East End 
of London and the Montmartre of Paris  and 
although pockets usually were pidced, no 
violence was offered if the detectives maintained 
a bland air of detachment. They did not even 
resent the cologne-drenched handkerchiefs the 
visitors invariably held to their noses. As evil 
odors meant nothing to them, they probably 
mistook the gesture for modesty. 
Madeleine preferred her smelling salts, and 
 
at Holt's suggestion had wrapped her handkerchief about the gold and crystal bottle. But 
she forgot the horrible atmosphere as she peered 
into the face of every man who might be Masters. She wore a plain blade dress and a small 
black hat, but her beauty was difficult to obscure. Her cheeks were white and her brown 
eyes had lost their sparkle long since, but men 
not too drunk to notice a lovely woman or her 
manifest close scrutiny, not only leered up into 
her face but would have jericed her down beside them had it not been for their jealous 
partners and the presence of the detectives. 
There was a rumor abroad that the new City 
Administration intended to seek approval if not 
fame by cleaning out the Five Points, tearing 
down the wretched tenements and groggeries, 
and scattering its denizens; and none was too 
reckless not to be on his guard against a calamity which would deprive him not only of all 
he knew of pleasure but of an almost impregnable refuge after crime. 
The women, bloated, emaciated with disease, 
few with any pretension to looks or finery, 
made insulting remarks as Madeleine examined 
their partners, or stared at her in a sort of terrible wonder. She had no eyes for them. 
When she reached the end of the room, look- 
ing down into the faces of the men she was 
forced to step over, she turned and methodically continued her pilgrimage up another lane 
between the tables. 
" Good God! " exclaimed Holt to Laccy. 
"There he is! I hoped we should have to 
visit at least twenty of these hells, and that 
she'd faint or give up." 
" How on earth can you distinguish any one 
in this infernal smoke? " 
" Got the eyes of a cat. There he is — in 
that comer by the door. God! What a female 
thing he's got with him." 
" Hope it'll cure her — and that we can 
get out of this pretty soon. Strange things are 
happening within me." 
There was an uproar on the other side of the 
room. One man had made up his mind to follow this fair visitor, and his woman was beating 
him in the face, shrieking her curses. 
A party of drunken sailors staggered in, 
singing uproariously, and almost fell over 
the bar. 
But not a sound had penetrated Madeleine's 
unheeding ears. She had seen Masters. 
 
His drab had not taken his invitation to bedeck herself too literally, nor had she ventured, 
into Broadway. But after returning with the 
rum she had gone as far as Fell Street and 
bought herself all the tawdry finery her funds 
would command. She wore it with tipsy pride: 
a pink frock of slazy silk with as full a flowing 
skirt as any on Fifth Avenue during the hour 
of promenade, a green silk mantle, and a hat
as flat as a plate trimmed with faded roses, 
soiled streamers hanging down over her impudent chignon. She was attracting far more 
attention than the simply dressed lady from 
the upper world. The eyes of the women 
in her vicinity were redder with envy than with 
liquor and they cursed her shrilly. One of the 
younger women, carried away by a sudden dilatation of femininity, made a dart for the 
fringed mantle with obvious intent to appropriate it by force. She received a blow in the 
face from the dauntless owner that sent her 
sprawling, while the others mingled jeers with 
their curses. 
Masters was leaning on the table, supporting 
his head with his hands and laughing. He had 
passed the stage where he wanted to talk, but 
 
it would be morning before his brain would be 
completely befuddled. 
Madeleine's body became so stiff that her 
heels left the floor and she stood on her toes. 
Holt and Lacey grasped her arms, but she did 
not sway; she stood staring at the man she had 
come for. There was little semblance of the 
polished, groomed, haughty man who had won 
her. His face was not swollen but it was a daric 
uniform red and the lines cut it to the bone. 
The slight frown he had always worn had 
deepened to an ugly scowl. His eyes were 
injected and dull, his hair was turning gray. 
His mouth that he had held in such firm curves 
was loose and his teeth stained. She remembered how his teeth had flashed when he 
smiled, the extraordinary brilliancy of his gray 
eyes. . . . The groggery vanished . . . they 
were sitting before the fire in the Occidental 
Hotel. . . . 
The daze and the vision lasted only a moment. She disengaged herself from her escorts 
and walked rapidly toward the table. 
XLIV 
MASTERS did not recognize her at once. 
Her face lay buried deep in his mind, 
covered with the debris of innumerable carouses, forgotten women, and every defiance 
he had been able to fling in the face of 
the civilization he had been made to adorn. 
As she stood quite still looking at him he had a 
confused idea that she was a Madonna, and his 
mind wandered to churches he had attended 
on another planet, where pretty fashionable women had commanded his escort. Then he began 
to laugh again. The idea of a Madonna in a 
groggery of the Five Points was more amusing 
than the fracas just over. 
" Langdon! '' she said imperiously. " Don't 
you know me?" 
Then he recognized her, but he believed she 
was a ghost. He had had delirium tremens 
twice, and this no doubt was a new form. He 
gave a shaking cry and shrank back, his hands 
raised with the palms outward. 
" Curse you!'' he screamed. " It's not there. 
I don't see you!" 
He extended one of his trembling hands, 
still with his horrified eyes on the apparition, 
filled his mug from a bottle and drank the 
liquor off with a gulp. Then he flung the mug 
to the floor and staggered to his feet, his eyes 
roving to the men behind her. " What does 
this mean?" he stammered. "Are you here 
or aren't you — dead or alive?" 
"We're here all right," said Holt, in his 
matter-of-fact vdce. " And this really is she. 
She has come for you." 
"Come for me — for me!" His roar of 
laughter was drunken but its note was even 
more ironic than when his mirth had been excited by the mean drama of the women. He 
fell back in his chair for he was unable to stand. 
" Well, go back where you came from. There's 
nothing here for you. Tout passe, tout lasse, 
tout casse. . . . Here — what's your name?" 
he said brutally to his companion. " Go and get 
me another mug." 
But the young woman, who had been gaping 
at the scene, suddenly recovered herself. She 
ran round the table and flung her arms about 
 
his neck. "He's my man!'' she shrieked. 
"You can't have him." And she sputtered 
obscenities. 
Madeleine reached over, tore her from 
Masters, dragged her across the table, whirled 
her about, and flung her to the floor. The 
neighborhood shrieked its delight. The rest 
of the room took no notice of them. The 
drunken sailors were still singing and many 
took up the refrain. 
"No," said Madeleine. "He's mine and 
I'll have him." 
