his way, is he not?"
"Well, we've spoiled him, you see.  And those of us who have heard the
play are more excited than we have been over anything for a long time.
Those that haven't are not far behind.  I believe there is a dinner or
a party in his honor projected for every night for weeks to come."
Madame Zattiany raised her eyebrows in genuine surprise.  "Isn't it
rather unusual, that--to fête an author before he has made his débût?"
"It is, rather.  But in this case it's different.  We've waited so long
for Clavey to do the big thing that we must let off steam at once."
"He certainly seems to be a tremendous favorite among you.  Several of
his friends were here at dinner the other night--I was so sorry you
were unable to come--and really they seemed to be able to talk of
nothing else.  They are all very charming to me now, but I am wondering
if they will be more than amiably interested in me when I am merely the
wife of a famous playwright?"
"Oh, you must do something yourself," said Miss Dwight emphatically.
"I am sure you could write.  And equally sure that you will try, for
you could not live constantly with such workers as we are without being
stung by the same busy little bee.  You have suggested genius to me
from the first, and I am convinced it is not merely the genius of
personality.  Your life has stifled your talents, but now is the time
to discover them and take your place in American letters."
"I had thought such talents as I possessed should be used in the
attempt to play a humble part in the reconstruction of Europe,"
murmured Madame Zattiany; and one of her beautiful white hands moved
toward the cigarette box with a curious tensing of the muscles that
seemed to rob it subtly of its likeness to flesh.  Nothing escaped Miss
Dwight's observing eye, and she replied casually: "Oh, Europe isn't
worth the effort, dear Madame Zattiany.  It's too far gone.  The future
of the world lies here in the United States.  New York is the brain and
soul of the United States.  Moreover, if you want to help Europe, you
can write about it here, be the one to give us all a clearer
understanding of that miserable chaos."
"But I detest writing," said Madame Zattiany, who was lying back and
watching her smoke rings.  "I like the activity of doing, and I have
had an experience that particularly fits me for political intrigue.  If
this were Washington, now----"
"Oh, Washington!  Washington is merely one of the islands outside of
New York.  So is Chicago, Boston, the rest of them. . . .  And don't
imagine you would not become fascinated with writing as soon as you
were in your stride.  Here is a simple recipe to begin with.  Get up
every morning with the set intention of writing and go to your desk and
sit there for three hours, whether you accomplish anything or not.
Before long you will find that you are writing madly, not waiting for
inspiration.  And you will have Clavey to criticize you.  The rest is
only stern self-discipline.  Here is another suggestion: when you have
brain fag go to bed for two days and starve.  The result is miraculous."
"So, that is the way American writers are made.  There are so many of
them--I had often wondered----"
"Oh, not at all!"  Miss Dwight rushed to the defence of native American
genius.  "But all writers, no matter what their gifts, often go through
a period of torture while forming habits of regular work."
"It sounds like torture!"  She gave Gora a glance of lazy amusement.
"Really, Miss Dwight!  Are you trying to frighten me off?"
But Gora did not blush.  If she chose to concentrate her agile mind on
acting, the accomplished actress opposite could give her few points.
She replied with convincing emphasis: "Certainly not.  What an odd
idea.  I have the most enormous respect for your abilities, and you
should be famous for something besides beauty--and I should like to see
you live down mere notoriety."
"I've loved the notoriety, and rather regret that it seems to have lost
flavor with time.  But I'll never make a writer, Miss Dwight, and have
not the least intention of trying."
"But surely you'll not be content to be just Lee's wife?  Why,
practically every woman in our crowd does something.  There used to be
a superstition that two brain-workers could not live comfortably under
the same roof, but as a matter of fact we've proved that a woman keeps
her husband far longer if her brain is as productive as his.  Each
inspires and interests the other.  Another old cliché gone to the
dust bin.  Our sort of men want something more from a woman than good
housekeeping.  Not that men no longer want to be comfortable, but the
clever women of today have learned to combine both."
"Marvellous age and marvellous America!  Don't you think I could keep
Lee interested without grinding away at my desk for three hours every
morning and lying in hungry misery for days at a time?"
"You could keep any man interested.  I wasn't thinking of him, but of
you.  He has more than a man's entitled to already.  Men are selfish
brutes, and I waste no sympathy on them.  It's women who have the
rotten deal in this world, the best of them.  And men are as vain as
they are selfish.  It's an enormous advantage for a woman to have her
own reputation and her own separate life.  No man should be able to
feel that he possesses a woman wholly.  He simply can't stand it."
"Quite right.  Discarding modesty, I may add that I am an old hand at
that game."
Gora regarded her with frank admiration, wholly unassumed.  "Oh, you
couldn't lose Clavey if you tried.  He is mad about you.  We can all
see that, and I knew it before he did himself.  It's only--really--that
I'm afraid you'll be bored to death with so much shop if you don't set
up one for yourself."
"Oh, I never intend to be bored again as long as I live."  Mary
Zattiany was a very shrewd woman and she determined on a bold stroke.
Her suspicion lingered but had lost its edge.  Gora Dwight was deep and
subtle but there was no doubt that she was honorable.  "I shall tell
you something," she said, "but you must give me your word that you will
not betray me--not even to Lee."
Miss Dwight's mind, not her body, gave a slight stir of uneasiness.
But she answered warmly: "Of course I promise."
"Very well, then.  It is this.  I shall never return to America.  I
sail in a fortnight.  Lee follows soon after, and we shall be married
in Austria."
"But--but--his play!"  Miss Dwight was too startled to act.  "He must
be here for rehearsals.  Some one has said that plays are not written,
they're rewritten, and it's pretty close to the truth."
"I shall consent to his returning in time for rehearsals.  Prolonged
honeymoons are indiscreet.  It is better to divide them into a series.
I fancy the series might hold out indefinitely if adroitly spaced.
Moreover, being a modern myself, I like new methods.  And he will be
too busy to miss me.  I shall be equally busy in Vienna."
"But will he consent?  Lee?  He's not used to having his plans made for
him.  He's about the most dominating male I know."
"I feel sure he will when the time comes.  It is woman's peculiar gift,
you know, to convince the dominating male that he wants what she wants."
Gora laughed.  But she also could turn mental somersaults.  "I think it
a splendid arrangement.  Then we should not lose Lee altogether, for we
really are devoted to him.  He is an adorable creature for all his
absurdities.  But I can't endure the thought of losing you."
"You must pay me a long visit in Vienna.  Many visits.  I can assure
you that you will find material there, under my guidance, for a really
great novel."
Gora's eyes sparkled.  She was all artist at once.  "I should like
that!  How kind of you.  And what a setting!"
"Yes, Austria is the most interesting country in Europe, and the most
beautiful to look at--and describe."
"It will be heavenly."  Gora made up her mind at once that she would
waste no more ingenuity to stop this marriage.  Its modernity appealed
to her, and she foresaw new impulses to creation.  "The American
Scene," conceivably, might grow monotonous with time; and with these
daily recruits bent upon describing its minutiae with the relentless
efficiency of the camera.  And with all her soul she loved beauty.
With the possible exception of Bavaria she knew Austria to be the
darling of nature.
Once more she chose to believe this woman would manage Clavering to his
own good, and to the satisfaction of his friends, who, as she well
knew, were alarmed and alert.  They were too polite to show it, but
much of their enthusiasm for Madame Zattiany had dimmed with the
knowledge that she was a scientific phenomenon.  Fundamentally the
brilliant creative mind is quite as conservative as the worldly, or the
inarticulate millions between, for they have common ancestors and
common traditions.  They feared not only to lose him, moreover, but had
begun to ask one another if his career would not be wrecked.
Miss Dwight concluded that such an uncommon and romantic marriage might
be a spur to Clavering's genius, which might weaken in a conventional
marital drama set in the city of New York.
She rose and for the first time kissed Madame Zattiany.  "It will be
too perfect!" she said.  "Let me visit you in summer when he is
rehearsing.  He can arrange to have his first-nights in September, and
then write his next play in Austria, filling his time while you are
absorbed in politics.  Heavens, what a theme!  Some day I'll use it.
Perfectly disguised, of course."
"And I'll give you points," said Mary, laughing.  She returned the
other's embrace; but when she was alone she sighed and sank back in her
chair, without picking up her book.  Miss Gora Dwight had given her
something to think of!  The last thing she wanted was a serial
honeymoon.  She wanted this man's companionship and his help.  But she
had slowly been forced to the conclusion that Clavering's was a mind
whose enthusiasms could only be inspired by some form of creative art;
politics would never appeal to it.  In her comparative ignorance of the
denaturalized brain, she had believed that a brilliant gifted mind
could concentrate itself upon any object with equal fertility and
power, but she had seen too much of the Sophisticates of late, and
studied Clavering in too many of his moods to cherish the illusion any
longer.  Playwrighting seemed to her a contemptible pastime compared
with the hideous facts of Life as exemplified in Europe, and she had
restrained herself from an angry outburst more than once.  But she was
too philosophical, possibly too fatalistic, not to have dismissed this
attitude eventually.  Clavering could not be changed, but neither could
she.  There would be the usual compromises.  After all, of what was
life made up but of compromise?  But the early glow of the wondrous
dream had faded.  The mistress was evidently the rôle nature had cast
her to play.  The vision of home, the complete matehood, had gone the
way of all dreams.
XLII
She was not sorry to forego the doubtful luxury of meditation on the
sadness of life.  When Miss Trevor's card was brought to her she told
the servant to show her up and bring tea immediately.  She was not
interested in Agnes Trevor, a younger sister of Polly Vane, but at all
events she would talk about her settlement work and give a comfortably
commonplace atmosphere to the room in which tragic clouds were rising.
As it had happened, Mary, during these past weeks, had seen little of
New York women between the relics of her old set and their lively
Society-loving daughters.  The women between forty and fifty, whether
devoted to fashion, politics, husbands, children, or good works, had so
far escaped her, and Agnes Trevor, who lived with Mrs. Vane, was
practically the only representative of the intermediate age with whom
she had exchanged a dozen words.  But the admirable spinster had taken
up the cause of the Vienna children with enthusiasm and raised a good
deal of money, besides contributing liberally herself.  She was
forty-two, and, although she was said to have been a beautiful girl,
was now merely patrician in appearance, very tall and thin and
spinsterish, with a clean but faded complexion, and hair-colored hair
beginning to turn gray.  She had left Society in her early twenties and
devoted herself to moralizing the East Side.
She came in with a light step and an air of subdued bright energy, very
smartly but plainly dressed in dark blue tweed, with a large black hat
in which a wing had been accurately placed by the best milliner in New
York.  Her clothes were so well-worn, and her grooming was so
meticulous, her accent so clean and crisp, her manner so devoid of
patronage, yet subtly remote, her controlled heart so kind that she
perennially fascinated the buxom, rather sloppy, preternaturally acute,
and wholly unaristocratic young ladies of the East Side.
Mary, who had a dangerous habit of characterizing people in her Day
Book, had written when she met Agnes Trevor: "She radiates
intelligence, good will, cheeriness, innate superiority and
uncompromising virginity."
"Dear Mary!" she exclaimed in her crisp bright tones as she kissed her
amiable hostess.  "How delightful to find you alone.  I was afraid you
would be surrounded as usual."
"Oh, my novelty is wearing off," said Mary drily.  "But I will tell
them to admit no one else today.  I find I enjoy one person at a time.
One gets rather tired in New York of the unfinished sentence."
"Oh, do."  Mary's quick eye took note of a certain repressed excitement
in the fine eyes of her guest, who had taken an upright chair.
Lounging did not accord with that spare ascetic figure.  "And you are
quite right.  It is seldom one has anything like real conversation.
One has to go for that to those of our older women who have given up
Society to cultivate the intellects God gave them."
"Are there any?" murmured Mary.
"Oh, my dear, yes.  But, of course, you've had no time to meet them in
your mad whirl.  Now that things have slowed down a bit you must meet
them."
"I'm afraid it's too late.  I sail in a fortnight."
"Oh!"  Miss Trevor's voice shook oddly, and the slow color crept up her
cheeks.  But at that moment the tea was brought in.
"Will you pour it out?" asked Mary.  "I'm feeling rather lazy."
"Of course."  Miss Trevor was brightly acquiescent.  She seated herself
before the table.  The man retired with instructions that Madame was
not at home to other callers.
Mary watched her closely as she stirred the tea with a little
business-like air, warmed the cups, distributed the lemon and then
poured out the clear brown fluid.
"Formosa Oolong," she said, sniffing daintily.  "The only tea.  I hate
people who drink scented teas, don't you?  I'm going to have a very
strong cup, so I'll wait a minute or two.  I'm--rather tired."
"You?  You look as if you never relaxed in your sleep.  How do you keep
it up?"
"Oh, think of the life the younger women lead.  Mine is a quiet amble
along a country road by comparison. . . .  But . . . monotonous!"
The last word came out with the effect of a tiny explosion.  It
evidently surprised Miss Trevor herself, for she frowned, poured out a
cup of tea that was almost black, and began sipping it with a somewhat
elaborate concentration for one so simple and direct of method.
"I'm afraid good works are apt to grow monotonous.  A sad commentary on
the triumphs of civilization over undiluted nature."  Mary continued to
watch the torch bearer of the East Side.  "Don't you sometimes hate it?"
She asked the question idly, interested for the moment in probing under
another shell hardened in the mould of time, and half-hoping that Agnes
would be natural and human for once, cease to be the bright well-oiled
machine.  She was by no means prepared for what she got.
Miss Trevor gulped down the scalding tea in an almost unladylike
manner, and put the cup down with a shaking hand.
"That's what I've come to see you about," she said in a low intense
voice, and her teeth set for a moment as if she had taken a bit between
them.  "Mary, you've upset my life."
"I?  What next!"
"I suppose you have troubles of your own, dear, and I hate to bother
you with mine----"
"Oh, mine amount to nothing at present.  And if I can help you----"
She felt no enthusiasm at the prospect, but she saw that the woman was
laboring under excitement of some sort, and if she could not give her
sympathy at least she might help her with sound practical advice.
Moreover, she was in for it.  "Better tell me all about it."
"It is terribly hard.  I'm so humiliated--and--and I suppose no more
reticent woman ever lived."
"Oh, reticence!  Why not emulate the younger generation?  I'm not
sure--although I prefer the happy medium myself--that they are not
wiser than their grandmothers and their maiden aunts.  On the principle
that confession is good for the soul, I don't believe that women will
be so obsessed by--well, let us say, sex, in the future."
Miss Trevor flushed darkly.  "It is possible. . . .  That's what I
am--a maiden aunt.  Just that and nothing more."
"Nothing more?  I thought you were accounted one of the most useful
women in serious New York.  A sort of mother to the East Side."
"Mother?  How could I be a mother?  I'm only a maiden aunt even down
there.  Not that I want to be a mother----"
"I was going to ask you why you did not marry even now.  It is not too
late to have children of your own----"
"Oh, yes, it is.  That's all over--or nearly.  But I can't say that I
ever did long for children of my own, although I get on beautifully
with them."
"Well?" asked Mary patiently, "what is it you do want?"
"A husband!"  This time there was no doubt about the explosion.
Mary felt a faint sensation of distaste, and wondered if she were
reverting to type as a result of this recent association with the
generation that still clung to the distastes and the disclaimers of the
nineteenth century.  "Why didn't you marry when you were a girl?  I am
told that you were quite lovely."
"I hated the thought.  I was in love twice; but I had a sort of cold
purity that I was proud of.  The bare idea of--of that nauseated me."
"Pity you hadn't done settlement work first.  That must have knocked
prudishness out of you, I should think."
"It horrified me so that for several years I hardly could go on with
it, and I have always refused to mix the sexes in my house down there,
but, of course, I could not help hearing things--seeing things--and
after a while I did get hardened--and ceased to be revolted.  I learned
to look upon all that sort of thing as a matter of course.  But it was
too late then.  I had lost what little looks I had ever possessed.  I
grew to look like an old maid long before I was thirty.  Why is nature
so cruel, Mary?"
"I fancy a good many American women develop very slowly sexually.  You
were merely one of them.  I wonder you had the climacteric so early.
But nature is very fond of taking her little revenges.  You defied her
and she smote you."
"Oh, yes, she smote me!  But I never fully realized it until you came."
"I hardly follow you."
"Oh, don't you see?  You have shown us that women can begin life over
again, undo their awful mistakes.  And yet I don't dare--don't dare----"
"Why not, pray?  Better come with me to Vienna if you haven't the
courage to face the music here."
"Oh, I haven't the courage.  I couldn't carry things off with such a
high hand as you do.  You were always high and mighty, they say, and
have done as you pleased all your life.  You don't care a pin whether
we approve of what you've done or not.  It's the way you're made.  But
I--couldn't stand it.  The admission of vanity, of--of--after the life
I've led.  The young women would say, in their nasty slang, that I was
probably man-crazy."
"And aren't you?" asked Mary coolly.  "Isn't that just what is the
matter?  The sex-imagination often outlives the withering of the
sex-glands.  Come now, admit it.  Forget that you are a pastel-tinted
remnant of the old order and call a spade a spade."
"There's something terrifying about you, Mary."  Miss Trevor had
flushed a dark purple, but she had very honest eyes, and they did not
falter.  "But I respect you more than any woman I have ever known.  And
although you are not very sympathetic you are the only person on earth
to whom I could even mention such a subject."
"Well, go ahead," said Mary resignedly.  "If you want my advice, take
your courage in your hands and do it.  However people may carp, there
is nothing they so much admire as courage."
"Yes, but they make you suffer tortures just because they do admire
it--or to keep themselves from admitting it."
"True enough.  But after all, they don't matter.  Life would be so much
simpler if we'd all make up our minds that what other people think
about us does not signify in the least.  It's only permitting it to
signify that permits it to exist."
"That's all very well for you, but it's really a question of
temperament.  Do you think I'd dare come back here looking like a girl
again--and I suppose I should.  I'm sixteen years younger than
you. . . .  You must know how many of the women hate you."
"That sort of hate may be very stimulating, my dear Agnes," said Madame
Zattiany drily.
"I can understand that.  But I should return to what it is hardly an
exaggeration to call a life of a thousand intimacies.  The ridicule!
The contempt!  The merciless criticism!  I don't want to live anywhere
else.  I can't face it!  But, oh, I do so want it!  I do so want it!"
"But just think of the compensations.  No doubt you would marry
immediately.  If you were happy, and with a man to protect you, how
much would you care?"
"Oh!"  Once more the thin ascetic face was dyed with an unbecoming
flush.  "Oh!"  And then the barriers fell with a crash and she hurried
on, the words tumbling over one another, as her memory, its inhibitions
shattered, swept back into the dark vortex of her secret past.  "Oh,
Mary!  You don't know!  You don't know!  You, who've had all the men
you ever wanted.  Who, they say, have a young man now.  The nights of
horror I've passed.  I've never slept a wink the nights our girls
married.  I could have killed them.  I could have killed every man I've
met for asking nothing of me.  It seems to me that I've thought of
nothing else for twenty years.  When I've been teaching, counselling
good thoughts, virtue, good conduct, to those girls down there, it's
been in the background of my mind every minute like a terrible
obsession.  I wonder I haven't gone mad.  Some of us old maids do go
mad.  And no one knew until they raved what was the matter with them.
When Hannah de Lacey lost her mind three years ago I heard one of the
doctors telling Peter Vane that her talk was the most libidinous he had
ever listened to.  And she was the most forbidding old maid in New
York.  I know if I lose my mind it will be the same, and that alone is
enough to drive any decent woman mad. . . .  I thought I'd get over it
in time--I used to pray--and fight with my will--but when the time came
when I should have been released I was afraid I would, and then I
deliberately did everything I could to keep it alive.  I couldn't lose
my right----  It was my right.  I couldn't tell you all the things
I've----  Oh, I tell you that unless I can be young again and have some
man--any man--I don't care whether he'll marry me or not--I'll go
mad--mad!"
Her voice had risen to a shriek.  She would be in hysterics in another
moment.  Mary, who was on the point of nausea, went hastily into her
dressing-room and poured out a dose of sal-volatile.  "Here!" she said
peremptorily.  "Drink this.  I'll not listen to another word.  And I
don't wish to be obliged to call an ambulance."
Miss Trevor gulped it down, and then permitted herself to be led to a
sofa, where she lay sprawled, her immaculate hat on one side, giving
her the look of a debauched gerontic virgin.  She lay panting for a few
moments, while Madame Zattiany paced up and down the room.
She turned as she heard a groan.  Miss Trevor was sitting up,
straightening her hat.  "Feel better?" she asked unsympathetically.
"Oh, yes--my nerves feel better!  But what have I said?  What must you
think of me?  I never expected to give way like that when I came.  I
thought I could put it all to you in a few delicate hints, knowing that
you would understand.  What have I said?  I can hardly remember."
"Better not try!  I'll promise to forget it myself."  She sat down
beside the sofa.  "Now, listen to me.  It would not be wise for you to
go to Vienna.  They would suspect, if not at once, then certainly when
you returned.  It can be done here.  The rejuvenescence is so gradual
that it would hardly be noticed.  Fully a year.  You do not have to go
into a hospital, nor even to bed.  You are not spied on, so no one
would suspect that you were taking the treatment.  At your age success
is practically assured.  Take it, and don't be a fool.  If you don't
it's only a question of time when that superb self-control you have
practised for so many years will go again.  And, too possibly, in the
wrong place. . . .  It is quite likely that you will never be
suspected, because women often bloom out in their forties, take on a
new lease of life.  Begin to put on a little make-up----"
Miss Trevor interrupted with a horrified exclamation.
"It would be judicious.  If they criticize you, remember that nothing
they can say will be as bad--from your point of view--as their finding
out the truth.  They will lay it to that, and to the fact that you have
grown a little stouter.  And let me tell you, you won't care in the
least, even if conservatism attacks you in solid battalions, for your
mental attitude to life will be entirely changed.  Remember that you
will be young again, and too gay and happy to mind what people think of
you.  Now, promise me that you will take my advice, and then go home
and to bed."
Miss Trevor got up and went to the mirror.  "Yes, I'll do it."  And
then she said, no doubt for the first time in her life: "And I'll not
give a damn, no matter what happens."
When she had left Mary Zattiany stood for a few moments striking her
hands together, her face distorted.  A wave of nausea overwhelmed her.
She felt as if there had been an earthquake in her own soul and its
muck were riding the surface.  She loathed herself and all women and
all men.  She knew that the violence of the revulsion must be
temporary, but for the moment it was beyond her control.  She went to
the telephone and called up Clavering and told him that she had a
severe headache and was going to bed.  And she cut short both his
protests and his expression of sympathy by hanging up the receiver.
And then she picked up a vase and hurled it to the floor and smashed it.
XLIII
Clavering stood on his high balcony and looked down upon Madison
Square.  Spring had come.  The Square looked like an oasis in a rocky
gorge.  The trees were covered with the tender greens of the new birth,
and even President Arthur and Roscoe Conkling, less green than in
winter, looked reconciled to their lot.  A few people were sunning
themselves on the benches, many more were on top of the busses over on
Fifth Avenue, and even the hurrying throngs, preoccupied with crass
business, seemed to walk with a lighter step, their heads up, instead
of sullenly defying winds and sleet.  The eight streets that surrounded
or debouched into the Square poured forth continuous streams of
figures, constantly augmented by throngs rising out of the earth
itself.  There was a vivid color running like ribbons through the
crowds, for it was nearly nine o'clock and the doors of offices and
shops and business houses were open to women as to men.  Overhead a
yellow sun shone in a pale filmy sky and the air was both warm and
sharp.  The doves were circling and settling.
The prize-fighters had taken their prowess elsewhere, and a circus had
come to Madison Square Garden.  Clavering had heard the roar of lions
in the night.  A far different crowd would stand under the arcade in a
few hours, but the peanut venders would ply their trade, and a little
booth for candies and innocuous juices had been erected in an alcove in
the front wall, presided over by a plump pretty blonde.  She alternated
"jollying" and selling with quiet intervals of beading a bag,
undisturbed either by ogling or the hideous noises of Twenty-sixth
Street.
In spite of his disappointment two nights before he found it impossible
to feel depressed in that gay spring sunshine.  He did not believe in
the headache, but she had written him a charming note and he supposed
that a man must get accustomed to the caprices of women if he intended
to live with one.  And a month from now they would be in the Dolomites,
and she would be his.  Let her have her caprices.  He had his own.
There were times when he didn't want to see her.
Moreover, he was still too jubilant over his play to feel depressed for
long over anything; the warm and constantly manifested enthusiasm of
his friends had kept his spirits from suffering any natural reaction.
Their demand for his companionship was almost peremptory, and his
thoughts turned to them as he stood on his balcony looking down on the
waning throngs: the great stone buildings were humming like hives, and
figures were passing busily to and fro behind the open windows.  It
astonished him a little.  True, it was his first play and he was very
popular.  But he had a vague uneasy idea they were overdoing it.  They
talked of nothing else: his play, his brilliant future, his sure place
in the crack regiment "if he hung on"; and they insisted that he must
also express himself at least once through the medium of the novel.
The great New York novel had yet to be written.  They fairly dinned his
gifts into his ears, until he was almost sick of them, and wondered if
Mary were not also.  She had seen a good deal of the Sophisticates
lately, and from what she had let drop he inferred that even when he
had not been present they had talked of little else.  They had by no
means waited for his play to be finished and read to a select few.
Hogarth and Scores had assured them long before it was finished that it
would be a great play.
Once or twice there was a rustling in the back of his mind.  They were
not given to wild enthusiasms of this sort.  They thought too highly of
themselves.  He realized how genuinely fond they were of him, but he
had not hoped for more than critical appreciation, from the men, at
least.  Could it be possible . . .
But he was still in the first flush of his triumph, his brain hummed
with pleasant memories of those hours at Gora Dwight's, three nights
ago.  He had cleared the base of the pedestal on whose narrow and
unaccommodating top he was soon to have his foothold, and it was not in
human nature, at this stage of his progress, to suspect the sincerity
of the adulation so generously poured at his feet.
And Mary, during this past fortnight (when he had been present, at
least) had seemed to bask contentedly in reflected glory, and smiled
sympathetically while they talked of the many Clavering first-nights
they would attend in the sure anticipation of that class of
entertainment up to which the Little Theatres and the Theatre Guild
were striving to educate the public.  They took it as a matter of
course that he was to abide in the stimulating atmosphere of New York
for the rest of his days.  And they invariably insisted that "Madame
Zattiany" must always sit in a stage box and be a part of the
entertainment.  They were too well-bred (and too astute) to hint at the
engagement they were positive existed, but "hoped" she would be willing
to add to the prestige of one who was now as much her friend as theirs.
It was a curious position in which to place a woman like Mary Zattiany,
but Sophisticate New York was not Diplomatic Europe, and he thought he
saw her smile deepen into humor once or twice; no doubt she was
reflecting that she had lived long enough to take people as she found
them.
His reverie was interrupted by a buzzing at the end of his hall and he
went to the door quickly, wondering who could have sent him a special
delivery letter or a note at this hour.  It proved to be a cablegram.
He read it when he returned to his living-room.  It was dated Rome,
Italy, and read:
"I'll have you yet: Janet."
Clavering swore, then laughed.  He tore the message into strips and sat
down to read his newspapers; he had merely glanced at the headlines and
his column.  His eye was arrested by the picture of a man at the top of
the first page of his own newspaper.  Although smooth-shaven and very
regular of feature, with no pronounced racial characteristics, it was,
nevertheless, a foreign face, although difficult to place.  From its
distinction it might be Austrian, but the name below, "Prince
Hohenhauer," might as easily be German.  Still, it was not a German
face, and Clavering studied it for a moment before reading the news
text, wondering faintly at his interest.
It was unmistakably the face of a statesman, and reminded him a little
of a picture of Prince Schwarzenberg, prime minister when Franz Josef
ascended the throne, he had seen lately in a history of Austria.  There
was the same broad placidity of brow, the long oval face, the thin long
slightly curved nose, the heavy lids, the slim erectness, the same
suave repose.  But this man's large beautifully cut mouth was more
firmly set, had a faintly satiric expression, and the eyes a powerful
and penetrating gaze.  It was the face of a man who was complete master
of himself and accustomed to the mastery of men.
Clavering read the story under the headlines:
  PRINCE HOHENHAUER ARRIVES IN NEW YORK
    GOES AT ONCE TO WASHINGTON
"Prince Hohenhauer, a distinguished political factor under the old
Austrian Empire, arrived yesterday morning on the Noordam.  He
refused to be interviewed, but it is understood he has a large amount
of money invested in the United States and has come to New York at the
request of his lawyers to attend to certain necessary formalities.  He
was, in fact, met at Quarantine by Judge Trent, one of the most
distinguished members of the New York Bar since his retirement from the
Bench, and they went at once to the Prince's stateroom and remained
there until it was time to leave the ship.  It is significant, however,
that the Prince, after engaging a suite at the Ritz-Carlton, and
lunching there with Judge Trent, took the afternoon train for
Washington.  As he recently left his estate in Switzerland to return to
Vienna and accept a position in the Cabinet, and as it is well known
that Austria desires the backing of the American Government to enable
her to overcome the opposition of France to her alliance with Germany,
or, it is whispered, with a kingdom farther south, it is not
unreasonable to infer that he has come to the United States on a
special, if secret, mission.
"The Prince was the subject of lively interest on the boat and of much
speculation, but he took his meals in his suite and walked the deck
only in the company of his secretary.
"He is a man of striking appearance, quite six feet in height, with a
spare erect figure, fine features, and hardly looks his sixty years, in
spite of his white hair."
Then followed a brief biography, which illustrated the efficiency of
the newspaper "morgue," for the statesman's reputation was, so far,
wholly European.
"Prince Moritz Franz Ernst Felix von Hohenhauer was born October 6th,
1862, on his ancestral estate in what was then known as Galicia.  His
mother was a princess of the House of Schwarzenberg.  He has been the
head of his own historic house for the last forty years, and has one
son and two daughters.  His wife, a member of the Kalnóky family, died
several years ago.  "Hohenhauer" was one of those almost unbelievably
vast estates of sixteen million acres possessed by a few of the
Austrian noblemen under the old régime.  In spite of the fact that
Prince Hohenhauer was one of the greatest landlords in all Christendom
he was a liberal in politics from the first and the author of several
of the reform laws in behalf of the people which from time to time were
forced upon the most conservative monarch in Europe.  He was in
sympathy with the revolution and offered his services at once to the
new Government.  They were declined, and he retired to Switzerland,
where he has an estate near St. Moritz, and, it is understood,
considerable money invested.  His vast estates in what is now Poland
were confiscated, but he was one of the wealthiest men in the Empire
and is said to have transferred immense sums to the United States
before the war."
Clavering dropped the newspaper.  Liberal in politics.  Immense sums
invested in the United States.  Judge Trent.  There could be no
possible doubt as to who the man was.  The floor seemed unsteady for a
moment.
And yet there was as little doubt that Mary Zattiany bad long since
ceased to care for him.  That was over fifteen or sixteen years ago.
They had known each other in later years, both equally indifferent to
the other and to the past. . . .  Yes . . . but she had then completely
lost the beauty and the charm that had enthralled him, while he was
still a man in his prime, who, with that appearance, no doubt had other
young and beautiful women in his life.
He may or may not have heard of the metamorphosis.  At all events they
had been political allies.  He would call on her as a matter of course.
And possibly out of more than politeness: he may have brought her an
important message.  Or he might find it expedient to confer with her on
his present mission.  That he had come on an important mission did not
admit of a doubt; but at least he had not gone to her at once.  His
interest in her, so far, was still impersonal.
Clavering had too much of the arrogance of youth and he was too sure of
Mary Zattiany's love for himself, to be apprehensive of the charms of a
man of sixty, but he was invaded by a nameless and almost sickening
fear.  He had very swift and often very sure intuitions, and he was
