but you deserved it, and I am willing to forgive you. It may have been
my fault, but as you are a nigger, and in my power, it don't make much
difference."
This was what Master Archy's looks said, and the sufferer read them as
well as though the words had been written upon his face. After Dandy
came to his senses, his first thought was, that he would be revenged
upon Archy for his mean and cowardly conduct; but the great scheme he
had matured drove this purpose from his mind. Success required that he
should conceal his feelings, or he might lose the confidence of his
master, and thus be deprived of the opportunity for which he intended to
watch and wait.
"How do you feel, Dandy?" asked Archy, in tones of sympathy, as he
placed himself by the bedside of his body-servant.
"Not very well, Master Archy," replied Dandy.
"My father carried it farther than I intended, Dandy. I tried to stop
him before."
"Thank you, Master Archy," answered the patient, meekly.
"Though it was more than I meant you should have, I hope you will
remember it a long time," added Archy.
"I shall, master."
"My eye is not in very good condition," said he, wiping the injured
organ with his handkerchief. "It was a hard blow you gave me."
Dandy wished he would leave him, and he did not care to argue the matter
with him, even if he had been privileged to do so.
"It won't do to let your servant go too far," said Archy.
"I am very sorry it happened," replied Dandy.
"Well, I hope the lesson will last you as long as you live."
"It will, Master Archy."
The young tyrant, when he had fully satisfied himself that his minion
was in a tractable state, took his leave, much to the satisfaction of
the sufferer. The old negro who acted as his physician paid him another
visit in the evening, and assured him that he would be well in a few
days. He left him with the injunction to go to sleep, and forget all
about it.
Dandy could not go to sleep, could not forget all about it. The wound in
his soul was more painful than those upon his back, and hour after hour
passed away, but his eyes were still set wide open. His great resolution
filled the future with sublime visions, which he panted to realize. His
path lay through trial and danger, was environed by death on every side;
but paradise was at the end of it, and he was willing to encounter every
hardship, and brave every danger, to win the glorious prize, or content
to die if his struggles should be in vain.
He was determined to leave Redlawn at the first favorable opportunity;
and while he pictured a glowing future beyond the chilly damps of the
swamp, and out of the reach of the rifle-ball and the bloodhound, there
were still some ties which bound him to the home of his childhood.
Home! No, it was only a mockery of that heaven upon earth! It had been
the scene of his tribulation--that which riveted the bonds upon his
limbs. But it was home so far as it was the abiding place of his
friends,--not those who scourged him, whose caprices had tormented him;
not his young master, not his old master. That delightful poetry which
paints a loving slave clinging fondly to the master that scourges him
had never glowed in his imagination. Whatever of regard he had before
cherished towards his master had been driven from his heart by the
thongs of the slave whip.
He had friends at Redlawn,--the gentle, meek, and patient Lily,--the
wild, rollicking, mirthful Cyd. They were his friends, indeed, and the
thought of leaving them at all was sad; the thought of leaving them in
bondage, to be sold and scourged, was intolerable. While he was thinking
of them he heard a slight rap at the door.
"May I come in?"
It was Lily, and the permission was promptly given. The clock in the
great hall below had struck eleven, and the family had but just retired.
She had been waiting all this time to pay a visit of sympathy to the
sufferer.
"How do you do, Dandy?" asked she, as she sat down in a chair at the
head of the bed.
"I'm better, Lily."
"I'm very glad. I wanted to come and see you very much, but I was afraid
to do so. It was terrible, Dandy! To think that you should be whipped! I
should as soon have thought of being whipped myself."
"It is terrible, Lily."
"What did you do, Dandy? It must have been some awful thing."
The sufferer briefly related the particulars of the event at Green
Point, which had procured him the whipping. Lily expressed her horror at
the meanness of Master Archy, and poured out her sympathy in unmeasured
fulness upon her friend.
"But I shall not be here long, Lily," added Dandy, in a whisper.
"Why, what do you mean?" asked she, amazed at the idea of resistance in
any form.
"Will you keep my secret, Lily?"
"You know that I will, Dandy."
"I mean to run away."
"Run away!" gasped Lily.
"I will not stay here another month if I can help it."
"But where will you go?"
"I know where to go, and how to go; and, live or die, I shall make the
attempt."
"And you will be free?"
"I will, or I will die. I will not be a slave!" said he, in an energetic
whisper.
"How grand it would be! I wish I could be free," sighed Lily. "I don't
know what will become of me one of these days."
"None of us can know."
"If I were a man I should not fear so much. Master was offered two
thousand dollars for me a year ago."
"He will not sell you."
"Whether he does or not, I shall be miserable as long as I live. I often
wish I was dead."
"Poor Lily!" sighed Dandy.
