a fault--or, no! you wouldn't own that he has--but, isn't his foible
a love of luxury--of comfort, if you prefer to call it so--bodily
and mental?"
"He is certainly not indolent. I know no other man who will work
more persistently, although quietly, to gain a coveted end. And if
he loves the ease of the flesh, why so do we all--don't we? His
philosophy teaches that it is folly for one to be miserable, when he
can as readily be happy and comfortable. His has been a prosperous
life, thus far. He has known little of sorrow or trial. Should these
come, they will ripen, not sour him, for the original material is
good. I am the more anxious that you should know and appreciate him
because--"
The gate swung open to admit a visitor--a farmer's lad, in whose
attempts at self-education the young professor took a lively
interest.
"I found this in the field on the other side of the mountain,
to-day," he said, laying a piece of stone in Mr. Fordham's hand. "I
think there's ore in it."
Roy inspected it closely.
"Miss Jessie"--he gave her no more familiar address in the hearing
of common acquaintances--"is your father in his study?"
"I believe so," she replied, eyeing the intruder less amiably than
her lover had done, in the anticipation of the prolonged
interruption.
"Mr. Kirke has an acid that will test this in a few minutes,"
continued Fordham to the boy. "Will you excuse me for a little
while?" turning to Jessie with a smile loving for herself, and
entreating her forbearance for his protégé.
Her ill-humor vanished instantly under the benignant ray.
"Certainly!" she replied, nodding cordially to the bashful lad. "He
is the noblest man GOD ever made!" she said aloud, when she was
alone.
She leaned back in her easy chair, her hands folded in blissful
contentment, enjoying the breeze from the mountains, the sunset
clouds, the incense from the flower-garden, and the hum of the
mill-wheel, mentally recapitulating her hero's perfections, until
her heart ached with happy sighs, and she saw the landscape through
an iridescent haze.
"I am a baby!" was her indignant ejaculation, as she cleared her
eyes with an impatient brush of her hand. "I grow more ridiculous
every day!"
As a means of growing wiser, she fell to watching her sister and
Orrin Wyllys, who were busy tying up wandering rose-bushes in
Eunice's pet labyrinth. Mr. Wyllys had his back to Jessie, when she
first observed them. He was fastening back a branch which Miss Kirke
held in its place, and their hands were very close together. It may
have been this circumstance, it may have been the heat of the day,
or the reflection of a bunch of pink moss-roses overhead--it could
hardly have been anything which her companion was saying which
brought the delicate roseate flush to the face usually pale and
calm. His attitude was far too dignified and respectful to hint the
possibility of gallant badinage on his part. Bonâ-fide love-making
was, of course, out of the question, since they had not known each
other ten days.
"Euna is handsome!" mused her sister in complacent affection.
"What a high-bred face and bearing she has! She looks the lady
in her morning-gowns of print and dimity; but that lawn with the
forget-me-not sprig becomes her rarely. I am glad I insisted
upon her putting it on. But she wouldn't let me fasten the
lilies-of-the-valley in her hair! Her only fault is a tendency to
primness. She and Mr. Wyllys get on admirably together. He
evidently admires her, and it is a treat to her to have the society
of a cultivated gentleman. I know," smiling and blushing anew, "it
is a salvo to my conscience to see them satisfied with each other's
company, needing Roy and myself as little as we need them. I
should else blame myself for our seeming selfishness."
Rambling on discursively, she struck upon an idea, too fraught with
delightsome mischief not to urge her to immediate action. Eunice had
turned her head away, and Orrin was concealed by a tall shrub. The
grassy alley leading from the porch to where they were standing
would not give back the sound of footsteps. How frightened and
amazed the careful elder sister would be, if she were to steal down
the walk and present herself before her! How solemnly Orrin would
look on while she submitted to be lectured for her imprudence, and
how she, in the end would triumph over her custodians, Roy included
(who, by the way, was staying away an unconscionable time), when she
should demonstrate that she knew better than they what she could do
and bear; that she was none the worse for the escapade that had
wrought their consternation. She only regretted that she must lose
the sight of Roy's horrified visage when he should return to
discover her flight.
Her eyes gleaming with mirth, she arose cautiously, favoring the
unused joint, and stepped off the low piazza. Even when she felt
the cool, delicious turf under foot, she steadied herself by
grasping the nearest objects that offered a support. First it was a
clump of box, then the stout prickly branches of a Japan apple-tree,
then a fan-shaped trellis, which would by and by be covered with
Cyprus vines. She would do nothing rashly--would come to her own by
degrees. But when another step would bring her within arms' length
of the florists, she trod firmly upon both feet, and feeling neither
pain nor weakness, laughed aloud in wicked glee, and took that step.
She saw Eunice start and grow white; saw Orrin's grave yet courtly
surprise as he advanced to offer his arm. Ere he could reach her,
the treacherous ankle gave way with a wrench that drove breath and
sense in one quick shuddering breath from her body.
As they left her, she heard, like a strain of far-off music, a voice
say in her ear, "My poor child!" had a dizzy thought that strong
arms--stronger than Eunice's--received her.
Then, all was a blank until she awoke upon her lounge, hair and face
dripping with wet; the scent of sal volatile tingling in her
