There was a drawback to this picture of serene contentment. Miss Brown
was an old maid, and Florence hoped devoutly that would never be her
fate. And then Miss Skinner, who went out by the day, was single also.
Was it the natural result of the employment?
CHAPTER IV.
  THE IDENTICAL SHOE.
They did pretty well through the fall. Joe came across odd jobs,
gathered stores of hickory-nuts and chestnuts; and now and then of an
evening they had what he called a rousing good boil; and certainly
chestnuts never tasted better. They sat round the fire, and told
riddles or stories, and laughed as only healthy, happy children can.
What if they were poor, and had to live in a little tumble-down shanty!
Sometimes Joe would surprise them with a somerset in the middle of the
floor, or a good stand on his head in one corner.
"Joe," Granny would say solemnly, "I once knowed a man who fell that
way on his head off a load of hay, and broke his back."
"Granny dear, 'knowed' is bad grammar. When you go to see Florence in
her palace, you must say knew, to rhyme with blew. But your old man's
back must have grown cranky with rheumatism, while mine is limber as an
eel."
"He wasn't old, Joe. And in my day they never learned grammar."
"Oh, tell us about the good old times!" and Hal's head was laid in
Granny's lap.
The children were never tired of hearing these tales. Days when
Granny was young were like enchantment. She remembered some real
witch stories, that she was sure were true; and weddings, quiltings,
husking-bees, and apple-parings were full of interest. How they went
out sleigh-riding, and had a dance; and how once Granny and her lover,
sitting on the back seat, were jolted out, seat and all, while the
horses went skimming along at a pace equal to Tam O'Shanter's. And how
they had to go to a neighboring cottage, and stay ever so long before
they were missed.
"There'll never be such times again," Joe would declare solemnly.
Florence would breath a little sigh, and wonder if she could ever
attain to beaux and merriment, and if any one would ever quarrel about
dancing with her. How happy Granny must have been!
Dot had a dreadful cold, and Granny an attack of rheumatism; but they
both recovered before Christmas. Every one counted so much on this
holiday. All were making mysterious preparations. Joe and Hal and
Florence had their heads together; and then it was Granny and Florence,
or Granny and Hal.
"I don't dare to stir out," said Joe lugubriously, "lest you may say
something that I shall not hear."
Hal killed three fine young geese. Two were disposed of for a dollar
apiece, and the third he brought to the kitchen in triumph.
"There's our Christmas dinner, and a beauty too!" he announced.
Hal had sold turkeys and chickens enough to buy himself a good warm
winter coat.
Granny had a little extra luck. In fact, it was rather a prosperous
winter with them; and there was nothing like starvation, in spite of
Mrs. Van Wyck's prediction.
They all coaxed Granny to make doughnuts. Joe dropped them in the
kettle, and Hal took them out with the skimmer. How good they did smell!
Kit and Charlie tumbled about on the floor, and were under everybody's
feet; while Dot sat in her high chair, looking wondrous wise.
"How'll we get the stockings filled?" propounded Joe, when the
supper-table had been cleared away.
They all glanced at each other in consternation.
"But where'll you hang 'em?" asked Kit after a moment or two of
profound study.
"Some on the andirons, some on the door-knob, some on the kettle-spout,
and the rest up chimney."
"I say, can't we have two?" was Charlie's anxious question.
"Lucky if you get one full. What a host of youngsters! O Granny! did
you know that last summer I discovered that you were the old woman who
lived in a shoe?"
"O Joe! don't;" and Hal raised his soft eyes reproachfully.
Granny laughed, not understanding Hal's anxiety.
"Because I had so many children?"
"Exactly; but I think you are better tempered than your namesake."
Granny's eyes twinkled at this compliment.
"It was an awful hot day, and Dot was cross enough to kill a cat with
nine lives."
"But she's a little darling now," said Hal, kissing her. "I think the
sand-man has been around;" and he smiled into the little face with its
soft drooping eyes.
"Yes, she ought to be in bed, and Kit and Charlie. Come, children."
"I want to see what's going to be put in my stocking," whined Charlie
in a very sleepy tone.
"No, you can't. March off, you small snipes, or you will find a whip
there to-morrow morning."
That was Joe's peremptory order.
They had a doughnut apiece, and then went reluctantly. Charlie was very
sure that she was wider awake than ever before in her life, and could
not get asleep if she tried all night. Kit didn't believe that morning
would ever come. Hal put on Dot's nightgown, and heard her say, "Now I
lay me down to sleep;" while Joe picked up the cat, and irreverently
whispered,--
    "Now I lay me down to sleep,
    All curled up in a little heap.
    If I should wake before 'tis day,
    What do you s'pose the doctor'd say?"
"O Joe!" remonstrated Granny.
"That's Tabby's prayers. Tabby is a high principled, moral, and
intellectual cat. Now go to sleep, and dream of a mouse."
Tabby winked her eyes solemnly, as if she understood every word; and
it's my firm belief that she did.
Then Granny, Florence, Joe, and Hal sat in profound thought until the
old high clock in the corner struck nine.
"Well," said Joe, "what are we waiting for?"
