As the monk sung, his soul seemed to fuse itself into the sentiment
with that natural grace peculiar to his nation. He walked up and down
the little garden, apparently forgetful of Agnes or of any earthly
presence, and in the last verses stretched his hands towards heaven
with streaming tears and a fervor of utterance indescribable.
The soft and passionate tenderness of the Italian words must exhale
in an English translation, but enough may remain to show that the
hymns with which Savonarola at this time sowed the mind of Italy often
mingled the Moravian quaintness and energy with the Wesleyan purity and
tenderness. One of the great means of popular reform which he proposed
was the supplanting of the obscene and licentious songs, which at
that time so generally defiled the minds of the young, by religious
words and melodies. The children and young people brought up under his
influence were sedulously stored with treasures of sacred melody, as
the safest companions of leisure hours, and the surest guard against
temptation.
"Come now, my little one," said the monk, after they had ceased
singing, as he laid his hand on Agnes's head. "I am strong now; I know
where I stand. And you, my little one, you are one of my master's
'Children of the Cross.' You must sing the hymns of our dear master,
that I taught you, when I am far away. A hymn is a singing angel,
and goes walking through the earth, scattering the devils before
it. Therefore he who creates hymns imitates the most excellent and
lovely works of our Lord God, who made the angels. These hymns watch
our chamber-door, they sit upon our pillow, they sing to us when we
awake; and therefore our master was resolved to sow the minds of his
young people with them, as our lovely Italy is sown with the seeds
of all colored flowers. How lovely has it often been to me, as I sat
at my work in Florence, to hear the little children go by, chanting
of Jesus and Mary,--and young men singing to young maidens, not vain
flatteries of their beauty, but the praises of the One only Beautiful,
whose smile sows heaven with stars like flowers! Ah, in my day I have
seen blessed times in Florence! Truly was she worthy to be called the
Lily City!--for all her care seemed to be to make white her garments
to receive her Lord and Bridegroom. Yes, though she had sinned like
the Magdalen, yet she loved much, like her. She washed His feet with
her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head. Oh, my beautiful
Florence, be true to thy vows, be true to thy Lord and Governor, Jesus
Christ, and all shall be well!"
"Amen, dear uncle!" said Agnes. "I will not fail to pray day and night,
that thus it may be. And now, if you must travel so far, you must go
to rest. Grandmamma has gone long ago. I saw her steal by as we were
singing."
"And is there any message from my little Agnes to this young man?"
asked the monk.
"Yes. Say to him that Agnes prays daily that he may be a worthy son and
soldier of the Lord Jesus."
"Amen, sweet heart! Jesus and His sweet Mother bless thee!"
CHAPTER XVIII
THE PENANCE
The course of our story requires us to return to the Capuchin convent,
and to the struggles and trials of its Superior; for in his hands is
the irresistible authority which must direct the future life of Agnes.
From no guilty compliances, no heedless running into temptation, had
he come to love her. The temptation had met him in the direct path of
duty; the poison had been breathed in with the perfume of sweetest and
most life-giving flowers: nor could he shun that temptation, nor cease
to inhale that fatal sweetness, without confessing himself vanquished
in a point where, in his view, to yield was to be lost. The subtle
and deceitful visit of Father Johannes to his cell had the effect of
thoroughly rousing him to a complete sense of his position, and making
him feel the immediate, absolute necessity of bringing all the energy
of his will, all the resources of his nature, to bear on its present
difficulties. For he felt, by a fine intuition, that already he was
watched and suspected; any faltering step now, any wavering, any change
in his mode of treating his female penitents, would be maliciously
noted. The military education of his early days had still left in his
mind a strong residuum of personal courage and honor, which made him
regard it as dastardly to flee when he ought to conquer, and therefore
he set his face as a flint for victory.
But reviewing his interior world, and taking a survey of the work
before him, he felt that sense of a divided personality which often
becomes so vivid in the history of individuals of strong will and
passion. It seemed to him that there were two men within him: the
one turbulent, passionate, demented; the other vainly endeavoring by
authority, reason, and conscience to bring the rebel to subjection. The
discipline of conventual life, the extraordinary austerities to which
he had condemned himself, the monotonous solitude of his existence,
all tended to exalt the vivacity of the nervous system, which, in the
Italian constitution, is at all times disproportionately developed;
and when those weird harp-strings of the nerves are once thoroughly
unstrung, the fury and tempest of the discord sometimes utterly
bewilders the most practiced self-government.
But he felt that something must be done with himself, and done
immediately; for in a few days he must again meet Agnes at the
confessional. He must meet her, not with weak tremblings and passionate
fears, but calm as Fate, inexorable as the Judgment-Day. He must hear
her confession, not as man, but as God; he must pronounce his judgments
with a divine dispassionateness. He must dive into the recesses of her
secret heart, and, following with subtile analysis all the fine courses
of those fibres which were feeling their blind way towards an earthly
love, must tear them remorselessly away. Well could he warn her of
the insidiousness of earthly affections; better than any one else he
could show her how a name that was blended with her prayers and borne
before the sacred shrine in her most retired and solemn hours might at
last come to fill all her heart with a presence too dangerously dear.
He must direct her gaze up those mystical heights where an unearthly
marriage awaited her, its sealed and spiritual bride; he must hurry her
footsteps onward to the irrevocable issue.
All this was before him. But ere it could be done, he must subdue
