British officers, had formed a regular plot to take Cap’n Tucker’s
vessel, and run it into Halifax; and ye see, Cap’n Tucker he was so
sort o’ spry, and knew all the Maine coast so well, and was so ‘cute at
dodgin’ in and out all them little bays and creeks and places all ‘long
shore, that he made the British considerable trouble, ‘cause wherever
they didn’t want him, that’s where he was sure to be.
“So they’d hatched up this ‘ere plan. There was one or two British
sailors had been and shipped aboard ‘The Brilliant’ a week or two
aforehand, and ‘twas suspected they was to have helped in the plot if
thngs had gone as they laid out; but I tell you, when the fellows see
which way the cat jumped, they took pretty good care to say that they
hadn’t nothin’ to do with it. Oh, no, by no manner o’ means! Wal, o’
course, ye know, it couldn’t be proved on ‘em, and so we let it go.
“But I tell you, Cap’n Tucker he felt pretty cheap about his widder. The
worst on’t was, they do say Ma’am Tucker got hold of it; and you might
know if a woman got hold of a thing like that she’d use it as handy as a
cat would her claws. The women they can’t no more help hittin’ a fellow
a clip and a rap when they’ve fairly got him, than a cat when she’s
ketched a mouse; and so I shouldn’t wonder if the Commodore heard
something about his widder every time he went home from his v’y-ages the
longest day he had to live. I don’t know nothin’ ‘bout it, ye know: I
only kind o’ jedge by what looks, as human natur’ goes.
“But, Lordy massy! boys, ‘t wa’n’t nothin’ to be ‘shamed of in the
cap’n. Folks ‘ll have to answer for wus things at the last day than
tryin’ to do a kindness to a poor widder, now, I tell you. It’s better
to be took in doin’ a good thing, than never try to do good; and it’s my
settled opinion,” said Sam, taking up his mug of cider and caressing it
tenderly, “it’s my humble opinion, that the best sort o’ folks is the
easiest took in, ‘specially by the women. I reely don’t think I should a
done a bit better myself.”
CAPTAIN KIDD’S MONEY.
One of our most favorite legendary resorts was the old barn. Sam Lawson
preferred it on many accounts. It was quiet and retired, that is to say,
at such distance from his own house, that he could not hear if Hepsy
called ever so loudly, and farther off than it would be convenient for
that industrious and painstaking woman to follow him. Then there was
the soft fragrant cushion of hay, on which his length of limb could be
easily bestowed. Our barn had an upper loft with a swinging outer door
that commanded a view of the old mill, the waterfall, and the distant
windings of the river, with its grassy green banks, its graceful elm
draperies, and its white flocks of water-lilies; and then on this
Saturday afternoon we had Sam all to ourselves. It was a drowsy, dreamy
October day, when the hens were lazily “craw, crawing,” in a soft,
conversational undertone with each other, as they scratched and picked
the hay-seed under the barn windows. Below in the barn black Cæsar sat
quietly hatchelling flax, sometimes gurgling and giggling to himself
with an overflow of that interior jollity with which he seemed to
be always full. The African in New England was a curious contrast to
everybody around him in the joy and satisfaction that he seemed to feel
in the mere fact of being alive. Every white person was glad or sorry
for some appreciable cause in the past, present, or future, which was
capable of being definitely stated; but black Cæsar was in an eternal
giggle and frizzle and simmer of enjoyment for which he could give no
earthly reason: he was an “embodied joy,” like Shelley’s skylark.
“Jest hear him,” said Sam Lawson, looking pensively over the hay-mow,
and strewing hayseed down on his wool. “How that ‘are critter seems to
tickle and laugh all the while ‘bout nothin’. Lordy massy! he don’t seem
never to consider that ‘this life’s a dream, an empty show.’”
“Look here, Sam,” we broke in, anxious to cut short a threatened stream
of morality, “you promised to tell us about Capt. Kidd, and how you dug
for his money.”
“Did I, now? Wal, boys, that ‘are history o’ Kidd’s is a warnin’ to
fellers. Why, Kidd had pious parents and Bible and sanctuary privileges
when he was a boy, and yet come to be hanged. It’s all in this ‘ere
song I’m a goin’ to sing ye. Lordy massy! I wish I had my bass-viol
now.--Cæsar,” he said, calling down from his perch, “can’t you strike
the pitch o’ ‘Cap’n Kidd,’ on your fiddle?”
Cæsar’s fiddle was never far from him. It was, in fact, tucked away in
a nice little nook just over the manger; and he often caught an interval
from his work to scrape a dancing-tune on it, keeping time with his
heels, to our great delight.
A most wailing minor-keyed tune was doled forth, which seemed quite
refreshing to Sam’s pathetic vein, as he sang in his most lugubrious
tones,--
     “‘My name was Robert Kidd
         As I sailed, as I sailed,
     My name was Robert Kidd;
     God’s laws I did forbid,
     And so wickedly I did,
         As I sailed, as I sailed.’
“Now ye see, boys, he’s a goin’ to tell how he abused his religious
privileges; just hear now:--
     “‘My father taught me well,
         As I sailed, as I sailed;
     My father taught me well
     To shun the gates of hell,
     But yet I did rebel,
         As I sailed, as I sailed.
     “‘He put a Bible in my hand,
         As I sailed, as I sailed;
     He put a Bible in my hand,
     And I sunk it in the sand
     Before I left the strand,
         As I sailed, as I sailed.’
“Did ye ever hear o’ such a hardened, contrary critter, boys? It’s awful
to think on. Wal, ye see that ‘are’s the way fellers allers begin the
ways o’ sin, by turnin’ their backs on the Bible and the advice o’ pious
parents. Now hear what he come to:--
     “‘Then I murdered William More,
         As I sailed, as I sailed;
