of the bed and give me a pull, and out I come; and when he turned back
from the window there she stood, a-beaming and a-smiling like a house
afire, and I standing pretty meek and sweaty alongside. The old
gentleman stared, and says:
"Why, who's that?"
"Who do you reckon 'tis?"
"I hain't no idea. Who  is  it?"
"It's  Tom Sawyer! "
By jings, I most slumped through the floor! But there warn't no time
to swap knives; the old man grabbed me by the hand and shook, and kept
on shaking; and all the time how the woman did dance around and laugh
and cry; and then how they both did fire off questions about Sid, and
Mary, and the rest of the tribe.
But if they was joyful, it warn't nothing to what I was; for it was
like being born again, I was so glad to find out who I was. Well, they
froze to me for two hours; and at last, when my chin was so tired it
couldn't hardly go any more, I had told them more about my family--I
mean the Sawyer family--than ever happened to any six Sawyer families.
And I explained all about how we blowed out a cylinder-head at the
mouth of White River, and it took us three days to fix it. Which was
all right, and worked first-rate; because  they  didn't know but what
it would take three days to fix it. If I'd 'a' called it a bolthead it
would 'a' done just as well.
Now I was feeling pretty comfortable all down one side, and pretty
uncomfortable all up the other. Being Tom Sawyer was easy and
comfortable, and it stayed easy and comfortable till by and by I hear
a steamboat coughing along down the river. Then I says to myself,
s'pose Tom Sawyer comes down on that boat?  And s'pose he steps in
here any minute, and sings out my name before I can throw him a wink
to keep quiet?
Well, I couldn't  have  it that way; it wouldn't do at all. I must go
up the road and waylay him. So I told the folks I reckoned I would go
up to the town and fetch down my baggage. The old gentleman was for
going along with me, but I said no, I could drive the horse myself,
and I druther he wouldn't take no trouble about me.
CHAPTER XXXIII
So I started for town in the wagon, and when I was half-way I see a
wagon coming, and sure enough it was Tom Sawyer, and I stopped and
waited till he come along. I says "Hold on!" and it stopped alongside,
and his mouth opened up like a trunk, and stayed so; and he swallowed
two or three times like a person that's got a dry throat, and then
says:
"I hain't ever done you no harm. You know that. So, then, what you
want to come back and ha'nt  me  for?"
I says:
"I hain't come back--I hain't been  gone ."
When he heard my voice it righted him up some, but he warn't quite
satisfied yet. He says:
"Don't you play nothing on me, because I wouldn't on you. Honest
injun, you ain't a ghost?"
"Honest injun, I ain't," I says.
"Well--I--I--well, that ought to settle it, of course; but I can't
somehow seem to understand it no way. Looky here, warn't you ever
murdered  at all? "
"No. I warn't ever murdered at all--I played it on them. You come in
here and feel of me if you don't believe me."
So he done it; and it satisfied him; and he was that glad to see me
again he didn't know what to do. And he wanted to know all about it
right off, because it was a grand adventure, and mysterious, and so it
hit him where he lived. But I said, leave it alone till by and by; and
told his driver to wait, and we drove off a little piece, and I told
him the kind of a fix I was in, and what did he reckon we better do?
He said, let him alone a minute, and don't disturb him. So he thought
and thought, and pretty soon he says:
"It's all right; I've got it. Take my trunk in your wagon, and let on
it's your'n; and you turn back and fool along slow, so as to get to
the house about the time you ought to; and I'll go towards town a
piece, and take a fresh start, and get there a quarter or a half an
hour after you; and you needn't let on to know me at first."
I says:
"All right; but wait a minute. There's one more thing--a thing that
 nobody  don't know but me. And that is, there's a nigger here that
I'm a-trying to steal out of slavery, and his name is  Jim --old Miss
Watson's Jim."
He says:
"What! Why, Jim is--"
He stopped and went to studying. I says:
" I  know what you'll say. You'll say it's dirty, low-down business;
but what if it is?  I 'm low down; and I'm a-going to steal him, and I
want you keep mum and not let on. Will you?"
His eye lit up, and he says:
"I'll  help  you steal him!"
Well, I let go all holts then, like I was shot. It was the most
astonishing speech I ever heard--and I'm bound to say Tom Sawyer fell
considerable in my estimation. Only I couldn't believe it. Tom Sawyer
a  nigger-stealer! 
"Oh, shucks!" I says; "you're joking."
"I ain't joking, either."
"Well, then," I says, "joking or no joking, if you hear anything said
about a runaway nigger, don't forget to remember that  you  don't know
nothing about him, and I don't know nothing about him."
Then he took the trunk and put it in my wagon, and he drove off his
way and I drove mine. But of course I forgot all about driving slow on
accounts of being glad and full of thinking; so I got home a heap too
quick for that length of a trip. The old gentleman was at the door,
and he says:
"Why, this is wonderful! Whoever would 'a' thought it was in that mare
to do it? I wish we'd 'a' timed her. And she hain't sweated a
hair--not a hair. It's wonderful. Why, I wouldn't take a hundred
dollars for that horse now--I wouldn't, honest; and yet I'd 'a' sold
