will not get aground at all, says the old proverb. Briskly over two or
three miles to the next point, and the breeze is gone again. While she
is still forging ahead out go the sweeps, six or eight of them, and the
men throw themselves forward over the long slender loom, as they stand.
Half an hour to row, or more perhaps. Down helm, as you meet the next
puff, and the good felucca heels over a little. And so through the
night, the breeze freshening before the rising sun to die away in the
first hot morning hours, just as you are abreast of Camerota. L'Infresco
Point is ahead, not three miles away. It is of no use to row, for the
breeze will come up before long and save you the trouble. But the sea is
white and motionless. Far in the offing a Sicilian schooner and a couple
of clumsy "martinganes"--there is no proper English name for the
craft--are lying becalmed, with hanging sails. The men on board the
felucca watch them and the sea. There is a shadow on the white, hazy
horizon, then a streak, then a broad dark blue band. The schooner braces
her top-sail yard and gets her main sheet aft. The martinganes flatten
in their jibs along their high steeving bowsprits and jib-booms. Shift
your sheets, too, now, for the wind is coming. Past L'Infresco with its
lovely harbour of refuge, lonely as a bay in a desert island, its silent
shade and its ancient spring. The wind is south by west at first, but it
will go round in an hour or two, and before noon you will make
Scalea--stand out for the reef, the only one in Calabria--with a stern
breeze. You have passed the most beautiful spot on the beautiful Italian
coast, without seeing it. There, between the island of Dino and the cape
lies San Nicola, with its grand deserted tower, its mighty cliffs, its
deep, safe bay and its velvet sand. What matter? The wind is fair and
you are for Calabria with twenty tons of macaroni from Amalfi. There is
no time to be lost, either, for you will probably come home in ballast.
Past Scalea, then, where tradition says that Judas Iscariot was born and
bred and did his first murder. Right ahead is the sharp point of the
Diamante, beyond that low shore where the cane brake grows to within
fifty yards of the sea. Now you have run past the little cape, and are
abreast of the beach. Down mainsail--down jib--down foresail. Let go the
anchor while she forges, eight to nine lengths from the land, and let
her swing round, stern to the sand. Clear away the dingy and launch her
from amidships, and send a line ashore. Overboard with everything now,
for beaching, capstan, chocks and all--the swell will wash them in. As
the keel grates on the pebbles, the men jump into the water from the
high stern and catch the drifting wood. Some plant the capstan, others
pass the long hemp cable and reeve it through the fiddle block. A hand
forward to slack out the cable as the heavy boat slowly creeps up out of
the water. The men from other craft, already beached, lend a hand too
and a score of stout fellows breast the long oars which serve for
capstan bars. A little higher still. Now prop her securely and make all
snug and ship-shape, and make fast the blade of an oar to one of the
forward tholes, with the loom on the ground, for a ladder. You are safe
in Calabria.
To-morrow at early dawn you must go into the hills, for you cannot sell
a tenth of your cargo in the little village. Away you trudge on foot,
across the rocky point, along the low flat beach by the cane brake, up
the bed of the rivulet, where the wet green blades of the canes brush
your face at every step. Shoes and stockings in hand you ford the
shallow river, then, shod again, you begin the long ascent. You will
need four good hours, or five, for you are not a landsman, your shoes
hurt you, and you would rather reef top-sails--aye, and take the lee
earing, too, in any gale and a score of times, than breast that
mountain. It cannot be helped. It is a hard life, though there are lazy
days in the summer months, when the wind will do your work for you. You
must live, and earn your share; though they call you the master, neither
boat nor cargo are yours, and you have to earn that share by harder work
and with greater anxiety than the rest. But the world is green to-day.
You remember a certain night last March--off Cape Orso in the gulf, when
the wind they call the Punti di Salerno was raging down and you had a
jib bent for a mainsail, and your foresail close reefed and were
shipping more green water than you like to think of. Pitch dark, too,
and the little lighthouse on the cape not doing its best, as it seemed.
The long line of the Salerno lights on the weather bow. No getting
there, either, and no getting anywhere else apparently. Then you tried
your luck. Amalfi might not be blowing. It was no joke to go about just
then, but you managed it somehow, because you had half a dozen brave
fellows with you. As she came up she was near missing stays and you sang
out to let go the main halyards. The yard came down close by your head
and nearly killed you, but she paid-off all right and went over on the
starboard tack. Just under the cape the water was smooth. Just beyond it
the devil was loose with all his angels, for Amalfi was blowing its own
little hurricane on its own account from another quarter. Nothing for it
but to go about and try Salerno again. What could you do in an open
felucca with the green water running over? You did your best. Five hours
out of that pitch black night you beat up, first trying one harbour and
then the other. Amalfi gave in first, just as the waning moon rose, and
you got under the breakwater at last.
You remember that last of your many narrow escapes to-day as you trudge
up the stony mule-track through the green valleys, and it strikes you
that after all it is easier to walk from Diamante all the way to
Verbicaro, than to face a March storm in the gulf of Salerno in an open
boat on a dark night. Up you go, past that strange ruin of the great
Norman-Saracen castle standing alone on the steep little hill which
rises out of the middle of the valley, commanding the roads on the right
and the left. You have heard of the Saracens but not of the Normans.
What kind of people lived there amongst those bristling ivy-grown
towers? Thieves of course. Were they not Saracens and therefore Turks,
according to your ethnology, and therefore brigands? It is odd that the
government should have allowed them to build a castle just there.
Perhaps they were stronger than the government. You have never heard of
Count Roger, either, though you know the story of Judas Iscariot by
heart as you have heard it told many a time in Scalea. Up you go,
leaving the castle behind you, up to that square house they call the
tower on the brow of the hill. It is a lonely road, a mere sheep track
over the heights. You are over it at last, and that is Verbicaro, over
there on the other side of the great valley, perched against the
