the Chinese. It was the rule of his life to expect nothing, desire as
little as possible, and learn all he could, and as little was to be
expected and nothing was to be learned from the majority of the dull
ruffians who go to the making of the census, it is not to be wondered
that he trod the thoroughfares of thought alone and dismissed the
majority of men with a shrug.
"They are," he said, "just what they seem to be, and that is the worst
that can be said of them." Epigrams of this description were naturally
not apt to increase his popularity. But for that he cared very little.
He considered that no man can judge another save by the measure of his
own understanding. Of course, if this understanding is of a low degree,
the greatest intellectual gifts which another may possess convey to him
no meaning; they are as colors to the blind; and consequently, in a
great nature there will be noticed only those defects and weaknesses
which are inseparable from every character.
But to such a man as Schopenhauer,--one who considered five sixths of
the population to be knaves or blockheads, and who had thought out a
system for the remaining fraction,--to such a man as he, the question
of esteem, or the lack thereof, was of small consequence. He cared
nothing for the existence which he led in the minds of other people. To
his own self he was true, to the calling of his destiny constant, and
he felt that he could sit and snap his fingers at the world, knowing
that Time, who is at least a gentleman, would bring him his due
unasked.
Schopenhauer's character was made up of that combination of seeming
contradictions which is the peculiarity of all great men. He had the
audacity of childhood and the timidity of genius. He was suspicious of
every one, and ineffably kind-hearted. With stupidity in any form he
was blunt, even to violence, and yet his manner and courtesy were such
as is attributed to the gentlemen of the old school. If he was an
egotist, he was also charitable to excess; and who shall say that
charity is not the egotism of great natures? He was honesty itself, and
yet thought every one wished to cheat him. To mislead a possible thief
he labeled his valuables Arcana Medica, put his banknotes in
dictionaries, and his gold pieces in ink bottles. He slept on the
ground floor, that he might escape easily in case of fire. If he heard
a noise at night he snatched at a pistol, which he kept loaded at his
bedside. Indeed, he might have chosen for his motto, "Je ne crains rien
fors le dangier," and yet who is ever so foolish as a wise man? Kant's
biography is full of similar vagaries, and one has but to turn to the
history of any of the thinkers whose names are landmarks in literature,
to find that eccentricities no less striking have also been recorded of
them.
Voltaire said, "On aime la vie, mais le néant ne laisse pas d'avoir du
bon;" and Schopenhauer, not to be outdone, added more massively, that
if one could tap on the tombs and ask the dead if they cared to return,
they would shake their heads. His views of life, however, and of the
world in general, will be considered later on, and for the moment it is
but necessary to note that he regarded happiness as consisting solely
in the absence of pain, and laid down as one of the supreme rules for
the proper conduct of life that discontent should be banished as far as
possible into the outer darkness.
When, therefore, to this Emerson in black there came those moments of
restlessness and dissatisfaction which visit even the most philosophic,
he would argue with himself in a way which was almost pathetic, and
certainly naïve; it was not he that was moody and out of sorts, it was
some privat-docent lecturing to empty halls, some one who was abused
by the Philistines, some defendant in a suit for damages, some one
whose fortune was engulfed perhaps beyond recovery, some lover
pleading to inattentive ears, some one attacked by one of the thousand
ills that flesh is heir to; yet this was not he; these things truly he
might have endured and suffered as one bears for a moment an ill-made
shoe, but now the foot no longer ached; indeed, he was none of all
this, he was the author of the "Welt als Wille und Vorstellung," and
what had the days to do with him!
But through all the intervening years the book had lain unnoticed on
the back shelves of the Leipsic publisher; and Schopenhauer, who had at
first been puzzled, but never disheartened, at the silence which had
settled about it, became convinced that through the influence of the
three sophists at Berlin, all mention of its merit had been suppressed
from the start.
"I am," he said, "the Iron Mask, the Caspar Hauser of philosophy," and
thereupon he pictured the Hegelians as looking admiringly at his
system, very much as the man in the fairy tale looked at the genie in
the bottle which, had he allowed it to come out, would carry him off.
Truth, however, which is long-lived, can always afford to wait; and
Schopenhauer, with something of the complacency of genius that is in
advance of its era, held his fingers on the public pulse and noted the
quickening which precedes a return to consciousness. Germany was waking
from her torpor. Already the influence of Hegel had begun to wane; his
school was split into factions, and his philosophy, which in solving
every problem had left the world nothing to do but to bore itself to
death, was slowly falling into disrepute. Moreover, the great class of
unattached scholars and independent thinkers, who cared as little for
University dogmas as they did for the threats of the Vatican, were
earnestly watching for some new teacher.
Schopenhauer was watching too; he knew that a change was coming, and
that he would come in with the change. He had but to wait. "My extreme
unction," he said, "will be my baptism; my death, a canonization."
Meanwhile old age had come upon him unawares, but with it the rich
fruition of lifelong study and reflection. The perfect tranquility in
which he passed his days had been utilized in strengthening and
expanding his work, and in 1843, in his fifty-sixth year, the second
and complementary volume of his philosophy was completed.
Twelve months later he wrote to Brockhaus, his publisher:--
"I may tell you in confidence that I am so well pleased with this
second volume, now that I see it in print, that I really think it will
be a great success.... If, now, in return for this great work, you are
willing to do me a very little favor, and one that is easily performed,
I will beg you each Easter to let me know how many copies have been
