her over the Broadway crossing. Then, too, she remembered that she had
given no notice of her absence from luncheon, and that her mother might
perhaps be anxious about her. There was nothing for it but to take
courage and go home. She only hoped that Charlotte might not be there.
But Charlotte had come, in the hope of enjoying herself as she had done
on the previous day. Katharine ascertained the fact from the girl who
let her in, and went straight to her room, sending word to her mother
that she had lunched with the Crowdies and would come down presently.
Even as she went up the stairs she felt a sharp pain at the thought that
her mother and sister were probably at that very moment discussing
John’s mishaps, and comparing notes about the stories they had
heard--and perhaps reading more paragraphs from the papers. The shame of
the horrible publicity of it all overcame her, and she locked her door,
and tried the handle to be sure that it was fast--with a woman’s
distrust of all mechanical contrivances when she wishes to be quite sure
of a situation. It was instinctive, and she had no second thought which
she tried to hide from herself.
As she took off her hat and coat she grew very pale, and the deep
shadows came under her eyes--so dark that she wondered at them vaguely
as she glanced at herself in the mirror. She felt faint and sick. She
drank a little water, and then, with a sudden impulse, threw herself
upon her bed, and lay staring at the ceiling, as she had lain at dawn.
The same glare still came in from the street and penetrated every
corner, but not so vividly as before, for the snow was falling fast, and
the mist of the whirling flakes softened the light.
It was a forlorn little room. Robert the Rich would have been very much
surprised if he could have seen it. He was a generous man, and was very
fond of his grand-niece, and if he had known exactly how she lived under
her father’s roof it would have been like him to have interfered. All
that he ever saw of the house was very different. There was great
simplicity downstairs, and his practised eye detected the signs of a
rigid economy--far too rigid, he thought, when he calculated what
Alexander Junior must be worth; a ridiculously exaggerated economy, he
considered, when he thought of his own wealth, and that his only
surviving brother lived in the house in Clinton Place. But there was
nothing squalid or mean about it all. The meanness was relative. It was
like an aspersion upon the solidity of Robert’s fortune, and upon his
intention of providing suitably for all his relations.
Upstairs, however, and notably in Katharine’s room, things had a
different aspect. Nothing had been done there since long before
Charlotte had been married. The wall-paper was old-fashioned, faded, and
badly damaged by generations of tacks and pins. The carpet was
threadbare and patched, and there were holes where even a patch had not
been attempted. The furniture was in the style of fifty years ago or
more, veneered with dark mahogany, but the veneering was coming off in
places, leaving bare little surfaces of dusty pine wood smeared with
yellowish, hardened glue. Few objects can look more desperately shabby
than veneered furniture which is coming to pieces. There was nothing in
the room which Katharine could distinctly remember to have seen in good
condition, except the old carpet, which had been put down when she and
Charlotte had been little girls. To Charlotte herself, when she had come
in on Wednesday afternoon, there had been something delightful in the
renewal of acquaintance with all her old dinginess of intimate
surroundings. Charlotte’s own life was almost oppressed with luxury, so
that it destroyed her independence. But to Katharine, worn out and
heartsore with the troubles of her darkening life, it was all
inexpressibly depressing. She stared at the ceiling as she lay there, in
order not to look at the room itself. She was very tired, too, and she
would have given anything to go to sleep.
It was not merely sleep for which she longed. It was a going out. Again
the thought crossed her mind, as it had that morning, that if the whole
world were a single taper, she would extinguish the flame with one short
breath, and everything would be over. And now, too, in her exhaustion,
came the idea that something less complete, but quite as effectual, was
in her power. It had passed through her brain half an hour previously,
when she had bidden Hester Crowdie good-bye--with a sort of intuitive
certainty that she was never to see her friend again. She had left
Hester with a vague and sudden presentiment of darkness. She had
assuredly not any intention of seeking death in any definite form, but
it had seemed to be close to her as she had said those few words of
farewell. It came nearer still as she lay alone in her own room. It came
nearer, and hovered over her, and spoke to her.
It would be the instant solution of all difficulties, the end of all
troubles. The deep calm against which no storm would have power any
more. On the one hand, there was life in two aspects. Either to live an
existence of misery and daily torture with the victim of a most
degrading vice, a man openly disgraced, and at whom every one she
respected would forever look askance. Or else to live out that other
life of secret bondage, neither girl nor wife, so long as John Ralston
was alive, suffering each time he was dragged lower, as she was
suffering to-day, bound, tied in every way, beyond possibility of
escaping. Why should she suffer less to-morrow than now? It would be the
same, since all the conditions must remain unchanged. It would be the
same always. Those were the two aspects of living on in the future which
presented themselves. The torn carpet and the broken veneering of the
furniture made them seem even more terrible. There may be a point at
which the trivial has the power to push the tragic to the last
extremity.
And on the other side stood death, the liberator, with his white smile
and far-away eyes. The snow-glare was in his face, and he did not seem
to feel it, but looked quietly into it, as though he saw something very
peaceful beyond. It was a mere passing fancy that evoked the picture in
the weary, restless mind, but it was pleasant to gaze at it, so long as
it lasted. It was gone in a moment again, leaving, however, a new
impression--that of light, rather than of darkness. She wished it would
come back.
Possibly she had been almost or quite dozing, seeing that she was so
much exhausted. But she was wide awake again now. She turned upon her
side with a long-drawn sigh, and stared at the hideous furniture, the
ragged carpet, and the dilapidated wall-paper. It was not that they
