Fleda was so far from a wish to triumph that she was absolutely ashamed
of having anything to say for herself; but there was one thing, all the
same, that not to say was impossible. "That he has done it, that he
couldn't not do it, shows how right I was." It settled forever her
attitude, and she spoke as if for her own mind; then after a little she
added very gently, for Mrs. Gereth's: "That's to say, it shows that he
was bound to her by an obligation that, however much he may have wanted
to, he couldn't in any sort of honor break."
Blanched and bleak, Mrs. Gereth looked at her. "What sort of an
obligation do you call that? No such obligation exists for an hour
between any man and any woman who have hatred on one side. He had ended
by hating her, and now he hates her more than ever."
"Did he tell you so?" Fleda asked.
"No. He told me nothing but the great gawk of a fact. I saw him but for
three minutes." She was silent again, and Fleda, as before some lurid
image of this interview, sat without speaking. "Do you wish to appear as
if you don't care?" Mrs. Gereth presently demanded.
"I'm trying not to think of myself."
"Then if you're thinking of Owen, how can you bear to think?"
Sadly and submissively Fleda shook her head; the slow tears had come
into her eyes. "I can't. I don't understand--I don't understand!" she
broke out.
"I do, then." Mrs. Gereth looked hard at the floor. "There was no
obligation at the time you saw him last--when you sent him, hating her
as he did, back to her."
"If he went," Fleda asked, "doesn't that exactly prove that he
recognized one?"
"He recognized rot! You know what I think of him." Fleda knew; she had
no wish to challenge a fresh statement. Mrs. Gereth made one--it was her
sole, faint flicker of passion--to the extent of declaring that he was
too abjectly weak to deserve the name of a man. For all Fleda cared!--it
was his weakness she loved in him. "He took strange ways of pleasing
you!" her friend went on. "There was no obligation till suddenly, the
other day, the situation changed."
Fleda wondered. "The other day?"
"It came to Mona's knowledge--I can't tell you how, but it came--that
the things I was sending back had begun to arrive at Poynton. I had sent
them for you, but it was her I touched." Mrs. Gereth paused; Fleda was
too absorbed in her explanation to do anything but take blankly the
full, cold breath of this. "They were there, and that determined her."
"Determined her to what?"
"To act, to take means."
"To take means?" Fleda repeated.
"I can't tell you what they were, but they were powerful. She knew how,"
said Mrs. Gereth.
Fleda received with the same stoicism the quiet immensity of this
allusion to the person who had not known how. But it made her think a
little, and the thought found utterance, with unconscious irony, in the
simple interrogation: "Mona?"
"Why not? She's a brute."
"But if he knew that so well, what chance was there in it for her?"
"How can I tell you? How can I talk of such horrors? I can only give
you, of the situation, what I see. He knew it, yes. But as she couldn't
make him forget it, she tried to make him like it. She tried and she
succeeded: that's what she did. She's after all so much less of a fool
than he. And what else had he originally liked?" Mrs. Gereth shrugged
her shoulders. "She did what you wouldn't!" Fleda's face had grown dark
with her wonder, but her friend's empty hands offered no balm to the
pain in it. "It was that if it was anything. Nothing else meets the
misery of it. Then there was quick work. Before he could turn round he
was married."
Fleda, as if she had been holding her breath, gave the sigh of a
listening child. "At that place you spoke of in town?"
"At the Registrar's, like a pair of low atheists."
The girl hesitated. "What do people say of that? I mean the 'world.'"
"Nothing, because nobody knows. They're to be married on the 17th, at
Waterbath church. If anything else comes out, everybody is a little
prepared. It will pass for some stroke of diplomacy, some move in the
game, some outwitting of me. It's known there has been a row with me."
Fleda was mystified. "People surely knew at Poynton," she objected, "if,
as you say, she's there."
"She was there, day before yesterday, only for a few hours. She met him
in London and went down to see the things."
Fleda remembered that she had seen them only once. "Did you see them?"
she then ventured to ask.
"Everything."
"Are they right?"
"Quite right. There's nothing like them," said Mrs. Gereth. At this her
companion took up one of her hands again and kissed it as she had done
in London. "Mona went back that night; she was not there yesterday. Owen
stayed on," she added.
Fleda stared. "Then she's not to live there?"
"Rather! But not till after the public marriage." Mrs. Gereth seemed to
muse; then she brought out: "She'll live there alone."
"Alone?"
"She'll have it to herself."
"He won't live with her?"
"Never! But she's none the less his wife, and you're not," said Mrs.
Gereth, getting up. "Our only chance is the chance she may die."
Fleda appeared to consider: she appreciated her visitor's magnanimous
use of the plural. "Mona won't die," she replied.
"Well, I shall, thank God! Till then"--and with this, for the first
time, Mrs. Gereth put out her hand--"don't desert me."
Fleda took her hand, and her clasp of it was a reiteration of a promise
already given. She said nothing, but her silence was an acceptance as
responsible as the vow of a nun. The next moment something occurred to
her. "I mustn't put myself in your son's way."
Mrs. Gereth gave a dry, flat laugh. "You're prodigious! But how shall
you possibly be more out of it? Owen and I--" She didn't finish her
sentence.
