her face as if it had been a face painted on canvas 
just to express it, that he was acting as directly 
upon his mistress as if no word of it concerned 
their companions. That was his boon, to what 
ever result he did it, for he measured at this mo 
ment that he couldn't again have borne her having 
lost touch of him. It was indeed now as if he had 
read the words from her lips before she spoke 
them. 
"I do like so waiting for what you say to such 
clever people and then," she added with the 
greatest gravity, "not being in the least dis 
appointed." 
"My dear, my dear, how can a man as much 
in love as I am be disappointing ? I mean," 
Ralph laughed, "to the loved object herself?" 
"I don't know, I'm sure, sir," Molly returned 
  
with a sort of solemnity, almost a sort of anxiety, 
that made her handsomer than any look she had 
yet worn. "If there were a way you'd be wise 
enough to find it; because, so far from my be 
lieving possible that you can fall short anywhere, 
as you have had to listen to so much about my 
doing, I see that the cleverness even of the most 
famous people will always find you ready, and 
don't care with whom it may ever be that I pass 
for a fool if I have wit enough for you as between 
ourselves. I like you as you are, sir. I like you 
as you are," Molly Midmore repeated. 
"Now do you see sir, how fortune insists and 
insists on smiling on me?" Ralph asked of Sir 
Cantopher after he had done the most radiant 
justice to this declaration. 
"I shall believe in you whatever you do 
whatever, whatever!" the girl went on, her head 
very high, before their friend, whose curious 
hard connoisseurship had never strayed from 
Ralph's face, could reply to this appeal. And 
then it was that for the first time she rested her 
eyes on Sir Cantopher, whose own, however, 
they failed to divert. "You find out things about 
people, sir though I really think them for the 
most part things for which one needn't mind 
your outcry. If I were to commit a crime, no 
matter what villainy, you wouldn't be the wiser, 
but you'd feel it at once in every bone, even if 
you were fifty miles away, should I knock over 
  
the dark blue jar that you gave my mother once 
upon a time and that's the pride of the break 
fast-parlour at Drydown." 
"And pray, Miss, wouldn't you call that a 
villainy ? " Sir Cantopher said without taking 
other notice. "When I next go to Drydown," 
he continued to Ralph, "I shall count on finding 
it smashed !" 
"Oh sir, not if I interpose to save it!" Ralph 
again laughed, though keeping his eyes on the 
girl with a satisfaction that candidly grew. It 
was a queer necessity perhaps, this of his hold 
ing fast with one hand to a relation that he play 
fully ruffled with the other, even if not at all 
queerer, no doubt, than Sir Cantopher's own ap 
pearance of not being able to afford for an in 
stant to remit his observation of our friend. It 
was at a triumph of the interesting that Ralph 
at this time thus assisted, and not a bit the less 
that the interest was imputed to himself. Was 
it in danger of disappearing if the sharpest of 
the pairs of eyes were for an instant removed 
from him ? Ralph asked himself this with an 
odd recognition, it must be confessed, that what 
kept him up to expectation, if indeed it mightn't 
be what perhaps pretended to find him below it, 
really did, as an applied force, keep him up. "The 
worst you shall ever find out about Molly (though 
it's no more indeed than what she herself says) 
is that the blue pot at Drydown will stand as 
  
steady as I keep my balance here, for all your 
so watching me as if I were on the tight-rope; 
and, so far as she or I at least are concerned, will 
rule the scene there from the, from the wherever 
the place is: wait a minute, wait!" He checked 
himself suddenly to plead for that indication, 
and yet too that they should let it come to him 
of itself; taking them all in now as if it glimmered 
and snapping with a fine impatience his thumb 
and his middle finger. "Don't tell me, don't 
tell me; I really all but see the thing and the 
very place: yes, a pot of about the size of well, 
of that one there: only of a darker and richer 
blue. Bleu du Roy, don't you call it ? and with 
something or other on the cabinet or wherever, 
the place where it 'lives as we say, rather branch 
ing out on either side of it." 
Ralph had been again caught up, as he had 
learnt to figure it: there had been nothing like 
it but his production, out of the breast-pocket 
