"when absent ; but the consciousness that every act 
of disobedience, if known, will meet with some cor- 
rection, cannot fail to have a restraining effect, and 
will cause civil laws to be obeyed until the mind 
is so far elevated as to observe them from a regard 
to their sacredness as means of securing the good 
of the whole." 



 

" This view of the subject," remarked Mrs. Hart- 
ley, " causes me to feel, more than I have yet felt, 
the necessity of obedience in children. I did not 
see its important bearing upon social order before, 
nor how it was the only means of leading our chil- 
dren to what is so much desired, obedience to di- 
vine laws, when they become responsible beings." 

The three great things to attain, as seeming of 
most importance to Mrs. Hartley, in the education 
of' her child, were to impress fervently and truly 
upon her mind a just idea of God ; to give her an 
unselfish regard for her neighbor, and to insure 
perfect obedience. To do all this was a great 
work, and hard, almost impossible she often felt, 
to accomplish. But she strove unweariedly after 
the attainment of her end, — too unweariedly, I had 
almost said — for she interfered with the freedom 
of her child — checked too often its innocent out- 
bursts of exuberant feeling — saw too much, and let 
be seen too fully by her child the bonds with 
which she sought to hold her. The effect was, 
consequently, bad, for the rebound of her young 
spirits, when away from her mother, were too 
strong. Instead of being happiest with her mother, 
she was happiest when she could escape from her 
presence. 

Mrs. Hartley saw all this, and it grieved her 
deeply. But the cause she did not clearly perceive. 
Before, however, the evils of an over-rigid system 
had progressed too far, the birth of a second child 
divided her care and affection, and gave to Marien a 
real something that she could love undersiandingly. 



CHAPTER III. 

MEANS AND ENDS. 



As month after month passed on, and Clarence, 
th latest born of Mrs. Hartley, began to exhibit some 
signs of his real disposition, the parents perceived 
that it was very diflerent from Marien's. The first 
born was quiet, and easily controlled ; but the boy 
was full of life, and showed very early a resolute 
will, and passionate temper. Before he had com- 
pleted a year, he had caused his mother many an 
anxious hour, and drawn from her eyes many a 
tear. From his sister he was disposed to take 
every thing, and if his exacting spirit were not im- 
mediately gratified in its desires, he would scream 
violently, and sometimes throw himself passionate- 
ly upon the floor. In the first year of her bro- 
ther's life, Marien had changed a good deal. — 



 

Young- as she was, her mother endeavored to in- 
terest her in his favor — to lend him her play 
things when awake, and to rock his cradle when 
he was asleep, and do many little things for him 
within her ability to accomplish. To the exacting, 
imperious temper of the child, Marien was much 
inclined to yield. To have permitted her to do so, 
would have been the easiest course for Mrs. Hart- 
ley to pursue. But this she saw would be to in- 
jure both the children. Were Marien to give up 
every thing to Clarence, it would be impossible for 
the mother to impress upon his mind the idea that 
others had rights as well as himself — rights that he 
must not violate. ]t took some weeks after Mrs. 
Hartley began to teach her child this important 
lesson before she seemed to make any impression. 
After that, the simple declaration — " Tiiis belongs 
to Marien," caused Clarence to yield at once. 
The achievement of so much gave the mother great 
encouragement. It v/as fruit to her labour, and 
the in-gathering even of so small a harvest was 
delightful. 

As the boy added month after month and year 
after year to his age, his strengthening peculiarities 
