" Honestly, Miss Sophia, I was much more interested in an
old woman that sat at the foot of the pulpit stairs." 
That old thing !" said Miss Sophia. 
" I saw her," said Mrs. Chauncey ; — " poor old creature ! 
she seemed most deeply attentive when I looked at her." 
" I saw her !" cried Ellen Chauncey, — " and the tears 
were running down her cheeks several times." 
" I didn't see her," said Ellen Montgomery, as John's eye 
met hers. He smiled. 
But do you mean to say," continued Miss Sophia, " that 
you are absolutely careless as to who hears you ?" 
" I have always one hearer, Miss Sophia, of so much dignity, that it sinks the rest into great insignificance." 
" That is a rebuke," said Miss Sophia ; — " but nevertheless 
I shall tell you that I liked you very much this afternoon." 
He was silent. 
" I suppose you will tell me next," said the young lady 
laughing, " that you are sorry to hear me say so." 
" I am," said he gravely. 
" Why ?— may I ask?" 
" You show me that I have quite failed in my aim, so far 
at least as one of my hearers was concerned." 
How do you know that ?" 
" Do you remember what Louis the Fourteenth said to 
Massillon ? — Mon pere, j'ai entendu plusieurs grands orateurs 
dans ma chapelle ; j'en ai etc fort content : pour vous, toutes 
les fois que je vous ai entendu, j'ai ete tres mecontent de 
;noi-meme !" 
Ellen smiled. Miss Sophia was silent for an instant. 
" Then you really mean to be understood, that provided 
you fail of your aim, as you say, you do not care a straw 
what people think of you?" 
" As I would take a bankrupt's promissory note in lieu of 
told gold. It gives me small gratification Miss Sophia, — 
very small indeed, — to see the bowing heads of the grain that 
yet my sickle cannot reach." 
" I agree with you most heartily," said Mr. George Marsh- 
man. The conversation dropped ; and the two gentlemen 
began another in an under tone, pacing up and down the 
floor together. 
The next morning, not sorrowfully, Ellen entered the sleigh 
again and they set oft' homewards. 
" What a sober little piece that is," said Mr. Howard. 
" ! — sober !" cried Ellen Chauncey ; — " that is because 
you don't know her, uncle Howard. She is the cheerfullest, 
happiest girl that I ever saw, — always." 
" Except Ellen Chauncey, — always," said her uncle. 
" She is a singular child," said Mrs. Gillepsie. She is 
grave certainly, but she don't look moped at all, and I 
should think she would be, to death." 
" There's not a bit of moping about her," said Miss So- 
phia. " She can laugh and smile as well as anybody ; though 
she has sometimes that pecuhar grave look of the eyes that 
would make a stranger doubt it. I think John Humphreys 
has infected her ; he has something of the same look himself." 
" I am not sure whether it is the eyes or the mouth Sophia," said Mr. Howard. 
" It is both !" said Miss Sophia. " Did you ever see the 
eyes look one way, and the mouth another ?" 
" And besides," said Ellen Chauncey, " she has reason 
to look sober, I am sure." 
" She is a fascinating child," said Mrs. Gillepsie. " I cannot comprehend where she gets the manner she has. I 
never saw a more perfectly polite child ; and there she has 
been for months with nobody to speak to but two gentlemen 
and the servants. It is natural to her, I suppose ; she can 
have nobody to teach her." 
" I am not so sure as to that," said Miss Sophia ; but I 
have noticed the same thing often. Did you observe her 
last night, Matilda, when John Humphreys came in ? you were 
talking to her at the moment ; — I saw her, before the door was 
opened, — I saw the color come and her eye sparkle, but she 
 
did not look towards him for an instant, till you had finished 
what you were saying to her and she had given, as she al- 
ways does, her modest quiet answer ; and then her eye 
went straight as an arrow to where he was standing." 
" And yet," said Mrs. Chauncey, " she never moved 
towards him when you did, but stayed quietly on that side of 
the room with the young ones till he came round to them> 
and it was some time too." 
"She is an odd child," said Miss Sophia, laughing, — 
"what do you think she said to me yesterday? I was talk- 
ing to her and getting rather communicative on the subject 
of my neighbors' affairs ; and she asked me gravely, — the little 
monkey ! — if I was sure they would like her to hear it ? I 
felt quite rebuked ; though I didn't choose to let her know 
as much." 
" I wish Mr. John would bring her every week," said Ellen 
Chauncey sighing ; "it would be too pleasant to have 
her." 
Towards the end of the winter Mr. Humphreys began to 
propose that his son should visit England and Scotland during the following summer. He wished him to see his family 
and to know his native country, as well as some of the most distinguished men and institutions in both kingdoms. Mr. 
George Marshman also urged upon him some business in 
which he thought he could be eminently useful. But Mr. 
John declined both propositions, still thinking he had more 
important duties at home. This only cloud that rose above 
Ellen's horizon, scattered away. 
One evening, it was a Monday, in the twilight, John was 
as usual pacing up and down the floor. Ellen was reading 
in the window. 
" Too late for you, Ellie." 
