
That however was not to be. Nancy was offered a ride 
home to Mrs. Van Brunt's and a lodging there. They were 
ready cloaked and shawled, and Ellen was still hunting for 
Miss Janet's things in the moonlit hall, when she heard 
Nancy close by, in a lower tone than common, say, 

" Ellen — will you kiss me ?" 

Ellen dropped her armful of things and taking Nancy's 
hands gave her truly the kiss of peace. 

When she went up to undress for the second time she 
found on her bed — her letter ! And with tears Ellen kneeled 
down and gave earnest thanks for this blessing, and that she 
had been able to gain Nancy's good-will. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 


 

It was Tuesday the 22nd of December, and late in the day. 
Not a pleasant afternoon. The gray snow-clouds hung low ; 
the air was keen and raw. It was already growing dark, 
and Alice was sitting alone in the firelight, when two little 
feet came running round the corner of the house ; the glass 
door opened and Ellen rushed in. 

"I have come ! I have come!" she exclaimed. " dear 
Alice! I'm so glad!" 

So was Alice if her kiss meant anything. 

" But how late, my child ! how late you are." 

"I thought I never was going to get done," said Ellen, 
pulling off her things in a great hurry and throwing them on 
the sofa, — " but I am here at last. I'm so glad !" 

" Why what has been the matter ?" said Alice, folding up 
what Ellen laid down. 

"Oa great deal of matter — I couldn't think what Nancy 
meant last night — I know very well now. I sha'n't want 
to see any more apples all winter. What do you think I 
have been about all to-day, dear Miss Alice. ?" 

" Nothing that has done you much harm," said Alice smiling, — " if I am to guess from your looks. You are as rosy 
as a good Spitzenberg yourself." 

" That's very funny," said Ellen laughing, " for aunt 
Fortune said awhile ago that my cheeks were just the color 
of two mealy potatoes." 

" But about the apples ?" said Alice. 

" Why this morning I was thinking I would come here 
so early, when the first thing I knew aunt Fortune brought 
out all those heaps and heaps of apples into the kitchen, and 
made me sit down or the floor, and then she gave me a great 


big needle and set me to stringing them all together, and as fast 
as I strung them she hung them up all round the ceiling. I 
tried very hard to get through before, but I could not, and I 
am so tired ! I thought I never should get to the bottom of 
that big basket." 

** Never mind love — come to the fire — we'll try and forget 
all disagreeable things while we are together." 

" I have forgotten it almost already," said Ellen, as she 
sat down in Alice's lap and laid her face against hers ; — " I 
don't care for it at all now." 

But her cheeks were fast fading into the uncomfortable 
color Miss Fortune had spoken of; and weariness and weakness kept her for a while quiet in Alice's arms, overcoming 
even the pleasure of talking. They sat so till the clock 
struck half-past five ; then Alice proposed they should go 
into the kitchen and see Margery, and order the tea made, 
which she had no doubt Ellen wanted. Margery welcomed 
her with great cordiality. She liked anybody that Alice 
liked, but she had besides declared to her husband that Ellen 
was " an uncommon, well-behaved child." She said she 
would put the tea to draw, and they should have it in a very 
few minutes. 

" But Miss Alice, there's an Irish body out by, waiting to 
speak to you. I was just coming in to tell you ; will you 
please to see her now ?" 

" Certainly — let her come in. Is she in the cold Margery ?" 

" No Miss Alice — there's a fire there this evening. I'll 
call her." 

The woman came up from the lower kitchen at the sum- 
