"Very well."
And the two official members departed.
No sooner were they gone, than Mr. Grant put or his hat and left his
shop. He went direct to the store of Mr. Harrison.
"You are just the man I was thinking about," said the latter, as the
jeweller entered. "What is all this trouble about you and Mr. C--? I
hear some rumour of it at every turn."
"That is just what I have come to see you about."
"Very well; what can I do in the matter? Mr. C--, you allege, has held
you up in the congregation to public odium?"
"I do."
"In what way?"
"Strange that you should ask the question."
"Why so? What have I to do with it?"
"A great deal," said Grant, his brows falling as he spoke.
"I must plead innocence until shown my guilt. So far, I have not even
been able to learn in what the allusion to yourself consisted."
"You have not?"
"No."
Grant stood, tightly compressing his lips, for some moments. He then
said:
"You remember that affair of the gold ring?"
"Very well."
"You mentioned this to C--."
"No. Nor to a living soul since the occurrence of the fact."
"What?"
"Nothing on that subject has ever passed my lips. I believed that you
saw and repented of your error, and in honour and in conscience
refrained from even the remotest allusion to the subject."
"How, then, did Mr. C-- become cognisant of the fact?"
"If cognisant all, it was from another source than the one you
supposed."
"I never mentioned it. You were the only one to whom the circumstance
was communicated. How, then, could the matter have gotten abroad?"
"I don't believe a single member of the congregation ever heard of it."
"Oh, yes, they have. These has been a marked change in the manner of
very many towards me. So apparent was this at one time, that I absented
myself from church, rather than encounter it."
"All your imagination, brother Grant, and nothing else. I believe that
I mingle as freely with the congregation as any one, and I know that I
never heard a breath against you. At present, every one is at a loss to
know in what way Mr. C-- pointed you out; he is equally in the dark."
"I was sure he meant me. It was so plain," said Mr. Grant, his
countenance falling, and his manner becoming subdued.
"There was nothing of the kind, you may depend upon it," replied Mr.
Harrison.
"And you never spoke of it?"
"Never!"
"A guilty conscience, it is said, needs no accuser. The likeness to me
was so strong, that I really thought the picture was sketched from
myself as the original. Ah, me!"
"Had you not better call on Mr. C--?" asked Harrison.
"No, no. See him for me, if you please, and tell him that I am
convinced of my error in supposing he pointed me out in the
congregation. As to the particular allusion that I felt to be
offensive, I hope you will still keep your own counsel. I did wrong,
under temptation, and have suffered and repented in consequence. It can
do no good to bring the matter to light now."
"None at all. I will not speak of it."
Nor did he. Many and various were the suggestions and suppositions of
the congregation touching the nature of the preacher's personal
allusion to the jeweller, and some dozen of little gossiping stories
got into circulation; but the truth did not find its way to the light.
And not until the day on which he was leaving the station for a new
field of labour, did the preacher himself understand the matter; and
then he had it from Mr. Grant's own lips.
FOR THE FUN OF IT.
"JUST look at them young lovers," said Harry Mears, glancing from his
companion to a young man and maiden, who, for the moment unconscious
that they were in the midst of a large company, were leaning towards
each other, and looking into each other's faces in rather a remarkable
manner. "Isn't it ridiculous? I thought Fisher had more sense than to
do so. As to Clara Grant, she always was a little weak."
The friend looked at the couple an smiled. "It is ridiculous,
certainly," he remarked. "Why havn't they sense enough to keep these
little love-passages for private occasions?"
"Clara, with all her silliness used to be a right pleasant companion,"
said Mears. "But since this love affair between her and Fisher, she has
become intolerably dull and uninteresting. She doesn't care a fig for
anybody but him, and really appears to think it a task to be even
polite to an old acquaintance. I don't think she has cause to be quite
so elated with her conquest as this comes to; nor to feel that, in
possessing the love of a man like Fisher, she is independent of the
world, and may show off the indifference she feels to every one. Fisher
is clever enough, but he is neither a Socrates nor a saint."
"He will suit her very well, I imagine."
"Yes; they will make a passable Darby and Joan, no doubt. Still, it
always vexes me to see people, who pretend to any sense, acting in this
way."
"I think it is more her fault than his."
"So do I. She has shown a disposition to bill and coo from the first.
At Mangum's party, last week, she made me sick. I tried to get her hand
for a dance, but no. Close to the side of Fisher she adhered, like a
fixture, and could hardly force her lips into a smile for any one else.
The gipsy! I'd punish her for all this, if I could just hit upon a good
plan for doing it."
"Let me see," remarked the friend, dropping his head into a thoughtful
position, "can't we devise a scheme for worrying her a little? She is
certainly a fair subject. It would be fine sport."
"Yes, it would."
