Edith, the oldest daughter, possessed a fine mind, which had been well
educated. She had some false views of life, natural to her position;
but, apart from this, was a girl of sound sense and great force of
character. Thus far in life she had not encountered circumstances of a
nature calculated to develop what was in her. The time for that,
however, was approaching. Miriam, her sister, was a quiet, gentle,
retiring, almost timid girl. She went into company with reluctance, and
then always shrunk as far from observation as it was possible to get;
but, like most quiet, retiring persons, there were deep places in her
mind and heart. She thought and felt more than was supposed. All who
knew Miriam loved her. Of the younger children we need not here speak.

Mrs. Darlington knew comparatively nothing of the world beyond her own
social circle. She was, perhaps, as little calculated for doing what
she proposed to do as a woman could well be. She had no habits of
economy, and had never in her life been called upon to make
calculations of expense in household matters. There was a tendency to
generosity rather than selfishness in her character, and she rarely
thought evil of any one. But all that she was need not here be set
forth, for it will appear as our narrative progresses.

Mr. Hiram Ellis, the brother of Mrs. Darlington to whom brief allusion
has been made, was not a great favourite in the family--although Mr.
Darlington understood his good qualities, and very highly respected
him--because he had not much that was prepossessing in his external
appearance, and was thought to be a little eccentric. Moreover, he was
not rich--merely holding the place of book-keeper in an insurance
office, at a moderate salary. But as he had never married, and had only
himself to support, his income supplied amply all his wants, and left
him a small annual surplus.

After the death of Mr. Darlington, he visited his sister much more
frequently than before. Of the exact condition of her affairs, he was
much better acquainted than she supposed. The anxiety which she felt,
some months after her husband's death, when the result of the
settlement of his estate became known, led her to be rather more
communicative. After determining to open a boarding-house, she said to
him, on the occasion of his visiting her one evening--

"As it is necessary for me to do something, Hiram, I have concluded to
move to a better location, and take a few boarders."

"Don't do any such thing, Margaret," her brother made answer. "Taking
boarders! It's the last thing of which a woman should think."

"Why do you say that, Hiram?" asked Mrs. Darlington, evincing no little
surprise at this unexpected reply.

"Because I think that a woman who has a living to make can hardly try a
more doubtful experiment. Not one in ten ever succeeds in doing any
thing."

"But why, Hiram? Why? I'm sure a great many ladies get a living in that
way."

"What you will never do, Margaret, mark my words for it. It takes a
woman of shrewdness, caution, and knowledge of the world, and one
thoroughly versed in household economy, to get along in this pursuit.
Even if you possessed all these prerequisites to success, you have just
the family that ought not to come in contact with anybody and everybody
that find their way into boarding-houses."

"I must do something, Hiram," said Mrs. Darlington, evincing impatience
at the opposition of her brother.

"I perfectly agree with you in that, Margaret," replied Mr. Ellis. "The
only doubt is as to your choice of occupation. You think that your best
plan will be to take boarders; while I think you could not fall upon a
worse expedient."

"Why do you think so?"

"Have I not just said?"

"What?"

"Why, that, in the first place, it takes a woman of great shrewdness,
caution, and knowledge of the world, and one thoroughly versed in
household economy, to succeed in the business."

"I'm not a fool, Hiram!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, losing her
self-command.

"Perhaps you may alter your opinion on that head some time within the
next twelve months," coolly returned Mr. Ellis, rising and beginning to
button up his coat.

"Such language to me, at this time, is cruel!" said Mrs. Darlington,
putting her handkerchief to her eyes.

"No," calmly replied her brother, "not cruel, but kind. I wish to save
you from trouble."

"What else can I do?" asked the widow, removing the handkerchief from
her face.

"Many things, I was going to say," returned Mr. Ellis. "But, in truth,
the choice of employment is not very great. Still, something with a
fairer promise than taking boarders may be found."

