
But Mr. Rossitur's frowning brow looked very little like it.

"What do you say to our country life, Sir?"

"It's a confounded life, Sir," said Mr. Rossitur, taking a
pamphlet from the table to fold and twist as he spoke; "it is
a confounded life; for the head and the hands must either live
separate, or the head must do no other work but wait upon the
hands. It is an alternative of loss and waste, Sir."

"The alternative seems to be of  a  limited application,"
said the doctor, as Fleda, having found that Hugh and Barby
had been beforehand with her, now came back to the company. "I
am sure this lady would not give such a testimony."

"About what?" said Fleda, colouring under the fire of so many
eyes.

"The blighting influence of Ceres' sceptre," said Mr. Thorn.

"This country life," said her uncle  "do you like it, Fleda?"

"You know, uncle," said she, cheerfully, "I was always of the
old Douglass's mind  I like better to hear the lark sing than
the mouse squeak."

"Is that one of Earl Douglass's sayings," said the doctor.

"Yes, Sir," said Fleda with quivering lips, "but not the one
you know  an older man."

"Ah!" said the doctor, intelligently, "Mr. Rossitur  speaking
of hands  I have employed the Irish very much of late years 
they are as good as one can have, if you do not want a head."

"That is to say  if you have a head," said Thorn.

"Exactly!" said the doctor, all abroad  "and when there are
not too many of them together. I had enough of that, Sir, some
years ago, when a multitude of them were employed on the
public works. The Irish were in a state of mutilation, Sir,
all through the country."

"Ah!" said Thorn, "had the military been at work upon them?"

"No, Sir, but I wish they had, I am sure; it would have been
for the peace of the town. There were hundreds of them. We
were in want of an army."

"Of surgeons, I should think," said Thorn.

Fleda saw the doctor's dubious air and her uncle's compressed
lips; and, commanding herself, with even a look of something
like displeasure, she quitted her seat by Mr. Thorn, and
called the doctor to the window to look at a cluster of rose
acacias just then in their glory. He admired, and she
expatiated, till she hoped everybody but herself had forgotten
what they had been talking about. But they had no sooner
returned to their seats than Thorn began again.

"The Irish in your town are not in the same mutilated state
now, I suppose, Sir?"

"No, Sir, no," said the doctor: "there are much fewer of them
to break each other's bones. It was all among themselves,
Sir."

"The country is full of foreigners," said Mr. Rossitur, with
praiseworthy gravity.

"Yes, Sir," said Dr. Quackenboss, thoughtfully, "we shall have
none of our ancestors left in a short time, if they go on as
they are doing."

Fleda was beaten from the field, and, rushing into the
breakfast-room, astonished Hugh by seizing hold of him and
indulging in a most prolonged and unbounded laugh. She did not
show herself again till the company came in to supper; but
then she was found as grave as Minerva. She devoted herself
particularly to the care and entertainment of Dr. Quackenboss
till he took leave; nor could Thorn get another chance to talk
to her through all the evening.

When he and Rossitur were at last in their rooms, Fleda told
her story.

"You don't know how pleasant it was, aunt Lucy  how much I
enjoyed it  seeing and talking to somebody again. Mrs. Evelyn
was so very kind."

"I a very glad, my darling," said Mrs. Rossitur, stroking away
the hair from the forehead that was bent down towards her  "I
am glad you had it to-day, and I am glad you will have it
again to-morrow."

"You will have it too, aunt Lucy. Mrs. Evelyn will be here in
the morning  she said so."

"I shall not see her."
