if they could do no more.
It happened that Joe Manton was out of the way, holding an
important conference with a brother usher next door,  a
conference that he had no notion would be so important when he
began it, when a ring on his own premises summoned one of the
maid-servants to the door. She knew nothing about "not at
home," and unceremoniously desired the gentleman to "walk up,"
 "the ladies were in the drawing-room."
The door had been set wide open for the heat, and Fleda was
close in the corner behind it, gratefully permitting
Florence's efforts with the cologne, which yet she knew could
avail nothing but the kind feelings of the operator; for
herself  patiently waiting her enemy's time. Constance was
sitting on the floor looking at her.
"I can't conceive how you can bear so much," she said, at
length.
Fleda thought how little she knew what was borne!
"Why, you could bear it, I suppose, if you had to," said
Edith, philosophically.
"She knows she looks most beautiful," said Florence, softly
passing her cologned hands down over the smooth hair  "she
knows
' Il faut souffrir pour être belle.' "
"La migraine ne se guérit avec les douceurs," said Mr.
Carleton, entering  "try something sharp, Miss Evelyn."
"Where are we to get it?" said Constance, springing up, and
adding, in a most lack-a-daisical aside to her mother 
"Mamma!  the fowling-piece!  Our last vinegar hardly comes
under the appellation; and you don't expect to find anything
volatile in this house, Mr. Carleton?"
He smiled.
"Have you none for grave occasions, Miss Constance?"
"I wont retort the question about 'something sharp,' " said
Constance, arching her eyebrows, "because it is against my
principles to make people uncomfortable; but you have
certainly brought in some medicine with you, for Miss
Ringgan's cheeks, a little while ago, were as pure as her mind
 from a tinge of any sort  and now, you see "
"My dear Constance," said her mother, "Miss Ringgan's cheeks
will stand a much better chance if you come away and leave her
in peace. How can she get well with such a chatter in her
ears?"
"Mr. Carleton and I, Mamma, are conferring upon measures of
relief, and Miss Ringgan gives token of improvement already."
"For which I am very little to be thanked," said Mr. Carleton.
"But I am not a bringer of bad news, that she should look pale
at the sight of me."
"Are you a bringer of any news?" said Constance, "Oh, do let
us have them, Mr. Carleton!  I am dying for news  I haven't
heard a bit to-day."
"What is the news, Mr. Carleton?" said her mother's voice,
from the more distant region of the fire.
"I believe there are no general news, Mrs. Evelyn."
"Are there any particular news?" said Constance. "I like
particular news infinitely the best."
"I am sorry, Miss Constance, I have none for you. But, will
this headache yield to nothing?"
"Fleda prophesied that it would to time," said Florence; "she
would not let us try much beside."
"And I must confess there has been no volatile agency employed
at all," said Constance; "I never knew time have less of it,
and Fleda seemed to prefer him for her physician."
"He hasn't been a good one to-day," said Edith, nestling
affectionately to her side. "Isn't it better, Fleda?" for she
had covered her eyes with her hand.
"Not just now," said Fleda, softly.
"It is fair to change physicians if the first fails," said Mr.
Carleton. "I have had a slight experience in headache-curing;
if you will permit me, Miss Constance, I will supersede time
and try a different prescription."
He went out to seek it, and Fleda leaned her head in her hand,
and tried to quiet the throbbing heart, every pulsation of
which was felt so keenly at the seat of pain. She knew, from
Mr. Carleton's voice and manner  she thought she knew  that
he had exceeding good tidings for her; once assured of that,
she would soon be better; but she was worse now.
"Where is Mr. Carleton gone?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"I haven't the least idea, Mamma  he has ventured upon an
extraordinary undertaking, and has gone off to qualify
himself, I suppose. I can't conceive why he didn't ask Miss
Ringgan's permission to change her physician instead of mine."
"I suppose he knew there was no doubt about that," said Edith,
hitting the precise answer of Fleda's thoughts.
"And what should make him think there was any doubt about
mine?" said Constance, tartly.
"Oh, you know," said her sister, "you are so odd, nobody can
tell what you will take a fancy to."
"You are extremely liberal in your expressions, at least, Miss
Evelyn, I must say," said Constance, with a glance of no
doubtful meaning. "Joe  did you let Mr. Carleton in?"
"No, Ma'am."
"Well, let him in next time, and don't let in anybody else."
Whereafter the party relapsed into silent expectation.
It was not many minutes before Mr. Carleton returned.
"Tell your friend, Miss Constance," he said, putting an
exquisite little vinaigrette into her hand, "that I have
nothing worse for her than that."
"Worse than this!" said Constance, examining it. "Mr.
Carleton, I doubt exceedingly whether smelling this will
afford Miss Ringgan any benefit."
