married life. The iron hand of her husband has crushed almost every
thing. Ah! how often and often, as she breathed the chilling air of
her own household, where all was constrained propriety, would her
heart go back to the sunny home in which were passed the happy days
of girlhood, and wish that something of the wisdom and gentleness
that marked her father's intercourse with his children could be
transferred to her uncompromising husband. But that was a vain wish.
The two men had been cast in far different moulds.
Martha, now in her eighteenth year, was more like her mother than
any of the children, and but for the light of her presence Mrs.
Howland could hardly have kept her head above the waters that were
rushing around her. Toward Martha the conduct of her father had,
from the first, been of a mild character compared with his action
toward the other children; and this received a still farther
modification, when it become apparent even to himself, that by his
hardness he had estranged the affections of his elder children, and
driven them away. Gentle and loving in all her actions, she
gradually won her way more and more deeply into the heart of her
father, until she acquired a great influence over him. This
influence she had tried to make effectual in bringing about a
reconciliation between him and her sister's husband; but, up to this
time, her good offices were not successful. The old man's prejudices
remained strong--he was not prepared to yield; and Markland's
self-love having been deeply wounded by Mr. Howland, he was not
disposed to make any advances toward healing the breach that
existed. As for Mary, she cherished too deeply the remembrance of
her father's unbending severity toward his children--in fact his
iron hand had well nigh crushed affection out of her heart--to feel
much inclined to use any influence with her husband. And so the
separation, unpleasant and often painful to both parties, continued.
To Mrs. Howland it was a source of constant affliction. Much had she
done toward affecting a reconciliation; but the materials upon which
she tried to impress something of her own gentle and forgiving
spirit were of too hard a nature.
On the afternoon of the day on which Andrew returned so
unexpectedly, almost like one rising from the dead, Mrs. Howland was
alone, Martha having gone out to visit a friend. She was sitting in
her chamber thinking of the long absent one--she had thought of him
a great deal of late--when she heard the street door open and shut,
and then there came the sound of a man's feet along the passage. She
bent her head and listened. It was not the sound of her husband's
feet--she knew his tread too well. Soon the man, whoever he was,
commenced ascending the stairs; then he came toward her door, and
then there was a gentle tap. The heart of Mrs. Howland was, by this
time, beating violently. A moment or two passed before she had
presence of mind sufficient to go to the door and open it.
"Andrew! Andrew! Oh, Andrew, my son!" she cried, in a glad, eager
voice, the instant her eyes rested on the fine figure of a tall,
sun-burnt man, and as she spoke, she flung her arms around his neck,
and kissed him with all the fondness of a mother caressing her babe.
"Mother! dear, dear mother!" came sobbing from the lips of Andrew,
as he returned her embrace fervently.
"Am I dreaming? or, is this all really so?" murmured the happy
mother, pushing her son from her, yet clinging to him with an
earnest grasp, and gazing fondly upon his face.
"It is no dream, mother," returned Andrew, "but a glad reality.
After a long, long absence I have come back."
"Long--long! Oh, it has been an age, my son! How could you? But
hush, my chiding heart! My wandering one has returned, and I will
ask no questions as to his absence. Enough that I look upon his face
again."
Andrew now led his mother to a seat, and taking one beside her,
while he still held her hand tightly, and gazed with a look of
tenderness into her face, said--
"You have grown old in nine years, mother; older than I had
thought."
"Do you wonder at it, my son?" significantly inquired Mrs. Howland.
"I ought not to wonder, perhaps," replied Andrew, a touch of sadness
in his voice. "There is such a thing as living too fast for time."
"You may well say that," answered Mrs. Howland, with visible
emotion, "Years are sometimes crowded into as many days. This has
been my own experience."
Both were now silent for a little while.
"And how are all the rest, mother?" asked Andrew, in a more animated
voice.
"Your father has failed a good deal of late," replied Mrs. Howland,
as she partly averted her eyes, doubtful as to the effect such
reference might have.
"He has failed almost as much as you have, mother," was the
unexpected reply. "I saw him a little while ago."
"Did you!" ejaculated Mrs. Howland, a light of pleasure and surprise
breaking over her face.
"Yes; I called first at his store."
"I'm glad you did. Poor man! He has had his own troubles, and, I'm
afraid, is falling into difficulties again. He has looked very
unhappy for a week or two. Last night I hardly think he slept an
hour at a time, and to-day he scarcely tasted food."
"I found him in trouble," said Andrew, "and fortunately was able to
give him the relief he needed."
Mrs. Howland looked wonderingly into her son's face.
"I have not come back empty-handed, mother," said Andrew. "A year
ago, when thousands of miles from home, I heard of father's
troubles. I was about returning to see you all again, and to make
P--my future abiding place, if I could find any honest employment;
but this intelligence caused me to change my mind. News had just
been received of the wonderful discoveries of gold in California,
and I said to myself, 'If there is gold to be had there, I will find
it.' I was not thinking of myself when I made this resolution, but
of you and father. In this spirit I made the long and wearisome
overland journey, and for more than eight, months worked amid the
