equal,” and of the text, “All things whatsoever ye would that men should
do to you, do ye even so to them.”

It certainly presents the most extraordinary view of justice and equity,
and is the most remarkable exposition of the principle of doing to
others as we would others should do to us that it has ever been the good
fortune of the civilized world to observe. This being the institution,
let any one conjecture what its abuses must be; for we are gravely told,
by learned clergymen, that they do not feel called upon to interfere
with the system, but only with its abuses. We should like to know
what abuse could be specified that is not provided for and expressly
protected by slave-law.

And yet, Christian republicans, who, with full power to repeal this law,
are daily sustaining it, talk about there being no harm in slavery, if
they regulate it according to the apostle’s directions, and give unto
their servants that which is just and equal. Do they think that, if the
Christianized masters of Rome and Corinth had made such a set of rules
as this for the government of their slaves, Paul would have accepted it
as a proper exposition of what he meant by just and equal?

But the Presbyteries of South Carolina say, and all the other religious
bodies at the South say, that the church of our Lord Jesus Christ has no
right to interfere with civil institutions. What is this church of our
Lord Jesus Christ, that they speak of? Is it not a collection of
republican men, who have constitutional power to alter these laws, and
whose duty it is to alter them, and who are disobeying the apostle’s
directions every day till they do alter them? Every minister at the
South is a voter as much as he is a minister; every church-member is a
voter as much as he is a church-member; and ministers and church-members
are among the masters who are keeping up this system of atrocity, when
they have full republican power to alter it; and yet they talk about
giving their servants that which is just and equal! If they are going to
give their servants that which is just and equal, let them give them
back their manhood; they are law-makers, and can do it. Let them give to
the slave the right to hold property, the right to form legal marriage,
the right to read the word of God, and to have such education as will
fully develop his intellectual and moral nature; the right of free
religious opinion and worship; let them give him the right to bring suit
and to bear testimony; give him the right to have some vote in the
government by which his interests are controlled. This will be something
more like giving him that which is “just and equal.”

Mr. Smylie, of Mississippi, says that the planters of Louisiana and
Mississippi, when they are giving from twenty to twenty-five dollars a
barrel for pork, give their slaves three or four pounds a week; and
intimates that, if that will not convince people that they are doing
what is just and equal, he does not know what will.

Mr. C. C. Jones, after stating in various places that he has no
intention ever to interfere with the civil condition of the slave,
teaches the negroes, in his catechism, that the master gives to his
servant that which is just and equal, when he provides for them good
houses, good clothing, food, nursing, and religious instruction.

This is just like a man who has stolen an estate which belongs to a
family of orphans. Out of its munificent revenues, he gives the orphans
comfortable food, clothing, &c., while he retains the rest for his own
use, declaring that he is thus rendering to them that which is just and
equal.

If the laws which regulate slavery were made by a despotic sovereign,
over whose movements the masters could have no control, this mode of
proceeding might be called just and equal; but, as they are made and
kept in operation by these Christian masters, these ministers and
church-members, in common with those who are not so, they are every one
of them refusing to the slave that which is just and equal, so long as
they do not seek the repeal of these laws; and, if they cannot get them
repealed, it is their duty to take the slave out from under them, since
they are constructed with such fatal ingenuity as utterly to nullify all
that the master tries to do for their elevation and permanent benefit.

No man would wish to leave his own family of children as slaves under
the care of the kindest master that ever breathed; and what he would not
wish to have done to his own children, he ought not to do to other
people’s children.

But, it will be said that it is not becoming for the Christian church to
enter into political matters. Again, we ask, what is the Christian
church? Is it not an association of republican citizens, each one of
whom has his rights and duties as a legal voter?

Now, suppose a law were passed which depreciated the value of cotton or
sugar three cents in the pound, would these men consider the fact that
they are church-members as any reason why they should not agitate for
the repeal of such law? Certainly not. Such a law would be brittle as
the spider’s web; it would be swept away before it was well made. Every
law to which the majority of the community does not assent is, in this
country, immediately torn down.

Why, then, does this monstrous system stand from age to age? Because the
community CONSENT TO IT. They reënact these unjust laws every day, by
their silent permission of them.

The kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ is not of this world, say the South
Carolina Presbyteries; therefore, the church has no right to interfere
with any civil institution; but yet all the clergy of Charleston could
attend in a body to give sanction to the proceedings of the great
Vigilance Committee. They could not properly exert the least influence
against slavery, because it is a civil institution, but they could
