tottering into the room where Mary was lying.
"Oh, father!"--What a light broke over her countenance.--"I've been
waiting for you so long. I thought you were never going to wake up.
Kiss me, father."
"What can I do for you, Mary?" asked Morgan, tenderly, as he laid his
face down upon the pillow beside her.
"Nothing, father. I don't wish for anything. I only wanted to see you."
"I'm here now, love."
"Dear father!" How earnestly, yet tenderly she spoke, laying her small
hand upon his face. "You've always been good to me, father."
"Oh, no. I've never been good to anybody," sobbed the weak,
broken-spirited man, as he raised himself from the pillow.
How deeply touched was Mrs. Slade, as she sat, the silent witness of
this scene!
"You haven't been good to yourself, father--but you've always been good
to us."
"Don't, Mary! don't say anything about that," interrupted Morgan. "Say
that I've been very bad--very wicked. Oh, Mary, dear! I only wish that
I was as good as you are; I'd like to die, then, and go right away from
this evil world. I wish there was no liquor to drink--no taverns--no
bar-rooms. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wish I was dead."
And the weak, trembling, half-palsied man laid his face again upon the
pillow beside his child, and sobbed aloud.
What an oppressive silence reigned for a time through the room!
"Father." The stillness was broken by Mary. Her voice was clear and
even. "Father, I want to tell you something."
"What is it, Mary?"
"There'll be nobody to go for you, father." The child's lips now
quivered, and tears filled into her eyes.
"Don't talk about that, Mary. I'm not going out in the evening any more
until you get well. Don't you remember I promised?"
"But, father"--She hesitated.
"What, dear?"
"I'm going away to leave you and mother."
"Oh, no--no--no, Mary! Don't say that."--The poor man's voice was
broken.--"Don't say that! We can't let you go, dear."
"God has called me." The child's voice had a solemn tone, and her eyes
turned reverently upward.
"I wish He would call me! Oh, I wish He would call me!" groaned Morgan,
hiding his face in his hands. "What shall I do when you are gone? Oh,
dear! Oh. dear!"
"Father!" Mary spoke calmly again. "You are not ready to go yet. God
will let you live here longer, that you may get ready."
"How can I get ready without you to help me, Mary? My angel child!"
"Haven't I tried to help you, father, oh, so many times?" said Mary.
"Yes--yes--you've always tried."
"But it wasn't any use. You would go out--you would go to the tavern.
It seemed most as if you couldn't help it."
Morgan groaned in spirit.
"Maybe I can help you better, father, after I die. I love you so much,
that I am sure God will let me come to you, and stay with you always,
and be your angel. Don't you think he will, mother?"
But Mrs. Morgan's heart was too full. She did not even try to answer,
but sat, with streaming eyes, gazing upon her child's face.
"Father. I dreamed something about you, while I slept to-day." Mary
again turned to her father.
"What was it, dear?"
"I thought it was night, and that I was still sick. You promised not to
go out again until I was well. But you did go out; and I thought you
went over to Mr. Slade's tavern. When I knew this, I felt as strong as
when I was well, and I got up and dressed myself, and started out after
you. But I hadn't gone far, before I met Mr. Slade's great bull-dog,
Nero, and he growled at me so dreadfully that I was frightened and ran
back home. Then I started again, and went away round by Mr. Mason's.
But there was Nero in the road, and this time he caught my dress in his
mouth and tore a great piece out of the skirt. I ran back again, and he
chased me all the way home. Just as I got to the door. I looked around,
and there was Mr. Slade, setting Nero on me. As soon as I saw Mr.
Slade, though he looked at me very wicked, I lost all my fear, and
turning around, I walked past Nero, who showed his teeth, and growled
as fiercely as ever, but didn't touch me. Then Mr. Slade tried to stop
me. But I didn't mind him, and kept right on, until I came to the
tavern, and there you stood in the door. And you were dressed so nice.
You had on a new hat and a new coat; and your boots were new, and
polished just like Judge Hammond's. I said: 'Oh father! is this you?'
And then you took me up in your arms and kissed me, and said: 'Yes,
Mary, I am your real father. Not old Joe Morgan--but Mr. Morgan now.'
It seemed all so strange, that I looked into the bar-room to see who
was there. But it wasn't a bar-room any longer; but a store full of
goods. The sign of the 'Sickle and Sheaf' was taken down; and over the
door I now read your name, father. Oh! I was so glad, that I awoke--and
then I cried all to myself, for it was only a dream."
The last words were said very mournfully, and with a drooping of Mary's
lids, until the tear-gemmed lashes lay close upon her cheeks. Another
period of deep silence followed--for the oppressed listeners gave no
utterance to what was in their hearts. Feeling was too strong for
speech. Nearly five minutes glided away, and then Mary whispered the
name of her father, but without opening her eyes.
Morgan answered, and bent down his ear.
"You will only have mother left," she said--"only mother. And she cries
so much when you are away."
"I won't leave her, Mary, only when I go to work," said Morgan,
whispering back to the child. "And I'll never go out at night any more."
"Yes; you promised me that."
"And I'll promise more."
"What, father?"
"Never to go into a tavern again."
"Never!"
"No, never. And I'll promise still more."
"Father?"
