or Pompeii. I've seen Ross in these tantrums, when we were chums
together. She looked like her father when she said she was my superior.
Bah!" He picked up his "Enquirer," but the political news was stale and
vapid: the "Whig" was tried with no better success. In the centre of
the racy editorial, and oddly mixed with the advertisements, was that
incarnation of pride and passion, which through her eyes, more plainly
than her lips, said, "I despise you, and I owe you nothing." Thus stood
her part of the account he had proposed to examine.
CHAPTER IV.
Miss Carleton acknowledged the appearance of her desk-mate on the
succeeding morning, by an inclination of the head and a smile; and
nothing more passed between them until the hour for Italian. She
paused, seeing that Ida retained her seat. "Are you not going in?" she
ventured to ask.
"No."
There was a moment of hesitation, and she spoke again. "I would not
appear to dictate, but do you not fear Mr. Purcell may construe your
non-attendance into disrespect to himself?"
"I fear nothing," was upon Ida's tongue, but her better nature would
not allow her to return rudeness for what, suspicion could torture
into nothing but disinterested kindness. With a gleam of her former
frankness she looked up at her interlocutor, "You do not know as much
as I do, or you would understand the inutility of my presence at the
trial which comes off this morning. I would avoid a repetition of
yesterday's scene. One will suffice for a life-time."
"You met then with insult and injustice. To-day, Mr. Purcell will
shield you from both. As a gentleman, and a conscientious judge, he
cannot but see that Alboni's attack was uncalled for, and decide
against him."
"No man is conscientious when his conscience militates against his
purse and popularity."
Miss Carleton seemed shocked, and Ida added, hastily, "Our views upon
this, as upon most subjects, are very different, I fancy; therefore,
discussion is worse than useless. In this instance, my determination is
taken;" and she opened her book.
"I will not attempt to shake it," replied her companion. "But suffer
me to hope for a longer conversation at some future time, upon these
topics, concerning which you think we differ. There may be some points
of agreement, and I, for one, am open to conviction."
Again was Ida thrown off her guard, and the smile that answered
irradiated her face like a sudden sunbeam. But when her class-mate
had gone, she thought,--"Weak fool! the reserve I have striven for
two years to establish, melted by a soft speech of a school-girl. She
is one of the would-be 'popular' sort, and would worm herself into
confidence by an affectation of sympathy and sweetness."
"Miss Ross," said Mr. Purcell, a while later, coming up to her desk,
"you will do me the favor to meet me in my study at two o'clock."
At the time designated, she walked with a stately tread through the
long school-room, unabashed by the hundred curious eyes bent upon her;
for a summons to "the study" was an event of rare occurrence, and had
been heretofore the harbinger of some important era in the annals of
school-dom. Ida was prepared for every thing partiality could dictate,
and tyranny execute; but Mr. Purcell was alone, and his demeanor
anything but menacing. "He thinks to cajole me," whispered the fell
demon Distrust, and her heart changed to steel.
"Miss Ida," began the principal, mildly, "this is your third session
in this institution, and I can sincerely declare that during that
time, your propriety of behaviour, and diligence in study have not
been surpassed. I have never had a young lady under my care, whose
improvement was more rapid--of whose attainments I was more proud; but
I regret to say, never one whose confidence I failed so signally to
gain. A teacher's task, my dear Miss Ross, is at best an arduous one,
but if he receive no recompense for his toil in the affection of those
for whom he labors, his life is indeed one of cheerless drudgery. You
appear to regard me as a mere machine. For a time I attributed your
reserve to diffidence, and trusted that time and my efforts would
dissipate it. On the contrary, the distance between us has increased.
You hold yourself aloof from your school-mates, repelling every offered
familiarity, yet I have seen you weep after such an act. Your cheek
glows with enthusiasm when your favorite studies engage your mind,
and you relapse into frigid hauteur when recalled to the actual world
around you. You have feeling as well as intellect--you are acting a
part assumed from some unaccountable fancy; or, I would rather believe,
put upon you by necessity. The evidence of your want of reliance in my
friendship which you have given me to-day, has determined me to speak
candidly with you. I would not wrest a confession from you which you
might afterwards repent, but I entreat you to look upon me as a friend
who has a paternal love for each member of his numerous family, who
desires to see you happy, and asks--not your confidence, but that you
will let him serve you."
Ida sat like a statue. He resumed in a tone of disappointment--
"As to the unjustifiable charge brought by Signor Alboni--I am aware
how galling is even the appearance of humiliation upon so proud a
spirit. I have investigated the matter carefully. The testimony of
your friend, Miss Carleton, would of itself have been sufficient to
exonerate you. It was confirmed by the voice of the class, and the
inevitable consequence is, that Signor Alboni no longer has a place in
my school. I can safely promise that the teacher I have selected in his
stead, will oppose no impediment to your progress."
Shame for her unjust accusations, and remorseful gratitude pierced
Ida's bosom. Greatly agitated, she approached her instructor, when
Mr. Read walked in;--a cynical iceberg! Every generous emotion--all
softness vanished on the instant. His inquiring glance encountered one
as freezing. "I will not detain you longer, Mr. Purcell," she said, as
if concluding a business arrangement. "As nearly as I can understand,
your object in sending for me was to secure me as a pupil of the new
language-master. Having undertaken the study of the Italian, I prefer
going through with the course. Mr. Read will settle the terms. Good
afternoon, gentlemen;" and with the mien of a duchess she left them.
Mr. Read "had been delayed by pressing business. Miss Ross requested
