commentary on that scripture — " And they beheld his face, 
as it were the face of an angel." 
Schoeffer is fully possessed with the idea of which I have 
spoken, of raising Protestant art above the wearisome imita- 
tions of Romanism. The object is noble and important. I 
feel that he must succeed. 
His best award is in the judgments of the unsophisticated 
heart. A painter who does not burn incense to his palette and 
worship his brushes, who reverences ideas above mechanism, 
will have all manner of evil spoken against him by artists, but 
the human heart will always accept him. 
LETTER XLIV. 
Berlin, August 10. 
Mr Dear: — 
Here we are in Berlin — a beautiful city. These places 
that kings build, have of course, more general uniformity and 
consistency of style than those that grow up by chance. The 
prevalence of the Greek style of architecture, the regularity 
and breadth of the streets, the fine trees, especially in the 
Unter den Linden, on which are our rooms, struck me more 
than any thing I have seen since Paris. Why Paris charms 
me so much more than other cities of similar recommenda- 
tions, I cannot say, any more than a man can tell why he is 
fascinated by a lady love no fairer to his reason than a thousand others. Perhaps it is the reflected charm of the people 
I knew there, that makes it seem so sunny. 
This afternoon we took a guide, and went first through the 
royal palace. The new chapel, which is being built by the 
present prince, is circular in form, with a dome one hundred 
and thirty feet high. The space between the doors is occupied 
by three circular recesses, with figures of prophets and apos- 
tles in fresco. Over one door is the Nativity, — over the 
other, the Resurrection, — also in fresco. On the walls around 
were pictures somewhat miscellaneous, I thought ; for exam- 
ple, John Huss, St. Cecilia, Melanchthon, Luther, several 
women, saints, apostles, and evangelists. These paintings are 
all by the first German artists. The floor is a splendid mo- 
saic, and the top of the dome is richly adorned with frescoes. 
 
Still, though beautiful, the chapel seemed to me deficient in 
unity of effect. One admires the details too much to appreciate it as a whole. We passed through the palace rooms. 
Its paintings are far inferior to those of Windsor. The finest 
royal paintings have gone to adorn the walls of the Museum. 
There was one magnificent Vandyke, into which he has intro- 
duced a large dog — some relief from his eternal horses. 
There was David's picture of Bonaparte crossing the Alps, 
of which Mrs. P. has the engraving, and you can tell her 
that it is much more impressive than the painting. Opposite 
to this picture hangs Blucher, looking about as amiable as one 
might suppose a captain of a regiment of mastiffs. Our guide, 
pointing to the portrait of Napoleon, with evident pride, said, 
" Blucher brought that from Paris. He said Napoleon had 
carried so many pictures from other countries to Paris, that 
now he should be carried away himself." 
There were portraits of Queen Louisa, very beautiful; of. 
Queen Victoria, a present ; one of the Empress of Russia ; 
also a statue of the latter. The ball room contained a statue 
of Victory, by Ranch, a beautiful female figure, the model of 
which, we were told, is his own daughter. He had the grace 
to allow her some clothing, which was fatherly, for an artist. 
The palace rooms were very magnificent. The walls were 
covered with a damask of silk and gold, into which was in- 
wrought the Prussian eagle. In the crowning room was an 
immense quantity of plate, in solid gold and silver. The 
guide seemed not a little proud of our king, princes, and palace. Men will attach themselves to power and splendor as 
naturally as moss will grow on a rock. . There is, perhaps, a 
foundation for this in human nature — witness the Israelites 
of old, who could not rest till they obtained a king. The 
 
guide told us there were nine hundred rooms in the palace, 
but that he should only take us through the best. We were 
duly sensible of the mercy. 
Then we drove to Charlottenburg to see the Mausoleum. 
I know not when I have been more deeply affected than 
there ; and yet, not so much by the sweet, lifelike statue of 
the queen as by that of the king, her husband, executed by 
the same hand. Such an expression of long-desired rest, after 
suffering and toil, is shed over the face ! — so sweet, so heavenly ! There, where he has prayed year after year, — hoping, 
yearning, longing, — there, at last, he rests, life's long anguish 
over ! My heart melted as I looked at these two, so long divided, — he so long a mourner, she so long mourned, — now 
calmly resting side by side in a sleep so tranquil. 
We went through the palace. We saw the present king's 
writing desk and table in his study, just as he left them. His 
writing establishment is about as plain as yours. Men who 
really mean to do any thing do not use fancy tools. His bed 
room, also, is in a style of severe simplicity. There were 
several engravings fastened against the wall ; and in the ante- 
room a bust and medallion of the Empress Eugenie — a thing 
which I should not exactly have expected in a born king's 
palace ; but beauty is sacred, and kings cannot call it par- 
venu. Then we went into the queen's bed room, finished in 
green, and then through the rooms of Queen Louisa. Those 
marks of her presence, which you saw during the old king's 
lifetime, are now removed : we saw no traces of her dresses, 
gloves, or books. In one room, draped in white muslin over 
pink, we were informed the Empress of Russia was born. 
In going out to Charlottenburg, we rode through the Thier- 
garten, the Tuileries of Berlin. In one of the most quiet 
 
and sequestered spots is the monument erected by the people 
of Berlin to their old king. The pedestal is Carrara marble, 
