then repaired to the little cabin of the Sylph. Arranging the cloak for
his bed, he wrapped himself up in his great-coat and lay down.
Fatigued as he was, he could not go to sleep. The novelty of his
situation, and the guilt, now that the excitement was over, which
oppressed his conscience, banished that rest his exhausted frame
required. He heard the village clock strike two and three; and then he
rose, unable to endure the reproaches of his own heart.
"What a fool I am!" he exclaimed to himself; and a flood of tears came
to his relief. "To desert my warm bed, my happy home, the friendship of
my club, for such a set of fellows as this! O, how I wish I had not
come!"
Leaving the cabin, he seated himself in the stern sheets of the boat.
The bright stars had disappeared, and the sky was veiled in deep black
clouds. The wind blew very fresh from the north-east, and he was certain
that a severe storm was approaching. He wept bitterly when he thought of
the gloomy prospect.
He had repented his folly, and would have given the world to get away
from the island. Ah, a lucky thought! He could escape! The Rovers were
all asleep; the fresh breeze would soon drive the Sylph to the land, and
he could return home, and perhaps not be missed. It was an easy thing;
and without further reflection, he unfastened the cable, and dropped it
overboard.
The Sylph immediately commenced drifting away from the island. Taking
the helm, he put her before the wind, and was gratified to observe that
she made very good headway.
The clock struck four, and he heard the footsteps of the watch upon the
shore.
"Boat adrift!" shouted Ben, who was the officer of the watch.
The words were repeated several times, and in a few moments he heard
Tim's voice summoning his crew. Then the Butterfly dashed down upon
him, and his hopes died within him. But he had the presence of mind to
crawl back again to the cabin; and when Tim came onboard, he had the
appearance of being sound asleep, so that the chief did not suspect his
treachery.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE ESCAPE.
Monday was a cold, dreary, disagreeable day. The wind continued
northeast; a fine, drizzly rain was falling, and a thick fog had settled
over the lake, which effectually concealed the camp of the Rovers from
the main shore.
An excursion had been planned for the day by the two boat clubs; but the
weather was so unpropitious that it was abandoned. About nine o'clock,
however, the members of the clubs began to assemble at their halls in
search of such recreation as could be found indoors.
Frank opened the Zephyr's boat-house as usual, and great was his dismay
when he discovered that the boat was not in its berth. Calling Uncle Ben
from the stable, he announced to him the astounding intelligence that
the Zephyr had been stolen!
"What does it mean, Uncle Ben?" he asked, in deep anxiety.
"I can't tell you, Frank; only, as you say, it has been stolen. It
couldn't have broken adrift."
"Of course not; and one of the windows is open."
"That accounts for it," replied Uncle Ben, as he walked down the
boat-house and looked out upon the lake. "I will take the Sylph and
hunt it up."
"Let me go with you, Uncle Ben."
"My eyes! but the Sylph is gone too!" exclaimed the veteran, as he
perceived the moorings afloat where she usually lay.
"Strange, isn't it?"
Uncle Ben scratched his head, and did not know what to make of it.
"Here comes Tony, running with all his might," continued Frank. "What's
the matter, Tony?"
"Somebody has stolen the Butterfly!" gasped Tony, out of breath."
"And the Zephyr and the Sylph!"
Several of the members of the club now arrived, and the matter was
thoroughly discussed.
"Who do you suppose stole them!" said Frank.
"Who? why, Tim Bunker of course," replied Fred.
"But he must have had some help."
"Perhaps not; he has done it to be revenged, because your father turned
him out of the club."
"Very likely."
"May be he'll smash them up," suggested William Bright.
"Have you seen anything of Charles this morning?" asked Mr. Hardy,
entering the boat-house at this moment.
"No, sir."
"He did not sleep at home last night."
The Zephyrs looked at each other with astonishment, and most of them,
probably, connected him with the disappearance of the boats. His
intimacy with Tim Bunker created a great many painful misgivings,
especially when Mr. Hardy told them that his son had played truant on
Saturday; and one of the boys had heard of his being seen with Tim on
that day. Various other facts were elicited, which threw additional
light upon the loss of the boats. Mr. Hardy was in great distress. It
was clear that his son had wandered farther from the path of truth than
he had ever suspected.
Frank had gone up to the house to inform his father of the loss of the
boats, and Captain Sedley soon joined the party. He sympathized deeply
with Mr. Hardy, and was satisfied that his son could not be far off. It
was impossible to search the lake, as there were no boats for the
purpose.
As nothing could be done at present on the lake, Captain Sedley ordered
his horse, with the intention of driving round it in search of the
fugitive and of the boats. Mr. Hardy was invited to go with him.
On their arrival at Rippleton they found that Tim Bunker was missing, as
well as a great many other boys. They continued to examine the shores of
the lake till they reached Joe Braman's house, on the north side.
Captain Sedley inquired for his boat; and Joe, after trying to evade the
truth, confessed that he had let it to Tim for a week, but did not know
where he had gone with it. They were sure then that the boys were
