was nine, when his father died. Squire Lee, who had 
always been a good friend of John Bright, told the 
widow that she had better go to the poorhouse, and 
not attempt to struggle along with such a fearful odds 
against her. But the widow noblv refused to become 



a pauper, and to make paupers of her children, whom 
she loved quite as much as though she and they had 
been born in a ducal palace. She told the squire 
that she had two hands, and as long as she had her 





 

health, the town need not trouble itself about her sup- 
port. 

Squire Lee was filled with surprise and admiration 

at the noble resolution of the poor woman ; and when 
he returned to his house, he immediately sent her a 
cord of wood, ten bushels of potatoes, two bags of 
meal, and a firkin of salt pork. 

The widow was very grateful for these articles, and 
no false pride prevented her from accepting the gift 
of her rich and kind-hearted neighbor. 

Riverdale centre was largely engaged in the manu- 
facturing of boots and shoes, and this business gave 
employment to a large number of men and women. 

Mrs. Bright had for several years u closed " shoes 
which, my readers who do not live in " shoe towns " 
may not know, means sewing or stitching them. To 
this business she applied herself with renewed energy. 
There was a large hotel in Riverdale centre, where 
several families from Boston spent the summer. By 
the aid of Squire Lee, she obtained the washing of 
these families, which was more profitable than closing 
shoes. 

By these means she not only supported her family 



 

very comfortably, but was able to save a little money 
towards paying for the house. Mr. Hardhand, by the 
persuasions of Squire Lee, had consented to let the 
widow keep the house, and pay for it as she could. 
John Bright had been dead four years at the time 



we introduce Bobby to the reader. Mrs. Bright had 
paid another hundred dollars towards the house, with 
the interest; so there was now but one hundred due. 
Bobby had learned to " close," and helped his mother 
a great deal ; but the confinement and the stooping 
posture did not agree with his health, and his mother 
was obliged to dispense with his assistance. But the 
devoted little fellow found a great many ways of help- 
ing her. He was now thirteen, and was as handy 
about the house as a girl. When he was not better 
occupied, he would often go to the river and catch a 
mess of fish, which was so much clear gain. 

The winter which had just passed had brought a 
great deal of sickness to the little black house. The 
children all had the measles, and two of them the 
scarlet fever, so that Mrs. Bright could not work much. 
Her affairs were not in a very prosperous condition 
when the spring opened ; but the future was bright, 




and the widow, trusting in Providence, believed that 
all would end well. 

One thing troubled her. She had not been able to 
save any thing for Mr. Harclhand. She could only 
pay her interest ; but she hoped by the first of July 
to give him twenty-five dollars of the principal. But 
the first of July came, and she had only five dollars 
of the sum she had partly promised her creditor. She 
could not so easily recover from the disasters of the 
hard winter, and she had but just paid off the little 
debts she had contracted. She was nervous and un- 
easy as the day approached. Mr. Hardhand always 
abused her when she told him she could not pay him, 
and she dreaded his coming. 

