Three years may appear to b3 a great while to the 
little pilgrim through life's vicissitudes ; but they 
e.ion pass away and are -as "a talc that is told." To 
note all the events of Harry's experience through this 
period, would require another volume ; therefore I 
can only tell the reader what he was, and what results 
he had achieved in that time. Jt was filled with triaU 
anu temptations, not all of which were overcome 
without care and privation. Often he failed, was 
often disappointed, and often was pained to see how 
feebly the Spirit warred againrt the Flesh. 
He loved money, and avaric. frequently prompted 
him to do those things which would have wrecked 
his bright hopes. That vision of the grandeui and 
influence of the ricli .v.t.i.'s posirlcu sometimes demid him, causing him to forget for a time that the sou] 
would live forever, while the body and its treasures 
would perish in the grave. As he grew older, he 
reasoned more ; his principles became more firmly 
fixed ; and the object of existence assumed a more 
definite character. He was an attentive student, and 
every year not only made him wiser, but better. I 
do not mean to say that Harry was a remarkably 
good boy, that his character was perfect, or any 
thing of the kind. He meant well, and tried to do 
well, and he did not struggle in vain against the trials 
and temptations that beset him. I dare say, those 
with whom he associated did not consider him much 
better than themselves. It is true, he did not swear, 
did not frequent the haunts of vice and dissipation, 
did not spend his Sundays in riding about the coun- 
try ; yet he had his faults, and captious people did 
nr>t fail to see them. 
He was still with Wake and Wade, though he was 
ft salesman now, on a salary of five dollars a week. 
lie still boarded with Mrs. Flint, though Edward wab 
no longer his room mate. A year had been sufficient 
to di&gust his "fast" companion with the hocely f^ro 
and homely quarters of his father's house ; and. a* 
his salary was now eight dollars a week, he vecupied 
a room in the attic of a first class hotel. 
Harry was sixteen years old, and he had three hun- 
dred dollars in the Savings Bank. He might have 
Had more, if he had not so carefully watched and 
guarded against the sin of avarice. He gave some 
very handsome sums to the various public charities, 
as well as expended them in relieving distress wher- 
ever it presented itself. It is true, it was sometimes 
very hard work to give of his earnings to relieve the 
poor ; and if he had acted in conformity with the 
nature he had inherited, he might never have known 
that it was " more blessed to give than to receive." 
As he grew older, and the worth of money was more 
apparent, he was tempted to let the poor and the 
unfortunate take care of themselves ; but the struggle 
of duty with parsimony rendered his gifts all the more 
v-orthy. 
Joe Flint had several times violated his solemn 
resolution to drink no more ardent spirits ; but Harry, 
who was his friend ai^d confidant, encouraged !im, 
when be failed, ';o try ?.gui> ; s^d It vY:;:- nev> ne»rl| 
a year since he had been on a " spiee."' 
i 
Our hero occasionally heard from Rockville; and a 
few months before the event we are about to nan ate, 
ne had spent the pleasantcst week of his life with 
Julia Bryant, amid those scenes which were so full 
of interest to both of them. As he walked through 
the woods where he had first met the M little angel," 
— she had now grown to be a tall girl, — he could 
rot but recall the events of that meeting. It was 
there that he first began to live, in the true sense of 
the word. It was there that he had been born into a 
new sphere of moral existence. 
Julia was still his friend, still his guiding star. 
Though the freedom of childish intimacy had beer 
diminished, the same heart resided in each, and each 
felt the same interest in the other. The correspond- 
ence between them had been almost wholly suspend- 
ed, perhaps by the interference of the " powers " at 
Rockville, and perhaps by the growing sense of the 
" fitness of things " in the parties. But they occa- 
Bionall) met, which amply compensated for the depri* 
\ntions which propriety demanded. 
But I must pass on to the closing event of nay 
»tory — it was Harry's severest trial, yet it resulted 
in bis most signd triumph. 
Edward Flint was always short of money. He 
lived extravagantly, and his increased salary was in- 
efficient to meet his wants. When Harry saw him 
drive a fast horse through the streets on Sundays, and 
hear" him say how often he went to the theatre, what 
balls and parties he attended, — when he observed 
how elegantly he dressed, and that he wore a gold 
chain, a costly breast pin, and several rings, — he did 
not wonder that he was " short." He lived like a 
prince, and it seemed as though eight dollars a week 
would be but a drop in the bucket in meeting hia 
expenses. 
One day, in his extremity, he applied to Harry for 
the loan of five dollars. Our hero did not like to 
