hoping he would come out. As he did not appear, her impatience would
not permit her to lose any more time, and she timidly opened the door,
and inquired of the first salesman she saw if Mister Sneed was in.

"Mister Sneed!" laughed the clerk. "Here, Simon, is one of your
friends. Wait upon her."

Simon, with a flushed cheek, came to the door. He was horrified at the
insinuation of the salesman and wished Katy had been on the other side
of the ocean before she had come there to scandalize him by claiming
his acquaintance.

"What do you want now?" he demanded, rather rudely. "Is it not enough
that I am willing to help you, without your coming here to bring me
into contempt with my associates?"

"I didn't think there was any harm in it. I waited outside for half an
hour, and you didn't come out."

"I can't leave the affairs of this firm to attend to every little----"
and Master Simon's naturally good heart prevented him from uttering the
unkind words that had been on his tongue. "I suppose you come to know
about the watch. I haven't had time to call upon the mayor yet, but I
will do so at dinner time."

"I only wanted to ask you if you know where Mrs. Gordon lives," replied
Katy, very sad at the thought of the mischief she had done.

"She lives in Temple Street, over back of the State House. What do you
want of her?"

"I want to see her. Do you suppose you can get that watch back?"

"I'm certain I can. When my friend the mayor hears my story, you may
depend upon it he will get the watch, or upset all the pawn-brokers'
shops in the city."

"Are you acquainted with the mayor?" asked Katy, timidly, for, since
the adventure of the previous day, she had entertained some slight
doubts in regard to the transcendent abilities of Master Simon Sneed.

"Certainly I am. It was only last week that I had a long and extremely
interesting conversation with his honor on the sidewalk here before the
store."

Katy was satisfied, though Simon did not offer to introduce her to his
distinguished friend. How could she help being satisfied in the face of
such astounding evidence? And Simon's declaration was true, for
whatever faults he had, he never made up a story out of whole cloth. It
was undeniably true that he had conversed with the mayor for ten full
minutes, at the time and place represented. Simon had been sent out to
hold his honor's horse, while a lady with him did some shopping; but
his honor preferred to hold his own horse, and amused himself for the
time in listening to the big talk of the nice young man.

After receiving more explicit directions in regard to the residence of
Mrs. Gordon, Katy took her leave of Simon. Next door to Sands & Co.'s
was the store of a celebrated confectioner. In the window, with sundry
sugar temples, cob houses of braided candy and stacks of cake, was a
great heap of molasses candy; and as Katy paused for an instant to gaze
at the profusion of sweet things, a great thought struck through her
brain.

"Mother used to make molasses candy for me, and I know just how it is
done," said she to herself. "What is the reason I can't make candy and
sell it?"

She walked on towards School Street, up which she had been directed to
turn, full of this idea. She would become a little candy merchant. She
felt sure she could find purchasers enough, if her merchandise only
looked clean and good. It was a great deal better than begging, and she
thought her mother would consent to her making and selling the candy.
What a glorious idea! If she could only make money enough to support
her mother and herself, how happy she should be!

Full of enthusiasm at the idea of accomplishing such a vast project,
she scarcely heeded the crowds of people that thronged the street and
rudely jostled her. If she saw them at all, it was only to regard them
as so many purchasers of molasses candy. With her brain almost reeling
with the immensity and magnificence of her scheme, she reached Temple
Street. After a little search, she found the number of Mrs. Gordon's
residence on a splendid house, whose grandness quite abashed her. But
her courage revived as she thought of the purpose that had brought her
there, and she boldly rang the bell. The door was opened by a servant
man in a white jacket, of whom she inquired if Mrs. Gordon was at home.

"Mrs. Gordon is at home, but we don't trouble her at the call of a
beggar," replied the well-fed servant as he glanced at the homely
apparel of Katy.

"I am not a beggar," she replied, with spirit, her cheek reddening with
indignation at the charge.

"You can't see her; so go about your business."

"Who is it Michael?" said a gentle voice within.

"Only a beggar, Miss Grace; she wants to see Mrs. Gordon," replied the
man; and then a beautiful young lady came to look at her.

