was now slapping and banging in the fresh wind, 
so that Frank could not get hold of it ; for the 
heavy block threatened to knock his brains out, 
as it threshed in every direction. 

In consequence of this blunder, when the yacht 
came up into the wind, and there was no jib to 
help her round, she fell off, lost her headway, and 
drifted helplessly towards the rocks. Tom was 




appalled at the danwhatjer that menaced them, and 
gave all sorts of orders ; but none of them were 
heeded by the panic-stricken crew. 

'/Draw the slide, and call up Paul," gasped 
the disheartened skipper ; and this order was un- 
derstood and instantly obeyed. 



 



CHAPTER. XIX. 

PAUL TAKES COMMAND OF THE FLYAWAY. 

" Help us, Paul, if you can," cried Tom, as 
the prisoners rushed up the ladder. '' You take 
the helm, Dick." 

"Me!" exclaimed the steward. " I don't know 
no more about handling a vessel than I do about 
making a watch. Paul must help you." 

" Forgive me, Paul, for shutting you up down 
there, and get us out of this scrape if you can." 

At this moment the keel of the Flyaway grazed 
upon a rock, and then bumped heavily as she 
sank down with the sea. 

" We are lost ! We shall all be drowned ! " 
exclaimed Frank Thompson. 

Paul's quick eye instantly measured the peril 
that menaced the Flyaway, and though she con- 
tinued to thump and grind on the rocks at the 



 

bottom, lie did not lose all hope of saving her. 
The first thing was to secure the jib slieet. Seiz- 
ing the guy rope which was used to haul out the 
main boom, he ordered all hands forward. At the 
end of the line there was a large iron hook, which, 
with a dexterous throw, he succeeded in fastening 
to the block. The sail was then hauled down, 
and the truant sheet effectually secured. 

The coast line, upon which they were in dan- 
ger of being dashed to pieces, extended north- 
east and south-west, and the yacht was still some 
twenty rods distant from the breakers. Paul 
ordered the jib to be hauled hard up on the 
weather side, which caused the vessel's head to 
swing round with the wind; then, as the sheet 
was eased off, she slid over the rock,, and for a 
moment ran down parallel with the coast, and 
before the wind. 

When this manoeuvre had been successfully ac- 
complished, Paul ran to the helm, and giving the 
necessary orders, the Flyaway was soon braced 
sharp up, and standing away from the breakers. 



 

" Three cheers for Paul Duncan ! " shouted Tom 
Nettle, when he realized that they had escaped the 
terrible fate which a moment before had hung 
over them. '' One ! " 

" Hold your tongue, Tom ! " replied Paul, 
sharply. " Try the pump, and see whether she 
leaks any." 

The cheers were not given in the face of this 
sharp rebuke, and Tom hastened to obey the order 
which Paul had just issued. The examination 
revealed the gratifying fact that the Flyaway was 
still sound, and made no water. She had only 
