last Sunday afternoon--and evening;--the hymn, and those other lines
Mr. Linden had repeated and which had run in her head fifty times
since. And Faith's step grew rather slower and less lightsome as she
neared home, and when she got home she went straight up to her room
without turning to the right or the left. Her mother was just then in
the kitchen and heard her not, and shielded by her bonnet Faith saw not
even that Mr. Linden's door stood open; but when she came out again a
while after, the full stream of sunlight that came thence into the
passage drew her eyes that way. And Faith did not wonder then that her
mother had been startled, and unprepared by the doctor's words for the
sight of what she now saw. The chintz-covered couch was drawn before
the window, in the full radiance of the sunlight, and Mr. Linden lay
there looking out; but the sunlight found no glow in his face, unless
one as etherial as itself. The habitual sweet pure look was there--a
look that reminded Faith of the one Johnny had worn in the morning; but
the face was perfectly colourless. The bandaged arm was supported only
by a sling, upon the other hand his cheek rested wearily. Faith looked,
hesitated, then stepped lightly into the room and stood before him;
with a face not indeed quite so pale as his own, but that only the
sunlight hindered his seeing was utterly without its usual colour. She
found nothing to say, apparently: for she did not speak, only held out
her hand. He had turned at the first sound of her step and watched
her--at first smiling, then grave--as she came near; and taking her
hand as silently as it was given, Mr. Linden looked up at her
face,--perhaps to see whether his instructions had been obeyed.

"I have had men's hands about me so long," he said, "that yours feels
like--" he did not specify what, but held it a minute as if he were
trying to find out. "Miss Faith, you want to be rocked to sleep."

Could he see that her lips trembled? He could feel how her hand did;
but her look was as frank as ever.

"Are you less well to-day?"--she said at last, in a voice that was
little above a whisper, and stopped short of his name.

"Less well than yesterday at this time--not less well than this
morning. A little more tired, perhaps." He spoke very quietly,
answering her words and letting his hand and eye do the rest. "Has Mrs.
Derrick a cradle in the house that would hold you?"

Perhaps Faith hardly heard the question, for she did not acknowledge it
by so much as a smile. She wished to ask the further question, whether
the assurance of last night was still true; but his appearance had
driven such fear to her heart that she dared not ask it. She stood
quite still a minute, but when she spoke her words were in the utmost
clear sweetness of a woman's voice.

"Can I do something for you, Mr. Linden?"

"You are doing something for me now--it is so pleasant to see you. But
Miss Faith, I shall have to reclaim some of your scholars; you have
been teaching too much to-day."

"No--" she said,--"I have had no chance."

"No chance to teach too much? And why?"

"Why," she said--"I had only the usual hour this morning. I could do no
more."

"You look as if you had been teaching all day--or taught, which is but
another branch. What did my boys say to you?"

"I think they thought they were saying to you, Mr. Linden,--they
behaved so well."

He smiled.

"I don't believe even your conjuring powers could bring about such a
hallucination, Miss Faith.--What a day it has been! Look at that
sunlight and think of the city that hath 'no need of the sun'!"

She looked where he bade her, but the contrast was a little too strong
just then with the earth that had so much 'need' of it! Only the
extreme gravity of her face however indicated anything of the struggle
going on. Her eye did not move,--nor eyelid.


"That is the only rest we must wait 'for,'" Mr. Linden said. "That
'remaineth.'"

Faith answered nothing. But after a little while the shadow of that
sunlight passed away from her face, and she turned to the couch again
and asked with her former gentle expression,

"Will you have tea up here, Mr. Linden?"

"I'm afraid I must," he said, looking up at her with eyes that rather
questioned than answered.

"Does mother know what you would like to have?"

"Miss Faith--I wish you would tell me just what is troubling you."

The question flushed her a little, and for a moment her face was a
quick play of light and shade; then she said,

"It troubled me not to see you looking better."

