closing the door, I saw that her form remained as still as a statue.
CHAPTER XXIII.
An hour later, when Constance went to see Mrs. Dewey, she found her in
a state of unconsciousness, nature having at last given way. Not long
after I left the house, her mother, on entering the room where the
children were laid out, found her insensible, lying across the bed, with
her dead babes clasped in her arms.
Mrs. Floyd sent word for me to come and see her daughter, as she
continued in a lethargic state. I found her like one in a deep sleep,
only her breathing was light, and her pulse very feeble, but regular.
She was out of the reach of my skill, and in the hands of the Great
Physician. I could only trust the cure to Him. No medicine for the body
would be of any avail here. I called again in the afternoon; but found
no change. How little was there in the pale, pinched face that lay among
the white pillows, to remind me of the handsome, dashing Mrs. Dewey, of
a year gone by!
“What do you think of her, Doctor?”
Mrs. Floyd put the question. The tone had in it something that made me
look narrowly into the speaker’s face. My ears had not deceived me.
There was the wish in her heart that Delia might die!
I was not surprised at this. And yet the revelation of such a state of
feeling, in so good and true a woman, as I had reason to know Mrs. Floyd
to be, made my heart bound with a throb of pain.
Alas! alas! Into what unnatural conditions may not the mind fall,
through suffering that shuts out human hope!
“Nature,” said I, in answer to the question of Mrs. Floyd, “may be only
gathering up her powers after a long period of exhaustion. The strife
through which your daughter has passed--calmly passed to all external
seeming--has not been without a wasting of internal life. How she kept
on so evenly to the end, passes my comprehension. There is not one woman
in a thousand who could have so borne herself through to the final act.
It is meet that she should rest now.”
“If she were sleeping with her babes, happy would it be for her!”
Tears fell over the face of Mrs. Floyd.
“God knows what is best,” I remarked.
“She has nothing to live for in this world.” A sob broke from its
repression, and heaved the mother’s bosom. “O Doctor, if I saw the death
dews on her brow, I would not weep!”
“Leave her, my dear friend,” said I, “in the hands of Him who sees
deeper into the heart than it is possible for our eyes to penetrate. Her
feet have left the soft, flowery ways they trod for a time, and turned
into rough paths, where every footfall is upon sharp stones; but it
may be that a blessed land is smiling beyond, he has been astray in the
world, and God may only be leading her homeward by the way of sorrow.”
Mrs. Floyd wept freely as I talked.
“His will be done,” she said, sobbing.
“Your daughter,” said I, taking the occasion to bear my testimony on the
favorable side, “has been wronged without question. She was doubtless
imprudent, but not sinful; and the present attempt to disgrace her I
regard as a cruel wrong. It will recoil, I trust, in a way not dreamed
of.”
“O Doctor, let me thank you for such words.”
And Mrs. Floyd caught my arm with an eager movement.
“I speak soberly, madam, and from observation and reflection. And I
trust to see Delia live and triumph over her enemies.”
“Won’t you talk with the Squire, Doctor?” She still grasped my arm. “He
will not hear a word from me in favor of Delia. Mr. Dewey has completely
blinded him.”
“Wait patiently, Mrs. Floyd,” said I, in a tone of encouragement. “Your
daughter is not without friends. There are those upon her side, who
have the will and the power to defend her; and they will defend her, I
believe successfully.”
A sigh fluttered through the room, causing us both to turn quickly
towards the bed on which Mrs. Dewey was lying. Her lips were moving
slightly; but no change appeared on her death-like face. I laid my
fingers upon her wrist, and searched for her pulse. It was very low and
thread-like; but with more vitality than on the occasion of my first
visit to her in the morning.
“The signs are favorable.”
Mrs. Floyd did not respond. She was looking at her daughter with an
expression of unutterable grief upon her countenance.
I did not attempt to give medicine, but left unerring nature to do her
own work.
Mrs. Dewey did not again look upon the faces of her dead children. They
were buried ere her mind awoke to any knowledge of passing events. I
was at the funeral, and closely observed her husband. He appeared very
sober, and shed some tears at the grave, when the little coffins were
lowered together into the earth.
It was a week before Mrs. Dewey was clearly conscious of external
things. I visited her every day, watching, with deep interest, her slow
convalescence. It was plain, as her mind began to recover its faculties,
that the memory of a sad event had faded; and I was anxious for the
effect, when this painful remembrance was restored.
One day I found her sitting up in her room. She smiled feebly as I came
in, and said:
“Doctor, am I never going to get well? It seems like an age since I
became sick.”
“You are getting on finely,” I answered, in a cheerful way, sitting down
by her and taking her hand, which was wasted and shadowy.
“I don’t know about that, Doctor,” she said.
“What makes me so weak? I’ve no more strength than a babe. And that
reminds me of a frightful dream I had.” And her countenance changed.
“A dream?” I queried.
“Yes; I thought Aggy and Lu were both dead! I saw them laid out, cold
and white as statues, just as plainly as I see you now.”
She stopped suddenly, an expression of fear going over her face--then
looked at me in a strange, questioning way.
“Doctor”--she leaned towards me, with lips apart, and eyes full of a
sudden, wild alarm. I laid my hand upon her, and said:
“You have been very ill for some time, Mrs. Dewey, and are too weak to
