acquaintance. In fact I never even set a chair for him, as the woman in
Elia set a chair for the poor relation, saying, 'perhaps he will step
in to-day.' I have been busy, doctor--what shall I do to amuse you?
will you have a foreign newspaper?"

The doctor looked dubious; then took the newspaper and turned it over,
but not as if he had got rid of his ennui.

"This smoke in the house will drive us out of Pattaquasset a little
sooner than we expected."

"Not this winter?"

"Yes. That's nothing new--but we shall go a few days earlier than we
meant. I wish you were going too."

"When to return?" said Mr. Linden. "I mean you--not myself."

"I?--I am a wandering comet," said the doctor. "I have astonished
Pattaquasset so long, it is time for me to flare up in some other
place. I don't know, Linden. Somebody must be here occasionally, to
overlook the refitting of the inside of that library--perhaps that
agreeable duty will fall on me. But Linden,"--said the doctor dropping
the newspaper and turning half round on his chair, speaking gracefully
and comically,--"you astonish Pattaquasset as much as I do; and to
tell you the truth you astonish me sometimes a little. This is no place
for you. Wouldn't you prefer a tutorship at Quilipeak, or a professor's
chair in one of the city colleges? You may step into either berth
presently, and at your pleasure,--I know. I do not speak without
knowledge."

There was a stir of feeling in Mr. Linden's face--there was even an
unwonted tinge of colour, but the firm-set lips gave no indication as
to whence it came; and he presently looked up, answering the doctor in
tones as graceful and more simple than his own.

"Thank you, doctor, once more! But I have full employment, and am--or
am not--ambitious,--whichever way you choose to render it. Not to speak
of the pleasure of astonishing Pattaquasset," he added, with a smile
breaking out,--"I could not hope to do that for Quilipeak."

"Please know," said the doctor, both frankly and with much respect in
his manner, "that I have been so presumptuous as to concern my mind
about this for some time--for which you will punish me as you think I
deserve. How to be so much further presumptuous as to speak to you
about it, was my trouble;--and I ventured at last," he said smiling,
"upon my own certain possession of certain points of that 'friend'
character which you were giving just now to Reuben Taylor--or to
yourself, in his regard."

"I am sure you have them!--But about Reuben,--though I know reward is
the last thing he thought of or would wish,--yet I, his friend, choose
to answer for him, that if you choose to give him any of the books that
he will need in college, they will be well bestowed."

"In college!" said the doctor. "Diable! Where is he going?"

"Probably to Quilipeak."

"You said, to college, man. I mean, what is college the road to, in the
youngster's mind?"

"I am not sure that I have a right to tell you," said Mr. Linden,--"it
is in his mind a road to greater usefulness--so much I may say."

"He'll never be more useful than he was last night. However, I'm
willing to help him try.--What is Mignonette going to do with herself
this afternoon?"--said the doctor throwing aside his newspaper and
standing before her.

"I don't know," said Faith. "Sit here and work, I suppose."

"I'll tell you what she ought to do," the doctor went on impressively.
"She ought to do what the flowers do when the sun goes down,--shut up
her sweetness to herself, see and be seen by nobody, and cease to be
conscious of her own existence."

Faith laughed, in a way that gave doubtful promise of following the
directions. The doctor stood looking down at her, took her hand and
gallantly kissed it, and finally took himself off.

"There is a good little trial of my patience!" Mr. Linden said. "I
don't know but it is well he is going away, for I might forget myself
some time, and bid him hands off."

At which Faith looked thoughtful.

"Faith," Mr. Linden said, gently raising her face, "would you like to
live at Quilipeak?"

The answer to that was a great rush of colour, and a casting down of
eyes and face too as soon as it was permitted.

"Well?" he said smiling--though she felt some other thread in the
voice. "What did you think of the words that passed between the doctor
and me? Would you like to have me agree to his proposal?"

"You would do what is best," she said with a good deal of effort. "I
couldn't wish anything else."--

