They had now gained the street of the city, where old Elsie stood at a
little distance waiting for them.

"Well, Agnes," said Antonio, "so you really are in earnest?"

"Certainly I am."

"Well, then, let us be good friends, at any rate," said the young man.

"Oh, to be sure, I will," said Agnes, smiling with all the brightness
her lovely face was capable of. "You are a kind, good man, and I like
you very much. I will always remember you kindly."

"Well, good-by, then," said Antonio, offering his hand.

"Good-by," said Agnes, cheerfully giving hers.

Elsie, beholding the cordiality of this parting, comforted herself that
all was right, and ruffled all her feathers with the satisfied pride of
a matron whose family plans are succeeding.

"After all," she said to herself, "brother was right,--best let young
folks settle these matters themselves. Now see the advantage of such an
education as I have given Agnes! Instead of being betrothed to a good,
honest, forehanded fellow, she might have been losing her poor silly
heart to some of these lords or gallants who throw away a girl as one
does an orange when they have sucked it. Who knows what mischief this
cavalier might have done, if I had not been so watchful? Now let him
come prying and spying about, she will have a husband to defend her. A
smith's hammer is better than an old woman's spindle, any day."

Agnes took her seat with her usual air of thoughtful gravity, her
mind seeming to be intensely preoccupied, and her grandmother, though
secretly exulting in the supposed cause, resolved not to open the
subject with her till they were at home or alone at night.

"I have my defense to make to Father Francesco, too," she said to
herself, "for hurrying on this betrothal against his advice; but one
must manage a little with these priests,--the saints forgive me! I
really think sometimes, because they can't marry themselves, they would
rather see every pretty girl in a convent than with a husband. It's
natural enough, too. Father Francesco will be like the rest of the
world: when he can't help a thing, he will see the will of the Lord in
it."

Thus prosperously the world seemed to go with old Elsie. Meantime, when
her back was turned, as she was kneeling over her basket, sorting out
lemons, Agnes happened to look up, and there, just under the arch of
the gateway, where she had seen him the first time, sat the cavalier
on a splendid horse, with a white feather streaming backward from his
black riding-hat and dark curls.

He bowed low and kissed his hand to her, and before she knew it her
eyes met his, which seemed to flash light and sunshine all through
her; and then he turned his horse and was gone through the gate, while
she, filled with self-reproach, was taking her little heart to task
for the instantaneous throb of happiness which had passed through
her whole being at that sight. She had not turned away her head nor
said a prayer, as Father Francesco told her to do, because the whole
thing had been sudden as a flash; but now it was gone, she prayed,
"My God, help me not to love him!--let me love Thee alone!" But many
times in the course of the day, as she twisted her flax, she found
herself wondering whither he could be going. Had he really gone to that
enchanted cloud-land, in the old purple Apennines, whither he wanted to
carry her,--gone, perhaps, never to return? That was best. But was he
reconciled with the Church? Was that great, splendid soul that looked
out of those eyes to be forever lost, or would the pious exhortations
of her uncle avail? And then she thought he had said to her, that, if
she would go with him, he would confess and take the sacrament, and be
reconciled with the Church, and so his soul be saved.

She resolved to tell this to Father Francesco. Perhaps he
would--No,--she shivered as she remembered the severe, withering look
with which the holy father had spoken of him, and the awfulness of his
manner,--he would never consent. And then her grandmother--No, there
was no possibility.

Meanwhile Agnes's good old uncle sat in the orange-shaded garden,
busily perfecting his sketches; but his mind was distracted, and his
thoughts wandered,--and often he rose, and, leaving his drawings, would
pace up and down the little place, absorbed in earnest prayer. The
thought of his master's position was hourly growing upon him. The real
world with its hungry and angry tide was each hour washing higher and
higher up on the airy shore of the ideal, and bearing the pearls and
enchanted shells of fancy out into its salt and muddy waters.

"Oh, my master! my father!" he said, "is the martyr's crown of fire
indeed waiting thee? Will God desert His own? But was not Christ
crucified?--and the disciple is not above his master, nor the servant
above his lord. But surely Florence will not consent. The whole city
will make a stand for him;--they are ready, if need be, to pluck out
their eyes and give them to him. Florence will certainly be a refuge
for him. But why do I put confidence in man? In the Lord alone have I
righteousness and strength."

And the old monk raised the psalm, "Quare fremunt gentes," and his
voice rose and fell through the flowery recesses and dripping grottoes
of the old gorge, sad and earnest like the protest of the few and
feeble of Christ's own against the rushing legions of the world. Yet,
as he sang, courage and holy hope came into his soul from the sacred
