brushwood and bushes, to await the coming of the fright 
ened and scattered flock, grew impatient of the tardiness 
of the dogs sent to " flush" the birds, and started off himself to seek and direct them. He was not long in discovering a fine gang of turkeys, and after assuring himself that 
many of them had taken the direction he desired, undertook 
to regain the covert by another route. Crouching low, that 
his head might not appear above the undergrowth of the 
wood, he made his way rapidly and stealthily towards the 
ambuscade. He was within twenty yards of it, when the 
crack of a gun rang out upon the forest stillness. Helen, 
excited and impetuous, had mistaken the slight motion 




created by his passage among the bushes, for the advance 
of the expected game, and fired before Robert could interfere to prevent her rash action. The charge from her 
weapon lodged in Aleck's shoulder and the upper part of 
his chest, inflicting a severe, and, as they, in their inexpe 
rience, feared, a fatal wound. 

Bleeding and suffering ignorant as his companions of 
the extent of his danger, the elder brother still retained his 
habitual power of resolve and command. 

" Leave me here both of you !" was his order. " Robert ! 
you will see her home ! then ride over to Greenfield and 
bring a couple of men back with you. And, my dear fel 
low ! mind ! I did it myself!" 

Helen interposed with a passionate burst of self-accusation. It was all her work her unpardonable stupidity! 
her cruel, cruel blunder ! and she alone should be blamed 
for it! She deserved the most severe things that could be 
said of and to her ! 

" Nelly !" The wounded youth looked up with his own 
saucy smile. " Do you remember what that old Hebrew 
king Abimelech, I believe it was said to his armor- 
bearer, when a woman cast a piece of millstone from the 
wall of the besieged city, and cracked his crown ? c Draw 
thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me A 
woman slew him ! Robert, you will do as I said !" 

Robert hastened away in quest of help ; but Helen's will 
I was not to be borne down in this matter. For two hours 
long in their anguished suspense to her ; short and delicious as a dream of Paradise to the injured boy, she lingered beside him in the heart of that lonely forest; 
stanching the blood with such appliances as were within 
her reach ; making him a pillow of leaves ; fanning him ; 
gently wiping his brow, when the pain, that could not extort 
groan from the manly heart, or dim his grateful smile, 






forced great beads of sweat through the pores. 
more ! when the sound of voices was heard approaching 
the spot, and he besought her for both their sakes to make 
good her retreat before she was perceived by curious or 
unfriendly eyes, she gazed long and earnestly into his 
face, a look that awoke a new thrill of life in the fainting 
heart, and, the tears raining down her cheeks, bent over 
and kissed him. 

When Robert and his attendants arrived at the scene of 
the accident, Aleck was alone, lying quietly upon his leafy 
couch, more than serene, with a happy light upon his counte 
nance that glorified and elevated every feature. It was but 
the commencement of a splendid hunting season the finest 
that had been known in years when he was shot, and he 
lost the whole of it. Miss Ruth marvelled at and lauded 
his patient endurance of his tedious confinement ; his comrades were affected with equal surprise at the cheerful 
equanimity with which he received their raillery upon his 
awkwardness in hitting himself, he, the best shot in the 
country ! 

" Merely a difference of game, boys !" he said, gayly. 
"I went to look for turkeys, and brought down a great 
goose instead !" 

Robert carried daily health bulletins to Colonel Floyd's, 
and never returned without some token of remembrance or 
sympathizing message from Helen. Sometimes she wrote 
to the invalid. Every one of these hastily penned notes 
incoherent, girlish, extravagant was treasured up to this 
day locked away, as too sacred for other eyes ; perfumed 
with the roses she had sent by his brother's hand. The 
three guarded well their secret ; but Helen never hunted 
again. If she had not lost her unfeminine hankering for a 
personal participation in the amusement, she shrank from its 
practice with trembling. 




She was but fifteen then, scarcely more than a child. 
Robert was two years older, and Aleck his senior by 
eighteen months. He was twenty-two when he went to 
Germany, and it was still "Aleck" and "Nelly" between 
them. Still they laughed, danced, rode and sported to 
