"A sarpent!" echoed Logan--"it's not your pairt to be frighted if you
see a sarpent. What hurt would the sight of the brute do ye? There's no
harm come to ye, boy, but the start."
"I can't move it--" repeated Sam under his breath.
"Logan, perhaps he has sprained his ankle," said Daisy from her chair;
where at first she had been pretty well frightened.
"Weel--I don't see it," replied Logan slowly and unbelievingly.
"How does it feel, Sam?" Daisy asked.
"It don't feel without I stir it, Miss Daisy--and then, it's like a
knife."
"He has sprained it, I am afraid, Logan," said Daisy getting out of her
chair and coming to the consultation. "I think it is swelling now."
Sam had bared his unfortunate ankle, Logan looked up from it to the
little speaker whose words were so quietly wise, with unspoken
admiration.
"Can't ye walk then, Sam?" he urged. "Here is Miss Daisy in the middle
of the road and wanting to be at the Lake--and how much farther it may
be to the Lake is a subject unknown to me. Can't ye bear your foot
surely?"
Sam's reply was sorrowful but decided; he could not bear it at all, with
any weight upon it.
"Never mind, Logan," said Daisy; "I can wait. You had better go forward
and see if you can find the boys. They can take care of me."
Logan felt the justness of this proposition, and at once put his long
legs in swift motion to overtake the advance party; exercising a good
strong voice too presently in hallooing to them. Daisy was left with
Sam. The thought crossed her mind that this was getting to be an odd
party of pleasure; but her real concern was for the sprained ankle.
That, she was very sorry for. Her own delay and disappointment she took
patiently.
Logan's halloos brought the boys to a stand. They waited till he came up
to them, not deeming it necessary on their part to go back to see what
was the matter. When they heard his news there was a disagreeable pause.
What was to be done?
"Daisy can walk the rest of the way," was the decision of her brother.
"How far is it?" said Preston.
"I don't know!--it's no great things of a walk anyhow. Girls are always
getting into trouble!"
"But what has got to be done with Sam?" said Preston.
"He can take care of himself," said Sam's young master.
"He can't move, sir, on his own feet," said Logan.
"You'll have to carry him, then. I suppose we cannot leave him in the
woods, for humanity."
"There's Miss Daisy, sir."
"What a plague!" exclaimed Ransom. "Daisy can walk. She must at any
rate; and you can bring her chair along to make firewood. Boys we ought
to be there this minute--at the Lake. We shall be cheated out of all
our fishing before dinner. That's along of mounting guard on a girl!
And after dinner there won't be two inches of time."
"Hush, Ransom!" said Preston.
At this point the consultation was enlarged, and its character somewhat
modified by the coming of Dr. Sandford upon the scene. From a height not
far off, where he was roaming with his gun, he had perceived the group
discerned that something was wrong, and come down with a quick step to
reach them. His eye rather than his voice asked what was the matter. He
was answered in various styles by the different members of the group.
"Here is a muss!" said Ransom.
"Miss Daisy, sir, she is left standing in the middle o' the
forest!"--said Logan.
"Sam has very stupidly sprained his ankle," said Preston, "and cannot
move."
The doctor without a word turned in the direction from which Logan had
come. "Follow me, young gentlemen," said he, looking over his
shoulder,---"I shall need your help." So unwillingly enough, the boys,
fishing tackle and all, turned back upon their steps, and followed. They
soon came to Daisy's emptied chair, where she stood mounting guard over
Sam.
The ankle was badly sprained; there was no doubt of that. Sam not only
could carry nobody; he must himself be carried. The doctor ordered that
Logan should take him on his back and convey him as far as the poor
little house they had passed on the way. A good lift it was, for Sam was
a well grown, stout fellow; but Logan was a long-limbed, sinewy, brawny
Scotchman, and he made no difficulty of the job. The doctor in the first
place deposited his gun against a tree, and did what was needful for the
hurt ankle.
"Now," said he to Daisy, "how are you going to get forward?"
"I can walk the rest of the way," said Daisy.
"Pardon me. Not with my leave. Boys, which, of you will take the honour
of being chair-bearers? I have my gun to care for."
"I will be one," said Preston.
"And Ransom will be the other. Come, sir!"
"Honour!"--said Ransom as he moved sullenly forward. "I think girls
ought to stay at home when there is anything going on. They are plaguily
in one's way!"
"That is a very womanish speech," said the doctor; "in so far as that it
is very unmanly."
Ransom's temper nowise improved by this reply, he took up sulkily his
ends of the chair poles; and once more the party set forward. It was not
quite so pleasant now for Daisy; her chair was no longer carried
smoothly. Preston, who was in advance, did his part perfectly well; but
Ransom, behind her, let the chair go up and go down and sway about very
unsteadily, besides that every step was with a jolting motion. It kept
Daisy in constant uneasiness. Dr. Sandford walked on just before with
his gun; Alexander Fish came after, laughing and jesting with the other
boys.
"How does it go, Daisy?" said the doctor, stopping after a while to
inquire.
"Mayn't I get out and walk, Dr. Sandford?"
"What for?"
"I should like it very much!"
