"Sister Balliol," said Mr. Rhys, "will you put us in mind concerning
our subject this evening?"

"It is the glory to be revealed; and I find that it is a glory to be
revealed in us," Mrs. Balliol made answer. "Sufferings come first. It
is a glory that goes along with sufferings in the present life; but it
is so much greater than the sufferings, that no comparison can be made
of them. For my part, I do not think the glory would be half so much
glory, if it were not for the sufferings going before."

"To suffer with Christ, and for him, that is glory now," said Mr. Rhys;
"to have been so honoured will always be part of our joy. If any man
suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but rather let him
glorify God on this behalf. Those be tears that Christ's own hand will
wipe off; and what glory will that be!"

"The word of God fails to express it," said Mr. Amos, "and calls it
'riches of glory.' Riches of glory, to be poured into vessels prepared
to receive it. Surely, being such heirs, none of us has a right to call
himself poor? we are heirs of an inheritance incorruptible, and
undefiled, and not subject to decadence or failure. We may well be
content with our penny earnest in this life, who have such an estate
coming in."

"I feel poor very often," said gentle Mrs. Amos; "and I suppose that
must be my own fault; for the word says, 'Riches and honour are with
me; yea, durable riches, and righteousness.'"

"Those are riches that none but the poor come into possession of," said
Mr. Rhys. "The poor in spirit inherit the kingdom, and nobody else. It
is our very emptiness, that fits us for receiving those unsearchable
riches. But having those, sister Amos, it is no deprivation of this
world's good things that would make you feel poor?"

"O no, indeed!" said Mrs. Amos. "I did not mean that sort of poor."

"The rich he will send empty away"--Mr. Rhys went on.

"So in the matter of suffering," said Mr. Balliol taking up the word.
"If we are partakers of Christ's sufferings now, we are told to
rejoice. For when his glory is revealed, the word is, that we shall be
glad also, and with exceeding joy. When his glory is revealed here, a
little, now, we are glad; our joy seems to be exceeding, now, brother
Rhys. I wonder what it will be when God calls it exceeding joy!"

There was a pause; and then Mrs. Amos, for the sake simply of starting
Eleanor, whose voice she knew in it, began softly the song, "Burst, ye
emerald gates!" She had her success, for Eleanor with the others took
up the words, and carried it--Mrs. Amos thought--where Mr. Rhys's
prayer had been. When the song ceased, there was silence; till Mr. Rhys
said, "Eleanor!"--It was her turn to speak.

"I do not believe," she said speaking low and slowly,--"that either
sufferings, or premises, or duties, will bring the hope of glory into
the heart; until Jesus himself brings it there. And if he brings it, it
hardly seems to me that sufferings will enhance it--except in so far as
they lead to greater knowledge of him or are the immediate fruit of
love to him; and then, as Mr. Rhys says, they are honour themselves
already. The riches of the glory of this mystery, is Christ in you,
the hope of glory."

Mr. Rhys was standing at the back of Eleanor's chair, leaning upon it.
He bent his head and whispered to her to tell her story that she had
told him. At that whisper, Eleanor would have steadily gone through the
fire if necessary; this was not quite as hard; and though not for her
own sake caring to do it, she told the story and told it freely and
well. She told it so that every head there was bowed. And then there
was silence again; till Mr. Rhys began, or rather went on with what she
had been saying; in a voice that seemed to come from every heart.

"'Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not,
yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory.'

"Friends, we have the present honour, of being Christ's ambassadors. Do
we know what honour that is? 'Whosoever shall receive this child in my
name, receiveth me; and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth him that
sent me.' That is honour under which we may tremble!"--And standing
there at the back of Eleanor's chair, Mr. Rhys began to talk; on the
joy of carrying Christ's message, the honour of being his servants and
co-workers, and the gladness of bringing the water of life to lips dry
and failing in death. He told the instance of that evening which he had
told to Eleanor; and leaving his station behind her, he walked up and
down again, speaking as she had sometimes heard him speak, till every
head was raised and turned, and every eye followed him. With fire and
tears, speaking of the work to be done and the joy of doing it, and the
need of more to do it; and of the carelessness people have of that
glory which will make men shine as the stars for ever and ever.

"Ay, we shall know then, brother Balliol, when the great supper is
served, and Christ shall gird himself, and make his faithful servants
sit down to meat, and he shall come forth and serve them--we shall know
then, if we are there, what glory means! And we shall know what it
means to have no want unsatisfied and no joy left out!--when the Lamb
that is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them
to living fountains of waters."

Mr. Balliol answered--

"If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall
also my servants be: if any man serve me, him will my Father honour."
