increased, and he plodded on till he discovered a small village--or what
would be called such in Virginia--though it contained only a few houses.
As he still wore the uniform of the United States army, he did not deem it
prudent to pass through this village; besides, he was terribly perplexed
to know what station it could be, and what had become of Fairfax. Though
he must have passed through the country before, it did not look natural to
him.
Leaving the railroad, he took to the fields, intending to pass round the
village, or conceal himself in the woods till he could go through it in
safety. After walking diligently for so many hours, Tom was reminded that
he had a stomach. His rations on the preceding day had not been very
bountiful, and he was positively hungry. The organ which had reminded him
of its existence was beginning to be imperative in its demands, and a new
problem was presented for solution--one which had not before received the
attention which it deserved.
In the fields and forest he found a few berries; but all he could find
made but a slight impression upon the neglected organ. If Tom was a
philosopher, in his humble way, he was reasonable enough to admit that a
man could not live without eating. At this point, therefore, the question
of rations became a serious and solemn problem; and the longer it remained
unsolved the more difficult and harassing it became.
After he had rested all the forenoon in a secluded spot, without
interruption from man or beast, he decided to settle this question of
rations once for all. If impudence had enabled him to pass a line of rebel
sentries, it ought to furnish him with a dinner. Leaving his hiding place,
he walked till he discovered a small house, at which he determined to
apply for something to eat.
CHAPTER XVII.
DINNER AND DANGER.
The house at which Tom applied for food evidently did not belong to one of
the "first families," or, if it did, the owner's fortunes had become sadly
dilapidated. It was built of rough boards, with a huge stone chimney,
which was erected on the outside of the structure. The humblest fisherman
in Pinchbrook Harbor would have thought himself poorly accommodated in
such a rough and rickety mansion.
If Tom's case had not been growing desperate, he would not have run the
risk of showing himself to any person on the "sacred soil" who was "to the
manor born;" but his stomach was becoming more and more imperative in its
demands, and he knocked at the front door with many misgivings, especially
as his exchequer contained less than a dollar of clear cash.
The inmates were either very deaf or very much indisposed to see visitors;
and Tom, after he had knocked three times, began to think he had not run
any great risk in coming to this house. As nobody replied to his summons,
he took the liberty to open the door and enter. The establishment was even
more primitive in its interior than its exterior, and the soldier boy
could not help contrasting it with the neat houses of the poor in his
native town.
The front door opened into a large room without the formality of an entry
or hall. In one corner of the apartment stood a bed. At one side was a
large fireplace, in which half a dozen sticks of green wood were hissing
and sizzling in a vain attempt to make the contents of an iron pot, which
hung over them, reach the boiling point. No person was to be seen or heard
on the premises, though the fire and the pot were suggestive of humanity
at no great distance from the spot.
A door on the back side of the room was open, and Tom looked out in search
of the occupants of the house. In the garden he discovered the whole
family, consisting of a man and his wife, a girl of twelve, and a boy of
ten. The man was digging in the garden, and the rest of the troupe seemed
to be superintending the operation. The head of the family was altogether
the most interesting person to Tom, for he must either shake hands or
fight with him. He did not look like a giant in intellect, and he
certainly was not a giant in stature. With the bayonet still in his belt,
Tom was not afraid of him.
"How are you, people?" said Tom, as he walked towards the family, who with
one accord suspended all operations, and gave their whole attention to the
stranger.
"How are ye, yourself?" replied the man, rather gruffly.
"Do you keep a hotel?" demanded Tom, who concealed the anxiety of his
heart under a broad grin.
"I reckon I don't. What do you want here?"
"I want something to eat," replied Tom, proceeding to business with
commendable straight-forwardness.
"We hain't got nothin' here," said the man, sourly. "That ain't what ye
come fur, nuther."
"Must have something to eat. I'm not very particular, but I must have
something."
"You can't hev it 'bout yere, no how. That ain't what ye come fur,
nuther."
"If you know what I came for better than I do, suppose you tell me what it
is," added Tom, who was a little mystified by the manner of the man.
"You air one of them soger fellers, and you want me to 'list; but I tell
yer, ye can't do nothin' of the sort. I'll be dog derned if I'll go."
"I don't want you to go," protested Tom. "I'm half starved and all I want
is something to eat."
"Yer don't reelly mean so."
"Yes, I do."
"Where d'yer come from?"
"From down below here. Have you seen any soldiers pass through this
place?"
"I reckon I hev; but they hain't seen me; and I reckon they won't see me
very soon;" and the man chuckled at his own cleverness in keeping clear of
recruiting officers.
"I don't want you, and if you will give me something to eat, you will get
rid of me very quick."
"Betsey, you kin feed the feller, if yer like, and I'll go over and see
whar the hogs is."
The man dropped his shovel, and began to move off towards the woods,
probably to see whether Tom would attempt to detain him. At the same time
"Betsey" led the way into the house, and the visitor paid no further
attention to the master.
