That was because he repented of his hasty vow to absent himself till
June. It was not love she saw in his eyes the night they parted, but
pity. He read her secret before that compassionate glance revealed it to
herself, and he had gone away to spare her further folly. She had
deceived herself, had blindly cherished a baseless hope, and this was
the end. Even for the nameless gift she found a reason, with a woman's
skill, in self-torture. Moor had met Adam, had told his disappointment,
and still pitying her Warwick had sent the pretty greeting to console
her for the loss of both friend and lover.

This thought seemed to sting her into sudden passion. As if longing to
destroy every trace of her delusion, she tore away the holly wreaths and
flung them in the fire; took down the bow and arrow Warwick had made her
from above the étagère, where she had arranged the spoils of her happy
voyage, snapped them across her knee and sent them after the holly;
followed by the birch canoe, and every pebble, moss, shell, or bunch of
headed grass he had given her then. The osier basket was not spared, the
box went next, and even the wrapper was on its way to immolation, when,
as she rent it apart, with a stern pleasure in the sacrifice it was
going to complete, from some close fold of the paper hitherto
undisturbed a card dropped at her feet.

She caught it up and read in handwriting almost as familiar as her own:
"To Sylvia,--A merry Christmas and best wishes from her friend, Geoffrey
Moor." The word "friend" was underscored, as if he desired to assure her
that he still cherished the only tie permitted him, and sent the green
token to lighten her regret that she could give no more.

Warm over Sylvia's sore heart rushed the tender thought and longing, as
her tears began to flow. "He cares for me! he remembered me! I wish he
would come back and comfort me!"




CHAPTER X.

YES.


It is easy to say, "I will forget," but perhaps the hardest task given
us is to lock up a natural yearning of the heart, and turn a deaf ear to
its plaint, for captive and jailer must inhabit the same small cell.
Sylvia was proud, with that pride which is both sensitive and
courageous, which can not only suffer but wring strength from suffering.
While she struggled with a grief and shame that aged her with their
pain, she asked no help, made no complaint; but when the forbidden
passion stretched its arms to her, she thrust it back and turned to
pleasure for oblivion.

Those who knew her best were troubled and surprised by the craving for
excitement which now took possession of her, the avidity with which she
gratified it, regardless of time, health, and money. All day she hurried
here and there, driving, shopping, sight-seeing, or entertaining guests
at home. Night brought no cessation of her dissipation, for when balls,
masquerades, and concerts failed, there still remained the theatre. This
soon became both a refuge and a solace, for believing it to be less
harmful than other excitements, her father indulged her new whim. But,
had she known it, this was the most dangerous pastime she could have
chosen. Calling for no exertion of her own, it left her free to
passively receive a stimulant to her unhappy love in watching its mimic
semblance through all phases of tragic suffering and sorrow, for she
would see no comedies, and Shakespeare's tragedies became her study.

This lasted for a time, then the reaction came. A black melancholy fell
upon her, and energy deserted soul and body. She found it a weariness to
get up in the morning and weariness to lie down at night. She no longer
cared even to seem cheerful, owned that she was spiritless, hoped she
should be ill, and did not care if she died to-morrow. When this dark
mood seemed about to become chronic she began to mend, for youth is
wonderfully recuperative, and the deepest wounds soon heal even against
the sufferer's will. A quiet apathy replaced the gloom, and she let the
tide drift her where it would, hoping nothing, expecting nothing, asking
nothing but that she need not suffer any more.

She lived fast; all processes with her were rapid; and the secret
experience of that winter taught her many things. She believed it had
only taught her to forget, for now the outcast love lay very still, and
no longer beat despairingly against the door of her heart, demanding to
be taken in from the cold. She fancied that neglect had killed it, and
that its grave was green with many tears. Alas for Sylvia! how could she
know that it had only sobbed itself to sleep, and would wake beautiful
and strong at the first sound of its master's voice.

Mark became eventful. In his fitful fashion he had painted a picture of
the Golden Wedding, from sketches taken at the time. Moor had suggested
and bespoken it, that the young artist might have a motive for finishing
it, because, though he excelled in scenes of that description, he
thought them beneath him, and tempted by more ambitious designs,
neglected his true branch of the art. In April it was finished, and at
his father's request Mark reluctantly sent it with his Clytemnestra to
the annual exhibition. One morning at breakfast Mr. Yule suddenly
laughed out behind his paper, and with a face of unmixed satisfaction
passed it to his son, pointing to a long critique upon the Exhibition.
Mark prepared himself to receive with becoming modesty the praises
lavished upon his great work, but was stricken with amazement to find
Clytemnestra disposed of in a single sentence, and the Golden Wedding
lauded in a long enthusiastic paragraph.

"What the deuce does the man mean!" he ejaculated, staring at his
