young and fair should be thus rudely hurried out of ex- 
istence, without a mother or even a father near to receive 
her last gaze of earth, and listen to the soft sigh with 
which she breathed forth her last throb of existence. He 
had a telescopic drinking-cup in his pocket, with which 
he hastened to a brook that flowed through the valley. 
Filling it with water, he returned to his charge. He 
sprinkled her face, and rubbed her temples, and exerted 
himself to the best of his knowledge and ability to 
awaken some signs of life. 
The task seemed hopeless ; and he was about to aban- 
don it in despair, to render assistance to those who needed 
it more than the fair, silent form before him, when an 
almost imperceptible sigh gladdened his heart, and caused 
him to renew his exertions. Procuring another cup of 
water, he persistently sprinkled the fair face and chafed 
the temples of his charge. With his handkerchief he 
 
washed away the blood-stains, and ascertained that she 
was only slightly cut just above the ear. 
Cheered by the success which had rewarded his efforts, 
he continued to bathe and chafe till the gentle stranger 
opened her eyes. In a few moments more she recovered 
her consciousness, and cast a bewildered jrlance around 
her. 
"Where is my father?" said she; and, as she spoke, 
the fearful nature of the catastrophe dawned upon her 
mind, and she partially rose from her recumbent posture. 
Lieutenant Somers could not tell where her father was, 
and his first thought was that he must be beneath the 
wreck of the shattered cars. For the first time, he 
looked about him to measure with his eye the extent of 
the calamity. At that moment he discovered the engine, 
with the forward part of the train backing down the rail- 
road. Only the two rear cars had been precipitated over 
the embankment ; the accident having been caused by the 
breaking of an axle on the last car but one. The shackle 
connecting this with the next one had given way, and the 
broken car had darted off the bank, carrying the rear one 
with it, while the rest of the train dashed on to Its des- 
tination. 
Of course the calamity was immediately discovered ; 
but a considerable time elapsed as time was measured 
by those who were suffering and dying beneath the debris 
of the train before the engine could be stopped, and 
 
backed to the scene of the accident. Lieutenant Somers 
had seen the lady's father go forward, and had heard him 
say he was going to the smoking-car : he was therefore 
satisfied that he was safe. 
" lie will be here presently," he replied to the anxious 
question of the fair stranger. 
"Perhaps he was oh, dear ! Perhaps he was" 
" Oh, no ! he wasn't. The smoking-car was not thrown 
off the track," interposed the young officer, promptly re- 
moving from her mind the terrible fear which took pos- 
session of her first conscious moments. "Are you much 
hurt?" 
" I don't know ; I don't think I am : but one of my 
arms feels very numb." 
" Let me examine it," continued our traveller, tenderly 
raising the injured member. 
He was not deeply skilled in surgery ; but he knew 
enough of the mysteries of anatomy to discover that the 
arm was broken between the elbow and the shoulder. 
" I am afraid your arm is broken," said he cautiously, 
as though he feared the announcement would cause her 
to faint again. 
" I am glad it is no worse," said she with a languid 
smile, and without exhibiting the least indication of fem- 
inine weakness. 
" It might have been worse, certainly. Can I do any 
thing more for you ? " added Lieutenant Somers, glancing 
at the wreck of the cars, with a feeling that his duty then 
was a less pleasing one than that of attending to the 
wants of the beautiful stranger ; for there were still men 
and women lying helpless and unserved in the midst of 
the ruins. 
The train stopped upon the road ; and the passengers, 
though appalled by the sight, rushed down the bank to 
render willing assistance to the sufferers. Among them 
was the father of the young lady, who leaped frantically 
down the steep, and passed from one to another of the 
forms which the survivors had taken from the wreck. 
" There is your father," said Lieutenant Somers as 
he recognized him among the excited passengers. " I 
will go and tell him where you are." 
" Do, if you please," replied the lady faintly, 
He ran to the distracted parent, and seized him by the 
arm as he dashed from one place to another in search of 
the gentle maiden whose life was part of his own. 
" Your daughter is out here, sir," said Lieutenant 
Somers, pointing to the spot where he had borne her. 
" My daughter ! " gasped the agonized father. " Where, 
where ? " 
" In this direction, sir." 
" Is she O Heaven, spare me ! " groaned he. 
" She is hurt, but I think not very badly. Her left 
arm is broken, and her head is slightly cut." 
" O God, I thank thee ! " gasped the father, as he 
