
"I didn't expect to see you again for years, after the letter you wrote
me."

"Been cast away, Miss Bertha, and lived two months on an island where
nobody lived," blubbered Noddy.

"Who is this little girl with you? Is this Mollie, of whom you spoke in
your letter?"

"Yes, Miss Bertha, that's Mollie; and she is the best girl in the world,
except yourself."

"I'm very glad to see you, Mollie," said Bertha, taking her hand, and
giving her a kind reception. "Now, come into the house."

Bertha, finding Noddy so completely overcome by his emotions, refrained
from asking him any more questions, though she was anxious to hear the
sad story of the shipwreck. Mr. Grant had not yet gone to the city, and
he received the returned exiles as though they had been his own
children.

"I've come back, Mr. Grant, to settle up old affairs, and you can send
me to the court-house or the prison now. I did wrong, and I am willing
to suffer for it."

"I have told them all about it, Noddy," interrupted Miss Fanny,
blushing. "I couldn't stand it after you went away."

"It was my fault," said Noddy. "I said so then, and I say so now."

"We won't say anything about that until after breakfast. We are very
glad you have come back; and we don't care about thinking of anything
else, at present," said Mr. Grant.

Breakfast was provided for the wanderer and his friend, and Mollie was
soon made quite at home by the kind attentions of Bertha and Fanny. When
the meal was ended, Noddy insisted upon "settling up old affairs," as he
called it. He declared that the blame ought to rest on him, and he was
willing to suffer. Mr. Grant said that he was satisfied. Fanny was to
blame, and she had already been severely punished for her fault.

"You will not send poor Noddy to prison--will you?" interposed Mollie.
"He is a good boy now. He saved my life, and took care of me for months.
You will find that he is not the same Noddy, he used to be. He is made
over new."

"I'm glad to hear that," replied Mr. Grant. "But Noddy, did you really
think I intended to send you to jail?"

"Yes, sir; what was the constable after me for, if not for that?"

"It's a mistake, and I told you so in Albany. Didn't I say you would be
a rich man?"

"You did, sir; but I thought that was only to catch me. All of them said
something of that sort. I knew I couldn't be a rich man, because my
father never had a cent to leave me. That's what they told me."

"But you had an uncle."

"Never heard of him," replied Noddy, bewildered at the prospect before
him.

"Your father's only brother died in California more than a year ago. He
had no family; but an honest man who went with him knew where he came
from; and Squire Wriggs has hunted up all the evidence, which fully
proves that all your uncle's property, in the absence of other heirs,
belongs to you. He left over thirty thousand dollars, and it is all
yours."

"Dear me!" exclaimed Noddy, utterly confounded by this intelligence.

"This sum, judiciously invested, will produce at least fifty thousand
when you are of age. I have been appointed your guardian."

"I don't think I'm Noddy Newman after this," added the heir, in
breathless excitement.

"I know you are not," added Bertha, laughing. "Your real name is Ogden
Newman."

"How are you, Ogden?" said Noddy, amused at his new name.

"I suppose Noddy came from Ogden," said Mr. Grant.

"If that's what's the matter, I don't see what you wanted to take me to
court for."

"As you have come to years of discretion, you might have had the
privilege of naming your own guardian; and we were going to take you to
the court for that purpose. As you were not here to speak for yourself,
I was appointed. If you are not satisfied, the proceedings can be
reviewed."

"I'm satisfied first rate," laughed Noddy. "But you said something about
sending me off."

"My plan was to send you to the Tunbrook Military Institute, where
Richard is, and make a man of you."
