fluence, and position looked forward, selfishly, as all 
men in whom natural life has not become subordinated 
to a spiritual and regenerate life, look. But, unlike his 
friend, Adam Guy, his thought did not centre upon and 
revolve only around himself. He had generous thoughts 
and purposes toward others- humanitary ends aspira 
tions that included the common good. Sordid love of 
money was not an element of his nature. He had no 
desire to accumulate, merely for the sake of riches, and 
the selfish independence of the world their possession 
would give. As thought went forward to the time 
when he should have money at command, and influence 



among men, he loved todwellon embryo schemes of 
social good benevolent, educational, or industrial. 
Means to ends, he did not see clearly. That time was 
yet to arrive. He was young and immature. But the 
germs of good citizenship were in his heart, and fructi 
fying life was beginning to stir their latent forces with 
a prophecy of things to come. 

" If I were only rich ! " How often did this sentence 
fall from his lips, as he looked on poverty and suffering, 
or contemplated the mental and moral destitution around 
him. And there were times when, in the ardor of his 
desire to relieve want, or help forward in some good 
enterprise, he fancied himself free from selfishness, and 
willing to devote all his powers to the service of others. 
In this, though it was but' an ideal state of good, there 
was given a reward. Into even the desire to benefit 
others flows a blessing how much higher the blessing 
for those who make desire an ultimate actuality. 

" If I were only rich ! " There is not a moment of 
time in which this aspiration does not rise from some 
heart dissatisfied with the amount of possession God has 
given. " If I were only rich ! " said Doctor Hofland, 
as he sat in his little earthly paradise that evening, 
" the world should be better for at least one life. I 
would not hoard my money for spendthrift heirs, nor 
mortuary endowments but scatter blessings as I passed 
along. Rich men are God's almoners. Alas ! how few 
are conscious of their responsibility, or dream that a 
day of reckoning must come." 

The doctor's mind was excited, and his imagination 
fast bearing him away. But, a word from his wife drew 



 

him back again, and his wings drooped from their airy 
flight. 

" God only requires a use of the talents given," said 
she. " Are we not all almoners in our sphere of life ? " 

" Truly said, Lena ! and I stand reproved." 

" No, no, not reproved." There was a tone of dep 
recation on Lena's lips. 

" Corrected, then, darling. Thank you for clipping 
the wings of my too aspiring imagination. It is even 
as you have said ; God only requires a use of the tal 
ents bestowed. I am rich ! Rich in the power to do 
good. I have but to dispense, freely, according to the 
ability He has given. Like to many others, I look away 
from my present sphere of life, and long for a wider 
field and higher opportunities. But, if not faithful in 
what is least, how can I expect to be trusted in greater 
things." 

" Ah, if we could always keep that thought in mind, 
how much more of peaceful life would be ours. Faith 
ful to-day. Let that be our motto, Edward. Faithful 
to-day." 

The eyes of Dr. Hofland turned from the face of his 
wife, and a sigh fluttered softly on his lips. 

" Is not that the right doctrine ? " Mrs. Hofland 
leaned toward her husband, and laid a hand gently on 
his arm. 

" Yes, darling. It is the true doctrine. Faithful to 
day ; and an impressive sense of its truth has sobered 
me. Faithful to-day ! Ah ! it is this looking beyond 
to-day this living in our to-morrows, that is such a 
hindrance to useful life. Our powers do not come 



 

down with that will into the present, which is needed 
to give them true efficiency. We reserve strength for 
