instructed to exclude him, and they carefully obeyed their orders.
The men of the first and second cutters were silent and troubled.
Perhaps they fully sympathized with Somers, and dreaded the consequence
of the decisive deed he had performed. However the petty officers and
seamen felt, it is quite certain that Boatswain Longstone could hardly
keep from weeping when he thought of the punishment which might be in
store for his young friend. He was in charge of the lookouts forward,
and when the Chatauqua was sighted, he went aft to report to Somers.
"Very well; we shall soon see the end of this business," said the young
officer.
"I would like to see you safe through it," added the boatswain, in tones
of unaffected sympathy.
"What's the matter, Tom?" asked Somers.
"I feel worse to-night than I have before for twenty odd years," groaned
Tom.
"Why so?"
"I'm afraid this is bad business. It's no little thing to fire a pistol
at your superior officer."
"I told you what he was."
"I know you said he was a traitor; but it don't do for an officer in the
navy to take the law into his own hands."
"This steamer makes sixteen knots an hour, they say," said Somers, with
a smile.
The boatswain looked at him, and wondered what this had to do with
shooting the second lieutenant.
"She was going to run the blockade," continued Somers.
"No doubt of that."
"Then they intended to fit her out as a Confederate cruiser."
"Perhaps they did, Mr. Somers; you know best."
"Mr. Pillgrim did not intend to capture her."
"He did not, sartinly."
"Suppose I had permitted this vessel to go on her way, to run the
blockade, which she could have done as easily as a hundred others have
done the same thing, at the same place, and then come out as a
man-of-war."
"But Mr. Pillgrim was your superior officer, and he was responsible, not
you."
"I carried out my orders to the letter, Tom."
"Did you?"
"To the letter, I said."
"Were you ordered to shoot Mr. Pillgrim?"
"Yes, if necessary."
"Thank'ee, Mr. Somers. You have taken a weight heavier than the best
bower off my stomach. I'd rather be where Jonah was--in the whale's
belly--than see any harm come to you. I feel better now."
"You shall know all about it, Tom, in a few days, or perhaps a few
hours."
"I'm satisfied, Mr. Somers. Shiver my kevel-heads, but I ought to have
been satisfied with anything you do."
By this time the steamer came up with the Chatauqua, and both vessels
stopped their engines, as the Ben Nevis rounded to under the stern of
the man-of-war.
"Chatauqua, ahoy!" shouted Somers.
"On board the prize!" replied the officer of the deck.
"Send the surgeon on board, if you please."
"Ay, ay."
In a few moments the third cutter, in charge of Mr. Transit, the master,
put off from the ship, with Dr. De Plesion on board.
"Where is Mr. Pillgrim, sir?" asked the master of Somers.
"Wounded, below."
"Mr. Hackleford wishes your report forthwith on board the ship."
"Mr. Transit, Mr. Pillgrim is under arrest. You will permit no one to
communicate with him except the surgeon."
"Under arrest!" exclaimed Mr. Transit.
"I have no time to explain," replied Somers, as he directed his coxswain
to pipe down his boat's crew.
When the second cutter was hauled up to the accommodation ladder, Somers
stepped on board, and a few moments later, touched his hat to the first
lieutenant on the quarter deck of the Chatauqua.
"I have to report that I have captured the Ben Nevis," said Somers.
"Where is Mr. Pillgrim?" asked Mr. Hackleford, the captain standing by,
an interested and excited listener.
"He is wounded, and under arrest, sir."
"How wounded?"
"He fired at me, and in self-defence I was obliged to shoot him. I think
he is not seriously wounded. He boarded the Ben Nevis, and had given the
captain of her permission to proceed, though the vessel was headed
towards Cape Fear."
"You have done well, Mr. Somers," said Captain Cascabel. "Beat to
quarters, Mr. Hackleford."
When the crew were at quarters, Mr. Hackleford explained to them what
had occurred, and fully justified the course of the fourth lieutenant;
whereupon an earnest and enthusiastic cheer rang through the ship.
"Are you satisfied, Tom?" asked Somers of the boatswain.
"Bless ye! I was satisfied before, Mr. Somers. There is only one dark
thing in the whole of it."
"What's that, Tom?"
"If Captain Cascabel and Mr. Hackleford both knew that Mr. Pillgrim was
a traitor, why did they send him out to capture that steamer? That's
what I can't see through."
"Can't you? Well, if they had not sent him, we should not have captured
the Ben Nevis."
"I don't see why."
"Don't you? Well, you are not as sharp as you are sometimes."
"I know I'm dull, Mr. Somers, but splinter my figger head if I can see
through it."
"The Ben Nevis is good for fifteen knots at least."
"I know that; she did it while we were coming up."
"The Chatauqua can't make more than twelve."
"That's true."
