



same thing again. Certainly, if she refused, it 
would seem selfish and mean, and Tom would 
be vexed, and there would be an end of her 
influence over him. Moreover, her money was 
her own, and she was always allowed to spend 
it as she chose. 

But was it quite right to do it and tell no- 
body? To tell her father was out of the ques- 
tion. Her mother was locked into her room 
with a violent sick-headache. There was no one 
to tell. It seemed to be quite right, she 
thought. Poor Tom ! If he only would not 
get into so much trouble ! 

That very night a note was on its way to him. 

Dear Tom, — Here are four dollars. It 
is all I have, and you are welcome to it, only 
I ’m so sorry. I hate bets. Mother would 
feel badly, I ’m afraid, iC she knew. She ’s 
real sick to-day. 

Your loving 

Gypsy. 

By return of mail came Tom’s answer. 



Dear G., — You’re a diamond. I did not 
mean to take all you had. I promise you this 
is the last of my heavy betting. You are a 
good girl, and treat me better than I deserve, 
and make me ashamed of myself. T. 

And did she do just right? Perhaps one can 
hardly judge without being exactly in her place. 
Certainly the cases are rare in which it would 
be best for a girl to pay her brother’s wrong- 
fully contracted debts without her parents’ 
knowledge. The circumstances were peculiar, 
and whether she acted prudently or not, her 
motive was a noble and generous one. It was 
the nobleness and the generosity which touched 
Tom; which roused in him a fresh throb of love 
for her, and another good resolve. 

Two seeds worth sowing, certainly. 




ONE day Gypsy was walking home from 
school with Sarah Rowe and Delia Guest, 
after the fashion of very young ladies, — with 
their arms interlaced about each other’s waists, 
chatting in the most confidential manner (it 
sounded very much like canary birds chirping) 
about blue ribbons and pink ribbons, bead nets 
and magic ruffles, flounces and tucks and spotted 
veils and a bewilderment of other abstruse 
subjects, — when a buggy drawn by a white 
horse drove furiously by. All at once the 
chirping stopped. 

“Why, Gypsy, that’s your father!” 


“ My father? Where? What? I didn’t see.” 

“ No, she was looking the other way. 
There, — in that buggy; he ’s most out of sight 
now. I wonder what he was driving so for ! ” 

“ Why, that is our buggy, sure enough ; and 
Billy, — I can always tell Billy because his tail 
is so short. Well, I never did see father drive 
like that before. I guess Tom would laugh.” 

“ Why, look ! he ’s turned off High Street.” 

“ You can sec him through the trees.” 

“Why! He’s stopped at — ” 

“ The doctor s !" 

Gypsy turned first red and then pale, and 
before the girls could say another word to her 
she had sprung away from them and was run- 
ning up the street, and was out of sight around 
the corner. 

She flew away like a bird, and reached the 
