any feelings or wishes beside her own to consult. I dare 
say she loves you very much, and looks forward to a happy 
life with you, thinking, like most young creatures, that the 
highest joy is having you all her own. And here are the 
children, very fond of you, and used to having their father all 
to themselves, for he was always thinking what he could do 
for them, and was so indulgent, so patient, with their little 
tempers and rare disputes. Now they all cling to you ; in- 
deed, you are filling their father's place ; but when a new 
claimant for your love comes " 

" You are afraid there might be some trouble," he said ; 
in the calm tone of a man who felt certain of perfect accord, 



 

" It's right and natural fen- a wife who loves her husband 
beyond all else, to wish to be first with him to want all his 
leisure hours. No one could blame her for it. But the 
children would have to be put off, and might feel neg- 
lected. A restraint would come hard at first ; they're so 
affectionate, and were used to so much freedom with their 
father. It's trying to a man, when he loves both parties ; 
and it's difficult for both parties to agree, when they look at 
the same thing in a different light. You'd be the shield, 
with one .side gold, and the other side silver." 

" Well," said Richard, cheerfully, " how shall I keep the 
peace ? " 

" I can't answer that, sir. But if you tried the plan and 
found it did not prove agreeable, I was thinking, how much 
pleasanter than sending them among strangers it would be 
to hire a cheap little cottage, and let me take charge of them. 
I could do all the work, and make them happy, I think, and 
you could watch over them. When I remember how much I 
owe your dear father, I feel as if I ought to spend my very 
life for his children's happiness. He came to me when my 
husband lay dying,and my poor baby too ill to go out of my 
arms, while I was almost wild with poverty and anxiety. 
 I can never forget his goodness, and how he comforted 
me after they were gone, when I came near dying with lone- 
liness and grief myself. I feel as if I daren't meet him in 
heaven, unless I do all I can for his ; " and Mrs. Hall broke 
down in a sobbing fit. 

Richard was moved to the heart. He took her hand 
kindly, and said, in a voice of emotion, 

'' How much I thank you for this generous offer, I cannot 
put in words. I honor you, too, for so practical a plan ; and 
if the time should ever come when such a division seems 
necessary, I shall gladly avail myself of your suggestions. 
Believe me, I am eager to do my whole duty by them ; they 
were my father's last charge." 

" I hope you'll pardon me if I've been over-bold, but I 





couldn't bear to think of their being separated while they're 
so young. Miss Mabel will grow up a sort of mother to the 
rest, and I know we can make a pleasant home. They have 
so few relatives that they'll always cling together. Their 
aunt'Sophia would do anything ia the world for them, but 
she has such a large family." 

" If my plan will not work, we must try yours," he said, 
kindly. 

After Mrs. Hall had left him, he dropped his forehead on 
his hand, and fell into a reverie. How many difficulties rose 
in his path ! More than once some slight incident had made 
him feel his actions would be more severely criticised because 
he was a half brother to the rest. The suspicions that had 
been scarcely suggested, wounded his keenly sensitive soul. 
He understood how this home, delightful as it was, might 
not be so happy for Ada. He would be compelled to divide 
his attentions. There were lessons, little troubles, and much 
demonstrative love, that he could only check by positive cold- 
ness. How could he teach Tessy the first kiss did not be- 
long to her ? Would he wish to estrange them ? 

No, indeed ; he loved them too well ;- and he resolved, 
come what would, to keep, in the truest manner possible, his 
promise to his dead father. If Mrs. Hall hardly dared meet 
him in heaven, with an unperformed kindness between them, 
how much more he, a well-beloved son, in ^whorn his father 
reposed the highest confidence ! 

Yet it would take the most entire devotion to repay Ada 
for her disappointment in not going abroad. It was her 
right to have some voice in a matter that so deeply concerned 
herself. Suppose she should not wish to come and share 
her husband's time and love with so many. She was rather 
exacting. He had hitherto liked the jealous regard that 
