forget-me-nots outside and in, and then a white veil. I'm going to make
father buy me one just like it as soon as I go out of mourning.

"I expect this isn't very much like a journal, but I'm terribly sleepy,
and I guess I must go to bed."

GYPSY'S JOURNAL.

"Brevoort House, Tuesday Night.

"Mother, Mother Breynton! I never had such a good time in all my life!
Oh, I forgot to say I haven't any more idea how to write a journal than
the man in the moon. I meant to put that at the beginning so you'd know.

"Well, we came on by boat, and you've no idea how that machinery
squeaked. I laughed and laughed, and I kept waking up and laughing.

"Then—oh, did Joy tell you about my hat? I suppose you'll be sorry,
but I don't believe you can help laughing possibly. I just lost it out
of the car window, looking at a boy out in the river standing on its
head. I mean the boy was on his head, not the river, and I had to come
into Boston tied up in a handkerchief. Father hurried off to get me a
new hat, 'cause there wasn't any time for me to go with him, and what
do you suppose he bought? I don't think you'd ever get over it, if you
were to see it. It was a white turban with a black edge rolled up, and a
great fringe of blue beads and a green feather! He said he bought it
at the first milliner's he came to, and I should think he did. I guess
you'd better believe I felt nice going all the way to New York in it.
This morning I ripped off the blue fringe the very first thing, and went
into Broadway (isn't it a big street? and I never saw such tall
policemen with so many whiskers and such a lot of ladies to be helped
across) and bought some black velvet ribbon with a white edge to match
the straw; the green feather wasn't nice enough to wear. I knew I
oughtn't to have lost the other, and father paid five dollars for this
horrid old thing, so I thought I wouldn't take it to a milliner. I just
trimmed it up myself in a rosette, and it doesn't look so badly after
all. But oh, my pretty brown feather! Isn't it a shame?

"Father took us to the Aspinwall picture-gallery to-day. Joy didn't care
about it, but I liked it ever so much, only there were ever so many
Virgin Marys up in the clouds, that looked as if they'd been washed out
and hung up to dry. Besides, I didn't understand what all the little
angels were kicking at. Father said they were from the old masters, and
there was a lady with a pink parasol, that screamed right out, and said
they were sweet pretty. I suppose when I'm grown up I shall have to
think so too. I saw a picture of a little boy out in the woods, asleep,
that I liked ever so much better.

"We've seen ever so many other things, but I haven't half time to tell
you about them all.

"We're at the Brevoort House, and I tell you I was frightened when I
first came in, it's so handsome. We take our rooms, and then just go
down into the most splendid dining-hall, and sit down at little tables
and order what we want, and don't pay for anything but that. Father says
it's the European plan. Our rooms are beautiful. Don't you tell anybody,
but I'm almost afraid of the waiters and chambermaids; they look as if
they felt so grand. But Joy, she just rings the bell and makes them
bring her up some water, and orders them around like anything. Joy
wanted to go to the Fifth Avenue Hotel, but father said it was too
noisy. He says this is noisy enough, but he wanted us to see what a
handsome hotel is like, and—and—why! I'm almost asleep.

JOY'S JOURNAL.

"Philadelphia, Wednesday, June 18.

"We came to Philadelphia this morning, and we almost choked with the
dust, riding through New Jersey. We're at a boarding-house,—a new one
just opened. They call it the Markœ House. (I haven't the least idea
whether I've spelled it right.) Uncle didn't sleep very well last night,
so he wanted a quiet place, and thought the hotels were noisy. He
thought once of going to La Pierre, but gave it up. Father used to go to
the Continental, I know, because I've heard him say so. I'm too tired to
write any more."

GYPSY'S JOURNAL.

"Thursday, June something or other.

"We stayed over a day here,—oh, 'here' is Philadelphia,—because
father wanted us to see the city. It's real funny. People have white
wooden shutters outside their windows, and when anybody dies they keep a
black ribbon hanging out on them. Then the streets are so broad. I saw
four Quakers this morning. We've been out to see Girard College, where
they take care of orphans, and the man that built it, Mr. Stephen
Girard, he wouldn't ever let any minister step inside it. Wasn't it
funny in him?

"Then we went over to Fairmount, besides. Fairmount is where they bring
up the water from the Schuylkill river, to supply the city. There is
machinery to force it up—great wheels and things. Then it makes a sort
of pond on top of a hill, and there are statues and trees, and it's real
beautiful.

"Father wanted to take us out to Laurel Hill:—that's the cemetery, he
says, very much like Mount Auburn, near Boston, where Aunt Miranda is
buried. But we shan't have time."

GYPSY'S JOURNAL.
