possession of their lands and their wealth and put them 
under." 

"What does Ham mean ?" Priscilla inquired. 

" It means 'hot.' The Egyptian name for Egypt,  Kem 
which is supposed to be the same thing as ' Ham means 
black. Noah's whole family seem to have had prophetical 
names; so I suppose Ham signifies 'swarthy;' warm and 
dark too. Egypt, you know, was the land of Ham." 

" And what is Shem ? " I asked. 

" Shem meskus 'name,' or ' renown.' He was the greatly 
honoured one of the three brothers. For in his line came 
the people of the Jews ; and when the Word was made flesh, 
it was the name and blood of a Jew that He took upon Him- 
sell So Noah, seeing that glory down the dark line of ages, 
could say nothing but, ' Blessed be the Lord God of Shem ? '" 

" Do you think Noah saw it, uncle Sam ? " Daniel said. 

" Abraham did, we know ; why not Noah ? I do not 
mean, my boy, that he had a full knowledge of what we 
know; but that a dim, glorious persuasion of the promised 
deliverance possessed him, there can be no doubt. He was 
one of those who 'saw the promises afar off;' And he knew — 
nobody better — whether the world needed a deliverer. One 
destruction had just washed away one race of men; but it 
had not washed out sin; and of that he had proof enough 
in his own family." 

" Where did Shem go, uncle Sam ? He had other children 
besides the Jews, hadn't he ? " 

" Certainly. Shem occupied most of the western part of 
Asia. It almost seems as if both meanings of his name were 
prophetical The second meaning is ' to be put, or placed ;' 
and Shem's descendants had nothing of a roving or changeable spirit. They never spread themselves abroad like the 
sons of Japheth, and they were, and are, exactly what some 
country people call 'very set in their ways.' What they did 
two thousand, three thousand, ay, almost four thousand 
years ago, that they do still, even in very little matters. I 
shall tell you more of this by and by, as we go on. It is 
wonderful'' 




''To one of Japheth's children," said my grandmother, 
smiling. " Japheth was the Yankee of the family." 

"Surely he was," said uncle Sam. 

" Why, sir ? Now let us have Japhetk" 

"Japheth means 'extension;' and never was a truer 
prophecy than this name for him. He went to what the Bible 
calls ' the isles of the sea ; ' that is, the coast of the Mediterranean in Asia Minor and in Europe ; ' the isles of the Gentiles ' they are also called. From those, Japheth's descendants spread eastward into Asia, and northward into Europe, and 
lastly poured a flood of emigration westward into America. 
Do you see how the prophecy is fulfilled — ' God shall enlarge 
Japheth?'" 

"Why, yes, to be sure," said Dan. "I never understood 
that so well before. To be sure he was enlarged. Then, 
nnde Sam, that is not all How was he to 'dwell in the 
tents of Shemr" 

" What would you understand by dwelling in somebody's 
tent?" 

" Why, I should understand that I might share it, and 
have all the comfort and privileges of ?"

" Or you might understand," said liph, " driving the old 
owner out and taking possession for yourself." 

" It might be taken either way," said my uncle ; " and 
either way I think it is true. In Dan's sense, certainly. 
The Jews, that is, the children of Shem, had the revelation 
of the knowledge of God ; they had the covenants and the 
promises ; they alone, of all the peoples in the earth. Then 
Christ came, and they rejected Him; and then the despised Gtentiles, the children of Japheth, came into the blessing their brethren had thrown away. Japheth dwells in the 
tents of Shem ; he shares the shelter and comfort and privileges of them, as you said, Dan." 

"And how about my meaning?" said liph. 

" Why, Japheth seems to be taking possession literally in 
almost every part of the world. However, I am not sure 
but Shem will stay where he was 'placed.' We shall see 
more of that as we come to study the nations in detail 

 

Biun's children go down everywhere before the children of 
Japheth and Shem ; and always did.'' 

"I imagine Ham," said my grandmother, "to have been a 
selfish man ; sensuous, and loving his own ease and pleasure ; 
with a nature more acute for that than for more generous 
