mutiny. Very likely his untamed and vicious imagination had revelled in
such an enterprise; had pictured the delights of the rover's life at
sea; but a boy of ordinary common sense could hardly think of engaging
in such a mad scheme.
The last week of June, with which month ended the first school term on
board of the Young America, was devoted to examinations and reviews in
all the studies for which extra marks were given. On the last day the
instructors made up the merit lists, and on the morning of the 1st of
July all hands were mustered, and the result declared. Most of the
officers, all of whom had studied with unremitting diligence in order to
retain their positions, were reinstated in their offices. The third
lieutenant, however, fell out, having failed in his reviews, and to the
astonishment of all, Robert Shuffles was found to be entitled to the
place. The first and second lieutenants exchanged ranks, and Paul
Kendall fell to the position of second master. Three of the tenants of
the after cabin were compelled to move into the steerage, and three of
the crew were transferred to the officers' quarters.
Many were disappointed, and perhaps some were disheartened, for the
competition had been a severe struggle; and as much depended upon
natural ability as upon energy and perseverance. But the Young America
was a world by herself. She had all the elements of society within her
wooden walls, and success and failure there followed the same rules as
in the great world of which she was an epitome.
After the officers had been duly installed in their positions, the petty
offices were given to those having the highest number of marks among the
crew. It was certainly democratic for the late third lieutenant to
become captain of the foretop, and for a second master to become
coxswain of the professors' barge; but these young gentlemen, though
disappointed, submitted with a good grace to their misfortune.
The student having the highest number of marks among the crew was
allowed to have the first choice of berths in the steerage; the one
having the next highest number had the second choice, and so on, until
all the numbers had been appropriated. At the conclusion of the
reorganization, Mr. Lowington made a speech, "comforting the mourners,"
and reminding all the students that, on the 1st of October, there would
be another distribution of the places of honor. He hoped those who had
failed to attain what they aspired to reach would not be discouraged,
for, after all, they had been gaining knowledge, and thus the real end
of the school had been reached.
"How about the mutiny?" said Wilton to the new third lieutenant, when
both were off duty in the evening.
"It won't pay just now," replied Shuffles, with great good humor.
"I suppose not," sneered Wilton, who had not even won a petty office.
"What would Lowington say if he knew the third lieutenant talked of
getting up a mutiny on board?"
"What would he say?" repeated Shuffles, who was as much surprised at the
high rank he had gained as his companion had been.
"Yes; what would he say if I should tell him of it?"
"He would say you were a mean pup for telling tales out of school; at
least, he ought to say so, and I think he would. Lowington is a pretty
good fellow, after all."
"No doubt he is, now you are third lieutenant."
"You needn't snuff at it, Wilton. If you want a place, why don't you
sail in, and get one. Just look out for your marks; that's all you have
to do."
"Marks! I thought a fellow seventeen years old was not to be put up or
put down by marks," said Wilton, bitterly.
"That depends somewhat upon whether you get in or out," laughed
Shuffles.
"I suppose you and Paul Kendall will be fast friends now," added the
discontented student.
"Kendall behaves very well, and has treated me first rate since I went
into the cabin."
"I suppose if I want to run away, you will stop me now."
"If you are going to do that, you musn't tell me of it, now I'm an
officer," replied Shuffles, as he turned on his heel, and walked aft.
Wilton was disgusted, and felt that he had lost his best friend, now
that Shuffles had worked his way into the cabin.
CHAPTER V.
OUR FELLOWS.
"I would like leave of absence for to-morrow, Mr. Pelham," said Wilton,
as he touched his cap to the first lieutenant of the Young America, on
the day before the Fourth of July.
"I am sorry to inform you, Wilton, that no leave of absence will be
granted to-morrow," replied Pelham in accordance with the instructions
given him by the captain, who, in turn, had received his orders from the
principal.
"No leave!" exclaimed Wilton, his jaw dropping down.
"Such are the orders."
"I have always been in the habit of celebrating the Fourth of July,"
replied Wilton. "Are we to stay on board the ship, and mope all day?"
"I presume the day will be celebrated on board in a proper manner,"
added the first lieutenant.
"On board! What can a fellow do here? We might as well go to bed, and
sleep off the day."
"No words are necessary, Wilton," replied Pelham as he turned and walked
away.
"That's a good one!" added Wilton, to the group of boys who had come
with him to the mainmast, to request the same favor, if the spokesman
was permitted to go on shore and celebrate the day.
"Not to celebrate!" exclaimed Monroe, with something like horror in his
tones and looks.
"Work on the Fourth of July!" chimed in Adler.
"I won't stand it, for one!" said Wilton.
"Nor I, for another," added Monroe.
So said half a dozen others.
"Well, what are you going to do about it?" demanded Adler. "Here we are,
and we can't get ashore."
"Perhaps we can," said Wilton, as he led the way to a retired part of
the deck, where they could talk without being overheard. "Did any one
