there was no longer a spot on earth which she could call by that
endearing name. By this time, Mr. Grant, with Bertha and Fanny, were in
Europe, and it would be months before she could see them again. Her
uncle had probably been killed by the war party of Lean Bear, while
returning to his home, as the possession of his horses by the Indians
indicated. Her aunt lay mangled and unburied near the house which had
been her happy home. The settlement was doubtless broken up and
deserted; for all who had not been killed or captured by the Indians
must have fled to the woods and the prairies for safety.

The feeling of loneliness in Fanny gave to her song a touching pathos,
which, with the sad sweetness of the melody itself, made the great
tears roll down the bronzed checks of Ethan, and touched the heart of
even the young savage. Wahena looked long and earnestly at Fanny, when
he had finished his breakfast. The music pleased him, and its charms
literally soothed his savage breast. She sang other songs, and he began
to make friendly demonstrations towards her, which ended in the offer
of his hand. She accepted the proffered token of friendship.

Wahena spoke to her, but of course she could not understand a word of
his language. He made signs, using the earnest gestures peculiar to the
Indians. He shook his head, pointed to her, and then to the shore of
the lake in the direction of the settlement. She thought he meant to
say that he would not permit his father to injure her; but she was not
very sure. The young savage was certainly disposed to be her friend,
and manifested his interest in her by all the means within his power.

"Well, Fanny, it's about time for me to go to work," said Ethan, after
he had observed the demonstrations between her and Wahena for a time.

"What are you going to do, Ethan? I thought you had no work."

"Plenty of it, I reckon. 'Tain't no use to groan over what can't be
helped. We may as well make the best on't."

"Of course we will not complain of what we cannot help. Ethan, do you
know what my motto is?"

"Your what?" asked Ethan, with a vacant stare.

"My motto."

"That's sunthin' in Latin, or some outlandish lingo--ain't it?"

"Mine is in plain English."

"I've hearn tell of some Latin stuff they called a motto out in
Illinois; I forgit what it was now."

"'Hope and have,' is my motto."

"What does that mean? 'Tain't Latin, but it might as well be."

"It means hope for the best, and then you will work the harder to have
it."

"Thet jest fits my case."

"The motto was given me by a very good girl in New York, who was dying
of consumption. They were the last words she spoke, and they were
engraved on her tombstone. I will tell you the whole story about her
some time."

"I should like to hear it, fust rate; but I reckon we've got sunthin'
else to do jest now. I hope we shall hev sunthin' like a house for you
to sleep in to-night."

"Hoping alone will not build the house, Ethan; besides, we don't hope
much for that which we are not willing to work for."

"I know thet; and I'm go'n to work on the house right away now,"
replied Ethan, as he rose from the ground, and took his shovel.

"I will help you, for I hope we shall have a house to keep us out of
the wet if it should happen to rain."

"You are nothin' but a gal," said Ethan, rather contemptuously.

"But I can help you. How shall you build a house?"

"Well, I don't quite know."

"I can help you think, if nothing more, Ethan."

"So you kin, Fanny. You are right down smart. I don't know as we should
ever hev got over to this island ef't hadn't been for you."

"Do you think we could get the boat out of the water, Ethan?"

"I reckon we could," replied Ethan, rubbing his head to stimulate his
ideas. "I kin cut some rollers, and kinder pry it along."

Fanny minutely detailed her plan for a house, which, after much
explanation, was adopted. As soon as Ethan comprehended her idea, he
became very enthusiastic for its execution.

"I reckon we must tie up the young Injin afore we go to work," said he,
taking the cord, and moving towards Wahena.

The little savage looked appealingly at Fanny, placed his hand upon his
