either side.



CHAPTER XXIV. “THE FLOWER-GIRL.”



“BY gracious, if that isn’t Ida!” exclaimed Jack, in profound surprise.

He had been sauntering along Chestnut Street, listlessly, troubled by
the thought that though he had given Mrs. Hardwick into custody, he was
apparently no nearer the discovery of his foster-sister than before.
What steps should he take to find her? He could not decide. In his
perplexity he came suddenly upon the print of the “Flower-Girl.”

“Yes,” said he, “that is Ida, plain enough. Perhaps they will know in
the store where she is to be found.”

He at once entered the store.

“Can you tell me anything about the girl that picture was taken for?” he
asked, abruptly of the nearest clerk.

The clerk smiled.

“It is a fancy picture,” he said. “I think it would take you a long time
to find the original.”

“It has taken a long time,” said Jack. “But you are mistaken. It is the
picture of my sister.”

“Of your sister!” repeated the clerk, with surprise, half incredulous.

There was some reason for his incredulity. Jack was a stout,
good-looking boy, with a pleasant face; but Ida’s beauty was of a
delicate, refined type, which argued gentle birth,--her skin of a
brilliant whiteness, dashed by a tinge of rose,--exhibiting a physical
perfection, which it requires several generations of refined habits and
exemptions from the coarser burdens of life to produce. The perfection
of human development is not wholly a matter of chance, but is dependent,
in no small degree, upon outward conditions. We frequently see families
who have sprung from poverty to wealth exhibiting, in the younger
branches, marked improvement in this respect.

“Yes;” said Jack, “my sister.”

“If it is your sister,” said the clerk, “you ought to know where she
is.”

Jack was about to reply, when the attention of both was called by a
surprised exclamation from a lady who had paused beside them. Her eyes,
also, were fixed upon “The Flower-Girl.”

“Who is this?” she asked, hurriedly. “Is it taken from life?”

“This young man says it is his sister,” said the clerk.

“Your sister!” said the lady, her eyes bent, inquiringly, upon Jack.
In her tone, too, there was a slight mingling of surprise, and, as it
seemed, disappointment.

“Yes, madam,” said Jack, respectfully.

“Pardon me,” she said, “there is so little family resemblance, I should
hardly have supposed it.”

“She is not my own sister,” said Jack, “but I love her just the same.”

“Do you live in (sic) Philadelphia? Could I see her?” asked the lady,
eagerly.

“I live in New York, madam,” said Jack; “but Ida was stolen from us
nearly a fortnight since, and I have come here in pursuit of her. I have
not been able to find her yet.”

“Did you say her name was Ida?” demanded the lady, in strange agitation.

“Yes, madam.”

“My young friend,” said the lady, rapidly, “I have been much interested
in the story of your sister. I should like to hear more, but not here.
Would you have any objection to coming home with me, and telling me the
rest? Then we will, together, concert measures for discovering her.”

“You are very kind, madam,” said Jack, somewhat bashfully; for the lady
was elegantly dressed, and it had never been his fortune to converse
with many ladies of her rank; “I shall be very much obliged to you for
your advice and assistance.”

“Then we will drive home at once.”

Jack followed her to the street, where he saw an elegant carriage, and a
coachman in livery.

With natural gallantry, Jack assisted the lady into the carriage, and,
at her bidding, got in himself.

“Home, Thomas!” she directed the driver; “and drive as fast as
possible.”
