
 



 

pected to be tender of them, and not order them about 
as roughly as the rest." 

" There won't be any trouble of that sort in this case, 
Captain Brace, you may be very sure," said the mate. 
'' Although the boy is my nephew I don't feel any very 
extraordinary affection for him." 

" I should think not," said the captain, with a grim 
smile, " from your efforts to get him a place on board 
this ship. You're not any more gentle with boys than I 
am." 

"The fact is. Captain Brace," said Randall, with a 
smile which evinced a thorough understanding of the 
captain's meaning ; " the fact is, the boy is unruly, and 
they can't do much for him at home, and I thought it 
might be well for him to try a voyage or two, for the 
benefit of his health ! " 

The mate smiled, and as it was such a joke as the 
captain could appreciate, he smiled too. 

" Very well, Mr. Randall ; if such are your views I 
have no objection to his coming on board." 

" I had fears," continued the mate, " that his unruly 
temper would interfere with his usefhlness at home. I 
felt pretty sure we could soon cure him of that." 

" Kill or cure  that's my motto," said the captain. 

" Sometimes both," thought Randall, remembering 
one boy in a previous voyage who had languished and 
died under the cruel treatment he experienced on board. 

" Does the boy know he is to go with us?" inquired 
the captain. 

" Bless you, no ; not he I He'd make a fuss if he did." 

" How do you intend to get him on board, then?" 

" I shall invite him to come and see the vessel, and 


when he is down below I can take care that he stays 
there till we are fairly at sea." 

" A good plan. What is the youngster's name, Mr.' 
Eandall?' 

'' Jack Randall ; named after me." 

" Humph ! hope he'll do credit to the name," said.the 
captain, grimly. " I leave in your hands all the steps 
necessary to securing him. Remember, if you please, 
that we shall sail at three." 

'' I will be on board before that time, sir, and bring 
nay nephew with me." 

" Very well, sir." 

Of course the reader has conjectured that the Jack 
Randall, the mate's nephew, spoken of above, is no other than our young hero, Charlie Codman. 

Poor boy ! little does he dream of the plot that is being formed against him. 



 
On leaving the Bouncing Betsy, Mr. John Randall, 
the estimable mate of that vessel, bent his steps towards 
a shop devoted to sailors' clothing ready-made, With a 
large variety of other articles such as seamen are accus- 
tomed to require. 

It was a shop of .very good dimensions, but low stud- 
ded and rather dark, the windows, which were few, being 
in part covered up by articles hung in front of them. 

The proprietor of this establishment was Moses Mellen, 
a little Jew, with a countenance clearly indicating his 
Israelitish descent. His small black eyes sparkled with 
the greed of gain, and he had a long, hooked nose like 
the beak of a bird, which would not have been considered 
too small an appendage for a face of twice the size. He 
had one qualification for a successful trader— he seldom 
or never forgot a face which he had once seen. 

Rubbing his hands with a great show of cordiality, and 
with his face wreathed in smiles, the instant he espied 
