He was a widower, with one child, a little girl. I 
will confess to you that he had not been exactly happy 
in his first marriage. Mrs. Vennard came from the 
"higher law" region. She had clear eyes and an 
honest soul; and when she learned what manner of 
man she had married, her heart died within her. One 
night, in the darkness and silence, it floated out on the 
great unknown sea, alone. Angel hands took it up 
with reverent tenderness. 

Mr. Vennard felt somehow that he had wronged this 
woman. They were not born for each other, though at 
first he had fancied her strongly. And, since she was 

 

comfortably dead, since the sad eyes would never re- 
proach him again with their prisoned pain, he sorrowed 
discreetly, and went his way breathing more freely. 

He had no fear of Miss Ellicott turning angel on his 
hands. Give her fine dresses and elegant jewelry, 
he liked them, too ; they set off a woman, a carriage 
to ride in, servants to wait upon her, and she would 
never trouble him with any vain and useless specu- 
lations. 

So he went to work in good earnest, wooing a wife 
and laying the foundation for a fortune. In ten years 
he meant to be a rich man. This was how a change 
had come over the Ellicott "Works. 

Mr. Vennard was not given to blustering. He called 
the men together one morning, and delivered a brief 
address. They had fallen into idle and vicious habits ; 
drank more rum than they did work ; he was not one 
to mince matters ; made bad iron, poor machinery, 
running the credit of the place down to the lowest ebb, 
and driving its owners to the very verge of bankruptcy. 
There was to be a new order of affairs instituted. Every 
man was expected to be on the mark when the bell 
rang, to do his work properly, to keep tolerably sober 
until hours were over. If they couldn't come under 
the rules, they could go. When he paid a man for his 
labor, he expected him to earn the money. 

No swearing with all this. Every word dropped 
down with a sharp, metallic click, like the closing of a 



 

vice. The tone was deep and strong. The men winced 
and glowered at each other from under threatening 
brows, but no one spoke. Instead, a cowed, savage 
sullenncss. They felt they had a master. 

Mr. Vennard brought in new foremen after his own 
heart ; but his keen vigilance never for an instant re- 
laxed. There were the usual mutinous outbreaks ; but 
every one concerned was discharged on the spot. New 
men came to fill their places. Being sent out of the 
Ellicott Works was as final as expulsion from Paradise. 

You know the kind of men who always manage mat- 
ters their own way. Some are born gentlemen, and do 
it by high intellectual force of will. Mr. Vennard was 
on a lower plane, but held his way as royally. 

There was little love lost between him and his work- 
men. But love was considerably below par with him 
not one of the stocks he cared to deal in. And in a 
town like this, where workmen marry and rear up fam- 
ilies, they become, as it were, a part of the soil. Not 
always taking root through affection. A hard necessity, 
like an iron chain, binds them to the spot. They are 
often a little in debt, cannot afford to lose time, nor 
spare the money for a removal. So capital and brains 
win the day. Two or three large manufactories in a 
small town have it all their own way, and uneducated, 
thriftless labor must submit or starve ; and starving is 
not generally a pleasant process. 

So the more thoughtful and far-sighted gave in to 



 

the Vennard reign from a sort of angry compulsion, 
since the lives of their wives and little ones depended 
on their submission. 

Stephen Dane had not espoused either side very 
warmly. He was reticent, self-contained, or rather 
would be when the coming manhood had sufficient force 
to assert itself. He had been indifferent, for these re- 
strictions did not touch him. He was quite too proud 
to defraud his employer that rugged, ungracious sort 
