To her justice, be it recorded that Gypsy 
did study in the morning till the history lesson 
was learned. When afternoon came, however, 
and she was sleepy, and the room was hot, and 
"The Shadow of a Life-time " lay, in tempting 
brown binding and beautiful print, open upon 
the table, she thought that she would just look it 
over, see the heroine 's name, and how it ended, be 
fore commencing on those dreary conjugations, 
" Over the little one 's future all unknown fo 
thee, innocent one, a Shadow hung  why, Jane, 
this looks interesting. Oh, what 's this pic 
ture? Lorina found by her Lovers Dear 
me ! what a lot of em she had ! Oh, here 's a 
description of a ball-dress. I think descrip 
tions of ball-dresses are splendid. There, I ve 
lost the place. Oh, no ! 
" * Her head was unadorned, save by a single 
iiamond, in a wreath of artificial roses Let 
me see" and that was the end of the con 
jugations. 
" Jane dear," observed Gypsy, languidly, 
looking up from the amiable Lorina when 
study-hours were half over, " I don't see what 
you are always studying for." 
Silent study-hours were the rule, and Jane 
made no reply. 
" Oh, I forgot," said Gypsy ; " well, I won't 
talk. I 'm going to study when I get through 
this chapter." 
" This chapter " lasted till the bell rang to go 
to walk. Gypsy, flushed and excited, threw 
the book angrily down, but made no remarks. 
" Why don't you come to bed? " asked Jane 
that night, after the lamp was out. Gypsy was 
sitting by the window in her night-dress. She 
sat there some time; and there the following 
conversation took place. 
" I was a little villain, that 's what I was ! I 
won't do it again. But I think it 's dreadfully 
poky work studying." 
" What did you come to the Golden Crescent 
for, dear? " 
" Oh, well I know it ; but I can't be an ex 
emplary scholar now, like Jane there, mother. 
Why, just think, she not only learns her lessons 
perfectly; but she actually reads somebody 
else 's Roman History in connection with our little 
black one, TO IMPROVE HER MIND ! " 
" When Jane is out of school, she will know 
something to pay for it. And some day, you 
will be sorry that you have not been more like 
her, Gypsy." 
" My dear, respected mother, I beg your 
pardon, but I don't believe it! I won't be a 
dunce, but I can't be a model." 
After which, she went to bed. To do Gypsy 
justice, the management at the Golden Cres 
cent was not such as was calculated to help a 
rollicking, frolicking, bright girl who could 
skim over a lesson in ten minutes, make a fait 
recitation, and forget it within an hour in 
the formation of solid habits of study. Mrs. 
McMunn was just what she looked to be, an 
awkward, good-natured, easy-going, and by no 
means scholarly woman. In fact, she owed her 
position to the reputation of a distinguished 
brother, rather than to any attainments or suit 
abilities for the work of a teacher which any 
body had ever been so fortunate as to discover 
in her. Miss Ayre was a severe disciplinarian, 
and Chaplain Goss a thorough mathematical 
instructor; but under-teachers cannot guide 
the helm. Mrs. McMunn was careless about 
enforcing their rules, and made herself no sys 
tem of marks, rewards, or punishments, to 
serve as incitement to the ambitious, or threat 
to the lazy; so it was small wonder that 
even Gypsy 's most violent efforts to become 
that " exemplary scholar " flagged after a 
day or two, and subsided into taffy and 
novels. 
But Jane 's did not Nor Lou Armstrong s. 
Nor the efforts of one or two others. Had 
Gypsy shown a little of the application of any 
one of them, she might have outstripped them 
all. She was simply spending her school-days 
as many another thoughtless, talented girl is 
spending them, the world over; neither better 
nor worse, " I won't be a dunce, but I can't 
be a model," just expressed it. 
But Gypsy was not, as she used to say for 
lornly sometimes to her mother, " just a 
jumble of naughtiness, without any goodness 
sprinkled in." Taking, for instance, a thing 
that happened soon after the beginning of the 
term; it was a very little thing, but not too 
small to be without its uses. 
It was one Sunday noon, just after church; 
several of the girls had come up into Gypsy 's 
