boat in regard to the shore. I went out upon the space over the guards,
and outside of the state-rooms. On the edge of the wharf there was a
storehouse, the end of which reached about to the middle of the
steamer's wheel. The top of the paddle-box was nearly on a level with
the flat roof of this building. I could not see Tom Thornton, but I
concluded that he was still watching for me on the main deck. The space
between the top of the paddle-box and the roof of the storehouse was not
more than three or four feet, and I concluded that a girl as resolute as
Kate Loraine would leap across the gulf without difficulty. I went to
her state-room, and gave the four raps. She was glad enough to see me,
and taking her valise I told her to follow me. I waited till I heard the
order given to haul in the plank, and then led Kate up the rude steps on
the curve of the paddle-box, heedless of the sign which interdicted
passengers from ascending.
A waiter shouted to me; but, fearful that I should be accused of trying
to evade the payment of our fares, I threw him my tickets, and told him
I must land at Poughkeepsie. I reached the top of the paddle-box with
Kate, and jumped over on the roof myself, with her carpet-bag in my
hand.
"Now jump, Kate!" I called, as I heard the bell ring to start the
wheels.
"I am afraid," she replied, shuddering, as she looked down into the
yawning gulf below.
"Jump quick, and I will catch you!"
"I cannot! I cannot!" exclaimed she, in an agony of terror.
The wheels turned, and in an instant the space was too wide for her to
come on the roof, or for me to return to the boat. The people discovered
us, and began to shout. I saw the waiter give the tickets to a man;
but, at the same instant, Tom Thornton, perceiving me on the roof of the
storehouse, sprang upon the rail, and leaped ashore, as the stern swung
in and grazed the pier. The steamer went on her course; and I saw the
man to whom the waiter had given the tickets assist the frightened Kate
down from the paddle-box.
I was on shore, but so was Tom Thornton.
CHAPTER XVII.
IN WHICH ERNEST OUTFLANKS TOM THORNTON.
MY first impulse, standing on the roof of the store, as the steamer bore
Kate Loraine away from me, was to denounce the timidity of girls in
general, and of the young lady in my charge in particular. I am sorry to
say that, as a rule, I did not think much of girls, though I had a very
high opinion of and regard for Kate; but I am happy to say that a few
years cured the general dislike, and increased the particular
preference.
I was about to mutter something smart and saucy about Kate; but a better
and more charitable thought checked the speech, and I felt that I had
asked too much of her when I required her to jump four feet, over a
chasm of such depth as that which gaped between the steamer and the
building. I suppose I forgot, in my enthusiasm for her safety, that
girls are not used to climbing trees, and promenading on the roofs of
barns. With my second thought I excused her, and blamed myself for
expecting her to take such a leap.
There I was on the roof of a storehouse in Poughkeepsie, while the
steamer was hurrying down the river at the rate of fourteen miles an
hour. If I had separated myself from my fair charge, I had also
separated Tom Thornton from her. The enemy was on my track, not hers,
thus confirming what I had told Kate--that he was after me rather than
her. Though I was not afraid of him, I wanted to keep out of his way,
and give him the slip if I could.
There was a scuttle in the roof, upon which I stood. I raised it a
little, to obtain a view of the interior; but at that moment I heard the
voice of Tom inquiring the way to the roof. While I had been staring at
the retreating steamer, he had entered the building in search of me. I
closed the scuttle, and retired from its vicinity to the end of the
storehouse. Adjoining it there was a one-story building. Throwing the
carpet-bag down, I "hung off," and, repeating the operation, reached
the ground before Tom had made his way to the roof. Fortunately my path
led me down in the rear of the building, and out of the way of the
people, who had been observing me from the ground. Behind this building
I conducted my retreat in as good order as possible, but with all
practicable speed.
The road which led down to the steamboat pier was flanked on one side by
a row of one-story buildings, used as stores. I had jumped on one of
these shops, and thence to a narrow space on the verge of the wharf.
Before any one could go round the storehouse, I had reached the street.
I did not dare to run, lest some one should suspect me of being a
fugitive. The street was crowded with people, who had just landed from
the steamer, and I walked as fast as I could till I heard the screaming
whistle of a locomotive. In a few moments more I discovered the railroad
station, and being now some distance from the steamboat wharf, I
ventured to run. I reached the station just as the train was starting.
"Where does this train go?" I asked of a brakeman on a car.
"Down river. Be in a hurry if you are going," replied the man.
I was going, and I was in a hurry. I entered the car and dropped into a
seat, exhausted by the hard run I had had. I caught my breath, and wiped
the perspiration from my brow, feeling that good fortune had favored me
in the most singular manner. I had certainly given Tom Thornton the
slip, and in spite of my habitual modesty, I voted unanimously that I
was smart. But it was all luck, in this instance, which favored me; for
I heard some one say that the train was thirty minutes late that day. It
was due in Poughkeepsie at ten minutes before one, and left half an hour
behind its time. If it had been in season, of course I should have lost
it. I was very thankful for the accident which, the conductor said, had
delayed the train.
From the car window I had frequent views of the river; and in a short
time I saw the steamer in which I had come down, ploughing her way down
the stream to her destination. I could almost fancy I saw Kate on the
hurricane deck. The poor girl had trouble enough now, and I had no doubt
she was bitterly lamenting the misfortune which had separated us. On
whirled the train, and I soon lost sight of the boat; but I hoped to be
able to get on board of her at her next stopping-place, if I could find
