"Sail ho!" suddenly shouted several of the seamen in the forward part of
the vessel.
"Where away?"
"Right over the lee bow! She has capsized!"
Paul and Terrill ran to the rail, and discovered a small vessel, lying
over on her beam ends.
"That's a Dutch galiot!" exclaimed Cleats, who promptly recognized the
craft. "That's a trick they have of turning bottom upwards."
"Port!" shouted Terrill, who did not take his eye off the foresail of
the Josephine for more than an instant at a time.
The attention of the quartermaster and the helmsman had been attracted
by the announcement of the wreck, and they had permitted the Josephine
to luff up until the foresail began to shake. The atmosphere was so
thick that the galiot was seen but for an instant, and it then
disappeared in the dense mists. Captain Kendall trembled with emotion
when he saw the disabled vessel; but it was impossible to do anything
for her until the hurricane subsided.
Fortunately the worst of it had already passed, and a few moments later
it ceased almost as suddenly as it commenced. The rain began to fall in
torrents, while a fresh breeze and a tremendous sea were all that
remained of the hurricane--for such it was, rather than an ordinary
squall.
"Set the jib and mainsail, Mr. Terrill," said Captain Kendall. "We must
endeavor to find that wreck."
These sails were accordingly hoisted, the Josephine came about, and
stood off in the direction towards which the galiot was supposed to have
drifted. The Young America had not been seen since the squall came up;
but Paul conjectured that she had run away before it. He was deeply
interested in the fate of those on board of the wreck, and trusted he
should be able to render them some assistance, if all on board of her
had not already perished.
The rain poured down furiously; but it did not dampen the enthusiasm of
the young officers and crew, though they were already drenched to the
skin. The reefed foresail was taken in, for it was found that the jib
and mainsail were all the schooner needed. She stood on for an hour or
more, without obtaining a sight of the wreck, though every eye on board
was strained to catch the first glimpse of it.
"We must have passed her," said the captain.
"It is so thick we can't see her, even if we should go within half a
mile of her."
"Come about, and stand a little more to the southward!" added Captain
Kendall. "Let the fog-horns be blown. We may get a signal of some kind
from them."
"I am afraid they were lost overboard; and that there is no one left to
make a signal," answered Terrill, sadly.
The vessel was put about, and headed as indicated by the captain. The
fog-horns were blown at intervals, and every one on board listened
eagerly for a reply. These efforts were not unavailing, for a response
was obtained after the Josephine had run half an hour on her present
course. A hoarse shout was heard on the weather beam, which was
unmistakably a cry of distress.
"Steady as she is!" said Paul to the executive officer, as soon as the
sounds were reported to him, and the direction from which they came.
"Are you not going about, Captain Kendall?" asked Terrill, with a look
of anxiety on his dripping face.
"Certainly; but if we go about here, we should fall to leeward of the
wreck," replied Paul.
The Josephine stood on for a few moments longer, and then tacked.
"Blow the horns, and keep a sharp lookout forward," added the captain,
who was quite as anxious as any other person on board; but he kept
apparently cool, in deference to the dignity of his high office.
"I see her!" shouted Wheeler, the boatswain, who had gone out on the
flying jib-boom.
"Where away is she?" demanded Martyn, from the forecastle.
"Well on the lee bow, sir."
"Are we headed for her?"
"Ay, ay, sir! We shall go clear of her to windward."
"Wreck on the lee bow, sir," reported the second lieutenant to Terrill,
who in turn reported to the captain.
"Clear away the first cutter, Mr. Terrill," said Paul.
"All the first cutters, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain's mate.
"Mr. Pelham will have charge of the boat," added Captain Kendall, who
had great confidence in the zeal and ability of this officer.
"The wreck! The wreck!" shouted all hands, as the disabled galiot came
into view.
On the rail of the vessel, whose starboard half was completely submerged
in the water, were two men, making violent gestures, and shouting to the
crew of the Josephine. Not a word they said could be understood, but it
was easy enough for Yankees to guess the meaning of their words. The
schooner was thrown up into the wind, the jib lowered, and she lay to
under the mainsail. Pelham and the crew of the first cutter took their
places in the boat, and were lowered into the stormy sea. The falls were
cast off the instant she struck the water; the coxswain gave his orders
rapidly, and the cutter went off, rising and falling on the huge waves
like a feather.
The distance was short; but even this was a hard pull in such a violent
sea. Pelham was cool and steady, and his self-possession encouraged the
crew to their best efforts. The boat ran up under the lee of the wreck,
and made fast to one of the masts. As soon as it was secured, both of
the men on the rail began to jabber in an unintelligible language.
"Parlez-vous français?" shouted Pelham, who had some knowledge of the
polite language.
But the men made no response; and it was evident that no long speeches
need be made on the present occasion. Pelham made signs to them to come
down into the boat, which they did. They were not satisfied, but
continued to talk in their own language, and to point earnestly to the
after part of the wreck. One of them repeated a word so many times, that
the officer of the boat was enabled at last to separate it from the
confused jumble of sentences.
"Vrow?" said he.
