As usual, Mr. Wittleworth was the only person who was not satisfied. He
had again been "left out in the cold." He wanted to know what had
happened at the house of André, and after dinner he called there; but
Maggie had gone to the barber's shop with her father's noonday meal,
and he found the door locked. In the evening he went again, when both
André and Leo were at home.




CHAPTER XXI.

MR. WITTLEWORTH's WRONGS.


Maggie, fluttering with delight, had taken Mr. Checkynshaw's check to
her father when she carried his dinner. The barber was astonished as
well as pleased with the gift, and, having drawn the check, deposited
the money in the Savings Bank, as a provision for dark days, like those
through which they had passed at the beginning of André's illness.

After supper the family gathered around the cooking-stove in the
kitchen. Never before had they been so happy as now, and never before
were they so strongly attached to each other. They had passed through
the storm of privation and trial--they had triumphed over adverse
circumstances. Leo tried to study his lesson, while André and Maggie
were talking about the great event of the day, and comparing their
present situation with the first days of the barber's illness, when all
of them were trembling for the future.

"God has been very good to us, my children, and I hope we shall always
be grateful to him for his mercies," said André, as a tear, which he
could not repress, stole down his pale cheek.

"I'm sure I never felt so good before in my life; and I know my prayers
mean more to me now than ever before," replied Maggie.

"We have been faithful to each other, and God has been faithful to all
of us, as he always is, even when we forsake and forget him."

"Ah, mon père, how could we help being faithful to you, when you were
always so kind to us!" exclaimed Maggie, as she rested her hand on
André's arm. "And Leo--he has really been a lion! You don't know how
brave he was; how he worked, and how he persevered! It was all make,
and no break--wasn't it, Leo?"

"It has been, so far," replied Leo, less demonstrative, but not less
delighted than the other members of the family. "I think we can do
anything we make up our minds to do. I have made up my mind to take the
Franklin medal this year, and, make or break, I'm going to do it."

Leo bent over his slate again, and seemed to be determined, make or
break, that he would attend to his lessons, whatever happened in the
room. Unfortunately, in this instance, it was at least a partial break,
for a very imperative knock was heard a few moments later at the front
door. André answered the summons, and admitted Mr. Wittleworth.

"I hope I don't intrude," said Fitz, as daintily as Paul Pry himself
could have said it.

"Take a seat, Mr. Wittleworth," added Maggie, giving him a chair at the
stove.

"Thank you. I don't often go out evenings, for mother is alone. My
friends groan and complain because I don't visit them; but really this
is the first time I have been out of the house of an evening for a
month," continued Mr. Wittleworth, as he seated himself in the offered
chair, expecting the barber's family to appreciate his condescension in
this particular instance.

"The last time I went out of an evening," he added, "I called on my
friend Choate--you know Choate? Of course you do, Mr. Maggimore."

"I have not that honor," replied the barber, modestly.

"Choate's a good fellow--Choate is. He is the most gentlemanly person I
ever met, not even excepting Everett, who, by the way, was at Choate's
when I called upon him. Winthrop was there, too; but Winthrop is rather
stiff--Winthrop is. Of course I haven't anything to say against
Winthrop. He is a great man, talented, a good speaker, and all that
sort of thing; but you see he hasn't that companionable way with him
that Choate has. Of course you will not mention what I say to Winthrop,
for I don't want him to know but what I think as much of him as I do of
Choate or Everett."

André very kindly promised not to mention any disparaging allusion he
might make in regard to the honorable gentleman.

"In a private conversation one does not like to be held responsible for
remarks dropped without much reflection," continued Fitz. "I have
nothing against Winthrop, only he is not just like Choate. Choate is my
idea of a perfect gentleman--Choate is. But perhaps I am prejudiced in
Choate's favor. I used to be in the law business myself--in the same
office with Choate. Well, really, I didn't come here to talk about
Choate, or any of the rest of my friends. Isn't it singular how a light
remark, casually dropped, leads us off into a conversation which
occupies a whole evening?"

André acknowledged that it was singular how a light remark, casually
dropped, leads us into a conversation which occupies a whole evening;
