land were with the graceful and cultivated aristocrats rather than
the clumsy, ungainly laborer; and he but professed the feeling of all
aristocrats in saying at the outset of his political life, while Wilson
was yet a child, that in the event of a servile insurrection, he would
be among the first to shoulder a musket to defend the masters.
But the great day of the Lord was at hand. The events which since have
unrolled in fire and blood, had begun their inevitable course; and the
plain working-man was taken by the hand of Providence towards the high
places where he, with other working men, should shape the destiny of
the labor question for this age and for all ages.
Wilson went to Washington in the very heat and fervor of that conflict
which the gigantic Giddings, with his great body and unflinching
courage, said to a friend, was to him a severer trial of human nerve
than the facing of cannon and bullets. The slave aristocracy had
come down in great wrath, as if knowing that its time was short. The
Senate chamber rang with their oaths and curses as they tore and
raged like wild beasts against those whom neither their blandishments
nor their threats could subdue. Wilson brought there his face of
serene good nature, his vigorous, stocky frame, which had never seen
ill-health, and in which the nerves were yet an undiscovered region.
It was entirely useless to bully, or to threaten, or to cajole that
honest, good-humored, immovable man, who stood like a rock in their
way, and took all their fury as unconsciously as a rock takes the
foam of breaking waves. In every anti-slavery movement he was always
foremost, perfectly awake, perfectly well informed, and with that
hardy, practical business knowledge of men and things which came from
his early education, prepared to work out into actual forms what Sumner
gave out as splendid theories.
Wilson's impression on the Senate was not mainly that of an orator.
His speeches were as free from the artifices of rhetoric as those of
Lincoln, but they were distinguished for the weight and abundance of
the practical information and good sense which they contained. He never
spoke on a subject till he had made himself minutely acquainted with it
in all its parts, and was accurately familiar with all that belonged
to it. Not even John Quincy Adams or Charles Sumner could show a more
perfect knowledge of what they were talking about than Henry Wilson.
Whatever extraneous stores of knowledge and belles lettres may have
been possessed by any of his associates, no man on the floor of the
Senate could know more of the United States of America than he; and
what was wanting in the graces of the orator, or the refinements of the
rhetorician was more than made amends for in the steady, irresistible,
strong tread of the honest man, determined to accomplish a worthy
purpose.
Wilson succeeded Benton as chairman of the Military Committee of the
Senate, and it was fortunate for the country that when the sudden storm
of the war broke upon us, so strong a hand held this helm. Gen. Scott
said that he did more work in the first three months of the war than
had been done in his position before for twenty years; and Secretary
Cameron attributed the salvation of Washington in those early days,
mainly to Henry Wilson's power of doing the apparently impossible in
getting the Northern armies into the field in time to meet the danger.
His recently published account of what Congress has done to destroy
slavery, is a history which no man living was better fitted to write.
No man could be more minutely acquainted with the facts, more capable
of tracing effects to causes, and thus competent to erect this
imperishable monument to the honor of his country.
It is meet that the poor, farm-bound apprentice, the shoemaker of
Natick, should thus chronicle the great history of the deliverance of
labor from disgrace in this democratic nation.
There is something sublime in the history of the movements of the
37th and 38th Congresses of the United States. Perhaps never in any
country did an equal number of wise and just men meet together under
a more religious sense of their responsibility to God and to mankind.
Never had there been a deeper and more religious awe presiding over
popular elections than those which sent those men to Congress to man
our national ship in the terrors of the most critical passage our
stormy world has ever seen. They were the old picked, tried seamen,
stout of heart, giants in conscience and moral sense. They were the
scarred veterans of long years of battling for the great principles of
the Declaration of Independence, men who in old times had come through
great battles with the beasts of the slavery Ephesus, and still wore
the scars of their teeth. They had seen their president stricken down
at their head, and though bleeding inwardly, had closed up their ranks
shoulder to shoulder, to go steadily on with the great work for which
he died.
These men it was who while the din of arms was resounding through the
country, while Washington was one great camp and hospital, and the
confusing rumors of wars were coming to it from the east and from the
west, from the north and from the south--took up and carried to the
end the grandest national moral reform ever accomplished in a given
time. Many men of the common sort would have said, "This is no time to
be driving at moral reforms. We must drive this war through first, and
when we have done this, we will begin to wipe up, and adjust, and put
away." So gigantic a war was apology enough to satisfy the consciences
of men who looked only to precedents and the rules of ordinary
statesmanship, but our Congress was largely made up of men who walked
by a higher light, and judged by a higher standard than ever has been
given to mere statesmanship before. The spirit of the old Puritans,
their unworldly, God-fearing spirit, their steadfast flint-facedness
in principle, came to a final and culminating development in these
Congresses.
Henry Wilson has written a "History of the Anti-Slavery Measures in
Congress," in a brief, clear, compact summary, and made of it a volume
which ought to be in every true American library. It is a volume of
which every American has just and honest reason to be proud, and to
which every Republican the whole world over, should look with hope and
trust, as exhibiting the magnificent morality, the dauntless courage,
the unwearied faith, hope and charity that are the crown jewels of
republics. We should be glad to see this book of Henry Wilson's in
every farm house of New England, lying by the family Bible, under the
