son in this respect.
Among Mrs. Crawford's boarders was Mr. Gilbert, who is already known to
the reader as the book-keeper of Rockwell & Cooper. It has been
mentioned also that he was Roswell's cousin, being a son of Mrs.
Crawford's only brother. He, too, was not unlike his aunt and cousin,
and all three combined to hate and despise Dick, whom Mrs. Crawford saw
fit to regard as her son's successful rival.
"How's the boot-black, Cousin James?" asked Roswell, on the evening
succeeding that which Dick had passed at Mr. Rockwell's.
"Putting on airs worse than ever," replied Gilbert.
"Mr. Rockwell has a singular taste, to say the least," said Mrs.
Crawford, "or he wouldn't hire a boy from the streets, and give him such
extravagant wages. To pay such a vagabond ten dollars a week, when a boy
of good family, like Roswell, can get but four, is perfectly
ridiculous."
"I don't believe he gets so much," said Roswell. "It's only one of his
big stories."
"You're mistaken there," said Gilbert. "He does get exactly that."
"Are you sure of it?"
"I ought to be, since I received directions from Mr. Rockwell to-day to
pay him that amount to-morrow night, that being the end of the week."
"I never heard of such a thing!" ejaculated Mrs. Crawford. "The man must
be a simpleton."
"If he is, there's another besides him."
"Who do you mean?"
"Mrs. Rockwell."
"Has she made acquaintance with the boot-black, then?" asked Roswell,
with a sneer.
"Yes, he visited them last evening at their house."
"Did he tell you so?"
"Yes."
"I should think they'd feel honored by such a visitor."
"Probably they did, for Mrs. Rockwell made him a present of a gold
watch."
"WHAT!" exclaimed Roswell and his mother in concert.
"It's true. I sent him out to ask the time to-day, when he pulled out a
new gold watch with an air of importance, and told me the time."
"Was it a good watch?"
"A very handsome one. It must have cost, with the chain, a hundred and
twenty-five dollars."
"The idea of a boot-black with a gold watch!" exclaimed Roswell, with a
sneer. "It's about as appropriate as a pig in a silk dress."
"I can't understand it at all," said Mrs. Crawford. "It can't be that
he's a poor relation of theirs, can it?"
"I should say not. Mr. Rockwell wouldn't be likely to have a relation
reduced to blacking boots."
"Is the boy so attractive, then? What does he look like?"
"He's as bold as brass, and hasn't got any manners nor education," said
Roswell.
Poor Dick! His ears ought to have tingled, considering the complimentary
things that were said of him this evening. But luckily he knew nothing
about it, and, if he had, it is doubtful whether it would have troubled
him much. He was independent in his ideas, and didn't trouble himself
much about the opinion of others, as long as he felt that he was doing
right as nearly as he knew how.
"Do you think this strange fancy of Mr. Rockwell's is going to last?"
inquired Mrs. Crawford. "I wish Roswell could have got in there."
"So do I, but I couldn't accomplish it."
"If this boy should fall out of favor, there might be a chance for
Roswell yet; don't you think so?" asked Mrs. Crawford.
"I wish there might," said Roswell. "I'd like to see that beggar's pride
humbled. Besides, four dollars a week is such a miserable salary."
"You thought yourself lucky when you got it."
"So I did; but that was before I found out how much this boot-black was
getting."
"Well," said Gilbert, "he isn't a favorite of mine, as you know well
enough. If there's anything I can do to oust him, I shall do it."
"Couldn't you leave some money in his way? He might be tempted to steal
it."
"I don't know yet what course would be best. I'll try to get him into
trouble of some kind. But I can tell better by and by what to do."
Gilbert went up to his room, and Mrs. Crawford and Roswell were left
alone.
"I wish you were at Rockwell & Cooper's, Roswell," said his mother.
"So do I, mother; but it's no use wishing."
"I don't know about that. Your cousin ought to have some influence
there."
"The boot-black's in the way."
"He may not be in the way always. Your cousin may detect him in
something that will cause his discharge."
"Even if he does, I've tried once to get in there, and didn't succeed.
They didn't seem to take a fancy to me."
"I shouldn't expect them to, if they take a fancy to a common street
boy. But when they find him out, they may change their opinion of you."
"I don't know how that will be, mother. At any rate, I think I ought to
get more than four dollars a week where I am. Why, there's Talbot, only
two years older than I, gets eight dollars, and I do more than he. To
tell the truth, I don't like the place. I don't like to be seen carrying
round bundles. It isn't fit work for a gentleman's son."
Roswell forgot that many of the most prosperous merchants in the city
began in that way, only on less wages. One who wants to climb the ladder
of success must, except in very rare cases, commence at the lowest
round. This was what Roswell did not like. He wanted to begin half-way
up at the very least. It was a great hindrance to him that he regarded
himself as a gentleman's son, and was puffed up with a corresponding
sense of his own importance.
The more Roswell thought of his ill-requited services, as he considered
them, the more he felt aggrieved. It may be mentioned that he was
employed in a dry goods store on Sixth Avenue, and was chiefly engaged
in carrying out bundles for customers. A circumstance which occurred
