be; and there are still others."
"On the Southern side," said the doctor.
"Those two are on the Southern side," I said. "Others are on
the Northern. I am there myself."
"Not exactly in the struggle," said the doctor; "and yet, I do
not know. These women!"
I think the doctor was baffled by my perfect quietness and
readiness. He spoke presently in a disengaged manner, -
"Mr. Ransom Randolph is in no danger at present. I know from a
word in a late letter from your father, that he is in Europe
still. Would you not like to get out of this confused state of
things, and join them there?"
"I would like better to go if it was peace here," I said.
"Would you? Then you are not afraid lest the rebels should
take Washington and confiscate the whole of us?"
"Major Fairbairn thinks the danger of that is past."
"He does! However, other dangers might arise -"
"I knew you would not think Washington very safe ground for
us," Mrs. Sandford rejoined.
"Mrs. Sandford is at her own risk. But I should hardly be
doing the duty of a good guardian if I risked anything, where
so important a charge is committed to me. I shall get you away
from here without delay. How soon can you both be ready?"
I wanted to say I was ready, but I could not get out the
words. My two friends debated the matter, and the doctor fixed
his own time. The day after to-morrow.
It was good for me, that I had given up the charge of my own
interests; or I never could have maintained the ease of manner
which it was desirable to maintain in face of this
proposition. I was very calm, remembering that "a man's heart
deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps." I went on
with my worsted stitching under the eye of the doctor. I do
not know why he watched me so.
"Has anybody ventured to tell you, Miss Randolph, that you
have changed within a few months?" This question was put after
I had forgotten the doctor and was marching somewhere before a
battery in Patterson's column. I started a little.
"Yes, indeed! has she not?" exclaimed Mrs. Sandford. "Changed!
She came out of school the dearest little schoolgirl that ever
lived; or I should say, she went back to school so, last year.
What has the year done to you, Daisy?"
"What has it done to me?" I replied, smiling at her. "How am I
changed?"
"Changed!" Mrs. Sandford repeated. "Tell her, Grant, what is
she now?"
"She would not thank me for telling her," said the doctor.
"But I will thank you, Mrs. Sandford," I said. "I was 'the
dearest little schoolgirl.' "
"My dear, you are not that now," Mrs. Sandford said solemnly.
"It all comes to this, Daisy," said the doctor. "You are a
psychological puzzle to me. For the matter of that, now I
think of it, you always were. When you went to visit Molly
Skelton, and carried rose-bushes round the country in your
pony-chaise, just as much as now. You are not the same Daisy,
however."
"Yes, I am; just the same," I said earnestly.
"Fancy it!" said Mrs. Sandford. "My dear, you do I not see
yourself; that is clear."
"I would like to do the same things again," I insisted. But
that nearly choked me. For a vision of myself in my happy
pony-chaise; the free, joyous child that I was, ignorant of
soldiers and wars, further than as I knew my dear Captain
Drummond; the vision of the Daisy that once was, and could
never be again; went nigh to shake all my composure down. The
emotion came with a rush, and I had nearly succumbed to it.
"Miss Randolph has a philosophy," the doctor went on, still
watching me, - "which is not common to the world, and which I
have hitherto in vain endeavoured to fathom. I have always
fancied that I should be happier if I could find it out."
"Did I never tell you what it was, Dr. Sandford?"
"Never - intelligibly. You will excuse me. I do not mean to
accuse you, but myself."
"But you know what it is," I said, facing him. "My philosophy,
as you call it. It is only, to live for the other world
instead of this."
"Why not live for this world, while you are in it, Daisy?"
"I am not going to stay in it."
"I hope, very long!" said the doctor - seriously. "And do you
not think that people are meant to enjoy this world, while
they have it?"
"Yes, when they can," I answered; remembering vividly that
enjoyment is not always the rule. "But I enjoy the world
better than you do, Dr. Sandford; because, living for the
other, I take the good of both. And if this fails at any time,
the other - cannot."
Dr. Sandford's blue eye went as deep into mine, and into me, I
think, as it could; and he did not look satisfied.
The preparations for our journey were pressed with a diligence
that admitted of no delay, all that day and the next. I was
quietly busy too, thinking that it did not matter; that the
time must come, and as well then as ever.
I had miscalculated my strength, or my weakness. Or perhaps
the emotional part of our nature is never to be depended on.
That dim morning of our early departure is fixed in my memory
as one of the most heart-sinking times my heart ever knew. My
companions were brisk and bright, in travelling mood, taking
cars and porters and ticket offices and crowds, as pleasant
concomitants of a pleasant affair. Glad to get away from
Washington, both of them. And I, alone in my heart, knew what
a thread was breaking for me; knew that Thorold's path and
