threads will come in the bonnie brown hair, and that, by and by,
kindness and respect will be as sweet as love and admiration now.
Gentlemen, which means boys, be courteous to the old maids, no matter
how poor and plain and prim, for the only chivalry worth having is that
which is the readiest to pay deference to the old, protect the feeble,
and serve womankind, regardless of rank, age, or color. Just recollect
the good aunts who have not only lectured and fussed, but nursed and
petted, too often without thanks; the scrapes they have helped you out
of, the "tips" they have given you from their small store, the stitches
the patient old fingers have set for you, the steps the willing old feet
have taken, and gratefully pay the dear old ladies the little attentions
that women love to receive as long as they live. The bright-eyed girls
are quick to see such traits, and will like you all the better for them;
and if death, almost the only power that can part mother and son,
should rob you of yours, you will be sure to find a tender welcome and
maternal cherishing from some Aunt Priscilla, who has kept the warmest
corner of her lonely old heart for the "the best nevvy in the world."
Jo must have fallen asleep (as I dare say my reader has during this
little homily), for suddenly Laurie's ghost seemed to stand before
her,--a substantial, lifelike ghost,--leaning over her, with the very
look he used to wear when he felt a good deal and didn't like to show
it. But, like Jenny in the ballad,--
        "She could not think it he,"
and lay staring up at him in startled silence, till he stooped and
kissed her. Then she knew him, and flew up, crying joyfully,--
"O my Teddy! O my Teddy!"
"Dear Jo, you are glad to see me, then?"
"Glad! My blessed boy, words can't express my gladness. Where's Amy?"
"Your mother has got her down at Meg's. We stopped there by the way, and
there was no getting my wife out of their clutches."
"Your what?" cried Jo, for Laurie uttered those two words with an
unconscious pride and satisfaction which betrayed him.
"Oh, the dickens! now I've done it;" and he looked so guilty that Jo was
down upon him like a flash.
"You've gone and got married!"
"Yes, please, but I never will again;" and he went down upon his knees,
with a penitent clasping of hands, and a face full of mischief, mirth,
and triumph.
"Actually married?"
"Very much so, thank you."
"Mercy on us! What dreadful thing will you do next?" and Jo fell into
her seat, with a gasp.
"A characteristic, but not exactly complimentary, congratulation,"
returned Laurie, still in an abject attitude, but beaming with
satisfaction.
"What can you expect, when you take one's breath away, creeping in like
a burglar, and letting cats out of bags like that? Get up, you
ridiculous boy, and tell me all about it."
"Not a word, unless you let me come in my old place, and promise not to
barricade."
Jo laughed at that as she had not done for many a long day, and patted
the sofa invitingly, as she said, in a cordial tone,--
"The old pillow is up garret, and we don't need it now; so, come and
'fess, Teddy."
"How good it sounds to hear you say 'Teddy'! No one ever calls me that
but you;" and Laurie sat down, with an air of great content.
"What does Amy call you?"
"My lord."
"That's like her. Well, you look it;" and Jo's eyes plainly betrayed
that she found her boy comelier than ever.
The pillow was gone, but there was a barricade, nevertheless,--a
natural one, raised by time, absence, and change of heart. Both felt it,
and for a minute looked at one another as if that invisible barrier cast
a little shadow over them. It was gone directly, however, for Laurie
said, with a vain attempt at dignity,--
"Don't I look like a married man and the head of a family?"
"Not a bit, and you never will. You've grown bigger and bonnier, but you
are the same scapegrace as ever."
"Now, really, Jo, you ought to treat me with more respect," began
Laurie, who enjoyed it all immensely.
"How can I, when the mere idea of you, married and settled, is so
irresistibly funny that I can't keep sober!" answered Jo, smiling all
over her face, so infectiously that they had another laugh, and then
settled down for a good talk, quite in the pleasant old fashion.
"It's no use your going out in the cold to get Amy, for they are all
coming up presently. I couldn't wait; I wanted to be the one to tell you
the grand surprise, and have 'first skim,' as we used to say when we
squabbled about the cream."
"Of course you did, and spoilt your story by beginning at the wrong end.
Now, start right, and tell me how it all happened; I'm pining to know."
"Well, I did it to please Amy," began Laurie, with a twinkle that made
Jo exclaim,--
"Fib number one; Amy did it to please you. Go on, and tell the truth, if
you can, sir."
"Now she's beginning to marm it; isn't it jolly to hear her?" said
Laurie to the fire, and the fire glowed and sparkled as if it quite
agreed. "It's all the same, you know, she and I being one. We planned to
come home with the Carrols, a month or more ago, but they suddenly
changed their minds, and decided to pass another winter in Paris. But
grandpa wanted to come home; he went to please me, and I couldn't let
him go alone, neither could I leave Amy; and Mrs. Carrol had got English
notions about chaperons and such nonsense, and wouldn't let Amy come
with us. So I just settled the difficulty by saying, 'Let's be married,
and then we can do as we like.'"
"Of course you did; you always have things to suit you."
"Not always;" and something in Laurie's voice made Jo say hastily,--
"How did you ever get aunt to agree?"
"It was hard work; but, between us, we talked her over, for we had heaps
of good reasons on our side. There wasn't time to write and ask leave,
but you all liked it, had consented to it by and by, and it was only
