the rudiments, and that, with a slight acquaintance with arithmetic,
was all he did know of books. Dick knew he must study hard, and
he dreaded it. He looked upon learning as attended with greater
difficulties than it really possesses. But Dick had good pluck. He
meant to learn, nevertheless, and resolved to buy a book with his
first spare earnings.
When Dick went home at night he locked up his bank-book in one
of the drawers of the bureau. It was wonderful how much more
independent he felt whenever he reflected upon the contents of
that drawer, and with what an important air of joint ownership
he regarded the bank building in which his small savings were
deposited.
CHAPTER XV
DICK SECURES A TUTOR
The next morning Dick was unusually successful, having plenty to do,
and receiving for one job twenty-five cents,--the gentleman refusing
to take change. Then flashed upon Dick's mind the thought that he
had not yet returned the change due to the gentleman whose boots he
had blacked on the morning of his introduction to the reader.
"What'll he think of me?" said Dick to himself. "I hope he won't
think I'm mean enough to keep the money."
Now Dick was scrupulously honest, and though the temptation to be
otherwise had often been strong, he had always resisted it. He was
not willing on any account to keep money which did not belong to
him, and he immediately started for 125 Fulton Street (the address
which had been given him) where he found Mr. Greyson's name on the
door of an office on the first floor.
The door being open, Dick walked in.
"Is Mr. Greyson in?" he asked of a clerk who sat on a high stool
before a desk.
"Not just now. He'll be in soon. Will you wait?"
"Yes," said Dick.
"Very well; take a seat then."
Dick sat down and took up the morning "Tribune," but presently
came to a word of four syllables, which he pronounced to himself a
"sticker," and laid it down. But he had not long to wait, for five
minutes later Mr. Greyson entered.
"Did you wish to speak to me, my lad?" said he to Dick, whom in his
new clothes he did not recognize.
"Yes, sir," said Dick. "I owe you some money."
"Indeed!" said Mr. Greyson, pleasantly; "that's an agreeable
surprise. I didn't know but you had come for some. So you are
a debtor of mine, and not a creditor?"
"I b'lieve that's right," said Dick, drawing fifteen cents from his
pocket, and placing in Mr. Greyson's hand.
"Fifteen cents!" repeated he, in some surprise. "How do you happen
to be indebted to me in that amount?"
"You gave me a quarter for a-shinin' your boots, yesterday mornin',
and couldn't wait for the change. I meant to have brought it before,
but I forgot all about it till this mornin'."
"It had quite slipped my mind also. But you don't look like the boy
I employed. If I remember rightly he wasn't as well dressed as you."
"No," said Dick. "I was dressed for a party, then, but the clo'es
was too well ventilated to be comfortable in cold weather."
"You're an honest boy," said Mr. Greyson. "Who taught you to be
honest?"
"Nobody," said Dick. "But it's mean to cheat and steal. I've always
knowed that."
"Then you've got ahead of some of our business men. Do you read
the Bible?"
"No," said Dick. "I've heard it's a good book, but I don't know much
about it."
"You ought to go to some Sunday School. Would you be willing?"
"Yes," said Dick, promptly. "I want to grow up 'spectable. But I
don't know where to go."
"Then I'll tell you. The church I attend is at the corner of Fifth
Avenue and Twenty-first Street."
"I've seen it," said Dick.
"I have a class in the Sunday School there. If you'll come next
Sunday, I'll take you into my class, and do what I can to help you."
"Thank you," said Dick, "but p'r'aps you'll get tired of teaching
me. I'm awful ignorant."
"No, my lad," said Mr. Greyson, kindly. "You evidently have some
good principles to start with, as you have shown by your scorn of
dishonesty. I shall hope good things of you in the future."
"Well, Dick," said our hero, apostrophizing himself, as he left the
office; "you're gettin' up in the world. You've got money invested,
and are goin' to attend church, by partic'lar invitation, on Fifth
Avenue. I shouldn't wonder much if you should find cards, when you
get home, from the Mayor, requestin' the honor of your company to
dinner, along with other distinguished guests."
Dick felt in very good spirits. He seemed to be emerging from the
world in which he had hitherto lived, into a new atmosphere of
respectability, and the change seemed very pleasant to him.
At six o'clock Dick went into a restaurant on Chatham Street, and
got a comfortable supper. He had been so successful during the day
that, after paying for this, he still had ninety cents left. While
he was despatching his supper, another boy came in, smaller and
slighter than Dick, and sat down beside him. Dick recognized him
as a boy who three months before had entered the ranks of the
boot-blacks, but who, from a natural timidity, had not been able
to earn much. He was ill-fitted for the coarse companionship of
the street boys, and shrank from the rude jokes of his present
associates. Dick had never troubled him; for our hero had a certain
chivalrous feeling which would not allow him to bully or disturb a
younger and weaker boy than himself.
"How are you, Fosdick?" said Dick, as the other seated himself.
"Pretty well," said Fosdick. "I suppose you're all right."
"Oh, yes, I'm right side up with care. I've been havin' a bully
supper. What are you goin' to have?"
