a facile temperament, and utter want of conscience ? For 
I believe, in his long and closely written epistle, he ac- 
tually persuaded himself tluit he loved me, that he would 
suffer acutely in giving me up; but, since it was my desire, 
he could not insist upon anything that was likely to render 
me unhappy. He spoke of the delightful past with touch- 
ing pathos the walks, the tender conversations, the hopes 
we had cherished, and the void that would remain to him. 
Yet he did not implore me to change my mind, or threaten 
any deed of desperate* daring. Instead, he breathed a 
hope that, though love between us might be dead, friend- 
ship would still remain. 
Alas, when confidence had ended with me, all was over. 
I could meet Hugh Graham with a true and tender regard ; 
but if this handsome face ever crossed my path, I should 
feel tempted to spurn it with unutterable loathing. 
But even this incident did not detract from the pleas- 
ure of my visit. I felt that in Mr. and Mrs. Otis I had 
friends for life, friends that I could count upon in any 
emergency. 
On my return to Laurelwood, I gathered together Ayl- 
mcr's gifts, elegant and fanciful, like himself jewels with 
quaint devices, books superb in their binding and was 
making a package, when Mi's. Lawrence tapped lightly at 
the door, and then entered. My face was dyed the deepest 
scai k-t. 
"Excuse me;" and she drew back, hesitatingly. 
"I must tell you," I began, with desperate courage. 
"The engagement between Mr. Channing and myself has 
ended." 
" Sydnie ! " She stood pale and trembling with aston- 
ishment. 
" We have decided that it would not be for our highest 
happiness. I believe he understands it as well as I ;" and 
there was a touch of scorn in my voice. 
"And you allowed this nonsense to ruin such brilliant 
prospects ? Are you crazy ? " 
"The brilliant prospects did not tempt me at all." 
"They would have tempted any other woman. What 
else could you ask? And I thought you had satisfied 
yourself about the love." 
" I believe it was only a passing fancy with him : I find 
that I was quite mistaken concerning my own regard." 
" He might be a little wavering, but you, of all other 
women, could have held him true. Your beauty that never 
palls, your voice, your spirit and vaiicty would have kept 
him captive forever, if you had so willed. Of all folly this 
is the wildest." 
I had never seen her so thoroughly roused. 
"I should not want a husband whose affections it was 
necessary to retain by continuous effort," I said, haughtily. 
" With all your endowments I can foresee that your life 
will prove an utter failure, and all on account of these ro- 
mantic follies. Was ever a woman so short-sighted?" 
u The fault is not entirely mine," I returned, warmly. 
 
"Last summer I heard that Mr. Channing had been 
strongly attracted by Miss Ray nor, his step-mother's sister. 
He needed only to be brought within trhe circle of her in- 
fluence again to have the charm completed. Knowing 
this, I preferred to resign him while my claim was yet 
undisputed." 
" A false, foolish story ! Miss Raynor has nothing but 
her beauty, and that is not to be compared to yours. You 
have been most hasty and unwise. Is it too late to repair 
the mischief? " 
" Too late. Even if I could yet believe him true, which 
I do not, I should still refuse to marry him. I learned, 
before he left us in December, that he was not all that I had 
fancied him, or even what I desired." 
" You will never find what you desire." 
" Perhaps not." 
"And these Raynors are poor, miserable schemers. 
What girl of eighteen would marry a man three times 
her age except for his money? More than once this wily 
step-mother has tried to entangle Aylmer. And if you 
had made the slightest effort " 
"I did not consider his salvation worth any effort on my 
part;" and I smiled disdainfully. 
" So I perceive. Poor Aylmer ! " 
" I don't think that I could have helped his liking Miss 
Raynor," I said, rather indignantly, "and I was not anxious 
to be jilted for it would have come to that. I consider 
that I have had a very fortunate escape in any event." 
" What step do you propose next ? " and there was some 
irony in her tone. 
" I have not decided ; " and I smiled, in spite of my irri- 
tation. 
" Do you remember your age ? " 
"Almost twenty : quite ancient, I must confess." 
 
 
"Yon will not be likely to find any better chances for 
marriage than those you have passed by. I think you 
have had everything offered you. It stamps a woman's 
success to marry whi'e she is still admired and sought after. 
If she waits, the world throws up its hands, and says, in a 
tone of relief, ' Well, she's married at last? as if one had 
tried all one's life to bring about the event." 
" I don't trouble myself about the world, and certainly 
