Gibson, who, though rather a rough character, had been kind to him.
Ben was not difficult to find. During business hours he was generally
posted on Nassau Street, somewhere between Fulton Street and Spruce
Street.
He was just polishing off a customer's boots when Mark came up, and
touched him lightly on the shoulder. Ben looked up, but did not at
first recognize the match boy in the neatly dressed figure before him.
"Shine yer boots!" he asked, in a professional tone.
"Why, Ben, don't you know me?" asked Mark, laughing.
"My eyes, if it aint Mark, the match boy!" exclaimed Ben, in surprise.
"Where've you been all this while, Mark?"
"I've been sick, Ben."
"I'd like to be sick too, if that's the way you got them clo'es. I
didn't know what had 'come of you."
"I found some good friends," said Mark.
"If your friends have got any more good clo'es they want to get rid
of," said Ben, "tell 'em you know a chap that can take care of a few.
Are you in the match business now?"
"I haven't been doing anything for three weeks," said Mark.
"Goin' to sell matches again?"
"No."
"Sellin' papers?"
"No, I'm trying to find a place in a store."
"I don't think I'd like to be in a store," said Ben, reflectively.
"I'm afraid my delicate constitution couldn't stand the confinement.
Besides, I'm my own boss now, and don't have nobody to order me round."
"But you don't expect to black boots all your life, Ben, do you?"
"I dunno," said Ben. "Maybe when I'm married, I'll choose some other
business. It would be rather hard to support a family at five cents a
shine. Are you comin' to the Lodge to-night?"
"No," said Mark, "I'm boarding up at St. Mark's Place."
"Mother Watson hasn't opened a fashionable boardin'-house up there, has
she?"
"I guess not," said Mark, smiling. "I can't think what has become of
her. I haven't seen her since the day she tried to carry me off."
"I've heard of her," said Ben. "She's stoppin' with some friends at the
Island. They won't let her come away on account of likin' her company
so much."
"I hope I shall never see her again," said Mark, with a shudder. "She
is a wicked old woman. But I must be going, Ben."
"I s'pose you'll come and see a feller now and then."
"Yes, Ben, when I get time. But I hope to get a place soon."
Mark walked leisurely up Broadway. Having been confined to the house
for three weeks, he enjoyed the excitement of being out in the street
once more. The shop windows looked brighter and gayer than before, and
the little match boy felt that the world was a very pleasant place
after all.
He had passed Eighth Street before he was fairly aware of the distance
he had traversed. He found himself looking into the window of a
bookstore. While examining the articles in the window his eye suddenly
caught the notice pasted in the middle of the glass on a piece of white
paper:--
  "BOY WANTED."
"Perhaps they'll take me," thought Mark, suddenly. "At any rate I'll go
in and see."
Accordingly he entered the store, and looked about him a little
undecidedly.
"Well, sonny, what do you want?" asked a clerk.
"I see that you want a boy," said Mark.
"Yes. Do you want a place?"
"I am trying to get one."
"Well, go and see that gentleman about it."
He pointed to a gentleman who was seated at a desk in the corner of the
store.
"Please, sir, do you want a boy?" he asked.
"Yes," said the gentleman. "How old are you?"
"Ten years old."
"You are rather young. Have you been in any place before?"
"No, sir."
"Do you know your way about the city pretty well?"
"Yes, sir."
"I want a boy to deliver papers and magazines, and carry small parcels
of books. Do you think you could do that?"
"Yes, sir."
"Without stopping to play on the way?"
"Yes, sir."
"I have just discharged one boy, because he was gone an hour and a
half on an errand to Twentieth Street. You are the first boy that has
answered my advertisement. I'll try you on a salary of three dollars a
week, if you can go to work at once. What is your name?"
"Mark Manton."
"Very well, Mark. Go to Mr. Jones, behind the counter there, and he
will give you a parcel to carry to West Twenty-First Street."
"I'm in luck," thought Mark. "I didn't expect to get a place so
easily."
CHAPTER XVI.
MARK'S FIRST IMPRESSIONS.
Probably my readers already understand that the bookstore in which Mark
has secured a place is the same in which Roswell Crawford is employed.
This circumstance, if Mark had only known it, was likely to make his
position considerably less desirable than it would otherwise have been.
Mr. Baker, the proprietor of the store, was very considerate in his
treatment of those in his employ, and Mr. Jones, his chief clerk, was
good-natured and pleasant. But Roswell was very apt to be insolent and
disagreeable to those who were, or whom he considered to be, in an
inferior position to himself, while his lofty ideas of his own dignity
and social position as the "son of a gentleman," made him not very
desirable as a clerk. Still he had learned something from his bad luck
thus far. He had been so long in getting his present place, that he
felt it prudent to sacrifice his pride in some extent for the sake of
