be a surprise, she had to do them when he was not 
present. Aunt Euth read aloud to them. 

They passed very many happy days together. 
Some of the village people thought Mrs. Alston 
exceedingly plain and deficient in both taste and 
ambition. But it was her desire, while the children 
were small at least, to live as simply as possible. 
Their one servant found herself not overworked, for 
the mistress took the charge of household matters, 
and Hugh, being very handy and obliging, did many 
little favors for them. It was Mrs. Alston's desire to 
make her brother's home as pleasant as she could, 
and not to burden him with unnecessary cares or 
expense. 

A little before three Kathie set out again on her 
errand of kindness. Mrs. Gardiner was looking 





bright and expectant, and good-natured Irish Maggie, 
who was as strong in the arms as a man, helped her 
in the carriage. Lucy and Annie gave them three 
cheers. 

The day was still beautiful, and the air fragrant 
with the resinous odor of the pines and cedars. Mrs. 
Gardiner drew long, reviving breaths, and felt that 
she could hardly thank Kathie sufficiently for the 
pleasure. They drove slowly through the shady 
roads, Kathie talking in her simple fashion, which 
was extremely entertaining. She enjoyed Mrs. 
Gardiner's delight as fully as if it had been her 
very own. 

"It is such a luxury to get out," the lady said. 
"For six weeks I have been confined to the house. 
I never was sick so long before, and it has been very 
tiresome. Annie and Lucy have .been so good, 
though, that it has lightened my anxiety. Kathie, 
you hardly know how happy pleasant, helpful chil- 
dren make their mothers." 

Kathie was a very humble little girl, and she 
thought now of the many times she might have been 
useful to her mother when she had gone to play 
instead. But latterly she had tried. 



 

When they returned, for Mrs. Gardiner was not 
strong enough for a very long drive, the two little 
girls sat on the piazza in their clean gingham dresses 
and white aprons. 

" Mrs. Gardiner, can't they go a little while ? " 
asked Kathie, with great earnestness. 

" I am afraid we shall trespass on your kindness, 
my dear child." 

" no. It will be such fun for us all." 

"And you think your mother wouldn't disap- 
prove ? ' was Mrs. Gardiner's doubtful question. 

" I am very sure." 

Lucy and Annie were overjoyed. They were as 
gay as little larks, quite as noisy too when they 
were out of hearing. They passed several of the 
school-girls, and Lottie Thome and her mother trudg- 
ing along on foot. Lottie gave them a disdainful 
nod. 

" You don't care, do you ? J: said Annie. " But 
Lottie is going to the sea-shore, and she has ever 
so many pretty new dresses." 

" I 'd a good deal rather have a pony," said Lucy. 
" This is just splendid." 

Kathie thought so too as the ponies trotted along. 

 





As for sea-side, there was beautiful Silver Lake, 
and their pretty house was nicer than any hotel. 

So they laughed and talked, and enjoyed them^ 
selves to the utmost. Once or twice when Kathie 
