demurely. 

" And I say, what have you got to do with 
it ? I don't see what particular concern of 
mine the Dows' are, anyhow." 

Matilda sat a long while thinking after this 
speech. She was on the floor, pulling off her 
stockings and unlacing her boots ; and while 
her fingers moved slowly, drawing out the 
laces, her cogitations were very busy. What 
concern ivere the Dows', of hers or Maria's ? 
They were not pleasant people to go near, 
she judged, from the look of their house and 
dooryard as she had seen it in passing ; and 
the uncombed, fly-away head of the little girl 
gave her a shudder as she remembered it. 
They were not people that were often seen in 
church ; they could not be good ; maybe they 
used bad language ; certainly they could not 



 

be expected to know how to " behave." Slowly 
the laces were pulled out of Matilda's boots, 
and her face grew into portentous gravity. 

" Aren't you coming to bed ? " said Maria. 
What can you be thinking of? " 

"I am thinking of the Dows' ? " 

" What about them ? I never thought 
about them three times in my life." 

" But oughtn't we to think about people, 
Maria ? " 

" Nice people." 

" I mean, people that are not nice." 

" It will be new times when you do," said 
Maria. " Come ! let the Dows' alone and 
come to bed." 

" Maria," said her little sister as she obeyed 
this request, " I was thinking, that Jesus 
thought about people that were not nice." 

"Well?" said Maria. "Do lie down! 
what is the use of getting into bed, if you 
are going to sit bolt upright like that and talk 
lectures ? I don't see what has got into you." 

" Maria, it seems to me, now I think of it, 



 

that those were the particular people he did 
care about." 

"Don't you think he cared about good 
people ? " said Maria indignantly. 

" But they were not good at first. Nobody 
was good at first till he made them good. 
He said he didn't come to the good people ; 
don't you remember ? " 

" Well, what do you mean by all that ? 
Are we not to care for anybody but the people 
that are not good? A nice life we should 
have of it ! " 

" Maria," said her little sister very thoughtfully, I wonder what sort of a life He had ? " 

" Tilly ! " said Maria, rising up in her turn, 
" what has come to you ? What book have 
you been reading ? I shall tell mamma." 

" I have not been reading any book," said 
Matilda. 

" Then lie down and quit talking. How do 
you expect I am going to sleep ? " 

" Let us go and see what we can do at the 
Dows', Maria ! to-morrow. Won't you ? " 



 

But Maria either did not or would not hear ; 
so the matter passed for that night. But the 
