word. What made you ? ” 

“ I was killing a giant,” said Kathie, soberly. 

“ A giant ! ” Kob opened his mouth as well as his 
eyes. 

“ Yes. I felt real angry at first, because I didn’t 
go from laziness. I ’d like to have stayed, but I was 
glad to think of mamma in time. Aunt Butli told 
me that our bad tempers were like giants, and that 
Jack in the fairy-book wasn’t the only one who set 
out to kill them. I want to remember, and I don’t 

want to get angry. That ’s two.” 




“ Humph ! ” said Rob, rather disdainfully. 

The children took their seats and went to work. 
The last hour was devoted to arithmetic. Kathie 
ciphered away industriously. One after another the 
children read their answers. 

Miss Moore called the names of those who were 
wrong. They would have to stay in and do their 
sums over. Lottie Thorne’s was amongst them. 

Kathie passed her in going out and felt real sorry 
as she caught a glimpse of the disappointed face. 
She paused half a moment beside her. 

Lottie was rather selfish, and was glad to have any 
one assist her. Kathie did occasionally, but she 
felt quite awkward about it now. She summoned 
courage presently, and said, “ Can ’t you find your 
mistake, Lottie ? These long - division sums are 
real bothering.” 

“ It ’s too bad ! I ’ve been all over it once. Hear ! 
when any one is in a hurry — ” And Lottie’s blue 
eyes seemed to indicate a shower. 

“ Let ’s look again,” said the cheery voice. “ Why, 
here, in the very beginning, you didn’t carry, you 
see.” 

“ And it ’s all to do over, — this great long sum ! ” 


 


Lottie’s tone was despairing, and slie surveyed it in 
utter dismay. 

“ That won’t get it done,” said Katliie, with a 
bright smile ; so at it they went in good earnest. 

“ That ’s right,” exclaimed Miss Moore, glancing it 
over. 

“ Katliie, you are the best girl I know ” ; and Lottie 
gave her a fond squeeze. “ If any one had been as 
cross to me as I was to you this morning, I would 
n’t have spoken to her. I ’m real sorry.” 

“ Never mind,” said Kathie, hunting up her hood. 
“ Only it was hard to go home yesterday, but I 
knew mamma needed me.” 

So the two girls went out to the snow-house. - “ It 
was better to be pleasant,” Kathie thought, and she 
determined to make war upon her giants whenever 
they dared to show themselves. 

The children had a delightful play, only it was so 
short. 

“ If we could all come to-morrow,” exclaimed 
Charlie Darrell. “ Wouldn’t it be fun to stay the 
whole afternoon and have a regular good time ? 
Who ’ll be here ? ” 

“I! I ! ” shouted a chorus of voices, Kob’s loudest 
amongst them. 


 


Katliie was silent ; should she promise or not ? 
Saturday was always such a busy time. But how 
delightful it would be to come ! 

“ You ’ll be sure to ? ” Charlie Darrell said to 
Katliie, lingering a little behind. 

