"I suppose Mr. Gracewood and his family intend to remain at the
clearing after we have moved the house," continued my companion in the
barge.

"I don't know. I don't believe his wife and daughter will be content to
stay a great while in this lonely place. They may live here during the
summer; but in winter we don't see anybody or anything for months."

"What do you do in winter?"

"I have been studying for several years."

"I thought you talked very well for a boy brought up in the woods."

"I don't have anything to do for six months in the year but take care
of the horses, and do the housework. I read and study about twelve
hours a day in winter. I took up Latin and French last season."

"Indeed! You will make a learned man if you keep on. Have you no desire
to see more of the world?"

"Sometimes I have. I don't think I shall stay here many years longer."

"I shouldn't think you would. Why do you study Latin and French?"

"Only because I like them. It is a very great pleasure to me to puzzle
out the sentences. Mr. Gracewood is a great scholar, and has plenty of
books on the island. I believe I have read them all, except the
dictionaries. He had given me a lot of books, which he sent to St.
Louis for."

"I should think you would want to know something about your
family--your father and mother," added the lieutenant, to whom Mr.
Gracewood had related the substance of my history.

"I do, sometimes; but I am almost sure I should learn that one or both
of them were lost in the steamer."

"Perhaps not. Mr. Gracewood thinks your foster-father did very wrong in
not causing some inquiries to be made for your parents."

"I think so myself; but I can excuse him when I consider how much he
did for me, and the reason why he kept still," I replied, as I ran the
barge upon the shore at the lower end of the island.

"Have you any of the clothing, or other articles, found upon you?"

"I don't know of any."

"Almost every little child has a necklace, a ring, or some other
ornament upon it, especially when travelling."

"Matt Rockwood never said anything to me about such matters. He has a
chest at the Castle, which he always kept locked, and I don't know what
there is in it."

"Didn't you open it after he was killed?"

"No; the key was buried with him, and I did not exactly like to break
it open yet. Besides, I have been so driven about since we buried him
that I haven't had much time to think about it."

"I would open it, if I were you."

"I shall," I replied, as we walked up the slope towards the house.

"Perhaps there is something valuable in it."

"I know there is money in it, for we have sold a great deal of wood,
and he always put the gold into that chest."

"You may be a rich man yet, Phil."

"I don't know that the money belongs to me. I suppose Matt had friends
and relatives somewhere, though I don't know where they are."

"You have done as much as Matt, of late years, to earn this money, and
it would be a hard case to have it taken from you by his relations."

"I think it would. Matt did most of the chopping, and I did all the
hauling. But I meant to be honest, and the money shall go wherever it
belongs."

[Illustration: PHIL AND LIEUTENANT JACKSON GO TO PARADISE ISLAND.
Page 236.]

"Have you any idea how much there is?"

"Not the least; but I don't suppose there is a great deal," I replied,
as we reached the house.

"If I can help you, Phil, call upon me at any time. I shall be at the
fort above for a year or two, probably."

"Thank you, Mr. Jackson. You have been very kind to me. I shall always
remember you."

The soldiers had removed most of the boards on the sides of the house,
and were now taking off the roof. The lieutenant ordered some of his
men to bring up the piano box, which was in a rude shanty used as a
