" If " and Beatrice Levasseur gave a great gasp. But there 
would be the will ! 

Even before the Doctor's low tone had ceased to flutter like 
a breath of summer air through the dark hall, there was a 
clatter of horses' hoofs on the pavement without, and a deep 
voice that made the blood tingle in every pulse. The door 
was flung wide open and in the sunshine stood Kirke Gilliat, 
dusty and travel-stained, his face pale and anxious. 

"Just in time, my dear young friend!" cried the worthy 
Doctor. 

Kirke bowed to his cousin, flew up the stairs and made 
himself presentable, washing away the weariness and soil, and 
then walked straight to his grandfather's room. 

What passed between the two, Kirke never cared to repeat. 
Aunt Laura went in and out in her usual noiseless fashion. 
Beatrice was gently helpful. Doctor Parmlee came in again at 
three, and they all watched in silence. At twilight the soul of 
Hugh Gilliat passed over the river. 

There was a great funeral at Rothermel. Something of the 
old feudal system had been kept up on the estate, and after 
the family, and the gentry round, came the cottagers. Their 
master had been kind, if cold and hedged about with minute 
formalities. Yet Aunt Laura dropped the only tears upon his 
grave, and the last thing she ever did was to plant some roses 
at his feet. 

The immediate family assembled in the library to hear the 
will read. The table was draped in black ; the chair in which 
the old man used to sit, and the crimson curtains, were also 
shrouded. Two women in their deep mourning robes, and 
Kirke Gilliat, high-bred, handsome, but deadly pale. 

Small legacies and gifts first, Aunt Laura's house and pen- 



  

sion second, a regular income to be paid to Beatrice Levasseur, 
and the estate with all its rents and appurtenances to go to 
Kirke Gilliat if he married his cousin, if not, her income was 
to be doubled, a portion of ten thousand dollars to be paid to 
him, while the remainder went to a distant Gilliat connection. 

The will contained no news for Kirke. His grandfather had 
told him all, and in his dying moments extorted a promise that 
he would marry Beatrice. He had given it to soothe the last 
bitter pang of separation. 

The keen-eyed lawyer glanced furtively at Kirke. 

Not a muscle betrayed his resolve or displeasure. He bowed 
low to the assembled company and retired. Straight to his 
room up-stairs he went, and flinging wide open the shutters, sat 
down to consider his fate. 

A tall, finely-formed man, with a maturity of figure not 
always seen at five-and-twenty. There was a touch of the 
Fordyce in his clear ruddy skin and bright chestnut hair, while 
his full beard had in it the bronze brown tint the old painters 
loved. A peculiar kind of beauty indicating a pleasure-loving 
nature, a soul that absorbed rapidly whatever ministered to its 
desires, and passed coldly by whatever was distasteful, revelling 
in a passionate and glorious enjoyment for the time, gathering 
sweets like the bee from every flower that came in his way. 

Three years ago he had expected to marry his cousin. He 
had a presentiment that this was his grandfather's desire. So 
he sunned himself in the fascination of the stately Beatrice, 
more generous to him than to most of her lovers, because her 
eyes were fixed steadily upon the golden background. 

One of those sudden and unaccountable changes intervened, 
as if he had thrown in his plummet for sounding and struck 
against a solid rock. So he had never asked her to marry him, 
and wandered elsewhere, butterfly like, in the search for 
pleasures. 

What else? What sweet, dread knowledge had come to 
him ? The power to lift his soul out of the self-loving groove 



 

into which it had drifted through flattering from without and 
indulgence from within, by contact with the one woman loyal, 
tender, truthful, who roused all that was noblest in his man 
hood. 

The old story and the old temptation. Whether he should 
barter his soul and his happiness for these broad acres ? 

Ah, they were broad and smiling in bronze and crimson 
tints, and the deep green of cedar, pine, and hemlock, the 
