sackbut, and dulcimer, in his enchanting verse, they were to fall down
and worship.

For Lady Byron, Moore had simply the respect that a commoner has for
a lady of rank, and a good deal of the feeling that seems to underlie
all English literature,--that it is no matter what becomes of the woman
when the man's story is to be told. But, with all his faults, Moore was
not a cruel man; and we cannot conceive such outrageous cruelty and
ungentlemanly indelicacy towards an unoffending woman, as he shows in
these 'Memoirs,' without referring them to Lord Byron's own influence
in making him an unscrupulous, committed partisan on his side.

So little pity, so little sympathy, did he suppose Lady Byron to be
worthy of, that he laid before her, in the sight of all the world,
selections from her husband's letters and journals, in which the
privacies of her courtship and married life were jested upon with a
vulgar levity; letters filled, from the time of the act of separation,
with a constant succession of sarcasms, stabs, stings, epigrams, and
vindictive allusions to herself, bringing her into direct and insulting
comparison with his various mistresses, and implying their superiority
over her. There, too, were gross attacks on her father and mother, as
having been the instigators of the separation; and poor Lady Milbanke,
in particular, is sometimes mentioned with epithets so offensive, that
the editor prudently covers the terms with stars, as intending language
too gross to be printed.

The last mistress of Lord Byron is uniformly brought forward in
terms of such respect and consideration, that one would suppose that
the usual moral laws that regulate English family life had been
specially repealed in his favour. Moore quotes with approval letters
from Shelley, stating that Lord Byron's connection with La Guiccioli
has been of inestimable benefit to him; and that he is now becoming
what he should be, 'a virtuous man.' Moore goes on to speak of the
connection as one, though somewhat reprehensible, yet as having all
those advantages of marriage and settled domestic ties that Byron's
affectionate spirit had long sighed for, but never before found; and in
his last résumé of the poet's character, at the end of the volume, he
brings the mistress into direct comparison with the wife in a single
sentence: 'The woman to whom he gave the love of his maturer years
idolises his name; and, with a single unhappy exception, scarce an
instance is to be found of one brought ... into relations of amity with
him who did not retain a kind regard for him in life, and a fondness
for his memory.'

Literature has never yet seen the instance of a person, of Lady Byron's
rank in life, placed before the world in a position more humiliating to
womanly dignity, or wounding to womanly delicacy.

The direct implication is, that she has no feelings to be hurt, no
heart to be broken, and is not worthy even of the consideration which
in ordinary life is to be accorded to a widow who has received those
awful tidings which generally must awaken many emotions, and call for
some consideration, even in the most callous hearts.

The woman who we are told walked the room, vainly striving to control
the sobs that shook her frame, while she sought to draw from the
servant that last message of her husband which she was never to hear,
was not thought worthy even of the rights of common humanity.

The first volume of the 'Memoir' came out in 1830. Then for the first
time came one flash of lightning from the silent cloud; and she who
had never spoken before spoke out. The libels on the memory of her
dead parents drew from her what her own wrongs never did. During all
this time, while her husband had been keeping her effigy dangling
before the public as a mark for solemn curses, and filthy lampoons,
and secretly-circulated disclosures, that spared no sacredness
and violated every decorum, she had not uttered a word. She had
been subjected to nameless insults, discussed in the assemblies of
drunkards, and challenged to speak for herself. Like the chaste lady
in 'Comus,' whom the vile wizard had bound in the enchanted seat to
be 'grinned at and chattered at' by all the filthy rabble of his
dehumanised rout, she had remained pure, lofty, and undefiled; and the
stains of mud and mire thrown upon her had fallen from her spotless
garments.

Now that she is dead, a recent writer in 'The London Quarterly' dares
give voice to an insinuation which even Byron gave only a suggestion
of when he called his wife Clytemnestra; and hints that she tried the
power of youth and beauty to win to her the young solicitor Lushington,
and a handsome young officer of high rank.

At this time, such insinuations had not been thought of; and the only
and chief allegation against Lady Byron had been a cruel severity of
virtue.

At all events, when Lady Byron spoke, the world listened with respect,
and believed what she said.

Here let us, too, read her statement, and give it the careful attention
she solicits (Moore's 'Life of Byron,' vol. vi. p. 275):--

 'I have disregarded various publications in which facts within my
 own knowledge have been grossly misrepresented; but I am called upon
 to notice some of the erroneous statements proceeding from one who
 claims to be considered as Lord Byron's confidential and authorised
 friend. Domestic details ought not to be intruded on the public
 attention: if, however, they are so intruded, the persons affected
 by them have a right to refute injurious charges. Mr. Moore has
 promulgated his own impressions of private events in which I was most
 nearly concerned, as if he possessed a competent knowledge of the
