Nassau, and other German states. The population of Prussia, with these
additions, is nearly twenty-three millions. The real engineer of
Prussia's magnificent fortunes is not the king, but Bismarck--Count
Otto von Bismarck-Shönhausen. He was born in 1814, was liberally
educated, and elected a member of the Constituent Assembly in 1848. He
served as minister or ambassador to Russia, France, and the Diet at
Frankfort, and was appointed minister of foreign affairs and chief of
the ministers in 1862.

"Prussia is a constitutional monarchy, and the crown is hereditary
in the male line, in the Hohenzollern family. The executive and part
of the legislative power are vested in the king, who is of age at
eighteen. The legislature is composed of a House of Lords and a Chamber
of Deputies. A bill passing both branches and being approved by the
king becomes a law. Bills may originate with the king or either of
the chambers. A bill vetoed by the king, or rejected by either house,
cannot be moved again during the same session. The upper house is
composed of the princes of the royal family who are of age, and a few
other princes; the heads of certain noble families, life peers chosen
by the king from rich land-owners, great manufacturers, and celebrated
men, eight noblemen chosen by the eight former provinces of Prussia;
representatives of universities, the burgomasters of towns having over
fifty thousand inhabitants; and any number of members nominated by the
king for life, or for a limited period. The lower house consists of
four hundred and thirty-two members, chosen indirectly by the people.

"The royal family of Prussia are Protestants, but all denominations of
Christians have equal rights and privileges. Nearly two thirds of the
people are Protestants, and about one third Catholics. Education is
universal, and compulsory. Every town must maintain schools, and all
parents are obliged to send their children to them. A small tuition fee
is charged,--about two or three cents a week,--but this is not exacted
when the parents are too poor to pay it. The compulsion applies only
to the elementary schools; but the higher schools are open to the poor
at a very small charge. There are eleven grades of schools, from the
elementary up to the university, including normal, industrial, and
veterinary, schools for agriculture, mining, and architecture.

"The military system under which Prussia has obtained such tremendous
successes in war was established in 1814, on the principle that every
man capable of bearing arms should be instructed in military tactics,
and actually serve in the army for a specified period. No substitutes
are allowed, and there are very few exemptions, and these only of
the most obvious character. Every man is enrolled as soon as he is
twenty, and must serve seven years, the first three in the regular
army, and the other four in the reserve. At the end of this term he
belongs to the Landwehr, or militia, for nine years, during which time
he is liable to be put into the regular army in case of war. At the
expiration of this period he is thirty-six years of age, and then he
is enrolled in the Landsturm, until he is fifty; but this body are
not sent out of the country, and are called into service only in case
of invasion. For thirty years of his life, therefore, the Prussian is
a soldier. The military organizations, such as companies, regiments,
brigades, divisions, corps d'armée, are always kept up; the officers
are ever ready, and in case of war it is only necessary to call in the
men. It requires only two weeks to organize the reserves and Landwehr.
On a peace footing, the army consists of about four hundred thousand;
on a war footing, double this number.

"Nearly the whole of Prussia is in the great plain of Northern Europe.
It contains no high mountains, the most important range being the
Harz, the highest elevation of which is thirty-five hundred feet. The
acquisition of Schleswig-Holstein and Hanover has added largely to the
extent of Prussian sea-coast. There are but few good harbors on the
Baltic, for the water is shoal, and full of sand-banks. There are many
haffs, or lagoons, like the one on which Königsberg is situated.
Prussia has an immense number of lakes, especially in the eastern part,
the largest of which is the Spirding See, with an area of thirty-seven
square miles; but all these lakes are too shoal for navigation. The
rivers of Prussia flow into the Baltic and North Seas. The principal
are the Niemen or Memel, the Weichsel, or Vistula, the Oder, the Elbe,
the Weser, and the Rhine, all of which are navigable. These river
systems are connected by canals.

"The climate of Prussia is healthy, the average temperature varying in
different parts from forty-three degrees to fifty degrees. The soil is
generally fertile, though there are some sandy plains, and desolate,
hilly regions. The agriculture, fostered by the government, is of the
highest efficiency. All kinds of grain are produced in abundance, and
largely exported. Two hundred million pounds of sugar were made from
beets ten years ago. Thirty million tons of coal were mined last year,
and the country is rich in minerals. In its agriculture, commerce,
and manufactures, Prussia is remarkably prosperous. The country has a
complete network of railroads, about seven thousand miles in all.

"Berlin has a population of seven hundred and two thousand, and is
the fifth city of Europe. Next to it is Breslau, with one hundred and
seventy-two thousand. Cologne has one hundred and twenty-five thousand;
Königsberg, one hundred and six thousand. All the others have less than
a hundred thousand. New York has a larger German population than any
German city except Berlin.

"The money of Prussia is in thalers, silver, or new grosschen and
pfennings. A thaler is about seventy cents of our money. Thirty new
grosschen, of two and one third cents each, make a thaler, and twelve
pfennings make a new grosschen.

"And now, young gentleman, I will close with a brief statement in
regard to the Germanic Confederation, which is a union of states for
certain purposes, similar to that of the United States. In modern times
