“You needn’t be,” said Tom, taking her books. “I’ve licked boys bigger’n
him. I can lick him, and he knows it.”
She was right. The story got about, and George Griffiths was so laughed
at, for being vanquished by a girl, that he was very careful in future
whom he attempted to bully.
                              CHAPTER XIII
              GRANNY IS COMPELLED TO EARN HER OWN LIVING.
Leaving Tom in her new home, we return to Mrs. Walsh, which was the
proper designation of the old woman whom she called granny. Though Tom
had escaped from her clutches, granny had no idea that she intended to
stay away permanently. She did not consider that all the advantages of
the connection between them had been on her side, and that Tom had only
had the privilege of supporting them both. If she had not carried
matters so far our heroine would have been satisfied to remain; but now
she had fairly broken away, and would never come back unless brought by
force.
When six o’clock came granny began to wonder why Tom did not come back.
She usually returned earlier, with whatever money she had managed to
obtain.
“She’s afraid of a lickin’,” thought granny. “She’ll get a wuss one if
she stays away.”
An hour passed, and granny became hungry; but unfortunately she was
penniless, and had nothing in the room except a crust of hard bread
which she intended for Tom’s supper. Hunger compelled her to eat this
herself, though it was not much to her taste. Every moment’s additional
delay irritated her the more with the rebellious Tom.
“I wish I had her here,” soliloquized granny, spitefully.
When it was half-past seven granny resolved to go out and hunt her up.
She might be on the sidewalk outside playing. Perhaps—but this was too
daring for belief—she might be spending her afternoon’s earnings on
another square meal.
Granny went downstairs, and through the archway into the street. There
were plenty of children, living in neighboring tenement houses, gathered
in groups or playing about, but no Tom was visible.
“Have you seen anything of my gal, Micky Murphy?” asked granny of a boy
whom she had often seen with Tom.
“No,” said Micky. “I haven’t seen her.”
“Haven’t any of you seen her?” demanded Mrs. Walsh, making the question
a general one.
“I seen her sellin’ papers,” said one boy.
“When was that?” asked granny, eagerly.
“’Bout four o’clock.”
“Where was she?”
“Greenwich Street.”
This was a clue at least, but a faint one. Tom had been seen at four
o’clock, and now it was nearly eight. Long before this she must have
sold her papers, and the unpleasant conviction dawned upon granny that
she must have spent her earnings upon herself.
“If I could only get hold of her!” muttered granny, vengefully.
She went as far as the City Hall, and followed along down by the Park
fence, looking about her in all directions, in the hope that she might
espy Tom. But the latter was at this time engaging lodgings for the
night, as we know, and in no danger of being caught.
Unwilling to give up the pursuit, Mrs. Walsh wandered about for an hour
or more, occasionally resting on one of the seats in the City Hall Park,
till the unwonted exertion began to weary her, and she realized that she
was not likely to encounter Tom.
There was one chance left. Tom might have got home while she had been in
search of her. Spurred by this hope, Mrs. Walsh hurried home, and
mounted to her lofty room. But it was as desolate as when she left it.
It was quite clear that Tom did not mean to come back that night. This
was provoking; but granny still was confident that she would return in
the course of the next day. So she threw herself on the bed,—not without
some silent imprecations upon her rebellious charge,—and slept till
morning.
Morning brought her a new realization of her loss. She found her
situation by no means an agreeable one. Her appetite was excellent, but
she was without food or money to buy a supply. It was certainly
provoking to think that she must look out for herself. However, granny
was equal to the occasion. She did not propose to work for a living, but
decided that she would throw herself upon charity. To begin with, she
obtained some breakfast of a poor but charitable neighbor, and then
started on a walk up town. It was not till she got as far as Fourteenth
Street that she commenced her round of visits.
The first house at which she stopped was an English basement house.
Granny rang the basement bell.
“Is your mistress at home?” she asked.
“Yes; what’s wanted?”
“I’m a poor widder,” whined granny, in a lugubrious voice, “with five
small children. We haven’t got a bit of food in the house. Can’t you
give me a few pennies?”
“I’ll speak to the missis, but I don’t think she’ll give any money.”
She went upstairs, and soon returned.
“She won’t give you any money, but here’s a loaf of bread.”
Mrs. Walsh would much have preferred a small sum of money, but muttered
her thanks, and dropped the loaf into a bag she had brought with her.
She went on to the next block, and intercepted a gentleman just starting
down town to his business.
“I’m a poor widder,” she said, repeating her whine; “will you give me a
few pennies? and may the Lord bless you!”
“Why don’t you work?” asked the gentleman, brusquely.
“I’m too old and feeble,” she answered, bending over to assume the
appearance of infirmity. This did not escape the attention of the
gentleman, who answered unceremoniously, “You’re a humbug! You won’t get
anything from me! If I had my way, I’d have you arrested and locked up.”
Granny trembled with passion, but did not think it politic to give vent
to her fury.
Her next application was more successful, twenty-five cents being sent
to the door by a compassionate lady, who never doubted the story of the
five little children suffering at home for want of food.
