under the roof.”

Mrs. Ellison turned energetically upon her husband and cried in tones of
reproach, “Richard, Mrs. March has a room!”

“A coop, she said,” retorted that amiable Colonel, “and we’re too good
for that. The clerk is keeping us in suspense about a room, because
he means to surprise us with something palatial at the end. It’s his
joking way.”

“Nonsense!” said Mrs. Ellison. “Have you seen him since dinner?”

“I have made life a burden to him for the last half-hour,” returned the
Colonel, with the kindliest smile.

“O Richard,” cried his wife, in despair of his amendment, “you wouldn’t
make life a burden to a mouse!” And having nothing else for it, she
laughed, half in sorrow, half in fondness.

“Well, Fanny,” the Colonel irrelevantly answered, “put on your hat and
things, and let’s all go up to Durham Terrace for a promenade. I know
our friends want to go. It’s something worth seeing; and by the time we
get back, the clerk will have us a perfectly sumptuous apartment.”

Nothing, I think, more enforces the illusion of Southern Europe in
Quebec than the Sunday-night promenading on Durham Terrace. This is the
ample space on the brow of the cliff to the left of the citadel, the
noblest and most commanding position in the whole city, which was
formerly occupied by the old castle of Saint Louis, where dwelt the
brave Count Frontenac and his splendid successors of the French regime.
The castle went the way of Quebec by fire some forty years ago, and Lord
Durham leveled the site and made it a public promenade. A stately arcade
of solid masonry supports it on the brink of the rock, and an iron
parapet incloses it; there are a few seats to lounge upon, and some idle
old guns for the children to clamber over and play with. A soft twilight
had followed the day, and there was just enough obscurity to hide from a
willing eye the Northern and New World facts of the scene, and to bring
into more romantic relief the citadel dark against the mellow evening,
and the people gossiping from window to window across the narrow streets
of the Lower Town. The Terrace itself was densely thronged, and there
was a constant coming and going of the promenaders, who each formally
paced back and forth upon the planking for a certain time, and then went
quietly home, giving place to the new arrivals. They were nearly all
French, and they were not generally, it seemed, of the first fashion,
but rather of middling condition in life; the English being represented
only by a few young fellows and now and then a redfaced old gentleman
with an Indian scarf trailing from his hat. There were some fair
American costumes and faces in the crowd, but it was essentially
Quebecian. The young girls walking in pairs, or with their lovers,
had the true touch of provincial unstylishness, the young men the
ineffectual excess of the second-rate Latin dandy, their elders the rich
inelegance of a bourgeoisie in their best. A few, better-figured avocats
or notaires (their profession was as unmistakable as if they had carried
their well-polished brass doorplates upon their breasts) walked and
gravely talked with each other. The non-American character of the
scene was not less vividly marked in the fact that each person dressed
according to his own taste and frankly indulged private preferences
in shapes and colors. One of the promenaders was in white, even to
his canvas shoes; another, with yet bolder individuality, appeared in
perfect purple. It had a strange, almost portentous effect when these
two startling figures met as friends and joined each other in the
promenade with linked arms; but the evening was already beginning to
darken round them, and presently the purple comrade was merely a sombre
shadow beside the glimmering white.

The valleys and the heights now vanished; but the river defined itself
by the varicolored lights of the ships and steamers that lay, dark,
motionless bulks, upon its broad breast; the lights of Point Lewis
swarmed upon the other shore; the Lower Town, two hundred feet below
them, stretched an alluring mystery of clustering roofs and lamplit
windows and dark and shining streets around the mighty rock,
mural-crowned. Suddenly a spectacle peculiarly Northern and
characteristic of Quebec revealed itself; a long arch brightened over
the northern horizon; the tremulous flames of the aurora, pallid violet
or faintly tinged with crimson, shot upward from it, and played with
a weird apparition and evanescence to the zenith. While the strangers
looked, a gun boomed from the citadel, and the wild sweet notes of the
bugle sprang out upon the silence.

Then they all said, “How perfectly in keeping everything has been!” and
sauntered back to the hotel.

The Colonel went into the office to give the clerk another turn on the
rack, and make him confess to a hidden apartment somewhere, while Isabel
left her husband to Mrs. Ellison in the parlor, and invited Miss Kitty
to look at her coop in the fifth story. As they approached, light and
music and laughter stole out of an open door next hers, and Isabel,
distinguishing the voices of the theatrical party, divined that this
was the sick-chamber, and that they were again cheering up the afflicted
member of the troupe. Some one was heard to say, “Well, ‘ow do you feel
now, Charley?” and a sound of subdued swearing responded, followed by
more laughter, and the twanging of a guitar, and a snatch of song, and a
stir of feet and dresses as for departure.

The two listeners shrank together; as women they could not enjoy these
proofs of the jolly camaraderie existing among the people of the
troupe. They trembled as before the merriment of as many light-hearted,
careless, good-natured young men: it was no harm, but it was dismaying;
and, “Dear!” cried Isabel, “what shall we do?”

