MR. CLYDE BLACKLOCK AND MOTHER.
Belonging to the squadron were fourteen boats, ranging from the
twelve-oar barge down to the four-oar cutter. In the waters of
Brockway harbor, rowing had been the principal exercise of the
students, though the daily evolutions in seamanship were well
calculated to develop the muscles and harden the frame. They had been
carefully trained in the art, and, enjoying the amusement which it
afforded, they were apt scholars. As the safety of the squadron and
the saving of life at sea might often depend upon the skill with which
the boats were handled, the principal devoted a great deal of
attention to this branch of nautical education. To give an additional
zest to the exercise, he had occasionally offered prizes at the
boat-races which the students were encouraged to pull; and the first
cutter was now in possession of a beautiful silk flag, won by the
power of the crew in rowing.
Every boy in the squadron was a swimmer. In the summer season this
accomplishment had been taught as an art, an hour being devoted to the
lesson every day, if the weather was suitable. Cleats, the adult
boatswain of the Josephine, was the "professor" of the art, having
been selected for the responsible position on account of his
remarkable skill as a swimmer. The boys were trained in diving,
floating, swimming under water, and taught to perform various
evolutions. Not alone in the tranquil bay were they educated to the
life of the fishes, but also in the surf, and among the great waves.
They were taught to get into a boat from the water in a heavy sea. A
worn-out old longboat had done duty during the preceding summer as a
wreck, in order to familiarize the students with the possibilities of
their future experience. It was so prepared that a portion of its
planking could be suddenly knocked out, and the boat almost instantly
filled with water; and the problem was, to meet this emergency in the
best manner. Other boats were at hand in case of a real accident, or
if any naturally timid fellow lost his presence of mind. While the
"wreck," as the practice boat was called, was moving along over the
waves, pulled by half a dozen boys, Cleats, without warning or notice
of his intention, opened the aperture near her keel. Sometimes she was
loaded with stones, so that she went to the bottom like a rock, though
this part of the programme was always carried out on a beach, where
the receding tide would enable the professor to recover the boat. The
crew were then to save themselves by swimming ashore, or to another
boat. Sometimes, also, the "wreck" was loaded with broken spars,
pieces of board, and bits of rope; and the problem was for the crew
to construct a raft in the water, often in a rough sea. All these
exercises, and many others, were heartily enjoyed by the boys, and a
ringing cheer always announced the safety of a crew, either on the
shore, in a boat, or on the raft.
Many persons, and even those who are tolerable swimmers, have been
drowned simply by the loss of their presence of mind. The dashing of
the waves, or the great distance of the land or other place of safety,
intimidates them, and they are unable to use their powers. But the
students of the squadron were gradually and carefully accustomed to
the water, so that they could swim a reasonable distance without
wearing themselves out, could rest their limbs by floating, and were
taught to avail themselves of any expedient to secure their safety. If
a boat was stove on the rocks in a surf, or was run down by a vessel,
the fact of being in the water did not frighten them out of their
wits, for they had been trained to feel quite at home, as in their
native element. They were actually drilled to confront danger in
every imaginable form. But a gentle and timid boy was not pitched
into the water, even after he had learned to swim. His constitutional
shrinking was slowly and skilfully overcome, so that even the most
delicate--though but few such ever found their way into the ranks of
the squadron--took to the water as a pastime. Of course the degree of
proficiency in the art of swimming, and of the acquired ability to
meet danger in the water, differed very widely in different boys; but
all were accustomed to the waves, and, in a measure, to leading the
life of a duck or a fish.
The crews of the several boats piped over the side, and took their
places, the rest of the students being distributed in the barges and
cutters, till only the adult officers remained in the ship. Each one,
as it was loaded, pulled off, and took its station in the order in
which the boat squadron usually moved. The commodore's barge and the
ship's first cutter, each twelve oars, led the van, while the other
boats came in four ranks of three each. All the boats carried the
American flag at the stern, and each one had its number at the bow.
All the Young America's boats had their numbers on a white, the
Josephine's on a green, and the Tritonia's on a blue flag.
The tactics of the boat squadron were many and various, which had
been adopted more to give interest to the exercise than for any
inherent utility. These movements were regulated by signals from the
commodore's barge. Mr. Lowington had decided to make an excursion
among the islands in the Fjord before dinner, and visit the town in
the afternoon. A pilot was put in the commodore's barge, and Captain
Cumberland, as acting flag officer, was in command of the squadron.
The principal and Professor Badois were passengers in his barge.
The cutters were formed in their usual array, and the two boats
from the yachts brought up the rear. The signal officer, who was a
quartermaster from the ship, at the order of the captain, elevated the
white flag crossed with red, with which all the signals were made. The
coxswains of the several boats could see this flag, while the oarsmen
could not, being back to the barge, and not allowed to look behind
them.
"Oars!" said each coxswain, as soon as the signal appeared.
At this command the several crews, who had been laying on their oars,
prepared for the stroke. The signal officer dropped the flag to the
port side of the barge.
"Give way!" added each coxswain; and the boat squadron moved off.
In order to keep the lines full, the larger quarter boat of the Grace
had been borrowed and manned, and now took the place of the second
cutter, which had been stove, and upon which the three carpenters of
the squadron were now at work, making the necessary repairs. The fleet
