pay." 

" There's another princess, eh, that wants 
a palace ? " said Norton. " If we could, we 
would new build Lilac lane, wouldn't we ? 
But then, I should want to make over the 
people that live in it." 

" So should I ; and that is the hardest. 
But perhaps, don't you think the people 
would be different, if they had things different?" 

" I'm certain I should be different, if I
lived where they do," said Norton. " But go 
on, Pink ; let us try it on what's her name. 
We have only cleaned her house yet." 

" The first thing, then, is a bedstead, Norton." 

" A bedstead ! What does she sleep on ? " 

" On the floor; with rags and straw, and I 
think a miserable make-believe of a bed. No 
sheets, no blankets, nor anything. It is 
dreadful." 



 

" Rags and straw," said Norton. " Then 
a bedstead wants a bed on it, Pink ? and 
blankets or coverlets or something, and sheets, 
and all that." 

Matilda watched Norton's pencil as it 
noted the articles. 

" Then she wants some towels, and a basin 
of some sort to wash in." 

" Hm ! " said Norton. Herself, I hope ? " 

" Yes, I hope so. But she has nothing to 
make herself clean with." 

" Then a stand and basin and towels ; 
and a pitcher, Pink, I suppose, to hold 
water." 

" Yes, a pitcher or jug or something. We 
want to get the cheapest things we can. And 
soap." 

" Let's have plenty of that," said Norton, 
putting down soap. " Now then what 
next ? " 

" A little wooden table, Norton ? she has 
nothing but a chair to set her tea on." 

" A table. And a carpet ? " 



 

" O no, Norton ; that's not necessary. It 
is warm weather now. She does not want 
that. But she does want a pail for water. I 
have to take the tea-kettle to the pump." 

Norton at this laughed, and rolled over on 
the grass in his amusement. Having thus 
refreshed himself, he came back to business. 

" Has she got anything to go on her fire, 
except a tea-kettle ? " 

" Not much. A saucepan would be a very 
useful thing, and not cost much. I bought 
one the other day; so I know." 

" What's a saucepan ? " said Norton. " A 
pan to make sauce in ? " 

It was Matilda's turn to laugh. " Poor Mrs. 
Eldridge don't have many puddings, I guess
to make sauce for," she said. 

" Well Pink, now we come, don't we, to 
the eating line. We must stock her up." 

'' Put down a broom first, Norton." 

" A broom ! Here goes." 

" Yes, you can't think how much I have 
wanted a broom there. And a tea-pot. O 

