there, and, slowly consuming their own cake and 
pop-corn, washed down with their own soda-water 
and lemonade, to perish of dyspepsia and despair. 




I WOULD not willingly repose upon the friendship 
of a man whose local attachments are weak. I 
should not demand of my intimate that he have a 
yearning for the homes of his ancestors, or even the 
scenes of his own boyhood ; that is not in American 
nature ; on the contrary, he is but a poor creature who 
does not hate the village where he was bom ; yet a 
sentunent for the place where one has lived two or 
three years, the hotel where one has spent a week, 
the sleeping car in which one has ridden from Al- 
bany to Buffalo, — so much I should think it well to 
exact from my friend in proof of that sensibility and 
constancy without which true friendship does not 
exist. So much I am ready to yield on my own 
part to a friend's demand, and I profess to have all 
the possible regrets for Benicia Street, now I have 
left it. Over its deficiencies I cast a veil of decent 
obHvion, and shall always try to look upon its worthy 
and consoling aspects, which were far the more nu- 
merous. It was never otherwise, I imagine, than an 
ideal region in very great measure ; and if the read- 
er whom I have sometimes seemed to direct thither, 
should seek it out, he would hardly find my Benicia 
Street by the city sign-board. Yet this is not wholly 
because it was an ideal locality, but because much of 



 

its reality has now become merely historical, a portion 
of the tragical poetry of the past. Many of the 
vacant lots abutting upon Benicia and the intersect- 
ing streets flourished up, during the four years we 
knew itj into fresh-painted wooden houses, and the 
time came to be when one might have looked in 
vain for the abandoned hoop-skirts which used to 
decorate the desirable building-sites. The lessening 
pasturage also reduced the herds which formerly fed 
in the vicinity, and at last we caught the tinkle 
of the cow-bells only as the cattle were driven past 
to remoter meadows. And one autumn afternoon 
two laborers, hired by the city, came and threw up 
an earthwork on the opposite side of the street, 
which they said was a sidewalk, and would add to 
the value of property in the neighborhood. Not 
being dressed with coal-ashes, however, during the 
winter, the sidewalk vanished next summer under 
a growth of rag-weed, and hid the increased values 
with it, and it is now an even question whether this 
monument of municipal grandeur will finally be held 
by Art or resumed by Nature, — who indeed has a 
perpetual motherly longing for her own, and may be 
seen in all outlying and suburban places, pathetically 
striving to steal back any neglected bits of ground 
and conceal them under her skirts of tattered and 
shabby verdure. But whatever is the event of this 
contest, and whatever the other changes wrought in 
the locality, it has not yet been quite stripped of 
the characteristic charms which first took our hearts, 
and which have been duly celebrated in these pages. 



 

When the new house was chosen, we made prep- 
arations to leave the old one, but preparations so grad- 
ual, that, if we had cared much more than we did, 
we might have suffered greatly by the prolongation 
of the agony. We proposed to ourselves fo escape 
the miseries of moving by transferring the contents 
of one room at a time, and if we did not laugh incred- 
ulously at people who said we had better have it 
over at once and be done with it, it was because we 
respected their feelings, and not because we believed 
them. We took up one carpet after another ; one 
wall after another we stripped of its pictures ; we 
sent away all the books to begin with ; and by this 
subtle and ingenious process, we reduced ourselves 
to the discomfort of living in no house at all, as it 
were, and of being at home in neither one place nor 
the other. Yet the logic of our scheme remained 
perfect ; and I do not regret its failure in practice, for 
if we had been ever so loath to quit the old house, its 
inhospitable barrenness would finally have hurried us 
forth. In fact, does not life itself in some such fashion 
dismantle its tenement until it is at last forced out 
of the uninhabitable place ? Are not the poor little 
comforts and pleasures and ornaments removed one 
by one, till life, if it would be saved, must go too ? 
We took a lesson from the teachings of mortality, 
which are so rarely heeded, and we lingered over our 
