village had requested generous contributions, and 
were planning to have quite a gala time. Then the 
Morrisons had a "beauty," and several of Freddy's 
schoolmates had begged him to be sure and come. 

Kathie had been very busy with her gifts, striving 
to remember all who needed love or help. Each year 
she arrived at a clearer understanding of these duties 
and claims, and it became a deeper pleasure to per- 
form them. God had given her all things richly to 
enjoy, but not for self-aggrandizement. Like the 
loaves and the fishes, and the supper of the king, 
there were others to be called in and fed. The germ 
of enjoyment was to widen until it embraced the 
multitude, even those of the highways and byways. 

And here Mrs. Alston's judicious hand guided and 
restrained. There were gifts of use and beauty. She 
possessed the rare art of ministering to souls as well 
as to bodies. There were homes in which a book, a 
vase, or a simple picture gave the keenest pleasure, 
because these people felt they had no money for lux- 



 

uries. Necessities they must have, food and rai- 
ment, but the bits of delight that gladden the 
heart like a stray gleam of sunshine were doubly 
prized from the hand of another. 

Aunt Ruth was quite fatigued with her long jour- 
ney, taken in haste as it had been. She looked so 
natural in the " crimson room," which lor all its use 
had not grown shabby. There was the window full 
of flowers and trailing vines, tended mostly now by 
Uncle Robert's hand, since there were so many claims 
upon Kathie. 

Aunt Ruth lay on the lounge in the Sunday even- 
ing twilight, with Kathie for company. Out of doors 
a white moon was shining over the whiter snow, 
broken here and there by the clumps of evergreens. 
A wonderful night indeed, in its awe and mystery, as 
if the heavens might open and the Son of God come 
down again to be born anew for sinful men. Kathie 
seemed to feel it all as she drew nearer to Aunt Ruth 
and clasped the soft hand. 

" It always appears like the beginning of a new life 
when we come to any such event," she said, slowly. 

"A pleasant starting-point. Something to give us 
hope and courage, and to remind us that small begin- 



 

nings may lead to glorious results. It did not seem 
eighteen hundred years ago as if the world could be 
redeemed by a simple babe being born into it, and 
that the work would go on each year gathering force 
and strength, until every nation and clime sends forth 
men to worship him." 

Kathie knelt in a little awe and laid her cheek be- 
side the other. 

" Dear Aunt Euth," she said. " I used to wonder 
how we followed him, and how we could do things 
for his glory. But with every step the way becomes 
clearer." 

" ' He that doeth my will shall know of the doc- 
trine.' It is the work, after all, that enlightens us. 
When we take one step, the way becomes plainer for 
the next." 

Kathie understood that too. The mysteries that 
used to puzzle her had rolled away like the gray clouds 
in a morning sunrise. Then she smiled with a sweet 
quaintness. 

"Well?" Aunt Euth said, studying the pure, 
changeful face. 

" I was thinking about the old times, and when I 
first began to care about these things. At first it was 
to please mamma." 



 

" As if all true human love was not a type of the 
Divine. ' He prayeth best who loveth best.' : 

" Yes, I tried because I loved her and was sorry for 
