go to your tailor ; nobody had demonstrated that 
there is a man-soul and a woman-soul, and that 
each is in reality only a half-soul, putting the 
race, so to speak, upon the half-shell. The social 
oyster being opened, there appears to be two 
shells and only one oyster ; who shall have it ? 
So many new canons of taste, of criticism, of 
morality have been set up ; there has been such 
a resurrection of historical reputations for new 
judgment, and there have been so many discoveries, geographical, archaeological, geological, bio 
logical, that the earth is not at all what it was 
supposed to be ; and our philosophers are much 
more anxious to ascertain where we came from 
than whither we are going. In this whirl and 
turmoil of new ideas, nature, which has only the 
single end of maintaining the physical identity 
in the body, works on undisturbed, replacing 
particle lor particle, and preserving the likeness 
more skilfully than a mosaic artist in the Vati 
can ; she has not even her materials sorted and 
labelled, as the Roman artist has his thousands 
of bits of color ; and man is all the while doing 
his best to confuse the process, by changing his 
climate, his diet, all his surroundings, without 
the least care to remain himself. But the mind ? 
It is more difficult to get acquainted with 
Herbert than with an entire stranger, for I have 
my prepossessions about him, and do not find 
him in so many places where I expect to find 
him. He is full of criticism of the authors I 
admire ; he thinks stupid or improper the books 
I most read ; he is sceptical about the " movements " I am interested in ; he has formed very 
different opinions from mine concerning a hun 
dred men and women of the present day ; we 
used to eat from one dish ; we couldn't now 
find anything in common in a dozen ; his pre 
judices (as we call our opinions) are most ex 
traordinary, and not half so reasonable as my 
prejudices ; there are a great many persons and 
things that I am accustomed to denounce, un- 
contradicted by anybody, which he defends ; his 
public opinion is not at all my public opinion. I 
am sorry for him. He appears to have fallen into 
influences and among a set of people foreign to me. 
I find that his church has a different steeple on 
it from my church (which, to say the truth, 
hasn't any). It is a pity that such a dear friend 
and a man of so much promise should have 
drifted off into such general contrariness. I see 
Herbert sitting here by the fire, with the old 





look in his face coming out more and more, but 
I do not recognize any features of his mind, 
except perhaps his contrariness ; yes, he was 
always a little contrary, I think. And finally 
he surprised me with, "Well, my friend, you 
seem to have drifted away from your old no 
tions and opinions. We used to agree when 
we were together, but I sometimes wondered 
where you would land ; for, pardon me, you 
showed signs of looking at things a little con 
trary." 

I am silent for a good while. I am trying to 
think who I am. There was a person whom I 
thought I knew, very fond of Herbert, and agree 
ing with him in most things. Where has he 
gone ? and, if he is here, where is the Herbert 
that I knew ? 

If his intellectual and moral sympathies have 
all changed, I wonder if his physical tastes remain, like his appearance, the same. There has 
come over this country within the last genera 
tion, as everybody knows, a great wave of con 
demnation of pie. It has taken the character of 
a "movement," though we have had no convex 
tions about it, nor is any one, of any of the 
several sexes among us, running for president 
against it. It is safe almost anywhere to de 
nounce pie, yet nearly everybody eats it on occa 
sion. A great many people think it savors of a 
life abroad to speak with horror of pie, although 
they were very likely the foremost of the Ameri 
cans in Paris who used to speak with more en 
thusiasm of the American pie at Madame Busque's 
than of the Venus of Milo. To talk against pie 
and still eat it is snobbish, of course ; but snob 
bery, being an aspiring failing, is sometimes the 
prophecy of better things. To affect dislike of 
pie is something. We have no statistics on the 
subject, and cannot tell whether it is gaining or 
losing in the country at large. Its disappearance 
in select circles is no test. The amount of writ 
ing against it is no more test of its desuetude, 
than the number of religious tracts distributed in 
a given district is a criterion of its piety. We 
