" Then the priest, addressing himself to the King and chiefs, said : ' I will now 
make known to you the rules to be observed respecting persons to be sacrificed on 
the burial of this body. If you obtain one man before the corpse is removed, one 
will be sufficient ; but after it leaves this house four will be required. If delayed 
until we carry the corpse to the grave there must be ten ; but after it is deposited 
in the grave there must be fifteen. To-morrow morning there will be a tabu, and, 
if the sacrifice be delayed until that time, forty men must die.' 

" Then the high priest, Hewahewa, inquired of the chiefs, ' Where shall be the 
residence of King Liholiho ? ' They replied, ' Where, indeed ? You, of all men, 
ought to know.' Then the priest observed, ' There are two suitable places; one 
is Kau, the other is Kohala.' The chiefs preferred the latter, as it was more 
thickly inhabited. The priest added, ' These are proper places for the King's res- 
idence; but he must not remain in Kona, for it is polluted.' This was agreed to. 
It was now break of day. As he was being carried to the place of burial the people 
perceived that their King was dead, and they wailed. When the corpse was 
removed from the house to the tomb, a distance of one chain, the procession was 
met by a certain man who was ardently attached to the deceased. He leaped upon 
the chiefs who were carrying the King's body ; he desired to die with him on ac- 
count of his love. The chiefs drove him away. He persisted in making nume- 
rous attempts, which were unavailing. Kalaimoka also had it in his heart to die 
with him, but was prevented by Hookio. 

This sounds suspicious, in view of the fact that all Sandwich Island historians, 
white and black, protest that cannibalism never existed in the islands. However, 
since they only proposed to " eat him raw " we " won't count that". But it 
would certainly have been cannibalism if they had cooked him.


" The morning following Kamehameha's death, Liholiho and his train departed 
for Kohala, according to the suggestions of the priest, to avoid the defilement 
occasioned by the dead. At this time if a chief died the land was polluted, and 
the heirs sought a residence in another part of the country until the corpse was 
dissected and the bones tied in a bundle, which being done, the season of defile- 
ment terminated. If the deceased were not a chief, the house only was defiled 
which became pure again on the burial of the body. Such were the laws on this 
su))ject. 

" On the morning on which Liholiho sailed in his canoe for Kohala, the chiefs 
and people mourned after their manner on occasion of a chiefs death, conduct- 
ing themselves like madmen and like beasts. Their conduct was such as to for- 
bid description; The priests, also, put into action the sorcery apparjitus, that the 
person who had prayed the King to death might die ; for it was not believed that 
Kamehameha's departure was the eifect either of sickness or old age. When the 
sorcerers set up by their fire-places stick with a strip of kapa flying at the top, 
the chief Keeaumoku, Kaahumaun's brother, came in a state of intoxication and 
broke the flag-staif of the sorcerers, from which it was inferred that Kaahumanu 
and her friends had been instrumental in the King's death. On this account they 
were subjected to abuse." 

You have the contrast, now, and a strange one it is. This 
great Queen, Kaahumanu, who was " subjected to abuse" during the frightful
orgies that followed the King's death, in 
accordance with ancient custom, afterward became a devout 
Christian and a steadfast and powerful friend of the missionaries. 

Dogs were, and still are, reared and fattened for food, by the 
natives — hence the reference to their value in one of the above 
paragraphs. 

Forty years ago it was the custom in the Islands to suspend 
all law for a certain number of days after the death of a royal 
personage ; and then a saturnalia ensued whicl one may picture 
to himself after a fashion, but not in the full horror of the real- 
ity. The people shaved their heads, knocked out a tooth or 
two, plucked out an eye sometimes, cut, bruised, mutilated or 
burned their flesh, got drunk, bunied each other's huts, maimed 
or murdered one another according to the caprice of the mo- 
ment, and both sexes gave themselves up to brutal and unbri- 
dled licentiousness. And after it all, came a torpor from which 
the nation slowly emerged bewildered and dazed, as if from a 
hideous half-remembered nightmare. They were not the salt 
of the earth, those " gentle children of the sun." 

The natives still keep up an old custom of theirs which can- 
not be comforting to an invalid. "When they think a sick 
friend is going to die, a couple of dozen neighbors surround 
his hut and keep up a deafening wailing night and day till he 
either dies or gets well. No doubt this arrangement has helped 
many a subject to a shroud before his appointed time. 

They surround a hut and wail in the same heart-broken 
way when its occupant returns from a journey. This is their 
dismal idea of a welcome. A very little of it would go a great 
way Math most of us. 

CHAPTER LXIX. 

BOUND for Hawaii (a hundred and fifty miles distant,) to 
visit the great volcano and behold the other notable things 
which distinguish that island above the remainder of the group, 
we sailed from Honolulu on a certain Saturday afternoon, in 
the good schooner Boomerang. 

The Boomerang was about as long as two street cars, and 
about as wide as one. She was so small (though she was larger 
than the majority of the inter-island coasters) that when I stood 
on her deck I felt but little smaller than the Colossus of Khodes 
must have felt when he had a man-of-war under him. I could 
reach the water when she lay over under a strong breeze. 
