"'You' meaning--whom?" said gilt rod, hooking down another
ribband-looped parcel. "By virtue of my office I know so many things
just now, that I grow conceited, and am surprised to find myself
ignorant any where. Matilda Laval!--from her mother."
With a great leap of her heart, Matilda jumped down from her ottoman
and made her way as she could through the throng. The tall boy with the
gilt rod presented to her a small square packet, sealed and tied.
Matilda's fingers clasped upon it as she stepped back; and then for the
first time that evening she found Judy at her side. Perhaps Judy would
have spoken, if the next call had not been,
"Matilda Laval!--from Mrs. Bartholomew."
Flushing and trembling, Matilda stepped forward again and received a
second little packet, much like the former. Then Judy herself was
called; everybody by this time was getting his hands full; and still
the Christmas tree blazed on as brightly as ever.
Presently Matilda got a third present; this was from David; much
larger. She was very much astonished; for without opening she could
guess that it was something valuable; it was hard and square and heavy.
Of all there, not a child was in such private ecstasies as she. Her
flushed cheeks told it; otherwise she was quite undemonstrative. Though
I say wrong; for eyes and lips were abundantly expressive of tremulous
joy.
"Is that my present?" said Judy, by her side again. "No, it is David's.
Do you know what it is?"
"No," Matilda whispered.
"I don't either. Why don't you look?"
"I will look by and by."
"Nonsense!" said Judy; but Matilda was called off again to take what
Judy had prepared for her.
"That isn't much," said that young lady, when Matilda fell back to her
former place; "it's only bonbons. What has aunt Zara given you?"
"I don't know yet, Judy."
"O look. And mamma. Mamma wouldn't tell me. Those are their gifts in
your hand there, aren't they? Look, and see. I can guess," said Judy
peering round Matilda to see the packets.
"No, you can't," said Norton at the other side. He was fastening his
guard-chain in its place. "You don't know, and she don't know. I like
people who can keep cool, and not dash their heads under water the
first thing."
"Stuff!" said Judy. "I want her to get her head above water; she don't
see anything now, nor know anything."
"Her head's all right," said Norton composedly. "Knowledge'll come in
time. I guess there's a good deal of it to come, too."
"What has David got, Norton?"
"Loads of books," said Norton. "And a rifle."
"A rifle!" screamed Judy.
"And a dressing-case. And a dressing-gown. And a riding-whip. And a
watch-chain."
"And what have you got, Norton?" Matilda asked.
"Just what I wanted," said Norton, with a smile of confidence and
secret good fellowship which was most pleasant to Matilda; it made her
feel not quite so much alone in that crowd. "You shall see," he went
on. "Hallo! you're called. Give me some of your traps to hold for you,
Pink; you have not got a hand to take anything more."
So Matilda gave him her bonbons and box, if it were a box, to hold,
while she went for ward again. This present was from Norton, and of
itself filled her arms. Wrapped up in papers as it was, she could not
know more of it than that. She came back to Norton with high-coloured
cheeks and eyes very bright indeed.
"What's that?" said Judy. "What has Norton given you? it's big enough.
Pshaw! I know; it's a desk."
"A desk!" exclaimed Matilda in tones of delight.
"Keep your own counsel, Judy," said Norton coolly. "You have no idea of
keeping other people's."
"Norton," said Esther coming up to them, "who is the witch?"
"Can't tell, even if I know," said Norton. "I keep other people's
counsel."
"But where are we to see her?"
"In her den, of course."
"Where's that?"
"You will know when the time comes."
"Then she won't come in here among us all?"
"I reckon not," said Norton. "She'll see only one at a time, I hear."
"What for?" said Esther.
"Ah, what for!" echoed Norton. "I don't know, I can tell you. And
what's more, I don't know yet whose notion it is. Now, Pink, I propose
we go upstairs and put these things away. Supper will be in a few
minutes, and then what will you do with your hands full? Come!"
And away he and Matilda went, slipping out of the room as quietly as
they could, and then running upstairs, till they found a quiet corner
and breathing place in Matilda's room.
"Now, Pink, don't you want to look?" said Norton turning up the gas. He
had his own curiosity too, it seems. But he did not interfere with her;
he looked on, smiling and superior, while Matilda's trembling fingers
pulled off the papers, from his package-first. Judy had spoken truly;
it was an elegant little desk, all fitted and filled. Matilda's heart,
Norton could see, was quite full with that.
"Come!" said he gayly, "let us see David's choice. I don't know what it
is, David don't tell all his mind."
And he stopped, for Matilda uttered a little scream of pleasure.
David's choice had been a work-box. It was of pretty fancy wood,
charmingly lined and fitted up.
"Pretty well for David!" said Norton "He thinks you know what to do
with a work box, and reason too. Good for him. But now, Pink, guess
what this is!"
And Norton possessed himself of the little parcel which bore his
mother's handwriting and held it up before Matilda.
"I can't guess."
"Try. What would you like, Pink? What would you like better than
anything else? Think."
