warm volcanic soil of the sheltered plain makes it a para- 
dise of fruits and flowers. 
Sorrento, ancient and romantic city, lies at the south- 
west end of this plain, built along the sheer sea preci- 
pice, and running back to the hills, — a city of such 
narrow streets, high walls, and luxuriant groves, that it 
can only be seen from the heights adjacent. The ancient 
boundary of the city proper was the famous ravine on 
the east side, a similar ravine on the south, which met it 
at right angles, and was supplemented by a high Roman 
wall, and the same wall continued on the west to the 
sea. The growing town has pushed away the wall on 
the west side ; but that on the south yet stands as good 
as when the Romans made it. There is a little attempt 
at a mall, with double rows of trees, under that wall, 
where lovers walk, and ragged, handsome urchins play 
the exciting game of fives, or sit in the dirt, gambling 
with cards for the Sorrento currency. I do not know 
what sin it may be to gamble for a bit of printed paper 
which has the value of one sou. 
The great ravine, three-quarters of a mile long, the 
ancient boundary which now cuts the town in two, is 
bridged where the main street, the Corso, crosses, the 
bridge resting on old Roman substructions, as every thing 
else about here does. This ravine, always invested with 
mystery, is the theme of no end of poetry and legend. 
Demons inhabit it. Here and there, in its perpendicu- 
lar sides, steps have been cut for descent. Vines and 
lichens grow on the walls : in one place, at the bottom, 
an orange-grove has taken root. There is even a mill 
down there, where there is breadth enough for a build- 
ing ; and, altogether, the ravine is not so delivered over 
to the power of darkness as it used to be. It is still 
damp and slimy, it is true ; but, from above, it is always 
beautiful, with its luxuriant growth of vines, and at 
twilight mysterious. I like as well, however, to look into 
its entrance from the little marina, where the old fish- 
wives are weaving nets. 
These little settlements under the cliflf, called marinas, 
are worlds in themselves, picturesque at a distance, but 
squalid seen close at hand. They are not very different 
from the little fishing-stations on the Isle of Wight ; 
but they are more sheltered, and their inhabitants sing 
at their work, wear bright colors, and bask in the sun a 
good deal, feeling no sense of responsibility for the 
world they did not create. To weave nets, to fish in the 
bay, to sell their fish at the wharves, to eat unexciting 
vegetables and fish, to drink moderately, to go to the 
chapel of St. Antonino on Sunday, not to work on fast 
and feast days, nor more than compelled to any day, — 
this is life at the marinas. Their world is what they 
can see, and Naples is distant and almost foreign. Gen- 
eration after generation is content with the same simple 
life. They have no more idea of the bad way the world 
is in than bees in their cells. 
 
THE Villa Nardi hangs over the sea. It is built on 
a rock, and I know not what Roman and Greek 
foundations, and the remains of yet earlier peoples, 
traders, and traffickers, whose galleys used to rock there 
at the base of the cliff, where the gentle waves beat even 
in this winter-time with a summer swing and sound of 
peace. 
It was at the close of a day in January that I first 
knew the Villa Nardi, — a warm, lovely day, at the hour 
when the sun was just going behind the Capo di Sor- 
rento, in order to disrobe a little, I fancy, before plun- 
ging into the Mediterranean off the end of Capri, as is 
his wont about this time of year. When we turned out 
of the little piazza, our driver was obliged to take off 
one of our team of three horses driven abreast, so that 
we could pass through the narrow and crooked streets, 
or rather lanes of blank walls. With cracking whip, 
rattling wheels, and shouting to clear the way, we drove 
into the Strada di San Francisca, and to an arched gate- 
way. This led down a straight path, between olives and 
orange and lemon trees, gleaming with shining leaves 
and fruit of gold, with hedges of rose-trees in full bloom, 
to another leafy arch; through which I saw tropical 
trees, and a terrace with a low wall and battered busts 
guarding it, and, beyond, the blue sea, a white sail or 
two slanting across the opening, and the whiteness of 
Naples some twenty miles away on the shore. 
The noble family of the Villa did not descend into 
the garden to welcome us, as we should have liked ; in 
fact, they have been absent now for a long time, so long 
that even their ghosts, if they ever pace the terrace-walk 
towards the convent, would appear strange to one who 
should meet them ; and yet our hostess, the Tramontano, 
did what the ancient occupants scarcely could have done, 
gave us the choice of rooms in the entire house. The 
stranger who finds himself in this secluded paradise, at 
this season, is always at a loss whether to take a room 
on the sea, with all its changeable loveliness, but no sun, 
or one overlooking the garden, where the sun all day 
pours itself into the orange boughs, and where the birds 
are just beginning to get up a spring twitteration. My 
friend, whose capacity for taking in the luxurious repose 
of this region is something extraordinary, has tried, I 
believe, nearly every room in the house, and has at length 
