before their vigorous strokes. The other boat, with Colonel Montague in
the stern-sheets, was also hastening to the spot, the half frantic
father urging the men forward with wild gestures. On the rock above, the
party watched the struggling swimmer as he bravely supported his
helpless burden.
Two of the ladies held the agonized mother, to prevent her from leaping
over the cliff. The gentlemen were shouting to the men in the boat to
hasten their speed, for there was nothing else they could do. Bobtail
saw the boat, and heard the rapid thumps of the oars in the rowlocks.
The sight and the sound inspired him with new courage. He had ceased to
struggle any more than was necessary to keep his distance from the rock.
"Hold on a few seconds more," shouted one of the gentlemen on the rock
above.
Bobtail tried to speak, but he could not, though he felt that for a
short time longer he was master of the situation.
"Way enough!" said one of the men in the boat. "Toss him an oar, Bill."
The stroke oarsman threw one of his oars to Bobtail, who grasped it, and
supported himself with it.
"Back her," said the man in the bow, as he reached forward, and seized
one of Miss Grace's arms, while the other man kept the boat in position
with his oars.
The stout sailor lifted the young lady into the boat, and Bobtail laid
hold of the bow with his released hand. A shout of joy rose from the
rock when Grace was safely drawn into the boat.
"Back her!" gasped Little Bobtail, still clinging to the bow with one
hand, while he held the oar with the other.
Grace was exhausted and panting violently, but she was not insensible.
She was even able to sit up; and when the boat had backed clear of the
rocks, she was placed on the velvet cushions at the stern. In another
moment the second boat dashed alongside, and Colonel Montague leaped
into the stern-sheets, and folded his daughter in his arms. He wiped
the salt water from her face, and did all he could to improve her
situation.
"Pull for the yacht!" said he, nervously.
All this time Bobtail had been clinging to the bow of the barge,
recovering his breath. The sailor assisted him into the boat, and he
dropped down into the fore-sheets, breathing heavily from exhaustion.
The stroke-oarsman picked up his oar, and the two men pulled with all
their might for the yacht, while the other boat went around to the
landing-place on Blank Island to bring off the party there.
"How do you feel, Grace?" asked Colonel Montague, as he laid his
daughter's head upon his breast.
"Better, father," she replied, faintly. "I'm cold."
"Give way, lively, my lads," added the colonel, to whom minutes seemed
like hours.
When the barge came alongside the accommodation-steps, Colonel Montague
bore Grace in his arms to the deck of the Penobscot.
"Let me sit down here in the sun, father," said she.
"But you must remove your wet clothes."
"Not yet. Let me rest a few moments. I shall be all well in a little
while."
"What's the matter, Edward?" asked the Hon. Mr. Montague, who had
remained on board of the Penobscot, being too old to scramble about the
rocks.
"I have been overboard, grandfather," replied Grace, with a faint smile;
and it was evident that her condition was rapidly improving.
"Overboard, child!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "How did it happen?"
"I don't know. I was not with her," replied the colonel. "But where is
that boy?"
"That boy" has just come on deck, and had seated himself in the waist.
He had recovered his wind, and was now nearly as good as new. He felt
that he had done a big thing, and he wondered that no one said anything
to him. The boat that brought him to the yacht had gone for the party
which had been left on the island; and no one but the colonel knew
anything about the part he had borne in the affair. But he was not long
neglected, for the instant Colonel Montague thought of him he hastened
to the waist, and with tears in his eyes, grasped him by the hand.
Doubtless he betrayed more emotion than the occasion seemed to
warrant--emotion which was not all gratitude.
"My lad, you have done me a service which I can never forget," said he,
wiping the tears from his eyes.
"It's all right, sir. I feel better than if I hadn't done it," replied
Bobtail.
"But come aft, and see Grace," added the colonel.
"No, sir, I think I won't bother her now. She must feel pretty bad after
the ducking she got."
Just at this moment the barge from Blank Island dashed up to the steps.
Mrs. Montague was a demonstrative woman, and she had not even yet ceased
to scream.
"O, where is she? where is she, Edward?" cried the poor mother, as she
rose in the stern of the boat.
"Here I am, mother," exclaimed Grace, hastening to the rail on the
quarter-deck. "I am not drowned or hurt."
Mrs. Montague was assisted up the steps, and in another moment she was
sobbing over her child in her arms. While this scene was transpiring on
the quarter-deck, the rest of the party went to Little Bobtail, and took
him by the hand, as they expressed their admiration of his heroic
conduct.
"That wan't anything," replied Bobtail. "I have dived off that rock
twenty times before."
"But Grace would have drowned if you hadn't done it."
"Well, I don't know. I suppose, if I hadn't gone for her, some of the
rest of you would."
"I don't know about that," said one of them, shaking his head. "I might
have gone into the water, but I couldn't have done much."
Mrs. Montague hurried Grace into the cabin as soon as the violence of
her emotions had in a measure subsided.
"But I haven't seen Captain Bobtail yet," said the daughter.
"You shall see him; but you must take off your wet clothes first,"
replied her mother.
