 

somehow, after the long repression consequent on my 
residence in prison, this appetite was singularly keen 
and restless under denial. I indulged in what I con 
sidered moderation three or four glasses a day 
but it was never entirely satisfied, wanted something 
more, and I often gave it more. 

As time wore on and the money received for the 
sale of my diamond pin was nearly gone, I began to 
feel anxious. What was I to do ? In this crisis of 
affairs a certain ward politician whom I met one 
evening in a saloon asked me what I was doing. 

I answered, " Nothing." 

"Anything in view?" he inquired, and I said, 
" No." 

He called for a couple of glasses of ale, and we 
drank together at the table where we had been 
sitting. . 

"There 's a scheme on hand," he said, confi 
dentially, "and I think you are the man we are 
looking for." 

" What sort of a scheme ?" I inquired, with a good 
deal of interest. " And secondly, will it pay ?" 

" There 's no doubt as to its paying," he replied 
" that is, if it is managed right. But mind, if I let 
you in, you must be as close as the grave." 

I was in a desperate mood, ready for almost any 
thing but setting up a tavern. I was cured of that. 

" You can trust me," I answered. " I never be 
trayed a friend in my life, and don 't  mean to begin 
now." 



  

" Just so. I thought I knew you." 

And then he unfolded a scheme, in which he and 
two or three other men of his class and profession 
were engaged, for an out-and-out swindle of the pub 
lic through a bogus enterprise that was to have the 
sanction of a few prominent men deceived into giving 
an endorsement. The projectors were all too well 
known to secure confidence, and were in search of a 
new and unknown man with good address who 
would stand in the front and manage affairs in the 
public eyes, but as they directed. 

I listened patiently to the whole scheme and its 
well-digested programme. If it could be carried out 
successfully, it would pay, and that handsomely. My 
share of the profit would be several thousand dollars. 
It was a tempting offer to a man hanging loose on 
society as I was, and waiting for anything that might 
turn up. But I did not fail to see that if I went into 
it I would be a cheat and a swindler. The evil 
counselors of my soul who came in upon me when 
I debated the question of giving up a useful trade to 
become a saloon-keeper, and told me that no man 
cared for me that if I did not look to the main 
chance I would be flung aside as of no account now 
came trooping about me again and urging me to 
close with the tempting offer. If you don 't  take the 
chance, they said, somebody else will. Your holding 
off won t stop the scheme. Go in, and get on to 
your feet. It 's a duty you owe yourself. I tried to 
fight them off, but they stifled reason and conscience. 



 

Just at this critical moment I saw, with surprise, 
the face of old Jacobs the pressman at the door of 
the saloon. He was standing a little inside and 
looking about the room. At first I thought he had 
come in for a drink, but I saw by his countenance, 
so calm and serious, that another errand had brought 
him here. I had not seen him since the night he 
was taken out of "The Retreat" by brother Her 
itage. He did not look like the same man. The 
change in his appearance was marvelous to behold. 

As his eyes ranged about the room they rested 
on me. I had turned my head partly aside, hoping 
I would not be recognized. But he saw me, and 
coming over to where I was, said, 

"You know old .Wilson, who worked in the 
