sensitively from either alternative. 

" I heard your voice. I was coming to see Miss Hetty 
It was the thing nearest you. I said to myself, She may 
have been here to-day. O, Madge ! " 

He opened the gate for her, and, like one in a dream, 
she passed through. He lingered to shut it, and was it 
for some sign from her? She stood quite still. All the 
life in her seemed to stop and crowd around her heart, 
bringing an awful solemnity. One little word could turn 
the current either way. In the bright, by-gone years she 
could have spoken it; now she must listen; it was the 
part left for her, the part that had followed her waiting. 

" Madge, my darling ! " 

He took her hand then and drew it through his arm, 
and they fell into step mechanically. The warm blood 
rushed back to her face, and she felt the exultant life 
throbbing through every pulse. 

" I could not have dreamed of this blessedness. That I 
should meet you here, at this very gate, where we said, 
years ago do you remember ? that whatever came, we 
would keep our faith in each other ! And I failed miser- 
ably. Madge, can you forgive? God knows that my 
heart never wavered. I think you understand " 

" Enough to absolve you from premeditated wrong," she 
answered, eagerly, hastening to justify him in his own 
eyes, since he had been cleared in hers long before. 

"I had not counted on so sudden an explanation, my 





dearest Madge, and it seems strange to have it in the 
shadow of a new sorrow, like that which has befallen me 
again. Yet in this freedom I think I have a right to the 
whole truth. After it is once spoken we will shut it in the 
graves with the dead." 

"If it gives you pain Oh, I can, I do believe in you," 
she answered, incoherently ; the very depths of her soul 
stirred by the tumult of feeling that she could not wholly 
grasp. 

" God bless you, Madge, for the faith. It has been my 
keenest misery, all through these years, to think of your 
suffering. You had enough, surely, without my adding to 
it. Yet I could make no sign. You had to believe the 
worst" 

" O, it is past now," she said, with a little cry, realizing 
the strength of her own love, and the joy of its late fru- 
ition. Why should she not rejoice that it had come? 
Was bliss so ordinary a thing that one should take it with- 
out thanks ? 

"I want to tell you for my own satisfaction. I have 
said this over to myself so many times during the last year, 
planning how I would come after a while ! For May saw 
it clearly with her dying eyes. The sin was not all here." 

" No, no," Madge answered, hurriedly. 

" Perhaps I made the first mistake in not confessing the 
exact truth ; yet I withheld it from the purest delicacy. I 
knew she loved me, and that it was my mother's wish that 
I should marry her. I fancied it possible to change her 
regard by persistently showing her that I had only a 
brother's love to give. I cannot tell you how I used to 
long for my exile to come to an end. Letters missed now 
and then, not wholly by accident, I fear. O, my darling, 
many a time I grew heart-sick with the delay ; but I dared 
not give my impatience words, even to you. And then 
came that request for freedom, nay, a demand, leaving me 
QO choice. We had heard a story before of your intended 
uarriage. She told you, I think." 



 

" Yes. O, let it all go," pleaded the tremulous voice. 

"I have a man's desire to be justified in the eyes of the 
woman I love. How could I dream of deception ? The 
direction on the envelope and the post-mark were con- 
vincing. They could not be counterfeited. That the 
brief note might have been, never occurred to me. In my 
anguish and despair I yielded to the love that longed to 
comfort me. It was as tender and considerate as its nature 
could produce. When I reached New York we heard many 
things of which you had kept me in ignorance, and the 
great truth that well nigh crushed me. O, Madge, you 
can never know the powerful temptation that beset me to 
