
She mused silently for some minutes--the tender light still
trembling over her face. It was as if she had forgotten his
presence, until a sudden thought turned her to him with an abrupt
query.

"Mrs. Baxter knows nothing of--has heard no rumors?" in shy anxiety
that appeared overstrained to one who had heard the loving soliloquy
Orrin was prompt to decide was in very bad taste, even when the
unconsidered listener was in the confidence of both parties.

"Of your engagement?" he said, with grave directness. "Hamilton is
in profound ignorance on that subject. Roy knows how to keep his own
counsel, and knowing it was his wish that your betrothal should
remain secret, for the present, I have mentioned it to no one. You
need be under no embarrassment on that score."

"Thank you."

Jessie was silent again, but the pause was filled with soberer
thoughts. She began to fear lest she had been talking nonsense--been
indiscreet and unmaidenly. Orrin kindly overlooked the lapse into
selfish sentimentality, but she was ashamed that she had given him
occasion for exercising forbearance on this subject. He noted, and
with satisfaction, that she treated him to no more love rhapsodies
that night; did not voluntarily name Roy in the ensuing dialogue.

"I am happy to learn that Mrs. Baxter is warm-hearted and sincere,"
she said, at the close of a searching catechism upon that lady's
characteristics. "I was prepossessed in her favor, less by her
letter, than because she loved my mother. My sister has been a dear
and careful parent to me. You have seen what my father's fond
indulgence is. But the core of my heart has ached for my mother--my
own beautiful mother--ever since she died. I was not quite five
years old, yet I recollect her as if I had kissed her for the last
time, yesterday. My father had this oriel built to please her. I
remember seeing her nowhere else until she was carried up to her
death-bed. Her easy chair stood there"--pointing--"and her
writing-desk beside it. When I could, by standing on tip-toe, just
get my chin upon the window-sill, she would make me measure with a
bit of ribbon how much the jessamine had grown in a week. She
planted these vines and tended them as if they had been her
children. She said to me, more than once or twice, that she hoped I
would be like my name-flower when I grew up--brave, sweet,
faithful--telling how one had for fifty years curtained the porch of
the house in which she was born, and how dearly she loved it. She
made me her companion, and, in some sort, her confidante by the time
I could talk plainly, and very proud I was of the distinction. She
used to take me upon her lap, or hold me closely in her arms as she
lay on her lounge in the twilight, and repeat stories of her
Southern home; sing ballads so sweetly sad that I could not help
crying quietly while I listened--very quietly, for fear she should
hear me, and stop."

It was twilight by this time. The mountain-crown was dusky as the
plain; the elm-trees in the church-yard were swaying in the bleak
wind that bowed the garden-shrubbery, and swept the long grass above
neglected graves into brown waves. The naked, snake-like sprays of
the creepers tapped monotonously against the window-panes. Orrin had
healthy nerves, but as he looked through the glooming air at the
shaft, standing like a sheeted ghost at the head of Mr. Kirke's
second wife, and heard in the stillness of the place and hour, the
sobbing sighs of the pine boughs, he wished Jessie had chosen some
other hour and spot for her weird reminiscence than the November
gloaming and this haunted recess.

She was leaning back in her chair, her hands crossed, her face
upraised to the sky:

"I have a perfect picture of her before me, at this moment," she
went on, presently. "She had large, soft eyes, and very dark hair.
She was always pale, and she never laughed. But her smile was my
reward when I was good, as her kiss was the cure for every hurt.
Nobody else can ever tell me such wonderful tales. Some were in
prose, many in verse, more beautiful to my apprehension than any
poetry I have read since. This was on her well days--my white days!
when the writing-desk would, if I requested, be supplanted by the
color-box and pencils, and we passed whole hours together--she and
I--she sketching or painting to illustrate anecdote and fairy story,
I perched in my high chair at her side, looking on in rapt delight.
I believe that I was a troublesome child--noisy, wayward,
passionate--to everybody else in the house. I kept away from her of
my own accord in my stormy or sulky fits. The earliest lesson taught
me by my father was, that 'poor, sick mamma must not be disturbed.'
I suppose it was on account of her feeble health that he always
heard my prayers, put me to bed at night, and nursed me in my infant
sicknesses. It was he who came to my crib in the dim light of one
terrible January morning, and told me that she was in Heaven. I did
not understand exactly what that meant, but I gathered that it was
something very dreadful from the sight of his emotion. I have never
seen him weep except that once. I had sprung from my pillow to sob
out my childish grief in his arms. He pressed me to his bosom until
I could scarcely breathe, and said, over and over, in a strange
undertone that terrified me more than did the drip of the hot tears
over my face--'Ginevra's baby! Ginevra's baby!' Baby though I was,
the scene is graven upon my memory for life."

The wind shook the casement, and the bare sprays tapped more
impatiently upon the glass, as the spirit of the dead mother might
have signalled her child to let her in.
