ing an International Society for Reform, Aunt 
Faith listened quietly, and then said, "I will 
join you, Mrs. B , when I have the leisure 


time at my disposal." She never found the time, 
but in her answer, she was not insincere. If she 
had been left unemployed, she might have joined 
some organization for religious work, and esteemed 
it a pleasant privilege, but as it was, her daily 
home duties stood first, and as long as they 
surrounded her, she did not lift her eyes beyond. 

The minister was an old man, who had officia- 
ted in the same church many years of his life, 
and hoped to die, as he expressed it, " in the 
harness." The people loved him, and respected 
his wishes with more unanimity than they might 
have given to a younger man ; there was no dis- 
cord, no restless desire for novelty among the 
congregation, and the various good works con- 
nected with the church moved forward at a 
steady pace, growing with the growth of the 
town, but not running into any violent extremes 
to the right hand or the left. 

Mr. Hays, the venerable minister, was a gen- 
tle, kind-hearted man ; the children in the Sun- 
day school listened to him with attention, and 
 

their parents loved to hear his sermons. He had 
the rare faculty of interesting children, and when 
he addressed them, the teachers had no difficulty 
in keeping their classes in order, because the 
children really wished to hear what he said. 
In church, among older hearers, the effect 
was the same ; his sermons were simple, but all 
liked to hear them. As he grew older, he seemed 
to think more and more of the beautiful words, 
'* God so loved the world that He gave His only 
begotten Son ; " on this text all that he said and 
did was founded, and he never wearied of telling 
his hearers about this great love, and urging 
them to give their reverent affection in return. 

" If we were all like Mr. Hays, the world 
would be a very different place, Aunt Faith," 
said Hugh, as they walked home together ; " I 
suppose he has had nothing but love all his life." 

"You are greatly mistaken, Hugh. He has 
endured severe suffering, and no doubt the want 
of earthly affection has taught him to appreciate 
the dearer worth of heavenly love." 



"I thought he had lived here in Westerton for 
forty years without anything to disturb his quiet," 
said Hugh. 

" Because his troubles came to him long ago, 
they were none the less heavy to bear, Hugh. 
Before he came here, a half-brother to whom he 
had trusted all his little fortune, disappeared, 
canwing the whole with him ; and not only that, 
but upon hearing of his loss, the young girl to 
whom he was engaged, broke her promise and 
married another. Thus he was left doubly be- 
reft ; not only forsaken and injured, but also 
wounded by the discovery of treachery in those 
he trusted with all his heart." 

"I could never recover from such a blow," 
said impulsive Hugh ; " the thought of being 
deceived and betrayed by those we love and trust 
is fearful to me." 

"It was fearful to Mr. Hays also, Hugh ; after 
a short time he came to Westerton, and threw 
his whole strength into his work. It may have 
been a hard struggle at first, but you can your- 



 

self see how he has conquered at last ; love is 
the groundwork of all he says and all he does, 
and his sufferings instead of turning his heart 
into bitterness, seem rather to have given it a 
new sweetness." 

" Yes, that is why I like Mr. Hays. He is not 
censorious. He does not denounce sin so con- 
tinually that he has no time to tell of forgiveness ; 
he does not keep us so constantly trembling over 
the past that we have not the courage to hope 
for better things in the future ; I like him for 
