to the camp over the prairie. As it drew near, the wagon was seen to
contain a portly gentleman, who hitched impatiently forward on his seat,
shook the reins and gently touched up his horse, in the vain attempt to
communicate his own energy to that dull beast, and looked eagerly at the
tents. When the conveyance at length drew up to Mr. Thompson’s door, the
gentleman descended with great deliberation, straightened himself
up, rubbed his hands, and beaming satisfaction from every part of his
radiant frame, advanced to the group that was gathered to welcome him,
and which had saluted him by name as soon as he came within hearing.

“Welcome to Napoleon, gentlemen, welcome. I am proud to see you here Mr.
Thompson. You are, looking well Mr. Sterling. This is the country, sir.
Right glad to see you Mr. Brierly. You got that basket of champagne? No?
Those blasted river thieves! I’ll never send anything more by ‘em. The
best brand, Roederer. The last I had in my cellar, from a lot sent me
by Sir George Gore--took him out on a buffalo hunt, when he visited our
country. Is always sending me some trifle. You haven’t looked about any
yet, gentlemen? It’s in the rough yet, in the rough. Those buildings
will all have to come down. That’s the place for the public square,
Court House, hotels, churches, jail--all that sort of thing. About where
we stand, the deepo. How does that strike your engineering eye, Mr.
Thompson? Down yonder the business streets, running to the wharves. The
University up there, on rising ground, sightly place, see the river for
miles. That’s Columbus river, only forty-nine miles to the Missouri. You
see what it is, placid, steady, no current to interfere with navigation,
wants widening in places and dredging, dredge out the harbor and raise
a levee in front of the town; made by nature on purpose for a mart. Look
at all this country, not another building within ten miles, no other
navigable stream, lay of the land points right here; hemp, tobacco,
corn, must come here. The railroad will do it, Napoleon won’t know
itself in a year.”

“Don’t now evidently,” said Philip aside to Harry. “Have you breakfasted
Colonel?”

“Hastily. Cup of coffee. Can’t trust any coffee I don’t import
myself. But I put up a basket of provisions,--wife would put in a few
delicacies, women always will, and a half dozen of that Burgundy, I was
telling you of Mr. Briefly. By the way, you never got to dine with me.”
 And the Colonel strode away to the wagon and looked under the seat for
the basket.

Apparently it was not there. For the Colonel raised up the flap, looked
in front and behind, and then exclaimed,

“Confound it. That comes of not doing a thing yourself. I trusted to the
women folks to set that basket in the wagon, and it ain’t there.”

The camp cook speedily prepared a savory breakfast for the Colonel,
broiled chicken, eggs, corn-bread, and coffee, to which he did ample
justice, and topped off with a drop of Old Bourbon, from Mr. Thompson’s
private store, a brand which he said he knew well, he should think it
came from his own sideboard.

While the engineer corps went to the field, to run back a couple of
miles and ascertain, approximately, if a road could ever get down to the
Landing, and to sight ahead across the Run, and see if it could ever get
out again, Col. Sellers and Harry sat down and began to roughly map out
the city of Napoleon on a large piece of drawing paper.

“I’ve got the refusal of a mile square here,” said the Colonel, “in
our names, for a year, with a quarter interest reserved for the four
owners.”

They laid out the town liberally, not lacking room, leaving space
for the railroad to come in, and for the river as it was to be when
improved.

The engineers reported that the railroad could come in, by taking a
little sweep and crossing the stream on a high bridge, but the grades
would be steep. Col. Sellers said he didn’t care so much about the
grades, if the road could only be made to reach the elevators on the
river. The next day Mr. Thompson made a hasty survey of the stream for a
mile or two, so that the Colonel and Harry were enabled to show on
their map how nobly that would accommodate the city. Jeff took a little
writing from the Colonel and Harry for a prospective share but Philip
declined to join in, saying that he had no money, and didn’t want to
make engagements he couldn’t fulfill.

The next morning the camp moved on, followed till it was out of sight
by the listless eyes of the group in front of the store, one of whom
remarked that, “he’d be doggoned if he ever expected to see that
railroad any mo’.”

Harry went with the Colonel to Hawkeye to complete their arrangements,
a part of which was the preparation of a petition to congress for the
improvement of the navigation of Columbus River.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Eight years have passed since the death of Mr. Hawkins. Eight years are
not many in the life of a nation or the history of a state, but they may
be years of destiny that shall fix the current of the century following.
Such years were those that followed the little scrimmage on Lexington
Common. Such years were those that followed the double-shotted demand
for the surrender of Fort Sumter. History is never done with inquiring
of these years, and summoning witnesses about them, and trying to
understand their significance.

The eight years in America from 1860 to 1868 uprooted institutions that
