that new world of freedom and justice ? " 
"Why should it not be so ? " demanded Florida. 
" Did he say it would not ? " 
"Need it be known there that I have been a 
priest ? Or if I tell it, will it make me appear a 
kind of monster, different from other men ? " 
"No, no ! " she answered fervently. u Your 
story would gain friends and honor for you every 
where in America. Did lie " 
" A moment, a moment ! " cried Don Ippolito, 
catching his breath. " Will it ever be possible for 
 
me to win something more than honor and friend 
ship tli ere ? " 
She looked up at him askingly, confusedly. 
kt If I am a man, and the time should ever come 
that a face, a look, a voice, shall be to me what they 
are to other men, will she remember it against me 
that I have been a priest, when I tell her say to 
her, madamigella how dear she is to me, offer her 
my life's devotion, ask her to be my wife ?".... 
Florida rose from the seat, and stood confronting 
him, in a helpless silence, which he seemed not to 
notice. 
Suddenly he clasped his hands together, and des 
perately stretched them towards her. 
" Oh, my hope, my trust, my life, if it were you 
that I loved ?".... 
" What ! " shuddered the girl, recoiling, with al 
most a shriek. " You ? A priest ! " 
Don Ippolito gave a low cry, half sob : 
" His words, his words ! It is true, I cannot 
escape, I am doomed, I must die as I have lived ! " 
He dropped his face into his hands, and stood 
with his head bowed before her ; neither spoke for 
a long time, or moved. 
Then Florida said absently, in the husky mur 
mur to which her voice fell when she was strongly 
moved, " Yes, I see it all, how it has been," and 
was silent again, staring, as if a procession of the 
events and scenes of the past months were passing 
before her ; and presently she moaned to herself, 
fcC Oh, oh, oh ! " and wrung her hands. 
 
The foolish fountain kept capering and babbling 
on. All at once, now, as a flame flashes up and 
then expires, it leaped and dropped extinct at the 
foot of the statue. 
Its going out seemed somehow to leave them in 
darkness, and under cover of that gloom she drew 
nearer the priest, and by such approaches as one 
makes toward a fancied apparition, when his fear 
will not let him fly, but it seems better to suffer the 
worst from it at once than to live in terror of it ever 
after, she lifted her hands to his, and gently taking 
them away from his face, looked into his hopeless 
eyes. 
" Oh, Don Ippolito," she grieved. " What shall 
I say to you, what can I do for yon, now ? " 
But there was nothing to do. The whole edifice 
of his dreams, his wild imaginations, had fallen into 
dust at a word ; no magic could rebuild it ; the end 
that never seems the end had come. He let her 
keep his cold hands, and presently he returned the 
entreaty of her tears with his wan, patient smile. 
" You cannot help me ; there is no help for an 
error like mine. Sometime, if ever the thought of 
me is a greater pain than it is at this moment, you 
can forgive me. Yes, you can do that for me." 
" But who, who will ever forgive me," she cried, 
"for my blindness ! Oh, you must believe that I 
never thought, I never dreamt " 
" I know it well. It was your fatal truth that 
did it ; truth too high and fino for me to have dis 
cerned save through such agony as .... You too 
 
loved my soul, like the rest, and you would have 
had me no priest for the reason that they would 
have had me a priest I see it. But you had no 
right to love my soul and not me you, a woman. 
A woman must not love only the soul of a man." 
" Yes, yes I " piteously explained the girl, " but 
you were a priest to me ! " 
"That is true, madamigella. I was always a 
priest to you ; and now I see that I never could be 
otherwise. Ah, the wrong began many years be 
fore we met. I was trying to blame you a lit 
tle " - 
" Blame me, blame me ; do ! " 
" but there is no blame. Think that it was 
another way of asking your forgiveness. . . . O my 
God, my God, my God ! " 
He released his hands from her, and uttered this 
cry under his breath, with his face lifted towards 
the heavens. When he looked at her again, he 
said : " Madamigella, if my share of this misery 
gives me the right to ask of you " 
" Oh ask anything of me ! I will give every 
thing, do everything I " 
He faltered, and then, " You do not love me," he 
