paint was not yet dry on the “ Last Judgment 99 in the 
Sistine Chapel; Mary Queen of Scots was not yet 
born, but would be before the year closed. Catherine 
de Medici was a child ; Elizabeth of England was not 
yet in her teens; Calvin, Benvenuto Cellini, and the 
Emperor Charles V. were at the top of their fame, and 
each was manufacturing history after his own peculiar 
fashion; Margaret of Navarre was writing the “ Hep- 
tameron ” and some religious books — the first survives, 
the others are forgotten, wit and indelicacy being some- 
times better literature-preservers than holiness; lax 
court morals and the absurd chivalry business were in 
full feather, and the joust and the tournament were the 
frequent pastime of titled fine gentlemen who could 
fight better than they could spell, while religion was 
the passion of their ladies, and the classifying their off- 
spring into children of full rank and children by brevet 
their pastime. In fact, all around, religion was in a 
peculiarly blooming condition : the Council of Trent 
was being called ; the Spanish Inquisition was roasting, 
and racking, and burning, with a free hand ; elsewhere 
on the Continent the nations were being persuaded to 
holy living by the sword and fire; in England, Henry 
VIII. had suppressed the monasteries, burned Fisher 
and another bishop or two, and was getting his English 
Reformation and his harem effectively started. When 
De Soto stood on the banks of the Mississippi, it was 
still two years before Luther’s death; eleven years 
before the burning of Servetus; thirty years before 
the St. Bartholomew slaughter ; Rabelais had not yet 
published; “Don Quixote” was not yet written; 
Shakespeare was not yet born ; a hundred long years 
must still elapse before Englishmen would hear the 
name of Oliver Cromwell. 

Unquestionably the discovery of the Mississippi is a 
datable fact which considerably mellows and modifies 
the shiny newness of our country, and gives her a most 
respectable outside aspect of rustiness and antiquity. 

De Soto merely glimpsed the river, then died and 
was buried in it by his priests and soldiers. One would 
expect the priests and the soldiers to multiply the 
river’s dimensions by ten — the Spanish custom of the 
day — and thus move other adventurers to go at once 
and explore it. On the contrary, their narratives, 
when they reached home, did not excite that amount 
of curiosity. The Mississippi was left unvisited by 
whites during a term of years which seems incredible in 
our energetic days. One may “ sense ” the interval to 
his mind, after a fashion, by dividing it up in this way: 
after De Soto glimpsed the river, a fraction short of a 
quarter of a century elapsed, and then Shakespeare was 
born ; lived a trifle more than half a century, then died ; 
and when he had been in his grave considerably more 
than half a century, the second white man saw the 
Mississippi. In our day we don’t allow a hundred and 
thirty years to elapse between glimpses of a marvel. If 
somebody should discover a creek in the county next to 
the one that the North Pole is in, Europe and America 
would start fifteen costly expeditions thither; one to 
explore the creek, and the other fourteen to hunt for 
each other. 

For more than a hundred and fifty years there had 
been white settlements on our Atlantic coasts. These 
people were in intimate communication with the Indi- 
ans : in the south the Spaniards were robbing, slaugh- 
tering, enslaving, and converting them; higher up, the 
English were tiading beads and blankets to them for a 
consideration, and throwing in civilization and whisky, 
“for lagniappe ” ;* and in Canada the French were 
schooling them in a rudimentary way, missionarying 
among them, and drawing whole populations of them 
at a time to Quebec, and later to Montreal, to buy furs 
of them. Necessarily, then, these various clusters of 
whites must have heard of the great river of the Far 
West; and indeed, they did hear of it vaguely — so 
vaguely and indefinitely that its course, proportions, 
and locality were hardly even guessable. The mere 
mysteriousness of the matter ought to have fired 
curiosity and compelled exploration ; but this did not 
occur. Apparently nobody happened to want such a 
river, nobody needed it, nobody was curious about it ; 
so, for a century and a half the Mississippi remained 
out of the market and undisturbed. When De Soto 
found it, he was not hunting for a river, and had no 
present occasion for one; consequently, he did not 
value it or even take any particular notice of it. 

But at last, La Salle, the Frenchman, conceived the 
idea of seeking out that river and exploring it. It 
always happens that when a man seizes upon a 
neglected and important idea, people inflamed with 
the same notion crop up all around. It happened so 
in this instance. 

Naturally the question suggests itself, Why did these 
people want the river now when nobody had wanted it 
in the five preceding generations? Apparently it was 
