pleasant to see you again after so many years.  You don't look any
older than when I saw you last."
Miss Deborah knew very well that she did look older, but still she
was pleased by the compliment.  Is there any one who does not like to
receive the same assurance?
"I'm afraid your eyes aint very sharp, Ferdinand," she said.  "I feel
I'm gettin' old.  Why, I'm sixty-one, come October."
"Are you?  I shouldn't call you over fifty, from your looks, aunt.
Really I shouldn't."
"I'm afraid you tell fibs sometimes," said Aunt Deborah, but she said
it very graciously, and surveyed her nephew very kindly.  "Heigh ho!
it's a good while since your poor father and I were children
together, and went to the school-house on the hill.  Now he's gone,
and I'm left alone."
"Not alone, aunt.  If he is dead, you have got a nephew."
"Well, Ferdinand, I'm glad to see you, and I shall be glad to have
you pay me a good long visit.  But how can you be away from your
place so long?  Did Mr. Stewart give you a vacation?"
"No, aunt; I left him."
"For good?"
"Yes."
"Left a place where you was gettin' a thousand dollars a year!" said
the old lady in accents of strong disapproval.
"Yes, aunt."
"Then I think you was very foolish," said Deborah with emphasis.
"Perhaps you won't, when you know why I left it."
"Why did you?"
"Because I could do better."
"Better than a thousand dollars a year!" said Deborah with surprise.
"Yes, I am offered two thousand dollars in San Francisco."
"You don't say!" ejaculated Deborah, letting her stocking drop in
sheer amazement.
"Yes, I do.  It's a positive fact."
"You must be a smart clerk!"
"Well, it isn't for me to say," said Ferdinand, laughing.
"When be you goin' out?"
"In a week, but I thought I must come and bid you good-by first."
"I'm real glad to see you, Ferdinand," said Aunt Deborah, the more
warmly because she considered him so prosperous that she would have
no call to help him.  But here she was destined to find herself
mistaken.
CHAPTER XVIII.
AUNT AND NEPHEW.
"I don't think I can come here till to-morrow, Aunt Deborah," said
Ferdinand, a little later.  "I'll stay at the hotel to-night, and
come round with my baggage in the morning."
"Very well, nephew, but now you're here, you must stay to tea."
"Thank you, aunt, I will."
"I little thought this mornin', I should have Henry's son to tea,"
said Aunt Deborah, half to herself.  "You don't look any like him,
Ferdinand."
"No, I don't think I do."
"It's curis too, for you was his very picter when you was a boy."
"I've changed a good deal since then, Aunt Deborah," said her nephew,
a little uneasily.
"So you have, to be sure.  Now there's your hair used to be almost
black, now it's brown.  Really I can't account for it," and Aunt
Deborah surveyed the young man over her spectacles.
"You've got a good memory, aunt," said Ferdinand with a forced laugh.
"Now ef your hair had grown darker, I shouldn't have wondered,"
pursued Aunt Deborah; "but it aint often black turns to brown."
"That's so, aunt, but I can explain it," said Ferdinand, after a
slight pause.
"How was it?"
"You know the French barbers can change your hair to any shade you
want."
"Can they?"
"Yes, to be sure.  Now--don't laugh at me, aunt--a young lady I used
to like didn't fancy dark hair, so I went to a French barber, and he
changed the color for me in three months."
"You don't say!"
"Fact, aunt; but he made me pay him well too."
"How much did you give him?"
"Fifty dollars, aunt."
"That's what I call wasteful," said Aunt Deborah, disapprovingly.
"Couldn't you be satisfied with the nat'ral color of your hair?  To
my mind black's handsomer than brown."
"You're right, aunt.  I wouldn't have done it if it hadn't been for
Miss Percival."
"Are you engaged to her?"
"No, Aunt Deborah.  The fact was, I found she wasn't domestic, and
didn't know anything about keeping house, but only cared for dress,
so I drew off, and she's married to somebody else now."
"I'm glad to hear it," said Deborah, emphatically.  "The jade!  She
wouldn't have been a proper wife for you.  You want some good girl
that's willin' to go into the kitchen, and look after things, and not
carry all she's worth on her back."
"I agree with you, aunt," said Ferdinand, who thought it politic, in
view of the request he meant to make by and by, to agree with hie
aunt in her views of what a wife should be.
Aunt Deborah began to regard her nephew as quite a sensible young
man, and to look upon him with complacency.
"I wish, Ferdinand," she said, "you liked farmin'."
"Why, aunt?"
"You could stay here, and manage my farm for me."
"Heaven forbid!" thought the young man with a shudder.  "I should be
bored to death.  Does the old lady think I would put on a frock and
overalls, and go out and plough, or hoe potatoes?"
"It's a good, healthy business," pursued Aunt Deborah, unconscious of
the thoughts which were passing through her nephew's mind, "and you
