      While the bald-headed eagle, coming in from the sea,
      Swoops down upon the fish-hawk, fishing patiently,
              And carries off his spoil,
              With kingly scorn of toil.

      “Oh! floating on the sea-river’s brine,
      Where, noting each ripple of the line,
    The old Minorcan fishermen, swarthy and slow,
    Sit watching for the drum-fish, drumming down below;
    Now and then along shore their dusky dug-outs pass,
    Coming home laden down with clams and marsh grass;
      One paddles, one rows, in their outlandish way,
      But they pause to salute us, and give us good-day
              In soft Minorcan speech,
              As they pass, near the beach.

      “Oh! sweeping home, where dark, in the north,
      See, keeping watch, San Marco looms forth,
    With its gray ruined towers in the red sunset glow,
    Mounting guard o’er the tide as it ebbs to and fro;
    We hear the evening gun as we reach the sea-wall,
    But soft on our ears the water-murmurs fall,
      Voices of the river, calling ‘Stay! stay! stay!
      Children of the Northland, why flee so soon away?’
              Though we go, dear river,
              Thou art ours forever.”

After I had fallen asleep, haunted by the marching time of Sara’s verse,
I dreamed that there was a hand tapping at my chamber door, and, half
roused, I said to myself that it was only dreams, and nothing more. But
it kept on, and finally, wide awake, I recognized the touch of mortal
fingers, and withdrew the bolt. Aunt Diana rushed in, pale and
disheveled in the moonlight.

“What is the matter?” I exclaimed.

“Niece Martha,” replied Aunt Di, sinking into a chair, “Iris has
disappeared!”

Grand tableau, in which Sara took part from the majestic bed.

“She went to her room an hour ago,” pursued Aunt Di; “it is next to
mine, you know, and I went in there just now for some camphor, and found
her gone!”

“Dear, dear! Where can the child have gone to?”

“An elopement,” said Aunt Di, in a sepulchral tone.

“Not Mokes?”

“No. If it had been Mokes, I should not have--that is to say, it would
have been highly reprehensible in Iris, but--However, it is not Mokes;
he is sound asleep in his room; I sent there to see.” And Aunt Diana
betook herself to her handkerchief.

“Can it be John Hoffman?” I mused, half to myself.

“Mr. Hoffman went up to his room some time ago,” said Sara.

“And pray how do you know, Miss St. John?” asked Aunt Di, coming out
stiffly from behind her handkerchief. “Mr. Hoffman would have been very
glad to--and, as it happens, he is not in his room at all.”

“Then of course--Oh, irretrievable folly!” I exclaimed, in dismay.

“But it isn’t John Hoffman, I tell you,” said Aunt Diana, relapsing into
dejection again. “He has gone out sailing with the Van Andens; I heard
them asking him--a moonlight excursion.”

Then the three of us united:

  MYSELF (doubtfully). “Can it be--   }
                                        }
  SARA (decidedly). “It must be--     } the Captain!”
                                        }
  AUNT DI (dejectedly). “Yes, it is-- }
                                        }




                           THE ANCIENT CITY.

                        IN TWO PARTS.--PART II.

    “The tide comes in; the birds fly low,
       As if to catch our speech:
     Ah, Destiny! why must we ever go
       Away from the Florida Beach?”


Aunt Diana declared that I must go with her back to the hotel, and I in
my turn declared that if I went Sara must accompany me; so it ended in
our taking the key of the house from the sleepy Sabre-boy and all three
going back together through the moon-lighted street across the plaza to
the hotel. Although it was approaching midnight, the Ancient City had
yet no thought of sleep. Its idle inhabitants believed in taking the
best of life, and so on moonlight nights they roamed about, two and two,
or leaned over their balconies chatting with friends across the way in
