arch, merry faces and gay voices. Nearly all the houses 
in the row held out such tantalizing pictures. And if a 
small, silvery treble were to say "papa" on this porch— 

"There are some berries, Mrs. Maybin," he said, 
going straight through to the kitchen. "Have you a 
napkin handy, with which I can wipe my hands?" 



She glanced through the door into the spacious hall, 
and then at her master) rather questioning! j. 

"The dinner, will not be ready until six — as you 
gave orders a few days ago. If I had known " 

"Never mind, Mrs. Maybin, it is all right. I do not 
care for dinner any earlier in the summer." 

Then he was off again with his violets. She gave an 
Injured sniff. Hie had never been the same man since 
his marriage. Before that, everything went on like 
clock work. If he was put out five minutes he showed 
it, though never unpleasantly. That was what she 
liked to see — some authority from the head of the 
house. Now the madame twisted him around her fin- 
gers, and everything went at sixes and sevens. If it 
were not that Mr. Tremaine would actually be neglected, 
she should feel tempted to throw up her commission. 
And strawberries bought, when loads of their own were 
ripening in the garden ! 

Ralph Tremaine went up the steps two at a time, and 
entered his wife's sitting-room, smiling at the expecta- 
tion of finding her asleep on the lounge. There was no 
Dora, no dresses strewn about, the willow workstand b}- 
the window covered, and the low sewing chair standing 
in the corner. The blinds all clfosed, the room filled 
with a shady green gloom, and strangely silent. 

"The wife who loves you." Dora's bright, warm 
lips had uttered the words this morning. He wanted 
to hear her say them over dozens of times. Where 

could she be hiding? Oh, Mrs. Maybin could you im- 
agine such an undignified thought finding a resting 
place in your master's brain ? 

' 'Dora ? " he called softly. 

No answer. Then he glanced into the sleeping room. 
Her morning-dress had been carelessly thrown across 
the bed, and her tiny, rosetted slippers stood there, 
looking as if she had just stepped out of them. 

He went slowly down stairs again. Mrs. Maybin was 
sorting the strawberries, and taking off a few stray 
hulls. 

' 'Has Mrs. Tremaine gone out?" he asked. 

"Did not she come home with you?" and the worthy 
housekeeper's face was full of astonishment. 

"Why, she has not been to the City?". 

"She said she was going. And it was but ten min- 
utes of twelve, just time for the train." 

' 'Had the Dressmaker been here ? " 

"No. Mrs. Tremaine did not leave any word. I do 
not think she expected her. 

"And no message for " 

"Have not you seen her — all day? she never said a 
word, but, that 'she was going in town for a little while.' 
A } r oung man came with a note, which he would not 
give to any one else — he said those were his instruc- 
tions. So I called her down stairs ; and about half an 
hour afterwards she went away." 

Mrs. Maybin delivered this speech in a straightforward, 
sententious tone, as if she were a witness on the 
stand. She had never loved her mistress cordially, but 
she was not a woman to swerve from the truth, or start 
any ill-natured suspicion, though she admitted to her 
self, instantly, that it did look strange. 

' ' A young man," you said. * 'What kind of a fellow ? 
How did he look?" • 

''Like a clerk." Mrs. Maybin prided herself, a good 
deal, on her power of distinguishing between clerks and 
gentlemen. 

"And no word of any kind? Not even a message 
for the dressmaker?" 

