méringue in five minutes without staying my song or talk; make the
formidable “snow-custard” in less than half an hour, with no after
tremulousness of nerve or tendon. In its operation it is impartial,
yolks thickening smoothly under it as easily as whites heighten into a
compact snow-drift, that can be cut into blocks with a knife. Winter
and summer, it has served me with invariable fidelity, and it is to
all appearance, stanch as when it first passed into my reluctant hands.
I hope the gentlemanly and benevolent donor will sell one thousand per
annum for the remainder of his natural existence, and if length of days
be a boon to be coveted, that the unknown patentee will live as many
years as he has saved hours of labor to American housewives and cooks.
WHIPPED CREAM.
THIS enters so largely into the composition of many of our most elegant
desserts, that the mode of preparing it deserves more than a passing
mention. The impression in which I confess that I shared, for a long
time, that a “whip” was a tedious, and sometimes well-nigh impossible
performance, will soon be done away with if one becomes the possessor
of a really good syllabub charm. That which I have used with great
satisfaction for a couple of years is a very simple affair—a tin
cylinder with a perforated bottom, and within it a dasher, similar to
that of an ordinary churn, that plays through a hole in the top. It is
best to churn the cream in a jar or pail, there being in these less
waste from splashing. The churn is held about a quarter of an inch from
the bottom, that the cream may pass freely below it. As the stiffened
froth rises to the top of the cream, it should be removed to a wire
sieve set over a dish. If you have no sieve, lay a piece of coarse lace
or tarletane within a cullender, and put the “whip,” a few spoonfuls
at a time, upon it. The cream that drips into the dish below should be
returned to the pail and churned over. I regret that the name of the
patentee appears nowhere upon the modest but excellent little machine
that has supplied me with so many trifles and Charlotte Russes.
The grand desideratum in making a “whip,” is to have real cream. It
should also be perfectly sweet. The confectioner from whom I always
procure mine advised me once to put the merest pinch of soda in the
cream in warm weather, before beating it, a hint that has proved very
useful to me. With this precaution, unless the cream be really on the
verge of souring, you will never churn your “whip” to butter, of which
lame and lamentable conclusion I had experience several times before I
received the friendly suggestion.
Get good cream, then. It is better worth your while to pay half a
dollar a quart for it than half the sum for the thinner, poorer liquid
sold under the same name at the milk-stores. In the country, of course,
the true article should be abundant, and in town, you can generally
purchase small quantities at the confectioners. A pint well worked will
yield enough “whip” for the dessert of a small family. It should be
kept in a cold place until needed, and not kept long anywhere.
Whipped cream is a delightful addition to coffee. John will relish his
after-dinner cup much better if you will mantle it with this snowy
richness. Remember this when preparing your syllabub or trifle, and set
aside a few spoonfuls before seasoning it.
Don’t be afraid of undertaking “fancy dishes.” Sally forth bravely
into the region of delicate and difficult dainties, when you are
considering family bills of fare, and you will not be dismayed when
called to get up a handsome “company” entertainment. “Grandmother’s
way” may suit Mesdames Dull and Bigott, but you, being accustomed to
use your reasoning powers, should remember that our estimable maternal
progenitors knew as little of locomotives and magnetic telegraphs as of
canned fruits and gelatine.
And, entre nous, I for one, and my John for two, are getting so
tired of the inevitable pie! He read aloud to me the other day, with
great gusto, a clever editorial from the Tribune, showing with much
ingenuity and force, that the weakness for pie was a national vice.
I wish I had room here to reprint it. Whenever I have been compelled
since to eat a triangle of “family pie-crust,” my usually excellent
digestion has played me false.
“Pie and soda-water! That is a woman’s idea of a comfortable luncheon
on a hot day in the city,” said a gentleman to me. “At a bit of rare,
tender steak, and a mealy potato they would turn up their fastidious
noses. Such gross food is only fit for a man.”
The school-girl, rising from a barely-tasted breakfast during which
she has been saying over to herself the chronological table, or French
verb, learned the night before,—“doesn’t care to take any luncheon
with her to-day. Certainly, no bread-and-butter—and sandwiches are
hateful! If you insist, mamma, just give me a piece of pie—mince-pie,
if you have it, with a slice of fruitcake and a little cheese. I may
feel hungry enough at noon to nibble at them.”
Papa, running in at eleven o’clock, to announce that he has had a
business telegram which obliges him to take the next train to Boston or
Chicago, “has not time to think of food, unless you can give me a bit
of pie to eat while you are packing my valise.” He jumps from the cars
at five P.M. to snatch another “bit of pie” from a station-restaurant,
and swallows still a third, at midnight, bought from an itinerant
vender of such comestibles, who swings himself on board when the
“through Express” halts for wood and water. If his sick headache is
not overpowering, he is adequate to the consumption of still a fourth
leathery triangle when another stop is made at six A.M.
Pie is the pièce de résistance in rural desserts, at luncheon and at
tea, and the mighty army mustered to meet the attacks of pic-nics and
water-parties in the course of the year is enough to drive a dyspeptic
to suicide, when he reads the sum total of the rough computation.
“I always calculate to bake a dozen of a Saturday,” says the farmer’s
helpmate, resigned to cheerfulness in the narrative. “In haying and
harvesting I make as many as thirty and forty every week. Nothing
pleases our folks so much when they come in hot and tired, as a bit of
pie—it don’t make much difference what kind—apple, berry, squash, or
damson—so long as it is pie!”
This is not exaggeration, and the same mania for the destructive sweet
is as prevalent among the working-classes of the city. It is useless to
preach to artisans and laborers of the indigestible qualities of such
pastry as is made by their wives at home, and bought at cheap bakeries;
