behind us. We both turned and caught a glimpse of 
i Jeannette as she bounded through the bushes and out 
to the very centre of the Arch, where she stood balan- 
cing herself and laughing gayly. Her form was outlined 
against the sky ; the breeze swayed her skirt ; she 
seemed hovering over the chasm. I watched her, mute 
with fear ; a word might cause her to lose her balance ; 
but I could not turn my eyes away, I was fascinated 
with the sight. I was not aware that Eodney had left 
me until he, too, appeared on the Arch, slowly finding 
a foothold for himself and advancing toward the centre. 
A fragment of the rock broke off under his foot and fell 
into the abyss below. 
" Go back, Monsieur Eodenai," cried Jeannette, see- 
ing his danger. 
" Will you come back too, Jeannette ? " 
"Moi? C'est auf chose" answered the girl, gayly 
tossing her pretty head. 
" Then I shall come out and carry you back, wilful 
child," said the surgeon. 
A peal of laughter broke from Jeannette as he spoke, 
 
and then she began to dance on her point of rock, 
swinging herself from side to side, marking the time 
with a song. I held my breath; her dance seemed 
unearthly ; it was as though she belonged to the Prince 
of the Powers of the Air. 
At length the surgeon reached the centre and caught 
the mocking creature in his arms : neither spoke, but 
I could see the flash of their eyes as they stood for 
an instant motionless. Then they struggled on the 
narrow foothold and swayed over so far that T buried 
my face in my trembling hands, unable to look at the 
dreadful end. When I opened my eyes again all was 
still; the Arch was tenantless, and no sound came 
from below. Were they, then, so soon dead ? With- 
out a cry ? I forced myself to the brink to look down 
over the precipice ; but while I stood there, fearing to 
look, I heard a sound behind me in the woods. It was 
Jeannette singing a gay French song. I called to her 
to stop. " How could you ? " I said severely, for I was 
still trembling with agitation. 
" Ce riest rien, madame. I cross l'Arche when I had 
five year. Mais, Monsieur Eodenai le Grand, he raise 
his eye to look this time, I think," said Jeannette, 
laughing triumphantly. 
" Where is he ? " 
"On the far side, gone on to Scott's Pic [Peak]. 
Ffroce, f&roce, comme un loupgarou ! Ah ! c'est joli, 
fa ! " And, overflowing with the wildest glee, the girl 
 
danced along through the woods in front of ine, now 
pausing to look at something in her hand, now laugh- 
ing, now shouting like a wild creature, until I lost 
sight of her. I went back to the fort alone. 
Tor several days I saw nothing of Kodney. When 
at last we met, I said, " That was a wild freak of Jean- 
nette's at the Arch." 
" Planned, to get a few shillings out of us." 
" Doctor ! I do not think she had any such mo- 
tive," I replied, looking up deprecatingly into his cold, 
scornful eyes. 
" Are you not a little sentimental over that ignorant, 
half- wild creature, Aunt Sarah ? " 
" Well," I said to myself, " perhaps I am ! " 
The summer came, sails whitened the blue straits 
again, steamers stopped for an hour or two at the 
island docks, and the summer travellers rushed ashore 
to buy " Indian curiosities," made by the nuns in Mon- 
treal, or to climb breathlessly up the steep fort-hill to 
see the pride and panoply of war. Proud was the 
little white fort in those summer days ; the sentinels 
held themselves stiffly erect, the officers gave up lying 
on the parapet half asleep, the best flag was hoisted 
daily, and there was much bugle-playing and ceremony 
connected with the evening gun, fired from the ram- 
parts at sunset; the hotels were full, the boarding- 
house keepers were in their annual state of wonder 
over the singular taste of these people from "below," 
 
who actually preferred a miserable white-fish to the 
best of beef brought up on ice all the way from Buf- 
falo ! There were picnics and walks, and much con- 
fusion of historical dates respecting Father Marquette 
and the irrepressible, omnipresent Pontiac. The fort 
officers did much escort duty; their buttons gilded 
every scene. Our quiet surgeon was foremost in ev- 
erything. 
" I am surprised ! I had no idea Dr. Prescott was 
so gay," said the Major's wife. 
" I should not think of calling him gay," I answered. 
" Why, my dear Mrs. Corlyne ! He is going all the 
time. Just ask Augusta." 
Augusta thereupon remarked that society, to a cer- 
tain extent, was beneficial; that she considered Dr. 
Prescott much improved; really, he was now very 
" nice." 
I silently protested against the word. But then I 
was not a Bostonian. 
One bright afternoon I went through the village, 
