retorted, quoting words of her own.

“I wish you would follow my example in some other things as well as you
do in this,” said Rose soberly as Aunt Plenty called him to come and see
if the punch was right.

“Must conform to the customs of society. Aunty’s heart would be broken
if we did not drink her health in the good old fashion. But don’t be
alarmed I’ve a strong head of my own, and that’s lucky, for I shall need
it before I get through,” laughed Charlie, showing a long list as
he turned away to gratify the old lady with all sorts of merry and
affectionate compliments as the glasses touched.

Rose did feel rather alarmed, for if he drank the health of all the
owners of those names, she felt sure that Charlie would need a very
strong head indeed. It was hard to say anything then and there without
seeming disrespect to Aunt Plenty, yet she longed to remind her cousin
of the example she tried to set him in this respect, for Rose never
touched wine, and the boys knew it. She was thoughtfully turning the
bracelet, with its pretty device of turquoise forget-me-nots, when the
giver came back to her, still bubbling over with good spirits.

“Dear little saint, you look as if you’d like to smash all the punch
bowls in the city, and save us jolly young fellows from tomorrow’s
headache.”

“I should, for such headaches sometimes end in heartaches, I’m afraid.
Dear Charlie, don’t be angry, but you know better than I that this is a
dangerous day for such as you so do be careful for my sake,” she added,
with an unwonted touch of tenderness in her voice, for, looking at the
gallant figure before her, it was impossible to repress the womanly
longing to keep it always as brave and blithe as now.

Charlie saw that new softness in the eyes that never looked unkindly on
him, fancied that it meant more than it did, and, with a sudden fervor
in his own voice, answered quickly: “My darling, I will!”

The glow which had risen to his face was reflected in hers, for at that
moment it seemed as if it would be possible to love this cousin who was
so willing to be led by her and so much needed some helpful influence
to make a noble man of him. The thought came and went like a flash, but
gave her a quick heartthrob, as if the old affection was trembling
on the verge of some warmer sentiment, and left her with a sense of
responsibility never felt before. Obeying the impulse, she said, with a
pretty blending of earnestness and playfulness, “If I wear the bracelet
to remember you by, you must wear this to remind you of your promise.”

“And you,” whispered Charlie, bending his head to kiss the hands that
put a little white rose in his buttonhole.

Just at that most interesting moment they became aware of an arrival in
the front drawing room, whither Aunt Plenty had discreetly retired. Rose
felt grateful for the interruption, because, not being at all sure
of the state of her heart as yet, she was afraid of letting a sudden
impulse lead her too far. But Charlie, conscious that a very propitious
instant had been spoiled, regarded the newcomer with anything but a
benignant expression of countenance and, whispering, “Good-bye, my Rose,
I shall look in this evening to see how you are after the fatigues of
the day,” he went away, with such a cool nod to poor Fun See that the
amiable Asiatic thought he must have mortally offended him.

Rose had little leisure to analyze the new emotions of which she was
conscious, for Mr. Tokio came up at once to make his compliments with
a comical mingling of Chinese courtesy and American awkwardness, and
before he had got his hat on Jamie shouted with admiring energy: “Here’s
another! Oh, such a swell!”

They now came thick and fast for many hours, and the ladies stood
bravely at their posts till late into the evening. Then Aunt Jessie went
home, escorted by a very sleepy little son, and Aunt Plenty retired to
bed, used up. Dr. Alec had returned in good season, for his friends were
not fashionable ones, but Aunt Myra had sent up for him in hot haste and
he had good-naturedly obeyed the summons. In fact, he was quite used to
them now, for Mrs. Myra, having tried a variety of dangerous diseases,
had finally decided upon heart complaint as the one most likely to keep
her friends in a chronic state of anxiety and was continually sending
word that she was dying. One gets used to palpitations as well as
everything else, so the doctor felt no alarm but always went and
prescribed some harmless remedy with the most amiable sobriety and
patience.

Rose was tired but not sleepy and wanted to think over several things,
so instead of going to bed she sat down before the open fire in the
study to wait for her uncle and perhaps Charlie, though she did not
expect him so late.

Aunt Myra’s palpitations must have been unusually severe, for the clock
struck twelve before Dr. Alec came, and Rose was preparing to end her
reverie when the sound of someone fumbling at the hall door made her
jump up, saying to herself: “Poor man! His hands are so cold he can’t
get his latchkey in. Is that you, Uncle?” she added, running to admit
him, for Jane was slow and the night as bitter as it was brilliant.

A voice answered, “Yes.” And as the door swung open, in walked, not Dr.
Alec, but Charlie, who immediately took one of the hall chairs and sat
there with his hat on, rubbing his gloveless hands and blinking as if
the light dazzled him, as he said in a rapid, abrupt sort of tone, “I
told you I’d come left the fellows keeping it up gloriously going to see
the old year out, you know. But I promised never break my word and here
I am. Angel in blue, did you slay your thousands?”
