
The étagère was a more difficult matter. I could not hire one, and
I did not like to pay a hundred dollars for such a useless piece of
furniture; but there was no alternative. Lilian had said she must have
one. I had nearly three hundred dollars in my pocket, but with this sum
I intended to pay Smith, and get rid of my “floating debt,” so that I
should owe no one but Aunt Rachel. But Smith’s bill could not be over a
hundred dollars, at the most extravagant figure, and I thought I could
spare enough for the étagère.

I went to a store near Buckleton’s. While I was looking at the
étagère my late creditor came into the store. I was just closing the
bargain at ninety-five dollars. Buckleton had heard from his lawyer,
and was glad to meet me. I was glad to have him see me purchase this
piece of furniture. He spoke to me. I did not answer him. He attempted
to apologize. I did not look at him. I closed my bargain, and asked for
the bill. Buckleton was evidently vexed, and felt as any man does when
he has lost a customer. I enjoyed it.

“I will sell you that same article for seventy-five dollars,” he
whispered in my ear, just before I closed the bargain.

“I would not take it, if you would give it to me,” I replied.

“I think I made a mistake to-day.”

“The mistake of your lifetime,” I retorted. “Don’t speak to me again. I
despise you.”

I stalked out of his reach, paid my bill, and went home. In the evening
Lilian and I made out the list of invitations. Of course I could not
overrule Lilian’s decisions, and not less than fifty were invited—all
our house would hold. It included my rich friend’s family, and I began
to tremble for the result.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE HOUSE-WARMING.


[Illustration]

THE next day the piano and the étagère came, and were duly disposed
of in our pretty parlor. I could not help agreeing with Lilian that
both of them were absolutely necessary to the proper appointment of the
room. After she had covered the étagère with a variety of articles,
most of which had to be purchased for the purpose, the effect was
pleasing.

The piano filled a waiting space; and really there seemed to be nothing
more to wish for in this world. Lilian played a few tunes on the new
instrument, and my home seemed to be invested with a new charm. Beyond
the party, I looked forward to pleasant hours when our friends should
gather in this room on Sunday evening to sing sacred music, for which
Tom Flynn had a decided partiality.

On Friday morning I went to the bank as usual. When I returned, Smith
had taken possession of the house, and was making his arrangements
for the grand occasion in the evening. I am bound to say that he made
but little fuss for so great an affair. When the evening came, a
colored gentleman in white cotton gloves was stationed at the door,
and more waiters were disposed of in other parts of the house. People
came—every body Lilian had invited, except those she wanted most, viz:
my wealthy friend from Beacon Street, with his family. They did not
come, and I had not supposed they would.

Mrs. Oliphant came, and certainly this was a triumph. Lilian felt that
she had outgeneralled her mother, and conquered a peace. I am afraid
it required a desperate struggle on the part of “dear ma” to yield the
point, and I could only guess at the consideration which induced her to
come down from the “high horse.” But she was stiff and magnificent at
first. She did not seem to enjoy the affair, and looked upon me as an
ogre who had defeated all her cherished plans.

Miss Bertha came, and so did Tom; and early in the evening I was not
a little surprised to hear the piano giving out the solemn notes of
Peterboro and Hebron, sung by a large portion of the company. The
instrument was pronounced excellent. Bertha sang like a nightingale,
and I am not sure that the piano did not cement a regard which
ultimately transformed the fair pianist into Mrs. Tom Flynn.

Everything went well, and at eleven o’clock Smith’s supper was
uncovered. When I saw the stores with which the table was loaded, I was
afraid that the expense would spoil the face of a hundred dollar bill.
A little later, when champagne, Madeira and sherry were produced, I was
somewhat troubled. Reading the dates on the bottles, I was absolutely
alarmed.

“I did not think you intended to have wine, Lilian,” I remarked, rather
seriously.

“Not have wine!” exclaimed she, after she had imbibed a glass of
champagne. “Why, it would be no party at all without wine. I told Smith
to bring the best, and plenty of it.”

He had evidently done so, and I groaned in spirit.

