inexplicable to the Oriental mind. The son of the desert was as much
astonished that the Frank should retain his gift, as the Spanish
gentleman who presents his horse to his guest would be if the guest
should take it. The offer of a present in the East is a flowery
expression of a sentiment that does not exist, and its acceptance
necessarily implies a return of something of greater value. After
another day of anxiety the proud and handsome slave came in person and
begged for the francs until he received them. He was no better than his
master, the noble sheykh, who waylaid us during the remainder of our
stay for additional sixpences in backsheesh. O superb Bedawee, we did
not begrudge the money, but our lost ideal!
VI.—BETHLEHEM AND MAR SABA.
BETHLEHEM lies about seven miles south of Jerusalem. It is also a hill
village, reposing upon a stony promontory that is thrust out eastward
from the central mountain-range; the abrupt slopes below three sides of
it are terraced; on the north is a valley which lies in a direct line
between it and Jerusalem; on the east are the yawning ravines and the
“wilderness” leading to the Dead Sea; on the south is the wild
country towards Hebron, and the sharp summit of the Frank mountain in
the distance. The village lies on the ridge; and on the point at the
east end of it, overlooking a vast extent of seamed and rocky and jagged
country, is the gloomy pile of convents, chapels, and churches that mark
the spot of the Nativity.
From its earliest mention till now the home of shepherds and of hardy
cultivators of its rocky hillsides, it has been noted for the free
spirit and turbulence of its inhabitants. The primal character of a
place seems to have the power of perpetuating itself in all changes.
Bethlehem never seems to have been afflicted with servility. During the
period of David’s hiding in the Cave Adullam the warlike Philistines
occupied it, but David was a fit representative of the pluck and
steadfastness of its people. Since the Christian era it has been a
Christian town, as it is to-day, and the few Moslems who have settled
there, from time to time, have found it more prudent to withdraw than to
brave its hostility. Its women incline to be handsome, and have rather
European than Oriental features, and they enjoy the reputation
of unusual virtue; the men are industrious, and seem to have more
selfrespect than the Syrians generally.
Bethlehem is to all the world one of the sweetest of words. A tender and
romantic interest is thrown about it as the burial-place of Rachel,
as the scene of Ruth’s primitive story, and of David’s boyhood
and kingly consecration; so that no other place in Judæa, by its
associations, was so fit to be the gate through which the Divine Child
should come into the world. And the traveller to-day can visit it, with,
perhaps, less shock to his feelings of reverence, certainly with a purer
and simpler enjoyment, than any other place in Holy Land. He finds its
ruggedness and desolateness picturesque, in the light of old song and
story, and even the puerile inventions of monkish credulity do not
affect him as elsewhere.
From Jerusalem we reach Bethlehem by following a curving ridge,—a
lovely upland ride, on account of the extensive prospect and the breeze,
and because it is always a relief to get out of the city. The country
is, however, as stony as the worst portions of New England,—the
mountain sheep-pastures; thick, double stone-walls enclosing small
fields do not begin to exhaust the stones. On both sides of the ridge
are bare, unproductive hills, but the sides of the valleys are terraced,
and covered with a good growth of olive-trees. These hollows were no
doubt once very fruitful by assiduous cultivation, in spite of the
stones. Bethlehem, as we saw it across a deep ravine, was like a castle
on a hill; there is nowhere level ground enough for a table to stand,
off the ridges, and we looked in vain for the “plains of Bethlehem”
about which we had tried, trustfully, to sing in youth.
Within a mile of Bethlehem gate we came to the tomb of Rachel, standing
close by the highway. “And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to
Ephrath, which is Bethlehem. And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave:
that is the pillar of Rachel’s grave unto this day.” This is the
testimony of the author of Genesis, who had not seen the pillar which
remained to his day, but repeated the tradition of the sons of Jacob.
What remained of this pillar, after the absence of the Israelites for
some five centuries from Bethlehem, is uncertain; but it may be supposed
that some spot near Bethlehem was identified as the tomb of Rachel upon
their return, and that the present site is the one then selected. It is
possible, of course, that the tradition of the pagan Canaanites may have
preserved the recollection of the precise spot. At any rate, Christians
seem to agree that this is one of the few ancient sites in Judæa which
are authentic, and the Moslems pay it equal veneration. The square,
unpretentious building erected over it is of modern construction, and
the pilgrim has to content himself with looking at a sort of Moslem tomb
inside, and reflecting, if he can, upon the pathetic story of the death
of the mother of Joseph.
There is, alas! everywhere in Judæa something to drive away sentiment
as well as pious feeling. The tomb of Rachel is now surrounded by a
Moslem cemetery, and as we happened to be there on Thursday we found
ourselves in the midst of a great gathering of women, who had come
there, according to their weekly custom, to weep and to wail. .
You would not see in farthest Nubia a more barbarous assemblage, and
not so fierce an one. In the presence of these wild mourners the term
“gentler sex” has a ludicrous sound. Yet we ought not to forget
that we were intruders upon their periodic grief, attracted to their
religious demonstration merely by curiosity, and fairly entitled to
nothing but scowls and signs of aversion. I am sure that we should
give bold Moslem intruders upon our hours of sorrow at home no better
reception. The women were in the usual Syrian costume; their loose
gowns gaped open at the bosom, and they were without veils, and made no
pretence of drawing a shawl before their faces; all wore necklaces of
coins, and many of them had circlets of coins on the head, with strips
depending from them, also stiff with silver pieces. A woman’s worth
was thus easily to be reckoned, for her entire fortune was on her head.
A pretty face was here and there to be seen, but most of them
were flaringly ugly, and—to liken them to what they most
resembled—physically and mentally the type of the North American
