perfect orderand would suit your state of mind,' said Miss 
Wych, eyeing Mr. Falkirk with an air of deep gravity. 'Then there 
is always Europe'
'Is that the next thing!' exclaimed Mr. Falkirk, with a positively 
alarmed air. 'I have been expecting it.'
'I wanted to go last year, you know, sir,and (if nobody said 
anything against it) I think I should write at once and secure my 
passage.'
'To what quarter of the world, miss Hazel?'
'We might go round, sir; and stop where things promised fairest.'
'We might. Then I am to understand you do not like the promise of 
things at Chickaree?'
'What do you take to be the promise of things here, at present, Mr. 
Falkirk?'
'Quite beside the question, Miss Hazel. Am I to tell this man you 
don't want the house in Fiftieth street?'
'I should prefer another house, I think,' said Hazel gravely. 'Mr. 
Falkirk, I had a letter from Kitty Fisher this morning, and she 
sends you her love.'
Mr. Falkirk gave an inarticulate grumble.
'You may throw it back to her, my dear; her own love is all she 
cares about; and as I don't care about it, we are suited. Do I 
understand that you wish me to look for another house, then?'
'I did hint at Europe,'said Wych Hazel. 'But if it amuses you to 
look for houses, sir, I have no sort of objection.'
Mr. Falkirk laid down his knife and fork, and looked across the 
table.
'It don't amuse me to look for anything in a fog, my dear. Do you 
want to go to Europe?'
'O well, we need not go this week, sir! Shall I invite all the 
neighbourhood to a grand chestnutting, when Kitty Fisher comes?'
'Miss Hazel, that girl is not proper company for you. I hope you 
will not ask her to help in your merrymakings; she understands 
nothing but a romp. And, my dear, if you know your own mind I 
wish you would be so kind as to let me know it. To go to Europe 
this fall, you must be off in three weeks at latest. Have you spoken 
to Rollo about it?'
'Truly, I have not!' said Wych Hazel, with a glow which however 
Mr. Falkirk charged to displeasure. 'Did you ever know me speak 
to him about anything connected with my own affairs, sir?'
'I don't know, my dear. He has a word to say concerning them. Do 
you wish me to sound him on the subject, then?'
'Did you ever succeed in "sounding" him, sir? on any subject?' said 
the young lady, consulting her watch, and with all her senses on 
the alert for interruptions. What were 'business' hours at Morton 
Hollow, she wondered? Then she rose up, and passing round to 
Mr. Falkirk, gave him a smile that was very sweet and not a bit 
teasing.
'I must go and rest, sir. I find sitting up tires me to-day. But you 
will come to dinner?'
She went off with that quick step, betaking herself to the crimson 
room; for to-day Hazel seemed to prefer high-coloured 
surroundings. There sat for awhile before the great picture, 
thinking of many things; and there, still down on her foot cushion, 
laid her head in one of the easy chairs and went to sleep; with the 
gray cat dozing and purring in the same chair, close by her head. 
Only the cat's eyelashes were not wet, and Wych Hazel's were.
CHAPTER VI.
A MAN AND HIS MONEY.
It is a pity somebody had not come to see; and somebody would, 
only that Rollo had a good many things to attend to just now 
besides his own pleasure. Instead, when the morning was half 
over, came Miss Phinney Powder, and the sleep and the attitude 
were broken up. Hazel went to her in the drawing-room.
Miss Josephine was in an unsettled state of mind; for she first 
placed herself on an ottoman by the fire-place, then got up and 
went to the window and stood looking out; all the while rattling on 
of indifferent things, in a rather languid way; then at last came and 
sank down in a very low position at Wych Hazel's feet on the 
carpet. She was a pretty girl; might have been extremely pretty, if 
her very pronounced style of manners had not drawn lines of 
boldness, almost of coarseness, where the lip should have been 
soft and the eyebrow modest. The whole expression was 
dissatisfied and jaded to-day, over and above those lines, which 
even low spirits could not obliterate.
'It must be awfully nice to have such a place as this all to 
yourselfhouse and all;just to yourself! You needn't be married 
till you've a mind to. Don't you think it's a great bore to be 
married?'
'People can always wait,' said Wych Hazel.
'Wait?' said Phinney. 'For what?'
'For such a great bore,' said Hazel, stroking the cat.
'How can you wait?' said Phinney.
'What hinders?'
'Why! you must be married, you know, some time; and it don't do 
to stay till you can't get a good chance. It's such a bore!' said the 
poor girl helplessly.
Somehow, Hazel's own happiness made her rather tender towards 
these notes of complaint.
'What do you mean?' she said, leaning down by Phinney. 'I would 
not take even "a good chance" to be miserable.'
'I'm just in a fix,' said Josephine, 'and I can't get out of it. And I 
came to see you on purpose to talk. I thought maybe you would 
have some sympathy for me. Nobody has at home.'
'Sympathy! What about?'
'Papa wants me to marry somebodywho comes pestering me 
every other day.'
Josephine looked disconsolately out of the window. The weary 
face was eloquent of the system under which she declared herself 
suffering.
