
"When you do, just treat a feller, will you?" said Jerry.

"Course I will. I was born in a big castle made of stone, and used to go
round dressed in welvet, and had no end of nice things, till one day a
feller that had a spite ag'in the Markis carried me off, and brought me
to America, where I had to go to work and earn my own livin'."

"Why don't you write the Markis, and get him to send for you?" asked
Jerry.

"'Cause he can't read, you spalpeen! What 'ud be the use of writin' to
him?"

"Maybe it's the fault of your writin', Tim."

"Maybe it is," said Tim. "When the Markis dies I'm going back, an' I'll
invite you all to come an' pass a week at Castle McQuade."

"Bully for you, Tim! Now, Dutchey, tell us your story."

Dutchey was a boy of ten, with a full face and rotund figure, whose
English, as he had been but two years in the country, was highly
flavored with his native dialect.

"I cannot English sprechen," he said.

"Never mind, Dutchey. Do as well as you can."

"It is mine story you want? He is not very long, but I will tell him so
goot as I can. Mine vater was a shoemaker, what makes boots. He come
from Sharmany, on der Rhein, mit my moder, and five childer. He take a
little shop, and make some money, till one day a house fall on his head
mit a brick, an he die. Then I go out into der street, and black boots
so much as I get him to do, and the money what I get I carry home to
mine moder. I cannot much English sprechen, or I could tell mine story
more goot."

"Bully for you, Dutchey! You're a trump."

"What is one trump?" asked the boy, with a puzzled expression.

"It is a good feller."

This explanation seemed to reconcile Dutchey to being called a trump,
and he lay back on the bed with an expression of satisfaction.

"Now, Ben, tell us your story."

It was Ben, the luggage boy, who was addressed. The question embarrassed
him, for he preferred to keep his story secret. He hoped ere long to
leave his present haunts and associates, and he did not care to give the
latter a clue by which they might trace him in his new character and
position. Yet he had no good reason to assign for silence. He was
considering what sort of a story he could manufacture, that would pass
muster, when he was relieved from further consideration by an unexpected
occurrence.

It appears that a boy had applied for admission to the rendezvous; but,
on account of his unpopular character, had been refused. This naturally
incensed him, and he determined to betray the boys to the policeman on
the beat. The sight that greeted Ben, as he looked towards the entrance,
was the face of the policeman, peering into the apartment. He uttered a
half exclamation, which attracted the general attention. Instantly all
was excitement.

"The copp! the copp!" passed from mouth to mouth.

The officer saw that the odds were against him, and he must summon help.
He went up the ladder, therefore, and went in search of assistance. The
boys scrambled up after him. Some were caught, and ultimately sentenced
to the Island, on a charge of stealing the articles which were found;
but others escaped. Among these was Ben, who was lucky enough to glide
off in the darkness. He took the little German boy under his protection,
and managed to get him safely away also. In this case the ends of
justice were not interfered with, as neither of the two had been guilty
of dishonesty, or anything else rendering them amenable to the law.

"Well, Dutchey, we're safe," said Ben, when they had got some blocks
away from the wharf. "How do you feel?"

"I lose mine breath," said the little boy, panting with the effort he
had made.

"That's better than losin' your liberty," said Ben. "You'll get your
breath back again. Now we must look about and see where we can sleep. I
wonder if Jim Bagley's took."

Just then a boy came running up.

"Why, it's Ben and Dutchey," he said.

"Jerry, is it you? I'm glad you're safe."

"The copp got a grip of me, but I left my jacket in his hands. He can
carry that to the station-house if he wants to."

Jerry's appearance corresponded to his statement, his jacket being gone,
leaving a dilapidated vest and ragged shirt alone to protect the upper
part of his body. He shivered with the cold, for it was now November.
