sang with equal enthusiasm; and the words of these
poets have made the place famous in England. Our
American guide–book does not even mention it.”

Cintra is a town of forty–five hundred inhabitants.
It is built on the southern end of the Estrella Mountains,
at an elevation of from eighteen hundred to three
thousand feet. It is only a few miles from the seashore,
and the Atlantic may be seen from its hills.
The party of the doctor first went to the royal palace.
It was the Alhambra of the Moorish monarchs, and has
been a favorite residence of the Christian kings. Dom
Sebastian held his last court here when he left for
Africa. The students wandered through its numerous
apartments, laughed at its magpie saloon, and thought
of the kings who had dwelt within its walls. They
were more pleased with the gardens, though it was
winter; for there was a great deal in them that was
curious and interesting.

The Pena Convent was the next attraction. All convents
have been suppressed in Portugal, as in Spain;
but the Gothic building has been repaired, and it looks
more like a castle than a religious house. Its garden
and grounds must be magnificent in the proper season.
The view from the highest point presents an almost
boundless panorama of country, river, and ocean. The
Moorish castle that commands the town was examined;
and the next thing was the Cork Convent. It is an
edifice built in and on the rock, and contains twenty
cells, each of which is lined with cork to keep out the
dampness of the rock on which it is founded. These
cells are dungeons five feet square, with doors so low
that even the shortest of the students had to stoop to
enter them.

A country–house in Portugal is a quinta; and that
of Dom John de Castro, the great navigator and the
viceroy of the Indies, is called Penha Verda, and is
still in the hands of his descendants. The gardens
are very pretty; and the first orange–trees set out in
Europe were on this estate. In the garden is the
chapel built by him on his return from the Indies, in
1542, and the rock with six trees on it, which was the
only reward he desired for the conquest of the Island
of Diu, in Hindostan. He died in the arms of St.
Francis Xavier, in 1548, protesting that he had spent
every thing he had in supplying the wants of his comrades
in arms. He declared that he had not a change
of linen, or money enough to buy him a chicken for his
dinner. Most of the enormous wealth of the Indies
had passed through his hands; and he had not stolen
a vintem of it. What an example for modern office–holders!
When he was dead, only one vintem—about
two cents—was found in his coffers. His descendants
were prohibited from deriving any profit from the cultivation
of this property.

The rest of the time was given to wandering about
among the estates of the wealthy men, including some
of the foreign ministers, who have quintas in Cintra.

After a lunch, the excursionists proceeded to Mafra,
about ten miles from Cintra. This place contains an
enormous pile of buildings on the plan of the Escurial,
and rather larger, if any thing. It was erected by
John V. to carry out his vow to change the poorest
monastery into the most magnificent one when Heaven
would give him a son. It contains eight hundred and
sixty–six apartments; but the only one of interest to
the students was the audience–chamber, preserved as it
was when the palace was inhabited by Dom John.

It was late in the evening when the Princes returned
to Lisbon; and they were rather glad to learn that the
ship was to sail for Barcelona after breakfast the next
morning.

“I am rather sorry that we do not go to Oporto,”
said the doctor, when the captain informed him of the
order. “It is an old city set on a hillside; but it
would not interest the students any more than Lisbon
has.”

“By the way, doctor, we have not seen any port
wine,” added Sheridan.

“It is not a great sight to look at the casks that contain
port wine. In Porto, not Oporto in Portugal, it is
not the black, logwood decoction which passes under
the name of port in the United States, though it is
darker than ordinary wines. It gets its color and flavor
from the peculiarity of the grapes that grow in the
vicinity of Porto.”

The officers were tired enough to turn in. Early the
next morning the fires were roaring in the furnaces of
the Prince; at a later hour the pipe of the boatswain
was heard; and at half–past eight the steamer was
standing down the river. As the students had not
