As I have remarked, the pilots association was 
now the compactest monopoly in the world, per- 
haps, and seemed simply indestructible. And yet 
the days of its glory were numbered. First, the 
new railroad stretching up through Mississippi, 
Tennessee, and Kentucky, to Northern railway 
centres, began to divert the passenger travel from 
the steamers ; next the war came and almost en- 
tirely annihilated the steamboating industry dur- 
ing several years, leaving most of the pilots idle, 
and the cost of living advancing all the time ; then 
the treasurer of the St. Louis associaticm put his 
hand into the till and walked off with every dollar 
of the ample fund; and finally, the railroads in- 
truding everywhere, there was little for steamers to 
do, when the war was over, but carj-y fi-ights ; so 
straightway some genius from the Atlantic coast in- 
troduced the plan of towing a dozen steamer cargoes 
down to New Orleans at the tail of a vulgar 
little tug-boat ; and behold, in the twinkling of an 
eye, as it were, the association and the noble science 
of piloting were things of the dead and pathetic 
past! 
CHAPTER VU 
LEAVING PORT : RACING : SHORTENING OF THE 
RIVER BY CUT-OFFS : A STEAMBOAT'S GHOST : 
STEPHEN'S" PLAN OF "RESUMPTION." 
It was always the custom for the boats to leave 
New Orleans between four and five o'clock in the 
afternoon. From three o'clock onward they would 
bo burning rosin and pitch pine (the sign of pre- 
paration), and so one had the picturesque spectacle 
of a rank, some two or three miles long, of tall, 
ascending columns of coal-black smoke ; a colon- 
nade which supported a sable roof of the same 
smoke blended together and spreading abroad over 
the city. Every outward-bound boat had its flag 
Hying at the jack-staff, and sometimes a dupli- 
cate on the verge staff astern. Two or three miles 
of mates were commanding and swearing with 
more than usual emphasis ; countless processions 
of freight barrels and boxes were spinning down the 
slant of the levee and flying aboard the stage- 
planks ; belated passengers were dodging and skip- 
ping among these frantic things, hoping to reach 
the forecastle companion-way alive, but having 
their doubts about it ; women with reticules and 
bandboxes were trying to keep up with husbands 
freighted with carpet-sacks and crying babies, and 
making a failure of it by losing their heads in the 
whirl and roar and general distraction ; drays and 
baggage-vans were clattering hither and thither in 
a wild hurry, every now and then getting blocked 
and jammed together, and then during ten seconds 
one could not see them for the profanity, except 
vaguely and dimly ; every windlass connected with 
every fore-hatch, from one end of that long array 
of steamboats to the other, was keeping up a deaf- 
ening whiz and whir, lowering freight into the hold, 
and the half-naked crews of perspiring negroes that 
worked them were roaring such songs as De Las' 
Sack ! De Las' Sack ! — inspired to unimaginable 
exaltation by the chaos of turmoil and racket that 
was driving everybody else mad. By this time the 
hurricane and boiler decks of the steamers would 
be packed and black with passengers. The " last 
bells '' would begin to clang, all down the line, and 
then the powwow seemed to double  in a moment 
or two the final warning came, — a simultaneous din 
of Chinese gongs, with the cry, "All dat ain't goin', 
please to get asho' ! " — and behold, the powwow 
quadrupled ! People came swarming ashore, over- 
turning excited stragglers that were trying to swarm 
aboard. One more moment later a long array of 
stage-planks was being hauled , in, each with its 
customary latest passenger clinging to the end of 
it with teeth, nails, and everything else, and the 
customary latest procrastinator making a wild 
spring shoreward over his head. 
Now a number of the boats slide backward into 
the stream, leaving wide gaps in the serried rank 
of steamers. Citizens crowd the decks of boats 
that are not to go, in order to see the sight. 
Steamer after steamer straightens herself up, gath- 
ers all her strength, and presently comes swinging 
by, under a tremendous head of steam, with flag 
flying, black smoke rolling, and her entire crew of 
flremen and deck-hands (usually swarthy negroes) 
massed together on the forecastle, the best " voice " 
in the lot towering from the midst (being mounted 
on the capstan), waving his hat or a flag, and all 
roaring a mighty chorus, while the parting cannons 
boom, and the multitudinoui spectators swing their 
hats 8;nd huzza ! Steamer after steamer falls into 
line, and the stately procession goes winging its 
way up the river. 
In the old times, whenever two fast boats started 
out on a race, with a big crowd of people looking 
on, it was inspiring to hear the crews sing, especi- 
ally if the time were night-fall, and the forecastle 
