

 

to do more for love than an old Hebrew did for 
law; and from this time I will imitate that old 
German fellow." 

"But, Ditto ! " exclaimed his sister. "A tenth of 
your income, you must remember, is a great deal." 

" Not in proportion " said Meredith. " He would 
want every one of his remaining groschen for his 
necessities; I should not. It seems to me, the 
richer one is, the larger the proportion should be 
that should go to the Lord's uses." 

" I shall ask Mr. Murray to make you reason 
able ! " Flora exclaimed. " Stop talking, and go 
on with your reading." 

" The next story is about ' One Groschen and 
Two Pennies.' 

'"It is true, what the Bible says "The Lord 
maketh sore, and bindeth up; he woundeth, and 
his hands make whole." My heart learned the 
meaning of this word, when a short time ago I 
had to expel two pupils from the Mission house, 
who had been led astray by Satan. This gave me 
great pain, but it had to be done, for their sakes 
and for the sake of the house; and it was some 
what alleviated in that they came back sorry and 
penitent and were taken in again. 

"  To the honour of the Lord I will here speak 
good of the balm which shortly after my great 
hurt he laid upon the wounds. May it have some 
what of the sweetness of that ointment which filled 
the whole house. 

" ' Soon after the departure of the pupils was 



 

made known, I had a visit from an eight-year-old 
boy. He had a groschen. in his hand and a reading-book under his arm. He told me that he had 
found this groschen fourteen days before on the 
way to church, that he had asked his father to publish the discovery and he himself had announced it 
in school. But nobody had been found to own 
the groschen. I said to him : " Well, what do you 
think, my child ? does the groschen belong to you ? 
will you buy something with it ? " The boy answered " No, the groschen is not mine, so I am not 
going to keep it. I will give it to the dear Saviour 
for the poor heathen children, to get a spelling- 
book for them." When I questioned him further, 
he said that once in the church, where his father 
takes him every Sunday, I had said, "whoever 
keeps what does not belong to him is a thief; and " 
he added with great seriousness, "you said, a 
Christian child must not be a thief!" I received 
the groschen now and thanked him. But the boy 
had not done yet. He asked me if it were true, 
that two of the pupils had been expelled from the 
mission house ? When with a sorrowful face I assented, he answered, " You need not be so troubled 
about that. You can send me instead. I can spell 
already, and I will soon learn to read." When the 
little fellow with great earnestness had said that, I 
could not help folding him to my breast in heart 
felt gladness. Then I knelt down and together 
with him prayed that the Lord would some time 
make a true missionary of him. He went away at 



 

last, but could not at first rightly understand how 
it was that I had as yet no use for him. 

'"Soon after this, I received a letter from a dear 
friend who had been making a lively stir in the 
matter of the mission among his school and the 
parish to which his school belonged. The Lord 
had granted him access to the hearts of great and 
small, and with cordial pleasure he had been collecting till he should have a full thaler made up, 
which then should be sent me. Now he wrote, 
the thaler was made up, and he sent it, and this 
was how it had come about. In a hospital, where 
he is accustomed to hold devotional service for an 
hour, he had mentioned the conversion of the hea 
then. The next day came a widow, shoved four 
groschen under one of the books which lay on the 
table, and then, with a greeting from her children, 
laid two groschen on the table, saying: "Now the 
thaler will be made up ! " To this mission thaler, 
which indeed was made up now, a little girl of 
nine years old had every Sunday contributed two 
