
' I am always well. Never better.' 

' How old are you, Mother Bartlett ? ' 

' Seventy-three years, child.' 

' Well, I do think you oughtn't to be here alone. It 
don't seem right, and I don't think it is right.' 

' What's to do child ? There ain't nary one to come 
and live with me. They're all gone but Joe. My Lord 
knows I'm an old woman seventy-three years of age.' 

' What then, Mother Bartlett ? ' Diana asked curiously. 

' He'll take care of me, my dear.' 

' But then, we ought to take care of ourselves,' said 
Diana. ' Now if Joe would marry somebody ' 

' Joe ain't lucky in that line,' said the old lady laughing 
again. 'And maybe what he might like, I mightn't. Before you go to wishin' for changes, you'd better know what 
they'll be. I'm content child. There ain't a thing on earth 
I want that I haven't got. Now what's the news ? ' 

Diana began and told her the whole story of the sewing 
meeting and the accident and the nursing of the injured 
girl. Mrs. Bartlett had an intense interest in every particular ; and what Diana failed to remember, her questions 
brought out. 

' And how do you like the new minister ? ' 

' Haven't you seen him yet ? 

' Nay. He hain't been down my way yet. In good 
time he will. He's had sick folks to see arter, Joe told 
me ; old Jemmy Claflin, and Joe Simmons' boy ; and 
Mis' Atwood, and Eliza.' 



 

' I think you'll like him,' said Diana slowly. ' He's not 
like any minister ever I saw.' 

' What's the odds ? ' 

' It isn't so easy to tell. He don't look like a minister, 
for one thing ; nor he don't talk like one ; jiot a bit.' 

' Have we got a gay parson, then ? ' said the old lady, 
slightly raising her eyebrows. 

' Gay ? O no ! not in the way you mean. In one way 
he is gay ; he is very pleasant ; not stiff or grum, like Mr. 
Hardenburgh ; and he is amusing too, in a quiet way, but 
he is amusing ; he is so cool and so quick. O no, he's 
not gay in the way you mean. I guess he's good.' 

' Do you like him ? ' Mrs. Bartlett asked. 

' Yes,' said Diana, thinking of the night of Eliza Delamater's accident. ' He is very queer.' 

' I don't seem to make him out by your telling, child. 
I'll have to wait, I guess. I've got no sort of an idea of 
him, so far. Now, dear, if you'll set the table dinner's 
ready ; and then we'll have some reading.' 

Diana drew out a small deal table to the middle of the 
floor and set on it the delf plates and cups and saucers, 
the little saltcellar of the same ware, and the knives 
and forks that were never near Sheffield ; in fact were 
never steel. But the lettuce came out of the well crisp 
and fresh and cool ; and Mrs. Bartlett's pot-pie crust came 
out of the pot as spongy and light as possible ; and the 
loaf of 'seconds ' bread was sweet as it is hard for bread 
to be that is not made near the mill ; and if you and I had 
been there, I promise you we would not have minded the 
knives and forks or the cups either. Mrs. Bartlett's tea 
was not of corresponding quality, for it came from a country store. However, the cream went far to mend even 
that. The back door was open for the heat ; and the hill- 



 

side could be seen through the doorway and part of the 
soft green meadow slope ; and the grasshopper's song 
and the bell tinkle were not bad music. 

'And who was that came with you, dear?' Mrs. Bartlett asked as they sat at table. 

' With me ? Did you see me come ? ' 

' Surely. I was in the garden. What should hinder 
me ? Who was it druv you, dear ? ' 

' It was an accident. Young Mr. Knowlton had got 
