



 



XIII. 



" IF I were only in heaven !" 

 There are few mortal lips from which these 
words, or something equivalent to them, have not 
fallen in hours of pain, sorrow, or disappointment, 
when hope in the world grew faint, and the old 
foundations of happiness seemed crumbling into 
ruin. 

" If I were only in heaven !" 

The words came sighing through pale lips. 

"And you expect to go there?" 

The tone in which this was said expressed a 
doubt. 

" We all expect to reach heaven at last. God 
is merciful." 

" He is good to all, and kind even to the un 
thankful and evil. But what is heaven ? Three 




times, within a few days, I have heard you wish 
yourself there." 

" Heaven is a place of happiness ; there are no 
tears there ; no sorrow ; no pain ; no cruel disap 
pointments, nor heart-rending separations. Hea 
ven is heaven. The very word is full of signifi 
cation." 

" And you expect to go there ?" 

A second time was this uttered, and now the 
doubt it expressed quickened in the mind of the 
complainer a feeling that was rather more of earth 
than heaven. 

" You seem to question my fitness," she said, 
with just a shadow of indignation in her voice. 

" Far be it from me to judge the state of any one. 
God alone knoweth the hearts of his children." 

"And still, you ask, in a doubting way, if I 
expect to go to heaven when I die." 

" To a place of happiness, which lies in the far 
distance, and towards which we sail through life 
as mariners on a perilous voyage ?" 

" Yes ; the haven of felicity." 



 

"Where you trust to moor your time-worn 
bark when the stormy ocean is crossed ?" 

" Yes ; trusting in God 's mercy." 

" I'm  afraid you will be disappointed," said 
she who had assumed the office of monitor. 

The pale cheek of the complainer flushed, and 
her sad eyes threw out some rays of light that 
gleamed from an earth-enkindled fire. 

" Heaven is not in the far distance," continued 
her friend. " We do not reach it at the end of 
our earthly journey. We must enter long, long 
before that time, or its sweet rest and peace can 
never be ours. And we are in heaven when our 
souls are filled with heavenly affections. This 
infilling of the soul alone takes place on earth ; 
and thus we enter. We must have some of the 
joys of heaven here, or we cannot receive its 
fuller delights when mortal puts on immortality. 
The life of heaven must be born in us in time, or 
it cannot be developed in eternity. Your present 
state, my dear friend, is not one of preparation 
for that paradise towards which your eyes stretch 
