ceiling. u The fact is, Bartlett, I Ve got a little 
surprise for you." 

Barthtt, looking at him askance : " Somebody 
wanting to chromo The Old Girl ? No, no ; it 
isn't quite so bad as that ! " 

Cummings, in a burst : " They did want to 
chromo it. But it 's sold. They Ve got you two 
hundred dollars for it." Bartlett lays down his 



 

brush, palette, and mahl-stick, dusts his fingers, 
puts them in his pockets, and comes and stands 
before Cummings, on whom, seated, he bends a 
curious look. 

Bartlett : " And do you mean to tell me, you 
hardened atheist, that you don't believe in the doc- 
trine of future punishments ? What are they going 
to do with you in the next world ? And that pic- 
ture dealer ? And me ? Two hund It 's an 
outrage ! It 's The picture wasn't worth fifty, 
by a stretch of the most charitable imagination ! 
Two hundred d Why, Cummings, I 'll paint no 
end of Old Girls, First and Last Gray Hairs 
I 'll flood the market ! Two Good Lord ! " 
Bartlett goes back to his easel, and silently re- 
sumes his work. After a while : " Who 's been 
offered up ? " 

Cummings : " What ? " 

Bartlett : " Who 's the victim ? My patron ? 
The noble and discriminating and munificent pur- 
chaser of The Old Girl?" 

Cummings : " Oh ! Mrs. Bellingham. She 's 
going to send it out to her daughter in Omaha." 



 

Bartlett: " Ah ! Mrs. Blake wishes to found an 
art-museum with that curiosity out there ? Sorry 
for the Omaha-has." Cummings makes a gesture 
of impatience. " Well, well ; I won't then, old 
fellow ! I 'm truly obliged to you. I accept my 
good fortune with compunction, but with all the 
gratitude imaginable. I say, Cummings ! " 

Cummings: "Well?" 

Bartlett : " What do you think of my taking to 
high art, mountains twelve hundred feet above 
the sea, like this portrait of Porikwasset?" 

Cummings: "I 've always told you that you had 
only to give yourself scope, attempt something 
worthy of your powers" 

Bartlett: "Ah, I thought so. Then you be- 
lieve that a good big canvas and a good big sub- 
ject would be the making of me? Well, I 've 
come round to that idea myself. I used to think 
that if there was any greatness in me, I could get 
it into a small picture, like Meissonier or Corot. 
But I can't. I must have room, like the Yellow- 
stone and Yo-Semite fellows. Don't you think 
Miss Wyatt is looking wonderfully improved?" 




Cummings : " Wonderfully ! And how beautiful 
she is ! She looked lovely that first day, in spite 
of her ghostliness ; but now" 

JBartlett: "Yes; & phantom of delight is" good 
enough . in its way, but a well woman is the pret- 
tiest, after all. Miss Wyatt sketches, I think I 
told you." 

Cummings: " Yes, you mentioned it." 

Bartlett: " Of course. Otherwise, I couldn't 
possibly have thought of her while I was at work 
on a great picture like this. She sketches " 
Bartlett puts his nose almost on the canvas in the 
process of bestowing a delicate touch " she 
sketches about as badly as any woman I ever saw, 
and that 's saying a good deal. But she looks un- 
commonly well while she 's at it. The fact is, Cum- 
mings," Bartlett retires some feet from the can- 
vas and squints at it, "this very picture which 
you approve of so highly is Miss Wyatt's. I 
