"It is so still in Germany," said Meredith. "But then was just the
beginning of the Reformation, Maggie. Luther was preaching, and the
world was in a stir generally."

"'One day there comes to Pastor Grünhagen a sort of artisan fellow, who
asked for a bit of bread. It was in winter time, and the poor man was
quite benumbed with cold. Pastor Grünhagen took pity on him, had him
served with food and drink, and made him sit down in the Flett (that
is, the open hall of the house with its low fireplace) that he might
also warm his cold limbs. After the man had eaten, not forgetting to
pray either, he stretched his legs comfortably down by the warm hearth,
and then drew a small MS. book out of his pocket, in which he began to
read with eager and devout attention. Grünhagen wondered that the man
could read, and more especially that he could read writing. Now, indeed,
an artisan would take it ill if anybody were surprised to find him able
to read. But the fact that all of us, even the poorest and the smallest,
can read now, is just one of the blessings of the Reformation, under
which the first schools for the people were established. In those days
only scholars and priests could read, and the laity, even the nobles,
knew nothing about it. So Grünhagen steps up curiously to the remarkable
artisan who knows so much as to read, and asks him, "Pray what have you
there?" For all answer, the man hands him the book. Grünhagen takes it
and reads and reads, and the more he reads the more eagerly and
attentively he devours what he finds there. It was a copy of Luther's
smaller catechism. Like a lightning flash darts through his soul the
thought, "What stands in this book is THE TRUTH." He asks his guest now
where he has come from? The answer is, "From Wittenberg; I have heard
Luther preach there, and I brought away this catechism with me."

"'Why he had a written copy of the catechism, and not a printed one, I
cannot tell you; perhaps he had not been able to buy a printed copy, and
had been at the pains of writing it out; but that is not said in the
chronicle. And now, while I am speaking of the catechism, I will show
you also that I am a scholar. Therefore know that Luther printed his
smaller catechism in the year of grace 1529; because in the two years
previous he had been travelling about all through Saxony, examining the
churches; and had found that the pastors were so stupid that they did
not know even the principal things. Therefore, and surely with the
assistance of the Holy Spirit, he wrote the small catechism, which I
hold to be the best of all human books. Before that, however, he had
already written some similar works; for example, a short exposition on
the ten commandments, the Creed, and the Paternoster; from which, on
account of its remarkable quality, I will quote a little. So in it
Luther says--"The first commandment is trangressed by every one who in
his difficulties turns to sorcery, the black art of the devil's allies;
every one who makes that use of letters, signs, words, herbs, charms and
the like; whoever uses divining-rods, treasure-conjurings, clairvoyance,
and the like; whoever orders his work and his life according to lucky
days, sky tokens, and the sayings of soothsayers. The third commandment
is trangressed by those who eat, drink, play, dance, and carry on unholy
doings; by those who in indolence sleep away the time of divine service,
or miss it, or spend it in pleasure drives or walks, or in useless
chatter; by whoever works or does business without special need; by
whoever does not pray, does not think on Christ's sufferings, does not
repent of his sins and long for mercy; and who, therefore, only in
outward things, as dressing, eating, and posture-taking, keeps the day
holy."

"'I have brought forward this proof of learning only to show you that
good people are not quite so simple as perhaps they look; and now I will
go on with my story.

"'Grünhagen was so delighted with the dear catechism that he says to the
workman, "Friend, you must stay with me long enough to let me make a
copy of your MS., for you won't get the book again before I have done
that." The friend was very willing to have it so; and now they made an
honest exchange one with the other. For the pastor ministered to the
poor, starved and frozen body of the artisan, and the artisan ministered
to the poor, starved and frozen soul of the pastor. Day by day his
accounts grew more and more fiery and spirited about Luther's powerful
preaching, about the many thousands who were streaming to Wittenberg to
hear the man of God, about the German Bible which Luther had translated,
about the glorious songs of praise which the Lutherans sung, about the
pure Sacrament in both kinds; that is, that in Wittenberg both the bread
and the wine were given to the communicants, and not the bread merely,
as is done by the Papists against the Lord's commandment. He told how,
amidst all the rage of his foes, Luther was so joyful and brave, that on
one occasion he said to the electoral prince of Saxony, who he saw had
become anxious, "I do not ask your princely grace to protect me, for I
am under much higher protection, which will take good care of what
concerns me." Grünhagen's whole soul was moved by these narrations.

"'After a good many days he let the workman go, laden with gifts, and
with tears in his eyes dismissed him; for through him he had learned to
know the truth. And now he goes to study. Soon the little catechism is
fixed in his heart and his head; and now he procures Luther's other
works, and first of all the New Testament. And then he can conceal it
from himself no longer, that the Word of God and the sacrament are
basely falsified in the Romish Church, and that he himself, without
knowing it, has been all this while misleading the people; he who in his
office as pastor should have been a servant of God. This thought burns
into his inmost soul, so that he almost falls into despondency. But soon
he finds grace through faith in the dear blood of Jesus Christ. And now
in him also that word goes into fulfilment--"I believe, therefore have I
spoken." He begins to preach the pure Word of God, in demonstration of
the Spirit and of power; he begins to give to communicants the whole,
entire supper, the emblems of Christ's body and blood; and he teaches
the children the catechism. And how could he fail of fruit. The parish
of Hermannsburg stirs with life, the whole region is waked up, and
thousands come to hear God's Word. Oh, that must have been a blessed
