full of her favorite plants. She was not singing as she worked, but
seriously busy as a child, holding in both hands her little watering-pot
to shower the thirsty ferns and flowers, who turned up their faces to be
washed with the silent delight which was their thanks.

“See how the dear things enjoy it! I feel as if they knew and watched
for me, and I never like to disappoint them of their bath,” she said,
looking over her shoulder, as he paused beside her. She was used to this
now, and was never surprised or startled when below stairs by his
noiseless approach.

“They are doing finely. Did Moss bring in some cyclamens? They are in
full bloom now, and you are fond of them, I think?”

“Yes, here they are: both purple and white, so sweet and lovely! See how
many buds this one has. I shall enjoy seeing them come out, they unfurl
so prettily;” and, full of interest, Gladys parted the leaves to show
several baby buds, whose rosy faces were just peeping from their green
hoods.

Helwyze liked to see her among the flowers; for there was something
peculiarly innocent and fresh about her then, as if the woman forgot her
griefs, and was a girl again. It struck him anew, as she stood there in
the sunshine, leaning down to tend the soft leaves and cherish the
delicate buds with a caressing hand.

“Like seeks like: you are a sort of cyclamen yourself. I never observed
it before, but the likeness is quite striking,” he said, with the slow
smile which usually prefaced some speech which bore a double meaning.

“Am I?” and Gladys eyed the flowers, pleased, yet a little shy, of
compliment from him.

“This is especially like you,” continued Helwyze, touching one of the
freshest. “Out of these strong sombre leaves rises a wraith-like
blossom, with white, softly folded petals, a rosy color on its modest
face, and a most sweet perfume for those whose sense is fine enough to
perceive it. Most of all, perhaps, it resembles you in this,—it hides
its heart, and, if one tries to look too closely, there is danger of
snapping the slender stem.”

“That is its nature, and it cannot help being shy. I kneel down and look
up without touching it; then one sees that it has nothing to hide,”
protested Gladys, following out the flower fancy, half in earnest, half
in jest, for she felt there was a question and a reproach in his words.

“Perhaps not; let us see, in my way.” With a light touch Helwyze turned
the reluctant cyclamen upward, and in its purple cup there clung a newly
fallen drop, like a secret tear.

Mute and stricken, Gladys looked at the little symbol of herself,
owning, with a throb of pain, that if in nothing else, they were alike
in that.

Helwyze stood silent likewise, inhaling the faint fragrance while he
softly ruffled the curled petals as if searching for another tear.
Suddenly Gladys spoke out with the directness which always gave him a
keen pleasure, asking, as she stretched her hand involuntarily to shield
the more helpless flower,—

“Sir, why do you wish to read my heart?”

“To comfort it.”

“Do I need comfort, then?”

“Do you not?”

“If I have a sorrow, God only can console me, and He only need know it.
To you it should be sacred. Forgive me if I seem ungrateful; but you
cannot help me, if you would.”

“Do you doubt my will?”

“I try to doubt no one; but I fear—I fear many things;” and, as if
afraid of saying too much, Gladys broke off, to hurry away, wearing so
strange a look that Helwyze was consumed with a desire to know its
meaning.

He saw no more of her till twilight, for Canaris took her place just
then, reading a foreign book, which she could not manage; but, when
Felix went out, he sought one of his solitary haunts, hoping she would
appear.

She did; for the day closed early with a gusty rain, and the sunset hour
was gray and cold, leaving no after-glow to tint the western sky and
bathe the great room in ruddy light. Pale and noiseless as a spirit,
Gladys went to and fro, trying to quiet the unrest that made her nights
sleepless, her days one long struggle to be patient, just, and kind. She
tried to sing, but the song died in her throat; she tried to sew, but
her eyes were dim, and the flower under her needle only reminded her
that “pansies were for thoughts,” and hers, alas! were too sad for
thinking; she took up a book, but laid it down again, since Felix was
not there to finish it with her. Her own rooms seemed so empty, she
could not return thither when she had looked for him in vain; and,
longing for some human voice to speak to her, it was a relief to come
upon Helwyze sitting in his lonely corner,—for she never now went to the
library, unless duty called her.

“A dull evening, and dull company,” he said, as she paused beside him,
