think you know what you are saying ! " he ex- 
claimed. 

" Perhaps not. Perhaps I am talking nonsense. 
But it is only with you that I talk nonsense. I 
never do so with my cousin." 

" I will speak to you again, when you are less 
excited," said Mr. Brand. 

" I am always excited when you speak to me. 
I must tell you that even if it prevents you 
altogether, in future. Your speaking to me irri- 
tates me. With my cousin it is very different. 
That seems quiet and natural." 

He looked at her, and then he looked away, 
with a kind of helpless distress, at the dusky gar- 
den and the faint summer stars. After which, 
suddenly turning back, " Gertrude, Gertrude ! " 
he softly groaned. "Am I really losing you ? " 



 

She was touched she was pained ; but it had 
already occurred to her that she might do some- 
thing better than say so. It would not have alle- 
viated her companion's distress to perceive, just 
then, whence she had sympathetically borrowed 
this ingenuity. " I am not sorry for you," Ger- 
trude said ; " for in paying so much attention to 
me you are following a shadow you are wast- 
ing something precious. There is something else 
you might have that you don't look at some- 
thing better than I am. That is a reality ! " And 
then, with intention, she looked at him and tried 
to smile a little. He thought this smile of hers 
very strange ; but she turned away and left him. 

She wandered about alone in the garden won- 
dering what Mr. Brand would make of her words, 
which it had been a singular pleasure for her to 
utter. Shortly after, passing in front of the house, 
she saw at a distance two persons standing near 
the garden gate. It was Mr. Brand going away 
and bidding good-night to Charlotte, who had 
walked down with him from the house. Gertrude 
saw that the parting was prolonged. Then she 
turned her back upon it. She had not gone very 
far, however, when she heard her sister slowly 
following her. She neither turned round nor 
waited for her; she knew what Charlotte was 
going to say. Charlotte, who at last overtook 



   

her, in fact presently began ; she had passed her 
arm into Gertrude's. 

" Will you listen to me, dear, if I say something 
very particular ? " 

" I know what you are going to say," said Ger- 
trude. " Mr. Brand feels very badly." 

" Oh, Gertrude, how can you treat him so ? '" 
Charlotte demanded. And as her sister made no 
answer she added, " After all he has done for 
you ! " 

" What has he done for me ? " 

" I wonder you can ask, Gertrude. He has 
helped you so. You told me so yourself, a great 
many times. You told me that he helped you to 
struggle with your your peculiarities. You told 
me that he had taught you how to govern your 
temper." 

For a moment Gertrude said nothing. Then, 
" Was my temper very bad? " she asked. 

" I am not accusing you, Gertrude," said Char- 
lotte. 

" What are you doing, then ? " her sister de- 
manded, with a short laugh. 

" I am pleading for Mr. Brand reminding you 
of all you owe him." 

" I have given it all back," said Gertrude, still 
with her little laugh. " He can take back the 
virtue he imparted ! I want to be wicked again." 


