cause you happen to prevent me." And she devoted much private meditation to this question 
of effecting a visit to the Tower of London. 

Suddenly it seemed as if the problem might be 
solved ; the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel received 
a visit from Willie Woodley. Such was the so 
cial appellation of a young American who had 
sailed from New York a few days after their own 
departure, and who, having the privilege of intimacy with them in that city, had lost no time, on 
his arrival in London, in coming to pay them his 
respects. He had, in fact, gone to see them di 
rectly after going to see his tailor, than which 



there can be no greater exhibition of promptitude 
on the part of a young American who has just 
alighted at the Charing Cross Hotel. He was a 
slim, pale youth, of the most amiable disposition, 
famous for the skill with which he led the " German" in New York. Indeed, by the young ladies 
who habitually figured in this Terpsichorean revel he was believed to be " the best dancer in the 
world;" it was in these terms that he was always spoken of, and that his identity was indicated. He was the gentlest, softest young man it 
was possible to meet ; he was beautifully dress 
ed " in the English style" and he knew an immense deal about London. He had been at New 
port during the previous summer, at the time of 
our young Englishmen 's visit, and he took extreme pleasure in the society of Bessie Alden,, 
whom he always addressed as "Miss Bessie." 
She immediately arranged with him, in the presence of her sister, that he should conduct her to 
the scene of Anne Boleyn 's execution. 

" You may do as you please," said Mrs. Westgate. " Only if you desire the information it 
is not the custom here for young ladies to knock 
about London with young men." 

"Miss Bessie has waltzed with me so often," 
observed Willie Woodley ; " she can surely go 
out with me in a hansom." 





"I consider waltzing," said Mrs. Westgate, 
" the most innocent pleasure of our time." 

" It 's a compliment to our time !" exclaimed the 
young man, with a little laugh, in spite of him 
self, 

" I don 't see why I should regard what is done 
here," said Bessie Alden. " Why should I suffer 
the restrictions of a society of which I enjoy none 
of the privileges ?" 

"That 's very good very good," murmured 
Willie Woodley. 

" Oh, go to the Tower, and feel the axe, if you 
like," said Mrs. Westgate. " I consent to your 
going with Mr. Woodley ; but I should not let you 
go with an Englishman." 

" Miss Bessie wouldn 't care to go with an Eng 
lishman !" Mr. Woodley declared, with a faint as 
perity that was, perhaps, not unnatural in a young 
man, who, dressing in the manner that I have indicated, and knowing a great deal, as I have said, 
about London, saw no reason for drawing these 
sharp distinctions. He agreed upon a day with 
Miss Bessie a day of that same week. 

An ingenious mind might, perhaps, trace a connection between the young girl 's allusion to her 
destitution of social privileges and a question she 
asked on the morrow as she sat with her sister at 
lunch. 



  

" Don 't you mean to write to to any one ?" said 
Bessie. 

" I wrote this morning to Captain Littledale," 
Mrs. Westgate replied, 

"But Mr. Woodley said that Captain Littledale 
had gone to India." 

" He said he thought he had heard so ; he knew 
nothing about it," 

For a moment Bessie Alden said nothing more ; 
then, at last, "And don 't you intend to write to 
to Mr. Beaumont ?" she inquired. 

"You mean to Lord Lambeth," said her sis 
ter. 

" I said Mr. Beaumont, because he was so good 
a friend of yours." 
