showers as he shook the limbs, and how fast they were gathered by
busy fingers below. Not merely chestnuts, but walnuts, and a splendid
butternut tree, that grew in the high cleft of a rocky ledge, all
were made to yield up their treasures till the bags were swelled to a
most auspicious size.

Then came the nooning, when the boys delighted in making a roaring
hot fire, and the coffee was put on to boil, and Nabby spread the
table-cloth and unpacked the hamper on a broad, flat rock around
which a white foam of moss formed a soft, elastic seat.

[Illustration: CHESTNUTTING.

"How the Doctor climbed the trees victoriously, how the brown,
glossy chestnuts flew down in showers.... And Nabby unpacked the
hamper on a broad, flat rock."--p. 226.]

The Doctor was most entertaining, and related stories of the fishing
and hunting excursions of his youth, of the trout he had caught and
the ducks he had shot. The boys listened with ears of emulation,
and Dolly sighed to think she never was to be a man and do all these
fine things that her brothers were going to do.

But in the midst of all came Abel Moss, a hard-visaged farmer from
one of the upland farms, who, seeing the minister's wagon go by, had
come to express his mind to him concerning a portion of his last
Sunday's sermon; and the Doctor, who but a moment before had thought
only of trout and wild ducks, sat down by the side of Abel on a
fragment of rock and began explaining to him the difference between
the laws of matter and the laws of mind in moral government, and the
difference between divine sovereignty as applied to matter and to
mind.

The children wandered off during the discussion, which lasted some
time; but when the western sunbeams, sloping through the tree-trunks,
warned them that it was time to return, the Doctor's wagon might have
been seen coming down the rough slope of the mountain.

"There, my dear, I've set Moss right," he said. "There was a block in
his wheels that I've taken out. I think he'll go all straight now.
Moss has a good head; when he once sees a thing, he does see it,--and
I think I've clinched the nail with him to-day."




CHAPTER XXI.

DOLLY'S SECOND CHRISTMAS.


Once more had Christmas come round in Poganuc; once more the
Episcopal church was being dressed with ground-pine and spruce; but
this year economy had begun to make its claims felt. An illumination
might do very well to open a church, but there were many who said "to
what purpose is this waste?" when the proposition was made to renew
it yearly. Consequently it was resolved to hold the Christmas Eve
service with only that necessary amount of light which would enable
the worshipers to read the prayers.

The lines in Poganuc were now drawn. The crowd who flock after a new
thing had seen the new thing, and the edge of curiosity was somewhat
dulled. Both ministers had delivered their Christmas sermons, to the
satisfaction of themselves and their respective flocks, and both
congregations had taken the direction of their practical course
accordingly.

On this Christmas Eve, therefore, Dolly was not racked and torn with
any violent temptation to go over to the church, but went to bed at
her usual hour with a resigned and quiet spirit. She felt herself a
year older, and more than a year wiser, than when Christmas had first
dawned upon her consciousness.

We have seen that the little maiden was a most intense and
sympathetic partisan, and during the political discussions of the
past year she had imbibed the idea that the Episcopal party were
opposed to her father. Nay, she had heard with burning indignation
that Mr. Simeon Coan had said that her father was not a regularly
ordained minister, and therefore had no right to preach or administer
ordinances. Dolly had no idea of patronizing by her presence people
who expressed such opinions. Whoever and whatever in the world might
be in error, Dolly was sure her father never could be in the wrong,
and went to sleep placidly in that belief.

It was not altogether pleasant to Mrs. Cushing to receive a message
from Mis' Persis that she would come and make up her candles for her
on the 25th of December. In a figurative and symbolical point of
view, the devoting that day to the creation of the year's stock of
light might have seemed eminently appropriate. But the making of so
many candles involved an amount of disagreeable particulars hard to
conceive in our days, when gas and kerosene make the lighting of
houses one of the least of cares.

In the times we speak of, candle-making for a large household was a
serious undertaking, and the day devoted to it was one that any child
would remember as an unlucky one for childish purposes of enjoyment,
seven-fold worse in its way even than washing-day. Mrs. Cushing
still retained enough of the habits of her early education to have
preferred a quiet day for her Christmas. She would willingly have
spent it in letter-writing, reading and meditation, but when Mis'
