

IRISH STEW.

  3 lbs. of lean beef—a sirloin steak is best.
  8 parboiled potatoes.
  2 onions, or one, if it be large, also parboiled.
  Browned flour for thickening.
  Thyme and sweet marjoram.
  Pepper and salt.
  A little pie-paste—not rich—for dumplings.

Cut the meat into pieces an inch wide by two long. Slice the parboiled
potatoes and onions. Put a layer of meat in a pot; then one of
potatoes, next one of onions. Pepper and salt each sparingly; scatter
the herbs upon the onions; put in more meat, and so on. When all are
in, cover—barely—with cold water, and stew slowly two hours. Strain
out the meat, and put into a covered dish—a chafing-dish, if you have
one. Return the gravy to the saucepan; thicken with browned flour; cut
your paste into narrow strips two inches long, and drop, one by one,
into the boiling gravy. Stew about eight minutes, and pour over meat,
potatoes, etc., which await it in the dish.


CORN PUDDING.

  To one can of corn add
  3 beaten eggs.
  1 cupful of milk.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter.
  1 tablespoonful of sugar.
  A little salt.

Rub butter and sugar together; beat in the eggs; salt the milk, and put
in next; lastly, the corn, drained of can liquor. Beat up well; pour
into a greased bake-dish, and set, covered, in the oven. At the end of
half an hour, take off the lid, and brown.


POTATOES À LA LYONNAISE.

Parboil double the quantity of potatoes required for your Irish stew,
and lay aside eight for this dish. Cut, when cold, into dice; fry a
small chopped onion in a heaping spoonful of butter, for one minute,
then put in the potatoes. Stir briskly to keep them from browning; cook
until very hot; add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; stir a minute
longer; turn all into a heated colander; shake hard to get rid of the
grease, and serve hot in a vegetable-dish.


QUEEN’S TOAST.

Cut slices of stale baker’s bread round with a cake-cutter, taking
off all the crust. Fry in sweet lard to a light brown. Dip each round
quickly into boiling water to remove the fat. Sprinkle thickly on
both sides with a mixture of powdered sugar and nutmeg, and pile upon
a hot plate. You may dispense with sauce if you will heat a glass of
wine, and put a teaspoonful, or less, upon each piece, after dipping it
into the water, and before sugaring it. Serve hot.



  Fourth Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Réchauffé Soup.
  Chickens with Mushroom Sauce.      Lobster Croquettes.
  Cabbage Sprouts.      Boiled Macaroni.
  ——
  Nursery Plum Pudding.
  ——


RÉCHAUFFÉ SOUP.

An excellent a soup as ox-tail deserves repetition, and the probability
is that, since Friday is a fast day from meat with Roman Catholic
servants, you have enough soup left over for your family proper. Warm
it up, making very hot, but not to boiling. If you like, you can put
some dice of crisp fried bread in the tureen.


LOBSTER CROQUETTES.

To a can of preserved lobster, chopped fine, add pepper, salt, and
powdered mace. Mix with this one-fourth as much bread-crumbs as you
have meat, work in two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and make into
egg-shaped rolls. Roll these in raw egg, then in cracker-dust, and fry
in butter or very sweet lard. Serve dry and hot with cresses or parsley
laid around them.


CHICKENS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE.

Split a pair of chickens down the back as for broiling, and lay in
a dripping-pan, with two cups of boiling water, a little salt,
poured over them. Cover very securely with another pan of the same
size—inverted—and cook an hour and a half if the fowls are of fair
size. Baste at least six times; twice with butter in which has been
mixed a little pepper; three times, copiously, with their own gravy,
and, just before they are done, again with butter. Boil half a can of
