Nothing was so wholesome and invigorating as this 
bivouac in the forest. But, somehow, sleep did not 
come. The rain had ceased to patter, and began to 
fall with a steady determination, a sort of soak, soak, 
all about us. In fact, it roared on the rubber blanket, 
and beat in our faces. The wind began to stir a 
little, and there was a moaning on high. Not contented with dripping, the rain was driven into our 
faces. Another suspicious circumstance was no- 
ticed. Little rills of water got established along 
the sides under the blankets, cold, undeniable 
streams, that interfered with drowsiness. Pools 
of water settled on the bed ; and the chaplain had 
a habit of moving suddenly, and letting a quart or 
two inside, and down my neck. It began to be 
evident that we and our bed were probably the wet- 
test objects in the woods. The rubber was an excel- 
lent catch-all. There was no trouble about ventila- 
tion, but we found that we had established our quar- 
ters without any provision for drainage. There was 
not exactly a wild tempest abroad ; but there was a 
degree of liveliness in the thrashing limbs and the 
creaking of the tree-branches which rubbed against 
each other, and the pouring rain increased in volume 
and power of penetration. Sleep was quite out of the 
question, with so much to distract our attention. In 
fine, our misery became so perfect that we both broke 
out into loud and sarcastic laughter over the absurd- 
ity of our situation. We had subjected ourselves to 
all this forlornness simply for pleasure. Whether 
Old Phelps was still in existence, we couldn't tell : 
we could get no response from him. With daylight, 
if he continued ill and could not move, our situation 
would be little improved. Our supplies were gone, 
we lay in a pond, a deluge of water was pouring down 
on us. This was summer recreation. The whole 
thing was so excessively absurd, that we laughed 
again, louder than ever. We had plenty of this sort 
of amusement. 

Suddenly through the night we heard a sort of 
reply that started us bolt upright. This was a prolonged squawk. It was like the voice of no beast or 
bird with which we were familiar. At first it was 
distant, but it rapidly approached, tearing through the 
night and apparently through the tree-tops, like the 
harsh cry of a web-footed bird with a snarl in it ; in 
fact, as I said, a squawk. It came close to us, and 
then turned, and as rapidly as it came, fled away 
through the forest, and we lost the unearthly noise far 
up the mountain-slope. 

" What was that^ Phelps ? " we cried out. But no 
response came ; and we wondered if his spirit had 
been rent away, or if some evil genius had sought it, 
and then, baffled by his serene and philosophic spirit, 
had shot off into the void in rage and disappointment. 

The night had no other adventure. The moon at 
length coming up behind the clouds lent a spectral aspect to the forest, and deceived us for a time into the 
notion that day was at hand ; but the rain never 
ceased, and we lay wishful and waiting, with no item 
of solid misery wanting that we could conceive. 

Day was slow a-coming, and didn't amount to 
much when it came, so heavy were the clouds ; but 
the rain slackened. We crawled out of our water- 
cure " pack," and sought the guide. To our infinite 
relief he announced himself not only alive, but in a 
going condition. I looked at my watch. It had 
stopped at five o'clock. I poured the water out of it, 
and shook it : but, not being constructed on the hy- 
draulic principle, it refused to go. Some hours later 
we encountered a huntsman, from whom I procured 
some gun-grease ; with this I filled the watch, and 
heated it in by the fire. This is the most effectual 
way of treating a delicate Genevan timepiece. 

The light disclosed fully the suspected fact that our 



bed had been made in a slight depression : the under 
rubber blanket spread in this had prevented the rain 
from soaking into the ground, and we had been lying 
in what was in fact a well-contrived bath-tub. While 
Old Phelps was pulling himself together, and we 
were wringing some gallons of water out of our blan* 
kets, we questioned the old man about the " squawk,'^ 
and what bird was possessed of such a voice. It was 
not a bird at all, he said, but a cat, the black-cat of 
the woods, larger than the domestic animal, and an 
ugly customer, who is fond of fish, and carries a pelt 
that is worth two or three dollars in the market. 
Occasionally he blunders into a sable-trap ; and he 
is altogether hateful in his ways, and has the most 
uncultivated voice that is heard in the woods. We 
shall remember him as one of the least pleasant 
phantoms of that cheerful night when we lay in the 
storm, fearing any moment the advent to one of us of 
the grimmest messenger. 

