
" I think the work done is pleasant er." 

" She wants a course of garden parties," said my 
brother-in-law turning to his wife. " Badly. May 
I ask," (to me) "what occasioned you to suggest 
black silk as a possible costume ? " 



 

" Because it is the best I have," I said smiling. 
" Unless a muslin will do." 

" A muslin will do, of course," said my sister, 
" if it is fresh and well made; but we will see." 

And after breakfast we went up to my room, 
and my sister sat down with a judicial air and 
desired to be shewn all I had in the way of dresses ; 
the whole contents of my trunk, in short. Before 
I had gone far in my unpacking, she rose up 
and turned the key in the door. Then she gave 
herself to the business. I took out my black silk, 
my buff muslin and my blue muslin. Caroline 
examined them silently; surveyed my stock of 
gloves, which was extremely small, my collars 
and laces, which were on the same modest establishment, my ribbands, which conformed to all 
the rest. 

"What has Olive been thinking about?" was 
her final comment, made without any preliminary. 

" Olive ? She thought I was not fit to come 
Do you think so too ? " I said, with a momentary 
check. 

"Yes. No, not as you mean, child. Olive might 
have indulged you with a little more outfit, I 
should think." 

" You know we have not the money." 

" I know all about it," said Caroline a little impatiently. " You have not money for everything 
that might be desirable ; but a few of these little 
necessary trifles cost next to nothing. Never mind ; 
Sandie is as kind as he can be, amd he likes you, 



 

and lie has money enough for all we want. We 
will make it all right, Desire." 

But won't my blue muslin be good enough?" 

"For the party, to-morrow? No, it will not. 
Trust me. There is not time to get a dress made; 
but I can manage with one of mine. The other 
things we will go out and get now." 

" I am not so tall as you." 

"That is nothing. We can take the skirt up. 
The rest will do." 

"But, Carrie, I am content with what I have 
got." 

"Don't be a goose. You have no business to 
be content with it, for it is not sufficient; and if 
you are content, I am not. When one has a little 
sister like you, one likes to dress her up, I can tell 
you. So come." 

" I am very glad you like me," I said, putting 
my things away as fast as I could. " But, Caro 
line, before we go out, do tell me what these pictures are about?" 

"Pictures?" said my sister. "Oh, that old 
thing? That is the three Fates." 

"I don't understand." 

"You must get Sandie to tell you. The ancients believed in three old women who had human destinies in their hands. One holds a distaff, 
one spins the thread, and the third cuts it off; that 
is birth and life and death, you see." 

"Birth, and life, and death?" I repeated, coming 
before the picture. "And that is the reason why 



 

the one who spins looks so wistfully at the one 
who is going to cut? The thread is the thread 
of a human life ? that is very beautiful ! And 
