grandfather back. I've got to go up town again, 
any way, for some last things, with an express 
wagon, and we can ride right to the depot in that. 
Which depot is it ? " 

" Fitchburg," said the old man eagerly. 

u That 's right ! " commented the captain. " Get 
you there in plenty of time, if we don't lose any 
now. And I 'll tell you what, my little girl," he 
added, turning to Lydia: "if it 'll be a comfort to 
you to ride up with us, and see your grandfather 
off, why come along ! My girls went with me the 
last time on an express wagon." 

"No," answered Lydia. "I want to. But it 
wouldn 't be any comfort. I thought that out be- 
fore I left home, and I 'm going to say good-by to 
grandfather here." 

" First-rate ! " said Captain Jenness, bustling 



 

towards the gangway so as to leave them alone. A 
sharp cry from the old man arrested him. 

" Lyddy ! Where 's your trunks ? " 

" Why ! " said the girl, catching her breath in 
dismay, " where can they be ? I forgot all about 
them." 

" I got the checks fast enough," said the old man, 
" and I shan't give 'em up without I get the trunks. 
They 'd ought to had 'em down here long ago ; and 
now if I 've got to pester round after 'em I 'm sure 
to miss the train." 

" What shall we do? " asked Lydia. 

" Let 's see your checks," said the captain, with 
an evident ease of mind that reassured her. When 
her grandfather had brought them with difficulty 
from the pocket visited last in the order of his 
search, and laid them in the captain's waiting palm, 
the latter endeavored to get them in focus. " What 
does it say on 'em ? " he asked, handing them to 
Lydia. " My eyes never did amount to anything 
on shore." She read aloud the name of the express 
stamped on them. The captain gathered them 
back into his hand, and slipped them into his 
pocket, with a nod and wink full of comfort. " I 'll 
see to it," he said. " At any rate, this ship ain't 
a-going to sail without them, if she waits a week. 
Now, then, Mr. Latham!" 

The old man, who waited, when not directly ad- 
dressed or concerned, in a sort of blank patience, 
suddenly started out of his daze, and following the 



 

captain too alertly up the gangway stairs drove his 
hat against the hatch with a force that sent him 
back into Lydia's arms. 

" Oh, grandfather, are you hurt ? " she piteously 
asked, trying to pull up the hat that was jammed 
down over his forehead. 

" Not a bit ! But I guess my hat 's about done 
for, — without I can get it pressed over ; and I 
d' know as this kind of straw doos press." 

" First-rate ! " called the captain from above. 
" Never mind the hat." But the girl continued 
fondly trying to reshape it, while the old man 
fidgeted anxiously, and protested that he would be 
sure to be left. It was like a half- shut accordion 
when she took it from his head ; when she put it 
back it was like an accordion pulled out. 

" All ready ! " shouted Captain Jenness from the 
gap in the bulwark, where he stood waiting to de- 
scend into the small boat. The old man ran to- 
wards him in his senile haste, and stooped to get 
over the side into the boat below. 

" Why, grandfather !" cried the girl in a break- 
ing voice, full of keen, yet tender reproach. 

" I declare for 't," he said, scrambling back to 
the deck. " I 'most forgot. I be'n so put about." 
He took Lydia's hand loosely into his own, and 
bent forward to kiss her. She threw her arms 
