NOW that Fred Lawrence had come home, there was no need of going so
often to Hope Terrace, Sylvie thought. Time never hung heavy on her
hands; for she was not indolent, and there were friends and pleasures.
Miss Barry had a conscientious misgiving that Sylvie ought to be taken
about like other young ladies; but she shrank from fashionable life
herself, and could not resolve to trust her darling with any other
person. Beside, Sylvie always seemed contented.

She was content indeed; at least, with her home and her aunt. Up-stairs,
just out of her sleeping-chamber, she had a studio, chosen because this
room, of all in the house, had the finest view in summer, when the tall
old trees shut out so much. From here there were two exquisite
perspectives. The trees and houses were so arranged that a long, arrowy
ray of light penetrated through a narrow space over to a small rise of
ground called Berry Hill on account of its harvest of blueberries. Two
old, scraggy, immense oak-trees still remained; and she used to watch
them from their first faint green to the blood-red and copper tints of
autumn, when the sun shone through them. Down behind he dropped when the
day was done; sometimes a ball of fire, at others bathed in roseate
hues, tinged with all the wondrous grades of color, and making fleecy
islands in a far-off, weird world, dream-haunted. She used to study the
grand effects of shifting light, that made the hill bold and strong, or
fused it into dreamy harmonies that seemed to have the subtile essence
of music; then contrasts that were abrupt and apparently dissonant,
quite against well-known edicts of human taste. Who was right,--the
great Author of all? She smiled to herself when she heard people talk so
glibly of nature, as if the one little rose-leaf were the whole world.

The other picture held in its soft, still, light, an old-fashioned,
low-gabled house with wide eaves; a broad doorway, with the upper half
always open in summer; a well with curb and sweep and bucket where
farm-hands came to drink; a pond with a shady side, where cows herded in
their peaceful fashion, wading knee-deep on hot days, chewing their cud
contentedly at others, browsing through golden hours; fields of glowing
grain, then tawny stubble, a bit of corn with nodding tassels, and not
infrequently a group of children, picturesque in this far light. It all
stood out with the clearness of a stereoscope.

She had her ambitions too, this bright little girl. They were tinctured
with the crudeness of youth, and its boundless vision, it is true; and
sometimes the passion of despair seized her soul in a cold grasp, when
she felt hemmed in on every side, and longed for some opening, some step
in the great world higher than fashionable frivolity.

Miss Barry had no taste for famous women. They were well enough in the
world: she paid a proper and polite deference to Mrs. Somerville, Mrs.
Browning, and Rosa Bonheur,--that kind of intellectual deference that
sets them out of the sphere of ordinary women. Wives and mothers were
better for the every-day life of the world; since pictures and poetry
were luxuries, accessories, but not home or food or clothes. Though she
had missed her woman's destiny, she had not lost faith in it; though she
had held out her hand to the woman who had made shipwreck of her own
life for the wild, graceless brother's sake, she still looked on clear
seas and smooth sailing as possible for lovers' barks. In her plans for
Sylvie there was a fine, manly, generous husband; a love so sweet and
entire that the girl should forget her restless yearnings; baby hands to
cling to her, baby lips to press, young lives to mould, and a future to
plan for others.

Miss Barry believed in work devoutly, but gentlewomen had a firm place
in her creed. The paintings and music were well enough as
accomplishments, and she was proud of them; but she delicately repressed
the other dreams and desires until Sylvie ceased to speak of them except
to her friend Jack.

Miss Barry had experienced some anxiety on this point, it must be
confessed. You would never have perceived it from the wise little
woman's face or any tone of her voice. She went more frequently to the
Darcys of an evening with Sylvie: she rolled her easy-chair and
work-table to the opposite side of the sitting-room, where it commanded
a view of the piano and the sofa in the parlor, the door being always
open. She could hear and see, she could make pleasant, trenchant
remarks: indeed, she was one of themselves, as young in heart, if the
hair did glisten silvery under the bit of exquisite thread-lace that did
duty as an apology for a cap.

Jack and Sylvie were not lovers. A rare good friendship it was, more
perfect than brotherly and sisterly regard, in that it held no
duty-element, and was spontaneous. Sylvie never laughed at Jack in his
awkward boyish days: he had never tormented her small belongings as
brothers are wont to do.

Miss Barry feared the flame might be easily fanned. A little opposition
or warning would bring Sylvie's innocent wandering thoughts to a focus,
and kindle the fire. She was very wary. She trusted Sylvie to Jack with
an air that said, "You are too honorable to betray the confidence I
repose in you."

The old class prejudice spoke out in this covert objection to Jack as
a suitor. She honored him sincerely for giving up the dreams of
ambitious and energetic manhood to stay at home and comfort these two
delicate women. Yet (strange contradiction) she had a half fancy that it
betokened weakness or lack of some kind in the very content with which
he seemed to go about his daily duties. Alas for consistency! We preach
content from the pulpit on Sunday, and on Monday glance with quiet
contempt on our plodding neighbor, who can commune with the daisies by
the wayside, while there is gold lying untroubled in desert gulches.

Honest, sturdy Jack, taking up the duty of to-day cheerfully with a
manful endurance, because the hands holding his fate were too weak and
