"Yes, ma'am," answered Frank, wondering what that had to do with his
errand.
"I sent for you to take my sweet darling out for an airing. His health
requires that he should go out every day. I generally take him myself,
but this morning I have a severe headache, and do not feel equal to the
task. My dear little pet, will you go out with this nice boy?"
Fido looked gravely at Frank and sneezed.
"I hope the darling hasn't got cold," said Mrs. Leroy, with solicitude.
"My lad, what is your name?"
"Frank Kavanagh, ma'am."
"Will you take great care of my little pet, Frank?"
"I will try to, madam. Where do you want him to go?"
"To Madison Park. He always likes the park, because it is so gay. When
you get there you may sit down on one of the benches and give him time
to rest."
"Yes, ma'am. How long would you like me to stay out with him?"
"About an hour and a half. Have you a watch?"
"No; but I can tell the time by the clock in front of the Fifth-avenue
Hotel."
"To be sure. I was going to lend you my watch."
"Shall I start now?"
"Yes. Here is the string. Don't make Fido go too fast. He is stout, and
cannot walk fast. You will be sure to take great care of him?"
"Yes, madam."
"And you keep watch that no bad man carries off my Fido. I used to send
him out by one of the girls, till I found that she ill-treated the poor
thing. Of course I couldn't stand that, so I sent her packing, I can
tell you."
"I will try to follow your directions," said Frank, who wanted to laugh
at the lady's ridiculous devotion to her ugly little favorite.
"That is right. You look like a good boy. I will give you something for
yourself when you come back."
"Thank you, ma'am," said Frank, who was better pleased with this remark
than any the lady had previously made.
Mrs. Leroy kissed Fido tenderly, and consigned him to the care of our
hero.
"I suppose," said Frank to himself, "that I am the dog's nurse. It is
rather a queer office; but as long as I am well paid for it I don't
mind."
When Fido found himself on the sidewalk he seemed disinclined to move;
but after a while, by dint of coaxing, he condescended to waddle along
at Frank's heels.
After a while they reached Madison Park, and Frank, according to his
instructions, took a seat, allowing Fido to curl up at his side.
"This isn't very hard work," thought Frank. "I wish I had a book or
paper to read, to while away the time."
While he was sitting there Victor Dupont came sauntering along.
"Halloa!" he exclaimed, in surprise, as he recognized Frank, "is that
you?"
"I believe it is," answered Frank, with a smile.
"Are you a telegraph boy?"
"Yes."
"I thought you were a newsboy?"
"So I was; but I have changed my business."
"What are you doing here?"
"Taking care of a dog," said Frank, laughing.
"Is that the dog?"
"Yes."
"It's a beastly little brute. What's its name?"
"Fido."
"Who does it belong to?"
Frank answered.
"I know," said Victor; "it's a fat lady living on the avenue. I have
seen her out often with little pug. How do you feel, Fido?" and Victor
began to pull the hair of the lady's favorite.
"Don't do that, Victor," remonstrated Frank.
"Why not?"
"Mrs. Leroy wouldn't like it."
"Mrs. Leroy isn't here."
"I am," said Frank, emphatically, "and that is the same thing."
Victor, by way of reply, pinched Fido's ear, and the little animal
squeaked his disapproval.
"Look here, Victor," said Frank, decidedly, "you must stop that."
"Must I?" sneered Victor, contemptuously. "'Suppose I don't?"
"Then I shall punch you," said Frank, quietly.
"You are impertinent," said Victor, haughtily. "You needn't put on such
airs because you are nurse to a puppy."
"That is better than being a puppy myself," retorted Frank.
"Do you mean to insult me?" demanded Victor, quickly.
"No, unless you choose to think the remark fits you."
"I have a great mind to give you a thrashing," said Victor, furiously.
"Of course I should sit still and let you do it," said Frank, calmly.
"Fido is under my care, and I can't have him teased. That is right,
isn't it?"
"I did wrong to notice you," said Victor. "You are only a dog's nurse."
Frank laughed.
"You are right," he said. "It is new business for me, and though it is
easy enough I can't say I like it. However, I am in the service of the
Telegraph Company, and must do whatever is required."
Victor walked away, rather annoyed because he could not tease Frank.
"The boy has no pride," he said to himself, "or he wouldn't live out to
take care of dogs. But, then, it is suitable enough for him."
"Is that dawg yours?" asked a rough-looking man, taking his seat on the
bench near Frank.
"No, sir."
"How old is it?"
"I don't know."
"Looks like a dawg I used to own. Let me take him."
"I would rather not," said Frank, coldly. "It belongs to a lady who is
very particular."
