that kind, I think ; and you're too little and pale, anyhow. 
Fellows don't like such milk-and-water girls. You're out 
of our line, altogether ; so Rose can be content." 
Titania took off her hat and mantle, and laid them on a 
pile of trumpery, the foundation of which was a chair. 
She sat wearily on the side of the dingy bed. There was 
a whirl of confusion without. The screech of the different 
locomotives, the rattling of carts and wagons over the cob- 
ble-stones, the shouts, and calls, and cries, the noise and 
hubbub in the house, the click of billiard-playing some- 
where, and a snatch of drinking song by a tipsy German, 
fell on her sensitive ear with painful incongruity. It was 
a close, warm morning, and the house had a sickening 
scent of uncleanliness. 
They had been travelling over country-ways, where the 
young and dewy spring was making itself felt and seen. 
Soft greenish-brown wraiths stood by the roadside, and 
violets starred the grass ; while the wandering south wind 
wafted the spicy fragrance of the awakening woods. And 
now to come to crowded streets and stifling rooms, the 
squalor and glitter that jostled rudely the coarse, hard life ! 
oh, if she could but die ! she was tired of waiting for 
Kate's summons. Could she ever live through the long, 
warm summer? Suddenly her heart and flesh failed. It 
seemed for a moment as if she might be dying, and a 
shiver of fear sped through her veins. 
" Can I do anything for you ? " cried Lillian, startled at 
the deathly paleness. " Are you sick ? Oh, you are a 
poor little mite. Why, your'e never fit for the things 
you're said to do, or is it all a sham ! Guy ! Won't King 
be mad if Thomas has bamboozled him ! " and she laughed 
coarsely at the thought. 
" Is King " and a choking sensation stopped Titania's 
voice. 
" King is our grand high duke. Now its ' King and 
Thomas' unrivalled combination troupe, Queen Titania, 
the world-renowned child acrobat, trained by a celebrated 
performer' who trained you?" changing her tone, ab 
ruptly. 
Signer Barretti." 
" Barretti ? I don't believe I've seen him. Where is
he ? " with a dull wonder in her eyes. 
"Dead ! " and then Titania said softly to herself, " Oh, 
my poor, dear Dick, can you not send for me to come 
to heaven ? I am so miserable here." 
" Oh ! Have you any folks relatives ? " 
" No." She was tired of going into particulars only to 
hear most of them discredited. 
" Well, you don't look so much like dying as you did a 
minute ago. You'd better get rested up, as you're on the 
bills for to-night." 
Lilian resumed her seat and her work. Titania lay 
quite still. There was a ringing in her ears, the thump 
of a sledge-hammer at her temples, and every inch of her 
small body throbbed with a dull, torturing pain. So tired ! 
So tired ! How could she get up and dance to-night; leap, 
and fly, and swing ! 
There was a great stir presently. A click of heels up 
the stairs and through the halls, a snatch of street song, 
and some one entered the room. Titania did not open her 
eyes. 
It was Rose, and the clatter of the two girls' tongues 
almost set her wild. Rose had a mind to be unfriendly, 
but Lilian took her part, and pitied her, depreciating her 
with every word, it was true, and yet it did not seem to 
be done with either malice or ill-nature. Its perfect hon- 
esty was the bitter sting to the poor child. 
She had been caressed and flattered a great deal during 
her short life. She had learned that beauty and grace and 
attractiveness were the cardinal points, and in her childish 
way she had been proud of possessing them. But to be 
"udely shorn of all her glory, to have a failure predicted, 
seemed so cruel ! Could she dare to face this brazen, de- 
cisive Rose, this complacent Lilian ? 
There was a loud clang through the house, that startled 
her. She sprang up, white and terrified. 
Lilian laughed heartily. 
"That's only the dinner bell. Will you go down? 
Poor little thing. Rose, I feel sorry for herj" and the 
glance seemed to bespeak the other's pity. 
Rose stared insolently. 
" You look like the ghost of buried hopes ! King's been 
sold, sure as my name's Rose De Vere." 
Which it isn't at all," laughed Lilian. 
" To all intents and purposes. If my sponsors neglected 
their business it follows that I must see to it. Will it 
please your high mightiness, Queen Titania, to descend to 
the lower region, and partake of pork and beans, or calf's 
brains ? " and she held out her elbow, as if offering her an 
escort. 
" I would rather stay here. I am not hungry." 
"You had better come," suggested Lilian. 
Titania shook her head. 
" No fooling," and Rose gave her companion a jerk. 
" Dinner is always a game of grab, you know. The first 
fellow is the best fellow." 
With that they left her. Titania shed a few bitter, 
lonely tears. Oh, if there were but one, Kate, Dolly St. 
John, or any human being who had been kind to her, 
one soul to care what became of her. 
