that is positively blue. I can't say I admire it when 
it comes to that shade. Blue 's my favorite color, but 
I prefer it in the eyes," continued Longueville's com- 
panion, resting upon him her own two brilliant little 
specimens of the tint. 
He listened with that expression of clear amusement 
which is not always an indication of high esteem, but 
which even pretty chatterers, who are not the reverse 
of estimable, often prefer to masculine inattention ; 
and while he listened Bernard, according to his wont, 
made his reflections. He said to himself that there 
were two kinds of pretty girls — the acutely conscious 
and the finely unconscious. Mrs. Vivian's prodgre'e was 
a member of the former category ; she belonged to the 
genus coquette. We all have our conception of the in- 
dispensable, and the indispensable, to this young lady 
was a spectator ; almost any male biped would serve 
the purpose. To her spectator she addressed, for the 
moment, the whole volume of her being — addressed 
it in her glances, her attitudes, her exclamations, in 
a hundred little experiments of tone and gesture and 
position. And these rustling artifices were so inno- 
cent and obvious that the directness of her desire to 
be well with her observer became in itself a grace ; 
it led Bernard afterward to say to himself that the 
natural vocation and metier of little girls for whom 
existence was but a shimmering surface, was to prat- 
tle and ruffle their plumage ; their view of life and 
its duties was as simple and superficial as that of an 
Oriental hayadere. It surely could not be with re- 
gard to this transparent little flirt that Gordon Wright 
desired advice ; you could literally see the daylight — 
or rather the Baden gaslight — on the other side of 
her. She sat there for a minute, turning her little 
empty head to and fro, and catching Bernard's eye 
every time she moved ; she had for the instant the 
air of having exhausted all topics. Just then a young 
lady, with a gentleman at her side, drew near to the 
little group, and Longueville, perceiving her, instantly 
got up from his chair. 
" There 's a beauty of the unconscious class ! " he 
said to himself. He knew her face very well; he 
had spent half an hour in copying it. 
" Here comes Miss Vivian ! " said Gordon Wright, 
also getting up, as if to make room for the daughter 
near the mother. 
She stopped in front of them, smiling slightly, and 
then she rested her eyes upon Longueville. Their 
gaze at first was full and direct, but it expressed 
nothing more than civil curiosity. This was imme- 
diately followed, however, by the light of recognition 
— recognition embarrassed, and signalling itself by a 
blush. 
Miss Vivian's companion was a powerful, hand- 
some fellow, with a remarkable auburn beard, who 
struck the observer immediately as being uncom- 
monly well dressed. He carried his hands in the 
pockets of a little jacket, the button-hole of which 
was adorned with a blooming rose. He approached 
Blanche Evers, smiling and dandling his body a little, 
and making her two or three jocular bows. 
" Well, I hope you have lost every penny you put 
on the table ! " said the young girl, by way of response 
to his obeisances. 
He began to laugh and repeat them.. 
" I don't care what I lose, so long — so long — " 
"So long as what, pray ?" 
" So long as you let me sit down by you ! " And 
he dropped, very gallantly, into a chair on the other 
side of her. 
"I wish you would lose all your property!" she 
replied, glancing at Bernard. 
"It would be a very small stake," said Captain 
Lovelock. " Would you really like to see me reduced 
to misery ? " 
While this graceful dialogue rapidly established it- 
self. Miss Vivian removed her eyes from Longueville's 
face and turned toward her mother. But Gordon 
Wright checked this movement by laying his hand 
on Longueville's shoulder and proceeding to introduce 
his friend. 
"This is the accomplished creature, Mr. Bernard 
Longueville, of whom you have heard me speak. 
One of his accomplishments, as you see, is to drop 
down from the moon." 
" No, I don't drop from the moon," said Bernard, 
laughing. "I drop from — Siena!" He offered his 
hand to Miss Vivian, who for an appreciable instant 
hesitated to extend her own. Then she returned his 
salutation, without any response to his allusion to 
Siena. 
She declined to take a seat, and said she was tired 
and preferred to go home. With this suggestion her 
mother immediately complied, and the two ladies ap- 
pealed to the indulgence of little Miss Evers, who was 
obliged to renounce the society of Captain Lovelock, 
She enjoyed this luxury, however, on the way to 
Mrs. Vivian's lodgings, toward which they all slowly 
strolled, in the sociable Baden fashion. Longueville 
might naturally have found himself next Miss Vivian, 
