it's a vulgar nature. I saw through it in a minute. 
He is altogether too familiar; I hate familiarity. 
He is a plausible coxcomb." 
"Ah, well," said Mrs. Almond, " if you make up 
your mind so easily, it's a great advantage." 
"I don't make up my mind easily. What I tell 
you is the result of thirty years of observation ; 
and in order to be able to form that judgment in a 
single evening, I have had to spend a lifetime in 
study." 
" Very possibly you are right. But the thing is 
for Catherine to see it." 
" I will present her with a pair of spectacles !" 
said the Doctor. 
YIIL 
IF it were true that she was in love, she was cer- 
tainly very quiet about it; but the Doctor was of 
course prepared to admit that her quietness might 
mean volumes. She had told Morris Town send that 
she would not mention him to her father, and she 
saw no reason to retract this vow of discretion. It 
was no more than decently civil, of course, that, after 
having dined in Washington Square, Morris should 
call there again ; and it was no more than natural 
that, having been kindly received on this occasion, 
he should continue to present himself. He had had 
plenty of leisure on his hands ; and thirty years ago, 
in New York, a young man of leisure had reason to 
be thankful for aids to self-oblivion. Catherine said 
nothing to her father about these visits, though they 
had rapidly become the most important, the most 
absorbing thing in her life. The girl was very hap- 
py. She knew not as yet what would come of it ; 
but the present had suddenly grown rich and sol- 
emn. If she had been told she was in love, she 
would have been a good deal surprised ; for she had 
an idea that love was an eager and exacting passion, 
and her own heart was filled in these days with the 
impulse of self-effacement and sacrifice. Whenever 
Morris Town send had left the house, her imagina- 
tion projected itself, with all its strength, into the 
idea of his soon coming back ; but if she had been 
told at such a moment that he would not return for 
a year, or even that he would never return, she would 
not have complained nor rebelled, but would have 
humbly accepted the decree, and sought for consola- 
tion in thinking-over the times she had already seen 
him, the words he had spoken, the sound of his 
voice, of his tread, the expression of his face. Love 
demands certain things as a right; but Catherine 
had no sense of her rights; she had only a con- 
sciousness of immense and unexpected favors. Her 
very gratitude for these things had hushed itself; 
for it seemed to her that there would be something 
of impudence in making a festival of her secret. 
Her father suspected Morris Townsend's visits, and 
noted her reserve. She seemed to beg pardon for 
it ; she looked at him constantly in silence, as if she 
meant to say that she said nothing because she was 
afraid of irritating him. But the poor girl's dumb 
eloquence irritated him more than anything else 
would have done, and he caught himself murmuring 
more than once that it was a grievous pity his only 
child was a simpleton. His murmurs, however, were 
inaudible; and for awhile he said nothing to any 
one. He would have liked to know exactly how 
often young Town send came ; but he had deter- 
mined to ask no questions of the girl herself to 
say nothing more to her that would show that he 
watched her. The Doctor had a great idea of being 
largely just: he wished to leave his daughter her 
liberty, and interfere only when the danger should 
be proved. It was not in his manner to obtain in- 
formation by indirect methods, and it never even oc- 
curred to him to question the servants. As for La- 
vinia, he hated to talk to her about the matter ; she 
annoyed him with her mock romanticism. But he 
had to come to this. Mrs. Penniman's convictions 
as regards the relations of her niece and the clever 
young visitor, who saved appearances by coming os- 
tensibly for both the ladies ]V(rs. Penniman's con- 
victions had passed into a riper and richer phase. 
There was to be no crudity in Mrs. Penniman's treat- 
ment of the situation ; she had become as uncom- 
municative as Catherine herself. She was tasting 
of the sweets of concealment ; she had taken up the 
line of mystery. " She would be enchanted to be 
able to prove to herself that she is persecuted," said 
the Doctor ; and when at last he questioned her, he 
was sure she would contrive to extract from his 
words a pretext for this belief. 
" Be so good as to let me know what is going on 
in the house," he said to her, in a tone which, under 
the circumstances, he himself deemed genial. 
" Going on, Austin ?" Mrs. Penniman exclaimed. 
" Why, I am sure I don't know. I believe that last 
night the old gray cat had kittens." 
"At her age?" said the Doctor. "The idea is 
startling almost shocking. Be so good as to see 
that they are all drowned. But what else has hap- 
