country seemed sitting in a hot vapor-bath. In the early 
dawn the keeper had performed his outdoor tasks, but all day 
he remained almost without stirring in his chair between two 
windows, striving to exist. At high noon out came a little 
black bringing his supplies from the town, whistling and shuffling 
along, gay as a lark. The keeper watched him coming 
slowly down the white road, loitering by the way in the hot 
blaze, stopping to turn a somersault or two, to dangle over a 
bridge rail, to execute various impromptu capers all by him 
self. He reached the gate at last, entered, and, having come all 
the way up the path in a hornpipe step, he set down his basket 
at the door to indulge in one long and final double-shuffle 
before knocking. " Stop that ! " said the keeper through the 
closed blinds. The little darkey darted back ; but as nothing 
further came out of the window a boot, for instance, or some 
other stray missile he took courage, showed his ivories, and 
drew near again. " Do you suppose I am going to have you 
stirring up the heat in that way ? " demanded the keeper. 

The little black grinned, but made no reply, unless smooth 
ing the hot white sand with his black toes could be construed 
as such ; he now removed his rimless hat and made a bow. 

" Is it, or is it not warm ? " asked the keeper, as a natural 
ist might inquire of a salamander, not referring to his own so 
much as to the salamander's ideas on the subject. 

" Dunno, mars ," replied the little black. 

" How Aoyoit feel ? " 

" Spects I feel all right, mars ." 

The keeper gave up the investigation, and presented to 
the salamander a nickel cent. " I suppose there is no such 
thing as a cool spring in all this melting country," he said. 

But the salamander indicated with his thumb a clump of 
trees on the green plain north of the cemetery. " Ole Mars 
Ward's place cole spring dah." He then departed, breaking 
into a run after he had passed the gate, his ample mouth 
watering at the thought of a certain chunk of taffy at the 
mercantile establishment kept by Aunt Dinah in a corner of 
her one-roomed cabin. At sunset the keeper went thirstily 
out with a tin pail on his arm, in search of the cold spring. 
"If it could only be like the spring down under the rocks 
where I used to drink when I was a boy ! " he thought. He 
had never walked in that direction before. Indeed, now that 

he had abandoned the town, he seldom went beyond the walls 
of the cemetery. An old road led across to the clump of 
trees, through fields run to waste, and following it he came to 
the place, a deserted house with tumble-down fences and 
overgrown garden, the out-buildings indicating that once upon 
a time there were many servants and a prosperous master. 
The house was of wood, large on the ground, with encircling 
piazzas ; across the front door rough bars had been nailed, 
and the closed blinds were protected in the same manner; 
from long want of paint the clapboards were gray and mossy, 
and the floor of the piazza had fallen in here and there from 
decay. The keeper decided that his cemetery was a much 
more cheerful place than this, and then he looked around for 
the spring. Behind the house the ground sloped down ; it 
must be there. He went around and came suddenly upon a 
man lying on an old rug outside of a back door. " Excuse 
me. I thought nobody lived here," he said. 

" Nobody does," replied the man ; " I am not much of a 
body, am I ? " 

His left arm was gone, and his face was thin and worn 
with long illness ; he closed his eyes after speaking, as though 
the few words had exhausted him. 

" I came for water from a cold spring you have here, some 
where," pursued the keeper, contemplating the wreck before 
him with the interest of one who has himself been severely 
wounded and knows the long, weary pain. The man waved 
his hand toward the slope without unclosing his eyes, and 
Rodman went off with his pail and found a little shady hol 
low, once curbed and paved with white pebbles, but now 
neglected, like all the place. The water was cold, however, 
deliciously cold. He filled his pail and thought that perhaps 
after all he would exert himself to make coffee, now that the 
sun was down ; it would taste better made of this cold water. 
When he came up the slope the man's eyes were open. 

" Have some water? " asked Rodman. 

" Yes ; there's a gourd inside." 


The keeper entered, and found himself in a large, bare 
room ; in one corner was some straw covered with an old 
counterpane, in another a table and chair ; a kettle hung in 
the deep fireplace, and a few dishes stood on a shelf ; by the 
door on a nail hung a gourd ; he filled it and gave it to the 
host of this desolate abode. The man drank with eagerness. 

" Pomp has gone to town," he said, " and I could not get 
