very soft with milk, and put into a saucepan to heat, stirring, to
prevent burning. When scalding hot, stir in one well-beaten egg for
six large potatoes. Boil up once, fill the skins with the mixture,
replacing the caps, return them to the oven for three minutes; arrange
upon a napkin in a deep dish, the caps uppermost; cover with a fold of
the napkin, and eat hot.
Or,
You may omit the eggs and put in a double quantity of cheese. They are
very good.
POTATO SCALLOPS.
Boil, and mash the potatoes soft with a little milk. Beat up light with
melted butter—a dessertspoonful for every half-pint of the potato—salt
and pepper to taste. Fill some patty-pans or buttered scallop shells
with the mixture, and brown in an oven, when you have stamped a pattern
on the top of each. Glaze, while hot, with butter, and serve in the
shells.
If you like, you can strew some grated cheese over the top.
BROWNED POTATOES.—(Whole.)
Boil and peel some large, ripe potatoes, and three-quarters of an hour
before a piece of roast beef is removed from the fire, skim the fat
from the gravy; put the potatoes in the dripping-pan, having dredged
them well with flour. Baste them, to prevent scorching, with the gravy,
and when quite brown, drain on a sieve. Lay them about the meat in the
dish.
BROWNED POTATO.—(Mashed.)
This is also an accompaniment to roast beef or mutton. Mash some boiled
potatoes smoothly with a little milk, pepper, salt, and a boiled onion
(minced); make into small cones or balls; flour well, and put under or
beside the meat, half an hour or so before you take it up. Skim off
all the fat from the gravy before putting them in. Drain them dry when
brown, and lay around the meat when dished.
These are nice with roast spare-rib, or any roast pork that is not
too fat.
BROILED POTATOES.
Cut whole boiled potatoes lengthwise, into slices a quarter of an inch
thick, and lay upon a gridiron over a hot, bright fire. Brown on both
sides, sprinkle with pepper and salt, lay a bit of butter upon each,
and eat very hot.
POTATO CAKES.
Make cold mashed potato into flat cakes; flour and fry in lard, or good
sweet dripping, until they are a light-brown.
ROAST SWEET POTATOES.
Select those of uniform size, wash, wipe, and roast until you can tell,
by gently pressing the largest between the finger and thumb, that it is
mellow throughout. Serve in their jackets.
Sweet, as well as Irish potatoes, are very good for pic-nic luncheon,
roasted in hot ashes. This, it will be remembered, was the dinner
General Marion set before the British officer as “quite a feast, I
assure you, sir. We don’t often fare so well as to have sweet potatoes
and salt.”
The feast was cleansed from ashes by the negro orderly’s shirt-sleeve,
and served upon a natural trencher of pine-bark.
BOILED SWEET POTATOES.
Have them all as nearly the same size as possible; put into cold water,
without any salt, and boil until a fork will easily pierce the largest.
Turn off the water, and lay them in the oven to dry for five minutes.
Peel before sending to table.
Or, 
Parboil, and then roast until done. This is a wise plan when they are
old and watery. Boiling is apt to render them tasteless. Another way
still is to boil until they are almost done, when peel and bake brown,
basting them with butter several times, but draining them dry before
they go to the table.
FRIED SWEET POTATOES 
Parboil them, skin, and cut lengthwise into slices a quarter of an inch
thick. Fry in sweet dripping or butter.
Cold boiled potatoes may be cooked in this way. Or you can chop them
up with an equal quantity of cold Irish potatoes, put them into a
frying-pan with a good lump of butter, and stir until they are hot and
slightly brown.
CABBAGE.
BOILED CABBAGE.
Pick off the outer green leaves, quarter, examine carefully to be sure
there are no insects in it, and lay for an hour in cold water. Then
put into a pot with plenty of boiling water, and cook fifteen minutes.
Throw away the water, and fill up the pot from the boiling tea-kettle.
Cook until tender all through. Three-quarters of an hour will do
for a good-sized cabbage when young. Late in the season you must be
guided by the tenderness of the stalk. Drain well, chop, and stir in a
tablespoonful of butter, pepper, and salt. Serve very hot. If you boil
corned beef or pork to eat with cabbage, let the second water be taken
from the pot in which this is cooking. It will flavor it nicely.
Always boil cabbage in two waters.
BACON AND CABBAGE.
This, I need hardly say, is a favorite country dish at the South.
The old-fashioned way of preparing it was to boil meat and cabbage
together, and serve, reeking with fat, the cabbage in quarters,
soaking yet more of the essence from the ham or middling about which
it lay. In this shape it justly earned a reputation for grossness and
indigestibility that banished it, in time, from many tables.
Yet it is a savory and not unwholesome article of food in winter, if
the cabbage be boiled in two waters, the second being the “pot liquor”
from the boiling meat. Drain thoroughly in a cullender, pressing out
every drop of water that will flow, without breaking the tender leaves;
and when the meat is dished, lay the cabbage neatly about it, and upon
each quarter a slice of hard-boiled egg.
When you eat, season with pepper, salt, and vinegar.
STUFFED CABBAGE.
Choose for this purpose a large, firm cabbage. Take off the outer
leaves, and lay in boiling water ten minutes, then in very cold. Do
