to the captive lady:--

“Dear Jill,--Sorry you ain’t here. Great fun. Jack pretty lively. Laura
and Lot would send love if they knew of the chance. Fly round and get
well.

“Gus”

“Dear Gilliflower,--Hope you are pretty comfortable in your ‘dungeon
cell.’ Would you like a serenade when the moon comes? Hope you will soon
be up again, for we miss you very much. Shall be very happy to help in
any way I can. Love to your mother. Your true friend,

“E.D.”

“Miss Pecq.

“Dear Madam,--I am happy to tell you that we are all well, and hope
you are the same. I gave Jem Cox a licking because he went to your desk.
You had better send for your books. You won’t have to pay for the sled
or the fence. Jack says he will see to it. We have been having a spread
over here. First-rate things. I wouldn’t mind breaking a leg, if I
had such good grub and no chores to do. No more now, from yours, with
esteem,

“Joseph P. Flint”

Joe thought that an elegant epistle, having copied portions of it from
the “Letter Writer,” and proudly read it off to the boys, who assured
him that Jill would be much impressed.

“Now, Jack, hurry up and let us send the lot off, for we must go,”
 said Gus, as Frank put the letters in the basket, and the clatter of
tea-things was heard below.

“I’m not going to show mine. It’s private and you mustn’t look,”
 answered Jack, patting down an envelope with such care that no one had a
chance to peep.

But Joe had seen the little note copied, and while the others were at
the window working the telegraph he caught up the original, carelessly
thrust by Jack under the pillow, and read it aloud before any one knew
what he was about.

“My Dear,--I wish I could send you some of my good times. As I can’t, I
send you much love, and I hope you will try and be patient as I am going
to, for it was our fault, and we must not make a fuss now. Ain’t mothers
sweet? Mine is coming over to-morrow to see you and tell me how you are.
This round thing is a kiss for good-night.

“Your Jack”

“Isn’t that spoony? You’d better hide your face, I think. He’s getting
to be a regular mollycoddle, isn’t he?” jeered Joe, as the boys laughed,
and then grew sober, seeing Jack’s head buried in the bedclothes, after
sending a pillow at his tormentor.

It nearly hit Mrs. Minot, coming in with her patient’s tea on a tray,
and at sight of her the guests hurriedly took leave, Joe nearly tumbling
downstairs to escape from Frank, who would have followed, if his mother
had not said quickly, “Stay, and tell me what is the matter.”

“Only teasing Jack a bit. Don’t be mad, old boy, Joe didn’t mean any
harm, and it was rather soft, now wasn’t it?” asked Frank, trying to
appease the wounded feelings of his brother.

“I charged you not to worry him. Those boys were too much for the poor
dear, and I ought not to have left him,” said Mamma, as she vainly
endeavored to find and caress the yellow head burrowed so far out of
sight that nothing but one red ear was visible.

“He liked it, and we got on capitally till Joe roughed him about Jill.
Ah, Joe’s getting it now! I thought Gus and Ed would do that little
job for me,” added Frank, running to the window as the sound of stifled
cries and laughter reached him.

The red ear heard also, and Jack popped up his head to ask, with
interest,--

“What are they doing to him?”

“Rolling him in the snow, and he’s howling like fun.”

“Serves him right,” muttered Jack, with a frown. Then, as a wail arose
suggestive of an unpleasant mixture of snow in the mouth and thumps on
the back, he burst out laughing, and said, good-naturedly, “Go and stop
them, Frank; I won’t mind, only tell him it was a mean trick. Hurry! Gus
is so strong he doesn’t know how his pounding hurts.”

Off ran Frank, and Jack told his wrongs to his mother. She sympathized
heartily, and saw no harm in the affectionate little note, which would
please Jill, and help her to bear her trials patiently.

“It isn’t silly to be fond of her, is it? She is so nice and funny, and
tries to be good, and likes me, and I won’t be ashamed of my friends, if
folks do laugh,” protested Jack, with a rap of his teaspoon.

“No, dear, it is quite kind and proper, and I’d rather have you play
with a merry little girl than with rough boys till you are big enough
to hold your own,” answered Mamma, putting the cup to his lips that the
