pathy deepens. 
Out through the woods they go, touching at the river- 
side, then a turn is made townward. Christmas stops at 
Mrs. Longford's, who fortunately is in, and does her er- 
rand satisfactorily. 
"Of course," says Dolly triumphantly, as if she had 
been arguing the case, "they could not have made any 
objection. It is not like a church." 
" Still you would have had no right to use their name 
without their consent," remarks St. George in a gently 
corrective tone. 
" Oh," says Dolly, " or do you mean Christmas? As we 
are neither of us going to act — : but oh, I wish I were ! " 
and her tone changes instantaneously. "I suppose the 
play is all cast," regretfully. 
" The asking is a matter of formal politeness," returns 
Christmas quietly. 
" You never played, did you? " asks Dolly, whose vola- 
tile mind has left the question of proprieties far behind. 
Christmas gives a slow negative with her head. 
" It is just delightful. I was in the prethest little vau- 
deville once at Paris, and I have been in no end of acting 
charades. English people have a passion for them, too. 
We had a play Christmas eve, at Lucia's. Her husband's 
uncle was ill, and they were all so dreadfully afraid he 
would die before we could get through. It was just ele- 
gant. Do you remember that cousin Walter Staular, 
 
 
Leighton? He had a part, and I was the heroine, — a 
pretty Irish girl whom another lover tried to carry oflP. 
There was lots of fun in it." 
" If you did not mind," says Christmas, " we might call 
at Cliff House, and then our part of the affair will be done 
with promptness and success." 
" How business-y I " laughs Dolly, with a flavor of irony. 
No one objects, however, and they take the right-hand 
torn in the road. The front of Cliff House is north- 
easterly, and now it is in the shade and presents a most 
picturesque appearance. It really seems to hang in the 
air amid the hills as they wind around. The broad ve- 
randa is full of easy-chairs, with two hammocks enviously 
interspersed, and groups of guests in white and gay cos- 
tumes are rocking and chatting or lounging. Some one 
within is playing on the piano, accompanied by a flute, 
and the delicious sounds down here in the drive seem a 
component part of the summer. 
Mr. St. George springs out and goes in search of Mrs. 
Brundage, who comes down to the carriage under an azure- 
lined parasol, and expresses her heartiest thanks to Miss 
Ormiston. The gentlemen are to have the tickets printed 
immediately, and there are to be no complimentaries in 
this laudable undertaking. " If we are very much ad- 
mired, we may do something for our friends later in the 
season," declares Mrs. Brundage ; " but we shall rate our 
success by the money we make. That is one of the essen- 
tials of business, is it not?" 
If the inquiry is for Miss Ormiston, Mr. St. Greorge 
intercepts it. 
'' So we men generally think," he replies cordially. 
" And now," when Mrs. Brundage has turned and he is 
stiU standing, " if you will not mind driving home ; for I 
am late, I find." And he glances at his watch. 
" We will go down to the factory for the morning's 
mail," answers Christmas gravely; and he springs in 
again. 
 
 
CHAPTEB XVI. 
WOMEN AKD WOMEN. 
A LONG foreign letter from abroad, and a brief note 
from Mrs. Stannard, are Dolly's portion. 
" Helen is coming to Cliff House for a fortnight," she 
announces, " and I am quite certain it will lengthen out 
indefinitely. She brings up her hcnrses, and that will be 
delightful, and she sends regards to you ; what an im- 
pertinence, she hopes St. Greorge is not really living with 
us." 
A faint flush stains Miss Ormiston's fair brow. 
"Of course," she says, "Mr. St. Greorge is better 
versed in the proprieties." 
" I don't see," begins Dolly in a spirit of contrariety, 
" why there should be anything terrible in your guardian 
making you a visit now and then." 
'' He is not my guardian," is the brief answer. 
" Well, he is something. And he does have to come 
on business. I won't have Helen ordering about. It 
is not her lover." 
Chnstmas makes no comment. 
If Dolly has been childishly amiable during the mcnn- 
ing, she rises from her siesta in a most perverse mood. 
For a wonder no one drops in, and the moments begin to 
hang heavily on the poor butterfly's hands, now that she 
feels well enough to enjoy having incense offered at her 
shrine and finds no one to do it. Even Mrs. Byrne has 
gone to spend the day with her sister. Christmas has 
been reading and dreaming strange troubled dreams for 
her that she tries to dismiss, but that recur with painful 
 
 
