
"Yes," repeated Mr. Southwode, "for a year you must go, I suppose. For a 
year.-- After that, I will not wait any longer. You shall do the rest of 
your studying with me." 

"You know I like that best of all--" she said softly. 

"Perhaps I will take you to Germany." 

"Germany!"-- 

"It is a good place to study German. Or to study anything." 

"Must one go to France too, to study French?" Rotha asked with a nervous 
laugh. 

"We must not be too long away from home. But a year--or till next summer; 
school terms end in summer, do they not?" 

"In June." 

"So, for a year, or for eight months, I shall hardly see you. We must do 
a great deal of talking to-night." 

"Where will you be, Mr. Digby?" Rotha asked timidly, as he took a chair 
beside her. 

"Not far off; but for this interval I shall choose to play the part of 
guardian, rather than that of lover, before the eyes of the world." 

"O yes, indeed!" said Rotha earnestly. "For every reason." 

"All the more, I am not going to play the part of guardian to-night. 
Rotha I think now, it would be as well to return to Mrs. Mowbray for 
these eight months. Would you like that?" 

"O I shall like it very much! if you like it." 

"Things are changed, since we talked about it this afternoon." 

"Yes!--" said Rotha breathless. And there was something she wanted to 
say, but at that minute she could not say it. For that minute she could 
not disturb the sweetness of things as they were. Scruples must wait. 
Mr. Southwode saw that she was a little disturbed, shy and nervous, 
albeit there was no doubt that she was very happy. He stretched out his 
hand and took hers, holding it in a fast steady clasp; as if to assure 
her of something tangible and real in her new happiness. "Now," said 
he, "tell me about yourself--about all these years." 

"I did tell you, in part." 

"Yes. Tell me the other part. I want to have the whole now." 

"It would just--annoy you, I am afraid." 

"What sort of a home did you have with your aunt?" 

"Not pleasant. That was partly my own fault. I was not patient and 
gentle and quiet--as you told me to be. I got into a kind of a fury, at 
things and at her." 

"What did she do?" 

And then Rotha told him the whole story, not sparing herself at all by 
the way; till he knew pretty well what her life had been these three 
years, and what part Mrs. Mowbray and what part Mrs. Busby had played in 
it. Only one thing Rotha did not tell him; the episode of the stockings. 
He listened in absolute silence, save that now and then he helped her on 
with a question; holding her hand firmly all the while. And Rotha felt 
the clasp and knew what it meant, and poured out her heart. After she had 
done, he was still silent a minute. 

"What shall we do to Mrs. Mowbray!" he broke out. 

"You cannot do anything to her," said Rotha. "Thanks are nothing; and 
there is no way of doing the least thing beside;--unless she could be 
very ill and left to my care; and I do not wish that." 

"Perhaps she will give up schooling some day; and we will coax her over 
to England and make her live with us." 

Rotha started and turned upon the speaker one of her brilliant looks. A 
sort of delight at the thought, and admiration of his thought, with a 
flush of intense affection which regarded at least two people, made her 
face like a cluster of diamonds. Mr. Southwode smiled, and then began to 
talk about that home to which he had alluded. He described it to Rotha; 
sketched the plan of the house for her; told her about the people of the 
surrounding country. The house was not magnificent or stately, he said; 
but large, comfortable, old, and rather picturesque in appearance; 
standing in the midst of extensive and very lovely grounds, where art had 
not interfered with nature. He told Rotha he thought she would like it. 

Rotha's eyes fell; she made no answer, but was he thought very grave. He 
went on to tell her about himself and his business. He, and his father 
and grandfather before him, had been owners of a large manufacturing 
establishment, the buildings of which made almost a village some three 
miles from the house, and the workmen in which were very many. 

"Isn't that troublesome often?" Rotha asked, forgetting herself now. 

