marriage of ambition ? I have only one ambition to be free to 
follow out a good feeling. I had others once ; but they have 
passed away. Do you complain of Mr. Osmond because he is 
not rich? That is just what I like him for. I have fortunately 
money enough ; I have never felt so thankful for it as to-day. 
There have been moments when I should like to go and kneel 
down by your father's grave ; he did perhaps a better thing than 
he knew when he put it into my power to marry a poor man a 
man who has borne his poverty with such dignity, with such 
indifference, Mr. Osmond has never scrambled nor struggled 
he has cared for no worldly prize. If that is to be narrow, if 
that is to be selfish, then it's very well. I am not frightened by 
such words, I am not even displeased ; I am only sorry that you 
should make a mistake. Others might have done so, but I am 
surprised that you should. You might know a gentleman when 
you see one you might know a fine mind. Mr. Osmond makes 
no mistakes ! He knows everything, he understands everything, 
l e has the kindest, gentlest, highest spirit. You have got hold 
of some false idea ; it's a pity, but I can't help it ; it regards you 
more than me." Isabel paused a moment, looking at her cousin 
with an eye illuminated , by a sentiment which contradicted the 
careful calmness of her manner a mingled sentiment, to which 
the angry pain excited by his words and the wounded pride of 
having needed to justify a choice of which she felt only the 
nobleness and purity, equally contributed. Though she paused, 
Ralph said nothing ; he saw she had more to say. She was 
superb, but she was eai er ; she was indifferent, but she was 
secretly trembling. " What sort of a person should you have 
liked me to marry? " she asked, suddenly. " You talk about 
one's soaring and sailing, but if one marries at all one touches 
the earth. One has human feelings and needs, one has a heart 
in one's bosom, and one must marry a particular individual. 
Your mother has never forgiven me for not having come to a 
better understanding with Lord Warburton, and she is horrified 
at my contenting myself with a person who has none of Lord 
Warburton's great advantages no property, no title, no honours, 
no houses, nor lands, nor position, nor reputation, nor brilliant 
belongings of any sort. It is the total absence of all these 
bhings that pleases me. Mr. Osmond is simply a man he is 
aor. a proprietor ! " 
Ralph had listened with great attention, as if everything she 
said merited deep consideration ; but in reality he was only half 
 
thinking of the things she said, he was for the rest simply- 
accommodating himself to the weight of his total impression 
the impression of her  passionate good faith. She was wrong, 
but she believed; she was deluded, but she was consistent. It 
was wonderfully characteristic of her that she had invented a 
fine theory about Gilbert Osmond, and loved him, not for what 
he really possessed, but for his very poverties dressed out as 
honours. Ralph remembered what he had said to his father 
about wishing to put it into Isabel's power to gratify her imagin- 
ation. He had done so, and the girl had taken full advantage 
of the privilege. Poor Ralph felt sick ; he felt ashamed. Isabel 
had uttered her last words with a low solemnity of conviction 
which virtually terminated the discussion, and she closed it 
formally by turning away and walking back to the house. 
Ralph walked beside her. and they passed into the court to- 
gether and reached the big staircase. Here Ralph stopped, and 
Isabel paused, turning on him a face full of a deep elation at 
his opposition having made her own conception of her conduct 
more clear to her. 
" Shall you not come up to breakfast? " she asked. 
" No ; I want no breakfast, I am not hungry." 
" You ought to eat," said the girl ; "you live on air." 
" I do, very much, and I shall go back into the garden and 
take another mouthful of it. I came thus far simply to say this. 
I said to you last year that if you were to get into trouble I 
should feel terribly sold. That's how I feel to-day." 
" Do you think I am in trouble   " 
" One is in trouble when one is in error." 
"Very well," said Isabel; "I shall never complain of my 
trouble to you ! " And she moved up the staircase. 
Ralph, standing there with his hands in his pockets, followed 
her with his eyes ; then the lurking chill of the high-walled 
court struck him and made him shiver, so that he returned to 
the garden, to breakfast on the Florentine sunshine. 
XXXY. 
ISABEL, when she strolled in the Cascine with her lover, felt 
no impulse to tell him that he was not thought well of at the 
Palazzo Crescentini. The discreet opposition offered to her 
marriage by her aunt and her cousin made on the whole 
little impression upon her ; the moral of it was simply that they 
disliked Gilbert Osmond. This dislike was not alarming to 
Isabel ; she scarcely even regretted it ; for it served mainly to 
throw into higher relief the fact, in every way so honourable, that 
she married to please herself. One did other things to please 
other people ; one did this for a more personal satisfaction ; and 
Isabel's satisfaction was confirmed by her lover's admirable good 
conduct. Gilbert Osmond was in love, and he had .never 
deserved less than during these still, bright days, each of them 
numbered, which preceded the fulfilment of his hopes, the harsh 
criticism passed upon him by Ealph Touchett. The chief 
impression produced upon Isabel's mind by this criticism was 
that the passion of love separated its victim terribly from every 
one but the loved object. She felt herself disjoined from every 
one she had ever known before from her two sisters, who wrote 
to express a dutiful hope that she would be happy, and a sur- 
prise, somewhat more vague, at her not having chosen a consort 
who was the hero of a richer accumulation of anecdote ; from 
