"I beg you will not feel under any obligation to us, for we are sort of
sea-knights, roaming about in quest of adventures; and we were very
glad of the opportunity to render you and others any assistance. I
believe you and your family were in no particular danger."

"I don't know about that, my young captain," replied the planter,
shaking his head. "My mansion is surrounded with verandahs, and the
water was beginning to lift it off its foundations."

I took my glass and looked at the house. One end of it appeared to be
lifted up.

"I would not have staid in it two hours more for half the state. I have
been through three inundations before, and I know something about
them," replied the planter. "I hope I shall see more of you."

As we came up to the Islander, the passengers of both vessels, on board
of her, began to clap their hands. I was embarrassed by this
demonstration, and after asking Washburn to see that we were made fast
to our consort, I sat down in the pilot-house where they could not see
me.




CHAPTER XXVII.

THE PLANTER AND HIS FAMILY.


I was quite exhausted after my efforts and the strain put upon me, and
I was in no humor even to be praised. Some of the negroes our boats
picked up on planks and on their toppling houses might have been
drowned; but I did not believe the people in the mansion-houses were in
any great danger. However, I had never seen an inundation before, and I
may have been mistaken. My father was one of the first to visit me in
the pilot-house.

"You have done well, Alick," said he; and that was all he did say, for
he was not given to praising any one beyond his desert. "What are you
going to do with all these people?"

"We can land them, or put them on board of one of the steamers here," I
replied; and I had not thought of the matter before.

"Mrs. Shepard is very nervous indeed, and is anxious to get away from
this place," continued my father.

"The Islander might have gone on," I suggested.

"We could not leave until assured that you did not need the assistance
of the other steamer. We were about to send a line to you and attach it
to one of the steamers. The only trouble was to get a line long enough
and strong enough."

While we were talking Colonel Hungerford came into the pilot-house. I
introduced him to my father, and the planter indulged in more praise
which I do not care to repeat. He informed me that he had chartered one
of the river steamers to take his servants and those of the other
planters down to Carrollton, a few miles below.

"I am now going on board of another steamer to inquire if she is bound
up the river, for I have concluded to visit my brother at Baton Rouge.
But I suppose my mansion will not be fit to live in for some weeks to
come, if ever. I desire to know your address, Captain Alick,--excuse
me, but that is what I hear others call you,--that I may communicate
with you at some future time."

"Quite unnecessary," said my father, with a smile, as though he
suspected the object of the inquiry.

"But I desire to express my sense of obligation to your son for the
great service he has rendered me and my family," persisted the planter.

"You have done that already, sir, to my entire satisfaction," I added.

"You are very strange people, not to allow me to do something."

"We are decidedly averse to having anything done," replied my father,
laughing, not because anything was funny, but to prevent the southern
gentleman from taking offence at what he said. "My son owns and
commands this yacht, and I dare say he will be glad to have you take
passage in his steamer to Baton Rouge, or any other point on the river
in our route."

"I shall be most happy to accept your very kind invitation," replied
Colonel Hungerford, promptly.

By this time the steamer he had engaged to take his "people," as he
called them, like one of the patriarchs of old, came alongside. The
four planters had a consultation, as to what disposition should be made
of the servants, and the business manager of one of them was appointed
to take the entire charge of the party. The other planters were going
to New Orleans, and the same steamer was to convey them there.

In less than half an hour the boat started, and we restored things to
their former condition on board of the Sylvania and Islander. We lashed
boats again, and restored the bridge from one vessel to the other. All
hands were employed in cleaning up the Sylvania; and I asked Captain
Blastblow not to allow any of his passengers or crew to come on board
