flushed,--“and a person was very sick, and wanted you to consult with
another doctor, whether you would let the mere fact that you had n’t
been introduced have any weight with you?” The young man silently
appealed to Grace, who darkened angrily, and before he could speak Mrs.
Maynard interposed. “No, no, you sha’n’t ask her. I want your opinion.
It’s just an abstract question.” She accounted for this fib with a wink
at Grace.
“Really,” he said, “it’s rather formidable. I’ve never been a doctor of
any kind.”
“Oh, yes, we know that!” said Mrs. Maynard. “But you are now, and now
would you do it?”
“If the other fellow knew more, I would.”
“But if you thought he did n’t?”
“Then I wouldn’t. What are you trying to get at, Mrs. Maynard? I’m not
going to answer any more of your questions.”
“Yes,--one more. Don’t you think it’s a doctor’s place to get his
patient well any way he can?”
“Why, of course!”
“There, Grace! It’s just exactly the same case. And ninety-nine out of a
hundred would decide against you every time.”
Libby turned towards Grace in confusion. “Miss Breen--I did n’t
understand--I don’t presume to meddle in anything--You’re not fair, Mrs.
Maynard! I have n’t any opinion on the subject, Miss Breen; I haven’t,
indeed!”
“Oh, you can’t back out, now!” exclaimed Mrs. Maynard joyously. “You’ve
said it.”
“And you’re quite right, Mr. Libby,” said Grace haughtily. She bade him
good-morning; but he followed her from the room, and left Mrs. Maynard
to her triumph.
“Miss Breen--Do let me speak to you, please! Upon my word and honor,
I didn’t know what she was driving at; I did n’t, indeed! It’s pretty
rough on me, for I never dreamt of setting myself up as a judge of your
affairs. I know you’re right, whatever you think; and I take it all
back; it was got out of me by fraud, any way. And I beg your pardon for
not calling you Doctor--if you want me to do it. The other comes more
natural; but I wish to recognize you in the way you prefer, for I do
feel most respectul--reverent--”
He was so very earnest and so really troubled, and he stumbled about
so for the right word, and hit upon the wrong one with such unfailing
disaster, that she must have been superhuman not to laugh. Her laughing
seemed to relieve him even more than her hearty speech. “Call me how you
like, Mr. Libby. I don’t insist upon anything with you; but I believe I
prefer Miss Breen.”
“You’re very kind! Miss Breen it is, then. And you’ll, forgive my siding
against you?” he demanded radiantly.
“Don’t speak of that again, please. I’ve nothing to forgive you.”
They walked down-stairs and out on the piazza. Barlow stood before the
steps, holding by the bit a fine bay mare, who twitched her head round
a little at the sound of Libby’s voice, and gave him a look. He passed
without noticing the horse. “I’m glad to find Mrs. Maynard so well. With
that cold of hers, hanging on so long, I didn’t know but she’d be in an
awful state this morning.”
“Yes,” said Grace, “it’s a miraculous escape.”
“The fact is I sent over to New Leyden for my team yesterday. I did n’t
know how things might turn out, and you’re so far from a lemon here,
that I thought I might be useful in going errands.”
Grace turned her head and glanced at the equipage. “Is that your team?”
“Yes,” said the young fellow, with a smile of suppressed pride.
“What an exquisite creature!” said the girl.
“ISN’T she?” They both faced about, and stood looking at the mare,
and the light, shining, open buggy behind her. The sunshine had the
after-storm glister; the air was brisk, and the breeze blew balm from
the heart of the pine forest. “Miss Breen,” he broke out, “I wish you’d
take a little dash through the woods with me. I’ve got a broad-track
buggy, that’s just right for these roads. I don’t suppose it’s the thing
at all to ask you, on such short acquaintance, but I wish you would. I
know you’d enjoy it: Come?”
His joyous urgence gave her a strange thrill. She had long ceased
to imagine herself the possible subject of what young ladies call
attentions, and she did not think of herself in that way now. There
was something in the frank, eager boyishness of the invitation that
fascinated her, and the sunny face turned so hopefully upon her had its
amusing eloquence. She looked about the place with an anxiety of which
she was immediately ashamed: all the ladies were out of sight, and
probably at the foot of the cliff.
“Don’t say no, Miss Breen,” pleaded the gay voice.
The answer seemed to come of itself. “Oh, thank you, yes, I should like
to go.”
“Good!” he exclaimed, and the word which riveted her consent made her
recoil.
“But not this morning. Some other day. I--I--I want to think about Mrs.
Maynard. I--ought n’t to leave her. Excuse me this morning, Mr. Libby.”
“Why, of course,” he tried to say with unaltered gayety, but a note of
disappointment made itself felt. “Do you think she’s going to be worse?”
“No, I don’t think she is. But--” She paused, and waited a space before
she continued. “I ‘m afraid I can’t be of use to her any longer. She has
lost confidence in me--It’s important she should trust her physician.”
 Libby blushed, as he always did when required to recognize Grace in her
professional quality. “It’s more a matter of nerves than anything else,
and if she does n’t believe in me I can’t do her any good.”
“Yes, I can understand that,” said the young man, with gentle sympathy;
and she felt, somehow, that he delicately refrained from any leading or
prompting comment.
“She has been urging me to have a consultation with some doctor about
her case, and I--it would be ridiculous!”
“Then I would n’t do it!” said Mr. Libby. “You know a great deal better
what she wants than she does. You had better make her, do what you say.”
“I didn’t mean to burden you with my affairs,” said Grace, “but I wished
to explain her motive in speaking to you as she did.” After she had said
this, it seemed to her rather weak, and she could not think of anything
