Jane Grey; though the spirits of the princesses were 
rather subdued by the mighty stroke that had fallen 
upon the royal house; and at the end of the visit 
his “elder sister” — afterward the “Bloody Mary” 
of history — chilled him with a solemn interview 
which had but one merit in his eyes, its brevity. 
He had a few moments to himself, and then a slim 
lad of about twelve years of age was admitted to his 
presence, whose clothing, except his snowy ruff and 
the laces about his wrists, was of black — doublet, 
hose and all. He bore no badge of mourning but a 
knot of purple ribbon on his shoulder. He ad- 
vanced hesitatingly, with head bowed and bare, and 
dropped upon one knee in front of Tom. Tom sat 
still and contemplated him soberly for a moment. 
Then he said: 

“Rise, lad. Who art thou? What wouldst have?” 

The boy rose, and stood at graceful ease, but with 
an aspect of concern in his face. He said: 

“Of a surety thou must remember me, my lord. 
I am thy whipping-boy.” 

*'My whipping-hoy?" 

“The same, your grace. I am Humphrey— 
Humphrey Marlow.” 

Tom perceived that here was some one whom his 
keepers ought to have posted him about. The 
situation was delicate. What should he do? — pre- 
tend he knew this lad, and then betray, by his every 
utterance, that he had never heard of him before? 
No, that would not do. An idea came to his relief : 
accidents like this might be likely to happen with 
some frequency, now that business urgencies would 
often call Hertford and St. John from his side, they 
being members of the council of executors; there- 
fore perhaps it would be well to strike out a plan 
himself to meet the requirements of such emergen- 
cies. Yes, that would be a wise course — he would 
practise on this boy, and see what sort of success he 
might achieve. So he stroked his brow, perplexedly, 
a moment or two, and presently said; 

“Now I seem to remember thee somewhat — but 
my wit is clogged and dim with suffering — ” 

“Alack, my poor master!” ejaculated the whip- 
ping-boy, with feeling; adding, to himself, “In 
truth ’tis as they said — his mind is gone — alas, 
poor soul! But misfortune catch me, how am I 
forgetting! they said one must not seem to observe 
that aught is wrong with him.” 

“’Tis strange how my memory doth wanton with 
me these days,” said Tom. “But mind it not — 
mend apace — a. little clue doth often serve to bring 
me back again the things and names which had 
escaped me. [And not they, only, forsooth, but 


e’en such as I ne’er heard before — as this lad shall 
see.] Give thy business speech.” 

“’Tis matter of small weight, my liege, yet will I 
touch upon it, an it please your grace. Two days 
gone by, when your majesty faulted thrice in your 
Greek — in the morning lessons — dost remember 
it?” 

“Ye-e-s — methinks I do. [It is not much of a 
lie — an I had meddled with the Greek at all, I had 
not faulted simply thrice, but forty times.] Yes, I 
do recall it now — go on.” 

— “The master, being wroth with what he termed 
such slovenly and doltish work, did promise that he 
would soundly whip me for it — and — ” 

“Whip theeJ” said Tom, astonished out of his 
presence of mind. “Why should he whip thee for 
faults of mine?” 

“Ah, your grace forgetteth again. He always 
scourgeth me, when thou dost fail in thy les- 
sons,” 

“True, true — had forgot. Thou teachest me 
in private — then if I fail, he argueth that thy office 
was lamely done, and — ” 

“Oh, my liege, what words are these? I, the 
humblest of thy servants, presume to teach thee?” 

“Then where is thy blame? What riddle is this? 
Am I in truth gone mad, or is it thou? Explain — 
speak out.” 
