account, I beg. In fact, the sooner you leave the better it will please
me."
Bill Mosely, who didn't fancy Dewey's sarcasm, frowned fiercely and
turned again to Ki Sing. "Will you show us or not?" he demanded.
"Velly solly," said Ki Sing, with a childish smile, "but Dickee Dewee
won't let me."
With an oath Mosely sprang to the doorway and tried to clutch the
Chinaman, when the latter slid to one side and Jake Bradley confronted
him.
"You'd better begin with me, Bill Mosely," he said.
CHAPTER IX.
BRADLEY'S SIGNAL VICTORY.
Bill Mosely started back as if he had seen a rattlesnake, and stared at
Jake Bradley in mingled surprise and dismay.
"You didn't expect to see me, I reckon?" said Bradley, dryly.
Mosely still stared at him, uncertain what to say or what to do.
"I take it very kind of you to bring back the hosses you borrowed a few
weeks since. You took 'em rather sudden, without askin' leave; it was a
kind of oversight on your part."
"I don't know what you mean," answered Mosely, determined to brazen it
out and keep the horses if possible, for he was lazy and a pedestrian
tramp would not have suited him very well.
"You know what I mean well enough, Bill Mosely. If you don't, them
mustangs outside may refresh your recollection. They look kinder fagged
out. You've worked 'em too hard, Mosely."
"Those mustangs are ours. We bought 'em," said Mosely, boldly.--"Didn't
we, Tom?"
"I should say so," remarked Hadley, with striking originality.
"That's a lie, Tom," remarked Bradley, calmly, "and you know it as well
as I do."
"Are we goin' to stand that, Tom?" blustered Mosely, whose courage was
beginning to revive, as he had thus far only seen Bradley, and
considered that the odds were two to one in his favor. Of course the
Chinaman counted for nothing.
Tom Hadley looked a little doubtful, for he could see that the enemy,
though apparently single-handed, was a man of powerful frame and
apparently fearless even to recklessness. He had a strong suspicion that
Bill Mosely was a coward and would afford him very little assistance in
the event of a scrimmage.
"If you can't stand it," said Bradley, "sit down, if you want to."
Thus far, Richard Dewey had remained silent, but he wished to
participate in the defence of their property if there should be need,
and of course must be released first.
"Jake," said he, "these fellows have tied me hand and foot. They
couldn't have done it if I had not been partially disabled. Send in Ki
Sing to cut the cords."
"They dared to tie you?" said Bradley, sternly.--"Mosely, what was that
for?"
"To remove one obstacle in the way of plunder," Dewey answered for them.
"They're not only hoss-thieves, but thieves through and through. Since
they tied you, they must untie you.--Mosely, go and cut the cords."
"I am not a slave to be ordered round," returned Mosely, haughtily.
"What are you, then?"
"A gentleman."
"Then you'll be a dead gentleman in less than a minute if you don't do
as I tell you."
As he spoke he drew out his revolver and levelled it at Mosely.
The latter turned pale. "Don't handle that we'pon so careless,
stranger," he said. "It might go off."
"So it might--as like as not," answered Bradley, calmly.
"Put it up," said Mosely, nervously.--"Tom, just cut them cords."
"Tom, you needn't do it.--Mosely, you're the man for that duty. Do you
hear?"
Bill Mosely hesitated. He didn't like to yield and be humiliated before
the man over whom he had retained so long an ascendency.
"You'd better be quick about it," said Bradley, warningly. "This here
we'pon goes off terrible easily. I don't want to shoot you, but there
might be an accident. I've killed twenty-one men with it already. You'll
be the twenty-second."
That was hint enough. Pride gave way, and Bill Mosely knelt down and cut
the cords which confined Dewey, and the invalid, with a sense of relief,
sat up on his pallet and watched the conference.
"There! are you satisfied?" asked Mosely, sullenly.
"It'll do as far as it goes, Mosely," said Bradley. "I wouldn't advise
you to try any more of them tricks."
He lowered his weapon, and was about to replace it, when Mosely, who had
made a secret sign to his companion, sprang forward simultaneously with
Tom Hadley and seized the intrepid Bradley.
The attack was sudden, and also unexpected, for Bradley had such a
contempt for the prowess of William Mosely that he had not supposed him
capable of planning or carrying out so bold an attack. It must be
admitted that he was taken at disadvantage, and might have been
temporarily overpowered, for Tom Hadley was strong, and Mosely, though a
coward, was nerved by desperation.
Richard Dewey saw his friend's danger, but, unhappily, he had no weapon
at hand.
But help was not long in coming.
Concealed by the walls of the cabin, Ben had heard all that had been
said, and observed the attack upon his comrade.
He did not hesitate a moment, but sprang forward and showed himself at
Bradley's side.
"Let him go, or I'll shoot," he exclaimed in a tone of command, pointing
at Mosely the twin brother of the revolver which Bradley owned.
"Confusion!" ejaculated Mosely, in fresh dismay.
"Let go," repeated Ben, firmly.
Bill Mosely released Bradley, and the latter threw off the grasp of Tom
Hadley.
"Now," said he, as standing side by side with Ben he confronted the two
thieves, "shall we shoot?"
"No, no," said Mosely, nervously.
