should wait and see whether it really was the fisherman's home. "It will
be another small point settled," she said. "We can conceal our boat, and
keep watch in the woods. As he has my money, he will probably come home
soon, and very likely go directly down to the village to spend it: that
is always the way with such shiftless creatures."
They landed, hid the boat in a little bay among the reeds some distance
below the cabin, and then stole back through the woods until they came
within sight of its door. There, standing concealed behind two tree
trunks, they waited, neither speaking nor stirring. Miss Lois was right
in her conjecture: within a quarter of an hour the fisherman came down
the river from the lake, stopped at the house, brought out a jug, placed
it in his dug-out; then, relocking the door, he paddled by them down the
river. They waited some minutes without stirring. Then Miss Lois stepped
from her hiding-place.
"Whiskey!" she said. "And my money pays for the damnable stuff!" This
reflection kept her silent while they returned to the skiff; but when
they were again afloat, she sighed and yielded it as a sacrifice to the
emergencies of the quest. Returning to the former subject, she held
forth as follows: "It is something, Ruth, but not all. We must not hope
too much. What is it? A man lives up the river, and owns a boat; he is
left-handed, and has cushions of flesh under his finger-tips: that is
the whole. For we can scarcely count as evidence the fact that he is as
ugly as a stump fence, such men being not uncommon in the world, and
often pious as well. We must do nothing hurriedly, and make no
inquiries, lest we scare the game--if it is game. To-morrow is
market-day; he will probably be in the village with fish to sell, and
the best way will be for me to find out quietly who his associates are,
by using my eyes and not my tongue. His associates, if he has any, might
next be tackled, through their wives, perhaps. Maybe they do sewing,
some of them; in that case, we could order something, and so get to
speaking terms. There's my old challis, which I have had dyed black--it
might be made over, though I was going to do it myself. And now do row
home, Ruth; I'm dropping for my tea. This exploring work is powerfully
wearing on the nerves."
The next day she went to the village.
Anne, finding herself uncontrollably restless, went down and unfastened
the skiff, with the intention of rowing awhile to calm her excited
fancies. She went up the river for a mile or two. Her mind had fastened
itself tenaciously upon the image of the fisherman, and would not loosen
its hold. She imagined him stealing up the stairway and leaning over
Helen; then escaping with his booty, running through the meadow, and
hiding it in his boat, probably the same old black dug-out she had seen.
And then, while she was thinking of him, she came suddenly upon him,
sitting in his dug-out, not ten feet distant, fishing. Miss Lois had
been mistaken in her surmise: he was not in the village, but here.
There had not been a moment of preparation for Anne; yet in the
emergency coolness came. Resting on her oars, she spoke: "Have you any
fish to-day?"
He shook his head, and held up one. "That's all," he said, drawing his
hand over his mouth by way of preparation for conversation.
"I should not think there would be as many fish here as in the lake,"
she continued, keeping her boat at a distance by a slight motion of her
oars.
"When the wind blows hard, there's more in the river," he answered.
"Wind blows to-day."
Was she mistaken? Had he given a sound of d to th?
"But the water of the lake must be colder," she said, hardly able to
pronounce the word herself.
"Yes, in places where it's deep. But it's mostly shaller."
"How cold is it? Very cold?" (Was she saying "gold" too?)
"No, not very, this time o' year. But cold enough in April."
"What?"
"Cold enough in April," replied the fisherman, his small eyes gazing at
her with increasing approbation.
He had given the sound of g to the c. The pulses in Anne's throat
and temples were throbbing so rapidly now that she could not speak.
"I could bring yer some fish to-morrer, I reckon," said the man, making
a clicking sound with his teeth as he felt a bite and then lost it.
She nodded, and began to turn the boat.
"Where do you live?" he called, as the space between them widened.
She succeeded in pronouncing the name of her hostess, and then rowed
round the curve out of sight, trying not to betray her tremulous haste
and fear. All the way home she rowed with the strength of a giantess,
not knowing how she was exerting herself until she began to walk through
the meadow toward the house, when she found her limbs failing her. She
reached her room with an effort, and locking her door, threw herself
down on a couch to wait for Miss Lois. It was understood in the house
that "poor Miss Young" had one of her "mathematical headaches."
CHAPTER XXXIX.
    "God made him; therefore let him pass for a man."
    --SHAKSPEARE.
When Miss Lois returned, and saw Anne's face, she was herself stirred to
excitement. "You have seen him!" she said, in a whisper.
"Yes. He is the murderer: I feel it."
"Did he say 'gold'?"
"He did."
They sat down on the couch together, and in whispers Anne told all. Then
they looked at each other.
"We must work as lightly as thistle-down," said Miss Lois, "or we shall
lose him. He was not in the village to-day, and as he was not, I thought
it safer not to inquire about him. I am glad now that I did not. But you
are in a high fever, dear child. This suspense must be brought to an
end, or it will kill you." She put her arms round Anne and kissed her
fondly--an unusual expression of feeling from Miss Lois, who had been
brought up in the old-fashioned rigidly undemonstrative New England
manner. And the girl put her head down upon her old friend's shoulder
and clung to her. But she could not weep; the relief of tears was not
yet come.
In the morning they saw the fisherman at the foot of the meadow, and
watched him through the blinds, breathlessly. He was so much and so
