funeral, coming home one afternoon from a walk in the cold, she found
her fire had died out; and she went into the next room to warm herself.
There she saw none of the usual inmates. Mrs. Armadale's chair stood on
one side the fire, unoccupied, and on the other side stood uncle Tim
Hotchkiss.
"How do you do, Mr. Hotchkiss? May I come and warm myself? I have been
out, and I am half-frozen."
"I guess you're welcome to most anything in this house, ma'am,--and
fire we wouldn't grudge to anybody. Sit down, ma'am;" and he set a
chair for her. "It's pretty tight weather."
"We had nothing like this last winter," said Mrs. Barclay, shivering.
"We expect to hev one or two snaps in the course of the winter," said
Mr. Hotchkiss. "Shampuashuh ain't what you call a cold place; but we
expect to see them two snaps. It comes seasonable this time. I'd
rayther hev it now than in March. My sister--that's gone,--she could
always tell you how the weather was goin' to be. I've never seen no one
like her for that."
"Nor for some other things," said Mrs. Barclay. "It is a sad change to
feel her place empty."
"Ay," said uncle Tim, with a glance at the unused chair,--"it's the
difference between full and empty. 'I went out full, and the Lord has
brought me back empty', Ruth's mother-in-law said."
"Who is Ruth?" Mrs. Barclay asked, a little bewildered, and willing to
change the subject; for she noticed a suppressed quiver in the hard
features. "Do I know her?"
"I mean Ruth the Moabitess. Of course you know her. She was a poor
heathen thing, but she got all right at last. It was her mother-in-law
that was bitter. Well--troubles hadn't ought to make us bitter. I guess
there's allays somethin' wrong when they do."
"Hard to help it, sometimes," said Mrs. Barclay.
"She wouldn't ha' let you say that," said the old man, indicating
sufficiently by his accent of whom he was speaking. "There warn't no
bitterness in her; and she had seen trouble enough! She's out o' it
now."
"What will the girls do? Stay on and keep the house here just as they
have done?"
"Well, I don' know," said Mr. Hotchkiss, evidently glad to welcome a
business question, and now taking a chair himself. "Mrs. Marx and me,
we've ben arguin' that question out, and it ain't decided. There's one
big house here, and there's another where Mrs. Marx lives; and there's
one little family, and here's another little family. It's expensive to
scatter over so much ground. They had ought to come to Mrs. Marx, or
she had ought to move in here, and then the other house could be
rented. That's how the thing looks to me. It's expensive for five
people to take two big houses to live in. I know, the girls have got
you now; but they might not keep you allays; and we must look at things
as they be."
"I must leave them in the spring," said Mrs. Barclay hastily.
"In the spring, must ye!"
"Must," she repeated. "I would like to stay here the rest of my life;
but circumstances are imperative. I must go in the spring."
"Then I think that settles it," said Mr. Hotchkiss. "I'm glad to know
it. That is! of course I'm sorry ye're goin'; the girls be very fond of
you."
"And I of them," said Mrs. Barclay; "but I must go."
After that, she waited for the chance of a talk with Lois. She waited
not long. The household had hardly settled down into regular ways again
after the disturbance of sickness and death, when Lois came one evening
at twilight into Mrs. Barclay's room. She sat down, at first was
silent, and then burst into tears. Mrs. Barclay let her alone, knowing
that for her just now the tears were good. And the woman who had seen
so much heavier life-storms, looked on almost with a feeling of envy at
the weeping which gave so simple and frank expression to grief. Until
this feeling was overcome by another, and she begged Lois to weep no
more.
"I do not mean it--I did not mean it," said Lois, drying her eyes. "It
is ungrateful of me; for we have so much to be thankful for. I am so
glad for grandmother!"--Yet somehow the tears went on falling.
"Glad?"--repeated Mrs. Barclay doubtfully. "You mean, because she is
out of her suffering."
"She did not suffer much. It is not that. I am so glad to think she has
got home!"
"I suppose," said Mrs. Barclay in a constrained voice, "to such a
person as your grandmother, death has no fear. Yet life seems to me
more desirable."
"She has entered into life!" said Lois. "She is where she wanted to be,
and with what she loved best. And I am very, very glad! even though I
do cry."
"How can you speak with such certain'ty, Lois? I know, in such a case
as that of your grandmother, there could be no fear; and yet I do not
see how you can speak as if you knew where she is, and with whom."
"Only because the Bible tells us," said Lois, smiling even through wet
eyes. "Not the place; it does not tell us the place; but with Christ.
That they are; and that is all we want to know.
   'Beyond the sighing and the weeping.'
--It makes me gladder than ever I can tell you, to think of it."
"Then what are those tears for, my dear?"
"It's the turning over a leaf," said Lois sadly, "and that is always
sorrowful. And I have lost--uncle Tim says," she broke off suddenly,
"he says,--can it be?--he says you say you must go from us in the
spring?"
"That is turning over another leaf," said Mrs. Barclay.
"But is it true?"
"Absolutely true. Circumstances make it imperative. It is not my wish.
I would like to stay here with you all my life."
"I wish you could. I half hoped you would," said Lois wistfully.
"But I cannot, my dear. I cannot."
"Then that is another thing over," said Lois. "What a good time it has
been, this year and a half you have been with us! how much worth to
Madge and me! But won't you come back again?"
