CHAPTER X.
THE MISSISQUOI IN PURSUIT.
Of course Dory Dornwood had no suspicion of what had transpired on shore
since he departed in the Goldwing. The hunger of the other members of
the club reminded him that he might make a long passage to Burlington,
or that he might be compelled to lie at anchor for a whole day before it
was safe to cross the lake in the present state of the weather. He might
be hungry himself as well as his companions, and he had not thought to
lay in a stock of provisions for the voyage.
For this reason he was all the more willing to land at Plattsburgh. He
hoisted the reefed mainsail again, and directed a couple of the party to
get up the anchor. The Goldwing darted off at a furious rate, as she had
before, when the fresh breeze filled her sails. She took the wind on her
quarter at first; but Dory soon braced her up as she rounded the
southerly beacon at the end of the breakwater, and headed the boat for
the main shore.
"How does she work now, Dory?" asked Thad when the boat was on her
course. "Does she carry a lee helm?"
"Not at all. It takes all my strength to keep her from luffing up,"
replied the skipper.
"There's another new word," added Corny Minkfield. "What in the world
does 'luffing up' mean?"
"'To luff' is to come into the wind. I mean by that, to turn the head of
the boat in the direction from which the wind comes," replied Dory. "But
what she does under her present sail don't settle the question. I took
the bonnet off the jib before I left the wharf this morning."
"The bonnet!" shouted Corny. "Does the boat wear a bonnet?"
"Of course she does. You never made the mistake of putting a boat in the
masculine gender. You always say 'she' in speaking of a boat; and of
course she wears a bonnet when she goes out."
"But when the weather is bad you take the bonnet off; and that is not
the way the ladies do," suggested Thad.
"In rough weather the bonnet makes it all the rougher," added Dory. "The
bonnet is a continuation of the jib, laced to the lower part of the
sail. Taking off the bonnet amounts to the same thing as reefing the
sail."
"Reefing the sail is taking in a part of the sheet by tying it up in a
fold," said Nat Long, looking very wise.
"Not much!" answered the skipper.
"That's what my father told me; and he is a deck-hand on board of the
Champlain," persisted Nat.
"I don't believe he said any thing of the kind, Nat. Taking up a part of
the sheet by tying it into a fold would be a queer operation. Do you run
away with the idea that the jib is a sheet?"
"I don't run away with the idea; but of course a sail is a sheet."
"Not at all. This is a sheet," answered Dory, raising the main sheet,
the end of which he held in his left hand, while he steered with his
right.
"How can that be a sheet when it is a rope?" demanded Nat incredulously.
"You are thinking of the sheets between which you sleep. In a boat all
sheets are ropes. This is the main sheet, because it is fastened to the
main boom,--the stick at the lower part of the sail. This is the jib
sheet," continued Dory, indicating the rope attached to the lower part
of the jib, which led aft into the standing-room, where the helmsman
could haul it in or let it off as occasion required.
"There is a man hailing us from the shore," said Thad, as Pearl
Hawlinshed called to Dory from the railroad.
"I don't want to see that man," said Dory, recognizing the voice of the
disagreeable man from whom he had fled when he left the wharf.
"Do you know him?" asked Thad.
"I never saw him until this morning. He bid against me for this boat,
and he is mad because he didn't get it," replied the skipper. "I think
he means to do me mischief if he can, and he can't if I keep out of his
way."
He could not answer any questions without endangering his great secret.
He was on the point of tacking when he heard the call. To go up to the
wharf would be to fall into the company of Pearl, and he decided not to
do it. Instead of coming about, he let off the sheets, and headed the
Goldwing to the southward.
"You are going the wrong way, Dory," said Thad.
"I don't care about going on shore at Plattsburgh again, fellows; but we
will get something to eat at Port Jackson," replied Dory, without
explaining his reason for not wishing to land at the town.
"But we shall starve to death before you get there," protested Corny.
"We have not had a mouthful of any thing to eat to-day. Captain Vesey
said we might go with him if we would be on board at five o'clock in the
morning, and we had no chance to get any breakfast."
"I am sorry I can't do any thing for you just now; but it is only six
miles to Port Jackson, and I think we shall be there in about an hour,"
replied Dory. "I think the fellow that hailed me is wicked enough to get
this boat away from me if he can; and I don't care about meeting him
again."
The members of the Goldwing Club settled down in the most comfortable
places they could find. A couple of them took possession of the berths
in the cuddy, and two others stretched themselves on the seats in the
standing-room. They were not so wild as Captain Vesey had reported them
to be on the passage from Burlington. They were faint and hungry; for it
was now nearly noon, and the voyagers in the Missisquoi had fasted the
greater part of twenty-four hours.
The Goldwing was under the lee of the land, where there was no sea; but
the wind came in very sharp puffs, as the openings in the shore exposed
the boat to the unsteady blast. But she carried so little sail that she
went along very easily, and showed no more tendency to upset than any
well-built boat would in such puffy weather. The party on board saw
nothing in her behavior to warrant the bad reputation she had
established.
Three miles brought the boat to Bluff Point; and the shore was so
elevated here, that the skipper stood farther out into the lake so that
he might not lose the wind. The Goldwing behaved so well, that Dory was
beginning to have a great deal of confidence in her, so that he did not
