after them when they had gone elsewhere.
One evening before dinner Vladimir brought Margaret a telegram. She was
seated by the fire as usual and Miss Skeat, who had been reading aloud
until it grew too dark, was by her side warming her thin hands, which
always looked cold, and bending forward towards the fire as she listened
to Margaret's somewhat random remarks about the book in hand. Margaret
had long since talked with Miss Skeat about her disturbed affairs, and
concerning the prospect that was before her of being comparatively poor.
And Miss Skeat, in her high-bred old-fashioned way, had laid her hand
gently on the Countess's arm in token of sympathy.
"Dear Countess," she had said, "please remember that it will not make
any difference to me, and that I will never leave you. Poverty is not a
new thing to me, my dear." The tears came into Margaret's eyes as she
pressed the elder lady's hand in silence. These passages of feeling were
rare between them, but they understood each other, for all that. And now
Margaret was speaking despondently of the future. A few days before she
had made up her mind at last to write the necessary letters to Russia,
and she had now despatched them on their errand. Not that she had any
real hope of bettering things, but a visit from Nicholas had roused her
to the fact that it was a duty she owed to him as well as to herself to
endeavour to recover what was possible of her jointure.
At last she opened the telegram and uttered an exclamation of surprise.
"What in the world does it mean?" she cried, and gave it to Miss Skeat,
who held it close to the firelight.
The message was from Lord Fitzdoggin, Her British Majesty's Ambassador
at St. Petersburg, and was an informal statement to the effect that his
Excellency was happy to communicate to the Countess Margaret the
intelligence that, by the untiring efforts and great skill of a personal
friend, the full payment of her jointure was now secured to her in
perpetuity. It stated, moreover, that she would shortly receive official
information of the fact through the usual channels.
Miss Skeat beamed with pleasure; for though she had been willing to make
any sacrifice for Margaret, it would not have been an agreeable thing to
be so very poor again.
"I never met Lord Fitzdoggin," said Margaret, "and I do not understand
in the least. Why should he, of all people, inform me of this, if it is
really true?"
"The Duke must have written to him," said Miss Skeat, still beaming, and
reading the message over again.
Margaret paused a moment in thought, then lighting the gas herself, she
wrote a note and despatched Vladimir in hot haste.
"I have asked Mr. Bellingham to dine," she said, in answer to Miss
Skeat's inquiring look. "He will go to the party with me afterwards, if
he is free."
It chanced that Mr. Bellingham was in his rooms when Margaret's note
came, and he immediately threw over an engagement he had previously
made, and sent word he would be at the Countess's disposal. Punctual to
the minute he appeared. Margaret showed him the telegram.
"What does this mean, Mr. Bellingham?" she asked, smiling, but
scrutinising his face closely.
"My dear Countess," cried the old gentleman, delighted beyond measure at
the result of his policy, and corruscating with smiles and twinkles,
"my dear Countess, allow me to congratulate you."
"But who is the 'personal friend' mentioned? Is it the Duke? He is in
the far West at this moment."
"No," answered Mr. Bellingham, "it is not the Duke. I am inclined to
think it is a manifestation of some great cosmic force, working silently
for your welfare. The lovely spirits," continued the old gentleman,
looking up from under his brows, and gesticulating as though he would
call down the mystic presence he invoked--"the lovely spirits that guard
you would be loth to allow anything so fair to suffer annoyance from the
rude world. You are well taken care of, Countess, believe me."
Margaret smiled at Uncle Horace's way of getting out of the difficulty,
for she suspected him of knowing more than he would acknowledge. But all
she could extract from him was that he knew Lord Fitzdoggin slightly,
and that he believed the telegram to be perfectly genuine. He had played
his part in the matter, and rubbed his hands as though washing them of
any further responsibility. Indeed he had nothing to tell, save that he
had advised Claudius to get an introduction from the Duke. He well knew
that the letters he had given Claudius had been the real means of his
success; but as Margaret only asked about the telegram, he was perfectly
safe in denying any knowledge of it. Not that such a consideration would
have prevented his meeting her question with a little fib, just to keep
the secret.
"Will you not go to this dance with me this evening?" asked Margaret
after dinner, as they sat round the fireplace.
"What ball is that?" inquired Mr. Bellingham.
"I hardly know what it is. It is a party at the Van Sueindell's and
there is 'dancing' on the card. Please go with me; I should have to go
alone."
"I detest the pomp and circumstance of pleasure," said Uncle Horace,
"the Persian appurtenances, as my favourite poet calls them; but I
cannot resist so charming an invitation. It will give me the greatest
pleasure. I will send word to put off another engagement."
"Do you really not mind at all?"
"Not a bit of it. Only three or four old fogies at the club. Est mihi
nonum superantis annum plenus Albani cadus," continued Mr. Bellingham,
who never quoted Horace once without quoting him again in the next five
minutes. "I had sent a couple of bottles of my grandfather's madeira to
the club, 1796, but those old boys will enjoy it without me. They would
talk me to death if I went."
"It is too bad," said Margaret, "you must go to the club. I would not
let you break an engagement on my account."
"No, no. Permit me to do a good deed without having to bear the infernal
consequences in this life, at all events. The chatter of those people is
like the diabolical screaming of the peacock on the terrace of the
Emir's chief wife, made memorable by Thackeray the prophet." He paused a
moment, and stroked his snowy pointed beard. "Forgive my strong
language," he added; "really, they are grand adjectives those,
'diabolical' and 'infernal.' They call up the whole of Dante to my
