went upon the stage before it began, and peeped 
through the curtain to see what kind of an audience 
there was. It is an old curtain, and there is a hole 
in it on the right-hand side, which De Pretis says 
was made by a foreign tenor, some years ago, be 
tween the acts ; and Jacovacci, the impresario, tried 
to make him pay five francs to have it repaired, but 
did not get the money. It is a better hole than the 
one in the middle, which is so far from both sides of 



 

the house that you cannot see the people well. So 
I looked through, and there, sure enough, in a box 
very near to the stage, sat the Contessina di Lira and 
the baroness, whom I had never seen before, but recognised from Nino's description; and behind them 
sat the count himself, with his great grey moustaches 
and a white cravat. They made me think of the 
time when I used to go to the theatre myself and sit 
in a box, and applaud or hiss, just as I pleased. 
Dio mio! What changes in this world! 

I recognised also a great many of our noble ladies, 
with jewels and other ornaments, and it seemed to 
me that some of them were much more beautiful than 
the German contessina whom Nino had elected to 
worship, though she was well enough, to be sure, in 
white silk and white fur, with her little gold cross 
at her throat. To think that a statue like that, 
brought up with all the proprieties, should have 
such a strange chapter of life! But my eye began 
to smart from peering through the little hole, and 
just then a rough-looking fellow connected with the 
stage reminded me that, whatever relation I might be 
to the primo tenore, I was not dressed to appear in 
the first act; then the audience began to stamp and 
groan because the performance did not begin, and I 
went away again to tell Nino that he had a packed 
house. I found De Pretis giving him blackberry 
syrup, which he had brought in a bottle, and entreating him to have courage. Indeed, it seemed to me 
that Nino had the more courage of the two ; for De 
Pretis laughed and cried and blew his nose, and took 
snuff with his great fat fingers, and acted altogether 



 

like a poor fool ; while Nino sat on a rush-bottomed 
chair and watched Mariuccia, who was stroking the 
old cat and nibbling roasted chestnuts, declaring all 
the while that Nino was the most beautiful object 
she had ever seen. Then the bass and the baritone 
came, together, and spoke cheering words to Nino, 
and invited him to supper afterwards ; but he thanked 
them kindly, and told them that he was expected at 
home, and would go with them after the next performance if there ever were a " next. " He thought 
he might fail at the last minute. 

Nino had judged more rightly than I, when he supposed that his beard and moustaches would disguise 
him from Hedwig during the first two acts. She 
recognised the wondrous voice, and she saw the 
strong resemblance he had spoken of. Once or 
twice, as he looked toward her, it seemed indeed that 
the eyes must be his, with their deep circles and serious gaze. But it was absurd to suppose it anything 
more than a resemblance. As the opera advanced, 
it became evident that Nino was making a success. 
Then in the second act it was clear that the success 
was growing to be an ovation, and the ovation a 
furore, in which the house became entirely demoralised, and vouchsafed to listen only so long as Nino 
was singing screaming with delight before he had 
finished what he had to sing in each scene. People 
sent their servants away in hot haste to buy flowers 
wherever they could, and he came back to his dress 
ing-room, from the second act, carrying bouquets by 
the dozen, small bunches and big, such as people had 
been able to get, or had brought with them. His 



 

eyes shone like the coals in Mariuccia's scaldino, as 
he entered, and he was pale through his paint. He 
could hardly speak for joy; but, as old habits return 
unconsciously at great moments in a man's life, he 
took the cat on his knee and pulled its tail. 

"Sing thou also, little beast," he said gravely; 
and he pulled the tail till the cat squeaked a little, 
and he was satisfied. 

"Bene! " he cried; "and now for the tonsure and 
frock." So Mariuccia was turned out into the passage while he changed his dress. De Pretis came 
back a moment later, and tried to help him ; but he 
was so much overcome that he could only shed tears 
and give a last word of advice for the next act. 

