cut in it here and there, a few clumps of shrubbery, the pretty
summer-houses, the sloping terrace, and the river surging with an
indolent monotone, make a rarely beautiful picture. The columns
upholding the porch roof are wreathed with vines, but the spaces
between are clear. The low windows are all open, and it is fairyland
without and within. Floyd Grandon paces up and down, with John Latimer
at his side, while the band around on the other side are in the discord
of tuning up.

"Upon my word, Grandon, you are to be envied," says Latimer. "I am
not sure we have done a wise thing coming up here this summer. The fuss
and pomp of fashion rarely move me to any jealous state of mind, but I
am afraid this will awaken absolute covetousness."

Grandon gives a genial, wholesome laugh, and he almost believes he is
to be envied, in spite of the perplexities not yet at an end. He is
proud of his lovely home, he has a beautiful child and a sweet wife,
and if she does not charm the whole world what does he care? There is
no one left to fret them in household ways, for he fancies he has seen
signs of softening in his mother, and she is having new interests in
life, with her daughters well married. There is only Eugene to feel
really anxious about.

The carriages are driving up the avenue and there is a flutter through
the hall. Floyd goes up-stairs presently and finds Violet in his room
waiting for the finishing touches to be added to Cecil's attire. She
turns quickly, and a soft flush makes her bewitching, radiant.

"How do you like me?" she asks, in her innocent simplicity.

She is in pure white, his favorite attire for her, but the wraith-like
laces draping her lend her a different air from anything he has seen
before. The rose-leaf tint in her cheek, her lovely dimpled mouth, the
eyes that look browner and more like velvet than ever, and the shining
hair give her a glamour of sweetness and youth that stirs his heart to
its very depths.

"Like you?" he echoes; "you are beautiful, bewitching!"

She comes a little nearer. His commendation makes her extremely happy.
He holds out both hands, and she places hers in them, and kisses her on
the forehead; he has fallen so much into the habit that he does it
unthinkingly.

"Floyd," says Mrs. Grandon, from the hall, "you certainly ought to go
down."

"I am all ready," cries Cecil, who flies out, beautiful as a fairy, in
a shimmer of white and pale blue, her waving hair like a shower of
gold.

Violet is a good deal frightened at first, although she resolutely
forces herself to a point of bravery. She has never been the central
figure before, and she has a consciousness that all eyes are turned
upon her, and that she hardly has a right to the use of her true name
while Mr. Grandon's stately mother is present. Laura is resplendent in
silk and lace,--she never affects any ingenue style,--and madame is
a dazzle in black and gold, her Parisian dress of lace a marvel of
clinging beauty, and her Marechal Niel roses superb. She has been
mistress and head for several days, but now she is simply the guest,
and none better than she knows how to grace the position.

Outside there is a sea of bewildering melody, that pulses on the air in
rhythmic waves. The French horns blow out their soft, sweet gales, like
birds at early morn, the flutes whistle fine and clear, and the
violins, with their tremulous, eager sweetness, seem dripping amber;
viols and horns reply, shaking out quivering breaths to the summer
night air, until it seems some weird, far-away world. Violet is so
entranced that she almost forgets she is Floyd Grandon's wife, being
made known to society.

The first quadrilles are full of lovely gliding figures. Violet dances
with her husband, then with Eugene. Floyd and Madame Lepelletier are in
the same set. It is the first time he has danced with her since they
were betrothed. She knows if she had stayed at home and married him,
neither would have been the kind of people they are now, and she does
not envy that old time, but she wants the power in her hands that she
had then. She would not even care to give up all the years of adulation
when rank and title were an open-sesame to golden doors, and even now
has its prestige. There is nothing she really cares for but the love of
this man, little as she believes in the divine power.

The fête is really open now. Guests stroll about and listen to the
music, or sit on the balcony chairs and watch the dancing. By and by
there are some soft melodious waves with no especial meaning, then the
French horns pipe a delicious thrill, "viol, flute and bassoon" burst
into beguiling bloom of the Zamora, and hands steal out to other hands,
arms cling to arms, and the winding, bewildering waltz begins.

Violet is talking to a young man, one of the Grandon Park neighbors,
who stands bashfully wondering if it would do to ask her to waltz.
Unconsciously her feet are keeping time, and her heart seems to rise
and fall to the enchantment in the air. Then she feels a presence
behind her and turns.

"This is our waltz," Floyd Grandon says, just above a whisper, and,
bowing to her companion, leads her away.

"Shall we go out on the balcony?" he asks, and the quick pressure on
his arm answers him. Out in the wide warm summer night, where the air
