four languages and has read several hundred French 
novels. Christina, I suspect, is very clever. When I saw 
her I was amazed at her beauty, and certainly if there is 
any truth in faces she ought to have the soul of an angel. 
Perhaps she has. I don't judge her ; she 's an extraordinary 
young person. She has been told twenty times 
a day by her mother, since she was five years old, that 
she is a beauty of beauties, that her face is her fortune, 
and that if she plays her cards she may marry a duke. 
If she has not been fatally corrupted she is a very superior 
girl. My own impression is that she is a mixture of 
good and bad, of ambition and indifference. Mrs. Light 
having failed to make her own fortune in matrimony has 
transferred her hopes to her daughter, and nursed them 
till they have become a monomania. She has a hobby, 
which she rides in secret ; but some day she will let you 
see it. I am sure that if you go in some evening unan 
nounced, you will find her scanning the tea-leaves in her 
cup or telling her daughter 's fortune with a greasy pack 
of cards, kept sacredly for the purpose. She promises 
her a prince a reigning prince. But if Mrs. Light is 
a fool she is a practical one, and lest considerations of 
state should deny her prince the luxury of a love-match 
she keeps on hand a few common mortals. At the worst 
she would take a duke, an English lord, or even a young 
American with a proper number of millions. The poor 
woman must be rather uncomfortable. She is always 
building castles and knocking them down again always 
casting her nets and pulling them in. If her daughter 
were less of a beauty her restless ambition would be 
simply grotesque ; but there is something in the girl, as 
one looks at her, that seems to make it very possible 
she is marked out for one of those wonderful romantic 
fortunes that history now and then relates. Who, after 
all, was the Empress of the French? Mrs. Light is for 
ever saying. And beside Christina the Empress is a 
dowdy! " 
"And what does Christina say?" 
" She makes no scruple, as you know, of saying that 
her mother is an idiot ! What she thinks Heaven 
knows. I suspect that practically she does not commit 
herself. She is excessively proud, and thinks herself 
 
good enough to occupy the highest station in the world ; 
but she knows that her mother talks nonsense, and that 
even a beautiful girl may look awkward in making un 
successful advances. So she remains superbly indifferent, 
and lets her mother take the risks. If the Prince is 
secured, so much the better ; if he is not, she need never 
confess to herself that even a prince has slighted her." 
"Your report is as solid," Rowland said to Madame 
Grandoni, thanking her, "as if it had been drawn up 
for the Academy of Sciences;" and he congratulated 
himself on having listened to it when a couple of days 
later Mrs. Light and her daughter, attended by the 
Cavaliere and the poodle, came to his rooms to look at 
Roderick 's statues. It was more comfortable to know 
just with whom he was dealing. 
Mrs. Light was prodigiously gracious, and showered 
down compliments not only on the statues but on all his 
possessions. "Upon my word," she said, "you rich 
young men know how to make yourselves comfortable. 
If one of us poor women had half as many easy-chairs 
and nick-nacks we should be famously abused. It 's 
really selfish to be living all alone in such a place as this. 
Cavaliere, how should you like this suite of rooms and a 
fortune to fill them with pictures and statues ? Christina, 
love, look at that mosaic table. Mr. Mallet, I could 
almost beg it from you ! Yes, that Eve is certainly very 
fine. We needn't be ashamed of such a great-grand 
mother as that. If she was really such a beautiful 
woman, it accounts for the good looks of some of us. 
Where is Mr. What s-his-name, the young sculptor ? 
Why isn't he here to be complimented ?" 
Christina had remained but for a moment in the chair 
which Rowland placed for her, had given but a cursory 
glance at the statues, and then, leaving her seat, had 
begun to wander round the room looking at herself in 
the mirror, touching the ornaments and curiosities, 
glancing at the books and prints. Rowland 's sitting- 
 
room was encumbered with bric-a-brac, and she found 
plenty of occupation. Rowland presently ioined her 
and pointed out some of the objects he most valued. 
"It 's an odd jumble," she said, frankly. "Some 
things are very pretty some are very ugly. But I like 
ugly things when they have a certain look. Prettiness 
is terribly vulgar nowadays, and it is not every one that 
knows just the sort of ugliness that has chic. But chic 
is getting dreadfully common too. There 's a hint of it 
even in Madame Baldi 's bonnets. I like looking at 
people 's things," she added in a moment, turning to 
Rowland and resting her eyes on him. " It helps you 
to find out their characters." 
"Am I to suppose," asked Rowland, smiling, "that 
you have arrived at any conclusions as to mine ?" 
"I am rather intrigue e ; you have too many things ; 
one seems to contradict another. You are very artistic, 
and yet you are very prosaic ; you have what is called a 
catholic taste, and yet you are full of obstinate little 
