 

wish to sit here," she said, " and speak to this old 
acquaintance alone. " 

"At your pleasure, dear friend," said the Prince. 

The tone of each was measured, to Rowland 's ear ; 
but that of Christina was dry and that of her husband 
was splendidly urbane. Rowland remembered that the 
Cavaliere had told him that Mrs. Light 's candidate was 
a prince indeed, and our friend wondered how he relished 
a peremptory accent. Casamassima was an Italian of 
the undemonstrative type, but Rowland nevertheless 
divined that, like other princes before him, he had made 
the acquaintance of the thing called compromise. "Shall 
I come back?" he asked, with the same smile. 

" In half an hour," said Christina. 

In the clear outer light Rowland 's first impression of 
her was that she was more beautiful than ever. And 
yet in three months she could hardly have changed ; the 
change was in Rowland 's own vision of her, which that 
last interview on the eve of her marriage had made un- 
precedentedly tender. 

" How came you here?" she asked. " Are you stay 
ing in this place?" 

" I am staying at Engelthal, some ten miles away ; I 
walked over." 

"Are you alone?" 

" I am with Roderick Hudson." 

" Is he here with you?" 

"He went half an hour ago to climb a rock for a 
view." 

" And his mother and and the promessa where are 
they?" 

"They also are at Engelthal." 

" What do you do there ?" 

"What Ao you do here?" said Rowland, smiling. 

"I count the minutes till my week is over. I hate 
mountains ; they depress me to death. I am sure Miss 
Garland likes them." 



 

" She is very fond of them, I believe." 

" You believe don 't you know ? But I have given 
up trying to imitate Miss Garland," said Christina. 

" You surely need imitate no one." 

" Don 't say that," she said, gravely. " So you have 
walked ten miles this morning ? And you are to walk 
back again ?" 

" Back again to dinner." 

"And Mr. Hudson too?" 

"Mr. Hudson especially. He is a great walker." 

"You men are happy !" Christina cried. " I believe 
I should enjoy the mountains if I could do such things. 
It is sitting still and having them scowl down at you ! 
Prince Casamassima never walks. He only goes on a 
mule. He was carried up the Faulhorn in a palanquin. " 

" In a palanquin?" said Rowland. 

" In one of those machines a chaise h porteurs like 
a woman." 

Rowland received this information in silence ; it was 
equally unbecoming to be either amused or shocked. 

"Is Mr. Hudson to join you again? Will he come 
here?" Christina asked. 

" I shall soon begin to expect him." 

"What shall you do when you leave Switzerland?" 
Christina continued. " Shall you go back to Rome?" 

" I rather doubt it. My plans are very uncertain." 

