milk and, setting it beside the stranger, ran to hide behind her father,
suddenly remembering that this was one of the dreaded Indians.

"That was well done, little daughter. Thou shalt love thine enemies, and
share thy bread with the needy. See, he is smiling; that pleased him,
and he wishes us to be his friends."

But Eunice ventured no more that night, and quaked in her little bed at
the thought of the strange boy sleeping on a blanket before the fire
below. Reuben hid his fears better, and resolved to watch while others
slept; but was off as soon as his curly head touched the pillow, and
dreamed of tomahawks and war-whoops till morning.

Next day, neighbors came to see the waif, and one and all advised
sending him away as soon as possible, since he was doubtless a spy, as
Becky said, and would bring trouble of some sort.

"When he is well, he may go whithersoever he will; but while he is too
lame to walk, weak with hunger, and worn out with weariness, I will
harbor him. He cannot feign suffering and starvation like this. I shall
do my duty, and leave the consequences to the Lord," answered the
parson, with such pious firmness that the neighbors said no more.

But they kept a close watch upon Onawandah, when he went among them,
silent and submissive, but with the proud air of a captive prince, and
sometimes a fierce flash in his black eyes when the other lads taunted
him with his red skin. He was very lame for weeks, and could only sit in
the sun, weaving pretty baskets for Eunice, and shaping bows and arrows
for Reuben. The children were soon his friends, for with them he was
always gentle, trying in his soft language and expressive gestures to
show his good-will and gratitude; for they defended him against their
ruder playmates, and, following their father's example, trusted and
cherished the homeless youth.

When he was able to walk, he taught the boy to shoot and trap the wild
creatures of the wood, to find fish where others failed, and to guide
himself in the wilderness by star and sun, wind and water. To Eunice he
brought little offerings of bark and feathers; taught her to make
moccasins of skin, belts of shells, or pouches gay with porcupine quills
and colored grass. He would not work for old Becky,--who plainly showed
her distrust,--saying: "A brave does not grind corn and bring wood; that
is squaw's work. Onawandah will hunt and fish and fight for you, but no
more." And even the request of the parson could not win obedience in
this, though the boy would have died for the good man.

"We can not tame an eagle as we can a barnyard fowl. Let him remember
only kindness of us, and so we turn a foe into a friend," said Parson
Bain, stroking the sleek, dark head, that always bowed before him, with
a docile reverence shown to no other living creature.

Winter came, and the settlers fared hardly through the long months, when
the drifts rose to the eaves of their low cabins, and the stores,
carefully harvested, failed to supply even their simple wants. But the
minister's family never lacked wild meat, for Onawandah proved himself a
better hunter than any man in the town; and the boy of sixteen led the
way on his snow-shoes when they went to track a bear to its den, chase
the deer for miles, or shoot the wolves that howled about their homes in
the winter nights.

But he never joined in their games, and sat apart when the young folk
made merry, as if he scorned such childish pastimes and longed to be a
man in all things. Why he stayed when he was well again, no one could
tell, unless he waited for spring to make his way to his own people. But
Reuben and Eunice rejoiced to keep him; for while he taught them many
things, he was their pupil also, learning English rapidly, and proving
himself a very affectionate and devoted friend and servant, in his own
quiet way.

"Be of good cheer, little daughter; I shall be gone but three days, and
our brave Onawandah will guard you well," said the parson, one April
morning, as he mounted his horse to visit a distant settlement, where
the bitter winter had brought sickness and death to more than one
household.

The boy showed his white teeth in a bright smile as he stood beside the
children, while Becky croaked, with a shake of the head:--

"I hope you mayn't find you've warmed a viper in your bosom, master."

Two days later, it seemed as if Becky was a true prophet, and that the
confiding minister had been terribly deceived; for Onawandah went away
to hunt, and that night the awful war-whoop woke the sleeping villagers,
to find their houses burning, while the hidden Indians shot at them by
the light of the fires kindled by dusky scouts. In terror and confusion
the whites flew to the fort; and, while the men fought bravely, the
women held blankets to catch arrows and bullets, or bound up the hurts
of their defenders.

It was all over by daylight, and the red men sped away up the river,
with several prisoners, and such booty as they could plunder from the
deserted houses. Not till all fear of a return of their enemies was
over, did the poor people venture to leave the fort and seek their
ruined homes. Then it was discovered that Becky and the parson's
children were gone, and great was the bewailing, for the good man was
much beloved by all his flock.

Suddenly the smothered voice of Becky was heard by a party of visitors,
calling dolefully:--

"I am here, betwixt the beds. Pull me out, neighbors, for I am half dead
