
The elder Dallas caressed his whiskers and pondered. If the truth were told, he had been about 
as unwilling to let his son go away from home as 
ever his mother could be. Pitt was simply the delight and pride of both theirvhearts; the one thing 



 

they lived for; the centre of all hopes, and the end 
of all undertakings. No doubt he must go to college ; but the evil day had been pushed far off, as 
far as possible. Pitt was a son for parents to be 
proud of. He had the good qualities of both father and mother, with some added of his own 
which they did not share, and which perhaps 
therefore increased their interest in him. 

" I expect he will have a word to say about the 
matter himself," the father remarked. " well ! 
there's no raging hurry, wife." 

" Husband, it would be a good thing for him to 
see the English church as it is in England, before 
he gets much older." 

" What then ? " 

" He would learn to value it. The cathedrals, 
and the noble services in them, and the bishops; 
and the feeling that everybody around him goes 
the same way; there's a great deal of power in 
that. Pitt would be impressed by it." 

" By the feeling that everybody around him goes 
that way ? Not he. That's quite as likely to stir 
him up to go another way." 

"It don't work so, Hildebrand." 

"You think he's a likely fellow to be talked over 
into anything ? " 

"No ; but he would be influenced. Nobody would 
try to talk him over, and without knowing it he 
would feel the influence. He couldn't help it. 
All the influence at Oxford would be the right 
way." 





"Afraid of the colonel? I don't think you need. 
He hasn't spirit enough left in him for proselyting." 

I am not speaking of anybody in particular. I 
am afraid of the air here." 

Mr. Dallas laughed a little, but his face took a 
shade of gravity it had not worn. Must he send 
his son away? What would the house be with 
out him ? 



CHAPTER VI. 
GOING TO COLLEGE. 

WHATEVER thoughts were harboured in the 
elder heads, nothing was spoken openly 
and no steps were taken for some time. All 
through the summer the pleasant intercourse went 
on, and the lessons, and the botanizing, and the 
study of coins. And much real work was done; 
but for Esther one invaluable and abiding effect of 
a more general character was gained. She was 
lifted out of her dull despondency, which had 
threatened to become stagnation, and restored to 
her natural life and energy and the fresh spring of 
youthful spirits. So when her friend really went 
away to college in the fall, Esther did not slip back 
to the condition from which he had delivered her. 
But the loss of him was a dreadful loss to the 
child, although Pitt was not going over the sea, 
and would be home at Christmas. He tried to comfort her with this prospect. Esther took no comfort. 
She sat silent, tearless, pale, in a kind of despair. 
Pitt looked at her, half amused, half deeply concerned. 





" And you must go on with all your studies, Esther, you know," he was saying. " I will shew you 
what to do; and when I come home I shall go into 
a very searching examination to see whether you 
have done it all thoroughly." 

" Will you ? " she said, lifting her eyes to him 
with a gleam of sudden hope. 

" Certainly ! I shall give you lessons just as 
