Life fretted and worried over his situation until after dinner of the
second day. Then he went over the whole subject of the uniform in his
own mind. He thought he was abused and persecuted, but he could stand it
no longer. Impulsively he put on the uniform which hung at the head of
his bed. It was a good fit and he thought he looked well in it. He tried
on the cap with the monogram in front. It was neat and plain, and the
only objection he had to it was that it was part of the uniform.
He was so anxious to learn what was going on at the school, and what the
principal had said about the rebels when they left, that he went out
into the hall. Bates was on his feet the instant the door was opened.
The old man smiled when he saw that Windham wore the uniform, and as the
ex-rebel passed him, he saluted him as politely as though he had never
been his prisoner.
The dormitory was located near the rocks, at a little distance from the
lake, which could not be seen from its windows. Life Windham knew
nothing at all about the stealing of the boats by the Topovers, and the
lively scenes on the lake in the forenoon. It was after one o'clock, and
the students ought to be in the shops. He went there, but they were
deserted.
Life concluded that the principal had given the rest of the students a
vacation as a reward of merit for not joining the rebellion. He walked
to the lake. Seated in one of the four-oar boats, busily engaged in
drawing on a large sheet of brown paper, he found Dory. As
stroke-oarsman the ex-rebel sat next to the coxswain in the Winooski,
and he was more intimate with him than with any other student. When Dory
saw him getting into the boat, he rolled up his drawings, and put a
rubber band around them.
"Hallo, Dory!" said Life, as he walked aft in the boat.
"Glad to see you, Life," replied the coxswain. "You look well in the new
uniform."
"I couldn't stay in my room any longer, but I have not changed my
opinion in regard to making us wear a uniform," added Life, who could
not even now back wholly down. "But what are you doing? Why are the
fellows not in the shops?"
"One question at a time. I am trying to make a plan for a boat-house.
The principal gave the students three days to get up their plans, and
they are to be handed in day after to-morrow morning."
"Did the principal offer the prizes?" asked Life, astonished that it had
been done in the absence of the rebels.
"Of course he did; he had opened the subject before you left the
schoolroom."
"But I thought he would put it off after one third of the whole school
had left."
"He don't do things in that way," added Dory.
"But what are the conditions? Perhaps I am not too late, for I had some
ideas about a plan."
"We are not allowed to speak to anyone about the plans," answered Dory.
"Every fellow is put on his honor to say nothing to anyone about them."
"Then the eight fellows that object to being dressed like monkeys are to
be shut out from the competition!" exclaimed Life indignantly. "That is
about as unfair as anything can be."
"You had the same chance that the rest of us had, and you chose to stay
in your room rather than hear the terms on which the prizes were to be
given."
"We were standing up for a principle."
"Whew!" whistled Dory laughing. "The principle that you won't wear the
colors of the Beech Hill Industrial School."
"The principle that we won't be punished for the sins of others,"
retorted Life smartly.
"You are wrong on the fact, as I have shown you before."
"It's no use to argue the point with you: if the principal had only
been fair enough to hear what Lew Shoreham had to say, we should have
been fully justified."
"He never argues the point with those who refuse to obey."
"No matter. Have you heard anything more from the Chesterfields?"
"We had a smart brush with them this forenoon," answered the coxswain;
and he proceeded to tell the whole story of the encounter with the
Topovers and their allies.
Life Windham listened with breathless interest. It was the liveliest
affair of the whole season, and he had been shut up in his room. He was
vexed and indignant that he had not been permitted to take a hand in the
stirring enterprise. When he had finished the narrative Dory wanted to
work on his plan, and Life left him. He found all the other students at
liberty were engaged in the same way.
Life had to spend the afternoon by himself. Late in the day he saw Bob
Swanton come out of the dormitory with the uniform on. He was just
beginning to ask himself if he had not been a traitor to the "cause,"
and to the rebels engaged in it. He was glad to see one of them. Life
was pleased to have a companion, and they talked over the situation.
"Not the least notice seems to have been taken of us," said Swanton.
"Not the slightest," added Life. "Why, the principal did not even say a
single word about us after we left the schoolroom, and has not mentioned
us in any way."
"He is the oddest principal I ever heard of. I suppose he will let the
fellows stay in their rooms all winter," continued Bob Swanton, who had
pluck enough to fight, but not enough to be ignored.
"I have come to the conclusion that Lew Shoreham ought to have made his
argument when the order to put on the uniform was given," said Life,
rather sheepishly; "for the principal was certainly ready to hear all
the fellows had to say at that time. Lew didn't say a word about
punishing us for the sins of others then."
"I asked him why he did not, and he said he had not thought of it at
that time."
But the supper-bell ended the discussion, and the two ex-rebels went to
the house with the other students. Captain Gildrock saw them, but he
made no remark of any kind about their return to duty, or the fact that
they wore the uniform. The rest of the students seemed to be glad to see
them, but they would not allude to the rebellion.
The next morning. Harry Franklin and Phil Gawner appeared in uniform;
and at night only Lew Shoreham remained a prisoner. The next morning the
