suaded himself that a bowl of nectar would make up 
for it to-morrow. But if Elizabeth had sought to draw 
comfort from the same idea, she would have tried con- 
scientiously to believe it and then have laid it aside as 
a very pretty conceit, but one not at all affecting the 
probabilities of things. 

Pier last three years had been spent, with occasional 
vacations, in the family of a Baptist minister at Weston, 
who eked out his salary by taking boarding pupils. 
Of the three girls who were with her there, Elizabeth 
would have been able to say that they were very good. 
If you had urged the question, she might also have 
owned that they were very dull. And the same verdict 
could be given of the entire place. Of such dead re- 
spectability had it been, that no association which she 
cared to renew had clung to her when she came away. 
Directly after breakfast the next morning, Madam Nye 



 

called her as she was carrying the dishes from the 

table. f 

" Elizabeth, come here. Did you say you would go 

to Stowe ? ' 

" Yes, Grandmother," said Elizabeth, with a sinking 

heart. 

" Then get your stockings down and I'll see if they 
want mending. You ought to be ready to start by day 
after to-morrow." And so she was. 

Philip was not told until night, for he had been work- 
ing at a neighbor's all day. He had occasional fits of 
earning his own living otherwise than by castle-build- 
ing. Elizabeth wondered if he would forget his re- 
sentment now. His mother told him the news while 
he was piling a basket of wood for the great kitchen 
box, and Philip stopped midway in reaching after a 
stick to ask with sudden interest, " Betty going away ? 

For how long ? " 

" I don't know. Perhaps she will stay while Aunt 
Mercy lives, and that may be all winter. Don't say 
you care any thing about it before Grandmother, for 
it's all her doings." 

" But it's a shame ! " cried Philip, excitedly. ' Aunt 
Mercy's older than Grandmother, and perhaps she is 
twice as cross. How could you let her go ? ' 

" You know I couldn't help it," said his mother, a 
shade more depressed under criticism, from which she 
never appealed. 

"Well, I'm tired of this place," said the boy, sitting 
down on the wood. " Every thing goes wrong. I 
wonder if it will as long as we live ! ' 

Mrs. Nye went quietly into the kitchen, and told 



Elizabeth to go out and speak to him. Philip was 
looking at the chips he was absently handling, quiet 
tears rolling down his cheeks. He did not look 
up. 

' Somebody ought to stop Grandmother from always 
having her way ! ' he broke out passionately. ' Per- 
haps you are willing Betty should go, mother. You 
must be, or you'd say she shouldn't, but I won't stand 
it ! I want her here ! ' 

" Why, Phil ! " said Elizabeth, her voice full of ten- 
derness and delight that he really cared. ' Why, Phil ! " 
There was nothing more to say. Sobs came fast, and 
Elizabeth was on her knees beside him, with one arm 
round his neck. 

" But I couldn't help it, you see," she was saying, 
only selfishly glad that he was sorry. ' Grandmother 
asked me, and you know every thing would have been 
worse if I had said no." 

" But you sha'n't do it ! ' cried the boy, still sobbing. 

' After you are gone who will there be to talk with me, 
and care about what I'm going to do ? Though you 
don't care as I used to think you did." 

'Now, Philip, you are unjust ! " suddenly indignant. 
