life, and never see a white face again. Now I wouldn't take one grain
of the trouble for them that you would, because I don't think it's in
the least necessary. But, personally, I like them, I like to have them
about, talk to them and hear them talk; I am really attached to all the
old servants about here. And I venture to say, too, that they would all
prefer me forever, though I didn't lift a finger for them, prefer me to
you, no matter what sacrifices you might make to help them, because they
would see and feel that I really liked them, whereas you didn't. But
I really think you like to be busy just for the sake of it; when there's
nothing else you can do, you go tramping all over the country until I
should think your feet would spread out like a duck's. I should like to
know when you have given yourself an hour or two of absolute rest--such
as I am taking now?"

"I can't sleep in the daytime," was Margaret's answer to this general
southern remonstrance; "and a duck's feet are very useful to the duck."

"Oh, of course I know your feet are lovely. But I shouldn't think they
could stay so, long."

"There seems to be no end at least to your powers of 'staying so,'
especially when you get into a hammock," remarked Margaret. But she
spoke with a smile on her lips, she was well satisfied to see the girl
swinging there contentedly, her eyes already misty with sleep.

"Good-by," she said, closing the door. Then she put on her hat and
gloves, and started on her mission. The sick child, for whom Dr. Kirby
had prepared the medicine, lived in a cabin two miles and a half from
East Angels, on the barren. In addition to the taste for unnecessary
philanthropy which Garda had attributed to her, as well as that for
unnecessary exercise, Margaret appeared to have a taste for solitude:
she generally took her long walks alone. That is, she took them whenever
she had the opportunity. This was not so often as it might have been,
because of Aunt Katrina's little wishes, which had a habit of ramifying
through all the hours of the day. It was not that Aunt Katrina expected
you to occupy yourself in her behalf the whole afternoon, she would have
exclaimed at the idea that she made such exactions as that; she only
wished you to do some one little thing for her at two; and then
something else "a little before three;" and then again possibly she
might "feel like" this or that later, say, "any time" (liberally)
"between half-past four and five." In this way she was sure that you had
almost the whole time to yourself.

In addition Margaret was house-keeper, and with the heterogeneous
assemblage of servants at East Angels, the position required an almost
hourly exercise of diplomacy. Celestine, so excellent in her own sphere,
could not be relied upon in this, because, pressed by her desire to
"educate the black man," she was constantly introducing primers "in
words of one syllable" into the sweeping, dusting, and bed-making; she
had even been known to suspend one open on the crane in the kitchen
fireplace for the benefit of Aunt Dinah-Jim during the process (for
which she was celebrated) of roasting wild-turkey. But "the black man,"
including Aunt Dinah, would have been much more impressed by primers in
words of six.

For the rest of this afternoon, however, Margaret was free; she had
several hours of daylight still before her. She walked on across the
barren, and had gone about half the distance, when she was overtaken by
Joe, the elder brother, the sixth elder brother, of the little Jewlyann
for whom the medicine was intended. Joe, a black lad in a military cap,
and a pair of his father's trousers which were so well strapped up over
his shoulders by fragmentary braces that they covered his breast and
back, and served as jacket as well, took the vial from the lady who was
so kind to them; and then Margaret, promising to pay her visit another
day, turned back. As she approached East Angels again, she made a long
detour, and entered on the southern side at the edge of the Levels.
Here, pausing, she looked at her watch; it was not yet half-past five,
she turned and entered the south-eastern woods, which came up at this
point to the East Angels border. Once within the shaded aisles, she
walked on, following no path, but wandering at random. Any one seeing
her then would have said that the expression of her face was singularly
altered; instead of the composure that usually held sway there, it was
the expression of a person much agitated mentally, and agitated by
unhappiness. She walked on with irregular steps, her hands interlocked
and hanging before her, palms downward, her eyes on the ground. After
some time she paused, and seemed to make an effort to press back her
troubles, not only a mental effort, but a physical one, after the manner
of people whose sensibilities are keen; she placed her hands over her
forehead and eyes, and held them there with a firm pressure for several
minutes; then she let them drop, and looked about her.

She had wandered far, she was near the eastern boundary of the wood;
Madam Giron's house was in sight--only a field lay between. She was
sufficiently acquainted with the forest to know that one of the paths
must be near; three paths crossed it, leading from East Angels to the
Giron plantation and beyond, this should be the most easterly of the
three; she turned to look for it.

It was not distant, and before long she came upon it. But at the moment
she did so she caught a glimpse of Evert Winthrop's figure; he was on
the other side of the path, at some distance from her; in the wood, but
nearer its edge than she was. Seated on a camp-stool, he was apparently
using the last of the daylight to finish a sketch. For he had taken to
sketching during his long stay at East Angels, producing pictures which
were rather geometrical, it is true; but he maintained that there was a
great deal of geometry in all landscape.

Margaret had now entered the path, and was walking towards home.

It happened that Winthrop at this moment looked up; but he did not do so
