After mixing your bread in the morning either with sponge or with
yeast, divide the kneaded dough into two portions. Mould one into a
round ball, and set aside for a loaf as already directed. Make a hole
in the middle of the other batch and pour into it a tablespoonful of
butter, just melted, but not hot. Close the dough over it, dust your
hands and kneading-board with flour and work in the shortening until
the dough is elastic and ceases to be sticky. Put it into a floured
bowl, cover with a cloth and set away out of draught and undue heat,
for three hours. Knead it again, then, and wait upon its rising for
another three hours. The dough should be as soft as can be handled.

When it is light for the second time flour your board, rubbing in the
flour and blowing lightly away what does not adhere to the surface.
Toss the lump dough upon it and knead thoroughly for five minutes.
Flour a rolling-pin and roll the dough into a sheet not more than half
an inch thick. Cut this into round cakes with a biscuit-cutter or a
sharp-edged tumbler and fold, not quite in the middle, in the form of
turnovers, pinching the corners of the fold pretty hard to hinder the
flap of dough from flying up as the rising proceeds. Rub the bottom and
sides of a baking-pan with sweet lard or butter. Do this with a bit of
clean soft rag or tissue-paper, visiting every corner of the pan, but
not leaving thick layers and streaks of grease after it. Arrange the
rolls in regular rows in the pan about a quarter of an inch apart.

Cover with a cloth and set nearer the fire than you dared trust the
dough, and let them rise for an hour. Peep under the cloth two or three
times to see whether they rise evenly, and turn the pan around once
that all may be equally exposed to the heat.

When the time is up and the rolls are puffy and promising, set them in
a pretty quick oven and bake half an hour, turning the pan once in this
time, and covering with clean—never printed—paper, should they brown
too fast. Break the rolls apart from one another and eat warm. They are
also good cold, and if the directions be followed implicitly, very good
always.


Graham Rolls

Are made by treating the dough mixed for Graham bread as above and
following the foregoing receipt in every section, but allowing more
time for rising and baking. They are even better when cold than hot.


Breakfast Biscuit.

    Two cups of fresh milk slightly warmed.

    One quart and a cup of flour sifted.

    Five tablespoonfuls of yeast.

    One even tablespoonful of white sugar.

    One even teaspoonful of salt.

    Bit of soda as large as a pea, dissolved in hot water.

    One tablespoonful of butter, just melted, not hot.

    Yolk of one egg beaten light.

Sift the flour, salt and sugar into a bowl, hollow the heap in the
centre and pour in the milk, working down the flour into the liquid
with a spoon or your hands until it is thoroughly melted. Into a second
hollow pour the yeast and knead thoroughly for fifteen minutes. Wrap
bowl and biscuit in a thick cloth and set to rise where it will neither
become chilled nor sour over night. (Study the temperature in different
parts of the kitchen and kitchen closets to the end of finding the best
places for raising dough and sponge.)

Do all this at bedtime. Early in the morning turn out the dough upon
a floured board, work it for a minute into manageable shape; drill
several finger-holes in it and fill them with the melted butter, the
dissolved soda and the beaten yolk of egg. Pinch the dough hard to stop
the mouths of these cavities, and knead for ten minutes, carefully at
first, lest the liquids should be wasted, and more boldly when they are
absorbed by the paste. Roll out into a sheet half an inch thick with a
floured rolling-pin; cut into round cakes, set these closely together
in a well-greased pan; prick each with a fork and let them rise near
the fire for half an hour, covered with a light cloth.

Bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes in a quick oven, turning the
pan around once, quickly and lightly. Break apart from one another and
pile on a plate, throwing a clean doily or a small napkin over them.
Break open at table. Hot rolls and muffins should never be cut.

One word with regard to getting up early in order to give dough a
chance for the second rising. It is not a wholesome practice for any
woman—least of all a young girl to be out of bed two hours before she
eats her breakfast. Studying upon an empty stomach provokes dyspepsia
and injures the eyes. Active exercise in like circumstances tempts
debility and disease. Yet our bread and rolls must be looked after
at the proper time. Have yourself called on biscuit mornings an hour
earlier than usual. Rise, wash face and hands, rinse the mouth out and
brush back the hair. Put on stockings and slippers, such underclothing
as may be needed to prevent cold, a wrapper and the kitchen apron.
Cover your hair entirely with a handkerchief or sweeping cap. Before
beginning operations down-stairs eat a half-slice of dry bread or a
biscuit. You will not relish it, but take it all the same to appease
