provision for them, but now he deemed it a duty and a 
pleasure. The girls, he had understood, had their own 
life plans, and he did not desire to interfere ; but all the 
boy's education was yet to come, and he wished to give 
him the training that would befit his future prospects. 
Eleanor Marshall did not faint this time. There would 
be a hard, close struggle, but she would not yield one 
inch. She dressed herself and went to Mr. Darrow's 
office, and that gentleman received her with the utmost 
courtesy. She told her story with a passionate vehemence, 
and a deep, burning sense of wrong, part of which could 
in no way be righted, she well knew. 
Mr. Darrow drew a long breath. There was not the 
courageous intensity of hope in his face that she looked 
for to meet her own magnetic force. Then a horrible, 
sickening fear thrilled and almost overpowered her. 
" Oh," she cried, " he cannot take my child? Surely no 
law, no justice would give it to him ! " 
"My dear Mrs. Marshall, let us go over the case. 
There are many very hard things in life ; there are laws 
made for the protection of the innocent that sometimes 
aeem the bitterest travesty in their application. The law, 
you know, has to take the majority of cases into consider- 
ation, and not a few isolated instances, however urgent 
they may be in righteous protest. You think you will in- 
voke the law?" 
Her strained eyes, her throbbing pulses, her lips bereft 
of all color and shut in a thin sharp line, the resolute, un- 
daunted brow, answered him where the words failed. 
" Then we will look to your defence. The law will 
say — having brought up two of her children honorably 
and taken care of the little boy for more than twelve 
years, it is her husband's duty to relieve her now, unless his 
character is such that he is not to be entrusted with the 
care of any child. What does she allege against him? 
That he drank at one time, and failed to provide the com- 
mon necessities of life ? But that is past. He is able and 
desirous of doing it. He has reformed — so entirely in- 
deed that he does not even drink wine, I am told. Now, 
can you so blacken his character as to prove him a cruel, 
heartless, vicious father to-day?" 
" I do such a thing ! " she cr}ed with pure, proud disdain. 
" I blacken Thomas Marshall's character when he may 
have repented, reformed ? O Mr. Darrow, what can you 
be thinking of?" and her face was an indignant scarlet. 
" You would have to do just that. You would have to 
prove him notoriously unfit in some way. He is still the 
father of your two daughters — " 
She sprang up and paced the floor in all a woman's out- 
raged agony. 
" Then the law is cruel," she cried, in a voice that 
pierced his heart. " Then men are crueller than I thought 
them." 
" Listen to me a moment ; " his tone was soothing yet 
commanding. " We will suppose a case. Your husband 
 
is a man of abundant means, and you have three little 
children. He has left you penniless. There may be rea- 
sons why you will accept nothing from him for yourself, 
but you cannot see your children starve. Here the law 
steps in and compels the man to support his offspring. 
He is their proper protector, he has no right to make 
them chargeable to the state. The law says — you are to 
pay to your wife and their mother enough for a decent 
maintenance according to your income. Or we will take 
this case. It is a very poor woman who is abandoned and 
appeals to the law. Work and take care of them, says the 
law, or go to prison and be made useful to the state or 
county, while it cares in turn for the helpless ones. The 
father is their natural supporter, their lawful one as well." 
" And the law gives them to him under any pretence. 
Thomas Marshall has never worked for his children's 
maintenance. I have. Some lucky accident, for it was 
that, of course, has given him money. He does not ask 
his wife to share it," and she thrust down the giant sob 
within her, while her face struggled with varied emotions, 
every feature being almost sublimed, " but he takes her 
little boy, her last darling, oh, my God," and she clasped 
her hands in despair. 
He was deeply moved. " If you think it better I will 
make the bravest fight of my whole life for you. I think it 
may be possible to so argue the case as to retain the boy, 
but will the victory be worth the cost? Every point you 
can bring up to his disadvantage must be used, every 
heroic bit of energy and perseverance on your part, and 
the present sad facts — for they are sad in their very 
cowardice. Can you pay so high a price, Mrs. Marshall ? 
And then, after a year or two, suppose the boy elects to 
go with his father, and the fight has all been vain ! " 
She dropped into her chair and buried her face in her 
hands, but she did not weep outward tears. Great scalding 
drops of agony fell on her heart like stabs from a keen 
sword. Oh, how could any man so strike the wife he had 
sworn to love and cherish ! And the dreary, dreary se- 
quence sure to' follow — the preference of the child for 
luxury and show. A pony, money to spend, journeys, — 
ah, she need not fight. It would be a waste of strength. 
" Do you think any court or judge would offer Bertie 
his choice ? " she asked with tremulous eagerness. 
" I think they would be likely to ; " reluctantly and with 
