(invaluable pretext at such an hour!) to keep me com 
pany. I remember that in this situation there came 
over me an impression which both included and ex 
cluded all possible disappointments. The afternoon 
was warm and still; the air was admirably soft. The 
good Manceaux, in little groups and pairs, were seated 
near me; my ear was soothed by the fine shades of 
French enunciation, by the detached syllables of that 
perfect tongue. There was nothing in particular in 
the prospect to charm; it was an average French view. 
Yet I felt[a charm, a kind of sympathy, a sense of the 
completeness of French life and of the lightness and 
brightness of the social air, together with a desire to 
arrive at friendly judgments, to express a positive 
interest. I know not why this transcendental mood 
should have descended upon me then and there; but 
that idle half-hour in front of the cafe, in the mild 
October afternoon, suffused with human sounds, is 
perhaps the most definite thing I brought away from 
Le Mans. 
XIV. 
I AM shocked at finding, just after this noble de 
claration of principles that in a little note-book which 
at that time I carried about with me, the celebrated 
city of Angers is denominated a "sell." I reproduce 
this vulgar term with the greatest hesitation, and only 
because it brings me more quickly to my point. This 
point is that Angers belongs to the disagreeable class 
of old towns that have been, as the English say, " done 
up." Not the oldness, but the newness, of the place 
is what strikes the sentimental tourist to-day, as he 
wanders with irritation along second-rate boulevards, 
looking vaguely about him for absent gables. "Black 
Angers," in short, is a victim of modern improvements, 
and quite unworthy of its admirable name, a name 
which, like that of Le Mans, had always had, to my 
eyes, a highly picturesque value. It looks particularly 
well on the Shakspearean page (in "King John"), where 
we imagine it uttered (though such would not have 
been the utterance of the period) with a fine old in 
sular accent. Angers figures with importance in early 
English history : it was the capital city of the Plantagenet 
race, home of that Geoffrey of Anjou who married, as 
second husband, the Empress Maud, daughter of 
Henry I. and competitor of Stephen, and became father 
of Henry II., first of the Plantagenet kings, born, as we 
have seen, at Le Mans. The facts create a natural 
presumption that Angers will look historic; I turned 
them over in my mind as I travelled in the train from 
Le Mans, through a country that was really pretty, and 
looked more like the usual English than like the usual 
French scenery, with its fields cut up by hedges and 
a considerable rotundity in its trees. On my way 
from the station to the hotel, however, it became plain 
that I should lack a good pretext for passing that night 
at the Cheval Blanc; I foresaw that I should have con 
tented myself before the end of the day. I remained 
at the White Horse only long enough to discover that 
it was an exceptionally good provincial inn, one of the 
best that I encountered during six weeks spent in 
these establishments. 
"Stupidly and vulgarly modernized," that is an 
other phrase from my note-book, and note-books are 
not obliged to be reasonable. "There are some narrow 
and tortuous streets, with a few curious old houses," I 
continue to quote; "there is a castle, of which the ex 
terior is most extraordinary, and there is a cathedral 
  
of moderate interest." It is fair to say that the 
Chateau d Angers is by itself worth a pilgrimage; the 
only drawback is that you have seen it in a quarter of 
an hour. You cannot do more than look at it, and 
one good look does your business. It has no beauty, 
no grace, no detail, nothing that charms or detains 
you; it is simply very old and very big, so big and 
so old that this simple impression is enough, and it 
takes its place in your recollections as a perfect specimen 
of a superannuated stronghold. It stands at one end 
of the town, surrounded by a huge, deep moat, which 
originally contained the waters of the Maine, now 
divided from it by a quay. The water-front of Angers 
is poor, wanting in color and in movement; and there 
is always an effect of perversity in a town lying near a 
great river and yet not upon it. The Loire is a few 
miles off; but Angers contents itself with a meagre 
affluent of that stream. The effect was naturally much 
better when the huge, dark mass of the castle, with its 
seventeen prodigious towers, rose out of the protecting 
flood. These towers are of tremendous girth and soli 
dity; they are encircled with great bands, or hoops, of 
white stone, and are much enlarged at the base. 
Between them hang vast curtains of infinitely old-look 
ing masonry, apparently a dense conglomeration of 
slate, the material of which the town was originally 
built (thanks to rich quarries in the neighborhood), 
and to which it owed its appellation of the Black. 
There are no windows, no apertures, and to-day no 
battlements nor roofs. These accessories were removed 
by Henry ILL, so that, in spite of its grimness and 
blackness, the place has not even the interest of look 
