
"Forgive me, dear friend," she said. "I am so dependent on these little
things! You are an angel, a general and a man of heart."

"The man of your heart, I hope you mean to say," answered San Miniato,
looking at Beatrice.

"Of course--anything you like--you are delightful. But I am dropping
with fatigue. Let me sit down."

"You have forgotten nothing--not even the moon you promised me," said
Beatrice, gazing with clasped hands at the great yellow shield as it
slowly rose above the far south-eastern hills.

"I will never forget anything you ask me, Donna Beatrice," replied San
Miniato in a low voice. Something told him that in the face of all
nature's beauty, he must speak very simply, and he was right.

There is but one moment in the revolution of day and night which is more
beautiful than the rising of the full moon at sunset, and that is the
dawn on the water when the full moon is going down. To see the gathering
dusk drink down the purple wine that dyes the air, the sea and the light
clouds, until it is almost dark, and then to feel the darkness growing
light again with the warm, yellow moon--to watch the jewels gathering on
the velvet sea, and the sharp black cliffs turning to chiselled silver
above you--to know that the whole night is to be but a softer day--to
see how the love of the sun for the earth is one, and the love of the
moon another--that is a moment for which one may give much and not be
disappointed.

Beatrice Granmichele saw and felt what she had never seen or felt
before, and the magic of Tragara held sway over her, as it does over the
few who see it as she saw it. She turned slowly and glanced at San
Miniato's face. The moonlight improved it, she thought. There seemed to
be more vigour in the well-drawn lines, more strength in the forehead
than she had noticed until now. She felt that she was in sympathy with
him, and that the sympathy might be a lasting one. Then she turned quite
round and faced the commonplace lamp with its pink shade, which stood
on the dinner-table, and she experienced a disagreeable sensation. The
Marchesa was slowly fanning herself, already seated at her place.

"If you are human beings, and not astronomers," she said, "we might
perhaps dine."

"I am very human, for my part," said San Miniato, holding Beatrice's
chair for her to sit down.

"There was really no use for the lamp, mamma," she said, turning again
to look at the moon. "You see what an illumination we have! San Miniato
has provided us with something better than a lamp."

"San Miniato, my dear child, is a man of the highest genius. I always
said so. But if you begin to talk of eating without a lamp, you may as
well talk of abolishing civilisation."

"I wish we could!" exclaimed Beatrice.

"And so do I, with all my heart," said San Miniato.

"Including baccarat and quinze?" enquired the Marchesa, lazily picking
out the most delicate morsels from the cold fish on her plate.

"Including baccarat, quinze, the world, the flesh and the devil," said
San Miniato.

"Pray remember, dearest friend, that Beatrice is at the table," observed
the Marchesa, with indolent reproach in her voice.

"I do," replied San Miniato. "It is precisely for her sake that I would
like to do away with the things I have named."

"You might just leave a little of each for Sundays!" suggested the young
girl.

"Beatrice!" exclaimed her mother.




CHAPTER VI.



While the little party sat at table, the sailors gathered together at a
distance among the rocks, and presently the strong red light of their
fire shot up through the shadows, lending new contrasts to the scene.
And there they slung their kettle on an oar and patiently waited for the
water to boil, while the man known as the Gull, always cook in every
crew in which he chanced to find himself, sat with the salt on one side
of him and a big bundle of macaroni on the other, prepared to begin
operations at any moment.

Ruggiero stood a little apart, his back against a boulder, his arms
crossed and his eyes fixed on Beatrice's face. His keen sight could
distinguish the changing play of her expression as readily at that
distance as though he had been standing beside her, and he tried to
catch the words she spoke, listening with a sort of hurt envy to the
little silvery laugh that now and then echoed across the open space and
lost itself in the crannies of the rocks. It all hurt him, and yet for
nothing in the world would he have turned away or shut his ears. More
