that he was as good as engaged to marry a girl that 
could no more meet Miss Carver on the same level 
than she could fly ? He could only tell his mother 
not to feel troubled about him ; that he was not 
going to get married in any great hurry; and 
pretend to be sleepy and turn his head away. 

She pulled the covering up round his neck and 
tucked it in with her strong, rough old hand, whose 
very tenderness hurt. 

He had expected to stay the greater part of the 
next day, but he took an earlier train. His sister 
was still laid up ; she thought she must have taken 
cold in her jaw; her husband, rumpled, unshaven, 
with a shawl over his shoulders, cowered about the 
cook-stove for the heat. He began to hate this 
poverty and suffering, to long for escape from it to 
the life which at that distance seemed so rich and 
easy and pleasant ; he trembled lest something might 
haive happened in his absence to have thrown him 
out of his place. 

All the way to Boston he was under the misery of 
the home that he was leaving; his mother 's pride 
added to the burden of it. But when the train drew 
in sight of the city, and he saw the steeples and 
chimneys, and the thin masts of the ships printed 
together against the horizon, his heart rose. He felt 
equal to it, to anything in it. 

He arrived in the middle of the afternoon, and he 
saw no one at the hotel except the Harmons till 



 

toward dinner-time. Then the ladies coming in from 
shopping had a word of welcome for him ; some of 
them stopped and shook hands at the office, and 
when they began to come down to dinner they spoke 
to him, and there again some of them offered their 
hands ; they said it seemed an age since he had gone. 

The art-students came down with Berry, who 
shook hands so cordially with him that perhaps they 
could not help it. Miss Carver seemed to hesitate, 
but she gave him her hand too, and she asked, as 
the others had done, whether he had found his 
family well. 

He did not know what to think. Sometimes he 
felt as if people were trying to make a fool of him 
almost. He remained blushing and smiling to 
himself after the last of them had gone in to dinner. 
He did not know what Miss Carver meant, but her 
eyes seemed to have lost that cold distance, and to 
have come nearer to him. 

Late at night Berry came to him where he sat at 
his desk. " Well, Barker, I' m glad you're  back 
again, old man. Feels as if you'd been gone a 
month of Sundays. Didn't know whether we 
should have you with us this first evening." 

Lemuel grew hot with consciousness, and did not 
make it better for himself by saying, "I don't 
know what you mean." 

" Well, I don't suppose / should in your place" 
returned Berry. " It J 's human nature. It 's all 
right. What did the ladies think of the Koman 
Youth the other night ? The distinguished artists 



 

weren't sure exactly, and I thought I could make 
capital with one of J em if I could find out. Yes, 
that 's my little game, Barker; that 's what I 
dropped in for ; Bismarck style of diplomacy. I'll 
tell you why they want to know, if you won't give 
me away : Miss Swan wanted to give her bit of 
colour that 's what she calls it to one of the 
young ladies ; but she 's afraid she didn't like it." 

" I guess they liked it well enough," said Lemuel, 
thinking with shame that Statira had not had the 
grace to say a word of either of the pictures ; he 
attributed this to Manda Grier 's influence. 

" Well that 's good, so far as it goes," said Berry. 
"But now, to come down to particulars, what did 
they say ? That 's what Miss Swan will ask me" 

" I don't remember just what they said," faltered 
Lemuel. 

