Is distinct enough. But his life does look poor and 
frivolous to him. Olive is right, he is not half worthy 
of her. 
He has to say his good-by presently, and go back to 
business. Doris misses him greatly. He is the first link 
in the chain that connects her with the magical land of 
which youth dreams. 
The Westwater season is stirred by a new ripple, the 
excitement concerning Basil Wentworth's election. For 
once the character of the candidate is irreproachable, the 
party issues are of a high order. The dignity and 
strength, the honor and integrity, of the man commend 
him to his fellow-men ; and as this is not a community 
 
 
 
where the baser political needs and uses are the strong 
points, there is scarcely any doubt of his success. 
Wentworth throw# himself into the work with a force 
that impresses his vigor upon the older party men. He 
is ambitious. What else is there to his life, he asks 
drearily of himself, wrenched out of the old dreams and 
ideals? He does not care in his secret heart for fame, 
but he will make the outside life felt ; he will influence 
his kind, and perhaps a little corner of the world. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lenox return home at this juncture, and 
the Wentworth family are brought together in a fashion 
that savors of the old-time cordiality. Basil takes the 
first opportunity to set his mother straight in regard to 
Doris. 
^' Are yon quite certain," she asks with the reluctance 
some people always evince in accepting the truth after 
they have settled their minds to the wrong statement, 
"Mrs. Lessing is 710^ a gossip, and rarely retails stories, 
scandals rather ? " 
"But you see how easily the mistake was made. It 
was confusing the two people. And I suppose any one 
who ever saw Miss Kingsford would not be likely to take 
Doris for her, since the former was not a relative of Mrs. 
Gilbert.'' 
"But it is the same Mrs. Gilbert," Mrs. Wentworth 
says, with a touch of obstinate disdain. 
" Yes. And yet I do not think her so bad. She has 
some very ladylike ways. I fancy it was Mr. Gilbert 
who always moved in the disreputable matters. It was 
he alone who stirred up Matthewson, and the lawyer 
frankly admitted that Doris would not listen to the 
slightest suggestion against Lloyd's will." 
" But you thought him simply horrible at the time of 
the funeral." 
"So he was. And if Doris had been arrogant and 
grasping, I should have dropped all connection with 
 
 
 
them. I should, in any event, but for the judge, who 
was the first to stand by her " ; and Basil gives a faint 
reflection like a smile. '' And we can all rejoice that she 
is not Mr. Gilbert's relative." 
"Family differences always look vulgar," Mrs. Went- 
worth returns loftily. "It is a good thing that we can 
accord her some sort of social recognition, though she is 
a person I should always distrust and never admire." 
"I do not know why we should distrust her," Basil 
says, in a dry, caustic tone that would remind one of 
Olive. " She has been upright, faithful, patient, and 
Westwater has discovered some charms in her, has prof- 
fered her social recognition without waiting for us. And 
we must not forget that most of our prejudice was founded 
upon a misstatement." 
" Mine I think was brought into existence largely 
by her uncle," is the persistently obstinate comment. 
" However, as time goes on, we have less and less to do 
with her; unless Olive's infatuation continues. Basil,'' 
suddenly changing her tone, " do you think Trevenna has 
transferred his regard to Olive ? She might marry him, 
and that would be as well as we could expect of her; 
though I feel vexed that she does not try to make the best 
of herself." 
" She is so much better than she used to be. Tre- 
venna — " And Basil makes a long halt. 
" He is there so often, drops in evenings and all that. 
I have no fancy for Olive being an old maid, though I 
suppose I ought to be satisfied with my two beautiful 
daughters." And there is a touch of elation in her tone. 
There may be another charm at the Elms. Can one 
expect a sweet, tender, loving gu-l like Doris Wentworth 
to doom herself to perpetual widowhood for that brief 
married life? His first impression with the thought is 
one of disapproval and disgust ; then he is aware of the 
cruel selfishness. He has resolved to be perfectly fair 
 
 
 
with her, even if he never comes to any friendly relations. 
And he knows with the one quick gasp that he would 
rather have Trevenna there than any utter stranger. He 
has never been within its doors since the morning of the 
day on which Doris arrived, and at Olive's illness, though 
he has inspected farms and the other buQdings of the 
