

 

interwoven with pretty sun-tints and faint transparencies. 
There was warmth and there was light, and a view of the 
shutters of shops, and the church bells were ringing. Miss 
Henning remarked that it was a ' shime ' she couldn't have 
a place to ask a gentleman to sit down ; but what were 
you to do when you had such a grind for your living, and 
a room, to keep yourself tidy, no bigger than a pill-box ? 
She couldn't, herself, abide waiting outside; she knew 
something about it when she took things home to ladies to 
choose (the time they spent was long enough to choose a 
husband !) and it always made her feel quite miserable. 
It was something cruel. If she could have what she liked 
she knew what she would have ; and she hinted at a mystic 
bower where a visitor could sit and enjoy himself with 
the morning paper, or a nice view out of the window, or 
even a glass of sherry so that, in an adjacent apartment, 
she could dress without getting in a fidget, which always 
made her red in the face. 

' I don't know how I J ave pitched on my things,' she 
remarked, presenting her magnificence to Hyacinth, who 
became aware that she had put a small plump book into 
her muff. He explained that, the day being so fine, he 
had come to propose to her to take a walk with him, in 
the manner of ancient times. They might spend an hour 
or two in the Park and stroll beside the Serpentine, or even 
paddle about on it, if she liked, and watch the lambkins, or 
feed the ducks, if she would put a crust in her pocket. 
The prospect of paddling Miss Henning entirely declined ; 
she had no idea of wetting her flounces, and she left those 
rough pleasures, especially of a Sunday, to a lower class 
of young woman. But she didn't mind if she did go for 


a turn, though he didn't deserve any such favour, after 
the way he hadn't been near her, if she had died in her 
garret. She was not one that was to be dropped and 
taken up at any man's convenience she didn't keep 
one of those offices for servants out of place. Millicent 
expressed the belief that if the day had not been so lovely 
she would have sent Hyacinth about his business ; it was 
lucky for him that she was always forgiving (such was her 
sensitive, generous nature), when the sun was out. Only 
there was one thing she couldn't abide making no differ- 
ence for Sunday ; it was her personal habit to go to church, 
and she should have it on her conscience if she gave that 
up for a lark. Hyacinth had already been impressed, more 
than once, by the manner in which his blooming friend 
stickled for the religious observance : of all the queer 
disparities of her nature, her devotional turn struck him as 
perhaps the queerest. She held her head erect through 
the longest and dullest sermon, and came out of the place 
of worship with her fine face embellished by the publicity 
of her virtue. She was exasperated by the general 
secularity of Hyacinth's behaviour, especially taken in 
conjunction with his general straightness, and was only 
consoled a little by the fact that if he didn't drink, or fight, 
or steal, at least he indulged in unlimited wickedness of 
opinion theories as bad as anything that people got ten 
years for. Hyacinth had not yet revealed to her that his 
theories had somehow lately come to be held with less 
tension ; an instinct of kindness had forbidden him to 
deprive her of a grievance which ministered so much to 
sociability. He had not reflected that she would have 
been more aggrieved, and consequently more delightful, if 



her condemnation of his godlessness had been deprived of 
confirmatory indications. 

On the present occasion she let him know that she 
would go for a walk with him if he would first accompany 
her to church ; and it was in vain he represented to her 
that this proceeding would deprive them of their morning, 
inasmuch as after church she would have to dine, and in 
the interval there would be no time left. She replied, with 
a toss of her head, that she dined when she liked ; besides 
on Sundays she had cold fare it was left out for her ; an 
argument to which Hyacinth had to assent, his ignorance 
of her domestic economy being complete, thanks to the 
maidenly mystery, the vagueness of reference and explana- 
tion, in which, in spite of great freedom of complaint, 
perpetual announcements of intended change, impending 
promotion and high bids for her services in other quarters, 
she had always enshrouded her private affairs. Hyacinth 
walked by her side to the place of worship she preferred 
her choice was made apparently from a large experience ; 
and as they went he remarked that it was a good job he 
wasn't married to her. Lord, how she would bully him, 
how she would ' squeeze ' him, in such a case ! The worst 
of it would be that such was his amiable, peace-loving 
nature he would obey like a showman's poodle. And 
pray, whom was a man to obey, asked Millicent, if he was 
not to obey his wife? She sat up in her pew with a 
majesty that carried out this idea ; she seemed to answer, 
