plethoric breathing, the feeble convalescent laughter,--these greeted
me; and only these.  Like the light that entered at the window, or the
air that circulated through the ward, I passed unnoticed and unthanked.
Some one called out petulantly that a door had got unfastened, and bade
a nurse go shut it, for it blew on her.  But when I came up to the
bedside of this poor woman, I saw that she was crying.
"She's cried herself half-dead," a nurse said, complainingly.  "Nobody
can stop her.  She's taking on so for Dr. Thorne."
"I don't blame her," said a little patient from a wheeled-chair.
"Everybody knows what he did for her.  She's got one of her
attacks,--and look at her!  There can't anybody but him stop it.
Whatever we're going to do without the doctor"--
Her own lip quivered, though she was getting well.
"I don't see how the doctor could die!" moaned the very sick woman,
weeping afresh, "when there's those that nobody but him can keep alive.
It hadn't oughter to be let to be.  How are sick folks going to get
along without their doctor?  It ain't right!"
"Lord have mercy on ye, poor creetur," said an old lady from the
opposite cot.  "Don't take on so.  It don't help it any.  It ain't
agoing to bring the doctor back!"
Sobs arose at this.  I could hear them from more beds than I cared to
count.  Sorrow sat heavily in the ward for my sake.  It distressed me
to think of the effect of all this depression upon the nervous systems
of these poor people.  I passed from case to case, and watched the
ill-effects of the general gloom with a sense of professional
disappointment which only physicians will understand as coming
uppermost in a man's mind under circumstances such as these.
My discomfort was increased by the evidences of what I considered
mistakes in treatment on the part of my colleagues; some of which had
peculiarly disagreed with certain patients since my death had thrown
them into other hands.  My helplessness before these facts chafed me
sorely.
I made no futile effort to make myself known to any of the hospital
patients.  I had learned too well the limitations of my new condition
now.  I had in no wise learned to bear them.  In truth, I think I bore
them less, for my knowledge that these poor creatures did truly love
me, and leaned on me, and mourned for me; I found it hard.  I think it
even occurred to me that a dead man might not be able to bear it to see
his wife and child.
"Doctor!" said a low, sweet voice, "Doctor?"  My heart leaped within
me, as I turned.  Where was the highly organized one of all my
patients, who had baffled death for love of me?  Who had the
clairvoyance or clairaudience, or the wonderful tip in the scale of
health and disease, which causes such phenomena?
With hungry eyes I gazed from cot to cot.  No answering gaze returned
to me.  Craving their recognition more sorely than they had ever, in
the old life, craved mine, in such need of their sympathy as never had
the weakest of the whole of them for mine, I scanned them all.  No--no.
There was not a patient in the ward who knew me.  No.
Stung with the disappointment, I sank into a chair beside the weeping
woman's bed, and bowed my face upon my hands.  At this instant I was
touched upon the shoulder.
"Doctor!  Why, Doctor!" said the voice again.
I sprang and caught the speaker by the hands.  It was Mrs. Faith.  She
stood beside me, sweet and smiling.
"The carriage overturned," she said in her quiet way, "I was badly
hurt.  I only died an hour ago.  I started out at once to find you.  I
want you to see Charley.  Charley's still alive.  Those doctors don't
understand Charley.  There's nobody I'd trust him to but you.  You can
save him.  Come!  You can't think how he asked for you, and cried for
you....  I thought I should find you at the hospital.  Come quickly,
Doctor!  Come!"
CHAPTER XI.
Some homesick traveller in a foreign land, where he is known of none
and can neither speak nor understand the language of the country; taken
ill, let us say, at a remote inn, his strength and credit gone, and he,
in pain and fever, hears, one blessed day, the voice of an old friend
in the court below.  Such a man may think he has--but I doubt if he
have--some crude conception of the state of feeling in which I found
myself, when recognized in this touching manner by my old patient.
My emotion was so great that I could not conceal it; and she, in her
own quick and delicate way, perceiving this almost before I did myself,
made as if she saw it not, and lightly adding:
"Hurry, Doctor!  I will go before you.  Let us lose no time!" led me at
once out of the hospital and rapidly away.
In an incredibly, almost confusingly short space of time, we reached
her house; this was done by some method of locomotion not hitherto
experienced by me, and which I should, at that time, have found it
difficult to describe, unless by saying that she thought us where we
wished to be.  Perhaps it would be more exact to say, She felt us.
It was as if the great power of the mother's love in her had become a
new bodily faculty by which she was able, with extraordinary disregard
of the laws of distance, to move herself and to draw another to the
suffering child.  I should say that I perceived at once, in the
presence of this sweet woman, that there were possibilities and
privileges in the state immediately succeeding death, which had been
utterly denied to me, and were still unknown to me.  It was easy to see
that her personal experience in the new condition differed as much from
mine as our lives had differed in the time preceding death.  She had
been a patient, unworldly, and devout sufferer; a chronic invalid, who
bore her lot divinely.  Her soul had been as full of trust and
gentleness, of the forgetting of self and the service of others, of the
scorn of pain, and of what she called trust in Heaven, as any woman's
soul could be.
I had never seen the moment when I could withhold my respect from the
devout nature of Mrs. Faith, any more than I could from her manner of
enduring suffering; or, I might add, if I could expect the remark to be
properly understood,--from her strong and intelligent trust in me.
Physicians know what sturdy qualities it takes to make a good patient.
Perhaps they are, to some extent, the same which go to make a good
