

hake, or mebbe mackerel if he 's sleek and little. It 's a 
kind of a birth-mark, I shouldn't wonder. There 's no 
gettin' out on 't, no more 'n it out of you. Sometimes 
I used to think — 

" Good Lord ! " cried Jack. He laid down his oar 
again, and the dory wheeled to starboard sharply. 

" Rowe Salt, you look there ! You tell me if you see 
a woman yonder, on the water ! " 

" You 've got the jim-jams, Jack. Women folks don't 




walk at Georges'. I can't see nothin' nowhere, but it's 
thick as " — 

" It's thick as hell," interrupted Jack, "and there's 
a woman walkin' on the water, — Lord ! don't you see 
her ? Lord ! her hair is yeller hair, and it 's streamin' 
over her, — don't you see her ? She 's walkin' on this 
devilish fog to-wards the dory, — Teen? Teen ! There! 
Lord save me, Rowe, if I didn't see my wife come 
walkin' towards us, us settin' in this dory. — Hi-i-igh ! 
I 'll swear off when I get home. I 'll tell her so. I 
hate to see such things." 

" You see, Rowe," Jack added presently, — for he had 
not spoken after that, but had fallen grimly to work. 
It was ten below, and the wind was taking the backward 
spring for a bitter blow ; both men, tugging at their 
trawls through the high and icy sea, were suffering too 
much to talk, — " ye see we had some words before I 
come aboard, and she warn't right smart. The baby 
can't be very old. I don' know how old it is. I was 
oncommon drunk ; I don't remember what I did to her. 
I 'm afraid I hit her, — for I had some words with her. 
I wished I was at home. She won't tell nobody. She 
never does. But I 'm set to be at home and tell her 
I 've sworn off. I 've got money for her this trip, too ; 
I 'm afraid she 's in a hurry for it." 

After this outburst of confidence, Jack seemed to 
cling to his dory-mate ; he followed him about deck, and 
looked wistfully at him. Jack had begun to take on the 
haggard look of the abstainer once again. The crew 
thought he did not seem like himself. He had stopped 
drinking, abruptly, after that day in the fog, and suffered 
heavily from the weather and from exposure. 

" I say, Rowe," he asked one day, " if anything was 




to happen, would you jest step in and tell my wife I 
didn't believe that yarn about her ? She'll know." 

Now it befell, that when they were rounding Eastern 
Point, and not till then, they bespoke the Destiny, which 
was outward bound, and signaled them. She drew to 
speaking distance, and her skipper had a word with the 
master of the Daredevil, but he spoke none too loud, 
and made his errand quickly, and veered to his own 
course, and the two boats parted company, and the Daredevil 
came bustling in. They were almost home. 

It was remembered afterward that Jack was badly 
frostbitten upon that voyage ; he looked badly ; he had 
strange ways ; the men did not know exactly how to 
take him. He was overheard to say : 

" I ain't agoin' to go to Georges' again." 

Rowe Salt overheard this, after the skipper of the 
Destiny had signaled and tacked. Jack was sitting aft 
alone, when he said it, looking seaward. He had paid 
little or no attention to the incident of the Destiny, but 
sat staring, plunged in some mood of his own which 
seemed as solitary, as removed from his kind and from 
their comprehension, as the moods of mental disorder 
are from the sane. 

So then, with such dexterity as the ignorant man 
could muster, Salt got his friend down below, on some 
pretext, and stood looking at him helplessly. 

"You don't look well, Rowe," Jack suggested pleasantly. 

" Jack," said his dory-mate, turning white enough, 
" I 'll make no bones of it, nor mince nothin', for 
somebody 's got to tell ye, and they said it must be me. 
There 's a warrant after ye. The sheriff's on the tug 
betwixt us and the wharf. She \s layin' off of the island, 
him aboard of her." 

