steady. I can’t express it, but you know?” And Maggie looked
wistfully at the other faces, some of which answered her with a
quick flash of sympathy, and some only wore a puzzled yet respectful
expression, as if they felt they ought to know, but did not.
“I need not tire you with all my humdrum doings,” continued Maggie.
“I made no plans, but just said each day, ‘I’ll take what comes,
and try to be cheerful and contented.’ So I looked after the
children, and that left Maria more time to sew and help round. I did
errands, and went to market, and saw that Papa had his meals
comfortably when Mamma was not able to come down. I made calls for
her, and received visitors, and soon went on as if I were the lady
of the house, not ‘a chit of a girl,’ as Cousin Tom used to call me.
“The best of all were the cosey talks we had in the twilight, Mamma
and I, when she was rested, and all the day’s worry was over, and we
were waiting for Papa. Now, when he came, I didn’t have to go away,
for they wanted to ask and tell me things, and consult about
affairs, and make me feel that I was really the eldest daughter. Oh,
it was just lovely to sit between them and know that they needed me,
and loved to have me with them! That made up for the hard and
disagreeable things, and not long ago I got my reward. Mamma is
better, and I was rejoicing over it, when she said,’ Yes, I really
am mending now, and hope soon to be able to relieve my good girl.
But I want to tell you, dear, that when I was most discouraged my
greatest comfort was, that if I had to leave my poor babies they
would find such a faithful little mother in you.’
“I was SO pleased I wanted to cry, for the children DO love me, and
run to me for everything now, and think the world of Sister, and
they didn’t use to care much for me. But that wasn’t all. I ought
not to tell these things, perhaps, but I’m so proud of them I can’t
help it. When I asked Papa privately, if Mamma was REALLY better and
in no danger of falling ill again, he said, with his arms round me,
and such a tender kiss,--
“‘No danger now, for this brave little girl put her shoulder to the
wheel so splendidly, that the dear woman got the relief from care
she needed just at the right time, and now she really rests sure
that we are not neglected. You couldn’t have devoted yourself to a
better charity, or done it more sweetly, my darling. God bless
you!’”
Here Maggie’s voice gave out, and she hid her face, with a happy
sob, that finished her story eloquently. Marion flew to wipe her
tears away with the blue sock, and the others gave a sympathetic
murmur, looking much touched; forgotten duties of their own rose
before them, and sudden resolutions were made to attend to them at
once, seeing how great Maggie’s reward had been.
“I didn’t mean to be silly; but I wanted you to know that I hadn’t
been idle all winter, and that, though I haven’t much to tell, I’m
quite satisfied with my chore,” she said, looking up with smiles
shining through the tears till her face resembled a rose in a
sun-shower.
“Many daughters have done well, but thou excellest them all,”
 answered Anna, with a kiss that completed her satisfaction.
“Now, as it is after our usual time, and we must break up,”
 continued the President, producing a basket of flowers from its
hiding-place, “I will merely say that I think we have all learned a
good deal, and will be able to work better next winter; for I am
sure we shall want to try again, it adds so much sweetness to our
own lives to put even a little comfort into the hard lives of the
poor. As a farewell token, I sent for some real Plymouth mayflowers,
and here they are, a posy apiece, with my love and many thanks for
your help in carrying out my plan so beautifully.”
So the nosegays were bestowed, the last lively chat enjoyed, new
plans suggested, and goodbyes said; then the club separated, each
member going gayly away with the rosy flowers on her bosom, and in
it a clearer knowledge of the sad side of life, a fresh desire to
see and help still more, and a sweet satisfaction in the thought
that each had done what she could.
AN IVY SPRAY AND LADIES’ SLIPPERS
“IT can’t be done! So I may as well give it I up and get a new pair.
I long for them, but I’m afraid my nice little plan for Laura will
be spoilt,” said Jessie Delano to herself, as she shook her head
over a pair of small, dilapidated slippers almost past mending.
While she vainly pricked her fingers over them for the last time,
her mind was full of girlish hopes and fears, as well as of
anxieties far too serious for a light-hearted creature of sixteen.
A year ago the sisters had been the petted daughters of a rich man;
but death and misfortune came suddenly, and now they were left to
face poverty alone. They had few relations, and had offended the
rich uncle who offered Jessie a home, because she refused to be
separated from her sister. Poor Laura was an invalid, and no one
wanted her; but Jessie would not leave her, so they clung together
and lived on in the humble rooms where their father died, trying to
earn their bread by the only accomplishments they possessed. Laura
painted well, and after many disappointments was beginning to find a
sale for her dainty designs and delicate flowers. Jessie had a
natural gift for dancing; and her former teacher, a kind-hearted
Frenchwoman, offered her favorite pupil the post of assistant
teacher in her classes for children.
It cost the girl a struggle to accept a place of this sort and be a
humble teacher, patiently twirling stupid little boys and girls
round and round over the smooth floor where she used to dance so
happily when she was the pride of the class and the queen of the
closing balls. But for Laura’s sake she gratefully accepted the
offer, glad to add her mite to their small store, and to feel that
she could help keep the wolf from the door. They had seemed to hear
the howl of this dreaded phantom more than once during that year,
and looked forward to the long hard winter with an anxiety which
neither would confess to the other. Laura feared to fall ill if she
worked too hard, and then what would become of this pretty young
sister who loved her so tenderly and would not be tempted to leave
her? And Jessie could do very little except rebel against their hard
