
Soon after their marriage the Pasmers had gone to live in Paris, where
they remained faithful to the fortunes of the Second Empire till its
fall, with intervals of return to their own country of a year or two
years at a time. After the fall of the Empire they made their sojourn
in England, where they lived upon the edges and surfaces of things, as
Americans must in Europe everywhere, but had more permanency of feeling
than they had known in France, and something like a real social status.
At one time it seemed as if they might end their days there; but that
which makes Americans different from all other peoples, and which
finally claims their allegiance for their own land, made them wish to
come back to America, and to come back to Boston. After all, their place
in England was strictly inferior, and must be. They knew titles, and
consorted with them, but they had none themselves, and the English
constancy which kept their friends faithful to them after they had
become an old story, was correlated with the English honesty which
never permitted them to mistake themselves for even the lowest of the
nobility. They went out last, and they did not come in first, ever.

The invitations, upon these conditions, might have gone on indefinitely,
but they did not imply a future for the young girl in whom the interests
of her parents centred. After being so long a little girl, she had
become a great girl, and then all at once she had become a young
lady. They had to ask themselves, the mother definitely and the father
formlessly, whether they wished their daughter to marry an Englishman,
and their hearts answered them, like true Republican hearts, Not an
untitled Englishman, while they saw no prospect of her getting any
other. Mrs. Pasmer philosophised the case with a clearness and a courage
which gave her husband a series of twinges analogous to the toothache,
for a man naturally shrinks from such bold realisations. She said Alice
had the beauty of a beauty, and she had the distinction of a beauty, but
she had not the principles of a beauty; there was no use pretending that
she had. For this reason the Prince of Wales’s set, so accessible to
American loveliness with the courage of its convictions, was beyond her;
and the question was whether there was money enough for a younger son,
or whether, if there was, a younger son was worth it.

However this might be, there was no question but there was now less
money than there had been, and a great deal less. The investments had
not turned out as they promised; not only had dividends been passed, but
there had been permanent shrinkages. What was once an amiable competency
from the pooling of their joint resources had dwindled to a sum that
needed a careful eye both to the income and the outgo. Alice’s becoming
a young lady had increased their expenses by the suddenly mounting cost
of her dresses, and of the dresses which her mother must now buy for
the different role she had to sustain in society. They began to ask
themselves what it was for, and to question whether, if she could not
marry a noble Englishman, Alice had not better marry a good American.

Even with Mrs. Pasmer this question was tacit, and it need not be
explained to any one who knows our life that in her most worldly dreams
she intended at the bottom of her heart that her daughter should marry
for love. It is the rule that Americans marry for love, and the very
rare exception that they marry for anything else; and if our divorce
courts are so busy in spite of this fact, it is perhaps because the
Americans also unmarry for love, or perhaps because love is not so
sufficient in matters of the heart as has been represented in the
literature of people who have not been able to give it so fair a
trial. But whether it is all in all in marriage, or only a very marked
essential, it is certain that Mrs. Pasmer expected her daughter’s
marriage to involve it. She would have shrunk from intimating anything
else to her as from a gross indecency; and she could not possibly, by
any finest insinuation, have made her a partner in her design for her
happiness. That, so far as Alice was concerned, was a thing which was to
fall to her as from heaven; for this also is part of the American plan.
We are the children of the poets, the devotees of the romancers, so far
as that goes; and however material and practical we are in other things,
in this we are a republic of shepherds and shepherdesses, and we live in
a golden age; which if it sometimes seems an age of inconvertible paper,
is certainly so through no want of faith in us.

Though the Pasmers said that they ought to go home for Alice’s sake,
they both understood that they were going home experimentally, and not
with the intention of laying their bones in their native soil, unless
they liked it, or found they could afford it. Mrs. Pasmer had no
illusions in regard to it. She had learned from her former visits home
that it was frightfully expensive; and, during the fifteen years which
they had spent chiefly abroad, she had observed the decay of that
distinction which formerly attended returning sojourners from Europe.
She had seen them cease gradually from the romantic reverence which
once clothed them, and decline through a gathering indifference into
something like slight and compassion, as people who have not been
able to make their place or hold their own at home; and she had
taught herself so well how to pocket the superiority natural to
the Europeanised American before arriving at consciousness of this
disesteem, that she paid a ready tribute to people who had always stayed
at home.

In fact Mrs. Pasmer was a flatterer, and it cannot be claimed for her
that she flattered adroitly always. But adroitness in flattery is not
necessary for its successful use. There is no morsel of it too gross for
the condor gullet and the ostrich stomach of human vanity; there is
no society in which it does not give the utterer instant honour
and acceptance in greater or less degree. Mrs. Pasmer, who was very
good-natured, employed it because she liked it herself, and knowing how
absolutely worthless it was from her own tongue, prized it from others.
She could have rested perfectly safe without it in her social position,
which she found unchanged by years of absence. She had not been a
Hibbins for nothing, and she was not a Pasmer for nothing, though why
she should have been either for something it would not be easy to say.
