




face, not only without movement, but with a 
suggestion of obstinacy in its repose; and yet, 
with its limitations, it was neither stupid nor 
displeasing. It had an air of intelligent calm 
a considering, pondering look that was superior, 
somehow, to diffidence or anxiety; moreover, the 
girl had a clear skin and a gentle, dim smile. 
If she had been a young man (and she had, a 
little, the head of one) it would probably have 
been thought of her that she nursed dreams of 
eminence in some scientific or even political 
line. 

An observer would have gathered, further, that 
Mr. Flack s acquaintance with Mr. Dosson and his 
daughters had had its origin in his crossing the 
Atlantic eastward in their company more than a 
year before and in some slight association imme 
diately after disembarking; but that each party 
had come and gone a good deal since then corne 
and gone however without meeting again. It was 
to be inferred that in this interval Miss Dosson 
had led her father and sister back to their native 
land and had then a second time directed their 
course to Europe. This was a new departure, 
said Mr. Flack, or rather a new arrival : he under 
stood that it was not, as he called it, the same 
old visit. She did not repudiate the accusation, 
launched by her companion as if it might have 
been embarrassing, of having spent her time at 
home in Boston, and even in a suburban portion 

of it : she confessed that, as Bostonians, they had 
been capable of that. But now they had come 
abroad for longer ever so much : what they had 
gone home for was to make arrangements for a 
European sojourn of which the limits were not to 
be told. So far as this prospect entered into her 
plans she freely acknowledged it. It appeared 
to meet with George Flack s approval he also 
had a big job on that side and it might take years, 
so that it would be pleasant to have his friends 
right there. He knew his way about in Paris 
or any place like that much more than in Boston ; 
if they had been poked away in one of those 
clever suburbs they would have been lost to him. 
" Oh, well, you 'll see as much as you want to 
O f us the way you 'll have to take us," Delia 
Dosson said : which led the young man to inquire 
what way that was and to remark that he only 
knew one way to take anything just as it came. 
" Oh, well, you 'll see," the girl rejoined ; and she 
would give for the present no further explanation 
of her somewhat chilling speech. In spite of it, 
however, she professed an interest in Mr. Flack s 
job "an interest which rested apparently upon 
an interest in the young man himself. The 
slightly surprised observer whom we have supposed 
to be present would have perceived that this latter 
sentiment was founded on a conception of Mr. 
Flack s intrinsic brilliancy. Would his own im 
pression have justified that? would he have 







found such a conception contagious ? I forbear 
to say positively no, for that would charge me 
with the large responsibility of showing what 
right our accidental observer might have had to 
his particular standard. I prefer therefore to note 
simply that George Flack was quite clever enough 
to seem a person of importance to Delia Dosson. 
He was connected (as she supposed) with literature, 
and was not literature one of the many engaging 
attributes of her cherished little sister? If Mr. 
Flack was a writer Francie was a reader : had not 
a trail of forgotten Tauchnitzes marked the former 
line of travel of the party of three ? The elder 
sister grabbed them up on leaving hotels and 
railway-carriages, but usually found that she had 
brought odd volumes. She considered, however, 
that as a family they had a sort of superior affinity 
with the young journalist, and would have been 
surprised if she had been told that his acquaintance 
was not a high advantage. 

Mr. Flack s appearance was not so much a 
property of his own as a prejudice on the part 
of those who looked at him : whoever they might 
be what they saw mainly in him was that they 
had seen him before. And, oddly enough, this 
