their rent for such a cause."

Dan Woods was at work in the yard when Wolverton approached. He was
splitting some wood for use in the kitchen stove. His heart sank within
him when he saw the keen, sharp features of his landlord.

"Good morning, Dan," said Wolverton, with suavity. His expression was
amiable, as it generally was when he was collecting money, but it
suffered a remarkable change if the money was not forthcoming.

"Good-morning, sir," answered Woods, with a troubled look.

"You've got a nice, snug place here, Dan; it's a fine home for your
family."

"I don't complain of it, sir. As I once owned it myself, probably I set
more store by it than a stranger would."

"Just so, Dan. You get it at a very low rent, too. If it were any one
but yourself I should really feel that I ought to raise the rent to
twenty dollars."

"I hope you won't do that, sir," said Woods, in alarm. "It's all I can
do to raise ten dollars a month, with all my other expenses."

"Oh, well, I'll let it remain at the present figure as long as you pay
me promptly," emphasizing the last words. "Of course I have a right to
expect that."

Dan's heart sank within him. It was clear he could not expect any
consideration from such a man. But the truth must be told.

"No doubt you are right, Mr. Wolverton, and you've found me pretty
prompt so far."

"So I have, Dan. I know you wouldn't be dishonest enough to make me
wait."

Dan's heart sank still lower. It was becoming harder every minute to own
that he was deficient.

"Still, Mr. Wolverton, bad luck will come----"

"What!" exclaimed Wolverton, with a forbidding scowl.

"As I was saying, sir, a man is sometimes unlucky. Now, I have been sick
nearly a week out of the last month, as you may have heard, and it's put
me back."

"What are you driving at, Dan Woods?" demanded Wolverton, severely. "I
hope you're not going to say that you are not ready to pay your rent?"

"I haven't got the whole of it, sir; and that's a fact."

"You haven't got the whole of it? How much have you got?"

"I can pay you six dollars, Mr. Wolverton."

"Six dollars out of ten! Why, this is positively shameful! I wonder you
are not ashamed to tell me."

"There is no shame about it that I can see," answered Dan, plucking up
his spirit. "I didn't fall sick on purpose; and when I was sick I
couldn't work."

"You ought to have one month's rent laid by, so that whatever happens
you could pay it on time."

"That's easy to say, Mr. Wolverton, but it takes every cent of my
earnings to pay my monthly expenses. There's little chance to save."

"Any one can save who chooses," retorted Wolverton, sharply.

"Shall I get you the six dollars, sir?"

"Yes, give it to me."

"And you will wait for the other four?"

"Till to-morrow night."

"But how can I get it by to-morrow night?" asked Dan in dismay.

"That's your lookout, not mine. All I have to say is, unless it is paid
to me to-morrow night you must move the next day."

With these words Wolverton went off. Dan Woods, in his trouble, went to
Bob Burton the next day, and Bob readily lent him the money he needed.

"Thank you!" said Dan, gratefully; "I won't forget this favor."

"Don't make too much of it, Dan; it's a trifle."

"It's no trifle to me. But for you my family would be turned out of
house and home to-morrow. The time may come when I can do you a
service."

"Thank you, Dan."

The time came sooner than either anticipated.
