thing of the fiesh, not of the spirit, and the 
physical part of Sioned Penrhyn has enriched 
the soil of Constantinople these sixty years. 
She has committed no sin in her present embodi- 
ment." 
"Sin is an impulse, a prompting, of the spirit," 
said Dartmouth. 
Hollington threw one leg over the arm of the 
chair, half turning his back upon Dartmouth. 
' Rot!" he said. 
" Not at all. Otherwise, the dead could sin." 
" I am gratified to perceive that you are still 
able to have the last word. All I can say is, that 
you have done what I thought no living man 
could do. I once read a novel by a famous 
American author in which one of the characters 
would not ask the heroine to marry him after 
her husband's death because he had been guilty 
of the indelicacy of loving her (although mutely, 
and by her unsuspected) while she was a married 
woman. I thought then that moral senility 
could go no further, but you have got ahead of 
the American. Allow me to congratulate you." 
" You can jibe all you like. I may be a fool, 
but I can't help it. I have got to that point 
where I am dominated by instinct, not by reason. 
The instincts may be wrong, because the out- 
growth of a false civilization, but there they are, 
nevertheless, and of them I am the product. 
So are you, and some day you will find it out. 
I do not say positively that I will not marry 
Weir Penrhyn. I will talk it over with her, and 
then we can decide." 
 
"A charming subject to discuss with a young 
girl. It would be kinder, and wiser, and more 
decent of you never to mention the matter to 
her. Of what use to make the poor girl miserable?" 
" She half suspects now, and it would come 
out sooner or later." 
" Then for heaven's sake do it at once, and 
have it over. Don't stay here by yourself any 
longer, whatever you do. Go to-morrow." 
"Yes," said Dartmouth, " I will go to-morrow." 
XIII. 
When Dartmouth entered the drawing-room 
at Rhyd-Alwyn the next evening, a half hour 
after his arrival, he found Sir Iltyd alone, and 
received a warm greeting. 
" My dear boy," the old gentleman exclaimed, 
" I am delighted to see you. It seems an age 
since you left, and your brief reports of your ill- 
health have worried me. As for poor Weir, she 
has been ill herself. She looks so wretched that 
I would have sent for a physician had she not, in 
her usual tyrannical fashion, forbidden me. I 
did not tell her you were expected to-night; I 
wanted to give her a pleasant surprise. Here 
she is now." 
The door was pushed open and Weir entered 
the room. Dartmouth checked an involuntary 
exclamation and went forward to meet her. She 
had on a long white gown hke that she had worn 
the morning he had asked her to marry him, but 
the similarity of dress only served to accentuate 
the change the intervening time had wrought. 
It was not merely that she had lost her color and 
that her face was haggard; it was an indefinable 
revolution in her personality, which made her 
look ten years older, and left her without a 
suggestion of girlishness. She still carried her head 
with her customary hauteur, but there was 
something in its poise which suggested defiance as 
well, and which was quite new. And the 
lanterns in her eyes had gone out; the storms had 
been too heavy for them. All she needed was 
the costume of the First Empire to look as if she 
had stepped out of the locket he had brought 
from Crumford Hall. 
As she saw Dartmouth, the blood rushed over 
her face, dyeing it to the roots of her hair, then 
receded, leaving it whiter than her gown. When 
he reached her side she drew back a little, but he 
made no attempt to kiss her; he merely raised 
her hand to his lips. As he did so he could 
have sworn he saw the sun flashing on the domes 
beneath the window; and over his senses stole 
the perfume of jasmine. The roar without was 
not that of the ocean, but of a vast city, and — 
hark ! — the cry of the muezzin. How weird the 
tapestry looked in the firelight, and how the 
figures danced! And he had always liked her to 
  
wear white, better even than yellow. He roused 
himself suddenly and offered her his arm. The 
butler was announcing dmner. 
They went into the dining-room, and Dart- 
mouth and Sir Iltyd talked about the change of 
ministry and the Gladstone attitude on the Irish 
question for an hour and a quarter. Weir 
