
her without seeming to relent, even if he did not relent in 
earnest ; and on the other hand his really noble nature would 
have prevented him from being harsh in his manner to her 
while she -was suffering. 

Until he had been convinced that a duel with Gouache 
was for the present impossible, his anger had supported him, 
and had made the time pass quickly throughout the sleepless 
night and through the events of the morning. Now that he 
was alone, with nothing to do but to meditate upon the 
situation, his savage humour forsook him and the magnitude 
of his misfortune oppressed him and nearly drove him mad. 
He went over the whole train of evidence again and again, 
and as often as he reviewed what had occurred, his convic 
tion grew deeper and stronger, and he acknowledged that he 
had been deceived as man was never deceived before. He 
realised the boundless faith he had given to this woman who 
had betrayed him ; he recollected the many proofs she had 
given him of her love ; he drew upon the store of his past 
happiness and tortured himself with visions of what could 
never be again ; he called up in fancy Corona's face when he 
had led her to the altar and the very look in her eyes was 
again upon him ; he remembered that day more than two 
years ago when, upon the highest tower of Saracinesca, he 
had asked her to be his wife, and he knew not whether he 
desired to burn the memory of that first embrace from his 
heart, or to dwell upon the sweet recollection of that moment 
and suffer the wound of to-day to rankle more hotly by the 
horror of the comparison. When he thought of what she had 
been, it seemed impossible that she could have fallen ; when 
he saw what she had become he could not believe that she 
had ever been innocent. A baser man than Giovanni would 
have suffered more in his personal vanity, seeing that his 
idol had been degraded for a mere soldier of fortune or for 
a clever artist whichever Gouache called himself, and such 
a husband would have forgiven her more easily had she for 
saken him for one of his own standing and rank. But Gio 
vanni was far above and beyond the thought of comparing 
his enemy with himself. He was wounded in what he had 
held most sacred, which was his heart, and in what had 




grown to be the mainspring of his existence, his trust in the 
woman he loved. Those who readily believe are little 
troubled if one of their many little faiths be shaken ; but 
men who believe in a few things, with the whole strength of 
their being, are hurt mortally when that on which they 
build their loyalty is shattered and overturned. 

Giovanni was a just man, and was rarely carried away by 
appearances ; least of all could he have shown any such weak 
ness when the yielding to it, involved the destruction of all 
that he cared for in life. But the evidence was overwhelming, 
and no man could be blamed for accepting it. There was no 
link wanting in the chain, and the denials made by Corona 
and Anastase could not have influenced any man in his 
senses. What could a woman do but deny all ? What was 
there for Gouache but to swear that the accusation was 
untrue ? Would not any other man or woman have done as 
much ? There was no denying it. The only person who 
remained unquestioned was Faustina Montevarchi. Either 
she was the innocent girl she appeared to be or not. If she 
were, how could Giovanni explain to her that she had been 
duped, and made an instrument in the hands of Gouache and 
Corona ? She would not know what he meant. Even if 
she admitted that she loved Gouache, was it not clear that 
he had deceived her too, for the sake of making an accom 
plice of one who was constantly with Corona ? Her love for 
the soldier could not explain the things that had passed 
between Anastase and Giovanni's wife, which Giovanni had 
seen with his own eyes. It could not account for the whis 
perings, the furtive meeting and tender words of which he 
had been a witness in his own house. It could not do 
away with the letter and the pin. But if Faustina were not 
innocent of assisting the two, she would deny everything, 
even as they had done. 

As he thought of all these matters and followed the 
cruelly logical train of reasoning forced upon him by the 
facts, a great darkness descended upon Giovanni's heart, and 
he knew that his happiness was gone from him for ever. 
Henceforth nothing remained but to watch his wife jealously, 
and suffer his ills with the best heart he could. The very 



 

fact that he loved her still, with a passion that defied all 
things, added a terrible bitterness to what he had to bear, for 
it made him despise himself as none would have dared to 
despise him. 

CHAPTEE XII 

As Giovanni sat in solitude in his room he was not 
aware that his father had received a visit from no less 
