was corrupted with that of the hated race. He appeared to be about forty
years of age, and his knowledge of the affairs of the locality could
hardly have been better if he had been a white man, with a quick
perception, a reasoning intellect, and a retentive memory. It was the
rule with Union officers, soldiers, and sailors to trust the negroes,
making proper allowance for their general ignorance and stupidity, and
for particular circumstances. But some of them, even many of them, were
brighter than might be expected from their situation and antecedents.
The binnacle from the whaleboat had been brought into the pilot-house,
and Christy compared it with the compass in the Teaser's apparatus,
after Dave had lighted it. There was no disagreement, and as the tide
was still coming in, the head of the steamer was pointed to the
westward, which would be her first course down the bay.
The lieutenant felt that everything depended upon the working of the
steamer, and he was a total stranger to her peculiarities, if she had
any, as most vessels have. Taking Beeks with him, he began at the stem
and followed the rail entirely around the steamer, feeling with a
boat-hook along the sides. Sundry ropes, fenders, and pieces of lumber
were dislodged, and everything put in order about the main deck. Then
he visited the engine-room, and learned from Sampson that he had a full
head of steam. This careful inspection completed, he ordered the
quartermaster to cast off the fast at the buoy.
Taking his place in the pilot-house with Beeks, he rang the bell to go
ahead. The Teaser started on quite a different voyage from what she had
been intended for. Christy had studied up his courses and distances, and
had imprinted the chart of the lower part of the bay on his brain. For
the first part of the run, there was no obstacle, and no difficulty in
regard to the course.
The fog and the darkness were so dense that not a thing could be seen
in any direction; but he rang for full speed as soon as the Teaser was
under way. A leadsman had been stationed on each side of the forecastle,
though there was no present occasion for their services. Christy thought
everything was going extremely well, and he was reasonably confident
that he should succeed in his plan.
"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted a voice, coming out of the dense fog.
"That must be the patrol boat," said Dave, in a low tone.
Christy could not make any reply that would be satisfactory to the
patrol, and he decided not to answer the hail. He had rather expected
to be challenged in this way.
CHAPTER XXII
A VARIETY OF NIGHT SIGNALS
The dip of the oars of the guard-boat could be distinctly heard in
the pilot-house, and it was probable that the men in it could see the
Teaser. But Christy was not much concerned about the situation, and he
was not much disposed to give any attention to the boat.
"Stop her, or we will fire into you!" yelled the officer in charge of
the guard-boat.
Even this menace did not induce the lieutenant to ring his bell to stop
the engine. The boat was doubtless full of men, and as he could not give
straight answers to all the questions that might be put to him, it might
provoke a fight to attempt to do so, and he decided not to incur the
risk. His prisoners might make trouble if he reduced the guard in charge
of them, as he would be obliged to do to beat off the attack of the
boat.
"What is this boat here for, Dave?" asked Christy, as he peered through
the gloom to obtain a glance at the craft.
"To keep the people at Fort Pickens from sending out any armed force,"
replied the intelligent contraband.
"Do they think a boat full of men could do that?"
"No, sir; but they could give the forts on the other side warning."
The sounds from the boat had come from the starboard bow of the steamer,
and it looked as though the guard-boat had intercepted her by accident,
since it was impossible that they could have seen the Teaser in the fog
and gloom. As the steamer dashed ahead at full speed, the sound of the
oars came from a point on the beam. But the boat seemed to be wasting
her time, for nothing had been done since the threat to fire into the
steamer.
"If a vessel is going to run out she has to satisfy this boat that she
is all right," said Dave.
But he had hardly spoken before a volley of musket-balls passed over the
Teaser; and perhaps the officer in the boat intended that they should
pass over her. At any rate no harm was done by them. Then a rocket
darted from the boat up into the air, which could be dimly seen from
the pilot-house.
"What steamer is that?" shouted a hoarse voice out of the gloom.
"The Teaser!" yelled Christy, with all the voice he could command.
The boat did not fire again; and if it had done so the steamer was out
of its reach. But a minute later the boom of a great gun came across the
bay. Fort Barrancas had evidently opened fire in response to the rocket,
which had no doubt been sent up as a signal to notify the garrison that
a vessel was going out or coming in, and that her movements were not
regular. The first shot was followed by others, and a shot dropped into
the water near the Teaser.
"Let the leadsmen sound, Beeks," said Christy. The order was repeated,
and the reports were made known in the pilot-house. Sampson seemed to
be testing the capacity of the engine, for he was doing his best in the
matter of speed; but the Teaser behaved under the strain to which he
subjected her as though she had been very strongly built.
"By the mark eight," chimed the leadsman on the port side.
That was water enough to float a seventy-four, and there was no let-up
in the speed. In fact, it would not have been convenient to reduce the
speed while the guard-boat could be at no great distance from the flying
steamer. This was the report for the next mile at least, and Christy
felt that the enemy was at a safe distance from him.
"And a half six!" shouted the port leadsman, with energy, as though he
understood the effect his report would produce.
Christy rang to slow her down. The depth of water was the only directory
he had in addition to the distance run, which was very indefinite
without a knowledge of the speed of the vessel.
"By the mark six!" shouted the port leadsman, who was on the side
