be presumed to have added to the delight, in 
proportion as it has intensified the denial, of 
existence. We may be quite willing to in- 
trust this assertion to the happiest lover in the 
world, provided his happiness be of that sensitive
sort which does not shut out the apprehension 
of other people's deprivation. Since, 
were he not the most sensitive, he could not 

be the happiest ; and were he the most sensitive,
he would be the most sympathetic. It 
would be almost enough, in this connection, to 
suggest the inherent vagrancy of the affectional 
instinct in man, and the historic con- 
stancy of woman. What ingenuity could 
surpass that involved in this one exquisite 
invention of actual or possible anguish ? 

It would be almost enough to take one 
absolute look at the heart of an honorable man 
who, in an hour of beautiful delusion, has 
wedded an insincere woman. 

It would be almost enough to shut the eyes 
before the conflicts of a pure heart, to which 
the supreme attraction occurs, when every law 
of God or man has welded it to the claim of 
the less. 

It would be almost enough to look into the 
face of a drunkard's wife. 

It would be more than enough to hear the 
cry of the deserted girl, who leaped to a death 
more merciful at its worst than life at its best 
to her. 

It would be unjust not to recall the heavy 
pressure of happiness against the scale of the 
question, involved in pure betrothals, bridal 
hours, assured domestic content, the experience
of tried and calm affections, the bliss of 
young parents, the rejuvenation of age in its 
offspring, and the repose of those for whom 
the prayer of Tobit has been answered : 
" Mercifully grant that we may grow aged together." 

But it would be illogical not to observe the 
intricate insecurity of the happiest hour that 
history could be shown to have given to the 
most fortunate affections of the race. It would 
be almost enough to watch the countenance of 
the radiant young mother, who, her children 
leaning about her, at her fireside, hears 
suddenly grating upon their laughter the 
discordant sound of a croupy cough. 

It would be almost enough to stand with 
the father of motherless babes by the first 
gash life has ever cut in the churchyard turf 
for him. 

It would be almost enough to avert the face 
from a meeting between pure parents and a 
ruined son. 

It would be almost enough to remember the 
mystery of womanhood, so " heavily weighted, 
in the race of life," as a great scientist of our 
day expresses it, by maternity. 

It would be almost enough to follow the red 
feet of war to the obscure life of one widowed 
girl. 

It would be enough to watch the process of 
descent by which a betrothal ever reaches a 
divorce. 

Look once more at our impressions of their 
First Cause as received from the sufferings 
of the lower classes of society. These are 
" facts " before which the wisest, the tenderest, 
the healthiest, the most joyous, and the 
most devout among us may well wish for the 
wings of the seraphim in the sacred story ; of 
whom it is said that " with twain they covered 
their faces, and with twain they covered their 
feet, and with twain they did fly." 

A miniature bast of Michael Angelo's Slave 
stands as a paper-weight upon the MS. which 
this pen is tracing. The pose of the muti- 
lated head, the droop of the swollen eyelids, 
the quiver of the pitiful mouth, the protest of 
the thoughtful brow, present themselves, so 
many mute arguments, appealing to be used. 
The bit of plaster is an unanswered accusation. 
It bewails the mystery of human cap- 
tivity, of which the enslaving of man by man 
