This was easy, compared with the choice of a man- 
ner that should convey to them the fact that she 
was not playing a part. "When the hesitating Irish 
serving-man had acknowledged that the ladies were 
at home, and had taken her card to them, she sat 
waiting for them in the drawing-room. Her study 
of its appointments, with their impersonal costliness, 
gave her no suggestion how to proceed; the two 



  

sisters were upon her before she had really decided, 
and she rose to meet them with the conviction that 
she was going to play a part for want of some chosen 
means of not doing so. She found herself, before 
she knew it, making her banjo a property in the 
little comedy, and professing so much pleasure in the 
fact that Miss Dryfoos was taking it up ; she had 
herself been so much interested by it. Anything, 
she said, was a relief from the piano ; and then, 
between the guitar and the banjo, one must really 
choose the banjo, unless one wanted to devote one's 
whole natural life to the violin. Of course, there 
was the mandolin ; but Margaret asked if they did 
not feel that the bit of shell you struck it with inter- 
posed a distance between you and the real soul of 
the instrument ; and then it did have such a faint, 
mosquitoy little tone ! She made much of the ques- 
tion, which they left her to debate alone while  the y 
gazed solemnly at her till she characterised the tone 
of the mandolin, when Mela broke into a large, 
coarse laugh. 

"Well, that's just what it does sound like," she 
explained defiantly to her sister. "I always feel 
like it was going to settle somewhere, and I want to 
hit myself a slap before it begins to bite. I don't 
see what ever brought such a thing into fashion." 

Margaret h?.d not expected to be so powerfully 
seconded, and she asked, after gathering herself to- 
gether, " And you are both learning the banjo ? " 

" My, no ! " said Mela, " I 've gone through enough 
with the piauo. Christine is learning it." 



  

" I 'm SO glad you are making my banjo useful at 
the outset, IVIiss Dryfoos." Both girls stared at her, 
but found it hard to cope with the fact that this was 
the lady friend whose banjo Beaton had lent them. 
"Mr. Beaton mentioned that he had left it here. 
I hope you 'll keep it as long as you find it useful." 

At this amiable speech even Christine could not 
help thanking her. " Of course,'.' she said, " I expect 
to get another, right off. Mr. Beaton is going to 
choose it for me." 

"You are very fortunate. If you haven't a 
teacher yet I should so like to recommend mine." 

Mela broke out in her laugh again. " Oh, I guess 
Christine's pretty well suited with the one she's 
got," she said, with insinuation. Her sister gave her 
a frowning glance, and Margaret did not tempt her 
to explain. 

" Then that 's much better," she said. " I have a 
kind of superstition in such matters ; I don't like to 
make a second choice. In a shop I like to take the 
first thing of the kind I 'm looking for, and even if I 
choose further I come back to the original." 

" How funny ! " said Mela. " Well, now, I 'm just 
the other way. I always take the last thing, after 
I 've picked over all the rest. My luck always seems 
to be at the bottom of the heap. Now, Christine, 
she 's more like you. I believe she could walk right 
up blindfolded and put her hand on the thing she 
wants every time." 

"I'm like father," said Christine, softened a little 
by the celebration of her peculiarity. " He says the 




reason so many people don't get what they want is 
that they don't want it bad enough. Now, when I 
want a thing, it seems to me that I want it all 
through." 

"Well, that's just like father, too," said Mela, 
" That 's the way he dojie when he got that eighty- 
