endless task ; but I went over the ground thoroughly 
as far as I did go, and was amazed at the improve 
ment. There would be a large space for gardening, 
and we discussed what our vegetable venture would 
be. 
" Pease and sweet corn," said Eve, " and radishes 
and lettuce and tomatoes. Oh, we ought to plant the 
seeds in boxes ! And cucumbers and every 
thing." 
I laughed. 
I was leaning on my own gate-post resting, when 
one of my neighbors came along. This was a Mr. 
Montgomery, whose son, Dan, cast tender glances at 
Eve. Mr. Montgomery had owned all this end of 
the township, and been a prosperous farmer, some 
fifteen years before. But when the mania for im 
provement overtook Athens, he cut up his farm, laid 
out the two avenues, Oak and Montgomery, and sold 
off some plots. Then came the great depression. 
Much of the land had lain waste since then. It 
would hardly pay to fence it in, so it had been 
allowed to grow bountiful crops of weeds. His 
money he had been compelled to live upon, and found 
himself now in .very straitened circumstances, and 
leading a kind of aimless life. There were four girls 
and three boys in the family. The eldest son and 
daughter worked in the hat-factory at Springdale, 
the next station above. Dan was about twenty, 
and was clerk in the principal grocery-store at 
Athens. The next daughter had just set up as 
a dressmaker, and the three younger ones were 
at home. 
"Well, young man," began my senior, "I suppose 
you think you are going to do quite wonders here, 
set us all an example ; " and he gave a good-natured 
but rather derisive laugh. 
"I do not know about the example," I returned. 
 
"I am rather new to this kind of business, and I 
may need a little advice." 
" Well, I suppose you've lots of book-learning on 
the subject, and let me tell you that isn't worth a 
rye straw. What you want is practical knowledge. 
And then, this kind of work doesn't pay hereabouts. 
Bermuda and the South are sending in every thing : 
there isn't any profit in gardening, or farming for 
that matter, unless you go West. If my wife was 
willing, I'd start to-morrow." 
"Yet," I said, "people on Long Island, and, indeed, 
in every direction from New-York City, do make 
gardening pay. There seems a continual demand." 
" Well, you don't get any returns. The best 
prices are gone, and you come in at the fag-end. 
Wasn't calculating to do that yourself, I hope ? " 
" Not at present ; but I shall raise a little to try 
my hand." 
" There's no use bothering with it. You can buy 
it for half of what it will cost you. Now, do you 
know what I'd do with this place?" 
"What?" I inquired. 
" Well, first of all, I'd hustle up that great patch 
of blackberry briers. They are the worst things to 
get in the ground : you have to fight 'em out every 
inch of the way. I had 'em several years, then I 
cleared 'em out root and branch " 
 
"But what do you do for berries?" 
" Oh ! plenty of 'em grow wild about here. Wife 
and the girls often go out of an afternoon, and pick 
a lot. Everybody comes over here." 
"If I should tear them up, they wouldn't come. 
That might be an object." 
Mr. Montgomery looked rather curiously at me. 
" Well, you'll be sick enough of 'em," he said. 
" Cassel just had a few set out along the fence, and 
now look where they've gone." 
"But you can sell blackberries," I returned. 
" Well, what would you get ? Not enough to 
pay for picking," rather contemptuously. " Cassel, 
you know, had every thing put in that money could 
buy; but late years it's gone to rack and ruin." 
"And if I take up the berries?" I suggested, 
rather amused. 
" Well, I'd get a man to come and plough up the 
whole thing. Then I'd have it seeded down. 
'T would look neat and nice, and be no trouble ; and 
'most any one would cut it for the grass." 
"And how much would this cost?" 
"Well, two days' work, say, about ten dollars. 
Ploughing, harrowing, and seeding, you know, take 
quite a little time." 
"And give my grass away?" 
"Well, you might hire it cut, but you wouldn't 
 
more than pay expenses if yon sold it. Just as 
broad as it's long," and he gave a chuckle. 
" I do not believe gardening can come out much 
worse than that," I ventured. 
"Well, you'll see. Fellows like you think they 
can do wonders, but you'll find* book-gardening 
