work you may do, and leave you to decide which kind of sweeties you
would buy."
"What can I do to earn money?" asked Lu.
"Well, you can dry and fold the paper every morning for grandpa.  I will
pay you a cent for that, because nurse is apt to forget it, and he likes
to have it nicely ready for him after breakfast.  Then you might run up
and down for mamma, and hem some towels for me, and take care of Jip and
the parrot.  You will earn a good deal if you do your work regularly and
well."
"I shall have dreadful trials going by the candy-shops and never buying
any.  I do long so to go in that I have to look away when you say No.  I
want to be good and help poor people, but I ’m afraid it will be too
hard for me," sighed Lu, foreseeing the temptations before her.
"We might begin to-day, and try the new plan for a while.  If it is too
hard, you can give it up; but I think you will soon like my way best,
and have the merriest Christmas you ever knew with the money you save."
Lu walked thoughtfully home, and put the empty purse away, resolved to
see how long she could hold out, and how much she could earn. Mamma
smiled when she heard the plan, but at once engaged the little girl to
do errands about the house at a cent a job, privately quite sure that
her pretty express would soon stop running. Grandpapa was pleased to
find his paper ready, and nodded and patted Lu’s curly head when she
told him about her Christmas plans.  Mary, the maid, was glad to get rid
of combing Jip and feeding Polly, and aunty made towel hemming pleasant
by telling stories as the little needle-woman did two hems a day.
Every cent went into the red purse, which Lu hung on one of the gilt
pegs of the easel in the parlor, for she thought it very ornamental, and
hoped contributions might drop in occasionally. None did; but as every
one paid her in bright cents, there was soon a fine display, and the
little bag grew heavy with delightful rapidity.
Only once did Lu yield to temptation, and that was when two weeks of
self-denial made her trials so great that she felt as if she really must
reward herself, as no one else seemed to remember how much little girls
loved candy.
One day she looked pale, and did not want any dinner, saying she felt
sick.  Mamma was away, so aunty put her on the bed and sat by her,
feeling very anxious, as scarlet-fever was about.  By and by Lu took her
handkerchief out, and there, sticking to it, was a large brown
cough-drop.  Lu turned red, and hid her face, saying with a penitent
sob, "I don’t deserve to be cuddled.  I ’ve been selfish and silly, and
spent some of my money for candy.  I had a little cold, and I thought
cough-drops would do me good.  I ate a good many, and they were bitter
and made me sick, and I ’m glad of it."
Aunty wanted to laugh at the dear little sinner and her funny idea of
choosing bitter candy as a sort of self-denial; but she comforted her
kindly, and soon the invalid was skipping about again, declaring that
she never would do so any more.
Next day something happened which helped her very much, and made it
easier to like the new kind of sweeties better than the old.  She was in
the dining-room getting an apple for her lunch, when she saw a little
girl come to the lower door to ask for cold food.  The cook was busy,
and sent her away, telling her begging was forbidden.  Lu, peeping out,
saw the little girl sit down on the steps to eat a cold potato as if she
was very hungry, and while she ate she was trying to tie on a pair of
very old boots some one had given her.  It was a rainy day, and she had
only a shawl over her head; her hands were red with cold; her gown was a
faded cotton one; and her big basket seemed to have very few scraps in
it.  So poor, so sad, and tired did she look, that Lu could not bear to
see it, and she called out in her pitiful child’s voice,--
"Come in and get warm, little girl.  Don’t mind old Sarah.  I ’ll give
you something to eat, and lend you my rubber boots and waterproof to go
home in."
The poor child gladly went to sit by the comfortable fire, while Lu with
hospitable haste got crackers and cheese and cake and apples, and her
own silver mug of milk, for her guest, forgetting, in her zeal, to ask
leave.  Fortunately aunty came down for her own lunch in time to see
what was going on, and found Lu busily buttoning the waterproof, while
the little girl surveyed her rubber boots and small umbrella with pride.
"I ’m only lending my things, and she will return them to-morrow,
aunty.  They are too small for me, and the umbrella is broken; and I ’d
love to give them all to Lucy if I could. She has to go out in the
rain to get food for her family, like a bird, and I don’t."
"Birds don’t need waterproofs and umbrellas," began aunty; and both
children laughed at the idea of sparrows with such things, but looked a
little anxious till aunty went on to say that Lucy could have these
comforts, and to fill the basket with something better than cold
potatoes, while she asked questions and heard the sad little story: how
father was dead, and the baby sick, so mother could not work, and the
boys had to pick up chips and cinders to burn, and Lucy begged food to
eat.  Lu listened with tears in her blue eyes, and a great deal of pity
as well as admiration for poor little Lucy, who was only nine, yet had
so many cares and troubles in her life.  While aunty went to get some
flannel for baby, Lu flew to her red purse and counted out ten cents
from her store, feeling so rich, so glad to have it instead of an empty
bonbon box, and a headache after a candy feast.
"Buy some nice fresh milk for little Totty, and tell her I sent it--all
myself--with my love.  Come again to-morrow, and I will tell mamma all
about you, and you shall be my poor people, and I ’ll help you if I
can," she said, full of interest and good-will, for the sight of this
child made her feel what poverty really was, and long to lighten it if
she could.
Lucy was smiling when she went away, snug and dry in her comfortable
clothes, with the full basket on her arm; and all that day Lu talked and
thought about her "own poor people," and what she hoped to do for them.
Mamma inquired, and finding them worthy of help, let her little girl
send many comforts to the children, and learn how to be wisely
charitable.
"I shall give all my money to my ’Lucy children’ on Christmas,"
announced Lu, as that pleasant time drew near.  "I know what they want,
and though I can’t save money enough to give them half the things they
