substance—“We are going to get more out of this war than you at the
North, because we suffered more. We were drawn out of ourselves in
sacrifices, and were drawn together in a tenderer feeling of humanity; I
do believe we were chastened into a higher and purer spirit.”
Let me not be misunderstood. The people who thus recognize the moral
training of adversity and its effects upon character, and who are glad
that slavery is gone, and believe that a new and better era for the
South is at hand, would not for a moment put themselves in an attitude
of apology for the part they took in the war, nor confess that they
were wrong, nor join in any denunciation of the leaders they followed
to their sorrow. They simply put the past behind them, so far as the
conduct of the present life is concerned. They do not propose to stamp
upon memories that are tender and sacred, and they cherish certain
sentiments whieh are to them loyalty to their past and to the great
passionate experiences of their lives. When a woman, who enlisted by
the consent of Jeff Davis, whose name appeared for four years upon the
rolls, and who endured all the perils and hardships of the conflict as a
field-nurse, speaks of “President” Davis, what does it mean? It is
only a sentiment. This heroine of the war on the wrong side had in the
Exposition a tent, where the veterans of the Confederacy recorded their
names. On one side, at the back of the tent, was a table piled with
touching relics of the war, and above it a portrait of Robert E. Lee,
wreathed in immortelles. It was surely a harmless shrine.
On the other side was also a table, piled with fruit and cereals—not
relics, but signs of prosperity and peace—and above it a portrait of
Ulysses S. Grant. Here was the sentiment, cherished with an aching heart
maybe, and here was the fact of the Union and the future.
Another strong impression made upon the visitor is, as I said, that the
South has entirely put the past behind it, and is devoting itself to the
work of rebuilding on new foundations. There is no reluctance to talk
about the war, or to discuss its conduct and what might have been. But
all this is historic. It engenders no heat. The mind of the South to-day
is on the development of its resources, upon the rehabilitation of its
affairs. I think it is rather more concerned about national prosperity
than it is about the great problem of the negro—but I will refer to this
further on. There goes with this interest in material development the
same interest in the general prosperity of the country that exists at
the North—the anxiety that the country should prosper, acquit itself
well, and stand well with the other nations. There is, of course, a
sectional feeling—as to tariff, as to internal improvements—but I do
not think the Southern States are any more anxious to get things for
themselves out of the Federal Government than the Northern States are.
That the most extreme of Southern politicians have any sinister purpose
(any more than any of the Northern “rings” on either side have) in
wanting to “rule” the country, is, in my humble opinion, only a chimera
evoked to make political capital.
As to the absolute subsidence of hostile intention (this phrase I know
will sound queer in the South), and the laying aside of bitterness
for the past, are not necessary in the presence of a strong general
impression, but they might be given in great number. I note one that was
significant from its origin, remembering, what is well known, that women
and clergymen are always the last to experience subsidence of hostile
feeling after a civil war. On the Confederate Decoration Day in New
Orleans I was standing near the Confederate monument in one of the
cemeteries when the veterans marched in to decorate it. First came the
veterans of the Army of Virginia, last those of the Army of Tennessee,
and between them the veterans of the Grand Army of the Republic, Union
soldiers now living in Louisiana. I stood beside a lady whose name, if
I mentioned it, would be recognized as representative of a family which
was as conspicuous, and did as much and lost as much, as any other in
the war—a family that would be popularly supposed to cherish unrelenting
feelings. As the veterans, some of them on crutches, many of them with
empty sleeves, grouped themselves about the monument, we remarked upon
the sight as a touching one, and I said: “I see you have no address on
Decoration Day. At the North we still keep up the custom.”
“No,” she replied; “we have given it up. So many imprudent things were
said that we thought best to discontinue the address.” And then, after a
pause, she added, thoughtfully: “Each side did the best it could; it is
all over and done with, and let’s have an end of it.” In the mouth
of the lady who uttered it, the remark was very significant, but it
expresses, I am firmly convinced, the feeling of the South.
Of course the South will build monuments to its heroes, and weep over
their graves, and live upon the memory of their devotion and genius. In
Heaven’s name, why shouldn’t it? Is human nature itself to be changed in
twenty years?
A long chapter might be written upon the dis-likeness of North and
South, the difference in education, in training, in mental inheritances,
the misapprehensions, radical and very singular to us, of the
civilization of the North. We must recognize certain historic facts,
not only the effect of the institution of slavery, but other facts in
Southern development. Suppose we say that an unreasonable prejudice
exists, or did exist, about the people of the North. That prejudice is a
historic fact, of which the statesman must take account. It enters
into the question of the time needed to effect the revolution now in
progress. There are prejudices in the North about the South as well. We
admit their existence. But what impresses me is the rapidity with which
they are disappearing in the South. Knowing what human nature is, it
seems incredible that they could have subsided so rapidly. Enough remain
for national variety, and enough will remain for purposes of social
badinage, but common interests in the country and in making money are
melting them away very fast. So far as loyalty to the Government is
concerned, I am not authorized to say that it is as deeply rooted in the
South as in the North, but it is expressed as vividly, and felt with a
good deal of fresh enthusiasm. The “American” sentiment, pride in this
as the most glorious of all lands, is genuine, and amounts to enthusiasm
with many who would in an argument glory in their rebellion. “We had
more loyalty to our States than you had,” said one lady, “and we have
transferred it to the whole country.”
But the negro? Granting that the South is loyal enough, wishes never
another rebellion, and is satisfied to be rid of slavery, do not the
