and looked from one to the other of the two men. 

' Rex is my best friend,' said Greif. ' He needed no permission 
of mine to come here. I will explain all at another time. And 
now -' his voice broke, and he turned away, but recovered 
himself almost immediately. ' And now, I beg that you will tell 
us what you know.' 

The good baroness detested weakness in herself and could not 
bear to see it in others, so that she told her story clearly and 
concisely, though with much caution and thoughtful tact. While 
she spoke she watched the two friends, who sat motionless beside 
her, their hands clasped upon their knees, their heads bent down, 
their faces white with emotion. The sun was already above the 
hills, and while she spoke the first rays fell through the ancient 
casement upon the carpet of the room, casting soft reflexions upon 
the pallid features of the three persons. 

I will go to them,' said Greif when she had finished, and he 
rose to his feet. The baroness prepared to show him the way, 
and Rex would have followed, but she stopped him by a gesture. 

' I will come back for you,' she said. * They are not together.' 

She let Greif enter the chamber alone and softly closed the 
door after him. Then she returned to Rex. He was standing 
where she had left him. 

' I have something to say,' she began, ' and something to give 
you. This letter is yours. It was found in the room, sealed, 
directed and stamped, as though it were to be posted, as it would 



 

have been had you not come. Nothing has been discovered for 
Greif, and this must have been written by Herr von Rieseneck. 
You are older than Greif, though he is brave enough, poor fellow. 
Here it is. Will you be alone to read it ? I will go into the next 
room until you call me.' 

' Madam,' answered Rex, taking the letter, ' I will not trouble 
you by any exhibition of my feelings, if you will stay here.' 

He looked at the superscription, and cut the envelope open neatly 
with his pocket-knife so as not to break the seal. Frau von Sig- 
mundskron was too well-bred to watch his face while he read the 
contents. Had she looked, she would have been terrified. 

The note was very short, but it contained enough to shake 
even Rex's calm nature. 

' My son, when you receive this, I shall be dead. I arrived 
here this evening and I have discovered that Frau von Greifenstein 
is your mother, my wife. She made me believe that she was dead 
and married my brother under a false name. She has atoned for 
her crimes to her two husbands, who have done justice upon her, 
and now we also are about to pay the penalty of having executed 
that justice which is above all laws. At the point of death, I 
give this secret into your keeping. Your brother is a nameless 
bastard. Do not ruin him by betraying the shame of your father 
and of his. You are rich, but were you poor you would have no 
title to my brother's inheritance. Do not come to this place. 
They will bury me as decently as I deserve. Farewell. God 
keep you, and make you happier than I have been. Your father, 

' VON RIESENECK. 
'SciiLOSs GREIFENSTEIN, December ' 

As Rex read the words he instinctively turned away. His face 
was hideously distorted and his stony eyes seemed changed into 
coals of fire. Every fibre of his strong nature was strained and 
tortured by the iron grip of his suffering. Every pulse of his 
body beat with a frantic rage for which no outlet was possible. 
His eyeballs burned with excruciating pain as he attempted to 
read again the letter he still held in his hands. He was one of 
those habitually calm men who become almost insane when they 
are angry, and in whose placid strength passion of any sort, when 
routed, finds its most dangerous material. For a full minute he 
stood speechless, feeling as though his emotion must find some 
physical expression, lest it should kill him there and then. 

He heard a footstep, and then the door opened and closed 
softly. Looking round, he saw that he was alone ; Frau von 



 

Sigmundskron had understood from what she could see of his 
attitude that the letter had brought him news even worse than 
that of his father's death, and she had felt that to stay any 
longer would have been to intrude upon a sorrow in which she 
could have no share. Seeing that she was gone, Rex abandoned 
all restraint over himself, and submitted for a time to the over- 
whelming influences that surrounded him on all sides. His face 
became livid as he threw himself upon the couch, and his fingers 
were twisted unnaturally, as though their nerves were irritated by 
a strong electric current. Lying on his back, he rolled his head 
