It's demoralising to board, in every way; it isn't 
a home, if anybody else takes the care of it off your 
hands." 

" Well, I suppose so," Fulkerson assented ; but 
March's words had a hollow ring to himself, and in 
his own mind he began to retaliate his dissatisfac- 
tion upon Fulkerson. 

He parted from him on the usual terms out- 
wardly, but he felt obscurely abused by Fulkerson 
in regard to the Dryfooses, father and son. He did 
not know but Fulkerson had taken an advantage of 
him in allowing him to commit himself to their en- 
terprise AA'ithout fully and frankly telling him who 
and what Iris backer was ; he perceived that with 
young Dryfoos as the publisher and Fulkerson as 
the general director of the paper there might be 
very little play for his own ideas of its conduct. 
Perhaps it was the hurt to his vanity involved by 
the recognition of this fact that made liim forget how 
little choice he really had in the matter, and how, 
since he had not accepted the offer to edit the in- 
surance paper, nothing remained for him but to 
close with Fulkerson. In this moment of suspicion 
and resentment he accused Fulkerson of hastening 
his decision in regard to the Grosvenor Green apart- 
ment ; he now refused to consider it a decision, and 
said to himself that if he felt disposed to do so he 



 

vvoukl send INIrs. Green a note reversing it in the 
morning. But he put it all off till morning with his 
clothes, when he went to bed ; he jnit off even think- 
ing what his wife would say ; he cast Fulkerson and 
his constructive treachery out of his mind too, and 
invited into it some pensive reveries of the past, 
when he still stood at the parting of the ways, and 
could take this path or that. In his middle life this 
was not possible ; he must follow the path chosen 
long ago, wherever it led. He was not master of 
himself, as he once seemed, but the servant of those 
he loved ; if he could do what he liked, perhaps 
he might renounce this whole New York enterprise, 
and go off somewhere out of the reach of care ; but 
he could not do what he liked, that was very clear. 
In the pathos of this conviction he dwelt compassion- 
ately upon the thought of poor old Lindau ; he 
resolved to make him accept a handsome sum of 
money — more than he could spare, something that 
he would feel the loss of — in payment of the lessons 
in German and fencing given so long ago. At the 
usual rate for such lessons, his debt, with interest 
for twenty odd }'ears, would run very far into the 
hundreds. Too far, he perceived, for his wife's 
joyous approval ; he determined not to add the 
interest ; or he believed that Lindau would refuse 
the interest; he put a fine speech in his mouth, 
making him do so ; and after that he got Lindau 
employment on Every Other Week, and took care of 
him till he died. 

Through all his melancholv and munificence he 




was aware of sordid anxieties for having taken the 
Grosvenor Green apartment. These began to as- 
sume visible, tangible shapes as he drowsed, and to 
become personal entities, from which he woke, with 
little starts, to a realisation of their true nature, and 
then suddenly fell fast asleep. 

In the accomi)lishment of the events which his 
reverie played with, there was much that retroac- 
tively stamped it with prophecy, but much also 
that AA-as better than he forboded. He found that 
with regard to the Grosvenor Green apartment he 
had not allowed for his wife's willingness to get any 
sort of roof over her head again after the removal 
from their old home, or for the alleviations that 
grow up through mere custom. The practical work- 
ings of the apartment were not so bad ; it had its 
good points, and after the first sensation of oppres- 
sion in it they began to feel the convenience of its 
arrangement. They were at that time of life when 
people first turn to their children's opinion with 
deference, and, in the loss of keenness in their Own 
likes and dislikes, consult the young preferences 
which are still so sensitive. It went far to reconcile 
Mrs. March to the apartment that her children were 
pleased with its novelty ; When this wore off for 
them, she had herself begun to find it much more 
easily manageable than a house. After she had put 
aAAay scA'eral barrels of gimcracks, and folded up 
screens and rugs and skins, and carried them all off to 
