
They were not so far out as they had thought; the light of the fire
showed that. Perhaps they had been going round in a circle.

Eve was now letting the boat drift; Jack's canoe was drifting, the same
currents and wind might take theirs in the same direction; it was not
very long since they had heard his last cry, he could not be far away.
The lightning had begun to come in great sheets of white light; these
were blinding, but if one could bear to look, they lit up the surface of
the water for an instant with extraordinary distinctness. Cicely, from
her babyhood so impressionable to lightning, let its glare sweep over
her unmoved; but her beautiful eyes were near-sighted, she could not
see far. Eve, on the contrary, had strong eyesight, and after what
seemed a long time (it was five minutes), she distinguished a dark, low
outline very near at hand; she sent the boat in that direction with all
her might.

"It's Jack!" she called to Cicely.

Cicely, holding on to the sides of the canoe, kept her head turned,
peering forward with her unseeing eyes into the alternating darkness and
dazzling glare. The flashes were so near sometimes that it seemed as if
they would sweep across them, touch them, and shrivel them up.

Now they approached the other boat; they came up to it on the crest of a
wave. Cicely took hold of its edge, and the two boats went down into the
hollow behind together.

"Sit--in the centre--as much--as you can," Eve shouted. Then, being the
taller, she rose, and in the next flash looked within. There lay Jack in
the bottom, probably unconscious, a still little figure with a white
face.

"He's there," she called, triumphantly. And then they went up on the
next wave together, and down again.

"Slip--your hand--along--to the end," Eve called.

Cicely obeyed.

The second canoe, which all her strength had scarcely been able to hold
alongside, now accompanied them more easily, towed by its stern. If it
could have followed them instead of accompanying them, that would have
been easier still; but Cicely's seat was at the bow, and Eve did not
dare to risk a change of places; with the boat in tow, she paddled
towards the shore as well as she could, guided by the fire, which was
large and bright, poor Porley, owing to whose carelessness in the second
place the accident had occurred (Eve's in the first place), expending in
the collecting of dry fuel all the energy of her repentance and her
grief. They were not very far out, but progress was difficult; Eve was
not an expert; she did not know how to allow for the opposition, the
dead weight, of the second canoe attached to the bow of her own; every
now and then, owing to her lack of skill, the wind would strike it, and
drive it from her so strongly that it seemed as if the connecting link,
Cicely's little arm, would be drawn from its socket. The red glow of the
fire looked human and home-like to these wanderers,--should they ever
reach it? The waves grew more formidable as they approached the
beach,--they were like breakers; Eve did her best, yet their progress
seemed snail-like. At length, when they were so far in that she could
distinguish the figures of Porley and the Irishman outlined against the
fire, there came a breaker which struck the second canoe full on its
side, filling it with water. Cicely gave a wild shriek of rage as it was
forced from her grasp. At the same instant the aunt, leaving the paddle
behind her, sprang into the sinking craft, and, seizing the child, went
down with him into the dark lake.

She came up again, grasping the side of the boat; with one arm she
lifted the boy, and gave him to his mother, an enormous effort, as his
little body was rigid and heavy--like death.

And then they got ashore, they hardly knew how, though it took a long
time, Eve clinging to the stern and Cicely paddling, her child at her
feet; the Irishman came to their assistance as soon as he could, the
wind drove them towards the beach; Porley helped when it came to the
landing. In reality they were blown ashore.

Jack was restored. As Eve ceased her rubbing--she had worked over him
for twenty minutes--and gave him alive and warm again to his mother's
arms, Cicely kissed her cheek. "Bend down your head, Eve; I want to tell
you that I forgive you everything. There is nothing the matter with me
now; I understand and know--all; yet I forgive you,--because you have
saved my child."




XXIX.


Priscilla Mile, close-reefed as to her skirts, and walking solidly,
reached the shipwrecked party soon after nine o'clock; as she came by
the beach, the brilliant light of Porley's fire guided her, as it had
guided Cicely and Eve out on the dark lake. Priscilla asked no
questions, her keen eyes took in immediately Eve's wet clothes and
Jack's no clothes, the child being wrapped merely in a shawl. She said
to the Irishman, who was wet also: "Patrick Carty, you go back to the
camp, you run just as fast as you can split; tell them what's happened,
and let them send for us as soon as they can. 'Taint going to rain much,
I guess."

