tmmovable for about fifteen minutes, when a fourth buf- 
falo appeared, and, after he had snuffed the air for a few 
moments, began to drink. The others, indeed, raised their 
heads above the water at his approack, but did not seem 
inclined to hinder him from drinking. No sooner, how- 
ever, did he prepare to lie down in the water, than one of 
the three others raised himself up, and with the most 
fearful snortings rushed upon him. The heavens were 
perfectly free from clouds, and the moon revealed dis- 
tinctly every thing around, so that, in the excitement of 
this sight, I did not regret the loss of my sleep in the 
camp. It is perfectly impossible to describe the power 
and fierceness with which these enraged creatures attacked 
one another. Before each onslaught they retired a little 
epace, pawed the sand, threw it high in the air, and then 
with a snort that actually seemed to be accompanied by 
sparks of fire, like an arrow from a bow, they rushed upon 
one another, each time with so much force as to drive 
their opponent staggering back again. Sometimes they 
would stand apart for a breathing space, like statues, until, 
their heads bent down to the ground, they renewed the 
fight. Each time, however, that they retired they lessened 
the distance between them — blow followed blow with a 
dull crashing sound that echoed far and near, up and 
down the thickly wooded banks of the river. Fortune 
decided in favor of the defender of the bath, who gave the 
disturber of his rest such a decisive butt in the side that 
the latter, deeming it imprudent to await a second, left the 
 
field of battle, and hastened towards the forest. Hif 
valiant conqueror did not think it worth while to follow 
him, but contented himself with a deafening roar of triumph, and returned to his companions in the water. 
Spite of my enjoyment of this fearful duello, I had not- 
beheld it without a secret shudder; judge then of my 
terror when a ball, whistling past me, immediately aroused 
all three buffaloes. They immediately arose with a loud 
roar, and two of them rushed towards the place M'hence 
the flash of the musket had proceeded, while the third 
directed his furious course directly towards the bush in 
which I lay concealed. In a terror which no words can 
describe, I betook myself to flight, but flight deprived me 
of my usual presence of mind. I had only proceeded a 
few steps when I lost my hat, and my long hair became 
inextricably entangled in the thorny bushes around me. 
I heard the bellowing of the dreadful beast not very far 
firom me, and in despair I made one final effort to extricate 
myself, which almost prostrated me upon the ground, and 
left nearly one half of my curls behind me. I had now 
some hope of reaching our camp, which was about a hundred steps distant, but I felt, as one often does in a dream, 
that my legs were paralyzed by fear, and an insible 
power seemed to detain me immovably on the spot. My 
destroyer was now so near that I could feel his hot breath, 
but sufficient strength remained for me, fortunately, to 
throw myself directly in his path, and the fearful creature 
plunged, in his headlong career, directly over and past me. 
I had given myself up for lost, and well I might do so, for 
the hind hoof of the buffalo left its impression in the 
earth only a hand's breadth from my head, and I was 
covered with the sand which it had tossed up over me. 
I now, recovered sufficient presence of mind to creep upon 
my hands and knees into the nearest thicket, and there, 
chattering and trembling with fear, conceal myself. How 
long I remained there I do not know; my full conscious- 
ness returned for the first time when I heard the voices of 
my compa,nions and of our servants, who had come, armed 
with torches, to seek for me. I cried out to them and 
they released me with some difficulty from my hiding 
place, wondering how I had contrived to force myself so 
far into the thorny thicket. All this mischief had been 
caused by Templyn's eager desire for the chase at all 
hazards, and spite of his excusing himself by the assurance 
that his piece went off by accident, and of my warm friend- 
ship for him, I could not forbear expressing my displeasure 
at his folly which had so nearly cost me my life, especially 
as I had accompanied him this night only upon the express 
condition that no large animals should be attacked. 
In consequence of this adventure I suffered the next day 
from headache and fever, and could not continue the jour- 
ney; accordingly we remained during the following. night 
at our dangerous encampment by the side of the river, but 
were all upon our guard. From time to time we heard 
a strange rustling which inreased towards morning. A 
splashing in the pools and a suppressed grunting led us to 
believe that wild boars were wallowing in the swampy bed 
of the river. In spite of the darkness which followed the 
moon's setting and which prevented us from distinguishing 
anything beyond our watch-fires, we directed our rifles 
 
towards the spot whence the sound proceeded end fired. 
It immediately seemed to us that the creature left the 
water and hurried to the thicket. After all was quiet 
again we heard a breathing and grunting as of some 
creature that might have been wounded by us ; we awaited 
with impatience the break of day, and with the first dawn 
instituted a search. As the animal had long been quiet, 
our search was for some time fruitless, and we had already 
determined to lose no more time about it, when Templyn's 
servant discovered behind a large bush a wild boar stretched 
out without any signs of life, and we immediately declared 
him to be our property. I, with the baker, was nearest at 
