"Truly, Faith, thou didst not hate me?" she said when released, turning
to the girl.
The maiden's face was scarlet.
"She does not hate thee now, dear," said Andrew softly.
"It was most wicked and hateful! Thou hadst so many joys and pretty
things and lessons, and a beautiful face, and then Andrew said thou
didst have the sweetest big heart in all the world and could love me and
would be glad to share thy joys with me. Is it so, Primrose?"
Primrose clasped her in her arms and kissed her many times.
"I wish thou could come. There are so many things, and it makes no one
poorer by sharing them."
"And then I learned to love thee. We talk of thee until at night, when I
shut my eyes and draw the coverlid about me, I can see thee like a star
coming out in the blue. And Andrew thinks sometime he may take me in on
market day, when the spring opens, for I would like to see the great
city. And thou might come to meet us. I think Aunt Lois and Rachel would
be angry if I went to Madam Wetherill's. But I am forgetting. Thou hast
a soldier cousin, Andrew."
"He is my brother," explained Primrose with curious dignity. "And--I do
not like him to be a King's soldier."
Andrew gave a long whistle of amazement, and studied Primrose so keenly
that she flushed.
"Thy brother? Of course, then, being Uncle Philemon's son he is my
cousin. Is he not Lord somebody?"
"He is Captain Nevitt. And at times I love him, but he teases and
threatens to take me to England, and--and he is to fight our soldiers.
It does not seem right, then, to love him at all. Andrew," looking up
out of the softly radiant eyes, "I wish thou wert in his stead."
Andrew Henry was satisfied then. For an instant his soul had been wrung
with jealousy. But his look of tender regard answered hers and both
understood.
"And I must go see this British cousin. Faith, hand me that brush, even
if it does get used at times on Dobbin's sleek coat."
He brushed the dust of the grain out of his clothes and gave his hair a
stir with his fingers.
"And Primrose hath a pony!" cried Faith. "It is pretty, with great, soft
eyes! Next summer I shall learn to ride."
She caught the hand of her visitor and pressed it with pervading
rapture. Primrose wondered how she could have grown so different.
"Thou hast stayed finely!" said Rachel reprovingly. "It is ever the way
when two do an errand. And Madam Wetherill will take dinner with us, it
is so near noon. The horses must be put out, and Penn and Jonas are down
in the wood lot. Go to the kitchen and help Chloe."
There were tears in Faith's eyes, but she dared not even loiter, for
Rachel's hand was not light when it came with a box on the ear. There
were so few visitors at the house that this was a great treat, and Faith
hated to be shut out.
Philemon Nevitt surveyed his cousin with some curiosity and decided
that the plain young Quaker farmer was no great rival after all in his
young sister's favor. For he was not likely to fight for his country,
the great test Primrose seemed to require. But when Andrew went out to
care for the horses the two young men asked permission to leave the
ladies and take a look around.
"The country surprises me," declared Captain Nevitt. "We have heard much
talk about the wilderness and the forests, and the few towns such as
Penn's Colony, which is a much greater city than one could imagine. And
there is the town the Dutch started, New York, and the Puritan Boston,
beside many lesser places that must show wonderful capacity for settling
the New World. There are industries, too, that have amazed me. 'Tis a
great pity a people doing so well should rebel against all law and
order, and be willing to have their country destroyed rather than yield
while they have something to save."
"We shall not agree upon this matter," Andrew Henry replied with quiet
dignity. "And since we are of blood kin, we will not dispute. There are
other subjects of talk."
"But my uncle is strong for peace," in a tone of surprise.
"Yes. I, too, am for peace, unless manliness and honor goes not with it.
And when one has seen wrongs and usurpations creep in gradually, and
privileges taken away--but," checking himself, "I was not to discuss
such points. We are plain people but we may have some stock, and
browsing for it, that will interest thee."
The cattle were certainly fine and well fed. There were stacks of hay
and piles of Indian corn, great pits of vegetables, and potatoes enough
to feed an army, it seemed. Everything was so well kept, and there was a
great sheepfold with shelter for the flock in storm.
"And, now, which way retreated the rebels after their defeat?" asked
Captain Nevitt.
"They went on up the Schuylkill, on the other side, to Whitemarsh first,
and then to Valley Forge."
"A blacksmithy town?"
"There was once an old forge there. It is not a town."
"There seems many comfortable country houses about, as if there might be
gentry."
"Some of them now are filled with the wounded and the ill. They were
worth seeing in the summer."
Then they discussed horses and found the young Quaker no mean authority.
The horn blew to summon them within, where a bountiful feast was spread,
to which they all did ample justice and talked of family affairs.
Captain Nevitt had another view of his father from his brother's
comprehension of him, and though it was much narrower, not less
complimentary than that of Madam Wetherill. Certainly there was nothing
to regret on the Henry side. He was beginning to feel proud of these
clean, wholesome people of strong character.
When they had risen Madam Wetherill said they must leave presently. The
sky was getting to be rather lowering, with a grayish cloud in the south
that betokened snow, Friend Henry said.
"I will go out with thee, Andrew, and see about the horses," said the
lady.
"Nay," interposed Captain Nevitt smilingly. "It is hardly a lady's
business----"
