see them and to give one. Gladys will recite something and 
the venerable artist will pass judgment." 
Sherringham remembered that he had his note in his pocket. 
and he took it out and looked it over. ' ' She wishes to make 
her a little audience she says she'll do better with that and 
she asks me because I'm English. I shall make a point of 
going." 
" And bring Dormer if you can : the audience will be better. 
Will you come, Dormer ] " Mr. Nash continued, appealing to 
his friend, -" will you come with me to see an old French 
actress and to hear an English amateur recite? " 
Nick looked round from his talk with his mother and Grace. 
" I'll go anywhere with you, so that, as I've told you, I may 
not lose sight of you, may keep hold of you." 
"Poor Mr. Nash, why is he so useful?" Lady Agnes 
demanded with a laugh. 
" He steadies me, mother." 
" Oh, I wish you'd take me, Peter," Biddy broke out, 
wistfully, to her cousin. 
" To spend an hour with an old French actress ? Do you 
want to go upon the stage  ? " the young man inquired. 
" No, but I want to see something, to know something." 
" Madame Carre is wonderful in her way, but she is hardly 
company for a little English girl." 
" I'm not little, I'm only too big ; and she goes, the person 
you speak of." 
" For a professional purpose, and with her good mother," 
smiled Gabriel Nash. " I think Lady Agnes would hardly 
venture 
" Oh, I've seen her good mother! " said Biddy, as if she 
had an impression of what the worth of that protection 
might be. 
"Yes, but you haven't heard her. It's then that you 
measure her." 
Biddy was wistful still. " Is it the famous Honorine Carre, 
the great celebrity ? " 
" Honorine in person : the incomparable, the perfect ! " said 
Peter Sherringham. " The first artist of our time, taking her 
altogether. She and I are old pals ; she has been so good as 
to come and ' say ' things, as she does sometimes still dans le 
monde as no one else does, in my rooms." 
" Make her come, then ; we can go tJiere ! " 
" One of these days ! " 
" And the young lady Miriam, Edith, Gladys make her 
come too." 
Sherringham looked at Nash, and the latter exclaimed : 
" Oh, you'll have no difficulty ; she'll jump at it ! " 
" Very good ; I'll give a little artistic tea, with Julia, too, 
of course. And you must come, Mr. Nash." This gentleman 
promised, with an inclination, and Peter continued : "But if, 
as you say, you're not for helping the young lady, how came 
you to arrange this interview with the great model? '' 
" Precisely to stop her. The great model will find her 
very bad. Her judgments, as you probably know, are 
Rhadamanthine." 
" Poor girl ! " said Biddy. " I think you're cruel." 
" Never mind ; I'll look after them," said Sherringham. 
" And how can Madame Carre judge, if the girl recites 
English ? " 
"She's so intelligent that she could judge if she recited 
Chinese," Peter declared. 
" That's true, but thejeune Anglaise recites also in French," 
said Gabriel Nash. 
" Then she isn't stupid' 
'' And in Italian, and in several more tongues, for aught I 
know." 
Sherringham was visibly interested. " Very good ; we'll put 
her through them all." 
" She must be most clever," Biddy went on, yearningly. 
" She has spent her life on the Continent ; she has wandered 
about with her mother ; she has picked up things." 
" And is she a lady? " Biddy asked. 
" Oh, tremendous ! The great ones of the earth on the 
mother's side. On the father's, on the other hand, I imagine, 
only a Jew stockbroker in the city." 
" Then they're rich or ought to be," Sherringham 
suggested. 
" Ought to be ah, there's the bitterness! The stockbroker 
had too short a go he was carried off in his flower. However, 
he left his wife a certain property, which she appears to have 
muddled away, not having the safeguard of being herself a 
Hebrew. This is what she lived upon till to-day this and 
another resource. Her husband, as she has often told me, 
had the artistic temperament ; that's common, as you know, 
among ces messieurs. He made the most of his little oppor- 
tunities and collected various pictures, tapestries, enamels, 
porcelains and similar gewgaws. He parted with them also, I 
gather, at a profit ; in short, he carried on a neat little 
business as a brocanteur. It was nipped in the bud, but Mrs. 
Booth was left with a certain number of , these articles in her 
hands ; indeed they must have constituted the most palpable 
part of her heritage. She was not a woman of business ; she 
turned them, no doubt, to indifferent account ; but she sold 
them piece by piece, and they kept her going while her 
daughter grew up. It was to this precarious traffic, conducted 
with extraordinary mystery and delicacy, that, five years ago, 
iii Florence, I was indebted for my acquaintance with her. In 
those days I used to collect Heaven help me ! I used to 
pick up rubbish which I could ill afford. It was a little 
phase we have our little phases, haven't we ? " asked Gabriel 
