
"Not fully, Captain Passford; but Mr. Flint has told me something about
the situation," replied the third lieutenant.

"It may not be necessary, gentlemen, that I should say it, but not a
word of what passes in my cabin is to be repeated in any other part of
the ship; not even in the ward room when you believe you are entirely
alone," said the captain, very earnestly and impressively. "If the doors
and keyholes do not have ears, there may be ears behind them, as some of
us have learned to our entire satisfaction."

"Not a word from me, Captain Passford," added Baskirk.

"And not one from me," repeated Flint.

"Unquestionably the curiosity of Mr. Lillyworth and his confederate
are and will continue to be excited to the highest pitch," continued
Christy. "I shall have occasion to change the course of the ship, and
head her more to the eastward. Of course the second lieutenant will
observe this, and will understand that I am not following the orders
reported to him by Mulgrum. You are my only confidants on board, and it
will be necessary for you to refer Mr. Lillyworth to me when he asks for
further information."

"Perfectly understood," replied Flint, who was now in most excellent
humor.

"Now, gentlemen, I will leave you in my cabin that Mr. Baskirk may be
more fully instructed in regard to the matters which have passed between
Mr. Flint and myself. I have great expectations in regard to you, Mr.
Baskirk, and I am confident that you will realize them."

Saying this, Christy bowed to his companions, and left the cabin,
retiring to his state room and closing the door. He had on board a full
supply of charts and nautical instruments of his own, in addition to
those belonging to the ship. Spreading out the chart of the South
Atlantic on the desk, he went to work with his dividers and parallel
rule. He made his figures on a piece of paper, and then laid off a
course on the chart with a pencil, to be deepened in red ink at another
time.

Writing "southeast by east" on a slip of paper, he restored his charts
and instruments to their places and left the state room. The two
lieutenants were still in his cabin, but he did not disturb them and
went on deck. Before he reached the bridge, six bells struck, or three
o'clock in the afternoon. He then ascended the ladder to the bridge. The
fog which the second lieutenant had predicted had not yet enveloped the
ship; on the contrary, it looked more like clearing off, and some
patches of blue sky could be seen.

"Mr. Lillyworth, you will make the course southeast by east," said
Christy, looking at the officer of the deck.

"Southeast by east!" exclaimed the second lieutenant; and his remark
needed an exclamation point after it, for though it was customary to
repeat an order to make sure that it was understood, he did so in such
a tone and in such a manner as to manifest very clearly his astonishment
at the nature of the order. The former course had been south by west.

One thing was fully evident from this surprise--that the officer of the
deck gave full faith to the bogus instructions which had been imparted
to him by Mulgrum. He believed that the Bronx was to hasten to the Gulf,
as the former course indicated. It was plain enough to Lillyworth that
the captain was disregarding his instructions; but his lips were sealed
in regard to this disobedience, for he could not indicate in any manner
that he knew the purport of the sealed orders; and doubtless it did not
occur to him that the deaf mute had been blinded, in addition to his
other infirmities. The course was given out to the quartermaster at the
wheel. The steamer promptly fell off, and began to ride quartering over
the smart billows, brought out by the wind from the south-southwest, as
it had blown for the last hour or more.

Christy believed that he had put everything in train for accomplishing
the mission of the Bronx on the new course he had just ordered. There
were no more orders to be read, and he did not see that the conspirators
could do anything more to derange the plans of the loyal officers and
seamen on board. All they had attempted so far was to obtain information
in regard to the movements of the vessel; and Christy had taken care
that they should receive all the information they wanted, though not as
reliable as it might have been. He was satisfied with the situation as
it must remain till some decided event should call for energetic action.

The captain and the two ward-room officers in his confidence were
obliged to conduct themselves with the utmost caution and discretion in
order not to undo anything which had been done in blinding the eyes of
the conspirators. Christy had an abundance of writing to do, and it was
of a kind that would not betray any of his secrets; he called upon
Mulgrum to do this work, in order to keep up appearances. He did not
call any more conferences with his friends in the cabin, for there was
no need of any, and entire silence was the more prudent.

The Bronx proceeded on the course the captain had given out until the
twentieth of the month, when the steamer was a little to the southward
of the Bermudas. She had not been near enough to the islands to be made
out from the shore. On this day, when the Bronx was three days from
Sandy Hook, the fog which Mr. Lillyworth had been predicting settled
down on the steamer, not as dense as it might be, but thick enough to
prevent those on board of her from seeing anything at any great distance
from her. The second lieutenant, in charge of the deck, suggested to the
captain that the whistle should be blown; but Christy answered very
