Eternal not to let them die before the promise was fulfilled; the
atmosphere itself was charged with expectation.
And as the visions rushed through his mind, Antipas fell to wondering
whether that covenant was as meaningless as he had thought, or whether by
any chance this rabbi who had been arguing at Capharnahum could be the
usher of Israel’s hope. If he were, then indeed he might say good-bye to
his tetrarchy, to his dream of a kingdom as well.
“Yes,” Pahul repeated, “the Son of God!”
Antipas had been so far away that now he started as one does whom the
touch of a hand awakes. To recover himself he leaned over and plunged his
face in the jar. The wine brought him courage.
He must be suppressed, he decided.
“But,” the butler continued, “I——”
The frontal of the palace was set with lights. The parasols of the palms
had turned from green to black, the stars seemed remoter, the sky more
dark. From beyond came the call and answer of the sentinels.
Antipas stood up. A fringe of his tunic was detained by a rivet of the
bench on which he had sat; he stooped to loose it; something moist touched
his fingers, and as he moved to the palace the black-faced ape sprang at
his side and nibbled at the jewels on his hand.
                                CHAPTER V.
                                    V.
The house of Simon Barlevi was gray, and in shape an oblong. It had a flat
roof laid with a plaster of lime, about which was a fretwork of open
tiles. Beneath, for doorway, was a recess, surmounted by an arch and
covered with a layer of mud. On each side was a room.
In the recess, sheltered from the sun and visited by the breeze, Simon
stood. His garments were white, and where they were not they had been
neatly chalked. On the border of his skirt and sleeves were the regulation
fringes, and on his forehead and about his left arm the phylacteries which
Pharisees affect. He was not pleasant to the eye, but he was virtuous and
a strict observer of the Law.
In the room at his left were mats and painted stools, set in the manner
customary when guests are awaited. For on that day Simon Barlevi was to
give a little feast, to which he had bidden his friends and also a rabbi
whom he had listened to in the synagogue, and with whose ideas he did not
at all agree. Save for the mats and stools, and a lamp of red clay, the
room was bare.
In front of the house was a bit of ground enclosed by a hedge of stones;
and now as Simon stood in the recess a guest appeared.
“Reulah!” he exclaimed, “the Lord be with you.”
And Reulah answering, as etiquette required, “Unto you be peace, and to
your house be peace, and unto all you have be peace,” the two friends
clasped hands raised them as though to kiss them, then each withdrawing
kissed his own hand, and struck it on his forehead.
Singularly enough, host and guest looked much alike. Simon had the
appearance of one conscious of and strong in his own rectitude, while
Reulah seemed humbler and more effaced. Otherwise there was not a pin to
choose between them.
To Simon’s face had come an expression of perplexity in which there was
zeal.
“I was thinking, Reulah,” he announced, “of the rabbi who is to break
bread with us to-day. His teaching does not comfort me.”
Reulah was unlatching his shoes. “Nor me,” he interjected.
“On questions of purity and impurity he seems unscrupulously negligent. I
have heard that he is a glutton and a wine-bibber. I have heard that he
despises the washing of the hands.”
“Whoso does,” Reulah threw back, “will be rooted out of the world.”
Simon nodded; a smile of protracted amiability hovered in the corners of
his mouth. For a moment he played with his beard.
“I think,” he added, “that he will find here food in plenty, and counsel
as well.”
Reulah closed his eyes benignly, and Simon, in a falsetto which he
affected when he desired to impress, continued in gentle menace:
“But I have certain questions to put to him. Whether water from an unclean
vessel defiles that which is clean. Whether the flesh of a dead body alone
defiles, or the skin and bones as well. I want to see how he will answer
that. Then I may ask his opinion on points of the ritual. Should the
incense be lighted before the high-priest appears or as he does so. Is or
is not the Sabbath broken by the killing of the Paschal lamb? Why is it
lawful to take tithe of corn and wine and oil, and not of anise, cummin,
and peppers? In swearing by the Temple, should one not first swear by the
gold on the Temple? and in swearing by the altar, should one or should one
not first swear by the sacrifices on it? These things, since he preaches,
he must know. If he does not——”
And Simon looked at his friend as who should say: What is there wanting in
me?
“If I may be taught another duty I will observe it,” said Reulah, sweetly.
At this evidence of meekness Simon grunted. Two other guests were
approaching. On the edges of their tallîth were tassels made of four
threads which had been drawn through an eyelet and doubled to make eight.
Seven of these threads were of equal length, but the eighth was longer,
and, twisted into five knots, represented the five books of the Law. The
right hand on the left breast, they saluted their host, and placing in
turn a hand under his beard, they kissed it. A buzz of inquiries followed,
interrupted by the coming and embracing of newer guests, the unloosing of
sandals, the washing of feet.
As they assembled, one drew Simon aside and whispered importantly. Simon’s
eyes dilated, astonishment lifted him, visibly, like a lash, and his hands
trembled above his head.
“Have you heard,” he exclaimed to the others—“have you heard that the
Nazarene whom I invited here, and who pretends to be a prophet, allowed
his followers to pluck corn on the Sabbath, to thresh it even, and
defended and approved their violation of the Law? Have you heard it? Is it
true?”
Reulah quaked as one stricken by palsy. “On the Sabbath!” he moaned. “On
the Sabbath! Why, I would not send a message on Wednesday, lest perchance
it should be delivered on the Sabbath day. Surely it cannot be.”
But on that point the others were certain. They were all aware of the
scandal; one had been an eye-witness, another had heard the Nazarene
