patiently.
At last a man came out into the courtyard who was richly dressed, and
whom all the people saluted as he passed. But he came straight towards
Khaled, who rose from his seat.
'Whence come you, my friend?' he inquired after they had exchanged the
salutation.
'From the Red Desert, and I desire permission to speak with the Sultan
when it shall please his majesty to see me.'
'And what do you desire of his majesty? I ask that I may inform him
beforehand. So you will have a better reception.'
'Tell the Sultan,' said Khaled, 'that a man is here who has neither
father nor mother nor any possessions beyond a swift mare, a keen sword
and a strong hand, but who is come nevertheless to ask in marriage
Zehowah, the Sultan's daughter.'
The minister smiled and gazed at Khaled in silence for a moment, but
when he had looked keenly at his face, he became grave.
'It may be,' he thought, 'that this is some great prince who comes thus
simply as in a disguise, and it were best not to anger him.'
'I will deliver your message,' he answered aloud, 'though it is a
strange one. It is customary for those who come to ask for a maiden in
marriage to bring gifts--and to receive others in return,' he added.
'I neither bring gifts nor ask any,' said Khaled. 'Allah is great and
will provide me with what I need.'
'I fear that he will not provide you with the Sultan's daughter for a
wife,' said the minister as he went away, but Khaled did not hear the
words, though he would have cared little if he had.
Now it chanced that Zehowah was sitting in a balcony surrounded with
lattice, over the courtyard, on that morning and she had seen Khaled
enter, leading his mare by the bridle. But though she watched the
stranger and his beast idly for some time she thought as little of the
one as of the other, for her heart was not turned to love, and she knew
nothing of horses. But her women thought differently and spoke loudly,
praising the beauty of both.
'There is indeed a warrior able to fight in the front of our armies,'
they said. 'Truly such a man must have been Khaled ibn Walad, the Sword
of the Lord, in the days of the Prophet--upon whom peace.'
By and by there was a cry that the Sultan was coming into the room, and
the women rose and retired. The Sultan sat down upon the carpet by his
daughter, in the balcony.
'Do you see that stranger, holding a beautiful mare by the bridle?' he
asked.
'Yes, I see him,' answered Zehowah indifferently.
'He is come to ask you in marriage.'
'Another!' she exclaimed with a careless laugh. 'If it is the will of
Allah I will marry him. If not, he will go away like the rest.'
'This man is not like the rest, my daughter. He is either a madman or
some powerful prince in disguise.'
'Or both, perhaps,' laughed Zehowah. She laughed often, for although she
was not inclined to love, she was of a gentle and merry temper.
'His message was a strange one,' said the Sultan. 'He says that he
neither brings gifts nor asks them, that he has neither father nor
mother, nor any possessions excepting a swift mare, a keen sword and a
strong hand.'
'I see the mare, the sword and the hand,' answered Zehowah. 'But the
hand is like any other hand--how can I tell whether it be strong? The
sword is in its sheath, and I cannot see its edge, and though the mare
is pretty enough, I have seen many of your own I liked as well. The
elephants of the Indian prince were more amusing, and the prince himself
was more beautiful than this stranger with his black beard and his
solemn face.'
'That is true,' said the Sultan with a sigh.
'Do you wish me to marry this man?' Zehowah asked.
'My daughter, I wish you to choose of your own free will. Nevertheless I
trust that you will choose before long, that I may see my child's
children before I die.'
For the Sultan was old and white-bearded, and was already somewhat bowed
with advancing years and with burden of many cares and the fatigues of
many wars. Yet his eye was bright and his heart fearless still, though
his judgment was often weak and vacillating.
'Do you wish me to marry this man?' Zehowah asked again. 'He will be a
strange husband, for he is a strange suitor, coming without gifts and
having neither father nor mother. But I will do as you command. If you
leave it to me I shall never marry.'
'I did not say that I desired you to take this one especially,'
protested the Sultan, 'though for the matter of gifts I care little,
since heaven has sent me wealth in abundance. But my remaining years are
few, and the years of life are like stones slipping from a mountain
which move slowly at first, and then faster until they outrun the
lightning and leap into the dark valley below. And what is required of a
husband is that he be a true believer, young and whole in every part,
and of a charitable disposition.'
'Truly,' laughed Zehowah, 'if he have no possessions, charity will avail
him little, since he has nothing to give.'
'There is other charity besides the giving of alms, my daughter, since
it is charity even to think charitably of others, as you know. But I
have not said that you should marry this man, for you are free. And
indeed I have not yet talked with him. But I have sent for him and you
shall hear him speak. See--they are just now conducting him to the hall
of audiences. But indeed I think he is no husband for you, after all.'
The Sultan rose and went to receive Khaled, and Zehowah went to the
secret window above her father's raised seat in the hall.
Khaled made the customary salutation with the greatest respect, and the
Sultan made him sit down at his right hand as though he had been a
prince, and asked him whence he had come. Then a refreshment was
brought, and Khaled ate and drank a little, after which the Sultan
inquired his business.
'I come,' said Khaled boldly, 'to ask your daughter Zehowah in marriage.
I bring no gifts, for I have none to offer, nor have I any inheritance.
My mare is my fortune, my sword is my argument and my wit is in my arm.'
'You are a strange suitor,' said the Sultan; but he kept a pleasant
