
"Do you mean to say that you have intrusted a boy of sixteen with so
important a commission?"

"I do."

"Really, Wainwright, I don't like to criticise, but it appears to me
that you have taken leave of your senses."

The banker laughed good-humoredly.

"Perhaps I ought not to be surprised at that."

"Then you acknowledge your lack of wisdom?"

"By no means. What I have done I would do again."

"Couldn't you find a more suitable messenger?"

"Not readily."

"It would have been worth while to go yourself, as the amount is
considerable."

"That would never have answered. I should be recognized, and excite
suspicion."

"Do you really expect that boy to recover the bonds?"

"I think it possible, at any rate."

"Suppose he does, what is to hinder his keeping them himself?"

"His honesty."

"Pardon me, Wainwright, but I have had a pretty extensive experience,
and I would be willing to wager ten to one that you will never see your
bonds again."

"I never bet, and hold that betting is no argument. But I too have had
some experience of men and consider my chance of recovering the stolen
property fairly good."

"How long since your messenger started on his expedition?"

"About two weeks."

"Have you heard from him?"

"Yes, once. There are reasons why it is imprudent for him to write too
often."

Henderson smiled significantly.

"I dare say he is having a good time at your expense. What was the
amount of your loss?"

"About fifteen thousand dollars."

"Since you won't bet, I will make you a proposal. If the boy recovers
your bonds and restores them to you I will offer him a place in my own
counting-room at twenty dollars a week."

"I don't think in that case I should be willing to lose his services. I
would pay him as much as he could get elsewhere."

"There is very little chance of my being called upon to redeem my
promise."

At that moment an express messenger entered the office.

"Here is a parcel for you, sir," he said.

It was a small package wrapped in brown paper, carefully tied and
sealed.

John Wainwright paid the express charges, receipted for the package,
and then eagerly opened it.

It was the same package which Fred had expressed from Hyacinth.

The banker's eyes were full of triumph.

"What do you say to that, my friend?" he asked.

"What is it?"

"The missing bonds. Nothing could have happened more apropos."

"You don't mean to say--"

"Listen. Let me read you this letter from the messenger you thought me
foolish in sending to Canada."

Here is a copy of Fred's letter.

JOHN WAINWRIGHT, ESQ.

MY DEAR SIR: I have at length recovered the bonds which were stolen
from you, and send them by express herewith. I have not time to go into
