the old ones with the great joy of a new discoverer." Has 
it brought peace ? Has she not mistaken all the unrest 
for intellectual activities, and prided herself upon the 
growth that would presently bloom into rare perfectness ? 
And there is no blossom. It is simply going on. That is 
all there is for her, let her face it. Cultivation cannot 
make a genius, and she has been secretly praying all these 
months for some inspiration that should set her up above 
ordinary souls. 
Very few come clean and dry out of the slough of 
despond. But when Regina realizes that she has not been 
so much thrust in by an untoward fate, as she has allowed 
herself to drift and drop in her efforts to cross over, and 
the only safety is in retracing her steps, her strong, truth- 
ful nature admits its mistake, and casts about for the old 
paths. That which has been denied her from the begin- 
ning she cannot attain. Let her recognize the limits of her 
possibilities, and take up her life again, planting in it the 
seeds that can grow and blossom in the soil. 
Not in a week or a month does the rushing stream of 
true endeavor wash away the useless debris of the paltry 
bridges she has been building. But the sticks and straws 
and dead leaves vanish after a while, the swelling flood 
abates, and the cheerful rill sings on its way. Many duties 
come to hand. Her mother is more in need of entertain- 
ment, for her health is not so good and her anxiety for 
Perdita in no wise abates. The young couple seem to be 
going from city to city. There are bright, hurried notes, 
or longer ones with descriptions of places and amusements, 
but very little concerning their inner selves. 
 
" I don't think we can expect it," says Eegina with a 
soothing sound to her voice, that has grown tenderer of 
late. "Perdita simply enjoyed. She was no hand to accu- 
mulate raptures, and live them over again with her friends. 
And they are changing about so continually." 
" But she might sometimes say she was happy." 
" Let us believe that she is. She would hardly write so 
gayly if she were wretched. And she does speak of com- 
ing back. She will have a great deal to tell us." 
There are moments when Perdita's letters stir up a long- 
ing, not of envy for that position, but the curious half 
wish to see these things with her own eyes, the wonder 
that they should come to one who passes them by so care- 
lessly. The opportunity has been offered, but it is no 
pleasure for her to remember it now. She has chosen not 
to go out of her narrow round ; let her accept the result 
with what cheer she can. 
She finds, to her surprise, that the duties are many. 
There is little time for the ennui she feared, the sloth and 
rust of which her active soul, in its moment of dumb final- 
ity, had a horror. She can only be herself, it is true. 
There are many phases of usefulness that would come 
awkwardly to her ; it would be as useless to assume them 
as those higlier ambitions she has Teached after. Beverly 
people have no notion of allowing her to drop out. She is 
too attractive. 
How it is she finds a wider meaning in all these things 
she does not understand at first. It is the giving out 
rather than the continual taking in, the enjoyment in lesser 
forms of excellence because another soul can be made at 
home in it, can through it be raised to a more perfect appre- 
ciation. Even with her mother she finds the pretty stories 
with a gentle wholesome moral give more pleasure than 
the satires of Thackeray or the tense intellectualities of 
George Eliot. And the pretty young girls with their crude 
ideas and longings who have looked admiringly at Miss 
Halford across a great gulf, venture to draw nearer and 
listen with brightening eyes to some truth delicately put 
that may grow and blossom in the coming years. Only as 
the other sacred love comes to inspire her with its beneii- 
cent inspirations does she understand that these results are 
worth more than hours of straining effort at self-perfec- 
tion. 
For obvious reasons she does not go to Warwick. She 
cannot well be spared from home, and she hears the weekly 
accounts in Cynthia's bright, humorous, entertaining fashion. 
Cynthia is a capital raconteur. Her rapid, vivid speech, 
her quick sense of mirth or pathos, and her descriptive 
powers that seize on all the salient points, at times quite 
startle Regina, who has considered her a merely clever, 
vivacious, and rather volatile being. Perhaps she has un- 
derrated her as much as she has over-estimated her own 
attainments. 
The efforts at Warwick begin presently to attract atten- 
tion outside of the narrow town limits. There is nothing 
new in the experiment, except that it has never been tried 
in this vicinity. These places have had a sort of shifting 
prosperity. In flourishing times work was brisk and peo- 
ple crowded in, not only from the country-places, taking 
many of the idle and inefficient to whom farming was a 
hardship, or who possessed no original faculty and could the 
more easily follow a machine routine. Then, in times of 
strikes, failures, or depression in other places, the men 
wandered about, " tramped " until they could ind work. 
If it promised to be permanent they brought their wives 
and children, or perhaps married again without paying 
much attention to any law on the subject, 
For some years Warwick has been tolerably prosperous. 
There has been no question among the employers of any 
