returned Tom Craik approvingly. All at once he dropped his detached
manner of speaking and grew eloquent. “You would be doing a very
sensible thing. A man of your age can have no manner of use for all this
rubbish. If you ever mean to be a collector, reserve that expensive
taste for the time when you have plenty of money, but can neither eat,
drink, sleep, make love nor be merry in any way—no, nor write novels
either. The pleasure does not consist in possessing things, it lies in
finding them, bargaining for them, fighting for them and ultimately
getting them. It is the same with money, but there is more variety in
collecting, to my mind, at least. It is the same with everything, money,
love, politics, collecting, it is only the fighting for what you want
that is agreeably exciting. It has kept me alive, with my wretched
constitution, when the doctors have been thinking of sending for the
person in black who carries a tape measure. I never had any ambition. I
never cared for anything but the fighting. I never cared to be first,
second or third. I do not believe that your ambitious man ever succeeds
in life. He thinks so much about himself that he forgets what he is
fighting for. You can easily make a fool of an ambitious man by offering
him a bait, and you may take the thing you want while he is chasing the
phantom of glory on the other side of the house. I hope you are not
ambitious. You have begun as if you were not, and you have knocked all
the stuffing out of the rag dolls the critics put up to frighten young
authors. I have read a good deal in my day, and I have seen a good deal,
and I have taken a great many things I have wanted. I know men, and I
know something about books. You ought to succeed, for you go about your
work as though you liked it for the sake of overcoming difficulties, for
the sake of fighting your subject and getting the better of it. Stick to
that principle. It prolongs life. Pick out the hardest thing there is to
be done, and go at it, hammer and tongs, by hook or by crook, by fair
means or foul. If you cannot do it, after all, nobody need be the wiser;
if you succeed every one will cry out in admiration of your industry and
genius, when you have really only been amusing yourself all the
time—because nothing can be more amusing than fighting. You are quite
right. Ambition is nonsense and the satisfaction of possession is bosh.
The only pleasure is in doing and getting. If, in the inscrutable ways
of destiny, you ever own this house, sell it, and when you are old, and
crooked, and cannot write any more, and people think you are a
drivelling idiot and are sitting in rows outside your door, waiting for
dead men’s shoes—why then, you can prolong your life by collecting
something, as I have done. The desire to get the better of a Jew dealer
in a bargain for a Maestro Georgio, or the determination to find the
edition which has been heard of but never seen, will make your blood
circulate and your heart beat, and your brain work. I have half a mind
to sell the whole thing myself for the sake of doing it all over again,
and keeping somebody waiting ten years longer for the money. I might
last ten years more if I could hit upon something new to collect.”
The old man ceased speaking and looked up sideways at George, with a
keen smile, very unlike the expression he assumed when he meant to be
agreeable. Then he relapsed into his usual way of talking, jerking out
short sentences and generally omitting the subject or the verb, when he
did not omit both. It is possible that he had delivered his oration for
the sake of showing George that he could speak English as well as any
one when he chose to do so.
“Like my little speech? Eh?” he inquired.
“I shall not forget it,” George answered. “Your ideas cannot be accused
of being stale or old fashioned, whatever else may be said of them.”
“Put them into a book, will you? Well, well. Daresay printer’s ink has
been wasted on worse—sometimes.”
George did not care to prolong his visit beyond the bounds of strict
civility, though he had been somewhat diverted by his relation’s talk.
He asked a few questions about the books and discovered that Tom Craik
was by no means the unreading edition-hunter he had supposed him to be.
If he had not read all the three thousand choice volumes he possessed,
he had at least a very clear idea of the contents of most of them.
“Buying an author and not reading him,” he said, “is like buying a pig
in a poke and then not even looking at the pig afterwards. Eh?”
“Very like,” George answered with a short laugh. Then he took his leave.
The old man went with him as far as the door that led out of the room in
which they had first met.
“Come again,” he said. “Rather afraid of draughts, so I leave you here.
Good day to you.”
George took the thin hand that was thrust out at him and shook it with
somewhat less repulsion that he had felt a quarter of an hour earlier.
The sight of the books had softened his heart a little, as it often
softens the enmities of literary men when they least expect it. He
turned away and left the house, wondering whether, after all, old Tom
Craik had not been judged more harshly than he deserved. The man of
letters is slow to anger against those who show any genuine fondness for
his profession.
He walked down the avenue, thinking over what he had seen and heard. It
chanced that after walking some time he stepped aside to allow certain
ladies to pass him and on looking round saw that he was in the door of
Mr. Popples’s establishment. A thought struck him and he went in.
“Mr. Popples——”
“Good morning, Mr. Winton Wood——” Mr. Popples thought that the two names
sounded better together.
“Good morning, Mr. Popples. I want to ask you a confidential question.”
George laughed a little.
“Anything, Mr. Winton Wood. Something in regard to the sales, no doubt.
Well, in point of fact, sir, it is just as well to ask now and then how
a book is going, just for the sake of checking the statement as we say,
though I will say that Rob Roy and Company——”
“No, no,” George interrupted with a second laugh. “They treat me very
well. You know Mr. Craik, do you not?”
“Mr. Craik!” exclaimed the bookseller, with a beaming smile. “Why, dear
me! Mr. Craik is your first cousin once removed, Mr. Winton Wood! Of
course I know him.” He prided himself on knowing the exact degree of
relationship existing between his different customers, which was
equivalent to knowing by heart the genealogy of all New York society.
“You are a subtle flatterer,” George answered. “You pretend to know him
