either] had become aUies of Rome 
and mingled their freedom with hers, 
nothing worth mentioning was required; they entered into an alliance 
whereby in return for Rome's patronage and protection they agreed to 
have a proper regard for the dignity 
of the Roman people and to have no 
other friends or enemies than those 
that were Rome's — a formula ex- 
quisite in the civility with which it 
exacted the renunciation of every in- 
herent right. "I have obeyed," wrote 
a king to the senate. "I have obeyed 
your deputy as I would have obeyed 
a god." "And you have done wisely," 
the senate answered, a reply, which, 
in its terseness, tells all. 

Diplomacy and the plow, such were 

 Rome's methods. As for herself she 

jought, she did not till. Italy, devas- 

ated by the civil wars, was uncultivated, cut up into vast unproductive 
estates. From one end to the other 
there was barely a trace of agriculture, not a sign of traffic. You met 
soldiers, cooks, petty tradesmen, gladiators, philosophers, patricians, market 
gardeners, lazzaroni and millionaires; 
the merchant and the farmer, never. 
Rome's resources were in distant commercial centers, in taxes and tribute; 
her wealth had come of pillage and 
exaction. Save her strength, she had 
nothing of her own. Her religion, literature, art, philosophy, luxury and corruption, everything had come from 
abroad. In Greece were her artists; in 
Africa, Gaul and Spain, her agriculturists; in Asia her artisans. Her own 
breasts were sterile. When she gave 
birth it was to a litter of monsters, 
sometimes to a genius, by accident to 
a poet. She consumed, she did not produce. It was because of that she fell. 




"Save a monster  what can you 
expect from Agrippina and myself?" 

It was Domitius, Nero's father, 
who made this ingenious remark. 
He was not a good man; he was not 
even a good-looking man — a brawling 
trickster who, in spite of his wealth, 
which was great, appears to h;n"c 
pleased no one as thoroughly as he 
did his sister, whom he pleased too 
well. But such capacity for wicked- 
ness as he possessed paled beside that 
of Agrippina, who poisoned him when 
Nero's birth insured the heritage of 
his wealth. 

In all its galleries history has no 
other portrait such as hers. Caligula's sister, his mistress as well, 



 



prostituted by him, exiled and threatened with death, her eyes dazzled and 
nerves unstrung by the impossibilities 
of that fabulous reign, it was not 
until Claud, her uncle, recalled her 
and Messalina disappeared, that the 
empress awoke. She too, she deter- 
mined, would rule, and the Jus osculi 
aiding, she married out of hand that 
imbecile uncle of hers, on whose knee 
she had played as a child. 

The day of the wedding a young 
patrician, expelled from the senate, 
killed himself. Agrippina had accused 
him of incest, not because hewasguilty, 
nor yet because the possibility of such 
a sin shocked her, but because he 
was betrothed to Octavia, a slender 
maiden with blue, pathetic eyes, who  
happened to be Claud's daughter, and 
who, Agrippina determined, should 
be Nero's wife. Presently Caligula's 
widow, an old rival of her own, a 



 



lady who had thoucrht she would like 
