kitchen.

“I am not going to wash, Mr. Tarbox.”

“How’s that? You can’t get along without having the clothes washed.”

“I intend to wash my own, but I don’t propose to do the rest.”

“Wh-what?” ejaculated Seth, in dismay.

“You have taken it upon yourself to discharge Nancy. If the clothes
remain unwashed, you are responsible.”

“But, Mrs. T., my first wife used to do all the washing. She didn’t have
Nancy to help her.”

“What your first wife did does not concern me. I do not propose to
follow in her footsteps and die of overwork, as she did.”

“It seems to me, Mrs. T., you don’t realize your duty as helpmeet to
your husband.”

“And I don’t propose to, if it requires me to work beyond my strength.”

“If you do all the washing this week, Nancy may come to your assistance
next Monday as usual.”

“I decline to do it.”

Seth Tarbox found that he was checkmated, and was obliged to make a
second call upon Miss Stokes and countermand his first notice. But he
felt very much dissatisfied, and the next day called on his daughter and
laid the matter before her.

“I am not surprised,” said Sophia. “Of course Mrs. Tarbox married you
for your money. She expects you will leave her a good slice of your
estate.”

“She’ll be disappointed,” said Seth angrily.

“I don’t know about that. Have you made a will?”

“No; why should I? You don’t expect I’m going to die right off, do you?”

“No; but still, life is uncertain. If you don’t leave a will, the law
will give her something.”

“Perhaps I shall live longer than she does.”

“Perhaps so, but she is twenty years younger than you. When she gets
your money, she and her boy will have fine times.”

“Can’t that be prevented?” asked Seth.

“There is one way.”

“What is that?”

“I hardly like to tell.”

“Out with it, Sophia!”

“If you should make me a deed of gift of the property—at any rate, of
the real estate—she couldn’t do anything.”

“But I don’t want to give the farm away.”

“Oh, it would only be a mere form. Things would go on just the same as
before. But it would put a spoke in your wife’s wheel. Of course, pa,
you know that I wouldn’t take any advantage of what you did. It makes me
laugh, though, to think how you would come up with that mercenary
woman.”

“Just so,” chuckled Seth. “Well, I’ll think of it.”

“That’s the first step,” reflected Mrs. Bartlett. “Now I know how to
work on pa’s feelings, it won’t be long before he’ll adopt my plan.”

From that time Sophia lost no opportunity to enlarge to her father on
his wife’s expectations of profiting by his death, till at last she
accomplished her purpose. One day she and her father called at a
lawyer’s office, and the deed of gift was made out, and Mrs. Bartlett
took charge of the document.

“Mrs. Tarbox won’t know anything of this,” she said. “We’ll keep it
secret, pa.”

“Yes, we’ll keep it secret.”

“If she knew, you’d find it hard to get as much work out of her.”

“That’s so!” chuckled Seth.

He would not have felt as well pleased had he known what a power he had
put into the hands of his daughter.

We will now reproduce the letter which Grant received from his mother.
After expressing the hope that he was in good health, and had something
to do, she went on:

