He was almost sure by this time that she actually found herself in some
such position as she described, and that she really needed advice. It
was characteristic of the man who had been trying to make her betray
herself and had succeeded beyond his expectation, that he was unwilling
to give her such counsel as might lead to her own destruction. In his
complicated code, that would have savoured of treachery. He suddenly
withdrew into himself as it were, and tried to look at the matter
objectively, as an outsider.
"It is a most difficult question to answer," he said at last. "I have
often heard it discussed. If you care for my own personal opinion, I
will give it to you. It seems to me that in such cases one should be
guided by circumstances as they arise, but that one can follow very
safely a sort of general rule. If the blackmailer, as I call the person
in possession of the secret, has any positive proof, such as a written
document, or any other object of the kind, without which he or she could
not prove the accusation, and if the accusation is really of a serious
nature, then I think it would be wiser to buy the thing, whatever it is,
at any price, and destroy it at once. But if, as in most of such
affairs, the secret is merely one of words which the blackmailers may
speak or not at will, and at any time, I believe it is a mistake to
bribe him or her, because the demand for hush-money can be renewed
indefinitely so long as the person concerned lives, or has any money
left with which to pay."
Adele had listened with the greatest attention throughout, and the
direct good sense of his answer disarmed any suspicion she might have
entertained in regard to the remark which had led to her asking his
advice. She reasoned naturally enough that if he knew anything of her
position, and had come to Gerano to gather information, he would have
suggested some course of action which would throw the advantage into his
own hands. But she did not know the man. Moreover, in her extreme fear
of discovery, she had for a moment been willing to admit that he might
know far more than was in any way possible, if he knew anything at all;
whereas in truth he was but making the most vague guesses at the actual
facts. It was startling to realise how nearly she had taken him for an
enemy, after inviting him as a friend, and in perfectly good faith, but
as she thought over the conversation she saw how naturally the remarks
which had frightened her had presented themselves. There was her own
insomnia--he had an instance of a man who had suffered in the same way.
A remark about unjust abuse of other people--that was quite natural, and
meant nothing. Blackmail extorted by servants--she had herself led
directly to it, by speculating upon what servants said of their masters.
It was all very natural. She made up her mind that she had been wrong in
mistrusting his sincerity. Besides, she liked him, and her judgment
instinctively inclined to favour him.
"I think you are quite right," she said, after a few moments' thought.
"I never heard it put so directly before, and your view seems to be the
only sensible one. If the secret can be kept by buying an object and
destroying it, then buy it. If not, deny it boldly, and refuse to pay.
Yes, that is the wisest solution I have ever heard offered."
Ghisleri saw that he had produced a good effect and was well-satisfied.
He turned back to a former point in order to change the subject of the
conversation.
"That old story of the Montevarchi has interested me," he said. "I wish
I knew it all. Without being at all of an historical genius, I am fond
of all sorts of family histories. Lady Herbert was saying yesterday that
there are many strange legends and stories connected with this old
place, and that your father knows them all. You must know a great deal
about Gerano yourself, I should think."
"Oh, of course I do," answered Adele, with alacrity. "I will show you
all over the castle to-morrow morning. It is an enormous building, and
bigger than you would ever suppose from the outside. I will show you
where they used to cut off heads--it is delightful! The head fell
through a hole in the floor into a heap of sawdust, they say. And then
there is another place, where they threw criminals out of the window,
with four seats in it, two for the executioners, one for the confessor,
and one in the middle for the condemned man. They did those things so
coolly and systematically in those good old days. You shall see it all;
there are the dungeons, and the trap-doors through which people were
made to tumble into them; there is every sort of appliance--belonging to
family life in the middle ages."
"I shall be very glad to see it all if you will be my guide," said
Ghisleri.
They continued to talk upon indifferent subjects. At dinner Pietro took
much pains to be agreeable, and succeeded admirably, for he was well
able to converse pleasantly when he chose. Though extremely tired, he
sat up till nearly midnight talking politics with Savelli, as Adele had
foreseen, and when he was at last shown to his distant room by
Bonifazio, who had spent most of his day in studying the topography of
the castle, he was very nearly exhausted.
CHAPTER XIX.
Pietro Ghisleri slept soundly that night. Of late, indeed, he had become
less restless than he had formerly been, and he attributed the change to
the weakness which was the consequence of his wound. There were probably
other causes at work at that time of which he was hardly conscious
himself, but which ultimately produced a change in him, and in his way
of looking at the world.
He stood at his open window early in the morning, and gazed out at the
fresh, bright country. The delicate hand of spring had already touched
the world with colour, and the breath of the coming warmth had waked the
life in all those things which die yearly, and are yearly raised again.
Ghisleri felt the morning sun upon his thin, pale face, and he realised
that he also had been very near to death during the dark months, and he
remembered how he had wished that he might be not near only to dying,
but dead altogether, never to take up again the play that had grown so
wearisome and empty in his eyes.
But now a change had come. For the first time in years, he knew that if
the choice were suddenly offered him at the present moment he would
choose to live out all the days allotted to him, and would wish that
they might be many rather than few. There was, indeed, a dark spot on
the page last turned, of which he could never efface the memory, nor, in
