flag." 

"No wonder that you and that famous patriot 
of ours. Dona Eustaquia Ortega, are bonded 
friends. I doubt if you could hate as well as 
she. You have no such violence in your nature ; 
you could neither love nor hate very 
hard. You would love (if you loved at all) 
with majesty and serenity, and hate with chill 
severity." While he spoke he watched her 
intently. 

She met his gaze unflinchingly. " True, 
senor ; I am no * bundle of shallow emotions,' 
nor have I a lion in me, like Eustaquia. I am 
a creature of deliberation, not of impulse : I 
love and hate as duty dictates. " 

"You are by nature the most impulsive wo- 
man I ever saw," he said, much amused, "and 
Eustaquia's lion is a kitten to the one that sleeps 
in you. You have cold deliberation enough, 
but it is manufactured, and the result of pretty 
hard work at that. Like all edifices reared 
without a foundation, it will fall with a crash some 
day, and the fragments will be of very little use 
to you." And there the conversation ended: 
they had reached the plaza, and a babel of 
voices surrounded them. Governor Alvarado 
stood on the upper corridor of his house, 
throwing handfuls of small gold coins among the 
people, who were shrieking with delight. The 
girl guests mingled with them, seeing that no 
palm went home empty. Beside the governor 
sat Doiia Martina, radiant with pride, and 
behind her stood the nurse, holding the infant on its 
pillow. 

"We had better go to the house as soon as 
possible," said Estenega. "It is nearly time 

for the bull-bear fight, and we must have good 
seats." 

They forced their way through the crowd, 
dismounted at the door, and went up to the 
corridor. The Castros and I were already there, 
with a number of other invited guests. The 
women sat in chairs, close to the corridor 
railing ; several rows of men stood behind them. 

The plaza was a jagged circle surrounded by 
dwelling-houses, some one story in height, 
others with overhanging balconies ; from it 
radiated five streets. All corridors were crowded 
with the elegantly-dressed men and women of 
the aristocracy ; large black fans were waving ; 
every eye was flashing expectantly ; the 
people stood on platforms which had been erected 
in four of the streets. 

Amidst the shouts of the spectators, two 
vaqueros, dressed in black velvet short-clothes, 
dazzling linen, and stiff black sombreros, 
tinkling bells attached to their trappings, jingling 
spurs on their heels, galloped into the plaza, 
driving a large aggressive bull. They chased 
him about in a circle, swinging their reatas, 
dodging his onslaughts, then rode out, and four 
others entered, dragging an unwilling bear by a 
reata tied to each of its legs. By means of a long 
chin and pauch dexterity they fastened the two 



 



 



 

beasts together, freed the legs of the bear, then 
retired to the entrance to await events. But the 
bull and the bear would not fight. The latter 
arose on his haunches and regarded his enemy 
warily ; the bull appeared to disdain the bear 
as too small game ; he but lowered his horns 
and pawed the ground. The spectators grew 
impatient. The brave caballeros and dainty 
donas wanted blood. They tapped their feet 
and murmured ominously. . As for the populace, 
it howled for slaughter. Governor Al- 
varado made a sign to one of the vaqueros ; the 
man rushed abruptly upon the bull and hit him 
a sharp blow across the nose with the cruel 
quirto. The bulls dignity vanished. With the 
