part, Ralston, as has been seen, did not place great confidence in the
married woman’s nature, and if he did not tell Katharine exactly what he
thought, it was not from lack of conviction but because he felt that the
conviction itself was intuitive rather than logical. Men, as well as
women, have intuitions which they cannot explain, but they are much more
inclined to conceal them than women are, because they have been taught
not to trust to them. They judge others, and especially they judge
women, from small facts which they are often ashamed of seeming to value
so highly. At least, when they analyze their feelings about any given
woman, it often happens that their reasoning leads up to some detail
which, standing alone, must and does appear altogether insignificant. It
is not easy to decide whether such very small causes among the realities
actually produce the whole consequence which affects the mind, or
whether man’s view of woman and woman’s view of man, as distinguished
from the judgments each forms upon his and her own sex, is not dependent
upon a very subtle sense of truth, acting by paths shorter than logical
deduction.
In illustration and as an example it may be noticed that the eyes of the
majority of persons convey the consciousness of numbers precisely, up to
a certain point, without any operation of counting. Most people can say
at a glance, of any small group of objects, that there are two, three,
four, or even seven. With almost all individuals, counting, and counting
from the beginning, becomes necessary when there are eight or more
objects together. For though the eye embraces seven, as seven, it cannot
embrace seven out of eight and count one more to make up the number. If
there is any counting it must be done from the very beginning.
Similarly, in reading rapidly, there are many who do not read every
word. Their eyes and intelligence seize upon and comprehend blocks of
words and even of lines, by a series of spasmodic leaps, as it were,
after each one of which there is a pause of very short and hardly
perceptible duration. Those who have been obliged to read very quickly,
such as readers of manuscripts, and especially professional critics of
second-class literature, are perfectly well aware of this faculty. Such
men often read through and judge several volumes in a day, a fact which
would not be possible if they had to read each word of every sentence.
It is not well done, as Dr. Johnson would have said, but we are
surprised to see it done at all. The result, in the modern phrase, is
not judgment, but tasting. But it is a result, all the same. By force of
a habit which cannot by any means be acquired by every one, words and
even blocks of words to a great number have become to such a reader as
symbols, which convey to his mind an idea all at once. There is no doubt
but that by easy stages real symbols could, in our ordinary books, take
the place of long sentences, and convey meaning without words at all.
All forms of religion have made use of such symbols, and there is no
reason why they could not be used in printing, though there may be
excellent reasons why they should not be adopted. But in reading, as in
counting, when the meaning of a whole sentence is not understood at a
glance, it becomes necessary to read it from the beginning, word by
word, or by shorter blocks of words, just as it is necessary to spell
out a single word, such as a name, if it is not familiar at first sight,
and is not made up of familiar syllables.
And in this way, perhaps, the mind of one individual judges the whole
personality of another, without going through any form of analysis or
any enumeration of qualities and defects. The instinctive attraction of
opposite sexes for one another sharpens the faculties of all living
creatures, and hence it may possibly be, that men generally understand
women better than men, and the converse, that women are better judges of
men than they are of other women. It is often true that the combined
judgment passed by a man and woman in consultation upon any individual
is vague and worthless, though in rare cases where a profound and
wide-reaching sympathy really exists, such joint judgment is the best in
the world.
This may be a mere theory, or it may be the truth, but at all events it
seems simpler to believe that what we call intuition is founded upon
some such appreciation of each individual as a symbol representing a set
of thoughts, than to suppose that it is a sort of sixth sense, sometimes
amounting to second sight. Every one may judge of that out of his own
experience.
Ralston, who was familiar enough with the character of his family in all
its branches, thought that he saw in Hester Crowdie a sort of
modification of the same love of possession which made a miser of
Alexander Junior, and which, if opposed, would be as ruthless and as
dangerous. He might have been willing to admit that he had a share of
the same peculiarity, quality, or defect, himself. The tenacity of his
love for Katharine proved that he had it. But as he disliked Crowdie so
sincerely, Hester’s passion for her husband seemed abnormal in his
eyes. He fancied that if it were crossed or thwarted she would be
capable of going to any extremity for its sake. Her friendship for
Katharine, in his opinion, might be turned to hatred at a moment’s
notice.
The friendship of a passionate woman who seeks an outlet for the
confidences of her overflowing nature, rather than the companionship and
mutual respect which friendship means, if it means anything, is always
selfish and generally dangerous. It has no elements of stability in it.
When she has no more confidences to make she is silent, not
companionable. When she has exhausted sympathy by the often repeated
tale of her own minor experiences or of her woes, real or imaginary, and
when the response of the worn-out listener grows more dull or slow, she
believes that she has exhausted also her friend’s heart, that it is
shallow and arid, and she turns away in disgust and disappointment,
seeking a kindred soul. And that is the end of many friendships between
women. As often as not, they are founded upon the irresistible desire to
make confidences, experienced by one or both of the fancied friends, and
they come to an end when confidence no longer elicits sympathy. There is
neither the simple delight in companionship which requires no emotion,
nor the active intellectual principle on both sides which finds pleasure
in the free trade of thought without subjection to the exigent tariff
which exacts the duty of pity or admiration and unhesitatingly excludes
those who have neither to pay, from intellectual commerce.
The less impulsive, the less passionate woman of the two, she who
