The Shame of Judge Driscoll.

Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear--not absence of fear.
Except a creature be part coward it is not a compliment to say it is
brave; it is merely a loose misapplication of the word. Consider the
flea!--incomparably the bravest of all the creatures of God, if
ignorance of fear were courage. Whether you are asleep or awake he will
attack you, caring nothing for the fact that in bulk and strength you
are to him as are the massed armies of the earth to a sucking child; he
lives both day and night and all days and nights in the very lap of
peril and the immediate presence of death, and yet is no more afraid
than is the man who walks the streets of a city that was threatened by
an earthquake ten centuries before. When we speak of Clive, Nelson, and
Putnam as men who "didn't know what fear was," we ought always to add
the flea--and put him at the head of the procession.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.

Judge Driscoll was in bed and asleep by ten o'clock on Friday night, and
he was up and gone a-fishing before daylight in the morning with his
friend Pembroke Howard. These two had been boys together in Virginia
when that State still ranked as the chief and most imposing member of
the Union, and they still coupled the proud and affectionate adjective
"old" with her name when they spoke of her. In Missouri a recognized
superiority attached to any person who hailed from Old Virginia; and
this superiority was exalted to supremacy when a person of such nativity
could also prove descent from the First Families of that great
commonwealth. The Howards and Driscolls were of this aristocracy. In
their eyes it was a nobility. It had its unwritten laws, and they were
as clearly defined and as strict as any that could be found among the
printed statutes of the land. The F. F. V. was born a gentleman; his
highest duty in life was to watch over that great inheritance and keep
it unsmirched. He must keep his honor spotless. Those laws were his
chart; his course was marked out on it; if he swerved from it by so much
as half a point of the compass it meant shipwreck to his honor; that is
to say, degradation from his rank as a gentleman. These laws required
certain things of him which his religion might forbid: then his religion
must yield--the laws could not be relaxed to accommodate religions or
anything else. Honor stood first; and the laws defined what it was and
wherein it differed in certain details from honor as defined by church
creeds and by the social laws and customs of some of the minor divisions
of the globe that had got crowded out when the sacred boundaries of
Virginia were staked out.

If Judge Driscoll was the recognized first citizen of Dawson's Landing,
Pembroke Howard was easily its recognized second citizen. He was called
"the great lawyer"--an earned title. He and Driscoll were of the same
age--a year or two past sixty.

Although Driscoll was a free-thinker and Howard a strong and determined
Presbyterian, their warm intimacy suffered no impairment in consequence.
They were men whose opinions were their own property and not subject to
revision and amendment, suggestion or criticism, by anybody, even their
friends.

The day's fishing finished, they came floating down stream in their
skiff, talking national politics and other high matters, and presently
met a skiff coming up from town, with a man in it who said:

"I reckon you know one of the new twins gave your nephew a kicking last
night, Judge?"

"Did what?"

"Gave him a kicking."

The old Judge's lips paled, and his eyes began to flame. He choked with
anger for a moment, then he got out what he was trying to say--

"Well--well--go on! give me the details!"

The man did it. At the finish the Judge was silent a minute, turning
over in his mind the shameful picture of Tom's flight over the
footlights; then he said, as if musing aloud--"H'm--I don't understand
it. I was asleep at home. He didn't wake me. Thought he was competent to
manage his affair without my help, I reckon." His face lit up with pride
and pleasure at that thought, and he said with a cheery complacency, "I
like that--it's the true old blood--hey, Pembroke?"

Howard smiled an iron smile, and nodded his head approvingly. Then the
news-bringer spoke again--

"But Tom beat the twin on the trial."

The Judge looked at the man wonderingly, and said--

"The trial? What trial?"

"Why, Tom had him up before Judge Robinson for assault and battery."

The old man shrank suddenly together like one who has received a
death-stroke. Howard sprang for him as he sank forward in a swoon, and
took him in his arms, and bedded him on his back in the boat. He
sprinkled water in his face, and said to the startled visitor--

"Go, now--don't let him come to and find you here. You see what an
effect your heedless speech has had; you ought to have been more
considerate than to blurt out such a cruel piece of slander as that."

"I'm right down sorry I did it now, Mr. Howard, and I wouldn't have done
it if I had thought: but it ain't slander; it's perfectly true, just as
