some, heartsome winter day. All the best of 
the gay boy 's nature sprang gravely to meet 
the effect which she had upon him. 
" Will you be my friend, true blue, 
my faithful friend, if / turn out the other 
kind ? " he asked her very soberly. 
Fay hesitated. 
" If I say I will, I shall, you know," she 
said, with a little, serious nod. "I never said 
that before to anybody, to any boy, I 
mean ! " 
" But you 'll say it to me ? r&gt; pleaded 
handsome Don. " I never asked it before, 
either. I've done my share of flirting, and 
carrying on, I dare say. But I never wanted 
a girl to be my friend before." 
" It 's a solemn sort of word," said Fay, in 
a low voice. 
 
" We're agreed on that," replied Donald 
proudly. " I haven't wasted it, nor blas 
phemed it, you know ; I never felt like sling 
ing it round on lots of people." 
" That goes a good way, with me," said 
Fay. 
"I mean," pursued Don, with an argu 
mentative and original air, as if he were the 
first boy who had ever talked friendship to a 
girl in all the history of the old, dear, fool 
ish world, " I want you to help me, to stand 
by me, to keep step with me, you know, as 
we do this minute ; good, strong, long steps ; 
and stimulate me, and make me think of different
things, and make a better fellow of 
me, in earnest, Miss Fay. I want it very 
much indeed." 
" You won't let me be ashamed of you," 
suggested Fay gently, " if I do that ? " 
" There 's my hand on it," said Don. He 
looked at her eagerly. Aspiration, born in 
his soul in that simple, studious country 
home, had lain a helpless, half -formed thing, 
waiting for the strong touch of resolve to 
nurse it into manly life. The girl had given 
the touch ; delicate and firm, and womanly 
as herself. 
She held out her red mitten. Don took it 
into his sealskin glove. After an instant 's 
hesitation he removed his glove ; his eyes 
deferentially said : May I ? He drew off the 
woolen mitten, and their hands clasped. 
Neither of them spoke for a moment. 
Then Fay put on her mitten and said : 
" Are we going straight down the side of 
Mount Tipton ? " 
" I 'll go anywhere you take me ! " rapturously. 
" I won't do anything so steep as that, 
sir ! " demurely. 
" Isn't there a little mountain anywhere 
we might go down ? " asked Don. " I don't 
feel as if a hill were big enough for the 
occasion. How 's that one, over there ? " 
It was instinctively understood between 
them that there was nothing more to be said 
about friendship just now. They abandoned 
themselves to the higher education of the 
toboggan, as utterly as if they had been ten 
years old. 
Fay thought there was a little mountain, 
" Small Tom " was its name, across a 
few more pastures and over the creek, and 
she thought there was a pretty fair clearing 
down an obtuse angle over beyond those 
pines, where it would be safe enough to get 
 
down, if he understood his vehicle. Don 
was sure that he knew his toboggan intimately ;
and they set out to climb Small 
Tom forthwith ; their peals of laughter 
when Fay 's feet went through the snow, or 
Don tripped up, or the toboggan " struck," 
echoing down the white hillside, with a ring 
that brought several of the lank, lean matrons
in the scattering farmhouses to breathe 
on their frosted windows and look through 
at the tobogganers. But the farmers daugh 
ters made quite big holes in the frost, to 
watch the young climbers, and one took the 
skin off from her tongue, and her mother 
made her gargle alum and water for the rest 
of the day. 
Fay found a slide that was to her mind ; 
there had been some coasting on it a few 
days ago, and it was broken in, a little. 
Still, it was a long, dizzy, diving road to 
take, and the two young people looked it 
over cautiously before they sat down. 
" I think, by steering carefully there 
and avoiding those stumps and putting- 
down brakes there, we can make it, don't 
