something.” She asked the question with a certain curiosity.

“Do I?” asked Katharine, trying to affect indifference.

Mrs. Lauderdale did not move. In the half light of the doorway she was
still very beautiful, as she stood there trying to make up her mind to
go to her work. Katharine was in despair, and turned over the cards that
lay in a deep dish on the table, reading the names mechanically.

“Yes,” continued her mother. “You look as though you were expecting
something--or somebody.”

The clock struck, and almost at the same instant Katharine heard
Ralston’s quick, light tread on the stone steps outside the house. She
had a sudden inspiration.

“There’s a visitor coming, mother!” she whispered quickly. “Run away,
and I’ll tell Annie not to let him in.”

Mrs. Lauderdale, fortunately, did not care to receive any one, but
instead of going upstairs she merely nodded, just as the bell rang, and
retired into the library again, shutting the door behind her. Katharine
was left alone in the entry, and she could see the dark, indistinct
shape of John Ralston through the ground-glass pane of the front door.
She hesitated an instant, doubting whether it would not be wisest to
open the door herself, send him away, and then, slipping on her things,
to follow him a moment later into the street. But in the same instant
she reflected that her mother had very possibly gone to the window to
see who the visitor had been when he should descend the steps again.
Most women do that in houses where it is possible. Then, too, her mother
would expect to hear Annie’s footsteps passing the library, as the girl
went to the front door.

There was the dining-room, and it could be reached from the entry by
passing through the pantry. Annie was devoted to Katharine, and at a
whispered word would lead Ralston silently thither. The closed room
between the dining-room and the library would effectually cut off the
sound of voices. But that, too, struck Katharine as being beneath
her--to confide in a servant! She could not do it, and was further
justified by the reflection that even if she followed that course, her
mother, who was doubtless at the window, would not see Ralston go away,
and would naturally conclude that the visitor had remained in the house,
whoever he might be.

Katharine stood irresolute, watching Ralston’s shadow on the pane, and
listening to Annie’s rapidly approaching tread from the regions of the
pantry at the end of the entry. A moment later and the girl was by her
side.

“If it’s Mr. Ralston, don’t shut the door again till I’ve spoken to
him,” she said, in a low voice. “My mother isn’t receiving, if it’s a
visitor.”

She stood behind Annie as the latter opened the door. John was there, as
she had expected, and Annie stepped back. Katharine raised her finger to
her lips, warning him not to speak. He looked surprised, but stood
bareheaded on the threshold.

“You must go away at once, Jack,” she whispered. “My mother is in the
library, looking out of the window, and I can’t possibly see you alone.
Wait for me near the door at the Assembly to-night. Go, dear--it’s
impossible now. I’ll tell you afterwards.”

In her anxiety not to rouse her mother’s suspicions, she shut the door
almost before he had nodded his assent. She scarcely saw the blank look
that came into his face, and the utter disappointment in his eyes.

Seeing that the door was shut, Annie turned and went away. Katharine
hesitated a moment, passed her hand over her brow, glanced mechanically
once more at the cards in the china dish on the table and then went into
the library. To her surprise her mother was not there, but the folding
door which led to the dark drawing-room was half rolled back, and it
was clear that Mrs. Lauderdale had gone through the dining-room, and had
probably reached her own apartment by the back staircase of the house.
Katharine was on the point of running into the street and calling
Ralston back. She hesitated a moment, and then going hastily to the
window threw up the sash and looked out, hoping that he might be still
within hearing. But looking eastward, towards Fifth Avenue, he was not
to be seen amongst the moving pedestrians, of whom there were many just
then. She turned to see whether he had taken the other direction, and
saw him at once, but already far down the street, walking fast, with his
head bent low and his hands in the pockets of his overcoat. He was
evidently going to take the elevated road up town.

“Oh, Jack--I’m so sorry!” she exclaimed softly to herself, still looking
after him as he disappeared in the distance.

Then she drew down the window again, and went and sat in her accustomed
place in the small armchair opposite to her mother’s sofa. She thought
very uncharitably of Charlotte during the next quarter of an hour, but
she promised herself to get into a corner with Ralston that evening, at
the great ball, and to explain all the circumstances to him as minutely
as they have been explained here. She was angry with her mother, too,
for not having gone up the front staircase, as she might just as well
have done, but she was very glad she had not condescended to the
manœuvre of introducing John into the dining-room by the back way, as
she would have probably just met Mrs. Lauderdale as the latter passed
through. On the whole, it seemed to Katharine that she had done as
wisely as the peculiarly difficult circumstances had allowed, and that
although there was much to regret, she had done nothing of which she
