HOW HARTLEY GOT A CLEW.


John Hartley, when a young man, had wooed and won Althea's mother. Julia
Belmont was a beautiful and accomplished girl, an heiress in her own
right, and might have made her choice among at least a dozen suitors.
That she should have accepted the hand of John Hartley, a banker's
clerk, reputed "fast," was surprising, but a woman's taste in such a
case is often hard to explain or justify. Her sister--now Mrs.
Vernon--strenuously objected to the match, and by so doing gained the
hatred of her future brother-in-law. Opposition proved ineffectual, and
Julia Belmont became Mrs. Hartley. Her fortune amounted to two hundred
thousand dollars. The trustee and her sister succeeded in obtaining her
consent that half of this sum should be settled on herself, and her
issue, should she have any.

This proved to be a wise precaution. John Hartley resigned his position
immediately after marriage, and declined to enter upon any business.

"Why should I?" he said. "Julia and I have enough to live upon. If I am
out of business I can devote myself more entirely to her."

This reasoning satisfied his young wife, and for a time all went well.
But Hartley joined a fashionable club, formed a taste for gambling,
indulged in copious libations, not unfrequently staggering home drunk,
to the acute sorrow of his wife, and then excesses soon led to
ill-treatment. The money, which he could spend in a few years, melted
away, and he tried to gain possession of the remainder of his wife's
property. But, meanwhile, Althea was born, and a consideration for her
child's welfare strengthened the wife in her firm refusal to accede to
this unreasonable demand.

"You shall have the income, John," she said--"I will keep none back; but
the principal must be kept for Althea."

"You care more for the brat than you do for me," he muttered.

"I care for you both," she answered. "You know how the money would go,
John. We should all be left destitute."

"That meddling sister of yours has put you up to this," he said,
angrily.

"There was no need of that. It is right, and I have decided for myself."

"Your first duty is to your husband."

"I feel that in refusing I am doing my duty by you."

"It is a strange way--to oppose your husband's wishes. Women ought never
to be trusted with money--they don't know how to take care of it."

"You are not the person to say this, John. In five years you have wasted
one hundred thousand dollars."

"It was bad luck in investments," he replied.

"I am afraid you are right. Investing money at the gaming-table is not
very profitable."

"Do you mean to insult me, madam?" exclaimed Hartley, furiously.

"I am only telling the sad truth, John."

He forgot himself and struck her.

She withdrew, flushed and indignant, for she had spirit enough to resent
this outrage, and he left the house in a furious rage.

When Hartley found that there was no hope of carrying his point, all
restraint seemed removed. He plunged into worse excesses, and his
treatment became so bad that Mrs. Hartley consented to institute
proceedings for divorce. It was granted, and the child was given to her.
Hartley disappeared for a time. When he returned his wife had died of
pneumonia, and her sister--Mrs. Vernon, now a widow--had assumed the
care of Althea. An attempt to gain possession of the child induced her
to find another guardian for the child. This was the way Althea had
come into the family of our young hero.

Thus much, that the reader may understand the position of affairs, and
follow intelligently the future course of the story.

When John Hartley left the presence of his sister-in-law, he muttered
maledictions upon her.

"I'll have the child yet, if only to spite her," he muttered, between
his teeth. "I won't allow a jade to stand between me and my own flesh
and blood. I must think of some plan to circumvent her."

This was not easy. He had absolutely no clew, and little money to assist
him in his quest. But Fortune, which does not always favor the brave,
but often helps the undeserving, came unexpectedly to his help.

At an American banker's he ran across an old acquaintance--one who had
belonged to the same club as himself in years past.

"What are you doing here, Hartley?" he asked.

"Not much. Luck is against me."

