all conduced to win the admiration of the world in 
which she moved. A less sweet and wholesome 
nature would have been made supremely selfish 
and indifferent to the needs of others. Back of 
all this was the yearning child sympathy for her 
father. Even now she could not analyze it ; and, 
as was best, she called it love. He was always 
very gentle with her. She had wished many 
times that she could have him back, but she 
had never desired the days and weeks with her 
mother. The very patience she had learned to 
exercise with the fretful, unreasonable, and dis- 
appointed woman had developed into the serene 



graciousness that people termed her " repose of 
manner " and her high-bred air. During the five 
years of prosperity she had seen very little of her 
mother. With the interviews had been mingled 
sharp criticisms on her figure, her manners, the 
care of her complexion, the hope that she, Mrs. 
Eastwood, would, after all her other dissatisfac- 
tions with life, have a handsome young girl to 
chaperon. She counted eagerly on this, that was 
not to be, for her pleasure and reward. 

Mrs. Vantine took Sabrina into account in an 
equally worldly fashion. A girl with less money 
and less beauty would not have met with so much 
indulgence at her hands. She was a little sorry 
now that she had yielded to so many of her 
whims. 

''I really don't see what Sabrina Eastwood is 
waiting for," she said rather crossly to her hus- 
band, when Sabrina's answer to her letter was 
under consideration. " She'll do just as her 
mother did. Laura Hollis was a pretty girl, not 
handsome, but pretty and attractive, and could 
have married well. But she went through the 
woods and picked up a crooked stick. To be sure 
the Eastwoods had good blood, but they were 
poor. The stamina had gone out of them. He 
was quite an old man, too, but she was far from 
youth. Sabrina has a good deal of the Eastwood 




Style. But what possesses her to cling so to those 
Wendover people, I can't divine. And to bury 
herself at Chester House ! The only offset I can 
see is her being fresh and radiant for an autumn 
campaign. Many of the girls get really worn out 
with summer's dissipation." 

Mr. Vantine paced the room with an air of vex- 
ation. Then he said : " Jarvis expects she'll be 
along with us ; he's wonderfully taken with her." 

"There will be no rival at Chester House to 
interfere with his fancy," was the rather ironical 
reply. " Perhaps it will not be a bad experiment. 
A girl fed on the admiration of society cannot 
exist very long without it." 

Was it an undercurrent of this that rendered 
Sabrina Eastwood so gracious and fascinating this 
day ? She had studied with a touch of newly 
awakened curiosity the source of Pearl's attrac- 
tiveness. The artistic side of her nature had been 
touched by it ; but not yet did she comprehend 
the high accord of spiritual living that so informed 
Pearl Disbrowe. Miss Barclay felt the fine influ- 
ence that took her back to the years of her lost 
youth. There was something flattering in the 
delicate attention, and the rich feast spread out 
before her. She did not understand Elizabeth 
Browning ; she had been brought up on Mrs. 
Hemans: but the trained voice made all things 





beautiful. The younger girl, with her hidden face 
full of tears of transport, longing, and despair, felt 
the quiver in every nerve. 

There had been dinner and a rest. It was la- 
ter afternoon now, with long shadows among the 
greenery. Miss Barclay's chair had been pushed 
farther out. There were times when breathing 
was difficult, and she needed the current of air. 
Sabrina sat on the step,' her soft white muslin 
falling about her and flowing outward, her hair in 
the Greek coil she affected so much, her brown 
eyes bathed in mysterious lights. Winding slowly 
around the path, Parke Olmstead caught sight of 
