     the insane asylums in the United Kingdom, but as yet no information
     has been received regarding the escape of any dangerous patient.

     "The coroner's jury returned the somewhat singular verdict that
     Captain Braddock came to his death 'by the hands or teeth of some
     person unknown.' The local surgeon is said to have expressed
     privately the opinion that the maniac is a woman, a view he deduces
     from the small size of the jaws, as shown by the marks of the
     teeth. The whole affair is shrouded in mystery. Captain Braddock
     was a widower, and lived alone. He leaves no children."


[Note.--Students of ghost lore and haunted houses will find the
foundation of the foregoing story in the legends about a skull which is
still preserved in the farm-house called Bettiscombe Manor, situated, I
believe, on the Dorsetshire coast.]




MAN OVERBOARD!


Yes--I have heard "Man overboard!" a good many times since I was a boy,
and once or twice I have seen the man go. There are more men lost in
that way than passengers on ocean steamers ever learn of. I have stood
looking over the rail on a dark night, when there was a step beside me,
and something flew past my head like a big black bat--and then there was
a splash! Stokers often go like that. They go mad with the heat, and
they slip up on deck and are gone before anybody can stop them, often
without being seen or heard. Now and then a passenger will do it, but he
generally has what he thinks a pretty good reason. I have seen a man
empty his revolver into a crowd of emigrants forward, and then go over
like a rocket. Of course, any officer who respects himself will do what
he can to pick a man up, if the weather is not so heavy that he would
have to risk his ship; but I don't think I remember seeing a man come
back when he was once fairly gone more than two or three times in all my
life, though we have often picked up the life-buoy, and sometimes the
fellow's cap. Stokers and passengers jump over; I never knew a sailor to
do that, drunk or sober. Yes, they say it has happened on hard ships,
but I never knew a case myself. Once in a long time a man is fished out
when it is just too late, and dies in the boat before you can get him
aboard, and--well, I don't know that I ever told that story since it
happened--I knew a fellow who went over, and came back dead. I didn't
see him after he came back; only one of us did, but we all knew he was
there.

No, I am not giving you "sharks." There isn't a shark in this story, and
I don't know that I would tell it at all if we weren't alone, just you
and I. But you and I have seen things in various parts, and maybe you
will understand. Anyhow, you know that I am telling what I know about,
and nothing else; and it has been on my mind to tell you ever since it
happened, only there hasn't been a chance.

It's a long story, and it took some time to happen; and it began a good
many years ago, in October, as well as I can remember. I was mate then;
I passed the local Marine Board for master about three years later. She
was the Helen B. Jackson, of New York, with lumber for the West
Indies, four-masted schooner, Captain Hackstaff. She was an
old-fashioned one, even then--no steam donkey, and all to do by hand.
There were still sailors in the coasting trade in those days, you
remember. She wasn't a hard ship, for the Old Man was better than most
of them, though he kept to himself and had a face like a monkey-wrench.
We were thirteen, all told, in the ship's company; and some of them
afterwards thought that might have had something to do with it, but I
had all that nonsense knocked out of me when I was a boy. I don't mean
to say that I like to go to sea on a Friday, but I have gone to sea on
a Friday, and nothing has happened; and twice before that we have been
thirteen, because one of the hands didn't turn up at the last minute,
and nothing ever happened either--nothing worse than the loss of a light
spar or two, or a little canvas. Whenever I have been wrecked, we had
sailed as cheerily as you please--no thirteens, no Fridays, no dead men
in the hold. I believe it generally happens that way.

I daresay you remember those two Benton boys that were so much alike? It
is no wonder, for they were twin brothers. They shipped with us as boys
on the old Boston Belle, when you were mate and I was before the mast.
I never was quite sure which was which of those two, even then; and when
they both had beards it was harder than ever to tell them apart. One was
Jim, and the other was Jack; James Benton and John Benton. The only
difference I ever could see was, that one seemed to be rather more
cheerful and inclined to talk than the other; but one couldn't even be
sure of that. Perhaps they had moods. Anyhow, there was one of them that
used to whistle when he was alone. He only knew one tune, and that was
"Nancy Lee," and the other didn't know any tune at all; but I may be
mistaken about that, too. Perhaps they both knew it.

Well, those two Benton boys turned up on board the Helen B. Jackson.
They had been on half a dozen ships since the Boston Belle, and they
had grown up and were good seamen. They had reddish beards and bright
blue eyes and freckled faces; and they were quiet fellows, good workmen
on rigging, pretty willing, and both good men at the wheel. They managed
to be in the same watch--it was the port watch on the Helen B., and
that was mine, and I had great confidence in them both. If there was any
job aloft that needed two hands, they were always the first to jump into
the rigging; but that doesn't often happen on a fore-and-aft schooner.
If it breezed up, and the jibtopsail was to be taken in, they never
minded a wetting, and they would be out at the bowsprit end before there
was a hand at the downhaul. The men liked them for that, and because
they didn't blow about what they could do. I remember one day in a
