
A deputation came in the evening and conferred upon Wilsou 
the welcome honor of a nomination for mayor; for the village 
has just been converted into a city by charter. Tom skulks 
out of challenging the twins. Judge Driscoll thereupon chal' 
lenges Angelo (accused by Tom of doing the kicking); he de- 
clines, but Luigi accepts in his place against Angelo's timid 
protest. 

JT was late Saturday night — nearing eleven. 
The Judge and his second found the rest of 
the war party at the further end of the vacant 
ground, near the haunted house. Pudd'nhead Wil- 
son advanced to meet them, and said anxiously: 

"I must say a word in behalf of my principal's 
proxy, Count Luigi, to whom you have kindly 
granted the privilege of fighting my principal's 
battle for him. It is growing late, and Count Luigi 
is in great trouble lest midnight shall strike before 
the finish." 

"It is another testimony," said Howard, approv- 
ingly. "That young man is fine all through. He 
wishes to save his brother the sorrow of fighting on 
the Sabbath, and he is right; it is the right and 
maniy feeling and does him credit. We will make 
all possible haste." 

Wilson said: "There is also another reason — a 
consideration, in fact, which deeply concerns Count 





 

Luigi himself. These twins have command of their 
mutual legs turn about. Count Luigi is in command 
now; but at midnight, possession will pass to my 
principal, Count Angelo, and — well, you can foresee 
what will happen. He will march straight off the 
field, and carry Luigi with him." 

"Why! sure enough!" cried the Judge, "we have 
heard something about that extraordinary law of 
their being, already — nothing very definite, it is 
true, as regards dates and durations of power, but I 
see it is definite enough as regards to-night. Of 
course we must give Luigi every chance. Omit all 
the ceremonial possible, gentlemen, and place us in 
position." 

The seconds at once tossed up a coin; Howard 
won the choice. He placed the Judge sixty feet 
from the haunted house and facing it ; Wilson placed 
the twins within fifteen feet of the house and facing 
the Judge — necessarily. The pistol-case was opened 
and the long slim tubes taken out; when the moon- 
light glinted from them a shiver went through 
Angelo. The doctor was a fool, but a thoroughly 
well-meaning one, with a kind heart and a sincere 
disposition to oblige, but along with it an absence of 
tact which often hurt its effectiveness. He brought 
his box of lint and bandages, and asked Angelo to 
feel and see how soft and comfortable they were. 
Angelo's head fell over against Luigi's in a faint, 
and precious time was lost in bringing him to; 
which provoked Luigi into expressing his mind to 
the doctor with a good deal of vigor and frankness. 
After Angelo came to he was still so weak that 
Luigi was obliged to drink a stiff horn of brandy to 
brace him up. 

The seconds now stepped at once to their posts, half- 
way between the combatants, one of them on each 
side of the line of fire. Wilson was to count, very 
deliberately, "One — two — three — fire! — stop!" and 
the duelists could bang away at any time they chose 
during that recitation, but not after the last word. 
Angelo grew very nervous when he saw Wilson's hand 
rising slowly into the air as a sign to make ready, 
and he leaned his head against Luigi's and said : 

"Oh, please take me away from here, I can't 
stay, I know I can't!" 

"What in the world are you doing? Straighten 
up! What's the matter with you? — you're in no 
danger — nobody's going to shoot at you. Straighten 
up, I tell you!" 

Angelo obeyed, just in time to hear: 

"One—!" 

"Bang!" Just one report, and a little tuft of 
white hair floated slowly to the Judge's feet in the 
moonlight. The Judge did not swerve; he still 
