The morning paper, indeed ! What had 
any morning paper to do with her? And 
she would have said as much, but something 
in the lawyer's face deterred. 
" Have you ? " he repeated, and looked 
to where Myrrha sat. " According to the 
Herald, the Earl of Cloden arrived yesterday at Southampton." 
A blow could not have stricken the girl 
more surely. 
" What ! " 
" Precisely. Now, sir," he continued, 
" perhaps you will take a seat and explain." 
Cloden examined his coat-sleeve, and 
flicked from it a speck of dust. 
" I am not in the habit," he announced 
presently, and with for the first time the 
suspicion of a drawl, " of being asked to 
take a seat in that way " 
" Then, take two," the lawyer threw back 
rather fiercely. 
" But I must really thank you for the 
information. I had been a bit worried 
about her. You see," and as he said this he 
turned to the girl, " she carried a cargo of 
coffee for me, and she should have been in 
before this." 
" Do you mean," Bancroft hurriedly inter- 
jected, "that the Earl of Cloden mentioned 
in the paper is a ship ? " 
" Why, what in the world did you think 
it was?" the young lord with an air of 
the most innocent surprise inquired. " A 
a naphtha launch ? " 
" Lord Cloden, I have been in the wrong, 
and I beg your pardon." 
To this amende, however, Prince Charm- 
ing did not seem inclined to pay much 
attention, but he turned to Mrs. Smithwick 
and smiled. 
Before he could speak Harris appeared, 
and in an undertone addressed Bancroft. 
The latter left the room. 
" It is an infamy ! " cried Mrs. Smithwick, 
the moment the door had closed. "What 
can you think of such a man ? He acted 
like a wild boar." 
" Not wild, dear Mrs. Smithwick ; you 
'
exaggerate. Generally speaking, he ap- 
pears, I admit, like a lunatic ; but he 
seems to have lucid intervals in which 
he is merely stupid as just now, for in- 
stance." 
CHAPTER V 
THE ROOM WITH THE GAPING CHIMERAS 
" HE said there was no hurry, sir," Harris 
continued, when Bancroft reached the hall. 
"I showed him in there." 
And as he designated a little reception- 
room that gave on the veranda, he added, 
in a manner which was both solicitous and 
apologetic : 
" I 'ope as nothing 'as gone wrong again, 
sir." 
Bancroft did not seem to hear. He 
brushed on and passed into the room 
beyond a room hateful to every one, one 
which Mrs. Smithwick had hung with night- 
mares of discordant stuffs ; with scarlet silks 
over which blue Japanese monsters roamed ; 
violences of striped and crescented surahs 
from Turkey ; canary and pink parallelo- 
grams from Ispahan ; the apple-green loz- 
enges of Lahore ; and portieres, terrors in 
lilac and saffron, hideous with Koranic 
inscriptions in silver thread a room that 
jarred on the nerves, that violated the eye 
as the rasp of slate pencils punctures the 
ear, one in which an ebony desk alive with 
wide-mouthed chimeras confronted and 
leered in your face. 
There, his back to the door, his hands 
behind him, a man stood gazing out at the 
grounds. As Bancroft entered, he turned. 
" Why, sergeant," the lawyer exclaimed, 
"the man told me you were here, but" 
He hesitated. 
The detective nodded ; he appeared to 
understand. " I was too sure of myself," 
he said slowly, and moving to the door, 
looked out on the hall " Or rather," he 
continued, as he turned again, "I was too 
sure of him." 
"Of Quain, you mean. Yes, yes, of 
course. But why didn't you come to me 
after he cheated us both, after he jumped 
overboard from the Sidonia ? " 
"I was in Gibraltar, sir." 
Bancroft stared. 
u When I found that he had sailed I took 
