She held out her hand to him. He bent and 
kissed it. 

He went and stood in the porch, trying to 
collect his thoughts. The idea of this meeting 
between Ruth and Yvonne was insupportable. 
Why had he not taken means any, every 
means to prevent it? He cursed himself. He 
called himself a coward. He wondered how 
much Ruth divined. The thought shamed him 
until his cheeks burned again. And all the while 
a deep under-current of feeling was setting to 
ward that drooping little figure in black, as he 
had seen it for a moment when she alighted 
from the carriage and was supported to a room 
upstairs. Heavens! How it reminded him of 
that first day in the Place de la Concorde ! Why 
was she in mourning? What did the doctor 
mean by "weakness of the heart?" What was 




she doing on mountain tops, and on the stage 
of a theater if she had heart disease ? He started 
with a feeling that he must go and put a stop 
to all this folly. Then he remembered the let 
ter. She had told him another man had the 
right to care for her. Then she was at this 
moment deserted for the second time, as well 
as faithless to still another lover! To how 
many more? And it was through him that a 
woman of such a life was brought into contact 
with Ruth! And Ruth's parents had trusted 
him; they thought him a gentleman. His brain 
reeled. 

The surging waves of shame and self-con 
tempt subsided, were forgotten. He heard the 
wind sough in the Luxembourg trees, he smelled 
the pink flowering chestnuts, a soft voice was 
in his ear, a soft touch on his arm, her breath 
on his cheek, the old, old faces came crowding 
up. Clifford's laugh rang faintly, Braith's grave 
voice; odd bits and ends of song floated out from 
the shadows of that past, and through the 
troubled dream of face and laugh and music, so 
long, so long passed away, he heard the gentle 
voice of Yvonne: "Rex, Rex, be true to me; I 
will come back!" 




"I loved her!" he muttered. 

There was a stir, a door opened and shut, 
voices and steps sounded in the room, on his left. 
He leaned forward a little and looked through 
the uncurtained window. 

It was a bare and dingy room containing only 
a table, some hard chairs, and an old "Fliigel" 
piano, with a long inlaid case. 

They sat together at the table. Ruth's back 
was toward him; she was speaking. Yvonne 
was in the full light. Her eyes were cast down, 
and she was nervously plaiting the edge of her 
little black-bordered handkerchief. All at once 
she raised her eyes, and looked straight at the 
window. How blue her eyes were! 

Rex dropped his face in his hands. 

"Oh God! I love her!" he groaned. 

u Gute Nacht, gnadige Herrn!" 

Sepp and Federl stood in their door with a 
light. Two figures were coming down from the 
Jaeger's cottage. Gethryn recognized the 
colonel and Monsieur Bordier. 

At the risk of scrutiny from those cool, elder 
ly, masculine eyes, Rex's manhood pulled itself 
together. He went back to meet them, and 





presently they all joined the ladies in the apology 
for a parlor, where coffee was being served. 

Coming in after the older men, Rex found no 
place left in the little, crowded room, excepting 
one at the table close beside Yvonne. Ruth 
was on the other side. He went and took the 
place, self-possessed and smiling. 
