reconcile social and political life in this country. 
CHAPTER Vlli 
LOOKING back upon this dinner of the Delancys, 
the student of human affairs can see how Provi- 
dence uses small means for the accomplishment of 
its purposes. Of all our social contrivances, the 
formal dinner is probably the cause of more anx- 
iety in the arrangement, of more weariness in the 
performance, and usually of less satisfaction in the 
retrospect than any other social function. How- 
ever carefully the guests are selected, it lacks the 
spontaneity that gives intellectual zest to the chance 
dining together of friends. This Delancy party 
was made up for reasons which are well under- 
stood, and it seemed to have been admirably well 
selected ; and yet the moment it assembled it was 
evident that it could not be very brilliant or very 
enjoyable. Doubtless you, madam, would have ar- 
ranged it differently, and not made it up of such 
incongruous elements. 
As a matter of fact, scarcely one of those pres- 
ent would not have had more enjoyment some- 
where else. Father Damon, whose theory was that 
the rich needed saving quite as much as the poor, 
would nevertheless have been in better spirits sit- 
ting down to a collation with the working-women 
in Clinton Place. It was a good occasion for the 
cynical observation of Mr. Mavick, but it was not 
a company that he could take in hand and impress 
with his mysterious influence in public affairs. 
Henderson was not in the mood, and would have 
had much more ease over a chop and a bottle of 
half-and-half with Uncle Jerry. Carmen, socially 
triumphant, would have been much more in her 
element at a petit souper of a not too fastidious 
four. Mrs. Schuyler Blunt was in the unaccus- 
tomed position of having to maintain a not too 
familiar and not too distant line of deportment. 
Edith and Jack felt the responsibility of having 
put an incongruous company on thin conventional 
ice. It was only the easy-going Miss Tavish and 
two or three others who carried along their own 
animal spirits and love of amusement who enjoyed 
the chance of a possible contretemps. 
And yet the dinner was providentially arranged. 
If these people had not met socially, this history 
would have been different from what it must be. 
The lives of several of them were appreciably mod- 
ified by this meeting. It is too much to say that 
Father Damon's notion of the means by which 
such men as Henderson succeed was changed, but 
personal contact with the man may have modified 
his utterances about him, and he may have turned 
his mind to the uses to which his wealth might be 
applied rather than to the means by which he ob- 
tained it. Carmen's ingenuous interest in his work 
may have encouraged the hope that at least a por- 
tion of this fortune might be rescued to charita- 
ble uses. For Carmen, dining with Mrs. Schuyler 
Blunt was a distinct gain, and indirectly opened 
many other hitherto exclusive doors. That lady 
may not have changed her opinion about Carmen, 
but she was good-natured and infected by the in- 
coming social tolerance ; and as to Henderson, she 
declared that he was an exceedingly well-bred man, 
and she did not believe half the stories about him. 
Henderson himself at once appreciated the talents 
of Mavick, gauged him perfectly, and saw what 
services he might be capable of rendering at Wash- 
ington. Mr. Mavick appreciated the advantage of 
a connection with such a capitalist, and of having 
open to him another luxurious house in New York. 
At the dinner-table Carmen and Mr. Mavick had 
not exchanged a dozen remarks before these clever 
people felt that they were congenial spirits. It 
was in the smoking - room that Henderson and 
Mavick fell into an interesting conversation, which 
resulted in an invitation for Mavick to drop in at 
Henderson's office in the morning. The dinner had 
not been a brilliant one. Henderson found it not 
easy to select topics equally interesting to Mrs. 
Delancy and Mrs. Blunt, and finally fell into geo- 
graphical information to the latter about Mexico 
and Honduras. For Edith, the sole relief of the 
evening was an exchange of sympathy with Father 
Damon, and she was too much preoccupied to en- 
joy that. As for Carmen, placed between Jack 
and Mr. Mavick, and conscious that the eyes of 
Mrs. Blunt were on her, she was taking a subdued 
role, which Jack found much less attractive than 
her common mood. But this was not her only 
self-sacrifice of the evening. She went without 
her usual cigarette. 
To Edith the dinner was a revelation of new dif- 
ficulties in the life she proposed for herself, though 
they were rather felt than distinctly reasoned about. 
The social atmosphere was distasteful ; its elements 
were out of harmony with her ideals. Not that 
this society was new to her, but that she saw it in 
a new light. Before her marriage all these things 
