wanted was to get the dervish to rub some of the 
salve on his other eye. 
' Why ? ' said the dervish. 
' Oh, you know,' says the driver. 
' Know what ? ' says the dervish. 
' Well, you can't fool me,' says the driver. 
' You're trying to keep back something from me — 
you know it mighty well. You know, I reckon, 
that if I had the salve on the other eye I could see 
a lot more things that's valuable. Come — please 
put it on.' 
The dervish says : 
'I wasn't keeping anything back from you. I 
don't mind telling you what would happen if I put 
it on. You'd never see again. You'd be stone 
blind the rest of your days.' 
But do you know that beat wouldn't believe 
him. No ; he begged and begged, and whined and 
cried, till at last the dervish opened his box and 
told him to put it on if he wanted to. So the man 
done it, and sure enough he was as blind as a bat 
in a minute. 
Then the dervish laughed at him and mocked 
at him and made fun of him, and says : 
' Good-bye — a man that's blind hain't got no 
use for jewellery.' 
And he cleared out with the hundred camels, 
and left that man to wander around poor and 
miserable and friendless the rest of his days in the 
Desert. 
Jim said he'd bet it was a lesson to him. 
' Yes,' Tom says, ' and like a considerable many 
lessons a body gets. They ain't no account, because 
the thing don't ever happen the same way again 
and can't. The time Hen Scovil fell down the 
chimbly and crippled his back for life, everybody 
said it would be a lesson to him. What kind of a 
lesson ? How was he going to use it ? He couldn't 
climb chimblies no more, and he hadn't no more 
backs to break.' 
' All de same, Mars Tom, dey is sich a thing as 
learnin' by expe'ence. De Good Book say de burnt 
chile shun de fire.' 
' Well, I ain't denying that a thing's a lesson if 
it's a thing that can happen twice just the same 
way. There's lots of such things, and they educate 
a person — that's what uncle Abner always said ; but 
there's forty million lots of the other kind — the 
kind that don't happen the same way twice — and 
they ain't no real use : they ain't no more instructive 
than the small-pox. When you've got it it ain't no 
good to find out you ought to been vaccinated, and it 
ain't no good to get vaccinated afterwards, because 
the small- pox don't come but once. But on the other 
hand uncle Abner said that the person that had took 
a bull by the tail once had learnt sixty or seventy 
times as much as a person that hadn't, and said a 
person that started in to carry a cat home by the tail 
was gitting knowledge that was always going to be 
useful to him, and warn't ever going to grow dim or 
doubtful. But I can tell you, Jim, uncle Abner 
was down on them people that's all the time trying 
to dig a lesson out of everything that happens, no 
matter whether ' 
But Jim was asleep. Tom looked kind of 
ashamed, because, you know, a person always feels 
bad when he is talking uncommon fine and thinks 
the other person is admiring, and that other person 
goes to sleep that way. Of course he oughtn't to go 
to sleep, because it's shabby ; but the finer a person 
talks the certainer it is to make you sleep, and so, 
when you come to look at it, it ain't nobody's fault 
in particular — both of them's to blame. 
Jim begun to snore — soft and blubbery, at first 
then a long rasp, then a stronger one, then a half- 
a-dozen horrible ones like the last water sucking 
down the plug-hole of a bath-tub, then the same 
with more power to it, and some big coughs and 
snorts flung in, the way a cow does that is choking 
to death ; and when the person has got to that point 
he is at his level best, and can wake up a man that 
is in the next block with a dipper full of loddanum 
in him, but can't wake himself up although all that 
awful noise of his'n ain't but three inches from his 
own ears. And that is the curiosest thing in the 
world, seems to me. But you rake a match to light 
the candle, and that little bit of a noise will fetch 
him. I wish I knowed what was the reason of that, 
but there don't seem to be no way to find out. 
Now, there was Jim alarming the whole Desert, and 
yanking the animals out, for miles and miles around, 
to see what in the nation was going on up there; there 
warn't nobody nor nothing that was as close to the 
noise as he was, and yet he was the only cretur that 
wasn't disturbed by it. We yelled at him and 
whooped at him — it never done no good ; but the 
first time there came a little wee noise that wasn't 
of a usual kind it woke him up. No, sir ; I've 
thought it all over, and so has Tom, and there ain't 
no way to find out why a snorer can't hear himself 
