the one before us. But our friend's canal got filled up from the amount
of mud and sand lying loose around here.
"Darius I. of Persia cleaned it out, though it was suffered to become
useless again. Then the Mohammedan conquerors of Egypt opened it once
more; but they lacked the modern facilities for handling mud and sand,
and it went to ruin again, and was useless till a comparatively modern
date.
"When Napoleon I. was in Egypt the subject attracted his attention, and
he employed an expert French engineer to examine the matter. This
gentleman declared that the level of the Red Sea was thirty feet higher
than that of the Mediterranean; and this report knocked the scheme
higher than a kite. But in 1841 the English officers employed in this
region proved the fallacy of the French engineer's conclusion, and the
subject came up again for consideration.
"This time it was the Vicompte de Lesseps, another French engineer, who
took up the subject. He was born at Versailles in 1805, had been
educated for the diplomatic profession, and had served his country
acceptably in this capacity at Lisbon, Cairo, Barcelona, and Madrid. In
1854 he began upon the work, and two years later obtained a concession
of certain privileges for his proposed company, which was duly formed,
and began the actual work of construction in 1860. Nine years after it
was completed, and formally opened with extraordinary ceremonies and
festivities, and has now been in successful operation about twenty-two
years. Queen Victoria of England made the distinguished Frenchman a K.
C. S. I."
"What does that mean, papa?" asked Miss Blanche.
"It is a big distinction, and that is all I know about it," replied the
speaker with a laugh; for he was not student enough to look up what he
did not comprehend.
"Knight Commander of the Star of India," added Louis, who had looked up
the abbreviation.
"Thank you, Mr. Belgrave. From 25,000 to 30,000 men were employed upon
the work. It was delayed by the necessity of completing a fresh-water
canal to Ismaïlia, about half way through to Suez, and by some trouble
with Ismail, who had succeeded as viceroy. The original capital of the
company was about forty million dollars of our money; but the total
cost, including the auxiliary works required to put it in running order,
was one hundred million dollars. Yet it is good stock to-day; and all
the steamers that used to be obliged to go around Cape Good Hope pass
through the canal, and did so before some of you were born.
"As the commander observed a little while ago, the canal is 100 miles
long. The width of the water surface is from 150 to 300 feet, though it
has changed somewhat since the canal was built. At the bottom it was 72
feet wide, and the shoalest place has 26 feet in depth. As you see
around you, two breakwaters had to be built, involving an immense
amount of labor and expense; for one of them is nearly 7,000, and the
other a little more than 6,000, feet in length.
"The highest level on the isthmus is 52 feet, so that they did not have
to dig very deep anywhere; and there were several depressions in the
level, which made the work still less. The canal passes through three
lakes: first, Menzaleh, 28 miles; Timsah, 5 miles; and the Bitter Lakes,
23 miles. Every five or six miles there are side basins where one ship
can pass another. That is all I need say at present; but as we are
sailing through, there will be much more to say."
The usual applause followed, and then the commander took the rostrum.
CHAPTER XIX
THE JOURNEY OF THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL
Captain Ringgold suggested to the magnate of the Fifth Avenue that he
had omitted something, as he pointed to the long piers which extended
out into the sea.
"I had it on my tongue's end to mention them; but I am not much
accustomed to speaking before an audience, and I forgot to do so,"
replied Mr. Woolridge. "But then they are engineering work, and I doubt
if this company would be interested."
"I was wondering where they obtained all the stone to build them in this
place, where there appears to be nothing but sand and mud," interposed
Mrs. Belgrave. "They must be nearly a mile long."
"They are quite a mile long," replied Mr. Woolridge.
"Did they bring the stone from the quarries away up the Nile, where they
got the material of which the pyramids are built?"
"Not at all; that would have been about as big a job as digging out the
canal."
"Hardly; for they could have brought them by water about all the way,"
said the commander. "But the material did not come from those
quarries."
"No; they made the rocks," added the magnate.
"Made them!" exclaimed Mrs. Blossom. "Do you expect us to believe that?"
"There is a great deal of such work done in the United States, and in
some of our cities there are streets paved and sidewalks built of
manufactured stone," replied Mr. Woolridge. "At the town which you see,
the piers start out about two-thirds of a mile apart, and approach each
other till they are less than a third of a mile from each other. They
were built to protect the port from the north-west winds which sometimes
blow very fresh here, and to prevent the harbor of Port Said from being
choked up with the Nile mud from the mouths of the great river.
"These piers were constructed by a French firm. The first thing was to
manufacture the artificial stone, which was composed of seven parts
sand, of which there is a plentiful supply in this vicinity, and one
part of hydraulic lime, imported from France. I suppose the latter is
something like the cement used in New York in building sewers and
drains, or other works in wet places. This concrete was mixed by
machinery, then put into immense wooden moulds, just as you make a loaf
of sponge cake, Mrs. Blossom, where it was kept for several weeks. These
blocks weighed twenty tons each."
"Goodness! They were heavier than Mrs. Grimper's sponge cake!" exclaimed
Mrs. Blossom.
"Considerably," laughed the magnate. "The solid contents of each were
thirteen and a third cubic yards. How big a cubic block would that make
in feet, young gentlemen? I hope you are not neglecting your mathematics
for geography and sight-seeing."
