unbeknownst. She’d look up with her sweet smile that almost broke your
heart, when Dil would be takin’ her out. And how she stood everything—”

“Mrs. Quinn’s been not so savage as she used. ’Tain’t nat’rel for
mothers to be so cruel. But ’twas last March, if I don’t disremember—you
were not here then, Mrs. Minch—she made such a nawful ’ruction that the
neighbors called in de cop, and nothin’ but her beggin’ off an’ sayin’
the children wud starve, an’ promisin’ on her bended knees, which she
never uses fer a bit o’ prayer, saved her. An’ she don’t bang ’em about
quite so bad since.”

“There was an awful time the other night.”

“Yes; that Owny’s too smart, an’ mebbe he would er banged her in a fair
fight; but he cut stick, an’ hasn’t shown hide ner hair sence.”

Mrs. Murphy leaned over Dil, and uttered a benison in her ignorant
Christianity.

“’Pears like they jist oughten to go togither. She looks like a ghost,
poor thing.” Then she lifted Bess from the shabby wagon that had been
her home so long, and brought her out on the lounge.

“Will ye look at them poor legs?” she said with a cry. “They do make yer
heart bleed. She was a smart little thing, goin’ to school, whin it
happened. The father oughter been hung fer it; fer it was he that did
it, murderin’ by inches. An’ he beat Mrs. Quinn to a jelly. Wudden’t ye
think now she’d had enough o’ rum, not to be goin’ the same road?”

Mrs. Minch sighed.

“It’s stuck everywhere, right in a body’s way, Mrs. Murphy. They’re
taxin’ people for prisons and ’sylums and homes for orphans, when they
haven’t the sense to shut up the saloons and gin-mills. Look at that
Mrs. MacBride, smilin’ and making it pleasant for a hard-workin’ woman,
havin’ a nice warm room for gossipin’ and such, and bein’ clever enough
to make them run up a score, and get her money once a week. There’s no
dancin’ nor carousin’; but it takes in the decentish sort of women, and
turns ’em out as bad as the men. It’s the poor families that’s pinched
and starved and set crazy. When I think of my boy growin’ up in it—but
where’ll poor folks go? Saloons are all over. They fight for the chance
to ruin folks.”

“Thrue for ye, Mrs. Minch. An’ sorra indade it is whin ye do be sad that
they come into the world, an’ rej’ice whin they go out of it young.
They’re spared a dale o’ pain an’ care. Yet it do seem wrong some way.
Childers should be a blessin’ an’ comfort to yer ould age. Things is
changed in the world. One gits that confused with thinkin’—”

They had prepared some water, but the poor little body was clean and
sweet. It was heart-breaking to see it.

Mrs. Murphy went into the bedroom for some clothing.

“Will ye look at the sort o’ bury Dil made out o’ boxes an’ covered.
She’s that handy an’ full o’ wit. An’ them clo’es is like snow, and all
mended nate. I don’t see how she cud do it wid all the babies. An’ I do
be thinkin’ it was Dil’s love that kep’ the little wan alive so long. It
was like medicine; her warm arms an’ cheery smile, her patience an’
thinkin’ what wud pleasure Bess. If there don’t be a straight road to
hiven fer thim both—an’ purgatory ought to be saved fer the ither kind.
Now, it don’t look a bit sinsible that little lamb shud suffer whin
she’s suffered so much a’ready! Sometimes I most think the church has
mistook whin they save the rumsellers an’ the great wicked men wid their
money, cause they kin pay fer prayers.”

“She’s in heaven, if there is any heaven.” Sometimes Mrs. Minch doubted.

“An’ oh, Mrs. Minch, if there wasn’t any hiven to rest us at last, how
cud we live through the cruel world?”

Such a pathetic cry as it was!

The doctor came. He looked at Bess, and asked a few questions, made a
note or two in his book, cutting short Mrs. Murphy’s explanations.

“Yes, yes; I’ve seen the child. She’s been strung on fine steel wires,
or they’d given way long ago. And the old woman? Strange how they go on
living when they had a hundred times better be dead, and the people of
some account go out like the snuff of a candle! Where’s the girl?”
glancing around.

“In there.” Mrs. Murphy nodded towards the room.

Dil lay motionless, but for the faint breathing. The doctor listened
with his ear down on her heart, felt her pulse, and seemed in a study.

“Let her sleep as long as she can. She has worn herself out. She used to
wheel this one round,” nodding. “Have in some fresh air; the room is
stifling. How any one lives—”

Dil roused without opening her eyes.

“Was it you, Bess? Oh, is it morning?”

“No, no; go to sleep again. The night’s just begun. She’s dead tired
out,” to the women. “Let the mother come round when she can, and get rid
of these young ones before the girl wakes. If there’s anything else
wanted, send round. Are these people very poor?”

