
Life Knox rode forward in advance of Milton, and the commander of the
squadron promptly recognized the tall, gaunt form of the sergeant; and
his thoughts dwelt upon the occasion that had brought him this visit.
Life approached the major to within a rod of him, when he stopped his
horse, and saluted him with his usual deference to his superiors.

"Good-morning, Life," said the commander. "I hope no misfortune has
brought you in this direction. Are you escaping from an enemy that has
overwhelmed the first company?"

"Nothin' of the sort, Major Lyon," replied Life, a broad smile lighting
up his face. "We have met an enemy, and they'd run away if we'd let
'em."

This reply removed the burden of anxiety which had fallen upon the mind
of the major when he discovered the scouts, and he smiled in his placid
manner with the sergeant.

"Where is your company, Life?" he asked.

"I reckon it ain't more'n half a mile from here," replied the scout.

"I suppose you have news for me," continued the commander.

"Lots on't; but I can say that Captain Gordon, whether he is to meet a
friend or an enemy in the cavalry, is comin' down this road. I don't
reckon he's worryin' about it; but he may just be a bit anxious to know
whether or not he is to fight you. If you don't object, Major Lyon,
I'll let Milton ride back and tell the cap'n he won't have to fight no
more just yet."

"Send him at once, Life;" and in a minute more the other scout was
galloping his horse in the direction of the hill where the first
company were posted. "What have you been doing, sergeant?"

"The fust company has fit into three scrimmages, and cleaned out a gang
of gorillas," replied Life, as though he realized that he had a good
report to make in answer to the question.

"You have been busy; and that explains the reason why I did not find
you at Harrison as I expected," replied the major. "Tell me all about
it; and as Captain Gordon is not in need of a re-enforcement, we will
walk the horses, and listen to your story. Captain Truman, let the men
walk the horses."

"Company--attention!" shouted the captain, wheeling his horse.
"Walk--March!"

"Place yourself on the left of Sergeant Knox, and listen to his story."

Life saluted the captain, who said he was glad to see him, and took the
place to which he was assigned.

"We had not gone two miles from Columbia before a messenger came to us
and said that a cavalry force was moving down on Breedings," Life
observed. "The captain took the second platoon under Lieutenant
Belthorpe, and rushed over to Breedings. Lieutenant Lyon was ordered to
march with his platoon and the baggage-wagons towards Millersville,"
added Life.

"Dexter with an independent command!" exclaimed the young man's father;
for he seemed to regard him still as a small boy, and said so.

"He was; but the oldest officer in the squadron couldn't a done it no
better," replied Life with enthusiasm; and he proceeded to tell about
the appearance of Grace Morgan in the field, and gave a hurried account
of the manner in which the guerillas had been trapped and captured.

Then came the battle with the force which had escaped from Breedings,
the march to Millersville, the re-enforcement of the Home Guard, and
the fight at the hill. The major asked a great many questions, for the
sergeant had been obliged to hurry his narrative, and Life answered
them.

As they approached the hill, the head of the first company were
marching down the descent; for Milton had reported his message to
Captain Gordon, who was a little startled when he saw the private
returning without the sergeant, fearful that something had happened to
him.

The news brought by the new recruit was immediately circulated through
the company and that of Colonel Halliburn. The riflemen were called
from the forest, and came to the road mounted, with their weapons slung
on their backs. The whole force was formed on the slope of the hill;
and when the second company marched up the declivity, with Major Lyon
at the head of it, they presented arms, and then indulged in a vigorous
cheer.




CHAPTER XII

A NEW COMPANY OF MOUNTED RIFLEMEN


The troopers were dismissed for dinner, and all the officers of the
squadron assembled in front of the farmer's house while their horses
were fed; and it was an interesting occasion. The skirmishes were gone
