
In a few days, thanks to her, Mrs. Mills was installed as housekeeper to
a wealthy widower in Fifty-seventh street. Alice was made governess to
two young children, and Frank was provided with a home in return for
some slight services.




CHAPTER XVII.

MY RICH PATIENT.


When I was admitted to the house of Gregory Vincent, I was surprised by
its magnificence. It has been said that there are few palaces in Europe
that compare in comfort and luxury with a first class New York mansion.
I have never been in a palace, and Mr. Vincent's house was the only
aristocratic house which I had had an opportunity to view. But I am
prepared to indorse the remark.

I handed my card to the liveried servant who opened the door.

"Dr. Fenwick," he repeated. "Yes, sir; you are expected."

He led me upstairs into an elegant library, or sitting-room and library
combined. Here sat my acquaintance of the evening before, with his foot
swathed in bandages and resting on a chair, while he was seated in a
cosy arm-chair.

"Good-morning, doctor," he said. "I am glad to see you. You see that I
am in the grasp of my old enemy."

"We will try to rout him," I said, cheerfully.

"That sounds well, and encourages me. Do you know, Dr. Fenwick, that
without any special reason I feel great confidence in you. You are a
young man, probably not more than half as old as my regular physician,
but he has not been able to do me any good."

"And I hope to be able to do so."

"I suppose you have had experience in such cases?"

"Yes, I have an old aunt who had suffered untold tortures from
rheumatism. She put herself under my charge, and for her sake I made an
extensive study of rheumatic cases and remedies."

"Well?" he asked, eagerly.

"I finally cured her. It is now three years since she has had a twinge."

"Good! My instinct was correct. That gives me hopes of success under
your charge. Don't be afraid to lose your patient by effecting a speedy
cure. I will make you a promise. When you have so far cured me that I am
free from rheumatic pains for three months, I will hand you a check for
a thousand dollars."

"A thousand dollars!" I repeated with sparkling eyes. "That will indeed
be an inducement."

"Of course I shall pay you your regular fees besides."

I could hardly credit my good fortune. I was like one who had just
received intelligence that I had drawn a large sum in the lottery. I
determined to win the promised check if there was any chance.

I began to question Mr. Vincent as to his trouble. I found that it was a
case of rheumatic gout. A difficult case, but very similar to that of
my aunt. I resolved to try the same treatment with him.

I wished to ask some questions, but he forestalled them.

"I have no wife," he said. "I was left a widower many years ago. My
niece and myself constitute our whole family."

"Don't you feel lonely at times?" I asked.

"Yes. My niece has her friends, suited to one of her age, but little
company for me. If I had a nephew now--like yourself--it would cheer me
up and give me a new interest in life."

"I wish you were my uncle," I said to myself.

"I am an old man, but I have great interest in young company. I think it
was that that drew me toward you at Patti's concert. When I learned that
you were a physician I saw that I could make it worth your while to call
on an old man. I hope you are not a very busy man."

"Not yet," I answered, guardedly. I felt that it would be unwise to let
him know how far from a busy man I was.

"Then you will be able to call upon me every day."

"I will do so gladly, but it will not be necessary--from a medical point
of view."

"No matter! I shall be glad to have you come, and of course I pay for
your time. It will be an advantage, no doubt, to have your patient under
constant observation."
