call them nations, though in many respects they are such. This excellent
map behind me, which is worthy of the highest praise as a home-made
production, will enable me to give you a better idea of my subject."

"The ingenious artist has colored the different divisions so that you can
make them out. The three presidencies are the most notable divisions, and
they include all the inferior ones. The Bengal Presidency includes the
north-eastern part, from Afghanistan to Burma. The Madras, the southeastern
part, with most of the peninsula. The Bombay covers the greater part of the
west coast. The Deccan is a portion of the peninsula."

"It would take me three weeks to describe all the divisions of India, and I
shall not attempt to do it. It would be better done as you travel over the
country. Eighteen of them are Directly governed by the English, and
thirteen of them are still under the nominal control of the native princes;
but all the latter have a British resident as the adviser of the reigning
rajah.

"The English-speaking people of India are a mere bagatelle compared with
the enormous population, being only 238,499; but with the army they have
been able to hold the country in subjection. The British government takes a
fatherly interest in the native states, and they have been loyal without
exception in later years, though the history of India will show that not
all of them have always been so."

"Until the year 1858 the government was in the hands of the East India
Company, of which you will learn more in the history of India. In 1877 her
majesty, the queen, assumed the title of Empress of India, and she is the
ruler of the country. The government of the highest resort in the affairs
of India is a secretary of state, residing in London. He is a member of the
cabinet, and has an under-secretary. He is assisted by a council of ten or
fifteen members."

"The executive government, administered in India, is the governor-general
in council. He is the viceroy of the crown, and is assisted by six members
of the executive council, each of whom has his function in the affairs of
the state; and the commander-in-chief of the army is ex-officio a
seventh member. This body is really the cabinet of the viceroy. The laws
are made by this council, with from six to a dozen members appointed by the
viceroy. This is the way the machine is operated.

"The civil service of the government is rendered mainly by Europeans,
though the natives are eligible to office as employees. The English system
in the appointment of its officials prevails, and all candidates are
regularly examined. Those of you who have looked over Bradshaw's 'Guide to
India' will find descriptions of the several examinations for various
employments."

"I wish the English system could be transferred to the United States," said
Uncle Moses with great unction.

"You have made a beginning, and perhaps you will come to it in time. The
civil service prevails in the provinces and states of India as well as in
the general government, though the competition is open to the natives.

"The soldiers of the East India Company became the military force of the
British crown when the government was assumed. The English army in India
now consists of 74,033 men of all arms, and the native army of 144,735, a
total standing army of 218,786, which is its strength at the present time.
It is a curious fact that, as the native troops are recruited by voluntary
enlistment, all castes and races, including Brahmins, are drawn in by the
good pay and the pension promised.

"The navy of the East India Company was superseded by the royal navy in
1863; and a dozen or fifteen ships of war are stationed in these waters,
with an admiral as commander-in-chief, whose headquarters are at Bombay.
The Indian treasury contributes annually to the expense of this force. The
great steam navigation companies are available to recruit this branch of
the defence of the country.

"The laws are made, and the institutions of India are regulated, by
Parliament; and the administration of law and justice is substantially the
same as in the United Kingdom. The regular police consists of 160,000
officers and men; and a portion of the expense of this force is defrayed by
the towns, the large cities mainly. Besides the city police, there are
560,000 in charge of the villages. The constabulary are natives, with
European officers, one to every seven square miles and 1,300 inhabitants,
indicating peaceful communities. About 12,000 of the 82,000 persons under
sentence are in the convict colonies at the Andaman Islands.

"The educational institutions are progressive, and 400 newspapers are
published in various languages, most of them with small circulations,
20,000 being the largest in India. The post and telegraph systems are well
cared for; and 17,564 miles of railway are in operation, with others in
process of construction. The manufactures, both in metal and fibre, have
always been remarkably fine, and the quality is still kept up. Cotton
factories have been established, with native labor, which promise great
results to the industry of the country.

"The loss of life on account of famine, caused by the failure of the
monsoon rains, has been terrific in some years. Canals and reservoirs for
irrigation as well as navigation have been built in order to remove this
evil. In 1874 £16,000,000 was expended in the relief of sufferers by the
government. Since that time a famine fund has been established; and in
years of plenty a million and a half sterling has been set aside for this
object.

"The excessive density of the population has induced the government to
favor emigration; and over a hundred thousand have gone to British
Guiana and the West Indies, and other countries. The currency of India
