the race and the faith of the ages ? 

Take the wonder as it is told. 

*> 

The incarnation of Deity is an idea older than 
the time when the Galilean girl in Nazareth re- 
ceived a spirit's message. This mystical possibil- 
ity has been a favorite with certain crude and 
ancient religions. Instances might be given of it, 
but not here ; they jar upon the lofty and beautiful 
character of the Christian story, which so far sur- 
passes them in purity, in pathos, and in philosophy, 
that one has not the rudeness of heart to introduce 
them in its matchless, opening chapter. 

Was all the fable but a perplexed, prophetic 
yearning for the fact ? At last, in this simple, hal- 
lowed way, has history met it ? 

Gabriel seems to have been something of a phi- 



PKESAGE 11 

losopher (as well as altogether an angel) when he 
reminded the astonished woman, at the close of his 
announcement of the incredible facts, that with God 
nothing is impossible. These were astute words 
under the circumstances, and worthy of a superior 
intelligence. The argument admitted of no reply. 

Mary listened to it gently. Her soul was a lily. 
All motherhood, has been dignified forever by the 
spotless mystery. All humanity is nobler for the 
delicacy of the womanly nature from which the Son 
of the Highest should be born into a low world. 



ni 

The story of the Gospels was written by men. 
Men have studied and expounded it for two thousand 
years. Men have been its commentators, its trans- 
lators, its preaehern. All the? feminine element in 
it has corno to UH passed through the medium of 
inaHmiHno minds. Of the oxqiiisite movements in 
the thought and fooling of Mary at this erisis of 
hot hiHliory, what man could speak? Only the 
luiarts o women can approach her, when, quite 
without angelic endorflcment or even human protec- 
tion, Alio is left to meet the consequences of the will 
of God upon her life. 

Tim antfel had dinappeured in his own ether. 
The inttHic of a cdostiul voice was replaced by the 
chat o Iho villagers, the plain, usual people to 
whom marvel* did not happen ; who would under- 
stand nothing, fiho who had hoard the aeeents of 
heaven shrank from the tones of earth. Fragments 



IS THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

of family conversation the note, though most fa- 
miliar, often least sympathetic to the listener had 
a foreign sound. 

Had Mary a- mother living? or loving? It in 
touching to know that the first act oC tyo womloring 
girl, after the angel had explained the lUituro of hr 
future to her, was to seek the sympathy of atiotlior 
woman, and that woman not of hor own household* 

There was a village, Juda l>y name, in the Hotith 
of Palestine in the hill country of Judwa ; it wan 
a hard journey of about fivo days from Nazareth, 
There Mary had a friend. 8 ho took the jourupy. 

An elderly woman, reticent, <ligni(i<'cl,ttavont, hor- 
sel the subject of a >stran#o exponents rwivod 
the girl. Mary crept into her anus ; nho found it 
hard to speak, oven to Klissaboth, Tlion who found 
it harder to be Bilont* Jlor HMi5tiv xutlui'4^ vibm(4l 
between exaltation ami anxioty. Tlwrv is a t>tifj 
famous and saorcul in nuisieal hlntory an iuiunUi- 
ble outburst of religious and p<Ml.i fooling. In llio 
home of Elizabeth Mary uitoixul the MafftuIU*ai, 
The two womoii conJkltul in <uJi othor, Mury 
thought of the hard journey ba<k to Nnnaroth ; of 
the caravan of CWKWH n<>i#hbow or kuwfolk whi(!li 
she must join; her heart Hank. Oh, to Htay on 
aiad on, protected and roMpwtod,, t\ ^i^ if ml 
Dreading to return to hor own hoimi, wlu* 
hi the house of hot ix^lativo, Shu^hlt^t, 
understood, how shouUl nho faco the cv\wl nfcorm 
