
It was spring. Easter had come very early, and as happens in such cases,
there was a revival of gaiety after Lent. There were garden parties, a
recent importation in Rome, there were great picnics to the hills, and
there were races out at the Capannelle; moreover, there were dances at
which the windows were kept open all night, until the daylight began to
steal in and tell tales of unpleasant truth, so that even fair women
drew lace things over their tired faces as they hurried into their
carriages in the cold dawn, glad to remember that they had still looked
passably well in the candle-light.

At one of these balls, late in the season, Orsino knew that he should
meet Vittoria. It was in a vast old palace, from the back of which two
graceful bridges crossed the street below to a garden beyond, where
there were fountains, and palms, and statues, and walks hedged with box
in the old Italian manner. There were no very magnificent preparations
for the dance, which was rather a small and intimate affair, but there
was the magnificent luxury of well-proportioned space, which belonged to
an older age, there was the gentle light of several hundred wax candles
instead of the cold glare of electricity or the pestilent flame of gas,
and all night long there was April moonlight outside, in the old garden,
whence the smell of the box, and the myrtle, and of violets, was borne
in fitfully through the open windows with each breath of moving air.

There was also, that night, a general feeling of being at home and in a
measure free from the oppression of social tyranny, and from the
disturbing presence of the rich social recruit, who was sown in wealth,
so to say, in the middle of the century, and who is now plentifully
reaped in vulgarity.

'It is more like the old times than anything I remember for years,' said
Corona to Gianforte Campodonico, as they walked slowly through the rooms
together.

'It must be the wax candles and the smell of the flowers from the
garden,' he answered, not exactly comprehending, for he was not a
sensitive man, and was, moreover, considerably younger than Corona.

But Corona was silent, and wished that she were walking with her
husband, or sitting alone with him in some quiet corner, for something
in the air reminded her of a ball in the Frangipani palace, many years
ago, when Giovanni had spoken to her in a conservatory, and many things
had happened in consequence. The wax-candles and the smell of open-air
flowers, and the glimpses of moonlight through vast windows may have had
something to do with it; but surely there are times and hours, when love
is in the air, when every sound is tuneful, and all silence is softly
alive, when young voices seek each the other's tone caressingly, and the
stealing hand steals nearer to the hand that waits.

There was no one to prevent Orsino Saracinesca from persuading Vittoria
to go and sit down in one of the less frequented rooms, if he could do
so. Her mother would be delighted, her brothers were not at the ball,
and Orsino was responsible to no one for his actions. She had learned
many things since she had come to Rome, but she did not understand more
than half of them, and what she understood least of all was the absolute
power which Orsino exerted over her when he was present. He haunted her
thoughts at other times, too, and she had acquired a sort of conviction
that she could not escape from him, which was greatly strengthened by
the fact that she did not wish to be free.

On his part, his mind was less easy, for he was well aware that he was
making love to the girl with her mother's consent, whereas he was not by
any means inclined to think that he wished to marry her. Such a
position might not seem strange to a youth of Anglo-Saxon traditions;
for there is a sort of tacit understanding among the English-speaking
races to the effect that young people are never to count on each other
till each has got the other up the steps of the altar, that there is
nothing disgraceful in breaking an engagement, and that love-making at
large, without any intention of marriage, is a harmless pastime
especially designed for the very young. The Italian view is very
different, however, and Orsino was well aware that unless he meant to
make Vittoria d'Oriani his wife, he was doing wrong in his own eyes, and
in the eyes of the world, in doing his best to be often with her.

One result of his conduct was that he frightened away other men. They
took it for granted that he wished to marry her, dowerless as she was,
and they kept out of his way. The girl was not neglected, however. San
Giacinto had his own reasons for wishing to be on good terms with her
brothers, and he made his wife introduce partners to Vittoria at dances,
and send men to talk to her at parties. But as soon as Orsino came upon
the scene, Vittoria's companion disappeared, whoever he happened to be
at the time.

The Italian, even when very young, has a good deal of social philosophy
when he is not under the influence of an emotion from which he cannot
escape. He will avoid falling in love with the wrong person if he can.

'For what?' he asks. 'In order to be unhappy? Why?'

And he systematically keeps out of the way of temptation, well knowing
his own weakness in love matters.

But Orsino was attracted by the girl and yielded to the attraction,
though his manner of yielding was a domination over her whenever they
met. His only actual experience of real love had been in his affair with
the Countess del Ferice, before her second marriage. She was a mature
woman of strong character and devoted nature, who had resisted him and
had sacrificed herself for him, not to him. He had been accustomed to
find that resistance in her. But Vittoria offered none at all, a fact
which gave his rather despotic nature a sudden development, while the
