"If she did--what will you do?"
"Do?" Lily tossed her head. "Why, I shall act just as if I never said it
or had seen her before or anything. You don't suppose I'm a goose in
pin-feathers, do you? I want to get acquainted with them. Of course I
shall ask both boys to my birthday party. I should only ask the nice
people in the street."
Margaret threw her pretty pink fascinator round Hanny's shoulders. She
didn't need any hat this warm summer night. Hanny was very proud to walk
down the street with her brother, who knew so many girls already. Jim
wasn't a bit afraid of being called a "girl boy." Quite a number of
people were sitting out on their stoops. It was the fashion then. Some
of the ladies were knitting lace on two little needles that had sealing
wax on one end, so the stitches could not drop off. There was much
pleasant chatting. The country ways of sociability had not all gone out
of date.
They walked down to the lower end, where the houses were rather
irregular and getting old. Two or three had a small grass door-yard in
front. Two girls were walking up and down with their arms around each.
Jim knew in a moment who they were, but he loitered behind them until
they turned.
"Oh!" exclaimed Lily Ludlow in well-acted surprise. "Are you out taking
a walk?"
"Yes," answered Jim, quite as innocently as if the matter had not been
arranged a few hours ago. "And this is my sister. And this is Lily
Ludlow, and this Belle May."
Alas for Hanny! Lily Ludlow was the girl who had called her "queer" and
laughed. The child's face flushed and there was a lump in her throat.
"You don't go to school, do you?" asked Lily with the utmost
nonchalance. She was quite ready for anything.
The little girl made an effort, but no words would come. She could never
like this girl with the pretty name, she felt very sure.
"No," said Jim. "She's so small for her size that mother would be
afraid of her getting lost."
They all giggled but the little girl, who wanted to run away.
"But you like New York, don't you? Jim thinks he wouldn't go back to the
country for anything."
We had not come to "Bet your life," and "There's where your head's
level," in those days. But Jim answered for his sister--"You just guess
I wouldn't," with a deal of gusto.
They all walked up a short distance. The girls and Jim had all the talk,
and they chaffed each other merrily. Hanny was silent. She really was
too young for their fun.
Belle May's mother called her presently, and the little girl said in a
whisper: "Oh, Jim, we must go home."
Jim wondered if he might ask Lily to walk with them, so he could come
back with her. But she settled it with a gay toss of the head.
"Good-night," she said. "Come down again some evening."
"What a little stupid you are, Hanny!" Jim began, vexed enough. "Why
didn't you ask them to walk up our way! And you never said a word! I
could have given you an awful shake!"
"I--I don't like them."
"You don't know anything about them. Ben and I see them half a dozen
times a day, and walk to school with them, and they're nice and pretty
and have some manners. You're awful country, Hanny!"
The little girl began to cry.
"Oh, what a baby you are! Well, I s'pose you can't help it! You're only
eight, and I'm almost thirteen. And Lily Ludlow's nearly eleven. I
suppose you do feel strange among girls so much older."
"It isn't that," sobbed the little girl. How could she get courage to
tell him?
"Oh, Hanny, dear, don't cry." Jim's voice softened--they were nearing
home. "See here, I'll ask father to take us to Tompkins Square on
Sunday, and you shall paint out of my new box. There! and don't tell any
one--don't say a word to Ben."
He kissed her and wiped her eyes with the end of her starchy apron. Jim
was very coaxing and sweet when he tried.
"Joe's here," said Ben. "And he thought the wolves would eat you up if
you went too far. He wants to see you."
Jim dropped down on the step. Hanny ran through the hall. They were
using the back parlor as a sitting-room, and everybody seemed talking at
once. Joe held out his arms and the little girl flew to them.
Then it came out that Joe had taken one of the prizes for a thesis, and
he would shortly be a full fledged M.D. He was so jubilant and the rest
were so happy that the little girl forgot all about her discomfort.
Jim came rushing in. "Where's the hundred dollars?" he inquired.
Joe laughed. "I have not received the money yet. I thought the
announcement was enough for one night."
"You and Hanny'll be so stuck up there'll be no living with you," said
Jim.
Hanny glanced up with a smiling face. If she had only looked that way at
Lily Ludlow! But even his schoolmate was momentarily distanced by the
thought of such a prize. And he remembered later on with much
gratification that he could tell her to-morrow.
Miss Chrissy Ludlow had been sitting by the front window in her white
gown, half expecting a caller. When Lily entered, she inquired if that
little thing was the Underhill girl?
"Oh, that's the baby," and Lily giggled. "There's a young lady who goes
to Rutgers--well, I suppose she isn't quite grown up, for she doesn't
wear real-long dresses. And they have another brother in the
country--six brothers!"
Chrissy sighed. If she only knew some way to get acquainted with the
young woman. And all the brothers fairly made one green with envy.
"You keep in with them," she advised her sister. "You might as well look
up in the world for your friends."
There were not many people in the street who kept a carriage. Chrissy
longed ardently to know them. And she had been almost fighting for a
term at Rutgers. Mr. Ludlow was a common-place man, clerk in a
shoe-store round in Houston Street, and capable of doing repairs. They
rented out the second floor, as they could not afford to keep the whole
house. But since Chrissy had found out that they were distant
