The voice of the boy broke in upon them from be- 
hind. " Say, mother ! A'n't you never goin' to have 
dinner ? " He was standing in the doorway, with a 



 

startling cleanness of the hands and face, and a strange 
wet sleekness of the hair. His clothes were bedrab- 
bled down the front with soap and water. 

His mother rose and went towards him ; his father 
and brother rose like apparitions, and slanted after her 
at one angle. 

" Say ! " the boy called again to his mother. " There 
comes a peddler." He pointed down the road at the 
figure of a man briskly ascending the lane towards the 
house, with a pack on his back, and some strange ap- 
pendages dangling from it. 

The woman did not look round ; neither of the men 
looked round ; they all kept on in-doors, and she said 
to the boy, as she passed him : "I got no time to 
waste on peddlers. You tell him we don't want any- 
thing." 

The boy waited for the figure on the lane to ap- 
proach. It was the figure of a young man, who slung 
his burden lightly from his shoulders when he arrived, 
and then stood looking at the boy, with his foot 
planted on the lowermost tread of the steps climbing 
from the ground to the porch. 



III. 

The boy must have permitted these advances that 
he might inflict the greater disappointment when he 
spoke. " We don't want anything," he said, insolently. 

"Don't you? "the stranger returned, " I do. I 
want dinner. Go in and tell your mother, and then 
show me where I can wash my hands." 

The bold ease of the stranger seemed to daunt the 
boy, and he stood irresolute. His dog came round 
the corner of the house at the first word of the parley, 
and while his master was making up his mind what to 
do, he smelled at the stranger's legs. "Well, you 
can't have any dinner," said the boy, tentatively. The 
dog raised the bristles on his neck, and showed his 
teeth with a snarl. The stranger promptly kicked 
him in the jaw, and the dog ran off, howling. " Come 
here, sir ! " the boy called to him, but the dog vanished 
round the house with a fading yelp. 

" Now, young man," said the stranger, " will you 
go and do as you're bid ? I'm ready to pay for my 
dinner, and you can say so." The boy stared at him, 
slowly taking in the facts of his costume, with eyes 
that climbed from the heavy shoes up the legs of his 



 

thick-ribbed stockings and his knickerbockers, past 
the pleats and belt of his Norfolk jacket, to the red 
neckcloth tied under the loose collar of his flannel 
outing-shirt, and so by his face, with its soft young 
beard, and its quiet eyes, to the top of his braidless, 
bandless slouch hat of soft felt. It was one of the 
earliest costumes of the kind that had shown itself in 
the hill country, and it was altogether new to the boy. 
" Come," said the wearer of it, " don't stand on the 
order of your going, but go at once," and he sat down 
on the steps with his back to the boy, who heard these 
strange terms of command with a face of vague envy. 

The noonday sunshine lay in a thin silvery glister 
on the slopes of the mountain before them, and in the 
brilliant light the colossal forms of the Lion's Head 
were prismatically outlined against the speckless sky. 
Through the silvery veil there burnt here and there on 
the densely wooded acclivities the crimson torch of 
a maple, kindled before its time, but everywhere else 
there was the unbroken green of the forest, subdued 
to one tone of gray. The boy heard the stranger fetch 
his breath deeply, and then expel it in a long sigh, 
before he could bring himself to obey an order that 
seemed to leave him without the choice of disobedi- 
ence. He came back, and found the stranger as he 
had left him. " Come on, if you want your dinner," 
he said ; and the stranger rose and looked at him. 

" What's your name ? " he asked. 

