
and carried it softly, just above the breath, with 
the tone which is neither a sigh, nor a cry, nor a 
whisper, but that harmony of all which makes of 
music prayer. 

He must have entered on the wave of this strain ; 
opinions differed afterwards as to this : some said one 
thing, some another ; but it was found that most of 




the audience had not observed the entrance of the 
preacher at all. The choir ceased, and he was ; and 
no more could be said. The church was well filled, 
though not over-crowded, and the decorous rustle of 
a fashionable audience in the interval preceding 
worship stirred through the house. 

In the natural inattention of the moment, it was 
not remarkable that most of the people failed to 
notice the strange preacher until he was among 
them. 

But to the church officer, whose mind was pre 
occupied with the supply, there was something 
almost startling in the manner of his approach. 

The vestryman's uneasy eyes were not conscious 
of having slipped their guard upon the chancel for 
a moment; he had but turned his head politely, 
though a bit impatiently, to reply to some trivial 
remark of his wife's, when, behold, the preacher 
stood before him. 

Afterwards it was rumored that two or three
persons in the audience had not been taken by surprise 
in this way, but had fully observed the manner of 
the stranger's entrance; yet these persons, when 
they were sought, were difficult to find. There was 
one shabby woman who sat in the gallery among the 




" poor " seats ; she was clad in rusty mourning, and 
had a pale and patient face, quite familiar to the 
audience, for she was a faithful church-goer, and 
had attended Saint Agatha's for many years. It 
came to be said, through the sexton's gossip or 
otherwise, that this poor woman had seen the 
preacher's approach quite clearly, and had been 
much moved thereat; but when some effort was 
made to find her, and to question her on this point, 
unexpected obstacles arose, she was an obscure 
person, serving in some menial capacity for floating 
employers ; she was accustomed to slip in and out of 
the church hurriedly, both late and early, and 
nothing of importance was added from this quarter 
to the general interest which attended the 
eccentricities of the supply. 

The stranger was a man a trifle above the ordinary 
height, of majestic mien and carriage, and 
with the lofty head that indicates both fearlessness 
and purity of nature. As he glided to his place 
behind the lectern, a hush struck the frivolous audi 
ence, as if it had been smitten by an angel's wing : 
such power is there in noble novelty, and in the 
authority of a high heart. 

When had the similar of this preacher led the 
service in that venerable and fashionable house of 
worship? In what past years had his counterpart 
served them? 

Whom did he resemble of the long line of eminent 
clerical teachers with whose qualities this elect 
people was familiar? What had been his history, 
his ecclesiastical position, his social connections? 
It was characteristic of the audience that this last 
question was first in the minds of a large proportion 
of the worshipers. Whence came he ? His name ? 
His titles? What was his professional reputation 
his theology? What were his views on choir 
boys, confessionals, and candles on mission 
chapels and the pauperizing of the poor? 

These inquiries swept through the inner con 
sciousness of the audience in the first moment of 
his appearance. But in the second, neither these 
nor any other paltry queries fretted the smallest 
soul before him. 

The stranger must have had an impressive coun 
tenance ; yet afterwards it was found that no two 
descriptions of it agreed. Some said this thing, 
some said that. To this person he appeared a 
gentle, kindly man with a persuasive manner; to 
