once had held them at the Boar's Head, 
departed. Here, too, were deposited its 
vessels, formerly guarded by the trusty 
Boar. What he saw there, let Irving 
himself relate : — 
" The old sexton had taken the land- 
lady aside, and, with an air of profound 
importance, imparted to her my errand. 
Dame Honeyball was a likely, plump, 
bustling little woman, and no bad sub- 
stitute for that paragon of hostesses, 
Dame Quickly. She seemed delighted 
with an opportunity to oblige ; and, hur- 
rying upstairs to the archives of her 
house, where the precious vessels of the 
parish club were deposited, she returned, 
smiling and courtesying, with them in 
her hands. 
"The first she presented me was a 
japanned iron tobacco-box of gigantic 
size, out of which, I was told, the vestry 
had smoked at their stated meetings 
since time immemorial ; and which was 
 
never suflfered to be profaned by vulgar 
hands, or used on common occasions. 
I received it with becoming reverence; 
but what was my delight at beholding 
on its cover the identical painting of 
which I was in quest ! There was dis- 
played the outside of the Boar's Head 
Tavern, and before the door was to be 
seen the whole convivial group, at table, 
in full revel ; pictured with that won- 
derful fidelity and force with which the 
portraits of renowned generals and com- 
modores are illustrated on tobacco-boxes 
for the benefit of posterity. Lest, how- 
ever, there should be any mistake, the 
cunning limner had warily inscribed the 
names of Prince Hal and FalstaflE on 
the bottoms of their chairs. 
" On the inside of the cover was an 
inscription, nearly obliterated, recording 
that this box was the gift of Sir Richard 
Gore, for the use of the vestry meetings 
at the Boar's Head Tavern, and that it 
was ' repaired and beautified by his suc- 
cessor, Mr. John Packard, 1767.' Such 
is a faithful description of this august and 
venerable relic, and I question whether 
the learned Scriblerus contemplated his 
Roman shield, or the Knights of the 
 
Round Table the long-sought Sangreal, 
with more exultation. 
"While I was meditating on it with 
enraptured gaze, Dame Honeyball, who 
was highly gratified by the interest it 
excited, put in my hands a drinking-cup, 
or goblet, which also belonged to the 
vestry, and was descended from the old 
Boar's Head. It bore the inscription of 
having been the gift of Francis Wythers, 
knight, and was held, she told me, in 
exceeding great value, being considered 
very 'antyke.' 
"The great importance attached to 
this memento of ancient revelry by mod- 
ern church-wardens at first puzzled me ; 
but there is nothing sharpens the ap- 
prehension so much as antiquarian re- 
search, for I immediately perceived that 
this could be no other than the identical 
' parcel-gilt goblet ' on which FalstafF 
made his loving but faithless vow to 
Dame Quickly, and which would, of 
course, be treasured up with care among 
the regalia of her domains, as a testi- 
mony of that solemn contract." 
There the search rested, so far as 
Irving was concerned, and he genially 
remarks, at the close of his paper, that 
he leaves all this as a rich mine to be 
worked out by future commentators. 
" Nor do I despair,' he adds, " of seeing 
the tobacco-box and the ' parcel-gilt gob- 
let ' which I have thus brought to light, 
the subject of future engravings, and 
almost as fruitful of voluminous disser- 
tations and disputes as the shield of 
Achilles or the far-famed Portland Vase." 
The story of his pilgrimage has, in 
the mind imbued with romance, a pecu- 
liar charm. For my own part, I have 
never for an instant doubted that the 
goblet which he identified, with the 
precision of genius, was actually Mrs. 
Quickly's, and that goblet I had long 
resolved to seek, should fortune take me 
