ates, has assured her on his sacred honour that in 
the event of her death he will not again marry." 
" In the lifetime of her daughter, that is," Doc 
tor Ramage hastened to add. 
" In the lifetime of her daughter," Mrs. Beever 
as clearly echoed. 
" In the lifetime of her daughter ! " Tony him 
self took up with an extravagance intended to 
offer the relief of a humorous treatment, if need 
be, to the bewildered young people whose embar 
rassed stare was a prompt criticism of Julia's dis 
cretion. It might have been in the spirit of a 
protest still more vehement that, at this instant, a 
small shrill pipe rose from the animated parcel 
with which Gorham, participating in the general 
awkwardness, had possibly taken a liberty. The 
comical little sound created a happy diversion; 
Tony sprang straight to the child. " So it is, my 
own," he cried, " a scandal to be talking of ' life 
times ' ! " He caught her from the affrighted nurse 
he put his face down to hers with passion. 
Her wail ceased and he held her close to him ; for 
 
a minute, in silence, as if something deep went out 
from him, he laid his cheek to her little cheek, 
burying his head under her veil. When he gave 
her up again, turning round, the hall was empty of 
every one save the Doctor, who signalled per 
emptorily to Gorham to withdraw. Tony re 
mained there meeting his eyes, in which, after an 
instant, the young man saw something that led 
him to exclaim : " How dreadfully ill she must 
be, Ramage, to have conceived a stroke in such 
taste ! " 
His companion drew him down to the sofa, pat 
ting, soothing, supporting him. " You must bear 
it, my dear boy you must bear everything." 
Doctor Ramage faltered. "Your wife's exceed- 
ingly ill." 
BOOK SECOND 
XIII 
IT continued to be, for the lady of Eastmead, 
as the years went on, a sustaining reflection that 
if in the matter of upholstery she yielded some 
what stiffly to the other house, so the other house 
was put out of all countenance by the mere breath 
of her garden. Tony could beat her indoors at 
every point ; but when she took her stand on her 
lawn she could defy not only Bounds but Wilver- 
ley. Her stand, and still more her seat, in the 
summer days, was frequent there, as we easily 
gather from the fortified position in which we 
next encounter her. From May to October she 
was out, as she said, at grass, drawing from it 
most of the time a comfortable sense that on such 
ground as this her young friend's love of newness 
broke down. He might make his dinner-service 
as new as he liked; she triumphed precisely in 
the fact that her trees and her shrubs were old. 
He could hang nothing on his walls like her 
creepers and clusters ; there was no velvet in his 
carpets like the velvet of her turf. She had 
everything, or almost everything she had space 
and time and the river. No one at Wilverley 
had the river as she had it ; people might say of 
course there was little of it to have, but of what 
ever there was she was in intimate possession. 
It skirted her grounds and improved her property 
and amused her guests ; she always held that her 
free access made up for being, as people said, 
on the wrong side of it. If she had not been on 
the wrong side she would not have had the 
little stone foot-bridge which was her special 
pride and the very making of her picture, and 
which she had heard compared she had an off 
hand way of bringing it in to a similar feature 
of one of the celebrated " backs " at Cambridge. 
The other side was the side of the other house, 
the side for the view the view as to which she 
entertained the merely qualified respect excited 
in us, after the first creative flush, by mysteries 
of our own making. Mrs. Beever herself formed 
the view, and the other house was welcome to it, 
especially to those parts of it enjoyed through the 
rare gaps in an interposing leafy lane. Tony had a 
gate which he called his river-gate, but you didn't 
 
so much as suspect the stream till you got well 
out of it. He had, on his further quarter, a 
closer contact with the town ; but this was just 
what she had, on both quarters, with the country. 
Her approach to the town was by the " long way " 
and the big bridge, and by going on, as she liked 
to do, past the Doctor's square red house. She 
hated stopping there, hated it as much as she 
liked his stopping at Eastmead; in the former 
case she seemed to consult him and in the latter 
to advise, which was the exercise of her wisdom 
that she decidedly preferred. Such degrees and 
dimensions, I hasten to add, had to do, altogether, 
