Inquisition sent a message to the Duke of Burgundy requiring 
the delivery of the prisoner Into the hands of the Church to 
be tried as an idolater. 
The English had seen their opportunity, and it was the 
English power that was really acting, not the Church. 
The Church was being used as a blind, a disguise ; and for 
a forcible reason : the Church was not only able to take the 
life of Joan of Arc, but to blight her influence and the valour- 
breeding inspiration of her name, whereas the English 
power could but kill her body ; that would not diminish or 
destroy the influence of her name ; it would magnify it and 
make it permanent. Joan of Arc was the only power in 
France that the English did not despise, the only power in 
France that they considered formidable. If the Church 
could be brought to take her life, or to proclaim her an 
idolater, a heretic, a witch, sent from Satan, not from 
heaven, it was believed that the English supremacy could 
be at once reinstated. 
The Duke of Burgundy listened — but waited. He could 
not doubt that the French King or the French people 
would come forward presently and pay a higher price than 
the English. He kept Joan a close prisoner in a strong 
fortress, and continued to wait, week after week. He was 
a French Prince, and was at heart ashamed to sell her to 
the English. Yet with all his waiting no off'er came to him 
from the French side. 
One day Joan played a cunning trick on her jailer, and 
not only slipped out of her prison, but locked him up in it. 
But as she fled away she was seen by a sentinel, and was 
caught and brought back. 
Then she was sent to Beaurevoir, a stronger castle. 
This was early in August, and she had been in captivity 
more than two months, now. Here she was shut up in 
the top of a tower which was sixty feet high. She ate her 
heart there for another long stretch — about three months 
and a half. And she was aware, all these weary five 
months of captivity, that the English, under cover of the 
Church, were dickering for her as one would dicker for a 
horse or a slave, and that France was silent, the King 
silent, all her friends the same. Yes, it was pitiful. 
And yet when she heard at last that Compigne was 
being closely besieged and likely to be captured, and that 
the enemy had declared that no inhabitant of it should 
escape massacre, not even children of seven years of age, 
she was in a fever at once to fly to our rescue. So she 
tore her bed-clothes to strips and tied them together and 
descended this frail rope in the night, and it broke and she 
fell and was badly bruised, and remained three days insensible,
meantime neither eating nor drinking. 
And now came relief to us, led by the Count of Vendome, 
and Compiegne was saved and the siege raised. 
This was a disaster to the Duke of Burgundy. He had to 
have money, now. It was a good time for a new bid to be 
made for Joan of Arc. The English at once sent a French 
Bishop — that for ever infamous Pierre Cauchon of Beauvais. 
He was partly promised the Archbishopric of Rouen, 
which was vacant, if he should succeed. He claimed the 
right to preside over Joan's ecclesiastical trial because the 
battle-ground where she was taken was within his diocese. 
By the military usage of the time the ransom of a royal 
Prince was 10,000 livres of gold, which is 61,125 francs — a 
fixed sum, you see. It must be accepted, when off"ered ; it 
could not be refused. 
Cauchon brought the offer of this very sum from the 
English — a royal Prince's ransom for the poor little peasant 
girl of Domremy. It shows in a striking way the English 
idea of her formidable importance. It was accepted. For 
that sum Joan of Arc the Saviour of France was sold ; sold 
to her enemies ; to the enemies of her country ; enemies 
who had lashed and thrashed and thumped and trounced 
France for a century and made holiday sport of it ; enemies 
who had forgotten, years and years ago, what a French- 
man's face was like, so used were they to seeing nothing 
but his back ; enemies whom she had whipped, whom she 
had cowed, whom she had taught to respect French valour. 
new-born in her nation by the breath of her spirit ; enemies 
who hungered for her life as being the only puissance able 
to stand between English triumph and French degradation. 
Sold to a French priest by a French Prince, with the French 
King and the French nation standing thankless by and 
saying nothing. 
And she — what did she say ? Nothing. Not a reproach 
passed her lips. She was too great for that — she was Joan 
of Arc ; and when that is said, all is said. 
As a soldier, her record was spotless. She could not be 
called to account for anything under that head. A subter- 
fuge must be found, and, as we have seen, was found. She 
must be tried by priests for crimes against religion. If none 
could be discovered, some must be invented. Let the mis- 
creant Cauchon alone to contrive those. 
Rouen was chosen as the scene of the trial. It was in 
the heart of the English power ; its population had been 
under English dominion so many generations that they 
were hardly French now, save in language. The place was 
strongly garrisoned. Joan was taken there near the end 
of December 1430, and flung into a dungeon. Yes, and 
clothed in chains, that free spirit ! 
Still France made no move. How do I account for this ? 
I think there is only one way. You will remember that 
whenever Joan was not at the front, the French held back 
