"I'll bet a sixpence those two youngsters are engaged," said Jim.
"Hanny, what was all the long talk about?"
She was not quite sure all the rest were to be taken in the confidence;
but she looked so conscious, and Jim was so positive, that she admitted
the fact.
"That's just like a theological student."
"It is a very suitable engagement. Mrs. Dean has brought Josie up
sensibly; and Charles is such a fine fellow. Of course they must all be
pleased about it," commented Mrs. Underhill.
CHAPTER XX
MISS NAN UNDERHILL
Just a few days later, Mrs. Odell came down for some advice and help,
for Janey was to be married. Her betrothed was a well-to-do young farmer
up in Sullivan County. He was coming down in August to go to the World's
Fair; and he wanted to be married and make a general holiday of it.
"I am not much judge of such matters; but Stephen's wife will go
shopping with you. I don't know what we should do without her," said
Mrs. Underhill.
That very morning two silver-embossed envelopes came for Miss Nan
Underhill. One schoolmate was to be married in church at noon, and go to
Niagara on a wedding journey. The other was an evening ceremony with a
reception afterward. Mr. James Underhill had an invitation to this also.
Was all the world getting married, or being engaged! Standing on the
threshold, Hanny shrank back in dismay. It was looking out of a tranquil
cloister into a great, unknown world; and it gave her a mysterious
shiver. She didn't feel safe and warm until she had dropped on her
father's knee, and had his strong, fond arms about her.
Dolly's party was a great success. The young people were invited to meet
Miss Nan Underhill. And Miss Nan wore her graduation dress and blue
ribbons. Blue gave her a sort of ethereal look; pink added a kind of
blossomy sweetness.
Dolly knew so many young folks. True, there were some older ones. Ben
and Delia came up for an hour. Dolly said they were old-fashioned
married people already. Hanny thought there didn't seem much difference,
only Ben had a new strange sort of sweetness. She was very fond of
Delia; and it was a delight to feel free to go down to Beach Street.
Peter and Paulus Beekman came; and they were nice, fine, rather stout
young men. Peter was a lawyer; he and Jim were quite friends. Paulus was
in shipping business.
"Oh," said Peter to Nan, "you look just as you did when you were a
little girl and used to come to grandfather's. Do you remember that
beautiful Angora cat? That was grandfather's sign. He always took to
people Katschina liked. And your hair hasn't grown any darker. I like
light hair. Aunt Dolly has such beautiful hair! And I'm glad you have
not grown up into a great, tall May-pole. I just adore little women.
When I marry, I am going to choose a 'bonnie wee thing,' like the wife
in the song."
Hanny flushed rosy red. Oh, why would people talk about being married,
and all that? And if Peter wouldn't look at her in just that way! It
gave her a touch of embarrassment.
But oh, they had a splendid time! Modern young people would have been
bored, and voted it "no spread at all." They played Proverbs, and What
is my thought like? and everybody tried to bring out their very best,
and be as bright and witty and joyous as possible. They had plain cake
and fancy cake, and a new kind of dainty crisp crackers; candies, nuts,
raisins, and mottoes, which were the greatest fun of all. Afterward,
some dancing with the Cheat quadrille, and it was so amusing to "cut
out," or run away and leave your partner with his open arms, and a blank
look of surprise on his face.
Doctor Joe came to take the little girl home; for he was quite sure Jim
would want to take some one else's sister.
"Aunt Dolly," said Peter, when he was going away without any girl at
all, though he had hoped to walk home with Hanny, "isn't Nan Underhill
just the sweetest little thing in the world? I don't wonder grandfather
liked her so. With that soft, indescribable hair, and her
eyes,--twilight eyes, some one put in a poem,--and that cunning dimple
when she smiles, and so dainty altogether. What made you say she was not
pretty?"
"Why, I said, she was not as handsome as Mrs. Hoffman."
"She suits me ten times better. She is like this,
    "'A creature not too bright or good
    For human nature's daily food.'"
Dolly repeated the talk and the verses to Stephen. "And Peter is such a
solid, steady-going fellow. He was really smitten."
"The idea! And with that child!"
Dolly laughed gaily. "I suppose when our girls get to be eighteen, you
will still think them children. Why, I wasn't quite fifty when you fell
in love with me!"
Fifty! How ridiculous it was to think of Dolly ever being fifty. Ah, it
is love alone that holds the secret of eternal youth!
"Well, I hope there won't any one be foolish over Hanny, in a long
while," said Stephen, decisively.
"Foolish!" repeated Dolly, in a tone of resentment. But then they both
laughed.
The Odell girls came down to make a two days' visit. They went up to the
Deans' to tea; and the two engaged girls strayed off by themselves, with
their arms about each other, and had confidences in which the masculine
pronoun played an important part. And poor Polly bewailed the prospect
of being left alone. If she had a brother like Jim, she wouldn't mind.
Jim's girls were a kind of standing amusement to the family. This was a
case where there was safety in numbers, Mrs. Underhill felt assured. If
she had known of the episode of Lily Ludlow, her confidence would have
been a little shaken. Jim was a general lover of the sex, and a
good-looking, entertaining young fellow is apt to be spoiled.
Just now he had a penchant for Daisy, who teased him, and was as
uncertain as an April shower. She and Hanny were inseparables. Jim took
them round to Dolly's, or down to Ben's, or to Mrs. Hoffman, who had a
new grand piano, and had refurnished her parlor, quite changing the
simplicity of her first wedded life. Through the winter, she had given
fortnightly receptions, that had an air and grace of the highest
