almost as if they had been to a strange country. 
Every afternoon and evening it was crowded. 
Jim liked his new school very much, and soon 
flung his Latin words at his little sister in perfect 
broadsides. Then he found that Ben had some- 
how picked up a good deal of Latin, and knew all 
the Greek alphabet ; and instead of laughing at 
Charles Reed, as a Miss Nancy, he became quite 
friendly with him. 
All the children came home for a Christmas 
dinner, and had a delightful time. Then Martha 
 
was married, and went to her own housekeeping, 
and a cousin of the little German girls who lived 
in Houston Street, who had just come from Ger- 
many, petitioned for a trial. She was so bright and 
clean and ambitious to learn American ways that, 
after a fortnight, Mrs. Underhill decided to keep 
her. 
When all the visitors had gone, Hanny found it 
very lonely sleeping in a big room by herself. 
And as they couldn't move her downstairs, Mr. 
and Mrs. Underhill went upstairs and changed 
their room to the guest-chamber. Hanny missed 
her sister very much when night came. But then 
she had so many lessons to study ; and after the 
history of Holland, they took up that of Spain, 
which was as fascinating as any romance. 
Everybody was a good deal excited this winter 
about a curious phenomenon. At a small town in 
Western New York two sisters had announced 
that they could hold communication with the 
spirit-world, and receive messages from the dead. 
Little raps announced the spirit of your friend or 
relative. To imaginative people, it was simply 
wonderful. And now the Misses Fox were giving 
exhibitions and making converts. 
People recalled the old Salem witchcraft, and 
not a few considered it direct dealing with the 
Evil One. Ben was deeply interested. He and Joe 
talked over clairvoyance and mesmerism, - - a curi- 
ous power developed by a learned German, Dr. 
Mesmer, akin to that of some of the old magi- 
cians. Ben was very fond of abnormal things; 
 
but Joe set down communication with another 
world as an impossibility. Still, a good many 
people believed it. 
The children joined the singing-school again, 
and Charles Reed sang at several concerts. He 
went quite often to the Deans, and occasionally 
came over to the Underbills. Both houses were 
so delightful ! If he only had a sister, or a brother ! 
Or if his mother would do something beside scrub 
and clean the house ! Social life was so attractive 
to him. 
One day she did do something else. It was 
February, and the snow and ice had melted rapidly. 
All the air was full of the sort of chill that goes 
through one. She wanted some windows washed, 
and the yard cleared up, and was out in the damp 
a long while. That night she was seized with a 
sudden attack of pleurisy. Mr. Reed sprang up 
and made a mustard draught; but the pain grew 
so severe that he called Charles, and sent him over 
for Doctor Joe. By daylight, fever set in, and it 
was so severe a case that Doctor Joe called a more 
experienced doctor in consultation, and said they 
must have a nurse at once. 
Charles had never seen her ill before. And 
when the doctors looked so grave, and the nurse 
spoke in such low tones, he was certain she 
could not live. He was so nervous that he could 
not get his lessons, and roamed about the house in 
a frightened sort of way. The nurse was used to 
housekeeping as well, and when she was needed 
downstairs Charles stayed in the sick-room. His 
mother did not know him or any one, but wan- 
dered in her mind, and was haunted by the ghosts 
of work in a manner that was pitiful to listen to. 
The nurse said she had made work her idol. There 
were two days when Mr. Reed stayed at home, 
though he sent Charles off to school. They had 
a woman in the kitchen now, a relative he had 
written for, Cousin Jane that Charles had once met 
in the country. She was extremely tidy ; but she 
put on an afternoon gown, and a white apron, and 
found time in the evening to read the paper. 
On the second afternoon both doctors went 
away just as Charles came home. His father was 
standing on the stoop with them, and Doctor Joe 
looked down and smiled. The boy's heart beat 
with a sudden warmth, as he went down the area 
steps, wiped his feet, and hung up his cap and 
overcoat with as much care as if his mother's 
sharp eyes were on him. There was no one in the 
room ; but he sat down at once to his lessons. 
Presently his father entered. His eyes had a 
pathetic look, as if they were flooded with tears. 
" The doctor gives us a little hope, Charles," he 
