open the envelope, rather nervously and with a sudden anticipation of
trouble, a second sealed letter dropped from the single folded sheet
contained in the first.  But even that one sheet was full, instead of
bearing only the few lines she always received to tell her that there
was no change in her husband’s condition.

There had been a change, and a great one. Since last writing, said the
doctor, Harmon had suddenly begun to improve.  At first he had merely
seemed more quiet and patient than formerly; then, in the course of a
few days, he had begun to ask intelligent questions, and had clearly
understood that he had been insane for some time and was still in an
asylum.  He had rapidly learned the names of the people about him, and
had not afterwards confused them, but remembered them with remarkable
accuracy.  Day by day he had improved, and was still improving.  He had
enquired about the state of his affairs, and had wished to see one or
two of his old friends.  More than once he had asked after his wife, and
had evidently been glad to hear that she was well.  Then he had written
a letter to her, which the doctor immediately forwarded.  So far as it
was possible to form a judgment in the case, the improvement seemed to
promise permanent recovery; though no one could tell, of course, whether
a return to the world might not mean also a return to the unfortunate
habit which had originally unbalanced Harmon’s mind, but from which he
was safe as long as he remained where he was.

It was not easy for Helen to read to the end of such a letter: it shook
in her hands as she went on from one sentence to the next, and the
sealed envelope slipped from her knees to the floor while she was
reading.  When she had got to the end, she stared a moment at the
signature, and then folded the sheet, almost unconsciously, and drew her
nail sharply along the folds, as though she would make the paper feel
what she felt, and suffer as she suffered, in every nerve of her body,
and in every secret fibre of her soul.

She had not believed a recovery possible.  Now that it was a fact, she
knew how utterly beyond probability she had thought it; and immediately
the great problem rose before her, confusing, vast, terrifying.  But
before she faced it she must read Harmon’s letter.

It had fallen to the floor, and she had to look for it and find it and
pick it up.  The handwriting was large, somewhat ornamental, yet heavy
in parts and not always regular.  As she glanced at the address, she
remembered how she had disliked the writing when she had first seen it,
at a time when she had seen much to admire in Harmon himself.  Now she
did not like to touch the envelope on which he had written her name, and
she unreasoningly feared the contact of the sheet it held, as of
something that might defile her and must surely hurt her cruelly.  The
hand that had traced the characters on the paper was the hand that had
struck her and left its mark for all her life. And as she remembered the
rest, an enormous loathing of the man who was still her husband took
possession of her, so that she could not open the letter for a few
moments.

It was at once a loathing of bodily disgust, like a sickness, and a
mental horror of a creature who was so far from her natural nobility
that it frightened her to know how she hated him, and she began to fear
the letter itself, lest it should make some great change in her for
which she should at last hate herself also.  The spasm ran all through
her, as the sight of some very disgusting evil thing violently disturbs
body and mind at the same time.

The temptation to destroy the letter unread came upon her with all
possible force, and the vision of a return to peace was before her eyes,
as though the writing were already burned and beyond her power to
recover.  But that would be cowardly, and she was brave.  With drawn
lips, pale cheeks, and knitted brows she opened it, took out the folded
contents, and began to read.  As though to remind her of the place where
he was, and of all the circumstances from first to last, the name of the
asylum was printed at the head of each sheet in small, businesslike
letters.

She began to read:


MY DEAR HELEN,--You will be surprised to hear directly from me, I
suppose, and I can hardly expect that you will be pleased, though you
are too good not to be glad that I am better after my long illness.  I
have a great many things to write to you, and no particular right to
hope that you will read them.  Will you?  I hope so, for I do not mean
to write again until I get an answer to this letter.  But if you do read
this one, please believe that I am quite in my right senses again, and
that I mean all I say.  Besides, the doctor has written to you.  He
considers me almost ’safe’ now.  I mean, safe to remain as I am.

It is not easy for me to write to you.  You must hate me, of course.
God knows, I have given you reason enough to wish that I might stay here
for the rest of my life.  You are a very good woman, and perhaps you
will forgive me for all I have done to hurt you.  That is the main thing
I wanted to say.  I want to ask your pardon and forgiveness for
everything, from beginning to end.

’Everything’ is a big word, I know.  There has been a great deal during
these many years,--a great deal more than I like to think of; for the
more I think of it, the less I see how you can forgive even the half,
much less forget it.

I was not myself, Helen.  You have a right to say that it was my fault
if I was not myself.  I drank hard. That is not an excuse, I know; but
it was the cause of most of the things I did.  No woman can ever
understand how a man feels who drinks, and has got so far that he cannot
give it up.  How should she?  But you know that most men cannot give it
