governess and pupil, it had to be admitted, 
were still divided between discussing the 
places where any sort of thing would look 
best if any sort of thing should ever come, 
and acknowledging that mutability in the 
little girl's career which was naturally un- 
favorable to accumulation. She stayed long 
enough only to miss things not half long 
enough to deserve them. The way Sir 
Claude looked about the schoolroom had 
made her feel with humility as if it were not 
very different from the shabby attic in which 
she had visited Susan Ash. Then he had 
said in abrupt reference to Mrs. Beale : " Do 
you think she really cares for you? " 
" Oh, awfully ! " Maisie had replied. 
" But I mean does she love you for your- 
self, as they call it, don't you know? Is she 
as fond of you, now, as Mrs. Wix?" 
The child turned it over. " Oh, I 'm not 
every bit Mrs. Beale has ! " 
Sir Claude seemed much amused at this. 
" No, you 're not every bit she has ! " 
He laughed for some moments ; but that 
was an old story to Maisie, and she was not 
too much disconcerted to go on : " But she 'll 
never give me up." 
" Well, I won't either, old boy ; so that 's 
not so wonderful, and she 's not the only one ! 
ioo  
But if she 's so fond of you, why does n't she 
write to you?" 
" Oh, on account of mamma." This was 
rudimentary, and she was almost surprised at 
the simplicity of Sir Claude's question. 
"I see that's quite right," he answered. 
" She might get at you there are all sorts 
of ways ; but, of course, there 's Mrs. Wix." 
" There 's Mrs. Wix," Maisie lucidly con- 
curred. " Mrs. Wix can't endure her." 
Sir Claude seemed interested. " Oh, she 
can't endure her? Then what does she say 
about her?" 
" Nothing at all, because she knows I 
should n't like it. Is n't it sweet of her ? " the 
child asked. 
" Certainly, rather nice. Mrs. Beale would n't 
hold her tongue for any such thing as that, 
would she? " 
Maisie remembered how little she had done 
so; but she desired to protect Mrs. Beale 
too. The only protection she could think of, 
however, was the plea: "Oh, at papa's, you 
know, they don't mind." 
At this Sir Claude only smiled. " No ; I 
dare say not. But here we mind, don't we? 
we take care what we say. I don't sup- 
pose it 's the sort of thing I ought to say," 
he went on; "but I think we must, on the 
whole, be rather nicer here than at your 
father's. However, I don't press that; for 
it 's a sort of question on which it 's awfully 
awkward for you to speak. Don't worry, at 
any rate; I assure you I'll back you up." 
Then, after a moment, while he smoked, he 
reverted to Mrs. Beale and the child's first 
inquiry. " I 'm afraid we can't do much for 
her just now. I have n't seen her since that 
day upon my word I have n't seen her." 
The next instant, with a laugh the least bit 
foolish, the young man slightly colored ; he 
felt this profession of innocence to be exces- 
sive as addressed to Maisie. It was inevi- 
table to say to her, however, that of course 
her mother loathed the lady of the other 
house. He could n't go there again with his 
wife's consent, and he was n't the man he 
begged her to believe, falling once more, in 
spite of himself, into the scruple of showing 
the child he did n't trip to go there without 
it. He was liable in talking with her to 
take the tone of her being also a man of the 
world. He had gone to Mrs. Beale's to get 
possession of her ; but that was entirely dif- 
ferent. Now that she was in her mother's 
house, what pretext had he to give her 
mother for paying calls on her father's wife? 
And of course Mrs. Beale could n't come to 
Ida's Ida would tear her limb from limb. 
Maisie, with this talk of pretexts, remembered 
how much Mrs. Beale had made of her being 
a good one, and how, for such a function, 
it was her fate to be either much depended 
on or much missed. Sir Claude moreover 
recognized on this occasion that perhaps 
things would take a turn later on, and he 
wound up by saying: " I 'm sure she does 
sincerely care for you how can she possi- 
bly help it? She's very young and very 
pretty and very clever ; I think she 's charm- 
