



" Oh, Thirza, heaven bless you ! " He put his 
arms around her neck in a tender clasp. " I told 
Jennie about Edith do you want her ? " 

" I do. You need never feel troubled about 
her. I will do my best for her and give her a 
mother's love. Hazel is so bright and gay she 
will win friends anywhere." 

" Poor Laura loved them so. But she never 
seemed to know just what to do. Poor girl, it 
would have broken her heart to give up the farm. 
Of course, if she had lived, I must have worked 
through some way. Oh, Thirza, you've been a 
good angel to me ! " 

One rarely confessed that a man's life was 
marred by his marriage. Seth Rolfe went out to 
begin a new life on the wreck of inefficiency, and 
he prospered under different auspices. 

But it created a great commotion. Mother Al 
bert came down and cried over the children; 
Laura's poor dears were to fall into the hands of a 
stepmother. She should think Seth would want to 
go away ; he never could hold up his head again 
in Westhorpe. 

Clara was indignant as well. 

" You're a fool, Thirza, to have that child saddled 
upon you ! " she declared. " If Jenny Irving 
wanted him so badly, she might have taken him 
with both of them. A widow with children does 



 

stand a chance to be married, but an old maid with 
an encumbrance " 

Thirza flushed with a feeling of anger. 

" I don't know what right the world has to be so 
unreasonably discontented with a woman who does 
not marry, when she makes her own way and asks 
no odds of any one," she retorted. 

Seth paid his debts and held up his head like a 
new man. The marriage was a very quiet one and 
did not take place until the morning of their jour 
ney. Hazel was wild with delight at the thought 
of a new adventure, and kissed her stepmother 
with much fervor. Edith looked on with wonder 
ing eyes, holding tightly to Aunt Thirza's hand 
lest she should be spirited away. Love counted 
for more than relationship. 

Jennie Rolfe kissed her sister-in-law, with tears 
in her eyes. 

" You have been sweet and cordial, and I thank 
you," she said, with a great tremble in her voice. 
" And if at any time life should change with you 
and you should want to give up Edith, remember 
that we shall both keep a place for her in our 
hearts. Whatever is best for your brother, I shall 
do, and we both hope for success." 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE STORY EVER NEW 

THE morning of Seth's departure Thirza had a 
letter from Helen Otis, who had been much disap 
pointed that Thirza had not been able to make a 
second visit. 

In May Mr. Otis was going abroad on business, 
a hurried and engrossing tour, and would return 
in July. Aunt Margaret had been seized with a 
desire to spend another summer in Westhorpe, 
and Mrs. Otis had some curiosity to see the place. 

" Do you suppose Mr. Palmer would rent his 
house for the summer ? " she inquired. " We 
could all join and make a delightful household. I 
am not hankering after any fashionable resort, 
and I do long for you. Think it over, if it is not 
too wild. You are such friends, you would not 
mind laying the matter before him." 

Thirza had made no plans for herself, there had 
