all over the world ! It is not true. In fact, very few foreigners 
except the Emperor of Russia have ever seen a grain of it, or 
ever will, while they live." Another man said : " There is no 
sale in Australia for Australian wine. But it goes to France 
and comes back with a French label on it, and then they buy 
it." I have heard that the most of the French-labeled claret 
in New York is made in California. And I remember what 
Professor S. told me once about Veuve Cliquot — if that was 
the wine, and I think it was. He was the guest of a great wine 
merchant whose town was quite near that vineyard, and this 
merchant asked him if very much Y. C. was drunk in 
America. 

" Oh, yes," said S., " a great abundance of it." 

" Is it easy to be bad ? " 

" Oh, yes — easy as water. All first and second-class hotels 
have it," 

" What do you pay for it ? " 

"It depends on the style of the hotel — from fifteen to 
twenty-five francs a bottle." 

" Oh, fortunate country ! Why, it's worth 100 francs right 
here on the ground." 

" No ! " 

" Yes ! " 

" Do you mean that we are drinking a bogus Yeuve Cliquot 
over there ? " 

" Yes — and there was never a bottle of the genuine in 
America since Columbus's time. That wine all comes from a 
little bit of a patch of ground which isn't big enough to raise 
many bottles ; and all of it that is produced goes every year 
to one person — the Emperor of Russia. He takes the whole 
crop in advance, be it big or little." 

January 4, 1896. Christmas in Melbourne, New Year's 
Day in Adelaide, and saw most of the friends again in both 
places. . . . Lying here at anchor all day — Albany (King 
George's Sound), Western Australia. It is a perfectly land- 
locked harbor, or roadstead — spacious to look at, but not deep 
water. Desolate-looking rOcks and scarred hills. Plenty of 
ships arriving now, rushing to the new gold-fields. The papers 
are full of wonderful tales of the sort always to be heard in 
connection with new gold diggings. A sample : a youth staked 
out a claim and tried to sell half for £5 ; no takers ; he stuck 
to it fourteen days, starving, then struck it rich and sold out 
for £10,000. . . . About sunset, strong breeze blowing, 
got up the anchor. We were in a small deep puddle, with a 
narrow channel leading out of it, minutely buoyed, to the sea. 


I stayed on deck to see how we were going to manage it with 
such a big ship and such a strong wind. On the bridge our 
giant captain, in uniform ; at his side a little pilot in elaborately 
gold-laced uniform ; on the forecastle a white mate and quar- 
termaster or two, and a brilliant crowd of lascars standing by 
for business. Our stern was pointing straight at the head of 
the channel ; so we must turn entirely around in the puddle — 
and the wind blowing as described. It was done, and beauti- 
fully. It was done by help of a jib. "We stirred up much 
mud, but did not touch the bottom. We turned right around 
in our tracks — a seeming impossibility. We had several casts 
of quarter-less 5, and one cast of half 4 — 27 feet ; we were 
drawing 26 astern. By the time we were entirely around and 
pointed, the first hnoj was not more than a hundred yards in 
front of us. It was a fine piece of work, and I was the only 
passenger that saw it. However, the others got their dinner ; 
the P. & O. Company got mine. . . . More cats developed. 
Smythe says it is a British law that they must be carried ; and 
he instanced a case of a ship not allowed to sail till she sent 
for a couple. The bill came, too : " Debtor, to 2 cats, 20 shil- 
lings." . . . ]Sews comes that within this week Siam has 
acknowledged herself to be, in effect, a French province. It 
seems plain that all savage and semi-civilized countries are 
going to be grabbed. ... A vulture on board ; bald, red, 
queer-shaped head, featherless red places here and there on 
his body, intense great black eyes set in featherless rims of in- 
flamed flesh ; dissipated look ; a business-like style, a selfish, 
conscienceless, murderous aspect — the very look of a profes- 
sional assassin, and yet a bird which does no murder. What 
was the use of getting him up in that tragic style for so inno- 
cent a trade as his ? For this one isn't the sort that wars upon 
the living, his diet is offal — and the more out of date it is the 
better he likes it. Nature should give him a suit of rusty black ; 



then he would be all right, for he would look like an under- 
taker and would harmonize with his business ; whereas the way 
he is now he is horribly out of true. 

January 5. At 9 this morning we passed Cape Leeuwin 
(lioness) and ceased from our long due-west course along the 
