packed streets, blowing horrible gaps in the masses of struggling
men. The sun set in a crimson blaze, reflecting on window and
roof and the bloody waters of the river. When at last it sank
behind the smoky hills, the blackness in the city was lighted by
lurid flames from burning houses and the swift crimson glare of
Prussian shells, still plunging into the town. Through the crash
of crumbling walls, the hiss and explosion of falling shells, the
awful clamour and din in the streets, the town clock struck
solemnly six times. As if at a signal the firing died away; a
desolate silence fell over the city--a silence full of rumours,
of strange movements--a stillness pulsating with the death gasps
of a nation.

Out on the heights of La Moncelle, of Daigny, and Givonne
lanterns glimmered where the good Sisters of Mercy and the
ambulance corps passed among the dead and dying--the thirty-five
thousand dead and dying! The plateau of Illy, where the cavalry
had charged again and again, was twinkling with thousands of
lanterns; on the heights of Frénois Prussian torches swung,
signalling victory.

But the spectacle in the interior of the town--a town of nineteen
thousand people, into which now were crushed seventy thousand
frantic soldiers, was dreadful beyond description. Horror
multiplied on horror. The two bridges and the streets were so
jammed with horses and artillery trains that it seemed impossible
for any human being to move another inch. In the glare of the
flames from the houses on fire, in the middle of the smoke,
horses, cannon, fourgons, charrettes, ambulances, piles of dead
and dying, formed a sickening pell-mell. In this chaos starving
soldiers, holding lighted lanterns, tore strips of flesh from
dead horses lying in the mud, killed by the shells. Arms, broken
and foul with blood and mud--rifles, pistols, sabres, lances,
casques, mitrailleuses--covered the pavements.

The gates of the town were closed; the water in the fortification
moats reflected the red light from the flames. The glacis of the
ramparts was covered by black masses of soldiers, watching the
placing of a cordon of German sentinels around the walls.

All public buildings, all the churches, were choked with wounded;
their blood covered everything. On the steps of the churches poor
wretches sat bandaging their torn limbs with strips of bloody
muslin.

Strange sounds came from the stone walls along the street, where
zouaves, turcos, and line soldiers, cursing and weeping with
rage, were smashing their rifles to pieces rather than surrender
them. Artillerymen were spiking their guns, some ran them into
the river, some hammered the mitrailleuses out of shape with
pickaxes. The cavalry flung their sabres into the river, the
cuirassiers threw away revolvers and helmets. Everywhere
officers were breaking their swords and cursing the surrender.
The officers of the 74th of the Line threw their sabres and even
their decorations into the Meuse. Everywhere, too, regiments were
burning their colours and destroying their eagles; the colonel of
the 52d of the Line himself burned his colours in the presence of
all the officers of the regiment, in the centre of the street.
The 88th and 30th, the 68th, the 78th, and 74th regiments
followed this example. "Mort aux Vaches!" howled a herd of
half-crazed reservists, bursting into the crush. "Mort aux
Prussiens! À la lanterne, Badinguet! Vive la République!"

Jack turned away from the window. The tall Sister of Mercy stood
beside the bed where Lorraine lay.

Jack made a sign.

"She is asleep," murmured the Sister; "you may come nearer now.
Close the window."

Before he could reach the bed the door was opened violently from
without, and an officer entered swinging a lantern. He did not
see Lorraine at first, but held the door open, saying to Jack:
"Pardon, monsieur; this house is reserved. I am very sorry to
trouble you."

Another officer entered, an old man, covered to the eyes by his
crimson gold-brocaded cap. Two more followed.

"There is a sick person here," said Jack. "You cannot have the
intention of turning her out! It is inhuman--"

He stopped short, stupefied at the sight of the old officer, who
now stood bareheaded in the lantern-light, looking at the bed
where Lorraine lay. It was the Emperor!--her father.

Slowly the Emperor advanced to the bed, his dreary eyes fixed on
Lorraine's pale cheeks.

In the silence the cries from the street outside rose clear and
distinct:

"Vive la République! À bas l'Empereur!"

The Emperor spoke, looking straight at Lorraine: "Gentlemen, we
cannot disturb a woman. Pray find another house."

After a moment the officers began to back out, one by one,
through the doorway. The Emperor still stood by the bed, his
