see how much better it was.
I do not think she got on with the Last Days of Pompeii very rapidly; its
immediate interest was superseded by other things.  But she always had
the book about with her, and I fancied that she tried to read it in those
moments of relaxation from our pleasuring when she might better have been
day-dreaming, though I dare say she did enough of that too.
What amused me in the affair was the celerity with which it took itself
out of our hands.  In an incredibly short time we had no longer the
trouble of thinking what we should do for Miss Gage; that was provided
for by the forethought of Kendricks, and our concern was how each could
make the other go with the young people on their excursions and
expeditions.  We had seen and done all the things that they were doing,
and it presently bored us to chaperon them.  After a good deal of talking
we arrived at a rough division of duty, and I went with them walking and
eating and drinking, and for anything involving late hours, and Mrs.
March presided at such things as carriage exercise, concerts, and
shopping.
There are not many public entertainments at Saratoga, except such as the
hotels supply; but a series of Salvation Army meetings did duty as
amusements, and there was one theatrical performance—a performance of
East Lynne entirely by people of colour.  The sentiments and incidents
of the heart-breaking melodrama, as the coloured mind interpreted them,
were of very curious effect.  It was as if the version were dyed with the
same pigment that darkened the players’ skins: it all came out negro.
Yet they had tried to make it white; I could perceive how they aimed not
at the imitation of our nature, but at the imitation of our convention;
it was like the play of children in that.  I should have said that
nothing could be more false than the motives and emotions of the drama as
the author imagined them, but I had to own that their rendition by these
sincere souls was yet more artificial.  There was nothing traditional,
nothing archaic, nothing autochthonic in their poor art.  If the scene
could at any moment have resolved myself into a walk-round, with an
interspersion of spirituals, it would have had the charm of these; it
would have consoled and edified; but as it was I have seldom been so
bored.  I began to make some sad reflections, as that our American
society, in its endeavour for the effect of European society, was of no
truer ideal than these coloured comedians, and I accused myself of a
final absurdity in having come there with these young people, who,
according to our good native usage, could have come perfectly well
without me.  At the end of the first act I broke into their talk with my
conclusion that we must not count the histrionic talent among the gifts
of the African race just yet.  We could concede them music, I supposed,
and there seemed to be hope for them, from what they had some of them
done, in the region of the plastic arts; but apparently the stage was not
for them, and this was all the stranger because they were so imitative.
Perhaps, I said, it was an excess of self-consciousness which prevented
their giving themselves wholly to the art, and I began to speak of the
subjective and the objective, of the real and the ideal; and whether it
was that I became unintelligible as I became metaphysical, I found
Kendricks obviously not following me in the incoherent replies he gave.
Miss Gage had honestly made no attempt to follow me.  He asked, Why,
didn’t I think it was pretty well done?  They had enjoyed it very much,
he said.  I could only stare in answer, and wonder what had become of the
man’s tastes or his principles; he was either humbugging himself or he
was humbugging me.  After that I left them alone, and suffered through
the rest of the play with what relief I could get from laughing when the
pathetic emotions of the drama became too poignant.  I decided that
Kendricks was absorbed in the study of his companion’s mind, which must
be open to his contemporaneous eye as it could never have been to my
old-sighted glasses, and I envied him the knowledge he was gaining of
that type of American girl.  It suddenly came to me that he must be
finding his account in this, and I felt a little less regret for the
waste of civilities, of attentions, which sometimes seemed to me beyond
her appreciation.
I, for my part, gave myself to the study of the types about me, and I
dwelt long and luxuriously upon the vision of a florid and massive matron
in diaphanous evening dress, whom I imagined to be revisiting the
glimpses of her girlhood in the ancient watering-place, and to be getting
all the gaiety she could out of it.  These are the figures one mostly
sees at Saratoga; there is very little youth of the present day there,
but the youth of the past abounds, with the belated yellow hair and the
purple moustaches, which gave a notion of greater wickedness in a former
generation.
I made my observation that the dress, even in extreme cases of elderly
prime, was very good—in the case of the women, I mean; the men there, as
everywhere with us, were mostly slovens; and I was glad to find that the
good taste and the correct fashion were without a colour-line; there were
some mulatto ladies present as stylish as their white sisters, or
step-sisters.
The most amiable of the human race is in great force at Saratoga, where
the vast hotel service is wholly in its hands, and it had honoured the
effort of the comedians that night with a full house of their own
complexion.  We who were not of it showed strangely enough in the dark
mass, who let us lead the applause, however, as if doubtful themselves
where it ought to come in, and whom I found willing even to share some
misplaced laughter of mine.  They formed two-thirds of the audience on
the floor, and they were a cloud in the gallery, scarcely broken by a
gleam of white.
I entertained myself with them a good deal, and I thought how much more
delightful they were in their own kindly character than in their
assumption of white character, and I tried to define my suffering from
the performance as an effect from my tormented sympathies rather than
from my offended tastes.  When the long stress was over, and we rose and
stood to let the crowd get out, I asked Miss Gage if she did not think
this must be the case.  I do not suppose she was really much more
experienced in the theatre than the people on the stage, some of whom I
doubted to have ever seen a play till they took part in East Lynne.
But I thought I would ask her that in order to hear what she would say;
and she said very simply that she had seen so few plays she did not know
what to think of it, and I could see that she was abashed by the fact.
