with their way of being nice to her, and of 





handling, as if their pockets were private 
tills, loose, mixed masses of silver and gold, 
were such pleasant appearances that she 
could envy them without dislike. They 
never had to give change they only had to 
get it. They ranged through every sugges 
tion, every shade of fortune, which evidently 
included indeed lots of bad luck as well as of 
good, declining even toward Mr. Mudge and 
his bland, firm thrift, and ascending, in wild 
signals and rocket-flights, almost to within 
hail of her highest standard. So, from month 
to month, she went on with them all, through 
a thousand ups and downs and a thousand 
pangs and indifferences. What virtually hap 
pened was that in the shuffling herd that 
passed before her by far the greater part only 
passed a proportion but just appreciable 
stayed. Most of the elements swam straight 
away, lost themselves in the bottomless com 
mon, and by so doing really kept the page 
clear. On the clearness, therefore, what she 
did retain stood sharply out ; she nipped and 
caught it, turned it over and interwove it. 



VI 

She met Mrs. Jordan whenever she could, 
and learned from her more and more how 
the great people, under her gentle shake, 
and after going through everything with the 
mere shops, were waking up to the gain of 
putting into the hands of a person of real 
refinement the question that the shop-people 
spoke of so vulgarly as that of the floral 
decorations. The regular dealers in these 
decorations were all very well; but there 
was a peculiar magic in the play of taste of 
a lady who had only to remember, through 
whatever intervening dusk, all her own little 
tables, little bowls and little jars and little 
other arrangements, and the wonderful thing 
she had made of the garden of the vicarage. 
This small domain, which her young friend 
had never seen, bloomed in Mrs. Jordan 's 
discourse like a new Eden, and she con 
verted the past into a bank of violets by the 







tone in which she said, Of course you always 
knew my one passion! She obviously met 
now, at any rate, a big contemporary need, 
measured what it was rapidly becoming for 
people to feel they could trust her without a 
tremor. It brought them a peace that 
during the quarter of an hour before dinner 
in especial was worth more to them than 
mere payment could express. Mere pay 
ment, none the less, was tolerably prompt ; 
she engaged by the month, taking over the 
whole thing; and there was an evening on 
which, in respect to our heroine, she at last 
returned to the charge. It 's growing and 
growing, and I see that I must really divide 
the work. One wants an associate of one 's 
own kind, don't you know? You know the 
look they want it all to have? of having 
come, not from a florist, but from one of 
themselves. Well, I'm sure you could give 
it because you are one. Then we should 
win. Therefore just come in with me. 

And leave the P. O.? 

Let the P. O. simply bring you your 





letters. It would bring you lots, you'd see; 
orders, after a bit, by the dozen. It was 
on this, in due course, that the great advan 
tage again came up : One seems to live again 
with one 's own people. It had taken some 
little time (after their having parted com 
pany in the tempest of their troubles and 
