He had known her since she had been a little child, 
yet he had never become used to her cruelties of 
expression. He was a man more easily disgusted in 
his aesthetic sensibilities than shocked by the wicked- 
ness of a world he knew. To him, God was not 
only great, but beautiful; Nature, as some theologians 
maintain, was cruel, evil, hurtful, but she was never 
coarse, nor foul in his conception, and her beauty 
appealed to him against his will. So also in his eyes 
a woman could be sinful, and her sins might seem ter- 
rible to him, and yet she herself was to him a woman 
still, a being delicate, refined, tender even in her 
wickedness ; but a woman who could speak at once 
keenly and brutally of her marriage reacted upon him 
as a very ugly or painful sight, or as a very harsh and 
discordant sound that jars every nerve in the body. 
" Madam," he said in a low voice, but very quietly 
and coldly, " I think not that you are in such state 
of grace as to bear the Cross to your good." 
Eleanor raised her head and looked at him haugh- 
tily, with lids half drooped as her eyes grew hard 
and keen. 
"You are not my confessor, sir," she retorted. 
" For all you know, he may have enjoined upon me a 
pilgrimage to the Holy Land. It is a common pen- 
ance." For the third time she laughed. 
" A common penance ! " cried the abbot, in a tone 
of despair. " That is what it has come to in these 
days. A man kills his neighbour in a quarrel and 
goes to Jerusalem to purge him of blood, as he would 
take a physician's draught to cure him of the least 
of little aches. A pilgrimage is a remedy, as a prayer 
is a medicine. To repeat the act of contrition so and 
so often, or to run through a dozen rosaries of an 
afternoon, is a potion for the sick soul." 
" Well, what then ? " asked the Queen. 
" What then ? " repeated the abbot. " Then there 
is no faith left in the true meaning of the Crusade — " 
" That is what I fear," answered Eleanor. " That 
is why I am begging you to come with us. That is 
why the King will be unable to command men 
without you. And yet you will not go." 
"No," he replied, " I will not." 
"You have always disappointed me," said the 
Queen, rising, and employing a weapon to which 
women usually resort last. "You stand in the 
front and will not lead, you rouse men to deeds 
you will not do, you give men ideals in which 
you do not believe, and then you go back to the 
peace of your abbey of Clairvaux, and leave men 
to shift for themselves in danger and need. And 
if, perhaps, some trusting woman comes to you with 
overladen heart, you tell her that she is not in a 
state of grace. It must be easy to be a great man 
in that way." 
She turned as she spoke the last words and stepped 
from the platform to the stone pavement. At the 
enormous injustice of her judgment, Bernard's face 
grew cold and stern ; but he would not answer what 
she said, for he knew how useless it would be. In 
her, and perhaps in her only, of all men and women 
he had known, there was the ssmething to which he 
could not speak, the element that was out of har- 
mony with his own being, and when he had talked 
with her it was as if he had eaten sand. He could 
understand that she, too, was in contradiction with 
her natural feelings in her marriage with such a man 
as the King ; he could be sorry for her, he could pity 
her, he could forgive her, he could pray for her — 
but he could not speak to her as he could to others. 
A dozen times before she reached the door he 
wished to call her back, and he sought in the archive 
of his brain and in the treasury of his heart the 
words that might touch her. But he sought in vain. 
So long as she was before his eyes, a chilled air, dull 
and unresonant, divided his soul from hers. Her 
hand was on the curtain to go out when she turned 
and looked at him again. 
" You will not go with us," she said. " If we fail, 
we shall count the fault yours ; if we quarrel and 
turn our swords upon one another, the sin is yours ; if 
our armies lose heart, and are scattered and hewn in 
pieces, their blood will be on your head. But if we 
win," she said at the last, drawing herself to her 
height, " the honour of our deeds shall be ours alone, 
not yours." 
She had raised the curtain, and it fell behind her 
as she spoke the last word, leaving the abbot no 
possibility of a retort. But she had missed her 
intention, for he was not a man to be threatened 
from the right he had planned. When she was gone, 
his face grew sad, and calm, and weary again, and 
 
presently, musing, lie took up the pen that lay 
beside the half -written page. 
But she went on through the outer hall to the 
vestibule, drawing her thin dark mantle about her, 
her lips set and her eyes cruel, for she had been 
disappointed. Beneath the idle wish to hear Ber- 
nard speak, behind the strong conviction that he 
