century or more of meaningless earthly existence? A controvertible
hereafter? But she ceased to analyse, knowing that it could lead nowhere
until the human mind ceased to be human.

And one day, in the end of the summer, she lost her grip on herself.

For three days the trade-winds had raged; she had not been able to leave
the house. Twice she had set forth, desperate with the nervous monotony
of her hours, and been driven back by the blinding dust. It was on the
third day that she happened to catch sight of herself in the glass. She
saw her face plainer than ever, but her attention passed suddenly to her
shoulders and rested there. They were bent. Her carriage was dejected,
apathetic. The sluggish tide mounted slowly to her face as she realised
that this physical manner must have fallen upon her gradually, and been
worn for some time; and its significance. She made an effort to reassume
her old erect haughty poise, which had been partly the manifest of
inherent pride, partly of half-acknowledged defiance of the
beauty-worship of the world. Her shoulders sank before the spine had
risen to its perpendicular. What did it matter? Again she experienced
that disintegration of will which once had left her at the mercy of that
instinct for destruction which is one of the essential particles of the
ego.

Her brain was almost torpid. The want of exhilarating exercise, the long
dearth of companionship, the terrible monotony of her life, the restless
nights, the dank gloomy atmosphere in which she had her perpetual being,
were, she told herself dully, doing their work. And she did not care.
But if her brain was sodden, her nerves felt as if on the verge of
explosion. She noticed that her hands were not steady, and sat for
hours, wondering what was coming upon her. She cared less and less.

Ah Kee tapped at her door. She replied that she did not want any dinner,
loathing the unvarying bill-of-fare.

The hours dragged on, and darkness came; but she did not light the gas,
whose jet was but a feeble point in these times, hardly worth the waste
of a match. She strained her ears, fancied she heard whisperings in the
hall below. If San Francisco's skeletons really were down there, she
wished they would go in and throttle her father. He was the author of
all her misery; and was any woman on earth so miserable as she? Why
should he live, exist down there like a beast in his cave, when his
death would give her liberty?--a poignant happiness in itself. She
wondered did she kill him should she be hanged? They rarely hanged
anybody in California, never when there was gold to rattle
contemptuously in the face of the law; why should she not deliver her
mother and herself? They would both be in an asylum for the mad, or dead
before their time, unless he went soon; and their lives were of several
times more value than his. They, at least, had ruined the lives of no
one, and with his hoarded unsavoury millions they would gladly do good
to hundreds.

She tiptoed out into the hall, and leaned over the circular railing, and
peered down into the space below. Only an old-fashioned waxen taper
burned in a cup of oil; it emitted a feeble and ghostly light. The large
webs of the spiders quivered in a draught. They assumed strange
distorted shapes and seemed to point long fingers at her father's door.

They are the ghosts that once animated the skeletons, she thought; and
they think it time he joined them.

She stood there for a long while, her eyes narrowed in a hard searching
regard; the trembling gloom with the tiny sallow flame in its middle
suggested the purgatory of imaginative artists. Should she go down and
thrust the dagger into his neck?

Her thoughts were torn apart by the abrupt loud shouts of the wind. She
wondered if there were such winds anywhere else on earth, or if this
were the voice of some fiend prisoned in the Pacific,--the spouse whom
California had taken to her arms when the fires in her body were hewing
and shattering and rehewing her, and divorced in an after-desire for
beauty and peace.

Magdaléna went back to her room and turned the key in the drawer which
contained the dagger.

"I must get out of this house," she said aloud, with the sensation of
dragging her will from the depths of her brain and shaking it back to
life. "If I don't, I'll be in an asylum to-morrow. Something is
certainly wrong in my head."

She put on her jacket and hat with trembling fingers. Her nerves seemed
fighting their way through her skin. Her ears were humming. Something
had begun to pound in her brain.

She ran downstairs and let herself out, averting her eyes from her
father's door. Her fingers were rigid, and curved.

As she reached the sidewalk, a squall caught and nearly carried her off
her feet. It bellied her skirts and loosened her hair. She lost her
breath and regained it with difficulty; she could hardly steer herself.
But the wind filled her with a sudden wild exaltation, not of the soul,
but of the worst of her passions,--those tangled, fighting, sternly
governed passions of the cross-breed.

She cursed aloud. She let fly all the maledictions, English and Spanish,
of which she had knowledge. The street was deserted. She raised her
voice and pierced the gale, the furious energy of her words hissing like
escaping steam. She raised her voice still higher and shrieked her
profane arraignment of all things mundane in a final ecstasy of nervous
abandonment.
