they knowed what they run from. That 
there object cavortin round that there 
bonfire is old Sanchez, and he's drunk. 
Oh, Lord ! " And once more Hill gave 
way to mirth. 

" He did more good than harm to get 
drunk this time," said Roldan, smiling 
sympathetically. 

" You Ye right, Roily. You've got a 
long head. If old Sanchez had set down 



 

to supper sober to-night, there'd be a war-
dance round another bonfire this minute, 
and his scalp ud be bobbin bravely. I 
don't approve of liquor," he added cautiously, remembering the young ideas shoot 
ing before him. " I only said that there 
be exceptions to all rules, and this is one 
of them." 

" I understand," said Roldan, drily. " I 
am not thinking of following the Senor 
Sanchez example. But do you suppose 
that was really what frightened the 
Indians?" 

"Just. Well, I guess! They've probably got some idee of the devil, and they 
thought that was him, sure's fate." 

He sprang to his feet, ran forward, 
caught the bacchanalian about the shoulders, and rushed him in the direction of 
the dimly-looming house, throwing one of 
his own long legs into the air every now 
and again. The boys ran after. When 
they reached the house its master was extended on a settee in the living-room, and 
Hill was telling the tale of their narrow 
escape to the frightened household. 



 

" I don't think they'll come back," he 
said in conclusion. " But it's jest as well 
to have your guns ready, and for one or 
two of ye to set up all night. We three'd 
like grub and beds as quick as you kin git 
em ready."

Never had beds felt so sweet as they 
did that night. The boys awoke refreshed, 
themselves again ; and no Indians had 
returned to disturb their slumbers. 



XXIV 

HILL met them as they entered the 
living-room. His eyes were full of 
news. 

" Well, boys," he said, " I don't know 
that you're in fur another adventure, but 
ye kin call it by that name when you git 
home if you like; leastways there ain't 
no doubt about it's bein an experience." 

The boys forgot the waiting breakfast. 
" What is it?" they demanded simultane 
ously. "Quick! quick! " 

" It's this. I don't suppose you know 
more about the history of your country n 
most kids do. Well, Alvarado and Gen- 
eral Castro are your two big men 

"We know that," interrupted Koldan, 
scornfully. 

"Oh, you do? Then mebbe you know 
who se iMtvenor at the present moment." 

" Micheltorena. He was sent from 

Mexico. People don't like him, and they 



 
despise! the men he brought with him, still 
more." 



