"But somebody'd have to keep it," said Jethro good-naturedly, smiling on
her. "We can get good help. You'll like to have a real home table, and
you can invite company every day, if you say so. I never was close,
Dilly,--you know that. I sha'n't make you account for things."
Dilly got up, and, still holding her papers in her apron, walked
swiftly to the window. There she stood, a moment, looking out into the
orchard, where the grass lay tangled under the neglected, happy trees.
Her eyes traveled mechanically from one to another. She knew them all.
That was the "sopsyvine," its red fruitage fast coming on; there was the
Porter she had seen her father graft; and down in the corner grew the
August sweet. Life out there looked so still and sane and homely. She
knew no city streets,--yet the thought of them sounded like a pursuit.
She turned about, and came back to her chair.
"I guess I never dreamt how you lived, Jethro," she said gently. "But it
don't make no matter. You're contented with it."
"I ain't a rich man," said Jethro, with some quiet pride; "but I've got
enough. Yes, I like my business; and city life suits me. You'll fall in
with it, too."
Then silence settled between them; but that never troubled Dilly. She
was used to long musings on her walks to and from her patients, and in
her watching beside their beds. Conversation seemed to her a very
spurious thing when there is nothing to say.
"What you thinking about?" he asked suddenly.
Dilly looked up at him with her bright, truth-telling glance. "I was
thinkin'," she answered, with a clarity never ruthless, because it was
so sweet,--"I was thinkin' you make me homesick, somehow or another."
Jethro looked at her doubtfully, and then, as she smiled at him, he
smiled also.
"I don't believe it's me," he said, confidently. "It's because you're
going over things here. It's the old house."
"Maybe," said Dilly, nodding and tying her last bundle of papers. "But I
don't know. I never had quite such feelin's before. It's the nearest to
bein' afraid of anything I've come acrost. I guess I shall have to run
out into the lot an' take my bearin's."
Jethro got up, put his hands in his pockets, and walked about the room.
He was very gentle, but he did at heart cherish the masculine theory
that the unusual in woman is never to be judged by rules.
"But it is a queer kind of a day," owned Dilly, pushing in the last
drawer. "Why, Jethro!" She faced him, and her voice broke in excitement.
"You don't know, I ain't begun to tell you, how queer it seems to me.
Why, I've dreaded this day for weeks! but when it come nigh, it begun to
seem to me like a joyful thing. I felt as if they all knew of it: them
that was gone. It seemed as if they stood 'round me, ready to uphold me
in what I was doin'. I shouldn't be surprised if they were all here now.
I don't feel a mite alone."
Her voice shook with excitement; her eyes were big and black. Jethro
came up to her, and laid a kindly hand on her shoulder. It was a fine
hand, long and shapely, and Dilly, looking down at it, remembered, with
a strange regretfulness, how she had once loved its lines.
"There, poor girl!" he said, "you're tired thinking about it. No wonder
you've got fancies. I guess the ghosts won't trouble us. There's nothing
here worse than ourselves." And again, in spite of the Joyces, Dilly
felt homesick and alone.
There came a soft thudding sound upon the kitchen floor, and she turned,
alert, to listen. This was Mrs. Eli Pike in her carpet slippers; she had
stood so much over soap-making that week that her feet had taken to
swelling. She was no older than Dilly, but she had seemed matronly in
her teens. She looked very large, as she padded forward through the
doorway, and her pink face and double chin seemed to exude kindliness as
she came.
"There, Dilly Joyce! if this ain't jest like you!" she exclaimed. "Creep
in here an' not let anybody know! Why, Jethro, that you? Recognize you!
Well, I guess I should!"
She included them both in a neighborly glance, and Dilly was very
grateful. Yet it seemed to her that now, at last, she might break down
and cry. The tone of olden friendliness was hard to bear, when no other
voices answered. She could endure the silent house, but not the
intercourse of a life so sadly changed.
"There!" continued Mrs. Pike, with a nod, "I guess I know! You're tired
to pieces with this pickin' and sortin', an' you're comin' over to
dinner, both on ye. Eli's dressed a hin. I had to wring her neck. He
wouldn't ha' done it; you know that, Dilly! An' I've been beatin' up
eggs. Now don't you say one word. You be there by twelve. Jethro, you
got a watch? You see 't she starts, now!" And Mrs. Pike marched away
victorious, her apron over her head, and waving one hand before her as
she went. She had once been stung by bees, on just such a morning as
this, and she had a set theory that they infested all strange dooryards.
Dilly felt as if even the Joyces could not save her day in its solemn
significance unless, indeed, they should appear in their proper persons.
She thought of her bread and butter and boiled eggs, lying in her little
bundle, and the simple meal seemed as unattainable as if it were some
banquet dreamed of in delirium. It was of one piece with cars going by
the house, and two maid-servants to correct. To Dilly, a car meant a
shrieking monster propelled by steam: yet not even that drove her to
such insanity of revulsion as the two servants. They alone made her
coming life seem like one eternal school, with the committee ever on
the platform, and no recess. But she worked very meekly and soberly, and
Jethro took off his coat and helped her; then, just before twelve, they
washed their hands and went across the orchard to Mrs. Pike's.
The rest of the day seemed to Dilly like a confused though not an
unfamiliar dream. She knew that the dinner was very good, and that it
choked her, so that Mrs. Pike, alert in her first pride of housekeeping,
was quite cordially harsh with her for not eating more; and that Jethro
talked about Chicago; and Eli Pike, older than his wife and graver, said
"Do tell!" now and again, and seemed to picture in his mind the outlines
of city living. She escaped from the table as soon as possible, under
pretext of the work to be done, and slipped back to the empty house; and
there Jethro found her, and began helping her again.
The still afternoon settled down in its grooves of beauty, and its very
loveliness gave Dilly a pain at the heart. She remembered that this was
