“Take the clothes, thin,” said Mrs. Hogan, lifting them gingerly, as
though afraid of contamination. “Shure, I wouldn’t give two cents for
the lot of ’em.”
She little knew why Jerry valued them, and what a quantity of wealth
had been concealed in the soiled garments.
With trembling fingers, and features working with agitation, Jerry took
the clothes, and began to feel for his treasures. Alas for the old man!
His worst fears were realized. The bank books and certificate of stock
had been removed. Not a trace of them was to be found. The poor man,
for he was to be pitied, uttered a sharp cry of anguish. The clothes
dropped from his nerveless hands, and he fell back on the bed as if
stricken with a mortal wound.
“Help! Help! Police!” he ejaculated. “I’ve been robbed.”
“Robbed is it?” inquired Mrs. Hogan, puzzled. “And of what have you
been robbed, ould man?”
“There were two savings bank books in the pockets. You’ve taken them!”
“Well, well, if I ever heard the loike!” exclaimed Mrs. Hogan,
indignantly. “So you call me a thafe, do you?”
“Give them back to me!” said the old man, imploringly. “I--I am so
poor. It will kill me if I lose my money.”
“Two savings bank books, indade!” said Mrs. Hogan. “It’s my belafe
you’re an ould humbug, you that have always called yourself so poor.
And how much money was there in them?” she asked.
“I--I--no matter. Give me the books, or I’ll send for the police.”
“Go and welcome, this minute, if you please. You ought to know better
than to call an honest woman a thafe.”
“Somebody has taken the books,” wailed Jerry.
“Very likely Paul’s taken care of them for you. He was here alone with
the clothes.”
“Where is Paul?” demanded Jerry, with peevish eagerness.
“He’s at his work, but I’m expecting him back every minute. If he has
taken the books, they are all right. Paul’s an honest boy, and a fine
boy.”
“Do you think he would rob me, Mrs. Hogan?” asked Jerry, piteously.
“It’s a shame to be askin’ such a question,” said Mrs. Hogan. “Shure
you know Paul wouldn’t demane himself by such an act. But here he is to
answer for himself.”
She heard Paul’s step on the stairs, as he came up whistling. Directly
afterwards he entered the room.
“What’s the matter?” he asked, looking from one to the other.
“The ould man’s in a great taking about bein’ robbed, Paul,” answered
Mrs. Hogan. “He says some savings bank books have been taken from his
clothes.”
“Where are they, Paul?” wailed the old man.
“They are safe, Jerry. I took them from your pockets, and the railroad
shares, too, and have left them with a Safe Deposit Company, for safe
keeping.”
“Are you sure they are safe, Paul?”
“Yes, much safer than they would be here. Of course Mrs. Hogan is
honest, but other persons might come into the room.”
“Bring them back to me, Paul. I want to see them.”
“I can if you insist upon it, Jerry. But you are too sick to look after
them. Besides, suppose your son should come in some day. He could rob
you easily, and you would never see your property again. Shall I show
you the receipt for them?”
“Yes.”
Paul drew from his pocket the receipt given him by the Safe Deposit
Company, and displayed it to the old man.
“Let me keep this?” said Jerry.
“Yes, if you like.”
This seemed to satisfy him, and he clutched the paper with a deep sigh
of relief.
“Shure, and you’ve calmed him down, Paul,” said Mrs. Hogan. “Was it
really true about the books?”
“It was really true, Mrs. Hogan. He has a good deal of money, though he
doesn’t look it.”
“Thin it’s a fool he is to live as he does, whin he might live like a
gintleman.”
“He will never live differently. When he dies it will go to his son,
who will get through with it in short order.”
Then Mrs. Hogan told Paul about the visit of Ellen Barclay, and her
discovering a relation in old Jerry.
“I wish she might have some of the money. Shure, she nades it with her
young children.”
“I would much rather she would have it than his son, who is a ruffian
and a burglar.”
“And you’ll help her to it, if you can, Paul?”
“Yes, I will. I don’t want Jerry’s money myself. I am young, and my
prospects are good. All I want is that it should go into the right
hands.”
CHAPTER XXVIII. JERRY FINDS A NEW RELATION.
Ellen Barclay came over the next evening according to appointment, and
had an interview with Paul. She had at first been disposed to look upon
him with suspicion, as likely to divert Jerry’s money from his legal
heirs, but the interview dispelled all such ideas. The telegraph boy
was so frank and free spoken, and showed such an interest in helping
her, that she was strongly impressed in his favor. He even told her the
particulars of his first encounter with her husband, and in what manner
he had defeated his plan of gaining possession of Mr. Cunningham’s
money.
“Yes,” said Ellen, bitterly, “he is a husband to be proud of.”
“Has he always been as bad?” asked Paul.
“Yes; I had not been married to him a month before I found out that I
was wedded to a criminal. He treated me brutally, and I only breathed
freely when he was away from home. Within a year from the wedding day,
he was condemned to a year’s imprisonment, and at least half the time
since he has been in confinement.”
“Leaving you to support yourself, I suppose?”
“Yes, I have had to support myself and the children. Even when he was a
free man, he did little or nothing for the family.”
