in our way, to pull the coach. That's what I mean hy 
worry, and if you don't have any, so much the better for 
you — for me it's in the day's work. Your father and I 
have most to think about, always, at this time, as you 
perfectly know — when we have to turn things round and 
manage somehow or other to get out of town, have to 
provide and pinch, to meet all the necessities, with money, 
money, money, at every turn, running away like water. 
The children, this year, seem to fit into nothing, into no- 
where, and Harold's more dreadful than he has ever been, 
doing nothing at all for himself and requiring everything 
to be done for him. He talks about his American girl, 
with millions, who's so awfully taken with him, but I 
can't find out anything about her ; the only one, just 
now, that people seem to have heard of is the one Bobby 
Manger's engaged to. The Mangers literally snap up 
everything," Mrs. Brook quite wailingly now contin- 
ued :  ' the Jew man, so gigantically rich — who is he ? 
Baron Schack or Schmack — who has just taken Cum- 
berland House and who has the awful stammer — or what 
is it ? no roof to his mouth — is to give that horrid little 
Algie, to do his conversation for him, four hundred a year, 
which Harold pretended to me that, of all the rush of 
young men — dozens—lie was most in the running for. 
Your father's settled gloom is terrible, and I bear all the 
brunt of it ; we get literally nothing, this year, for the 
Hovel, yet have to spend on it heaven knows what ; and 
everybody, for the next three months, in Scotland and 
everywhere, has asked us for the wrong time, and no- 
body for the right : so that I assure you I don't know 
where to turn — which doesn't, however, in the least pre- 
vent every one coming to me with their own selfish 
troubles." It was as if Mrs. Brook had found the cup 
of her secret sorrows suddenly jostled by some touch of 
which the perversity, though not completely noted at 
 
the moment, proved, as she a little let herself go, suf- 
ficient to make it flow over; but she drew, the next 
thing, from her daughter's stillness, a reflection of the 
vanity of her flurry, and speedily recovered herself as if 
in order, with more dignity, to point the moral. "I 
can carry my burden and shall do so to the end ; but we 
must each remember that we shall fall to pieces if we 
don't manage to keep hold of some little idea of respon- 
sibility. I positively can't arrange without knowing 
when it is you go to him." 
"To Mr. Longdon ? Oh, whenever I like," Nanda 
replied, very gently and simply. 
"And when shall you be so good as to like ?" 
" Well, he goes himself on Saturday, and if I want I 
can go a few days later." 
" And what day can you go if I  want ?" Mrs. Brook 
spoke as with a small sharpness — just softened indeed in 
time —  produced by the sight of a freedom on her daugh- 
ter's part that suddenly loomed larger than any freedom 
of her own. It was still a part of the unsteadiness of 
the vessel of her anxieties ; but she never, after all, re- 
mained publicly long subject to the influence that she 
often comprehensively designated to others, as well as to 
herself, as "nastiness." "AVhat I mean is that you 
might go the same day, mightn't you ?" 
"With him — in the train ? I should think so, if you 
wish it." 
"But would lie wish it ? I mean would he hate it ?" 
"I don't think so at all, but I can easily ask him." 
Mrs. Brook's head inclined to the chimney and her eyes 
to the window. " Easily ?" 
Nanda looked for a moment mystified by her mother's 
insistence. "I can at any rate perfectly try it." 
" Remembering even that mamma would never have 
pushed so ?" 
Nanda's face seemed to concede even that condition. 
  
' Well," she at all events serenely replied, 
think we're good friends enough for anything. 
It might have been, for the light it quickly produced" 
exactly what her mother had been working to make her 
say.  ''What do you call that then, I should like to 
know, but his adopting you ?" 
"Ah, I don't know that it matters much what it's 
called." 
" So long as it brings with it, you mean," Mrs. Bro 
asked,  '  all the advantages ?" 
'' Well yes," said Nanda, who had now begun dimly 
smile — " call them advantages." 
Mrs. Brook had a pause. '' One would be quite ready 
to do that if one only knew a little more exactly wh  i 
you're to get by them."   
" Oh, the great advantage, I feel, is doing something 
for Jiim."    
Nanda's companion, at this, hesitated afresh. "  v! 
doesn't that, my dear, put the extravagance of your sur- 
render to him on rather an odd footing ? Charity, love, 
begins at home, and if it's a question of merely giving, 
you've objects enough for your bounty without going so 
far." 
The girl, as her stare showed, was held a moment by 
her surprise, which presently broke out. " Why, 
thought you wanted me so to be nice to him !" 
" Well, I hope you won't think me very vulgar," sai( 
