" Well, I shall miss you," he answered, evasively. 

" And I shall miss you, too, Mr. Bennam. Don 't 
you believe it ? But if I don 't take this chance to 
get home, I don 't know when I shall eva have anotha. 
And there isn 't any use waiting no, there isn 't ! " 

The vice-consul laughed at the sort of imperative 
despair in her tone. "How are you going? Which 
way, I mean." 

They counted up Clementina 's debts and assets, and 
they found that if she took the next steamer from 
Genoa, which was to sail in four days, she would have 
enough to pay her own way and Mr. Orson 's to New 
York, and still have some thirty dollars over, for her 
expenses home to Middlemount. They allowed for a 
second cabin-passage, which the vice-consul said was 
perfectly good on the Genoa steamers. He rather 
urged the gentility and comfort of the second cabin- 
passage, but his reasons in favor of it were wasted 
upon Clementina 's indifference; she wished to get 
home, now, and she did not care how. She asked the 
vice-consul to see the minister for her, and if he were 
ready and willing, to telegraph for their tickets. He 
transacted the business so promptly that he was able 
to tell her when he came in the evening that every 
thing was in train. He excused his coming; he said 
that now she was going so soon, he wanted to see all 
he could of her. He offered no excuse when he came 
the next morning ; but he said he had got a letter for 
her and thought she might want to have it at once. 

He took it out of his hat and gave it to her. It 
was addressed in Hinkle 's writing ; her answer had 




come at last; she stood trembling with it in her 
hand. 

The vice-consul smiled. " Is that the one ? " 

" Yes," she whispered back. 

" All right." He took his hat, and set it on the 
back of his head before he left her without other sal 
utation. 

Then Clementina opened her letter. It was in a 
woman 's hand, and the writer made haste to explain 
at the beginning that she was George W. Hinkle 's 
sister, and that she was writing for him ; for though 
he was now out of danger, he was still very weak, and 
they had all been anxious about him. A month be 
fore, he had been hurt in a railroad collision, and had 
come home from the West, where the accident hap 
pened, suffering mainly from shock, as his doctor 
thought ; he had taken to his bed at once, and had 
not risen from it since. He had been out of his head 
a great part of the time, and had been forbidden 
everything that could distress or excite him. His 
sister said that she was writing for him now as soon 
as he had seen Clementina 's letter ; it had been for 
warded from one address to another, and had at last 
found him there at his home in Ohio. He wished to 
say that he would come out for Clementina as soon 
as he was allowed to undertake the journey, and in 
the meantime she must let him know constantly where 
she was. The letter closed with a few words of love 
in his own handwriting. 

Clementina rose from reading it, and put on her 
hat in a bewildered impulse to go to him at once ; she 



 

knew, in spite of all the cautions and reserves of the 
letter that he must still be very sick. "When she 
came out of her daze she found that she could only 
go to the vice-consul. She put the letter in his hands 
to let it explain itself. " You 'll undastand, now," she 
said. " What shall I do ? " 

When he had read it, he smiled and answered, " I 
guess I understood pretty well before, though I wasn 't 
posted on names. Well, I suppose you 'll want to lay 
out most of your capital on cables, now ? " 

" Yes," she laughed, and then she suddenly lament 
ed, " Why didn 't they telegraph ? " 

" Well, I guess he hadn 't the head for it," said the 
vice-consul, " and the rest wouldn 't think of it. They 
wouldn t, in the country." 

Clementina laughed again, in joyous recognition of 
