
Sherburne produced his new budget of papers and re- 
peated the pleasant and satisfactory visit at the office. 
They went over the case with a good deal of zest. Sher- 
burne entered curiously into the spirit of the argument as 
if he was really fighting the case himself. 

" He would have made a splendid lawyer," his father 
thought with a sigh. 

Every day there was some improvement now that he 
had started. He walked about the room, then in the 
next apartment and out to the schoolroom where the 
children hailed him with joy. And then downstairs to 
the noonday luncheon. 

But the illness had made great ravages with him as it 
often does with men at middle life. His eyes were lan- 
guid, the rosiness had gone out of his face and wrinkles 
were settling about his eyes and temples. 

Mr. Bristow was not a little shocked when he came 
down for a final review of the case. 
Still the old spirit and fire remained. 
"There were two or three very fine points in this, 





quite original and telling," exclaimed Mr. Bristow. 
" You did not lose your force and freshness, evidently." 

"Something of that is due my son. He has been a 
great help to me," was the satisfied reply. 

"Well! well! A chip of the old block! Judge, 
what made you allow him to stray off to the dissecting of 
bones and compounding of messes, when there were 
fine opportunities right at hand ? We want some strong, 
eager blood, and well trained minds to meet the coming 
momentous questions and to make a stand in the name 
of justice and honor, and the larger respect for one's 
country." 

"I wish he had chosen that way," responded the 
father, with a sigh of fresh disappointment. 

Truth to tell, Sherburne was so interested in the case 
that he went up to hear it argued. It was the greed of 
a big corporation on one side, and honesty, truth and 
humanity on the other. It was a splendid and vivid 
scene, and his pulses throbbed now with fear, now with 
triumph. He thought they could have made some points 
stronger. Why it had the ring of the battle fray, and he 
longed to be in the arena. 

They had telegraphed the success of their side to the 
judge, but there was so much for Sherburne to relate. 
His eyes kindled with enthusiasm and his voice had a 
triumphant ring as if he had been pleading himself. 

It was a happy and grateful household. And then 
came a wave from outside to make a disturbance. 

This was a letter from Professor Kenneth. Of course 
through Judge Beaumanoir's illness it would have been an 
unwarranted intrusion to present any claim, or ask any 
favor, but the lover with his punctilious sense of respect 
due in such a case, felt rather as if he had been indulging 





in a clandestine correspondence. More than once he had 
resolved to wait until he could prefer his wishes in per- 
son, but the letters had been such a delight, and he had 
longed to hear of the daily progress toward recovery, so 
he had yielded to the seductive temptation, but now he 
felt it imperative. There was an important reason that 
he could explain better in conversation than by letter. 

" Yes," commented Mrs. Beaumanoir. And then 
mother and daughter looked at each other like suddenly 
detected conspirators. 

"Mamma," Princess began, after a little thought, " I 
will give him the letter to read, and tell him how it hap- 
pened. There will be quite a long engagement of course, 
and we can have time to get used to the fact," flushing 
and trying to smile. 

" O yes, a long engagement," said the mother. " You 
are so young." 

" Nineteen in a few months." 

"But you seem younger than that. And somehow I 
have had so little of you." 
