"Have you parents residing in the city?"
"No, sir; I am all alone."
"That would be an objection. We prefer to employ those who live at
home."
"Do most employers require that, sir?"
"Many do."
Here a customer came in and asked for a bottle of cough medicine, and
the druggist turned away to fill the order. Jed walked slowly out of the
store.
"I wonder whether there is any work for me anywhere?" he asked himself
despondently.
Jed continued his walk down Broadway. It was a bright, clear,
exhilarating day, and Jed would have enjoyed it thoroughly if he had
been better fixed, but it is hard to keep up the spirits when your
pocket is empty.
When Jed reached City Hall Park he went in and sat down on one of the
benches.
One of the boy bootblacks who carry on business in the park came up to
him with his box on his shoulder and asked, "Shine your boots?"
Jed shook his head.
"Not this morning," he replied.
"They need it," said the boy.
Jed looked at his boots, and was fain to admit that the boy was right.
But he was not possessed of the necessary nickel.
"Yes, they do need it," he said, "but I haven't money enough to pay you
for doing it."
"Only five cents."
"I haven't five cents. I'm poorer than you are, my boy," said Jed in a
burst of confidence.
The boy looked puzzled.
"You don't look like it," he said after scrutinizing Jed's appearance.
"How did you come to be so poor?"
"Had all my money stolen last night."
"How much was there?"
"Thirty-five dollars."
"Whew!" whistled the bootblack. "That was a haul. Who did it?"
"A young man I fell in with. He invited me to share his room. I woke
this morning to find that he had stolen all my money."
"He was a snide, he was! I'd like to step on his necktie."
"I'd like to do something of that sort myself," said Jed with a smile.
"Would you know him if you saw him again?"
"Yes; I shan't forget him very soon."
"When you do see him hand him over to a cop. Just hold out your foot,"
and the boy got down in a position to black Jed's shoe.
"But I haven't any money. I can't pay you."
"I'll do it for nothin', seein' as you're down on your luck. You can pay
me some time when times is better."
"I am afraid you will have to wait a good while for your money."
"Never mind! It won't kill me if I lose it."
"You're very kind to a stranger," said Jed, grateful for the boy's
friendly proffer.
"Oh, it ain't nothin'. You look like a good fellow. You'll get a place
quicker if your shoes look nice."
There was something practical in this suggestion, and Jed accepted the
offer without further hesitation.
The boy exerted himself specially, and Jed's dirty shoes soon showed a
dazzling polish.
"There, you can see your face in 'em!" exclaimed the boy, as he rose
from his knees.
"Thank you," said Jed. "I see you understand your business. Will you
tell me your name?"
"Jim Parker."
"Well, Jim, I am much obliged to you. I hope some time I can do you a
favor."
"Oh, that's all right. So long! I hope you'll get a job." And the
independent young bootblack, with his box over his shoulder, walked
across the park in search of another job.
Somehow Jed was cheered by this act of kindness. He felt a little better
satisfied with himself, moreover, when he saw the transformation of his
dirty shoes to the polish that marks the gentleman.
A man rather shabbily dressed was drawn by this outward sign of
affluence to sit down beside him. He took a brief inventory of Jed, and
then doffing his hat, said deferentially, "Young gentleman, I hope you
will excuse the liberty I am taking, but I have walked all the way from
Buffalo, and am reduced almost to my last penny. In fact this nickel,"
producing one from his pocket, "is all the money I have left. If you
will kindly loan me a quarter I shall esteem it a great favor."
Jed felt like laughing. He had not a penny, yet here was a man richer
than himself asking for a loan.
"I wish I were able to oblige you," he said, "but you are asking me for
more than I possess."
The man glanced incredulously at Jed's polished shoes.
"You don't look poor," he said, in a tone of sarcasm.
"No, I don't look poor, but you are five cents richer than I."
The man shrugged his shoulders. He evidently did not believe Jed.
"It is quite true," continued Jed, answering the doubt on the man's
face. "Last night I was robbed of all the money I had. Had you applied
to me yesterday I would have granted your request."
This frank statement disarmed the man's suspicion.
"I think your are speaking the truth," he said. "Though there are plenty
who pretend to be poor to get rid of giving. Perhaps I shall surprise
you when I say that a year ago I should have been able to lend you five
thousand dollars, and have as much more left."
"Yes, you do surprise me! How did you lose your money?"
"I was a fool--that explains it. I bought mining stocks. I was in San
Francisco at the time, and my money melted like snow in the sun. A year
since I was worth ten thousand dollars. To-day I am worth a nickel. Do
you know what I will do with it?"
Jed looked at him inquiringly.
"I will buy a glass of beer, and drink to our good luck--yours and
