ding along, man fashion, in one of the old ruts, 
feeling his way, like a true American, into the 
career that best suited him, that Celia might be 
a type of the awakened American woman, who 
does not know exactly what she wants. To be 
sure, she wants everything. She has recently 
come into an open place, and she is distracted 
by the many opportunities. She has no sooner 
taken up one than she sees another that seems 
better, or more important in the development of 
her sex, and she flies to that. But nothing, long, 
seems the best thing. Perhaps men are in the 
way, monopolizing all the best things. Celia had 
never made a suggestion of this kind, but Philip 
thought she was typical of the women who push 
individualism so far as never to take a dual view 
of life. 
" I have just been," Celia wrote in one of her 
letters, when she was an active club woman, 
" out West to a convention of the Federation of 
"Women's Clubs. Such a striking collection of 
noble, independent women ! Handsome, lots of 
them, and dressed — oh, my friend, dress is still a 
 
part of it ! So different from a man's convention ! 
Cranks? Tes, a few left over. It was a fine, 
inspiring meeting. But, honestly, I could not 
exactly make out what they were federating 
about, and what they were going to do when 
they got federated. It sort of came over me, I 
am such a weak sister, that there is such a lot of 
"work done in this world with no object except 
the doing of it." 
A more recent letter : — " Do you remember 
Aunt Hepsy, who used to keep the little thread- 
and-needle and candy shop in Eivervale ? Such 
a dear, sweet, contented old soul! Always a 
smile and a good word for every customer. I 
can see her now, picking out tlie biggest piece of 
candy in the dish that she could afford to give 
for a little fellow's cent. It never came over me 
until lately how much good that old woman did 
in the world. I remember what a comfort it 
was to go and talk with her. Well, I am getting 
into a frame of mind to want to be an Aunt 
Hepsy. There is so much sawdust in every- 
thing. No, I'm not low-spirited. I'm just philo- 
sophical. I've a mind to write a life of Aunt 
Hepsy, and let the world see what a real useful 
hfe is." 
And here is a passage from the latest: — 
" "What an interesting story your friend — I hope 
he isn't your friend, for I don't half like him— 
 
has made out of that Mavick girl ! If I were 
the girl's mother I should want to roast him 
over the coals. Is there any truth in it? Of 
course I read it, as everybody did, and read the 
crawl out, and looked for more. So it is partly 
our fault, but what a shame it is, the invasion of 
family life ! Do tell me, if you happen to see 
her — the girl — driving in the Park or anywhere 
— of course you never will — what she looks like. 
I should lilie to see an unsophisticated million- 
aire-ess ! But it is an awfully interesting prob- 
lem, invented or not. I'm pretty deep in psy- 
chology these days, and I'd give anything to 
come in contact with that girl. You would just 
see a woman, and you wouldn't know. I'd see 
a soul. Dear me, if I'd only had the chance of 
that Scotch woman ! Don't you see, if we could 
only get to really know one mind and soul, we 
should know it all. I mean scientifically. I know 
what you are thinking, that all women have that 
chance. "What you think is impertinent — to the 
subject." 
Indeed, the story of Evelyn interested every- 
body. It was taken up seriously in the country 
regions. It absorbed New York gossip for two 
days, and then another topic took possession of 
the mercurial city ; but it was the sort of event 
to take possession of the country mind. New 
York millionaires get more than their share of 
 
attention in the country press at all times, but 
this romance became the subject of household 
talk and church and sewing-circle gossip, and all 
the women were eager for more details, and 
speculated endlessly about the possible character 
and career of the girl. 
Alice wrote Philip from liivervale that her 
aunt Patience was very much excited by it. 
" ' The poor thing,' she said, ' always to have 
somebody poking round, seeing every blessed 
thing you do or don't do; it would drive me 
crazy. There is that comfort in not having any- 
thing much — you have yourself. You tell Philip 
that I hope he doesn't go there often. Pve no 
objection to his being kind to the poor thing 
when they meet, and doing neighborly things, 
