she occasionally had doubted the reality of George 
Washington Mudd. A tall stout man in a loose black 
overcoat, a black slouch hat, and a big cotton umbrella 
under his arm, was stalking across the Hall with his 
head in the air, as if to sniff at the marble effigies of the 
great. Betty felt young again and gave a delighted laugh. 

" Why, I didn't.know there really was anything like 
that ! " she cried. " I thought " 

" Well, I guess I 'd like to know what you mean," 
exclaimed an infuriate voice; and Betty, turning to 
Mrs. Mudd's dark red face, recovered herself instantly. 

" I mean that your husband belongs to a type that 
our dramatists have thought worthy of preservation 
and of exercising their finest art upon. I often give 
writers credit for more creative ability than they possess, for I always am seeing some one in real life whose 
entire type I had supposed had come straight out of 
their genius. Take yourself, for instance. If I had not 
met you outside of a book, I should have thought you 
a triumph of imagination." 

Well thanks," drawled Mrs. Mudd, mollified 
though doubtful. " I don't claim that George is handsome, but he 's the smartest man in our district and 
he'll make the House sit up yet." She giggled and 
rolled her eyes. " He was downright jealous because 
I came home from the reception and raved over the 
President," she announced. " Oh, my ! " 

" Perhaps he 's a Populist," suggested Betty. 

" Not much he ain't. He 's a good Democrat with 
Silver principles." 



 

" Well, I 'm glad you 're happy. Good-afternoon." 
" I love the greatest man in America and she loves 
George Washington Mudd," thought Betty, as she 
walked down the corridor. " Mortals die, but love is 
imperishable. A half-century hence and where will the 
love that dwells in every fibre of me now, have gone? 
Will it be dust with my dust, or vigorous with eternal 
youth in some poor girl who never heard my name? " 
And then she went home to her boudoir. 



XIII 


BETTY, who had come justly to the conclusion that she 
knew something of politics after a year's application to 
the science and several object lessons, made in the 
following weeks her first acquaintance with the intricacies which sometimes may involve political motives. 
The President was not given time to exhaust diplomacy with Spain, although in his War Message he was 
obliged to state that he had done so. To deal successfully with a proud and mediaeval country required 
months, not days, and as Spain had grudgingly but 
surely yielded all along the line to the demands of the 
United States, it is safe to assume that she would have 
withdrawn peacefully her forces from Cuba if her 
pride could have been saved. Sagasta was working in 
the interests of peace ; but a bigoted old country, too 
indolent to read history, and puzzled at a youthful 
nation's industry in the cause of humanity, would move 
so fast and no faster. 

The President was rushed off his feet and his hand 
was forced. An honest but delirious country was 



 

threatening impeachment and clamoring for war. Its 
representatives were hammering on the doors of the 
White House and shrieking in Congress. A dishonest 
press was inflaming it and injuring it in the eyes of the 
world by assaulting the integrity of the Executive and 
of the leading men in both Houses ; and unscrupulous 
politicians were extracting every possible party advantage, until it looked as if the Democratic party, rent 
asunder by Mr. Bryan and his doctrines, would be unified once more. The House, after the President's 
calm and impersonal message on the Maine report, 
acted like a mutinous school of bad boys who had not 
been taught the first principles of breeding and dignity ; 
the few gentlemen in it hardly tried to make themselves heard, and even the Speaker was powerless to 
quell a couple of hundred tempers all rampant at 
once. Every conceivable insult was heaped upon 
the head of the President as he delayed his War 
Message from day to day, hoping against hope, and 
gaining what time he could to strengthen the Navy. 

It became necessary therefore for the high-class men 
in the Senate, particularly the Republicans, to present 
an unbroken front. Whatever the conclusions of the 
President, they must stand by him. It was their duty 
as Americans first and Republicans after ; for they had 
