no girl ever had a lover before. It is amusing."

Her light tone angered him.

"Walk a little ways with me. I have something to say to you."

He drew her hand through his arm and strode on. She braced herself for
a storm.

"What--down to the marsh? The frost is coming out of the ground, and we
shall be swamped."

That was true enough. He turned suddenly.

"Let us go home. It looks like rain. I believe I felt a drop on my
face," she began.

"Not until I have said my say," in a resolute tone of voice.
"Jaqueline, I cannot have this manner of going on. It is very unjust
to me, and you will not be the more respected by parading Lieutenant
Ralston's devotion to you when you have an acknowledged lover."

"His devotion to me? Why, everybody knows--at least, we all know----"

"That figment is only a cover for flirting."

"But--he is your friend." Her tone was quite resentful, and her temper
was rising.

"Was!" with emphasis. "But this shall no longer be a cover for you.
You choose between us. If you like him so much better----"

"Roger, he has never uttered a word of love to me." She stopped short
in indignation.

"Oh, no! He has some lingering remnant of honor. But you will see how
soon he will ask you to marry him when I have given you up."

Given her up! There was a white line about her mouth, and her eyes
seemed to hold the depth of midnight.

He had not meant to utter the words, though they had been in his mind
for days. At the first inception of such a suspicion he had said he
would never give her her liberty and see her married to another man,
and then as he had seen her dispensing her smiles to a group of young
men and bending her dainty head first to one and then to another, as if
what the present speaker was saying was of the utmost moment, a curious
revulsion of feeling swept over him. Yes, let Ralston take her, with
all her love for the admiration of everybody! Perhaps he did not care
for one supreme love.

She was silent from sheer amazement. That any man who was her real
lover should talk of such a possibility stung her to the quick.

"Jaqueline, I cannot go on this way," and his voice dropped to a softer
key. "I want all the tenderness of the woman I love, and some of the
attention, I must confess. If she cares for me I do not see how she can
be continually occupied with others. You give me just the fragments.
You make engagements, you go out without the least thought that I
might have something in view; you have put off our marriage from time
to time, and now you must decide. If you love me well enough to marry
me----"

"Out of hand!" She gave a scornful little laugh. "I thought it was
a girl's prerogative to appoint her own wedding-day. I will not be
hurried and ordered about as if I had no mind of my own. I will be no
one's slave! I will not be watched and suspected and lectured, and shut
up for fear someone will see me!"

"Jaqueline!"

She was very angry now, and it seemed to her as if she had a curiously
clear conscience. She had not expected to stay at the Bradfords' until
just after dinner, but there were still some points to settle, then
someone proposed the ride. Ralston had not remained to dinner, and had
not gone out to Mount Pleasant with them, but a servant had been sent
in with several invitations for gentlemen. Impromptu parties were of
no infrequent occurrence among young people. Jaqueline did not know of
the invitations until after the messenger had been sent; and from some
oversight no one had mentioned Mr. Carrington.

She could have explained this. But when she glanced at the erect
figure, the steady eyes, the set lip, he looked so masterful. She was
used to her father's easy-going ways, and Ralston's persistence in the
matter of Marian had a heroic aspect to her. If Roger was so arbitrary
beforehand, what would he be as a husband! She forgot how many times
she had persuaded him from the very desire of his heart.

"It is just this, Jaqueline--I am tired of trifling. If you do not care
to marry me, say so. I sometimes think you do not, that you care for
lovers only, admirers who hover about continually, glad of a crumb from
a pretty girl. I am not one of them. You take me and let my attentions
suffice, or you leave me----"

She had an ideal of what a lover should be, and he looked most
unlike it in this determined mood. Why, he was almost as arbitrary as
grandfather!

"Suppose I do not care to be hurried by a fit of anger on your part? If
you had asked an explanation like a gentleman----"
