
The living Johnsons seemed to be alike in nature. I do not even now
understand why I thought so, but I sometimes believed that they had,
deep in them, something of that sombre ferocity which burned in the
Butlers. Yet to me they had exhibited nothing but the most passionless
reserve.

When the gloomy breakfast was ended, Colonel Guy Johnson conducted his
guests to the porch, where they made ready for the inspection of our
two stone block-houses and the new artillery in the barracks, sent
recently by Governor Tryon at Sir John's request.

Supposing I was to follow, as I no longer remained aide-de-camp to the
major-general, I started off with Rodman Girdwood, but was recalled by
a soldier, who reported that Sir John awaited me in the library.

Sir John was sitting at the great oak table as I entered, and he
motioned me to a seat opposite. He held in his hands a bundle of
papers, which he slowly turned over and over in his fingers.

He first informed me that he had selected another aide-de camp, not
because he expected to find me unsatisfactory, but because it was most
desirable that young, inexperienced officers should join the colours
as soon as possible. He said that the times were troublous and
uncertain; that sedition was abroad in the land; that young men needed
the counsel of loyal authority, and the example and discipline of
military life. He expected me, he said, to return to Albany with the
squadron which had served him as escort.

To which I made no reply.

He then spoke of the death of his father, of the responsibilities of
his own position, and of his claim on me for obedience. He spoke of my
mission to Cresap and the Cayugas as a mistake in policy; and I burned
to hear him criticise Sir William's acts. He asked me for my report,
and I gave it to him, relating every circumstance of my meeting with
the Cayugas, my peril, my rescue, the fight at Cresap's fort, the
treachery of Dunmore, Greathouse, Connolly, and the others.

He frowned, listening with lowered eyes.

I told him of the insult offered our family by Dunmore; I told how
Silver Heels escaped. Then I related every circumstance in my
relations with Walter Butler, from my first open quarrel with him here
at the Hall to his deadly assault on me while in discharge of my
mission, and finally how he had fallen under my fury in Dunmore's
presence.

Sir John's face was expressionless. He deplored the matters mentioned,
saying that loyal men must stand together and not exterminate each
other. He pointed out that Dunmore was the royal Governor of Virginia;
that an alliance with Felicity was an honour we were most unwise to
refuse; he regretted the quarrel between such a zealous loyalist as
Walter Butler and myself, but coolly informed me that he had heard
from Butler, and that he was recovering slowly from the breaking of an
arm, collar-bone, and many ribs.

This calm acknowledgment that Sir John and my deadly enemy were in
such intimacy set my blood boiling. His amazing complacency towards
these men after the insults offered his own kin took my breath.

He said that his policy in regard to the Cayuga rising was not the
policy of Sir William. His efforts were directed towards the solid
assembling of all men, so that the loyal might in the hour of danger
present an unbroken front to rebellion and discontent. It was, he
said, my duty to lay aside all rancour against Lord Dunmore and
Captain Butler. This was not the time to settle personal differences.
Later, he could see no objection to my calling out Walter Butler or
demanding reparation from Lord Dunmore, if I found it necessary.

I was slowly beginning to hate Sir John.

I therefore told him how we had done to death the wretch Greathouse;
how I had shot the driver of the coach, who was the unknown man who
had tasted his own hatchet in the forest.

Sir John informed me that I and my party had also slain Wraxall and
Toby Tice, and that Captain Murdy alone had escaped our fury.

I was contented to hear it; contented to hear, too, that Walter Butler
lived; for, though no man on earth deserved death more than he, I had
not wished to slay any man in such a manner. I could wait, for I never
doubted that he must one day die by my hand, though not the kind of
death that he had escaped so narrowly.

Sir John now spoke of the will left by Sir William. He held a copy in
his hand and opened it.

"You know," he said, "that your fortune is not considerable, though my
father has invested it most fortunately. The income is ample for a
young man, and on the decease of your uncle, Sir Terence, you will
come into his title and estate in Ireland. This should make you
wealthy. However, Sir William saw fit to provide for you further."

He turned the pages of the document slowly, frowning.

"Where is my own money?" I asked.

Sir John passed me a letter, sealed, which he said would recommend me
to the lawyer in Albany who administered my fortune until I became of
