spectacle and wonder? I could in a manner already measure this larger
play by the amplitude freshly determined in Mrs. Briss, and I was for a
moment actually held by the thought of the possible finish our friend
would find it in him to give to a represented, a fictive ineptitude.
The sharpest jostle to my thought, in this rush, might well have been,
I confess, the reflection that as it was I who had arrested, who had
spoiled their unconsciousness, so it was natural they should fight
against me for a possible life in the state I had given them instead. I
had spoiled their unconsciousness, I had destroyed it, and it was
consciousness alone that could make them effectively cruel. Therefore,
if they were cruel, it was I who had determined it, inasmuch as,
consciously, they could only want, they could only intend, to live.
Wouldn't that question have been, I managed even now to ask myself, the
very basis on which they had inscrutably come together? "It's life, you
know," each had said to the other, "and I, accordingly, can only cling
to mine. But you, poor dear--shall you give up?" "Give up?" the other
had replied; "for what do you take me? I shall fight by your side,
please, and we can compare and exchange weapons and manoeuvres, and
you may in every way count upon me."

That was what, with greater vividness, was for the rest of the occasion
before me, or behind me; and that I had done it all and had only myself
to thank for it was what, from this minute, by the same token, was more
and more for me the inner essence of Mrs. Briss's attitude. I know not
what heavy admonition of my responsibility had thus suddenly descended
on me; but nothing, under it, was indeed more sensible than that
practically it paralysed me. And I could only say to myself that this
was the price--the price of the secret success, the lonely liberty and
the intellectual joy. There were things that for so private and splendid
a revel--that of the exclusive king with his Wagner opera--I could only
let go, and the special torment of my case was that the condition of
light, of the satisfaction of curiosity and of the attestation of
triumph, was in this direct way the sacrifice of feeling. There was no
point at which my assurance could, by the scientific method, judge
itself complete enough not to regard feeling as an interference and, in
consequence, as a possible check. If it had to go I knew well who went
with it, but I wasn't there to save them. I was there to save my
priceless pearl of an inquiry and to harden, to that end, my heart. I
should need indeed all my hardness, as well as my brightness, moreover,
to meet Mrs. Briss on the high level to which I had at last induced her
to mount, and, even while I prolonged the movement by which I had
momentarily stayed her, the intermission of her speech became itself for
me a hint of the peculiar pertinence of caution. It lasted long enough,
this drop, to suggest that her attention was the sharper for my having
turned away from it, and I should have feared a renewed challenge if she
hadn't, by good luck, presently gone on: "There's really nothing in him
at all!"




XIV


I had faced her again just in time to take it, and I immediately made up
my mind how best to do so. "Then I go utterly to pieces!"

"You shouldn't have perched yourself," she laughed--she could by this
time almost coarsely laugh--"in such a preposterous place!"

"Ah, that's my affair," I returned, "and if I accept the consequences I
don't quite see what you've to say to it. That I do accept them--so far
as I make them out as not too intolerable and you as not intending them
to be--that I do accept them is what I've been trying to signify to you.
Only my fall," I added, "is an inevitable shock. You remarked to me a
few minutes since that you didn't recover yourself in a flash. I differ
from you, you see, in that I do; I take my collapse all at once. Here
then I am. I'm smashed. I don't see, as I look about me, a piece I can
pick up. I don't attempt to account for my going wrong; I don't attempt
to account for yours with me; I don't attempt to account for anything.
If Long is just what he always was it settles the matter, and the
special clincher for us can be but your honest final impression, made
precisely more aware of itself by repentance for the levity with which
you had originally yielded to my contagion."

She didn't insist on her repentance; she was too taken up with the facts
themselves. "Oh, but add to my impression everyone else's impression!
Has anyone noticed anything?"

"Ah, I don't know what anyone has noticed. I haven't," I brooded,
"ventured--as you know--to ask anyone."

"Well, if you had you'd have seen--seen, I mean, all they don't see. If
they had been conscious they'd have talked."

I thought. "To me?"

"Well, I'm not sure to you; people have such a notion of what you
embroider on things that they're rather afraid to commit themselves or
to lead you on: they're sometimes in, you know," she luminously reminded
me, "for more than they bargain for, than they quite know what to do
with, or than they care to have on their hands."

I tried to do justice to this account of myself. "You mean I see so
much?"

It was a delicate matter, but she risked it. "Don't you sometimes see
horrors?"

I wondered. "Well, names are a convenience. People catch me in the act?"
