safely home. But there was such a magnificent moon 
that it was almost like day. 
‘T shall never want to go back to France/’ declared 
Angelique, with enthusiasm. 
CHAPTER VII. 
A TASTE OF SOCIETY. 
Sylvie begged to go over with them the next day. 
Yes, she would play with Felice, even if she was such a 
baby, and could not talk straight. 
‘T do wonder if we shall ever fall into such a patois?” 
laughed Angelique. ‘Tt is very soft and pretty. And 
then the slaves have another. What queer stories they 
can tell ; tragic ones, too. It recalls the old Roman times 
when they transported people and made slaves of many 
in their colonizing.” 
Claire took Gervaise out on the veranda by one of 
those invitations that need only a smile and a glance of 
the eye. They were within range, but far enough distant 
to talk and laugh in comparative freedom. Claire was 
charming with the little arts, the vivacity, and a certain 
quickness of repartee that quite dazzled him. Her con- 
vent education was of the most superficial order, but it 
made her very agreeable. 
Sylvie did not succeed so well with her companion. 
The little French girl had been so much with older people 
that she was not inclined to be indulgent to baby whims. 
'‘My doll that I left in France was ever so much larger 
and handsomer,” she said, boastfully, when Felice hugged 
her to her heart and would not let the visitor touch it. 
‘‘And I had so many playthings ! But I have grown a 
big girl and study a little every day.” 
“At the convent?” asked Felice. 
“No,” with dignity. “I shall never go to a convent. 
We do not believe in them.” 
Felice stared. To go to the convent was the ambition 
of every little girl’s life. 
“Then you will be a — a dunce — an imbecile.” 
“I shall not, either !” Sylvie’s face was very red. “I 
can read, and I am studying Latin and Spanish a little, 
and ” what else did she know? 
“But I can talk in Spanish. We were born so,” de- 
clared the little maid, triumphantly. 
Sylvie was nonplussed. “You can’t be born two kinds 
of people,” she said, confidently. 
“But we are — oh, ever so many; but not Americans,” 
shaking her head decisively. 
“I like the Americans. Captain Strong was so nice 
to us. And we were captured by pirates. I think they 
were Spanish. I don’t believe you ever saw a pirate ! 
They have fierce long beards and black hair and guns and 
cutlasses and great sharp knives ! Angel says it is a 
wonder we were not all killed. When I grow up to be 
a woman I shall be an American.” 
Now it was Felice’s turn to be extinguished. She 
could not strike Sylvie as she did the slave-children when 
she was vexed with them. She glared a moment, then 
sank down on the grass and cried — “howled” would be 
better. 
The nurse, who had been discussing love charms with 
an old negress who was slyly travelling round with them, 
ran forward. 
“Oh, mon Ange! mon Ange! What did they do to 
my beautiful ! my cherub !” 
“She fell down,” said Sylvie, in a scornful tone. 
“And she cries a great deal over a little thing. I cannot 
imagine what she would do if she was wrecked on a 
desert island.” 
Then Sylvie marched off with her dainty head held 
high up in the air while the nurse soon comforted her 
charge and trotted about with her on her shoulders, while 
the little hands were tighly grasped in the kinky wool. 
This was an unfailing solace to Felice. 
“I can’t endure that cross baby!” declared Sylvie, as 
they were walking home. “And I am not going to like 
Zenobie, either.” 
“But you have never seen Zenobie.” 
“I do not care. I do not want to see her. Do you 
like Mam’selle Claire?” 
“She is charming,” declared Gervaise. “I am to dance 
with her to-night.” 
“Gervaise !” Sylvie stopped short in the path, her face 
aglow with temper, her eyes with passionate lights. 
“Gervaise — you shall not dance with Mam’selle Claire. 
You shall not go to see her. You belong to me. You 
may dance with Angel all night long, but Claire, never, 
never !” 
“What a tragic little maid ! Am I your prisoner?” His 
eyes had dancing lights in them, and there were merry 
curves about his lips. Her temper amused him. 
“You are my — I am your little wife, Gervaise.” She 
stretched herself up to her utmost height. There was a 
strange dignity in every line of her slim figure and in 
each feature. 
“Sylvie, dear, listen.” Angelique put her arm about 
the child. “That was ” no, the child could not under- 
stand. How perplexing that ill-fated ceremony would 
prove — only — if Gervaise should come to care for her! 
Could it be undone? “Remember what Barbe said. You 
are such a little girl now and this is not to be talked about. 
When you are larger it will all come right. Meanwhile 
