mixed with her compassion for the man. It was true that, as matters were
going now, he might not see her often again, and he was quite sure that
he had no right to think of loving her. Zuan Venier's visit had recalled
very clearly the obligations by which he had solemnly bound himself, and
which he honestly meant to fulfil; and apart from them, when he tried to
reason about his love, he could make it seem absurd enough that he
should dream of winning Marietta for his wife.
But love itself does not argue. At first it is seen far off, like a
beautiful bird of rare plumage, among flowers, on a morning in spring;
it comes nearer, it is timid, it advances, it recedes, it poises on
swiftly beating wings, it soars out of sight, but suddenly it is nearer
than before; it changes shapes, and grows vast and terrible, till its
flight is like the rushing of the whirlwind; then all is calm again, and
in the stillness a sweet voice sings the chant of peace or the
melancholy dirge of an endless regret; it is no longer the dove, nor the
eagle, nor the storm that leaves ruin in its track--it is everything, it
is life, it is the world itself, for ever and time without end, for good
or evil, for such happiness as may pass all understanding, if God will,
and if not, for undying sorrow.
Zorzi had forgotten his small resentment against Marietta, for not
having given him a sign nor sent one word of greeting. He knew only that
he loved her with all his heart and would give every hope he had for the
pressure of her hand in his and the sound of her answering voice; and he
dreaded lest she should pity him, as one pities a hurt creature that one
would rather not touch.
It would not be in the hope of seeing her that he might leave the
laboratory before long. He felt quite sure that Giovanni would make some
further attempt to get possession of the little book that meant fortune
to him who should possess it; and Giovanni evidently knew where it was.
It would he easy for him to send Zorzi on an errand of importance, as
soon as he should be so far recovered as to walk a little. The great
glass-houses had dealings with the banks in Venice and with merchants of
all countries, and Beroviero had more than once sent Zorzi to Venice on
business of moment. Giovanni would come in some morning and declare that
he could trust no one but Zorzi to collect certain sums of money in the
city, and he would take care that the matter should keep him absent
several hours. That would be ample time in which to try the flagstones
with a hammer and to turn over the right one. Zorzi had convinced
himself that it gave a hollow sound when he tapped it and that Giovanni
could find it easily enough.
It was therefore folly to leave the box in its present place any longer,
and he cast about in his mind for some safer spot in which to hide it.
In the meantime, fearing lest Giovanni might think of sending him out at
any moment, he waited till Pasquale had brought him water in the
morning, and then raised the stone, as he had done before, took the box
out of the earth and hid it in the cool end of the annealing oven, while
he replaced the slab. The effort it cost him to move the latter told him
plainly enough that his injury had weakened him almost as an illness
might have done, but he succeeded in getting the stone into its bed at
last. He tapped it with the end of his crutch as he knelt on the floor,
and the sound it gave was even more hollow than before. He smiled as he
thought how easily Giovanni would find the place, and how grievously
disappointed he would be when he realised that it was empty.
It occurred at once to Zorzi that Giovanni's first impression would
naturally be that Zorzi had taken the book himself in order to use it
during the master's absence; and this thought perplexed him for a time,
until he reflected that Giovanni could not accuse him of the deed
without accusing himself of having searched for the box, a proceeding
which his father would never forgive. Zorzi did not intend to tell the
master of his conversation with Giovanni, nor of his suspicions. He
would only say that the hiding-place had not seemed safe enough, because
the stone gave a hollow sound which even the boys would notice if
anything fell upon it.
But for Nella, it would be safest to give the box into Marietta's
keeping, since no one could possibly suspect that it could have found
its way to her room. At the mere thought, his heart beat fast. It would
be a reason for seeing her alone, if he could, and for talking with her.
He planned how he would send her a message by Nella, begging that he
might speak to her on some urgent business of her father's, and she
would come as she had come before; they would talk in the garden, under
the plane-tree, where Pasquale and Nella could see them, and he would
explain what he wanted. Then he would give her the box. He thought of it
with calm delight, as he saw it all in a beautiful vision.
But there was Nella, and there was Pasquale, the former indiscreet, the
latter silent but keen-sighted, and quick-witted in spite of his slow
and surly ways. Every one knew that the book existed somewhere, and the
porter and the serving-woman would guess the truth at once. At present
no one but himself knew positively where the thing was. If he carried
out his plan, three other persons would possess the knowledge. It was
not to be thought of.
He looked about the laboratory. There were the beams and crossbeams, and
the box would probably just fit into one of the shadowy interstices
between two of the latter. But they were twenty feet from the ground, he
had no ladder, and if there had been one at hand he could not have
mounted it yet. His eye fell on the big earthen jar, more than half a
man's height and as big round as a hogshead, half full of broken glass
from the experiments. No one would think of it as a place for hiding
anything, and it would not be emptied till it was quite full, several
months hence. Besides, no one would dare to empty it without Beroviero's
orders, as it contained nothing but fine red glass, which was valuable
and only needed melting to be used at once.
It was not an easy matter to take out half the contents, and he was in
constant danger of interruption. At night it would have been impossible
owing to the presence of the boys. If Pasquale appeared and saw a heap
of broken glass on the floor, he would surely suspect something. Zorzi
calculated that it would take two hours to remove the fragments with the
care necessary to avoid cutting his hands badly, and to put them back
again, for the shape of the jar would not admit of his employing even
one of the small iron shovels used for filling the crucibles.
With considerable difficulty he moved a large chest, that contained
