glancing up at Laurent St. Armand, with soft, dark eyes. "I looked for
you. I should have asked you formally," laughing and showing her pearly
teeth, "but we had hardly thought of going. It was a sudden thing. And
the bridesmaids were quite a sight."

"There is an old English proverb," began Madame Fleury--

          "'Who changes her name and not the letter,
           Marries for worse and not the better.'

and both names begin alike."

"But they are French," appended Lisa, brightly. "The prediction may have
no effect."

"It is to be hoped it will not," commented Monsieur Fleury. "Jacques
Graumont is a nice, industrious young fellow, and not given to drink.
Now there will be business enough, and he is handy and expert at boat
building, while the Ganeaus are thrifty people. M. Ganeau does a good
business in provisioning the traders when they go north. Did you wish
the young couple success, Madelon?"

The girl flushed. "I do not know her. We have met the mother
occasionally. To tell the truth, I do not enjoy this mixing up of
traders and workmen and--" she hesitated.

"And quality," appended Lisa, with a mischievous glance at her sister.

"We are likely to have more of it than less," said her father, gravely.
"These Americans have some curious ideas. While they are proud enough to
trace their ancestry back to French or English or even Italian rank,
they taboo titles except such as are won by merit. And it must be
confessed they have had many brave men among them, heroes animated by
broader views than the first conquerors of the country."

"Yes," exclaimed St. Armand, "France made a great mistake and has lost
her splendid heritage. She insisted on continuing the old world policy
of granting court favorites whatever they asked, without studying the
conditions of the new world. Then England pinned her faith and plans to
a military colonization that should emanate from a distant throne. It is
true she gave a larger liberty, a religious liberty, and exploited the
theory of homes instead of mere trading posts. The American has improved
on all this. It is as if he said, 'I will conquer the new world by force
of industry; there shall be equal rights to homes, to labor, to'--there
is a curious and delightful sounding sentence in their Declaration,
which is a sort of corner stone--'life, liberty, and pursuit of
happiness.' One man's idea of happiness is quite different from
another's, however;" smiling.

"And there will be clashing. There is much to do, and time alone can
tell whether they will work out the problem."

"They seem to blend different peoples. There is the Puritan in the East,
who is allowing his prejudices to soften; there are the Dutch, about the
towns on the Hudson, the Friends in Pennsylvania, the proud old
cavaliers in Virginia and Carolina."

"And the Indians, who will ever hate them! The French settlements at the
West, up and down the mighty river, who will never forget La Salle,
Tonti, Cadillac, and the De Bienvilles. There's a big work yet to do."

"I think they will do it," returned St. Armand, his eyes kindling. "With
such men as your brave, conciliatory General Wayne, a path is opened for
a more reasonable agreement."

"You cannot trust the Indians. I think the French have understood them
better, and made them more friendly. In many respects they are children,
in others almost giants where they consider themselves wronged. And it
is a nice question, how much rights they have in the soil."

"It has been a question since the world began. Were not the children of
Israel commanded to drive the Canaanites out of their own land? Did not
the Romans carry conquests all over Europe? And the Spaniard here, who
has been driven out for his cruelty and rapacity. The world question is
a great tree at which many nations have a hack, and some of them get
only the unripe fruit as the branches fall. But the fruit matures
slowly, and some one will gather it in the end, that is certain."

"But has not the Indian a right to his happiness, to his liberty?" said
Laurent, rather mischievously. He had been chaffing with the girls, yet
listening to the talk of the elders.

"In Indian ethics might makes right as elsewhere. They murder and
destroy each other; some tribes have been almost wiped out and sold for
slaves, as these Pawnee people. Depend upon it they will never take
kindly to civilization. A few have intermarried, and though there is
much romance about Rolfe and his Indian princess, St. Castin and his,
they are more apt to affiliate with the Indians in the next generation."

"My young man who was so ready to fight was a half-breed, I heard," said
Laurent. "His French father is quite an important fur trader, I learned.
Yet the young fellow has been lounging round for the past three months,
lying in the sun outside the stockade, flirting and making love alike to
Indian and French maids, and haunting Jogue's place down on the river.
Though, for that matter, it seems to be headquarters for fur traders. A
handsome fellow, too. Why has he not the pride of the French?"

"Such marriages are a disgrace to the nation," said Madame Fleury,
severely.

