any connection whatever. "I mean that everything this afternoon has
been too beautiful, and that perhaps everything together will never be
so right again. I'm very glad therefore you've been a part of it."
Though he still didn't understand her he was as nice as if he had; he
didn't ask for insistence, and that was just a part of his looking
after her. He simply protected her now from herself, and there was a
world of practice in it. "Oh, we must talk about these things!"
Ah, they had already done that, she knew, as much as she ever would;
and she was shaking her head at her pale sister the next moment with a
world, on her side, of slowness. "I wish I could see the resemblance.
Of course her complexion's green," she laughed; "but mine's several
shades greener."
"It's down to the very hands," said Lord Mark.
"Her hands are large," Milly went on, "but mine are larger. Mine are
huge."
"Oh, you go her, all round, 'one better'--which is just what I said.
But you're a pair. You must surely catch it," he added as if it were
important to his character as a serious man not to appear to have
invented his plea.
"I don't know one never knows one's self. It's a funny fancy, and I
don't imagine it would have occurred----"
"I see it has occurred"--he has already taken her up. She had her
back, as she faced the picture, to one of the doors of the room, which
was open, and on her turning, as he spoke, she saw that they were in
the presence of three other persons, also, as appeared, interested
inquirers. Kate Croy was one of these; Lord Mark had just become aware
of her, and she, all arrested, had immediately seen, and made the best
of it, that she was far from being first in the field. She had brought
a lady and a gentleman to whom she wished to show what Lord Mark was
showing Milly, and he took her straightway as a reinforcement. Kate
herself had spoken, however, before he had had time to tell her so.
"You had noticed too?"--she smiled at him without looking at Milly.
"Then I'm not original--which one always hopes one has been. But the
likeness is so great." And now she looked at Milly--for whom again it
was, all round indeed, kind, kind eyes. "Yes, there you are, my dear,
if you want to know. And you're superb." She took now but a glance at
the picture, though it was enough to make her question to her friends
not too straight. "Isn't she superb?"
"I brought Miss Theale," Lord Mark explained to the latter, "quite off
my own bat."
"I wanted Lady Aldershaw," Kate continued to Milly, "to see for
herself."
"Les grands esprits se rencontrent!" laughed her attendant gentleman,
a high, but slightly stooping, shambling and wavering person, who
represented urbanity by the liberal aid of certain prominent front
teeth and whom Milly vaguely took for some sort of great man.
Lady Aldershaw meanwhile looked at Milly quite as if Milly had been the
Bronzino and the Bronzino only Milly. "Superb, superb. Of course I had
noticed you. It is wonderful," she went on with her back to the
picture, but with some other eagerness which Milly felt gathering,
directing her motions now. It was enough--they were introduced, and she
was saying "I wonder if you could give us the pleasure of coming----"
She was not fresh, for she was not young, even though she denied at
every pore that she was old; but she was vivid and much bejewelled for
the midsummer daylight; and she was all in the palest pinks and blues.
She didn't think, at this pass, that she could "come" anywhere--Milly
didn't; and she already knew that somehow Lord Mark was saving her from
the question. He had interposed, taking the words out of the lady's
mouth and not caring at all if the lady minded. That was clearly the
right way to treat her--at least for him; as she had only dropped,
smiling, and then turned away with him. She had been dealt with--it
would have done an enemy good. The gentleman still stood, a little
helpless, addressing himself to the intention of urbanity as if it were
a large loud whistle; he had been signing sympathy, in his way, while
the lady made her overture; and Milly had, in this light, soon arrived
at their identity. They were Lord and Lady Aldershaw, and the wife was
the clever one. A minute or two later the situation had changed, and
she knew it afterwards to have been by the subtle operation of Kate.
She was herself saying that she was afraid she must go now if Susie
could be found; but she was sitting down on the nearest seat to say it.
The prospect, through opened doors, stretched before her into other
rooms, down the vista of which Lord Mark was strolling with Lady
Aldershaw, who, close to him and much intent, seemed to show from
behind as peculiarly expert. Lord Aldershaw, for his part, had been
left in the middle of the room, while Kate, with her back to him, was
standing before her with much sweetness of manner. The sweetness was
all for her; she had the sense of the poor gentleman's having somehow
been handled as Lord Mark had handled his wife. He dangled there, he
shambled a little; then he bethought himself of the Bronzino, before
which, with his eyeglass, he hovered. It drew from him an odd, vague
sound, not wholly distinct from a grunt, and a "Humph--most
remarkable!" which lighted Kate's face with amusement. The next moment
he had creaked away, over polished floors, after the others, and Milly
was feeling as if she had been rude. But Lord Aldershaw was in every
way a detail, and Kate was saying to her that she hoped she wasn't ill.
Thus it was that, aloft there in the great gilded historic chamber and
the presence of the pale personage on the wall, whose eyes all the
while seemed engaged with her own, she found herself suddenly sunk in
something quite intimate and humble and to which these grandeurs were
strange enough witnesses. It had come up, in the form in which she had
had to accept it, all suddenly, and nothing about it, at the same time,
was more marked than that she had in a manner plunged into it to escape
from something else. Something else, from her first vision of her
friend's appearance three minutes before, had been present to her even
through the call made by the others on her attention; something that
was perversely there, she was more and more uncomfortably finding, at
least for the first moments and by some spring of its own, with every
renewal of their meeting. "Is it the way she looks to him?" she asked
herself--the perversity being that she kept in remembrance that Kate
was known to him. It wasn't a fault in Kate--nor in him assuredly; and
