hate the sight and presence of one another, but it was not their fault,
and they would probably get over it.

It was wonderful to see how everything that had happened exactly fitted
into Guido's simple explanation, the passing shadow on Cecilia's face,
the evident embarrassment of both when Guido asked each the same
question, the agreement of their answers, the readiness both had shown
to try and overcome their mutual dislike--it was simply wonderful! By
the time Guido laid his head on his pillow, he was serenely calm and
certain of the future. With the words of sincere regret he had written
to Lamberti, and with the decision to say much the same thing to Cecilia
on the following day, his conscience was at rest; and he went to sleep
in the pleasant assurance that after having done something very hasty he
had just avoided doing something quite irreparable.

Lamberti had spent a less pleasant evening, and was not prepared for the
agreeable surprise that awaited him on the following morning in Guido's
note. He was neither indolent nor at all given to self-examination, and
he had generally found it a good plan to act upon impulse, and do what
he wished to do before it occurred to any one else to do the same thing;
and when he could not see what he ought to do, and was nevertheless sure
that he ought to act at once, he lost his temper with himself and
sometimes with other people.

He was afraid to go to bed that night, and he went to the club and
watched some of his friends playing cards until he could not keep his
eyes open; for gambling bored him to extinction. Then he walked the
whole length of the Corso and back, in the hope that the exercise might
prevent him from dreaming. But it only roused him again; and when he was
in his own room he stood nearly two hours at the open window, smoking
one cigar after another. At last he lay down without putting out the
light and read a French novel till it dropped from his hand, and he fell
asleep at four o'clock in the morning.

He was not visited by the dream that had disturbed his rest nightly for
a full fortnight. Possibly the doctor had been right after all, and the
habit was broken. At all events, what he remembered having felt when he
awoke was something quite new and not altogether unpleasant after the
first beginning, yet so strangely undefined that he would have found it
hard to describe it in any words.

He had no consciousness of any sort of shape or body belonging to him,
nor of motion, nor of sight, after the darkness had closed in upon him.
That moment, indeed, was terrible. It reminded him of the approach of a
cyclone in the West Indies, which he remembered well--the dreadful
stillness in the air; the long, sullen, greenish brown swell of the oily
sea; the appalling bank of solid darkness that moved upon the ship over
the noiseless waves; the shreds of black cloud torn forwards by an
unseen and unheard force, and the vast flashes of lightning that shot
upwards like columns of flame. He remembered the awful waiting.

Not a storm, then, but an instant change from something to nothing, with
consciousness preserved; complete, far-reaching consciousness, that was
more perfect than sight, yet was not sight, but a being everywhere at
once, a universal understanding, a part of something all pervading, a
unification with all things past, present, and to come, with no desire
for them, nor vision of them, but perfect knowledge of them all.

At the same time, there was the presence of another immeasurable
identity in the same space, so that his own being and that other were
coexistent and alike, each in the other, everywhere at once, and
inseparable from the other, and also, in some unaccountable way, each
dear to the other beyond and above all description. And there was
perfect peace and a state very far beyond any possible waking happiness,
without any conception of time or of motion, but only of infinite space
with infinite understanding.

Another phase began. There was time again, there were minutes, hours,
months, years, ages; and there was a longing for something that could
change, a stirring of human memories in the boundless immaterial
consciousness, a desire for sight and hearing, a gradual, growing wish
to see a face remembered before the wall of darkness had closed in, to
hear a voice that had once sounded in ears that had once understood, to
touch a hand that had felt his long ago. And the longing became
intolerable, for lack of these things, like a burning thirst where there
is no water; and the perfect peace was all consumed in that raging wish,
and the quiet was disquiet, and the two consciousnesses felt that each
was learning to suffer again for want of the other, till what had been
heaven was hell, and earth would be better, or total destruction and the
extinguishing of all identity, or anything that was not, rather than the
least prolonging of what was.

The last change now; back to the world, and to a human body. Lamberti
was waked by a vigorous knocking at his door, which was locked as usual.
It was nine o'clock, and a servant had brought him Guido's note.

"My dear friend," it said, "I was altogether in the wrong yesterday.
Please forgive me. I quite understand your position with regard to the
Contessina, and hers towards you, but I sincerely hope that in the end
you may be good friends. I appreciate very much the effort you both made
this afternoon to overcome your mutual antipathy. Thank you. G. d'E."

Lamberti read the note three times before the truth dawned upon him, and
he at last understood what Guido meant. At first the note seemed to have
been written in irony, if not in anger, but that would have been very
unlike Guido; the second reading convinced Lamberti that his friend was
in earnest, whatever his meaning might be, and at the third perusal,
Lamberti saw the true state of the case. Guido supposed that he and
Cecilia were violently repelled by each other.

