

 

leave the room with a fretful sigh, as if provoked 
that her mother would not provoke her further. 
There were moments when Mrs. Kenton believed 
that Ellen was sick of her love, and that she would 
pluck it out of her heart herself if she were left 
alone. She was then glad Bittridge had come, so 
that Ellen might compare with the reality the 
counterfeit presentment she had kept in her fancy; 
and she believed that if she could but leave 
him to do his worst, it would be the best for 
Ellen. 

In the evening, directly after dinner, Bittridge 
sent up his name for Mrs. Kenton. The judge 
had remained to read his paper below, and Lottie 
and Boyne had gone to some friends in another 
apartment. It seemed to Mrs. Kenton a piece of 
luck that she should be able to see him alone, and 
she could not have said that she was unprepared 
for him to come in, holding his theatre-tickets ex 
planatorily in his hand, or surprised when he began : 
"Mrs. Kenton, my mother 's got a bad headache, 
and Fve come to ask a favor of you. -She can 't use 
her ticket for to-night, and I want you to let Miss 
Ellen come with me. Will you ?" 

Bittridge had constituted himself an old friend 
of the whole family from the renewal of their ac 
quaintance, and Mrs. Kenton was now made aware 
of his being her peculiar favorite. In spite of 
the instant repulsion she felt, she was not averse 
to what he proposed. Her fear was that Ellen would 
be so, or that she could keep from influencing her 



 

to this test of her real feeling for Bittridge. " I will 
ask her, Mr. Bittridge," she said, with a severity 
which was a preliminary of the impartiality she 
meant to use with Ellen. 

" Well, that 's right," he answered, and while 
she went to the girl 's room he remained examining 
the details of the drawing-room decorations in easy 
security, which Mrs. Kenton justified on her 're 
turn. 

" Ellen will be ready to go with you, Mr. Bit 
tridge." 

"Well, that 's good," said the young man, and 
while he talked on she sat wondering at a nature 
which all modesty and deference seemed left out of, 
though he had sometimes given evidence of his 
intellectual appreciation of these things. He talked 
to Mrs. Kenton not only as if they were in every- 
wise equal, but as if they were of the same age, al 
most of the same sex. 

Ellen came in, cloaked and hatted, with her 
delicate face excited in prospect of the adventure, 
and her mother saw Bittridge look at her with more 
tenderness than she had ever seen in him before. 
" I 'll take good care of her, Mrs. Kenton," he said, 
and for the first time she felt herself relent a 
little towards him. 

A minute after they were gone Lottie bounced 
into the room, followed by Boyne. 

" Momma !" she shouted, " Ellen isn 't going to 
the theatre with that fellow?" 

"Yes, she is." 



 

"And you let her, momma! Without a chaper 
on?" 

Boyne 's face had mirrored the indignation in 
his sister s, but at this unprecedented burst of con 
ventionality he forgot their momentary alliance. 
" Well, you 're a pretty one to talk about chaperons! 
Walking all over Tuskingum with fellows at night, 
and going buggy-riding with everybody, and out 
rowing, and here fairly begging Jim Plumpton to 
come down to the steamer and see you off again !" 

" Shut up !" Lottie violently returned, " or I 'll tell 
momma how you ve been behaving with Rita Plump- 
ton yourself." 
