Presently, however, Sylvia glanced up at him with a malicious smile,
saying: "I notice that you have been in the foreign division of the
Imperial Military Police, monsieur."

"Why do you think so?" asked Speed, calmly.

"When you seated yourself in your chair," said Sylvia, "you made a
gesture with your left hand as though to unhook the sabre--which was
not there."

Speed laughed. "But why the police? I might have been in the cavalry,
mademoiselle; for that matter, I might have been an officer in any arm
of the service. They all carry swords or sabres."

"But only the military police and the gendarmerie wear aiguilettes,"
she replied. "When you bend over your plate your fingers are ever
unconsciously searching for those swinging, gold-tipped cords--to keep
them out of your coffee-cup, monsieur."

The muscles in Speed's lean, bronzed cheeks tightened; he looked at
her keenly.

"Might I not have been in the gendarmerie?" he asked. "How do you
know I was not?"

"Does the gendarmerie wear the sabre-tache?"

"No, mademoiselle, but--"

"Do the military police?"

"No--that is, the foreign division did, when it existed."

"You are sitting, monsieur," she said, placidly, "with your left
foot so far under the table that it quite inadvertently presses my
shoe-tip."

Speed withdrew his leg with a jerk, asking pardon.

"It is a habit perfectly pardonable in a man who is careful that his
spur shall not scratch or tear a patent-leather sabre-tache," she
said.

I had absolutely nothing to say; we both laughed feebly, I believe.

I saw temptation struggling with Speed's caution; I, too, was almost
willing to drop a hint that might change her amusement to speculation,
if not to alarm.

So this was the woman for whose caprice Kelly Eyre had wrecked his
prospects! Clever--oh, certainly clever. But she had made the
inevitable slip that such clever people always make sooner or later.
And in a bantering message to her victim she had completed the chain
against herself--a chain of which I might have been left in absolute
ignorance. Impulse probably did it--reasonless and perhaps malicious
caprice--the instinct of a pretty woman to stir up memory in a
discarded and long-forgotten victim--just to note the effect--just to
see if there still remains one nerve, one pulse-beat to respond.

"Will the pensive gentleman with nine lives have a little more
nourishment to sustain him?" she asked.

Looking up from my empty plate, I declined politely; and we followed
her signal to rise.

"There is a Mr. Kelly Eyre," she said to Speed, "connected with your
circus. Has he gone with the others?"

"Yes, mademoiselle."

"Really?" she mused, amiably. "I knew him as a student in Paris,
when he was very young--and I was younger. I should have liked to have
seen him--once more."

"Did you not see him?" I asked, abruptly.

Her back was toward me; very deliberately she turned her pretty head
and looked at me over her shoulder, studying my face a moment.

"Yes, I saw him. I should have liked to have seen him--once more,"
she said, as though she had first calculated the effect on me of a
different reply.

She led the way into that small room overlooking the garden where I
had been twice received by Madame de Vassart. Here she took leave of
us, abandoning us to our own designs. Mine was to find a large
arm-chair and sit down in it, and give Speed a few instructions.
Speed's was to prowl around Paradise for information, and, if
possible, telegraph to Lorient for troops to catch Buckhurst
red-handed.

He left me turning over the leaves of the "Chanson de Roland," saying
that he would return in a little while with any news he might pick up,
and that he would do his best to catch Buckhurst in the foolish trap
which that gentleman had set for others.

Tiring of the poem, I turned my eyes toward the garden, where, in the
sunshine, heaps of crisped leaves lay drifted along the base of the
wall or scattered between the rows of herbs which were still ripely
green. The apricots had lost their leaves, so had the grapevines and
