rather smote him, for want of preparation and assurance, that he had
nowhere to "take" his love. He had taken it thus, at Euston--and on
Kate's own suggestion--into the place where people had beer and buns,
and had ordered tea at a small table in the corner; which, no doubt, as
they were lost in the crowd, did well enough for a stop-gap. It perhaps
did as well as her simply driving with him to the door of his lodging,
which had had to figure as the sole device of his own wit. That wit,
the truth was, had broken down a little at the sharp prevision that
once at his door they would have to hang back. She would have to stop
there, wouldn't come in with him, couldn't possibly; and he shouldn't
be able to ask her, would feel he couldn't without betraying a
deficiency of what would be called, even at their advanced stage,
respect for her: that again was all that was clear except the further
fact that it was maddening. Compressed and concentrated, confined to a
single sharp pang or two, but none the less in wait for him there on
the Euston platform and lifting its head as that of a snake in the
garden, was the disconcerting sense that "respect," in their game,
seemed somehow--he scarce knew what to call it--a fifth wheel to the
coach. It was properly an inside thing, not an outside, a thing to make
love greater, not to make happiness less. They had met again for
happiness, and he distinctly felt, during his most lucid moment or two,
how he must keep watch on anything that really menaced that boon. If
Kate had consented to drive away with him and alight at his house there
would probably enough have occurred for them, at the foot of his steps,
one of those strange instants between man and woman that blow upon the
red spark, the spark of conflict, ever latent in the depths of passion.
She would have shaken her head--oh sadly, divinely--on the question of
coming in; and he, though doing all justice to her refusal, would have
yet felt his eyes reach further into her own than a possible word at
such a time could reach. This would have meant the suspicion, the dread
of the shadow, of an adverse will. Lucky therefore in the actual case
that the scant minutes took another turn and that by the half-hour she
did in spite of everything contrive to spend with him Kate showed so
well how she could deal with things that maddened. She seemed to ask
him, to beseech him, and all for his better comfort, to leave her, now
and henceforth, to treat them in her own way.
She had still met it in naming so promptly, for their early
convenience, one of the great museums; and indeed with such happy art
that his fully seeing where she had placed him hadn't been till after
he left her. His absence from her for so many weeks had had such an
effect upon him that his demands, his desires had grown; and only the
night before, as his ship steamed, beneath summer stars, in sight of
the Irish coast, he had felt all the force of his particular necessity.
He hadn't in other words at any point doubted he was on his way to say
to her that really their mistake must end. Their mistake was to have
believed that they could hold out--hold out, that is, not against
Aunt Maud, but against an impatience that, prolonged and exasperated,
made a man ill. He had known more than ever, on their separating in the
court of the station, how ill a man, and even a woman, could feel from
such a cause; but he struck himself as also knowing that he had already
suffered Kate to begin finely to apply antidotes and remedies and
subtle sedatives. It had a vulgar sound--as throughout, in love, the
names of things, the verbal terms of intercourse, were, compared with
love itself, horribly vulgar; but it was as if, after all, he might
have come back to find himself "put off," though it would take him of
course a day or two to see. His letters from the States had pleased
whom it concerned, though not so much as he had meant they should; and
he should be paid according to agreement and would now take up his
money. It wasn't in truth very much to take up, so that he hadn't in
the least come back flourishing a cheque-book; that new motive for
bringing his mistress to terms he couldn't therefore pretend to
produce. The ideal certainty would have been to be able to present a
change of prospect as a warrant for the change of philosophy, and
without it he should have to make shift but with the pretext of the
lapse of time. The lapse of time--not so many weeks after all, she
might always of course say--couldn't at any rate have failed to do
something for him; and that consideration it was that had just now
tided him over, all the more that he had his vision of what it had done
personally for Kate. This had come out for him with a splendour that
almost scared him even in their small corner of the room at
Euston--almost scared him because it just seemed to blaze at him that
waiting was the game of dupes. Not yet had she been so the creature he
had originally seen; not yet had he felt so soundly safely sure. It was
all there for him, playing on his pride of possession as a hidden
master in a great dim church might play on the grandest organ. His
final sense was that a woman couldn't be like that and then ask of one
the impossible.
She had been like that afresh on the morrow; and so for the hour they
had been able to float in the mere joy of contact--such contact as
their situation in pictured public halls permitted. This poor makeshift
for closeness confessed itself in truth, by twenty small signs of
unrest even on Kate's part, inadequate; so little could a decent
interest in the interesting place presume to remind them of its claims.
They had met there in order not to meet in the streets and not again,
with an equal want of invention and of style, at a railway-station; not
again, either, in Kensington Gardens, which, they could easily and
tacitly agree, would have had too much of the taste of their old
frustrations. The present taste, the taste that morning in the pictured
halls, had been a variation; yet Densher had at the end of a quarter of
an hour fully known what to conclude from it. This fairly consoled him
for their awkwardness, as if he had been watching it affect her. She
might be as nobly charming as she liked, and he had seen nothing to
touch her in the States; she couldn't pretend that in such conditions
as those she herself believed it enough to appease him. She couldn't
pretend she believed he would believe it enough to render her a like
service. It wasn't enough for that purpose--she as good as showed him
it wasn't. That was what he could be glad, by demonstration, to have
brought her to. He would have said to her had he put it crudely and on
the spot: "Now am I to understand you that you consider this sort of
thing can go on?" It would have been open to her, no doubt, to reply
