and pounding the stone floor for joy. And I sang 

again, and sang again. Yes, the author of The 

Captive! And captive myself, and free at last! 



It was far into the night when I stopped sing- 
ing; and then I lay down and never before had 
I known such peace; for I had found the way — I 
had seen the hght — I was deHvered from all fear 
and dulness for the rest of my days! I was so 
excited I could not sleep — when I fell asleep 
at last it was from sheer exhaustion. 

And when they roused me the next morning 
I bounded to my feet like a shot, and shouted to 
my soul, and was up and away through the forest 
like a startled deer again! They tried their very 
best to catch me, but they could not. I had not 
lived in the woods for nothing, I knew the paths, 
I knew where the mountains were. And when 
they thought they had me in court, I was on the 
very summits — and laughing and drunk with the 
mountain air! 

I have a keen sense of humor, — and of course 
I am never so drunk that I do not know I'm 
drunk, and know just what I'm drunk about — 
else how could I write poems about it? Do 
you think that when Shakespeare cried out his 
" Blow ye winds and crack your cheeks! " he did 
not know just what he was saying? Ah! — And 
when I saw all these queer little men about me, 
staring and wondering — and so solemn! — I 

laughed the inextinguishable laughter of Olym- 
pus, and shouted so that they dragged me out of 
court in a hurry. 

And then there came the end! They took me 
to the insane asylum, and I sat down on the floor 
of a cell and gazed at myself in amazement and 
panted: So there is a way you can live, after all! 
There is a way you can make them support you ! 
There is a way you can do all your work in peace, 
and worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness! 
I could scarcely believe it all — it took half an 
hour for me to realize it. And then I shouted 
that I was saved! — and fell to work at shaping 
that mad Song of the West Wind I had been 
so full of. 

And then suddenly I heard a muffled voice 
say: " What in the dickens are you making all 
that rumpus for? " And I stared about me and 
saw that I was still crouching by the window in 
my room! And I shrank back and quivered 
with rage, because I knew that I had been mak- 
ing a noise and that some one out in the hall had 
been listening to me! 

And that was the end of my long adventure. 






December 30th. 

" I am pleased to be able to tell you that your 
poem is a great deal better than I expected to 
find it. I am forced to write briefly by reason of 
pressure of business; but you have van.- consider- 
able literary gifts. The work is clearly made 
whole of sincerity; it shows a considerable com- 
mand of expression, and a considerable under- 
standing of style. It has qualities of imagina- 
tion and of emotional insight, and is obviously 
the fruit of a wide reading. But besides these 
things, it is exactly as I expected, and as I told 
you — the work is very- narrow in the range of its 
appeal; you can not in the least blame the pub- 
lishers for declining it, because it is true that very 
few people would care for it. IMy owti judgment 
is hardly capable in the matter, because I myself 
am not an idealist. Recording my own opinion, 
I found the poem monotonous, and not especially 
interesting; but then, I say that of much that 
some other people consider great poetry. 

" My advice to you is just what it was before 
— that you go out into the world and become ac- 
quainted with life. Not knowing you personally, 
I could not coimsel you definitely, but I should 
think that what would benefit you most would be 

a good stiff course in plain, every-day newspaper 
