

It was as near as they came to saying that she was 
probably in love with Chad ; but it was quite near enough 
for what Strether wanted, which was to be confirmed in his 
certitude that, whether in love or not, she appealed to 
something large and easy in the girl before him. Mamie  
would be fat, too fat, at thirty ; but she would always be  
the person who, at the present sharp hour, had been dis- 
interestedly tender. " If I see a little more of her — as 
I hope I shall — I think she'll like me enough (for she li 
seemed to like me to-day), to want me to tell her." 

" And s/iall you ? " 

" Perfectly. I shall tell her the matter with her is that 
she wants only too much to do right. To do right, for her, I 
naturally," said Mamie, " is to please." n 

" Her mother, do you mean ? "  ! 

"Her mother first." 

Strether waited. "And then?" I 

" Well, ' then '—Mr. Newsome." ! 

There was something really grand for him in the serenity j  
of this reference. " And last only M. de Montbron ? " i, 

" Last only" — she good-humouredly kept it up.   

Strether considered. " So that everyone, after all then, 
will be suited?" 

She had one of her few hesitations, but it was a question 
only of a moment ; and it was her nearest approach to 
being explicit with him about what was between them. ; 
" I think I can speak for myself / shall be." : 

It said indeed so much, told such a story of her being 
ready to help him, so committed to him that truth, in : 
short, for such use as he might make of it toward those  
ends of his own with which, patiently and trustfully, she 
had nothing to do — it so fully achieved all this that he 
appeared to himself simply to meet it in its own spirit  
by the last frankness of admiration. Admiration was I 
of itself almost accusatory, but nothing less would serve 
to show her how nearly he understood. He put out his 
hand for good-bye with a " Splendid, splendid, splendid ! " 
And he left her, with her splendour, still waiting for little I 
Bilham. 



PART TENTH 



XXV 

HE occupied, next this appreciated youth, three even- 
ings after his interview with Mamie Pocock, the 
same deep divan they had enjoyed together on the first 
occasion of our friend's meeting Mme. de Vionnet and her 
daughter in the apartment of the Boulevard Malesherbes, 
where his position affirmed itself again as ministering to an 
easy exchange of impressions. The present evening had a 
different stamp ; if the company was much more numerous, 
so, inevitably, were the ideas set in motion. It was on the 
other hand, however, now strongly marked that the talkers 
moved, in respect to such matters, round an inner, a pro- 
tected circle. They knew, at any rate, what really con- 
cerned them to-night, and Strether had begun by keeping 
his companion close to it. Only a few of Chad's guests 
had dined — that is fifteen or twenty, a few compared with 
the large concourse offered to sight by eleven o'clock ; but 
number and mass, quantity and quality, light, fragrance, 
sound, the overflow of hospitality meeting the high tide of 
response, had all, from the first, pressed upon Strether's 
 consciousness, and he knew himself to be somehow part 
 and parcel of the most festive scene, as the term was, in 
 which he had ever in his life been engaged. He had 
perhaps seen, on Fourths of July and on dear old domestic 
Commencements, more people assembled, but he had 
never seen so many in proportion to the space, or had at 
all events never known so great a promiscuity to show so 
markedly as picked. Numerous as was the company, it 
had still been made so by selection, and what was above 
all rare for Strether was that, by no fault of his own, he 
was in the secret of the principle that had worked. He 
had not inquired, he had averted his head, but Chad had 
put him a pair of questions that themselves smoothed the 


ground. He had not answered the questions, he had 
replied that they were the young man's own affair ; and he 
had then seen perfectly that the latter's direction was 
already settled. 

