Black Feather shrugged his shoulders and was silent.

“Then there is no bargain,” declared Elk Horn. “I will offer my wares to
some other chief. I think of one farther up in the Illinois country. But
our ways may be together a few days longer. It need not make ill
friends.”

Black Feather brought out some whiskey. He knew how to tempt his
brother. To have a supply of this for days would be more satisfying than
any future gain. For the present was the great thing to the Indian’s
improvident nature. And so Black Feather made his bargain, including the
child that he really did not care for. Yet perhaps it would be better
not to separate them at present.

Elk Horn had not slept off all his potion. His compeer was awake early,
and had laid aside the promised treasures for his inspection. Then he
called his men and stealthily manned his own boats. He judged rightly
that Elk Horn would not leave the place until the last drop of firewater
had been drained, and then it would take him a few days to get over his
debauch.

“Come,” he exclaimed roughly, at length. “Here is your portion—beads,
wampum, skins and whiskey.”

Elk Horn nodded and rubbed his bleared eyes. He looked at the goods and
they seemed magnified to his sight, so adroitly were they spread about.

“Ugh! It is early,” with a yawn.

“I must be on my way. You can overtake me at night. We will share the
same fire, and I will have everything prepared for my brother. But I
wish you to rouse the two captives and have them ready also. You will
lead them to the boat, so there need be no disturbance.”

Elk Horn considered. Wawataysee might object to her new master. He felt
his part had been rather underhand, but was she not his property?

They were a little surprised at the summons, and to be hurried off
without breakfast. The canoes were already out in the river. The larger
boat had a few men in it. Elk Horn put in Renée first.

“Where are we going?” the Indian girl asked, turning toward him.

“Up the river,” roughly, in a thick, guttural voice. “Come, get in.”

She stepped aboard, not especially remarking the men. Then suddenly her
eye fell upon Valbonais, who greeted her with a joyous expression. Had
he been handed over to Elk Horn? She experienced a certain contentment,
and suspicion was allayed.

But as they emerged from the shadow of the overhanging trees she saw
that all the faces were strange. She had not noted the newcomers in the
camp, having been kept in seclusion, and it also being her choice. Now a
chill of terror ran over her. Noting the aspect of two of the rowers
more closely, she saw to her dismay that they were Hurons. One man had
his head turned from her and bowed down.

“Why do we go so early?” asked Renée. “And we have had no breakfast.”

“I do not know,” tremblingly.

“And why did Elk Horn stay on shore?”

“Did he?” with a curious lift of the brows.

“Oh, yes; I saw him. And these men—oh, where are Pierre and Jules? But
there is the young man who came and talked to us. Oh, Wawataysee, shall
we never stay anywhere again? How can we get back to St. Louis?”

“Hush, dear; hush!”

“But I am getting hungry. And I am so tired of sailing.”

She leaned her head down on Wawataysee’s lap. Every moment the Indian
girl grew more terrified. True, Elk Horn and his men might come on. But
these Hurons!

The boat glided along. The sun rose higher and made of the river a band
of gold and gems, where each little wavelet dazzled in strange colors.
They passed great plains where grass grew rank and waved in the wind
like another sea of green. Then a belt of pines or walnut, the first
standing stiff and strong, the others mound-like.

The bowed figure had straightened itself and spoken to the men, but not
turned his face. Now he gave an order and the boat swerved in toward the
shore, grating a little on the pebbly beach. The other one in advance
turned also. Some food was distributed. He spoke in the Huron language,
and said they must make Bear Creek by night.

It was dreadful to go out in the broiling sun again, but presently a
cooling breeze blew up. They passed a chain of boats well laden, going
down, the French sailors singing a merry lilt, and they gave each other
greeting. The shadows began to grow longer and a reviving fragrance was
wafted over from the shore edge. There were fields abloom with gay
flowers, then shrubby clumps, and when the sun went down they had neared
a little cove where one could see two rather dilapidated wigwams. Here
they were to stop for the night.

The men began to make a fire, while provisions were brought out of the
boat. The two girls had been left alone, but now the chief—Wawataysee
