moment, to go to her work, and find him washing the 
pavement, and she would of course suppose that he 
had killed somebody or had helped to kill somebody 
during the night, and would begin to scream, and call 
him an assassin, and there would be a great noise, and 
much trouble afterwards. According to his view, any 
woman would naturally behave in this way, and as his 
views were founded on his own experience, he was 
probably right, so far as his wife was concerned. He 
therefore determined to call her. 

She came, she saw, she threw up her hands and 
moaned a little about the curse that was on the house, 
and she helped him to scrub the stones as quickly as 
possible. When that was done, and when they had 
flooded the whole pavement under the arch, in order 
to conceal the fact that it had been washed in one 
place, it occurred to them that they should look on the 
stairs, to see if there were any blood there, and in the 
courtyard, too, near the entrance; but they could not 
find anything, and it was time for the woman to go to 
the place where she worked all day at ironing fine 
linen, which had been her occupation before she had 
been married. So she went away, leaving her husband 
alone. 

He smoked thoughtfully and swept the stone gutter, 
towards the other end of the courtyard. He noticed 
nothing unusual, until he reached the door of the 
coach-house, and saw that it was ajar, whereas it was 
always locked, and he had the key in his lodge. He 



 

opened it, and looked in. The flood of morning light 
fell upon a little heap of broken brick and mortar, and 
he saw at a glance that a small breach had been made 
in the wall. This did not surprise him, for he knew 
that Malipieri and Masin had made holes in more than 
one place, and the architect had more than once taken 
the key of the coach-house. 

What frightened him was the steady, roaring sound 
that came from the breach. He would as soon have 
thought of trusting himself to enter the place, as of 
facing the powers of darkness, even if his big body 
could have squeezed itself through the aperture. But 
he guessed that the sound came from the " lost water," 
which he had more than once heard in the cellar below, in its own channel, and he was instinctively sure 
that something had happened which might endanger 
the palace. The cellars were probably flooded. 

On the mere chance that the door of the winding 
staircase might not be locked, he went out and turned 
into the passage where it was. He found it wide 
open. He had in his pocket one of those long wax 
tapers rolled into a little ball, which Eoman porters 
generally have about them ; he lit it and went down. 
There was water at the foot of the steps, water 
several feet deep. He retreated, and with more haste 
than he usually showed to do anything, he crossed 
the courtyard and went up to call Malipieri. ' 

But Malipieri was asleep in his armchair in the 
inner room, and the bell only rang in the outer hall. 
The old man rang it again and again, but no one came. 





Then he stood still on the landing, took off his cap 
and deliberately scratched his head. In former times, 
it would have been his duty to inform Sassi, in whom 
centred every responsibility connected with the palace. 
But the porter did not know whether Sassi were dead 
or alive now, and was quite sure that the Baron would 
not approve of sending for him. 

There was nothing to be done but to inform the 
Baron himself, without delay, since Malipieri was 
apparently already gone out. The Baron would take 
the responsibility, since the house was his. 

The porter went down to his lodge, took off his 
old linen jacket and put on his best coat and cap, put 
some change into his pocket, went out and turned 
the key of the lock in the postern, and then stumped 
off towards the Piazza Sant' ApoUinare to get a cab, 
for there was no time to be lost. 

It was eight o'clock when he rang at the smart 
new house in the Via Ludovisi. Sabina and Malipieri had slept barely five hours. 

A footman in an apron opened the door, and with- 
out waiting to know his business, asked him why he 
did not go to the servants' entrance. 

