after the storm and stress of active life is through, one 
can go back to the beautiful world of memory and 
live over the earlier joys with a delight not experienced 
in youth. 

So the time I first saw the Little Girl is one of the 
pictures that line the halls of remembrance, softened, 
and it may be rendered more beautiful, by the inter 
vening years, and love. 

It was a late September evening, at least the day 
had waned. All the west still held the peculiar rich 
glow of a magnificent sunset that had melted now 
into one great sheet of softened tints, with no one 
distinct color predominating, and changing every in 
stant. Over the great lake it dropped iridescent hues, 
and even the river, with its muddy banks, shimmered 
in a glorified light. And I, Norman Hayne, sat idly 
outside the log end of the house, that was our real 
living place, though the frame addition had been 
added, for we had long ago outgrown the other. There 





was a rude porch over the door, where the Michigan 
rose rioted in the early summer, and morning-glories 
later on. Beyond this was a bench with a pail, one or 
two basins and a dishpan piled with dishes, where my 
mother would presently stand, washing up. Various 
utensils hung from the edge of a narrow shelf, a gourd 
dipper and one of cocoanut. Out beyond, on the 
garden fence, was the churn dasher and the churn on a 
low pole. 

Early August had been hot and dry, then had fallen 
copious rains and everything had taken a new lease 
of life. I was looking idly over to the eastward, won 
dering what the "States" were like, though it would 
seem from the influx of emigrants and their tales that 
they held every variety of climate and productions 
known to the world. 

I watched a great covered wagon lumbering along, 
drawn by two not over large but stocky horses. 
In a vague fashion I said to myself "Some one 
from the States." It had not the air of a near-by 
native. 

The driver jumped down with a loud "whoa," and 
the animals, nothing loth, stood still. We were back 
perhaps fifty feet from the road, though it had a name 
as a street. 

Mother came out just as the man walked up the 
path. She was rather stout, somewhat weather-beaten 
with our fierce winds, but fresh and wholesome look 
ing, With a kindly smile, that had not been banished 
by the scoldings she had found necessary to use. Her 
hair was a soft dun-colored brown, her eyes brown 



 

also, with a sort of twinkle in them that sometimes 
flashed in the heat of anger. 

The man gave his faded wool hat a tug. He. was 
of medium height, much seamed and wrinkled by ex 
posure, with shrewd blue eyes, rather reddish hair and 
a sparse ragged beard, the sort of man who would 
hardly attract a second look. 

"Ma'am," he began, in a respectful tone, "can you 
tell me just how I shall find the Towner place, and can 
I reach it to-night?" 

"Well " mother looked over westward "I can't 
say I should advise you to attempt it. It's crost the 
river. An' ther' ain't much but a tumble-down log 
hut. Be you the man goin' to live ther'? Towner 
traded off the place an' was in high feather 'bout his 
bargain." 

The man looked rather crestfallen. "I was in hopes 
I could. But then it's good to be so near," with a sigh 
of content in the voice. "There's some taverns about, 
I suppose, though, for that matter, we could take 
another night in the wagon." 

"What fambly is ther'?" and mother peered out 
rather curiously. 

"Only me and my little gal. There's such big 
stories told about Chicago." 

"An' they're comin' out the little end of the horn," 
said mother with a short laugh. "You can hardly 
