to her.
“That bowl,” Maggie went on, “is, so strangely--too strangely, almost,
to believe at this time of day--the proof. They were together all the
while--up to the very eve of our marriage. Don’t you remember how just
before that she came back, so unexpectedly, from America?”
The question had for Mrs. Assingham--and whether all consciously
or not--the oddest pathos of simplicity. “Oh yes, dear, of course I
remember how she came back from America--and how she stayed with US, and
what view one had of it.”
Maggie’s eyes still, all the time, pressed and penetrated; so that,
during a moment, just here, she might have given the little flare, have
made the little pounce, of asking what then “one’s” view had been. To
the small flash of this eruption Fanny stood, for her minute, wittingly
exposed; but she saw it as quickly cease to threaten--quite saw the
Princess, even though in all her pain, refuse, in the interest of their
strange and exalted bargain, to take advantage of the opportunity
for planting the stab of reproach, the opportunity thus coming all of
itself. She saw her--or she believed she saw her--look at her chance
for straight denunciation, look at it and then pass it by; and she felt
herself, with this fact, hushed well-nigh to awe at the lucid higher
intention that no distress could confound and that no discovery--since
it was, however obscurely, a case of “discovery”--could make less
needful. These seconds were brief--they rapidly passed; but they
lasted long enough to renew our friend’s sense of her own extraordinary
undertaking, the function again imposed on her, the answerability again
drilled into her, by this intensity of intimation. She was reminded of
the terms on which she was let off--her quantity of release having made
its sufficient show in that recall of her relation to Charlotte’s
old reappearance; and deep within the whole impression glowed--ah, so
inspiringly when it came to that! her steady view, clear from the first,
of the beauty of her companion’s motive. It was like a fresh sacrifice
for a larger conquest “Only see me through now, do it in the face of
this and in spite of it, and I leave you a hand of which the freedom
isn’t to be said!” The aggravation of fear--or call it, apparently, of
knowledge--had jumped straight into its place as an aggravation above
all for her father; the effect of this being but to quicken to passion
her reasons for making his protectedness, or in other words the forms
of his ignorance, still the law of her attitude and the key to her
solution. She kept as tight hold of these reasons and these forms, in
her confirmed horror, as the rider of a plunging horse grasps his seat
with his knees; and she might absolutely have been putting it to her
guest that she believed she could stay on if they should only “meet”
 nothing more. Though ignorant still of what she had definitely met Fanny
yearned, within, over her spirit; and so, no word about it said, passed,
through mere pitying eyes, a vow to walk ahead and, at crossroads, with
a lantern for the darkness and wavings away for unadvised traffic, look
out for alarms. There was accordingly no wait in Maggie’s reply. “They
spent together hours--spent at least a morning--the certainty of which
has come back to me now, but that I didn’t dream of it at the time. That
cup there has turned witness--by the most wonderful of chances. That’s
why, since it has been here, I’ve stood it out for my husband to see;
put it where it would meet him, almost immediately, if he should come
into the room. I’ve wanted it to meet him,” she went on, “and I’ve
wanted him to meet it, and to be myself present at the meeting. But that
hasn’t taken place as yet; often as he has lately been in the way of
coming to see me here--yes, in particular lately--he hasn’t showed
to-day.” It was with her managed quietness, more and more, that she
talked--an achieved coherence that helped her, evidently, to hear and
to watch herself; there was support, and thereby an awful harmony, but
which meant a further guidance, in the facts she could add together.
“It’s quite as if he had an instinct--something that has warned him off
or made him uneasy. He doesn’t quite know, naturally, what has happened,
but guesses, with his beautiful cleverness, that something has, and
isn’t in a hurry to be confronted with it. So, in his vague fear, he
keeps off.”
“But being meanwhile in the house--?”
“I’ve no idea--not having seen him to-day, by exception, since before
luncheon. He spoke to me then,” the Princess freely explained, “of a
ballot, of great importance, at a club--for somebody, some personal
friend, I think, who’s coming up and is supposed to be in danger. To
make an effort for him he thought he had better lunch there. You see the
efforts he can make”--for which Maggie found a smile that went to her
friend’s heart. “He’s in so many ways the kindest of men. But it was
hours ago.”
Mrs. Assingham thought. “The more danger then of his coming in and
finding me here. I don’t know, you see, what you now consider that
you’ve ascertained; nor anything of the connexion with it of that object
that you declare so damning.” Her eyes rested on this odd acquisition
and then quitted it, went back to it and again turned from it: it was
inscrutable in its rather stupid elegance, and yet, from the moment
one had thus appraised it, vivid and definite in its domination of
the scene. Fanny could no more overlook it now than she could have
overlooked a lighted Christmas-tree; but nervously and all in vain she
dipped into her mind for some floating reminiscence of it. At the same
time that this attempt left her blank she understood a good deal, she
even not a little shared the Prince’s mystic apprehension. The golden
bowl put on, under consideration, a sturdy, a conscious perversity; as
a “document,” somehow, it was ugly, though it might have a decorative
grace. “His finding me here in presence of it might be more flagrantly
disagreeable--for all of us--than you intend or than would necessarily
help us. And I must take time, truly, to understand what it means.”
“You’re safe, as far as that goes,” Maggie returned; “you may take it
from me that he won’t come in; and that I shall only find him below,
waiting for me, when I go down to the carriage.”
Fanny Assingham took it from her, took it and more. “We’re to sit
together at the Ambassador’s then--or at least you two are--with this
new complication thrust up before you, all unexplained; and to look
at each other with faces that pretend, for the ghastly hour, not to be
seeing it?”
Maggie looked at HER with a face that might have been the one she was
