What new blow awaited ? With apjn-ehen- 
sion, Mrs. Jeffries mounted the stairs. With 
weariness in her nerves, and disapprobation on 



 

her lips, the lady entered her niece's room. 
In his basket before the fireplace lay the weak 
and mangled spaniel. Miriam, in her white 
negligee, was kneeling beside him. 

" It 's Caro, Auntie. Speak kindly to him. 
Don't ask me a question. Philip will tell you. 
Don't blame me for anything !" 

The painful color burned Aunt Cornelia's 
cheeks. 

" I didn't know I was as bad as that, my 
dear." Then she stooped and saw. 

A colder-hearted woman than Mrs. Jeffries 
might have melted at the sight before her, and 
Aunt Cornelia's tears fell fast upon the mu- 
tilated dog. 

Mrs. Jeffries and her dearest lawyer sat to- 
gether in the library. It was now mid-after- 
noon, and Surbridge, cheerfully cutting an 
hour from the busiest portion of his day, had 
already surrendered himself to the task of 
soothing the soul of his most adoring and 
most difficult client. 

"Put yourself in my place," said Aunt 
Cornelia solemnly. 

" That, my dear madam," returned Philip 




with his perfect manner, " I have often done 

— with envy." 

" There you are — your father all over 
again. You are very graceful, Philip, but 
you don't help me out as much as usual. If 
you were I, what, I should like to know, 
would you do in this extraordinary situa- 
tion?" 

"Accept it," said Philip quietly, " like the 
grande dame you are." 

" Yes, but not in a minute — not with a 
gasp. I haven't even had time for a good cry. 
Here I find the jDress of the city busied with 
our affairs — the privacy of this household 
endangered — that boy and his poodle on 
everybody's lips — your name in every paper 

— my niece's ostentatiously suppressed. I 
suppose we have you to thank for that." 

"Well, yes," drawled Philip. "I did my 
best." 

" I find Dr. Steele pilloried — whether justly 
or not, how do I know? I find my niece's 
imminent engagement to him indefinitely post- 
poned. I find that he has resigned the presi- 
dency of our noble society. I am overwhelmed 
with the responsibilities this will bring upon 



 

my poor head. I find upstairs — mysteriously 
returned to this family — a mangled dog. I 
find an evidently greater mystery behind him. 
Nobody tells me how he came to be as he is. 
Miriam positively refuses to speak about him. 
I must say, it would have been a great deal 
better for that child if he had been dead as 
she thought he was." 

Philip held up his firm and gentle hand, 
as if he were flagging a train. Mrs. Jeffries 
slowed up, and in a few quiet words the lawyer 
told her the whole story. 

Aunt Cornelia received this recital as if she 
had been struck between the eyes. The con- 
ventionality of her nature yielded hard, and 
she was convinced that no lady in her class of 
