the farm."
"Don't you want to try it for another day?" asked Nat. "I'll pay your
way." He knew the experience would do Fred good. The boy from the
country consented; but at night he returned more discouraged than ever.
"I was a big fool to leave the farm," he sighed. "The city is no place
for me. The noise makes my head ache, and I get lost every time I turn a
corner. I wish I was back to Brookville."
"Very well, you shall start back to-morrow," answered Nat.
"But I ain't got the carfare, and I hate to try riding on the freight
cars again."
"I'll get you a railroad ticket," answered Nat, and he did so, and also
gave Fred some change for his meals. Fred was more than thankful, and
actually cried on parting.
"You're the best boy in the world, Nat," he sobbed. "The very best! Just
wait till you come back to the farm! I'll show you how I can treat
you!" And then he was off for home, a sadder but a wiser youth.
"To go back to the farm was the best thing that fellow could do," was
Dick's comment. "Why, he wouldn't amount to shucks here, even if he
stayed a year."
"We can't all be city folks," said Mrs. Talcott. "Some men must remain
farmers."
"The trouble with Fred is, he doesn't like to work," said Nat. "But this
may teach him a lesson."
On the day that Fred left, Nat was called to the office by John Garwell.
"Nat, I want you to go to Springfield, Massachusetts, immediately," said
the real estate broker. "See when you can catch a train."
"A train leaves the Grand Central Depot at eleven-thirty," was our
hero's answer, after consulting a time-table.
"Then you have plenty of time. Take this document and turn it over to
Mr. Perry Robertson."
"Yes, sir."
"Don't give it to anybody else."
"Shall I wait for Mr. Robertson, if he isn't in when I call?"
"Yes."
"All right, sir."
No more was said, and Nat prepared for the trip without further delay.
He wished to ask his employer about the documents found in the trunk,
but saw that Mr. Garwell was too busy to be interrupted.
Nat was getting used to taking short trips to various cities, so the
ride to Springfield was no great novelty. He put in part of his time at
reading a newspaper, and the balance at studying shorthand from a book
which he carried with him.
Arriving at Springfield, Nat found he would have to wait until evening
before he could see Mr. Perry Robertson. This made him stay in the city
overnight, and he did not arrange to go back to New York until ten
o'clock the next morning.
He had just paid his bill at the hotel, and was passing the smoking
room, when he saw a man who looked familiar, get up from reading a
newspaper, and walk toward him.
"Hamilton Dart!" gasped our hero, and rushing forward he caught the
swindler by the arm.
CHAPTER XXVII
A SCENE AT THE HOTEL
The fellow who had posed as a broker and commission merchant was taken
completely by surprise when confronted by Nat, and for the moment did
not know what to say.
"I guess you didn't expect to see me again," said our hero, after a
pause, during which Nick Smithers--to use his real name--glared fiercely
at the youth.
"Excuse me, boy, but I don't know you!" said the swindler, at last. "You
have made a strange mistake."
"Oh, no, I haven't," answered Nat. "You are Hamilton Dart, alias Nick
Smithers."
"My dear young friend you are in error. My name is Josiah Garfield, and
I am from Concord, Massachusetts."
"I am not mistaken. You are Nick Smithers, and you are the rascal who
swindled me in New York City."
"Boy, you must be mad!" burst out Nick Smithers, in assumed
indignation. "I a swindler! Preposterous!"
"It's the plain truth, and there is no use of your denying it."
By this time a small crowd was gathering around. Soon a clerk of the
hotel came up hastily.
"What's the trouble here?" he questioned, anxiously.
"This boy is crazy," said Nick Smithers.
"No, I am not. This man is a swindler, and I want him arrested," came
from Nat. He made up his mind, come what might, he would stand up for
his rights.
"I am an honest man--well-known in Concord, where I keep a jewelry
establishment," puffed Nick Smithers. "This is an insult to me." He
turned to the hotel clerk. "I shall hold your hotel responsible for
this."
"I--this looks as if you were making a mistake," said the clerk to Nat.
"This gentleman has been stopping here for over a week. He is registered
on our book as Josiah Garfield."
"He has half a dozen names," said Nat. "I tell you he is a swindler."
"And I say the boy is crazy. Boy, if you say another word, I'll have you
locked up."
Nick Smithers thought Nat was so green that he would back down, but for
once he made a mistake.
"Call a policeman, please," he said to the clerk. "We can talk this over
when we get to the police headquarters."
"Are you sure of what you are doing?" asked the clerk.
"Yes, I am sure of it. I can prove beyond any doubt whatever that this
fellow is a confidence man and a swindler. He swindled me out of a
hundred dollars in New York, and he swindled several others out of the
same amount. Just help me to lock him up and I'll get all the witnesses
necessary."
"That's straight talk," came from a commercial traveler standing nearby.
"If the boy can prove what he says this man ought to be arrested by all
means."
