Entertaining she certainly was with her quaint, 
obsolete words sprinkled here and there, and her 
shrewd comments on the changes since she was a 
girl and the village was three or four large farms, 
and everybody's husband and sons were fisher- 
men, and the women and children looked after 
the out-of-door work. Her grandfather had been 
one of the old men and built the middle of the 
house, her father had added two rooms, her hus- 
band had built on some more. One of her sons 
was in Colorado, the other was mate of a vessel. 





one daughter was in Nova Scotia, where her hus- 
band was in canning business, the youngest was 
married here. They had all made the house over 
to her. "Of course they know some of 'em will 
get it back, the gals most likely. Men have ten 
chances in this world to a woman's one, an' I 
hold if there's anything to leave, 'specially if 
'taint very much, the gals ought to have it. You 
look young, mum, to have grown up daughters.'* 

"They are not mine," returned Mrs. Wilmarth. 
"I could wish they were." 

"Well, it's a great responsibility to get 'em 
married off to your likin'. Now I'd ruther Har- 
riet would 'a married Sam Baldwin who has a 
big farm ten miles or so above here and is makin' 
money hand over fist. But no one would do her 
but that Andrew Mack and to go off where no 
one could ever get at her. There ain't much to 
choose from round here — " 

"And these girls have to go back to school," 
interposed Mrs. Wilmarth. 

"Well now, I should think they'd better be 
learnin' how to keep house. Gals don't seem to 
take to work now-a-days, but they'll play with 
knocking balls into holes over there in the field 
and chase through the hot sun, and I'll be bound 
it would half kill 'em to sweep a room or cook a 



 

dinner. You can have what vegetables you want 
out of the garden, an' I hope you'll be satisfied 
and not find fault with everything. I hate fault- 
finding people. An' I'll come over again to see 
how you get along." 



CHAPTER V 

WHAT THE OCEAN SAID 

Mrs. Green trotted off abruptly. Then they 
went down to the beach. The tide was going 
out and every wave left behind sands that in 
this morning sunshine sparkled with gems of 
imagination, Helen averred. Did the waves 
carry that crest off to other lands ? The wonder- 
ful boundlessness stirred the depths of Helen's 
soul. Would she be following the mysterious 
track sometime? Life had been full of surprises 
to her, would they go on and on ? 

"The air is invigorating," Mrs. Wilmarth said. 
"People do need changes, I suppose. The quiet 
of Hope was restful at first. Oh, do you sup- 
pose I shall turn into a discontented old woman?" 

"You will have to wait a long time first, and 
even now you are going to renew your youth." 

Mrs. Wilmarth smiled. "You cannot realize 
how glad I am to have you back. Yes, I wish 
more than ever that you really belonged to me. 
And I suppose Mrs. Dayton is saying the same 
thing. I try to study out the charm." 


"Have I such a wonderful gift? I think it is 
because people need just what I can give them. 
You see their need rounds it out." 

"Or the reverse," tenderly. "They do need 
what you give so generously. The world is full 
of needs." 

"I am glad to have anything to bestow." 

