world, and where young women meet to compare husbands, over the secret
and sacrificial teapot which represents virtue, or the less sacred
bridge-table which represents vice. Smart young dandies who had never
exchanged a word with her spoke of her familiarly as "Regina "; smarter
and older men, who knew her a little, talked of her as "the Spalletta,"
not without a certain respect; their mothers branded her as "that
creature," and their wives, who envied her, called her "Consalvi's
Regina."

When people remonstrated with Folco Corbario for allowing his stepson
too much liberty, he shook his head gravely and answered that he did
what he could to keep Marcello in the right way, but that the boy's
intellect had been shaken by the terrible accident, and that he had
undoubtedly developed vicious tendencies--probably atavistic, Folco
added. Why did Folco allow him to have so much money? The answer was
that he was of age and the fortune was his. But why had Folco let him
have it before he was twenty-one, ever since he was found and brought
home? He had not had much, was the reply; at least it had not been much
compared with the whole income he now enjoyed one could not bring up the
heir of a great estate like a pauper, could one? So the questioners
desisted from questioning, but they said among themselves that, although
Folco had been an admirable husband and stepfather while his wife had
lived, he had not shown as much good sense after her death as they had
been led to expect. Meanwhile, no one had any right to interfere, and
Marcello did as he pleased.

Children instinctively attach themselves to whichever of their parents
gives them the most liberty. It is sheer nonsense to deny it. Marcello
had loved his mother dearly, but she had always been the one to hinder
him from doing what he wished to do, because she had been excessively
anxious about his bodily health, and over-desirous of bringing him up to
manhood in a state of ideal moral perfection. Folco, on the other hand,
had been associated with all the boy's sports and pleasures, and had
always encouraged him to amuse himself, giving as a reason that there
was no medicine like healthy happiness for a boy of delicate
constitution. Corbario, like Satan, knew the uses of truth, which are
numerous and not all good. Though Marcello would not have acknowledged
it to himself, his stepfather had been nearer to him, and more necessary
to him, than his mother, during several years; and besides, it was less
hard to bear the loss of which he learned when he recovered, because it
had befallen him during that dark and uncertain period of his illness
that now seemed as if it had lasted for years, and whereby everything
that had been before it belonged to a remote past.

Moreover, there was Regina, and there was youth, and there was liberty;
and Corbario was at hand, always ready to encourage and satisfy his
slightest whim, on the plea that a convalescent must be humoured at any
cost, and that there would be time enough to consider what should be
done with Regina after Marcello was completely recovered. After all,
Corbario told him, the girl had saved his life, and it was only right to
be grateful, and she should be amply rewarded for all the trouble she
had taken. It would have been sheer cruelty to have sent her away to the
country; and what was the cost of a quiet lodging for her in Trastevere,
and of a few decent clothes, and of a respectable middle-aged
woman-servant to take care of her? Nothing at all; only a few francs,
and Marcello was so rich! Regina, also, was so very unusually
well-behaved, and so perfectly docile, so long as she was allowed to see
Marcello every day! She did not care for dress at all, and was quite
contented to wear black, with just a touch of some tender colour.
Corbario made it all very easy, and saw to everything, and he seemed to
know just how such things were arranged. He was so fortunate as to find
a little house that had a quiet garden with an entrance on another
street, all in very good condition because it had lately been used by a
famous foreign painter who preferred to live in Trastevere, away from
the interruptions and distractions of the growing city; and by a very
simple transaction the house became the property of the minor, Marcello
Consalvi, to do with as he thought fit. This was much more convenient
than paying rent to a tiresome landlord who might at any time turn his
tenant out. Corbario thought of everything. Twice a week a gardener
came, early in the morning, and soon the garden was really pretty; and
the respectable woman-servant watered the flowers every evening just
before sunset. There was a comfortable Calcutta chair for Marcello in a
shady corner, the very first time he came there, and Regina had learned
how to make tea for him; for the respectable woman-servant knew how to
do all sorts of things belonging to civilised life. She was so intensely
respectable and quiet that Marcello was almost afraid of her, until it
occurred to him that as she took so much trouble, he ought to give her a
present of money; and when he had done this twice, he somehow became
aware that she was his devoted slave--middle-aged and excessively
respectable. Folco was really a very good judge of character, Marcello
thought, since he could at once pick out such a person from the great
horde of the unemployed.

Her name was Settimia, and it was wonderful to see how she quietly
transformed Regina into a civilised creature, who must attract attention
by her beauty and carriage, but who might have belonged to a
middle-class Roman family so far as manners and dress were concerned. It
is true that the girl possessed by nature the innate dignity of the
Roman peasant, with such a figure and such grace as any aristocrat might
have envied, and that she spoke with the Roman accent which almost all
other Italians admire; but though her manners had a certain repose, they
were often of an extremely unexpected nature, and she had an
astonishingly simple way of calling things by their names which
sometimes disconcerted Marcello and sometimes amused him. Settimia
civilised her, almost without letting her know it, for she was quick to
learn, like all naturally clever people who have had no education, and
she was imitative, as all womanly women are when they are obliged to
adapt themselves quickly to new surroundings. She was stimulated, too,
by the wish to appear well before Marcello, lest he should ever be
ashamed of her. That was all. She never had the least illusion about
