"Moreover, I have decided," went on the duke, "to send the Honorable
Betty Moore back to England."

"Betty?"

"Yes.  She is a charming young person, but she is altogether too
sympathetic.  She abets you in all you do.  Her English independence
does not conform with my ideas.  After the wedding I shall notify her
father."

"Everything, everything!  My friends, my liberty, the right God gives
to every woman--to love whom she will!  And you, my uncle, rob me of
these things!  What if I should tell you that marriage with me is now
impossible?"--her lips growing thin.

"I should not be very much surprised."

"Please look at this, then, and you will understand why I can not marry
Doppelkinn."  She thrust the bogus certificate into his hands.

The duke read it carefully, not a muscle in his face disturbed.
Finally he looked up with a terrifying smile.

"Poor, foolish child!  What a terrible thing this might have turned out
to be!"

"What do you mean?"

"Mean?  Do you suppose anything like this could take place without my
hearing of it?  And such a dishonest unscrupulous rascal!  Some day I
shall thank the American consul personally for his part in the affair.
I was waiting to see when you would produce this.  You virtually placed
your honor and reputation, which I know to be above reproach, into the
keeping of a man who would sell his soul for a thousand crowns."

The girl felt her knees give way, and she sat down.  Tears slowly
welled up in her eyes and overflowed, blurring everything.

The duke got up and went over to his desk, rummaging among the papers.
He returned to the girl with a letter.

"Read that, and learn the treachery of the man you trusted."

The letter was written by Steinbock.  In it he disclosed all.  It was a
venomous, inciting letter.  The girl crushed it in her hand.

"Is he dead?" she asked, all the bitterness in her heart surging to her
lips.

"To Barscheit,"--briefly.  "Now, what shall I do with this?"--tapping
the bogus certificate.

"Give it to me," said the girl wearily.  She ripped it into halves,
into quarters, into infinitesimal squares, and tossed them into the
waste-basket.  "I am the unhappiest girl in the world."

"I am sorry," replied the grand duke.  "It isn't as if I had forced
Doppelkinn on you without first letting you have your choice.  You have
rejected the princes of a dozen wealthy countries.  We are not as the
common people; we can not marry where we will.  I shall announce that
the marriage will take place next week."

"Do not send my friend away," she pleaded, apparently tamed.

"I will promise to give the matter thought.  Good night."

She turned away without a word and left him.  When he roared at her she
knew by experience that he was harmless; but this quiet determination
meant the exclusion of any further argument.  There was no escape
unless she ran away.  She wept on her pillow that night, not so much at
the thought of wedding Doppelkinn as at the fact that Prince Charming
had evidently missed the last train and was never coming to wake her
up, or, if he did come, it would be when it was too late.  How many
times had she conjured him up, as she rode in the fresh fairness of the
mornings!  How manly he was and how his voice thrilled her!  Her horse
was suddenly to run away, he was to rescue her, and then demand her
hand in marriage as a fitting reward.  Sometimes he had black hair and
eyes, but more often he was big and tall, with yellow hair and the
bluest eyes in all the world.




VI

The princess rose at dawn the following day.  She routed out Hans, the
head groom, and told him to saddle Artemis, the slim-limbed, seal-brown
filly which an English nobleman had given to her.  Ten minutes later
she was in the saddle, and the heaviness on her heart seemed to rise
and vanish like the opal mists on the bosom of the motionless lake.  A
pale star blinked at her, and the day, flushed like the cheek of a
waking infant, began drowsily to creep over the rolling mountains.

How silent all the city was!  Only here and there above the chimneys
rose a languid film of smoke.  The gates of the park shut behind her
with a clang, and so for a time she was alone and free.  She touched
Artemis with a spur, and the filly broke into a canter toward the lake
road.  The girl's nostrils dilated.  Every flower, the thousand
resinous saps of the forest, the earth itself, yielded up a cool sweet
perfume that was to the mind what a glass of wine is to the blood,
