" He's taken the horses — the beast ! " she said 
calmly, as Plank joined her at the great windows and 
looked out into the night, where the round, drooping, 
flower-like globes of the electric lamps spread a lake 
of silver before the house. 
It was rather rough on Leila. The Mortimers main- 
tained one pair of horses only; and the use given them 
at all hours resulted in endless scenes, and an utter im- 
possibility for Leila to retain the same coachman and 
footman for more than a few weeks at a time. 
" He won't come back ; he'll keep Martin and the 
horses standing in front of Delmonico's all night. 
You'd better call up the stables, Beverly." 
So Plank called up a livery and arranged for trans- 
portation at one ; and Leila seated herself at a card- 
table and began to deal herself cold decks, thoughtfully. 
" That bit in ' Carmen,' " she said, " it always 
brings the shudder; it never palls on me, never grows 
stale." She whipped the ominous spade from the pack 
and held it out. " La Mort! " she exclaimed in mock 
tragedy, yet there was another undertone ringing 
through it, sounding, too, in her following laugh. 
" Draw ! " she commanded, holding out the pack ; and 
Plank drew a diamond. 
" Naturally," she nodded, shuffling the pack with 
her smooth, savant fingers and laying them out as she 
repeated the formula : " Qui frappe? Qui entre? Qui 
prend chaise? Qui parle? Oh, the deuce! it's always 
the same! Tiens! je Tu'eimui! " There was a flash of 
her bare arm, a flutter, and the cards fell in a shower 
over them both. 
 
Plank flipped a card from his knee, laughing un- 
certainly, aware of symptoms in his pretty vis-a-vis 
which always made him uncomfortable. For months, 
now, at certain intervals, these recurrent symptoms had 
made him wary ; but what they might portend he did 
not know, only that, alone with her, moments occurred 
when he was heavily aware of a tension which, after a 
while, affected even his few thick nerves. One of those 
intervals was threatening now: her flushed cheeks, her 
feverish activity with her hands, the unconscious reflex 
movement of her silken knees and restless slippers, all 
foreboded it. Next would come the nervous laugh- 
ter, the swift epigram which bored and puzzled him, 
the veiled badinage he was unequal to : and then the 
hint of weariness, the curious pathos of long silences, 
the burnt-out beauty of her eyes from which the 
fire had gone as though quenched by invisible tears 
within. 
He ascribed it — desired to ascribe it — to her rela- 
tions with her husband. He had naturally learned and 
divined how matters stood with them ; he had learned 
considerable in the last month or two — something of 
Mortimer's record as a burly brother to the rich ; some- 
thing of his position among those who made no ques- 
tion of his presence anywhere. Something of Leila, too, 
he had heard, or rather deduced from hinted word or 
shrug or smiling silence, not meant for him, but indif- 
ferent to what he might hear and what he might think 
of what he heard. 
He did listen ; he did patiently add two and two in 
the long solitudes of his Louis XV chamber; and if the 
results were not always four, at least they came within a 
fraction of the proper answer. And this did not alter 
his policy or weaken his faith in his mentors ; nor did 
it impair his real gratitude to them, and his real and 
simple friendship for them both. He was faithful in 
friendship once formed, obstinately so, for better or for 
worse; but he was shrewd enough to ignore opportuni- 
ties for friendships which he foresaw could do him no 
good on his plodding pilgrimage toward the temple of 
his inexorable desire. 
Lifting, now, his Delft-coloured eyes furtively, he 
studied the silk-and-lace swathed figure of the young 
matron opposite, flung back into the depths of her 
great chair, profile turned from him, her chin impris- 
oned in her ringed fingers. The brooding abandon of 
the attitude contrasted sharply with the grooming of 
the woman, making both the more effective. 
" Turn in, if you want to," she said, her voice in- 
distinct, smothered by her pink palm. " You're to dress 
in Leroy's quarters." 
" I don't want to turn in just yet." 
" You said you needed sleep." 
" I do. But it's not eleven yet." 
She slipped into another posture, reaching for a 
cigarette, and, setting it afire from the match he 
offered, exhaled a cloud of smoke and looked dreamily 
through it at him. 
" Who is she ? " she asked in a colourless voice. 
" Tell me, for I don't know. Agatha ? Marion Page ? 
Mrs. Vendenning.'' or the Tassel girl.'' " 
" Nobody — yet," he admitted cheerfully. 
" Nobody — yet," she repeated, musing over her 
cigarette. " That's good politics, if it's true." 
"Am I untruthful. " he asked simply. 
"  don't know. Are you.' You're a man." 
" Don't talk that way, Leila." 
" No, I won't. What is it that you and Sylvia 
