and the stores and markets trimmed up with 
evergreens. How jolly every one seemed! 

“Next day luck was dead against me again. 
Seventy-five cents was all I made. Not a 
stiver for Christmas ! I ’d seen so many things 
I wanted to buy Kitty, and I wanted a chicken 



to make some broth for the gov’ner. I began 
to wonder if it was all true what the man said 
on Sunday. Was there a great Lord up in 
heaven who knew all about cold, and hunger, 
and had no place to lay his head, and was at 
last given up to the cruel Jews to be put to 
death? 

“ ‘That ’s a sight worse than you, Ben 
Hewes,’ I said. And then I ran round looking 
at the gay shop-windows, and listening to the 
fun and laughs, and now and then a church 
bell ringing. If Kitty had been strong enough 
to go with me it would have been quite a little 
Christmas feast. But it was a awful cold 
night. I had an armful of evergreens, for you 




see I did n’t dare spend any of my money 
buying Christmas. I was turning round a cor- 
ner when I saw something huddled up on the 
step like a great dog. If I was rich I should 
have some dogs, I do like ’em so. I went to 
pat the shaggy fellow, but when I put out my 
hand I found it was n’t a dog at all. 

‘‘ ‘Lemme be,’ said the little kid, jerking 
away. ‘I ’m nice and warm in this corner, and 
I was ’most asleep.’ 

“ ‘But you ’ll freeze here,’ I said. ‘You had 
better go to the station-house.’ 

“ ‘No,’ and he began to cry. ‘I run away 
from a peeler. I don’t want to go to the Island. 
I want to get up to the heaven where Betty ’s 
gone, and where the good Lord takes care of 
little boys like me. I have n’t had a mouthful 
all day ’cept the good smell over there, and the 
man kicked me away. Does it take long to 
freeze?’ 

“‘Why, Jemmy Arno, is it you?’ and I 
dragged him out to the light. Sure enough! 

 


And his teeth were chattering as if they ’d 
been strung on wires. 

“The little kid did n’t know me. He blinked 
out of his great black eyes, and then began to 
whimper. I knew where he had lived, and 
this Betty Arno used to keep a peanut stand. 

“ Is Betty dead?’ says I. 

“‘Yes; and the woman turned me out o’ 
doors, and would n’t let me take the box Betty 
gave me. O, dear! I ’m so cold — so cold.’ 

“I thought of what the man said at the mis- 
sion-school. Maybe this was my Christmas! 
If doing for such a little chap was just the same 
as doing for the great Lord, and if He ’d say 
at the last, ‘Ben Hewes, I saw you that Christ- 
mas Eve, when you was too poor to send gifts 
to anybody, taking that half-starved little 
shaver in out of the cold, and I put it down in 
my ’count, and it ’s just as good as a rich man’s 
deed.’ So says I, ‘Come along. Jemmy. I ’ll 
give you a nice warm corner to sleep in, and a 
mouthful of supper. It ’s Christmas Eve, you 
know. Trot up brisk now.’ 







‘‘The poor little chap was crying and talking 
all in one breath, and wanting to sit down on 
every stoop, but I kept him up. ‘Here we are,* 
says I, opening the door. 

“ ‘O Ben, what has kept you so late?* cries 
