
"Good enough."

Randy had received several letters from home. Matters were going
smoothly and Mr. Thompson was feeling better every day. The garden was
doing finely. In one letter Mrs. Thompson wrote that there had been two
strikes at the iron works, each due to Mr. Bangs' overbearing manner
towards his workmen.

"I thought he'd have trouble sooner or later," said Randy to himself,
as he perused the communication. "What a pity that Mr. Bartlett isn't
in charge."

One fine afternoon the Helen Shalley was steaming down the river as
usual and Randy was near the bow, coiling up a hawser, when he noticed
a sloop some distance ahead. It was tacking in an uncertain manner, as
if the party on board did not know much about sailing such a craft.

The sloop was directly in the path of the big steamboat, and the latter
gave a warning whistle and then turned to one side. As she did this the
sloop turned in the same direction.

"Hullo! What does that fellow in the sloop mean?" cried Randy to Jones,
who was near.

"What's the matter?"

"He'll be run down if he doesn't look out."

"Some fool that doesn't know how to sail a boat, I guess," said the
other deckhand.

Swiftly the steamboat and the sloop drew close to one another. The big
boat let out another warning blast, and again the pilot turned her out
of her course. But the sloop also turned.

"There is only one young fellow on board," said Jones. "Look, he acts
as if he was scared out of his wits."

"I know him!" fairly shouted our hero.

"You do?"

"Yes, it is Bob Bangs, the rich young fellow I told you about."

"The fellow who couldn't manage his hoss?"

"The same."

"Well, he doesn't seem to know no more about his boat than he did about
that hoss," was the deckhand's comment.

"We are going to run into him!" gasped Randy.

"No, he is going to run into us."

"It will amount to the same thing--so far as he is concerned."

"Maybe--but it will be his fault if he gets drowned."

Another warning whistle now rang out, but was of no avail. The sloop
swerved again and then came squarely up to the big steamboat, which was
now backing water furiously.

"Stop! Don't run me down!" screamed Bob Bangs. He was fairly white with
terror.

His cries were cut short by the crash as the sloop struck. The bow was
splintered, and the shock threw Bob Bangs overboard. Luckily he was far
enough away to escape the paddle-wheel, as the Helen Shalley
continued to go ahead despite the fact that her engines had been
reversed.

The first surprise over, Randy was quick to act. Not far away was a
life preserver having a line attached to it and this he took from its
hooks. He waited for the rich boy to appear. Soon he came up,
spluttering.

"Catch the preserver!" called out our hero and cast the article in such
a skillful manner that it fell within easy reach.

"Save me! Save me!" gasped the rich youth, throwing his arms wildly
about him.

"Take hold of the life preserver!" called out half a hundred people at
once. Then several other cries rang out.

At last the motion of the water washed the life preserver up against
Bob Bangs' arm. He clutched at it desperately. By this time the
steamboat had come to a standstill, and it was an easy matter for Randy
and Jones to pull the rich youth towards the vessel. Then a rope ladder
was lowered and Bob Bangs came up to the deck, dripping with water.

[Illustration]

"Well, young man, you had a narrow escape," said Captain Hadley, as he
pushed his way through the crowd to the spot.

"I know it, and it's all your fault!" whined Bob Bangs.

