friends, and if she saw his eyes fixed upon her now and then with
an expression that made her nervous, there was still the broad
table between them, and he looked away almost directly.
Afterwards he smoked Spanish cigarettes, taking them to pieces and
rolling them again in thin French paper, and he went on talking;
but as the hour advanced he said less and less, and his cigarette
went out very often, till at last he rose, saying that it was late,
and he kissed her hand ceremoniously and left her.
‘Good-night,’ she said, just before he disappeared through the door.
He bent his head a little but did not answer.
An hour later she had dismissed her maid and sat in a small
easy-chair in her boudoir under a shaded light; she was trying
to read, in the hope of growing sleepy. She wore a thin silk
dressing-gown, wide open at the throat and showing a little simple
white lace; her dark hair was taken up in a loose knot rather
low down at the back of her neck, as she had always done it at
bedtime ever since she had been a young girl. Her bare feet were
half hidden in a pair of rather shabby little grey velvet slippers
without heel or heel-piece, for the spring night was warm. She was
trying to read.
She thought some one knocked softly at the door; she started in her
chair and dropped the book, while her hand went up to her throat to
gather the silk folds and hide the lace underneath. She could not
speak.
Another knock, quite distinct this time, and followed by a question
in her husband’s voice.
‘May I come in?’
An instant’s pause, and she closed her eyes to say two words.
‘Come in.’
PART II
THE COUNTESS OF MONTALTO
CHAPTER XIII
The Romans approved of Montalto’s return. The reason why any
civilised society continues to exist is that the majority of decent
people look upon marriage seriously, and consider it as a permanent
bond, spiritual or legal, or both. In such conservative countries
as admit divorce, the respectable part of society looks upon it as
a last resource in extreme cases, and no sensible citizen should
regard it as anything else. When it has taken place, the society to
which the two divorced persons belong decides which of them was in
the right, and that one is received as cordially as ever; the other
is treated coldly, and is sometimes turned out.
But there is no divorce law in Italy, and a civil marriage is
as indissoluble in the eyes of the Italian state as a religious
one is under the rules of the Catholic Church. There is such a
thing as separation by law, but it gives neither party a right to
marry again; it concerns the administration of property and the
guardianship of children, but nothing else, and the parties may
agree to unite again without any further ceremony.
Maria and her husband had never gone through the form of being
legally separated, though they had taken towards each other
the relative positions of separated husband and wife. Maria’s
sufficient independent fortune enabled her to decline any subsidy
from Montalto, and she had quitted his house after he left her; she
had also kept the child. The two had voluntarily placed themselves
where the law would probably have placed them, and society had been
grateful to Montalto for having avoided the open scandal of any
legal procedure against his wife; the more so, as it had chosen to
take Maria’s side, on the principle that absent friends are always
in the wrong.
But society was very glad to consider both Montalto and his wife
in the right, now that he had come back quietly, at the very end
of a season; and no objections were raised against the perfectly
innocent fiction of his having stayed away from Rome many years
to take care of his mother. It was a satisfaction to see such an
important couple reconciled again and living peaceably together;
everybody had something to repent of in life, and most people had
something to conceal; Maria had repented and Montalto had covered
up the spot on his honour, with as much tact and dignity as were
respectively consistent with a stained escutcheon and a contrite
heart; and it was really much more proper that Maria di Montalto,
whose husband was an authentic Count of the Empire, should live
in the great palace, instead of in a little apartment in the Via
San Martino, and should drive in a big carriage behind a pair of
huge black horses, in the shadow of tremendously imposing mourning
liveries, than go about in a small phaeton drawn by a pair of hired
nags, or even in a little brougham with one horse and no footman
at all, as she had sometimes been seen to do; it was much more
proper and appropriate. Why should any one make a fuss because a
small boy called Leone Silani di Montalto had blue eyes instead of
brown or black ones? Was it admissible that not one of the Montalto
ancestors, since the First Crusade, should have had blue eyes,
to account for Leone’s? Was nature to be allowed no latitude in
such little matters? And so forth; and so on; and more to the same
effect, and to the credit of Diego, Maria, and Leone di Montalto,
happily reunited in their own home. These things were said
without a smile by such excellent elderly people as the Princess
Campodonico and the Duchess of Trasmondo, the good and beautiful
old Princess Saracinesca, the whole Boccapaduli family, and all the
secondary social luminaries which reflect the light of the great
fixed ones round which they revolve. There had been a conspicuous
gap at the banquet of the Roman Olympians for years; it was once
more filled by those who had a right to it, and everything was for
the best in the best of all possible worlds, as Candide’s tutor was
the first to observe. So far as the Montalto family was concerned,
the truth of the assertion was amply proved by the fact that
Montalto himself was teaching Leone to ride, in the Villa Borghese.
Three or four times a week you might meet him there in the early
morning hours on a wonderful Andalusian mare he had brought from
Spain, with the boy at his side, red in the face, fearless, and
