suave. " I am sorry you should have fatigued 
yourself for nothing, but I am forced to remind 
you that this is not an expedition undertaken for 
the promotion of natural history. I am not violating my part in the contract, I believe. Upon our 
arrival at Sitka you are at liberty to remain as 
my guest and make use of the first boat that sails 
for this colony; but for the present I beg that 
you will limit yourself to the requirements of 
your position on my staff.'' 




He turned his back and ordered a canoe to 
be lowered. Since the arrival of the Governor 
and Comandante, now three days ago, all 
restrictions on his liberty had been removed, 
and the phrases of hospitality were a trifle less 
meaningless. He had been asked to give his word 
to keep away from the fortifications, and as he 
knew quite as much of the military resources of 
the country as he desired, he had merely suppressed a smile and given his promise. 

This morning he wanted nothing but a walk. 
He had slept badly, the blood was in his head, 
his nerves were on edge. He went rapidly 
along the beach and over the steep hills that led 
to the northeastern point of the peninsula. But 
he had taken the walk before and did not turn his 
head to look at the great natural amphitheatre 
formed by the inner slopes of those barren 
heights, so uninteresting of outline from the 
water. Once when Luis had left him to go down 
with an order to the Battery of Yerba Buena he 
had examined it critically and concluded that 
never had there been so fine a site for a great city. 
Nor a more beautiful, with the broken line of the 
San Bruno mountains in the distance and a 
glimpse of the Mission valley just beyond this vast 




Colosseum, whose steep imposing lines were destined by nature to be set with palaces and bazaars, 
minarets and towers and churches, with a thousand gilded domes and slender crosses glittering 
in the crystal air and sun-flood. If not another 
Moscow, then an Irkutsk in his day, at least. 

But he did not give the chosen site of his city 
a glance to-day, although in this gray hour before 
dawn when mystery and imagination most closely 
embrace, he might at another time have forgotten 
himself in one of those fits of dreaming that 
slipped him out of touch with realities, and sometimes precipitated action in a manner highly gratifying to his enemies. 

But much as he loved Kussia, there were times 
when he loved his own way more, and since the 
arrival of Governor Arrillaga he was beginning to feel as he had felt in the harbor of Nagasaki. Not a word since that first interview had 
been said of his cargo; nor even of the treaty, 
although nothing could have been more natural 
than the discussion of details. Whenever he had 
delicately broached either subject he had been 
met with a polite indifference, that had little in 
common with the cordiality otherwise shown him. 
He foresaw that he might be obliged to reveal the 



 

more pressing object of his visit without further 
diplomacy, and the thought irritated him beyond 
endurance. 

Whether Concha were giving him her promised 
aid he had no means of discovering, and herein 
lay another cause of his general vexation. He 
had dined every day at the Comandante's, 
danced there every night. Concha had been vivacious, friendly — impersonal. Not so much as a 
coquettish lift of the brow betrayed that the distinguished stranger eclipsed the caballeros for 
the moment; nor a whispered word that he retained the friendship she had offered him on the 
day of their meeting. He had not, indeed, had a 
word with her alone. But his interest and admiration had deepened. It was evident that her 
father and the Governor adored her, would deny 
her little. Her attitude to them was alternately 
that of the petted child and the chosen companion. 
As her mother was indisposed she occupied her 
place at the table, presiding with dignity, guiding 
the conversation, revealing the rare gift of making everyone appear at his best. In the evening 
she had sometimes danced alone for a few moments, but more often with her Eussian guests, 
and readily learning the English country-dances 




they were anxious to teach. Eezanov would have 
found the gay informality of these evenings delightful had his mind been at ease about his Sitkans, and Concha a trifle more personal. He had 
begun by suspecting that she was manoeuvring 
for his scalp, but he was forced to acquit her ; for 
not only did she show no provocative favor to 
