their best they held two burnished metal mirrors before her and behind
her, that she might admire herself. They had lighted many little lamps
that were all prepared, for it was now dark out of doors, and they had
spent two hours in arraying Zoë. And she smiled and patted their
cheeks, and called them clever girls, for she was sure that Zeno had
changed his mind. He would not come to her to-night.
But even as she repeated the words to herself, he came softly through
the warm lamplight and stood before her, and her heart stopped
beating.
For the first time since she had taken the final step, she felt the
whole extent and meaning of what she had done. She was really a slave,
and she was alone with her master.
CHAPTER VII
'Are you afraid of me?'
Zeno asked the question gently, for the colour had left her face; and
she looked up at him with a frightened stare. He had once seen a like
terror in the eyes of a startled doe, as if a clouded opal passed
across its sight.
Zoë did not answer, but she moved instinctively, drawing herself
together, as it were, and turning one shoulder to him. He heard her
breathing hard.
It was a very new thing that he felt; for often, in fight, and often
again, he had seen strong men turn pale before him, just when they
felt that he was a master of the sword and was going to kill, but he
had never seen a woman afraid of him in his life. In his narrow
experience, they had always seemed glad that he should be near them,
and should speak to them. Therefore, when he saw that Zoë was
terrified, he did not know what to do or say, and he stupidly repeated
his question,
'Are you afraid of me?'
Zoë dug her little nails into the palms of her hands, and looked round
the room, as if for help; but the two maids had disappeared as soon as
the master had entered, for so they had been taught to do by their
trainer. She was quite alone with the man who had paid for her.
  [Illustration: All sorts of confused thoughts crowded her brain, as
   Zeno sat down on a seat beside the divan.]
All sorts of confused thoughts crowded her brain, as Zeno sat down on
a seat beside the divan. She wondered what would happen if she told
him her story in a few words, and appealed to his generosity. She
guessed that he was kind; at least, sometimes. But perhaps he was a
friend of the new Emperor, and it would amuse him to know that he had
bought Michael Rhangabé's daughter. Or he might send for Rustan, and
insist on revoking the bargain, and Rustan might take her back to the
beggars' quarter, and force poor Kyría Agatha to give up the money.
Zoë knew at once little and much of the world of Constantinople, but
of one thing she was certain, there would be neither mercy nor
kindness for any of her name while Andronicus reigned in Blachernæ.
She was terrified by the presence of her master, but she was perfectly
brave in her resolve; the sight of death itself before her eyes should
not make her do anything whereby those for whom she had sold herself
might suffer.
Zeno sat still and looked at her. It seemed to him that she was far
more beautiful than he had at first realised. As she leaned sideways
against the big cushions, turning her face away and her shoulder
towards him, there was something in the line of her cheek and of her
neck where it joined the ear, and in the little downy ringlets at the
roots of her hair that stirred his blood, against his will. Also, the
devil came and whispered to his heart that she was his personal
property, as much as his horse, his house and his stores of
merchandise. The laws about slaves were uncertain enough in Italy,
but there was no doubt of the law in Constantinople. The slave
Arethusa, weighing so many talents and minæ, having so many sound
teeth, and other good points, was the absolute property of Carlo Zeno.
He might kill her, if he liked, in any way he chose, and the law would
not call it murder. There would be one slave less, and he would have
thrown away four hundred gold ducats; but that would be all.
She seemed to him the most beautiful creature in the world, and the
devil was not suggesting that he should kill her; not by any means.
For a long time, the man and his slave were silent, and scarcely
moved, and neither of them afterwards forgot those minutes. In their
thoughts each was struggling with what seemed an impossibility, a
something which could never be done. The high-born girl, for the sake
of a mother who was not her mother, and of brothers who were not of
her blood, was resolved to be to the end what she had made herself to
save their lives, the obedient slave of a merchant who had paid gold
for her. It was worse than death, but if she did not die of it, she
must live through it, lest the good she had done should be undone
again.
The man who had the law's own right of life and death over her, and
whose warm young blood her beauty stirred so profoundly, chose to
resist and play that he was not the master after all. His lean face
was calm enough in the quiet lamplight, as it would have been in
raging battle; but within was that he would not care to feel again,
nor perhaps to let others know that he had felt.
At last, wondering at the stillness, half-believing and quite hoping
that he was no longer in the room, Zoë turned her head. His eyes were
on her, but there was something in them that she could not fear.
'Tell me who you are,' he said quietly.
Of all questions she had least expected this one, which seemed so
natural to him. She waited a moment before she spoke.
'Are you dissatisfied, sir?' she asked in a low voice. 'Has the
Bokharian cheated you?'
'No! What a thought!'
'Then you know what I am, and I can tell you nothing more, my lord.
Can a slave have a pedigree?'
'I do not believe that you were born a slave,' said Zeno, leaning
forward a little and looking into her eyes.
After a moment, her lids drooped under his gaze, but she would not
speak.
'Have you nothing to say?' he asked, disappointed at her silence.
