occasion takes hold of the stately bartender, who condescends to a plate
of stewed duck; even the fat policeman--whose duty it will be, later in
the evening, to break up the fights--draws up a chair to the foot of the
table. And the children shout and the babies yell, and every one laughs
and sings and chatters--while above all the deafening clamor Cousin
Marija shouts orders to the musicians.
The musicians--how shall one begin to describe them? All this time they
have been there, playing in a mad frenzy--all of this scene must be
read, or said, or sung, to music. It is the music which makes it what
it is; it is the music which changes the place from the rear room of
a saloon in back of the yards to a fairy place, a wonderland, a little
corner of the high mansions of the sky.
The little person who leads this trio is an inspired man. His fiddle
is out of tune, and there is no rosin on his bow, but still he is an
inspired man--the hands of the muses have been laid upon him. He plays
like one possessed by a demon, by a whole horde of demons. You can
feel them in the air round about him, capering frenetically; with their
invisible feet they set the pace, and the hair of the leader of the
orchestra rises on end, and his eyeballs start from their sockets, as he
toils to keep up with them.
Tamoszius Kuszleika is his name, and he has taught himself to play the
violin by practicing all night, after working all day on the “killing
beds.” He is in his shirt sleeves, with a vest figured with faded gold
horseshoes, and a pink-striped shirt, suggestive of peppermint candy.
A pair of military trousers, light blue with a yellow stripe, serve to
give that suggestion of authority proper to the leader of a band. He is
only about five feet high, but even so these trousers are about eight
inches short of the ground. You wonder where he can have gotten them or
rather you would wonder, if the excitement of being in his presence left
you time to think of such things.
For he is an inspired man. Every inch of him is inspired--you might
almost say inspired separately. He stamps with his feet, he tosses his
head, he sways and swings to and fro; he has a wizened-up little face,
irresistibly comical; and, when he executes a turn or a flourish, his
brows knit and his lips work and his eyelids wink--the very ends of
his necktie bristle out. And every now and then he turns upon his
companions, nodding, signaling, beckoning frantically--with every inch
of him appealing, imploring, in behalf of the muses and their call.
For they are hardly worthy of Tamoszius, the other two members of
the orchestra. The second violin is a Slovak, a tall, gaunt man with
black-rimmed spectacles and the mute and patient look of an overdriven
mule; he responds to the whip but feebly, and then always falls
back into his old rut. The third man is very fat, with a round, red,
sentimental nose, and he plays with his eyes turned up to the sky and a
look of infinite yearning. He is playing a bass part upon his cello,
and so the excitement is nothing to him; no matter what happens in the
treble, it is his task to saw out one long-drawn and lugubrious note
after another, from four o’clock in the afternoon until nearly the same
hour next morning, for his third of the total income of one dollar per
hour.
Before the feast has been five minutes under way, Tamoszius Kuszleika
has risen in his excitement; a minute or two more and you see that he is
beginning to edge over toward the tables. His nostrils are dilated and
his breath comes fast--his demons are driving him. He nods and shakes
his head at his companions, jerking at them with his violin, until at
last the long form of the second violinist also rises up. In the end
all three of them begin advancing, step by step, upon the banqueters,
Valentinavyczia, the cellist, bumping along with his instrument between
notes. Finally all three are gathered at the foot of the tables, and
there Tamoszius mounts upon a stool.
Now he is in his glory, dominating the scene. Some of the people are
eating, some are laughing and talking--but you will make a great mistake
if you think there is one of them who does not hear him. His notes
are never true, and his fiddle buzzes on the low ones and squeaks and
scratches on the high; but these things they heed no more than they heed
the dirt and noise and squalor about them--it is out of this material
that they have to build their lives, with it that they have to utter
their souls. And this is their utterance; merry and boisterous, or
mournful and wailing, or passionate and rebellious, this music is their
music, music of home. It stretches out its arms to them, they have
only to give themselves up. Chicago and its saloons and its slums fade
away--there are green meadows and sunlit rivers, mighty forests and
snow-clad hills. They behold home landscapes and childhood scenes
returning; old loves and friendships begin to waken, old joys and griefs
to laugh and weep. Some fall back and close their eyes, some beat upon
the table. Now and then one leaps up with a cry and calls for this song
or that; and then the fire leaps brighter in Tamoszius’ eyes, and he
flings up his fiddle and shouts to his companions, and away they go in
mad career. The company takes up the choruses, and men and women cry out
like all possessed; some leap to their feet and stamp upon the floor,
lifting their glasses and pledging each other. Before long it occurs to
some one to demand an old wedding song, which celebrates the beauty of
the bride and the joys of love. In the excitement of this masterpiece
Tamoszius Kuszleika begins to edge in between the tables, making his
way toward the head, where sits the bride. There is not a foot of space
between the chairs of the guests, and Tamoszius is so short that he
pokes them with his bow whenever he reaches over for the low notes; but
still he presses in, and insists relentlessly that his companions must
follow. During their progress, needless to say, the sounds of the cello
are pretty well extinguished; but at last the three are at the head, and
Tamoszius takes his station at the right hand of the bride and begins to
pour out his soul in melting strains.
Little Ona is too excited to eat. Once in a while she tastes a little
something, when Cousin Marija pinches her elbow and reminds her; but,
for the most part, she sits gazing with the same fearful eyes of wonder.
Teta Elzbieta is all in a flutter, like a hummingbird; her sisters,
too, keep running up behind her, whispering, breathless. But Ona seems
scarcely to hear them--the music keeps calling, and the far-off look
comes back, and she sits with her hands pressed together over her heart.
Then the tears begin to come into her eyes; and as she is ashamed to
