stand it, and I don’t see what good it did to 
have Socrates die. I always want to cry over 
that.” 

“ And you had no real motive in coming to 
college ? ” 

“ Why — yes. I wanted to be with a great 
lot of girls. And I do like it ever so much. 
But Helen Grant is a bright particular star, 



so much above me in strength and knowledge 
that I can worship her without asking much 
back. Perhaps I can’t make you understand. 
I used to try with Eloise, but you see she had 
a lover and thought that was the only thing 
to life, and her ideal was having a pretty 
home and making all manner of furnishings 
for it.” 

Reasoning with her at present would be in 
a circle. Leslie had never met just such a 
girl. She was not silly, though romantic. 

“To come back to the poem : Strephon is 
inditing it to Phyllis among the flowery 
meads, and she must answer instead of dream- 
ing.” 

“ But Phyllis — ” and the girl colored scar- 
let. “ It is such a darkey name. Helen is 
strong and splendid.” 

“ And they are both Grecian. Let us see 
now. Sit down here.” 

She took her pencil and crossed out some 
lines, writing on the margin what she would 
like substituted. 

“ You are very musical,” she said. “ And 
you know a busy senior going in for some of 

the honors wouldn't spend her time over a 
freshman unless she thought there was some- 
thing to her. You must take that for a com- 
pliment. Now dream this out to-night, or 
to-morrow night, and give it to me Saturday 
morning. If you want to save your Helen 
copy intact, do so, and five years from this 
read it over and tell me what you think of it 
then.” 

Shirley gave a long sigh. 

“ I really do want the copy of Phyllis,” and 
the tone was persuasive, almost entreating. 

“ You are very good.'’ Shirley’s voice 
trembled a little, and the humid softness came 
into her eyes, as she passed out of the 
room. 

“ I do wonder if it was wise,” Miss Brooks 
ruminated. “ There are so many half-fledged 
poets in the world, so many who can write an 
averagely good story or essay, and yet never 
come up to any eminence. But they marry, 
and happily that settles it. Only it is really 
funny that her star of light should be Helen.” 

Saturday morning the editors of the Mis- 
cellany sat in solemn conclave. Essays had 



been chosen, there were two bright stories, 
some excellent jokes. 

“ There is one really good poem. Here are 
four that run in the same strain. I wonder 
if old Mother Nature ever gets tired of hear- 
ing herself praised. There’s a space for four 
verses, four lines each. Two of these are too 
long. Girls, I’m never going to edit a paper 
or a magazine, if I go out washing for my 
daily bread and a bottle of olives. I’m dis- 
gusted.” 

“ Read this aloud,” said Miss Brooks. “ Let 
us hear how it sounds.” 

Miss Cairns took the paper, skimmed it 
over, and then read the poem in a very ex- 
pressive voice. The staff had been leaning 
their elbows on the table, but at the second 
verse they straightened up, and began to pay 
attention. A silence followed, and they 
