Billy's flat on his back with a white 'Teddy bear' in either arm; and
Drina and Josephine are rolled up like two kittens in pajamas; and you
should see Winthrop's legs--"

"Certainly," said Selwyn gravely, "I'll be with you in a second."

And turning to his dresser he laid away the letters and the small
photograph which he had been examining under the drop-light, locking
them securely in the worn despatch box until he should have time to
decide whether to burn them all or only the picture. Then he slipped on
his smoking jacket.

"--Ah, about Winthrop's legs--" he repeated vaguely, "certainly; I
should be very glad to examine them, Austin."

"I don't want you to examine them," retorted Gerard resentfully, "I want
you to see them. There's nothing the matter with them, you understand."

"Exactly," nodded Selwyn, following his big brother-in-law into the
hall, where, from beside a lamp-lit sewing table a trim maid rose
smiling:

"Miss Erroll desires to know whether Captain Selwyn would care to see
her gown when she is ready to go down?"

"By all means," said Selwyn, "I should like to see that, too. Will you
let me know when Miss Erroll is ready? Thank you."

Austin said as they reached the nursery door: "Funny thing, feminine
vanity--almost pathetic, isn't it? . . . Don't make too much
noise! . . . What do you think of that pair of legs, Phil?--and he's not
yet five. . . . And I want you to speak frankly; did you ever see
anything to beat that bunch of infants? Not because they're ours and we
happen to be your own people--" he checked himself and the smile faded
as he laid his big ruddy hand on Selwyn's shoulder;--"your own people,
Phil. Do you understand? . . . And if I have not ventured to say
anything about--what has happened--you understand that, too, don't you?
You know I'm just as loyal to you as Nina is--as it is natural and
fitting that your own people should be. Only a man finds it difficult to
convey his--his--"

"Don't say 'sympathies'!" cut in Selwyn nervously.

"I wasn't going to, confound you! I was going to say 'sentiments.' I'm
sorry I said anything. Go to the deuce!"

Selwyn did not even deign to glance around at him. "You big red-pepper
box," he muttered affectionately, "you'll wake up Drina. Look at her in
her cunning pajamas! Oh, but she is a darling, Austin. And look at that
boy with his two white bears! He's a corker! He's a wonder--honestly,
Austin. As for that Josephine kid she can have me on demand; I'll answer
to voice, whistle, or hand. . . . I say, ought we to go away and leave
Winthrop's thumb in his mouth?"

"I guess I can get it out without waking him," whispered Gerard. A
moment later he accomplished the office, leaned down and drew the
bed-covers closer to Tina's dimpled chin, then grasped Selwyn above the
elbow in sudden alarm: "If that trained terror, Miss Paisely, finds us
in here when she comes from dinner, we'll both catch it! Come on; I'll
turn off the light. Anyway, we ought to have been dressed long ago; but
you insisted on butting in here."

In the hallway below they encountered a radiant and bewildering vision
awaiting them: Eileen, in all her glory.

"Wonderful!" said Gerard, patting the vision's rounded bare arm as he
hurried past--"fine gown! fine girl!--but I've got to dress and so has
Philip--" He meant well.

"Do you like it, Captain Selwyn?" asked the girl, turning to confront
him, where he had halted. "Gerald isn't coming and--I thought perhaps
you'd be interested--"

The formal, half-patronising compliment on his tongue's tip remained
there, unsaid. He stood silent, touched by the faint under-ringing
wistfulness in the laughing voice that challenged his opinion; and
something within him responded in time:

"Your gown is a beauty; such wonderful lace. Of course, anybody would
know it came straight from Paris or from some other celestial region--"

"But it didn't!" cried the girl, delighted. "It looks it, doesn't it?
But it was made by Letellier! Is there anything you don't like about it,
Captain Selwyn? Anything?"

"Nothing," he said solemnly; "it is as adorable as the girl inside it,
who makes it look like a Parisian importation from Paradise!"

She colored enchantingly, and with pretty, frank impulse held out both
her hands to him:

"You are a dear, Captain Selwyn! It is my first real dinner gown and
I'm quite mad about it; and--somehow I wanted the family to share my
madness with me. Nina will--she gave it to me, the darling. Austin
admires it, too, of course, but he doesn't notice such things very
closely; and Gerald isn't here. . . . Thank you for letting me show it
to you before I go down."

She gave both his hands a friendly little shake and, glancing down at
her skirt in blissful consciousness of its perfection, stepped backward
