revision of Science and Health after the gun has been improved from
smooth-bore musket up to globe-sighted, long distance rifle:
“Man controlled by his Maker has no physical suffering. His body is
harmonious, his days are multiplying instead of diminishing, he is
journeying towards Life instead of death, and bringing out the new man
and crucifying the old affections, cutting them off in every material
direction until he learns the utter supremacy of Spirit and yields
obedience thereto.”
In the latest revision of Science and Health (1902), the perfected
gun furnishes the following. The English is clean, compact, dignified,
almost perfect. But it is observable that it is not prominently better
than it is in the above paragraph, which was a product of the primitive
flint-lock:
“How unreasonable is the belief that we are wearing out life and
hastening to death, and at the same time we are communing with
immortality? If the departed are in rapport with mortality, or matter,
they are not spiritual, but must still be mortal, sinful, suffering,
and dying. Then wherefore look to them--even were communication
possible--for proofs of immortality and accept them as oracles?”
 --Edition of 1902, page 78.
With the above paragraphs compare these that follow. It is Mrs. Eddy
writing--after a good long twenty years of pen-practice. Compare also
with the alleged Poems already quoted. The prominent characteristic of
the Poems is affectation, artificiality; their makeup is a complacent
and pretentious outpour of false figures and fine writing, in the
sophomoric style. The same qualities and the same style will be found,
unchanged, unbettered, in these following paragraphs--after a lapse of
more than fifty years, and after--as aforesaid--long literary training.
The italics are mine:
1. “What plague spot or bacilli were [sic] gnawing [sic] at the heart of
this metropolis... and bringing it [the heart] on bended knee? Why, it
was an institute that had entered its vitals--that, among other things,
taught games,” et cetera.--C.S. Journal, p. 670, article entitled “A
Narrative--by Mary Baker G. Eddy.”
2. “Parks sprang up [sic]... electric-cars run [sic] merrily through
several streets, concrete sidewalks and macadamized roads dotted [sic]
the place,” et cetera.--Ibid.
3. “Shorn [sic] of its suburbs it had indeed little left to admire, save
to [sic] such as fancy a skeleton above ground breathing [sic] slowly
through a barren [sic] breast.”--Ibid.
This is not English--I mean, grown-up English. But it is
fifteen-year-old English, and has not grown a month since the same
mind produced the Poems. The standard of the Poems and of the
plague-spot-and-bacilli effort is exactly the same. It is most strange
that the same intellect that worded the simple and self-contained and
clean-cut paragraph beginning with “How unreasonable is the belief,”
 should in the very same lustrum discharge upon the world such a verbal
chaos as the utterance concerning that plague-spot or bacilli which
were gnawing at the insides of the metropolis and bringing its heart on
bended knee, thus exposing to the eye the rest of the skeleton breathing
slowly through a barren breast.
The immense contrast between the legitimate English of Science and
Health and the bastard English of Mrs. Eddy’s miscellaneous work, and
between the maturity of the one diction and the juvenility of the other,
suggests--compels--the question, Are there two guns? It would seem so.
Is there a poor, foolish, old, scattering flint-lock for rabbit, and a
long-range, centre-driving, up-to-date Mauser-magazine for elephant?
It looks like it. For it is observable that in Science and Health (the
elephant-ground) the practice was good at the start and has remained so,
and that the practice in the miscellaneous, outside, small-game field
was very bad at the start and was never less bad at any later time.
I wish to say that of Mrs. Eddy I am not requiring perfect English,
but only good English. No one can write perfect English and keep it
up through a stretch of ten chapters. It has never been done. It was
approached in the “well of English undefiled”; it has been approached
in Mrs. Eddy’s Annex to that Book; it has been approached in several
English grammars; I have even approached it myself; but none of us has
made port.
Now, the English of Science and Health is good. In passages to be found
in Mrs. Eddy’s Autobiography (on pages 53, 57, 101, and 113), and on
page 6 of her squalid preface to Science and Health, first revision, she
seems to me to claim the whole and sole authorship of the book. That
she wrote the Autobiography, and that preface, and the Poems, and the
Plague-spot-Bacilli, we are not permitted to doubt. Indeed, we know she
wrote them. But the very certainty that she wrote these things compels
a doubt that she wrote Science and Health. She is guilty of little
awkwardnesses of expression in the Autobiography which a practiced pen
would hardly allow to go uncorrected in even a hasty private letter,
and could not dream of passing by uncorrected in passages intended for
print. But she passes them placidly by; as placidly as if she did not
suspect that they were offenses against third-class English. I think
that that placidity was born of that very unawareness, so to speak. I
will cite a few instances from the Autobiography. The italics are mine:
“I remember reading in my childhood certain manuscripts containing
Scriptural Sonnets, besides other verses and enigmas,” etc. Page 7.
[On page 27.] “Many pale cripples went into the Church leaning on
crutches who came out carrying them on their shoulders.”
It is awkward, because at the first glance it seems to say that the
cripples went in leaning on crutches which went out carrying the
cripples on their shoulders. It would have cost her no trouble to
put her “who” after her “cripples.” I blame her a little; I think her
proof-reader should have been shot. We may let her capital C pass, but
it is another awkwardness, for she is talking about a building, not
about a religious society.
“Marriage and Parentage” [Chapter-heading. Page 30]. You imagine that
she is going to begin a talk about her marriage and finish with
some account of her father and mother. And so you will be deceived.
“Marriage” was right, but “Parentage” was not the best word for the rest
of the record. It refers to the birth of her own child. After a certain
period of time “my babe was born.” Marriage and Motherhood--Marriage and
