was but eleven o'clock of the morning, and the smell of sun-baked brick
and asphalt had not yet risen through the air. Far beyond the smoking,
ragged sky-line Carrington could see the shifting, glittering river and
the great ships going down to the sea. Presently the ashes from his dead
cigar fell in a gray cascade down his coat and tumbled across his knees,
but he gave no heed.

Ironical old world indeed! Here, suddenly and unexpectedly, he found
himself upon the battle-field of love and duty, where all honest men
find themselves, sooner or later. To pit the heart against the
conscience, impulse against calculation! Heigh-ho! Duty is an implacable
goddess, and those who serve her most loyally are most ruthlessly
driven. She buffets us into this corner and into that, digs pitfalls for
the hesitant foot, and crushes the vacillating.

As all men will, Carrington set about to argue down his conscience; the
heart is so insistent a counselor. Why should he give up the woman he
loved, simply because duty demanded he should? After all, was not duty
merely social obligation? What was it to him that the sheep were
sheared? Was it right that he, of all men, should divide the house,
throw the black pall of dishonesty over it, destroy his own happiness
and hers, when so simple a thing as a match would crumble into
nothingness this monument to one man's greed and selfishness? The
survival of the fittest; if he put aside Self, who would thank him? Few,
and many would call him a fool or a meddler. So many voices spoke that
he seemed to hear none distinctly.

He alone had made these astonishing discoveries; he alone had followed
the cunningly hidden trail of the serpent. He could stop where he was
and none would be the wiser. To be sure, it was only a question of time
when the scandal would become public through other channels; but in that
event he would not be held responsible for bringing about the
catastrophe. Besides, the ways of the serpent are devious and many, and
other investigators might not come so close to the trail.

He had gone about his investigations without the least idea where they
would lead him. At the beginning he had believed that the guilty ones
were none higher than petty officials; but presently he found himself
going over their heads, higher and higher, until, behold! he was at the
lair of the old serpent himself. A client had carelessly dropped a bit
of information, and it had taken seed with this surprising result. Henry
Cavenaugh, millionaire promoter, financier, trust magnate, director in a
hundred money-gathering concerns; Henry Cavenaugh, the father of the
girl he loved and who loved him! Could it be he, indeed? It seemed
incredible.

It was not a case of misappropriation of funds, such as a man may be
guilty of when temporarily hard pressed. It was a bold and fraudulent
passing of dividends that rightfully belonged to the investors; of
wrongfully issuing statements of bolstered expenses, lack of markets,
long strikes (promoted by Cavenaugh and his associates!), insufficient
means of transportation. An annual dividend of seven per cent. on many
millions had been dishonestly passed over. The reports that there would
be no dividends encouraged a slump in the listed price of the stock, and
many had sold under par value, thereby netting to Cavenaugh and others
several millions. And the proof of all this lay in his hand!

It had been a keen hunt. Many and many a blind trail had he followed,
only to come back to the start again. All that now remained for him to
do was to pass this document on to the hands of the intrepid district
attorney, and justice would be meted out to the guilty.

Her father! The picture of him rose suddenly and distinctly in his mind.
Tall, powerfully built, a hooked nose, keen blue eyes, an aggressive
chin, a repellent mouth, Henry Cavenaugh was the personification of the
modern Croesus. Immutable in purpose, dogged in perseverance, a
relentless enemy, a Jesuit in that the end always justified the means,
he stood a pillar in the world of finance, where there is sometimes
justice but never any mercy. Thirty-five years before he had been a
messenger in a stock-broker's office. Of his antecedents nothing was
known until he broke one of the famous gold corners in the seventies,
when a handsome, ruddy-cheeked little Irishman bobbed up serenely from
nowhere in particular and claimed to be the great Cavenaugh's father.
But his proofs were not convincing, and when the son showed a decided
contempt for him, he gently subsided into oblivion and was heard of no
more. From time to time Carrington gathered a small crumb of information
regarding his sweetheart's grandfather; but whenever he broached the
subject, however tactfully, everybody concerned headed the conversation
for a different port.

Carrington had never laid eyes on the old gentleman, and, for all he
knew to the contrary, he might be a myth. He reasoned that in all
probability the grandfather was illiterate, uncouth, and rather an
awkward piece of family furniture to handle, when the family proper were
ingratiating themselves into the Chippendales of society. Unfortunately,
Mother Cavenaugh, good-hearted and amiable in her way, had been stung by
the bee of the climbers, and her one ambition was to establish herself
and daughters in society; and had not he, Carrington, come of an
aristocratic family (poor, it is true), the doors of the Cavenaugh manor
would never have opened to his knock. Even as it was, he was persona
non grata to the millionaire, who was mad for a duke in the family.
Besides, Cavenaugh had his suspicions of any lawyer who grubbed outside
the breastworks.

Some doves circled above a church-spire a few streets over the way,
breaking the sunbeams against their polished wings. Finally they settled
on the slate roof and fell to strutting and waddling and swelling their
breasts pompously. Carrington opened and refolded the document, but he
did not take his eyes from the doves. What should he do? What ill wind
had blown this thing into his doorway? Nothing had warned him of the
