a very creditable one and that if he kept it he might be troubled by
his brother Boris's numerous creditors. He began life over again as
Kralinsky.

He had not entertained the least intention of passing himself for
Boris and claiming Lady Maud as his wife, till he met her, and her
beauty made him lose his head completely when he saw that she took him
for her husband. He would have been found out inevitably sooner or
later, but Van Torp's vigorous action shortened Lady Maud's torments.

George was tried, and Russian justice awoke, possibly under pressure
from England. The family history of the Levens was exhumed and
dissected before the courts. The creditors of Boris Leven appeared in
legions and claimed that in proper course he should have inherited the
rubies from his murdered brother, who would then have been able to pay
his debts. The court thought so too, and ordered the confiscated
treasure to be sold.

But since it had been Boris's, the law was obliged to declare that the
residue of the money, after paying the debts, was the property of
Countess Leven, Boris's widow.

Lady Maud thus found herself in possession of a considerable fortune,
for she accepted the inheritance when she was assured that it would go
to the Russian Crown if she refused it. But there was a fall in the
price of rubies, and the Russian government at once sent an expensive
expedition to find the mine, an attempt which altogether failed,
because Ivan Leven had never told any one where it was, nor anything
about it, and the court only knew from certain jewellers who had dealt
both with Kralinsky and Baraka, that it was 'somewhere in Central
Asia,' which is an insufficient direction, even for a ruby mine.

The wealth Lady Maud thus commands enables her to carry much further
than formerly the peculiar form of charity which she believes to be
her own invention, if it may be properly called charity at all, and
which consists in making it worth while and agreeable to certain
unfortunate people to live decent lives in quiet corners without
starving, instead of calling to them to come out from behind the
Virtue-Curtain and be reformed in public. It is a very expensive
charity, however, and very hard to exercise, and will never be
popular; for the popular charities are those that cost least and are
no trouble.

Madame Konstantinos Logotheti is learning French and English, on the
Bosphorus, with her husband, and will make a sensation when he brings
her to London and Paris. On the day of his marriage, in
Constantinople, Logotheti received a letter from Lady Maud, telling
him how sorry she was that she had not believed him, that day on the
yacht at Scaletta, and saying that she hoped to meet his wife soon. It
was an honest apology from an honest woman.

He received a letter a few days later from Margaret, and on the same
day a magnificently printed and recklessly illustrated booklet reached
him, forwarded from Paris. The letter was from Margaret to tell him
that she also took back what she had thought about Baraka and hoped to
see him and her before long. She said she was glad, on the whole, that
he had acted like a lunatic, because it was likely that they would
both be happier. She herself, she said, was going to be married to Mr.
Van Torp, at St. George's, Hanover Square, before sailing for New
York, where she was going to sing at the Opera after Christmas. If he
should be in town then, she hoped he would come, and bring his wife.

The booklet was an announcement, interleaved with fine etchings, to
the effect that 'The Madame da Cordova and Rufus Van Torp Company'
would open their new Opera House in Fifth Avenue less than two years
hence, with a grand Wagner Festival, to last two months, and to
include the performance of Parsifal with entirely new scenery, and
the greatest living artistes, whose names were given. There was a plan
of the house at the end of the booklet for the benefit of those who
wished to make arrangements for being at the festival, and such
persons were admonished that they must apply early if they expected to
get seats.

       

Mr. Van Torp had told the Diva that he would like her to choose a
wedding present which she really wanted, adding that he had a few
little things for her already. He produced some of them, but some were
on paper. Among the latter was a house in New York, overlooking the
Park and copied exactly from her own in London, the English architect
having been sent to New York himself to build it. Two small items were
two luxurious private cars of entirely different patterns, one for
America and one for Europe, which she was always to use when she
travelled, professionally or otherwise. He said he did not give her
the Lancashire Lass because 'it wasn't quite new'--having been about
ten months in the water--but he had his own reasons, one of which was
that the yacht represented a sentiment to him, and was what he would
have called a 'souvenir.' But if she could think of anything else she
fancied, 'now was the time.'

She said that there was only one thing she should really like, but
that she could not have it, because it was not in the market. He asked
what it was, and it turned out to be the ruby which Logotheti had
given her, and had taken to Pinney's to be cut, and which had been the
cause of so many unexpected events, including her marriage. Logotheti
had it in his possession, she supposed, but he had shown good taste in
not trying to press it on her as a wedding present, for she could not
have accepted it. Nevertheless, she wanted it very much, more as a
remembrance than for its beauty.

