use of the ability other than in the possible compilation of toledoth,
such as the Book of the Generations of Adam and the Wars of
Jahveh, works that, later, may have served as data for the
Pentateuch. Even then, the compositions must have been crude, and such
rolls as existed may have been lost when Nebuchadnezzar overturned
Jerusalem.

Presumably, it was not until the post-exilic period that, under the
editorship perhaps of Ezra, the definitive edition of the Torah was
produced. This supposition existing texts support. In Genesis (xxxvii.
31) it is written: "These are the kings of Edom before there reigned
any king over the children of Israel." The passage shows, if it shows
anything, that there were, or had been, kings in Israel at the time
when the passage itself was written. It is, therefore, at least
post-Davidic. In Genesis another passage (xlix. 10) says: "The sceptre
shall not pass from Judah until Shiloh come." Judah was the tribe that
became pre-eminent in Israel after the captivity. The passage is
therefore post-exilic, consequently so is Genesis, and obviously the
rest of the Pentateuch as well. Or, if not obviously, perhaps
demonstrably. In II Esdras xiv. 22-48 it is stated that the writer, a
candle of understanding in his heart, and aided by five swift scribes,
recomposed the Law, which, previously burned, was known to none.

The burning referred to is what may, perhaps, be termed religious
fiction. Barring toledoth and related data that may have been lost,
the Law had almost certainly not existed before, and this post-exilic
romance concerning it was evolved in a laudable effort to show its
Mosaic source. What is true of the Law is, in a measure, true of the
Prophets. None of them anterior to Cyrus, all are later than
Alexander. Spiritually very near to Christianity, chronologically they
are neighbourly too. If not divinely inspired, they at least disclosed
the ideal.

Previously the ideal had not perhaps been very apparent. Apart from
secessions, rebellions, concussions, convulsions that deified Hatred
until Jahveh, in the person of Nebuchadnezzar, talked Assyrian, and
then, in the person of Cyrus, talked Zend, the god of Israel, even in
Israel, was not unique. He had a home, his first, the Temple, built
gorgeously by Solomon, where invisibly, mysteriously, perhaps
terribly, beneath the wings of cherubim that rose from the depths of
the Holy of Holies, he dwelled. But the shrine, however ornate, was
not the only one. There were other altars, other gods; the plentiful
sanctuaries of Ashera, of Moloch and of Baal. On the adjacent hilltops
the phallus stood. In the neighbouring groves the kisses of Ishtar
consumed.

The Lady of Girdles was worshipped there not by men and women only,
but by girls with girls; by others too, not in couples, but singly,
girls who in their solitary devotions had instruments for aid.[36]
Religion, as yet, had but the slightest connection with morality, a
circumstance explicable perhaps by the fact that it resumed the
ethnical conscience of a race. Between the altar of El Shaddai and the
shrines of other gods there were many differences, of which geography
was the least. Jahveh, from a tutelary god, had indeed become the
national divinity of a chosen people. But the Moabites were the chosen
people of Chemos; the Ammonites were the chosen people of Rimmon; the
Babylonians were the chosen people of Bel. The title conferred no
distinction. As a consequence, to differentiate Jahveh from all other
gods, and Israel from all other people, to make the one unique and the
other pontiff and shepherd of the nations of the world, became the
dream of anonymous poets, one that prophets, sometimes equally
anonymous, proclaimed. It was the prophets that reviled the false
gods, denounced the abominations of Ishtar, and purified the Israelite
heart. While nothing discernible, or even imaginable, menaced, however
slightly, the great empires of that day, the prophets were the first
to realize that the Orient was dead. When the Christ announced that
the end of the world was at hand, he but reiterated anterior
predictions that presently were fulfilled. A world did end. That of
antiquity ceased to be.

[Footnote 36: Cf. Deut. xxiii. 17, where 'alâmôth (puellæ) is
rendered in the Sapphist sense. Ezekiel xvi. 17. Fecisti tibi
imagines masculinas.]

It was the prophets that foretold it. Gloomy, fanatic, implacable and,
it may be, mad, yet inspired at least by genius which itself, while
madness, is a madness wholly divine, they heralded the future, they
established the past. Abraham they drew from allegory, Moses from
myth. They made them live, and so immortally that one survives in
Islam, the other in words that are a law of grace for all.

If, in visions possibly ecstatic, they beheld heights that lost
themselves in immensity, and saw there an ineffable name seared by
forked flames on a tablet of stone; if that spectacle and the
theophany of it were but poetry, the decalogue is a fact, one so solid
that though ages have gone, though empires have crumbled, though the
customs of man have altered, though the sky itself have changed, still
is obeyed the commandment: Thou shalt have no other gods before me.

From Chemos in Moab, from Rimmon among the Ammonites, no such edict
had come. It felled them. Amon-Râ it tore from the celestial Nile, and
Bel-Marduk from the Silver Sky. The Refaïm hid them in shadows as
surely as they buried there the high and potent lords of Greece and
Rome. These interments, completed by others, the prophets began. For
it was they who, in addition to the command, revealed the commandant,
creator of whatever is: the Being Absolute that abhorred evil, loved
righteousness, punished the transgressor and rewarded the just; El
Shaddai, then really Lord of Hosts.

It may be that already in Israel there had been some prescience of
