outlines and the patchwork of her crowded generations into something
like harmony. She looked dreaming, proud, detached, an houri veiled to
allure, to inspire a new race of poets. Gwynne holding his hat on his
head with both hands, in the valley, cursed the climate, but Isabel
picking her way down the crazy old staircase, although in anything but a
poetical mood, paused a moment with that sudden outrush and uplift that
was the only passion she had ever known. Such moments were not frequent
and brought with them a sense of impersonality, as if she were but the
vehicle of aspiring passionate souls long gone from their own clay, that
rushed back through familiar conduits like volcanic fires, eager for the
arch of the visible world.
But ancestral rights had short shrift this morning. Isabel's spirit was
a very caldron. She not only still raged at the fact that for a few
seconds she had been as helpless in the grip of mere brute strength as
any peasant woman, but she was keenly disappointed that Gwynne had not
understood her. That he might have understood her too well, his whole
sex precipitating itself upon the new enemy, she would not admit for a
moment; women, with a sort of dishonest mental confusion, invariably
substituting the word misunderstood for failure to accept their own
point of view. Above all, was she furious with herself. Instead of
annihilating him with the dignity of which she possessed an uncommon
share, she had been surprised into behaving as if she were the crudest
of mere human creatures.
Moreover, her arms still pained, and she knew that they were black and
blue.
At the foot of the bluff she ran into a basement doorway to pin on her
veil more securely, and dismissed psychology as incompatible with
trade-winds and dust. A block or two farther on she took a cable car
which slipped rapidly down the western slope, across the narrow valley,
then up another and steeper hill, all blooming with flowers in the
narrow gardens. She alighted at a corner half-way to the summit, and
walked back to one of those curious San Francisco "Flat Houses" with
three doors in a row. It was perched high above the sidewalk, for the
street but a few years since was a gully, and the grading had deepened
it. It was reached by some sixty winding but solid steps, and the little
terrace, off at a right angle, was full of color.
As she had expected, Mrs. Paula was sitting in the bow-window of her
bedroom, gazing at the passers-by with a sort of idle eagerness. But so
were a hundred others in sight, there being no idler creature than the
American woman of small means, who neither belongs to clubs nor does her
own work. The shallow philosophers harp upon the boredom of the idle
rich whose every wish is gratified; but as a matter of fact the rich are
seldom idle, and in highly organized societies are models of system and
energy; whether misdirected or not, is beyond the question. It is the
idle woman in a flat whose imagination riots along the highways of the
great world, who keeps an avid eye for change of any sort, and finds a
fictitious existence in the sentimental, the immoral, and the society
novel.
Paula, who lived in the top flat, ran down the two flights of stairs and
opened the door for Isabel.
"Well! you are a stranger!" she exclaimed. "I was wondering if your
chickens had tuberculosis. Lots have in California. I read it in a
Sunday newspaper."
"My chickens are quite healthy. How are the children?"
"As well as can be expected in this dusty windy city where they have to
stay in the house half the day." Mrs. Stone's children were notoriously
healthy, but she was of the stuff of which the modern martyr is made.
Isabel followed her up the stairs and into the large sunny front
bedroom. The children being invisible and also inarticulate, were
doubtless in the back yard. The room was vaguely untidy without being
dirty. A basket of socks and stockings in various stages of repair stood
on a table by the window, but pushed aside to accommodate the Saturday
society papers and a novel from the circulating library. An opera-cloak
lay across a chair, flung there, no doubt, the night before, and on the
floor close by was a pair of pink worn slippers very narrow at the toes
but bulging backward like a toy boat. On the sofa was a freshly
laundried pile of shirts with detached collars and cuffs, which Mrs.
Stone immediately began ostentatiously to snip along the frayed edges.
The room itself was full of sunshine, which gave it a cheerful air in
spite of the faded Brussels carpet and the old-fashioned walnut
furniture, a contribution from the house on Russian Hill. Mrs. Paula
wore a vastly becoming wrapper of red nun's veiling trimmed with a
yellowish lace that by no means looked as cheap as it was. She was
pretty to excess, one of those little brown women that men admire and
often trust. Had she been thin she would have been bird-like with her
bright darting brown glance, but her cheeks, like her tightly laced
little figure, were very round, and so crimson that they excited less
suspicion than the more delicate and favorite pink. And the brilliant
color suited her peasant style of prettiness, her full red lips, her
bright crisp bronze hair. She had a fashion of absently sweeping the
loose sleeves of her wrapper and "artistic" house-gowns up to her
shoulder and revealing a plump and charming arm; and the pointed toe of
shoe or slipper was always visible. Her arts were lost on Isabel, who
understood and despised her, but who regarded her as a sacred legacy
from her mother; Mrs. Belmont had been devoted to the pretty child she
had adopted just after burying three of her own, and who had waited on
her hand and foot to the day of her death. Isabel was always conscious
of putting on a curb the moment she entered her sister's presence, but
thought it good discipline, and only spoke her mind when goaded beyond
endurance.
"I tried to telephone," she began, but was interrupted by a deep sigh.
"The telephone is cut off--we owe for three months. Hateful
things!--they know we always pay some time or other."
"If you are so badly off would it not be more economical to make the
children's clothes--"
"Isabel! Much you know about children! One can buy ready-made things for
just half."
Isabel subsided, for she felt herself at a disadvantage before this
experienced young matron; although she vaguely recalled that whenever
she had presented the children with little frocks and sailor suits she
