
“That is something I cannot judge of so well as Aristides; but he says
M. Anatole is learned beyond any man he knows in edible fungi.”

“As an adoptive Altrurian, and knowing the American ideas from our point
of view, should you respect their ideas of social inequality?”

“Not the least in the world. I understand as well as you do that their
ideas must prevail wherever one works for a living and another does not.
hose ideas are practically as much accepted in America as they are in
Europe, but I have fully renounced them.”

You see, Dolly, how far I have gone!

The unknown, who could be pretty easily imagined, rose up and gave me her
hand. “If you are in the Region on the third of May you must come to our
wedding.”

The same afternoon I had a long talk with Mr. Thrall, whom I found at
work replanting a strawberry-patch during the Voluntaries. He rose up at
the sound of my voice, and after an old man’s dim moment for getting me
mentally in focus, he brightened into a genial smile, and said, “Oh, Mrs.
Homos! I am glad to see you.”

I told him to go on with his planting, and I offered to get down on my
knees beside him and help, but he gallantly handed me to a seat in the
shade beside his daughter’s flower-bed, and it was there that we had a
long talk about conditions in America and Altruria, and how he felt about
the great change in his life.

“Well, I can truly say,” he answered much more at length than I shall
report, “that I have never been so happy since the first days of my
boyhood. All care has dropped from me; I don’t feel myself rich, and I
don’t feel myself poor in this perfect safety from want. The only thing
that gives me any regret is that my present state has not been the effect
of my own will and deed. If I am now following the greatest and truest of
all counsels it has not been because I have sold all and given to the
poor, but because my money has been mercifully taken from me, and I have
been released from its responsibilities in a state of things where there
is no money.”

“But, Mr. Thrall,” I said, “don’t you ever feel that you have a duty to
the immense fortune which you have left in America, and which must be
disposed of somehow when people are satisfied that you are not going to
return and dispose of it yourself?”

“No, none. I was long ago satisfied that I could really do no good with
it. Perhaps if I had had more faith in it I might have done some good
with it, but I believe that I never did anything but harm, even when I
seemed to be helping the most, for I was aiding in the perpetuation of a
state of things essentially wrong. Now, if I never go back--and I never
wish to go back--let the law dispose of it as seems best to the
authorities. I have no kith or kin, and my wife has none, so there is no
one to feel aggrieved by its application to public objects.”

“And how do you imagine it will be disposed of?”

“Oh, I suppose for charitable and educational purposes. Of course a good
deal of it will go in graft; but that cannot be helped.”

“But if you could now dispose of it according to your clearest ideas of
justice, and if you were forced to make the disposition yourself, what
would you do with it?”

“Well, that is something I have been thinking of, and as nearly as I can
make out, I ought to go into the records of my prosperity and ascertain
just how and when I made my money. Then I ought to seek out as fully as
possible the workmen who helped me make it by their labor. Their wages,
which, were always the highest, were never a fair share, though I forced
myself to think differently, and it should be my duty to inquire for them
and pay them each a fair share, or, if they are dead, then their children
or their next of kin. But even when I had done this I should not be sure
that I had not done them more harm than good.”

How often I had heard poor Mr. Strange say things like this, and heard
of other rich men saying them, after lives of what is called beneficence!
Mr. Thrall drew a deep sigh, and cast a longing look at his
strawberry-bed. I laughed, and said, “You are anxious to get back to your
plants, and I won’t keep you. I wonder if Mrs. Thrall could see me if I
called; or Lady Moors?”

He said he was sure they would, and I took my way over to the marquee. I
was a little surprised to be met at the door by Lord Moors’ man Robert.
He told me he was very sorry, but her ladyship was helping his lordship
at a little job on the roads, which they were doing quite in the
Voluntaries, with the hope of having the National Colonnade extended to a
given point; the ladies were helping the gentlemen get the place in
shape. He was still sorrier, but I not so much, that Mrs. Thrall was
lying down and would like to be excused; she was rather tired from
putting away the luncheon things.

He asked me if I would not sit down, and he offered me one of the
camp-stools at the door of the marquee, and I did sit down for a moment,
while he flitted about the interior doing various little things. At last
I said, “How is this, Robert? I thought you had been assigned to a place
in the communal refectory. You’re not here on the old terms?”

He came out and stood respectfully holding a dusting-cloth in his hand.
“Thank you, not exactly, ma’am. But the fact is, ma’am, that the communal
monitors have allowed me to come back here a few hours in the afternoon,
