"Yes, we'll go tomorrow. How long do you mean to stay?" she asked,
looking up at him eagerly.
He was pleased that she should wish to know, yet the question
embarrassed him, for it was necessary that he should be back at Westmore
within three days, and he could not put her off with an evasion.
Bessy saw his hesitation, and her colour rose again. "I only asked," she
explained, "because there is to be a fancy ball at the Hunt Club on the
twentieth, and I thought of giving a big dinner here first."
Amherst did not understand that she too had her inarticulate moments,
and that the allusion to the fancy ball was improvised to hide an
eagerness to which he had been too slow in responding. He thought she
had enquired about his plans only that he might not again interfere with
the arrangements of her dinner-table. If that was all she cared about,
it became suddenly easy to tell her that he could not stay, and he
answered lightly: "Fancy balls are a little out of my line; but at any
rate I shall have to be back at the mills the day after tomorrow."
The disappointment brought a rush of bitterness to her lips. "The day
after tomorrow? It seems hardly worth while to have come so far for two
days!"
"Oh, I don't mind the journey--and there are one or two matters I must
consult you about."
There could hardly have been a more ill-advised answer, but Amherst was
reckless now. If she cared for his coming only that he might fill a
place at a fancy-dress dinner, he would let her see that he had come
only because he had to go through the form of submitting to her certain
measures to be taken at Westmore.
Bessy was beginning to feel the physical reaction of her struggle with
the mare. The fatigue which at first had deadened her nerves now woke
them to acuter sensibility, and an appealing word from her husband would
have drawn her to his arms. But his answer seemed to drive all the blood
back to her heart.
"I don't see why you still go through the form of consulting me about
Westmore, when you have always done just as you pleased there, without
regard to me or Cicely."
Amherst made no answer, silenced by the discouragement of hearing the
same old grievance on her lips; and she too seemed struck, after she had
spoken, by the unprofitableness of such retorts.
"It doesn't matter--of course I'll do whatever you wish," she went on
listlessly. "But I could have sent my signature, if that is all you came
for----"
"Thanks," said Amherst coldly. "I shall remember that the next time."
They stood silent for a moment, he with his eyes fixed on her, she with
averted head, twisting her riding-whip between her fingers; then she
said suddenly: "We shall be late for dinner," and passing into her
dressing-room she closed the door.
Amherst roused himself as she disappeared.
"Bessy!" he exclaimed, moving toward her; but as he approached the door
he heard her maid's voice within, and turning away he went to his own
room.
       *       *       *       *       *
Bessy came down late to dinner, with vivid cheeks and an air of
improvised ease; and the manner of her entrance, combined with her
husband's unannounced arrival, produced in their observant guests the
sense of latent complications. Mr. Langhope, though evidently unaware of
his son-in-law's return till they greeted each other in the
drawing-room, was too good a card-player to betray surprise, and Mrs.
Ansell outdid herself in the delicate art of taking everything for
granted; but these very dissimulations sharpened the perception of the
other guests, whom long practice had rendered expert in interpreting
such signs.
Of all this Justine Brent was aware; and conscious also that, by every
one but herself, the suspected estrangement between the Amhersts was
regarded as turning merely on the question of money. To the greater
number of persons present there was, in fact, no other conceivable
source of conjugal discord, since every known complication could be
adjusted by means of the universal lubricant. It was this unanimity of
view which bound together in the compactness of a new feudalism the
members of Bessy Amherst's world; which supplied them with their
pass-words and social tests, and defended them securely against the
insidious attack of ideas.
       *       *       *       *       *
The Genius of History, capriciously directing the antics of its
marionettes, sometimes lets the drama languish through a series of
unrelated episodes, and then, suddenly quickening the pace, packs into
one scene the stuff of a dozen. The chance meeting of Amherst and
Justine, seemingly of no significance to either, contained the germ of
developments of which both had begun to be aware before the evening was
over. Their short talk--the first really intimate exchange of words
between them--had the effect of creating a sense of solidarity that grew
apace in the atmosphere of the Lynbrook dinner-table.
Justine was always reluctant to take part in Bessy's week-end dinners,
but as she descended the stairs that evening she did not regret having
promised to be present. She frankly wanted to see Amherst again--his
tone, his view of life, reinforced her own convictions, restored her
faith in the reality and importance of all that Lynbrook ignored and
excluded. Her extreme sensitiveness to surrounding vibrations of thought
and feeling told her, as she glanced at him between the flowers and
candles of the long dinner-table, that he too was obscurely aware of the
same effect; and it flashed across her that they were unconsciously
drawn together by the fact that they were the only two strangers in the
room. Every one else had the same standpoint, spoke the same language,
drew on the same stock of allusions, used the same weights and measures
in estimating persons and actions. Between Mr. Langhope's indolent
acuteness of mind and the rudimentary processes of the rosy Telfers
there was a difference of degree but not of kind. If Mr. Langhope viewed
the spectacle more objectively, it was not because he had outlived the
sense of its importance, but because years of experience had
familiarized him with its minutest details; and this familiarity with
the world he lived in had bred a profound contempt for any other.
In no way could the points of contact between Amherst and Justine Brent
