the city to call at the hospital one dark December 
day, he found the patient gone. He did not return 
to Balsam Groves, but sunk out of sight as he had 
sunk from the schooner into the breakers of such 
life as the friendless and the crippled know. 
To Carolyn the whole episode was as poignant 
as it was painful. Its impressions lasted a long 
while. The storm, the wreck, the surf, the cast- 
away crawling like a broken lizard upon the rocks, 
dragging his shattered limb to save his — who 
knew how worthless, how hopeless? — life; the 
dog, daring destruction to rescue this unknown 
 
specimen of the master, man ; the unconscious 
body as it lay upon the wet, dead leaves against 
the piazza of her old home — these flashlights 
faded but slowly from her brain and heart. The 
individual perished, but the type grew more and 
more to her aroused and uneasy interrogation. 
The cruelty of the sea seemed to her scarcely 
more savage than the teeth of life. Carolyn was 
no theologian, but the unanswered question of the 
ages began to gain ground with her: Why? Why? 
If " God were a gentleman " — why ? 
She was beginning to learn that though the 
first pang of widowhood may be loneliness, the 
worst is despairing doubt. Lost happiness is easier 
to bear than lost faith. She felt her lot severe, for 
she was young, and she had known great joy. But 
the education of sorrow is never so thorough as 
when it is given to the nature that has the love 
genius and the genius of suffering; for these twain 
are one. With the docility of a sweet woman, 
Carolyn spelled her lessons out. Although she 
could not know it, she was about to meet the move- 
ment of events which would tear out half the pages 
of her widowed life, and insert the blank spaces on 
which experience inscribes the unimagined or the 
unimaginable. 
CHAPTER XIII 
Douce Marriot lay among her great pillows and 
looked at the loves carved and gilded upon the 
posts of her Empire bedstead. The little glittering 
figures carried garlands which met above her on 
the headboard. At the foot they carried nothing, but 
sat in groups of two, and whispered, kissing. The 
room was large and ornate ; everything about Mrs. 
Marriot had always been ornate. There is a sim- 
plicity of principle which extends itself to the de- 
tails of life, and the absence of which tells upon 
them. The bed-chamber was decorated in yellows, 
rising to the gold light, relieved by tapestry panels ; 
on the tapestry knights and ladies rode beneath 
and through oak leaves, dead and brown. Across 
the room from the bed's foot a mirror flashed from 
velvet rug to frescoed ceiling. The frame of this 
glass was swathed in tulle below its parted lace 
draperies, and thus gave to the complexion that 
softness which women love, and demand of their 
mirrors, by any device that art can offer. 
Douce Marriot glanced across the gilded loves 
at the reflection of her too experienced face within 
the glass. 
 
"lama mummy," she said, " already." 
The woman of pleasure recoiled from the image 
of the face and body whose celebrated charms had 
left a trail of broken hearts and wasted homes be- 
hind her. She had been ill but a week — a foolish 
illness, an exasperating thing brought upon her 
by the neglect of a housekeeper (summarily discharged),
whose fatal work could not be undone. 
The house was cold, the room unsunned, the mat- 
tress damp — who knew what? — and the first of 
May that year was as raw as the grave. The mis- 
tress of the most elaborate place upon the East 
Shore, coming out with her usual business punc- 
tuality, had been confronted by the great tax-gath- 
erer, whom no evasion or persuasion may escape. 
One of the racing pneumonias which are the
terror of New England had attacked the superb 
vigor of Douce Marriot's beautiful body, and that 
which she had called her soul found itself face to 
face with the unpleasant circumstance of death. 
Her keen intelligence was not to be deceived, and 
since the first forty-eight hours of her illness she 
had not expected that she would recover. 
Her servants and her husband, important to her 
in the order of this going, attended her dutifully. 
The house seemed to brim over with relays of nurses, 
relieving one another with the regularity of the 
severe or dangerous case. Experts from the city 
 
consulted every day beside the gilded bed, and the 
old Balsam doctor turned his less dangerously sick 
patients over to a colleague, and slept every night 
at the great house. Mrs. Marriot was aghast at the 
inconceivable position in which she found herself. 
That she must some time die like common people, 
she had, of course, been obliged to admit; but 
