Then they were both silent for a time, thinking their 
several thoughts. 
Verrian broke the silence to say, " I wish I knew 
what sort of ' other girl ' it was that she ' got together 
with.' " 
"Why?" 
" Because she wrote a more cultivated letter than this 
magnanimous creature who takes all the blame to herself." 
" Then you don't believe they're both the same !" 
" They are both the same in stationery and chirog- 
raphy, but not in literature." 
" I hope you won't get to thinking about her, then," 
his mother entreated, intelligibly but not definitely. 
" Not seriously," Verrian reassured her. " I've had 
my medicine." 
Continuity is so much the lesson of experience that 
in the course of a life by no means long it becomes the 
instinctive expectation. The event that has happened 
will happen again ; it will prolong itself in a series of 
recurrences by which each one's episode shares in the 
unending history of all. The sense of this is so per- 
vasive that humanity refuses to accept death itself as 
final. In the agonized affections, the shattered hopes, 
of those who remain, the severed life keeps on un- 
brokenly, and when time and reason prevail, at least as 
to the life here, the defeated faith appeals for fulfil- 
ment to another world, and the belief of immortality 
holds against the myriad years in which none of the 
numberless dead have made an indisputable sign in wit- 
ness of it. The lost limb still reports its sensations to 
the brain; the fixed habit mechanically attempts its 
repetition when the conditions render it impossible. 
Verrian was aware how deeply and absorbingly he 
had brooded upon the incident wbich he had done his 
utmost to close, when he found himself expecting an 
answer of some sort from his unknown correspondent. 
He perceived, then, without owning the fact, that he 
had really hoped for some protest, some excuse, some 
extenuation, which in the end would suffer him to be 
more merciful. Though he had wished to crush her 
into silence, and to forbid her all hope of his forgive- 
ness, he had, in a manner, not meant to do it. He had 
kept a secret place in his soul where the sinner against 
 
him could find refuge from his justice, and when this 
sanctuary remained unattempted he found himself with 
a regret that he had barred the way to it so effectually. 
The regret was so vague, so formless, however, that he 
could tacitly deny it to himself at all times, and ex- 
plicitly deny it to his mother at such times as her touch 
taught him that it was tangible. 
One day, after ten or twelve days had gone by, she 
asked him, " You haven't heard anything more from 
that girl ?" 
" What girl ?" he returned, as if he did not know ; 
and he frowned. " You mean the girl that wrote me 
about my story?" 
" Yes." 
He continued to frown rather more darkly. " I 
don't see how you could expect me to hear from her, 
after what I wrote. But, to be categorical, I haven't, 
mother." 
" Oh, of course not. Did you think she would be so 
easily silenced ?" 
" I did what I could to crush her into silence." 
" Yes, and you did quite right ; I am more and more 
convinced of that. But such a very tough young per- 
son might have refused to stay crushed. She might 
very naturally have got herself into shape again and 
smoothed out the creases, at least so far to try some 
further defence." 
" It seems that she hasn't," Verrian said, still darkly, 
but not so frowningly. 
" I should have fancied," his mother suggested, " that 
if she had wanted to open a correspondence with you — 
if that was her original object — she would not have let 
it drop so easily." 
" Has she let it drop easily ? I thought I had left 
her no possible chance of resuming it." 
"That is true," his mother said, and for the time 
she said no more about the matter. 
Not long after this he came home from the magazine 
office and reported to her from Armiger that the story- 
was catching on more and more with the best class of 
readers. The editor had shown Verrian some references 
to it in newspapers of good standing and several let- 
ters about it. 
"I thought you might like to look at the let- 
ters," Verrian said, and he took some letters from 
his pocket and handed them to her across the lunch- 
table. She did not immediately look at them, because 
he went on to add something that they both felt to be 
more important. " Armiger says there has been some 
increase of the sales, which I can attribute to my story 
if I have the cheek." 
" That is good." 
"And the house wants to publish the book. They 
think, down there, that it will have a very pretty suc- 
cess — not be a big seller, of course, but something com- 
fortable." 
