"You said," she added with an effort at lightness, "that we are under
heavy fire now."
"The fire of circumstances?"
"The cross-fire--of temptation.... Help me."
His arms fell; neither moved. Then a pale spark grew in the mist,
brighter, redder, and, side by side, they walked toward it.
"What luck!" cried Gray, lifting a blazing palmetto fan above his head.
"We got ten mallard and a sprig! Where's your game? We heard you shoot
four times!"
Shiela laughed as the Seminole loomed up in the incandescent haze of the
camp fire, buried in plumage.
"Dad! Dad! Where are you? Mr. Hamil has shot a magnificent wild turkey!"
"Well, upon my word!" exclaimed Cardross, emerging from his section;
"the luck of the dub is proverbial! Hamil, what the deuce do you mean by
it? That's what' I want to know! O Lord! Look at that gobbler! Shiela,
did you let this young man wipe both your eyes?"
"Mine? Oh, I almost forgot. You see I shot one of them."
"Which?"
"It happened to be the gobbler," she said. "It was a mere chance in the
dark.... And--if my section is ready, dad--I'm a little tired, I think.
Good night, everybody; good night, Mr. Hamil--and thank you for taking
care of me."
       *       *       *       *       *
Cardross, enveloped in blankets, glanced at Hamil.
"Did you ever know anybody so quick to give credit to others? It's worth
something to hear anybody speak in that fashion."
"That is why I did not interrupt," said Hamil.
Cardross looked down at the dying coals, then directly at the silent
young fellow--a long, keen glance; then his gaze fell again on the
Seminole fire.
"Good night, sir," said Hamil at last.
"Good night, my boy," replied the older man very quietly.
CHAPTER XIII
THE SILENT PARTNERS
Late one evening toward the end of the week a somewhat battered camping
party, laden with plump, fluffy bunches of quail, and plumper strings of
duck, wind-scorched, sun-burnt, brier-torn and trail-worn, re-entered
the patio of the Cardross villa, and made straight for shower-bath,
witch-hazel, fresh pyjamas, and bed.
In vain Jessie Carrick, Cecile, and their mother camped around Shiela's
bed after the tray was removed, and Shiela's flushed face, innocent as
usual of sunburn, lay among the pillows, framed by the brown-gold lustre
of her hair.
"We had such a good time, mother; Mr. Hamil shot a turkey," she said
sleepily. "Mr. Hamil--Mr. H-a-m-i-l"--A series of little pink yawns, a
smile, a faint sigh terminated consciousness as she relaxed into slumber
as placid as her first cradle sleep. So motionless she lay, bare arms
wound around the pillow, that they could scarcely detect her breathing
save when the bow of pale-blue ribbon stirred on her bosom.
"The darling!" whispered Mrs. Carrick; "look at that brier mark across
her wrist!--our poor little worn-out colleen!"
"She was not too far gone to mention Garret Hamil," observed Cecile.
Mrs. Cardross looked silently at Cecile, then at the girl on the bed who
had called her mother. After a moment she bent with difficulty and
kissed the brier-torn wrist, wondering perhaps whether by chance a
deeper wound lay hidden beneath the lace-veiled, childish breast.
"Little daughter--little daughter!" she murmured close to the small
unheeding ear. Cecile waited, a smile half tender, half amused curving
her parted lips; then she glanced curiously at Mrs. Carrick. But that
young matron, ignoring the enfant terrible, calmly tucked her arm under
her mother's; Cecile, immersed in speculative thought, followed them
from the room; a maid extinguished the lights.
In an hour the Villa Cardross was silent and dark, save that, in the
moonlight which struck through the panes of Malcourt's room, an unquiet
shadow moved from window to window, looking out into the mystery of
night.
       *       *       *       *       *
The late morning sun flung a golden net across Malcourt's bed; he lay
asleep, dark hair in handsome disorder, dark eyes sealed--too young to
wear that bruised, loose mask so soon with the swollen shadows under lid
and lip. Yet, in his unconscious features there was now a certain
simplicity almost engaging, which awake, he seemed to lack; as though
latent somewhere within him were qualities which chance might germinate
into nobler growth. But chance, alone, is a poor gardener.
Hamil passing the corridor as the valet, carrying a tray, opened
Malcourt's door, glanced in at him; and Malcourt awoke at the same
moment, and sat bolt upright.
"Hello, Hamil!" he nodded sleepily, "come in, old fellow!" And, to the
valet: "No breakfast for me, thank you--except grape-fruit!--unless
you've brought me a cuckootail? Yes? No? Stung! Never mind; just hand me
a cigarette and take away the tray. It's a case of being a very naughty
boy, Hamil. How are you anyway, and what did you shoot?"
Hamil greeted him briefly, but did not seem inclined to enter or
converse.
Malcourt yawned, glanced at the grape-fruit, then affably at Hamil.
"I say," he began, "hope you'll overlook my rotten behaviour last time
we met. I'd been dining at random, and I'm usually a brute when I do
that."
"Oh, it's all right," said Hamil, looking at the row of tiny Chinese
idols on the mantel.
"No rancour?"
"No. Only--why do you do it, Malcourt?"
"Why do I do which? The wheel or the lady?"
"Oh, the whole bally business? It isn't as if you were lonely and put to
it. There are plenty of attractive girls about, and anybody will take
you on at Bridge. Of course it's none of my affair--but we came
unpleasantly close to a quarrel--which is my only excuse."
Malcourt looked at him thoughtfully. "Hamil, do you know, I've always
liked you a damn sight better than you've liked me."
Hamil said, laughing outright: "I never saw very much of you to like or
