The Princess had fallen into a state of semi-consciousness which was
neither sleep nor stupor, but partook of both, and her face was
scarlet from the fever. Two or three times in the course of the
afternoon, however, she was evidently aware of the nurse's presence,
and she submitted without resistance to all that was done for her. The
maid, who had been in the sick-room all night and all the morning, was
now asleep, and the doctor had advised that the children should be
kept away from their mother altogether. When the doctor came again,
about six o'clock, the nun explained her own position to him, and
begged him to communicate with the Convent before leaving the palace,
as the Princess should certainly not be left without proper care, even
for an hour. He did what she asked, and the answer came back in the
Mother Superior's own voice. She said that she was very short of
nurses, and that it would be extremely inconvenient to send one, and
she therefore begged of him to get a Sister from another order.
He replied very crossly that he would do nothing of the sort, that he
believed in the White Sisters and meant to have a White Sister, and
that a White Sister must come, and a good one; and that if it was only
a matter of inconvenience, it was better that the Convent should be
inconvenienced for him than that he should be disappointed; and he
added so much more to the same effect, with so many emphatic
repetitions, that the Mother Superior promised to break all rules and
come herself within an hour if no other Sister were available. For she
had a very high regard for him, in spite of his rough tone and harsh
voice.
Her difficulty was a very simple one. The only nurse who was free that
evening was Sister Giovanna, who had returned just before mid-day from
a case that had ended badly, and she had been asleep ever since. But
the Mother Superior knew how the Princess had treated her niece and
robbed her of her fortune, and she could not foresee what might happen
if the young nun took charge of the case. After giving her somewhat
rash promise to the doctor, she sent for her, therefore, and explained
matters.
'I do not think that my aunt will recognise me,' said Sister Giovanna.
'She has never set eyes on me since I was a girl of eighteen in deep
mourning. Our dress changes us very much, and I must have changed,
too, in five years. Even my voice is not the same, I fancy.'
The Mother Superior looked at her keenly. She was very fond of her,
but it had never occurred to her to consider whether the young
Sister's appearance had altered or not. Yet her own memory for faces
was good, and when she recalled the features of the slim, fair-haired
girl in black whom she had first seen, and compared the recollection
with the grave and almost saintly face before her, closely confined by
the white wimple and gorget, and the white veil that bound the
forehead low above the serious brow, she really did not believe that
any one could easily recognise the Angela of other days.
'I suppose I never realise how changed we all are,' she said
thoughtfully. 'But do you not think the Princess Chiaromonte may
remember you when she hears your name?'
'Many Sisters have taken it,' Sister Giovanna answered. 'And, after
all, what harm can there be? If she recognises me and is angry, she
can only send me away, and meanwhile she will be taken care of, at
least for the night. That is the main thing, Mother, and one of the
Sisters will surely be free to-morrow morning.'
So the matter was settled. Sister Giovanna got her well-worn little
black bag, her breviary, and her long black cloak, and in half-an-hour
she was ascending the grand staircase of the palace in which she had
lived as a child.
She felt more emotion than she had expected, but no sign betrayed that
she was moved, nor showed the servant who led her through the
apartments and passages that she was familiar with every turn. Though
she went through the great hall and her feet trod upon the very spot
where the dead Knight of Malta had lain in state, not a sigh escaped
her, nor one quickly-drawn breath.
She was ushered to the very room that had been her father's, and stood
waiting after the servant had tapped softly at the door. The other nun
came out noiselessly and pulled the door after her without quite
closing it. She explained the case to Sister Giovanna, and said that
the Princess seemed to be asleep again. She probably knew nothing of
any relationship between the patient and Sister Giovanna; but if she
remembered anything of the latter's story, it was not her business to
comment on the circumstance, even mentally. Even in the nursing
orders, where the real names of the Sisters may often be known to
others besides the Mother Superior, the Sisters themselves
scrupulously respect one another's secret, though it may be almost an
open one, and never discuss the identity of a member of their
community. Where nuns are cloistered, actual secrecy is preserved as
far as possible, and though a Sister may sometimes talk to another
about her former life, and especially of her childhood, she never
mentions her family by name, even though she may be aware that the
truth is known.
Sister Giovanna entered the sick-room alone, as the other nurse seemed
to think that the unexpected sight of two nuns might disturb the
patient. If the Princess noticed the new face, when she next opened
her eyes, she made no remark and showed no surprise; so that Sister
Giovanna felt quite sure of not having been recognised. There was very
little light in the room, too, by the doctor's advice, and a high
screen covered with old Cordova leather stood between the bed and the
table on which the single shaded candle was placed.
The nun stood beside the pillow and looked long at the face of the
woman who had wronged her so cruelly and shamefully. After a few
seconds she could see her very distinctly in the shadow; the features
were flushed and full, and strangely younger than when she had last
seen them, as often happens with fair people of a certain age at the
beginning of a sharp fever, when the quickened pulse sends the hot
blood to the cheeks and brings back the vivid brilliancy of youth. But
the experienced nurse knew that and was not surprised. After taking
the temperature and doing all she could for the moment, she left the
bedside and sat down to read her breviary by the light on the other
side of the screen. The illness was only an attack of influenza after
