in elaborate extensions. Price has furnished some of the capital
personally, and I have raised the balance; and what we want now is
an honest man to whom we can entrust this most important project, a
man who will take the road in hand and put it on its feet, and make
it of some service in the community. You are the man we have
selected, and if the proposition appeals to you, why, we are ready
to do business with you without delay.”

For a minute or two Montague was silent; then he said: “I appreciate
your confidence, Mr. Ryder, and what you say appeals to me. But the
matter is a very important one to me, as you can readily understand,
and so I will ask you to give me until to-morrow to make up my
mind.”

“Very well,” said Ryder.

Montague’s first thought was of General Prentice. “Come to me any
time you need advice,” the General had said; so Montague went down
to his office. “Do you know anything about John S. Price?” he asked.

“I don’t know him very well personally,” was the reply. “I know him
by reputation. He is a daring Wall Street operator, and he’s been
very successful, I am told.”

“Price began life as a cowboy, I understand,” continued the General,
after a pause. “Then he went in for mines. Ten or fifteen years ago
we used to know him as a silver man. Several years ago there was a
report that he had been raiding Mississippi Steel, and had got
control. That was rather startling news, for everybody knew that the
Trust was after it. He seems to have fought them to a standstill.”

“That sounds interesting,” said Montague.

“Price was brought up in a rough school,” said the General, with a
smile. “He has a tongue like a whip-lash. I remember once I attended
a creditors’ meeting of the American Stove Company, which had got
into trouble, and Price started off from the word go. ‘Mr.
Chairman,’ he said, ‘when I come into the office of an industrial
corporation, and see a stock ticker behind the president’s chair
with the carpet worn threadbare in front of it, I know what’s the
matter with that corporation without asking another word.’”

“What do you want to know about him for?” asked the General, after
he had got through laughing over this recollection.

“It’s a case I’m concerned in,” the other answered.

“I tell you who knows about him,” said the General. “Harry Curtiss.
William E. Davenant has done law business for Price.”

“Is that so?” said Montague. “Then probably I shall meet Harry.”

“I can tell you a better person yet,” said the other, after a
moment’s thought. “Ask your friend Mrs. Alden; she knows Price
intimately, I believe.”

So Montague sent up a note to Mrs. Billy, and the reply came, “Come
up to dinner. I am not going out.” And so, late in the afternoon, he
was ensconced in a big leather armchair in Mrs. Billy’s private
drawing-room, and listening to an account of the owner of the
Mississippi Steel Company.

“Johnny Price?” said the great lady. “Yes, I know him. It all
depends whether you are going to have him for a friend or an enemy.
His mother was Irish, and he is built after her. If he happens to
take a fancy to you, he’ll die for you; and if you make him hate
you, you will hear a greater variety of epithets than you ever
supposed the language contained.--I first met him in Washington,”
 Mrs. Billy went on, reminiscently; “that was fifteen years ago, when
my brother was in Congress. I think I told you once how Davy paid
forty thousand dollars for the nomination, and went to Congress. It
was the year of a Democratic landslide, and they could have elected
Reggie Mann if they had felt like it. I went to Washington to live
the next winter, and Price was there with a whole army of lobbyists,
fighting for free silver. That was before the craze, you know, when
silver was respectable; and Price was the Silver King. I saw the
inside of American government that winter, I can assure you.”

“Tell me about it,” said Montague.

“The Democratic party had been elected on a low tariff platform,”
 said Mrs. Billy; “and it sold out bag and baggage to the
corporations. Money was as free as water--my brother could have got
his forty thousand back three times over. It was the Steel crowd
that bossed the job, you know--William Roberts used to come down
from Pittsburg every two or three days, and he had a private
telephone wire the rest of the time. I have always said it was the
Steel Trust that clamped the tariff swindle on the American people,
and that’s held it there ever since.”

“What did Price do with his silver mines?” asked Montague.

“He sold them,” said she, “and just in the nick of time. He was on
the inside in the campaign of ‘96, and I remember one night he came
to dinner at our house and told us that the Republican party had
raised ten or fifteen million dollars to buy the election. ‘That’s
the end of silver,’ he said, and he sold out that very month, and
he’s been freelancing it in Wall Street ever since.”

“Have you met him yet?” asked Mrs. Billy, after a pause.
