For there is no resentment like the resentment of the neglectful, no
jealousy like the jealousy of the faithless.
"To resume, in plain English," he said, "keep away from my wife,
Mallett. You comprehend that, don't you?"
"Perfectly. Now get out!"
Dysart hesitated for the fraction of a second longer, as though perhaps
expecting further reply, then turned on his heel and walked out.
Later, while Duane was examining his own costume preparatory to trying
it on, Scott Seagrave's spectacled and freckled visage protruded into
the room. He knocked as an after-thought.
"Rosalie sent me. She's dressed in all her gimcracks and wants your
expert opinion. I've got to go----"
"Where is she?"
"In her room. I'm going out to the hatchery with Kathleen----"
"Come and see Rosalie with me, first," said Duane, passing his arm
through Scott's and steering him down the sunny corridor.
When they knocked, Mrs. Dysart admitted them, revealing herself in full
costume, painted and powdered, the blinds pulled down, and the electric
lights burning behind their rosy shades.
"It's my final dress rehearsal," she explained. "Mr. Mallett, is my
hair sufficiently à la Lamballe to suit you?"
"Yes, it is. You're a perfect little porcelain figurette! There's not an
anachronism in you or your make-up. How did you do it?"
"I merely stuck like grim death to your sketches," she said demurely.
Scott eyed her without particular interest. "Very corking," he said
vaguely, "but I've got to go down to the hatchery with Kathleen, so you
won't mind if I leave----"
He closed the door behind him before anybody could speak. Duane moved
toward the door.
"It's a charming costume," he said, "and most charmingly worn; your hair
is exactly right--not too much powder, you know----"
"Where shall I put my patch? Here?"
"Higher."
"Here?"
He came back to the centre of the room where she stood.
"Here," he said, indenting the firm, cool ivory skin with one finger,
"and here. Wear two."
"And my rings--do you think that my fingers are overloaded?" She held
out her fascinating smooth little hands. He supported them on his
upturned palms and examined the gems critically.
They talked for a few moments about the rings, then: "Thank you so
much," she said, with a carelessly friendly pressure. "How about my
shoes? Are the buckles of the period?"
One of her hands encountered his at hazard, lingered, dropped, the
fingers still linked lightly in his. She bent over, knees straight, and
lifted the hem of her petticoat, displaying her Louis XVI footwear.
"Shoes and buckles are all right," he said; "faultless, true to the
period--very fascinating.... I've got to go--one or two things to
do----"
They examined the shoes for some time in silence; still bending over she
turned her dainty head and looked around and up at him. There was a
moment's pause, then he kissed her.
"I was afraid you'd do that--some day," she said, straightening up and
stepping back one pace, so that their linked hands now hung pendant
between them.
"I was sure of it, too," he said. "Now I think I'd better go--as all
things are en règle, even the kiss, which was classical--pure--Louis
XVI.... Besides, Scott was idiot enough to shut the door. That's Louis
XVI, too, but too much realism is never artistic."
"We could open the door again--if that's why you're running away from
me."
"What's the use?"
She glanced at the door and then calmly seated herself.
"Do you think that we are together too much?" she asked.
"Hasn't your husband made similar observations?" he replied, laughing.
"It isn't for him to make them."
"Hasn't he objected?"
"He has suddenly and unaccountably become disagreeable enough to make me
wish he had some real grounds for his excitement!" she said coolly, and
closed her teeth with a little click. She added, between them: "I'm
inclined to give him something real to howl about."
He said: "You're adrift. Do you know it?"
"Certainly I know it. Are you prepared to offer salvage? I'm past the
need of a pilot."
He smiled. "You haven't drifted very far yet--only as far as Mallett
Harbour. That's usually the first port--for derelicts. Anchors are
dropped rather frequently there--but, Rosalie, there's no safe mooring
except in the home port."
Her pretty, flushed face grew very serious as she looked up
questioningly.
"Isn't there an anchorage near you, Duane? Are you quite sure?"
"Why, no, dear, I'm not sure. But let me tell you something: it isn't in
me to love again. And that isn't square to you."
After a silence she repeated: "Again? Have you been in love?"
"Yes."
"Are you embittered? I thought only callow fledglings moped."
"If I were embittered I'd offer free anchorage to all comers. That's the
fledgling idea--when blighted--be a 'deevil among the weemin,'" he said,
laughing.
"You have that hospitable reputation now," she persisted, unsmiling.
"Have I? Judge for yourself then--because no woman I ever knew cares
anything for me now."
"You mean that if any of them had anything intimate to remember they'd
never remain indifferent?"
"Well--yes."
"They'd either hate you or remember you with a certain tenderness."
"Is that what happens?" he asked, amused.
"I think so," she said thoughtfully.... "As for what you said, you are
right, Duane; I am adrift.... You--or a man like you could easily board
me--take me in tow. I'm quite sure that something about me signals a
