"So much the worse!" said the mountaineer inaudibly.
Gretchen had gone home with her clock; but still Herr Ludwig, as the
mountaineer called himself, tarried in the dim and dusty shop. Clocks,
old and new, broken and whole, clocks from the four ends of the world;
and watches, thick and clumsy, thin and graceful, of gold and silver and
pewter.
"Is there anything you want?" asked the clock-mender.
Herr Ludwig turned. How old this clock-mender was, how very old!
"Yes," he said. "I've a watch I should like you to look over." And he
carelessly laid the beautiful time-piece on the worn wooden counter.
The clock-mender literally pounced upon it. "Where did you get a watch
like this?" he demanded suspiciously.
"It is mine. You will find my name engraved inside the back lid."
The clock-mender pried open the case, adjusted his glass--and dropped
it, shaking with terror.
"You?" he whispered.
"Sh!" said Herr Ludwig, putting a finger to his lips.
CHAPTER XIV
FIND THE WOMAN
The watch, slipping from the clock-mender's hand, spun like a coin on
the counter, while the clock-mender himself, his eyes bulging, his jaw
dangling, it might be said, staggered back upon his stool.
"So this is the end?" he said in a kind of mutter.
"The end of what?" demanded the owner of the watch.
"Of all my labors, to me and to what little I have left!"
"Fiddlesticks! I am here for no purpose regarding you, my comrade. So
far as I am concerned, your secret is as dead as it ever was. I had a
fancy that you were living in Paris."
"Paris! Gott! For seventeen, eighteen years I have traveled hither and
thither, always on some false clue. Never a band of Gipsies I heard of
that I did not seek them out. Nothing, nothing! You will never know what
I have gone through, and uselessly, to prove my innocence. It always
comes back in a circle; what benefit to me would have been a crime like
that of which I was accused? Was I not high in honor? Was I not wealthy?
Was not my home life a happy one? What benefit to me, I say?" a growing
fierceness in his voice and gestures. "All my estates confiscated, my
wife dead of shame, and I molding among these clocks!"
"But why the clocks?" in wonder.
"It was a pastime of mine when I was a boy. I used to be tinkering among
all the clocks in the house. So I bought out this old shop. From time to
time I have left it in the hands of an assistant. The grand duke has a
wonderful Friesian clock. One day it fell out of order, and the court
jeweler could do nothing with it. I was summoned, I! No one recognized
me, I have changed so. I mended the clock and went away."
"But what is the use of all this, now that her highness is found?"
"My honor; to the duke it is black as ever."
"Have you gone forward any?"
"Like Sisyphus! I had begun to give up hope, when the Gipsy I was
seeking was seen by one of my agents. He alone knows the secret. And I
am waiting, waiting. But you believe, Ludwig?"
"Carl, you are as innocent of it all as I am or as my brother was. Come
with me to Jugendheit."
"No, Ludwig, this is my country, however unjustly it has treated me."
"Yes, yes. And to think that you and I and the grand duke were comrades
at Heidelberg! But if your Gipsy fails you?"
"Still I shall remain. This will be all I shall have, these clocks. I am
only sixty-eight, yet no one would believe me under eighty. I no longer
gaze into mirrors. I have forgotten how I look. There were letters found
in my desk, all forgeries, I knew, but so cleverly done I could only
deny. I saw that my case was hopeless, so I fled to Paris. I wrote
Herbeck once while there. He believed that I was innocent. I have his
letter yet. He has a great heart, Ludwig, and he has done splendid work
for Ehrenstein."
"He keeps a steady hand on the duke."
"But you, what are you doing in Dreiberg, in this guise?"
Herr Ludwig sat upon the counter and clasped a knee. "Do you care for
fairy-stories?"
"Sometimes."
"Well, once upon a time there lived a king. He was young. He had an
uncle who watched over him and his affairs. They call such uncles prince
regents. This prince regent had an idea regarding the future welfare of
this nephew. He would bring him up to be a man, well educated,
broad-minded, and clean-lived. He should have a pilot to guide him past
the traps and vices which befall the young. Time wore on. The lad grew
up, clean in mind, strong in body, liberal; a fine prince. No scandalous
entanglements; no gaming; no wine-bibbing beyond what any decent man may
do. In his palace few saw anything of him after his fifteenth year. He
went into the world under an assumed name. By and by he came home,
quietly. His uncle was proud of him, for his eye was clear and his
tongue was clean. In one month he was to be coronated. And now what do
you think? He must have one more adventure, just one. Would his uncle
go with him? Certainly not. Moreover, the time for adventure was over.
He must no longer wander about; he was a king; he must put his hand to
king-craft. And one morning his uncle found him gone, gone as completely
as if he had never existed. What to do? Ah! The prince regent set it
going that his majesty had gone a-hunting in Bavaria. Then the prince
regent put on some old clothes and went a-venturing himself."
"And the end?"
"God knows!" said Ludwig, sliding off the counter.
Nothing but the ticking of the clocks was heard.
"And fatuous fool that this uncle was, he committed an almost
irreparable blunder. He tried to marry his nephew."
"I understand. But if you are discovered here?"
"That is not likely."
"Ah, Ludwig, it is not the expected that always happens. Be careful; you
know the full wording of Herbeck's treaty."
"Herbeck; there's a man," said Herr Ludwig admiringly. "To have found
her highness as he did!"
"He is lucky," but without resentment.
The other picked up his watch. "Can I be of material assistance?"
