has inspired. I should not be going farther than some 
Englishmen if I said that her personal character saved 
the monarchy; when she died there was not a vestige 
of the republican dream which had remained from a 

sentiment for " the free peoples of antiquity " rather 


than from the Commonwealth. Democracy had in- 
deed effected itself in a wide - spread socialism, but 
the kingship was safe in the hearts of the Queen's 
subjects when the Prince of Wales, who was the first 
of them, went about praising loyalty as prime among 
the civic virtues and duties. The notion took the gen- 
eral fancy, and met with an acceptance in which the old 
superstition of kings by divine right was resuscitated 
with the vulgar. One of the vulgar lately said to an 
American woman who owned that we did not yield an 
equal personal fealty to all our Presidents, " Oh yes, 
but you know that it is only your people that choose 
the President, but God gave us the King." Nothing 
could be opposed to a belief so simple, as in the churches 
of the eldest faith the humble worshipper could not well 
be told that the picture or the statue of his adoration 
was not itself sacred. In fact, it is not going too far, 
at least for a very adventurous spirit, to say that loyalty 
with the English is a sort of religious principle. What 
is with us more or less a joke, sometimes bad, sometimes 
good, namely, our allegiance to the powers that be in 
the person of the Chief Magistrate, is with them a 
most serious thing, at which no man may smile with- 
out loss. 

I was so far from wishing myself to smile at it, that 
I darkled most respectfully about it, without the cour- 
age to inquire directly into the mystery. If it was 
often on my tongue to ask, " What is loyalty ? How 
did you come by it ? Why are you loyal ?" I felt that 
it would be embarrassing when it would not be offen- 
sive, and I should vainly plead in excuse that this 
property of theirs mystified me the more because it 
seemed absolutely left out of the American nature. I 
perceived that in the English it was not less really pres- 
ent because it was mixed, or used to be mixed, with 

 

scandal that the alien can do no more than hint at. 
That sort of abuse has long ceased, and if one were 
now to censure the King, or any of the Royal Family, 
it would be felt to be rather ill bred, and quite unfair, 
since royalty is in no position, to reply to criticism. 
Even the Socialists would think it ill-mannered, though 
in their hearts, if not in their sleeves, they must all the 
while be smiling at the notion of anything sacred in the 
Sovereign. 



Loyalty, like so many other things in England, is a 
convention to which the alien will tacitly conform in 
the measure of his good taste or his good sense. It is 
not his affair, and in the mean time it is a most curious 
and interesting spectacle; but it is not more remark- 
able, perhaps, than the perfect acquiescence in the 
aristocratic forms of society which hedge the King 
with their divinity. We think that family counts 
for much with ourselves, in New England or in Vir- 
ginia; but it counts for nothing at all in comparison 
with the face value at which it is current in England. 
We think we are subject to our plutocracy, when we 
are very much out of humor or out of heart, in some 
such measure as the commoners of England are subject 
to the aristocracy; but that is nonsense. A very rich 
man with us is all the more ridiculous for his more 
millions; he becomes a byword if not a hissing; he is 
the meat of the paragrapher, the awful example of the 
preacher; his money is found to smell of his methods. 
But in England, the greater a nobleman is, the greater 
his honor. The American mother who imagines marry- 
ing her daughter to an English duke, cannot even im- 
agine an English duke say, like him of Devonshire, 



or him of Northumberland, or him of Norfolk with 
the social power and state which wait upon him in his 
duchy and in the whole realm; and so is it in degree 
down to the latest and lowest of the baronets, and of 
those yet humbler men who have been knighted for 
their merits and services in medicine, in literature, 
in art. The greater and greatest nobles are estab- 
lished in a fear which is very like what the fear of 
God used to be when the common people feared Him; 
and, though they are potent political magnates, they 
mainly rule as the King himself does, through the 
secular reverence of those beneath them for their titles 
and the visible images of their state. They are wealthy 
men, of course, with so much substance that, when one 
now and then attempts to waste it, he can hardly do 
