of proportion; for strictly formal beauty seems best to express our
conception of spiritual beauty. The nobly serious character of San
Zenone is deepened by its single picture--a masterpiece of the most
serious of painters, the severe and exquisite Mantegna.
{Illustration: THE AMPHITHEATRE, VERONA}
1872
TWO OLD HOUSES AND THREE YOUNG WOMEN
There are times and places that come back yet again, but that, when the
brooding tourist puts out his hand to them, meet it a little slowly, or
even seem to recede a step, as if in slight fear of some liberty he may
take. Surely they should know by this time that he is capable of taking
none. He has his own way--he makes it all right. It now becomes just
a part of the charming solicitation that it presents precisely a
problem--that of giving the particular thing as much as possible without
at the same time giving it, as we say, away. There are considerations,
proprieties, a necessary indirectness--he must use, in short, a little
art. No necessity, however, more than this, makes him warm to his work,
and thus it is that, after all, he hangs his three pictures.
I
The evening that was to give me the first of them was by no means the
first occasion of my asking myself if that inveterate “style” of which
we talk so much be absolutely conditioned--in dear old Venice and
elsewhere--on decrepitude. Is it the style that has brought about the
decrepitude, or the decrepitude that has, as it were, intensified
and consecrated the style? There is an ambiguity about it all that
constantly haunts and beguiles. Dear old Venice has lost her complexion,
her figure, her reputation, her self-respect; and yet, with it all, has
so puzzlingly not lost a shred of her distinction. Perhaps indeed the
case is simpler than it seems, for the poetry of misfortune is familiar
to us all, whereas, in spite of a stroke here and there of some happy
justice that charms, we scarce find ourselves anywhere arrested by the
poetry of a run of luck. The misfortune of Venice being, accordingly, at
every point, what we most touch, feel and see, we end by assuming it to
be of the essence of her dignity; a consequence, we become aware, by the
way, sufficiently discouraging to the general application or pretension
of style, and all the more that, to make the final felicity deep, the
original greatness must have been something tremendous. If it be the
ruins that are noble we have known plenty that were not, and moreover
there are degrees and varieties: certain monuments, solid survivals,
hold up their heads and decline to ask for a grain of your pity. Well,
one knows of course when to keep one’s pity to oneself; yet one clings,
even in the face of the colder stare, to one’s prized Venetian privilege
of making the sense of doom and decay a part of every impression.
Cheerful work, it may be said of course; and it is doubtless only in
Venice that you gain more by such a trick than you lose. What was most
beautiful is gone; what was next most beautiful is, thank goodness,
going--that, I think, is the monstrous description of the better part
of your thought. Is it really your fault if the place makes you want so
desperately to read history into everything?
You do that wherever you turn and wherever you look, and you do it,
I should say, most of all at night. It comes to you there with longer
knowledge, and with all deference to what flushes and shimmers, that the
night is the real time. It perhaps even wouldn’t take much to make you
award the palm to the nights of winter. This is certainly true for the
form of progression that is most characteristic, for every question
of departure and arrival by gondola. The little closed cabin of
this perfect vehicle, the movement, the darkness and the plash, the
indistinguishable swerves and twists, all the things you don’t see and
all the things you do feel--each dim recognition and obscure arrest is
a possible throb of your sense of being floated to your doom, even when
the truth is simply and sociably that you are going out to tea. Nowhere
else is anything as innocent so mysterious, nor anything as mysterious
so pleasantly deterrent to protest. These are the moments when you are
most daringly Venetian, most content to leave cheap trippers and other
aliens the high light of the mid-lagoon and the pursuit of pink and
gold. The splendid day is good enough for them; what is best for you
is to stop at last, as you are now stopping, among clustered pali and
softly-shifting poops and prows, at a great flight of water-steps that
play their admirable part in the general effect of a great entrance.
The high doors stand open from them to the paved chamber of a basement
tremendously tall and not vulgarly lighted, from which, in turn, mounts
the slow stone staircase that draws you further on. The great point is,
that if you are worthy of this impression at all, there isn’t a single
item of it of which the association isn’t noble. Hold to it fast that
there is no other such dignity of arrival as arrival by water. Hold to
it that to float and slacken and gently bump, to creep out of the low,
dark felze and make the few guided movements and find the strong
crooked and offered arm, and then, beneath lighted palace-windows, pass
up the few damp steps on the precautionary carpet--hold to it that these
things constitute a preparation of which the only defect is that it may
sometimes perhaps really prepare too much. It’s so stately that what
can come after?--it’s so good in itself that what, upstairs, as we
comparative vulgarians say, can be better? Hold to it, at any rate, that
if a lady, in especial, scrambles out of a carriage, tumbles out of a
cab, flops out of a tram-car, and hurtles, projectile-like, out of
a “lightning-elevator,” she alights from the Venetian conveyance as
Cleopatra may have stepped from her barge. Upstairs--whatever may be
yet in store for her--her entrance shall still advantageously enjoy
the support most opposed to the “momentum” acquired. The beauty of
the matter has been in the absence of all momentum--elsewhere so
scientifically applied to us, from behind, by the terrible life of our
day--and in the fact that, as the elements of slowness, the felicities
of deliberation, doubtless thus all hang together, the last of
calculable dangers is to enter a great Venetian room with a rush.
Not the least happy note, therefore, of the picture I am trying to frame
is that there was absolutely no rushing; not only in the sense of a
scramble over marble floors, but, by reason of something dissuasive and
distributive in the very air of the place, a suggestion, under the
fine old ceilings and among types of face and figure abounding in the
unexpected, that here were many things to consider. Perhaps the simplest
