who had come over from her own very neigh 
bourly villa, had overheard and was laugh 
ing. 
"Hasten, my children," Sally, after the 
first greetings, called in French. "We dine 
and at once." 
Maud was then taken to No. 10, a room at 
the head of the stairs. Opposite was No. 12. 
It was there Welden was shown. The ar 
rangement was so convenient that he con 
gratulated himself on its idyllic simplicity. 
A little later when he and Maud had 
dressed and both were about to descend the 
stair, they could hear Sally exclaiming. 
In her hand was a blue rag of a telegram 
on which a string of typewritten words had 
been gummed. 
"What is it?" Malakoff asked. 
"Giselle Oppensheim who wires that she 
comes to-morrow. But where shall I put 
her? Where?" 
"Bah!" answered Malakoff. "It will ar 
range itself. On's avisera." 
Mrs. Cawtree, who knew everything, 
everything fashionably knowahle that is, 
looked admiringly at Sally. It was not 
every bride and particularly it was not 
every American bride, who was capable of 
being so indulgently sans-fa9on. Mrs. Cawtree's esteem for Sally mounted. But at 
once an attenuation followed. Probably 
she does not know, the lady reflected. 
"Do you fancy that the duchess knows 
about Mme. Oppensheim?" she asked of 
Cantire when presently she found him next 
to her at dinner. 
"Knows what?" the boy inquired, choking down as he spoke, the velvet of a 
bisque. 
"I remind myself," Mrs. Cawtree inconse 
quentially resumed, "of the woman who 
asked Dumas whether there was anything 
between him and the Princess Belgioso. 
 
Madam, he replied, "sometimes nothing 
whatever. 
It was a moment before Cantire got it. 
When he did he laughed in a fashion so disorderly that to steady him, Mrs. Cawtree 
asked him to a frisk at her house the next 
night. 
The effort succeeding, she turned with a 
similar invitation to Aquaviva who was opposite, after which she asked Prince Saraguine who sat between her and Sally. 
Kara Saraguine had an air of having 
lived extensively and of fully intending to 
continue such living. At the moment he was 
eating mussels from the sauce of a sole Nor- 
mande and while listening to Sally's chatter, had an eye on Maud, who sat a little be 
yond, on the other side of the table. 
"That youthfulness is ravishing," he remarked and wiped his mouth. "A compatriot, Duchess? One could devour her." 
Cantire's eyes were now on the girl, so 
were Malakoff's and Solferino's, and Maud, 
knowing of old the ideality of men's 
thoughts, blushed suddenly and divinely. 
But at once, for countenance sake, leaning forward, she called, in English, to Sally. 
"What sort of a place is Etretat? While 
I was dressing they brought me a telegram 
from my father. He is to motor there from 
Frascati's to-morrow. Is it nice?" 
"Charming!" Saraguine volunteered in 
French. "The downs, the cliffs, the view, 
whatever you will, is charming, except the 
world there. No, frankly, Mademoiselle, 
that is everything there is of most grocer." 
"Etretat!" Solferino, also in French, ex 
claimed. "I promenaded myself once that 
way. Once, that is permissible, twice would 
be a sin. And I, I am not exacting. I " 
Solferino ran on. Presently everybody 
seemed to be talking at once. Momentarily 
Maud's too alluring looks were forgotten. 
But when the dinner was over, several men 
 
gathered in the hall about her and there remained until drawn into the fumoir, where 
Welden was the last to follow and where, 
afterward, with the hopelessness of a regret 
that is to be eternal, he wished he had never 
gone. 
There, a footman was trundling a chest 
on wheels. In it were cigars of different 
shades and sizes, cigarettes of various brands. 
As Welden entered, the man steered it up to 
him. He took a londres and surveyed the 
room. 
Near by was a buffet, hospitably inviting. 
On it were decanters of chartreuse and 
maraschino ; flagons of brandy and gin ; bottles of Vichy and Eau de Vals. These latter 
had obviously been attacked. But with that 
abstemiousness which is a characteristic of 
the way we live now, the liquors and liqueurs 
were untouched. 
Contiguously was a billiard table on which 
Cantire, a cigar between his teeth, was knocking balls about. Opposite on a sofa, raised 
