Children of the Abbey, and Clarissa to the sweet-faced, white-souled
matron. Likewise The Rambler, Rasselas, Shakespeare, and The
Spectator (unexpurgated). But Young’s Night Thoughts, Thomson’s
Seasons, Paradise Lost, Pope’s Essays, and the Book of Books
qualified whatever of evil might have crept into the tender imagination
from the strong meat, spiced. Cowper was a living presence to mother
and girl. My mother could repeat pages of The Tas from memory fifty
years after she recited them to her gentle teacher, and his hymns were
the daily food of the twain.
The Olney family drove in the heavy coach over heavy roads five miles
in all weathers to the First Presbyterian Church of Richmond. My
grandfather had helped raise the money for the building, as his letters
show, and was one of the elders ordained soon after the church was
organized.
Thither they had gone on Christmas Sunday, 1811, to be met on the
threshold by the news of the burning of the theatre on Saturday night.
My mother, although but six years old, never forgot the scenes of that
day. Doctor Rice had deviated from the rutted road of the “long prayer”
constructed by ecclesiastical surveyors along the lines of Adoration,
Confession, Thanksgiving, Supplication (“A, C, T, S”)—to talk as man to
man with the Ruler of the universe of the terrible judgment which had
befallen the mourning city. He had even alluded to it in his sermon,
and it was discussed in awe-stricken tones by lingering groups in the
aisles when service was over. Then, her little hand locked fast in that
of her mother, the child was guided along the valley and up the steep
hill to the smoking ruins, surrounded by a silent crowd, many of them
in tears. In low, impressive accents the mother told the baby what had
happened there last night, and, as the little creature began to sob,
led her on up the street. A few squares farther on, my grandfather and
a friend who walked with him laughed slightly at something they said or
saw, and my grandmother said, sorrowfully:
“How can you laugh when sixty fellow-creatures lie dead over there—all
hurried into Eternity without warning?”
I have never passed the now-old Monumental Church without recalling the
incident engraved upon my childish mind by my mother’s story.
In the volume of “D. Lacy’s Letters” I found, laid carefully between
the embrowned leaves for safest keeping, several letters from Capt.
Sterling Smith to his “dear Judy,” and one from her to him, written
while she was on a visit to Montrose, her birthplace, with her only
son. We have such a pretty, pathetic expression of her love for husband
and child, and touches, few but graphic, that outline for us so clearly
her personality and environment, that I insert it here:
                            “MONTROSE, September 5th, 1817.
                                 “(Ten o’clock at night.)
    “MY DEAR MR. SMITH,—I am sitting by my dear Josiah, who
    continues ill. His fever rises about dark. The chills are
    less severe, and the fever does not last as long as it did a
    week ago. Still, he suffers much, and is very weak. He has
    taken a great deal of medicine with very little benefit. His
    gums are sore. The doctor thinks they are touched by the
    calomel. He was here this morning, and advised some oil and
    then the bark.
    “We have been looking for you ever since yesterday. Poor
    fellow! He longs to see you—and so do I! I was up last
    night, and I have been to-night very often—indeed, almost
    constantly—at the door and the window, listening for the
    sound of your horse’s feet. I have written by post, by John
    Morton, and by Mr. Mosby. I think if you had received either
    of the notes I should see you to-night, unless something
    serious is the matter. I am so much afraid that you are ill
    as to be quite unhappy.
    “My love to my dear girls and all the family. My dear! my
    heart is sore! Pray that God may support me. I am too easily
    depressed—particularly when you are not with me. I long to
    see you! I hope I shall before you receive this. God bless
    you!
    “Your very affectionate—your own
                                                 JUDY.
                                          “(Saturday morning.)
    “We are both better. Josiah’s fever is off, but he is very
    weak.”
That the wife should begin the love-full epistle, “My dear Mr. Smith,”
and sign it, “your own Judy,” seems the queerer to modern readers when
it is considered that her husband was also her cousin, and had married
her niece as his first wife. Few wives called their lords by their
Christian names a hundred years back, and the custom is not yet fully
established in the Southern States.
The few letters written by my grandfather that have been preserved
until now show him to have been a man of sincere piety, sterling sense,
and affectionate disposition. One herewith given betrays what a wealth
of tenderness was poured out upon his fairy-like wife. It likewise
offers a fair sketch of the life of a well-to-do Virginia planter of
that date.
His wife was visiting her Montrose relatives.
                                   “OLNEY, March 30th, 1814.
    “With inexpressible pleasure I received yours by Mr. Mosby.
    I rejoice that the expected event with our dear sister has
    turned out favorably, and that you, my dear, are enjoying
    better health.
    “I hope that you will not be uneasy about my lonely
    situation. Every one must know that it cannot be agreeable,
    but when I consider that you may be benefited by it, and
    even that your health may be restored (which we have reason
    to hope for), what would I not forego to secure so great a
    blessing!
    “I have kept close at home, except when I went to meeting
    on Sabbath, and to town to-day to hear from you. During the
    day I have been busy, and at night have enjoyed the company
    of good books until ten or eleven o’clock, then gone to bed
    and slept tolerably well. I eat at the usual times, and have
