She was conscious that here was power, a triumph of a sort, 
and her own blood responded, yet with a bitterness of re- 
volt that this was not a victory to be scored. There was an 
hour of this perhaps, and then the singer ceased. 

"That's all, boys," said Bess. "Good-night." 

It was not all, they assured her in their own language. 
They could not have it so. No more flattering meed ever 
came from a house that refuses to go home, and stamps its 
greedy wonder. She sang them another and yet another. 

" Boys," she said then, " I 've got to go. I haven't had 
my supper. I 'm as hungry as a shark." 

That they acquiesced in. 

" Will yer come again ? " a shrill voice asked her. 

Yes, she would come again. Then they cheered her, and 
through the lane they made, she and Celia took their way 
to the narrow sidewalk, and began a sharp clip for home. 
But not alone. Behind them was their adoring horde, tramp- 
ing in booted feet, pattering on bare soles, but silent now. 



 





a guard of honor. Once a rabble, it was an army. It fol- 
lowed to Winterbourne's gate. Celia, her hand on the door, 
waited. Bess turned to her following. 

"Good-night, boys," she said. "Thank you. Good- 
night." 

"Same to you," returned the spokesman. But they 
waited. She knew what they wanted, and she sang " Annie 
Laurie." One boy of an admirable voice, used to the star 
part in the "Echo Song" at school, joined her, but a critic 
fell upon him and he ended, gurgling. 

"Good-night," said Bess, and followed Celia in. 

Catherine, crossing the hall, met them. " Didn't I hear 
singing ? " she asked. 

" No, dear," Celia answered. " Or it was some one going 
by. Did your drive tire you ? " 

That night Bess went to her room early and with a swift 
directness made ready for bed. She was not likely to do much 
of the vague wandering that makes a woman's chamber a 
bower for musing, a halting-place for sitting, chin in hand, 
to ponder over the marvels of the garden called youth that 
opens without a break into the glade of love — perhaps heart- 
break, perhaps death. This girl's muscles were too tired to 
allow her blissful torpors. She would have sunk through them 
into sleep. Her life had trained her to run from one task to 
another and to keep her mind in an obedient concentration 
on what might be required of her. When she went about her 
chamber, it was indeed with a serious face, as if she had grave 
topics to consider, as if, in the way of those who live much 
alone, her best confidant was herself. But always her steps 
were for a purpose, not the unconsidered flights of the woman 
who begins to braid her hair and remembers something more 
interesting; who stops to read a letter or look out a quota- 
tion from a book. Bess was a soldier always in marching 



 





order, and when she had put her head down on her pillow, it 
was to close her eyes at once and brush off the cobwebs woven 
by the day. 

Before she was asleep there was a hand at her door, and 
Celia in her nightgown came softly in. Bess sat up instantly 
and asked if anything was the matter, but Celia, without an- 
swering, slipped into bed beside her and hugged her tight. 
Bess accepted her timidly. She was a warm, sweet creature 
who did not yet know how to express the shy inundations 
of her own nature. Celia clung to her, trembling, and seemed 
to cry a little. 

"What is it?" Bess asked her, greatly troubled. " What 
is it, sister?" 

At last Celia told her. 

"You are not happy," she said. " We 've taken you away 
