"When we promised we weren't thinking of ourselves," insisted Ethelinda.
"That doesn't release us," retorted her Puritan sister.
"Why?" demanded Linda. "Suppose, for example, your pencil had marked
William's name! That would have been im--immoral!"
"Would it?" asked Sacharissa, turning her honest, gray eyes on her
brother-in-law.
"I don't believe it would," he said; "I'd only be switched on to Linda's
current again." And he smiled at his wife.
Sacharissa sat thoughtful and serious, swinging her foot.
"Well," she said, at length, "I might as well face it at once. If there's
anything in this instrument we'll all know it pretty soon. Turn on your
receiver, Billy."
"Oh," cried Linda, tearfully, "don't you do it, William!"
"Turn it on," repeated Sacharissa. "I'm not going to be a coward and
break faith with myself, and you both know it! If I've got to go through
the silliness of love and marriage I might as well know who the bandarlog
is to be.... Anyway, I don't really believe in this thing.... I can't
believe in it.... Besides, I've a mind and a will of my own, and I fancy
it will require more than amateur psychical experiments to change either.
Go on, Billy."
"You mean it?" he asked, secretly gratified.
"Certainly," with superb affectation of indifference. And she rose and
faced the instrument.
Destyn looked at his wife. He was dying to try it.
"Will!" she exclaimed, "suppose we are not going to like Rissa's possible
f--fiance! Suppose father doesn't like him!"
"You'll all probably like him as well as I shall," said her sister
defiantly. "Willy, stop making frightened eyes at your wife and start
your infernal machine!"
There was a vicious click, a glitter of shifting clockwork, a snap, and
it was done.
"Have you now, theoretically, got my psychical current bottled up?" she
asked disdainfully. But her lip trembled a little.
He nodded, looking very seriously at her.
"And now you are going to switch me on to this unknown gentleman's
psychical current?"
"Don't let him!" begged Linda. "Billy, dear, how can you when nobody
has the faintest idea who the creature may turn out to be!"
"Go ahead!" interrupted her sister, masking misgiving under a careless
smile.
Click! Up shot the glittering, quivering tentacle of Rosium, vibrating
for a few moments like a thread of silver. Suddenly it was tipped with a
blue flash of incandescence.
"Oh, dear! Oh, dear! There he is!" cried Linda, excitedly. "Rissy! Rissy,
little sister, what have you done?"
"Nothing," she said, catching her breath. "I don't believe that flash
means anything. I don't feel a bit different--not the least bit. I feel
perfectly well and perfectly calm. I don't love anybody and I'm not going
to love anybody--until I want to, and that will probably never happen."
However, she permitted her sister to take her in her arms and pet her. It
was rather curious how exceedingly young and inexperienced she felt. She
found it agreeable to be fussed over and comforted and cradled, and for a
few moments she suffered Linda's solicitude and misgivings in silence.
After a while, however, she became ashamed.
"Nothing is going to happen, Linda," she said, looking dreamily up at the
ceiling; "don't worry, dear; I shall escape the bandarlog."
"If something doesn't happen," observed Destyn, pocketing his instrument,
"the Green Mouse, Limited, will go into liquidation with no liabilities
and no assets, and there'll be no billions for you or for me or for
anybody."
"William," said his wife, "do you place a low desire for money before
your own sister-in-law's spiritual happiness?"
"No, darling, of course not."
"Then you and I had better pray for the immediate bankruptcy of the Green
Mouse."
Her husband said, "By all means," without enthusiasm, and looked out of
the window. "Still," he added, "I made a happy marriage. I'm for wedding
bells every time. Sacharissa will like it, too. I don't know why you and
I shouldn't be enthusiastic optimists concerning wedded life; I can't see
why we shouldn't pray for Sacharissa's early marriage."
"William!"
"Yes, darling."
"You are considering money before my sister's happiness!"
"But in her case I don't see why we can't conscientiously consider both."
Linda cast one tragic glance at her material husband, pushed her sister
aside, arose and fled. After her sped the contrite Destyn; a distant door
shut noisily; all the elements had gathered for the happy, first quarrel
of the newly wedded.
"Fudge," said Sacharissa, walking to the window, slim hands clasped
loosely behind her back.
VI
IN WRONG
Wherein Sacharissa Remains In and a Young Man Can't Get Out
The snowstorm had ceased; across Fifth Avenue the Park resembled the
mica-incrusted view on an expensive Christmas card. Every limb, branch,
and twig was outlined in clinging snow; crystals of it glittered under
the morning sun; brilliantly dressed children, with sleds, romped and
played over the dazzling expanse. Overhead the characteristic deep blue
arch of a New York sky spread untroubled by a cloud. Her family--that is,
her father, brother-in-law, married sister, three unmarried sisters and
herself--were expecting to leave for Tuxedo about noon. Why? Nobody knows
why the wealthy are always going somewhere. However, they do, fortunately
for story writers.
"It's quite as beautiful here," thought Sacharissa to herself, "as it is
in the country. I'm sorry I'm going."
Idling there by the sunny window and gazing out into the white expanse,
she had already dismissed all uneasiness in her mind concerning the
psychical experiment upon herself. That is to say, she had not exactly
dismissed it, she used no conscious effort, it had gone of itself--or,
rather, it had been crowded out, dominated by a sudden and strong
