There was a pause, while the two looked at 
each other. And then in a sudden burst of emo- 
tion Miss Gladys exclaimed, " Oh, Samuel, you 
are an angel! " 

And she broke into a peal of laughter; and 
swiftly, like a bird upon the wing, she leaned 
toward him, and touched his cheek with her lips. 
And then, like a flash, she was gone; and Samuel 
was left alone with his bewilderment. 

Samuel set out forthwith for Mr. Wygant's 
office. But just before he came to the bridge Mr. 
Wygant's automobile flashed past him; and so 
he turned and went back to the house. 

This time he went to the front door. " I am 
Samuel Prescott, from St. Matthew's Church," 
he said to the butler. " And I want to see Mr, 
Wygant upon important business." 

Mr. Wygant sat in a great armchair by one 
of the windows in his library. About him was the 
most elaborate collection of books that Samuel 
had yet seen; and in the luxurious room was an 





atmosphere of profound and age-long calm. Mr. 
Wygant himself was tall and stately, with an 
indescribable air of exclusiveness and reserve. 

Samuel clenched his hands and rushed at once 
to the attack. " I am Samuel Prescott, the sex- 
ton's boy at the church," he said; " and I have 
to talk to you about something very, very seri- 
ous." 

" Well? " said Mr. Wygant. 

Then Samuel told yet again how he had been 
led into evil ways, and how he had been converted 
by Dr. Vince. He tojd the story in detail, so that 
the other might comprehend his fervor. Then 
he told of the converts he had made, and how at 
last he had encovmtered Charlie Swift. " And 
this man would not come into the church," he 
wound up, "because of the wicked people who 
are in it." 

The other had been listening with perplexed 
interest. " Who are these people? " he asked. 

" YourseK for one," said Samuel. 

Mr. Wygant started. " Myself !" he ex- 
claimed. " What have I done? " 

" For one thing," rephed Samuel, " you work 
little children in your mill, and you named the 
State senator to beat the child-labor bill. And 
for another, you make speeches and pose as a 
political reformer, while you are paying money 
to-Slattery, so that he will give you franchises." 





There was a silence, while Mr. Wygant got 
back his breath. " Young man," he cried at 
last, " this is a most incredible piece of imper- 
tinence! " 

And suddenly the boy started toward him, 
stretching out his arms. "Mr. Wygant!" he 
cried. "You are going to be angry with me! 
But I beg you not to harden your heart! I have 
come here for your own good! I came because I 
couldn't bear to know that such things are done 
by a member of St. Matthew's Church! " 

For a moment or two Mr. Wygant sat staring. 
" Let me ask you one thing," he said. " Does 
Dr. Vince know about this? " 

" I went to Dr. Vince about it first," repHed 
Samuel. " And he wouldn't do anything about 
it. He said that if I came to you, I must make 
it clear that he did not approve of it. I have 
come of my own free will, sir." 

There was another pause. " You are going to 
be angry with me! " cried Samuel, again. 

" No," said the other, " I will not be angry — 
because you are nothing but a child, and you 
don't know what you are doing." 
