"I do ask."
She smiled, faintly; then her young face grew serious, and a hint of
passion darkened her eyes as her arms tightened around his neck and her
lips met his.
"All I care for in the world, or out of it, is you, Louis. If I find
pleasure in anything it is because of you; if I take a little pride in
having people like me, it is only for your sake--for the sake of the
pride you may feel in having others find me agreeable and desirable. I
wish it were possible that your, own world could find me agreeable and
desirable--for your sake, my darling, more than for mine. But it never
will--never could. There is a wall around your world which I can never
scale. And it does not make me unhappy--I only wish you to know that I
want to be what you would have me--and if I can't be all that you might
wish, I love and adore you none the less--am none the less willing to
give you all there is to me--all there is to a girl named Valerie West
who finds this life a happy one because you have made it so for her."
She continued to see Hélène d'Enver, poured tea sometimes at the
Five-Minute-Club, listened to the consultations over the New Idea Home,
and met a great many people of all kinds, fashionable women with a
passion for the bizarre and unconventional, women of gentle breeding and
no social pretence, who worked to support themselves; idle women,
ambitious women, restless women; but the majority formed part of the
floating circles domiciled in apartments and at the great hotels--people
who wintered in New York and were a part of its social and civic life to
that extent, but whose duties and responsibilities for the metropolitan
welfare were self-imposed, and neither hereditary nor constant.
As all circles in New York have, at certain irregular periods,
accidental points of temporary contact, Valerie now and then met people
whom she was scarcely ever likely to see again. And it was at a New Idea
Home conference, scheduled for five o'clock in the red parlour of the
ladies' waiting room in the great Hotel Imperator, that Valerie,
arriving early as delegated substitute for Mrs. Hind-Willet, found
herself among a small group of beautifully gowned strangers--the sort of
women whom she had never before met in this way.
They all knew each other; others who arrived seemed to recognise with
more or less intimacy everybody in the room excepting herself.
She was sitting apart by the crimson-curtained windows, perfectly
self-possessed and rather interested in watching the arrivals of women
whose names, as she caught them, suggested social positions which were
vaguely familiar to her, when an exceedingly pretty girl detached
herself from the increasing group and came across to where Valerie was
sitting alone.
[Illustration: "'May I sit here with you until she arrives? I am
Stephanie Swift.'"]
"I was wondering whether you had met any of the new committee," she said
pleasantly.
"I had expected to meet the Countess d'Enver here," said Valerie,
smiling.
The girl's expression altered slightly, but she nodded amiably; "May I
sit here with you until she arrives? I am Stephanie Swift."
Valerie said: "It is very amiable of you. I am Valerie West."
Stephanie remained perfectly still for a moment; then, conscious that
she was staring, calmly averted her gaze while the slow fire died out in
her cheeks. And in a moment she had decided:
"I have heard so pleasantly about you through Mrs. Collis," she said
with perfect composure. "You remember her, I think."
Valerie, startled, lifted her brown eyes. Then very quietly:
"Mrs. Collis is very kind. I remember her distinctly."
"Mrs. Collis retains the most agreeable memories of meeting you.... I--"
she looked at Valerie, curiously--"I have heard from others how charming
and clever you are--from Mr. Ogilvy?--and Mr. Annan?"
"They are my friends," said Valerie briefly.
"And Mr. Querida, and Mr. Burleson, and--Mr. Neville."
"They are my friends," repeated Valerie.... After a second she added:
"They also employ me."
Stephanie looked away: "Your profession must be most interesting, Miss
West."
"Yes."
"But--exacting."
"Very."
Neither made any further effort. A moment later, however, Hélène d'Enver
came in. She knew some of the women very slightly, none intimately; and,
catching sight of Valerie, she came across the room with a quick smile
of recognition:
"I'm dreadfully late, dear--how do you do, Miss Swift"--to Stephanie,
who had risen. And to Valerie: "Mr. Ogilvy came; just as I had my furs
on--and you know how casually a man takes his leave when you're in a
tearing hurry!"
She laughed and took Valerie's gloved hands in her own; and Stephanie,
who had been looking at the latter, came to an abrupt conclusion that
amazed her; and she heard herself saying:
"It has been most interesting to meet you, Miss West. I have heard of
you so pleasantly that I had hoped to meet you some time. And I hope I
shall again."
Valerie thanked her with a self-possession which she did not entirely
feel, and turned away with Hélène d'Enver.
"That's the girl who is supposed to be engaged to Louis Neville,"
whispered the pretty countess.
Valerie halted, astounded.
"Didn't you know it?" asked the other, surprised.
For a moment Valerie remained speechless, then the wild absurdity of it
flashed over her and she laughed her relief.
"No, I didn't know it," she said.
"Hasn't anybody ever told you?"
"No," said Valerie, smiling.
"Well, perhaps it isn't so, then," said the countess naïvely. "I know
very few people of that set, but I've heard it talked about--outside."
"I don't believe it is so," said Valerie demurely. Her little heart was
beating confidently again and she seated herself beside Hélène d'Enver
in the prim circle of delegates intent upon their chairman, who was
