high, and in her eyes that dauntless courage that remains though lips
quiver and the hot tears sting the straining throat.
Cautiously, lest self-control slip the leash, she reseated herself and
lay back in the chair, closing her eyes.  Whatever battle raged within
her was fought out there in darkness and in silence.  She lay
motionless, never stirring save for the slow clenching and relaxing of
her fingers; and at last even that ceased.
Then the steel nerves and iron will that had mastered the storm and
soothed it, turned traitor, tricking her, furtively relaxing in the wake
of exhaustion.
In the dark the white cat stole in, hesitated, looked at her; then,
satisfied, stretched out on a Persian rug in front of her.
Long ago all sound had ceased in her ears; her heart beat quietly, her
breath came and went as evenly and softly as the respiration of a
sleeping child.
Through the tall windows the starlight touched her; at her feet the
white cat dozed, dreaming of nothing.
Confused, the brilliancy of electric light in her eyes, Diana found
herself sitting bolt upright, clutching the arms of her chair, and
staring at a dark figure which leaned over her—a man, laughing, still
amazed, still a little incredulous.
"Jim!" she faltered.
"Certainly.  What do you mean by going to sleep in my favorite chair?"
"Oh, dear!  Oh, Jim!" she wailed, dropping back helplessly into the
depths of the chair, "I must be perfectly crazy to do such a thing!
What time is it?  I came in here to—to get something"—she pressed her
hands to her temples—"to find—to look—  Oh, I don’t know what I’m
talking about!"
Her hands dropped; she gazed hopelessly up at him.
"Did you ever hear of such a perfect fool?" she said.  "What time is
it?—if you think I can bear the information."
"It’s only eight."
"Eight!  Jim, dear, will you go to that telephone and inform Mr.
Rivett that I have not been run over, murdered, or arrested?"
He went over and telephoned, adding: "Don’t wait for either of us.
Leave the tickets on Diana’s dresser.  We’ll be along pretty soon."
"What did you mean, Jim?" she asked, struggling with her veil.
"It’s so late," he said, "that you’d better wait for me to get into my
jeans, and then I’ll take you over and you can get into yours, and then
we’ll dine together, and go in for the last act if we have time."
"I’ve spoiled your evening," she said.
"Do you think so?"
"Oh, I know it.  Did Mr. Rivett think me an utter lunatic?"
"He didn’t say so over the wire."
"What did he say, Jim?"
"Nothing that meant anything."
"Tell me!"
"All he said was for me to take care of you. You perceive the irony,
don’t you?"
"Irony?" she repeated, looking at him.
"Why?  Aren’t you capable of doing it?"
"Do you need anybody to look after you?" he asked, smiling.
Slowly she lifted her eyes to his; his smile died out.  Never had he
looked into such a desolate face.
"What is it?" he said, astonished; "what on earth is the matter, Diana?
Has anything happened?"
"Nothing—unusual—I suppose."
"You are not ill, are you?"
The tears were slowly blinding her, and she turned her head, standing
so, fighting for self-mastery.
"Diana——"
She motioned him to silence.  He stood it as long as he could, then
stepped over beside her and touched her arm.
"Tell me, dear?" he said under his breath.
She strove to speak—could not, yet; motioned him aside, but he would
have none of such commands.
"You took my troubles on your slender shoulders," he said; "may I not
help you to carry one or two of yours?" ... And, as she made no answer:
"Dear, if you have not loved me, you have done for me, perhaps, even
more than love might have done."
She had dried her eyes; now she turned to him quietly.
"It was love....  But don’t mistake it, Jim....  It was a love that
asked for nothing that it had not—desired nothing that you had not
already given....  I thought it best to tell you—because—it is a world
of men; and women—sometimes—are held—lightly in it——"
Her lip quivered, but she, somehow, managed to meet his eyes and smile.
"All that happened long ago, Jim."
"Did love—die?"
"Yours," she said, smiling.  "I slew it very neatly for you."
"I mean yours, Diana?"
"Mine?  Why, I gave you something better than that," she began gaily.
Then her face altered; she fell silent, watching him—at first
incredulous, then a little dazed.
"Didn’t you know that I loved you?" he said.
"You mean—last summer....  Yes."
"Now!  Didn’t you know it?"
"I—no."
Far in the chaos of her brain she heard his words echoing, reëchoing in
confused reiteration.
He was saying, slowly: "There has never been a moment since that day
that my life has not been yours—that you have not possessed my heart, my
mind, filled them, owned them, overwhelmingly inspired me with love and
adoration for you alone.  What I am, and will be, I am, and shall be by
grace of you.
"But gratitude is not the love of man for woman; it is not even part of
it; it is a separate passion—a shrine by itself.  I worship you there in
my own fashion.
"But you, Diana—Japonette—"  He flung one arm around her body.  She
placed a firm hand on his wrist as though to break the clasp, looked at
him, and began to tremble.
