of him, waking echoes like the clang of a bell: they 
voiced all the terror and grief of defeated life "My 
son ! My son !" 

The man clung to him, weeping, and pouring out the 
flood of his shame. "I have fallen again I am lost 
I am lost !" 

The occupants of the place were watching the scene 
with dull curiosity; and the boy was trembling like a 
wild deer trapped. 

'Yes, father, yes ! Let us go home." 

"Home home, my son? Will you take me home? 
Oh, I couldn't bear to go !" 

"But you must come home." 

"Do you mean that you still love me, son?" 

"Yes, father, I still love you. I want to try to help 
you. Come with me." 



 

Then the boy would gaze about and ask, "Where is 
your hat?" 

"Hat, my son? I don't know. I have- lost it." The 
boy would see his torn and mud-stained clothing, and 
the poor old pitiful face, with the eyes blood-shot and 
swollen, and the skin, that had been rosy, and was now a 
ghastly, ashen gray. He would choke back his feelings, 
and grip his hands to keep himself together. 

"Come, father, take my hat, and let us go." 

"No, my son. I don't need any hat. Nothing can 
hurt me I am lost ! Lost !" 

So they would go out, arm in arm; and while they 
made their progress up the Highway, the man would 
pour out his remorse, and tell the story of his weeks of 
horror. 

Then, after a mile or so, he would halt. 

"My son !" 

"What is it, father?" 

"I must stop here, son." 

"Why, father?" 

"I must have something to drink." 

"No, father !" 

"But, my boy, I can't go on! I can't walk! You 
don't know what I'm suffering!" 

"No, father !" 

"I've got the money left I'm not asking you. I'll 
come right with you on my word of honor I will !" 

And so they would fight it out all the way back to 
the lodging-house where they lived, and where the mother 
sat and wept. And here they would put him to bed, and 
lock up his clothing to keep him in ; and here, with drugs 
and mineral-waters, and perhaps a doctor to help, they 
would struggle with him, and tend him until he was on 
his feet again. Then, with clothing newly-brushed and 



 

face newly-shaven he would go back to the world of men ; 
and the boy would go back to his dreams. 



2. SUCH was the life of Thyrsis, from earliest 
childhood to maturity. His father's was a heritage of 
gentle breeding and high traditions his forefathers 
were cavaliers, and had served the State. And now it 
had come to this to hall bedrooms in lodging-houses, 
and a life-and-death grapple with destruction! And 
when Thyrsis came to study the problem, he found that 
it was a struggle without hope; his father was a man 
in a trap. 

He was what people called a "drummer". He was de- 
pendent for his living upon the favor of certain mer- 
chants men for the most part of low ideals, who came 
