cloth from your mouth, will you promise not to cry out?" There was an
affirmative nod, and Mahomed untied the bandage. "Listen. I mean you no
harm. If you will send to the hotel for the Holy Yhiordes, you will be
liberated the moment it is put into my hands."
"Go to the deuce!" snapped George, still dizzy. The fighting mood
hadn't evaporated, by any means. "You know where it is better than I."
So this was Mahomed?
"Fool!" cried the other, shaking George roughly.
"Easy there! I had the rug, but it was stolen this afternoon." He was
very weak and tired. "And if I had it, I shouldn't give it to you," with
renewed truculence; "and you may put that in your water-pipe and smoke
it."
Mahomed, no longer pacific, struck George violently upon the mouth. He,
on his part, was unknightly enough to attempt to sink his teeth in the
brutal hand. Queer fancies flit through a man's head in times like this;
for the ineffectuality of his bite reminded him of Hallowe'ens and the
tubs with the bobbing apples. One thing was certain: he would kill this
pagan the very first opportunity. Rather a startling metamorphosis in
the character of a man whose life had been passed in the peacefulest
environments. And to kill him without the least compunction, too. To
strike a man who couldn't help himself!
"Hey there!" he yelled. "Help for a white man!" After such treatment he
considered it anything but dishonorable to break his parole. And where
was Ryanne? "Help!"
Mahomed swung his arm round George's neck, and the third cry began with
a gurgle and ended with a sigh. Deftly, the Arab rebandaged the
prisoner's mouth. So be it. He had had his chance for freedom; now he
should drink to the bottom of the bitter cup, along with the others. He
had had no real enmity against George; he was simply one of the pawns in
the game he was playing. But now he saw that there was danger in
liberating him. The other! Mahomed caressed his wiry beard. To subject
him to the utmost mental agony; to break him physically, too; to pay him
back pound for pence; to bruise, to hurt, to rack him, that was all
Mahomed desired.
George made no further effort to free himself, nor apparently to bestir
himself about the future. Somewhere in the fight, presumably as he fell
against the table, he had received a crushing blow in the small ribs;
and when Mahomed threw him back, he fainted for the second time in his
life. He reclined limply in the corner of the carriage, the bosom of his
shirt bulging open; for the thrifty Arabs had purloined the
pearl-studs, the gold collar-buttons, and the sapphire cuff-links. And
consciousness returned only when they lifted him out and dropped him
inconsiderately into the thick dust of the road. He stirred again at his
bonds, but presently lay still. The pain in his side hurt keenly, and he
wasn't sure that the rib was whole. What time had passed since his
entrance to the English-Bar was beyond his reckoning, but he knew that
it was yet in the dark of night, as no light whatever penetrated the
cloth over his eyes. That he was somewhere outside the city he was
assured by the tang of the winter wind. He heard low voices--Arabic; and
while he possessed a smattering of the tongue, his head ached too
sharply for him to sense a word. Later, a camel coughed. Camels? And
where were they taking him upon a camel? Bagdad? Impossible: there were
too many white men following the known camel-ways. He groaned a little,
but the sound did not reach the ears of his captors. To ride a camel
under ordinary conditions was a painful affair; but to straddle the
ungainly brute, dressed as he was, in a swallow-tail and paper-thin
pumps, did not promote any pleasurable thoughts. They would in all
truth kill him before they got through. Hang the rug! And doubly hang
the man who had sold it to him!
His whilom friend, conscience, came back and gibbered at him. Once she
had said: "Don't do it!" and now she was saying quite humanly: "I told
you so!" Hadn't she warned him? Hadn't she swung her red lantern under
his very nose? Well, she hoped he was satisfied. His reply to this brief
jeremiad was that if ever he got his hands upon the rug again, he would
hang on till the crack of doom, and conscience herself could go hang.
Mere perverseness, probably. And where was it, since he was now certain
that Mahomed had it not? It was Ryanne; Ryanne, smooth and plausible of
tongue. Not being satisfied with a thousand pounds, he had stolen it
again to mulct some other simple, trustful person. George, usually so
unsuspicious, was now quite willing to believe anything of anybody.
He felt himself being lifted to his feet. The rope round his ankles was
thrown off. His feet stung under the renewed flow of blood. He waited
for them to liberate his hands, but the galling rope was not disturbed.
It was evident that the natives still entertained some respect for his
fighting ability. Next, they boosted him, flung a leg here and a leg
there; then came a lurch forward, a lurch backward, the recurrence of
the pain in his side, and he knew that he was upon the back of a camel,
desert-bound. There were stirrups, and as life began to spread vigor
once more through his legs, he found the steel. The straps were too
short, and in time the upper turn of the steel chafed his insteps. He
eased himself by riding sidewise, the proper way to ride a camel, but
with constant straining to keep his balance without the use of his
hands. Fortunately, they were not traveling very fast, otherwise, what
with the stabbing pains in his side, produced by the unvarying dog-trot,
he must have fallen. He was miserable, yet defiant; tears of anger and
pain filled his eyes and burned down his cheeks in spite of the cloth.
And he, poor fool, had always been longing for an adventure, a taste of
life outside the peaceful harbor wherein he had sailed his cat-boat!
Well, here he was, in the deep-sea water; and he read himself so truly
that he knew the adventure he had longed for had been the cut-and-dried
affairs of story-tellers, in which only the villains were seriously
discommoded, and everything ended happily. A dashing hero he was, to be
sure! Why hadn't he changed his clothes? Was there ever such an ass?
Ryanne had told him that there was likely to be sport; and yet he had
left the hotel as one dressed for the opera. Ass! And to-morrow the
Ludwig would sail without him.
The wind blew cold against his chest, and the fact that he could neither
see, nor use his tongue to moisten his bruised lips, added to the
discomforts. Back and forth he swayed and rocked. The pain in his side
was gradually minimized by the torture bearing upon his ankles, his
