
"The Queen of Hearts."

"Dealer draws one also," said the young fellow.

Sir Charles laid down his hand with a smile:

"Did you fill?" he asked Quarren as everybody else remained out.

"I don't mind showing," said Quarren sorting out his cards, faces up.

"Which end?" inquired O'Hara.

"An interior." And he touched the Queen of Hearts, carelessly.

"Crazy playing and lunatic's luck," commented Lacy. "Dankmere, and you,
too, Sir Charles, you'd better cut and run for home as fast as your
little legs can toddle. Quarren is on the loose."

Sir Charles laughed, glanced at Quarren, then turned to Dankmere.

"It's none of my business," he said, "but if you really are in the
devilish financial straits you pretend to be, why don't you square up
things and go into trade?"

"Square things?" repeated the little Earl mournfully; "will somebody
tell me how? Haven't I been trying out everything? Didn't I back a
musical comedy of sorts? Didn't I even do a turn in it myself?"

"That's what probably smashed it," observed O'Hara.

"He did it very well," laughed Sir Charles.

"Dankmere ought to have filled his show full of flossy flappers,"
insisted Lacy. "Who wants to see an Earl dance and sing? Next time I'll
manage the company for you, Dankmere----"

"There'll be no next time," said Dankmere, scanning his cards. "I'm done
for," he added, dramatically, letting his own ante go.

"You've lost your nerve," said Quarren, smiling.

"And everything else, my boy!"

"What's the matter with the heiresses, anyway?" inquired O'Hara
sympathetically.

"The matter is that I don't want the sort that want me. Somebody's
ruined the business in the States. I suppose I might possibly induce a
Broadway show-girl----"

The little Earl got up and began to wander around, hands in his pockets,
repeating:

"I'd make a pretty good actor, in spite of what O'Hara said. It's the
only thing I like anyway. I can improvise songs, too. Listen to this
impromptu, you fellows":

And he bent over the piano, still standing, and beat out a jingling
accompaniment:

    "I sigh for the maiden I never have seen,
    I'll make her my countess whatever she's been--
    Typewriter, manicure, heiress or queen,
    Aged fifty or thirty or lovely eighteen,
    Redundant and squatty, or scraggy and lean,
    Generous spendthrift or miserly mean--
    I sigh for the maiden I never have seen
    Provided she's padded with wads of Long Green!"

Still singing the air he picked up a silk hat and walking-stick and
began to dance, rather lightly and gracefully, his sunken, heavy-lidded
eyes fixed nonchalantly on space--his nimble little feet making no sound
on the floor as he swung, swayed, and capered under the electric light
timing his agile steps to his own singing.

Loud applause greeted him; much hand-clapping and cries of "Good old
Dankmere! Three cheers for the British peerage!"

Sir Charles looked slightly bored, sitting back in his chair and waiting
for the game to recommence. Which it did with the return of the Earl who
had now relieved both his intellect and his legs of an accumulated and
Terpischorean incubus.

"If I was a bigger ass than I am," said the Earl, "I'd go into
vaudeville and let my creditors howl."

"Did they really send you over here?" asked O'Hara, knowing that his
lordship made no bones about it.

"They certainly did. And a fine mess I've made of it, haven't I? No
decent girl wants me--though why, I don't know, because I'm decent
enough as men go. But your newspapers make fun of me and my title--and I
might as well cut away to Dankmere Tarns and let 'em pick my carcass
clean."

"What's Dankmere Tarns?" asked O'Hara.

"Mine, except the mortgages on it."

