ever?"
"Oh, yes," nodded the girl carelessly.
"Jim likes him immensely."
"He is a very pleasant companion," said Cynthia.
When they were strolling toward the house, she added:
"He thinks you are very wonderful, Jacqueline. But then everybody does."
The girl blushed: "The only thing wonderful about me is my happiness,"
she said.
Cynthia looked up into her eyes.
"Are you?"
"Happy? Of course."
"Is that quite true, dear?"
"Yes," said Jacqueline under her breath.
"And--there is no flaw?"
"None--now."
Cynthia impulsively caught up one of her hands and kissed it.
In the library they found beside their deserted swains two visitors,
Daisy Hammerton and Captain Herrendene.
"Fine treatment!" protested Cairns, looking at Cynthia, as Jacqueline
came forward with charming friendliness and greeted her guests and made
Cynthia known to them. "Fine treatment!" he repeated scornfully,
"--leaving Jim and me to yawn at each other until Daisy and the Captain
yonder----"
"Jack," interrupted his pretty hostess, "if you push that button
somebody will bring tea."
"Twice means that Scotch is to be included," remarked Desboro. "You
didn't know that, did you, dear?"
"The only thing I know about your house, monsieur, is that your cats
and dogs must not pervade the red drawing-room," she said laughing.
"Look at Captain Herrendene's beautiful cutaway coat! It's all covered
with fur and puppy hair! And now he can't go into the drawing-room,
either!"
Cairns looked ruefully at a black and white cat which had jumped onto
his knees and was purring herself to sleep there.
"If enough of 'em climb on me I'll have a motor coat for next winter,"
he said with resignation.
Tea was served; the chatter and laughter became general. Daisy
Hammerton, always enamoured of literature, and secretly addicted to its
creation, spoke of Orrin Munger's new volume which Herrendene had been
reading to her that morning under the trees.
"Such a queer book," she said, turning to Jacqueline, "--and I'm not yet
quite certain whether it's silly or profound. Captain Herrendene makes
fun of it--but it seems as though there must be some meaning in it."
"There isn't," said Herrendene. "It consists of a wad of verse, blank,
inverted, and symbolic. Carbolic is what it requires."
"Isn't that the moon-youth who writes over the heads of the public and
far ahead of 'em into the next century?" inquired Cairns.
"When an author," said Herrendene, "thinks he is writing ahead of his
readers, the chances are that he hasn't yet caught up with them."
The only flaw in Daisy Hammerton's good sense was a mistaken respect for
printed pages. She said, reverently:
"When a poet like Orrin Munger refers to himself as a Cubist and a
Futurist, it must have some occult significance. Besides, he went
about a good deal last winter, and I met him."
"What did you think of him?" asked Desboro drily.
"I scarcely knew. He is odd. He kissed everybody's hand and spoke with
such obscurity about his work--referred to it in such veiled terms that,
somehow, it all seemed a wonderful mystery to me."
Desboro smiled: "The man who is preëminent in his profession," he said
quietly, "never makes a mystery of it. He may be too tired to talk about
it, too saturated with it, after the day's work, to discuss it; but
never fool enough to pretend that there is anything occult in it or in
the success he has made of it. Only incompetency is self-conscious and
secretive; only the ass strikes attitudes."
Jacqueline looked at him with pride unutterable. She thought as he did.
He smiled at her, encouraged, and went on:
"The complacent tickler of phrases, the pseudo-intellectual scrambler
after subtleties that do not exist, the smirking creators of the
tortuous, the writhing explorers of the obvious, who pretend to find
depths where there are shallows, the unusual where only the commonplace
and wholesome exist--these will always parody real effort, and ape real
talent in all creative professions, and do more damage than mere
ignorance or even mere viciousness could ever accomplish. And, to my
mind, that is all there is and all there ever will be to men like
Munger."
Daisy laughed and looked at Herrendene.
"Then I've wasted your morning!" she said, pretending contrition.
He looked her straight in the eye.
"I hadn't thought of it that way," he said pleasantly.
Cairns, tired of feigning an interest in matters literary, tinkled the
ice in his glass and looked appealingly at Cynthia. And his eyes said
very plainly: "Shall we go for a walk?"
But she only smiled, affecting not to understand; and the discussion of
things literary continued.
It was very pleasant there in the house; late sunshine slanted across
the hall; a springlike breeze fluttered the curtains, and the evening
song of the robins had begun, ringing cheerily among the Norway spruces
and over the fresh green lawns.
"It's a shame to sit indoors on a day like this," said Desboro lazily.
Everybody agreed, but nobody stirred, except Cairns, who fidgeted and
looked at Cynthia.
Perhaps that maiden's heart softened, for she rose presently, and
drifted off into the music room. Cairns followed. The others listened to
her piano playing, conversing, too, at intervals, until Daisy gave the
signal to go, and Herrendene rose.
So the adieux were said, and a wood ramble for the morrow suggested.
Then Daisy and her Captain went away across the fields on foot, and
Cynthia returned to the piano, Cairns following at heel, as usual.
Jacqueline and Desboro, lingering by the open door, saw the distant
hills turn to purest cobalt, and the girdling woodlands clothe
