of them are old. For the rest, I despise men."
"I suppose some day you will marry some poverty-stricken artist," said the
mother, filled with dark foreboding.
"You would not call Donald poverty-stricken."
"No. But you will never marry him."
"No. I never shall."
Celeste smoothed her hands, a little trick she had acquired from long
hours spent at the piano. "He will make some woman a good husband."
"That he will."
"And he is most desperately in love with you."
"That's nonsense!" scoffed Nora. "He thinks he is. He ought to fall in
love with you, Celeste. Every time you play the fourth ballade he looks
as if he was ready to throw himself at your feet."
"Pouf! For ten minutes?" Celeste laughed bravely. "He leaves me quickly
enough when you begin to sing."
"Glamour, glamour!"
"Well, I should not care for the article second-hand."
The arrival of Harrigan put an end to this dangerous trend of
conversation. He walked in tight proper pumps, and sat down. He was only
hungry now; the zest for dining was gone.
"Don't go sitting out in the night air, Nora," he warned.
"I sha'n't."
"And don't dance more than you ought to. Your mother would let you wear
the soles off your shoes if she thought you were attracting attention.
Don't do it."
"James, that is not true," the mother protested.
"Well, Molly, you do like to hear 'em talk. I wish they knew how to cook a
good club steak."
"I brought up a book from the village for you to-day," said Mrs. Harrigan,
sternly.
"I'll bet a dollar it's on how to keep the creases in a fellow's pants."
"Trousers."
"Pants," helping himself to the last of the romaine. "What time do you go
over?"
"At nine. We must be getting ready now," said Nora. "Don't wait up for
us."
"And only one cigar," added the mother.
"Say, Molly, you keep closing in on me. Tobacco won't hurt me any, and I
get a good deal of comfort out of it these days."
"Two," smiled Nora.
"But his heart!"
"And what in mercy's name is the matter with his heart? The doctor at
Marienbad said that father was the soundest man of his age he had ever
met." Nora looked quizzically at her father.
He grinned. Out of his own mouth he had been nicely trapped. That morning
he had complained of a little twinge in his heart, a childish subterfuge
to take Mrs. Harrigan's attention away from the eternal society page of
the Herald. It had succeeded. He had even been cuddled.
"James, you told me..."
"Oh, Molly, I only wanted to talk to you."
"To do so it isn't necessary to frighten me to death," reproachfully. "One
cigar, and no more."
"Molly, what ails you?" as they left the dining-room. "Nora's right. That
sawbones said I was made of iron. I'm only smoking native cigars, and it
takes a bunch of 'em to get the taste of tobacco. All right; in a few
months you'll have me with the stuffed canary under the glass top. What's
the name of that book?" diplomatically.
"Social Usages."
"Break away!"
Nora laughed. "But, dad, you really must read it carefully. It will tell
you how to talk to a duchess, if you chance to meet one when I am not
around. It has all the names of the forks and knives and spoons, and it
tells you never to use sugar on your lettuce." And then she threw her arm
around her mother's waist. "Honey, when you buy books for father, be sure
they are by Dumas or Haggard or Doyle. Otherwise he will never read a
line."
"And I try so hard!" Tears came into Mrs. Harrigan's eyes.
"There, there, Molly, old girl!" soothed the outlaw. "I'll read the book.
I know I'm a stupid old stumbling-block, but it's hard to teach an old dog
new tricks, that is, at the ring of the gong. Run along to your party. And
don't break any more hearts than you need, Nora."
Nora promised in good faith. But once in the ballroom, that little son of
Satan called malice-aforethought took possession of her; and there was
havoc. If a certain American countess had not patronized her; if certain
lorgnettes (implements of torture used by said son of Satan) had not been
leveled in her direction; if certain fans had not been suggestively spread
between pairs of feminine heads,--Nora would have been as harmless as a
playful kitten.
From door to door of the ballroom her mother fluttered like a hen with a
duckling. Even Celeste was disturbed, for she saw that Nora's conduct was
not due to any light-hearted fun. There was something bitter and ironic
cloaked by those smiles, that tinkle of laughter. In fact, Nora from
Tuscany flirted outrageously. The Barone sulked and tore at his mustache.
He committed any number of murders, by eye and by wish. When his time came
to dance with the mischief-maker, he whirled her around savagely, and
never said a word; and once done with, he sternly returned her to her
mother, which he deemed the wisest course to pursue.
"Nora, you are behaving abominably!" whispered her mother, pale with
indignation.
"Well, I am having a good time ... Your dance? Thank you."
And a tender young American led her through the mazes of the waltz, as
some poet who knew what he was about phrased it.
It is not an exaggeration to say that there was not a woman in the
ballroom to compare with her, and some of them were marvelously gowned and
complexioned, too. She overshadowed them not only by sheer beauty, but by
exuberance of spirit. And they followed her with hating eyes and whispered
scandalous things behind their fans and wondered what had possessed the
Marchesa to invite the bold thing: so does mediocrity pay homage to beauty
and genius. As for the men, though madness lay that way, eagerly as of old
they sought it.
