
“ Whatever will you do with so much money? 
asked Marigold. 

‘‘ Put it in the bank,” subjoined Prim. 

“ Get the new barrel of flour,” said Rilla. 

Oh, Linn, that’s wonderful ! ” said his mother. 
“ The Lord is sending us something all the time. 
You know I didn’t want to go to the funeral one 
bit, and my old bonnet was so out of date. And 
I didn’t think much of the old things, but see how 
useful they’ve been. And there was the five dol- 
lars, and Chan’s getting well, and my new coat 
and hat, and now this! Why, it is just like a 
fairy story I ” 

“ Well, mommy, don’t cry ! ” and Linn kissed 
her. “ We’ll just have a glorification. And if the 
fairies or the brownies want to do anything more 
for us just let them send it along. Oh, yes, it isn’t 
done coming. Chan, there is a beautiful clean box 
at the store for you, none of the old second-hand 
grocery boxes of starch or cereal or soap or X-ray 
stove polish. Came in the train this afternoon, but 
no one was coming up this way, and it was too big 
for me to shoulder. You’ll get it on Monday. It’s 
from some place in New York State.” 


 

“ A box for me ! ” ejaculated Chan, in surprise. 
''Not from the city, is it? For of course any- 
thing from Mr. Mann wouldn’t come that 
way.” 

" Took two expresses to bring it, at that. I’m 
’most sorry I spoke of it, for now we’ll be won- 
dering all the time.” 

" It’s very queer,” continued Chan reflectively. 
It was not from the hospital, and if Dr. Richards 
had remembered him out of all the little patients, 
many worse off than he, that would have gone 
to Mr. Mann. " Oh, to wait until Monday ! ” 

The table was cleared away and they all retired 
to the sitting-room part. Chan and Tip brought 
benches on each side of their mother and laid their 
heads in her lap. The twins went to bed. Amaryl- 
lis dropped down on the sofa, she was always tired 
out when Saturday night came. Prim was knitting 
a mitten. Marigold, deep in a book, thought they 
could all talk about Linn’s going to business, but 
his mother considered him too young to give up 
school. 

" I’ll take some books down and study a bit 
about the things I want. There’s a good deal I 
don’t care for and isn’t going to help me a bit. 
I can’t draw worth a cent, so why should I hammer 
away at that, and as for language, as they call it, 




I can’t make out beginning or end. I’ll learn more 
in the store.” 

I’ll surely have to stay home,” thought Chan. 
‘‘ There will be wood to split and the chickens to 
look after and snow to clean. Oh, no, I couldn’t be 
spared.” 


CHAPTER XIV 


chan's legacy 

Sunday was fine and not very cold. All the six 
children started for Sunday-school. The twins, 
as usual, sat in a corner and played. Mrs. Firth 
was reading through the Bible, but she found very 
little time even on Sunday, and she was wonder- 
ing somewhat; but she need not have done so, for 
she heard the trot of Bonnie and went to the door. 
There was Mr. Mann, fresh, rosy, and smiling. 

ril tie her here out of the wind and she’ll get 
the sunset. I’ll blanket her well, too. Pity you 
hadn’t a little barn.” 

“ We never had a horse, so the shed answers 
every purpose but that ” 

“ And I hope you are all well. The boy was 
glad enough to get back to you, I suppose. He’s 
