way things come round--he's fairly put me in the way of a fresh start."
Their eyes met in a silence which Undine was the first to break. "It's
been awfully nice of you to do what you've done--right along. And this
last thing has made a lot of difference to us."
"Well, I'm glad you feel that way. I never wanted to be anything but
'nice,' as you call it." Moffatt paused a moment and then added: "If
you're less scared of me than your father is I'd be glad to call round
and see you once in a while."
The quick blood rushed to her cheeks. There was nothing challenging,
demanding in his tone--she guessed at once that if he made the request
it was simply for the pleasure of being with her, and she liked the
magnanimity implied. Nevertheless she was not sorry to have to answer:
"Of course I'll always be glad to see you--only, as it happens, I'm just
sailing for Europe."
"For Europe?" The word brought Moffatt to a stand so abruptly that
little Paul lurched on his shoulder.
"For Europe?" he repeated. "Why, I thought you said the other evening
you expected to stay on in town till July. Didn't you think of going to
the Adirondacks?"
Flattered by his evident disappointment, she became high and careless
in her triumph. "Oh, yes,--but that's all changed. Ralph and the boy are
going, but I sail on Saturday to join some friends in Paris--and later I
may do some motoring in Switzerland an Italy."
She laughed a little in the mere enjoyment of putting her plans into
words and Moffatt laughed too, but with an edge of sarcasm.
"I see--I see: everything's changed, as you say, and your husband can
blow you off to the trip. Well, I hope you'll have a first-class time."
Their glances crossed again, and something in his cool scrutiny impelled
Undine to say, with a burst of candour: "If I do, you know, I shall owe
it all to you!"
"Well, I always told you I meant to act white by you," he answered.
They walked on in silence, and presently he began again in his usual
joking strain: "See what one of the Apex girls has been up to?"
Apex was too remote for her to understand the reference, and he went on:
"Why, Millard Binch's wife--Indiana Frusk that was. Didn't you see in
the papers that Indiana'd fixed it up with James J. Rolliver to marry
her? They say it was easy enough squaring Millard Binch--you'd know it
WOULD be--but it cost Roliver near a million to mislay Mrs. R. and the
children. Well, Indiana's pulled it off, anyhow; she always WAS a bright
girl. But she never came up to you."
"Oh--" she stammered with a laugh, astonished and agitated by his news.
Indiana Frusk and Rolliver! It showed how easily the thing could be
done. If only her father had listened to her! If a girl like Indiana
Frusk could gain her end so easily, what might not Undine have
accomplished? She knew Moffatt was right in saying that Indiana had
never come up to her...She wondered how the marriage would strike Van
Degen...
She signalled to a cab and they walked toward it without speaking.
Undine was recalling with intensity that one of Indiana's shoulders was
higher than the other, and that people in Apex had thought her lucky to
catch Millard Binch, the druggist's clerk, when Undine herself had cast
him off after a lingering engagement. And now Indiana Frusk was to be
Mrs. James J. Rolliver!
Undine got into the cab and bent forward to take little Paul.
Moffatt lowered his charge with exaggerated care, and a "Steady there,
steady," that made the child laugh; then, stooping over, he put a kiss
on Paul's lips before handing him over to his mother.
XIX
"The Parisian Diamond Company--Anglo-American branch."
Charles Bowen, seated, one rainy evening of the Paris season, in a
corner of the great Nouveau Luxe restaurant, was lazily trying to
resolve his impressions of the scene into the phrases of a letter to his
old friend Mrs. Henley Fairford.
The long habit of unwritten communion with this lady--in no way
conditioned by the short rare letters they actually exchanged--usually
caused his notations, in absence, to fall into such terms when the
subject was of a kind to strike an answering flash from her. And who
but Mrs. Fairford would see, from his own precise angle, the fantastic
improbability, the layers on layers of unsubstantialness, on which the
seemingly solid scene before him rested?
The dining-room of the Nouveau Luxe was at its fullest, and, having
contracted on the garden side through stress of weather, had even
overflowed to the farther end of the long hall beyond; so that Bowen,
from his corner, surveyed a seemingly endless perspective of plumed
and jewelled heads, of shoulders bare or black-coated, encircling the
close-packed tables. He had come half an hour before the time he had
named to his expected guest, so that he might have the undisturbed
amusement of watching the picture compose itself again before his eyes.
During some forty years' perpetual exercise of his perceptions he
had never come across anything that gave them the special titillation
produced by the sight of the dinner-hour at the Nouveau Luxe: the same
sense of putting his hand on human nature's passion for the factitious,
its incorrigible habit of imitating the imitation.
As he sat watching the familiar faces swept toward him on the rising
tide of arrival--for it was one of the joys of the scene that the type
was always the same even when the individual was not--he hailed with
renewed appreciation this costly expression of a social ideal. The
dining-room at the Nouveau Luxe represented, on such a spring evening,
what unbounded material power had devised for the delusion of its
leisure: a phantom "society," with all the rules, smirks, gestures of
its model, but evoked out of promiscuity and incoherence while the other
had been the product of continuity and choice. And the instinct which
had driven a new class of world-compellers to bind themselves to slavish
imitation of the superseded, and their prompt and reverent faith in
the reality of the sham they had created, seemed to Bowen the most
satisfying proof of human permanence.
With this thought in his mind he looked up to greet his guest. The Comte
Raymond de Chelles, straight, slim and gravely smiling, came toward him
with frequent pauses of salutation at the crowded tables; saying, as he
seated himself and turned his pleasant eyes on the scene: "Il n'y a pas
