look all tired out. Now, here’s a nice bit of 
chicken that I laid aside for you. I’m not 
goin’ to have you fed on leavings. And it 
wasn’t nice down there?” nodding her head. 

"Oh, Bridget, such a kitchen and such a table, 
and no white cloth on it! They, the servants 
didn’t seem to care, and they were nice and 
clean at the Home, and you’re — well,you have 
things as nice as in the dining room, and to 
have things shoveled out of the kettle on your 
plate or cold on a dish! Sometimes pud- 
dings were good, and the creams and frozen 
things were clean and nice. But I’m so glad 
to get back to you. And the lovely bath 
room! We didn’t have any in the cottage. 




Why it saves half the work taking care of 
babies.' 

'You bet it does, I couldn't and wouldn't 
live in such a muxy kitchen. If I couldn't 
have things to suit I'd take French leave, 
though I guess I'd call it Irish leave. And 
people, women, think it a fine thing to go off 
and live that way. But the boss got very 
tired of it." 

Marilla laughed faintly. She was almost 
too tired to eat, but the chicken was so tasty, 
and the fresh home-made bread delightful. 
And the cheery voice put heart in the girl. 
Then the dessert was delicious. 

“I promised to take Aunt Hetty a cup of 
milk. I'll see first if Mrs. Borden wants me. 
But I'll dry the dishes for you." 

No, dear, I did the most of them while you 
were up stairs." 

The babies had been put to bed. They did 
have an unlimited capacity for sleep, now that 
they were well. Jack was perched on his 
father's knee detailing some wonderful ad- 
ventures. No, they did not need her. 

'I'm going in next door awhile," said 
Bridget on her return. Mrs. Dawson's girl 



left in a huff, and she asked me if I knew any- 
one. And there was my friend, Maggie Brady, 
just out of a place and a nice tidy girl; a good 
cook, too. So they both suited. Maggie’s 
mother and mine lived in the same town. 
It’s nice to have a friend at hand. And when 
ye’s through with the old lady I’d run to bed. 
You look tired as a wagon wheel that’s run 
round and round.” 

Marilla laughed and took a bottle of milk 
with her. Aunt Hetty drank a good cupful, 
hot, and the remainder was set out on the 
window sill. Then she settled herself in bed 
with two pillows under her head; she could 
hear better she thought. 

"Now, you open that book at the mark and 
read to me. ’Twon’t be very interesting, for 
you can’t know what’s gone before. And no 
doubt I’ll fall asleep — I always snore a little 
at first, and when you hear that you may light 
the burner in the other room and turn it very 
low and put the window down from the top 
and skip off to yourself.” 

She was very tired but she read quite 
awhile before the gentle snoring began, and 
she was glad enough to go to bed. 




They had been home just a week when 
school opened. It was a comfort to get rid of 
Jack. They began to settle into quite regular 
living. 

'I 've just had a fright,' said Mrs. Borden, 
coming up to her sister’s room. man has 
been here inquiring about school children and 
I did stretch the truth a little. You see, now 
children have to go to school until they are 
fourteen. I simply can’t let Marilla go. I 
didn’t adopt her nor consider her in any sense 
