"We pass not outside our lines, of course."
"Oh, no!" he answered carelessly. Which left me still reluctant and
unconvinced. But he walked forward with Lana through the open forest,
and I followed beside Lois; and, without any signal from me my Indians
quietly glided out ahead, silently extending as flankers on either side.
"Do you notice what they are about?" said I sourly. "Even here within
whisper of the fort?"
"Are you not happy to see me, Euan?" she cooed close to my ear.
"Not here; inside that log curtain yonder."
"But there is a dragon yonder," she whispered, with mischief adorable
in her sparkling eyes; then slipped hastily beyond my reach, saying:
"Oh, Euan! Forget not our vows, but let our conduct remain seemly
still, else I return."
I had no choice, for we were now passing our inner pickets, where a
line of bush-huts, widely set, circled the main camp. There were some
few people wandering along this line--officers, servants, boatmen,
soldiers off duty, one or two women.
Just within the lines there was a group of people from which a fiddle
sounded; and I saw Boyd and Lana turn thither; and we followed them.
Coming up to see who was making such scare-crow music, Lana said in a
low voice to us:
"It's an old, old man--more than a hundred years old, he tells us--who
has lived on the Ouleout undisturbed among the Indians until yesterday,
when we burnt the village. And now he has come to us for food and
protection. Is it not pitiful?"
I had a hard dollar in my pouch, and went to him and offered it. Boyd
had Continental money, and gave him a handful.
He was not very feeble, this ancient creature, yet, except among
Indians who live sometimes for more than a hundred years, I think I
never before saw such an aged visage, all cracked into a thousand
wrinkles, and his little, bluish eyes peering out at us through a sort
of film.
To smile, he displayed his shrivelled gums, then picked up his fiddle
with an agility somewhat surprising, and drew the bow harshly, saying
in his cracked voice that he would, to oblige us, sing for us a ballad
made in 1690; and that he himself had ridden in the company of horse
therein described, being at that time thirteen years of age.
And Lord! But it was a doleful ballad, yet our soldiers listened,
fascinated, to his squeaking voice and fiddle; and I saw the tears
standing in Lois's eyes, and Lana's lips a-quiver. As for Boyd, he
yawned, and I most devoutly wished us all elsewhere, yet lost no word
of his distressing tale:
  "God prosper long our King and Queen,
    Our lives and safeties all;
  A sad misfortune once there did
    Schenectady befall.
  "From forth the woods of Canady
    The Frenchmen tooke their way,
  The people of Schenectady
    To captivate and slay.
  "They march for two and twenty daies,
    All thro' ye deepest snow;
  And on a dismal winter night
    They strucke ye cruel blow.
  "The lightsome sunne that rules the day
    Had gone down in the West;
  And eke the drowsie villagers
    Had sought and found their reste.
  "They thought they were in safetie all,
    Nor dreamt not of the foe;
  But att midnight they all swoke
    In wonderment and woe.
  "For they were in their pleasant beddes,
    And soundlie sleeping, when
  Each door was sudden open broke
    By six or seven menne!
  "The menne and women, younge and olde,
    And eke the girls and boys,
  All started up in great affright
    Att the alarming noise.
  "They then were murthered in their beddes
    Without shame or remorse;
  And soon the floors and streets were strew'd
    With many a bleeding corse.
  "The village soon began to blaze,
    Which shew'd the horrid sight;
  But, O, I scarce can beare to tell
    The mis'ries of that night.
  "They threw the infants in the fire,
    The menne they did not spare;
  But killed all which they could find,
    Tho' aged or tho' fair.
  .  .  .  .  .  .
  .  .  .  .  .  .
  "But some run off to Albany
    And told the doleful tale;
  Yett, tho' we gave our chearful aid,
    It did not much avail.
  "And we were horribly afraid,
    And shook with terror, when
  They gave account the Frenchmen were
    More than a thousand menne.
  "The news came on a Sabbath morn,
    Just att ye break o' day;
  And with my companie of horse
    I galloped away.
  "Our soldiers fell upon their reare,
    And killed twenty-five;
  Our young menne were so much enrag'd
    They took scarce one alive.
