helped lay tracks in Upper India; had a hand in some bridges; sold
patent-medicines; worked in a ruby mine; been a haberdasher in the
Whiteaway, Laidlaw shop in Bombay; cut wood in the teak forests; helped
exterminate the plague at Chitor and Udaipur; and never saved a penny.
I never had an adventure in all my life."

"Why, your wanderings were adventures," she insisted.  "Think of the
things you could tell!"

"And never will," a smile breaking over his face.

How like Arthur's that smile was! thought the girl.  "Romantic persons
never have any adventures.  It is to the prosaic these things fall.
Because of their nearness you lose their values."

"There is some difference between romance and adventure.  Romance is
what you look forward to; adventure is something you look back upon.
If many disagreeable occupations, hunger and an occasional fisticuff,
may be classed as adventure, then I have had my run of it.  But I
always supposed adventure was the finding of treasures, on land and on
sea; of filibustering; of fighting with sabers and pistols, and all
that rigmarole.  I can't quite lift my imagination up to the height of
calling my six months' shovel-engineering on The Galle an adventure.
It was brutal hard work; and many times I wanted to jump over.  The
Lascars often got out of trouble that way."

"It all depends upon how we look at things."  She touched the
parrot-cage with her foot, and Rajah hissed.  "What would you say if I
told you that I was unconventional enough to ask the purser to
introduce you?"

The amazement in his face was answer enough.

"Don't you suppose," she went on, "the picture you presented, standing
on that ledge, the red light of the torch on your face, the bird-cage
in your hand,--don't you suppose you roused my sense the romantic to
the highest pitch?  Parrot & Co.!" with a wave of her hands.

She was laughing at him.  It could not be otherwise.  It made him at
once sad and angry.  "Romance!  I hate the word.  Once I was as full of
romance as a water-chestnut is of starch.  I again affirm that young
women should not travel alone.  They think every bit of tinsel is gold,
every bit of colored glass, ruby.  Go home; don't bother about romance
outside of books.  There it is safe.  The English are right.  They may
be snobs when they travel abroad, but they travel securely.  Romance,
adventure!  Bah!  So much twaddle has been written about the East that
cads and scoundrels are mistaken for Galahads and D'Artagnans.  Few men
remain in this country who can with honor leave it.  Who knows what
manner of man I am?"

He picked up the parrot-cage and strode away.

"Jah, jah!" began the bird.

Not all the diplomacy which worldly-wise men have at their disposal
could have drawn this girl's interest more surely than the abrupt rude
manner of his departure.




IV

TWO DAYS OF PARADISE

At first Elsa did not know whether she was annoyed or amused.  The
man's action was absurd, or would have been in any other man.  There
was something so singularly boyish in his haste that she realized she
could not deal with him in an ordinary fashion.  She ought to be angry;
indeed, she wanted to be very angry with him; but her lips curled, and
laughter hung upon them, undecided.  His advice to her to go home was
downright impudence; and yet, the sight of the parrot-cage, dangling at
his side, made it impossible for her to take lasting offense.  Once
upon a time there had been a little boy who played in her garden.  When
he was cross he would take his playthings and go home.  The boy might
easily have been this man Warrington, grown up.

Of course he would come and apologize to her for his rudeness.  That
was one of the necessary laws of convention; and ten years spent in
jungles and deserts and upon southern seas could not possibly have
robbed him of the memory of these simple ethics that he had observed in
other and better times.  Perhaps he had resented her curiosity; perhaps
her questions had been pressed too hard; and perhaps he had suddenly
doubted her genuine interest.  At any rate, it was a novel experience.
And that bewildering likeness!

She returned to her chair and opened the book again.  And as she read
her wonder grew.  How trivial it was, after all.  The men and women she
had calmly and even gratefully accepted as types were nothing more than
marionettes, which the author behind the booth manipulated not badly
but perfunctorily.  The diction was exquisite; there was style; but now
as she read there was lacking the one thing that stood for life, blood.
It did not pulsate in the veins of these people.  Until now she had not
recognized this fact, and she was half-way through the book.  She even
took the trouble to reread the chapter she had thought peculiarly
effective.  There was the same lack of feeling.  What had happened to
her since yesterday?  To what cause might be assigned this opposite
angle of vision, so clearly defined?

The book fell upon her knees, and dreamily she watched the perspective
