"Do you think I'd fire this charge," he demanded warmly, "if there was
the slightest possible danger to you? Take down your hands and
listen."

Her closed eyelids quivered: "We'll both--there won't be anything left
of either of us if anything does happen," she said tremulously. "I am
not afraid.... Only tell me when to close my ears."

"Do you really think there is danger?"

"I don't know."

He looked at her standing there, pale, plucky, eyes tightly shut, her
pretty fingers resting lightly on her ears.

He said: "Would you think me crazy if I tell you something?"

"W-What?"

"Would you think me insane, Jean?"

"I don't think I would."

"You wouldn't consider me utterly mad?"

"N-no."

"No--what?"

"No, I wouldn't consider you mad----"

"No--what?" he persisted.

And after a moment her pallor was tinted with a delicate rose.

"No--what?" he insisted again.

"No--Jim," she answered under breath.

"Then--close your ears, Jean, dear."

She closed them; his arm encircled her waist. She bore it nobly.

"You may fire when you are ready--James!" she said faintly.

A thunder-clap answered her; the Causeway seemed to spring up under
their feet; the world reeled.

Presently she heard his voice sounding calmly: "Are you all right,
Jean?"

"Yes.... I was thinking of you--as long as I could think at all. I was
ready to go--anywhere--with you."

"I have been ready for that," he said unsteadily, "from the moment I
heard your voice. But it is--is wonderful of you!"

She opened her blue eyes, dreamily looking up into his. Then the colour
surged into her face.

"If--if you had spoken to me across the aisle," she said, "it would have
begun even sooner, I think.... Because I can't imagine myself
not--caring for you."

He took her into his arms:

"Don't worry," he said, "I'll make a place for you in the world, even if
that Maltese cross means nothing."

She looked into his eyes fearlessly: "I know you will," she said.

Then he kissed her and she put both arms around his neck and offered her
fresh, young lips again.




XXXI


Toward sunset he came to, partially, passed his hand across his
enchanted eyes, and rose from the hammock beside her.

"Dearest," he said, "that swamp ought to be partly drained by this time.
Suppose we walk over before dinner and take a look?"

Still confused by the sweetness of her dream, she sat up, and he drew
her to her feet, where she stood twisting up her beautiful hair, half
smiling, shy, adorable.

Then together they walked slowly out along the Causeway, so absorbed in
each other that already they had forgotten the explosion, and even the
Maltese cross itself.

It was only when they were halted by the great gap in the Causeway that
Jean Sandys glanced to the left, over a vast bed of shining mud, where
before blue wavelets had lapped the base of the Causeway.

Then her vaguely smiling eyes flew wide open; she caught her lover's arm
in an excited clasp.
