“If I have an excuse,” Leilah continued, “it is that Gulian drove me
nearly demented.”
Now, Violet felt, they were getting at it. Mentally she girded herself
and with an engaging appearance of sympathy, exclaimed:
“A man never does that unless he loves a woman to distraction.”
The sympathy, however feigned, did its work. After all, Leilah
reflected, why should she not tell what she was about to do? On the
impulse she turned.
“Violet, I offered Barouffski half my fortune to free me. His reply was
a blow. Apart from that I have no grounds for a divorce, none at least
which I can show. Previously there was something between Gulian and me.
It has gone. He cares for me still and I care for him. Shortly he is to
be here. For a long time I hesitated. But after last night--after the
nights and days that preceded it!--it does not seem to me that I need
hesitate any more.”
Pausing, she drew breath. “Violet, when he comes I am to go with him.
Is there a reason why I should not?”
Violet, who had long suspected as much, now at last had nailed it.
Cautiously she buckled to.
“No. Not one. On the contrary. There is every reason why you should.
Every reason. Particularly as to greet you there will be the disdainful
eyes, the lifted skirts, the averted heads, every one of the very
slight and very fiendish tortures that are visited on the woman who has
gone and done it.”
For a second she too paused, then with a war whoop added:
“But you can’t do anything of the kind. I won’t let you.”
“Would you turn from me also?”
“I! Merciful fathers! But I am not the world. No matter what is done in
private, the world does not care. The world is very well bred. It never
sees anything that was not intended for it. But on the open scandal of
scandalous conduct instantly it turns its well bred back. It will turn
it on you.”
Indifferently Leilah assented. She had examined this phase of the
matter. It had not seemed very important.
“No doubt,” she replied. “Yet then destiny seldom closes a door without
opening another. I told you of my dream. It was a dream of peace.
Here there can be none. It may be my karma perhaps. But this,” she
continued, motioning at the brilliant room, “this is my prison.”
She hesitated and a bit lamely concluded:
“It is horrible to be in such a place.”
“And worse to be nowhere at all,” Violet shot at her. In firing she had
sat up. Now, lolling back on the cushions, she enigmatically resumed:
“You may be right though. I daresay it is dreadful to be in prison. I
daresay it is even worse than you think.”
Enigmatic still, she smiled. With another shot, with two at most,
Leilah, she told herself, would be routed.
“It is as though I were in a vortex,” the latter was saying. “It is
as though I were being torn from places where I do not wish to be to
others I may not like. But can one argue with a vortex? It is idle even
to struggle. Whether you will or you won’t, you have to let yourself
go.”
Lightly, in her most worldly manner, Violet laughed.
“Never in the world! A woman should never let herself go--except in an
aeroplane. At a pinch a four-in-hand might do, but----”
At the moment the lady was thoroughly en veine and, sure of victory,
might have bantered on, but this, Aurelia, ushered by Parker, prevented.
Sharply Violet threw at her: “Where have you been?”
Ignoring Violet, Aurelia nodded at Leilah.
“I was here the other day, did they tell you?”
She turned and with blithe impertinence looked her sister up and down.
“Don’t be so ordinary as to ask a girl where she has been. If you are
inquisitive, ask where she is going, and, if you ask me, I’ll tell you.
I am going to become----”
“Yes, yes.” Violet impatiently interrupted. “We’ve heard all that.
You’re going to become a star. I know what kind too--a fallen star.”
A fresher smile bubbled about Aurelia’s delicious mouth.
“It pleases your ladyship to jest. I am to become the Princess Farnese!”
“Merciful heavens!” Violet exclaimed, turning as she spoke to Leilah.
“She’ll go in to dinner before me!”
But Leilah who, after a word of greeting to Aurelia, had, from the
table before her, taken and reopened the Paramitas, perhaps did not
hear.
Violet turned again to her sister. “When did he propose?”
With an air of amused contempt, again Aurelia looked her up and down.
“How antiquated you are! Don’t you know that all that sort of thing has
gone out?”
“Do you mean that he didn’t propose?”
“Of course not. I proposed to him.”
“What?”
“He was so coy about it, too,” Aurelia, quite as though she were
eating sweetmeats, resumed. “He asked me all about my finances, what
settlements I would make and whether I would object if he kept a
separate establishment. You can’t really fancy how coy he was. He quite
blushed and stammered, the poor thing.”
“I should think he might.”
“Yes, indeed. He asked me if I had spoken to his mamma, and I told
him that while it was perhaps incorrect of me to speak to him in the
first instance, yet that there could be no real love without a mutual
misunderstanding, and now that we had one I would make a formal demand
of the old lady to-day.”
Aurelia, executing a little pas, added: “I have just seen her.”
“Well?”
“She said: ‘And so you want my little boy for your husband.’ Partly
that I told her, but partly also I want you for mother-in-law. You
should have seen her lick her chops over that. Then she asked me about
my affections. I told her they were just like the fashions. They came
and went.”
“She must have been delighted.”
“She hugged me. Then, of course, I asked about him. She told me that he
has just been named as co-respondent in the Kincardine divorce suit,
