Morris. Saturday all the girls chipped in and hired a big sleigh and a
laughing crew of ten had what they thought the merriest time of their
lives.

Just as they were getting out Louie Howe caught her skirt on something
and there was a tear.

"Oh, girls! My best Sunday skirt! And we--some of us are invited to Mrs.
Westlake's to dinner, and she goes away on Monday. Oh, I wonder if Mrs.
Boyd can mend it fit to be seen! I can't take it to the tailors now."

"She darns beautifully."

"Well, that's what she's here for; mender in general."

"But it seems dreadful to ask her to do it in the evening, and the
daylight is almost gone."

Louie hated to give up whatever her mind was set upon. She hurriedly
changed her frock and put on a light evening dress. With her skirt in
hand she crossed the hall. The door stood open. The house was always
warm. Mrs. Boyd sat in an easy chair. Helen on one of the fancy stools
under the gas burner with a book in her hand. Louie swept past her.

"Oh, Mrs. Boyd. I want you to mend my skirt. I've given it a dreadful
tear. I can't take it to the tailors and four of us are invited out to
dinner after church, so I must have it."

Mrs. Boyd rose and examined it. "It is a bad tear, but if you must
have it--"

"Yes, I surely must. O, I think you can do it. There's the whole
evening."

Then she turned away. Lilian's temper flared up at white heat.

"Oh, mother, why didn't you tell her you could not? She has other
dresses to wear. Let me take it back to her--"

"No, dear, I'll do it. Light the lamp for me. Why you know that's part
of my business," and Mrs. Boyd gave a tremulous little laugh.

"I think Mrs. Barrington would not have such a thing done on Saturday
night," was her resolute reply, but she lighted the lamp and brought her
mother's work table with its handy cabinet.

"You see a good part of it will go under this plait. Oh Lilian, do not
mind such little things."

The insolent manner had hurt the girl keenly. Louie was on the promotion
list and would graduate in June. She held her head very high. Her father
had promised her a handsome watch with a beautiful neck chain that could
be detached when required and she felt sure of it now.

Mrs. Boyd basted the tear on a piece of cloth and began her work.

"Lilian," she said, "will you go and see if there is an iron on the
range, and ask cook if I can come down by and by."

Then she began her work. The underneath part at first, but somehow her
hand trembled. Lilian watched with an indignant, aching heart. After
awhile her mother leaned back with a sigh.

"I believe I shall have to get glasses," she said wearily. "I cannot do
fine work in the evening. I am afraid I shall spoil it, and I've always
been such a neat worker."

"Let me finish," said the girl. Every inch of her protested, but it was
for her mother's sake. Lately she had done several things to ease her.

"Yes, let me," she went on, taking the work from her mother's hands.
"You know I can darn nicely."

Lilian took infinite pains. It was slow work, but at last it was
accomplished.

"You are such a dear, good daughter, and it is said booky people are
never anything with a needle, but you could get your living with it."

Then she took her work down stairs and came back flushed and smiling.

"Look, Lilian," in a tone of pride, "it hardly shows! Cook said she
never saw more beautiful darning and that in a big city I could make a
fortune at lace mending. Will you take it to Miss Howe?"

"No, mother," and Lilian spoke in a dignified but not unkindly manner.
"We are not here to run and wait on the girl. Let Miss Howe come for
it."

Mrs. Boyd felt disappointed. She wanted some one beside cook to praise
her handiwork.

Louie fidgeted about her skirt. She and Zay were in Phil's room talking
over the coming Christmas and Mrs. Crawford's return.

"I wonder why that girl doesn't bring my skirt. Maybe they've spoiled
it."

"Have you sent a maid?"

