willing for you to have any friends, or any sort 
of good time without him." 

"Perhaps," I replied, "he's afraid you mightn't 
be true to him." I meant this for a jest, of the sort 
that Claire and her friends would appreciate. 
Little did I foresee where it was to lead us. I 
remember how once on the farm my husband 
had a lot of dynamite, blasting out stumps; and 
my emotions when I discovered the children 
innocently playing with a stick of it. Something 
like these children I seem now to myself, looking 
back on this visit to Claire, and our talk. 

"You know," she observed, without smiling, 
" Larry's got a bee in his hat. I've seen men who 
were jealous, and kept watch over women, but 
never one who was obsessed like him." 

"What's it about?" 

"He's been reading a book about diseases, and 
he tells me tales about what may happen to me, 
and what may happen to him. When you've 
listened a while, you can see microbes crawling 
all over the walls of the room." 

"Well " I began. 

"I was sick of his lecturing, so I said, 'Larry, 
you'll have to do like me — have everything there 
is, and get over it, and then you won't need to 
worry.' " 



 

I sat still, staring at her; I think I must have 
stopped breathing. At the end of an eternity, 
I said, "You've not really had any of these diseases, 
Claire?" 

"Who hasn't?" she countered. 

Again there was a pause. "You know," I 
observed, "some of them are dangerous." 

"Oh, of com-se," she answered, Ughtly. 
"There's one that makes your nose fall in and 
yoiir hair fall out — but you haven't seen anything 
like that happening to me!" 

"But there's another," I hinted — "one that's 
much more common." And when she did not 
take the hint, I continued, "Also, it's more serious 
then people generally reahze." 

She shrugged her shoulders. "What of it? 
Men bring you these things, and it's part of the 
game. So what's the use of bothering?" 



 



 

Theke was a long silence; I had to have time 
to decide what course to take. There was so 
much that I wanted to get from her — and so much 
that I wanted to hide from her! 

"I don't want to bore you, Claire," I began, 
finally. ' ' But really this is a matter of importance 
to you. You see, I've been reading up on the 
subject, as well as Larry. The doctors have been 
making new discoveries. They used to think 
this was just a local infection, like a cold, but now 
they find it's a blood disease, and has the gravest 
consequences. For one thing, it causes most of 
the surgical operations that have to be performed 
on women." 

"Maybe so," she said, still indifferent. "I've 
had two operations. But it's ancient history 
now." 

"You mayn't have reached the end yet," I 
persisted. "People suppose they are cured of 
gonorrhea, when really it's only suppressed, and 
is Uable to break out again at any time." 

"Yes, I know. That's some of the information 
Larry had been making love to me with." 

"It may get into the joints and cause rheuma- 
tism; it may cause neuralgia; it's been known to 
