
"Yes, it came a week ago, suddenly, at 
five o clock in the afternoon." 

"And the clocks?" 

"For a week they have been all wrong." 

"What hour do they strike?" he asked curiously. 

"Five." 

"No matter where the hands point?" 

"No matter. I have tried to regulate them. 








I have done everything I could do. But they 
continue to strike five every hour of the day 
and night. ... I have" a pale smile touched 
her lips "I have been a little wakeful perhaps a trifle uneasy on my country's account. 
You understand. . . ." Pride and courage had 
permitted her no more than uneasiness, it 
seemed. Or if fear had threatened her there 
in her lonely bedroom through the still watches 
of the night, she desired him to understand 
that her solicitude was for France, not for 
any daughter of the race whose name she 
bore. 

The simplicity and directness of her amazing narrative had held his respect and attention; there could be no doubt that she implicitly believed what she told him. 

But that was one thing; and the wild extravagance of the story was another. There 
must be, of course, an explanation for these 
phenomena other than a supernatural one. 
Such things do not happen except in medieval 
romance and tales of sorcery and doom. And 
of all regions on earth Brittany swarms with 
such tales and superstitions. He knew it. 









And this young girl was Bretonne after all, 
however educated, however accomplished, how 
ever honest and modern and sincere. And 
he began to comprehend that the germs of 
superstition and credulity were in the blood 
of every Breton ever born. 

But he merely said with pleasant deference : 
"I can very easily understand your uneasiness and perplexity, Madame. It is a time 
of mental stress, of great nervous tension in 
France of heart-racking suspense- 
She lifted her dark eyes. "You do not be 
lieve me, Monsieur." 

"I believe what you have told me. But I 
believe, also, that there is a natural explanation concerning these matters." 

"I tell myself so, too. . . . But I brood over 
them in vain; I can find no explanation." 

"Of course there must be one," he insisted 
carelessly. "Is there anything in the world 
more likely to go queer than a clock?" 

"There are five clocks in the house. Why 
should they all go wrong at the same time and 
in the same manner?" 

He smiled. "I don't know," he said frankly. 









"I'll investigate, if you will permit me." 
"Of course. . . . And, about L Ombre. What 
could explain its presence in the moat? It is 
a creature of icy waters; it is extremely limited in its range. My father has often said 
that, except L Ombre which has appeared at 
long intervals in our moat, L Ombre never has 
been seen in Brittany." 

