
The trooper sounded the concrete with the heavy butt of his chisel.

"All right!"  The non-com touched his schapska in salute to the Sisters
of Charity.  "Take your children away before noon.  We need this place.
German troops will occupy it in half an hour."  Then he swung around and
shot an ugly glance at Warner.

"If you are as neutral as you pretend to be, see that you are equally
reticent toward the French when we let you go....  You may be American,
but you behave like an Englishman.  You annoy me; do you understand?"

Warner shrugged his shoulders.

"What do you mean by that gesture of disrespect?" demanded the Uhlan
sharply.

"I mean that you ask improper questions and you know it!"

"I ask what I choose to ask!" he said angrily.  "I think I shall take
you with us, anyway, and not leave you here!"

"You’ll only get into trouble with my Government and your own——"

"Take that man!" shouted the Uhlan in a passion. "I’ll find out what he
is——"

A shot rang loudly from the road outside; the Uhlans turned in
astonishment, then ran for the door where their comrades flung them
their bridles.  They seized their lances and scrambled into their
saddles, still disconcerted and apparently incredulous of any serious
danger to themselves.  Then another Uhlan who had cantered off down the
road suddenly fired from his saddle; the others, bending forward,
scanned the road intently for a moment; then the whole peloton swung
their horses, spurred over the ditch and up the grassy bank, trotted in
single file through the hedge gate, and, putting their horses to a
gallop, headed straight across the meadow toward the river and the
quarry bridge beyond.

They had reached the river willows and were already galloping through
them when, far away toward the south end of the meadow, a horseman
trotted into view, drew bridle, fired at the Uhlans, then launched his
horse into a dead run toward them, disengaging his lance from which a
pennon flew gayly.

After him, bending forward in their saddles, came two score riders in
pale blue jackets, lances advanced, urging their wiry horses, spurring
hard to intercept the Uhlans.

But the Germans, who had gained the bridge, were now galloping over it,
and they disappeared amid a distant racket of shots.

To the spectators at the school door, it all looked like a pretty,
harmless, unreal scene artistically composed and arranged for
moving-picture purposes; the wide, flat green meadow was now swarming
with the pale blue and white laced dolmans of French hussar lancers.
Everywhere they were galloping, trotting, maneuvering; a section of a
light battery appeared, drew rapidly nearer, went plunging across the
meadow hub-deep in wild flowers, swung the guns and dropped them at the
bridge, making the demi-tour at a gallop.

Back came the caissons, still at a gallop; the dark, distant figures of
the cannoniers moved rapidly for a moment around each gun; a tiny figure
held up one arm, dropped it; crack! echoed the report of the
field-piece; up went the arm, down it jerked; crack! went the other.

From a front room overhead Warner and Sister Eila were leaning out and
watching the lively spectacle along the river.

"It looks to me," he said, "as though the Germans were in the cement
works....  By George!  They are!  The yards and quarries are alive with
their cavalry!  Look!  Did you see that shell hit the stone crusher?
There goes another.  The big chimney on the Esser Works is
falling—look!—down it comes! Our gunners have knocked it into dust!"

Another section of artillery came plunging into view across the meadows,
the drivers spurring and lashing, the powerful horses bounding forward,
and the guns jumping and bouncing over the uneven ground.

It was like a picture book—exactly what the layman expects of a battle—a
wide, unobstructed view over a flat green meadow, artillery at a gallop
with officers spurring ahead; brilliantly uniformed cavalry arriving in
ever-increasing squadrons, some dismounting and deploying, others drawn
up here and there under serried thickets of lances.  But there was no
smoke, only a dusky, translucent haze clinging for a moment to the gun
muzzles; no enemy in sight save for a scrambling dot here and there
among the quarry hills where, from the cement works, a cloud of dust
rose and widened, veiling the trees and hillsides.

For a while the lively rattle of the fusillade continued, but in a few
minutes a six-gun battery arrived and went into ear-splitting action,
almost instantly extinguishing the German fire from the quarry.  A few
more ragged volleys came, then only dropping shots from their carbines
as the hussars rode forward and broke into a gallop across the quarry
bridge.

More cavalry was arriving all the while, dragoons and
chasseurs-à-cheval, all riding leisurely toward the quarry.  More
artillery was coming, too, clanking and bumping up the road, a great
jolting column of field batteries, not in a hurry, paying little
