and his destination was Cape Town, twenty-two days' voyage by the
calendar.

Vroon carried his information to the organization that same night.
They would start the expedition at once, and till this was
accomplished, Hargreave's daughter was to be immune from attacks.
Besides, it would give Hargreave (wherever he was) and the others the
idea that the Black Hundred had concluded to give up the chase.

Above, with his ear to a small hole, skilfully bored through the
ceiling without permitting the plaster to fall, knelt a man with a
bandaged arm.  He could never see any faces; no one ever took off a
mask in this sinister chamber.  But there were voices, and he was going
to forget some of them.  After the meeting came to an end, he waited an
hour, and then stole down into the street by the aid of the
fire-escape.  Later, he entered a telephone booth and called up Jones.

Then, one leathern and steel box, dotted with bits of ivory and
mother-of-pearl, became two; and the second one was soaked in mud and
salt water for two weeks till you could not have told it from the
original.  And that is why Jones was able, some weeks later, to hide
once more the original box.  As for the substitute, just as Braine was
about to use a mallet and chisel upon it, the lights went out.  There
was a wild scramble, a chair or two was overturned.

"The door, the door!" shouted Braine, furious.

It slammed the moment the words left his lips.  And as suddenly as they
had gone out the lights sprang up.  The box was gone.  There were
evidently traitors among the Black Hundred.




CHAPTER XIII

The Black Hundred, not as individuals but as an organization, began to
worry.  Powerful, and often reckless and daring because it was
powerful, it began to look about for some basic cause for all these
failures against Hargreave's daughter and Hargreave's ghost.  They had
tried to put the inquisitive reporter out of the way; they had laid
every trap they could think of to catch the mysterious visitor at the
Hargreave home; they had thrown out a hundred lures to bring Hargreave
out of his lair, and failed; and they had lost a dozen valuable men and
several thousand dollars.  This must end somewhere, and quickly.

The one ray of hope for the conspirators lay in the fact that Florence
had never seen her father and knew not in the least what he looked
like.  They determined to try again in this direction.

"Give it all up," said the countess to Braine.  "I tell you, whatever
is back of all this is stronger than we are.  He knows the
organization, and for all we know he may be a ghost."

"I never go back," smiled Braine.  "There's something more than the
million.  There's the sport of the thing.  We've been bested in a dozen
bouts, and nearly always by a fluke.  They have the breaks, as they say
out at the Polo Grounds."

"But the time and expense when we might be getting results elsewhere!
I tell you, Leo, I'm afraid.  It's like always hearing some one behind
you and never finding anybody when you turn.  I have told you my
doubts.  I have also asked you to trap that butler, but you've always
laughed."

"You are seeing ghosts, Olga.  A new man from holy Russia," shrugging,
"is coming to-night.  Evidently the head over there thinks our
contributions of late have not been up to the mark, and they are going
to stir us up.  I am willing to wager my soul, however, that that box
is simply a hoax to befuddle us.  Either that or it holds the key.  But
the rest of them insist that the box must be recovered.  When I leave
this room to-night I am going over to Riverdale and stalk all by
myself.  I'm going to get a glimpse of that mysterious stranger.  He
carries a scar of mine somewhere, for I hit him that night."

The door opened and the executive chamber became silent.

"Count Paroff," boomed the voice of Vroon.  "He will present his
credentials."

This formality was executed as prescribed by the rules; and Count
Paroff was given his chair.  He spoke for a while, rather pompously.

"The head organization is not satisfied with its offspring in this
Hargreave affair," he said in conclusion.  "You are slow."

"Then perhaps you have come with some suggestions for the betterment of
our business?" asked Braine ironically.

"Sir, this is not the hour for flippancy," said the agent coldly.

Braine made a sign with his hand, a sign not observed by every one.
Instantly Paroff bent lowly.  He recognized that the speaker was the
actual, not the nominal, head of the American branch.

"What are your suggestions?" inquired the nominal head from his chair,
anxious to avoid a clash between the newcomer and the truculent master
of them all.

"I have been informed that Hargreave's daughter has never seen her
