And all those artificial interests and occupations! How bored she really
must have been, playing with subjects that either should have interested
her profoundly or not at all. And for what purpose? Merely to keep a
step ahead of other women of greater wealth or possible ambitions. Her
astonishment at not finding herself all-sufficient, as well as her new
sense of gratitude, bred humility which in turn shed a warm rain upon a
frozen and discouraged sense of humour. While giving her friends all
credit for their noble loyalty, she was quite aware that they were
enjoying themselves solemnly and that no small proportion of their
loyalty was inspired by gratitude. She recalled their composite
expression in the hour of her arrest. They had fancied themselves deeply
agitated, but as a matter of fact they were dilated with pride.

Why had she cared so much to lead these women in all things, to be Mrs.
Balfame of Elsinore? To return to such an existence was unthinkable.

In spite of the fact that her own tragedy dwarfed somewhat her interest
in the great war, she saw life in something like its true proportions;
she knew that if acquitted she would be capable for the first time of a
broad impersonal outlook and of really developing her intellect. With
more than a remnant of the cold-blooded and inexorable will which had
condemned David Balfame to death by the medium of Dr. Anna's secret
poison, she seriously considered taking advantage of young Rush's
infatuation, changing her notorious name for his and receiving the
protection that her awakened femininity craved. At other times she was
equally convinced that she would marry no man again. She could live in
Europe on her small income, travel, improve her mind. Europe would be
vastly interesting after the war, if one avoided beggars and impromptu
graveyards.

But although she was deeply interested in herself, and gratified that
she possessed real courage, and that it had come through the fire
tempered and hardened, there were moments, particularly in the night,
and if the profound stillness were rent with the shrieks of drunken
maniacs, when she was terribly frightened; and in spite of the American
tradition which has set at liberty so many guilty women, she would stare
at the awful vision of the electric chair and herself strapped in it.




CHAPTER XXV


Rush wheeled and looked sharply behind him. For several weeks he had
experienced the recurrent sensation of being followed, but until
to-night he had been too absorbed to give a vague suspicion definite
form. He stood still, and was immediately aware that somebody else had
halted, after withdrawing into the shade of one of the trees that lined
Atlantic Avenue. He approached this figure swiftly, but almost at his
first step it detached itself and strolled forward. Rush saw that it was
a woman, and then recognised Miss Sarah Austin of the New York Evening
News. He recalled that she had approached him several times with the
request for an interview with Mrs. Balfame; and that she had taxed his
politeness by trying to draw him into a discussion of the case.

"Oh, good evening," he said grimly. "I turned back because it occurred
to me that I was being followed."

"I was following you," Miss Austin retorted coolly. "I saw you turn into
the Avenue two blocks up, and tried to overtake you--I don't like to be
out so late alone, especially in this haunted village. The knowledge
that everybody in it is thinking of that murder nearly all the time has
a curious psychological effect. Won't you walk as far as Alys Crumley's
with me?"

"Certainly!" Rush, wondering if all women were liars, fell into step.

"I've been given a roving commission in the Balfame case," continued
Miss Austin in her impersonal businesslike manner, which, combined with
her youth and good looks, had surprised guarded facts from men as wary
as Rush. "Not to hunt for additional evidence, of course, but stuff for
good stories. I've had a number of dandy interviews with prominent
Elsinore women, as you may have seen if you condescend to glance at the
Woman's Page. Isn't it wonderful how they stand by her?"

"Why not? They believe her to be innocent, as of course she is."

"How automatically you said that! I wonder if you really believe
it--unless, of course, you know who did do it. But in that case you
would produce the real culprit. What a tangle it is! A lawyer has to
believe in his client's innocence, I suppose, unless he's quite an
uncommon jury actor. I don't know what to believe, myself. But of one
thing I am convinced: Alys Crumley knows something--something positive."

Rush, who had paid little attention to her chatter, which he rightly
assumed to be a mere verbal process of "leading up," turned to her
sharply.

"What do you mean by that?"

"That she knows something. She's over on the News now, understudying
the fashion editor before taking charge, and we lunch together nearly
every day. She's so changed from what she was a year ago, when she was
the life of the crowd--so naïve in her eagerness to become a real
metropolitan, and yet so quick and keen she had us all on our mettle.
Great girl, Alys! At first, when I met her here again, I attributed the
change to the same old reason--a man. I still believe she has had some
heart-racking experience, but there's something else--I didn't notice it
so much that first day--but since--well, she's carrying a mental burden
