But Jeff went on with his ruminating.

"Alston," said he, "did it ever occur to you that, with the secrets of
nature laid open before us as they are now--even though the page isn't
even half turned--does it occur to you we needn't be at the mercy of
sex? Any of us, I mean, men and women both. Have we got to get drunk
when it assaults us? Have we got to be the cave man and carry off the
woman? And lie to ourselves throughout? Have we got to say, 'I covet
this woman because she is all beauty'? Can't we keep the lookout up in
the cockloft and let him judge, and if he says, 'That isn't beauty, old
man'--believe him?"

"But sometimes," said Alston, "it is beauty."

He knew what road Jeff was on. Jeff was speaking out his plain thought
and at the same time assuring them both that they needn't, either of
them, be submerged by Esther, because real beauty wasn't in her. If they
ate the fruit of her witchery it would be to their own damnation, and
they would deserve what they got.

"Yes," said Jeff, "sometimes it is real beauty. But even then the thing
that grows out of sex madness is better than the madness itself.
Sometimes I think the only time some fellows feel alive is when they're
in love. That's what's given us such an idea of it. But when I think of
a man and woman planking along together through the dust and mud--good
comrades, you know--that's the best of it."

"Of course," said Alston stiffly, "that's the point. That's what it
leads to."

"Ah, but with some of them, you'd never get there; they're not made for
wives--or sisters--or mothers. And no man, if he saw what he was going
into, would dance their dance. He wouldn't choose it, that is, when he
thinks back to it."

Alston took out his match-box, and felt his fingers quiver on it. He
was enraged with himself for minding. This was the warning then. He was
told, almost in exact words, not to covet his neighbour's wife,
cautioned like a boy not to snatch at forbidden fruit, and even,
unthinkably, that the fruit was, besides not being his, rotten. And at
his heart he knew the warning was fair and true. Esther had dealt a blow
to his fastidious idealities. Her deceit had slain something. She had
not so much betrayed it to him by facts, for facts he could, if passion
were strong enough, put aside. But his inner heart searching for her
heart, like a hand seeking a beloved hand, had found an emptiness. He
was so bruised now that he wanted to hit out and hurt Jeff, perhaps, at
least force him to naked warfare.

"You want me to believe," he said, "that--Esther--" he stumbled over the
word, but at such a pass he would not speak of her more
decorously--"years ago took Madame Beattie's necklace."

Jeff was watching the boys across the flats, critically and with a real
interest.

"She did," he said.

Alston bolstered himself with a fictitious anger.

"And you can tell me of it," he blustered.

"You asked me."

"You believe she did?"

"It's true," said Jeff, with the utmost quietness. "I never have said it
before. Not to my father even. But he knows. He did naturally, in the
flurry of that time."

"Yet you tell me because I ask you."

Alston seemed to be bitterly defending Esther.

"Not precisely," said Jeff. "Because you're bewitched by her. You must
get over that."

The distance wavered before Choate's eyes, He hated Jeffrey childishly
because he could be so calm.

"You needn't worry," he said. "She is as completely separated from me as
if--as if you had never been away from her."

"That's it," said Jeff. "You can't marry her unless she's divorced from
me. She's welcome to that--the divorce, I mean. But you can't go
drivelling on having frenzies over her. Good God, Choate, don't you see
what you're doing? You're wasting yourself. Shake it off. You don't want
Esther. She's shocked you out of your boots already. And she doesn't
know there's anything to be shocked at. You're Addington to the bone,
and Esther's a primitive squaw. You've nothing whatever to do with one
another, you two. It's absurd."

Choate sat looking at the landscape which no longer wavered. The boys
ran fairly straight now. Suddenly he began to laugh. He laughed
gaspingly, hysterically, and Jeff regarded him from time to time
tolerantly and smoked.

"I know what you're thinking," he said, when Alston stopped, with a last
splutter, and wiped his eyes. "You're thinking, between us we've broken
all the codes. I have vilified my wife. I've warned you against her and
you haven't resented it. It shows the value of extreme common-sense in
