went to his home to see what the matter was. His mother said:
“His father is out of all patience with these goings-on, and will not
have any more of it. Half the time when Nick is needed he is not to be
found; then it turns out that he has been gadding around with you two.
His father gave him a flogging last night. It always grieved me before,
and many’s the time I have begged him off and saved him, but this time
he appealed to me in vain, for I was out of patience myself.”
“I wish you had saved him just this one time,” I said, my voice
trembling a little; “it would ease a pain in your heart to remember it
some day.”
She was ironing at the time, and her back was partly toward me. She
turned about with a startled or wondering look in her face and said,
“What do you mean by that?”
I was not prepared, and didn’t know anything to say; so it was awkward,
for she kept looking at me; but Seppi was alert and spoke up:
“Why, of course it would be pleasant to remember, for the very reason
we were out so late was that Nikolaus got to telling how good you are
to him, and how he never got whipped when you were by to save him; and
he was so full of it, and we were so full of the interest of it, that
none of us noticed how late it was getting.”
“Did he say that? Did he?” and she put her apron to her eyes.
“You can ask Theodor--he will tell you the same.”
“It is a dear, good lad, my Nick,” she said. “I am sorry I let him get
whipped; I will never do it again. To think--all the time I was sitting
here last night, fretting and angry at him, he was loving me and
praising me! Dear, dear, if we could only know! Then we shouldn’t ever
go wrong; but we are only poor, dumb beasts groping around and making
mistakes. I sha’n’t ever think of last night without a pang.”
She was like all the rest; it seemed as if nobody could open a mouth,
in these wretched days, without saying something that made us shiver.
They were “groping around,” and did not know what true, sorrowfully
true things they were saying by accident.
Seppi asked if Nikolaus might go out with us.
“I am sorry,” she answered, “but he can’t. To punish him further, his
father doesn’t allow him to go out of the house to-day.”
We had a great hope! I saw it in Seppi’s eyes. We thought, “If he
cannot leave the house, he cannot be drowned.” Seppi asked, to make
sure:
“Must he stay in all day, or only the morning?”
“All day. It’s such a pity, too; it’s a beautiful day, and he is so
unused to being shut up. But he is busy planning his party, and maybe
that is company for him. I do hope he isn’t too lonesome.”
Seppi saw that in her eye which emboldened him to ask if we might go up
and help him pass his time.
“And welcome!” she said, right heartily. “Now I call that real
friendship, when you might be abroad in the fields and the woods,
having a happy time. You are good boys, I’ll allow that, though you
don’t always find satisfactory ways of improving it. Take these
cakes--for yourselves--and give him this one, from his mother.”
The first thing we noticed when we entered Nikolaus’s room was the
time--a quarter to 10. Could that be correct? Only such a few minutes
to live! I felt a contraction at my heart. Nikolaus jumped up and gave
us a glad welcome. He was in good spirits over his plannings for his
party and had not been lonesome.
“Sit down,” he said, “and look at what I’ve been doing. And I’ve
finished a kite that you will say is a beauty. It’s drying, in the
kitchen; I’ll fetch it.”
He had been spending his penny savings in fanciful trifles of various
kinds, to go as prizes in the games, and they were marshaled with fine
and showy effect upon the table. He said:
“Examine them at your leisure while I get mother to touch up the kite
with her iron if it isn’t dry enough yet.”
Then he tripped out and went clattering down-stairs, whistling.
We did not look at the things; we couldn’t take any interest in
anything but the clock. We sat staring at it in silence, listening
to the ticking, and every time the minute-hand jumped we nodded
recognition--one minute fewer to cover in the race for life or for
death. Finally Seppi drew a deep breath and said:
“Two minutes to ten. Seven minutes more and he will pass the
death-point. Theodor, he is going to be saved! He’s going to--”
“Hush! I’m on needles. Watch the clock and keep still.”
Five minutes more. We were panting with the strain and the excitement.
Another three minutes, and there was a footstep on the stair.
“Saved!” And we jumped up and faced the door.
The old mother entered, bringing the kite. “Isn’t it a beauty?” she
said. “And, dear me, how he has slaved over it--ever since daylight,
I think, and only finished it awhile before you came.” She stood it
against the wall, and stepped back to take a view of it. “He drew the
pictures his own self, and I think they are very good. The church
isn’t so very good, I’ll have to admit, but look at the bridge--any one
can recognize the bridge in a minute. He asked me to bring it up....
Dear me! it’s seven minutes past ten, and I--”
“But where is he?”
“He? Oh, he’ll be here soon; he’s gone out a minute.”
“Gone out?”
“Yes. Just as he came down-stairs little Lisa’s mother came in and said
the child had wandered off somewhere, and as she was a little uneasy I
told Nikolaus to never mind about his father’s orders--go and look her
up.... Why, how white you two do look! I do believe you are sick. Sit
down; I’ll fetch something. That cake has disagreed with you. It is a
little heavy, but I thought--”
She disappeared without finishing her sentence, and we hurried at once
to the back window and looked toward the river. There was a great crowd
at the other end of the bridge, and people were flying toward that
point from every direction.
“Oh, it is all over--poor Nikolaus! Why, oh, why did she let him get
out of the house!”
“Come away,” said Seppi, half sobbing, “come quick--we can’t bear to
meet her; in five minutes she will know.”
But we were not to escape. She came upon us at the foot of the stairs,
