
“It’s over the Mountain; and a cloud over the Mountain always means
trouble.”

“Oh, I don’t believe half the bad things you all say of the Mountain!
But anyhow, we’ll get down to the brown house before the rain comes.”

He was not far wrong, for only a few isolated drops had fallen when they
turned into the road under the shaggy flank of Porcupine, and came
upon the brown house. It stood alone beside a swamp bordered with alder
thickets and tall bulrushes. Not another dwelling was in sight, and it
was hard to guess what motive could have actuated the early settler who
had made his home in so unfriendly a spot.

Charity had picked up enough of her companion’s erudition to understand
what had attracted him to the house. She noticed the fan-shaped tracery
of the broken light above the door, the flutings of the paintless
pilasters at the corners, and the round window set in the gable; and she
knew that, for reasons that still escaped her, these were things to
be admired and recorded. Still, they had seen other houses far more
“typical” (the word was Harney’s); and as he threw the reins on the
horse’s neck he said with a slight shiver of repugnance: “We won’t stay
long.”

Against the restless alders turning their white lining to the storm the
house looked singularly desolate. The paint was almost gone from the
clap-boards, the window-panes were broken and patched with rags, and the
garden was a poisonous tangle of nettles, burdocks and tall swamp-weeds
over which big blue-bottles hummed.

At the sound of wheels a child with a tow-head and pale eyes like Liff
Hyatt’s peered over the fence and then slipped away behind an out-house.
Harney jumped down and helped Charity out; and as he did so the rain
broke on them. It came slant-wise, on a furious gale, laying shrubs and
young trees flat, tearing off their leaves like an autumn storm, turning
the road into a river, and making hissing pools of every hollow. Thunder
rolled incessantly through the roar of the rain, and a strange glitter
of light ran along the ground under the increasing blackness.

“Lucky we’re here after all,” Harney laughed. He fastened the horse
under a half-roofless shed, and wrapping Charity in his coat ran with
her to the house. The boy had not reappeared, and as there was no
response to their knocks Harney turned the door-handle and they went in.

There were three people in the kitchen to which the door admitted
them. An old woman with a handkerchief over her head was sitting by the
window. She held a sickly-looking kitten on her knees, and whenever
it jumped down and tried to limp away she stooped and lifted it back
without any change of her aged, unnoticing face. Another woman, the
unkempt creature that Charity had once noticed in driving by, stood
leaning against the window-frame and stared at them; and near the stove
an unshaved man in a tattered shirt sat on a barrel asleep.

The place was bare and miserable and the air heavy with the smell of
dirt and stale tobacco. Charity’s heart sank. Old derided tales of
the Mountain people came back to her, and the woman’s stare was so
disconcerting, and the face of the sleeping man so sodden and bestial,
that her disgust was tinged with a vague dread. She was not afraid for
herself; she knew the Hyatts would not be likely to trouble her; but she
was not sure how they would treat a “city fellow.”

Lucius Harney would certainly have laughed at her fears. He glanced
about the room, uttered a general “How are you?” to which no one
responded, and then asked the younger woman if they might take shelter
till the storm was over.

She turned her eyes away from him and looked at Charity.

“You’re the girl from Royall’s, ain’t you?”

The colour rose in Charity’s face. “I’m Charity Royall,” she said, as
if asserting her right to the name in the very place where it might have
been most open to question.

The woman did not seem to notice. “You kin stay,” she merely said;
then she turned away and stooped over a dish in which she was stirring
something.

Harney and Charity sat down on a bench made of a board resting on two
starch boxes. They faced a door hanging on a broken hinge, and through
the crack they saw the eyes of the tow-headed boy and of a pale little
girl with a scar across her cheek. Charity smiled, and signed to the
children to come in; but as soon as they saw they were discovered they
slipped away on bare feet. It occurred to her that they were afraid of
rousing the sleeping man; and probably the woman shared their fear, for
she moved about as noiselessly and avoided going near the stove.

The rain continued to beat against the house, and in one or two places
it sent a stream through the patched panes and ran into pools on the
floor. Every now and then the kitten mewed and struggled down, and the
old woman stooped and caught it, holding it tight in her bony hands; and
once or twice the man on the barrel half woke, changed his position
and dozed again, his head falling forward on his hairy breast. As the
minutes passed, and the rain still streamed against the windows, a
loathing of the place and the people came over Charity. The sight of
the weak-minded old woman, of the cowed children, and the ragged man
sleeping off his liquor, made the setting of her own life seem a vision
of peace and plenty. She thought of the kitchen at Mr. Royall’s, with
its scrubbed floor and dresser full of china, and the peculiar smell of
yeast and coffee and soft-soap that she had always hated, but that now
