his beguiling arm, took off her apron, laid it an the table 
and walked away, ignoring him. He followed her, and 
when she had seated herself by the window looking out into 
the old-fashioned garden, just come awake after the snow, 
placed himself obstinately in front of her. 
" Don't you think it's a mean trick? " he inquired. 
Mary did not answer. She drew her workbasket 
toward her, and began assiduously to put it in an order 
it did not need. This was to escape his persistent look. 
But while she evaded the look, she was proud of it, the 
directness of it, the indignant protest. ''The young 
eagles " came into her mind, from her Bible. She thought 
both her boys were eagle-like in their fitness for the 
upper air, their strength and potential fierceness. Some- 
times she had to escape them when they wanted to 
know too circumstantially about him: for they both 
called their father "him." She could not prevent it, 
though they had taken no stand over it and sometimes 
tried to please her with the more dutiful word. 
''It's a ihean shame," said Ben again. "That's all 
she's got, she and Ellie." 
The lot belonged to this place years ago," said his 
mother, ranging herself with her husband against her own 
conviction. " It's natural for your father to want it 
back." 
" I don't call it natural," said Ben. He was frowning. 
His chestnut brows lost their wistful look and became 
grave. " I call it mean. No matter how they came by 
it, it's theirs." 
" Your fathered buy it," said Mary. " He'd pay them 
a good price." 
"Well," said Ben, "they wouldn't have a roof over 
their heads." 
It was an old-fashioned way to put it, and Mary asked 
involuntarily : 
"Where'd you get that? Who'd you hear say they 
wouldn't have a roof over their heads? " 
" She said it herself, — Mrs. Brock." 
" You haven't been thorning her about it? " 
" No, 'course not. But last night she said it to Ellen, 
just as I was going in. Ellie was crying, and her mother 
said, * Anyway we've got a roof over our heads.' " 
"Why!" said Mary. She flushed slightly with the 
interest of it. "D'you go over there last night? " 
" Yes," said Ben. He was looking absently out of the 
window now, at the waving green. 
"Before I went?" 
« No, after." 
" I don't know as I should have let you, if I'd known 
it," said Mary gravely, " the day of the funeral so. I 
shouldn't have gone myself, if your father hadn't insisted 
on it." 
" Oh, I went because it was the day of the funeral," said 
Ben, with a cheerful belief in himself. " I knew they'd 
be feeling bad, and I thought that was the time to go." 
 
" Well ! " said his mother. She put the spools back in 
her basket hastily. It seemed to her his mind had taken 
a safe sidetrack and the emergency was over. But Ben 
had returned to it by another route. 
« We've got acres of land," said he, " acres and acres." 
" Ben," said his mother, the more emphatically because 
she was speaking against her own convictions, " when you 
are older, you will understand how anybody might want 
to have a big place just as it was when the township was 
first settled, same as your father does." 
" I shouldn't," said Ben, in unexpected aptness, " if I 
had to get it away from the fatherless and the widow." 
He was not given to pious expression, and his mother 
was the less prepared. 
"Now," she said blankly, "where'd you get that?" 
"The minister said it at the funeral," returned Ben. 
" That ain't anything to say. It's only another way of 
putting it. That's what you can't get used to, mum. 
You know Ellie's father's dead, and you know Ardelia 
Brock's a widow. It's my saying it the way the minister 
did that knocks you. But what I want to know is, are 
you truly going to mind him and go over there and beg 
Mrs. Brock's land away from her? ", 
"Yes," said Mary, returning to the dignity that was 
often her marital defense. " I've told you once. But I'll 
tell you again, so you can put it out of your mind." She 
stopped short, her head up, listening, raising her hand 
also to enjoin his silence. Ben listened an instant, and 
turned to leave the room. 
« Yes, that's Hugh," he called back to her, "up attic." 
" Oh," said his mother, rising from her chair, alert and 
anxious, " he's practicing. You tell him — '' 
Still she listened, her head bent and her face all a 
frowning intentness. It only relaxed when the violin 
 
broke off half-way in its climbing scale. Then, in a mo- 
ment more, she heard the two boys clattering down the 
stairs, and began putting the room in order. She moved 
a chair an inch or two, straightened a rug, and was spe- 
ciously busy when her sons came in. Even to Hugh she 
had never owned that it was less than politic for him to 
play when his father was in hearing. She only invented 
little pretexts for calling him away from his loved task, 
and while he was at it watched and listened as a mother 
