charming things. If he only hadn't once more, 
all the same, to wince the while with awareness 
of that overdone grimace of his own! he had 
effectively enough shaken it off some time previous, 
but his relative's pale rigour, while his action 
lasted, threatened to set it up afresh ! Nothing, 
however, could have exceeded the respectful form 
of the freedom he now used. He had kissed her 
on either cheek, under encouragement offered, 
on first seeing her, and he at present repeated 
the homage in conditions that might well have 
suggested to him that ever so much time, days 
or weeks instead of mere mixed moments, had 
elapsed between the two transactions. 

"I desire so to conform to your every wish 
and to renew every assurance. I get every now 
and then the impression that I'm not quite so 
much with you, or you not quite so much with 
me, as you would like me to be, and as I cer 
tainly should like to and then I wonder what's 
really the matter. Nothing surely is the matter, 
with our perfect understanding unless it be 
that I worry you somehow just from ignorance. 
Yes, I'm clever" Ralph kept it up "but I'm 
not so sure I'm wise; at the same time that I 
am sure I shall be able to learn not to trouble 
you if you'll only name to me always at the mo 
ment just how I'm doing it." 





  

Marked withal was her oddity of not really 
meeting his face; he was close to her, he had 
folded his hands as in supplication the most sug 
gestive, but she looked straight down at his feet. 
"I wouldn't for the world, sir, take you up on 
anything. I like too much to listen to you, and 
you've only too many grand fancies. The great 
thing is that you like us for if you like us you 
won't hurt us." She had a pause, but while he 
still waited she did at last look up at him. 
"There," she exhaled; "there !" and she showed 
him, clearly wishing to do it, that she could smile 
a bit convulsively, and with the most excruciating 
dimness, as well as he; holding up her head, 
drawing in her lips, meeting his eyes and after 
an instant letting him see, as he thought, some 
thing in them like the strange long look, the ques 
tioning fear, that he had just been dealing with 
in her son. He hadn't hitherto caught in her 
face any such hint of resemblance, but here she 
was fairly overcoming something, even some 
thing akin to what he knew, or what he at least 
hoped, that he had just made Perry overcome. 
There was the pity, his having to think of being 
sorry; she talked of his "hurting," or rather of 
his not hurting them, and he'd be hanged if he'd 
hurt them in whatever disconcertment he'd 
himself suffer in any way first; which he was on 
the point of making, gaily and familiarly, his 
answer, when it struck him that this would be 





  

openly to take account of danger, the idea he 
sought most to repudiate. So he uttered his 
cheer, which indeed truly, from the tone of it, 
might have been his compassion, in another form. 

"Keep tight hold of me, don't let go of me 
for the tenth of a second as you seem to do 
when you won't look at me. I'd rather you all 
stared me out of countenance at once than kept 
from me, either one of you, the light of your own. 
It mayn't strike you that I want more encourage 
ment than I've already had, but I feel I can do 
with every scrap you'll give me, and that if you'll 
remember as much as that we shall still have a 
merry life." 

"'Still, still'?" Molly caught this up; she 
had risen again to her highest pitch. "What on 
earth, pray, has happened that we shouldn't ? 
and what can, you wretch, unless it be that we 
all die for love of you at once ? That's the only 
thing that may be the matter with us isn't it, 
mamma?" the girl appealed; "that you're kill 
ing us, I mean, with the wonder of you, and that 
our mother is apparently the first to succumb. 
Don't change, nevertheless; don't waver by a 
hair's breadth from what you are at this mo 
