"It was entirely Oswald’s doing.  I never dreamed of mentioning it to
him.  I was absolutely square to him and to you, Steve.  I went there
with no idea that he knew I was in love with you—or that you cared for
me....  He met me with simple cordiality.  We looked at his beautiful
model for the fountain.  I don’t think I betrayed in voice or look or
manner that anything was wrong with me....  Then, with a very winning
simplicity, he spoke of you, of himself.... There seemed to be nothing
for me to say; he knew that I was in love with you, and that you had
come to care for me....  And I heard a man speak to another man as only
a gentleman could speak—a real man, rare and thoroughbred....  It cost
him something to say to me what he said.  His nerve was heart-breaking
to me when he found the courage to tell me what his father had done.

"He told me with a smile that his pride was dead—that he had cut its
throat.  But it was still alive, Steve—a living, quivering thing.  And I
saw him slay it before my eyes—kill it there between his, with his
steady, pleasant smile....  Well, he meant me to understand him and what
he had done....  And I understand....  And I understand your loyalty,
now.  And the dreadful fear which kept you silent....  But there is no
need to be afraid any more."

"Did he say so?"

"Yes.  He told me to tell you.  He said you’d believe him because he had
never lied to you."

"I do believe him," she said.  "I have never known him to lie to
anybody."

The light over the porch at Runner’s Rest glimmered through the trees.
In a few moments they were at the door.

"I’ll stable the horse," he said briefly.

She was in the library when he returned from the barn.

"The dawn is just breaking," she said.  "It is wonderful out of doors.
Do you hear the birds?"

"Do you want to go to bed, Steve?"

"No.  Do you?"

"Wait for me, then."

She waited while he went to his room.  The windows were open and the
fresh, clean air of dawn carried the perfume of wet roses into the
house.

The wooded eastern hills were very dark against the dawn; silvery mist
marked the river’s rushing course; thickets rang with bird songs.

She walked to the porch.  Under its silver-sheeted dew the lawn looked
like a lake.

Very far away across the valley a train was rushing northward.  She
could hear the faint vibration, the distant whistle.  Then, from close
by, the clear, sweet call of a meadow-lark mocked the unseen
locomotive’s warning in exquisite parody.

Cleland came down presently, freshened, dressed in flannels.

"Steve," he said, "you’ve only a nightgown on under that cloak!"

"It’s all right.  I’m going to get soaked anyway, if we walk on the
lawn."

She laughed, drew off her slippers, flung them into the room behind her,
then, with her lovely little naked feet she stepped ankle deep into the
drenched grass, turned, tossed one corner of her red cloak over her
shoulder, and looked back at him.

Over the soaking lawn they wandered, his arm encircling her slender
body, her hand covering his, holding it closer at her waist.

The sky over the eastern hills was tinted with palest saffron now; birds
sang everywhere.  Down by the river cat-birds alternately mewed like
sick kittens or warbled like thrushes; rose grosbeaks filled the dawn
with heavenly arias, golden orioles fluted from every elm, song-sparrows
twittered and piped their cheery amateur efforts, and there came the
creak and chirr of purple grackles from the balsams and an incessant,
never-ending rush of jolly melody from the robins.

Over the tumbling river, through the hanging curtains of mist, a great
blue heron, looming enormously in the vague light, flapped by in stately
flight and alighted upon a bar of golden sand.

More swiftly now came the transfiguration of the world, shell-pink and
gold stained the sky; then a blaze of dazzling light cut the wooded
crests opposite as the thin knife-rim of the sun glittered above the
trees.

All the world rang out with song now; the river mists lifted and curled
and floated upward in silvery shreds disclosing golden shoals and
pebbled rapids all criss-crossed with the rosy lattice of the sun.

The girl at his side leaned her cheek against his shoulder.

"What would all this have meant without you?" she sighed.  "The world
turned very dark for me yesterday. And it was the blackest night I ever
