he called half a dozen times, in a louder and louder voice, 
until at last, hearing a growl, he inquired, " Can you 
give me a drink of water ? " 
" I'll give you hell if you wake me up again," said the 
voice; after which Hal lay in silence until morning. 
A couple of hours after daylight, a man entered his cell. 
" Get up," said he, and added a prod with his foot. Hal 
had thought he could not do it, but he got up. 
" No funny business now," said his jailer, and grasping 
him by the sleeve of his coat, marched him out of the cell 
and down a little corridor into a sort of office, where sat a 
red-faced personage with a silver shield upon the lapel of 
his coat. Hal's two assailants of the night before stood 
nearby. 
" Well, kid ? " said the personage in the chair. " Had 
a little time to think it over ? " 
 
" Tee," said Hal, briefly. 
" What's the charge ? " inquired the personage, of the 
two watchmen. 
" Trespassing and resisting arrest." 
" How much money you got, young fellow ? " was the 
next question. 
Hal hesitated. 
" Speak up there ! " said the man. 
" Two dollars and sixty-seven cents," said Hal — " as 
well as I can remember." 
" Go on ! " said the other. " What you givin' us ? " 
And then, to the two watchmen, " Search him." 
" Take off your coat and pants," said Bill, promptly, 
" and your boots." 
" Oh, I say ! " protested Hal. 
" Take 'em off ! " said the man, and clenched his fists. 
Hal took 'em off, and they proceeded to go through the 
pockets, producing a purse with the amount stated, also a 
cheap watch, a strong pocket knife, the tooth-brush, comb 
and mirror, and two white handkerchiefs, which they 
looked at contemptuously and tossed to the spittle-drenched 
floor. 
They unrolled the pack, and threw the clean clothing 
about. Then, opening the pocket-knife, they proceeded 
to pry about the soles and heels of the boots, and to cut 
open the lining of the clothing. So they found the ten 
dollars in the belt, which they tossed onto the table with 
the other belongings. Then the personage with the shield 
announced, " I fine you twelve dollars and sixty-seven 
cents, and your watch and knife." He added, with a 
grin, " You can keep your snot-rags." 
" Now see here ! " said Hal, angrily. " This is pretty 
raw!" 
" You get your duds on, young f ellow* and get out of 
here as quick as you can, or you'll go in your shirt-tail." 
But Hal was angry enough to have been willing to go 
 
in his skin. " You tell me who you are, and your au- 
thority for this procedure ? " 
" I'm marshal of the camp," said the man. 
" You mean you're an employe of the General Fuel 
Company? And you propose to rob me — " 
" Put him out, Bill," said the marshal. And Hal saw 
Bill's fists clench. 
"All right," he said, swallowing his indignation. 
"Wait till I get my clothes on." And he proceeded to 
dress as quickly as possible ; he rolled up his blanket and 
spare clothing, and started for the door. 
" Remember," said the marshal, " straight down the 
canyon with you, and if you show your face round here 
again, you'll get a bullet through you." 
So Hal went out into the sunshine, with a guard on 
each side of him as an escort. He was on the same moun- 
tain road, but in the midst of the company-village. In 
the distance he saw the great building of the breaker, 
and heard the incessant roar of machinery and falling 
coal. He marched past a double lane of company houses 
and shanties, where slattern women in doorways and dirty 
children digging in the dust of the roadside paused and 
grinned at him — for he limped as he walked, and it was 
evident enough what had happened to him. 
Hal had come with love and curiosity. The love was 
greatly diminished — ^ evidently this was not the force 
which kept the wheels of industry a-roll. But the curi- 
osity was greater than ever. What was there so care- 
fully hidden inside this coal-camp stockade? 
Hal turned and looked at Bill, who had showed signs 
of humour the day before. " See here," said he, " you 
fellows have got my money, and you've blacked my eye 
and kicked me blue, so you ought to be satisfied. Before 
I go, tell me about it, won't you ? " 
" Tell you what ? " growled Bill. 
"Why did I get this?" 
 
" Because you're too gay, kid. Didn't you know you 
had no business trying to sneak in here ? " 
" Yes," said Hal ; " but that's not what I mean. Why 
didn't you let me in at first ? " 
" If you wanted a job in a mine,'' demanded the man, 
" why didn't you go at it in the regular way ? " 
" I didn't know the regular way." 
" That's just it. And we wasn't takin' chances with 
you. You didn't look straight." 
