He had been the proprietor before the war of a 
little business in the North, prosperous and happy 
in his little family of a wife and two children. His 
mother was dead but his father and sister lived close 
by. War came and he left for the Front confident 
that his wife would run the business. It was only a 
few months later that he heard his wife had run 
away with another man, that the shop was abandoned, and the children had taken refuge with his 
father. 

Then came the next blow. His sister died of suc- 
cessive shocks and his father was paralyzed. Then 
he lost his sight. His children were living anyhow 
with neighbors in the half ruined village, and he was 
learning to make brushes. 

So much for the man's tragedy in war time. It is 
said that as time goes on there are more of them. 
On the other hand, during the first year, when the 
men were not allowed to go home, they formed abiding connections with women in the rear of the army, 
and when the six days' leave was granted preferred 
to take these ladies on a little jaunt than return to 
the old drab existence at home. 

These are what may be called the by-products of 
war, but they may exercise a serious influence on a 
nation's future. When the hundreds of children born 
in the North of France, who are half English, or half 
Scotch, or half Irish, or half German, or half Indian, 
or half Moroccan, grow up and begin to drift about 
and mingle with the general life of the nation, the 
result may be that we shall have been the last generation to see a race that however diversified was reasonably proud of its purity. 



VII 
MADAME PIERRE GOUJON (Continued) 



I HAD gone to Lyons to see the war relief work of 
that flourishing city and Madame Goujon went 
South at the same time to visit her husband's people. 
We agreed to meet in the little town of Bourg la 
Bresse, known to the casual tourist for its church 
erected in the sixteenth century by Margaret of 
Austria and famous for the carvings on its tombs. 

Otherwise it is a picturesque enlarged village with 
a meandering stream that serves as an excuse for fine 
bridges ; high-walled gardens, ancient trees, and many 
quaint old buildings. 

Not that I saw anything in detail. The Mayor, 
M. Loiseau, and Madame Goujon met me at the station, and my ride to the various hospitals must have 
resembled the triumphal progress of chariots in ancient Rome. The population leaped right and left, 
the children even scrambling up the walls as we flew 
through the narrow winding streets. It was apparent 
that the limited population of Bourg did not in the 
least mind being scattered by their Mayor, for the 
children shrieked with delight, and although you see 


 

few smiles in the provinces of France these days, and 
far more mourning than in Paris, at least we encountered no frowns. 

The heroine of Bourg is Madame Dugas. Once 
more to repeat history: Before the war Madame 
Dugas, being a woman of fashion and large wealth, 
lived the usual life of her class. She had a chateau 
near Bourg for the autumn months : hunting and 
shooting before 1914 were as much the fashion on 
the large estates of France as in England. She had 
a villa on the Rivera, a hotel in Paris, and a cottage at Dinard. But as soon as war broke out all 
these establishments were either closed or placed at 
the disposal of the Government. She cleaned out a 
large hotel in Bourg and installed as many beds as it 
was possible to buy at the moment. Then she sent 
word that she was ready to accommodate a certain 
number of wounded and asked for nurses and 
surgeons. 

The Government promptly took advantage of her 
generous offer, and her hospital was so quickly filled 
with wounded men that she was obliged to take over 
and furnish another large building. This soon over- 
flowing as well as the military hospitals of the district, she looked about in vain for another house large 
enough to make extensive installations worth while. 

During all those terrible months of the war, when 
the wounded arrived in Bourg by every train, and 
household after household put on its crepe, there was 
one great establishment behind its lofty walls that 



 

