of my memory of (say) California. The action 
entirely of American localisation, as goes without 
saying, yet making me thus kind of hanker, for 
dear "amusement's" sake, to decorate the thing 
with a bit of a picture of some American Some- 
where that is not either Newport or N.Y. I even 
ask myself whether Boston wouldn't serve for 
this garniture, serve with a narrower economy 
than "dragging in" California. I kind of want 
to drag in Boston a little, feeling it as naturally 
and thriftily workable. But these are details 
which will only too much come; and I seem to 
see already how my action, however tightly 
packed down, will strain my Ten Books, most 
blessedly, to cracking. That is exactly what I 
want, the tight packing and the beautifully audi- 
ble cracking; the most magnificent masterly little 
vivid economy, with a beauty of its own equal 
to the beauty of the donnee itself, that ever was. 
However, what the devil are, exactly, the little 
fundamentals in the past ? Fix them, focus them 
hard; they need only be perfectly conceivable, 
 
but they must be of the most lucid sharpness. I 
want to have it that for Gray, and essentially for 
Rosanna, it's a renewal of an early, almost, or 
even quite positively, childish beginning; and for 
Gray it's the same with Horton Vint — the im- 
pression of Horton already existing in him, a 
very strong and "dazzled" one, made in the 
quite young time, though in a short compass of 
days, weeks, possibly months, or whatever, and 
having lasted on (always for Gray) after a fashion 
that makes virtually a sort of relation already 
established, small as it ostensibly is. Such his 
relation with Rosanna, such his relation with 
Horton — but for his relation with Cissy ? 
Do I want that to be also a renewal, the residuum 
of an old impression, or a fresh thing altogether ? 
What strikes me prima facie is that it's better to 
have two such pre-established origins for the 
affair than three; the only question is does that 
sort of connection more complicate or more simr 
plify for that with Cissy? It more simplifies if 
I see myself wanting to give, by my plan, the full 
effect of a revolution in her, a revolution marked 
the more by the germ of the relation being thrown 
back, marked the more, that is, in the sense of; 
the shade of perfidy, treachery, the shade of the 
particular element and image that is of the es- 
sence, so far as she is concerned, of my action., 
How this exactly works I must in a moment go 
into — hammer it out clear; but meanwhile there 
 
are these other fundamentals. Gray then is the 
son of his uncle's half-sister, not sister (on the 
whole, I think); whose dissociation from her rich 
brother, before he was anything like so rich, must 
have followed upon her marrying a man with 
whom he, Mr. Betterman, was on some peculiarly 
bad terms resulting from a business difference or 
quarrel of one of those rancorous kinds that such 
lives (as Mr. Betterman's) are plentifully be- 
strewn with. The husband has been his victim, 
and he hasn't hated him, or objected to him for 
a brother-in-law, any the less for that. The 
objected-to brother-in-law has at all events died 
early, and the young wife, with her boy, her scant 
means, her disconnection from any advantage 
to her represented by her half-brother, has be- 
taken herself to Europe; where the rest of that 
history has been enacted. I see the young hus- 
band, Gray's father, himself Graham Fielder the 
elder or whatever, as dying early, but probably 
dying in Europe, through some catastrophe to be 
determined, two or three years after their going 
there. This is better than his dying at home, 
for removal of everything from nearness to Mr. 
Betterman. Betterman has been married and has 
had children, a son and a daughter, this is indis- 
pensable, for diminution of the fact of paucity of 
children; but he has lost successively these be- 
longings — there is nothing over strange in it; the 
death of his son, at 1 6 or 1 8 or thereabouts, hav- 
 
ing occurred a few years, neither too few nor too 
many, before my beginning, and having been the 
sorest fact of his life. Well then, young Mrs. 
Fielder or whoever, becomes thus in Europe an 
early widow, with her little boy, and there, after 
no long time, marries again, marries an alien, a 
European of some nationality to be determined, 
but probably an Englishman; which completes 
the effect of alienation from her brother — easily 
conceivable and representable as "in his way," 
disliking this union; and indeed as having made 
known to her, across the sea, that if she will for- 
bear from it (this when he first hears of it and 
before it has taken place) and will come back to 
America with her boy, he will "forgive" her and 
