wood-road. "It runs straight to the landing," he added.

Alost, at a sign from him, started off westward through the woods.
Souchez followed. Renoux leaned back against a big walnut tree and
signified that he would remain there.

So Barres and Westmore moved forward to the right, very cautiously,
circling the rear of the old brick hotel where a line of ruined
horse-sheds and a rickety barn screened them from view of the hotel's
south windows.

So close to the tavern did they pass that they could hear the noisy
singing very distinctly and see through the open windows the movement
of shadowy figures under the paling light of a ceiling lamp.

Westmore ventured nearer in hopes of getting a better view from the
horse-sheds; and Barres crept after him through the rank growth of
swale and weeds.

"Look at them!" whispered Westmore. "They're in a sort of uniform,
aren't they?"

"They've got on green jackets and stable-caps! Do you see that stack
of rifles in the corner of the tap-room?"

"There's Skeel!" muttered Westmore, "the man in the long cloak sitting
by the fireplace with his face buried in his hands!"

"He looks utterly done in," whispered Barres. "Probably he can't
manage that gang and he begins to realise it. Hark! You can hear every
word of that thing they're singing."

Every word, indeed, was a yell or a shout, and distinct enough at
that. They were roaring out "Green Jackets":

  "Oh, Irish maids love none but those
  Who wear the jackets green!"

--all lolling and carousing around a slopping wet table--all save
Murtagh Skeel, who, seated near the empty fireplace with his white
face buried between his fingers, never stirred from his attitude of
stony immobility.

"There's Soane!" whispered Barres, "that man who just got up!"

It was Soane, his cap cocked aslant on his curly head, his green
jacket unbuttoned, a tumbler aloft in his unsteady clutch.

"Whurroo!" he yelled. "Gu ma slan a chi mi!--fear a' Bhata!" And he
laid a reckless hand on Skeel's cloaked shoulder. But the latter never
stirred; and Soane, winking at the company, flourished his tumbler
aloft and broke into "The Risin' o' the Moon":

  "Oh, then tell me, Shawn O'Ferrall,
  Phwere the gatherin' is to be!
    In th' ould shpot be the river;--
  Sure it's known to you an' me!"

And the others began to shout the words:

  "Death to every foe and traitor!
  Forward! Strike the marchin' tune,
    And hurrah, me lads, for freedom!
  'Tis the risin' of the moon!

  "At the risin' of the moon,
    At the risin' of the moon,
  And a thousand blades are flashin'
  At the risin' of the moon!"

"Here's to Murtagh Skeel!" roared Soane, "An gille dubh ciardubh!
Whurroo!"

Skeel lifted his haggard visage, slowly looked around, got up from his
stool.

"In God's name," he said hoarsely, "if you're not utterly shameless,
take your rifles and follow me. Look at the sun! Have you lads gone
stark mad? What will McDermott think? What will Kelly Walsh say? It's
too late to weigh anchor now; but it isn't too late to go aboard and
sober up, and wait for dark.

"If you've a rag of patriotism left you'll quit your drinking and come
with me!"

"Ah, sure, then, Captain dear," cried Soane, "is there anny harrm in a
bite an' a sup f'r dyin' lads befoor they go whizzin' up to glory?"

"I tell you we should be aboard! Now!"

Another said:

"Aw, the cap's right. To hell with the booze. Come on, youse!" And he
began to button his green jacket. Another got up on unsteady legs:

"Sure," he said, "there do be time f'r to up anchor an' shquare away
for Point Dalhousie. Phwat's interferin', I dunno."

"A Canadian cruiser," said Skeel with dry bitterness. "Get aboard,
anyway. We'll have to wait for dark."
