renewal of activities, to proclaim her unshakable faith in her
defenders. In the perpetual sunshine of the most golden of springs she
basked and decked herself, and mirrored her recovered beauty in the
Seine.

And still the cloudless weeks succeeded each other, days of blue warmth
and nights of silver lustre; and still, behind the impenetrable wall of
the front, the Beast dumbly lowered and waited. Then one morning, toward
the end of May, Troy, waking late after an unusually hard day, read:
"The new German offensive has begun. The Chemin des Dames has been
retaken by the enemy. Our valiant troops are resisting heroically...."

Ah, now indeed they were on the road to Paris! In a flash of horror he
saw it all. The bitter history of the war was re-enacting itself, and
the battle of the Marne was to be fought again....

The misery of the succeeding days would have been intolerable if there
had been time to think of it. But day and night there was no respite for
Troy's service; and, being by this time a practised hand, he had to be
continually on the road.

On the second day he received orders to evacuate the wounded from an
American base hospital near the Marne. It was actually the old
battleground he was to traverse; only, before, he had traversed it in
the wake of the German retreat, and now it was the allied troops who,
slowly, methodically, and selling every inch dear, were falling back
across the sacred soil. Troy faced eastward with a heavy heart....




IX


The next morning at daylight they started for the front.

Troy's breast swelled with the sense of the approach to something bigger
than he had yet known. The air of Paris, that day, was heavy with doom.
There was no mistaking its taste on the lips. It was the air of the
Marne that he was breathing....

Here he was, once more involved in one of the great convulsions of
destiny, and still almost as helpless a spectator as when, four years
before, he had strayed the burning desert of Paris and cried out in his
boy's heart for a share in the drama. Almost as helpless, yes--in spite
of his four more years, his grown-up responsibilities, and the blessed
uniform thanks to which he, even he, a poor little ambulance-driver of
eighteen, ranked as a soldier of the great untried army of his country.
It was something--it was a great deal--to be even the humblest part, the
most infinitesimal cog, in that mighty machinery of the future; but it
was not enough, at this turning-point of history, for one who had so
lived it all in advance, who was so aware of it now that it had come,
who had carried so long on his lips the taste of its scarcely breathable
air.

As the ambulance left the gates of Paris, and hurried eastward in the
grey dawn, this sense of going toward something new and overwhelming
continued to grow in Troy. It was probably the greatest hour of the war
that was about to strike--and he was still too young to give himself to
the cause he had so long dreamed of serving.

From the moment they left the gates the road was encumbered with huge
grey motor-trucks, limousines, torpedoes, motor-cycles, long trains of
artillery, army kitchens, supply wagons, all the familiar elements of
the procession he had so often watched unrolling itself endlessly east
and west from the Atlantic to the Alps. Nothing new in the sight--but
something new in the faces! A look of having got beyond the accident of
living, and accepted what lay over the edge, in the dim land of the
final. He had seen that look in the days before the Marne....

Most of the faces on the way were French: as far as Epernay they met
their compatriots only in isolated groups. But whenever one of the
motor-trucks lumbering by bore a big U.S. on its rear panel Troy pushed
his light ambulance ahead and skimmed past, just for the joy of seeing
the fresh young heads rising pyramid-wise above the sides of the lorry,
hearing the snatches of familiar song--"Hail, hail, the gang's all
here!" and "We won't come back till it's over over there!"--and shouting
back, in reply to a stentorian "Hi, kid, beat it!", "Bet your life I
will, old man!"

Hubert Jacks, the young fellow who was with him, shouted back too, as
lustily; but between times he was more occupied with the details of
their own particular job--to which he was newer than Troy--and seemed
not to feel so intensely the weight of impending events.

As they neared the Montmirail monument: "Ever been over this ground
before?" Troy asked carelessly, and Jacks answered: "N--no."

"Ah--I have. I was here just after the battle of the Marne, in September
'fourteen."

"That so? You must have been quite a kid," said Jacks with indifference,
filling his pipe.

"Well--not quite," Troy rejoined sulkily; and they said no more.

At Epernay they stopped for lunch, and found the place swarming with
troops. Troy's soul was bursting within him: he wanted to talk and
remember and compare. But his companion was unimaginative, and perhaps a
little jealous of his greater experience. "He doesn't want to show that
