steal your heart, you know——"
"Michael, you are insufferable!" she exclaimed with a movement of
impatience that almost sent us into the pool.  In fact she clutched me
and held fast while I struggled to recover our balance.  And after I had
reëstablished our equilibrium I was low enough, mean enough, to pretend
we were still in danger, so heavenly sweet it was to me to feel her
little hands close clinging.
Whether or not she discovered my perfidy I was not certain, for
presently she released her grasp and sat very still and flushed beside
me, her eyes fixed on the frivolous brook.
Which drove me uneasily toward conversation—the first refuge of the
guilty.
"And so," said I, in a casual and pleasant voice, "you are really a
descendant of those ancient Venetians who once occupied Naxos."
"I don’t wish to continue the subject," she said.
Snubbed again I relapsed into mournful inertia. Which presently she
inspected sideways.  And after a while she laughed.
"You are so ridiculous," she said.  "No girl, I fancy, can remain
angry with you very long."
"Thusis?"
"What?"
"I want to court you.  May I?"
"Yes—if you don’t make it resemble the other thing."
"I’ll be careful."
"Very well."
And, as I remained buried in reflection: "You may fire when ready,
Michael."
"Have you ever lived in the United States?" I asked, astonished.
"I was educated there," she replied demurely.
"Oh, Lord!" said I, "that accounts for a lot of things!  Why on earth I
didn’t suspect it I can’t imagine——"
"Oh, I’m not typical; I’m international, Michael—cosmopolitan,
inter-urban, anti-insular, so to speak——"
"You’re inter-stellar, you beautiful bright star!——"
"Michael!"
"What?"
"Is that courtship?  Or the other?" she inquired.
"Courtship.  It’s a perfectly proper flight of astronomical fancy.  It’s
a scientific metaphor, Thusis dear.  I’ll tell you another:
    "Some lovers woo the Pleiades
    Who shyly flirt from midnight skies,
    But all my vows and all my sighs
      Are centered in the Cyclades
    Where she I love first saw the light
    —Thusis divine so slim and white—"
"Michael!"
      "I love her noble mind serene,
      I love her ruddy tresses bright,
      I love her slender neck so white,
      I love her heart so young and clean,
      In fact I love her, if she please,
      My goddess of the Cyclades—"
"Michael!!!"
"What?" said I, annoyed at being checked in my fine frenzy.
"Is—is that courtship?"
"Certainly!  Did you never hear of a troubadour? I’m improvising and for
God’s sake don’t interrupt me."
At that she relapsed into meek silence.  But I had lost my momentum.  It
was all off; she had ruined that totally unexpected burst of inspired
fluency which had astonished and intoxicated me, whatever it had done to
her.
"Damnation," I said.
"Forgive me, Michael.  I’m so truly repentant.... And it was very, very
beautiful."
"It wasn’t so bad," I admitted, mollified.  "I had no idea I could do
it, Thusis."
"It was—agreeable.  I liked it.  Will you forgive me?  Because when I
interrupted I punished myself most of all."
"You sweet little thing!——"
"I did.  I was worse than Psyche," she went on, "who blew out the
candle—too late—the torch of inspiration—Oh, dear, that metaphor is very
sadly mixed, Michael, but you understand what I mean. Do you pardon me?"
To reassure her I touched her hands which lay clasped in her lap.  She
gave a slight start, but as my hand settled and rested there upon both
of hers she seemed to become unconscious of the contact.
"I had no idea that you could improvise so cleverly," she said.
"Nor I," said I, frankly.  "It’s true, however, that I’ve had some
little practice in writing verses—er—recently."
"Have you been writing verses, Michael?"
"Yes."
"About what?"
"About you."
She became interested in my fishing line, and watched it intently.  But
it was only the current moving it.
"Thusis dear——"
She said hastily: "Remember the difference between courtship and the
other!"
"Won’t you let me make love to you?"
"I can’t, Michael!"
After a pause: "Would you let me if you could?"
"Yes," she said under her breath.
"Dear——"
"Please don’t say that!"
"I want to ask you one thing."
"What?"
"You’re not married, are you?"
"No."
"Then——"
"It’s a more hopeless barrier than that!" she interrupted with a sudden
catch in her breath.  "I can’t let you make love to me.  I can’t let you
