enon which poor Jimmie Higgins found so bewildering that pol- 
icies laid down by sincere humanitarians and liberals in Wash- 
ington were carried out in Archangel by an ex-detective trained 
in a school of corruption and cruelty. 

Jimmie Higgins couldn't understand that here in Arch- 
angel were Americans, taking their orders from British and 
French officers, who wasted no breath on pacifism and senti- 
ment, who had no fool ideals about wars for democracy. Was 
one obscure little runt of a Socialist machinist to be allowed to 
block their world-plans? Setting himself up as an authority, 
presuming to accept literally the messages of his President, in 
defiance of their authority in Archangel ! Allying himself with 
traitorous and criminal scoundrels, trying to poison the minds 
of American soldiers and light the flame of mutiny among them ! 
Just as once Jimmie Higgins had found himself in a strategic 
position where he had held up the whole Hun army and won 
the battle of Chateau-Thierry, so now he found himself in a 
position of equal strategic importance on the line of com- 
munication of the Allied armies attacking Russia, and threaten- 
ing to cut the line and force the armies into retreat! 



It became more essential than ever to discover these Bolshevik 
sympathisers and stamp out their propaganda. As hanging 
Jimmie up by the wrists had not brought forth the desired 
information, Jimmie was put in solitary confinement on a diet 
of bread and water, this being another test of sincerity of con- 
science. For the conscience a diet of white flour and water may 
be all right, but Jimmie soon found that it is very bad indeed 
for the intestinal tract and the blood-stream being, in truth, 
far worse than a diet of water alone. The man who lives on 
white flour and water for a few days suffers either from com- 
plete stopping of the bowels, or else from dysentery; his blood 
becomes clogged with starch poisons, his nerves degenerate, he 
falls a quick victim to tuberculosis, or pernicious anaemia, or 
some other disease which will prevent his ever being a sound man 





Also, Jimmie received the water-treatment, as included in 
the Fort Leavenworth regimen. It was necessary that all 
prisoners should be bathed; which was interpreted by some 
guards to mean that they should have a stream of icy water 
turned on them, and be forced to stand under it. Because Jim- 
mie's arms were too badly injured for him to scrub himself, 
Connor seized a rough brush and salt, and rubbed off strips of 
his skin. When Jimmie wriggled away, they followed him with 
the hose; when he screamed, they turned it into his mouth and 
nose; when he fell down, they let the cold water run over him 
for ten or fifteen minutes. 

Jimmie had had a good deal of harsh treatment in the 
course of his outcast life, but never so closely concentrated in 
point of time. His spirit remained unbroken, but his body gave 
way, and then his mind began to give also. He fell victim to 
delusions; the nightmares which haunted his sleep lay siege 
to his waking hours also, and he thought he was being tortured 
at times when he was just hanging by his chains. Until at 
last Perkins, listening through the door, heard strange cries 
and grunts, beast-like noises, barkings and growlings. He 
called Connor and Grady, and the three of them stood listening. 

"By God !" said Grady. "He's dippy." 

"He's nutty," said Connor. 

"He's batty," said Perkins. 

But the idea occurred to all of them perhaps he was sham- 
ming! What was easier than for one of those emissaries of 
Satan to pretend to have a devil inside him? So they waited 
a bit longer; until Connor, coming to chain Jimmie up, found 
him gnawing off the ends of his fingers. That was really seri- 
ous, so they sent for the prison-surgeon, who had to make but 
a brief inspection to convince himself that Jimmie Higgins was 
a raving madman. Jimmie fancied himself some kind of fur- 
bearing animal, and he was in a trap, and was trying to gnaw off 
his foot so as to escape. He snapped his teeth at every one who 
came near him; he had to be knocked senseless before a strait- 
jacket could be got on him. 

VI 

And so it was that Jimmie Higgins at last made his escape 
from his tormentors. Jimmie doesn't know anything about the 





Russian Jew, Kalenkin, any more; he could not tell the secret 
if he wanted to, so they have given up testing his conscience, 
and they treat him kindly, and have succeeded in persuading 
him that he is out of the trap. Therefore he is a good beast 
he crawls about on all-fours, and eats his food out of a tin 
platter without using his gnawed-off fingers. He still has tor- 
