tawny head:
"What do words matter? Slava, slava, under the moon! Words are
but symbols of needs--your need and Ilse's and mine--and Jack's
and Vanya's--and the master-word differs as differ our several
needs. And if I say Christ and Buddha and I are one, let me so
believe, if that be my need. Or if, from some high minarette, I
lift my voice proclaiming the unity of God!--or if I confess the
Trinity!--or if, for me, the god-fire smoulders only within my own
accepted soul--what does it matter? Slava, slava--the word and the
need spell Love--whatever the deed, Palla--my Palla!--whatever the
deed, and despite it."
                  *       *       *       *       *
As they came, together, to Palla's house and entered the empty
drawing-room, Ilse said:
"In mysticism there seems to be no reasoning--nothing definite save
only an occult and overwhelming restlessness.... Marya may take the
veil ... or nurse lepers ... or she may become a famous courtesan....
I do not mean it cruelly. But, in the mystic, the spiritual, the
intellectual and the physical seem to be interchangeable, and become
gradually indistinguishable."
"That is a frightful analysis," murmured Palla. A little shiver passed
over her and she laid the rosebud against her lips.
Ilse said: "Marya is right: love is the world's overwhelming need. The
way to love is to serve; and if we serve we must renounce something."
They locked arms and began to pace the empty room.
"What should I renounce?" asked Palla faintly.
Ilse smiled that wise, wholesome smile of hers:
"Suppose you renounce your own omniscience, darling," she suggested.
"I do not think myself omniscient," retorted the girl, colouring.
"No? Well, darling, from where then do you derive your authority to
cancel the credentials of the Most High?"
"What!"
"On what authority except your own omniscience do you so confidently
preach the non-existence of omnipotence?"
Palla turned her flushed face in sensitive astonishment under the
gentle mockery.
Ilse said: "Love has many names; and so has God. And all are good. If,
to you, God means that little flame within you, then that is good. And
so, to others, according to their needs.... And it is the same with
love.... So, if for the man you love, love can be written only as a
phrase--if the word love be only one element in a trinity of which the
other two are Law and Wedlock--does it really matter, darling?"
"You mean I--I am to renounce my--creed?"
Ilse shook her head: "Who cares? The years develop and change
everything--even creeds. Do you think your lover would care whether,
at twenty-odd, you worship the flaming godhead itself, or whether
you guard in spirit that lost spark from it which has become
entangled with your soul?--whether you really do believe the man-made
law that licenses your mating; or whether you reject it as a silly
superstition? To a business man, convention is merely a safe
procedure which, ignored, causes disaster--he knows that whenever
he ignores it--as when he drives a car bearing no license; and the
police stop him."
"I never expected to hear this from you, Ilse."
"Why?"
"You are unmarried."
"No, Palla."
The girl stared at her: "Did you marry Jack?" she gasped.
"Yes. In the hospital."
"Oh, Ilse!----"
"He asked me."
"But--" her mouth quivered and she bent her head and placed her hand
on Ilse's arm for guidance, because the starting tears were
blinding her now. And at last she found her voice: "I meant I am so
thankful--darling--it's been a--a nightmare----"
"It would have been one to me if I had refused him. Except that Jack
wished it, I did not care.... But I have lately learned--some
things."
"You--you consented because he wished it?"
"Of course. Is not that our law?"
"Do you so construe the Law of Love and Service? Does it permit us to
seek protection under false pretences; to say yes when we mean no; to
kneel before a God we do not believe in; to accept immunity under a
law we do not believe in?"
"If all this concerned only one's self, then, no! Or, if the man
believed as we do, no! But even then--" she shook her head slowly,
"unless all agree, it is unfair."
"Unfair?"
"Yes, it is unfair if you have a baby. Isn't it, darling? Isn't it
unfair and tyrannical?"
"You mean that a child should not arbitrarily be placed by its parents
at what it might later consider a disadvantage?"
"Of course I mean just that. Do you know, Palla, what Jack once said
of us? He said--rather brutally, I thought--that you and I were
immaturely un-moral and pitiably unbaked; and that the best thing for
both of us was to marry and have a few children before we tried to do
any more independent thinking."
Palla's reply was: "He was such a dear!" But what she said did not
seem absurd to either of them.
Ilse added: "You know yourself, darling, what a relief it was to you
to learn that I had married Jack. I think you even said something
like, 'Thank God,' when you were choking back the tears."
Palla flushed brightly: "I meant--" but her voice ended in a sob.
Then, all of a sudden, she broke down--went all to pieces there in the
dim and empty little drawing-room--down on her knees, clinging to
Ilse's skirts....
She wished to go to her room alone; and so Ilse, watching her climb
the stairs as though they led to some dread calvary, opened the front
door and went her lonely way, drawing the mourning veil around her
face and throat.
