him at his home that evening, and had succeeded in getting five
dollars out of him, and a promise of a few dollars more every week.
That was to cover future visits to McGivney.




Section 18


Peter lay awake a good part of the night, thinking over this new
job--that of getting himself a girl. He realized that for some time
he had been falling in love with little Jennie; but he wanted to be
sane and practical, he wanted to use his mind in choosing a girl. He
was after information, first of all. And who had the most to give
him? He thought of Miss Nebbins, who was secretary to Andrews, the
lawyer; she would surely know more secrets than anyone else; but
then, Miss Nebbins was an old maid, who wore spectacles and
broad-toed shoes, and was evidently out of the question for
love-making. Then he thought of Miss Standish, a tall, blond beauty
who worked in an insurance office and belonged to the Socialist
Party. She was a “swell dresser,” and Peter would have been glad to
have something like that to show off to McGivney and the rest of
Guffey’s men; but with the best efforts of his self-esteem, Peter
could not imagine himself persuading Miss Standish to look at him.
There was a Miss Yankovich, one of the real Reds, who trained with
the I. W. W.; but she was a Jewess, with sharp, black eyes that
clearly indicated a temper, and frightened Peter. Also, he had a
suspicion that she was interested in McCormick--tho of course with
these “free lovers” you could never tell.

But one girl Peter was quite sure about, and that was little Jennie;
he didn’t know if Jennie knew many secrets, but surely she could
find some out for him. Once he got her for his own, he could use her
to question others. And so Peter began to picture what love with
Jennie would be like. She wasn’t exactly what you would call
“swell,” but there was something about her that made him sure he
needn’t be ashamed of her. With some new clothes she would be
pretty, and she had grand manners--she had not shown the least fear
of the rich ladies who came to the house in their automobiles; also
she knew an awful lot for a girl--even if most of what she knew
wasn’t so!

Peter lost no time in setting to work at his new job. In the papers
next morning appeared the usual details from Flanders; thousands of
men being shot to pieces almost every hour of the day and night, a
million men on each side locked in a ferocious combat that had
lasted for weeks, that might last for months. And sentimental little
Jennie sat there with brimming eyes, talking about it while Peter
ate his oatmeal and thin milk. And Peter talked about it too; how
wicked it was, and how they must stop it, he and Jennie together. He
agreed with her now; he was a Socialist, he called her “Comrade,”
 and told her she had converted him. Her eyes lighted up with joy, as
if she had really done something to end the war.

They were sitting on the sofa, looking at the paper, and they were
alone in the house. Peter suddenly looked up from the reading and
said, very much embarrassed, “But Comrade Jennie--”

“Yes,” she said, and looked at him with her frank grey eyes. Peter
was shy, truly a little frightened, this kind of detective business
being new to him.

“Comrade Jennie,” he said, “I--I--don’t know just how to say it, but
I’m afraid I’m falling a little in love.”

Jennie drew back her hands, and Peter heard her breath come quickly.
“Oh, Mr. Gudge!” she exclaimed.

“I--I don’t know--” stammered Peter. “I hope you won’t mind.”

“Oh, don’t let’s do that!” she cried.

“Why not, Comrade Jennie?” And he added, “I don’t know as I can
help it.”

“Oh, we were having such a happy time, Mr. Gudge! I thought we were
going to work for the cause!”

“Well, but it won’t interfere--”

“Oh, but it does, it does; it makes people unhappy!”

“Then--” and Peter’s voice trembled--“then you don’t care the least
bit for me, Comrade Jennie?”

She hesitated a moment. “I don’t know,” she said. “I hadn’t
thought--”

And Peter’s heart gave a leap inside him. It was the first time that
any girl had ever had to hesitate in answering that question for
Peter. Something prompted him--just as if he had been doing this
kind of “sleuthing” all his life. He reached over, and very gently
took her hand. “You do care just a little for me?” he whispered.

“Oh, Comrade Gudge,” she answered, and Peter said, “Call me `Peter.’
Please, please do.”

“Comrade Peter,” she said, and there was a little catch in her
throat, and Peter, looking at her, saw that her eyes were cast down.
