regiment; and Henry Hare, lieutenant in the same regiment, were caught
inside the American lines, court-martialed, convicted of unspeakable
cruelties, and Were hung as spies by order of General Clinton, July 6th,
1779.]
But he wore no Valley militia disguise now; all these men were in
green-coats, openly flaunting the enemy uniform in County Tryon,--save
only those painted beasts Cuck and Cane.
It was a war party, and it had accomplished a clean job at Fish House;
and now they all were coming down to the flooded hollow and looking
across it where lay the short route west to Summer House.
Presently I heard a great splashing to our left, and saw a skiff and two
green-coats and two Mohawk Indians in it pulling across the back-water.
And these latter were real Mohawks, stripped, oiled, their heads shaved,
and in their battle-paint, who squatted there in the skiff, scanning
with glowing eyes the bank where my Saguenay and I lay concealed.
It was perfectly plain, now, what they meant to do. Beacraft, Cane, and
Cuck went back to the ruined redoubt, and presently returned loaded with
packs. Baggage and rifles were laid in the skiff.
I touched Yellow Leaf on the arm, and we wriggled backward out of sight.
Then, rising, we turned and pulled foot for our canoe.
Now my chiefest anxiety was whether Penelope and Nick had got clean away
and were already well on the road to the Mayfield Block House.
We found our canoe where we had hid it, and we made the still water boil
with our two paddles, so that, although it seemed an age to me, we came
very swiftly to our landing at Summer House Point.
Here we sprang out, seized the canoe, ran with it up the grassy slope,
then continued over the uncut lawn and down the western slope, where
again we launched it and let it swing on the water, held anchored by its
nose on shore.
House, barn, orchard, all were deathly still there in the brilliant
sunshine; I ran to the manger and found it empty of cattle. There were
no fowls to be seen or heard, either. Then I hastened to the sheep-fold.
That, also, was empty.
Perplexed, I ran down to the gates, found them open, and, in the mud of
the Johnstown Road, discovered sheep and cattle tracks, the imprint of
Kaya's sharp-shod hoofs, a waggon mark, and the plain imprint of Nick's
moccasins.
So it was clear enough what he and Penelope had done. A terrible anxiety
seized me, and I wondered how far they had got on the way to Mayfield,
with cattle and sheep to drive ahead of a loaded waggon and one horse.
And now, more than ever, it was certain that my Indian and I must make a
desperate stand here to hold back these marauders until our people were
safe in Mayfield without a shadow of doubt.
The Saguenay had gone to the veranda roof with his rifle, where he could
see any movement by land or water.
I called up to him that the destructives might come by both routes; then
I went to my room, gathered all the lead bars and bags of bullets,
seized our powder keg, and dragged all down to the water, where I stored
everything in the canoe.
That was all I could take, save a sack of ground corn mixed with maple
sugar, a flask of rum, and a bag of dry meat.
These articles, with our fur robes and blankets, a fish-spear, and a
spontoon which I discovered, were all I dared attempt to save.
I stood in the pretty house, gazing desperately about me, sad to leave
this place to flames, furious to realize that this little lodge must
perish, which once was endeared to me because Sir William loved it, and
now had become doubly dear because I had given it to a young girl whom I
loved--and tenderly--yet desired not to become enamoured with.
Sunshine fell through the glazed windows, where chintz curtains stirred
in the wind.
I looked around at the Windsor chairs, the table where we had supped
together so often. I went into Penelope's room and looked at her maple
bed, so white and fresh.
There was a skein of wool yarn on the table. I took it; gazed at it with
new and strange emotions a-fiddling at my throat and twitching eyes and
lips; and placed it in the breast of my hunting shirt.
Then I listened; but my Indian overhead remained silent. So I went on
through the house, and then down to the kitchen, where I saw all sweetly
in order, and pan and china bright; and soupaan still simmering where
Penelope had left it.
There was a bowl of milk there, and the cream thick on it. And she had
set a dozen red apples handy, with flour and spices and a crock of lard
for to fashion a pie, I think.
Slowly I went up stairs and then out the kitchen door, across the grass.
The Saguenay saw me from above and made a sign that all was still quiet
on the Drowned Lands.
So I went to the manger again, and thence to the barn and around the
house.
The lilacs had bursted their buds, and I could see tiny bunches pushing
out on every naked stem where the fragrant, grape-like bunches of bloom
should hang in May.
Then I looked down, and remembered where I had lain in the snow under
these same lilacs, and how there Penelope had bullied me and then
consented to kiss me on the mouth.... And, as I was thinking sadly of
these things,--bang! went my Indian's rifle from the veranda roof.
I sprang out upon the west lawn and saw the powder cloud drifting over
the house, and my Indian, sheltered by the roof, reloading his piece on
one knee.
"By water!" he called out softly, when he saw me.
At that I ran into the house by the front door, which faced south;
closed and bolted the four heavy green shutters in the two rooms on the
ground floor, barred the south door and the west, or kitchen door below;
and sprang up the ladder to the low loft chamber, from whence, stooping,
I crept out of the south-gable window upon the veranda.
This piazza promenade was nearly as high as the eaves. The gable ends of
the roof, in which were windows, faced north and south, but the
promenade ran all around the east end and sides, which, supported by
columns, afforded a fine rifle-platform for defense against a water
attack, and gave us a wide view out over the mysterious Drowned Lands.
It was a vast panorama that lay around us--a great misty amphitheatre
