have croaked trying to locate the red cross on a chart."

"Why the devil did you sign on, then?"

"I wanted a little fun, and I'm going to have it. There's champagne and
Napoleon brandy in the dry-stores. Wouldn't hurt us to have a little of
it. If we've got to go to jail we might as well go lit up."

"Flint, you talk too much," said a voice from the doorway. It was
Cunningham's. He leaned carelessly against the jamb. The crew fell silent
and motionless. "Boys, you've heard Hennessy. Play it my way and you'll
wear diamonds; mess it up and you'll all wear hemp. The world will forgive
us when it finds out we've only made it laugh." Cunningham strolled over
to Flint, who rose to his feet. "Flint, I want that crimp-house whisky
you've been swigging on the sly. No back talk! Hand it over!"

"And if I don't?" said Flint, his jaw jutting.




CHAPTER XVII


Cunningham did not answer immediately. From Flint his glance went roving
from man to man, as if trying to read what they expected of him.

"Flint, you were recommended to me for your knowledge of the Sulu lingo.
We'll need a crew of divers, and we'll have to pick them up secretly.
That's your job. It's your only job outside doing your watch with the
shovel below. Somehow you've got the wrong idea. You think this is a
junket of the oil-lamp period. All wrong! You don't know me, and that's a
pity; because if you did know something about me you'd walk carefully.
When we're off this yacht, I don't say. If you want what old-timers used
to call their pannikin of rum, you'll be welcome to it. But on board the
Wanderer, nothing doing. Get your duffel out. I'll have a look at it."

"Get it yourself," said Flint.

Cunningham appeared small and boyish beside the ex-beachcomber.

"I'm speaking to you decently, Flint, when I ought to bash in your head."

The tone was gentle and level.

"Why don't you try it?"

The expectant men thereupon witnessed a feat that was not only deadly in
its precision but oddly grotesque. Cunningham's right hand flew out with
the sinister quickness of a cobra's strike, and he had Flint's brawny
wrist in grip. He danced about, twisted and lurched until he came to an
abrupt stop behind Flint's back. Flint's mouth began to bend at the
corners--a grimace.

"You'll break it yourself, Flint, if you move another inch," said
Cunningham, nonchalantly. "This is the gentlest trick I have in the bag.
Cut out the booze until we're off this yacht. Be a good sport and play the
game according to contract. I don't like these side shows. But you wanted
me to show you. Want to call it off?"

Sweat began to bead Flint's forehead. He was straining every muscle in his
body to minimize that inexorable turning of his elbow and shoulder.

"The stuff is in Number Two bunker," he said, with a ghastly grin. "I'll
chuck it over."

"There, now!" Cunningham stepped back. "I might have made it your neck.
But I'm patient, because I want this part of the game to go through
according to schedule. When I turn back this yacht I want nothing missing
but the meals I've had."

Flint rubbed his arm, scowling, and walked over to his bunk.

"Boys," said Cunningham, "so far you've been bricks. Shortly we'll be
heading southeast on our own. Wherever I am known, men will tell you that
I never break my word. I promised you that we'd come through with clean
heels. Something has happened which we could not forestall. There is a
woman on board. It is not necessary to say that she is under my
protection."

He clumped out into the passage.

"Well, say!" burst out the young sailor named Hennessy. "I'm a tough guy,
but I couldn't have turned that trick. Hey, you! If you've got any hooch
in the coal bunkers, heave it over. I'm telling you! These soft-spoken
guys are the kind I lay off, believe you me! I've seen all kinds, and I
know."

"Did they kick you out of the Navy?" snarled Flint.

"Say, are you asking me to do it?" flared the Irishman. "You poor boob,
you'd be in the sick bay if there hadn't been a lady on board."

"A lady?"

"I said a lady! Stand up, you scut!"

But Flint rolled into his bunk and turned his face to the partition.

Cunningham leaned against the port rail. These bursts of fury always left
