disappear every year. At a recent convention of police chiefs in
Washington, it was stated, from police records, that sixty thousand
girls disappear every year in the United States, leaving no trace.
Unless the parents happen to be in position to make a fuss, not even the
names of the girls are published in the newspapers. I do not ask you to
believe such things on my word; believe District Attorney Sims of
Chicago, who made the most thorough study of this subject ever made in
America, and wrote:
"When a white slave is sold and landed in a house or dive she becomes a
prisoner.... In each of these places is a room having but one door, to
which the keeper holds the key. Here are locked all the street clothes,
shoes and ordinary apparel.... The finery provided for the girls is of a
nature to make their appearance on the street impossible. Then in
addition to this handicap, the girl is placed at once in debt to the
keeper for a wardrobe.... She cannot escape while she is in debt, and
she can never get out of debt. Not many of the women in this class
expect to live more than ten years--perhaps the average is less. Many
die painful deaths by disease, many by consumption, but it is hardly
beyond the truth to say that suicide is their general expectation."
CHAPTER XXXII
SEX AND THE POOR
     (Discusses prostitution, the extent of its prevalence, and the
     diseases which result from it.)
It is manifest that the rich cannot indulge in vices, without drawing
the poor after them; and in addition to this, the poor have their own
evil instincts, which fester in neglect. There were several hundred
thousand dark rooms, that is rooms without light or ventilation, in New
York City before the war. Now the country is reported to be short a
million homes, and in New York City working girls are sleeping six or
eight in a room. In the homes of the poor in the slums, parents and
children and boarders all sleep in one room indiscriminately, and the
world moves back to that primitive communism, in which incest is an
everyday affair, and little children learn all the vices there are. I
have in my hand a pamphlet by a physician, in charge of a hospital in
New York, who in fifteen years has examined nine hundred children who
have been raped, and the age of the youngest was eight months! I have
another pamphlet by a settlement worker, who discusses the problem of
the thousands of deserted wives, most of them with children, many with
children yet unborn. As I write, there are millions of men out of work
in our country, and these men are desperate, and they quit and take to
the road. They join the army of the casual workers, the "blanket
stiffs"; and, of course, the more there are of these men, the more
prostitutes there have to be, and the more homosexuality there will
inevitably be.
Also the girls are out of work, and are on the streets. Many years ago I
visited the mill towns of New England, "she-towns" they are called, and
one of the young fellows said to me that you could buy a girl there for
the price of a sandwich. Read "The Long Day," to which I have previously
referred, and see how our working girls live. Dorothy Richardson
describes her room-mate, who read cheap novels which she found in the
gutter weeklies. She read them over and over; when she had got to the
bottom of the pile, she began again, because her mind was so weak that
she had forgotten everything. And then one day Miss Richardson happened
to be groping in a corner of a closet, and came upon a great pile of
bottles, and examined them, and was made sick with horror--abortion
mixtures.
Dr. William J. Robinson, an authority on the subject, estimates that
there are one million abortions in the United States every year. Some of
these are accidental, caused by venereal disease, but the vast majority
are deliberate acts, crimes under the law, murder of human life. Dr.
Robinson also estimates, from the many thousands of cases which come to
him, that ninety-five per cent of all men have at some time practiced
self-abuse. He is a strenuous opponent of what he calls "hysteria" on
the subject of venereal disease, and insists that its prevalence is
exaggerated; that instead of one person in ten being syphilitic, as is
commonly stated, the proportion is only one in twenty. He insists that
the percentage of persons having had gonorrhea is only twenty-five per
cent, instead of seventy-five or eighty-five. I find that other
authorities generally agree in the statement that fifty per cent of
young men become infected with some venereal disease before they reach
the age of thirty. The Committee of Seven in New York estimated in 1903
that there were two hundred thousand cases of syphilis in the city, and
eight hundred thousand of gonorrhea. There were villages in France
before the war in which twenty-five per cent of the inhabitants were
syphilitic, and in Russia there were towns in which it was said that
every person was syphilitic. We may safely say that these latter are the
only towns in Europe in which there was not an enormous increase of this
disease during and since the war.
What are the consequences of these diseases? The consequences are
frightful suffering, not merely to persons guilty of immorality, but to
innocent persons. Dr. Morrow, generally recognized as the leading
authority on this subject, estimates that ten per cent of all wives are
infected with venereal disease by their husbands; he estimates that
thirty per cent of all the infected women in New York were wives who had
got the disease from their husbands. It is estimated that thirty per
cent of all the births, where either parent has syphilis, result in
abortions. It is estimated that fifty per cent of childlessness in
marriage is caused by gonorrhea, and twenty-five per cent of all
existing blindness. In Germany, before the war, there were thirty
thousand persons born blind from this cause. It is estimated that
ninety-five per cent of all abdominal operations performed upon women
are due to gonorrhea. And any of these horrors may fall upon persons who
lead lives of the strictest chastity. There was a case reported in
Germany of 236 children who contracted venereal disease from swimming in
a public bath.
All these things are products of our system of
marriage-plus-prostitution. They are all part of that system, and no
study of the system is complete without them. Everywhere throughout
modern civilization prostitution is an enormous and lucrative industry.
In New York it is estimated to give employment to two hundred thousand
