chandeliers and many side bradcets. It was 
about two thirds full. A band was playing and 
on a platform a woman in a Spanish costume of 
sorts was dancing the can-can, to the noisy 
appreciation of the male guests. Along one 
side of the room was a bar with a large painting 
above it of bathing nymphs. The waters were 
Chinese. 
Holt found an unoccupied table and ordered 
an oyster stew, then glanced about him for 
 
possible centres of interest. There were many 
women present, gaudily attired, but they were 
not the elite of the half-world. Neither did 
the gentlemen who made life gay and care-free 
for the haughty ladies of the lower ten thousand patronize anything so blatant. They were 
far too high-toned themselves. Their standards were elevated, all things considered. 
But the women of commerce, of whatever 
status, had no interest for young Holt save as 
possible heroines of living drama. He had a 
lively news sense, and although an editor, and 
of a highly respectable sheet at that, he could 
become as keen on the track of a " story " as if 
he were still a reporter. 
But although the night birds were eating 
little and drinking a great deal, at this hour of 
two in the morning, the only excitement was the 
marvellous high kicking of the bla(t-eyed 
scantily clad young woman on the stage and the 
ribald applause of her admirers. 
His eye Was arrested by the slender back of a 
woman who sat at a table alone drinking champagne. She was so simply dressed that she was 
far more noticeable than if she had crowned 
herself with jewels. His limch arrived at the 
 
moment, and it was not until he had satisfied 
his usual morning appetite that he remembered 
the woman and glanced her way again. Two 
men were sitting at her table, apparently endeavoring to engage her in conversation. They 
belonged to the type loosely known as men 
about town, of no definite position, but with 
money to spend and a turn for adventure. 
It was equally apparent that they received no 
response to their amiable overtures, for they 
shrugged their shoulders in a moment, laughed, 
and went elsewhere. More than one woman 
sat alone and these were amenable enough. 
They came for no other purpose. 
Holt paid his account and strolled over to 
the table. When he took one of the chairs he 
was shocked but not particularly surprised to see 
that the woman was Mrs. Talbot. The town 
had rung with her story all winter, and he had 
heard several months since that she had obtained 
money in some way and left her husband. The 
report was that Dr. Talbot had traced her to 
lodgings an the Plaza, but she had not only 
refused to return to him but to tell him where 
she had obtained her funds. She had informed 
him that she had sufficient money to keep her 
 
"long enough/' but the doctor had his misgivings and directed his lawyers to pay the rent 
of the room and make an arrangement with a 
neighboring restaurant to send in her meals. 
Then he had gone off on a sea voyage. Holt 
had seen him driving his double team the day 
before, evidently on a round of visits. The 
sea, apparently, had done him little good. 
Nothing but age, no doubt, would shatter that 
superb constitution, but he had lost his ruddy 
color and his face was drawn and lined. 
Madeleine had not raised her eyes. She 
looked like an effigy of well-bred contempt, and 
Holt did not wonder that she suffered briefly 
from the attentions of predatory males in search 
of amusement. Moreover, she was very thin, 
and the sirens of that day were voluptuous. 
They fed on cream and sweets until the proper 
curves of bust and hips were achieved, and those 
that appeared in the wrong place were held flat 
with a broad " wooden whalebone." 
Holt was surprised to find her so little 
changed. It was evident she was one of those 
drinkers whom liquor made pallid not redj her 
skin was still smooth and her face had not lost 
its fine oval. But it was only a matter of time! 
" Mrs. Talbot." 
 
She raised her eyes with a faint start and 
with an expression of haughty disdain. But 
as she recognized him the expression faded and 
she regarded him sadly, 
" You see," she said. 
" It's a crime, you know." 
" Have you any news o£ him?" 
" Nothing new. It takes time to kill a man 
like that." 
" I hope he is more fortunate than I am! 
It hasn't the effect that it did. It keeps my 
nerves sodden, but my brain is horribly clear. 
