studied Clavering in too many of his moods to cherish the illusion any
longer.  Playwrighting seemed to her a contemptible pastime compared
with the hideous facts of Life as exemplified in Europe, and she had
restrained herself from an angry outburst more than once.  But she was
too philosophical, possibly too fatalistic, not to have dismissed this
attitude eventually.  Clavering could not be changed, but neither could
she.  There would be the usual compromises.  After all, of what was
life made up but of compromise?  But the early glow of the wondrous
dream had faded.  The mistress was evidently the rôle nature had cast
her to play.  The vision of home, the complete matehood, had gone the
way of all dreams.
XLII
She was not sorry to forego the doubtful luxury of meditation on the
sadness of life.  When Miss Trevor's card was brought to her she told
the servant to show her up and bring tea immediately.  She was not
interested in Agnes Trevor, a younger sister of Polly Vane, but at all
events she would talk about her settlement work and give a comfortably
commonplace atmosphere to the room in which tragic clouds were rising.
As it had happened, Mary, during these past weeks, had seen little of
New York women between the relics of her old set and their lively
Society-loving daughters.  The women between forty and fifty, whether
devoted to fashion, politics, husbands, children, or good works, had so
far escaped her, and Agnes Trevor, who lived with Mrs. Vane, was
practically the only representative of the intermediate age with whom
she had exchanged a dozen words.  But the admirable spinster had taken
up the cause of the Vienna children with enthusiasm and raised a good
deal of money, besides contributing liberally herself.  She was
forty-two, and, although she was said to have been a beautiful girl,
was now merely patrician in appearance, very tall and thin and
spinsterish, with a clean but faded complexion, and hair-colored hair
beginning to turn gray.  She had left Society in her early twenties and
devoted herself to moralizing the East Side.
She came in with a light step and an air of subdued bright energy, very
smartly but plainly dressed in dark blue tweed, with a large black hat
in which a wing had been accurately placed by the best milliner in New
York.  Her clothes were so well-worn, and her grooming was so
meticulous, her accent so clean and crisp, her manner so devoid of
patronage, yet subtly remote, her controlled heart so kind that she
perennially fascinated the buxom, rather sloppy, preternaturally acute,
and wholly unaristocratic young ladies of the East Side.
Mary, who had a dangerous habit of characterizing people in her Day
Book, had written when she met Agnes Trevor: "She radiates
intelligence, good will, cheeriness, innate superiority and
uncompromising virginity."
"Dear Mary!" she exclaimed in her crisp bright tones as she kissed her
amiable hostess.  "How delightful to find you alone.  I was afraid you
would be surrounded as usual."
"Oh, my novelty is wearing off," said Mary drily.  "But I will tell
them to admit no one else today.  I find I enjoy one person at a time.
One gets rather tired in New York of the unfinished sentence."
"Oh, do."  Mary's quick eye took note of a certain repressed excitement
in the fine eyes of her guest, who had taken an upright chair.
Lounging did not accord with that spare ascetic figure.  "And you are
quite right.  It is seldom one has anything like real conversation.
One has to go for that to those of our older women who have given up
Society to cultivate the intellects God gave them."
"Are there any?" murmured Mary.
"Oh, my dear, yes.  But, of course, you've had no time to meet them in
your mad whirl.  Now that things have slowed down a bit you must meet
them."
"I'm afraid it's too late.  I sail in a fortnight."
"Oh!"  Miss Trevor's voice shook oddly, and the slow color crept up her
cheeks.  But at that moment the tea was brought in.
"Will you pour it out?" asked Mary.  "I'm feeling rather lazy."
"Of course."  Miss Trevor was brightly acquiescent.  She seated herself
before the table.  The man retired with instructions that Madame was
not at home to other callers.
Mary watched her closely as she stirred the tea with a little
business-like air, warmed the cups, distributed the lemon and then
poured out the clear brown fluid.
"Formosa Oolong," she said, sniffing daintily.  "The only tea.  I hate
people who drink scented teas, don't you?  I'm going to have a very
strong cup, so I'll wait a minute or two.  I'm--rather tired."
"You?  You look as if you never relaxed in your sleep.  How do you keep
it up?"
"Oh, think of the life the younger women lead.  Mine is a quiet amble
along a country road by comparison. . . .  But . . . monotonous!"
The last word came out with the effect of a tiny explosion.  It
evidently surprised Miss Trevor herself, for she frowned, poured out a
cup of tea that was almost black, and began sipping it with a somewhat
elaborate concentration for one so simple and direct of method.
"I'm afraid good works are apt to grow monotonous.  A sad commentary on
the triumphs of civilization over undiluted nature."  Mary continued to
watch the torch bearer of the East Side.  "Don't you sometimes hate it?"
She asked the question idly, interested for the moment in probing under
another shell hardened in the mould of time, and half-hoping that Agnes
would be natural and human for once, cease to be the bright well-oiled
machine.  She was by no means prepared for what she got.
Miss Trevor gulped down the scalding tea in an almost unladylike
manner, and put the cup down with a shaking hand.
"That's what I've come to see you about," she said in a low intense
voice, and her teeth set for a moment as if she had taken a bit between
them.  "Mary, you've upset my life."
"I?  What next!"
"I suppose you have troubles of your own, dear, and I hate to bother
you with mine----"
"Oh, mine amount to nothing at present.  And if I can help you----"
She felt no enthusiasm at the prospect, but she saw that the woman was
laboring under excitement of some sort, and if she could not give her
sympathy at least she might help her with sound practical advice.
