and inlets, the rocky clefts and woody dells, had for- 
gotten their desecration ; and the gathering twilight, 
the sweetness of the garden-bordered pathway, and 
the serenity of the lonely landscape, helped us to 
doubt history. 
We slowly returned to the inn by the road we had 
 
ascended, noting again the mansion of the surprising 
Englishman who had come to Capri for three months 
and had remained thirty years ; passed through the 
darkness of the village, dropped here and there 
with the vivid red of a lamp, and so reached the 
inn at last, where we found the landlord ready to 
have the Tarantella danced for us. We framed a 
discreeter fiction than that prepared for us by the pa- 
triarch, and went in to dinner, where there were two 
Danish gentlemen in dispute with as many rogues 
of boatmen, who, having contracted to take them 
back that night to Naples, were now trying to fly 
their bargain and remain at Capri till the morrow. 
The Danes beat them, however, and then sat down 
to dinner, and to long stories of the imposture and 
villany of the Italians. One of them chiefly bewailed 
himself that the day before, having unwisely eaten a 
dozen oysters without agreeing first with the oyster- 
man upon the price, he had been obliged to pay this 
scamp's extortionate demand to the full, since he was 
unable to restore him his property. We thought 
that something like this might have happened to an 
imprudent man in any country, but we did not the 
less join him in abusing the Italians the purpose 
for which foreigners chiefly visit Italy. 
ii. 
STANDING on the height among the ruins of Ti- 
berius's palace, the patriarch had looked out over 
the waters, and predicted for the morrow the finest 
 
weather that had ever been known in that region ; 
but in spite of this prophecy the day dawned storm- 
ily, and at breakfast time we looked out doubtfully on 
waves lashed by driving rain. The entrance to the 
Blue Grotto, to visit which we had come to Capri, is 
by a semicircular opening, some three feet in width 
and two feet in height, and just large enough to ad- 
mit a small boat. One lies flat in the bottom of this, 
waits for the impulse of a beneficent wave, and is 
carried through the mouth of the cavern, and res- 
cued from it in like manner by some receding billow. 
When the wind is in the wrong quarter, it is impos- 
sible to enter the grot at all ; and we waited till nine 
o'clock for the storm to abate before we ventured 
forth. In the mean time one of the Danish gentle- 
men, who after assisting his companion to compel 
the boatmen to justice the night before had stayed 
at Capri, and had risen early to see the grotto, re- 
turned from it, and we besieged him with a hundred 
questions concerning it. But he preserved the wise 
silence of the boy who goes in to see the six-legged 
calf, and comes out impervious to the curiosity of all 
the boys who are doubtful whether the monster is 
worth their money. Our Dane would merely say 
that it was now possible to visit the Blue Grotto ; 
that he had seen it ; that he was glad he had seen it. 
As to its blueness, Messieurs yes, it is blue. 
The ladies had been amusing themselves with a 
perusal of the hotel register, and the notes of admi- 
ration or disgust with which the different sojourners 
 
at the inn had filled it. As a rule, the English peo- 
ple found fault with the poor little hostelry and the 
French people praised it. Commander Joshing and 
Lieutenant Prattent, R. N., of the former nation, 
" were cheated by the donkey women, and thought 
themselves extremely fortunate to have escaped with 
their lives from the effects of Capri vintage. The 
landlord was an old Cossack." On fhe other hand, 
we read, " J. Cruttard, homme de lettres, a passS 
quinze jours ici, et n'a eu que des felicity's du patron 
de cet hotel et de sa famille." Cheerful man of let- 
ters ! His good-natured record will keep green a 
name little known to literature. Who are G. Brad- 
shaw, Duke of New York, and Signori Jones and 
Andrews, Hereditary Princes of the United States ? 
Their patrician names followed the titles of several 
English nobles in the register. But that which most 
interested the ladies in this record was the warning 
of a terrified British matron against any visit to the 
Blue Grotto except in the very calmest weather. 
The British matron penned her caution after an all 
but fatal experience. The ladies read it aloud to us, 
and announced that for themselves they would be 
contented with pictures of the Blue Grotto and our 
account of its marvels. 
On the beach below the hotel lay the small boats 
of the guides to the Blue Grotto, and we descended 
to take one of them. The fixed rate is a franc for 
each person. The boatmen wanted five francs for 
each of us. "We explained that although not indige- 
nous to Capri, or even Italy, we were not of the sue- 
 
