course. 
" And there went great multitudes with 
him : and he turned, and said unto them, If 
any man come to me, and hate not his father, 
and mother, and wife, and children, and 
brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life 
also, he cannot be my disciple." 
And seeing Mr. Ulshoeffer coming to open 
the door, the little conclave broke up. The 
children and teachers came pouring in for the 
Sunday school. 
Going out after it was over, Matilda noticed 
a face she had not seen ; a boy older than 
herself, but not very old, standing near the 
door, looking at the small crowd that trooped 
along the aisle. The thought came to Matilda that he was a new scholar, and if so 
somebody ought to welcome him ; but nobody did, that she could see. He stood alone, 
looking at the people as if they were strange 
 
to him ; with a good, bright, wide-awake face, 
handsome and bold. Matilda did not want 
to take the welcoming upon herself, but she 
thought somebody should do it; and the 
next minute she had paused in front of the 
stranger. 
" Is this the first time you have been 
here ? " she asked, with a kind of shy grace. 
The boy's bright eyes came down to her with 
a look of surprise, as he assented. 
" I am very glad to see you in our Sunday 
school," she went on. " I hope it was pleasant." 
" It was pleasant enough," said the stranger. " There is a jolly fellow over there 
asked me to come Ben Barth ; are you his 
sister ? " 
" O no," said Matilda. " Ben has his own 
sisters. I am not one of them." 
" I thought maybe he told you to speak to 
me." 
" Nobody told me," said Matilda. By this 
time they had followed the crowd out at the 
door and were taking their way down the 
street. 
"What did you speak to me then, for ? " 
said the boy with a roguish look at her. 
" I thought you were a stranger." 
" And what if I was ? " 
" I think, if you are a stranger anywhere, 
it is pleasant to have somebody speak to 
you." 
" You're a Brick ! " was the stranger's conclusion. 
" Am I ? " said Matilda. " Why am I ? " 
" You're a girl, I suppose, and don't understand things," said her companion. "Boys 
know what a Brick is when they see it." 
Why, so do I," said Matilda, don't I ? " 
But the boy only laughed, and then asked 
Matilda where she lived, and if she had any 
brothers, and where she went to school. 
" I go to the other school, you see," said 
he ; " that's how I've never seen you before. 
I wish you went to my school ; and I'd give 
you a ride on my sled." 
 
"But you'll come to our Sunday school, 
won't you ? " Matilda asked. 
" To be sure I will ; but you see, I can't take 
you on my sled on Sunday. They'd have all 
the ministers out after me." 
" O, no ! " said Matilda. " I was not thinking of the sled ; but you are very kind." 
" I should like it," said the boy. " Yes, I 
am coming to the school though I guess 
I've got an old fogy of a teacher. But the 
minister's a Brick isn't he ? " 
" He isn't much like me" said Matilda 
laughing. " And the sort of bricks that I 
know, one is very much like another." 
The boy laughed too, and asked if she 
didn't want to know his name? Matilda 
glanced again at the frank face and nice dress, 
and said yes. 
" My name's Norton Laval. What's 
yours ? " 
" Matilda Englefield. I am going this 
way." 
" Yes, you go that way and I go this way , 
but we shall see each other again. Good 
bye." 
So at the corner they parted ; and Matilda 
went home, thinking that in this instance at 
least the welcoming of strangers had paid well. 
For this was a pleasant new acquaintance, 
she was sure. She mounted the stairs with 
happy feet to her room ; and there found 
Maria in a flood of tears. Maria had staid 
at home from Sunday school to-day. 
"What is the matter, Maria?" her little 
sister inquired. " How's mamma ? " 
" I don't know ! O, nothing will ever be 
well again! O Tilly, what will become of 
us!" 
And here a storm of sobs and tears came 
