brightest. He will make a writer yet," and she showed him my manuscript.
"You must look after him, Mother," said my father, as he always said,
when there arose any exigency about the children, that required delicate
handling.
My mother was one of that class of women whose power on earth seems to
be only the greater for being a spiritual and invisible one. The control
of such women over men is like that of the soul over the body. The body
is visible, forceful, obtrusive, self-asserting. The soul invisible,
sensitive, yet with a subtle and vital power which constantly gains
control and holds every inch that it gains.
My father was naturally impetuous, though magnanimous, hasty tempered
and imperious, though conscientious; my mother united the most exquisite
sensibility with the deepest calm--calm resulting from habitual
communion with the highest and purest source of all rest--the peace that
passeth all understanding. Gradually, by this spiritual force, this
quietude of soul, she became his leader and guide. He held her hand and
looked up to her with a trustful implicitness that increased with every
year.
"Where's your mother?" was always the fond inquiry when he entered the
house, after having been off on one of his long preaching tours or
clerical counsels. At all hours he would burst from his study with
fragments of the sermon or letter he was writing, to read to her and
receive her suggestions and criticisms. With her he discussed the plans
of his discourses, and at her dictation changed, improved, altered and
added; and under the brooding influence of her mind, new and finer
traits of tenderness and spirituality pervaded his character and his
teachings. In fact, my father once said to me, "She made me by her
influence."
In these days, we sometimes hear women, who have reared large families
on small means, spoken of as victims who had suffered unheard of
oppressions. There is a growing materialism that refuses to believe that
there can be happiness without the ease and facilities and luxuries of
wealth.
But my father and mother, though living on a narrow income, were never
really poor. The chief evil of poverty is the crushing of ideality out
of life--the taking away its poetry and substituting hard prose;--and
this with them was impossible. My father loved the work he did, as the
artist loves his painting and the sculptor his chisel. A man needs less
money when he is doing only what he loves to do--what, in fact, he
must do,--pay or no pay. St. Paul said, "A necessity is laid upon me,
yea, woe is me, if I preach not the gospel." Preaching the gospel was
his irrepressible instinct, a necessity of his being. My mother, from
her deep spiritual nature, was one soul with my father in his life-work.
With the moral organization of a prophetess, she stood nearer to heaven
than he, and looking in, told him what she saw, and he, holding her
hand, felt the thrill of celestial electricity. With such women, life
has no prose; their eyes see all things in the light of heaven, and
flowers of paradise spring up in paths that to unanointed eyes, seem
only paths of toil. I never felt, from anything I saw at home, from any
word or action of my mother's, that we were poor, in the sense that
poverty was an evil. I was reminded, to be sure, that we were poor in a
sense that required constant carefulness, watchfulness over little
things, energetic habits, and vigorous industry and self-helpfulness.
But we were never poor in any sense that restricted hospitality or made
it a burden. In those days, a minister's house was always the home for
all the ministers and their families, whenever an exigency required of
them to travel, and the spare room of our house never wanted guests of
longer or shorter continuance. But the atmosphere of the house was such
as always made guests welcome. Three or four times a year, the annual
clerical gatherings of the church filled our house to overflowing and
necessitated an abundant provision and great activity of preparation on
the part of the women of our family. Yet I never heard an expression of
impatience or a suggestion that made me suppose they felt themselves
unduly burdened. My mother's cheerful face was a welcome and a
benediction at all times, and guests found it good to be with her.
In the midst of our large family, of different ages, of vigorous growth,
of great individuality and forcefulness of expression, my mother's was
the administrative power. My father habitually referred everything to
her, and leaned on her advice with a childlike dependence. She read the
character of each, she mediated between opposing natures: she translated
the dialect of different sorts of spirits, to each other. In a family of
young children, there is a chance for every sort and variety of natures;
and for natures whose modes of feeling are as foreign to each other, as
those of the French and the English. It needs a common interpreter, who
understands every dialect of the soul, thus to translate differences of
individuality into a common language of love.
It has often seemed to me a fair question, on a review of the way my
mother ruled in our family, whether the politics of the ideal state in a
millennial community, should not be one equally pervaded by
mother-influences.
The woman question of our day, as I understand it is this.--Shall
MOTHERHOOD ever be felt in the public administration of the affairs of
state? The state is nothing more nor less than a collection of families,
and what would be good or bad for the individual family, would be good
or bad for the state.
Such as our family would have been, ruled only by my father, without my
mother, such the political state is, and has been; there have been in it
"conscript fathers," but no "conscript mothers;" yet is not a mother's
influence needed in acts that relate to the interests of collected
families as much as in individual ones?
The state, at this very day, needs an influence like what I remember our
mother's to have been, in our great, vigorous, growing family,--an
influence quiet, calm, warming, purifying, uniting--it needs a womanly
economy and thrift in husbanding and applying its material resources--it
needs a divining power, by which different sections and different races
can be interpreted to each other, and blended together in love--it needs
an educating power, by which its immature children may be trained in
virtue--it needs a loving and redeeming power, by which its erring and
criminal children may be borne with, purified, and led back to virtue.
Yet, while I thus muse, I remember that such women as my mother are
