instant. Canaris held her with a clasp more jealous than fond; Gladys
clung to him, yet trembled, as if some fear subdued her joy; and both
vaguely felt the incompleteness of a moment which should be perfect.
“You do love me, then?” she whispered, wondering at his silence.
“Should I ask you to be my wife if I did not?” and the stern look melted
into an expression of what seemed, to her, reproach.
“No; ah, no! I fancied that I might have deceived myself. I am so young,
you are so kind. I never had a—friend before;” and Gladys smiled shyly,
as the word which meant “lover” dropped from her lips.
“I am not kind: I am selfish, cruel, perhaps, to let you love me so. You
will never reproach me for it, Gladys? I mean to save you from ills you
know nothing of; to cherish and protect you—if I can.”
Verily in earnest now; for the touch of those innocent lips reminded him
of all his promise meant, recalled his own unfitness to guide or guard
another, when so wayward and unwise himself. Gladys could not understand
the true cause of his beseeching look, his urgency of tone; but saw in
them only the generous desire to keep safe the creature dearest to him,
and loved him the more for it.
“I never can think you selfish, never will reproach you but will love
and trust and honor you all my life,” she answered, with a simplicity as
solemn as sincere; and, holding out the hand that held her dead mother’s
cross, Canaris pledged his troth upon it with the mistaken chivalry
which makes many a man promise to defend a woman against all men but
himself.
“Now you can be happy again,” he said, feeling that he had done his best
to keep her so.
She thought he meant look out upon the lake, dreaming of him as when he
found her; and, turning, stretched forth her arms as if to embrace the
whole world, and tell the smiling heaven her glad secret.
“Doubly happy; then I only hoped, now I know!”
Something in the exultant gesture, the fervent tone, the radiant face,
thrilled Canaris with a sudden admiration; a feeling of proud
possession; a conviction that he had gained, not lost; and he said
within himself,—
“I am glad I did it. I will cherish her; she will inspire me; and good
shall come out of seeming evil.”
His spirits rose with a new sense of well-being and well-doing. He
gathered up the rejected treasure, and gave it back to Gladys, saying
lightly,—
“You may keep it as a wedding-gift; then he need give no other. He meant
it so, perhaps, and it will please him. Will you, love?”
“If you ask it. But why must brides wear pearls? They mean tears,” she
added, thoughtfully, as she received them back.
“Perhaps because then the sorrows of their lives begin. Yours shall not:
I will see to that,” he promised, with the blind confidence of the
self-sacrificing mood he was in.
Gladys sat down upon the rock to explore a pocket, so small and empty
that Canaris could not help smiling, as he, too, leaned and looked with
a lover’s freedom.
“Only my old chain. I must put back the cross, else I shall lose it,”
laughed Gladys, as she brought out a little cord of what seemed woven
yellow silk.
“Is it your hair?” he asked, his eye caught by its peculiar sunshiny
hue.
“Yes; I could not buy a better one, so I made this. My hair is all the
gold I have.”
“Give it to me, and you wear mine. See, I have an amulet as well as
you.”
Fumbling in his breast, Canaris undid a slender chain, whence hung a
locket, curiously chased, and tarnished with long wear. This he unslung,
and, opening, showed Gladys the faded picture of a beautiful, sad woman.
“That is my Madonna.”
“Your mother?”
“Yes.”
“Mine now.” The girl touched it with her lips, then softly closed and
laid it on her lap.
Silently Canaris stood watching her, as she re-slung both poor but
precious relics, while the costlier one slipped down, as if ashamed to
lie beside them. He caught and swung it on his finger, thinking of
something he had lately read to Helwyze.
“Kharsu, the Persian, sent a necklace to Schirin, the princess, whom he
loved. She was a Christian, and hung a cross upon his string of pearls,
as you did,” he said aloud.
“But I am not a princess, and Mr. Helwyze does not love me; so the
pretty story is all spoiled.”
“This thing recalled it. I have given you a necklace, and you are
hanging a cross upon it. Wear the one, and use the other, for my sake.
Will you, Gladys?”
“Did Schirin convert Kharsu?” asked the girl, catching his thought more
from his face than his words; for it wore a look of mingled longing and
regret, which she had never seen before.
“That I do not know; but you must convert me: I am a sad heathen,
Helwyze says.”
“Has he tried?”
“No.”
“Then I will!”
“You see I’ve had no one to teach me any thing but worldly wisdom, and I
sometimes feel as I should be better for a little of the heavenly sort.
So when you wear the rosary I shall give you—‘Fair saint, in your
orisons be all my sins remembered;’” and Canaris put his hand upon her
head, smiling, as if half-ashamed of his request.
“I am no Catholic, but I will pray for you, and you shall not be lost.
The mother in heaven and the wife on earth will keep you safe,”
whispered Gladys, in her fervent voice, feeling and answering with a
woman’s quickness the half-expressed desire of a nature conscious of its
weakness, yet unskilled in asking help for its greatest need.
Silently the two young lovers put on their amulets, and, hand in hand,
went back along the winding path, till they reached the great eglantine
that threw its green arches across the outlet from the wood. All beyond
was radiantly bright and blooming; and as Canaris, passing first to hold
