shall be my care, thy love my pride and joy. Here is my hand,--wilt thou
accept it, Adrian?
Adrian. I will. I would not seek to banish from thy heart the silent
love thou bearest Louis. I am content if thou wilt trust me with thy
happiness, and give me the sweet right to guide and guard thee through
the pilgrimage of life. God bless thee, dearest.
Leonore. Dear Adrian, can I do nought for thee? I have now won the right
to cheer thy sorrows. Have faith in thy Leonore.
Adrian. Thou hast a right to know all, and ere long thou shalt. My
mysterious vow will now soon be fulfilled, and then no doubt shall part
us. Thou hast placed thy trust in me, and I have not betrayed it, and
now I ask a greater boon of thy confiding heart. Wilt thou consent to
wed me ere I cast aside this mask forever? Believe me, thou wilt not
regret it,--'tis part of my vow; one last trial, and I will prove to
thee thou didst not trust in vain. Forgive if I have asked too much.
Nay, thou canst not grant so strange a boon.
Leonore. I can--I will. I did but pause, for it seemed strange thou
couldst not let me look upon thy face. But think not that I fear to
grant thy wish. Thy heart is pure and noble, and that thou canst not
mask. As I trusted thee through my despair, so now I trust thee in my
joy. Canst thou ask more, dear friend?
Adrian. Ever trust me thus! Ah, Leonore, how can I repay thee? My love,
my life, are all I can give thee for the blessed gift thou hast
bestowed. A time will come when all this mystery shall cease and we
shall part no more. Now must I leave thee, dearest. Farewell! Soon will
I return.
                                                         [Exit Adrian.
Leonore. I will strive to be a true and loving wife to thee, dear
Adrian; for I have won a faithful friend in thee forever.
                                CURTAIN.
                           SCENE THIRTEENTH.
                 [Hall in the castle of Count Louis.
                 Enter Leonore, in bridal robes.]
Leonore. At length the hour hath come, when I shall look upon the face
of him whom I this day have sworn to love and honor as a wife. I have,
perchance, been rash in wedding one I know not, but will not cast a
doubt on him who hath proved the noble heart that beats within his
breast. I am his, and come what may, the vows I have this day made shall
be unbroken. Ah, he comes; and now shall I gaze upon my husband's face!
                                                        [Enter Adrian.
Adrian. Dearest, fear not. Thou wilt not trust me less when thou hast
looked upon the face so long concealed. My vow is ended, thou art won.
Thy hand is mine; Leonore, I claim thy heart.
                [Unmasks. Leonore screams and falls upon his breast.
Leonore. Louis, Louis! 'Tis a blessed dream!
Louis. No dream, my Leonore; it is thy living Louis who hath watched
above thee, and now claims thee for his own. Ah, dearest, I have tried
thee too hardly,--pardon me!
Leonore. Oh, Louis, husband, I have nought to pardon; my life, my
liberty, my happiness,--all, all, I owe to thee. How shall I repay thee?
[Weeps upon his bosom.]
Louis. By banishing these tears, dear love, and smiling on me as you
used to do. Here, love, sit beside me while I tell thee my most strange
tale, and then no longer shalt thou wonder. Art happy now thy Adrian
hath flung by his mask?
Leonore. Happy! What deeper joy can I desire than that of seeing thy
dear face once more? But tell me, Louis, how couldst thou dwell so long
beside me and not cheer my bitter sorrow when I grieved for thee.
Louis. Ah, Leonore, thou wouldst not reproach me, didst thou know how
hard I struggled with my heart, lest I should by some tender word, some
fond caress, betray myself when thou didst grieve for me.
Leonore. Why didst thou fear to tell thy Leonore? She would have aided
and consoled thee. Why didst thou let me pine in sorrow at thy side,
when but a word had filled my heart with joy?
Louis. Dearest, I dared not. Thou knowest I was banished by the hate of
that fiend Rodolpho. I had a fair and gentle sister, whom he wed, and
after cruelty and coldness that I dread to think of now, he murdered
her. I sought old Norna's aid. She promised it, and well hath kept her
word. When Count Rodolpho's ruffian left me dying in the forest, she
saved, and brought me back to life. She bade me take a solemn vow not to
betray myself, and to aid her in her vengeance on the murderer of
Theresa. Nor could I own my name and rank, lest it should reach the king
who had banished me. The vow I took, and have fulfilled.
Leonore. And is there no danger now? Art thou safe, dear Louis, from the
Count?
Louis. Fear not, my love. He will never harm us more; his crimes are
known. The king hath pardoned me. I have won thee back. He is an
outcast, and old Norna's spells have well-nigh driven him mad. My
sister, thou art well avenged! Alas! alas! would I could have saved, and
led thee hither to this happy home.
Leonore. Ah, grieve not, Louis; she is happy now, and thy Leonore will
strive to fill her place. Hast thou told me all?
Louis. Nay, love. Thou knowest how I watched above thee, but thou canst
never know the joy thy faithful love for one thou mourned as dead hath
brought me. I longed to cast aside the dark disguise I had vowed to
wear, but dared not while Rodolpho was at liberty. Now all is safe. I
have tried thy love, and found it true. Oh, may I prove most worthy of
it, dearest.
Leonore. Louis, how can I love too faithfully the friend who, 'mid his
own grief and danger, loved and guarded me. I trusted thee as Adrian; as
Louis I shall love thee until death.
Louis. And I shall prize most tenderly the faithful heart that trusted
me through doubt and mystery. Now life is bright and beautiful before
us, and may you never sorrow that thou gav'st thy heart to Louis, and
thy hand to Adrian the "Black Mask."
                                CURTAIN.
                           SCENE FOURTEENTH.
                           [A dungeon cell.
                       Rodolpho chained, asleep.
                             Enter Norna.]
