men and women will cherish their sacred share 
of Mr. Fields's kindness." 
One of his favorite dinner-table stories was 
of the man who was " a firm friend to every 
one who did not need a friend." His laughing 
eye lay in wait to see if one would tumble into 
his little trap, and its merry respect for one's 
self-protecting intellect, if one perceived the 
net, was as refreshing as after-dinner coffee. 
One of the prettiest stories I ever heard 
about Mr. Fields, I think, may have been 
already told in his memoirs ; but I am sure I 
shall not be forbidden to recall it here. 
On one of his lecture tours at the West, in a 
small town, an inexperienced young person had 
engaged him without suitable advertisements or 
arrangements. It was a bitter night, and the 
audience was so scanty that the poor young 
man who, presumably, had not a dollar where- 
 
with to meet his liabilities, was overcome with 
anguish. Mr. Fields, used to the best audiences 
in America, exhibited no discomfort, but 
quietly took the young manager apart, released 
him from all pecuniary obligation to the 
lecturer, and inquired the extent of his indebted 
ness for all other expenses. These were quietly 
met out of the lecturer's own pocket ; and that 
young man went away adoring. 
I remember one instance which, -undoubt 
edly, was but one of many like it, never brought 
to the knowledge of his friends, where Mr. 
Fields's observant eye discovered a well-known 
author under one of the lapses of fortune so 
common in our struggling calling, sicky neglected,
and poor past the edge of want. . The 
publisher hunted up the poor fellow, made a 
call of courtesy, talked a little in his cheerful 
way  and left. But that afternoon came to the 
sufferer the proceeds -of his visitor's last lecture. 
" I have just cashed the check," wrote the 
happy-natured Samaritan, " and am convinced 
the bills are counterfeit. I have no kind of use 
for them. Do get them off my hands." 
Mr. Fields was a man of marked chivalry of 
nature, and, at a time when it was not fashion 
able to help the movements for the elevation of 
women, his sympathy was distinct, fearless, and 
faithful. In a few instances we knew and he 
 
knew that this fact deprived him of the posses 
sion of certain public honors which would other 
wise have been offered him. 
He advocated the political advancement of 
our sex, coeducation, and kindred movements, 
without any of that apologetic murmur so
common among the half-hearted or the timid. His 
fastidious and cultivated literary taste was 
sensitive to the position of women in letters. He 
was incapable of that literary snobbishness which 
undervalues a woman's work because it is a 
woman s. A certain publishing enterprise which 
threatened to treat of eminent men came to his 
notice. He quickly said : " The time has gone 
by for that ! Men and women ! Men and 
women !" 
"When the war is over," he said to Mrs. 
Livermore, when she appealed to him for some 
help (which he generously gave) in behalf of 
the Sanitary Commission, "you must give us 
a book of your experience, and show us the 
heavenly side of the War." 
I remember one day after his mortal illness 
was upon him, that I chanced to be passing 
through the hall, as he was preparing to go out. 
He was too weak to put on his own overcoat, 
and he was obliged to ask a servant to do it for 
him. I was struck with the manner in which 
he did this : " Lisa " - he said gently, " I am 
 
afraid I must trouble you." Any thoughtful 
gentleman might have said as much ; but how 
many would have given a servant an order in 
such a tone as his ? It is not possible to 
reproduce the delicacy and chivalry of it ; as if, be 
cause she was a woman, he would have spared 
her that trifling, personal service. 
I thought of this when I heard recently the 
testimony of a refined young woman who, to 
aid herself in her education, had taken service 
in a New York family, determined to try the 
experiment of "lady help," of which the 
employer talks so much, and concerning which 
the employee is often so mysteriously silent. 
"I left the situation," she said. "The gentle 
men of the family came in and handed me their 
dripping umbrellas on a wet day without a 
glance or a word not as if I were a human 
being just as if I had been an umbrella stand. 
I could not bear it." 
