of solid rock, whence it turned abruptly to the- 
south. Here for a mile or more was a waving 
line of steep irregular cliffs, harsh, barren, intersected with gullies. Then the land became 
suddenly as flat as the sea, save for the shifting 
dunes, the desert porch of the great fertile valley 
hidden from the water by the waves of sand, but 
indicated by its rampart of mountains. The shallower water curved abruptly inward between the 
rocky mass on the right and a gentler incline and 
point two miles below. At its head was the 
" Battery of Yerba Buena,'' facing the island 
from which it took its name. Rezanov scrupulously kept his word and did not raise his glass 
but one contemptuous glance satisfied his curios- 
ity. His eye roved over the steep hills that were 
designed to bristle with forts, and, as sometimes, 
happened, when he spoke again to Concha, whom 
he kept close to his side, for the other girls bored 
him, his words did not express the workings of 
his mind. 
" Athens has no finer site than this," he said. 
' ' I should like to see a white marble city on these 
hills, and on that plain, when all the sand dunes 
are levelled. Not in our time, perhaps ! But, as 
I told you, I have surrendered myself to the 
habit of dreaming." 
Concha shrugged her shoulders and made no 
reply at the moment. As they sailed toward the 
east before turning south again, she pointed 
across the great silvery sheet of water 
melting into the misty southern horizon, to 
a high ridge of mountains that looked to be a continuation of the San Bruno range behind the 
Mission, but slanting farther west with the coast 
line. 
'' Those are behind our rancho, sehor — Eanclio 
El Pilar, or Las Pulgas, as some prefer. Perhaps 
my father will take you there. I hope so, for we 
love to go, and may not too often; my father is 
very busy here. He is one of the few that has 
received a large grant of land, and it is because 
the clergy love him so much they oppose his 
wish in nothing. Do you see those sharp points 
against the sky? They are the tops of lofty trees, 
like the masts of giant ships, and with many rigid 
arms spiked like the pines. You saw a few of 
them in the hollow below Tamalpais, but up on 
those mountains there are miles and miles of 
mighty forests. No white man has ever penetrated them, nor ever will, perhaps. We have no 
use for them, and even if you made this your 
kingdom, senor, I suppose not many would come 
with you. Far, far down where the water stops 
are the Missions of Santa Clara and San Jose; 
but I have heard you cannot approach within 
many miles of the land in a boat. ' ' 
A¥lien they had sailed south for a few moments 
the boat came about abruptly. Concha laughed. 
'' I had forgotten the chart. I rather hoped you 
would run on a shoal." 
But as they approached the cove of Yerba 
Buena again she caught his arm suddenly, un- 
conscious of the act, and the little dancing lights 
of humor in her eyes went out. " Your white city, 
senor ! Ay, Dios ! what a city of dreams that can 
never come true ! ' ' 
The soft white fog that sometimes, even at this 
season, came in from the sea, was rolling over 
the hills between the Battery and the Presidio, 
wreathing about the rocky heights and slopes. It 
broke into domes and cupolas, spires and min- 
arets. Great waves rolled over the sand dunes 
and beat upon the cliffs with the phantoms clinging to its sides. Then the sun struggled through ; 
for a moment the ghostly city was iridescent with 
a thousand colors. The sun conquered, the mist 
 
shimmered into sunlight, and once more the hills 
were gray and bare. 
Eezanov laughed, but his eyes glowed down 
upon her. " I am not sure it was there, ' ' he said. 
" I have an idea your imagination and touch 
acted as a sort of enchanter's wand. The others 
evidently saw nothing. " 
'' The others saw only fog and shivered. But 
it was there, seiior. We have had a vision. A 
Eussian city! Ay, yi! '' 
But Eezanov had forgotten the city. Her 
reboso had fallen and a strand of her hair blew 
across his face. His lips caught it and his eyes 
burned. They rounded a headland and the world 
looked green and young. 
" Concha ! ' ' he whispered. 
Her eyes flashed and melted, she lifted her chin ; 
then burst into a merry ripple of laughter. 
" Senor! " she said, " if you make love to me 
I shall have to compare you with many others, 
and I might not like the Eussian fashion. You 
are much better as you are — very grand seigneur, 
iron-handed and absolute, haughty and arrogant, 
but the most charming person in the world, with 
ends to gain, even from such humble folk as a 
handful of stranded Calif ornians. But to sigh! 
 
to languish, with the eye ! to sing at the grating ! 
