    Lo! the ruddy moon is paling!
        La-[=e]-la!
        La-[=e]-la!
    Clouds the dying moon are veiling,
    Every cloud a shroud for you!
        La-[=e]-lou!
        La-[=e]-lou!"
"Cispangou," she explained, "is the very, very ancient name, among the
Mongols, for Japan."
"It's not exactly a gay song," he said. "What's it about?"
"Oh, it's a very ancient song about the Mongol invasion of Japan. I know
scores and scores of such songs."
She sang some other songs. Afterward she descended from the hammock and
came and sat down beside him on the veranda steps.
"I wish I could amuse you," she said wistfully.
"Why do you think I'm bored, Tressa? I'm not at all."
But she only sighed, lightly, and gathered her knees in both arms.
"I don't know how young men in the Western world are entertained," she
remarked presently.
"You don't have to entertain me," he said, smiling.
"I should be happy to, if I knew how."
"How are young men entertained in the Orient?"
"Oh, they like songs and stories. But I don't think you do."
He laughed in spite of himself.
"Do you really wish to entertain me?"
"I do," she said seriously.
"Then please perform some of those tricks of magic which you can do so
amazingly well."
Her dawning smile faded a trifle. "I don't--I haven't----" She
hesitated.
"You haven't your professional paraphernalia with you," he suggested.
"Oh--as for that----"
"Don't you need it?"
"For some things--some kinds of things.... I could do--other
things----"
He waited. She seemed disconcerted. "Don't do anything you don't wish to
do, Tressa," he said.
"I was only--only afraid--that if I should do some little things to
amuse you, I might stir--stir up--interfere--encounter some sinister
current--and betray myself--betray my whereabouts----"
"Well, for heaven's sake don't venture then!" he said with emphasis.
"Don't do anything to stir up any other wireless--any Yezidee----"
"I am wondering," she reflected, "just what I dare venture to do to
amuse you."
"Don't bother about me. I wouldn't have you try any psychic stunt down
here, and run the chance of stirring up some Asiatic devil somewhere!"
She nodded absently, occupied with her own thoughts, sitting there, chin
on hand, her musing eyes intensely blue.
"I think I can amuse you," she concluded, "without bringing any harm to
myself."
"Don't try it, Tressa!----"
"I'll be very careful. Now, sit quite still--closer to me, please."
He edged closer; and became conscious of an indefinable freshness in the
air that enveloped him, like the scent of something young and growing.
But it was no magic odour,--merely the virginal scent of her hair and
skin that even clung to her summer gown.
He heard her singing under her breath to herself:
    "La-[=e]-la!
    La-[=e]-la!"
and murmuring caressingly in an unknown tongue.
Then, suddenly in the pale sunshine, scores of little birds came
hovering around them, alighting all over them. And he saw them swarming
out of the mossy festoons of the water-oaks--scores and scores of tiny
birds--Parula warblers, mostly--all flitting fearlessly down to alight
upon his shoulders and knees, all keeping up their sweet, dreamy little
twittering sound.
"This is wonderful," he whispered.
The girl laughed, took several birds on her forefinger.
"This is nothing," she said. "If I only dared--wait a moment!----" And,
to the Parula warblers:
"Go home, little friends of God!"
The air was filled with the musical whisper of wings. She passed her
right arm around her husband's neck.
"Look at the river," she said.
"Good God!" he blurted out. And sat dumb.
For, over the St. John's misty surface, there was the span of a
bridge--a strange, marble bridge humped up high in the centre.
And over it were passing thousands of people--he could make them out
vaguely--see them passing in two never-ending streams--tinted shapes on
the marble bridge.
And now, on the farther shore of the river, he was aware of a city--a
vast one, with spectral pagoda shapes against the sky----
Her arm tightened around his neck.
He saw boats on the river--like the grotesque shapes that decorate
ancient lacquer.
She rested her face lightly against his cheek.
In his ears was a far confusion of voices--the stir and movement of
multitudes--noises on ships, boatmen's cries, the creak of oars.
Then, far and sonorous, quavering across the water from the city, the
din of a temple gong.
There were bells, too--very sweet and silvery--camel bells, bells from
the Buddhist temples.
He strained his eyes, and thought, amid the pagodas, that there were
minarets, also.
Suddenly, clear and ringing came the distant muezzin's cry: "There is no
other god but God!... It is noon. Mussulmans, pray!"
The girl's arm slipped from his neck and she shuddered and pushed him
from her.
There was nothing, now, on the river or beyond it but the curtain of
hanging mist; no sound except the cry of a gull, sharp and querulous in
