from her books ; and she bitterly said her mother must expect to find an ignorant little daughter when she come home. 
It ended with, u 0, if I could just see you, and kiss you, and 
put my arms round you, mamma, I'd be willing to die !" 
This letter was despatched the next morning by Mr. Van 
Brunt ; and Ellen waited and watched with great anxiety for 
his return from Thirlwall in the afternoon. 
CHAPTER XV. 
 
The afternoon was already half spent when Mr. Van 
Brunt's ox-cart was seen returning. Ellen was standing by 
the little gate that opened on the chip-yard ; and with her 
heart beating anxiously she watched the slow-coming oxen ; — 
how slowly they came ! At last they turned out of the lane 
and drew the cart up the ascent ; and stopping beneath the 
apple-tree Mr. Van Brunt leisurely got down, and flinging 
back his whip came to the gate. But the little face that 
met him there, quivering with hope and fear, made his own 
quite sober. " I'm really very sorry, Miss Ellen, — " he 
began. 
That was enough. Ellen waited to hear no more, but 
turned away, the cold chill of disappointment coming over 
her heart. She had borne the former delays pretty well, but 
this was one too many, and she felt siek. She went round 
to the front stoop, where scarcely ever anybody came, and 
sitting down on the steps wept sadly and despairingly. 
It might have been half an hour or more after, that the 
kitchen door slowly opened and Ellen came in. Wishing her 
aunt should not see her swollen eyes, she was going quietly 
through to her own room when Miss Fortune called her. 
Ellen stopped. Miss Fortune was sitting before the fire with 
an open letter lying in her lap and another in her hand. 
The latter she held out to Ellen, saying, " Here child, come 
and take this." 
"What is it ?" said Ellen, slowly coming towards her. 
" Don't you see what it is ?" said Miss Fortune, still hold- 
ing it out. 
" But who is it from ?" said Ellen. 
" Your mother." 
"A letter from mamma, and not to me !" said Ellen with 
changing color. She took it quick from her aunt's hand. 
But her color changed more as her eye fell upon the first 
words, "My dear Ellen," and turning the paper she saw 
upon the back, " Miss Ellen Montgomery." Her next look 
was to her aunt's face, with her eye fired and her cheek 
paled with anger, and when she spoke her voice was not the 
same. 
" This is my letter," she said trembling ; — " who opened 
it?" 
Miss Fortune's conscience must have troubled her a little, 
for her eye wavered uneasily. Only for a second though. 
"Who opened it?" she answered; "I opened it. I 
should like to know who has a better right. And I shall 
open every one that comes, to serve you for looking so ; — 
that you may depend upon." 
The look and the words and the injury together, fairly 
put Ellen beside herself. She dashed the letter to the 
ground, and livid and trembling with various feelings — rage 
was not the only one, — she ran from her aunt's presence. She 
did not shed any tears now ; she could not ; they were abso- 
lutely burnt up by passion. She walked, her room with 
trembling steps, clasping and wringing her hands now and 
then, wildly thinking what could she do to get out of this 
dreadful state of things, and unable to see anything but 
misery before her. She walked for she could not sit down ; 
but presently she felt that she could not breathe the air of 
the house ; and taking her bonnet she went down, passed 
through the kitchen and went out. Miss Fortune asked 
where she was going, and bade her stay within doors, but 
Ellen paid no attention to her. 
She stood still a moment outside of the little gate. She 
might have stood long to look. The mellow light of an Indian-summer afternoon lay upon the meadow and the old 
barn and chip-yard ; there was beauty in them all under its 
smile. Not a breath was stirring. The rays of the sun 
struggled through a blue haze, which hung upon the hills 
and softened every distant object ; and the silence of nature 
all around was absolute, made more noticeable by the far-off 
voice of somebody, it might be Mr. Van Brunt, calling to his 
oxen, very far off and not to be seen ; the sound came softly 
to her ear through the stillness. " Peace," was the whisper 
of nature to her troubled child ; but Ellen's heart was in a 
whirl ; she could not hear the whisper. It was a relief how- 
ever to be out of the house and in the sweet open air. Ellen 
breathed more freely, and pausing a moment there, and clasping her hands together once more in sorrow, she went down 
the road and out at the gate, and exchanging her quick 
broken step for a slow measured one, she took the way towards Thirl wall. Little regarding the loveliness which that 
day was upon every slope and roadside, Ellen presently 
quitted the Thirlwall road and half unconsciously turned into 
a path on the left which she had never taken before, — perhaps for that reason. It was not much traveled evidently ; 
the grass grew green on both sides and even in the middle 
of the way, though here and there the track of wheels could 
be seen. Ellen did not care about where she was going ; she 
only found it pleasant to walk on and get further from home. 
The road or lane led towards a mountain somewhat to the 
northwest of Miss Fortune's ; the same which Mr. Van Brunt 
had once named to Ellen as " the Nose." After three quarters of an hour the road began gently to ascend the mountain, rising towards the north. About one-third of the way 
from the bottom Ellen came to a Tittle footpath on the left 
which allured her by its promise of prettiness, and she forsook the lane for it. The promise was abundantly fulfilled ; 
it was a most lovely wild woodway path ; but withal not a 
little steep and rocky. Ellen began to grow weary. The 
lane went on towards the north ; the path rather led off to- 
