some one told me that, in consequence of this matter, you had
dropped the acquaintance of Mrs. Comegys."
"It is true; I cannot associate on intimate terms with a woman who
lacks honest principles."
"But don't you see that this will bring matters to a head, and that
I shall be placed in a very awkward position?"
"You are ready to adhere to your statement in regard to Mrs.
Comegys?"
"Oh, certainly; I have told nothing but the truth. But still, you
can see that it will make me feel exceedingly unpleasant."
"Things of this kind are never very agreeable, I know, Mrs. Grimes.
Still we must act as we think right, let what will follow. Mrs.
Comegys has already called upon me to ask an explanation of my
conduct wards her."
"She has!" Mrs. Grimes seemed sadly distressed. "What did you say to
her?"
"I told her just what I had heard."
"Did she ask your author?" Mrs. Grimes was most pale with suspense.
"She did."
"Of course you did not mention my name."
"She asked the author of the charge, and I named you."
"Oh dear, Mrs. Markle! I wish you hadn't done that. I shall be
involved in a world of trouble, and the reputation of a tattler and
mischief-maker. What did she say?"
"Not one word."
"She didn't deny it?"
"No."
"Of course she could not. Well, that is some satisfaction at least.
She might have denied it, and tried make me out a liar, and there
would have been plenty to believe her word against mine. I am glad
she didn't deny it. She didn't say a word?"
"No."
"Did she look guilty?"
"You would have thought so, if you had seen her."
"What did she do?"
"She sat with her eyes upon the floor for some time, and then rose
up, and without uttering a word, left the house."
"I wish she had said something. It would have been a satisfaction to
know what she thought. But I suppose the poor woman was so
confounded, that she didn't know what to say."
"So it appeared to me. She was completely stunned. I really pitied
her from my heart. But want of principle should never be
countenanced. If we are to have social integrity, we must mark with
appropriate condemnation all deviations therefrom. It was
exceedingly painful, but the path of duty was before me, and I
walked in it without faltering."
Mrs. Grimes was neither so clear-sighted, nor so well satisfied with
what she had done, as all this. She left the house of Mrs. Markle
feeling very unhappy. Although she had been using her little unruly
member against Mrs. Comegys with due industry, she was all the while
on the most friendly terms with her, visiting at her house and being
visited. It was only a few days, before that she had taken tea and
spent an evening with her. Not that Mrs. Grimes was deliberately
hypocritical, but she had a free tongue, and, like too many in
society, more cautious about what they said than she, much better
pleased to see evil than good in a neighbour. There are very few of
us, perhaps, who have not something of this fault--an exceedingly
bad fault, by the way. It seems to arise from a consciousness of our
own imperfections and the pleasure we feel in making the discovery
that others are as bad, if not worse than we are.
Two days after Mrs. Comegys had called on Mrs. Markle to ask for
explanations, the latter received a note in the following words:
"MADAM.--I have no doubt you have acted according to your own views
of right in dropping as suddenly as you have done, the acquaintance
of an old friend. Perhaps, if you had called upon me and asked
explanations, you might have acted a little differently. My present
object in addressing you is to ask, as a matter of justice, that you
will call at my house to-morrow at twelve o'clock. I think that I am
entitled to speak a word in my own defense. After you have heard
that I shall not complain of any course you may think it right to
pursue.
"ANNA COMEGYS."
Mrs. Markle, could do no less than call as she had been desired to.
At twelve o'clock she rang the bell at Mrs. Comegys' door, and was
shown into the parlor, where, to her no small surprise, she found
about twenty ladies, most of them acquaintances, assembled, Mrs.
Grimes among the number. In about ten minutes Mrs. Comegys came into
the room, her countenance wearing a calm but sober aspect. She bowed
slightly, but was not cordial toward, or familiar with, any one
present. Without a pause she said--
"Ladies, I have learned within a few days, very greatly to my
surprise and grief, that there is a report circulated among my
friends, injurious to my character as a woman of honest principles.
I have taken some pains to ascertain those with whom the report is
familiar, and have invited all such to be here to-day. I learn from
several sources, that the report originated with Mrs. Grimes, and
that she has been very industrious in circulating it to my injury."
"Perhaps you wrong Mrs. Grimes there," spoke up Mrs. Markle. "She
did not mention it to me until I inquired of her if the report was
true. And then she told me that she had never told it but to a
single person, in confidence, and that she had inadvertently alluded
to it, and thus it became a common report. So I think that Mrs.
Grimes cannot justly be charged with having sought to circulate the
matter to your injury."
"Very well, we will see how far that statement is correct," said
Mrs. Comegys. "Did she mention the subject to you, Mrs. Raynor?"
"She did," replied Mrs. Raynor. "But in strict confidence, and
enjoining it upon me not to mention it to any one, as she had no
wish to injure you."
"Did you tell it to any one?"
