waters lifted up the ark. And then, how deep they grew, 
those within the ark could not tell But the sea kept coming 
in, a ceaseless dreadful tide that never ebbed, nntil height 
after height was reached, and at last all the tops of the high 
hills were covered ; and the water was about twenty-six 
feet over theuL From that point they began to abate. God 
made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters were 
assuaged. But Noah could know nothing about it, till he 
felt the ark strike ground under him. That happened just 
five months after the rain began. Five weary, strange 
months they must have been; of rain and darkness and 
loneliness." 
'' And then he sent out the raven and the dove." 
"Why, no, Tiny ; not yet. There was no land to be seen 
yet. The ark lay deep in the water, you must remember ; 
the bottom of it would feel ground a good way down. Besides, the ark must have rested on a high peak of land ; for 
it was nigh two months and a half after that before the tops 
of the mountains were seen. Those were the mountains of 
Ararat.'' 
" You have been there, haven't you, uncle Sam ?" 
" Yes. I have been there." 
" And have you seen the mountain where the ark rested?" 
"Tiny, I do not know. I have seen the mountain where, 
in old times, and now, for that matter, people say the ark 
rested. Indeed, they will have it that remains of the old 
building are up there yet." 
" Didn't you go up to see ?" 
"Prissy, I did not I have climbed so many steep places 
in my time, that I concluded to let this one alone. It is 
scarcely possible to reach the top ; sometimes the mountain 
is covered with snow down to its very base ; and in the best 
of times the snow reaches four thousand feet from the summit. The long region of cold makes it next to impossible to 
get to the top, though the thing has been done. But it is 
one of the most magnificent mountains in the world. As 
you come from the north, and see it from the plain through 
which the river Araxes runs, it is one of the grandest things 
I ever saw. Up, fourteen thousand feet from the plain, 
with lesser mountains thrown around its base as if to make 
 
a pedestal for it, its two snowy heads shining and glittering 
with sunlight, away up into the blue heaven — it is as beautiful as such a thing can be. It is worthy to have been the 
resting-place of the ark ; and I felt like taking off my hat 
when I looked at it. Somebody has said it seems ' as if the 
hugest mountains of the world had been piled upon each 
other to form this sublime immensity of earth and rock and 
snow.' " 
" I wish you had gone up, uncle Sam," I said. 
"To see the bits of the arki I don't believe they are 
there. Tiny ; but I can tell you there is a town in that region, 
some leagues off, said to be one of the oldest towns in the 
world, that is called, Nak-schivan; and nak means 'ship,' and 
schivan means ' stopped,' or ' settled.' The old tradition is, 
that Noah settled there when he came out of the ark. Certainly he could not have stayed up on Mount Ararat long. 
And now I must tell you of the country of Ararat, and what 
a beautiful place it was for the ark to rest. 
" Boys, one of you go into the house and bring out the 
big atlas. We have good light yet. Now open it here on 
the floor, where you can all see. Now you see, here is the 
Caspian, — here is the Persian Gulf, — here is the Mediterranean, — and here is the Black Sea, or the Euxine. This 
part of Asia, a great deal of it, is very flat. Here, in the 
midst between these great waters, out of this vast region of 
plains, rises an island of rock, as somebody has described it 
well ; a little country of high lands, having a level about 
seven thousand feet above the surrounding plain. This is 
called Armenia now, this hilly country ; that is, Har-minni 
— the mountains of Minni From this table-land, some six 
or seven thousand feet high, springs up the mountain peak 
of Ararat, and other mountain peaks ; and on some one of 
them certainly, if not on that one, the ark rested. This was 
a grand centre for the new beginning of the human race ; the 
passes and ascents to this table-land are easy ; and by the 
valleys of the four rivers that spring there, and by the great 
waters of these gulfs and seas, men could spread away, as 
they did when they wanted room, to re-people the earth." 
" What four rivers, uncle Sam ? " I said. 
" Here, Tiny, is one ; the Araxes, emptying into the Caspian Sea. On the other side, here is the Acampsis, running 
away, which it does, very fast, into the Black Sea. Now, 
between these — you see — rises that great river, the river 
Euphrates, and takes its long course down through the lower 
plains, to the Persian Gulf. And a little east of it runs the 
Tigris, another great river, beginning up there in the heart 
of Armenia, and joining the Euphrates a little way from its 
mouth. Now, wherever there is a river, generally speaking, 
there is a valley through which it flows ; here are four rivers, 
and in the valleys of those rivers some of the greatest nations 
of old time had their homes. You see the mountains of 
Ararat were a grand starting-point for men that were going 
out to people the world. 
"By the mountains of Ararat, I do not mean simply that 
one great mountain, the 'Finger-mountain,' as it is called, 
because it sits all alone in its greatness pointing up into 
heaven ; but I mean all these hills that spring from the high 
table-lands of Armenia, and the table-land itself. Here, west 
of Ararat, runs one range ; and a little below it is another ; 
both lying east and west This lowest is the south border 
of Armenia ; and these are called the mountains of Koordistan now." 
" Isn't it a cold country, sir ? " asked Dan. 
"Yes, the climate is sharp enough in winter ; and the 
rammers are short and hot. It begins to freeze hard at 
night early in September ; and warm weather does not set in 
