death had relieved him of his troubles at last, and his funeral followed
close upon that of Mr. Hawkins. He died as he had latterly lived--wholly
alone and friendless. He had no relatives--or if he had they did not
acknowledge him. The coroner’s jury found certain memoranda upon his
body and about the premises which revealed a fact not suspected by the
villagers before-viz., that Laura was not the child of Mr. and Mrs.
Hawkins.
The gossips were soon at work. They were but little hampered by the
fact that the memoranda referred to betrayed nothing but the bare
circumstance that Laura’s real parents were unknown, and stopped there.
So far from being hampered by this, the gossips seemed to gain all
the more freedom from it. They supplied all the missing information
themselves, they filled up all the blanks. The town soon teemed
with histories of Laura’s origin and secret history, no two versions
precisely alike, but all elaborate, exhaustive, mysterious and
interesting, and all agreeing in one vital particular--to-wit, that
there was a suspicious cloud about her birth, not to say a disreputable
one.
Laura began to encounter cold looks, averted eyes and peculiar nods and
gestures which perplexed her beyond measure; but presently the pervading
gossip found its way to her, and she understood them--then. Her pride
was stung. She was astonished, and at first incredulous. She was about
to ask her mother if there was any truth in these reports, but upon
second thought held her peace. She soon gathered that Major Lackland’s
memoranda seemed to refer to letters which had passed between himself
and Judge Hawkins. She shaped her course without difficulty the day that
that hint reached her.
That night she sat in her room till all was still, and then she stole
into the garret and began a search. She rummaged long among boxes of
musty papers relating to business matters of no interest to her, but
at last she found several bundles of letters. One bundle was marked
“private,” and in that she found what she wanted. She selected six
or eight letters from the package and began to devour their contents,
heedless of the cold.
By the dates, these letters were from five to seven years old. They were
all from Major Lackland to Mr. Hawkins. The substance of them was, that
some one in the east had been inquiring of Major Lackland about a lost
child and its parents, and that it was conjectured that the child might
be Laura.
Evidently some of the letters were missing, for the name of the
inquirer was not mentioned; there was a casual reference to “this
handsome-featured aristocratic gentleman,” as if the reader and the
writer were accustomed to speak of him and knew who was meant.
In one letter the Major said he agreed with Mr. Hawkins that the
inquirer seemed not altogether on the wrong track; but he also agreed
that it would be best to keep quiet until more convincing developments
were forthcoming.
Another letter said that “the poor soul broke completely down when he
saw Laura’s picture, and declared it must be she.”
Still another said:
“He seems entirely alone in the world, and his heart is so wrapped up in
this thing that I believe that if it proved a false hope, it would kill
him; I have persuaded him to wait a little while and go west when I go.”
 Another letter had this paragraph in it:
“He is better one day and worse the next, and is out of his mind a good
deal of the time. Lately his case has developed a something which is a
wonder to the hired nurses, but which will not be much of a marvel
to you if you have read medical philosophy much. It is this: his lost
memory returns to him when he is delirious, and goes away again when he
is himself-just as old Canada Joe used to talk the French patois of his
boyhood in the delirium of typhus fever, though he could not do it when
his mind was clear. Now this poor gentleman’s memory has always broken
down before he reached the explosion of the steamer; he could only
remember starting up the river with his wife and child, and he had an
idea that there was a race, but he was not certain; he could not name
the boat he was on; there was a dead blank of a month or more that
supplied not an item to his recollection. It was not for me to assist
him, of course. But now in his delirium it all comes out: the names of
the boats, every incident of the explosion, and likewise the details of
his astonishing escape--that is, up to where, just as a yawl-boat was
approaching him (he was clinging to the starboard wheel of the burning
wreck at the time), a falling timber struck him on the head. But I will
write out his wonderful escape in full to-morrow or next day. Of course
the physicians will not let me tell him now that our Laura is indeed his
child--that must come later, when his health is thoroughly restored. His
case is not considered dangerous at all; he will recover presently, the
doctors say. But they insist that he must travel a little when he
gets well--they recommend a short sea voyage, and they say he can be
persuaded to try it if we continue to keep him in ignorance and promise
to let him see L. as soon as he returns.” The letter that bore the
latest date of all, contained this clause:
“It is the most unaccountable thing in the world; the mystery remains as
impenetrable as ever; I have hunted high and low for him, and inquired
of everybody, but in vain; all trace of him ends at that hotel in New
York; I never have seen or heard of him since, up to this day; he could
hardly have sailed, for his name does not appear upon the books of any
shipping office in New York or Boston or Baltimore. How fortunate it
seems, now, that we kept this thing to ourselves; Laura still has a
father in you, and it is better for her that we drop this subject here
forever.” That was all. Random remarks here and there, being pieced
together gave Laura a vague impression of a man of fine presence, about
forty-three or forty-five years of age, with dark hair and eyes, and a
slight limp in his walk--it was not stated which leg was defective. And
this indistinct shadow represented her father. She made an exhaustive
search for the missing letters, but found none. They had probably been
burned; and she doubted not that the ones she had ferreted out would
have shared the same fate if Mr. Hawkins had not been a dreamer, void
of method, whose mind was perhaps in a state of conflagration over some
bright new speculation when he received them.
She sat long, with the letters in her lap, thinking--and unconsciously
