it.  I always said that you had gray matter if you cared to exert
yourself."
"Thanks," replied the doctor dryly.  "I'll drop down there to-morrow,
if you say so, ostensibly to see the other patient.  It will make a
deuce of a disturbance."
"Not if you scare the hotel people."
"That is what I propose to do.  They will not want such a thing known.
It would scare every one away for the rest of the season.  But of
course this depends upon whether they are honest or in the hotel
business to make money."
Again Braine laughed.  "Bring her back to New York alone, Esculapius,
and a fat check is yours.  Nothing could be simpler than an idea like
this.  It's a fact; no man can think of everything, and you've just
proved it to me.  I've tried to do a general's work without aids.
Olga, does any one watch me come and go any more?"
"No; I've watched a dozen nights.  The man has gone.  Either he found
out what he wanted or he gave up the job.  To my mind he found out what
he wanted."
"And what's that?"
"Heaven knows!" discouragedly.
"Come, doctor, suppose you and I go down to Daly's for a little turn at
billiards?"
"Nothing would suit me better."
"All aboard, then!  Good night, Olga, keep your hair on; I mean your
own hair.  We're going to win out, don't you worry.  In all games the
minute you begin to doubt you begin to lose."
That same night Norton sat at his desk, in his shirt sleeves, pounding
away at his typewriter.  From time to time he paused and teetered his
chair and scowled over his pipe at the starlit night outside.  Bang!
would go his chair again, and clickity-click would sing the keys of the
machine.  The story he was writing was in the ordinary routine; the
arrival of a great ocean liner with some political notables who were
not adverse to denouncing the present administration.  You will have
noticed, no doubt, that some disgruntled politician is always
denouncing the present administration, it matters not if it be
Republican or Democratic.  When you are out of a good job you are
always prone to denounce.  The yarn bored.  Norton because his thoughts
were miles southward.
He completed his story, yanked out the final sheet, called for a copy
boy, rose and sauntered over to the managing editor's door, before
which he paused indecisively.  The "old man" had been after him lately
regarding the Hargreave story, and he doubted if his errand would prove
successful.
However, he boldly opened the door and walked in.
"Humph!" said the "old man," twisting his cigar into the corner of his
mouth.  "Got that story?"
Norton sat down.  "Yes, but I have not got it for print yet.  Mr.
Blair, when you gave me the Hargreave job you gave me carte blanche."
"I did," grimly.  "But, on the other hand, I did not give you ten years
to clear it up in."
"Have I ever fallen down on a good story?" quietly.
"H'm, can't remember," grudgingly.
"Well, if you'll have patience I'll not fall down on this one.  It's
the greatest criminal story I ever handled, but it's so big that it's
going to take time."
"Gimme an outline."
"I have promised not to," with a grimness equal to the "old man's."
"If a line of this story trickles out it will mean that every other
paper will be moving around, and in the end will discover enough to
spoil my end of it.  I'll tell you this much: The most colossal band of
thieves this country ever saw is at one end of the stick.  And when I
say that counterfeiting and politics and millions are involved, you'll
understand how big it is.  This gang has city protection.  We are
running them all into a corner; but we want that corner so deep that
none of them can wriggle out of it."
"Umhm.  Go on."
"I want two months more."
The "old man" beat a tattoo with his fat pencil.  "Sixty days, then.
And if the yarn isn't on my desk at midnight, you--"
"Hunt for another job.  All right.  I came in to ask for three days'
leave."
"You're your own boss, Jim, for sixty days more.  Whadda y' mean
counterfeiting?"
"Those new tens and twenties.  If I stumble on that right, why, I can
turn it over without conflicting with the other story."
"Well, go to it."
"I'm turning in my regular work, day in and day out, and while doing it
I've gone through more hairbreadth escapes than you ever heard of.
They have been after me.  I've dodged falling safes; I've been
shanghaied, poisoned; but I haven't said a word."
"Good lord!  Do you mean all that?"
"Every word, sir."
"I'll make it ninety days, Jim; and if this story comes in I'll see
that you get a corking bonus."
"I'm not looking for bonuses.  I'm proud of my work.  To get this story
is all I want.  That'll be enough.  Thanks for the extension of time.
Good night."
So Florence received a long night letter in the morning.
And the doctor arrived at about the same time.  And called promptly
upon his patient.
"Fine!" he said.  "The sea air was just the thing.  A doctor always
likes to find his advice turning out well."
He glanced quizzically at Florence, who was the picture of glowing
health.  Suddenly he frowned anxiously.
"You need not look at me," she laughed.  "I never felt better in all my
life."
"Are you sure?"
"Why, what in the world do you mean?"
He did not speak, but stepped forward and took her by the wrist,
holding his watch in his other hand.  He shook his head.  He looked
