coarsened son. "You seem to me to have got a lot out of it."
Out of his imprisonment! The red mounted to Jeffrey's forehead. He took
out his pipe, emptied it carefully and laid it down.
"Father," he said slowly, "I'm going to tell you the truth. When we're
young we're full of yeast. We know it all. We think we're going to do it
all. But we're only seething and working inside. It's a dream, I
suppose. We live in it and we think we've got it all. But it's a
horribly uncomfortable dream."
The colonel gave his little acquiescing nod.
"I wouldn't have it again," he said. "No, I wouldn't go back."
"And I give you my word," said Jeffrey, slowly thinking out his way,
though it looked to him as if there were really no way, "I'm as much at
sea as I was then. It's not the same turmoil, but it's a turmoil. I was
pulled up short. I was given plenty of time to think. Well, I
thought--when I hadn't the nerve to keep myself from doing it."
"You said some astonishing things in the prison paper," his father
ventured. The whole thing seemed so gravely admirable to him--Jeff and
the prison as the public knew them--that he wished Jeff himself could
get comfort out of it.
"Some few things I believe I settled, so far as I understand them." Jeff
was frowning at the table where his hand beat an impatient measure. "I
saw things in the large. I saw how the nations--all of 'em, in living
under present conditions--could go to hell quickest. That's what they're
bent on doing. And I saw how they could call a halt if they would. But
how to start in on my own life, I don't know. You'd think I'd had time
enough to face the thing and lick it into shape. I haven't. I don't know
any more what to do than if I'd been born yesterday--on a new
planet--and not such an easy one."
While the colonel had bewailed his own limitations a querulous
discontent had ivoried his face. Now it had cleared and left the face
sedate and firm in a gravity fitted to its nobility of line.
"Jeff," he said. He leaned over the table and touched Jeffrey's hand.
Jeff looked up.
"What is it?" he asked.
"The reason you're not prepared to go on is because you don't care. You
don't care a hang about yourself."
Jeffrey debated a moment. It was true. His troublesome self did not seem
to him of any least account.
"Well," said he, "let's go to bed."
But they shook hands before they parted, and the colonel did not put his
pipe away in the drawer. He left it on the mantel, conveniently at
hand.
XV
Next morning Anne, after listening at the colonel's door and hearing
nothing, decided not to tap. She went on downstairs to be saluted by a
sound she delighted in: a low humming. It came from the library where
her father was happily and most villainously attacking the only song he
knew: "Lord Lovell." Anne's heart cleared up like a smiling sky. She
went in to him, and he, at the window, his continued humming like the
spinning of a particularly eccentric top, turned and greeted her, and he
seemed to be very well and almost gay. He showed no sign of even
remembering yesterday, and when presently Jeffrey came in and then
Lydia, they all behaved, Anne thought, like an ordinary family with no
queer problems round the corner.
After breakfast Jeffrey turned to Lydia and said quite simply: "Come
into the orchard and walk a little."
But to Lydia, Anne saw, with a mild surprise, his asking must have meant
something not so simple. Her face flushed all over, and a misty
sweetness, like humility and gratitude, came into her eyes. Jeffrey,
too, caught that morning glow, only to find his task the sadder. How to
say things to her! and after all, what was it possible to say? They went
down into the orchard, and Lydia, by his side, paced demurely. He saw
she was trying to fit her steps to his impatient stride, and shortened
up on it. He felt very tender toward Lydia. At last, when it seemed as
if they might be out of range of the windows, and, he unreasonably felt,
more free, he broke out abruptly:
"I've got a lot of things to say to you." Lydia glanced up at him with
that wonderful, exasperating look, half humility, and waited. It seemed
to her he must have a great deal to say. "I don't believe it's possible
for you--for a girl--to understand what it would be for a man in my
place to come home and find everybody so sweet and kind. I mean you--and
Anne."
Now he felt nothing short of shame. But she took him quickly enough. He
didn't have to go far along the shameful road. She glanced round at him
again, and, knowing what the look must be, he did not meet it. He could
fancy well the hurt inquiry leaping into those innocent eyes.
"What have I done," she asked, and his mind supplied the accusatory
inference, "that you don't love me any more?"
He hastened to answer.
"You've been everything that's sweet and kind." He added, whether wisely
or not he could not tell, what seemed to him the truth: "I haven't got
hold of myself. I thought it would be an easy stunt to come back and
stay a while and then go away and get into something permanent. But it's
no such thing. Lydia, I don't understand people very well. I don't
understand myself. I'm afraid I'm a kind of blackguard."
"Oh, no," said Lydia gravely. "You're not that."
She did not understand him, but she was, in her beautiful confidence,
sure he was right. She was hurt. There was the wound in her heart, and
that new sensation of its actually bleeding; but she had a fine courge
of her own, and she knew grief over that inexplicable pang must be put
away until the sight of it could not trouble him.
"I'm going to ask you a question," said Jeffrey shortly, in his
distaste for asking it at all. "Do you want me to take father away with
me, you and Anne?"
"Are you going away?" she asked, in an irrepressible tremor.
"Answer me," said Jeffrey.
She was not merely the beautiful child he had thought her. There was
something dauntless in her, something that could endure. He felt for her
a quick passion of comradeship and the worship men have for women who
seem to them entirely beautiful and precious enough to be saved from
