" Very easily. We love those most who occupy 
most of our thoughts, and for whose comfort and 
happiness we are most careful, whether it be our- 
selves or our children." 
Mrs. Fielding did not reply. Mentally she 
applied the rule, and was forced to acknowledge 
that she loved herself more than she did her chil- 
dren. 
The oldest boy of Mrs. Fielding was about the 
same age of Clarence. Having completed all their 
preparatory studies, the two boys were sent the 
same year to college. At the age of sixteen, they 
left their homes for the first time, to be absent, ex- 
cept at short intervals, for three years. James 
Fielding left home with reluctance. 
" I don't want to go, mother," he said the day 
before he was to start. 
"Why not, James?" she asked. 
" I would rather go to school here. I can learn 
just as much." 
" Yes, but think of the honor, my son, of pass- 
ing through college. It isn't every boy that has 
this privilege. It will make a man of you. I hope 
you will do credit to yourself and your parents. 
You must strive for the first honors. Your father 
took them before you." 
Very different was the parting counsel of Mrs. 
 
Hartley to her son. The question whetlier it 
would be best in the end to send their son to col- 
lege, was long and anxiously debated between the 
father and mother. Many reasons, for and against, 
were presented, and these were scanned minutely. 
The strongest objection felt by them was the fact 
that, from the congregating together of a large num- 
ber of young men at college, among whom would 
be many with loose principles and bad habits, there 
would be danger of moral contamination. For a 
time they inclined to the belief that it would be 
better not to send their son from home ; but their 
anxiety to secure for him the very best education 
the country afforded, at last determined them. 
Long and earnestly did Mrs. Hartley commune 
with her boy, on the evening before his departure. 
"Never forget, my son," she said, '' the end for 
which you should strive after knowledge. It is, 
that you may be better able, by your eilbrts as a 
man, to benefit society. A learned man, can al- 
ways perform higher uses than an ignorant man. 
And remember, that one so young and so litlle 
acquainted with the world as yourself, will be sub- 
jected to many severe temptations. But resist evil 
with a determined spirit. Beware of the first de- 
viation from right. Suffer not the smallest slain 
to come upon your garments. Let your mother 
 
receive you back as pure as when you went fori!', 
my son. 
"You will discover, soon after you enter col- 
lege, a spirit of insubordination — a disposition in 
many of the students to violate the laws of the in- 
stitution ; but do not join in with them. It is just 
as wrong for a student to violate the laws of col- 
lege, as it is for a citizen to violate the laws of his 
country. They are wholesome regulations, made 
for the good of the whole, and he who weakens 
their force does a wrong to the whole. Guard 
yourself here, my son, for here you will be tempt- 
ed. But stand lirm. If you break, wilfully, a 
college law, your honor is stained, and no subse- 
quent obedience can efface it. Guard your honor 
my dear boy ! It is a precious and holy thing. 
 '' I will write to you often, and you must write 
often to me. Talk to me, in your letters, as freely 
as you would talk if we were face to face. Con- 
sider me your best friend, and he who would 
weaken my influence over you, as your worst 
enemy. You cannot tell, my son, how anxious I 
feel about you. I know, far better than you can 
know, how intimately danger will surround yo;;. 
But, if you will make God's holy law, as written 
in his Ten Commandments, the guide of your life, 
you will be safe. Christian, in his journey to the 
 
land of Canaan, had not a path to travel in more 
beset with evil than will be yours, but you will be 
safe from all harm, if, like him, you steadily resist 
and fight against every thing that would turn you 
from the straight and narrow way of truth and in- 
tegrity. You go with your mother's blessing upon 
your head, and your mother's prayers following 
you." 
The earnestness with which his mother spoke, 
affected the heart of Clarence. He did not reply, 
but he made a firm resolution to do nothing that 
would give her a moment's pain. He loved her 
tenderly ; for she had ever been to him the best 
of mothers, and this love was his prompter. 
" I will never pain the heart of so good a mo- 
ther," he said, as he laid his head upon his pillow 
that night. How different might have been his 
feelings, if he had been raised under different ma- 
ternal influences. 
CHAPTER X. 
About the same time that Clarence Hartley was 
sent to college, the oldest son of Mr. Archer was 
sent to sea as the last hope of reclaiming him. He 
had been suffered to run into all kinds of bad com- 
pany until he was so degraded, that his mother 
lost all control over him. And yet, this boy had 
naturally a more obedient temper than Clarence, 
and could have been managed far more easily. It 
is true that the two mothers Mere placed under 
different circumstances — nevertheless, even the un- 
happy external condition of Florence Archer was 
no excuse. If she had truly loved her child, she 
could have brought an influence to bear upon him 
that would have saved him. 
At college, Clarence found himself in a new 
world. At first, the reckless bearing and free con- 
versation of some of the students, surprised and 
shocked him. Soon, familiarity with such things 
made them seem less reprehensible. He could not 
only listen to them, but often join heartily in the 
laugh awakened by some sally of ribald wit. — 
When alone, however, and the remembrance of 
home arose in his mind, he felt grieved to think 
that he could have taken pleasure in any thing that 
would so have shocked his mother's ears. 
He wrote home every week, and wrote with all 
the frankness of a mind that had nothing to con- 
ceal Every letter was promptly answered by his 
mother, and, in every letter from her were some 
tenderly urged precepts that ever came with a 
timely force. These were not hackneyed repeti- 
tions of the same forms that had been enunciated 
time and again, until all their force was gone ; nor 
did they come to her son in the shape of mere 
didactics. They had an appropriateness, a beauty, 
and a force about them, that ever inspired Clarence 
with a new love of what was morally excellent. 
If, at any time, he felt inclined to enter the forbid- 
den grounds of pleasure, where too many of the 
students roved, the very next letter from home 
would win him back. The love of his mother 
was about him, like a protecting sphere. 
Very different was the case with James Fielding. 
It was not long before his natural love of com- 
panionship caused him to form intimate associa- 
tions with several of the students whose principles 
and habits were not good. With these he spent 
 
hours every night in amusements and conversations 
by no means calculated to elevate the tone of his 
feelings. He made frequent efforts to induce Cla- 
rence to join them, who did so for a few times, but 
for a few times only. After having spent an even- 
ing in drinking, smoking and card-playing, inter- 
spersed with songs and conversation such as his 
ears had never before heard, he found, on retiring 
to his room, a letter upon his table from his mo- 
ther. The sight of this letter caused an instant 
revulsion in his feelings. He did not open it for 
some time. The very superscription, in the well- 
known hand-writing of his mother, seemed to re- 
buke him for having felt pleasure in what would have 
pained her pure mind deeply. When, at length, he 
opened and read the letter, it affected him to tears. 
"My dear Clarence" — it said — ' How much 
we missed you last night at our family party. — 
There were uMarien, Henry, Fanny, and Lillian ; 
but Clarence was away. I believe I thought much 
oftener of my absent one, than I did of those who 
were present. Henry accompanied Marien at the 
piano, on the flute, but not so perfectly as you 
used to do ; and yet he plays very well for one so 
young. Fanny is improving rapidly in her music; 
she performed for us a very difficult overture, and 
did it exceedingly well. She dances, too, with ad- 
 
mirable grace. How I wanted you to see her last 
evening. Dear little Lillian is always talking about 
you, and asking when you will come home. She 
grows sweeter and dearer every day. We had a 
very happy time, indeed, as we always have ; but 
it would have been much happier, had not one 
been missing. 
" I had a visit from Mrs. Fielding yesterday. 
She says that James has only written to her twice 
since he has been away. She asked me how often 
I heard from you ; when I told her, every few days, 
she said that if she could hear from her boy every 
few weeks she would be very glad. Your mother 
thanks you, Clarence, for your promptness in 
writing. It is a great pleasure for me to hear from 
you often. How is Thomas Fielding ? Is he 
doing well ? I wish he would write home more 
frequently. I thought his mother looked troubled 
when she spoke of him." 
Clarence sighed .and lifted his eyes from the 
letter on reading this passage. He thought of 
James Fielding, and the dangerous ground upon 
which he was standing, and sighed again as he re- 
sumed the perusal of his letter. The whole epistle 
came pure and true from a mother's heart, and it 
so filled the mind of Clarence with images of home, 
and made that home appear so like a little heaven, 
 
that he experienced a shuddering sensation when 
he compared it with the scene in which he had so 
lately been a participant. 
''Thank God for such a mother!" he could not 
help ejaculating, as he read the last line of her let- 
ter. " Shall I ever cause her to shed a tear c JN'o 
—never !" 
" You went away too soon last night," said 
James Fielding to him the next morning. " We 
had some rare sport after you left, with one of the 
Professors. He guessed that all was not right, and 
came tapping at the door about eleven o''clock. 
AVe let him in, and then mystified him until he 
was glad to sneak off, half begging our pardons for 
having suspected us of any thing wrong. Ha! ha! 
It was capital fun." 
" I think I staid quite long enough," Clarence 
replied, gravely. 
" Why so ?" 
" I don't believe any of us were doing right." 
'- Indeed ! Why not ?" 
''We were doing what we knew would not be 
sanctioned by the Faculty." 
" I suppose we were. But what of that ? 
" A good deal, I should think. It is wrong to 
violate any of the rules and regulations of the in- 
stitution." 
 
" Humph ! If that is wrong, a good many sing 
are commiited with the passage of every twenty- 
four hours. You are more nice than wise, Cla- 
rence. A little fun is pleasant at all times. I go 
in for it myself." 
" Innocent fun is well enough. But where it is 
sought in vicious courses, it is imminently danger- 
ous. At the last, it biteth like a serpent and 
siingeth like an adder. When did you hear from 
home, James ?" 
" From home ? Oh, I'm sure I don't remember. 
I was going to say I don't hear from there at all ; 
but I have had two letters from mother, filling half 
a page each." 
''' Wlien did you write ?" 
" About a month ago, to say I wanted some 
pocket money." 
" I heard from home last night." 
" Ah ! Got a remittance, I suppose." 
" Of love from my mother, more precious than 
gold or silver," replied Clarence with some feeling. 
" Shq says that your mother complains that you do 
not write to her." 
'' Say to your mother, if you please, that I com- 
plain that my mother doesn't write to me. So tlie 
account will stand balanced. I never could write 
a letter, except to say I wanted something. And 
 
I suppose mother is like me. We will excuse one 
another." 
James spoke with a levity that pained Clarence. 
He wanted to admonish him, but felt that, in his 
present mood, it would be useless. 
During the first year that Clarence was at col- 
lege, the principles he had been taught by his 
mother became rules of action with him. He set 
his face resolutely against every thing that he con- 
sidered wrong. James Fielding, on the contrary, was 
among the most thoughtless young men in the in- 
stitution. His wishes and passions were his rulers. 
One day he came to Clarence and said —  
"There is to be some sport in about a week." 
" Is there ? What will it be like ?" 
 ' We don't intend going to morning prayers until 
seven o'clock." 
" But the regulations say six." 
'" I know. Six is too early, and we are going to 
have it at seven." 
"You did not come here to make laws, but to 
observe them," gravely replied Clarence. 
'' We came here to be instructed, not to be 
dragged out of bed to morning prayers before day 
— not to be bamboozled about by arbitrary Pro- 
fessors. It is a public institution, and the Faculty 
have no right to make oppressive laws." 
 
" Jf any one dislikes these laws, let hirn go 
home. It is the only honest course. But what 
else is intended .'"' 
" We intend " 
'''We? Have you really joined in this con- 
spiracy against law and order ." 
" Certainly I have. With the exception of about 
twenty, every student is pledged to go through 
with tiie matter when it is once started. My duty 
is to bring you over. We wish to rise as one 
man." 
" After you have refused to attend morning 
prayers, what do you propose doing ?"" 
" if tlie hour is changed to seven, all well and 
good. Nothing more will be done. But if not, 
our next course will be to attend regularly at six 
for a week, and scrape the chaplain down." 
"What!" 
" Completely drown his voice by scraping our 
feet." 
" You certainly are beside yourself, James. I 
cannot believe that you would join in doing so 
wrong a deed. In this you would not only insult 
the institution, but Heaven." 
" Oh no. Heaven doesn't have much to do with 
the six o'clock prayers of college students." 
" You speak with an unbecoming levity, James." 
 
'" Do I indeed ?" The lip of the boy slightly 
curled. 
"' What else is to be done ?" asked Clarence, not 
noticing the manner of his companion. 
" All sorts of things. Every regulation of the 
college is to be broken, unless our wishes are com- 
plied with. Wait a little, and you will see fun. 
But let me tell you — it is determined that every 
student who does not join us, shall be dipped in 
the horse-pond. You had better consent. I should 
hate to see any thing done to you." 
The eyes of Clarence instantly flashed, and his 
cheeks grew red as crimson. 
" I would not consent if my life were taken," said 
the high-spirited boy. " But never fear. There is 
no one here that dare lay his hands upon me." 
" Don't trust to that. There are those here who 
dare lay their hands upon any body, and who will 
do it too. Come, then, say you will join us." 
' No — never." 
" You will be sorry when it is too late." 
" I have no fears." 
On the next day, the matter was publicly broach- 
ed during the college recess, when the students 
were alone. 
" I move," said one, " that we begin on the 
morning after to-morrow." 
 
" Second the motion," came from three or four 
voices. 
"All who are in favor, hold up your hands." 
More than a hundred hands were thrown into 
the air. 
" All who are opposed will now hold up their 
hands." 
A deep silence followed. Then a single hand 
was raised — then Another, and another, until ten 
hands were seen above the heads of the crowd. — 
It was the hand of Clarence that first went up. 
A murmur of discontent ran through the body 
of students, which deepened into execrations and 
threats. Half a dozen who were nearest Clarence 
gathered round him, with earnest and half angry 
remonstrances. His only reply was — 
" It is wrong, and I cannot join you." 
" The regulation is oppressive," it was argued. 
" Then leave the institution ; but do not violate 
ws. 
" That is easily said. But others have a word 
in that as well as ourselves. All here are not ex- 
actly free to do as they please." 
" It is better to endure what seems oppressive, 
than to do wrong." 
" We don't mean to do wrong I" said several 
voices, 
" You threaten to dip any one in the horse-pond 
who does not join you." 
Several of the students looked confused, but one 
or two cried out — 
" Certainly we do ; and what is more, our threats 
shall be executed." 
"Right or wrong?" retorted Clarence, with a 
meaning look and voice, and turning on his heel, 
walked away with a firm step. 
His manner and words had their effect. He had 
said but little, but that little caused several who 
heard him to think more soberly. In nearly every 
little knot of students that was drawn together in 
the various rooms that night, was one or more who 
had become lukewarm. A re-consideration of the 
matter was moved on the next day, and the ques- 
tion again taken. Instead of a dozen hands raised 
in the negative, as on the day before, there were 
now over fifty. From that time little more was 
heard upon the subject. The revolt never took 
place. 
So much for the influence of a single well-order- 
ed, honest mind. Had the natural disposition of 
Clarence been unchecked, and had no counter- 
balancing principles been stored up in his mind, he 
would have been as eager for the proposed rebel- 
lion as the most thoughtless. What evil results 
might have followed cannot be told. There were 
those in the institution who did not love him much 
after this ; but none who did not feel for him an 
involuntary respect. 
CHAPTER XI. 
AN AGREEABLE SURPRISE. 
The incident just related occurred about a year 
and a half after Clarence entered college. He had, 
then, nearly completed his sixteenth year. 
About a week afterwards, and before they had 
received any communication from their son, men- 
tioning the circumstance, Mr. Hartley handed his 
wife a letter. Its contents were as follows : — 
 ' Mr. James Hartley. — 
Dear Sir — As the President of University, 
permit me to express to you my own and the 
thanks of the whole Faculty. The good and true 
principles which you have stored up in the mind 
of your son, have saved us from the evils of a well- 
planned resistance of authority by the students. 
No persuasions, we are told, could induce him to 
join with the rest. Personal violence was threat- 
 
ened, but this only made him adhere more firmly 
to his good resolution. The consequence was, 
that his conduct opened the eyes of one and an- 
other to see the folly of what they were about to 
do. Two parties were formed, and, before any 
overt act, the peace party prevailed. We shall 
ever remember your son with admiration and grati- 
tude. From his first entrance into our instiiution, 
he has been known as the strict observer of all its 
rules, and a diligent student. It is but just that his 
parents should know all this from us. With senti- 
ments of the highest respect and regard, 
I am yours, Sec, 
P R . 
President of University. 
Tears of joy gushed to the eyes of Mrs. Hartley, 
as she finished the last line of this letter. 
"Noble boy!" she said with enthusiasm. 
" You are pleased with the letter, then," said her 
husband, with assumed gravity. 
" O yes ! Are you not ?" and she looked hira in 
the face with surprise. 
'  Not exactly." 
' Why ?" 
" It would have all been well enough, if the di- 
rection had not been wrong." 
" What do you mean ? Was it not our son that 
acted so nobly ?" 
" O yes. But the letter should have been ad- 
dressed to you." 
Mrs. Hartley smiled through her tears, and said — 
"It is ail right. — Are we not one.? But what 
would my efforts have been without your wise 
counsel to second them. I will never care for the 
praise, so my boy does right. That is my sweetest 
reward. This is indeed a happy day. You know 
how much anxiety I have felt for Clarence. His 
peculiar temperament is, perhaps, the hardest there 
is to manage." 
" And had you not been the most assiduous and 
wisest of mothers, you never could have moulded 
it into any form of beauty." 
" jVIany an anxious day and sleepless night has it 
cost me. I sowed the seed in tears ; but the dews 
of heaven watered the earth, and when the tender 
blade shot forth, the Sun of Righteousness warmed 
and strengthened it. Oh, how often have I felt 
discouraged ! The selfishness of the boy was so 
strong, and he had so little regard for order. To 
counteract these, I labored daily, and almost hourly. 
But I seemed to make little progress — sometimes 
all my efforts appeared fruitless. Still, I perse- 
vered, and it has not been in vain." 
 
''' no. Tou have saved him from his worst 
enemy, himself." 
'  Henry is now old enougli for college. What 
sh'dU we do w;th him ?" the mother said. 
"Send him to University with his brother, 
I suppose. There is not a better institution in the 
country." 
"Do you think it Mill be safe to send him from 
home ?" asked Mrs. Hartley. 
" Why not ?" 
" His disposition has changed little since he was 
a child. He is still confiding, and easily led away 
by others. Clarence had a strong will and prominent faults, which could be attacked vigorously
but the defects of Henry's character were hard to 
reach. I have thought much on ihe subject of 
sending him to college, but feel more and more reluctant to do so the nearer the time comes for 
making a decision on the subject." 
" We ought not to deprive him of the advantages 
of a good education. He should stand side by side 
with his brother in this respect." 
" True. But cannot you give him all these ad- 
vantages at a less risk." 
" I know of no institution in this city where the 
same advantages may be secured as at ." 
" I believe there is none. But, should we look 
alone at this ? Will oar child be safe there ? Is 
his character yet decided enough for us to trust 
him from our side ? I think not. The frankness 
with which Clarence has written to us of the va- 
rious temptations that have assailed him from time 
to time, has opened my eyes to the dangers that 
must encompass a boy like Henry in such a place. 
I should not feel happy a moment were he to go 
there." 
" Then he must not go," said Mr. Hartley, firmly. 
"You have ever been a true mother to our chil- 
dren, and your love has thus far led you to deter- 
mine wisely in regard to them. Though I must 
own that I feel very reluctant to deprive the boy 
of the advantages of a thorough college course 
of instruction," 
"Have not my reasons force in your mind?" 
asked Mrs. Hartley. " Do you not believe that it 
would be wrong for us to jeopardize the spiritual 
interests of our cliild, in the eager pursuit of intellectual advantages." 
"I certainly do. The latter should only be for 
tlie sake of the former. The intellect should be 
cultivated as the means of developing the moral 
powers, that both in union may act in life with 
true efficiency. If all the higher objects of educa- 
tion can be secured by keeping our child at home, 
 
we ought not, under any circumstance?, to send 
him away." 
"They may often be better secured away from 
home, if the boy have firmness enough to resist the 
temptations that will assail him. But tiie question 
whether the boy can so resist, must be decided by 
the parents before he is sent out to make his first 
trial on the world-arena," 
"My own feeling is, that we had better keep 
Henry under our guidance as long as it can be 
done. He is not a boy with the quick intellect of 
Clarence, and will, probably, never be ambitious to 
jngve in a sphere where the highest attainments 
are required. It would be much more agreeable 
to him now to go to work in your store than to 
go to school." 
" And I shall not grieve over his choice of a 
pursuit in life, if he should prefer the calling of a 
merchant." 
" Nor I. Active employment is the best for all, 
and in choosing a profession in life, that should 
always be chosen M'hich will give the mind great 
activity, while, at the same time, it brings in the 
affections also. The pursuit of any calling which 
a man does not like, can never result to his own 
and the public advantage in so high a degree as it 
would were his heart in what he was doing. For 
 
this reason, we ought to be governed very much, 
in tleciding for our children, by their fitness for and 
preference for a pursuit in business." 
"' Children's preferences, however, do not always 
arise from any peculiar fitness in themselves, but 
often from caprice." 
"It is the business of a wise parent to discrimi- 
nate between a natural fitness for a thing, and a 
fleeting preference for it. The imagination of 
young persons is very active, and apt to throw a 
false light around that upon which it dwells," 
Many conversations of a like nature were held 
by iVIr. and Mrs. Hartley, who finally came to the 
determination to keep Henry at home. The boy 
was disappointed at this. He wanted to go to 
college ; not, the parents could easily enough see, 
for the sake of the superior advantages there to be 
obtained, but because his imagination had thrown 
a peculiar charm about a college life." 
Before making a final decision on the subject, 
Mrs. Hartley thought it right to bring Clarence into 
their confidence. She wrote him a long letter on 
the subject, and asked him to give his opinion of 
the effect that would be produced upon a boy like 
Henry, if introduced among the students. " You 
know his disposition," she said, "and how he 
would he aflected by the kind of associations into 
which he would be thrown." 
Clarence wrote back immediately, that he did 
not believe it would be good for Henry to be ex- 
posed to the temptations of a college life. " He is 
too easily led away by others," he remarked. " I 
have noticed more than a dozen instances, since I 
have been here, of boys just like Henry, who were 
innocent and confiding in their dispositions when 
they came, who soon became so changed that it 
made me sad to think about it. There was one 
boy in particular. His mother came with hnn 
when he first entered college. She appeared to be 
deeply attached to him, and he to her — they both 
wept bitterly at parting. She was a widow, and 
he her only remaining child, upon whom all her 
care, affection and pride were lavished. He soon 
made friends, for all seemed drawn towards him. 
Singular as it may seem, the boy, between whom 
and himself the warmest attachment arose, was as 
unlike him as it is possible to imagine. He was a 
bold, bad boy — full of life, and ready to do almost 
any thing that a reckless spirit prompted. In a 
little while, they were inseparable companions. 
At the end of six months, the spirit of the one 
seemed to have been transfused into that of the 
other. I almost wonder, sometimes, if the mother 
would know her son were ihey to meet unex- 
pectedly. I hope you will not send Henry here. 
He might pass through his course uncontaminated, 
\ut I think it would be dangerous to expose one 
like him to so many temptations." 
This letter fully decided Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. 
CHAPTER XII. 
GOING INTO COMPANY. 
Marien was in her eighteenth year, and yet she 
had been taken into company by her parents but 
very little. Her virtues were all of a domestic 
character, and graced the home circle. She knew 
of little beyond its pleasant precincts. Few who 
saw her, supposed that she was over fifteen years 
of age. Not that her mind was unmatured, but 
because her appearance was girlish, and her man- 
ners simple and unaffected, yet retiring when stran- 
gers were present. 
" How old is Marien ?" asked Mrs. Fielding, who 
had called in one morning to chat away half an hour 
with Mrs. Hartley. Marien had just left the room. 
" In her eighteenth year," was replied. 
 
''' Nearly eighteen ! Bless me ! — it cannot be." 
'' Yes. Thai is her age." 
" I never would have believed it. Why, she 
looks more like a girl of thirteen or fourteen." 
" I don't know. She doesn't seem so very young 
to me." 
"But why in the world do you keep the poor 
thing back so ? Slie should have been introduced 
into company two years ago. I had no idea that 
she was so old." 
Mrs. Fielding had a daughter only in her seven- 
teenth year, who had been flourishing about at all 
t}\e balls and parties for the past two seasons, and 
had now all the silly airs and affectations which 
a young miss, under such circumstances, might be 
expected to acquire. Jane Fielding had met Marien 
several times, on calling at Mrs. Hartley's with her 
mother, but, imagining her to be a mere child, in 
comparison with herself, she had treated her as 
such. Marien was never pushed forward by her 
mother, and, therefore, the mistake of Mrs. Field- 
ing and her daughter was not corrected, by their 
own observation. 
" There is plenty of time yet,"' said Mrs. Hart- 
ley, in reply to the remark of her visiter. " Ten 
young ladies go into company too early, where 
one goes in too late." 
" I doubt that. If you don't take your daughter 
into polished society early, she will never acquire 
that grace and ease of manner so beautiful and so 
essential." 
Involuntarily did Mrs. Hartley compare, in her 
own mind, the forward, chattering, flirting Jane 
Fielding with her own modest child, in whom all 
the graces of a sweet spirit shone with a tempered 
yet beautiful lustre. 
" I am more anxious that my daughter shall be 
a true woman, when she arrives at woman's age, 
than an artificial woman, while a mere child," she 
could not help replying. 
" A very strange remark," said Mrs. Fielding. 
"And yet it expresses my views on the subject." 
' I should hardly think you had reflected much 
about it, and was merely acting from some anti- 
quated notion put into your head by Aunt Mary." 
" You err there very much, Mrs. Fielding. Since 
the birth of my daughter, the attainment of the best 
means for securing her happiness has been with me 
a source of deep reflection. I have brought to my 
aid the observations of my youth and mature years. 
What I have seen in real life confirms my rational 
deductions. I am well satisfied that it injures a 
young girl to throw her into company early. It is 
from this conviction that I act." 
"How can it injure her? I am at a loss to 
know," 
" It injures her in every thing, I was going to 
say." 
" Name a single particular." 
"It puts a woman's head upon a girl's shoul- 
ders, to use a common saying, while she lacks the 
strength to carry it steadily, but tosses the feathers 
with which it is dressed into every body's face that 
she meets." 
" O dear ! What a queer idea." 
