how have the merinos worn ?" 
Ellen could not bear to look at his face and did not see the 
expression which went with these words, yet she ftlt it." 
''They have worn very well," said she, "but I want to 
get home very much — 'please let me e^o." 
"Not yet — not yet," said he, — " O no, not yet. I want to 
talk to you ; why what are you in such a devil of a hurry 
for ? I came out on purpose ; do you think I am going to 
have all my long waiting for nothing ?" 
Ellen did not know what to say ; her heart sprang with a 
nameless pang to the thought, if she ever got free from this ! 
Meanwhile she was not free. 
"Whose horse is that you're on?" 
" Mine," said Ellen. 
" Your'n ! that's a likely story. I guess he aint your'n, 
and so you won't mind if I touch him up a little ; — I want to 
see how well you can sit a horse." 
Passing his arm through the bridle as he said these words, 
Mr. Saunders led the pony down to the side of the road where 
grew a clump of high bushes ; and with some trouble cut off 
a long stout sapling. Ellen looked in every direction while 
he was doing this, despairing, as she looked, of aid from any 
quarter of the broad quiet open country. O for wings ! But 
she could not leave the Brownie if she had them. 
Returning to the middle of the road, Mr. Saunders amused 
himself as they walked along with stripping off all the leaves 
and little twigs from his sapling, leaving it when done a very- 
good imitation of an ox-whip in size and length, with a fine 
lash-like point. Ellen watched him in an ecstasy of apprehension, afraid alike to speak or to be silent. 
 
" There ! what do you think of that V* said he, giving it 
two or three switches in the air to try its suppleness and 
toughness ; — " don't that look like a whip ? Now we'll see 
how he'll go!" 
" Please don't do anything with it," said Ellen earnestly ; 
— " I never touch him with a whip, — he doesn't need it, — he 
isn't used to it ; pray, pray do not !" 
" we'll just tickle him a little witli it," said Mr. Saun- 
ders coolly, — " I want to see how well you'll sit him ; — ^just 
make him caper a little bit." 
He accordingly applied the switch lightly to the Brownie's 
heels, enough to annoy without hurting him. The Brownie 
showed signs of uneasiness, quitted his quiet pace, and took 
to little starts and springs and whiskey motions, most un- 
pleasing to his rider. 
do not !" cried Ellen, almost beside herself, — " he's very 
spirited, and I don't know what he will do if you trouble him." 
You let me take care of that," said Mr. Saunders ; — " if 
he troubles me I'll give it to him ! If he rears up, only you 
catch hold of his mane and hold on tight, and you won't fall 
off ; — I want to see him rear." 
" But you'll give him bad tricks !" said Ellen. " pray 
don't do so ! It's very bad for him to be teased. I am 
afraid he will kick if you do so, and he'd be ruined if he got 
a habit of kicking. O please let us go !" said she with the 
most acute accent of entreaty, — " I want to be home." 
" You keep quiet," said Mr. Saunders coolly ; — " if he 
kicks I'll give him such a lathering as he never had yet ; he 
won't do it but once. I aint a-going to hurt him, but I am 
a-going to make him rear; — no, I won't, — I'll make him leap 
over a rail, the first bar-place we come to ; that'll be prettier." 
" you musn't do that," said Ellen ; — " I have not learned to leap yet ; I couldn't keep on ; you musn't do that if 
you please." 
You just hold fast and hold your tongue. Catch hold 
of his ears, and you'll stick on fast enough ; if you can't you 
may get down, for I am going to make him take the leap 
whether you will or no." 
Ellen feared still more to get off and leave the Brownie to 
her tormentor's mercy than to stay where she was and take 
her chance. She tried in vain, as well as she could, to soothe 
her horse ; the touches of the whip coming now in one place 
and now in another, and some of them pretty sharp, he began 
to grow very frisky indeed ; and she began to be very much 
frightened for fear she should suddenly be jerked off. With 
a good deal of presence of mind, though wrought up to a terrible pitch of excitement and fear, Ellen gave her best attention to keeping her seat as the Brownie sprang and started 
and jumped to one side and the other ; Mr. Saunders holding 
the bridle as loose as possible so as to give him plenty of 
room. For some little time he amused himself with this game, 
the horse growing more and more irritated. At length a 
smart stroke of the whip upon his haunches made the 
Brownie spring in a way that brought Ellen's heart into her 
mouth, and almost threw her off. 
" Oh don't !" cried Ellen, bursting into tears for the first 
time, — she had with great effort commanded them back until 
now ; — " poor Brownie ! — How can you ! Oh please let us 
go ! — please let us go !" 
For one minute she dropped her face in her hands. 
Be quiet !" said Mr. Saunders. " Plere's a bar-place — 
now for the leap !" 
Ellen wiped away her tears, forced back those that were 
coming, and began the most earnest remonstrance and pleading with Mr. Saunders that she knew how to make. He Daid 
her no sort of attention. He led the Brownie to the side of 
the road, let down all the bars but the lower two, let go the 
bridle, and stood a little off prepared with his whip to force 
the horse to take the spring. 
" I tell you I shall fall," said Ellen, reining him back. 
" How can you be so cruel ! — I want to go home !" 
" Well you aint a going home yet. Get off, if you are 
afraid." 
But though trembling in every nerve from head to foot, 
Ellen fancied the Brownie was safer so long as he had her on 
his back ; she would not leave him. She pleaded her best, 
which Mr. Saunders heard as if it was amusing, and without 
making any answer kept the horse capering in front of the 
bars, pretending every minute he was going to whip him up 
to take the leap. His object however was merely to gratify 
the smallest of minds by teasing a child he had a spite 
against ; he had no intention to risk breaking her bones by a 
fall from her horse ; so in time he had enough of the bar- 
place ; took the bridle again and walked on. Ellen drew 
breath a little more freely. 
" Did you hear how I handled your old gentleman after 
that time ?" said Mr. Saunders. 
Ellen made no answer. 
" No one ever affronts me that don't hear news of it after- 
wards, and so he found to his cost. I paid him off, to my 
heart's content. I gave the old fellow a lesson to behave in 
future. I forgive him now entirely. By the way I've a little 
account to settle with you — didn't you ask Mr. Perriman this 
morning if Dr. Gibson was in the house ?" 
" I don't know who it was," said Ellen. 
" Well, hadn't I told you just before he warn't there ?" 
Ellen was silent. 
What did you do that for, eh ? Didn't you believe me ?" 
Still she did not speak. 
I say !" said Mr. Saunders, touching the Brownie as he 
spoke, — " did you think I told you a lie about it ? — eh ?" 
" I didn't know but he might be there," Ellen forced her- 
self to say. 
" Then you didn't believe me ?" said he, always with that 
same smile upon his face ; Ellen knew that. 
Now that warn't handsome of you — and I'm agoing to 
punish you for it, somehow or 'nother ; but it aint pretty to 
quarrel with ladies, so Brownie and me'll settle it together. 
You won't mind that I dare say."  
" What are going to do ?" said Ellen, as he once more drew 
her down to the side of the fence. 
" Get off and you'll see," said he, laughing ; — " get off and 
you'll see." 
" What do you want to do ?" repeated Ellen, though scarce 
able to speak the words. 
"I'm just going to tickle Brownie a little, to teach you to 
believe honest folks when they speak the truth ; get off!" 
" No I won't," said Ellen, throwing both arms round the 
neck of her pony ; — " poor Brownie ! — you sha'n't do it. He 
hasn't done any harm, nor I either ; you are a bad man !" 
Get off !" repeated Mr. Saunders. 
" I will not !" said Ellen, still clinging fast. 
" Very well," said he coolly, — " then I will take you off ; 
it don't make much difference. We'll go along a little further 
till I find a nice stone for you to sit down upon. If you had 
got off then I wouldn't ha' done much to him, but I'll give it 
to him new ! If he hasn't been used to a whip he'll know 
pretty well what it means by the time I have done with him ; 
and then you may go home as fast as you can." 
It is very likely Mr. Saunders would have been as good, or 
as bad, as his word. His behavior to Ellen in the store at New 
York, and the measures taken by the old gentleman who had 
befriended her, had been the cause of his dismissal from the 
employ of Messrs. St. Clair and Fleury. Two or three other 
attempts to get into business had come to nothing, and he 
had been obliged to return to his native town. Ever since, 
Ellen and the old gentleman had lived in his memory as objects of the deepest spite ; — the one for interfering, the other 
for having been the innocent cause ; and he no sooner saw 
her in the post-office than he promised himself revenge, such 
revenge as only the meanest and most cowardly spirit could 
have taken pleasure in. His best way of distressing Ellen, 
he found, was through her horse ; he had almost satisfied 
himself ; but very naturally his feeling of spite had grown 
stronger and blunter with indulgence, and he meant to wind 
up with such a treatment of her pony, real or seeming, as he 
knew would give great pain to the pony's mistress. He was 
prevented. 
As they went slowly along, Ellen still clasping the Brownie's 
neck and resolved to cling to him to the last, Mr. Saunders 
making him caper in a way very uncomfoi'table to her, one 
was too busy and the other too deafened by fear to notice the 
sound of fast approaching hoofs behind them. It happened 
that John Humphreys had passed the night at Ventnor; nnd 
having an errand to do for a friend at Thirlwall had taken that 
road, which led him but a few miles out of his way, and was 
now at full speed on his way home. He had never made the 
Brownie's acquaintance, and did not recognize Ellen as he 
came up ; but in passing them some strange notion crossing 
his mind he wheeled his horse round directly in front of the 
astonished pair. Ellen quitted her pony's neck, and stretching out both arms towards him exclaimed, almost shrieked, 
" Oh, John ! John ! send him away ! make him let me go !" 
" What are you about, sir ?" said the new-comer steraly. 
" It's none of your business !" answered Mr. Saunders, in 
whom rage for the time overcame cowardice. 
"Take your hand off the bridle !" — with a shght touch of 
the riding'-whip upon the hand in question. 
" Not for you, brother," said Mr. Saunders sneeringly ; — "I'll 
walk with any lady I've a mind to. Look out for yourself!" 
" We will dispense with your further attendance," said John 
coolly. "Do you hear me ? — do as I order you !" 
The speaker did not put himself in a passion, and Mr. Saunders, accustomed for his own pai t to make bluster serve in- 
stead of prowess, despised a command so calmly given. — 
Ellen, who knew the voice, and still better could read the 
eye, drew conclusions very different. She was almost breathless with terror. Saunders was enraged and mortified at an 
interference that promised to baffle him ; he was a stout young 
man, and judged himself the stronger of the two, and took 
notice besides that the stranger had nothing in his hand but 
a slight riding-whip. He answered very insolently and with 
an oath ; and John saw that he was taking the bridle in his 
left hand and shifting his sapling whip so as to bring the 
club end of it uppermost. I'he next instant he aimed a furious blow at his adversary's horse. 'the quick eye and hand 
of the the rider disappointed that with a sudden swerve. In 
another moment, and Ellen hardly saw how, it was so quick, 
— John had dismounted, taken Mr. Saunders by the collar, 
and hurled him quite over into the gulley at the side of the 
road, where he lay at full length without stirring. 
" Ride on Ellen !" said her deliverer. 
She obeyed. He stayed a moment to say to his fallen adversary a few words of pointed warning as to ever repeating 
his offence ; then remounted and spurred forward to join 
Ellen. All her power of keeping up was gone, now that the 
necessity was over. Her head was once more bowed on her 
pony's neck, her whole frame shaking with convulsive sobs ; 
she could scarce with great effort keep from crying out 
aloud. 
" Ellie !" — said her adopted brother, in a voice that could 
hardly be known for the one that had last spoken. She had 
no words, but as he gently took one of her hands, the convulsive squeeze it gave him shewed the state of nervous excitement she was in. It was very long before his utmost efforts 
oould soothe her, or she could command herself enough to 
tell him her story. When at last told, it was with many 
tears. 
" Oh how could he ! how could he !" said poor Ellen ; — 
" how could he do so ! — it was very hard !" — 
An involuntary touch of the spurs made John's horse 
start. 
" But what took you to Thiriwall alone ?" said he ; — " you 
have not told me that yet." 
Ellen went back to Timothy's invasion of the cabbages, 
and gave him the whole history of the morning. 
" i thought when I was going for the doctor, at first," said 
she, — " and then afterwards when I had found him, what a 
good thing it was that Timothy broke down the garden fence 
and got in this morning ; for if it had not been for that I 
should not have p-one to Mr. Van Brunt's ; — and then aofain 
after that I thought, if he only had'nt !" 
" Little thino^s often draw after them lono^ trains of circumstances," said John, — " and that shows the folly of those peo- 
ple who think that God does not stoop to concern himself about 
trifles ; — life, and much more than life, may hang upon the 
turn of a hand. But Ellen, you must ride no more alone, — 
Promise me that you will not." 
" I will not to Thiriwall certainly," said Ellen, — " but mayn't 
I to Alice's ? — how can I help it ?" 
Well — to AHce's — that is a safe part of the country ; — but 
I should like to know a little more of your horse before trusting you even there." 
" Of the Brownie ?" said Ellen ; — " O he is as good as he can 
be ; you need not be afraid of him ; he has no trick at all ; 
there never was such a good little horse." 
John smiled. " How do you like mine ?" said he. 
Is that your new one ? what a beauty ! — me, what 
a beauty ! I didn't look at him before. O I like him very 
much ! he's handsomer than the Brownie ; — do you like 
him ?" 
" Very well ! — this is the first trial I have made of him. I 
was at Mr. Marshman's last night, and they detained me this 
morning or I should have been here much earlier. I am very 
well satisfied with him, so far." 
" And if you had not been detained !" — said Ellen. 
" Yes Ellie — I should not have fretted at my late break- 
fast and having to try Mr. Marsbman's favorite mare, if I had 
known what good purpose the delay was to serve. I wish I 
could have been here half an hour sooner, though." 
" Is his name the Black Prince ?" said Ellen returning to 
the horse. 
Yes, I believe so ; but you shall change it Ellie, if you 
can find one you like better." 
"I cannot ! — I like that very much. How beautiful he 
is ! Is he good ?" 
" I hope so," said John smiling ; — " if he is not I shall be at 
the pains to make him so. We are hardly acquainted yet." 
Ellen looked doubtfully at the black horse and his rider, 
and patting the Brownie's neck, observed with great satisfaction that he was very good. 
John had been riding very slowly on Ellen's account ; they 
now mended their pace. He saw however that she still 
looked miserably, and exerted himself to turn her thoughts 
from everything disagreeable. Much to her amusement he 
rode round her two or three times, to view her horse and 
show her his own ; commended the Brownie ; praised her 
bridle hand ; corrected several things about her riding ; and 
by degrees engaged her in very animated conversation. Ellen 
roused up ; the color came back to her cheeks ; and when 
they reached home and rode round to the glass door she 
looked almost like herself. 
She sprang off as usual without waiting for any help. 
John scarce saw that she had done so, when Alice's cry of 
joy brought him to the door, and from that together they 
went in to their father's study. Ellen was left alone on the 
lawn. Something was the matter ; for she stood with swimming eyes and a trembling lip, nibbing her stirrup, which 
really needed no polishing, and forgetting the tired horses, 
which would have had her sympathy at any other time. 
What was the matter ? Only — that Mr. John had forgotten 
the kiss he always gave her on going or coming. Ellen was 
jealous of it as a pledge of sistership, and could not want it : 
and though she tried as hard as she could to get her face in 
order, so that she might go in and meet them, somehow it 
seemed to take a great while. She was still busy with her 
stirrup, when she suddenly felt two hands on her shoulders. 
and looking up received the very kiss the want of which she 
had been himeniing. But John saw the tears in her eyes, 
and asked her, she thought with somewhat of a comical look, 
what the matter was ? Ellen was ashamed to tell, but he 
had her there by the shoulders, and besides, whatever that 
eye demanded she never knew how to keep back ; so with 
some difficulty she told him. 
" You are a foolish child, Ellie," said he gently, and kissing 
her again. " Run in out of the sun while I see to the horses." 
Ellen ran in, and told her long story to Alice ; and then feeling very weary and weak she sat on the sofa and lay resting in 
her arras in a state of the most entire and unruffled happiness. 
Alice however after a while transferred her to bed, thinking 
with good reason that a long sleep would be the best thing 
for her. 
CHAPTER XXXIX. 
When Ellen came out of Alice's room again it was late in 
the afternoon. 'J'he sun was so low that the shadow of the 
house had crossed the narrow lawn and mounted up near to 
the top of the trees ; but on them he was still shining brightly, 
and on the broad landscape beyond, which lay open to view 
through the gap in the trees. The glass door was open ; the 
sweet summer air and the sound of birds and insects and fluttering leaves floated into the room, making the stillness musical. On the thresliold pussy sat crouched, with his fore-feet 
doubled under his breast, watching with intense gravity the 
operations of Margery, who was setting the table on the lawn 
just before his eyes. Alice was paring peaches. 
" we are going to have tea out of doors, aren't we ?" 
said Ellen. " I'm very glad. What a lovely evening, isn't 
it? Just look at pussy, will you, Alice ? don't you believe 
he knows what Margery is doing ? — Why didn't you call me 
to go along with you after peaches?" 
" I thought you were doing the very best thing you possibly could, Ellie, my dear. How do you do ?" 
"O nicely now! Where's Mr. John? I hope he won't 
ask for my last drawing to-night, — I want to fix the top of 
that tree before he sees it." 
" Fix the top of your tree, you little Yankee ?" said Alice ; 
— " what do you think John would say to that ? — fix it you 
mean ; it is too stiff already, isn't it ?" 
" Well what shall I say ?' said Ellen laughing. " I am 
sorry that is Yankee, for I suppose one must speak English. 
— I want to do something to my tree, then. — Where is he, 
Alice ?" 
"He is gone down to Mr. Van Brunt's, to see how he is, 
and to speak to Miss Fortune about you on his way back." 
" how kind of him ! — he's very good ; that is just what 
I want to know ; but I am sorry, after his long ride" — 
" He don't mind that, Ellie. He'll be home presently." 
" How nice those peaches look ; — they are as good as 
strawberries, don't you think so? — better, — I don't know 
which is best ; — but Mr. John likes these best, don't he ? 
Now you've done ! — shall I set them on the table ? — and 
here's a pitcher of splendid cream, Alice !" 
" You had better not tell John so, or he will make you define splendid. 
John came back in good time, and brought word that Mr. 
Van Brunt was doing very well, so far as could be known ; 
also, that Miss Fortune consented to Ellen's remaining where 
she was. He wisely did not say, however, that her consent 
had been slow to gain till he had hinted at his readiness to 
provide a substitute for Ellen's services ; on which Miss Fortune had instantly declared she did not want her and she 
might stay as long as she pleased. This was all that was 
needed to complete Ellen's felicity. 
Wasn't your poor horse too tired to go out again this 
afternoon, Mr. John?" 
" I did not ride him, Ellie ; I took yours." 
"The Brownie! — did you? — I'm very glad! How did 
you like him ? But perhaps he was tired a little, and you 
couldn't tell so well to-day." 
" He was not tired with any work you had given him, 
Ellie ; — perhaps he may be a little now." 
" Why ?" said Ellen, somewhat alarmed. 
" I have been trying him ; and instead of going quietly 
along the road we have been taking some of the fences in our 
way. As I intend practising you at the bar, I wished to 
make sure in the first place that he knew his lesson." 
" Well how did he do ?" 
" Perfectly well — I believe he is a good little fellow. I 
wanted to satisfy myself if he was fit to be trusted with you ; 
and I rather think Mr. Marshman has taken care of that." 
The whole wall of trees was in shadow when the little family 
sat down to table ; but there was still the sun-lit picture behind ; and there was another kind of sunshine in every face 
at the table. Quietly happy the whole four, or at least this
whole three, were ; first, in being together, — after that, in all 
things beside. Never was tea so refreshing, or bread and 
butter so sweet, or the song of birds so delightsome. When 
the birds were gone to their nests, the cricket and grasshop- 
per and tree-toad and katy-did, and nameless other songsters, 
kept up a concert, — nature's own, — in delicious harmony with 
woods and flowers and summer breezes and evening light. 
Ellen's cup of enjoyment was running over. From one beautiful thing to another her eye wandered, — from one joy to 
another her thoughts went, — till her full heart fixed on the 
God who had made and given them all, and that Redeemer 
whose blood had been their purchase-money. From the dear 
friends beside her, the best-loved she had in the world, she 
thought of the one dearer yet from whom death had separated her ; — yet living still, — and to whom death would restore 
her, thanks to Him who had burst the bonds of death and 
broken the gates of the grave, and made a way for his ransomed to pass over. And the thought of Him was the joy- 
fullest of all ! 
"You look happy, Ellie," said her adopted brother. 
" So I am," said Ellen, smiling a very bright smile. 
" What are you thinking about ?" — 
But John saw it would not do to press his question. 
" You remind me," said he, "of some old fairy story that 
my childish ears received, in which the fountains of the sweet 
and bitter waters of life were said to stand very near each 
other, and to mingle their streams but a little way from their 
source. Your tears and smiles seem to be brothers and sisters ; — whenever we see one we may be sure the other is not 
far off." 
" My dear Jack !" said Alice laughing, — what an unhappy 
simile ! Are brothers and sisters always found like that ?" 
" I wish they were," said John sighing and smiling ; — " but 
my last words had nothing to do with my simile as you call it." 
When tea was over, and Margery had withdrawn the 
things and taken away the table, they still lingered in their 
places. It was far too pleasant to go in. Mr. Humphreys 
moved his chair to the side of the house, and thiowing a 
handkerchief over his head to defend him from the mosquitoes, a few of which were buzzing about, he either 
listened, meditated, or slept ; — most probably one of the two 
latter ; for the conversation was not very loud nor very lively ; 
it was happiness enough merely to breathe so near each other. 
The sun left the distant fields and hills ; soft twilight stole 
through the woods, down the gap, and over the plain ; the 
grass lost its green ; the wall of trees grew dark and dusky ; 
and very faint and dim showed the picture that was so bright 
a little while ago. As they sat quite silent, listening to what 
nature had to say to them, or letting fancy and memory take 
their way, the silence was broken — hardly broken — by the 
distinct far-off cry of a whip-poor-will. Alice grasped her 
brother's arm, and they remained motionless, while it came 
nearer, nearer, — then quite near, — with its clear, wild, shrill, 
melancholy note sounding close by them again and again, — 
strangely, plaintively, — then leaving the lawn, it was heard 
further and further off, till the last faint " whip-poor-will," in 
the far distance, ended its pretty interlude. It was almost 
too dark to read faces, but the eyes of the brother and sister 
had sought each other and remained fixed till the bird was 
out of hearing ; then Alice's hand was removed to his, and 
her head found its old place on her brother's shoulder. 
" Sometimes John," said Alice, " I am afraid I have one 
tie too strong to this world. I cannot bear — as I ought — to 
have you away from me." 
Her brother's lips were instantly pressed to her forehead. 
" I may say to you Alice, as Col. Gardiner said to his wife, 
' we have an eternity to spend together !' " 
I wonder," said Alice after a pause, — " how those can 
bear to love or be loved, whose affection can see nothing but 
a blank beyond the grave." 
" Few people, I believe," said her brother, " would come 
exactly under that description ; most flatter themselves with 
a vague hope of reunion after death," 
" But that is a miserable hope — very different from ours." 
" Very different indeed I — and miserable ; for it can only 
deceive ; but ours is sure. * Them that sleep in Jesus will 
God bring with him.' " 
" Precious !" said Alice. " How exactly fitted to every 
want and mood of the mind are the sweet Bible words." 
" Well !" said Mr. Humphreys, rousing himself, — " I am 
going in! These mosquitoes have half eaten me up. Are 
you going to sit there all night?" 
" We are thinking of it, papa," said Alice cheerfully. 
He went in, and was heard calling Margery for a light. 
They had better lights on the lawn. The stars began to 
peep out through the soft blue, and as the blue grew deeper 
they came out more and brighter, till all heaven was hung 
with lamps. But that was not all. In the eastern horizon, 
just above the low hills that bordered the far side of the 
plain, a white light, spreading and growing and brightening, 
promised the moon, and promised that she would rise very 
splendid ; and even before she came began to throw a faint 
lustre over the landscape. All eyes were fastened, and 
exclamations burst, as the first silver edge showed itself, and 
the moon rapidly rising looked on them with her whole broad 
bright face ; lighting up not only their faces and figures but 
the wide country view that was spread out below, and touching most beautifully the trees in the edge of the gap, and 
faintly the lawn ; while the wall of wood stood in deeper and 
blacker shadow than ever. 
Isn't that beautiful !" said Ellen. 
" Come round here, Ellie," said John ; — " Alice may have 
you all the rest of the year, but when I am at home you 
belong to me. What was your little head busied upon a while 
ago?" 
When ?" said Ellen. 
" When I asked you " — 
I know, — I remember. I was thinking " — 
"Well?"— 
" I was thinking — do you want me to tell you ?" 
"Unless you would rather not." 
I was thinkino: about Jesus Christ," said Ellen in a low 
tone. 
" What about him, dear Ellie ?" said her brother, drawing 
her closer to his side. 
" Different things, — I was thinking of what he said about 
little children, — and about what he said, you know, — ' In my 
Father's house are many mansions — and I was thinking that 
mamma was there ; and I thought — that we all " — 
Ellen could get no further. 
" ' He that believeth in him shall not be ashamed,' " said 
John softly. " ' This is the promise that he hath promised 
us, even eternal life ; and who shall separate us from the love 
of Christ ? Not death, nor things present, nor things to 
come. But he that hath this hope in him, purifieth himself 
even as he is pure ;' — let us remember that too." 
" Mr. John," said Ellen presently, — " don't you like some 
of the chapters in the Revelation very much ?" 
Yes — very much. Why ? — do you ?" 
" Yes. I remember reading parts of them to mamma, and 
that is one reason, I suppose ; but I like them very much. 
There is a great deal I can't understand, though." 
" There is nothing finer in the Bible than parts of that 
book," said Alice. 
" Mr. John," said Ellen, — " what is meant by the * white 
stone ?* " 
" ' And in the stone a new name written ?' " — 
Yes — that I mean." 
Mr. Baxter says it is the sense of God's love in the 
heart ; and indeed that is it ' which no man knoweth saving 
him that receiveth it.' This, I take it, Ellen, was Christian's 
certificate, which he used to comfort himself with reading in, 
you remember ?" 
" Can a child have it ?" said Ellen thoughtfully. 
" Certainly — many children have had it — you may have it. 
Only seek it faithfully. ' Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and 
worketh righteousness, those that remember thee in thy 
ways.' — And Christ said, ' he that loveth me shall be loved of 
my Father, and I will love him, and I will manifest myself to 
him !' There is no failure in these promises, Ellie ; he that 
made them is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever." 
For a little while each was busy with his own meditations. 
The moon meanwhile, rising higher and higher, poured a 
flood of light through the gap in the woods before them, and 
stealing among the trees here and there lit up a spot of ground 
under their deep shadow. The distant picture lay in mazy 
brightness. All was still, but the ceaseless chirrup of insects 
and gentle flapping of leaves ; the summer air just touched 
their cheeks with the lightest breath of a kiss, sweet from 
distant hay-fields, and nearer pines and hemlocks, and other 
of nature's numberless perfume-boxes. The hay-harvest had 
been remarkably late this year. 
" This is higher enjoyment," said John, — " than half those 
who make their homes in rich houses and mighty palaces 
have any notion of." 
" But, cannot rich people look at the moon ?" said Ellen. 
" Yes, but the taste for pure pleasures is commonly gone 
when people make a tiade of pleasure." 
'Mr. John" — Ellen began. 
" I will forewarn you," said he, — " that Mr. John has made 
up his mind he will do nothing more for you. So if you 
have anything to ask, it must lie still, — unless you will begin 
again." 
Ellen drew back. He looked grave, but she saw Alice 
smiling. 
" But what shall I do ?" said she, a little perplexed and half 
laughing. " What do you mean Mr. John ? What does he 
mean Alice?" 
" You could speak without a * Mr.' to me this morning 
when you were in trouble." 
" Oh !" said Ellen laughing, — " I forgot myself then." 
" Have the goodness to forget yourself permanently for the 
future." 
" Was that man hurt this morning, John ?" said his sister. 
" What man ?" 
" That man you delivered Ellen from." 
" Hurt ? no — nothing material ; I did not wish to hurt him. 
He richly deserved punishment, but it was not for me to 
give it." 
"He was in no hurry to get up," said Ellen. 
" I do not think he ventured upon that till we were well 
out of the way. He lifted his head and looked after us as 
we rode off." 
" But I wanted to ask something," said Ellen, — " ! what 
is the reason the moon looks so much larger when she first 
gets up than she does afterwards ?" 
" Whom are you asking ?" 
You." 
" And who is you ? Here are two people in the moonlight." 
" Mr. John Humpheys, — Alice's brother, and that Thomas 
calls * the young master,' " said Ellen laughing. 
" You are more shy of taking a leap than your little horse 
is," said John smiling, — " but i shall bring you up to it yet. 
What is the cause of the sudden enlargement of my thumb ?" 
He had drawn a small magnifying glass from his pocket 
and held it between his hand and Ellen, 
"Why it is not enlarged," said Ellen, — "it is only magnified." 
" What do you mean by that ?" 
" Why, the glass makes it look larger." 
" Do you know how, or why ?" 
" No." 
He put up the glass again. 
" But what do you mean by that ?" said Ellen ; — " there is 
no magnifying glass between us and the moon to make her 
look larger." 
" You are sure of that ?" 
" Why yes !" said Ellen ; — " I am perfectly sure ; there is 
nothing in the world. There she is, right up there, looking 
straight down upon us, and there is nothing between." 
" What is it that keeps up that pleasant fluttering of leaves 
in the wood ?" 
" Why, the wind." 
" And what is the wind ?" 
" It is air — air moving, I suppose." 
" Exactly. Then there is something between us and the 
moon." 
 " The air ! But, Mr. John, one can see quite clearly 
through the air; it doesn't make things look larger or 
smaller." 
" How far do you suppose the air reaches from us towards 
the moon ?" 
" Why, all the way, don't it ?" 
" No — only about forty miles. If it reached all the way 
there would indeed be no magnifying glass in the case." 
"But how is it?" said Ellen. " I don't understand." 
"I cannot tell you to-night, Ellie. There is a long lad- 
der of knowledge to go up before we can get to the moon, 
but we will begin to mount to-morrow, if nothing happens. 
Alice, you have that little book of Conversations on Natural Philosophy, which you and I used to delight ourselves 
with in old time ?" 
" Safe and sound in the book-case," said Alice. " I have 
thought of giving it to Ellen before, but she has been busy 
enough with what she had already." 
" i have done Rollin now, though," said Ellen ; — " that is 
lucky. I am ready for the moon," 
'i'his new study was begun the next day, and Ellen took 
great delight in it. She would have run on too fast in her 
eagerness but for the steady hand of her teacher ; he obliged 
her to be very thorough. This was only one of her items of 
business. The weeks of John's stay were as usual not merely 
weeks of constant and varied delight, but of constant and swift 
improvement too. 
A good deal of time was given to the riding-lessons. John 
busied himself one morning in preparing a bar for her on the 
lawn ; so placed that it might fall if the horse's heels touched 
it. Here Ellen learned to take first standing, and then run- 
ning, leaps. She was afraid at first, but habit wore that off ; 
and the bar was raised higher and higher, till Margery de- 
clared she " couldn't stand and look at her going over it." 
Then John made her ride without the stirrup, and with her 
hands behind her, while he, holding the horse by a long halter, made him go round in a circle, slowly at first, and afterwards trotting and cantering, till Ellen felt almost as secure 
on his back as in a chair. It took a good many lessons how- 
ever to bring her to this, and she trembled very much at the 
beginning. Her teacher was careful and gentle, but determined ; and whatever he said she did, tremble or no tremble ; 
and in general loved her riding lessons dearly. 
Drawing too went on finely. He began to let her draw 
things from nature ; and many a pleasant morning the three 
went out together with pencils and books and work, and spent 
hours in the open air. They would fir d a pretty point of 
view, or a nice shady place where the breeze came, and where 
there was some good old rock with a tree beside it, or a 
piece of fence, or the house or barn in the distance, for Ellen 
to sketch; and while she drew and Alice worked, John read 
aloud to them. Sometimes he took a pencil too, and Alice 
read ; and often, often, pencils, books and work were all laid 
down ; and talk, — lively, serious, earnest, always delightful, 
— took the place of them. When Ellen could not understand 
the words, at least she could read the faces ; and that was a 
study she was never weary of. At home there were other 
studies and much reading ; many tea drinkings on the lawn, 
and even breakfastings, which she thought uploasanter 
still. 
As soon as it was decided that Mr. Van Brunt's leg was 
doino- well, and in a fair way to be sound again, Ellen went to 
see him ; and after that rarely let two days pass without going 
again. John and Alice used to ride with her so far, and 
taking a turn beyond while she made her visit, call for her on 
their way back. She had a strong motive for going in the 
pleasure her presence always gave, both to Mr. Van Brunt 
and his mother. Sam Larkens had been to Thirlwall and 
seen Mrs. Forbes, and from him they had heard the story of 
her riding up and down the town in search of the doctor ; 
neither of them could forget it. Mrs. Van Brunt poured out 
her affection in all sorts of expressions whenever she had 
Ellen's ear ; her son was not a man of many words ; but Ellen 
knew his face and manner well enough without them, and read 
there whenever she went into his room what gave her great 
pleasure. 
"How do you do, Mr. Van Brunt?" she said on one of 
these occasions. 
" O I'm getting along, I s'pose," said he ; — "getting along 
as well as a man can that's lying on his back from morning 
to night ; — prostrated, as 'Squire Dennison said his corn was 
t'other day." 
" It is very tiresome, isn't it ?" said Ellen. 
" It's the tiresomest work that ever was, for a man that has 
two arras to be adoing nothing, day after day. And what 
bothers me is the wheat in that ten-acre lot, that ought to be 
prostrated too, and aint, nor aint like to be, as I know, imless 
the rain comes and does it. Sam and Johnny 'll make no 
head- way at all with it — I can tell as well as if I see 'em." 
" But Sam is good, isn't he ?" said Ellen. 
" Sam's as good a boy as ever was ; but then Johnny Low
is mischievous, you see, and he gets Sam out of his tracks 
once in a while. I never see a finer growth of wheat. I had 
a sight rather cut and harvest the hull of it t ban to lie here 
and think of it getting spoiled. I'm a'most out o' conceit o 
trap-doors, Ellen," 
Ellen could not help smiling. 
" What can I do for you, Mr. Van Brunt ?" 
" There aint nothing," said he ; — " I wish there was. How
are you coming along at home ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen ; — " I am not there just now, 
you know ; I am staying up with Miss Alice again.' 
" ay ! while her brother's at home. He's a splendid man, 
