to her ears, and presently after there stole to her nostrils a 
steaming odor of something very savory from the kitchen. 
It said as plainly as any dressing-bell that she had better get 
up. So up she jumped, and set about the business of dressing with great alacrity. Where was the distress of last 
night ? Gone — with the darkness. She had slept well ; the 
bracing atmosphere had restored strength and spirits ; and 
the bright morning light made it impossible to be dull or 
down-hearted, in spite of the new cause she thought she had 
found. She went on quick with the business of the toilet. 
But when it came to the washing, she suddenly discovered 
that there were no conveniences for it in her room — no sign 
of pitcher or basin or stand to hold them. Ellen was slightly 
dismayed ; but presently recollected her arrival had not been 
looked for so soon, and probably the preparations for it had 
not been completed. So she finished dressing, and then set 
out to find her way to the kitchen. On opening the door, 
there was a little landing-place from which the stairs descended just in front of her, and at the left hand another door, 
which she supposed must lead to her aunt's room. At the 
foot of the stairs Ellen found herself in a large square room 
or hall, for one of its doors, on the east, opened to the outer 
air, and was in fact the front door of the house. Another 
Ellen tried on the south side ; it would not open. A third, 
under the stairs, admitted her to the kitchen. 
The noise of hissing and sputtering now became quite violent, and the smell of the cooking, to Ellen's fancy, rather 
too strong to be pleasant. Before a good fire stood Miss 
Fortune, holding the end of a very long iron handle by which 
she was kept in communication with a flat vessel sitting on 
the fire, in which Ellen soon discovered all this noisy and 
odorous cooking was going on. A tall tin coffee-pot stood 
on some coals in the corner of the fire-place, and another little iron vessel in front also claimed a share of Miss Fortune's 
attention, for she every now and then leaned forward to give 
a stir to whatever was in it, making each time quite a spasmodic effort to do so without quitting her hold of the end of 
the long handle. Ellen drew near and looked on with great 
curiosity, and not a little appetite ; but Miss Fortune was 
far too busy to give her more than a passing glance. At 
length the hissing pan was brought to the hearth for some 
new arrangement of its contents, and Ellen seized the moment of peace and quiet to say, " Good morning, aunt Fortune." 
Miss Fortune was crouching by the pan turning her slices 
of pork. " How do you do this morning ?" she answered, 
without looking up. 
Ellen replied she felt a great deal better. 
"Slept warm, did you?" said Miss Fortune, as she set the 
pan back on the fire. And Ellen could hardly answer 
" Quite warm, ma'am," when the hissing and sputtering began 
again as loud as ever. 
" I must wait," thought Ellen, " till this is over before I 
say what I want to. I can't scream out to ask for a basin 
and towel." 
In a few minutes the pan was removed from the fire, and 
Miss Fortune went on to take out the brown slices of nicely- 
fried pork and arrange them in a deep dish, leaving a small 
quantity of clear fat in the pan. Ellen, who was greatly 
interested, and observing every step most attentively, settled in 
her own mind that certainly this would be thrown away, being 
fit for nothing but the pigs. But Miss Fortune didn't think so, 
for she darted into some pantry close by, and returning with a 
cup of cream in her hand emptied it all into the pork fat. Then 
she ran into the pantry again for a little round tin box, with 
a cover full of holes, and shaking this gently over the pan, 
a fine white shower of flour fell upon the cream. The pan 
was then replaced on the fire and stirred ; and to Ellen's astonishment the whole changed, as if by magic, to a thick, 
stiff, white froth. It was not till Miss Fortune was carefully 
pouring this over the fried slices in the dish, that Ellen suddenly recollected that breakfast was ready, and she was not. 
" Aunt Fortune," she said timidly, " I haven't washed 
yet, — there's no basin in my room." 
Miss Fortune made no answer nor gave any sign of hearing ; she went on dishing up breakfast. Ellen waited a few 
minutes. 
" Will you please, ma'am, to show me where I can wash 
myself." 
" Yes," said Miss Fortune, suddenly standing erect, " you'll 
have to go down to the spout." 
" The spout, ma'am," said Ellen, — " what's that? 
** You'll know it when you see it, I guess," answered 
her aunt, again stooping over her preparations. But in 
another moment she arose and said, " Just open that door 
there behind you, and go down the stairs and out at the door, 
and you'll see where it is, and what it is too." 
Ellen still lingered. " Would you be so good as to give 
me a towel, ma'am ?" she said timidly. 
Miss Fortune dashed past her and out of another door, 
whence she presently returned with a clean towel which she 
threw over Ellen's arm, and then went back to her work. 
Opening the door by which she had first seen her aunt 
enter the night before, Ellen went down a steep flight of 
steps, and found herself in a lower kitchen, intended for common purposes. It seemed to be not used at all, at least there 
was no fire there, and a cellar-like feeling and smell instead. 
That was no wonder, for beyond the fire-place on the left 
hand was the opening to the cellar, which running under the 
other part of the house, was on a level with this kitchen. 
It had no furniture but a table and two chairs. The thick 
heavy door stood open. Passing out, Ellen looked around 
her for water, — in what shape or form it was to present itself 
she had no very clear idea. She soon spied, a few yards distant a little stream of water pouring from the end of a pipe 
or trough raised about a foot and a half from the ground, 
and a well worn path leading to it, left no doubt of its being 
' the spout.' But when she had reached it Ellen was in no 
small puzzle as to how she should manage. The water was 
clear and bright, and poured very fast into a shallow wooden 
trough underneath, whence it ran off into the meadow and 
disappeared. 
" But what shall I do without a basin," thought Ellen, 
" I can't catch any water in my hands, it runs too fast. If I 
only could get my face under there — that would be fine !" 
Very carefully and cautiously she tried it, but the continual spattering of the water had made the board on which 
she stood so slippery that before her face could reach the 
stream she came very near tumbling headlong, and so taking 
more of a cold bath than she wished for. So she contented 
herself with the drops her hands could bring to her face, — a 
scanty supply ; but those drops were deliciously cold and 
fresh. And afterwards she pleased herself with holding her 
hands in the running water, till they were red with the cold. 
On the whole Ellen enjoyed her washing very much. The 
morning air came playing about her ; its cool breath was on 
her cheek with health in its touch. The early sun was shining on tree and meadow and hill ; the long shadows stretched 
over the grass, and the very brown out-houses, looked bright. 
She thought it was the loveliest place she ever had seen. 
And that sparkling trickling water was certainly the purest 
and sweetest she had ever tasted. Where could it come 
from ? It poured from a small trough, made of the split 
trunk of a tree with a little groove or channel two inches 
wide hollowed out in it. But at the end of one of these troughs, 
another lapped on, and another at the end of that, and how 
many there were Ellen could not see, nor where the beginning of them was. Ellen stood gazing and wondering, drinking in the fresh air, hope and spirits rising every minute, 
when she suddenly recollected breakfast ! She hurried in. 
As she expected, her aunt was at the table ; but to her surprise, and not at all to her gratification, there was Mr. Van 
Brunt at the other end of it, eating away, very much at 
home indeed. In silent dismay Ellen drew her chair to the 
side of the table. 
" Did you find the spout ?" asked Miss Fortune. 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" Well, how do you like it?" 
" 0, I like it very much indeed," said Ellen. " I think it 
is beautiful." 
Miss Fortune's face rather softened at this, and she gave 
Ellen an abundant supply of all that was on the table. 
Her journey, the bracing air, and her cool morning wash, 
altogether, had made Ellen very sharp, and she did justice to the breakfast. She thought never was coffee so good 
as this country coffee ; nor anything so excellent as the brown 
bread and butter, both as sweet as bread and butter could 
be; neither was any cookery ever so ent'-ely satisfactory as 
Miss Fortune's fried pork and potatoes. Yet her teaspoon 
was not silver ; her knife coald not boast of being either 
sharp or bright ; and her fork was certainly made for anything 
else in the world but comfort and convenience, being of only 
two prongs, and those so far apart that Ellen Lad no small 
difficulty to carry the potato safely from her plate to her 
mouth. It mattered nothing ; she was now looking on the 
bright side of things, and all this only made her breakfast 
taste the sweeter. 
Ellen rose from the table when she had finished, ani stood 
a few minutes thoughtfully by the fire. 
" Aunt Fortune," she said at length timidly, " if you've 
no objection, I should like to go and take a good look all 
about." 
" yes," said Miss Fortune, " go where you like ; I'll 
give you a week to do what you please with yourself." 
" Thank you, ma'am," said Ellen, as she ran off for her 
bonnet ; " a week's a long time. I suppose," thought she, 
" I shall go to school at the end of that." 
Returning quickly with her white bonnet, Ellen opened t!ie 
heavy kitchen door by which she had entered last night, and 
went out. She found herself in a kind of long shed. It hid 
very rough walls and floor, and overhead showed the brown 
beams and rafters ; two little windows and a door were on 
the side. All manner of rubbish lay there, especially at the 
farther end. There were scattered about and piled up various boxes, boards, farming and garden tools, old pieces of 
rope and sheepskin, old iron, a cheese press, and what not. 
Ellen did not stay long to look, but went out to find something pleasanter. A few yards from the shed door was the 
little gate through which she had stumbled in the dark, and 
outside of that Ellen stood still awhile. It was a fair, pleasant day, and the country scene she looked upon was very 
pretty. Ellen thought so. Before her, at a little distance, 
rose the great gable end of the barn, and a long row of out- 
houses stretched away from it towards the left. The ground 
was strewn thick with chips ; and the reason was not hard to 
find, for a little way off, under an old stunted apple tree, lay a 
huge log, well chipped on the upper surface, with the axe resting against it ; and close by were some sticks of wood both 
chopped and unchopped. To the right, the ground de- 
scended gently to a beautiful plane meadow, skirted on the 
hither side with a row of fine apple trees. The smooth green 
flat tempted Ellen to a run, but first she looked to the left. 
There was the garden, she guessed, for there was a paling 
fence which enclosed a pretty large piece of ground ; and between the garden and the house a green slope ran down to 
the spout. That reminded her that she had intended making 
a journey of discovery up the course of the long trough. No 
time could be better than now, and she ran down the slope. 
The trough was supported at some height from the ground 
by little heaps of stones placed here and there along its whole 
course. Not far from the spout it crossed a fence. Ellen 
must cross it too to gain her object, and how that could be 
done was a great question ; she resolved to try, however. 
But first she played awhile with the water, which had great 
charms for her. She dammed up the little channel with her 
fingers, forcing the water to flow over the side of the trough ; — 
there was something very pleasant in stopping the supply of 
the spout, and seeing the water trickling over where it had 
no business to go ; and she did not heed that some of the 
drops took her frock in their way. She stooped her lips to 
the trough and drank of its sweet current, — only for fun's 
sake, for she was not thirsty. Finally, she set out to follow 
the stream up to its head. But poor Ellen had not gone 
more than half way towards the fence, when she all at once 
plunged into the mire. The green grass growing there had 
looked fair enough, but there was running water and black 
mud under the green grass, she found to her sorrow. Her 
shoes, her stockings, were full. What was to be done, now ? 
The journey of discovery must be given up. She forgot to 
think about where the water came from, in the more pressing 
question, " What will aunt Fortune say ?" — and the quick 
wish came that she had her mother to go to. However, she 
got out of the slough, and wiping her shoes as well as she 
could on the grass, she hastened back to the house. 
The kitchen was all put in order, the hearth swept, the 
irons at the fire, and Miss Fortune just pinning her ironing 
blanket on the table. "Well, — what's the matter?" she 
said, when she saw Ellen's face ; but as her glance reached 
the floor, her brow darkened. " Mercy on mej " she ex- 
claimed, with slow emphasis, — "what on earth have you 
been about ? where have you been *? " 
Ellen explained. 
" Well, you have made a figure of yourself ! Sit down !" 
said her aunt, shortly, as she thrust a chair down on the 
hearth before the fire ; "I should have thought you'd have 
had wit enough at your age to keep out of the ditch." 
" I didn't see any ditch," said Ellen. 
 " No, I suppose not," said Miss Fortune, who was energetically twitching off Ellen's shoes and stockings with her 
fore finger and thumb ; " I suppose not ! you were staring up 
at the moon or stars, I suppose." 
" It all looked green and smooth," said poor Ellen ; " one 
part just like another; and the first thing I knew I was up 
to my ankles." 
" What were you there at all for ?" said Miss Fortune, 
shortly enough. 
" I couldn't see where the water came from, and I wanted 
to find out." 
" Well you've found out enough for one day I hope. Just 
look at those stockings ! Ha'n't you got never a pair of 
colored stockings, that you must go poking into the mud with 
white ones ? " 
" No, ma'am." 
" Do you mean to say you never wore any but white ones 
at home ? " 
" Yes, ma'am ; I never had any others." 
Miss Fortune's thoughts seemed too much for speech, from 
the way in which she jumped up and went off without saying anything more. She presently came back with an old 
pair of gray socks, which she bade Ellen put on as soon as 
her feet were dry. 
" How many of those white stockings have- you ? " she 
said. 
" Mamma bought me half a dozen pair of new ones just 
before I came away, and I had as many as that of old ones 
besides." 
" Well now go up to your trunk and bring 'em all down 
to me — every pair of white stockings you have got. There's 
a pair of old slippers you can put on till your shoes are dry," 
she said, flinging them to her ; — " they arn't much too big for 
you." 
" They're not much too big for the socks — they're a great 
deal too big for me," thought Ellen. But she said nothing. 
She gathered all her stockings together and brought them 
down stairs, as her aunt had bidden her. 
" Now you may run out to the barn, to Mr. Van Brunt, 
— you'll find him there, — and tell him I want him to bring 
me some white maple bark, when he comes home to dinner, 
— white maple bark, do you hear ?" 
Away went Ellen, but in a few minutes came back. " I 
can't get in," she said. 
" What's the matter ?" 
" Those great doors are shut, and I can't open them. I 
knocked, but nobody came." 
" Knock at a barn door !" said Miss Fortune. " You must 
go in at the little cowhouse door, at the left, and go round. 
He's in the lower barn-floor." 
The barn stood lower than the level of the chip-yard, from 
which a little bridge led to the great door- way of the second 
floor. Passing down the range of outhouses, Ellen came to 
the little door her aunt had spoken of. " But what in the 
world should I do if there should be cows inside there ?" 
said she to herself. She peeped in ; — the cowhouse was 
perfectly empty ; and cautiously, and with many a fearful 
glance to the right and left, lest some terrible horned animal 
should present itself, Ellen made her way across the cow- 
house, and through the barn-yard, littered thick with straw 
wet and dry, to the lower barn-floor. The door of this stood 
wide open. Ellen looked with wonder and pleasure when 
she got in. It was an immense room — the sides showed 
nothing but hay up to the ceiling, except here and there an 
enormous upright post ; the floor was perfectly clean, only 
a few locks of hay and grains of wheat scattered upon it ; 
and a pleasant sweet smell was there, Ellen could not tell of 
what. But no Mr. Van Brunt. She looked about for him, 
she dragged her disagreeable slippers back and forth over 
the floor, in vain. 
" Hilloa ! what's wanting ?" at length cried a rough voice 
she remembered very well. But where was the speaker? 
On every side, to every corner, her eyes turned without 
finding him. She looked up at last. There was the round 
face of Mr. Van Brunt peering down at her through a large 
opening or trap-door, in the upper floor. 
" Well !" said he, " have you come out here to help me 
thrash wheat !" 
Ellen told him what she had come for. 
" White maple bark, — well," — said he, in his slow way, 
" I'll bring it. I wonder what's in the wind now." 
So Ellen wondered, as she slowly went back to the house ; 
and yet more, when her aunt set her to tacking her stockings 
together by two and two. 
" What are you going to do with them, aunt Fortune ?" 
she at last ventured to say. 
" You'll see, — when the time comes." 
"Mayn't I keep out one pair?" said Ellen, who had a 
vague notion that by some mysterious means her stockings 
were to be prevented from ever looking white any more. 
" No ; — just do as I tell you." 
Mr. Van Brunt came at dinner-time with the white maple 
bark. It was thrown forthwith into a brass kettle of water 
which Miss Fortune had already hung over the fire. Ellen 
felt sure this had something to do with her stockings, but she 
could ask no questions ; and as soon as dinner was over she 
went up to her room. It didn't look pleasant now. The 
brown wood- work and rough dingy walls had lost their 
gilding. The sunshine was out of it ; and what was more, 
the sunshine was out of Ellen's heart too. She went to the 
window and opened it, but there was nothing to keep it 
open ; it slid down again as soon as she let it go. Baffled and 
sad, she stood leaning her elbows on the window-sill, looking 
out on the grass-plat that lay before the door, and the little 
gate that opened on the lane, and the smooth meadow, and 
rich broken country beyond. It was a very fair and pleasant 
scene in the soft sunlight of the last of October ; but the 
charm of it was gone for Ellen ; it was dreary. She looked 
without caring to look, or knowing what she was looking at ; 
she felt the tears rising to her eyes ; and sick of the window, 
turned away. Her eye fell on her trnnk ; her next thought 
was of her desk inside of it ; and suddenly her heart sprang ; 
— " I will write to mamma !" No sooner said than done. The 
trunk was quickly open, and hasty hands pulled out one thing 
after another till the desk was reached. 
" But what shall I do ?" thought she, — " there isn't a sign 
of a table. O what a place ! I'll shut my trunk and put it 
on that. But here are all these things to put back first." 
They were eagerly stowed away ; and then kneeling by 
the side of the trunk, with loving hands Ellen opened her 
desk. A sheet of paper was drawn from her store, and 
properly placed before her ; the pen dipped in the ink, and 
at first with a hurried, then with a trembling hand, she wrote, 
" My dear Mamma." But Ellen's heart had been swelling 
and swelling, with every letter of those three words, and 
scarcely was the last " a " finished, when the pen was dashed 
down, and flinging away from the desk, she threw herself on 
the floor in a passion of grief. It seemed as if she had her 
mother again in her arms, and was clinging with a death- 
grasp not to be parted from her. And then the feeling that 
she was parted ! — As much bitter sorrow as a little heart can 
know was in poor Ellen's now. In her childish despair she 
wished she could die, and almost thought she should. After 
a time, however, though not a short time, she rose from the 
floor and went to her writing again ; her heart a little eased 
by weeping, yet the tears kept coming all the time, and she 
could not quite keep her paper from being blotted. The first 
sheet was spoiled before she was aware ; she took another. 
" My Dearest Mamma, 
" It makes me so glad and so sorry to write to you, that I 
don't know what to do. I want to see you so much, mamma, 
that it seems to me sometimes as if my heart would break. 
0, mamma, if I could just kiss you once more, I would give 
anything in the whole world. I can't be happy as long as you 
are away, and I am afraid I can't be good either ; but I will 
try. I will try, mamma. I have so much to say to you 
that I don't know where to begin. I am sure my paper will 
never hold it all. You will want to know about my journey. 
The first day was on the steamboat, you know. I should 
have had a dreadful time that day, mamma, but for some- 
thing I'll tell you about. I was sitting up on the upper deck. 
thinking about you, and feeling very badly indeed, when a 
gentleman came and spoke to me, and asked me what was 
the matter. Mamma, I can't tell you how kind he was to me. 
He kept me with him the whole day. He took me all over 
the boat, and showed me all about a great many things, and 
he talked to me a great deal. 0, mamma, how he talked to 
me. He read in the Bible to me, and explained it, and he 
tried to make me be a Christian. And 0, mamma, when he 
was talking to me, how I wanted to do as he said, and I 
resolved I would. I did, mamma, and I have not forgotten 
it. I will try indeed, but I am afraid it will be very hard 
without you or him, or anybody else to help me. You 
couldn't have been kinder yourself, mamma ; he kissed me 
at night when I bid him good-bye, and I was very sorry 
indeed. I wish I could see him again. Mamma, I will 
always love that gentleman if I never see him again in the 
world. I wish there was somebody here that I could love, 
but there is not. You will want to know what sort of a person my aunt Fortune is. I think she is very good looking, 
or she would be if her nose was not quite so sharp : but, 
mamma, I can't tell you what sort of a feeling I have about 
her ; it seems to me as if she was sharp all over. I am sure 
her eyes are as sharp as two needles. And she don't walk 
like other people ; at least sometimes. She makes queer 
little jerks and starts and jumps, and flies about like T don't 
know what. I am afraid it is not right for me to write so about 
her ; but may I not tell you, mamma ? There's nobody else 
for me to talk to. I can't like aunt Fortune much yet, and 
I am sure she don't like me ; but I will try to make her. I 
have not forgotten what you said to me about that. 0, dear 
mamma, I will try to mind everything you "ever said to me 
in your life. I am afraid you won't like what I have written 
about aunt Fortune ; but indeed I have done nothing to displease her, and I will try not to. If you were only here, 
mamma, I should say it was the loveliest place I ever saw in 
my life. Perhaps, after all, I shall feel better, and be quite 
happy by-and-by ; but O, mamma, how glad I shall be when 
I get a letter from you. I shall begin to look for it soon, and 
I t\ .ink I shall go out of my wits with joy when it comes. I 
had the funniest ride down here from Thirlwall that you can 
think ; how do you guess I came ? In a cart drawn by oxen. 
They went so slow we were an age getting here ; but I liked 
it very much. There was a good-natured man driving the 
oxen, and he was kind to me ; but, mamma, what do you 
think ? he eats at the table. I know what you would tell 
me ; you would say I must not mind trifles. Well, I will 
try not, mamma. O darling mother, I can't think much of 
anything but you. I think of you the whole time. Who 
makes tea for you now ? Are you better ? Are you going 
to leave New York soon ? It seems dreadfully long since 
saw you. I am tired, dear mamma, and cold ; and it is getting 
dark. I must stop. I have a good big room to myself ; that 
is a good thing. I should not like to sleep with aunt Fortune. Good night, dear mamma. I wish I could sleep with 
you once more. 0, when will that be again, mamma ? Good 
night. Good night. 
" Your affectionate Ellen." 
The letter finished was carefully folded, enclosed, and 
directed ; and then with an odd mixture of pleasure and sadness, Ellen lit one of her little wax matches, as she called 
them, and sealed it very nicely. She looked at it fondly 
a minute when all was done, thinking of the dear fingers that 
would hold and open it ; her next movement was to sink her 
face in her hands, and pray most earnestly for a blessing upon 
her mother, and help for herself, — poor Ellen felt she needed 
it. She was afraid of lingering lest tea should be ready ; so, 
locking up her letter, she went down stairs. 
The tea was ready. Miss Fortune and Mr. Yan Brunt 
were at the table, and so was the old lady, whom Ellen had 
not seen before that day. She quietly drew up her chair to 
its place. 
" Well," said Miss Fortune, " I hope you feel better for 
your long stay up stairs." 
" I do, ma'am," said Ellen ; " a great deal better." 
" What have you been about ?" 
" I have been writing, ma'am." 
" Writing what?" 
" I have been writing to mamma." 
Perhaps Miss Fortune heard the trembling of Ellen's voice, 
or her sharp glance saw the lip quiver and eyelid droop. 
Something softened her. She spoke in a different tone ; 
asked Ellen if her tea was good ; took care she had plenty 
of the bread and butter, and excellent cheese, which was on 
the table ; and lastly cut her a large piece of the pumpkin 
pie. Mr. Van Brunt too looked once or twice at Ellen's face 
as if he thought all was not right there. He was not so sharp 
as Miss Fortune, but the swollen eyes and tear-stains were 
not quite lost upon him. 
After tea, when Mr. Van Brunt was gone, and the tea- 
things cleared away, Ellen had the pleasure of finding out 
the mystery of the brass kettle and the white maple bark. 
The kettle now stood in the chimney comer. Miss Fortune, 
seating herself before it, threw in all Ellen's stockings except 
one pair, which she flung over to her, saying, " There — I 
don't care if you keep that one." Then, tucking up her 
sleeves to the elbows, she fished up pair after pair out of the 
kettle, and wringing them out hung them on chairs to dry. 
But, as Ellen had opined, they were no longer white, but of 
a fine slate color. She looked on in silence, too much vexed 
to ask questions. 
" Well, how do you like that ?" said Miss Fortune at length, 
when she had got two or three chairs round the fire pretty 
well hung with a display of slate-colored cotton legs. 
" I don't like it at all,' said Ellen. 
" Well, I do. How many pair of white stockings would you 
like to drive into the mud and let me wash out every week ?" 
" You wash !" said Ellen, in surprise ; " I didn't think of 
your doing it." 
" Who did you think was going to do it ? There's nothing 
in this house but goes through my hands, I can tell you, and 
so must you. I suppose you've lived all your life among 
people that thought a great deal of wetting their little finger ; 
but I'm not one of 'em, I guess you'll find." 
Ellen was convinced of that already. 
" Well, what are you thinking of ?" said Miss Fortune 
presently. 
" I am thinking of my nice white darning-cotton," said 
Ellen. " I might just as well not have had it." 
" Is it wound, or in the skein ?" 
" In the skein." 
" Then just go right up and get it. I'll warrant I'll fix it 
so that you'll have a use for it." 
Ellen obeyed, but musing rather uncomfortably what else 
there was of" hers that Miss Fortune could lay hands on. 
She seemed in imagination to see all her white things turning 
brown. She resolved she would keep her trunk well locked 
up ; but what if her keys should be called for ? 
She was dismissed to her room soon after the dyeing business was completed. It was rather a disagreeable surprise 
to find her bed still unmade ; and she did not at all like the 
notion that the making of it in future must depend entirely 
upon herself ; Ellen had no fancy for such handiwork. She 
went to sleep in somewhat the same dissatisfied mood with 
which the day had been begun ; — displeasure at her coarse 
heavy coverlid and cotton sheets again taking its place among 
weightier matters ; — and dreamed of tying them together into 
a rope by which to let herself down out of the window ; but 
when she had got so far, Ellen's sleep became sound, and the 
end of the dream was never known. 
CHAPTER XI. 
Clouds and rain and cold winds kept Ellen within doors 
for several days. This did not better the state of matters 
between herself and her aunt. Shut up with her in the 
kitchen from morning till night, with the only variety of the 
old lady's company part of the time, Ellen thought neither 
of them improved upon acquaintance. Perhaps they thought 
the same of her; she was certainly not in her best mood. 
With nothing to do, the time hanging very heavy on her 
hands, disappointed, unhappy, frequently irritated, Ellen became at length very ready to take offence, and nowise disposed to pass it over or smooth it, away. She seldom showed 
this in words, it is true, but it rankled in her mind. Listless 
and brooding, she sat day after day, comparing the present 
with the past, wishing vain wishes, indulging bootless regrets, 
and looking upon her aunt and grandmother with an eye of 
more settled aversion. The only other person she saw was 
Mr. Van Brunt, who came in regularly to meals ; but he 
never said anything unless in answer to Miss Fortune's ques- 
tions and remarks about the farm concerns. These did not 
interest her ; and she was greatly wearied with the sameness 
of her life. She longed to go out again ; but Thursday, and 
Friday, and Saturday, and Sunday passed, and the weather 
still kept her close prisoner. Monday brought a change, but 
though a cool, drying wind blew all day, the ground was too 
wet to venture out. 
On the evening of that day, as Miss Fortune was setting 
the table for tea, and Ellen sitting before the fire, feeling 
weary of everything, the kitchen door opened, and a girl 
somewhat larger and older than herself came in. She had a 
pitcher in her hand, and marching straight up to the tea- 
table, she said, 
" Will you let granny have a little milk to-night, Miss Fortune ? I can't find the cow. I'll bring it back to-morrow." 
" You ha'n't lost her, Nancy ?" 
" Have, though," said the other ; " she's been away these 
two days." 
" Why didn't you go somewhere nearer for milk ?" 
H Oh ! I don't know — I guess your'n is the sweetest," said 
the girl, with a look Ellen did not understand. 
Miss Fortune took the pitcher and went into the pantry. 
While she was gone, the two children improved the time in 
looking very hard at each other. Ellen's gaze was modest 
enough, though it showed a great deal of interest in the new 
object ; but the broad, searching stare of the other seemed 
intended to taKe in all there was of Ellen from her head to 
her feet, and keep it, and find out what sort of a creature she 
was at once. Ellen almost shrank from the bold black eyes, 
but they never wavered, till Miss Fortune's voice broke the 
spell. 
" How's your grandmother, Nancy ?" 
" She's tolerable, ma'am, thank you." 
" Now if you don't bring it back to-morrow, you won't get 
any more in a hurry," said Miss Fortune, as she handed the 
pitcher back to the girl. 
" I'll mind it," said the latter, with a little nod of her head, 
which seemed to say there was no danger of her forgetting. 
" Who is that, aunt Fortune ?" said Ellen, when she was 
gone. 
" She is a girl that lives up on the mountain yonder." 
"But what's her name ?" 
"I had just as lief you wouldn't know her name. She 
aint a good girl. Don't you never have anything to do with 
her." 
Ellen was in no mind to give credit to all her aunt's opinions, and she set this down as in part at least coming from 
ill-humor. 
The next morning was calm and fine, and Ellen spent nearly the whole of it out of doors. She did not venture near 
the ditch, but in every other direction she explored the 
ground, and examined what stood or grew upon it as thoroughly as she dared. Towards noon she was standing by 
the little gate at the back of the house, unwilling to go in, 
but not knowing w hat more to do, when Mr. Van Brunt came 
from the lane with a load of wood. Ellen watched the oxen 
toiling up the ascent, and thought it looked like very hard 
work ; she was sorry for them. 
"Isn't that a very heavy load ?" she asked of their driver, 
as he was throwing it down under the apple tree. 
" Heavy ? Not a bit of it. It aint nothing at all to 'em. 
They'd take twice as much any day with pleasure." 
" I shouldn't think so," said Ellen ; " they don't look as if 
there was much pleasure about it. What makes them lean 
over so against each other when they are coming up hill ?" 
" Oh, that's just a way they've got. They're so fond of 
each other, I suppose. Perhaps they've something particular to say, and want to put their heads together for the purpose." 
" No," said Ellen, half laughing, " it can't be that ; they 
wouldn't take the very hardest time for that ; they would 
wait till they got to the top of the hill ; but there they stand 
just as if they were asleep, only their eyes are open. Poor 
things !" 
"They're not very poor anyhow," said Mr. Van Brunt ; 
** there aint a finer yoke of oxen to be seen than them are, 
nor in better condition." 
He went on throwing the wood out of the cart, and Ellen 
stood looking at him. 
" What'll you give me if I'll make you a scup one of these 
days ?" said Mr. Van Brunt. 
" A scup !" said Ellen. 
" Yes — a scup ! how would you like it ?" 
" I don't know what it is," said Ellen. 
" A scup ! — maybe you don't know it by that name ; some 
folks call it a swing." 
" A swing ! yes," said Ellen, " now I know. 0, I like 
it very much." 
" Would you like to have one ?" 
"Yes indeed I should, very much." 
" Well, what'll you give me, if I'll fix you out ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen, " I have nothing to give ; I'll 
be very much obliged to you, indeed." 
" Well now, come, I'll make a bargain with you : I'll engage 
to fix up a scup for you, if you'll give me a kiss." 
Poor Ellen was struck dumb. The good-natured Dutch- 
man had taken a fancy to the little pale-faced, sad -looking 
stranger, and really felt very kindly disposed toward her, 
but she neither knew, nor at the moment cared about that. 
She stood motionless, utterly astounded at his unheard-of 
proposal, and not a little indignant ; but when, with a good- 
natured smile upon his round face, he came near to claim the 
kiss he no doubt thought himself sure of, Ellen shot from 
him like an arrow from a bow. She rushed to the house, 
and bursting open the door, stood with flushed face and 
sparkling eyes in the presence of her astonished aunt. 
" What in the world is the matter ?" exclaimed that lady. 
" He wanted to kiss me !" said Ellen, scarce knowing whom 
she was talking to, and crimsoning more and more. 
" Who wanted to kiss you ?" 
" That man out there." 
" What man ?" 
" The man that drives the oxen." 
"What, Mr. Van Brunt?" And Ellen never forgot the 
loud ha! ha! which burst from Miss Fortune's wide-open 
mouth. 
" Well, why didn't you let him kiss you ?" 
The laugh, the look, the tone, stung Ellen to the very 
quick. In a fury of passion she dashed away out of the 
kitchen, and up to her own room. And there, for a while, 
the storm of anger drove over her with such violence that 
conscience had hardly time to whisper. Sorrow came in 
again as passion faded, and gentler but very bitter weeping 
took the place of convulsive sobs of rage and mortification, 
and then the whispers of conscience began to be heard a 
little. " mamma ! mamma !" cried poor Ellen in her 
heart, " how miserable I am without you ! I never can like 
aunt Fortune — its of no use — I never can like her ; I hope 
I sha'n't get to hate her ! — and that isn't right. I am forgetting all that is good, and there's nobody to put me in mind. 
mamma ! if I could lay my head in your lap for a minute l" 
Then came thoughts of her Bible and hymn-book, and the 
friend who had given it ; sorrowful thoughts they were ; and 
at last, humbled and sad, poor Ellen sought that great friend 
she knew she had displeased, and prayed earnestly to be 
made a good child ; she felt and owned she was not one 
now. 
It was long after mid-day when Ellen rose from her 
knees. Her passion was all gone ; she felt more gentle and 
pleasant than she had done for days ; but at the bottom of 
her heart resentment was not all gone. She still thought 
she had cause to be angry, and she could not think of her 
aunt's look and tone without a thrill of painful feeling. In 
a very different mood, however, from that in which she had 
flown up stairs two or three hours before, she now came softly 
down, and went out by the front door, to avoid meeting her 
aunt. She had visited that morning a little brook which ran 
through the meadow on the other side of the road. It had 
great charms for her ; and now crossing the lane and creeping 
under the fence, she made her way again to its banks. At 
a particular spot, where the brook made one of its sudden 
turns, Ellen sat down upon the grass, and watched the dark 
water, — whirling, brawling over the stones, hurrying past her, 
with ever the same soft pleasant sound, and she was never tired 
of it. She did not hear footsteps drawing near, and it was not 
till some one was close beside her, and a voice spoke almost 
in her ears, that she raised her startled eyes and saw the little 
girl who had come the evening before for a pitcher of milk. 
" What are you doing?" said the latter. 
" I'm watching for fish," said Ellen. 
" Watching for fish !" said the other, rather disdainfully. 
" Yes," said Ellen, — " there, in that little quiet place they 
come sometimes ; I've seen two.'' 
" You can look for fish another time. Come now and take 
a walk with me." 
" Where ?" said Ellen. 
" 0, you shall see. Come ! I'll take you all about and 
show you where people live ; you ha'n't been anywhere yet, 
have you ?" 
No," said Ellen, — " and I should like dearly to go, but " — 
She hesitated. Her aunt's words came to mind, that this 
was not a good girl, and that she must have nothing to do 
with her ; but she had not more than half believed them, and 
she could not possibly bring herself now to go in and ask 
Miss Fortune's leave to take this walk. " I am sure," 
thought Ellen, " she would refuse me if there was no reason 
in the world." And then the delight of rambling through 
the beautiful country, and being for awhile in other company 
than that of her aunt Fortune and the old grandmother ! 
The temptation was too great to be withstood. 
" Well, what are you thinking about ?" said the girl ; 
" what's the matter? won't you come ? " 
"Yes," said Ellen, "I'm ready. Which way shall we 
