to visit his mother. These could not be felt without their effects
being perceived by Ellen, who was tremblingly anxious about her
reception. Her spirits became in consequence depressed, and more than
once Charles found tears stealing from beneath her half-closed eyelids.
He understood well the cause, and strove, but vainly, to assure her
that all would be as her heart could wish.
It was nearly nightfall when the carriage that conveyed them from the
steamboat landing drew up before the elegant residence of Mrs. Linden.
Charles hurried in with his bride in a tumult of anxiety. A servant was
sent up to announce his arrival. Five minutes passed, and they still
sat alone in the parlour--Charles deeply agitated, and Ellen looking
pale and frightened.
"What can keep her so long?" the young man had just said, in a husky
whisper, when the door opened and his mother entered with a slow,
dignified step, her face calm, but severe, and her tall person drawn up
to its full height. Charles started forward, but the instantly raised
hand and forbidding aspect of his mother restrained him.
"Don't come near me," said she, coldly--"you have done that for which I
never shall forgive you. Go at once from my presence, with the
mean-spirited creature who has dared to suppose that I would
acknowledge as my daughter one who has corrupted and robbed me of my
son. Go! We are mother and son no longer. I dissolve the tie. Go!"
And the mother, whose assumed calmness had given way to a highly
excited manner, waved her hand imperatively towards the door.
Ellen, who had started up at the moment Mrs. Linden appeared, now came
forward, and, throwing herself at her feet, clasped her hands together,
and lifted her sweet pale face and tearful eyes. For an instant the
mother's face grew dark with passion; then she made a movement as if
she were about to spurn the supplicant indignantly, when Charles sprang
before her, and lifting Ellen in his arms, bore her from the house, and
placed her half fainting in the carriage that still stood at the door.
A hurried direction was given to the driver, who mounted his box and
drove off to a hotel, where they passed the night, and, on the next
morning, returned home to the city they had left on the previous day.
It was long before a smile lighted the countenance of the young bride.
In silence she upbraided herself for having been the cause of
estranging from each other mother and son.
"It was wrong," she said, in a sad tone, when, after the passage of a
month, the subject was conversed about between them with more than
usual calmness. "You should, first of all, have written to your mother,
and asked her consent."
"But I knew she would not give it. I knew her peculiar prejudices too
well. My only hope was the impression your dear face would make upon
her. I was sure that for her to see you would be to love you. But I was
mistaken."
"Alas! too sadly mistaken. We have made her unhappy through life. Oh!
how that thought distresses me."
"She deserves all the unhappiness she may feel. For me, I do not pity
her." Charles Linden said this with a good deal of bitterness.
"Oh! Charles--do not speak so--do not feel so. She is your mother, and
you acted against what you knew to be one of her strongest prejudices,"
Ellen said earnestly. "I do not feel angry with her. When I think of
her, it is with grief, that she is unhappy. The time may yet come--pray
heaven it come quickly!--when she will feel differently toward one
whose heart she does not know--when she will love me as a mother."
"She does not deserve the love of one like you," was the bitterly
spoken reply.
"Ah, Charles! why will you speak so? It is not right."
"I can no more help it than I can help feeling and thinking, Ellen. I
am indignant, and I must express my feelings. What a poor substitute is
birth, or family connexion, or standing in society for a mother to
offer to her son, in the place of a pure heart that can love fervently.
If I had yielded to dictation on this subject, I would long ago have
been the unhappy husband of a vain, selfish, proud creature, whom I
never could have loved. No--no--Ellen. I cannot help being angry, if I
may so speak, at the thought of such unjust, such unwise assumption of
the prerogative in a parent. It is God who joins together in orderly
marriage--not man; and when man attempts to assume the place of God in
this matter, his work is evil. I would give my child, were I a parent,
all the light, all the intelligence in my power to give him, and then
let him choose for himself. To do more, would be, in my opinion, a sin
against God, and, as such, I would shun it with horror."
In time, the deep affliction of mind which Ellen had experienced
subsided. She felt the injustice of Mrs. Linden's conduct, and, though
she had no indignant nor unkind feeling toward her, she thought of her
without an emotion of filial regard. Year after year went by, and, as
no notice whatever was taken of Charles and his wife by Mrs. Linden,
they did not again venture near her, nor take any pains to conciliate
her favour. Her treatment of Ellen had so outraged her son, that he
tried to forget that he had a mother; for he could not think of her
without a bitterness which he did not wish to feel. The only means of
knowing what took place at home was through his sister, between whom
and himself had always existed a warm affection. She wrote to him
frequently, and he as well as his wife wrote to her often. Their
letters to her were, at her request, sent under cover to a friend, to
prevent the unpleasant consequences that would ensue, should the proud,
overbearing mother become aware of the correspondence.
From his sister, who had something of his own independence of feeling,
Charles learned, that his brother William, at his mother's instance,
was about to marry Antoinette Billings. And, also, that an application
had been made to the legislature to have his name changed to Beauchamp,
his mother's family name. As an inducement for him to gratify her pride
in this thing, Mrs. Linden had promised William, that, on the very day
that the legislature granted the petition, she should transfer to him
the whole amount of her property, with the exception of about twenty
thousand dollars. Subsequently, Charles learned that the name of his
brother had been changed; that the marriage had taken place; and that
his mother had relinquished all her property, with a small reservation,
into the hands of her son. All this took place within three years after
his marriage.
The next intelligence was of an attempt being made to force Florence,
his sister, into a marriage most repugnant to her feelings. This
aroused his indignation afresh. He wrote to her strongly, and conjured
her by every high and holy consideration not to permit the sacrifice to
take place. Florence possessed too much of the same spirit that he did
to yield tamely in a matter like this. His frequent letters
strengthened her to resist all the attempts of her mother and brother
to induce her to yield to their mercenary wishes. Finding that she was
firm, a system of persecution, in the hope of forcing her to an assent,
was commenced against her. As soon as Charles learned this, he went
immediately to P--, and saw Florence at the home of a mutual friend. He
had little difficulty in persuading her to return home with him.
Neither her mother nor William showed her any real affection, and they
were both plotting against her happiness for life. On the other hand,
there had always been between her and Charles a deep attachment. She
not only loved him, but confided in him. She had never seen his wife;
but Charles had written so much about her, and Ellen's letters had
pictured a mind so gentle, so good, that Florence loved her only less
than she loved her brother. And there was another there to love, of
whom she had heard much--a fair-haired girl named Florence. Is it a
subject of wonder that she fled from her mother, to find a paradise in
comparison to what she had left, in the home of Charles and his
pure-hearted companion? We think not.
The meeting between her and Ellen was one in which both their hearts
overflowed--in which affections mingled--in which two loving spirits
became united in bonds that nothing could break.
We turn, now, to the disappointed Mrs. Linden. Knowing that to inform
her mother of the step she had resolved to take would do no good, but
only cause her to endure a storm of passion, Florence left home without
the slightest intimation of her purpose.
Mrs. Linden, in settling upon her son William her whole estate, with
the small reservation before mentioned, gave up to him the splendid
mansion in which she lived, with its costly furniture--and the entire
control of it, as a matter that followed of course, to his young wife.
Many months had not passed, before doubts of the propriety of what she
had done began to creep into the mind of Mrs. Linden. Her pride of
family had been gratified--but already had her pride of independence
been assailed. It was plain that she was not now of as much importance
in the eyes of her son as before. As to Antoinette, the more she came
intimately in contact with her, the less she liked her. She found
little in her that she could love. The scheme of marrying Florence to a
young man of "one of the first families" (the only recommendation he
had) was heartily entered into by this worthy trio, and while there was
a prospect of its accomplishment, they drew together with much
appearance of harmony.
The end united them. But after Florence had broken away from the toils
they had been throwing around her, and they became satisfied from the
strong independent letters which she sent home, that all hope of
bending her to their wishes was at an end, the true character of each
began to show itself more fully.
Mrs. Linden had an imperious will. She had always exercised over her
children a rigid control, at the same time that in their earlier years
she had won their affections. The freedom of mature years, and the
sense of individual responsibility which it brings, caused all of them
to rebel against the continued exercise of parental domination. In the
case of Charles and Florence, the effect was a broad separation.
William had sinister ends to gain in yielding a passive obedience to
his mother's will. When the bulk of her property was transferred to
him, those ends were gained, and he felt no longer disposed to suffer
any encroachment upon his freedom. In one act of obedience he had
fulfilled all obligations of filial duty, and was not disposed to
trouble himself further. He had consented to give up his father's name,
and to marry a woman for whom he had no affection, to please his mother
and get an estate. The estate set off against these balanced the
account; and now, there being nothing more to gain, he had nothing more
to yield. When, therefore, after the design of marrying Florence to a
man of "good family" had failed, the first effort on the part of his
mother to exercise control over him was met in a very decided way. His
wife, likewise, showed a disposition to make her keep in her own place.
She was mistress in the house now, and she let it be clearly seen. It
was not long before the mother's eyes were fully open to the folly she
had committed. But true sight had come too late. Reflection on the
ungratefulness of her children aroused her indignation, instead of
subduing her feelings. An open rupture ensued, and then came a
separation. Mrs. Linden left the house of her son--but a short time
before it was her own house--and took lodgings in the family of an old
friend, with a heart full of bitterness toward her children. In
Antoinette she had been miserably disappointed. A weak, vain,
passionate, selfish creature, she had shown not the slightest regard
for Mrs. Linden, but had exhibited toward her a most unamiable temper.
When it was communicated to Antoinette by her husband that his mother
had left them, she tossed her head and said--"I'm glad to hear it."
"No, you must not say that," was William's reply, with an effort to
look serious and offended.
"And why not? It's the truth. She has made herself as disagreeable as
she could, ever since we were married, and I would be a hypocrite to
say that I was not glad to be rid of her."
"She is my mother, and you must not speak so about her," returned
William, now feeling really offended.
"How will you help it, pray?" was the stinging reply. And the
ill-tempered creature looked at her husband with a curl of the lip.
Muttering a curse, he turned from her and left the house. The rage of a
husband who is only restrained by the fear of disgrace from striking
his wife, is impotent. His only resource is to fly from the object of
indignation. So felt and acted William Beauchamp. A mere wordy
contention with his wife, experience had already proved to him, would
be an inglorious one.
Fearing, from his knowledge of his brother's character and disposition,
a result, sooner or later, like that which had taken place, Charles
Linden, although he had no correspondence with any of his family, had
the most accurate information from a friend of all that transpired at
P--.
One evening, on coming home from business and joining his wife and
sister, between whom love had grown into a strong uniting bond, he
said--"I have rather painful news from P--."
"What is it?" was asked by both Ellen and Florence, with anxious
concern on both their faces.
"Mother has separated herself from William and his wife."
"What I have been expecting to hear almost every day," Florence
replied. "Antoinette has never treated mother as if she had the
slightest regard for her. As to love, she has but one object upon which
to lavish it--that is herself. She cares no more for William than she
does for mother, and is only bound to him by external consideration.
But where has mother gone?"
"To the house of Mrs. R---."
"An old friend?"
"Yes. But she must be very unhappy."
"Miserable." And tears came to the eyes of Ellen.
"In the end, it will no doubt be best for her, Florence," said the
brother. "She will suffer acutely, but her false views of life, let us
hope, will be corrected, and then we shall have it in our power to make
her last days the best and happiest of her life."
"Oh, how gladly will I join in that work!" Mrs. Linden said, with a
glow of pure enthusiasm on her face. "Write to her, dear husband, at
once, and tell her that our home shall be her home, and that we will
love her with an unwavering love."
"Not yet, dear," returned Charles Linden, in a voice scarcely audible
from emotion, turning to Ellen and regarding her a moment with a look
of loving approval. "Not yet; the time for that will come, but it is
not now. My mother's heart is full of haughty pride, and she would
spurn, indignantly, any overtures we might make."
Much conversation passed as to what should be their future conduct in
regard to the mother. Ellen was anxious to make advances at once, but
the husband and his sister, who knew Mrs. Linden much better than she
did, objected.
"Time will indicate what is right for us to do," her husband said. "Let
us keep our hearts willing, and we shall have the opportunity to act
before many years pass by."
"Years?" said Ellen, in an earnest, doubting voice.
"It may be only months, dear, and yet it may be years. It takes time to
break a haughty will, to humble a proud heart; but you shall yet see
the day when my mother will love you for yourself alone."
"Heaven grant that it may come soon!" was the fervent response.
Many months passed away, and yet the mother and son remained as
before--unreconciled. He had kept himself accurately informed in regard
to her--that is, accurately informed as it was possible for him to be.
During that time, she had never been seen abroad. Those who had met
her, represented her as being greatly changed; all the softness of
character that had been assumed in her intercourse with the world had
been laid aside; she was silent, cold, and stern to all who met her.
Deeply did this intelligence afflict Charles, and he yearned to draw
near to his mother; but he feared to do so, lest, in her haughty pride,
she should throw him off again, and thus render a reconciliation still
more difficult, if not impossible.
While in this state of doubt, affairs assumed a new feature. Charles
received a letter from a friend, stating that the banking institution,
in the stocks of which his mother's entire property was invested, had
failed, and that she was penniless.
"O Charles, go to her at once!" was the exclamation of Ellen, the
moment her husband read to her the intelligence. "It is time now; all
else has failed her."
"I do not know," he said, doubtingly. "This circumstance will make
William sensible of his duty; he will, no doubt, restore her a part of
the property received from her hands. This is the least he can do."
Florence differed with her brother. She did not believe that either
William or his wife would regard their mother in any way; both were too
selfish and too unforgiving. Much was said all around, but no clear
course of action was perceived.
"I'll tell you what you can do," spoke up Mrs. Linden, her eyes
sparkling. A thought had flashed over her mind.
"What is it, Ellen?" asked her husband.
"You can send her, under a blank envelope, a thousand dollars or more,
and thus keep her above the bitter feeling of dependence. More can be
sent when more is required."
"True! true!" was the husband's quick reply. "And I will do it."
When the news of the failure of the bank in which the little remnant of
her property was contained reached the ears of Mrs. Linden, her spirits
sank. Pride had kept her up before; but now her haughty
self-dependence, her indignation, her bitterness of feeling toward her
children, gave way, and, in conscious weakness, she bowed her head and
prayed for oblivion. She felt deserted by all; but indignation at this
desertion was not the feeling that ruled in her heart; she felt weak,
lonely, and powerless. From a high position, which she had held with
imperious pride, she had fallen almost suddenly into obscurity,
desertion, and dependence. A week passed, and she began to think of her
children; none of them had yet come near her, or inquired for her. The
thoughts of William and his heartless wife caused old feelings of
indignation to awaken and burn; but when the image of Charles and
Florence came up before her mind, her eyes were ready to overflow. It
was now that she remembered, with changed emotions, the cruel manner in
which she had spurned Charles and the wife of his bosom. A sigh
struggled up from her heart, and she leaned down her face upon the
table before which she was sitting. Just at this time, a small sealed
package was handed to her. She broke it open carelessly; but its
contents made her heart bound, coming as they did just at that crisis.
Under cover was a bank-bill amounting to one thousand dollars, and this
memorandum--"It is yours."
Quickly turning to the direction, she read it over two or three times
before satisfying herself that there was no mistake. Then she examined
the writing within and without closely, in order to ascertain, if
possible, from whom the timely aid had come, but without arriving at
any certain conclusion.
This incident caused a new train of thoughts to pass through the mind
of Mrs. Linden. It brought before her, she could not tell why, the
image of her son Charles with greater distinctness than ever; and with
that came thoughts of his wife, and regret that she had thrown her off
with such cruel anger. Acute pain of mind succeeded to this. She saw
more clearly her own position in that act, and felt deeply the wrong
she had committed.
"I will write to my son at once and ask his forgiveness, and that of
his wife, whom I have wronged," she said, with a suddenly formed
resolution. But pride rushed up instantly.
"No, no," it objected; "not now. You should have done this before: it
is too late; they will not believe you sincere."
A painful conflict ensued, which continued with increasing violence
until, in consequence of prolonged mental excitement, a slow nervous
fever took hold of Mrs. Linden's physical system, and in a short time
reduced her to a very critical state. Intelligence of this was conveyed
to her son William, but, for some cause or other, neither himself nor
wife visited her. At the end of a week she was so low as to be
considered in great danger; she, no longer recognised the person of her
attendant, or appeared to be conscious of what was passing around her.
A letter from a friend, through whom he was kept informed of all that
occurred to her, apprized Charles Linden of his mother's critical
situation.
"Florence," said he to his sister, in reading the letter to her and his
wife, "I think you and I should go to P--immediately. You can be
mother's nurse until she recovers, and then it may not be hard to
reconcile all that is past."
Ellen looked earnestly in the face of her husband; something was on her
tongue, but she appeared to hesitate about giving it utterance.
"Does not that meet your approval?" asked Charles.
"Why may not I be the nurse?" was asked in hesitating tones.
"You!" said Charles, in a voice of surprise. "That should be the duty
of Florence."
"And my privilege," returned Ellen, speaking more firmly.
"What good would be the result?"
"Great good, I trust. Let me go and be the angel to her sick-chamber.
She is too ill to notice any one; she will not, therefore, perceive
that a stranger is ministering to her. As she begins to recover, and I
have an inward assurance that she will, I will bestow upon her the most
assiduous attentions. I will inspire her heart with grateful affection
for one whom she knows not; and when she asks for my name, I will
conceal it until the right moment, and then throw myself at her feet
and call her mother. Oh! let it be my task to watch in her
sick-chamber."
Neither Charles nor his sister said one word in opposition. On the next
day, they all started for P--. Charles Linden went with his excellent
wife to the house where his mother was residing with an old friend, and
opened to this friend their wishes. She readily entered into their
plans, and Ellen was at once constituted nurse.
For the first two days, there were but few encouraging symptoms. Mrs.
Linden was in a very critical situation. At the end of a week, the
fever abated, leaving the patient as helpless as an infant, and with
scarcely more consciousness of external things. During this time, Ellen
attended her with some of the feeling with which a mother watches over
her babe. Gradually the life-current in the veins of the sick woman
became fuller and stronger. Gradually her mind acquired the power of
acting through the external senses. Ellen perceived this. Now had come
the ardently hoped-for time. With a noiseless step, with a voice low
and tender, with hands that did their office almost caressingly, she
anticipated and met every want of the invalid.
As light began again to dawn upon the mind of Mrs. Linden, she could
not but notice the sweet-faced, gentle, assiduous stranger who had
become her nurse. Her first feeling was one of gratitude, blended with
affection. Never before had any one been so devoted to her; never
before had any one appeared to regard her with such a real wish to do
her good.
"What is your name, my dear?" she asked one day, in a feeble voice,
looking up into her face.
A warm flush came over the cheeks of Ellen; her eyes dropped to the
floor. She hesitated for several moments; then she replied in a low
voice--"Ellen."
Mrs. Linden looked at her earnestly, but said nothing in reply.
"Who is this nurse you have been so kind to procure for me?" Mrs.
Linden said to her friend, a few days subsequently. She had gained much
in a short time.
"She is a stranger to me. I never saw her before she came and said that
she had heard that there was a sick lady here who wished a nurse."
"She did?"
"Yes."
"She must be an angel in disguise, then."
"So I should think," returned her friend. "I have never met a lovelier
person. Her face is sweetness itself; her manners are full of ease and
grace, and her heart seems a deep well of love to all."
"Who can she be? Where did she come from? I feel toward her as if she
were my own child."
"But she is only a nurse," said her friend. "Do not forget that, nor
your station in society."
Mrs. Linden shook her head and murmured--"I have never found one like
her in the highest places; no, not even in my own children. Station in
society! Ah! my friend, that delusion has passed."
As Mrs. Linden recovered more and more, Ellen remained with her,
waiting only for a good opportunity to make herself known. She did not
wish to do this until she was sure that she had awakened a feeling of
affection in her mother's bosom.
Mrs. Linden had been sitting up for two or three days, so far had she
recovered, and yet Ellen did not feel that it was safe to venture a
full declaration of the truth.
Up to this time, neither William nor his wife had visited her, nor sent
to inquire about her. This fact Mrs. Linden knew, for she had asked
about it particularly. The name of Charles was never mentioned.
In order to try its effect, Ellen said to her--"You are better now,
Mrs. Linden, and will be well in a little while. You do not need me any
longer. I will leave you to-morrow."
"Leave me!" ejaculated Mrs. Linden. "Oh, no, Ellen, you must not leave
me; I cannot do without you. You must stay with me always."
"You would soon tire of such a one as I am."
"Never, my good girl, never! You shall always remain with me. You shall
be--not my nurse, but my child."
Mrs. Linden's voice trembled.
Ellen could hardly help throwing herself at her feet, and declaring
that she was really her child; but she controlled herself, and
replied--"That cannot be, madam; I have other duties to perform."
"You have? What? To whom?"
"To my husband and children."
"Gracious heaven! what do you mean? Who are you?"
"One who loved you before she ever saw you. One who loves you now."
"Speak, child! oh, speak!" exclaimed Mrs. Linden, turning suddenly
pale, and grasping hold of Ellen with both her hands. "Who are you?
What interest have you in me? Speak!"
"Do you love me?" asked Ellen, in a husky whisper.
"Love you! You have forced me to love you; but speak out. Who are you?"
"Your daughter," was faintly replied.
"Who?"
"The wife of one who has never ceased to love you; the wife of Charles
Linden."
Mrs. Linden seemed paralyzed for some moments at this declaration. Her
face became pale--her eye fell to the floor--she sat like one in a
dream.
"Dear mother!" plead the anxious wife, sinking on her knees, "will you
not forgive your son? Will you not forgive me that I loved him so well?
If you knew how much we love you--how anxious we are to make you happy,
you would instantly relent."
"My child! Oh, can it be true?" This was said in a choking voice by
Mrs. Linden, as she threw her arms around Ellen and held her to her
bosom. In a few moments she withdrew herself, and fixed her eyes long
and earnestly upon Ellen's face.
"Ah! what a loving heart have I wronged!" she murmured, putting her
hand upon the brow of her new-found child, tenderly. Then she drew her
again almost convulsively to her bosom.
All that was passing within was heard without, for Charles and his
sister were at the door: they entered at this moment.
"My mother!" exclaimed Charles, springing towards her.
"My son--my dear son! God bless you, and this dear child, who has
watched for days and nights like an angel about my pillow."
The mother and son were in each other's arms in a moment. All was
forgiven.
From that hour, the proud woman of the world saw with a purified
vision. From that hour, she knew the worth of a pure heart.
SMITH AND JONES; OR, THE TOWN LOT.
ONCE upon a time, it happened that the men who governed in the
municipal affairs of a certain growing town in the West, resolved, in
grave deliberation assembled, to purchase a five-acre lot at the north
end of the city--recently incorporated--and have it improved for a park
or public square. Now, it also happened, that all the saleable ground
lying north of the city was owned by a man named Smith--a shrewd,
wide-awake individual, whose motto was,
"Every man for himself," with an occasional addition about a certain
gentleman in black taking "the hindmost."
Smith, it may be mentioned, was secretly at the bottom of this scheme
for a public square, and had himself suggested the matter to an
influential member of the council; not that he was moved by what is
denominated public spirit--no; the spring of action in the case was
merely "private spirit," or a regard for his own good. If the council
decided upon a public square, he was the man from whom the ground would
have to be bought; and he was the man who could get his own price
therefor.
As we have said, the park was decided upon, and a committee of two
appointed, whose business it was to see Smith and arrange with him for
the purchase of a suitable lot of ground. In due form the committee
called upon the landholder, who was fully prepared for the interview.
"You are the owner of those lots at the north end?" said the spokesman
of the committee.
"I am," replied Smith, with becoming gravity.
"Will you sell a portion of ground, say five acres, to the city?"
"For what purpose?" Smith knew very well for what purpose the land was
wanted.
"We have decided to set apart about five acres of ground, and improve
it as a kind of park, or public promenade."
"Have you, indeed? Well, I like that," said Smith, with animation. "It
shows the right kind of public spirit."
"We have, moreover, decided that the best location will be at the north
end of the town."
"Decidedly my own opinion," returned Smith.
"Will you sell us the required acres?" asked one of the councilmen.
"That will depend somewhat upon where you wish to locate the park."
The particular location was named.
"The very spot," replied Smith, promptly, "upon which I have decided to
erect four rows of dwellings."
"But it is too far out for that," was naturally objected.
"Oh, no. Not a rod. The city is rapidly growing in that direction. I
have only to put up the dwellings referred to, and dozens will be
anxious to purchase lots, and build all around them. Won't the ground
to the left of that you speak of answer as well?"
But the committee replied in the negative. The lot they had mentioned
was the one decided upon as most suited for the purpose, and they were
not prepared to think of any other location.
All this Smith understood very well. He was not only willing, but
anxious for the city to purchase the lot they were negotiating for. All
he wanted was to get a good round price for the same--say four or five
times the real value. So he feigned indifference, and threw
difficulties in the way.
A few years previous to this time, Smith had purchased a considerable
tract of land at the north of the then flourishing village, at fifty
dollars an acre. Its present value was about three hundred dollars an
acre.
After a good deal of talk on both sides, Smith finally agreed to sell
the particular lot pitched upon. The next thing was to arrange as to
price.
"At what do you hold this ground per acre?"
It was some time before Smith answered this question. His eyes were
cast upon the floor, and earnestly did he enter into debate with
himself as to the value he should place upon the lot. At first, he
thought of five hundred dollars per acre. But his cupidity soon tempted
him to advance on that sum, although, a month before, he would have
caught at such an offer. Then he advanced to six, to seven, and to
eight hundred. And still he felt undecided.
"I can get my own price," said he to himself. "The city has to pay, and
I might just as well get a large sum as a small one."
"For what price will you sell?" The question was repeated.
"I must have a good price."
"We are willing to pay what is fair and right."
"Of course. No doubt you have fixed a limit to which you will go."
"Not exactly that," said one of the gentlemen.
"Are you prepared to make an offer?"
"We are prepared to hear your price, and to make a report thereon," was
replied.
"That's a very valuable lot of ground," said Smith.
"Name your price," returned one of the committee men, a little
impatiently.
Thus brought up to the point, Smith, after thinking hurriedly for a few
moments, said--
"One thousand dollars an acre."
Both the men shook their heads in a very positive way. Smith said that
it was the lowest he would take; and so the conference ended.
At the next meeting of the city councils, a report on the town lot was
made, and the extraordinary demand of Smith canvassed. It was
unanimously decided not to make the proposed purchase.
When this decision reached the landholder, he was considerably
disappointed. He wanted money badly, and would have "jumped at" two
thousand dollars for the five-acre lot, if satisfied that it would
bring no more. But, when the city came forward as a purchaser, his
cupidity was subjected to a very strong temptation. He believed that he
could get five thousand dollars as easily as two; and quieted his
conscience by the salvo--"An article is always worth what it will
bring."
A week or two went by, and Smith was about calling upon one of the
members of the council, to say that, if the city really wanted the lot,
he would sell at their price, leaving it with the council to act justly
and generously, when a friend said to him--
"I hear that the council had the subject of a public square under
consideration again this morning."
"Indeed!" Smith was visibly excited, though he tried to appear calm.
"Yes; and I also hear that they have decided to pay the extravagant
price you asked for a lot of ground at the north end of the city."
"A thousand dollars an acre?"
"Yes."
"Its real value, and not a cent more," said Smith.
"People differ about that. However, you are lucky," the friend replied.
"The city is able to pay."
"So I think. And I mean they shall pay."
Before the committee to whom the matter was given in charge had time to
call upon Smith and close with him for the lot, that gentleman had
concluded in his own mind that it would be just as easy to get twelve
hundred dollars an acre as a thousand. It was plain that the council
were bent upon having the ground, and would pay a round sum for it. It
was just the spot for a public square; and the city must become the
owner. So, when he was called upon by the gentlemen, and they said to
him--
"We are authorized to pay you your price," he promptly answered--
"The offer is no longer open. You declined it when it was made. My
price for that property is now twelve hundred dollars an acre."
The men offered remonstrance; but it was of no avail. Smith believed
that he could get six thousand dollars for the ground as easily as five
thousand. The city must have the lot, and would pay almost any price.
"I hardly think it right, Mr. Smith," said one of his visitors, "for
you to take such an advantage. This square is for the public good."
"Let the public pay, then," was the unhesitating answer. "The public is
able enough."
"The location of this park at the north end of the city will greatly
improve the value of your other property."
This Smith understood very well. But he replied--
"I'm not so sure of that. I have some very strong doubts on the
subject. It's my opinion that the buildings I contemplated erecting
will be far more to my advantage. Be that as it may, however, I am
decided in selling for nothing less than six thousand dollars."
"We are only authorized to pay five thousand," replied the committee.
"If you agree to take that sum, we will close the bargain on the spot."
Five thousand dollars was a large sum of money, and Smith felt strongly
tempted to close in with the liberal offer. But six thousand loomed up
before his imagination still more temptingly.
"I can get it," said he to himself; "and the property is worth what it
will bring."
So he positively refused to sell it at a thousand dollars per acre.
"At twelve hundred, you will sell?" remarked one of the committee, as
they were about retiring.
"Yes. I will take twelve hundred the acre. That is the lowest rate; and
I am not anxious, even at that price. I can do quite as well by keeping
it in my own possession. But, as you seem so bent on having it, I will
not stand in your way. When will the council meet again?"
"Not until next week."
"Very well. If they then accept my offer, all will be right. But,
understand me; if they do not accept, the offer no longer remains open.
It is a matter of no moment to me which way the thing goes."
It was a matter of moment to Smith, for all this assertion--a matter of
very great moment. He had several thousand dollars to pay in the course
of the next few months on land purchases, and no way to meet the
payments, except by mortgages or sales of property; and it may
naturally be concluded that he suffered considerable uneasiness during
the time which passed until the next meeting of the council.
Of course, the grasping disposition shown by Smith became the town
talk; and people said a good many hard things of him. Little, however,
did he care, so that he secured six thousand dollars for a lot not
worth more than two thousand.
Among other residents and property-holders in the town, was a
simple-minded, true-hearted, honest man, named Jones. His father had
left him a large farm, a goodly portion of which, in process of time,
came to be included in the limits of the new city; and he found a much
more profitable employment in selling building lots than in tilling the
soil. The property of Mr. Jones lay at the west side of the town.
Now, when Mr. Jones heard of the exorbitant demand made by Smith for a
five-acre lot, his honest heart throbbed with a feeling of indignation.
"I couldn't have believed it of him," said he. "Six thousand dollars!
Preposterous! Why, I would give the city a lot of twice the size, and
do it with pleasure."
"You would?" said a member of the council, who happened to hear this
remark.
"Certainly, I would."
"You are really in earnest?"
"Undoubtedly. Go and select a public square from any of my
unappropriated land on the west side of the city, and I will pass you
the title, as a free gift, to-morrow, and feel pleasure in doing so."
"That is public spirit," said the councilman.
"Call it what you will. I am pleased in making the offer."
Now, let it not be supposed that Mr. Jones was shrewdly calculating the
advantage which would result to him from having a park at the west side
of the city. No such thought had yet entered his mind. He spoke from
the impulse of a generous feeling.
Time passed on, and the session-day of the council came round--a day to
which Smith had looked forward with no ordinary feelings of interest,
that were touched, at times, by the coldness of doubt and the agitation
of uncertainty. Several times he had more than half repented of his
refusal to accept the liberal offer of five thousand dollars, and of
having fixed so positively upon six thousand as the "lowest figure."
The morning of the day passed, and Smith began to grow uneasy. He did
not venture to seek for information as to the doings of the council,
for that would be to expose the anxiety he felt in the result of their
deliberations. Slowly the afternoon wore away, and it so happened that
Smith did not meet any one of the councilmen; nor did he even know
whether the council was still in session or not. As to making allusion
to the subject of his anxious interest to any one, that was carefully
avoided; for he knew that his exorbitant demand was the town talk--and
he wished to affect the most perfect indifference on the subject.
The day closed, and not a whisper about the town-lot had come to the
ears of Mr. Smith. What could it mean? Had his offer to sell at six
thousand been rejected? The very thought caused his heart to grow heavy
in his bosom. Six, seven, eight o'clock came, and still it was all dark
with Mr. Smith. He could bear the suspense no longer, and so determined
to call upon his neighbour Wilson, who was a member of the council, and
learn from him what had been done.
So he called on Mr. Wilson.
"Ah, friend Smith," said the latter, "how are you, this evening?"
"Well, I thank you," returned Smith, feeling a certain oppression of
the chest. "How are you?"
"Oh, very well."
Here, then, was a pause. After which, Smith said--
"About that ground of mine? What did you do?"
"Nothing," replied Wilson, coldly.
"Nothing, did you say?" Smith's voice was a little husky.
"No. You declined our offer;--or, rather, the high price fixed by
yourself upon the land."
"You refused to buy it at five thousand when it was offered," said
Smith.
"I know we did, because your demand was exorbitant."
"Oh, no, not at all," returned Smith, quickly.
"In that we only differ," said Wilson. "However, the council has
decided not to pay you the price you ask."
"Unanimously?"
"There was not a dissenting voice."
Smith began to feel more and more uncomfortable.
"I might take something less," he ventured to say, in a low, hesitating
voice.
"It is too late now," was Mr. Wilson's prompt reply.
"Too late! How so?"
"We have procured a lot."
"Mr. Wilson!" Poor Smith started to his feet in chagrin and
astonishment.
"Yes; we have taken one of Jones's lots, on the west side of the city.
A beautiful ten-acre lot."
"You have!" Smith was actually pale.
"We have; and the title-deeds are now being made out."
It was some time before Smith had sufficiently recovered from the
stunning effect of this unlooked-for intelligence, to make the inquiry--
"And pray how much did Jones ask for his ten-acre lot?"
"He presented it to the city as a gift," replied the councilman.
"A gift! What folly!"
"No, not folly--but true worldly wisdom; though I believe Jones did not
think of advantage to himself when he generously made the offer. He is
worth twenty thousand dollars more to-day than he was yesterday, in the
