conversation, in a whole room-full of company. He turned 
deadly pale when he saw the writing, but still preserved his 
composure, and finished the playful warfare of badinage 
which he was at the moment carrying on with a lady 
opposite ; and, a short time after, was missed from the 
circle. In his room, alone, he opened and read the letter, 
now worse than idle and useless to be read. It was from 
her, giving a long account of a persecution to which she had 
been exposed by her guardian's family, to lead her to unite 
herself with their son ; and she related how, for a long time, 
his letters had ceased to arrive ; how she had written time 
and again, till she became weary and doubtful; how her 
health had failed under her anxieties, and how, at last, she 
had discovered the whole fraud which had been practised on 
them both. The letter ended with expressions of hope and 
thankfulness, and professions of undying affection, which 
were more bitter than death to the unhappy young man. 
He wrote to her immediately : 
" I have received yours but too late. I believed all I 
heard. I was desperate. I am married, and all is over. 
Only forget it is all that remains for either of us." 
And thus ended the whole romance and ideal of life for 
Augustine St. Clare ; but the real remained the real, like 
the flat, bare, oozy tide-mud, when the blue sparkling wave, 
with all its company of gliding boats and white-winged ships, 
its music of oars and chiming waters, has gone down, and 
there it lies, flat, slimy, bare exceedingly reaj. 
Of course, in a novel, people's hearts break, and they die, 
and that is the end of it ; and in a story this is very convenient. But in real life we do not die when all that makes 
life bright dies to us. There is a most busy and important 
round of eating, drinking, dressing, walking, visiting, buying, 
selling, talking, reading, and all that makes up what is commonly called living, yet to be gone through ; and this yet 
remained to Augustine. Had his wife been a whole woman, 
she might yet have done something as woman can to 
mend the broken threads of life, and weave again into a 
tissue of brightness. But Marie St. Clare could not even 
see that they had been broken. As before stated, she consisted of a fine figure, a pair of splendid eyes, and a hundred 
thousand dollars ; and none of these items were precisely 
the ones to minister to a mind diseased. 
"When Augustine, pale as death, was found lying on the 
sofa, and pleaded sudden sick-headache as the cause of his 
distress, she recommended to him to smell of hartshorn ; and 
when the paleness and headache 'came on week after week, 
she only said that she never thought Mr. St. Clare was 
sickly ; but it seems lie was very liable to sick-headaches, 
and that it was a very unfortunate thing for her, because he 
didn't enjoy going into company with her, and it seemed odd 
to go so much alone, when they were just married. Augustine 
was glad in his heart that he had married so undiscerning a 
woman ; but as the glosses and civilities of the honeymoon 
wore away he discovered that a beautiful young woman, who 
has lived all her life to be caressed and waited on, might prove 
quite a hard mistress in domestic life. Marie never had possessed much capability of affection, or much sensibility ; and 
the little that she had had been merged into a most intense 
and unconscious selfishness ; a selfishness the more hopeless 
from its quiet obtuseness, its utter ignorance of any claims 
but her own. From her infancy she had been surrounded 
with servants, who lived only to study her caprices ; the idea 
that they had either feelings or rights had never dawned 
upon her, even in distant perspective. Her father, whose 
only child she had been, had never denied her anything that 
lay within the compass of human possibility ; and when she 
entered life, beautiful, accomplished, and an heiress, she 
had, of course, all the eligibles and non-eligibles of the other 
sex sighing at her feet, and she had no doubt that Augustine 
was a most fortunate man in having obtained her. It is a 
great mistake to suppose that a woman with no heart will 
be an easy creditor in the exchange of affection. There is 
not on earth a more merciless exactor of love from others 
than a thoroughly selfish woman ; and the more unlovely she 
grows, the more jealously and scrupulously she exacts love, 
to the uttermost farthing. "When, therefore, St. Clare began 
to drop off those gallantries and small attentions which flowed 
at first through the habitude of courtship, he found his sultana 
no way ready to resign her slave ; there were abundance of 
tears, poutings, and small tempests ; there were discontents, 
pinings, upbraidings. St.. Clare was good-natured and self- 
indulgent, and sought to buy off with presents and flatteries ; 
and when Marie became mother to a beautiful daughter, he 
really felt awakened for a time to something like tenderness. 
St. Clare's mother had been a woman of uncommon elevation and purity of character, and he gave to this child his 
mother's name, fondly fancying that she would prove a 
reproduction of her image. The thing had been remarked 
with petulant jealousy by his wife, and she regarded her 
husband's absorbing devotion to the child with suspicion and 
dislike ; all that was given to her seemed so much taken 
from herself. Prom the time of the birth of this child her 
health gradually sunk. A life of constant inaction, bodily 
and mental the friction of ceaseless ennui and discontent, 
united to the ordinary weakness which attended the period 
of maternity in course of a few years changed the 
blooming young belle into a yellow, faded, sickly woman, 
whose time was divided among a variety of fanciful diseases, 
and who considered herself, in every sense, the most ill-used 
and suffering person in existence. 
There was no end of her various complaints ; but her principal forte appeared to He in sick-headache, which sometimes 
would confine her to her room three days out of six. As, of 
course, all family arrangements fell into the hands of servants, 
St. Clare found his menage anything but comfortable. His 
only daughter was exceedingly delicate, and he feared that, 
with no one to look after her and attend to her, her health 
and life might yet fall a sacrifice to her mother's inefficiency. 
He had taken her with him on a tour to Vermont, and had 
persuaded his cousin, Miss Ophelia St. Clare, to return with 
him to his southern residence ; and they are now returning 
on this boat, where we have introduced them to our readers. 
And now, while the distant domes and spires of New 
Orleans rise to our view, there is yet time for an introduction 
to Miss Ophelia. 
"Whoever has travelled in the New England States will 
remember, in some cool village, the large farm-house, with its 
clean-swept grassy yard, shaded by the dense and massive 
foliage of the sugar-maple ; and remember the air of order 
and stillness, of perpetuity and unchanging repose, that 
seemed to breathe over the whole place. Nothing lost, or 
out of order, not a picket loose in the fence, not a particle 
of litter in the turfy yard, with its clumps of lilac-bushes 
growing up under the windows. "Within, he will remember 
wide, clean rooms, where nothing ever seems to be doing or 
going to be done, where everything is once and for ever 
rigidly in place, and where all household arrangements move 
with the punctual exactness of the old clock in the corner. 
In the family "keeping-room," as it is termed, he will 
remember the staid, respectable old bookcase, with its glass 
doors, where Rollin's History, Milton's Paradise Lost, 
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, and Scott's Family Bible, 
stand side by side in decorous order, with multitudes of 
other books, equally solemn and respectable. There are no 
servants in the house, but the lady in the snowy cap, with 
the spectacles, who sits sewing every afternoon among her 
daughters, as if nothing ever had been done, or were to be 
done she and her girls, in some long-forgotten forepart of 
the day, " did up the work" and for the rest of the time, 
probably at all hours when you would see them, it is " done 
up" The old kitchen-floor never seems stained or spotted ; 
the tables, the chairs, and the various cooking utensils, never 
seem deranged or disordered : though three and sometimes 
four meals a day are got there, though the family washing 
and ironing is there performed, and though pounds of butter 
and cheese are in some silent and mysterious manner there 
brought into existence. 
On such a farm, in such a house and family, Miss Ophelia 
had spent a quiet existence of some forty-five years, when 
her cousin invited her to visit his southern mansion. The 
eldest of a large family, she was still considered by her father 
and mother as one of "the children," and the proposal that 
she should go to Orleans was a most momentous one to the 
family circle. The old grey-headed- father took down Morse's 
Atlas out of the bookcase, and looked out the exact latitude 
and longitude ; and read Flint's Travels in the South and 
"West, to make up his own mind as to the nature of the 
country. 
The good mother inquired, anxiously, " if Orleans wasn't 
an awful wicked place ; " saying, " that it seemed to her 
most equal to going to the Sandwich Islands, or any where 
among the heathen." 
It was known at the minister's, and at the doctor's, and 
at Miss Peabody's milliner's shop, that Ophelia St. Clare 
was " talking about going away down to Orleans with her 
cousin ; and, of course, the whole village could do no less 
than help this very important process of talking about the 
matter. The minister, who inclined strongly to Abolitionist 
views, was quite doubtful whether such a step might not tend 
somewhat to encourage the southerners in holding on to 
their slaves ; wliile the doctor, who was a stanch Colonisationist, inclined to the opinion that Miss Ophelia ought to 
go, to show the Orleans people that we don't think hardly 
of them, after all. He was of opinion, in fact, that southern 
people needed encouraging. When, however, the fact that 
she had resolved to go was fully before the public mind', she 
was solemnly invited out to tea by all her friends and 
neighbours for the space of a fortnight, and her prospects 
and plans duly canvassed and inquired into. Miss Mosely, 
who came into the house to help to do the dress-making, 
acquired daily accessions of importance from the developments with regard to Miss Ophelia's wardrobe which she had 
been enabled to make. It was credibly ascertained that 
Squire Sinclare, as his name was commonly contracted in 
the neighbourhood, had counted out fifty dollars, and given 
them to Miss Ophelia, and told her to buy any clothes she 
thought best ; and that two new silk dresses, and a bonnet, 
had been sent for from Boston. As to the propriety of this 
extraordinary outlay, the public mind was divided ; some 
affirming that it was well enough, all things considered, for 
once in one's life, and others stoutly affirming that the money 
had better have been sent to the missionaries ; but all parties 
agreed that there had been no such parasol seen in those 
parts as had been sent on from New York, and that she had 
one silk dress that might fairly be trusted to stand alone, 
whatever might be said of its mistress. There were credible 
rumours, also, of a hem-stitched pocket-handkerchief; and 
report even went so far as to state that Miss Ophelia had one 
pocket-handkerchief with lace all around it it was even 
added that it was worked in the corners ; but this latter 
point was never satisfactorily ascertained, and remains, in 
fact, unsettled to this day. 
Miss Ophelia, as you now behold her, stands before you, 
in a very shining brown linen travelling-dress, tall, square- 
formed, and angular. Her face was thin, and rather sharp 
in its outlines ; the lips compressed, like those of a person 
who is in the habit of making up her mind definitely on all 
subjects ; while the keen, dark eyes had a peculiarly 
searching, advised movement, and travelled over everything, 
as if they were looking for something to take care of. 
All her movements were sharp, decided, and energetic 
and, though she was never much of a talker, her words were 
remarkably direct and to the purpose when she did speak. 
In her habits, she was a living impersonation of order, 
method, and exactness. In punctuality, she was as inevitable 
as a clock, and as inexorable as a railroad engine ; and she 
held in most decided contempt and abomination anything of 
a contrary character. 
The great sin of sins, in her eyes the sum of all evils 
was expressed by one very common and important word in 
her vocabulary " shiftlessness." Her finale and ultimatum 
of contempt consisted in a very emphatic pronunciation of 
the word "shiftless;" and by this she characterised all 
modes of procedure which had not a direct and inevitable 
relation to accomplishment of some purpose then definitely 
had in mind. People who did nothing, or who did not know 
exactly what they were going to do, or who did not take the 
most direct way to accomplish what they set their hands to, 
were objects of her entire contempt ; a contempt shown less 
frequently by anything she said than by a kind of stony 
grimness, as if she scorned to say anything about the 
matter. 
As to mental cultivation, she had a clear, strong, active 
mind, was well and thoroughly read in history and the older 
English classics, and thought with great strength within 
certain narrow limits. Her theological tenets were all made 
up, labelled in the most positive and distinct forms, and put 
by, like the bundles in her patch trunk ; there were just so 
many of them, and there were never to be any more. So, 
also, were her ideas with regard to most matters of practical 
life such as housekeeping in all its branches, and the 
various political relations of her native village. And, under- 
laying all, deeper than anything else, higher and broader, lay 
the strongest principle of her being conscientiousness. 
Nowhere is conscience so dominant and all-absorbing as 
with New-England women. It is the granite formation, 
which lies deepest, and rises out, even to the tops of the 
highest mountains. 
Miss Ophelia was the absolute bond-slave of the " ought" 
Once make her certain that the " path of duty," as she 
commonly phrased it, lay in any given direction, and fire and 
water could not keep her from it. She would walk, straight 
down into a well, or up to a loaded cannon's mouth, if she 
were only quite sure that there the path lay. Her standard 
of right was so high, so all-embracing, so minute, and making 
so few concessions to human frailty, that though she strove 
with heroic ardour to reach it, she never actually did so, and 
of course was burdened with a constant and often harassing 
sense of deficiency. This gave a severe and somewhat 
gloomy cast to her religious character. 
But how in the world can Miss Ophelia get along with 
Augustine St. Clare gay, easy, unpunctual, unpractical, 
sceptical, in short, walking with impudent and nonchalant 
freedom over every one of her most cherished habits and 
opinions ? 
To tell the truth, then, Miss Ophelia loved him. When 
a boy, it had been hers to teach him his catechism, mend his 
clothes, comb his hair, and bring him up generally in the 
way he should go ; and her heart having a warm side to it, 
Augustine had, as he usually did with most people, monopolised a large share of it for himself, and therefore it was that 
he succeeded very easily in persuading her that the " path of 
duty" lay in the direction of New Orleans, and that she 
must go with him to take care of Eva, and keep everything 
from going to wreck and ruin during the frequent illnesses of 
his wife. The idea of a house without anybody to take 
care of it went to her heart ; then she loved the lovely little 
girl, as few could help doing; and though she regarded 
Augustine as very much of a heathen, yet she loved him, 
laughed at his jokes, and forbore with his failings, to an 
extent which those who knew him thought perfectly 
incredible. But what more or other is to be known of 
Miss Ophelia, our reader must discover by a personal 
acquaintance. 
There she is, sitting now in her state room, surrounded 
by a mixed multitude of little and big carpet-bags, boxes, 
baskets, each containing some separate responsibility which 
she is tying, binding up, packing or fastening, with a face of 
great earnestness. 
" Now, Eva, have you kept count of your things ? Of 
course you haven't children never do : there's the spotted 
carpet-bag and the little blue band-box with your best 
bonnet that's two ; then the India-rubber satchel is three
and my tape and needle-box is four; and my band-box, 
five ; and my collar-box, six ; and that little hair trunk, 
seven. What have you done with your sunshade ? Give it 
to me, and let me put a paper round it, and tie it to my 
Umbrella with my shade : there now." 
" Why, aunty, we are only going up home what is the 
use?" 
" To keep it nice, child ; people must take care of their 
things if they ever mean to have anything. And now, Eva, 
is your thimble put up ?" 
" Eeally, aunty, I don't know." 
" Well, never mind ; I'll look your box over. Thimble, 
wax, two spoons, scissors, knife, tape-needle ; all right put 
it in here. What did you ever do, child, when you were 
coming on with only your papa ? I should have thought 
you'd a lost everything you had." 
" Well, aunty, I did lose a great many ; and then, when 
we stopped anywhere, papa would buy some more of whatever 
it was." 
" Mercy on us, child, what a way! " 
" It was a very easy way, aunty," said Eva. 
" It's a dreadful shiftless one," said aunty. 
"Why, aunty, what'll you do now?" said Eva. "That 
trunk is too full to be shut down." 
" It must shut down," said aunty, with the air of a 
general, as she squeezed the things in, and sprung upon 
the lid; still a little gap remained about the mouth of 
the trunk. 
" G-et up here, Eva ! " said Miss Ophelia, courageously ; 
" what has been done can be done again. This trunk has got 
to le shut and locked, there are no two ways about it." 
And the trunk, intimidated, doubtless, by this resolute 
statement, gave in. The hasp snapped sharply in its hole, 
and Miss Ophelia turned the key, and pocketed it in triumph. 
" Now we're ready. Where's your papa ? I think it 
time this baggage was set out. Do look out, Eva, and see if 
you see your papa." 
" Oh, yes, he's down the other end of the gentlemen's 
cabin, eating an orange." 
" He can't know how near we are coming," said aunty ; 
" hadn't you better run and speak to him ?" 
" Papa never is in a hurry about anything," said Eva, 
"and we haven't come to the landing. Do step on the 
guards, aunty. Look ! there's our house, up that street ! " 
The boat now began, with heavy groans, like some vast, 
tired monster, to prepare to push up among the multiplied 
steamers at the levee. Eva joyously pointed out the various 
spires, domes, and way-marks, by which she recognised her 
native city. 
" Yes, yes, dear ; very fine," said Miss Ophelia. " But 
mercy on us ! the boat has stopped ! where is your father ?" 
And now ensued the usual turmoil of landing waiters 
running twenty ways at once men tugging trunks, carpet- 
bags, boxes women anxiously calling to their children, and 
everybody crowding in a dense mass to the plank towards 
the landing. ' * 
Miss Ophelia seated herself resolutely on the lately van- 
quished trunk, and marshalling all her goods and chattels 
in fine military order, seemed resolved to defend them to 
the last. 
" Shall I take your trunk, ma'am ?" " Shall I take your 
baggage ? " " Let me 'tend to your baggage, missis." 
"Shan't I carry out these yer, missis?" rained down upon 
her unheeded. She sat with grim determination, upright as 
a darning-needle stuck in a board, holding on her bundle of 
umbrella and parasols, and replying with a determination 
that was enough to strike dismay even into a hackman, wondering to Eva, in each interval, " what upon earth her papa 
could be thinking of ; he couldn't have fallen over, now but 
something must have happened ;" and just as she had begun 
to work herself into a real distress, he came up with his 
usually careless motion, and giving Eva a quarter of the 
orange he was eating ,said 
" Well, Cousin Vermont, I suppose you are all ready ?" 
"I've been ready, waiting, nearly an hour," said Miss 
Ophelia ; " began to be really concerned about you." 
" That's a clever fellow, now," said he. " Well, the carriage is waiting, and the crowd are now off, so that one can 
walk out in a decent and Christian manner, and not be 
pushed and shoved. Here," he added to a driver who stood 
behind him, " take these things." 
" I'll go and see to his putting them in," said Miss Ophelia. 
" Oh, pshaw ! cousin ; what's the use ?" said St. Clare. 
"Well, at any rate, I'll carry this, and this, and this," 
said Miss Ophelia, singling out three boxes and a small 
carpet-bag. 
" My dear Miss Vermont, positively you mustn't come the 
Green Mountains over us that way. You must adopt at 
least a piece of a southern principle, and not walk out under 
all that load. They'll take you for a waiting-maid ; give 
them to this fellow ; he'll put them down as if they were 
eggs, now." 
Miss Ophelia looked despairingly as her cousin took all 
her treasures from her, and rejoiced to find herself once 
more in a carriage with them in a state of preservation. 
" Where's Tom P" said Eva. 
" Oh, he's on the outside, pussy. I'm going to take Tom 
up to mother for a peace-offering, to make up for that 
drunken fellow that upset the carriage." 
" Oh, Torn will make a splendid driver, I know," said 
Eva ; "he'll never get drunk." 
The carriage stopped in front of an ancient mansion, built 
in that odd mixture of Spanish and French style, of which 
there are specimens in some parts of New. Orleans. It was 
built in the Moorish fashion a square building enclosing a 
court-yard, into which the carriage drove through an arched 
gateway. The court, in the inside, had evidently been 
arranged to gratify a picturesque and voluptuous ideality. 
Wide galleries ran all around the four sides, whose Moorish 
arches, slender pillars, and arabesque ornaments, carried the 
mind back, as in a dream, to the reign of Oriental romance 
in Spain. In the middle of the court, a fountain threw 
high its silvery water, falling in a never-ceasing spray into a 
marble basin, fringed with a deep border of fragrant violets. 
The water in the fountain, pellucid as crystal, was alive with 
myriads of gold and silver fishes, twinkling and darting 
through it like so many living jewels. Around the fountain 
ran a walk, paved with a mosaic of pebbles, laid in various 
fanciful patterns ; and this again was surrounded by turf, 
smooth as green velvet, while a carriage-drive inclosed the 
whole. Two large orange-trees, now fragrant with blossoms, 
threw a delicious shade ; and, ranged in a circle round upon 
the turf were marble vases of arabesque sculpture, containing 
the choicest flowering plants of the tropics. Huge pomegranate trees, with their glossy leaves and name-coloured 
flowers, dark-leaved Arabian jessamines, with their silvery 
stars, geraniums, luxuriant roses bending beneath their 
heavy abundance of flowers, golden jessamines, lemon-scented 
verbena, all united their bloom and fragrance, while here and 
there a mystic old aloe, with its strange, massive leaves, sat 
looking like some hoary old enchanter, sitting in weird 
grandeur among the more perishable bloom and fragrance 
around it. 
The galleries that surrounded the court were festooned 
with a curtain of some kind of Moorish stuff, and could be 
drawn down at pleasure to exclude the beams of the sun. On 
the whole, the appearance of the place was luxurious and 
romantic. 
As the carriage drove in, Eva seemed like a bird ready to 
burst from a cage, with the wild eagerness of her delight. 
" Oh, isn't it beautiful, lovely ! My own, dear, darling 
home ! " she said to Miss Ophelia. " Isn't it beautiful ? " 
" 'Tis a pretty place," said Miss Ophelia, as she alighted ; 
" though it looks rather old and heathenish to me." 
Tom got down from the carriage, and looked about with an 
air of calm, still enjoyment. The negro, it must be remembered, is an exotic of the most gorgeous and superb countries 
of the world, and he has deep in his heart a passion for all 
that is splendid, rich, and fanciful ; a passion which, rudely 
indulged by an untrained taste, draws on them the ridicule 
of the colder and more correct white race. 
St. Clair, who was in his heart a poetical voluptuary, 
smiled as Miss Ophelia made her remark on his premises, 
and, turning to Tom, who was standing looking round, his 
beaming black face perfectly radiant with admiration, he 
Tom, my boy, this seems to suit you." 
" Tes, mas'r, it looks about the right thing," said Tom. 
All this passed in a moment, while trunks were being 
hustled off, hackman paid, and while a crowd of all ages and 
sizes men, women, and children, came running through the 
galleries, both above and below, to see mas'r come in. Foremost among them was a highly-dressed young mulatto man, 
evidently a very distingue personage, attired in the ultra 
extreme of the mode, and gracefully waving a scented 
cambric handkerchief in his hand. 
This personage had been exerting himself, with great 
alacrity, in driving all the flock of domestics to the other 
end of the verandah. 
" Back ! all of you. I am ashamed of you," he said in a 
tone of authority. "Would you intrude on master's domestic 
relations, in the first hour of his return ? " 
All looked abashed at this elegant speech, delivered with 
quite an air, and stood huddled together at a respectful distance, except two stout porters, who came up and began 
conveying away the baggage. 
Owing to Mr. Adolph's systematic arrangements, when 
St. Clair turned round from paying the hackinan, there was 
nobody in view but Mr. Adolph himself, conspicuous in 
satin vest, gold guard-chain, and white pants, and bowing 
with inexpressible grace and suavity. 
" Ah, Adolph, is it you?" said his master, offering his 
hand to him ; " how are you, boy ? " while Adolph poured 
forth, with great fluency, an extemporary speech, which he 
had been preparing, with great care, for a fortnight before. 
" Well, well," said St. Clare, passing on, with his usual 
air of negligent drollery, " that's very well got up, Adolph. 
See that the baggage is well bestowed. I'll come to the 
people in a minute;" and so saying, he led Miss Ophelia to 
a large parlour that opened on to the verandah. 
While this had been passing, Eva had flown like a bird 
through the porch and parlour, to a little boudoir opening 
likewise on the verandah. 
A tall, dark-eyed, sallow woman, half rose from a couch on 
which she was reclining. 
" Mamma ! " said Eva, in a sort of rapture, throwing 
herself on her neck, and embracing her over and over again. 
" That'll do take care, child don't you make my head 
ache ! " said the mother, after she had languidly kissed her. 
St. Clare came in, embraced his wife, in true, orthodox, 
husbandly fashion, and then presented to her his cousin. 
Marie lifted her large eyes on her cousin with an air of some 
curiosity, and received her with languid politeness. A 
crowd of servants now pressed to the entry door, and among 
them a middle-aged mulatto woman, of very respectable 
appearance, stood foremost, in a tremor of expectation and 
joy, at the door. 
" Oh, there's Mammy ! " said Eva, as she flew across the 
room ; and, throwing herself into her arms, she kissed her 
repeatedly. 
This woman did not tell her that she made her head ache, 
but, on the contrary, she hugged her, and laughed, and cried, 
till her sanity was a thing to be doubted of; and when 
released from her, Eva flew from one to another, shaking 
hands and kissing, in a way that Miss Ophelia afterwards 
declared fairly turned her stomach. 
" Well ! " said Miss Ophelia, " you southern children can 
do something that I couldn't." 
" What, now, pray ? " said St. Clare. 
" Well, I want to be kind to everybody, and I wouldn't 
have anything hurt ; but, as to kissing " 
" Niggers," said St. Clare, " that you're not up to ; eh ? " 
" Yes, that's it. How can she ? " 
St. Clare laughed as he went into the passage. " Halloa ! 
here, what's to pay out here ? Here, you all Mammy, 
Jimmy, Polly, Sukey glad to see mas'r ? " he said, as he 
went shaking hands from one to another. " Look out for the 
babies !" he added, as he stumbled over a sooty little urchin, 
who was crawling upon all-fours. " If I step upon anybody, 
let 'em mention it." 
There was an abundance of laughing and blessing mas'r, 
as St. Clare distributed small pieces of change among them. 
" Come, now, take yourselves off, like good boys and 
girls," he said ; and the whole assemblage, dark and light, 
disappeared through a door into a large verandah, followed 
by Eva, who carried a large satchel, which she had been 
filling with apples, nuts, candy, ribbons, laces, and toys of 
every description, during her whole homeward journey. 
As St. Clare turned to go back, his eye fell upon Tom, 
who was standing uneasily, shifting from one foot to the 
other, while Adolph stood negligently leaning against the 
banisters, examining Tom through an opera-glass, with an 
air that would have done credit to any dandy living. 
"Puh! you puppy," said his master, striking down the 
opera-glass ; " is that the way you treat your company ? 
Seems to me, Dolph," he added, laying his finger on the 
 
elegant figured satin vest that Adolph was sporting, " seems 
to me that's my vest." 
" Oh ! master, this vest all stained with wine ! of 
course a gentleman in master's standing never wears a vest 
like this. I understood I was to take it. It does for a poor 
nigger-feller, like me." 
And Adolph tossed his head, and passed his fingers 
through his scented hair, with a grace. 
" So, that's it, is it ? " said St. Clare, carelessly. " "Well, 
here, I'm going to show this Tom to his mistress, and then 
you take him to the kitchen ; and mind you don't put on 
any of your airs to him. He's worth two such puppies as 
you.' 
" Master always will have his joke," said Adolph, laughing. " I'm delighted to see master in such spirits." 
" Here, Tom," said St. Clare, beckoning. 
Tom entered the room. He looked wistfully on the 
velvet carpets, and the before unimagined splendours of 
mirrors, pictures, statues, and curtains, and, like the Queen 
of Sheba before Solomon, there was no more spirit in him. 
He looked afraid even to set his feet down. 
" See .Vere, Marie," said St. Clare to his wife, " I've 
bought yoi a coachman, at last, to order. I tell you he's a 
regular hearse for blackness and Luoriety, and will drive you 
like a funeral, if you want. Open your eyes, now, and look 
at him. Now, don't say I never think about you when I'm 
gone." 
Marie opened her eyes, and fixed them on Tom, without 
rising. 
" I know he'll get drunk," she said. 
" No, he's warranted a pious and sober article." 
" Well, I hope he may turn out well," said the lady; "it's 
more than I expect, though." 
"Dolph," said St. Clare, "show Tom down stairs; and 
mind yourself," he added ; " remember what I told you." 
Adolph tripped gracefully forward, and Tom, with lumbering tread, went after. 
" He's a perfect behemoth !" said Marie. 
" Come, now, Marie," said St. Clare, seating himself on a 
stool beside her sofa, " be gracious, and say something pret
to a follow." 
" You've  been gone a fortnight beyond the time," said the 
lady, pouting. 
" Well, you know I wrote you the reason." 
" Such a short, cold letter f" said the lady. 
" Dear me ! the mail was just going, and it had to be that 
or nothing." 
"That's just the way always," said the lady; "always 
something to make your journeys long, and letters short." 
" See here, now," he added, drawing an elegant velvet case 
out of his pocket, and opening it, " here's a present I got for 
you in New York." It was a daguerreotype, clear and soft 
as an engraving, representing Eva and her father sitting 
hand in hand. 
Marie looked at it with a dissatisfied air. 
" What made you sit in such an awkward position ?" she 
said. 
" Well, the position may be a matter of opinion ; but what 
do you think of the likeness ?" 
" If you don't think anything of my opinion in one case, I 
suppose you wouldn't in another," said the lady, shutting the 
daguerreotype. 
" Hang the woman !" said St. Clare, mentally ; but aloud 
he added, " Come, now, Marie, what do you think of the 
likeness ? Don't be nonsensical, now." 
" It's very inconsiderate of you, St. Clare," said the lady, 
" to insist on my talking and looking at things. You know 
I've been lying all day with the sick-headache ; and there's 
been such a tumult made ever since you came, I'm half 
dead." 
"You're subject to the sick-headache, ma'am ?" said Miss 
Ophelia, suddenly rising from the depths of the large arm- 
chair, where she had sat quietly, taking an inventory of the 
furniture, and calculating its expense. 
" Yes, I'm a perfect martyr to it," said the lady. 
" Juniper-berry tea is good for sick-headache," said Miss 
Ophelia ; " at least, Augustine, Deacon Abraham Perry's 
wife, used to say so ; and she was a great nurse." 
" I'll have the first juniper-berries that get ripe in our 
garden by the lake brought in for that especial purpose," 
said St. Clare, gravely pulling the bell as he did so; 
" meanwhile, cousin, you must be wanting to retire to your 
apartment, and refresh yourself a little after your journey. 
Dolph," he added, " tell Mammy to come here." The decent 
mulatto woman whom Eva had caressed so rapturously soon 
entered ; she was dressed neatly, with a high red and yellow 
turban on her head, the recent gift of Eva, and which the 
child had been arranging on her head. " Mammy," said St. 
Clare, " I put this lady under your care ; she is tired, and 
wants rest. Take her to her chamber, and be sure she is 
made comfortable;" and Miss Ophelia disappeared in the 
rear of Mammy. 
CHAPTER XVI. 
TOM'S MISTRESS AND HER OPINIONS. 
"AND now, Marie," said St. Clare, "your golden days are 
dawning. Here is our practical, business-like New England 
cousin, who will take the whole budget of cares off your 
shoulders, and give you time to refresh yourself, and grow 
young and handsome. The ceremony of delivering the keys 
had better come off forthwith." 
This remark was made at the breakfast-table, a few 
mornings after Miss Ophelia had arrived. 
" I'm sure she's welcome," said Marie, leaning her head 
languidly on her hand. " I think she'll find one thing, if she 
does, and that is, that it's we mistresses that are the slaves, 
down here." 
" Oh, certainly, she will discover that, and a world of 
wholesome truths besides, no doubt," said St. Clare. 
" Talk about our keeping slaves, as if we did it for our 
convenience'' said Marie. " I'm sure, if we consulted that, 
we might let them all go at once." 
Evangeline fixed her large, serious eyes on her mother's 
face, with an earnest and perplexed expression, and said 
simply, " What do you keep them for, mamma ? " 
" I don't know, I'm sure, except for a plague ; they are 
the plague of my life. I believe that more of my ill- 
health is caused by them than by any one thing ; and 
ours, I know, are the very worst that ever anybody was 
plagued with." 
" Oh, come, Marie, you've got the blues this morning," 
said St. Clare. " You know 'tisn't so. There's Mammy, the 
best creature living what could you do without her ? " 
" Mammy is the best I ever knew," said Marie ; " and 
yet Mammy, now, is selfish dreadfully selfish ; it's the fault 
of the whole race." 
" Selfishness is a dreadful fault," said St. Clare, gravely. 
" Well, now, there's Mammy," said Marie ; " I think it's 
selfish of her to sleep so sound nights ; she knows I need 
little attentions almost every hour, when my worst turns are 
on, and yet she's so hard to wake. I absolutely am worse, 
this very morning, for the efforts I had to make to wake her 
last night." 
" Hasn't she sat up with you a good many nights lately, 
mamma ? " said Eva. 
" How should you know that ? " said Marie, sharply ; 
" she's been complaining, I suppose." 
" She didn't complain ; she only told me what bad nights 
you'd had so many in succession ! " 
" Why don't you let Jane or Rosa take her place a night 
or two," said St. Clare, "and let her rest ? " 
" How can you propose it ? " said Marie. " St. Clare, 
you really are inconsiderate ! So nervous as I am, the least 
breath disturbs me ; and a strange hand about me would 
drive me absolutely frantic. If Mammy felt the interest in 
me she ought to, she'd wake easier of course she would. 
I've heard of people who had such devoted servants,, but it 
never was my luck ; " and Marie sighed. 
Miss Ophelia had listened to this conversation with an air 
of shrewd, observant gravity ; and she still kept her lips 
tightly compressed, as if. determined fully to ascertain her 
longitude and position, before she committed herself. 
" Now, Mammy has a sort of goodness," said Marie ; 
"she's smooth and respectful, but she's selfish at heart. 
Now, she never will be done fidgeting and worrying about 
that husband of hers. You see, when 1 was married and 
came to live here, of course I had to bring her with me, and 
her husband, my father couldn't spare. He was a black- 
smith, and, of course, very necessary ; and I thought and 
said, at the time, that Mammy and he had better give each 
other up, as it wasn't likely to be convenient for them ever 
to live together again. I wish now I'd insisted on it, and 
married Mammy to somebody else ; but I was foolish and 
indulgent, and didn't want to insist. I told Mammy at the 
time that she musn't ever expect to see him more than once 
or twice in her life again, for the air of father's place doesn't 
agree with my health, and I can't go there ; and I advised 
her to take up with somebody else ; but no she wouldn't. 
Mammy has a kind of obstinacy about her, in spots, that 
everybody don't see as I do." 
" Has she children ? " said Miss Ophelia. 
" Yes ; she has two." 
" I suppose she feels the separation from them ?" 
" "Well, of course, I couldn't bring them. They were 
little dirty things I couldn't have them about ; and, besides, 
they took up too much of her time ; but I believe that 
Mammy has always kept up a sort of sulkiness about this. 
She won't marry anybody else ; and I do believe now, though 
she knows how necessary she is to me, and how feeble my 
