
We shall see. On leaving the store of his neighbour, Mr. Smith went
to the hotel at which he understood Mrs. Lloyd had taken lodgings,
and made inquiry for her. A lady in deep mourning, accompanied by
two daughters, one a lovely girl, not over twenty years of age, and
the other about twelve, soon entered the parlour.

"Mrs. Lloyd, I believe," said Mr. Smith.

The lady bowed. As soon as all parties were seated, the gentleman
said--

"My name is Smith. During your former residence in this city, I was
well acquainted with your husband. Permit me to offer my heartfelt
sympathy in the painful bereavement you have suffered."

There was a slight pause, and then Mr. Smith resumed--

"Hearing of your return to this city, I have called to ask if there
are any good offices that I can render you. If you have any plans
for the future--if you want advice--if a friend in need will be of
service--do not hesitate to speak freely, My high regard for your
husband's memory will not suffer me to be indifferent to the welfare
of his widow and children."

Mr. Smith had not purposed making, when he called, so general a
tender of service. But there was something in the lady's fine
countenance which told him that she had both independence and
decision of character, and that he need not fear an abuse of his
generous kindness.

Touched by such an unexpected declaration, it was some moments
before she could reply. She then said--

"I thank you, in the name of my departed husband, for this
unlooked-for and generous offer. Though back in the city, which was
formerly my home, I find myself comparatively a stranger. Yesterday
I made inquiry for Mr. Edward Hunter, an old and fast friend of Mr.
Lloyd's, and to my pain and regret learned that he was deceased."

"Yes, madam; he died about two months ago."

"With him I purposed consulting as to my future course of action;
but his death has left me without a single friend in the city to
whose judgment I can confide my plans and purposes."

"Mr. Hunter was one of nature's noblemen," said Mr. Smith, warmly;
"and you are not the only one who has cause to mourn his loss. But
there are others in our city who are not insensible to the claims of
humanity--others who, like him, sometimes let their thoughts range
beyond the narrow sphere of self."

"My object in returning to this place," resumed Mrs. Lloyd, "was to
get started in some safe and moderately profitable business. A short
time before my husband's removal, by the death of a distant relative
I fell heir to a small piece of landed property, which I recently
sold in New Orleans. By the advice of my agent there, I have
invested the money in fifty shares of Riverland Railroad stock,
which he said I could sell here at a good advance. These shares are
now in the hands of a broker, named Perkins, who is authorized to
sell them at eighty-two dollars a share."

"He'll find no difficulty in doing that, ma'am. I would have taken
them at eighty-three."

At this stage of the conversation, Perkins himself entered the
parlour.

"Ah, Mr. Smith!" said he, "I called at your place of business this
morning, but was not so fortunate as to find you in. I had fifty
shares of Riverland stock, the property of Mrs. Lloyd here, which I
presumed you would like to buy."

"You were not out of the way in your presumption. Have you made the
sale?"

"Oh yes. Not finding you in, I saw Mr. Jones, who took the shares at
a word."

"At what price?"

"Eighty-two. I have his note at sixty days for the amount, which you
know is perfectly good."

"Mrs. Lloyd need not have the slightest hesitation in accepting it;
and if she wishes the money, I can get it cashed for her." Then
rising, he added, "I will leave you now, Mrs. Lloyd, as business
requires both your attention and mine. To-morrow I will do myself
the pleasure to call on you again."

As Mr. Smith bowed himself out, he noticed, more particularly, the
beautiful smile of the elder daughter, whose eyes, humid from
grateful emotion, were fixed on his countenance with an expression
that haunted him for hours afterward.

"I hardly think that paid," was the remark of Mr. Jones, on meeting
Mr. Smith some hours afterward.

"What?" asked the latter.

"Your visit to Lloyd's widow."

"Why do you say so?"

"You lost a bargain which came into my hands, and on which I could
get an advance of a hundred dollars to-morrow."

"Ah, what was it?"

"Perkins had fifty shares of Riverland stock, which he was
authorized to sell at eighty-two. He called on you first; but
instead of being on hand, in business hours, you were off on a
charity expedition. So the ripe cherry dropped into my open mouth. I
told you it wouldn't pay, neighbour Smith."

"And yet it has paid, notwithstanding your prophecy," said Smith.

"It has!"

"Yes."

"In what way?"

But Mr. Smith was not disposed to cast his pearls before swine, and
so evaded the direct question. He knew that his mercenary neighbour
would trample under foot, with sneering contempt, any expression of
the pure satisfaction he derived from what he had done--would
breathe upon and obscure the picture of a grateful mother and her
daughter, if he attempted to elevate it before his eyes. It had
paid, but beyond this he did not seek to enlighten his fellow-merchant.

Three days later, Mr. Jones is at his desk, buried in calculations
of profit and loss, and so much absorbed is he, that he has not
noticed the entrance of Perkins the broker, through whom he obtained
the stock from Mrs. Lloyd.

"How much of the Riverland Railroad stock have you?" inquired the
broker, and in a voice that sent a sudden fear to the heart of the
merchant.

"A hundred shares. Why do you ask?" was the quick response.

"I'm sorry for you, then. The interest due this day is not
forthcoming."

"What!" Mr. Jones starts from his desk, his lips pale and quivering.

"There's something wrong in the affairs of the company, it is
whispered. At any rate, the interest won't be paid, and the stock
has tumbled down to thirty-five dollars. If you'll take my advice
you'll sell. The first loss is usually the best in these cases--that
is my experience."

It is very plain that one operation hasn't paid, for all its golden
promise--an operation that would hardly have been effected by Mr.
Jones, had he accompanied Mr. Smith on the proposed visit to Mrs.
Lloyd. The fifty shares of stock, which came, as he thought, so
luckily into his hand, would, in all probability, have become the
property of another.

And not a week glided by ere Mr. Jones became aware of the fact that
another operation had failed to pay. A cargo of coffee and sugar
arrived one morning; the vessel containing it had been looked for
daily, and Mr. Jones fully expected to receive the consignment; he
was not aware of the arrival until he met the captain in the street.

"Captain Jackson! How are you? This is really an unexpected
pleasure!" exclaimed the merchant, as he grasped the hand of the
individual he addressed, and shook it warmly.

Captain Jackson did not seem equally gratified at meeting the
merchant. He took his hand coldly, and scarcely smiled in return.

"When did you arrive?" asked Mr. Jones.

"This morning."

"Indeed! I was not aware of it. For over a week I have been
expecting you."

The captain merely bowed.

"Will you be around to my store this afternoon?" asked Mr. Jones.

"I presume not."

There was now, on the part of Mr. Jones, an embarrassed pause. Then
he said--

"Shall I have the sale of your cargo?"

"No, sir," was promptly and firmly answered.

"I have made the consignment to Armor."

"To Armor!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, in ill-concealed surprise.

"He's a perfectly fair man, is he not?" said the captain.

"Oh yes. Perfectly fair. He'll do you justice, without doubt. Still
I must own to being a little disappointed, you were satisfied with
the way your business was done last time."

"Not altogether, Mr. Jones," said Captain Jackson. "You were a
little too sharp for, me--rather too eager, in securing your own
advantage, to look narrowly enough to mine. Such was my impression,
and it has, been confirmed since my arrival this morning."

"That's a grave charge, Captain Jackson," said Mr. Jones; "You must
explain yourself."

"I'm a plain spoken, and a straightforward sort of a man, sir." The
captain drew himself up, and looked particularly dignified. "The
truth is, as I have said, I thought you were rather too sharp for me
the last time. But I determined to try you once more, and to watch
you as closely as a cat watches a mouse. I was on my way to your
store, when I met an old friend, in business here, and, put to him
the direct question as to what he thought of your fairness in trade.
'He's sharp,' was the answer. 'He will not take an undue advantage?'
said I. 'Your idea as to what constitutes an undue advantage would
hardly agree with that of Mr. Jones,' replied my friend. And then he
related the circumstance of your finding Armor in a tight place last
week, and getting from him a lot of goods for two hundred dollars
less than they were worth. I went to Armor, and, on his confirming
the statement, at once placed my cargo in his hands. The commissions
will repair his loss, and give him a few hundred dollars over. I'm
afraid of men who are too sharp in dealing. Are you satisfied with
my explanation?"

"Good morning, sir," said Mr. Jones.

"Good morning," returned, Captain Jackson. And bowing formally, the
two men separated.

"That didn't pay," muttered Jones between his teeth, as he moved on
with his eyes cast to the ground, even in his chagrin and
mortification using his favourite word--

"No, it, didn't pay," And, in truth, no operations of this kind do
really pay. They may seem to secure advantage, but always result in
loss--if not in lose of money, in loss of that which should be
dearer to a man than all the wealth of the Indies--his self-respect
and virtuous integrity of character.

On the evening of that day, a pleasant little company was assembled
at the house of Mr. Smith, made up of the merchant's own family and
three guests--Mrs. Lloyd and her daughters. Through the advice of
Mr. Smith, and by timely action on his part, a house of moderate
capacity had been secured, at a great bargain, for the sum of three
thousand dollars, to which it was proposed to remove, as soon as
furniture, on the way from New Orleans, should arrive. The first
story of this house was already fitted up as a store; and, as the
object of Mrs. Lloyd was to get into business in a small way, the
purchase of the property was made, in order as well to obtain a good
location as to make a safe investment. With the thousand dollars
that remained, it was proposed to lay in a small stock of fancy
dry-goods.

In the few interviews held with Mrs. Lloyd by the merchant, he was
struck with the beautiful harmony of her character, and especially
with her womanly dignity. As for the eldest daughter, something
about her had charmed him from the very beginning. And now when, for
the first time, this interesting family were his guests for a social
evening--when he saw their characters in a new aspect--and when he
felt, through the quick sympathy of a generous nature, how grateful
and happy they were--he experienced a degree of satisfaction such as
never pervaded the breast of any man whose love of mere gain was the
measure of his good-will toward others.

How different was the social sphere in the house of Mr. Jones on
that evening! The brow of the husband and father was clouded, and
his lips sealed in silence; or if words were spoken, they were in
moody tones, or uttered in fretfulness and ill-nature. The wife and
children caught from him the same repulsive spirit, and, in their
intercourse one with the other, found little sympathy or affection.
There was a chilling shadow on the household of the merchant; it
fell from the monster form of his expanding selfishness, that was
uplifted between the sunlight of genuine humanity and the neighbour
he would not regard. Alas! on how many thousands and thousands of
households in our own land rests the gigantic shadow of this
monster!

"Will it pay?" is the eager question we hear on all sides, as we
mingle in the business world.

"Has it paid?" Ah, that is the after-question! Reader, is the
monster's shadow in your household? If so, it has not paid.




THE LAY PREACHER.


WHETHER the Rev. Andrew Adkin had or had not a call to preach, is
more than we can say. Enough, that he considered it his duty to
"hold forth" occasionally on the Sabbath; and when "Brother Adkin"
saw, in any possible line of action, his duty, he never took counsel
of Jonah.

Brother Adkin kept a store in the town of Mayberry, and being a man
of some force of character, and not, by any means, indifferent to
this world's goods, devoted himself to business during the six days
of the week with commendable assiduity. It is not the easiest thing
in the world to banish, on the Sabbath, all concern in regard to
business. Most persons engaged in trade, no matter how religiously
inclined, have experienced this difficulty. Brother Adkin's case
did, not prove an exception; and so intrusive, often, were these
worldly thoughts and cares, that they desecrated, at times, the
pulpit, making the good man's voice falter and his hands tremble, as
he endeavoured, "in his feeble way," to break the bread of life.

He had his own trials and temptations--his own stern "exercises of
mind," going to the extent, not unfrequently, of startling doubts as
to the reality of his call to preach.

"I don't see much fruit of my labour," he would sometimes say to
himself, "and I often think I do more harm than good."

Such thoughts, however, were usually disposed of, as suggestions of
the "adversary."

A week in the life of Brother Adkin will show the peculiar
influences that acted upon him, and how far his secular pursuits
interfered with and marred his usefulness as a preacher.

Monday morning had come round again. He had preached twice on the
Sabbath--once to a strange congregation, and with apparent good
effect, and once to a congregation in Mayberry. In the latter case,
he was favoured with little freedom of utterance. The beginning of
the secular week brought back to the mind of Mr. Adkin the old
current of thought, and the old earnest desire to get gain in
business. On the Sabbath he had taught the people that love was the
fulfilment of the law,--now, he had regard only to his own
interests; and, although he did not adopt the broad, unscrupulous
maxim, that all is fair in trade, yet, in every act of buying and
selling, the thought uppermost in his mind was, the amount of gain
to be received in the transaction.

"What are you paying for corn to-day?" asked a man, a stranger to
Mr. Adkin.

"Forty-eight cents," was answered.

"Is this the highest market rate?" said the man.

"I bought fifty bushels at that price on Saturday," replied Mr.
Adkin.

Now, since Saturday, the price of corn had advanced four cents, and
Mr. Adkin knew it. But he thought he would just try his new customer
with the old price, and if he chose to sell at that, why there would
be so much gained.

"I have forty bushels," said the man.

"Very well, I'll take it at forty-eight cents. Where is it?"

"My wagon is at the tavern."

"You may bring it over at once. My man is now at leisure to attend
to the delivery."

The corn was delivered and paid for, and both parties, for the time
being, were well satisfied with the transaction.

The day had nearly run to a close, and Mr. Adkin was in the act of
estimating his gains, when the man from whom he had purchased the
corn entered his store.

"Look here, my friend," said the latter speaking rather sharply,
"you paid me too little for that corn."

"How so?" returned Mr. Adkin, in well-affected surprise.

"You was to pay the highest market price," said the man.

"I offered you forty-eight cents."

"And I asked you if that was the highest rate, didn't I?"

"I told you that I had bought fifty bushels at that price on
Saturday."

"Oh, ho! Now I comprehend you," said the man, with a sarcastic curl
of his lip. "I was recommended to you as a preacher, and one who
would deal fairly with me. I asked you a plain question, and you
purposely misled me in your answer, to the end that you might get my
corn at less than the market value. You have cheated me out of
nearly two dollars. Much good may it do you!"

And saying this, he turned on his heel and left the store. Mr. Adkin
was, of course, no little disturbed. The charge of dishonesty in
dealing at first aroused his indignation; but as he grew calmer and
thought over the affair, his conscience troubled him. As a Christian
man, and especially as a Christian minister, he could not reconcile
his dealing with strict gospel requirements. The more he reflected,
the more closely he brought his conduct to the standard of Christian
principles, the less was he satisfied with himself. The final result
was, a determination to go to the man on the next morning, and pay
him the balance due him on the market price of his corn. But, when
he sought for him, he was not to be found, having gone back to his
home, a few miles from the village.

On the next day he sent for a bill, which had been standing a good
while. His clerk brought back some impertinent and altogether
unsatisfactory answer.

"Did Mr. Giles say that?" he asked, his eyes flashing indignantly.

"His exact words," replied the clerk.

"Very well. I'll not send to him again," said Mr. Adkin. "He thinks,
because I am a preacher, that he can treat me as he pleases, but
I'll let him know that being a preacher doesn't make me any the less
a man, nor any the less inclined to protect myself."

So Mr. Giles was served with a summons, to answer for debt, before
the week was out.

On the day following, a certain lady, a member of the congregation
in Mayberry to which he preached, whenever, from sickness or other
causes, the regular minister was absent, came into Mr. Adkin's
store. Her manner was considerably excited.

"There's a mistake in your bill, Mr. Adkin," said she, in rather a
sharp tone of voice.

"If so, Mrs. Smith, the remedy is a very simple one," replied Mr.
Adkin. Her manner had disturbed him, yet he concealed the
disturbance under a forced suavity of manner. "Where does the
mistake lie?"

"Why, see here. You've got me charged with six yards of muslin and
five pounds of butter that I never got!"

"Are you certain of this, Mrs. Smith?"

"Certain! Be sure I'm certain! D'ye think I'd say I hadn't the
things, if I had them? I'm not quite so bad as that, Mr. Adkin!"

"Don't get excited about the matter, Mrs. Smith. We are all liable
to mistakes. There's an error here, either on your side or mine, if
it is my error, I will promptly correct it."

"Of course it's your error. I never had either the muslin or the
butter," said Mrs. Smith, positively.

Mr. Adkin turned to his ledger, where Mrs. Smith's account was
posted.

"The muslin is charged on the 10th of June."

Mrs. Smith looked at the bill and answered affirmatively.

"You bought a pound of yarn and a straw hat on the same day."

"Yes; I remember them. But I didn't get the muslin."

"Think again, Mrs. Smith. Don't you remember the beautiful piece of
Merrimac that I showed you, and how cheap you thought it?"

"I never had six yards of muslin, Mr. Adkin."

"But, Mrs. Smith, I have distinct recollection of measuring it off,
and the charge is here in my own handwriting."

"I never had it, Mr. Adkin!" said the lady much excited.

"You certainly had, Mrs. Smith."

"I'll never pay for it!"

"Don't say that, Mrs. Smith. You certainly wouldn't want my goods
without paying for them!"

"I never had the muslin, I tell you!"

Argument in the case Mr. Adkin found to be useless. The sale of the
five pounds of butter was as distinctly remembered by him; and as he
was not the man to yield a right when he had no doubt as to its
existence, he would not erase the articles from Mrs Smith bill,
which was paid under protest.

"It's the last cent you'll ever get of my money!" said Mrs. Smith,
as she handed over, the amount of the bill. "I never had those
articles; and I shall always say that I was wronged out of so much
money."

"I'm sure, madam, I don't want your custom, if I'm expected to let
you have my goods for nothing," retorted Mr. Adkin, the natural man
in him growing strong under an allegation that implied dishonesty.

So the two parted, neither feeling good-will toward the other, and
neither being in a very composed state of mind.

Each day in that week brought something to disturb the mind of Mr.
Adkin; and each day brought him into unpleasant business contact
with someone in the town of Mayberry. To avoid, these things was
almost impossible, particularly for a man of Mr. Adkin's
temperament.

Saturday night came, always a busy night for the storekeeper. It was
ten o'clock, and customers were still coming in, when a lad handed
Mr. Adkin a note, it was from the regularly stationed minister of
the church in Mayberry to which Mr. Adkin belonged. The note stated,
briefly, that the writer was so much indisposed, that he would not
be able to preach on the next day, and conveyed the request that
"Brother Adkin" would "fill the pulpit for him in the morning."

Brother Adkin almost groaned in spirit at this unwelcome and
not-to-be-denied invitation to perform ministerial duties on the
Sabbath. Of theological subjects, scarcely a thought had entered his
mind since Monday morning; and, certainly, the states through which
he had passed were little calculated to elevate his affections, or
make clear his spiritual intuitions.

It was twelve o'clock before Mr. Adkin was able to retire on that
night. As he rested his weary and now aching head on his pillow, he
endeavoured to turn his mind from worldly things, and fix it upon
things heavenly and eternal. But, the current of thought and
affection had too long been flowing in another channel. The very
effort to check its onward course, caused disturbance and obscurity.
There was a brief but fruitless struggle, when overtaxed nature
vindicated her claims, and as the lay preacher found relief from
perplexing thoughts and a troubled conscience, in refreshing
slumber.

In the half-dreaming, half-waking state that comes with the dawning
of day, Mr. Adkin's thoughts flowed on again in the old channel, and
when full consciousness came, he found himself busy with questions
of profit and loss. Self-accusation and humiliation followed. He
"wrote bitter things against himself," for this involuntary
desecration of the Sabbath.

Rising early, he took his Bible, and after turning over book after
book and scanning chapter after chapter, finally chose a verse as
the text from which he would preach. Hurriedly and imperfectly our
lay preacher conned his subject. Clearness of discrimination, grasp
of thought, orderly arrangement, were out of the question. That
would have been too much for a master mind, under similar
circumstances.

Eleven o'clock came around quickly, and painfully conscious of an
obscure and confused state of mind, Mr. Adkin entered the house of
God and ascended the pulpit. A little while he sat, endeavouring to
collect his thoughts; then he arose and commenced giving out a hymn.
Lifting his eyes from the book, as he finished reading the first
verse, he saw, directly in front of him, the man from whom he had
purchased the forty bushels of corn. He was looking at him fixedly,
and there was on his countenance an expression of surprise and
contempt, that, bringing back, as the man's presence did, a vivid
recollection of the events of Monday, almost deprived Mr. Adkin, for
a moment or two, of utterance. He faltered, caught his breath, and
went on again with the reading. On raising his eyes at the
conclusion of the second verse, Mr. Adkin saw his corn customer
slowly moving down the aisle toward the door of entrance. How keenly
he felt the rebuke! How sadly conscious was he of being out of place
in the pulpit!

After the singing of the hymn, the preacher made a prayer; but it
was cold and disjointed. He had no freedom of utterance. A chapter
was read, an anthem sung, and then Mr. Adkin arose in the pulpit,
took his text, and, ere giving utterance to the first words of his
discourse, let his eyes wander over the congregation. A little to
the right sat Mr. Giles, wearing a very sober aspect of countenance,
and looking at him with knit brows and compressed lips. The sight
caused the words "brother going to law with brother" to pass almost
electrically through his mind. As his glance rebounded from Mr.
Giles quickly, it next rested upon Mrs. Smith, who, with perked head
and a most malicious curling of the lip, said, as plain as manner
could say it--"You're a nice man for a preacher, a'n't you?"

How Mr. Adkin beat about the bushes and wrought in obscurity,
darkening counsel by words without knowledge, during the half hour
that followed the enunciation of his text, need not here be told.
None was more fully conscious than himself of his utter failure to
give spiritual instruction to the waiting congregation. The climax,
so far as he was concerned, was yet to come. As he descended the
pulpit stairs, at the close of the service, some one slipped a piece
of paper into his hand. Glancing at the pencilled writing thereon,
he read the rebuking words:

"The hungry sheep look up, and are not fed."

How could he feed them? Are holy and divine things of such easy
comprehension, that a man may devote the whole energies of his mind
to worldly business during six days, and then become a lucid
expounder of heavenly, mysteries on the Sabbath? The influx of
intelligence into the mind of a speaker, is in exact ratio with the
knowledge he has acquired. He may have, without this previous
preparation, "free utterance," as it is called; but this utterance
brings no rational convictions; it sways only by the power of
contagious enthusiasm. Moreover, as in the case of Mr. Adkin, every
lay preacher takes with him into the pulpit a taint from worldly and
business contact, and his presence there must turn the thoughts of
many hearers from his clerical to his personal character--from the
truth he enunciates, to his practical observance thereof in daily
life. He may be judged falsely; but the fact of his blending the two
separate characters of clergyman and layman, forms an occasion for
false judgment, and detracts from the usefulness of the sacred
office.

Whether Mr. Adkin "held forth" again, we cannot apprize the reader.
New light, and new perceptions of duty certainly came into his mind;
and we may hope that, as he was a well-meaning and conscientious
man, he was led to act wisely in the future.

Having given a true picture of a week in the life of the lay
preacher, our business with him is done. It is for those whom it may
concern to study the sketch, and see if it does not contain some
points worthy their especial consideration.




HOW TO DESTROY A GOOD BUSINESS.

CHAPTER I.


"WELL, Mr. Tompkins, what do you think about it? I wish you would
speak. I've been talking at you for full ten blessed minutes, and
you haven't as much as opened your lips in reply."

"About what?" asked Mr. Tompkins, looking up with an air of
surprise.

"About what, indeed!" rejoined the lady, in no very melodious tone.
"Why, about that house in Franklin Street, to be sure. What else did
you suppose it was?"

"Oh! ah! yes."

"Mr. Tompkins, why don't you answer me like a man? Oh! ah! yes! I
hate that."

"Humph!"

"Yes, and I hate that just as bad. But you needn't think to put me
off with a 'humph!' Have you made up your mind about buying that
house--say?"

"I've got to make up my mind about something else first."

"Indeed! And what is that, pray?"

"About where the money is to come from."

"Mr. Tompkins, I am out of all patience with you! Its precious
little that I ask for, dear knows! But even that little is never
granted."

"If you'll get me the money, Ellen, I'll buy the house with
pleasure," returned Mr. Tompkins, in a quiet voice.

"Me! I wonder where I'd get the money? It's an insult for you to
talk to me in this way, when you keep me as poor as a church mouse
all the time. Every dollar I get from you is like pulling a tooth."

"And causes me as much pain, sometimes."

"I won't put up with such treatment from you, Mr. Tompkins," said
the good lady, passionately, and walked from the room with a stately
step and an effort at dignity. The husband retreated precipitately,
and sought his place of business. He sighed as he took his seat upon
a counting-house stool at the desk, and commenced turning over the
pages of various large account-books. While thus engaged, a person
entered his store, and was shown back to that portion of it where he
had retired. Mr. Tompkins looked up on hearing his name pronounced,
and met the steady eye of one whose presence was not very agreeable
to him just at that time.

"Ah, Mr. Wolford! How are you to-day? I am glad to see you," he
said, with an effort to seem pleased and indifferent.

"Very well. How are you?" was the blunt response.

"Take a chair, Mr. Wolford."

The visitor sat down, with considerable emphasis in his manner,
threw one leg over the other, and leaned back in his chair. Tompkins
was nervous. His effort to seem at ease led him into overaction.

He smiled, or rather smirked--for a smile is always natural, never
forced--and introduced various topics of conversation, one after the
other, with the manner of a man whose thoughts were far away from
his words, and who yet wished to be very agreeable to a personage
from whom he wished a favour.

"What do you think of the news from Washington to-day, Mr. Wolford?
Strange doings there!"

"Rather."

"Our party were completely outgeneralled in that measure."

"Yes."

"Bad news from London."
