always be killed.
From these things it will be seen to follow, that, if the facts of the
death of Tom had been fully proved by two white witnesses, in open
court, Legree could not have been held by any consistent interpreter
of slave-law to be a murderer; for Tom was in the act of resistance to
the will of his master. His master had laid a command on him, in the
presence of other slaves. Tom had deliberately refused to obey the
command. The master commenced chastisement, to reduce him to obedience.
And it is evident, at the first glance, to every one, that, if the law
does not sustain him in enforcing obedience in such a case, there is an
end of the whole slave power. No Southern court would dare to decide
that Legree did wrong to continue the punishment, as long as Tom
continued the insubordination. Legree stood by him every moment of the
time, pressing him to yield, and offering to let him go as soon as he
did yield. Tom’s resistance was insurrection. It was an example which
could not be allowed, for a moment, on any Southern plantation. By the
express words of the constitution of Georgia, and by the understanding
and usage of all slave-law, the power of life and death is always left
in the hands of the master, in exigences like this. This is not a case
like that of Souther v. The Commonwealth. The victim of Souther was not
in a state of resistance or insurrection. The punishment, in his case,
was a simple vengeance for a past offence, and not an attempt to reduce
him to subordination.
There is no principle of slave jurisprudence by which a man could be
pronounced a murderer, for acting as Legree did, in his circumstances.
Everybody must see that such an admission would strike at the
foundations of the slave system. To be sure, Tom was in a state of
insurrection for conscience’ sake. But the law does not, and cannot,
contemplate that the negro shall have a conscience independent of his
master’s. To allow that the negro may refuse to obey his master whenever
he thinks that obedience would be wrong, would be to produce universal
anarchy. If Tom had been allowed to disobey his master in this case, for
conscience’ sake, the next day Sambo would have had a case of
conscience, and Quimbo the next. Several of them might very justly have
thought that it was a sin to work as they did. The mulatto woman would
have remembered that the command of God forbade her to take another
husband. Mothers might have considered that it was more their duty to
stay at home and take care of their children, when they were young and
feeble, than to work for Mr. Legree in the cotton-field. There would be
no end to the havoc made upon cotton-growing operations, were the negro
allowed the right of maintaining his own conscience on moral subjects.
If the slave system is a right system, and ought to be maintained, Mr.
Legree ought not to be blamed for his conduct in this case; for he did
only what was absolutely essential to maintain the system; and Tom died
in fanatical and foolhardy resistance to “the powers that be, which are
ordained of God.” He followed a sentimental impulse of his desperately
depraved heart, and neglected those “solid teachings of the written
word,” which, as recently elucidated, have proved so refreshing to
eminent political men.
                              CHAPTER XI.
                    THE TRIUMPH OF JUSTICE OVER LAW.
Having been obliged to record so many trials in which justice has been
turned away backward by the hand of law, and equity and common humanity
have been kept out by the bolt and bar of logic, it is a relief to the
mind to find one recent trial recorded, in North Carolina, in which the
nobler feelings of the human heart have burst over formalized limits,
and where the prosecution appears to have been conducted by men, who
were not ashamed of possessing in their bosoms that very dangerous and
most illogical agitator, a human heart. It is true that, in giving this
trial, very sorrowful, but inevitable, inferences will force themselves
upon the mind, as to that state of public feeling which allowed such
outrages to be perpetrated in open daylight, in the capital of North
Carolina, upon a hapless woman. It would seem that the public were too
truly instructed in the awful doctrine pronounced by Judge Ruffin, that
“THE POWER OF THE MASTER MUST BE ABSOLUTE,” to think of interfering
while the poor creature was dragged, barefoot and bleeding, at a horse’s
neck, at the rate of five miles an hour, through the streets of Raleigh.
It seems, also, that the most horrible brutalities and enormities that
could be conceived of were witnessed, without any efficient
interference, by a number of the citizens, among whom we see the name of
the Hon. W. H. Haywood, of Raleigh. It is a comfort to find the
attorney-general, in this case, speaking as a man ought to speak.
Certainly there can be no occasion to wish to pervert or overstate the
dread workings of the slave system, or to leave out the few comforting
and encouraging features, however small the encouragement of them may
be.
The case is now presented, as narrated from the published reports, by
Dr. Bailey, editor of the National Era; a man whose candor and
fairness need no indorsing, as every line that he writes speaks for
itself.
The reader may at first be surprised to find slave testimony in the
court, till he recollects that it is a slave that is on trial, the
testimony of slaves being only null when it concerns whites.
                         AN INTERESTING TRIAL.
  We find in one of the Raleigh (North Carolina) papers, of June 5,
  1851, a report of an interesting trial, at the spring term of the
  Superior Court. Mima, a slave, was indicted for the murder of her
  master, William Smith, of Johnston County, on the night of the 29th
  of November, 1850. The evidence for the prosecution was Sidney, a
  slave-boy, twelve years old, who testified that, in the night, he
  and a slave-girl, named Jane, were roused from sleep by the call of
  their master, Smith, who had returned home. They went out, and found
  Mima tied to his horse’s neck, with two ropes, one round her neck,
  the other round her hands. Deceased carried her into the house,
  jerking the rope fastened to her neck, and tied her to a post. He
  called for something to eat, threw her a piece of bread, and, after
  he had done, beat her on her naked back with a large piece of
  light-wood, giving her many hard blows. In a short time, deceased
  went out of the house, for a special purpose, witness accompanying
  him with a torchlight, and hearing him say that he intended “to use
  the prisoner up.” The light was extinguished, and he reëntered the
  house for the purpose of lighting it. Jane was there; but the
  prisoner had been untied, and was not there. While lighting his
  torch, he heard blows outside, and heard the deceased cry out, two
  or three times, “O, Leah! O, Leah!” Witness and Jane went out, saw
  the deceased bloody and struggling, were frightened, ran back, and
  shut themselves up. Leah, it seems, was mother of the prisoner, and
  had run off two years, on account of cruel treatment by the
  deceased.
  Smith was speechless and unconscious till he died, the following
  morning, of the wounds inflicted on him.
  It was proved on the trial that Carroll, a white man, living about a
  mile from the house of the deceased, and whose wife was said to be
  the illegitimate daughter of Smith, had in his possession, the
  morning of the murder, the receipt given the deceased by sheriff
  High, the day before, for jail fees, and a note for thirty-five
  dollars, due deceased from one Wiley Price, which Carroll collected
  a short time thereafter; also the chest-keys of the deceased; and no
  proof was offered to show how Carroll came into possession of these
  articles.
  The following portion of the testimony discloses facts so horrible,
  and so disgraceful to the people who tolerated, in broad daylight,
  conduct which would have shamed the devil, that we copy it just as
  we find it in the Raleigh paper. The scene, remember, is the city of
  Raleigh.
  “The defence was then opened. James Harris, C. W. D. Hutchings, and
  Hon. W. H. Haywood, of Raleigh; John Cooper, of Wake; Joseph Hane
  and others, of Johnston, were examined for the prisoner. The
  substance of their testimony was as follows: On the forenoon of
  Friday, 29th of November last, deceased took prisoner from Raleigh
  jail, tied her round the neck and wrist; ropes were then latched to
  the horse’s neck; he cursed the prisoner several times, got on his
  horse, and started off; when he got opposite the Telegraph office,
  on Fayetteville-street, he pulled her shoes and stockings off,
  cursed her again, went off in a swift trot, the prisoner running
  after him, doing apparently all she could to keep up; passed round
  by Peck’s store; prisoner seemed very humble and submissive; took
  down the street east of the capitol, going at the rate of five miles
  an hour; continued this gait until he passed O. Rork’s corner, about
  half or three-quarters of a mile from the capitol; that he reached
  Cooper’s (one of the witnesses), thirteen miles from Raleigh, about
  four o’clock, P. M.; that it was raining very hard; deceased got off
  his horse, turned it loose with prisoner tied to its neck; witness
  went to take deceased’s horse to stable; heard great lamentations at
  the house; hurried back; saw his little daughter running through the
  rain from the house, much frightened; got there; deceased was
  gouging prisoner in the eyes, and she making outcries; made him
  stop; became vexed, and insisted upon leaving; did leave in a short
  time, in the rain, sun about an hour high; when he left, prisoner
  was tied as she was before; her arms and fingers were very much
  swollen; the rope around her wrist was small, and had sunk deep into
  the flesh, almost covered with it; that around the neck was large,
  and tied in a slipknot; deceased would jerk it every now and then;
  when jerked, it would choke prisoner; she was barefoot and bleeding;
  deceased was met some time after dark, in about six miles of home,
  being twenty-four or twenty-five from Raleigh.”
  Why did they not strike the monster to the earth, and punish him for
  his infernal brutality?
  The attorney-general conducted the prosecution with evident
  loathing. The defence argued, first, that the evidence was
  insufficient to fasten the crime upon the prisoner; secondly, that,
  should the jury be satisfied beyond a rational doubt that the
  prisoner committed the act charged, it would yet be only
  manslaughter.
  “A single blow between equals would mitigate a killing instanter
  from murder to manslaughter. It could not, in law, be anything more,
  if done under the furor brevis of passion. But the rule was
  different as between master and slave. It was necessary that this
  should be, to preserve the subordination of the slave. The
  prisoner’s counsel then examined the authorities at length, and
  contended that the prisoner’s case came within the rule laid down in
  The State v. Will (1 Dev. and Bat. 121). The rule there given by
  Judge Gaston is this: ‘If a slave, in defence of his life, and under
  circumstances strongly calculated to excite his passions of terror
  and resentment, kill his overseer or master, the homicide is, by
  such circumstances, mitigated to manslaughter.’ The cruelties of the
  deceased to the prisoner were grievous and long-continued. They
  would have shocked a barbarian. The savage loves and thirsts for
  blood; but the acts of civilized life have not afforded him such
  refinement of torture as was here exhibited.”
  The attorney-general, after discussing the law, appealed to the jury
  “not to suffer the prejudice which the counsel for the defence had
  attempted to create against the deceased (whose conduct, he
  admitted, was disgraceful to human nature) to influence their
  judgments in deciding whether the act of the prisoner was criminal
  or not, and what degree of criminality attached to it. He desired
  the prisoner to have a fair and impartial trial. He wished her to
  receive the benefit of every rational doubt. It was her right,
  however humble her condition; he hoped he had not that heart, as he
  certainly had not the right by virtue of his office, to ask in her
  case for anything more than he would ask from the highest and
  proudest of the land on trial, that the jury should decide
  according to the evidence, and vindicate the violated law.”
  These were honorable sentiments.
  After an able charge by Judge Ellis, the jury retired, and, after
  having remained out several hours, returned with a verdict of NOT
  GUILTY. Of course, we see not how they could hesitate to come to
  this verdict at once.
  The correspondent who furnishes the Register with a report of the
  case says:
  “It excited an intense interest in the community in which it
  occurred, and, although it develops a series of cruelties shocking
  to human nature, the result of the trial, nevertheless, vindicates
  the benignity and justice of our laws towards that class of our
  population whose condition Northern fanaticism has so carefully and
  grossly misrepresented, for their own purposes of selfishness,
  agitation, and crime.”
  We have no disposition to misrepresent the condition of the slaves,
  or to disparage the laws of North Carolina; but we ask, with a
  sincere desire to know the truth, Do the laws of North Carolina
  allow a master to practise such horrible cruelties upon his slaves
  as Smith was guilty of, and would the public sentiment of the city
  of Raleigh permit a repetition of such enormities as were
  perpetrated in its streets, in the light of day, by that miscreant?
In conclusion, as the accounts of these various trials contain so many
shocking incidents and particulars the author desires to enter a caution
against certain mistaken uses which may be made of them, by
well-intending persons. The crimes themselves, which form the foundation
of the trials, are not to be considered and spoken of as specimens of
the common working of the slave system. They are, it is true, the
logical and legitimate fruits of a system which makes every individual
owner an irresponsible despot. But the actual number of them, compared
with the whole number of masters, we take pleasure in saying, is small.
It is an injury to the cause of freedom to ground the argument against
slavery upon the frequency with which such scenes as these occur. It
misleads the popular mind as to the real issue of the subject. To hear
many men talk, one would think that they supposed that unless negroes
actually were whipped or burned alive at the rate of two or three dozen
a week, there was no harm in slavery. They seem to see nothing in the
system but its gross bodily abuses. If these are absent, they think
there is no harm in it. They do not consider that the twelve hours’
torture of some poor victim, bleeding away his life, drop by drop, under
the hands of a SOUTHER, is only a symbol of that more atrocious process
by which the divine, immortal soul is mangled, burned, lacerated, thrown
down, stamped upon, and suffocated, by the fiend-like force of the
tyrant Slavery. And as, when the torturing work was done, and the poor
soul flew up to the judgment-seat, to stand there in awful witness,
there was not a vestige of humanity left in that dishonored body, nor
anything by which it could be said, “See, this was a man!”—so, when
Slavery has finished her legitimate work upon the soul, and trodden out
every spark of manliness, and honor, and self-respect, and natural
affection, and conscience, and religious sentiment, then there is
nothing left in the soul, by which to say, “This was a man!” and it
becomes necessary for judges to construct grave legal arguments to prove
that the slave is a human being.
Such extreme cases of bodily abuse from the despotic power of slavery
are comparatively rare. Perhaps they may be paralleled by cases brought
to light in the criminal jurisprudence of other countries. They might,
perhaps, have happened anywhere; at any rate, we will concede that they
might. But where under the sun did such TRIALS, of such cases, ever
take place, in any nation professing to be free and Christian? The
reader of English history will perhaps recur to the trials under Judge
Jeffries, as a parallel. A moment’s reflection will convince him that
there is no parallel between the cases. The decisions of Jeffries were
the decisions of a monster, who violently wrested law from its
legitimate course, to gratify his own fiendish nature. The decisions of
American slave-law have been, for the most part, the decisions of
honorable and humane men, who have wrested from their natural course the
most humane feelings, to fulfil the mandates of a cruel law.
In the case of Jeffries, the sacred forms of the administration of
justice were violated. In the case of the American decisions, every form
has been maintained. Revolting to humanity as these decisions appear,
they are strictly logical and legal.
Therefore, again, we say, Where, ever, in any nation professing to be
civilized and Christian, did such TRIALS, of such cases, take place?
When were ever such legal arguments made? When, ever, such legal
principles judicially affirmed? Was ever such a trial held in England as
that in Virginia, of SOUTHER v. THE COMMONWEALTH? Was it ever
necessary in England for a judge to declare on the bench, contrary to
the opinion of a lower court, that the death of an apprentice, by twelve
hours’ torture from his master, did amount to murder in the first
degree? Was such a decision, if given, accompanied by the affirmation of
the principle, that any amount of torture inflicted by the master,
short of the point of death, was not indictable? Not being read in
English law, the writer cannot say; but there is strong impression from
within that such a decision as this would have shaken the whole island
of Great Britain; and that such a case as Souther v. The
Commonwealth would never have been forgotten under the sun. Yet it is
probable that very few persons in the United States ever heard of the
case, or ever would have heard of it, had it not been quoted by the New
York Courier and Enquirer as an overwhelming example of legal
humanity.
The horror of the whole matter is, that more than one such case should
ever need to happen in a country, in order to make the whole community
feel, as one man, that such power ought not to be left in the hands of a
master. How many such cases do people wish to have happen?—how many
must happen, before they will learn that utter despotic power is not
to be trusted in any hands? If one white man’s son or brother had been
treated in this way, under the law of apprenticeship, the whole
country would have trembled, from Louisiana to Maine, till that law had
been altered. They forget that the black man has also a father. It is
“He that sitteth upon the circle of the heavens, who bringeth the
princes to nothing, and maketh the judges of the earth as vanity.” He
hath said that “When he maketh inquisition for blood, he FORGETTETH NOT
the cry of the humble.” That blood which has fallen so despised to the
earth,—that blood which lawyers have quibbled over, in the quiet of
legal nonchalance, discussing in great ease whether it fell by murder in
the first or second degree,—HE will one day reckon for as the blood of
his own child. He “is not slack concerning his promises, as some men
count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward;” but the day of
vengeance is surely coming, and the year of his redeemed is in his
heart.
Another court will sit upon these trials, when the Son of Man shall come
in his glory. It will be not alone Souther, and such as he, that will be
arraigned there; but all those in this nation, north and south, who have
abetted the system, and made the laws which MADE Souther what he was. In
that court negro testimony will be received, if never before; and the
judges and the counsellors, and the chief men, and the mighty men,
marshalled to that awful bar, will say to the mountains and the rocks,
“Fall on us and hide us from the face of Him that sitteth on the throne,
and from the wrath of the Lamb.”
The wrath of the Lamb! Think of it! Think that Jesus Christ has been
present, a witness,—a silent witness through every such scene of torture
and anguish,—a silent witness in every such court, calmly hearing the
evidence given in, the lawyers pleading, the bills filed, and cases
appealed! And think what a heart Jesus Christ has, and with what
age-long patience he has suffered! What awful depths are there in that
word, LONG-SUFFERING! and what must be that wrath, when, after ages of
endurance, this dread accumulation of wrong and anguish comes up at last
to judgment!
                              CHAPTER XII.
      A COMPARISON OF THE ROMAN LAW OF SLAVERY WITH THE AMERICAN.
The writer has expressed the opinion that the American law of slavery,
taken throughout, is a more severe one than that of any other civilized
nation, ancient or modern, if we except, perhaps, that of the Spartans.
She has not at hand the means of comparing French and Spanish
slave-codes; but, as it is a common remark that Roman slavery was much
more severe than any that has ever existed in America, it will be well
to compare the Roman with the American law. We therefore present a
description of the Roman slave-law, as quoted by William Jay, Esq., from
Blair’s “Inquiry into the State of Slavery among the Romans,” giving
such references to American authorities as will enable the reader to
make his own comparison, and to draw his own inferences.
  I. The slave had no protection against the avarice, rage, or lust
  of the master, whose authority was founded in absolute property; and
  the bondman was viewed less as a human being subject to arbitrary
  dominion, than as an inferior animal, dependent wholly on the will
  of his owner.
See law of South Carolina, in Stroud’s “Sketch of the Laws of
Slavery,” p. 23.
[Sidenote: 2 Brev. Dig. 229. Prince’s Dig. 446. Cobb’s Dig. 971.]
  Slaves shall be deemed, sold, taken, reputed and adjudged in law to
  be chattels personal in the hands of their owners and possessors,
  and their executors, administrators and assigns, to all intents,
  constructions, and purposes whatever.
[Sidenote: Lou. Civil Code, art. 35. Stroud’s Sketch, p. 22.]
  A slave is one who is in the power of a master to whom he belongs.
[Sidenote: Judge Ruffin’s Decision in the case of The State v. Mann.
           Wheeler’s Law of Slavery, 246.]
  ——Such obedience is the consequence only of uncontrolled authority
  over the body. There is nothing else which can operate to produce
  the effect. The power of the master must be absolute, to render
  the submission of the slave perfect.
  II. At first, the master possessed the uncontrolled power of life
  and death.
[Sidenote: Judge Clarke, in case of State of Miss. v. Jones.
           Wheeler, 252.]
  At a very early period in Virginia, the power of life over slaves
  was given by statute.
  III. He might kill, mutilate or torture his slaves, for any or no
  offence; he might force them to become gladiators or prostitutes.
The privilege of killing is now somewhat abridged; as to mutilation and
torture, see the case of Souther v. The Commonwealth, 7 Grattan,
673, quoted in Chapter III., above. Also State v. Mann, in the same
chapter, from Wheeler, p. 244.
  IV. The temporary unions of male with female slaves were formed and
  dissolved at his command; families and friends were separated when
  he pleased.
See the decision of Judge Mathews in the case of Girod v. Lewis,
Wheeler, 199:
  It is clear, that slaves have no legal capacity to assent to any
  contract. With the consent of their master, they may marry, and
  their moral power to agree to such a contract or connection as that
  of marriage cannot be doubted; but whilst in a state of slavery it
  cannot produce any civil effect, because slaves are deprived of all
  civil rights.
See also the chapter below on “the separation of families,” and the
files of any southern newspaper, passim.
  V. The laws recognized no obligation upon the owners of slaves, to
  furnish them with food and clothing, or to take care of them in
  sickness.
The extent to which this deficiency in the Roman law has been supplied
in the American, by “protective acts,” has been exhibited above.[13]
  VI. Slaves could have no property but by the sufferance of their
  master, for whom they acquired everything, and with whom they could
  form no engagements which could be binding on him.
The following chapter will show how far American legislation is in
advance of that of the Romans, in that it makes it a penal offence on
the part of the master to permit his slave to hold property, and a crime
on the part of the slave to be so permitted. For the present purpose, we
give an extract from the Civil code of Louisiana, as quoted by Judge
Stroud:
[Sidenote: Civil Code, Article 35. Stroud, p. 22.]
  A slave is one who is in the power of a master to whom he belongs.
  The master may sell him, dispose of his person, his industry, and
  his labor; he can do nothing, possess nothing, nor acquire anything
  but what must belong to his master.
[Sidenote: Wh’ler’s Law of Slavery, p. 246. State v. Mann.]
According to Judge Ruffin, a slave is “one doomed in his own person, and
his posterity, to live without knowledge, and without the capacity to
make anything his own, and to toil that another may reap the fruits.”
With reference to the binding power of engagements between master and
slave, the following decisions from the United States Digest are in
point (7, p. 449):
[Sidenote: Gist v. Toohey, 2 Rich. 424.]
  All the acquisitions of the slave in possession are the property of
  his master, notwithstanding the promise of his master that the slave
  shall have certain of them.
[Sidenote: Ibid.]
  A slave paid money which he had earned over and above his wages, for
  the purchase of his children into the hands of B, and B purchased
  such children with the money. Held that the master of such slave was
  entitled to recover the money of B.
  VII. The master might transfer his rights by either sale or gift,
  or might bequeath them by will.
[Sidenote: Law of S. Carolina. Cobb’s Digest, 971.]
  Slaves shall be deemed, sold, taken, reputed and adjudged in law, to
  be chattels personal in the hands of their owners and possessors,
  and their executors, administrators, and assigns, to all intents,
  constructions, and purposes whatsoever.
  VIII. A master selling, giving, or bequeathing a slave, sometimes
  made it a provision that he should never be carried abroad, or that
  he should be manumitted on a fixed day; or that, on the other hand,
  he should never be emancipated, or that he should be kept in chains
  for life.
[Sidenote: Williams v. Ash, 1 How. U. S. Rep. 1. 5 U. S. Dig. 792, §
           5.]
We hardly think that a provision that a slave should never be
emancipated, or that he should be kept in chains for life, would be
sustained. A provision that the slave should not be carried out of the
state, or sold, and that on the happening of either event he should be
free, has been sustained.
The remainder of Blair’s account of Roman slavery is devoted rather to
the practices of masters than the state of the law itself. Surely, the
writer is not called upon to exhibit in the society of enlightened,
republican and Christian America, in the nineteenth century, a parallel
to the atrocities committed in pagan Rome, under the sceptre of the
persecuting Cæsars, when the amphitheatre was the favorite resort of the
most refined of her citizens, as well as the great “school of morals”
for the multitude. A few references only will show, as far as we desire
to show, how much safer it is now to trust man with absolute power over
his fellow, than it was then.
  IX. While slaves turned the hand-mill they were generally chained,
  and had a broad wooden collar, to prevent them from eating the
  grain. The FURCA, which in later language means a gibbet, was, in
  older dialect, used to denote a wooden fork or collar, which was
  made to bear upon their shoulders, or around their necks, as a mark
  of disgrace, as much as an uneasy burden.
The reader has already seen, in Chapter V., that this instrument of
degradation has been in use, in our own day, in certain of the slave
states, under the express sanction and protection of statute laws;
although the material is different, and the construction doubtless
improved by modern ingenuity.
  X. Fetters and chains were much used for punishment or restraint,
  and were, in some instances, worn by slaves during life, through the
  sole authority of the master. Porters at the gates of the rich were
  generally chained. Field laborers worked for the most part in irons
  posterior to the first ages of the republic.
The Legislature of South Carolina specially sanctions the same
practices, by excepting them in the “protective enactment,” which
inflicts the penalty of one hundred pounds “in case any person shall
wilfully cut out the tongue,” &c., of a slave, “or shall inflict any
other cruel punishment, other than by whipping or beating with a
horse-whip, cowskin, switch, or small stick, or by putting irons on, or
confining or imprisoning such slave.”
  XI. Some persons made it their business to catch runaway slaves.
That such a profession, constituted by the highest legislative authority
in the nation, and rendered respectable by the commendation expressed or
implied of statesmen and divines, and of newspapers political and
religious, exists in our midst, especially in the free states, is a
fact which is, day by day, making itself too apparent to need testimony.
The matter seems, however, to be managed in a more perfectly open and
business-like manner in the State of Alabama than elsewhere. Mr. Jay
cites the following advertisement from the Sumpter County (Ala.)
Whig:
                              NEGRO DOGS.
  The undersigned having bought the entire pack of Negro Dogs (of the
  Hay and Allen stock), he now proposes to catch runaway negroes. His
  charges will be Three Dollars per day for hunting, and Fifteen
  Dollars for catching a runaway. He resides three and one half miles
  north of Livingston, near the lower Jones’ Bluff road.
                                                       WILLIAM GAMBEL.
  Nov. 6, 1845.—6m.
The following is copied, verbatim et literatim, and with the pictorial
embellishments, from The Dadeville (Ala.) Banner, of November 10th,
1852. The Dadeville Banner is “devoted to politics, literature,
education, agriculture, &c.”
                                NOTICE.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
  The undersigned having an excellent pack of HOUNDS, for trailing and
  catching runaway slaves, informs the public that his prices in
  future will be as follows for such services:
          For each day employed in hunting or trailing, $2.50
          For catching each slave,                      10.00
          For going over ten miles and catching slaves, 20.00
  If sent for, the above prices will be exacted in cash. The
  subscriber resides one mile and a half south of Dadeville, Ala.
                                                             B. BLACK.
  Dadeville, Sept. 1, 1852.      1tf
  XII. The runaway, when taken, was severely punished by authority of
  the master, or by the judge, at his desire; sometimes with
  crucifixion, amputation of a foot, or by being sent to fight as a
  gladiator with wild beasts; but most frequently by being branded on
  the brow with letters indicative of his crime.
That severe punishment would be the lot of the recaptured runaway, every
one would suppose, from the “absolute power” of the master to inflict
it. That it is inflicted in many cases, it is equally easy and
needless to prove. The peculiar forms of punishment mentioned above are
now very much out of vogue, but the following advertisement by Mr.
Micajah Ricks, in the Raleigh (N. C.) Standard of July 18th, 1838,
shows that something of classic taste in torture still lingers in our
degenerate days.
  Ran away, a negro woman and two children; a few days before she went
  off, I burnt her with a hot iron, on the left side of her face. I
  tried to make the letter M.
It is charming to notice the naïf betrayal of literary pride on the
part of Mr. Ricks. He did not wish that letter M to be taken as a
specimen of what he could do in the way of writing. The creature would
not hold still, and he fears the M may be illegible.
The above is only one of a long list of advertisements of maimed,
cropped and branded negroes, in the book of Mr. Weld, entitled American
Slavery as It Is, p. 77.
  XIII. Cruel masters sometimes hired torturers by profession, or had
  such persons in their establishments, to assist them in punishing
  their slaves. The noses and ears and teeth of slaves were often in
  danger from an enraged owner; and sometimes the eyes of a great
  offender were put out. Crucifixion was very frequently made the fate
  of a wretched slave for a trifling misconduct, or from mere
  caprice.
For justification of such practices as these, we refer again to that
horrible list of maimed and mutilated men, advertised by slaveholders
themselves, in Weld’s American Slavery as It Is, p. 77. We recall the
reader’s attention to the evidence of the monster Kephart, given in Part
I. As to crucifixion, we presume that there are wretches whose religious
scruples would deter them from this particular form of torture, who
would not hesitate to inflict equal cruelties by other means; as the
Greek pirate, during a massacre in the season of Lent, was
conscience-stricken at having tasted a drop of blood. We presume?—Let
any one but read again, if he can, the sickening details of that twelve
hours’ torture of Souther’s slave, and say how much more merciful is
American slavery than Roman.
The last item in Blair’s description of Roman slavery is the following:
  By a decree passed by the Senate, if a master was murdered when his
  slaves might possibly have aided him, all his household within reach
  were held as implicated, and deserving of death; and Tacitus relates
  an instance in which a family of four hundred were all executed.
To this alone, of all the atrocities of the slavery of old heathen Rome,
do we fail to find a parallel in the slavery of the United States of
America.
There are other respects, in which American legislation has reached a
refinement in tyranny of which the despots of those early days never
conceived. The following is the language of Gibbon:
  Hope, the best comfort of our imperfect condition, was not denied to
  the Roman slave; and if he had any opportunity of rendering himself
  either useful or agreeable, he might very naturally expect that the
  diligence and fidelity of a few years would be rewarded with the
  inestimable gift of freedom. * * * Without destroying the
  distinction of ranks, a distant prospect of freedom and honors was
  presented even to those whom pride and prejudice almost disdained to
  number among the human species.[14]
  The youths of promising genius were instructed in the arts and
  sciences, and their price was ascertained by the degree of their
  skill and talents. Almost every profession, either liberal or
  mechanical, might be found in the household of an opulent
  senator.[15]
The following chapter will show how “the best comfort” which Gibbon knew
for human adversity is taken away from the American slave; how he is
denied the commonest privileges of education and mental improvement, and
how the whole tendency of the unhappy system, under which he is in
bondage, is to take from him the consolations of religion itself, and to
degrade him from our common humanity, and common brotherhood with the
Son of God.
-----
Footnote 13:
  See also the case of State v. Abram, 10 Ala. 928. 7 U. S. Dig. p.
  449. “The master or overseer, and not the slave, is the proper judge
  whether the slave is too sick to be able to labor. The latter cannot,
  therefore, resist the order of the former to go to work.”
Footnote 14:
  Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall,” Chap. II.
Footnote 15:
  Ibid.
                             CHAPTER XIII.
                    THE MEN BETTER THAN THEIR LAWS.
         Judgment is turned away backward,
         And Justice standeth afar off;
         For Truth is fallen in the street,
         And Equity cannot enter.
         Yea, Truth faileth;
         And HE THAT DEPARTETH FROM EVIL MAKETH HIMSELF A PREY.
                                             ISAIAH 59: 14, 15.
There is one very remarkable class of laws yet to be considered.
So full of cruelty and of unmerciful severity is the slave-code,—such an
atrocity is the institution of which it is the legal definition,—that
there are multitudes of individuals too generous and too just to be
willing to go to the full extent of its restrictions and deprivations.
A generous man, instead of regarding the poor slave as a piece of
property, dead, and void of rights, is tempted to regard him rather as a
helpless younger brother, or as a defenceless child, and to extend to
him, by his own good right arm, that protection and those rights which
the law denies him. A religious man, who, by the theory of his belief,
regards all men as brothers, and considers his Christian slave, with
himself, as a member of Jesus Christ,—as of one body, one spirit, and
called in one hope of his calling,—cannot willingly see him “doomed to
live without knowledge,” without the power of reading the written Word,
and to raise up his children after him in the same darkness.
Hence, if left to itself, individual humanity would, in many cases,
practically abrogate the slave-code. Individual humanity would teach the
slave to read and write,—would build school-houses for his children, and
would, in very, very many cases, enfranchise him.
The result of all this has been foreseen. It has been foreseen that the
result of education would be general intelligence; that the result of
intelligence would be a knowledge of personal rights; and that an
inquiry into the doctrine of personal rights would be fatal to the
system. It has been foreseen, also, that the example of
disinterestedness and generosity, in emancipation, might carry with it a
generous contagion, until it should become universal; that the example
of educated and emancipated slaves would prove a dangerous excitement to
those still in bondage.
For this reason, the American slave-code, which, as we have already
seen, embraces, substantially, all the barbarities of that of ancient
Rome, has had added to it a set of laws more cruel than any which
ancient and heathen Rome ever knew,—laws designed to shut against the
slave his last refuge,—the humanity of his master. The master, in
ancient Rome, might give his slave whatever advantages of education he
chose, or at any time emancipate him, and the state did not interfere to
prevent.[16]
But in America the laws, throughout all the slave states, most
rigorously forbid, in the first place, the education of the slave. We
do not profess to give all these laws, but a few striking specimens may
be presented. Our authority is Judge Stroud’s “Sketch of the Laws of
Slavery.”
[Sidenote: Stroud’s Sketch, p. 88.]
The legislature of South Carolina, in 1740, enounced the following
preamble:—“Whereas, the having of slaves taught to write, or suffering
them to be employed in writing, may be attended with great
inconveniences;” and enacted that the crime of teaching a slave to
write, or of employing a slave as a scribe, should be punished by a fine
of one hundred pounds, current money. If the reader will turn now to
the infamous “protective” statute, enacted by the same legislature, in
the same year, he will find that the same penalty has been appointed
for the cutting out of the tongue, putting out of the eye, cruel
scalding, &c., of any slave, as for the offence of teaching him to
write! That is to say, that to teach him to write, and to put out his
eyes, are to be regarded as equally reprehensible.
[Sidenote: Stroud’s Sketch, p. 89. 2 Brevard’s Digest, pp. 254–5.]
That there might be no doubt of the “great and fundamental policy” of
the state, and that there might be full security against the “great
inconveniences” of “having of slaves taught to write,” it was enacted,
in 1800, “That assemblies of slaves, free negroes, &c., * * * * for the
purpose of mental instruction, in a confined or secret place, &c. &c.,
is [are] declared to be an unlawful meeting;” and the officers are
required to enter such confined places, and disperse the “unlawful
assemblage,” inflicting, at their discretion, “such corporal
punishment, not exceeding twenty lashes, upon such slaves, free
negroes, &c., as they may judge necessary for deterring them from the
like unlawful assemblage in future.”
[Sidenote: Stroud, pp. 88, 89.]
The statute-book of Virginia is adorned with a law similar to the one
last quoted.
[Sidenote: Stroud’s Sketch, pp. 89, 90.]
The offence of teaching a slave to write was early punished, in Georgia,
as in South Carolina, by a pecuniary fine. But the city of Savannah
seems to have found this penalty insufficient to protect it from “great
inconveniences,” and we learn, by a quotation in the work of Judge
Stroud from a number of “The Portfolio,” that “the city has passed an
ordinance, by which any person that teaches any person of color, slave
or free, to read or write, or causes such person to be so taught, is
subjected to a fine of thirty dollars for each offence; and every
person of color who shall keep a school, to teach reading or writing, is
subject to a fine of thirty dollars, or to be imprisoned ten days, and
whipped thirty-nine lashes.”
Secondly. In regard to religious privileges:
The State of Georgia has enacted a law, “To protect religious
societies in the exercise of their religious duties.” This law, after
appointing rigorous penalties for the offence of interrupting or
disturbing a congregation of white persons, concludes in the following
words:
[Sidenote: Stroud, p. 92. Prince’s Digest, p. 342.]
  No congregation, or company of negroes, shall, under pretence of
  divine worship, assemble themselves, contrary to the act regulating
  patrols.
[Sidenote: Stroud, p. 93. Prince’s Digest, p. 447.]
“The act regulating patrols,” as quoted by the editor of Prince’s
Digest, empowers every justice of the peace to disperse ANY assembly
or meeting of slaves which may disturb the peace, &c., of his
majesty’s subjects, and permits that every slave found at such a meeting
shall “immediately be corrected, WITHOUT TRIAL, by receiving on the
bare back twenty-five stripes with a whip, switch, or cowskin.”
The history of legislation in South Carolina is significant. An act was
passed in 1800, containing the following section:
[Sidenote: Stroud, p. 93. 2 Brevard’s Dig. 254, 255.]
  It shall not be lawful for any number of slaves, free negroes,
  mulattoes or mestizoes, even in company with white persons, to meet
  together and assemble for the purpose of mental instruction or
  religious worship, either before the rising of the sun, or after
  the going down of the same. And all magistrates, sheriffs, militia
  officers, &c. &c., are hereby vested with power, &c., for dispersing
  such assemblies, &c.
