and grace of the past so many impassable barriers to progress 
in future. Because the ancients kept to unity of idea in their 
groups, and attained to most beautiful results by doing so, shall 
no modern make an antithesis in marble ? And why has not 
a man a right to dramatize in marble as well as on canvas, if 
he can produce a powerful and effective result by so doing ? 
And even if by being melodramatic, as the terrible word is, 
he can shadow forth a grand and comforting religious idea — 
if he can unveil to those who have seen only the desolation 
of death, its glory, and its triumph — who shall say that he may 
not do so, because he violates the lines of some old Greek 
artist ? Where would Sliakspeare's dramas have been, had he 
studied the old dramatic unities? 
So, you see, like an obstinate republican, as I am, I defend 
my right to have my own opinion about this monument, 
albeit the guide book, with its usual diplomatic caution, says, 
" It is in very questionable taste." 
We went for our dinner to the White Hart, the very 
inn which Shakspeare celebrates in his Merry Wives, and 
had a most overflowing, merry time of it. The fact is, we 
had not seen each other for so long that to be in each other's 
company for a whole day was quite a stimulant. 
After dinner we had a beautiful drive, passing the colleges 
at Eton, and seeing the boys out playing cricket ; had an ex- 
cellent opportunity to think how true Gray's poem on the 
Prospect of Eton is to boy-nature then, now, and forever. 
We were bent upon looking up the church winch gave rise to 
his Elegy in a Country Churchyard, intending, when we got 
there, to have a little scene over it ; Mr. S., in all the conscious importance of having been there before, assuring us 
that he knew exactly where it was. So, after some difficulty 
with our coachman, and being stopped at one church which 
would not answer our purpose in any respect, we were at 
last set down by one which looked authentic ; embowered in 
mossy elms, with a most ancient and goblin yew tree, an ivy- 
mantled tower, all perfect as could be. 
There had been a sprinkle of rain, — an ornament which 
few English days want, — and the westering beams of the sun 
twinkled through innumerable drops. In fact, it was a pretty 
place ; and I felt such " dispositions to melancholies," as Sir 
Hugh Evans would have it, that I half resented Mr. S.'s 
suggestion that the cars were waiting. However, as he was 
engaged to speak at a peace meeting in London, it-was agreed 
he should leave us there to stroll, while he took the cars. 
So away he went ; and we, leaning on the old fence, repeated 
the Elegy, which certainly applies here as beautifully as language could apply. 
What a calm, shady, poetical nature is expressed in these 
lines ! Gray seems to have been Bent into the world for 
nothing but to be a poem, like some of those fabulous, shadowy beings which haunted the cool grottoes on Grecian moun- 
tains; creatures that seem to have no practical vitality — 
to be only a kind of voice, an echo, heard for a little, and 
then lost in silence. He seemed to be in himself a kind of 
elegy. 
From thence we strolled along, enjoying the beautiful rural 
scenery. Having had a kind invitation to visit Labouchere 
Park that day, which we were obliged to decline for want 
of time, we were pleased to discover that we had two more 
hours, in which we could easily accomplish a stroll there. 
By a most singular infelicity, our party became separated ; 
and, misunderstanding each other, we remained waiting for 
W. till it was too late for us to go, while he, on the other 
hand, supposing us to have walked before him, was redoubling 
his speed all the while, hoping to overtake us. In consequence of this, he accomplished the walk to Labouchere Park, 
and we waited in the dismal depot till it was too late to wait 
any longer, and finally went into London without him. 
After all, imagine our chagrin on being informed that we 
had not been to the genuine churchyard. The gentleman 
who wept over the scenes of his early days on the wrong 
doorstep was not more grievously disappointed. However, 
he and we could both console ourselves with the reflection 
 
 
that the emotion was admirable, and wanted only the right 
place to make it the most appropriate in the world. The 
genuine country churchyard, however, was that at Stoke 
Pogis, which we should have seen had not the fates forbidden our going to Labouchere Park. 
LETTER XXIII. 
Dear Sister : — 
The evening after our return from Windsor was spent with 
our kind friends, Mr. and Mrs. Gurney. Mr. Gurney is rector 
of Mary-le-Bone parish, one of the largest districts in London ; and he is, I have been told, one of the court chaplains ; 
a man of the most cultivated and agreeable manners, earnestly 
and devoutly engaged in the business of his calling. As one 
of the working men of the church establishment, I felt a 
strong interest in his views and opinions, and he seemed to 
take no less interest in mine, as coming from a country where 
there is and can be no church establishment. He asked many 
questions about America ; the general style of our preaching ; 
the character of our theology ; our modes of religious action ; 
our revivals of religion ; our theories of sudden and instantaneous conversion, as distinguished from the gradual conversion of education ; our temperance societies, and the stand 
taken by our clergy in behalf of temperance. 
He wished to know how the English style of preaching appeared to me in comparison with that of America. I told him 
one principal difference that struck me was, that the English 
preaching did not recognize the existence of any element of 
inquiry or doubt in the popular mind ; that it treated certain 
truths as axioms, which only needed to be stated to be believed ; whereas in American sermons there is always more 
or less time employed in explaining, proving, and answering 
objections to, the truths enforced. I quoted Baptist Noel's 
sermon in illustration of what I meant. 
I asked him to what extent the element of scepticism, with 
regard to religious truth, had pervaded the mind of England ? 
adding that I had inferred its existence there from such novels 
as those of Kingsley. He thought that there was much of 
this element, particularly in the working classes ; that they 
were coming to regard the clergy with suspicion, and to be 
less under their influence than in former times ; and said 
it was a matter of much solicitude to know how to reach 
them. 
I told him that I had heard an American clergyman, who 
had travelled in England, say, that dissenters were treated 
much as free negroes were in America, and added that my 
experience must have been very exceptional, or the remark 
much overstated, as I had met dissenting clergymen in all 
circles of society. He admitted that there might be a good 
deal of bigotry in this respect, but added that the infrequency 
of association was more the result of those circumstances 
which would naturally draw the two parties to themselves, 
than to superciliousness on the side' of the establishment, adding that where a court and aristocracy were in the established 
church, there would necessarily be a pressure of fashion in 
its favor, which might at times bring uncomfortable results. 
The children were sitting by studying their evening lessons, 
and I begged Mrs. Gurney to allow me to look over their 
geographies and atlases ; and on her inquiring why, I told her 
that well-informed people in England sometimes made such 
unaccountable mistakes about the geography of our country 
as were quite surprising to me, and that I did not understand 
how it was that our children should know so much more about 
England than they about us. I found the children, however, 
in possession of a very excellent and authentic map of our 
country. I must say also that the most highly educated people I have met in England have never betrayed any want of 
information on this subject. 
The next morning we had at breakfast two clergymen, 
members of the established church. They appeared to be 
most excellent, devout, practical men, anxious to do good, and 
thoughtfully seeking for suggestions from any quarter which 
might assist them in their labors. They renewed many 
of the inquiries which Mr. Gurney had made the evening 
before. 
After breakfast I went with Mr. Gurney and Mr. S. to 
Richmond's studio to sit for a likeness, which is to be presented to Mr. S. by several friends. Richmond's name is 
one which in this London sphere has only to be announced 
to explain itself; not to know him argues yourself unknown. He is one of the most successful artists in a certain line of portrait painting that the present day affords. 
He devotes himself principally to crayon and water-color 
sketches. His crayon heads are generally the size of life ; 
his water-colors of a small size. He often takes full-lengths 
in this way, which render not merely the features, but the 
figure, air, manner, and what is characteristic about the dress. 
These latter sketches are finished up very highly, with the 
minuteness of a miniature. His forte consists in seizing and 
fixing those fleeting traits of countenance, air, and movement, 
which go so far towards making up our idea of a person's 
appearance. Many of the engravings of distinguished persons, with which we are familiar, have come from his designs, 
such as Wilberforce, Sir Powell Buxton, Elizabeth Fry, and 
 
others. I found his studio quite a gallery of notabilities, almost all the distingues of the day having sat to him ; so I 
certainly had the satisfaction of feeling myself in good company. Mr. Richmond looks quite youthful, (but I never can 
judge of any one's age here,) is most agreeable in conversation, full of anecdote in regard to all the moving life of 
London. I presume his power of entertaining conversation is 
one secret of his successful likenesses. Some portrait painters 
keep calling on you for expression all the while, and say nothing in the world to awaken it. 
From Richmond's, Mr. S., C, and I drove out to call upon 
Kossuth. We found him in an obscure lodging on the outskirts of London. I would that some of the editors in America, who have thrown out insinuations about his living in lux- 
ury, could have seen the utter bareness and plainness of the 
reception room, which had nothing in it beyond the simplest 
necessaries. Here dwells the man whose greatest fault is an 
undying love of his country. We all know that if Kossuth 
would have taken wealth and a secure retreat, with a life of 
ease for himself, America would gladly have laid all these at 
his feet. But because he could not acquiesce in the unmerited dishonor of his country, he lives a life of obscurity, poverty, and labor. All this was written in his pale, worn 
face, and sad, thoughtful blue eye. But to me the unselfish patriot is more venerable for his poverty and his 
misfortunes. 
" Have we, among the thousands who speak loud of patriotism in America, many men, who, were she enfeebled, despised, 
and trampled, would forego self, and suffer as long, as patiently for her ? It is even easier to die for a good cause, in some 
hour of high enthusiasm, when all that is noblest in us can be 
roused to one great venture, than to live fbr it amid wearing 
years of discouragement and hope delayed. 
There are those even here in England who delight to get 
up slanders against Kossuth, and not long ago some most unfounded charges were thrown out against him in some public 
prints. By way of counterpoise an enthusiastic public meeting was held, in which he was presented with a splendid set 
of Shakspeare. 
He entered into conversation with us with cheerfulness, 
speaking English well, though with the idioms of foreign languages. He seemed quite amused at the sensation which had 
been excited by Mr. S.'s cotton speech in Exeter Hall. C. 
asked him if he had still hopes for his cause. He answered, 
" I hope still, because I work still ; my hope is in God and in 
man." 
I inquired for Madame Kossuth, and he answered, " I have 
not yet seen her to-day," adding, " she has her family affairs, 
you know, madam ; we are poor exiles here ; " and, fearing to 
cause embarrassment, I did not press an interview. 
When we parted he took my hand kindly, and said, " God 
bless you, my child." 
I would not lose my faith in such men for any thing the 
world could give me. There are some people who involve 
in themselves so many of the elements which go to make up 
our confidence in human nature generally, that to lose confidence in them seems to undermine our faith in human virtue. 
As Shakspeare says, their defection would be like " another 
fall of man." 
"We went back to Mr. Gurney's to lunch, and then, as the 
afternoon was fine, Mr. and Mrs. Gurney drove with us in 
their carriage to Pembroke Lodge, the country seat of Lord 
 
John Russell. It was an uncommonly beautiful afternoon, 
and the view from Richmond Hill was as perfect a specimen 
of an English landscape, seen under the most benignant auspices, as we could hope to enjoy. Orchards, gardens, villas, 
charming meadows enamelled with flowers, the silver windings 
of the Thames, the luxuriant outlines of the foliage, varied 
here and there by the graceful perpendicular of the poplars, 
all formed one of the richest of landscapes. The brow of the 
hill is beautifully laid out with tufts of trees, winding paths, 
diversified here and there with arbors and rustic seats. 
Richmond Park is adorned with clumps of ancient trees, 
among which troops of deer were strolling. Pembroke Lodge 
is a plain, unostentatious building, rising in the midst of charming grounds. We were received in the drawing room by 
the young ladies, and were sorry to learn that Lady Russell was so unwell as to be unable to give us her company 
at dinner. Two charming little boys came in, and a few mo- 
ments after, their father, Lord John. I had been much pleased 
with finding on the centre table a beautiful edition of that revered friend of my childhood, Dr. Watts's Divine Songs, 
finely illustrated. I remarked to Lord John that it waa 
the face^of an old friend. He said it was presented to his 
little boys by their godfather, Sir George Grey ; and when, 
taking one of the little boys on his knee, he asked him if he 
could repeat me one of his hymns, the whole thing seemed so 
New England-like that I began to feel myself quite at home. 
I hope I shall some day see in America an edition of Dr. 
Watts, in which the illustrations do as much justice to the author's sentiments as in this, for in all our modern religious 
works for children there is nothing that excels these divine 
songs. 
 
There were only a few guests ; among them Sir George 
Grey and lady ; he is nephew to Earl Grey, of reform memory, and she is the eldest daughter of the pious and learned 
Bishop Ryder, of Lichfield. Sir George is a man of great 
piety and worth, a liberal, and much interested in all benevolent movements. There was also the Earl of Albemarle, 
who is a colonel in the army, and has served many years under Wellington, a particularly cheerful, entertaining, conversable man, full of anecdote. He told several very characteristic and comical stories about the Duke of Wellington. 
At dinner, among other things, the conversation turned upon 
hunting. It always seemed to me a curious thing, that in the 
height of English civilization this vestige of the savage state 
should still remain. I told Lord Albemarle that I thought 
the idea of a whole concourse of strong men turning out to 
hunt a poor fox or hare, creatures so feeble and insignificant, 
and who can do nothing to defend themselves, was hardly consistent with manliness ; that if they had some of our American 
buffaloes, or a Bengal tiger, the affair would be something 
more dignified and generous. Thereupon they only laughed, 
and told stories about fox hunters. It seems that killing a 
fox, except in the way of hunting, is deemed among hunters 
an unpardonable offence, and a man who has the misfortune 
to do it would be almost as unwilling to let it be known as if 
he had killed a man. 
They also told about deer stalking in the highlands, in 
which exercise I inferred Lord John had been a proficient. 
The conversation reminded me of the hunting stories I had 
heard in the log cabins in Indiana, and I amused myself with 
thinking how some of the narrators would appear among my 
high-bred friends. There is such a quaint vivacity and drollery about that half-savage western life, as always gives it a 
charm in my recollection. I thought of the jolly old hunter 
who always concluded the operations of the day by discharging his rifle at his candle after he had snugly ensconced himself in bed ; and of the celebrated scene in which Henry Clay 
won an old hunter's vote in an election, by his aptness in turning into a political simile some points in the management of a 
rifle. 
Now there is, to my mind, something infinitely more sublime 
about hunting in real earnest amid the solemn shadows of our 
interminable forests, than in making believe hunt in parks. 
It is undoubtedly the fact, that these out-of-door sports of 
England have a great deal to do with the firm health which 
men here enjoy. Speaking of this subject, I could not help 
expressing my surprise to Lord John at the apparently perfect 
health enjoyed by members of Parliament, notwithstanding 
their protracted night labors. He thinks that the session of 
Parliament this year will extend nearly to August. Speaking 
of breakfasts, he said they often had delightful breakfasts about 
three o'clock in the day ; this is a total reverse of all our ideas 
in regard to time. 
After dinner Lord and Lady Ribblesdale came in, connections of Lord John by a former marriage. I sat by Lord 
John on the sofa, and listened with great interest to a conversation between him and Lady Grey, on the working of the 
educational system in England; a subject which has particularly engaged the attention of the English government since 
the reign of the present queen. I found a difficulty in understanding many of the terms they used, though I learned much 
that interested me. 
After a while I went to Lady Russell's apartment, and had 
an Lour of very pleasant conversation with her. It greatly 
enlarges our confidence in human nature to find such identity 
of feeling and opinion among the really good of different 
countries, and of all different circles in those countries. I 
have never been more impressed with this idea than during 
my sojourn here in England. Different as the institutions of 
England and America are, they do not prevent the formation 
of a very general basis of agreement in so far as radical ideas 
of practical morality and religion are concerned ; and I am 
increasingly certain that there is a foundation for a lasting 
unity between the two countries which shall increase constantly, as the increasing facilities of communication lessen the distance between us. 
Lady Russell inquired with a good deal of interest after 
Prescott, our historian, and expressed the pleasure which she 
and Lord John had derived from his writings. 
We left early, after a most agreeable evening. The next 
day at eleven o'clock we went to an engagement at Lambeth 
Palace, where we had been invited by a kind note from its 
venerable master, the Archbishop of Canterbury. Lambeth 
is a stately pile of quaint,- antique buildings, rising most magnificently on the banks of the Thames. It is surrounded by 
beautiful grounds, laid out with choice gardening. Through 
an ancient hall, lighted by stained-glass windows, we were 
ushered into the drawing room, where the guests were assem- 
bling. There was quite a number of people there, among 
others the lady and eldest son of the Bishop of London, the 
Earl and Countess Waldegrave, and the family friends of the 
archbishop. 
The good archbishop was kind and benign, as usual, and 
gave me his arm while we explored the curiosities of the 
palace. Now, my clear, if you will please to recollect that the 
guide book says, " this palace contains all the gradations of 
architecture from early English to late perpendicular," you 
will certainly not expect me to describe it in one letter. It 
has been the residence of the archbishops of Canterbury from 
time immemorial, both in the days before the reformation and 
since. 
The chapel was built between the years 1200 and 1300, 
and there used to be painted windows in it, as Archbishop 
Laud says, which contained the whole history of the world, 
from the creation to the day of judgment. Unfortunately 
these comprehensive windows were destroyed in the civil wars. 
The part called the Lollards' Tower is celebrated as having 
been the reputed prison of the Lollards. These Lollards, 
perhaps you will remember, were the followers of John WicklifTe, called Lollards as Christ was called a " Nazarene," simply because the word was a term of reproach. "YVicklifFe him- 
self was summoned here to Lambeth to give an account of his 
teachings, and in 1382, William Courtnay, Archbishop of Canterbury, called a council, which condemned his doctrines. The 
tradition is, that at various times these Lollards were imprisoned here. 
In order to get to the tower we had to go through a great 
many apartments, passages, and corridors, and terminate all 
by climbing a winding staircase, steeper and narrower than 
av;is at all desirable for any but wicked heretics, who ought to 
be made as uncomfortable as possible. However, by reasonable perseverance, the archbishop, the bishop's lady, and all 
the noble company present found themselves safely at the top. 
Our host remarked^ I think, that it was the second time he 
had ever been there. 
 
The room is thirteen feet by twelve, and about eight feet 
high, wainscotted with oak, which is scrawled over with names 
and inscriptions. There are eight large iron rings in the wall, 
to which the prisoners were chained; for aught we know, 
"Wickliffe himself may have been one. As our kind host 
moved about among us with his placid face, we could not but 
think that times had altered since the days when archbishops 
used to imprison heretics, and preside over grim, inquisitorial 
tribunals. We all agreed, however, that, considering the very 
beautiful prospect this tower commands up and down the 
Thames, the poor Lollards in some respects might have been 
worse lodged. 
We passed through the guard room, library, and along a 
corridor where hung a row of pictures of all the archbishops 
from the very earliest times ; and then the archbishop took me 
into his study, which is a most charming room, containing his 
own private library : after that we all sat down to lunch in a 
large dining hall. I was seated between the archbishop and a 
venerable admiral in the navy. Among other things, the 
latter asked me if there were not many railroad and steam- 
boat accidents in America. O my countrymen, what trouble 
do you make us in foreign lands by your terrible carelessness ! 
I was obliged, in candor, to say that I thought there was a 
shocking number of accidents of that sort, and suggested the 
best excuse I could think of — our youth and inexperience ; 
but I certainly thought my venerable friend had touched a 
very indefensible point. 
Among other topics discussed in the drawing room, I heard 
some more on dits respecting spiritual rappings. Every body 
seems to be wondering what they are, and what they are going to amount to. 
 
We took leave of our kind host and his family, gratefully impressed with the simplicity and sincere cordiality of 
our reception. There are many different names for goodness 
in this world ; but, after all, true brotherly kindness and charity is much the same thing, whether it show itself by a Quaker's fireside or in an archbishop's palace. 
Leaving the archbishop's I went to Richmond's again, where 
I was most agreeably entertained for an hour or two. We 
have an engagement for Playford Hall to-morrow, and we 
breakfast with Joseph Sturge : it being now the time of the 
yearly meeting of the Friends, he and his family are in town. 
 
LETTER XXIV. 
My dear S. : — 
The next morning C. and I took the cars to go into the 
country, to Playford Hall. "And what's Playford Hall?" 
you say. " And why did you go to see it ? " As to what it 
is, here is a reasonably good picture before you. As to why, 
it was for many years the residence of Thomas Clarkson, and 
is now the residence of his venerable widow and her family. 
Playford Hall is considered, I think, the oldest of the fortified houses in England, and is, I am told, the only one that 
has water in the moat. The water which is seen girdling the 
wall, in the picture, is the moat : it surrounds the place entirely, leaving no access except across the bridge, which is 
here represented. 
After crossing this bridge, you come into a green court 
yard filled with choice plants and flowering shrubs, and carpeted with that thick, soft, velvet-like grass which is to be 
found nowhere else in so perfect a state as in England. 
The water is fed by a perpetual spring, whose current is so 
sluggish as scarcely to be perceptible, but which yet has the 
vitality of a running stream. 
It has a dark and glassy stillness of surface, only broken 
by the forms of the water plants, whose leaves float thickly 
over it. 
The walls of the moat are green with ancient moss, and 
from the crevices springs an abundant flowering vine, whose 
 
delicate leaves and bright yellow flowers in some places entirely mantle the stones with their graceful drapery. 
The picture I have given you represents only one side of 
the moat. The other side is grown up with dark and thick 
shrubbery and ancient trees, rising and embowering the entire 
place, adding to the retired and singular effect of the whole. 
The place is a specimen of a sort of thing which does not 
exist in America. It is one of those significant landmarks 
which unite the present with the past, for which we must return to the country of our origin. 
Playford Hall is peculiarly English, and Thomas Clarkson, for whose sake I visited it, was as peculiarly an Englishman — a specimen of the very best kind of English 
mind and character, as this is of characteristic English 
architecture. 
We Anglo-Saxons have won a hard name in the world. 
There are undoubtedly bad things which are true about us. 
Taking our developments as a race, both in England and 
America, we may be justly called the Romans of the nine- 
teenth century. We have been the race which has conquered, 
subdued, and broken in pieces other weaker races, with little 
regard either to justice or mercy. With regard to benefits by 
us imparted to conquered nations, I think a better story, on 
the whole, can be made out for the Romans than for us. Witness the treatment of the Chinese, of the tribes of India, and 
of our own American Indians. 
But still there is in Anglo-Saxon blood, a vigorous sense 
of justice, as appears in our habeas corpus, our jury trials, 
and other features of state organization ; and, when this is 
tempered, in individuals, with the elements of gentleness and 
compassion, and enforced by that energy and indomitable perseverance which are characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon mind, 
they form a style of philanthropy peculiarly efficient. In 
short, the Anglo-Saxon is efficient, in whatever he sets himself about, whether in crushing the weak or lifting them up. 
Thomas Clarkson was born in a day when good, pious people imported cargoes of slaves from Africa, as one of the regular Christianized modes of gaining a subsistence and provid- 
ing for themselves and their households. It was a thing that 
every body was doing, and every body thought they had a right 
to do. It was supposed that all the sugar, molasses, and rum 
in the world were dependent on stealing men, women, and 
children, and could be got in no other way ; and as to consume 
sugar, molasses, and rum, were evidently the chief ends of 
 
human existence, it followed that men, women, and children 
must be stolen to the end of time. 
Some good people, when they now and then heard an 
appalling story of the cruelties practised in the slave ship, 
declared that it was really too bad, sympathetically remarked, 
" What a sorrowful world we live in ! " stirred their sugar 
into their tea, and went on as before, because, what was there 
to do ? — " Hadn't every body always done it ? and if they 
didn't do it, wouldn't somebody else ? " 
It is true that for many years individuals at different times 
had remonstrated, written treatises, poems, stories, and movements had been made by some religious bodies, particularly 
the Quakers, but the opposition had amounted to nothing practically efficient. 
The attention of Clarkson was first turned to the subject by 
having it given out as the theme for a prize composition in his 
college class, he being at that time a sprightly young man, 
about twenty-four years of age. He entered into the investigation with no other purpose than to see what he could make 
of it as a college theme. 
He says of himself, "I had expected pleasure from the 
invention of arguments, from the arrangement of them, from 
the putting of them together, and from the thought, in the interim, that I was engaged in an innocent contest for literary 
honor; but all my pleasures were damped by the facts which 
were now continually before me. 
" It was but one gloomy subject from morning till night ; in 
the daytime I was uneasy, in the night I had little rest ; I 
sometimes never closed my eyelids for grief." 
It became not now so much a trial for academical reputa- 
tion aa to write a work which should be useful to Africa. It 
 
is not surprising that a work written under the force of such 
feelings should have gained the prize, as it did. Clarkson 
was summoned from London to Cambridge, to deliver his 
prize essay publicly. He says of himself, on returning to 
London, " The subject of it almost wholly engrossed my 
thoughts. I became at times very seriously affected while on 
the road. I stopped my horse occasionally, dismounted, and 
walked. 
" I frequently tried to persuade myself that the contents of 
my essay could not be true ; but the more I reflected on the 
authorities on which they were founded, the more I gave them 
credit. Coming in sight of "Wade's Mill, in Hertfordshire, I 
sat down disconsolate on the turf by the roadside, and held 
my horse. Here a thought came into my mind, that if the 
contents of the essay were true, it was time that somebody 
should see these calamities to an end." 
These reflections, as it appears, were put off for a while, 
but returned again. 
This young and noble heart was of a kind that could not 
comfort itself so easily for a brother's sorrow as many do. 
He says of himself, " In the course of the autumn of the 
same year, I walked frequently into the woods, that I might 
think of the subject in solitude, and find relief to my mind 
there ; but there the question still recurred,  Are these things 
true ? ' Still, the answer followed as instantaneously, ' They 
are ; ' still the result accompanied it — surely some person 
should interfere. I began to envy those who had seats in Parliament, riches, and widely-extended connections, which would 
enable them to take up this cause. 
" Finding scarcely any one, at the time, who thought of it, 
I was turned frequently to myself ; but here many difficulties 
arose. It struck me, among others, that a young man only 
twenty-four years of age could not have that solid judgment, 
or that knowledge of men, manners, and things, which were 
requisite to qualify him to undertake a task of such magnitude and importance ; and with whom was I to unite ? I be- 
lieved, also, that it looked so much like one of the feigned 
labors of Hercules, that my understanding would be suspected 
if I proposed it." 
He, however, resolved to do something for the cause by 
translating his essay from Latin into English, enlarging and 
presenting it to the public. Immediately on the publication 
of this essay he discovered, to his astonishment and delight, 
that he was not the only one who had been interested in this 
subject. 
Being invited to the house of William Dillwyn, one of these 
friends to the cause, he says, " How surprised was I to learn, 
in the course of our conversation, of the labors of Granville 
Sharp, of the writings of Ramsey, and of the controversy in 
which the latter was engaged! of all which I had hitherto 
known nothing. How surprised was I to learn that William 
Dillwyn had, two years before, associated himself with five 
others for the purpose of enlightening the public mind on 
this great subject ! 
" How astonished was I to find that a society had been 
formed in America for the same object ! These thoughts almost overpowered me. My mind was overwhelmed by the 
thought that I had been providentially directed to this house ; 
the finger of Providence was beginning to be discernible, and 
that the daystar of African liberty was rising." 
After this he associated with many friends of the cause, and 
at last it became evident that, in order to effect any thing, he 
 
must sacrifice all other prospects in life, and devote himself 
exclusively to this work. 
He says, after mentioning reasons which prevented all his 
associates from doing this, "I could look, therefore, to no 
person but myself ; and the question was, whether I was prepared to make the sacrifice. In favor of the undertaking, I 
urged to myself that never was any -cause, which had been 
taken up by man, in any country or in any age, so great and 
important ; that never was there one in which so much misery 
was heard to cry for redress ; that never was there one in 
which so much good could be done ; never one in which the 
duty of Christian charity could be so extensively exercised ; 
never one more worthy of the devotion of a whole life towards 
it ; and that, if a man thought properly, he ought to rejoice 
to have been called into existence, if he were only permitted 
to become an instrument in forwarding it in any part of its 
progress. 
" Against these sentiments, on the other hand, I had to urge 
that I had been designed for the church ; that I had already 
advanced as' far as deacon's orders in it; that my prospects 
there on account of my connections were then brilliant ; that, 
by appearing to desert my profession, my family would be 
dissatisfied, if not unhappy. These thoughts pressed upon 
me, and rendered the conflict difficult. 
" But the sacrifice of my prospects staggered me, I own, the 
most. When the other objections which I have related occurred to me, my enthusiasm instantly, like a flash of lightning, consumed them ; but this stuck to me, and troubled me. 
I had ambition. I had a thirst after worldly interest and 
honors, and I could not extinguish it at once. I was more 
than two hours in solitude under this painful conflict. At 
length I yielded, not because I saw any reasonable prospect 
of success in my new undertaking, — for all cool-headed and 
cool -hearted men would have pronounced against it, — but in 
obedience, I believe, to a higher Power. And I can say, that 
both on the moment of this resolution and for some time afterwards, I had more sublime and happy feelings than at any 
former period of my life." 
In order to show how this enterprise was looked upon and 
talked of very commonly by the majority of men in those 
times, we will extract the following passage from Boswell's 
Life of Johnson, in which Bozzy thus enters his solemn protest : " The wild and dangerous attempt, which has for some 
time been persisted in, to obtain an act of our legislature to 
abolish so very important and necessary a branch of commercial interest, must have been crushed at once, had not the insignificance of the zealots, who vainly took the lead in it, made 
the vast body of planters, merchants, and others, whose immense properties are involved in that trade, reasonably enough 
suppose that there could be no danger. The encouragement 
which the attempt has received excites my wonder and indignation ; and though some men of superior abilities have supported it, whether from a love of temporary popularity when prosperous, or a love of general mischief when desperate, 
my opinion is unshaken. 
" To abolish a status which in all ages God has sanctioned, 
and man has continued, would not only be robbery to an innu- 
merable class of our fellow-subjects, but it would be extreme 
cruelty to the African savages, a portion of whom it saves 
from massacre or intolerable bondage in their own country, 
and introduces into a much happier state of life; especially 
now, when their passage to the West Indies, and their treatment there, is humanely regulated. To abolish this trade 
would be to 
I shut the gates of mercy on mankind.' " 
One of the first steps of Clarkson and his associates was 
the formation of a committee of twelve- persons, for the collection and dissemination of information on the subject. 
The contest now began in earnest, a contest as sublime as 
any the world ever saw. 
The abolition controversy more fully aroused the virtue, 
the talent, and the religion of the great English nation, than 
any other event or crisis which ever occurred. 
Wilberforce was the leader of the question in Parliament. 
The other members of the antislavery committee performed 
those labors which were necessary out of it. 
This labor consisted principally in the collection of evidence 
with regard to the traffic, and the presentation of it before 
the public mind. In this labor Clarkson was particularly engaged. The subject was hemmed in with the same difficulties 
that now beset the antislavery cause in America. Those who 
knew most about it were precisely those whose interest it was 
to prevent inquiry. An immense moneyed interest was arrayed against investigation, and wasr determined to suppress 
the agitation of the subject. Owing to this powerful pressure, 
many, who were in possession of facts which would bear upon 
this subject, refused to communicate them ; and often, after a 
long and wearisome journey in search of an individual who 
could throw light upon the subject, Clarkson had the mortification to find his lips sealed by interest or timidity. As usual, 
the cause of oppression was defended by the most impudent 
lying; the slave trade was asserted to be the latest revised 
 
edition of philanthropy. It was said that the poor African, 
the slave of miserable oppression in his own country, was 
wafted by it to an asylum in a Christian land ; that the middle 
passage was to the poor negro a perfect Elysium, infinitely 
happier than any thing he had ever known in his own country. All this was said while manacles, and handcuffs, and 
thumbscrews, and instruments to force open the mouth, were 
a regular part of the stock for a slave ship, and were hanging 
in the shop windows of Liverpool for sale. 
For Clarkson's attention was first called to these things by 
observing them in the shop window, and on inquiring the use 
of one of them, the man informed him that many times negroes were sulky, and tried to starve themselves to death, and 
this instrument was used to force open their jaws. 
Of Clarkson's labor in this investigation some idea may be 
gathered from his own words, when, stating that for a season 
he was compelled to retire from the cause, he thus speaks : — 
" As far as I myself was concerned, all exertion was then 
over. The nervous system was almost shattered to pieces. 
Both my memory and my hearing failed me. Sudden dizzinesses seized my head. A confused singing in the ear followed me wherever I went. On going to bed the very stairs 
seemed to dance up anft down under me, so that, misplacing 
my foot, I sometimes fell. Talking, too, if it continued but 
half an hour, exhausted me so that profuse perspiration fol- 
lowed, and the same effect was produced even by an active 
exertion of the mind for the like time. 
" These disorders had been brought on by degrees, in consequence of the severe labors necessarily attached to the promotion of the cause. For seven years I had a correspondence 
to maintain with four hundred persons, with my own hand ; I 
 
had some book or other annually to write in behalf of the 
cause. In this time I had travelled more than thirty-five 
thousand miles in search of evidence, and a great part of these 
journeys in the night. All this time, my mind had been on 
the stretch. It had been bent, too, to this one subject, for I 
had not even leisure to attend to my. own concerns. The 
various instances of barbarity which had come successively 
to my knowledge, within this period, had vexed, harassed, 
and afflicted it. The wound which these had produced was 
rendered still deeper by those cruel disappointments before 
related, which arose from the reiterated refusals of persons to 
give their testimony, after I had travelled hundreds of miles 
in quest of them. But the severest stroke was that inflicted 
by the persecution, begun and pursued by persons interested 
in the continuance of the trade, of such witnesses as had been 
examined against them, and whom, on account of their dependent situation in life, it was most easy to oppress. As I 
had been the means of bringing these forward on these occasions, they naturally came to me, when thus persecuted, as the 
author of their miseries and their ruin. From their supplications and wants it would have been ungenerous and ungrateful to have fled. These different circumstances, by acting to- 
gether, had at length brought me into the situation just mentioned ; and I was, therefore, obliged, though very reluctantly, 
to be borne out of the field where I had placed the great 
honor and glory of my life." 
I may as well add here that a Mr. Whitbread, to whom 
Clarkson mentioned this latter cause of distress, generously 
offered to repair the pecuniary losses of all who had suffered 
in this cause. One anecdote will be a specimen of the energy 
with which Clarkson pursued evidence. It had been very 
 
 
strenuously asserted and maintained that the subjects of the 
slave trade were only such unfortunates as had become prisoners of war, and who, if not carried out of the country in this 
manner, would be exposed to death or some more dreadful 
doom in their own country. This was one of those stories 
which nobody believed, and yet was particularly useful in the 
hands of the opposition, because it was difficult legally to disprove it. It was perfectly well known that in very many 
cases slave traders made direct incursions into the country, 
kidnapped and carried off the inhabitants of whole villages ; 
but the question was, how to establish it. A gentleman whom 
Clarkson accidentally met on one of his journeys informed 
him that he had been in company, about a year before, with a 
sailor, a very respectable-looking young man, who had actually 
been engaged in one of these expeditions ; he had spent half 
an hour with him at an inn ; he described his person, but 
knew nothing of his name or the place of his abode ; all he 
knew was, that he belonged to a ship of war in ordinary, but 
knew nothing of the port. Clarkson determined that this 
man should be produced as a witness, and knew no better way 
than to go personally to all the ships in ordinary, until the 
individual was found. He actually visited every seaport town, 
and boarded every sliij), till in the very last port, and on the 
very last ship, which remained, the individual was found, and 
found to be possessed of just the facts and information which 
were necessary. By the labors of Clarkson and his contemporaries an incredible excitement was produced throughout all 
England. The pictures and models of slave ships, accounts 
of the cruelties practised in the trade, were circulated with an 
industry which left not a man, woman, or child in England 
uninstructed. In disseminating information, and in awakening 
feeling and conscience, the women of England were particularly earnest, and labored with that whole-hearted devotion 
which characterizes the sex. 
It seems that after the committee had published the facts, 
and sent them to every town in England, Clarkson followed 
them up by journeying to all the places, to see that they were 
read and attended to. Of the state of feeling at this time 
Clarkson gives the following account : — 
" And first I may observe, that there was no town through 
which I passed in which there was not some one individual 
who had left off the use of sugar. In the smaller towns there 
were from ten to fifty, by estimation, and in the larger from 
two to five hundred, who made this sacrifice to virtue. These 
were of all ranks and parties. Rich and poor, churchmen 
and dissenters, had adopted the measure. Even grocers had 
left off trading in the article in some places. In gentlemen's 
families, where the master had set the example, the servants 
had often voluntarily followed it ; and even children, who 
were capable of understanding the history of the sufferings 
of the Africans, excluded, with the most virtuous resolution, 
the sweets, to which they had been accustomed, from their 
Hps. By the best computation I was able to make, from notes 
taken down in my journey, no fewer than three hundred thou- 
