The doctor hesitates. “I cannot afford to lose ten dollars, which is
justly my due, Mr. Wilton.”
“Suit yourself, doctor. Take forty, and receipt the bill, or stick to
your first charge, and wait till I am ready to pay it. Fifty dollars is
no trifle, I can tell you.”
And this is the man whose life might have been a blank but for the
doctor’s skill!
Again we are travelling onward. The unpaid bill is left in Mr. Wilton’s
hand, and yet the doctor half regrets that he had not submitted to the
imposition. Money is greatly needed just now, and there seems little
prospect of getting any.
Again and again the horse is stopped at some well-known post. A poor
welcome has the doctor to-day. Some bills are collected, but their
amount is discouragingly small. Everybody appears to feel astonishingly
healthy, and have almost forgotten that they ever had occasion for a
physician. There is one consolation, however: sickness will come again,
and then, perhaps, the unpaid bill may be recollected. Homeward goes
the doctor. He is naturally of a cheerful disposition; but now he is
seriously threatened with a fit of the blues. A list of calls upon his
slate has little effect to raise his spirits. “All work and no pay,” he
mutters to himself, as he puts on his dressing-gown and slippers; and,
throwing himself upon the lounge, turns a deaf ear to the little ones,
while he indulges in a revery as to the best mode of paying the doctor.
KEEP IN STEP.
     Those who would walk together must keep in step.
     --OLD PROVERB.
     AY, the world keeps moving forward,
       Like an army marching by;
     Hear you not its heavy footfall,
       That resoundeth to the sky?
     Some bold spirits bear the banner--
       Souls of sweetness chant the song,--
     Lips of energy and fervour
       Make the timid-hearted strong!
     Like brave soldiers we march forward;
       If you linger or turn back,
     You must look to get a jostling
       While you stand upon our track.
         Keep in step.
     My good neighbour, Master Standstill,
       Gazes on it as it goes;
     Not quite sure but he is dreaming,
       In his afternoon’s repose!
     “Nothing good,” he says, “can issue
       From this endless moving on;
     Ancient laws and institutions
       Are decaying, or are gone.
     We are rushing on to ruin,
       With our mad, new-fangled ways.”
      While he speaks a thousand voices,
       As the heart of one man, says--
         “Keep in step!”
     Gentle neighbour, will you join us,
       Or return to “good old ways?”
      Take again the fig-leaf apron
       Of Old Adam’s ancient days;--
     Or become a hardy Briton--
       Beard the lion in his lair,
     And lie down in dainty slumber
       Wrapped in skins of shaggy bear,--
     Rear the hut amid the forest,
       Skim the wave in light canoe?
     Ah, I see! you do not like it.
       Then if these “old ways” won’t do,
         Keep in step.
     Be assured, good Master Standstill,
       All-wise Providence designed
     Aspiration and progression
       For the yearning human mind.
     Generations left their blessings,
       In the relies of their skill,
     Generations yet are longing
       For a greater glory still;
     And the shades of our forefathers
       Are not jealous of our deed--
     We but follow where they beckon,
       We but go where they do lead!
         Keep in step.
     One detachment of our army
       May encamp upon the hill,
     While another in the valley
       May enjoy its own sweet will;
     This, may answer to one watchword,
       That, may echo to another;
     But in unity and concord,
       They discern that each is brother!
     Breast to breast they’re marching onward,
       In a good now peaceful way;
     You’ll be jostled if you hinder,
       So don’t offer let or stay--
         Keep in step.
JOHNNY COLE.
“I GUESS we will have to put out our Johnny,” said Mrs. Cole, with
a sigh, as she drew closer to the fire, one cold day in autumn. This
remark was addressed to her husband, a sleepy, lazy-looking man, who
was stretched on a bench, with his eyes half closed. The wife, with two
little girls of eight and ten, were knitting as fast as their fingers
could fly; the baby was sound asleep in the cradle; while Johnny, a
boy of thirteen, and a brother of four, were seated on the wide
hearth making a snare for rabbits. The room they occupied was cold and
cheerless; the warmth of the scanty fire being scarcely felt; yet
the floor, and every article of furniture, mean as they were, were
scrupulously neat and clean.
The appearance of this family indicated that they were very poor.
They were all thin and pale, really for want of proper food, and their
clothes had been patched until it was difficult to decide what the
original fabric had been; yet this very circumstance spoke volume in
favour of the mother. She was, a woman of great energy of character,
unfortunately united to a man whose habits were such, that, for the
greater part of the time, he was a dead weight upon her hands; although
not habitually intemperate, he was indolent and good-for-nothing to a
degree, lying in the sun half his time, when the weather was warm, and
never doing a stroke of work until driven to it by the pangs of hunger.
As for the wife, by taking in sewing, knitting, and spinning for the
farmers’ families in the neighbourhood, she managed to pay a rent of
twenty dollars for the cabin in which they lived; while she and Johnny,
with what assistance they could occasionally get from Jerry, her
husband, tilled the half acre of ground attached; and the vegetables
thus obtained, were their main dependance during the long winter just at
hand. Having thus introduced the Coles to our reader, we will continue
the conversation.
“I guess we will have to put out Johnny, and you will try and help us a
little more, Jerry, dear.”
“Why, what’s got into the woman now?” muttered Jerry, stretching his
arms, and yawning to the utmost capacity of his mouth. The children
laughed at their father’s uncouth gestures, and even Mrs. Cole’s serious
face relaxed into a smile, as she answered,
“Don’t swallow us all, and I will tell you. The winter is beginning
early, and promises to be cold. Our potatoes didn’t turn out as well
as I expected, and the truth is, we cannot get along so. We won’t have
victuals to last us half the time; and, manage as I will, I can’t much
more than pay the rent, I get so little for the kind of work I do. Now,
if Johnny gets a place, it will make one less to provide for; and he
will be learning to do something for himself.”
“Yes, but mother,” said the boy, moving close to her side, and laying
his head on her knee, “yes, but who’ll help you when I am gone? Who’ll
dig the lot, and hoe, and cut the wood, and carry the water? You can’t
go away down to the spring in the deep snow. And who’ll make the fire in
the cold mornings?”
The mother looked sorry enough, as her darling boy--for he was the
object around which the fondest affections of her heart had entwined
themselves--she looked sorry enough, as he enumerated the turns he was
in the habit of doing for her; but, woman-like, she could suffer and be
still; so she answered cheerfully,
“May be father will, dear; and when you grow bigger, and learn how to do
everything, you’ll be such a help to us all.”
“Don’t depend on me,” said Jerry, now arousing himself and sauntering to
the fire; “I hardly ever feel well,”--complaining was Jerry’s especial
forte, an excuse for all his laziness; yet his appetite never failed;
and when, as was sometimes the case, one of the neighbours sent a small
piece of meat, or any little article of food to his wife, under the plea
of ill health he managed to appropriate nearly the whole of it. He was
selfishness embodied, and a serious injury to his family, as few cared
to keep him up in his laziness.
One evening, a few days later, Mrs. Cole, who had been absent several
hours, came in looking very tired, and after laying aside her old bonnet
and shawl, informed them that she had obtained a place for Johnny. It
was four miles distant, and the farmer’s man would stop for him on his
way from town, the next afternoon. What a beautiful object was farmer
Watkins’s homestead, lying as it did on the sunny slope of a hill;
its gray stone walls, peeping out from between the giant trees that
overshadowed it, while everything around and about gave evidence of
abundance and comfort. The thrifty orchard; the huge barn with its
overflowing granaries; the sleek, well-fed cattle; even the low-roofed
spring-house, with its superabundance of shining pails and pans, formed
an item which could hardly be dispensed with, in the tout ensemble of
this pleasant home.
Farmer Watkins was an honest, hard-working man, somewhat past middle
age, with a heart not naturally devoid of kindness, but, where his
hirelings were concerned, so strongly encrusted with a layer of habits,
that they acted as an effectual check upon his better feelings. His
family consisted of a wife, said to be a notable manager, and five or
six children, the eldest, a son, at college. In this household, work,
work, was the order of the day; the farmer himself, with his great
brown fists, set the example, and the others, willing or unwilling, were
obliged to follow his lead. He had agreed to take John Cole, as he said,
more to get rid of his mother’s importunities, than for any benefit he
expected to derive from him; and when remonstrated with by his wife
for his folly in giving her the trouble of another brat, he answered
shortly: “Never fear, I’ll get the worth of his victuals and clothes out
of him.” Johnny was to have his boarding, clothes, and a dollar a month,
for two years. This dollar a month was the great item in Mrs. Cole’s
calculations; twelve dollars a year, she argued, would almost pay her
rent, and when the tears stood in Johnny’s great brown eyes (for he was
a pretty, gentle-hearted boy), as he was bidding them all good-bye, and
kissing the baby over and over again, she told him about the money
he would earn, and nerved his little heart with her glowing
representations, until he was able to choke back the tears, and leave
home almost cheerfully.
Home--yes, it was home; for they had much to redeem the miseries of
want within those bare cabin walls, for gentle hearts and kindly smiles
were there. There
     “The mother sang at the twilight fall,
     To the babe half slumbering on her knee.”
There his brother and sisters played; there his associations, his hopes,
his wishes, were all centered. When he arrived at farmer Watkins’s, and
was sent into the large carpeted kitchen, everything was so unlike this
home, that his fortitude almost gave way, and it was as much as he could
do, as he told his mother afterwards, “to keep from bursting right out.”
 Mrs. Watkins looked very cross, nor did she notice him, except to order
him to stand out of the way of the red-armed girl who was preparing
supper and placing it on a table in the ample apartment. Johnny looked
with amazement at the great dishes of meat, and plates of hot biscuit,
but the odour of the steaming coffee, and the heat, were almost too much
for him, as he had eaten nothing since morning, for he was too sorry to
leave home to care about dinner. The girl, noticing that his pale face
grew paler, laughingly drew her mistress’s attention to “master’s new
boy.”
“Go out and bring in some wood for the stove,” said Mrs. Watkins,
sharply; “the air will do you good.”
Johnny went out, and, in a few minutes, felt revived. Looking about, he
soon found the wood-shed; there was plenty of wood, but none cut of a
suitable length; it was all in cord sticks. Taking an axe, he chopped an
armful, and on taking it into the house, found the family, had finished
their suppers; the biscuits and meat were all eaten.
“Come on here to your supper,” said the maid-servant, angrily. “What
have you been doing?” and, without waiting for an answer, she filled a
tin basin with mush and skimmed milk, and set it before him. The little
boy did not attempt to speak, but sat down and ate what was given
him. Immediately after, he was sent into a loft to bed, where he cried
himself to sleep. Ah! when we count the thousand pulsations that yield
pain or pleasure to the human mind, what a power to do good or evil
is possessed by every one; and how often would a kind word, or one
sympathizing glance, gladden the hearts of those thus prematurely forced
upon the anxieties of the world! But how few there are who care to
bestow them! The next morning, long before dawn, the farmer’s family,
with the exception of the younger children were astir. The cattle were
to be fed and attended to, the horses harnessed, the oxen yoked, and
great was the bustle until all hands were fairly at work. As for Johnny,
he was taken into the field to assist in husking corn. The wind was
keen, and the stalks, from recent rain, were wet, and filled with ice.
His scanty clothing scarcely afforded any protection from the cold, and
his hands soon became so numb that he could scarcely use them; but, if
he stopped one moment to rap them, or breathe upon them, in the hope of
imparting some warmth, the farmer who was close at hand, in warm woollen
clothes and thick husking gloves, would call out,
“Hurry up, hurry up, my boy! no idle bread must be eaten here!”
And bravely did Johnny struggle not to mind the cold and pain, but it
would not do; he began to cry, when the master, who never thought of
exercising anything but severity towards those who laboured for him,
told him sternly that if he did not stop his bawling in a moment, he
would send him home. This was enough for Johnny; anything was better
than to go back and be a burden on his mother; he worked to the best
of his ability until noon. At noon, he managed to get thoroughly warm,
behind the stove, while eating his dinner. Still, the sufferings of
the child, with his insufficient clothing, were very great; but nobody
seemed to think of the hired boy being an object of sympathy, and thus
it continued. The rule seemed to be to get all that was possible out of
him, and his little frame was so weary at night, that he had hardly
time to feel rested, until called with the dawn to renew his labour. A
monthly Sunday however, was the golden period looked forward to in his
day-dreams, for it had been stipulated by his parent, that on Saturday
evening every four weeks, he was to come home, and stay all the next
day. And when the time arrived, how nimbly did he get over the ground
that stretched between him and the goal of his wishes! How much he
had to tell! But as soon as he began to complain, his mother would say
cheerfully, although her heart bled for the hardships of her child,
“Never mind, you will get used to work, and after awhile, when you grow
up, you can rent a farm, and take me to keep house for you.”
This was the impulse that prompted to action. No one can be utterly
miserable who has a hope, even a remote one, of bettering his condition;
and with a motive such as this to cheer him, Johnny persevered; young
as he was, he understood the necessity. But how often, during the four
weary weeks that succeeded, did the memory of the Saturday night he had
spent at home come up before his mental vision! The fresh loaf of rye
bread, baked in honour of his arrival, and eaten for supper, with maple
molasses--the very molasses he had helped to boil on shares with Farmer
Thrifty’s boys in the spring. What a feast they had! Then the long
evening afterwards, when the blaze of the hickory fires righted up
the timbers of the old cabin with a mellow glow, and mother looked so
cheerful and smiled so kindly as she sat spinning in its warmth and
light. And how even father had helped to pop corn in the iron pot.
Ah! that was a time long to be remembered; and he had ample opportunity
to draw comparisons, for he often thought his master cared more for his
cattle than he did for him, and it is quite probable he did; for while
they were warmly housed he was needlessly exposed, and his comfort
utterly disregarded. If there was brush to cut, or fence to make, or
any out-door labour to perform, a wet, cold, or windy day was sure to be
selected, while in fine weather the wood was required to be chopped,
and, generally speaking, all the work that could be done under shelter.
Yet we dare say Farmer Watkins never thought of the inhumanity of this,
or the advantage he would himself derive by arranging it otherwise.
John Cole had been living out perhaps a year. He had not grown much in
this period; his frame had always been slight, and his sunken cheeks
and wasted limbs spoke of the hard usage and suffering of his present
situation. The family had many delicacies for themselves, but the work
boy they knew never was used to such things, and they were indifferent,
as to what his fare chanced to be. He generally managed to satisfy the
cravings of hunger on the coarse food given him, but that was all. About
this time it happened that the farmer was digging a ditch, and as he was
afraid winter would set in before it was completed, Johnny and himself
were at work upon it early and late, notwithstanding the wind whistled,
and it was so cold they could hardly handle the tools. While thus
employed, it chanced that they got wet to the skin with a drizzling
rain, and on returning to the house the farmer changed his clothes,
drank some hot mulled cider, and spent the remainder of the evening in
his high-backed chair before a comfortable fire; while the boy was
sent to grease a wagon in an open shed, and at night crept to his straw
pallet, shaking as though in an ague fit. The next morning he was in
a high fever, and with many a “wonder of what had got into him,” but
without one word of sympathy, or any other manifestation of good-will,
he was sent home to his mother. Late in the evening of the same day a
compassionate physician was surprised to see a woman enter his office;
her garments wet and travel-stained, and, with streaming eyes, she
besought him to come and see her son.
“My Johnny, my Johnny, sir!” she cried, “he has been raving wild all
day, and we are afraid he will die.”
Mistaking the cause of the good man’s hesitation, she added, with a
fresh burst of grief, “Oh! I will work my fingers to the bone to pay
you, sir, if you will only come. We live in the Gap.”
A few inquiries were all that was necessary to learn the state of
the case. The benevolent doctor took the woman in his vehicle, and
proceeded, over a mountainous road of six miles, to see his patient. But
vain was the help of man! Johnny continued delirious; it was work, work,
always at work; and pitiful was it to hear his complaints of being
cold and tired, while his heart-broken parent hung over him, and denied
herself the necessaries of life to minister to his wants. After being
ill about a fortnight, he awoke one evening apparently free from fever.
His expression was natural, but he seemed so weak he could not speak.
His mother, with a heart overflowing with joy at the change she imagined
favourable, bent over him. With a great effort he placed his arms about
her neck; she kissed his pale lips; a smile of strange meaning passed
over his face, and ere she could unwind that loving clasp her little
Johnny was no more. He had gone where the wicked cease from troubling,
and the weary are at rest; but her hopes were blasted; her house was
left unto her desolate; and as she watched, through the long hours of
night, beside the dead body, it was to our Father who art in Heaven her
anguished heart poured itself out in prayer. Think of this, ye rich! who
morning and evening breathe the same petition by your own hearthstones.
Think of it, ye who have authority to oppress! Do not deprive the
poor man or woman of the “ewe lamb” that is their sole possession; and
remember that He whose ear is ever open to the cry of the distressed,
has power to avenge their cause.
THE THIEF AND HIS BENEFACTOR.
“CIRCUMSTANCES made me what I am,” said a condemned criminal to a
benevolent man who visited him in prison. “I was driven by necessity to
steal.”
“Not so,” replied the keeper, who was standing by. “Rather say, that
your own character made the circumstances by which you were surrounded.
God never places upon any creature the necessity of breaking his
commandments. You stole, because, in heart, you were a thief.”
The benevolent man reproved the keeper for what he called harsh words.
He believed that, alone, by the force of external circumstances, men
were made criminals. That, if society were differently arranged, there
would be little or no crime in the world. And so he made interest for
the criminal, and, in the end, secured his release from prison. Nor
did his benevolence stop here. He took the man into his service, and
intrusted to him his money and his goods.
“I will remove from him all temptation to steal,” said he, “by a liberal
supply of his wants.”
“Have you a wife?” he asked of the man, when he took him from prison.
“No,” was replied.
“Nor any one but yourself to support?”
“I am alone in the world.”
“You have received a good education; and can serve me as a clerk. I
therefore take you into my employment, at a fair salary. Will five
hundred dollars be enough?”
“It will be an abundance,” said the man, with evident surprise at an
offer so unexpectedly liberal.
“Very well. That will place you above temptation.”
“And I will be innocent and happy. You are my benefactor. You have saved
me.”
“I believe it,” said the man of benevolence.
And so he intrusted his goods and his money to the man he had reformed
by placing him in different circumstances.
But it is in the heart of man that evil lies; and from the heart’s
impulses spring all our actions. That must cease to be a bitter fountain
before it can send forth sweet water. The thief was a thief still. Not
a month elapsed ere he was devising the means to enable him to get from
his kind, but mistaken friend, more than the liberal sum for which he
had agreed to serve him. He coveted his neighbour’s goods whenever his
eyes fell upon them; and restlessly sought to acquire their possession.
In order to make more sure the attainment of his ends, he affected
sentiments of morality, and even went so far as to cover his purposes
by a show of religion. And thus he was able to deceive and rob his kind
friend.
Time went on; and the thief, apparently reformed by a change of relation
to society, continued in his post of responsibility. How it was, the
benefactor could not make out; but his affairs gradually became less
prosperous. He made investigations into his business, but was unable to
find anything wrong.
“Are you aware that your clerk is a purchaser of property to a
considerable extent?” said a mercantile friend to him one day.
“My clerk! It cannot be. His income is only five hundred dollars a
year.”
“He bought a piece of property for five thousand last week.”
“Impossible!”
“I know it to be true. Are you aware that he was once a convict in the
State’s Prison?”
“Oh yes. I took him from prison myself, and gave him a chance for his
life. I do not believe in hunting men down for a single crime, the
result of circumstances rather than a bad heart.”
“A truly honest man, let me tell you,” replied the merchant, “will be
honest in any and all circumstances. And a rogue will be a rogue, place
him where you will. The evil is radical, and must be cured radically.
Your reformed thief has robbed you, without doubt.”
“I have reason to fear that he has been most ungrateful,” replied the
kind-hearted man, who, with the harmlessness of the dove, did not unite
the wisdom of the serpent.
And so it proved. His clerk had robbed him of over twenty thousand
dollars in less than five years, and so sapped the foundations of his
prosperity, that he recovered with great difficulty.
“You told me, when in prison,” said the wronged merchant to his clerk,
“that circumstances made you what you were. This you cannot say now.”
“I can,” was the reply. “Circumstances made me poor, and I desired to be
rich. The means of attaining wealth were placed in my hands, and I
used them. Is it strange that I should have done so? It is this social
inequality that makes crime. Your own doctrine, and I subscribe to it
fully.”
“Ungrateful wretch!” said the merchant, indignantly, “it is the evil of
your own heart that prompts to crime. You would be a thief and a robber
if you possessed millions.”
And he again handed him over to the law, and let the prison walls
protect society from his depredations.
No, it is not true that in external circumstances lie the origins of
evil. God tempts no man by these. In the very extremes of poverty we
see examples of honesty; and among the wealthiest, find those who
covet their neighbour’s goods, and gain dishonest possession thereof.
Reformers must seek to elevate the personal character, if they would
regenerate society. To accomplish the desired good by a different
external arrangement, is hopeless; for in the heart of man lies the
evil,--there is the fountain from which flow forth the bitter and
blighting waters of crime.
JOHN AND MARGARET GREYLSTON.
“AND you will really send Reuben to cut down that clump of pines?”
“Yes, Margaret. Well, now, it is necessary, for more reasons than”----
“Don’t tell me so, John,” impetuously interrupted Margaret Greylston.
“I am sure there is no necessity in the case, and I am sorry to the very
heart that you have no more feeling than to order those trees to be
cut down.”
“Feeling! well, maybe I have more than you think; yet I don’t choose to
let it make a fool of me, for all that. But I wish you would say no more
about those trees, Margaret; they really must come down; I have reasoned
with you on this matter till I am sick of it.”
Miss Greylston got up from her chair, and walked out on the shaded
porch; then she turned and called her brother.
“Will you come here, John?”
“And what have you to say?”
“Nothing, just now; I only want you to stand here and look at the old
pines.”
And so John Greylston did; and he saw the distant woods grave and fading
beneath the autumn wind--while the old pines upreared their stately
heads against the blue sky, unchanged in beauty, fresh and green as
ever.
“You see those trees, John, and so do I; and standing here, with them
full in view, let me plead for them; they are very old, those pines,
older than either of us; we played beneath them when we were children;
but there is still a stronger tie: our mother loved them--our dear,
sainted mother. Thirty years it has been since she died, but I can never
forget or cease to love anything she loved. Oh! John, you remember just
as well as I do, how often she would sit beneath those trees and read
or talk sweetly to us; and of the dear band who gathered there with her,
only we are left, and the old pines. Let them stand, John; time enough
to cut them down when I have gone to sit with those dear ones beneath
the trees of heaven;” and somewhat breathless from long talking, Miss
Margaret paused.
John Greylston was really touched, and he laid his hand kindly on his
sister’s shoulder.
“Come, come, Madge, don’t talk so sadly. I remember and love those
things as well as you do, but then you see I cannot afford to neglect my
interests for weak sentiment. Now the road must be made, and that clump
of trees stand directly in its course, and they must come down, or the
road will have to take a curve nearly half a mile round, striking into
one of my best meadows, and a good deal more expense this will be, too.
No, no,” he continued, eagerly, “I can’t oblige you in this thing. This
place is mine, and I will improve it as I please. I have kept back from
making many a change for your sake, but just here I am determined to go
on.” And all this was said with a raised voice and a flushed face.
“You never spoke so harshly to me in your life before, John, and, after
all, what have I done? Call my feelings on this matter weak sentiment,
if you choose, but it is hard to hear such words from your lips;” and,
with a reproachful sigh, Miss Margaret walked into the house.
They had been a large family, those Greylstons, in their day, but now
all were gone; all but John and Margaret, the two eldest--the twin
brother and sister. They lived alone in their beautiful country
home; neither had ever been married. John had once loved a fair young
creature, with eyes like heaven’s stars, and rose-tinged cheeks and
lips, but she fell asleep just one month before her wedding-day, and
John Greylston was left to mourn over her early grave, and his shivered
happiness. Dearly Margaret loved her twin brother, and tenderly she
nursed him through the long and fearful illness which came upon him
after Ellen Day’s death. Margaret Greylston was radiant in the bloom of
young womanhood when this great grief first smote her brother, but from
that very hour she put away from her the gayeties of life, and sat down
by his side, to be to him a sweet, unselfish controller for evermore,
and no lover could ever tempt her from her post.
“John Greylston will soon get over his sorrow; in a year or two Ellen
will be forgotten for a new face.”
So said the world; Margaret knew better. Her brother’s heart lay before
her like an open book, and she saw indelible lines of grief and
anguish there. The old homestead, with its wide lands, belonged to
John Greylston. He had bought it years before from the other heirs; and
Margaret, the only remaining one, possessed neither claim nor right in
it. She had a handsome annuity, however, and nearly all the rich plate
and linen with which the house was stocked, together with some valuable
pieces of furniture, belonged to her. And John and Margaret Greylston
lived on in their quiet and beautiful home, in peace and happiness;
their solitude being but now and then invaded by a flock of nieces
and nephews, from the neighbouring city--their only and well-beloved
relatives.
It was long after sunset. For two full hours the moon and stars had
watched John Greylston, sitting so moodily alone upon the porch. Now
he got up from his chair, and tossing his cigar away in the long grass,
walked slowly into the house. Miss Margaret did not raise her head; her
eyes, as well as her fingers, seemed intent upon the knitting she held.
So her brother, after a hurried “Good-night,” took a candle and went up
to his own room, never speaking one gentle word; for he said to himself,
“I am not going to worry and coax with Margaret any longer about the
old pines. She is really troublesome with her sentimental notions.” Yet,
after all, John Greylston’s heart reproached him, and he felt restless
and ill at ease.
Miss Margaret sat very quietly by the low table, knitting steadily on,
but she was not thinking of her work, neither did she delight in the
beauty of that still autumn evening; the tears came into her eyes, but
she hastily brushed them away; just as though she feared John might
unawares come back and find her crying.
Ah! these way-side thorns are little, but sometimes they pierce as
sharply as the gleaming sword.
“Good-morning, John!”
At the sound of that voice, Mr. Greylston turned suddenly from the
book-case, and his sister was standing near him, her face lit up with a
sweet, yet somewhat anxious smile. He threw down in a hurry the papers
he had been tying together, and the bit of red tape, and holding out his
hand, said fervently,
“I was very harsh last night. I am really sorry for it; will you not
forgive me, Margaret?”
“To be sure I will; for indeed, John, I was quite as much to blame as
you.”
“No, Madge, you were not,” he quickly answered; “but let it pass,
now. We will think and say no more about it;” and, as though he
were perfectly satisfied, and really wished the matter dropped, John
Greylston turned to his papers again.
So Miss Margaret was silent. She was delighted to have peace again, even
though she felt anxious about the pines, and when her brother took his
seat at the breakfast table, looking and speaking so kindly, she felt
comforted to think the cloud had passed away; and John Greylston himself
was very glad. So the two went on eating their breakfast quite happily.
But alas! the storm is not always over when the sky grows light. Reuben
crossed the lawn, followed by the gardener, and Miss Margaret’s quick
eye caught the gleaming of the axes swung over their shoulders. She
hurriedly set down the coffee-pot.
“Where are those men going? Reuben and Tom I mean.”
“Only to the woods,” was the careless answer.
“But what woods, John? Oh! I can tell by your face; you are determined
to have the pines cut down.”
“I am.” And John Greylston folded his arms, and looked fixedly at his
sister, but she did not heed him. She talked on eagerly--
“I love the old trees; I will do anything to save them. John, you spoke
last night of additional expense, should the road take that curve. I
will make it up to you; I can afford to do this very well. Now listen to
reason, and let the trees stand.”
“Listen to reason, yourself,” he answered more gently. “I will not
take a cent from you. Margaret, you are a perfect enthusiast about some
things. Now, I love my parents and old times, I am sure, as well as you
do, and that love is not one bit the colder, because I do not let it
stand in the way of interest. Don’t say anything more. My mind is made
up in this matter. The place is mine, and I cannot see that you have any
right to interfere in the improvements I choose to make on it.”
A deep flush stole over Miss Greylston’s face.
“I have indeed no legal right to counsel or plead with you about these
things,” she answered sadly, “but I have a sister’s right, that of
affection--you cannot deny this, John. Once again, I beg of you to let
the old pines alone.”
“And once again, I tell you I will do as I please in this matter,” and
this was said sharply and decidedly.
Margaret Greylston said not another word, but pushing back her chair,
she arose from the breakfast-table and went quickly from the room, even
before her brother could call to her. Reuben and his companion had just
got in the last meadow when Miss Greylston overtook them.
“You, will let the pines alone to-day,” she calmly said, “go to any
other work you choose, but remember those trees are not to be touched.”
“Very well, Miss Margaret,” and Reuben touched his hat respectfully,
“Mr. John is very changeable in his notions,” burst in Tom; “not an hour
ago he was in such a hurry to get us at the pine.”
“Never mind,” authoritatively said Miss Greylston; “do just as you are
bid, without any remarks;” and she turned away, and went down the meadow
path, even as she came, within quick step, without a bonnet, shading her
eyes from the morning sun with her handkerchief.
John Greylston still sat at the breakfast-table, half dreamily balancing
the spoon across the saucer’s edge. When his sister came in again, he
raised his head, and mutely-inquiringly looked at her, and she spoke,--
“I left this room just to go after Reuben and Tom; I overtook them
before they had crossed the last meadow, and I told them not to touch
the pine trees, but to go, instead, to any other work they choose. I am
sure you will be angry with me for all this; but, John, I cannot help it
if you are.”
“Don’t say so, Margaret,” Mr. Greylston sharply answered, getting up at
the same time from his chair, “don’t tell me you could not help it. I
have talked and reasoned with you about those trees, until my patience
is completely worn out; there is no necessity for you to be such an
obstinate fool.”
“Oh! John, hush, hush!”
“I will not,” he thundered. “I am master here, and I will speak and act
in this house as I see fit. Now, who gave you liberty to countermand my
orders; to send my servants back from the Work I had set for them to do?
Margaret, I warn you; for, any more such freaks, you and I, brother and
sister though we be, will live no longer under the same roof.”
“Be still, John Greylston! Remember her patient, self-sacrificing
love. Remember the past--be still.”
But he would not; relentlessly, stubbornly, the waves of passion raged
on in his soul.
“Now, you hear all this; do not forget it; and have done with your silly
obstinacy as soon as possible, for I will be worried no longer with it;”
 and roughly pushing away the slight hand which was laid upon his arm,
Mr. Greylston stalked out of the house.
For a moment, Margaret stood where her brother had left her, just in the
centre of the floor. Her cheeks were very white, but quickly a crimson
flush came over them, and her eyes filled with tears; then she sat
down upon the white chintz-covered settle, and hiding her face in the
pillows, wept violently for a long time.
“I have consulted Margaret’s will always; in many things I have given
up to it, but here, where reason is so fully on my side, I will go on.
I have no patience with her weak stubbornness, no patience with her
presumption in forbidding my servants to do as I have told them; such
measures I will never allow in my house;” and John Greylston, in his
angry musings, struck his cane smartly against a tall crimson dahlia,
which grew in the grass-plat. It fell quivering across his path, but he
walked on, never heeding what he had done. There was a faint sense of
shame rising in his heart, a feeble conviction of having been himself
to blame; but just then they seemed only to fan and increase his keen
indignation. Yet in the midst of his anger, John Greylston had the
delicate consideration for his sister and himself to repeat to the men
the command she had given them.
“Do as Miss Greylston bade you; let the trees stand until further
orders.” But pride prompted this, for he said to himself, “If Margaret
and I keep at this childish work of unsaying each other’s commands, that
sharp old fellow, Reuben, will suspect that we have quarrelled.”
Mr. Greylston’s wrath did not abate; and when he came home at
dinner-time, and found the table so nicely set, and no one but the
little servant to wait upon him, Margaret away, shut up with a bad
headache, in her own room, he somehow felt relieved,--just then he did
not want to see her. But when eventide came, and he sat down to supper,
and missed again his sister’s calm and pleasant face, a half-regretful
feeling stole over him, and he grew lonely, for John Greylston’s heart
was the home of every kindly affection. He loved Margaret dearly. Still,
pride and anger kept him aloof from her; still his soul was full of
harsh, unforgiving thoughts. And Margaret Greylston, as she lay with a
throbbing head and an aching heart upon her snowy pillow, thought the
hours of that bright afternoon and evening very long and very weary. And
yet those hours were full of light, and melody, and fragrance, for the
sun shone, and the sky was blue, the birds sang, and the waters rippled;
even the autumn flowers were giving their sweet, last kisses to the
air. Earth was fair,--why, then, should not human hearts rejoice? Ah!
Nature’s loveliness alone cannot cheer the soul. There was once
a day when the beauty even of Eden ceased to gladden two guilty
tremblers who hid in its bowers.
“A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger.”
 When Margaret Greylston came across that verse, she closed her Bible,
and sat down beside the window to muse. “Ah,” she thought, “how true
is that saying of the wise man! If I had only from the first given
John soft answers, instead of grievous words, we might now have been at
peace. I knew his quick temper so well; I should have been more gentle
with him.” Then she recalled all John’s constant and tender attention
to her wishes; the many instances in which he had gone back from his own
pleasure to gratify her; but whilst she remembered these things, never
once did her noble, unselfish heart dwell upon the sacrifices, great and
numerous, which she had made for his sake. Miss Margaret began to think
she had indeed acted very weakly and unjustly towards her brother. She
had half a mind just then to go to him, and make this confession. But
she looked out and saw the dear old trees, so stately and beautiful,
and then the memory of all John’s harsh and cruel words rushed back upon
her. She struggled vainly to banish them from her mind, she strove to
quell the angry feelings which arose with those memories. At last she
knelt and prayed. When she got up from her knees traces of tears were on
her face, but her heart was calm. Margaret Greylston had been enabled,
in the strength of “that grace which cometh from above,” to forgive
her brother freely, yet she scarcely hoped that he would give her the
opportunity to tell him this.
“Good-morning,” John Greylston said, curtly and chillingly enough to
his sister. Somehow she was disappointed, even though she knew his
proud temper so well, yet she had prayed that there would have been some
kindly relentings towards her; but there seemed none. So she answered
him sadly, and the two sat down to their gloomy, silent breakfast. And
thus it was all that day. Mr. Greylston still mute and ungracious; his
sister shrank away from him. In that mood she scarcely knew him; and her
face was grave, and her voice so sad, even the servants wondered
what was the matter. Margaret Greylston had fully overcome all angry,
reproachful feelings against her brother. So far her soul had peace, yet
she mourned for his love, his kind words, and pleasant smiles; and she
longed to tell him this, but his coldness held her back. Mr. Greylston
found his comfort in every way consulted; favourite dishes were silently
placed before him; sweet flowers, as of old, laid upon his table. He
knew the hand which wrought these loving acts. But did this knowledge
melt his heart? In a little while we shall see.
And the third morning dawned. Yet the cloud seemed in no wise lifted.
John Greylston’s portrait hung in the parlour; it was painted in his
young days, when he was very handsome. His sister could not weary of
looking at it; to her this picture seemed the very embodiment of beauty.
Dear, unconscious soul, she never thought how much it was like herself,
or even the portrait of her which hung in the opposite recess--for
brother and sister strikingly resembled each other. Both had the same
high brows, the same deep blue eyes and finely chiselled features,
the same sweet and pleasant smiles; there was but one difference: Miss
Margaret’s hair was of a pale golden colour, and yet unchanged; she wore
it now put back very smoothly and plainly from her face. When John was
young, his curls were of so dark a brown as to look almost black in the
shade. They were bleached a good deal by time, but yet they clustered
round his brow in the same careless, boyish fashion as of old.
Just now Miss Margaret could only look at her brother’s picture with
tears. On that very morning she stood before it, her spirit so full of
